G. K. CHESTERTON

UNIFORM WITH THIS VOLUME:

          W. B. YEATS
            BY FORREST REID

          J. M. SYNGE
            BY P. P. HOWE

          HENRY JAMES
            BY FORD MADOX HUEFFER

          HENRIK IBSEN
            BY R. ELLIS ROBERTS

          THOMAS HARDY
            BY LASCELLES ABERCROMBIE

          BERNARD SHAW
            BY P. P. HOWE

          WALTER PATER
            BY EDWARD THOMAS

          WALT WHITMAN
            BY BASIL DE SELINCOURT

          SAMUEL BUTLER
            BY GILBERT CANNAN

          A. C. SWINBURNE
            BY EDWARD THOMAS

          GEORGE GISSING
            BY FRANK SWINNERTON

          R. L. STEVENSON
            BY FRANK SWINNERTON

          RUDYARD KIPLING
            BY CYRIL FALLS

          WILLIAM MORRIS
            BY JOHN DRINKWATER

          ROBERT BRIDGES
            BY F. E. BRETT YOUNG

          FYODOR DOSTOIEVSKY
            BY J. MIDDLETON MURRY

          MAURICE MAETERLINCK
            BY UNA TAYLOR

G. K. CHESTERTON

A CRITICAL STUDY

BY

JULIUS WEST

          LONDON
          MARTIN  SECKER
          NUMBER FIVE JOHN STREET
          ADELPHI
          MCMXV

I HAVE to express my gratitude to Messrs. Burns and Oates, Messrs. Methuen and Co., and Mr.
Martin Seeker for their kind permission to quote from works by Mr. G. K. Chesterton published
by them. I have also to express my qualified thanks to Mr. John Lane for his conditional permission
to quote from books by the same author published by him. My thanks are further due, for a similar
reason, to Mr. Chesterton himself.

          TO
          J. C. SQUIRE

CONTENTS

          CHAPTER                                              PAGE
             I. INTRODUCTORY                                     11
            II. THE ROMANCER                                     23
           III. THE MAKER OF MAGIC                               59
            IV. THE CRITIC OF LARGE THINGS                       76
             V. THE HUMORIST AND THE POET                        91
            VI. THE RELIGION OF A DEBATER                       109
           VII. THE POLITICIAN WHO COULD NOT TELL THE TIME      136
          VIII. A DECADENT OF SORTS                             163
                BIBLIOGRAPHY                                    185

I

INTRODUCTORY

THE habit, to which we are so much addicted, of writing books about other people who have written
books, will probably be a source of intense discomfort to its practitioners in the twenty-first
century. Like the rest of their kind, they will pin their ambition to the possibility of indulging
in epigram at the expense of their contemporaries. In order to lead up to the achievement of
this desire they will have to work in the nineteenth century and the twentieth. Between the
two they will find an obstacle of some terror. The eighteen nineties will lie in their path,
blocking the way like an unhealthy moat, which some myopes might almost mistake for an aquarium.
All manner of queer fish may be discerned in these unclear waters.

To drop the metaphor, our historians will find themselves confronted by a startling change.
The great Victorians write no longer, but are succeeded by eccentrics. There is Kipling, undoubtedly
the most gifted of them all, but not everybody's darling for all that. There is that prolific
trio of best-sellers, Mrs. Humphry Ward, Miss Marie Corelli, and Mr. Hall Caine. There is Oscar
Wilde, who has a vast reputation on the Continent, but never succeeded in convincing the British
that he was much more than a compromise between a joke and a smell. There is the whole Yellow
Book team, who never succeeded in convincing anybody. The economic basis of authorship had
been shaken by the abolition of the three-volume novel. The intellectual basis had been lulled
to sleep by that hotchpotch of convention and largeness that we call the Victorian Era. Literature
began to be an effort to express the inexpressible, resulting in outraged grammar and many
dots. . . .

English literature at the end of the last century stood in sore need of some of the elementary
virtues. If obviousness and simplicity are liable to be overdone, they are not so deadly in
their after-effects as the bizarre and the extravagant. The literary movement of the eighteen
nineties was like a strong stimulant given to a patient dying of old age. Its results were
energetic, but the energy was convulsive. We should laugh if we saw a man apparently dancing
in mid-air--until we noticed the rope about his neck. It is impossible to account for the success
of the Yellow Book school and its congeners save on the assumption that the rope was, generally
speaking, invisible.

In this Year of Grace, 1915, we are still too close to the eighteen nineties, still too liable
to be influenced by their ways, to be able to speak for posterity and to pronounce the final
judgment upon those evil years. It is possible that the critics of the twenty-first century,
as they turn over the musty pages of the Yellow Book, will ejaculate with feeling: "Good God,
what a dull time these people must have had!" On the whole it is probable that this will be
their verdict. They will detect the dullness behind the mechanical brilliancy of Oscar Wilde,
and recognize the strange hues of the whole Æsthetic Movement as the garments of men who could
not, or would not see. There is really no rational alternative before our critics of the next
century; if the men of the eighteen nineties, and the queer things they gave us, were not the
products of an intense boredom, if, in strict point of fact, Wilde, Beardsley, Davidson, Hankin,
Dowson, and Lionel Johnson were men who rollicked in the warm sunshine of the late Victorian
period, then the suicide, drunkenness and vice with which they were afflicted is surely the
strangest phenomenon in the history of human nature. To many people, those years actually were
dull.

          The years from 1885 to 1898 were like the hours of
          afternoon in a rich house with large rooms; the
          hours before teatime. They believed in nothing
          except good manners; and the essence of good
          manners is to conceal a yawn. A yawn may be
          defined as a silent yell.

So says Chesterton, yawning prodigiously.

One may even go farther, and declare that in those dark days a yawn was the true sign of intelligence.
It is no mere coincidence that the two cleverest literary debutants of that last decade, Mr.
Max Beerbohm and the subject of this essay, both stepped on the stage making a pretty exhibition
of boredom. When the first of these published, in 1896, being then twenty-four years old, his
Works of Max Beerbohm he murmured in the preface, "I shall write no more. Already I begin to
feel myself a trifle outmoded. . . . Younger men, with months of activity before them . . .
have pressed forward. . . . Cedo junioribus."

So too, when Chesterton produced his first book, four years later, he called it Greybeards
at Play: Literature and Art for Old Gentlemen, and the dedication contained this verse:

          Now we are old and wise and grey,
            And shaky at the knees;
          Now is the true time to delight
            In picture books like these.

The joke would have been pointless in any other age. In 1900, directed against the crapulous
exoticism of contemporary literature, it was an antidote, childhood was being used as a medicine
against an assumed attack of second childhood. The attack began with nonsense rhymes and pictures.
It was a complete success from the very first. There is this important difference between the
writer of nonsense verses and their illustrator; the former must let himself go as much as
he can, the latter must hold himself in. In Greybeards at Play, Chesterton took the bit between
his teeth, and bolted faster than Edward Lear had ever done. The antitheses of such verses
as the following are irresistible:

          For me, as Mr. Wordsworth says,
            The duties shine like stars;
          I formed my uncle's character,
            Decreasing his cigars.

Or

          The Shopmen, when their souls were still,
            Declined to open shops--
          And cooks recorded frames of mind,
            In sad and subtle chops.

The drawings which accompanied these gems, it may be added, were such as the verses deserved.
They exhibit a joyous inconsistency, the disproportion which is the essence of parody combined
with the accuracy which is the sine qua non of satire.

About a month after Chesterton had produced his statement of his extreme senility (the actual
words of the affidavit are

          I am, I think I have remarked, [he had not],
            Terrifically old.)

he published another little book, The Wild Knight and Other Poems, as evidence of his youth.
For some years past he had occasionally written more or less topical verses which appeared
in The Outlook and the defunct Speaker. Greybeards at Play was, after all, merely an elaborate
sneer at the boredom of a decade; the second book was a more definite attack upon some points
of its creeds and an assertion of the principles which mattered most.

          There is one sin: to call a green leaf grey,
            Whereat the sun in heaven shuddereth.
          There is one blasphemy: for death to pray,
            For God alone knoweth the praise of death.

Or again (The World's Lover)

          I stood and spoke a blasphemy--
          "Behold the summer leaves are green."

It was a defence of reality, crying for vengeance upon the realists. The word realism had come
to be the trade-mark of Zola and his followers, especially of Mr. George Moore, who made a
sacrifice of nine obvious, clean and unsinkable aspects of life so as to concentrate upon the
submersible tenth. Chesterton came out with his defence of the common man, of the streets

          Where shift in strange democracy
              The million masks of God,

the grass, and all the little things of life, "things" in general, for our subject, alone among
modern poets, is not afraid to use the word. If on one occasion he can merely

          . . . feel vaguely thankful to the vast
          Stupidity of things,

on another he will speak of

          The whole divine democracy of things,

a line which is a challenge to the unbeliever, a statement of a political creed which is the
outgrowth of a religious faith.

The same year Chesterton formally stepped into the ranks of journalism and joined the staff
of The Daily News. He had scribbled poems since he had been a boy at St. Paul's School. In
the years following he had watched other people working at the Slade, while he had gone on
scribbling. Then he had begun to do little odd jobs of art criticism and reviewing for The
Bookman and put in occasional appearances in the statelier columns of The Speaker. Then came
the Boer War, which made G. K. Chesterton lose his temper but find his soul. In 1900 The Daily
News passed into new hands--the hands of G.K.C.'s friends. And until 1913, when the causes
he had come to uphold were just diametrically opposed to the causes the victorious Liberal
Party had adopted, every Saturday morning's issue of that paper contained an article by him,
while often enough there appeared signed reviews and poems. The situation was absurd enough.
The Daily News was the organ of Nonconformists, and G.K.C. preached orthodoxy to them. It advocated
temperance, and G.K.C. advocated beer. At first this was sufficiently amusing, and nobody minded
much. But before Chesterton severed his connection with the paper, its readers had come to
expect a weekly article that almost invariably contained an attack upon one of their pet beliefs,
and often enough had to be corrected by a leader on the same page. But the Chesterton of 1900
was a spokesman of the Liberalism of his day, independent, not the intractable monster who
scoffed, a few years later, at all the parties in the State.

At this point one is reminded of Watts-Dunton's definition of the two kinds of humour in The
Renascence of Wonder: "While in the case of relative humour that which amuses the humorist
is the incongruity of some departure from the laws of convention, in the case of absolute humour
it is the incongruity of some departure from the normal as fixed by nature herself." We have
our doubts as to the general application of this definition: but it applies so well to Chesterton
that it might almost have come off his study walls. What made a series of more than six hundred
articles by him acceptable to The Daily News was just the skilful handling of "the laws of
convention," and "the normal as fixed by nature herself." On the theory enunciated by Watts-Dunton,
everything except the perfect average is absolutely funny, and the perfect average, of course,
is generally an incommensurable quantity. Chesterton carefully made it his business to present
the eccentricity--I use the word in its literal sense--of most things, and the humour followed
in accordance with the above definition. The method was simple. Chesterton invented some grotesque
situation, some hypothesis which was glaringly absurd. He then placed it in an abrupt juxtaposition
with the normal, instead of working from the normal to the actual, in the usual manner. Just
as the reader was beginning to protest against the reversal of his accustomed values, G.K.C.
would strip the grotesque of a few inessentials, and, lo! a parable. A few strokes of irony
and wit, an epigram or two infallibly placed where it would distract attention from a weak
point in the argument, and the thing was complete. By such means Chesterton developed the use
of a veritable Excalibur of controversy, a tool of great might in political journalism. These
methods, pursued a few years longer, taught him a craftsmanship he could employ for purely
romantic ends. How he employed it, and the opinions which he sought to uphold by its means
will be the subjects of the following chapters. Chesterton sallied forth like a Crusader against
the political and literary Turks who had unjustly come into possession of a part of the heritage
of a Christian people. We must not forget that the leading characteristic of a Crusader is
his power of invigorating, which he applies impartially to virtues and to vices. There is a
great difference between a Crusader and a Christian, which is not commonly realized. The latter
attempts to show his love for his enemy by abolishing his unchristianness, the former by abolishing
him altogether. Although the two methods are apt to give curiously similar results, the distinction
between a Crusader and a Christian is radical and will be considered in greater detail in the
course of this study. This study does not profess to be biographical, and only the essential
facts of Chesterton's life need be given here. These are, that he was born in London in 1873,
is the son of a West London estate agent who is also an artist and a children's poet in a small
but charming way, is married and has children. Perhaps it is more necessary to record the fact
that he is greatly read by the youth of his day, that he comes in for much amused tolerance,
that, generally speaking, he is not recognized as a great or courageous thinker, even by those
people who understand his views well enough to dissent from them entirely, and that he is regarded
less as a stylist, than as the owner of a trick of style. These are the false beliefs that
I seek to combat. The last may be disposed of summarily. When an author's style is completely
sincere, and completely part of him, it has this characteristic; it is almost impossible to
imitate. Nobody has ever successfully parodied Shakespeare, for example; there are not even
any good parodies of Mr. Shaw. And Chesterton remains unparodied; even Mr. Max Beerbohm's effort
in A Christmas Garland rings false. His style is individual. He has not "played the sedulous ape."

But, on the other hand, it is not proposed to acquit Chesterton of all the charges brought
against him. The average human being is partly a prig and partly a saint; and sometimes men
are so glad to get rid of a prig that they are ready to call him a saint--Simon Stylites, for
example. And it is not suggested that the author of the remark, "There are only three things
that women do not understand. They are Liberty, Equality, Fraternity," is not a prig, for a
demonstration that he is a complete gentleman would obviously leave other matters of importance
inconveniently crowded out. We are confronted with a figure of some significance in these times.
He represents what has been called in other spheres than his "the anti-intellectualist reaction."
We must answer the questions; to what extent does he represent mere unqualified reaction? What
are his qualifications as a craftsman? What, after all, has he done?

And we begin with his romances.

II

THE ROMANCER

In spite of Chesterton's liberal production of books, it is not altogether simple to classify
them into "periods," in the manner beloved of the critic, nor even to sort them out according
to subjects. G.K.C. can (and generally does) inscribe an Essay on the Nature of Religion into
his novels, together with other confusing ingredients to such an extent that most readers would
consider it pure pedantry on the part of anybody to insist that a Chestertonian romance need
differ appreciably from a Chestertonian essay, poem, or criticism. That a book by G.K.C. should
describe itself as a novel means little more than that its original purchasing price was four
shillings and sixpence. It might also contain passages of love, hate, and other human emotions,
but then again, it might not. But one thing it would contain, and that is war. G.K.C. would
be pugnacious, even when there was nothing to fight. His characters would wage their wars,
even when the bone of contention mattered as little as the handle of an old toothbrush. That,
we should say, is the first factor in the formula of the Chestertonian romance--and all the
rest are the inventor's secret. Imprimis, a body of men and an idea, and the rest must follow,
if only the idea be big enough for a man to fight about, or if need be, even to make himself
ridiculous about.

In The Napoleon of Notting Hill we have this view of romance stated in a manner entirely typical
of its author. King Auberon and the Provost of Notting Hill, Adam Wayne, are speaking. The
latter says:

          "I know of a magic wand, but it is a wand that
          only one or two may rightly use, and only seldom.
          It is a fairy wand of great fear, stronger than
          those who use it--often frightful, often wicked to
          use. But whatever is touched with it is never
          again wholly common; whatever is touched with it
          takes a magic from outside the world. If I touch,
          with this fairy wand, the railways and the roads
          of Notting Hill, men will love them, and be afraid
          of them for ever."

          "What the devil are you talking about?" asked the
          King.

          "It has made mean landscapes magnificent, and
          hovels outlast cathedrals," went on the madman.
          "Why should it not make lamp-posts fairer than
          Greek lamps, and an omnibus-ride like a painted
          ship? The touch of it is the finger of a strange
          perfection."

          "What is your wand?" cried the King, impatiently.

          "There it is," said Wayne; and pointed to the
          floor, where his sword lay flat and shining.

If all the dragons of old romance were loosed upon the fiction of our day, the result, one
would imagine, would be something like that of a Chestertonian novel. But the dragons are dead
and converted into poor fossil ichthyosauruses, incapable of biting the timidest damsel or
the most corpulent knight that ever came out of the Stock Exchange. That is the tragedy of
G.K.C.'s ideas, but it is also his opportunity. "Man is a creature who lives not upon bread
alone, but principally by catch-words," says Stevenson. "Give me my dragons," says G.K.C. in
effect, "and I will give you your catch-words. You may have them in any one of a hundred different
ways. I will drop them on you when you least expect them, and their disguises will outrange
all those known to Scotland Yard and to Drury Lane combined. You may have catastrophes and
comets and camels, if you will, but you will certainly have your catch-words."

The first of Chesterton's novels, in order of their publication, is The Napoleon of Notting
Hill (1904). This is extravagance itself; fiction in the sense only that the events never happened
and never could have happened. The scene is placed in London, the time, about A.D. 1984. "This
'ere progress, it keeps on goin' on," somebody remarks in one of the novels of Mr. H. G. Wells.
But it never goes on as the prophets said it would, and consequently England in those days
does not greatly differ from the England of to-day. There have been changes, of course. Kings
are now chosen in alphabetical rotation, and the choice falls upon a civil servant, Auberon
Quin by name. Now Quin has a sense of humour, of absolute humour, as the Watts-Dunton definition
already cited would have it called. He has two bosom friends who are also civil servants and
whose humour is of the official variety, and whose outlook upon life is that of a Times leader.
Quin's first official act is the publication of a proclamation ordering every London borough
to build itself city walls, with gates to be closed at sunset, and to become possessed of Provosts
in mediæval attire, with guards of halberdiers. From his throne he attends to some of the picturesque
details of the scheme, and enjoys the joke in silence. But after a few years of this a young
man named Adam Wayne becomes Provost of Notting Hill, and to him his borough, and more especially
the little street in which he has spent his life, are things of immense importance. Rather
than allow that street to make way for a new thoroughfare, Wayne rallies his halberdiers to
the defence of their borough. The Provosts of North Kensington and South Kensington, of West
Kensington and Bayswater, rally their guards too, and attack Notting Hill, purposing to clear
Wayne out of the way and to break down the offending street. Wayne is surrounded at night but
converts defeat into victory by seizing the offices of a Gas Company and turning off the street
lights. The next day he is besieged in his own street. By a sudden sortie he and his army escape
to Campden Hill. Here a great battle rages for many hours, while one of the opposing Provosts
gathers a large army for a final attack. At last Wayne and the remnants of his men are hopelessly
outnumbered, but once more he turns defeat into victory. He threatens, unless the opposing
forces instantly surrender, to open the great reservoir and flood the whole of Notting Hill.
The allied generals surrender, and the Empire of Notting Hill comes into being. Twenty years
later the spirit of Adam Wayne has gone beyond his own city walls. London is a wild romance,
a mass of cities filled with citizens of great pride. But the Empire, which has been the Nazareth
of the new idea, has waxed fat and kicked. In righteous anger the other boroughs attack it,
and win, because their cause is just. King Auberon, a recruit in Wayne's army, falls with his
leader in the great battle of Kensington Gardens. But they recover in the morning.

          "It was all a joke," says the King in apology.
          "No," says Wayne; "we are two lobes of the same
          brain . . . you, the humorist . . . I, the
          fanatic. . . . You have a halberd and I have a sword,
          let us start our wanderings over the world. For we are
          its two essentials."

So ends the story.

Consider the preposterous elements of the book. A London with blue horse-'buses. Bloodthirsty
battles chiefly fought with halberds. A King who acts as a war correspondent and parodies G.
W. Stevens. It is preposterous because it is romantic and we are not used to romance. But to
Chaucer let us say it would have appeared preposterous because he could not have realized the
initial premises. Before such a book the average reader is helpless. His scale of values is
knocked out of working order by the very first page, almost by the very first sentence. ("The
human race, to which so many of my readers belong, has been playing at children's games from
the beginning, and will probably do it till the end, which is a nuisance for the few people
who grow up.") The absence of a love affair will deprive him of the only "human interest" he
can be really sure of. The Chestertonian idiom, above all, will soon lead him to expect nothing,
because he can never get any idea of what he is to receive, and will bring him to a proper
submissiveness. The later stages are simple. The reader will wonder why it never before occurred
to him that area-railings are very like spears, and that a distant tramcar may at night distinctly
resemble a dragon. He may travel far, once his imagination has been started on these lines.
When romantic possibilities have once shed a glow on the offices of the Gas Light and Coke
Company and on the erections of the Metropolitan Water Board, the rest of life may well seem
filled with wonder and wild desires.

Chesterton may be held to have invented a new species of detective story--the sort that has
no crime, no criminal, and a detective whose processes are transcendental. The Club of Queer
Trades is the first batch of such stories. The Man who was Thursday is another specimen of
some length. More recently, Chesterton has repeated the type in some of the Father Brown stories.
In The Club of Queer Trades, the transcendental detective is Basil Grant, to describe whom
with accuracy is difficult, because of his author's inconsistencies. Basil Grant, for instance,
is "a man who scarcely stirred out of his attic," yet it would appear elsewhere that he walked
abroad often enough. The essentials of this unprecedented detective are, however, sufficiently
tangible. He had been a K.C. and a judge. He had left the Bench because it annoyed him, and
because he held the very human but not legitimate belief that some criminals would be better
off with a trip to the seaside than with a sentence of imprisonment. After his retirement from
public life he stuck to his old trade as the judge of a Voluntary Criminal Court. "My criminals
were tried for the faults which really make social life impossible. They were tried before
me for selfishness, or for an impossible vanity, or for scandal-mongering, or for stinginess
to guests or dependents." It is regrettable that Chesterton does not grant us a glimpse of
this fascinating tribunal at work. However, it is Grant's job, on the strength of which he
becomes the president and founder of the C.Q.T.--Club of Queer Trades. Among the members of
this Club are a gentleman who runs an Adventure and Romance Agency for supplying thrills to
the bourgeois, two Professional Detainers, and an Agent for Arboreal Villas, who lets off a
variety of birds' nest. The way in which these people go about their curious tasks invariably
suggests a crime to Rupert Grant, Basil's amateur detective brother, whereupon Basil has to
intervene to put matters right. The author does not appear to have been struck by the inconsistency
of setting Basil to work to ferret out the doings of his fellow club-members. The book is,
in fact, full of joyous inconsistencies. The Agent for Arboreal Villas is clearly unqualified
for the membership of the Club. Professor Chadd has no business there either. He is elected
on the strength of having invented a language expressed by dancing, but it appears that he
is really an employee in the Asiatic MSS. Department of the British Museum. Things are extremely
absurd in The Eccentric Seclusion of the Old Lady. At the instigation of Rupert, who has heard
sighs of pain coming out of a South Kensington basement, Basil, Rupert, and the man who tells
the story, break into the house and violently assault those whom they meet.

          Basil sprang up with dancing eyes, and with three
          blows like battering-rams knocked the footman into
          a cocked hat. Then he sprang on top of Burrows,
          with one antimacassar in his hand and another in
          his teeth, and bound him hand and foot almost
          before he knew clearly that his head had struck
          the floor. Then Basil sprang at Greenwood . . .
          etc. etc.

There is a good deal more like this. Having taken the citadel and captured the defenders (as
Cæsar might say), Basil and company reach the sighing lady of the basement. But she refuses
to be released. Whereupon Basil explains his own queer trade, and that the lady is voluntarily
undergoing a sentence for backbiting. No explanation is vouchsafed of the strange behaviour
of Basil Grant in attacking men who, as he knew, were doing nothing they should not. Presumably
it was due to a Chestertonian theory that there should be at least one good physical fight
in each book.

It will be seen that The Club of Queer Trades tends to curl up somewhat (quite literally, in
the sense that the end comes almost where the beginning ought to be) when it receives heavy
and serious treatment. I should therefore explain that this serious treatment has been given
under protest, and that its primary intention has been to deal with those well-meaning critics
who believe that Chesterton can write fiction, in the ordinary sense of the word. His own excellent
definition of fictitious narrative (in The Victorian Age in Literature) is that essentially
"the story is told . . . for the sake of some study of the difference between human beings."
This alone is enough to exculpate him of the charge of writing novels. The Chestertonian short
story is also in its way unique. If we applied the methods of the Higher Criticism to the story
just described, we might base all manner of odd theories upon the defeat (inter alios) of Burrows,
a big and burly youth, by Basil Grant, aged sixty at the very least, and armed with antimacassars.
But there is no necessity. If Chesterton invents a fantastic world, full of fantastic people
who speak Chestertonese, then he is quite entitled to waive any trifling conventions which
hinder the liberty of his subjects. As already pointed out, such is his humour. The only disadvantage,
as somebody once complained of the Arabian Nights, is that one is apt to lose one's interest
in a hero who is liable at any moment to turn into a camel. None of Chesterton's heroes do,
as a matter of fact, become camels, but I would nevertheless strongly advise any young woman
about to marry one of them to take out an insurance policy against unforeseen transformations.

Although it appears that a few reviewers went to the length of reading the whole of The Man
who was Thursday (1908), it is obvious by their subsequent guesswork that they did not notice
the second part of the title, which is, very simply, A Nightmare. The story takes its name
from the Supreme Council of Anarchists, which has seven members, named after the days of the
week. Sunday is the Chairman. The others, one after the other, turn out to be detectives. Syme,
the nearest approach to the what might be called the hero, is a poet whom mysterious hands
thrust into an Anarchists' meeting, at which he is elected to fill the vacancy caused by the
death of last Thursday. A little earlier other mysterious hands had taken him into a dark room
in Scotland Yard where the voice of an unseen man had told him that henceforth he was a member
of the anti-anarchist corps, a new body which was to deal with the new anarchists--not the
comparatively harmless people who threw bombs, but the intellectual anarchist. "We say that
the most dangerous criminal now is the entirely lawless modern philosopher," somebody explains
to him. The bewildered Syme walks straight into further bewilderments, as, one after the other,
the week-days of the committee are revealed. But who is Sunday? Chesterton makes no reply.
It was he who in a darkened room of Scotland Yard had enrolled the detectives. He is the Nightmare
of the story. The first few chapters are perfectly straightforward, and lifelike to the extent
of describing personal details in a somewhat exceptional manner for Chesterton. But, gradually,
wilder and wilder things begin to happen--until, at last, Syme wakes up.

The trouble about The Man who was Thursday is not its incomprehensibility, but its author's
gradual decline of interest in the book as it lengthened out. It begins excellently. There
is real humour and a good deal of it in the earlier stages of Syme. And there are passages
like this one on the "lawless modern philosopher":

          Compared to him, burglars and bigamists are
          essentially moral men; my heart goes out to
          them. . . . Thieves respect property. They merely
          wish the property to become their property that
          they may more perfectly respect it. But
          philosophers dislike property as property; they
          wish to destroy the very idea of personal
          possession. Bigamists respect marriage, or they
          would not go through the highly ceremonial and
          even ritualistic formality of bigamy. But
          philosophers despise marriage as marriage.

But his amiable flow of paradox soon runs out. The end of the book is just a wild whirl, a
nightmare with a touch of the cinematograph. People chase one another, in one instance they
quite literally chase themselves. And the ending has all the effect of a damaged film that
cannot be stopped, on the large blank spaces of which some idiot has been drawing absurd pictures
which appear on the screen, to the confusion of the story. One remembers the immense and dominating
figure of Sunday, only because the description of him reads very much like a description of
Chesterton himself. But if the person is recognizable, the personality remains deliberately
incomprehensible. He is just an outline in space, who rode down Albany Street on an elephant
abducted from the Zoological Gardens, and who spoke sadly to his guests when they had run their
last race against him.

Until recent years the word mysticism was sufficiently true to its derivation to imply mystery,
the relation of God to man. But since the cheaper sort of journalist seized hold of the unhappy
word, its demoralization has been complete. It now indicates, generally speaking, an intellectual
defect which expresses itself in a literary quality one can only call woolliness.

And there is a spurious mysticism, meaningless rubbish of which Rossetti's Sister Helen is
a specimen. What could be more idiotic than the verse:

           "He has made a sign and called Halloo!
                        Sister Helen,
           And he says that he would speak with you."
           "Oh tell him I fear the frozen dew,
                        Little brother."
                        (O Mother, Mary Mother,
          Why laughs she thus between Hell and Heaven?)

The trouble about the latter variety is its extreme simplicity. Anybody with the gift of being
able to make lines scan and rhyme can produce similar effects in a similar way. Hence the enormous
temptation exercised by this form of mysticism gone wrong. There is a naughty little story
of a little girl, relating to her mother the mishaps of the family coal merchant, as seen from
the dining-room window. He slipped on a piece of orange-peel, the child had explained. "And
what happened then?" "Why, mummy, he sat down on the pavement and talked about God." Chesterton
(and he is not alone in this respect) behaves exactly like this coal-heaver. When he is at
a loss, he talks about God. In each case one is given to suspect that the invocation is due
to a temporarily overworked imagination.

This leads us to The Ball and the Cross (1906). In The Man who was Thursday, when the author
had tired of his story, he brought in the universe at large. But its successor is dominated
by God, and discussions on him by beings celestial, terrestrial, and merely infernal. And yet
The Ball and the Cross is in many respects Chesterton's greatest novel. The first few chapters
are things of joy. There is much said in them about religion, but it is all sincere and bracing.
The first chapter consists, in the main, of a dialogue on religion, between Professor Lucifer,
the inventor and the driver of an eccentric airship, and Father Michael, a theologian acquired
by the Professor in Western Bulgaria. As the airship dives into the ball and the cross of Saint
Paul's Cathedral, its passengers naturally find themselves taking a deep interest in the cross,
considered as symbol and anchor. Lucifer plumps for the ball, the symbol of all that is rational
and united. The cross

         "is the conflict of two hostile lines, of
         irreconcilable direction. . . . The very shape
         of it is a contradiction in terms." Michael
         replies, "But we like contradictions in terms. Man
         is a contradiction in terms; he is a beast whose
         superiority to other beasts consists in having
         fallen."

Defeated on points, Lucifer leaves the Father clinging literally to the cross and flies away.
Michael meets a policeman on the upper gallery and is conducted downwards. The scene changes
to Ludgate Circus, but Michael is no longer in the centre of it. A Scot named Turnbull keeps
a shop here, apparently in the endeavour to counterbalance the influence of St. Paul's across
the way. He is an atheist, selling atheist literature, editing an atheist paper. Another Scot
arrives, young Evan MacIan, straight from the Highlands. Unlike the habitual Londoner, MacIan
takes the little shop seriously. In its window he sees a copy of The Atheist, the leading article
of which contains an insult to the Virgin Mary. MacIan thereupon puts his stick through the
window. Turnbull comes out, there is a scuffle, and both are arrested and taken before a Dickensian
magistrate. The sketch of Mr. Cumberland Vane is very pleasing: it is clear that the author
knew what he was copying. Lord Melbourne is alleged to have said, "No one has more respect
for the Christian religion than I have; but really, when it comes to intruding it into private
life. . . ." Mr. Vane felt much the same way when he heard MacIan's simple explanation: "He
is my enemy. He is the enemy of God." He said, "It is most undesirable that things of that
sort should be spoken about--a--in public, and in an ordinary Court of Justice. Religion is--a--too
personal a matter to be mentioned in such a place." However, MacIan is fined. After which he
and Turnbull, as men of honour, buy themselves swords and proceed to fight the matter out.
With interruptions due to argument and the police, the fight lasts several weeks. Turnbull
and MacIan fight in the back garden of the man from whom they bought the swords,[1] until the
police intervene. They escape the police and gain the Northern Heights of London, and fight
once more, with a madness renewed and stimulated by the peace-making efforts of a stray and
silly Tolstoyan. Then the police come again, and are once more outdistanced. This time mortal
combat is postponed on account of the sanguinolence of a casual lunatic who worshipped blood
to such a nauseating extent that the duellists deferred operations in order to chase him into
a pond. Then follows an interminable dialogue, paradoxical, thoroughly Shavian, while the only
two men in England to whom God literally is a matter of life and death find that they begin
to regard the slaughter of one by the other as an unpleasant duty. Again they fight and are
separated. They are motored by a lady to the Hampshire coast, and there they fight on the sands
until the rising tide cuts them off. An empty boat turns up to rescue them from drowning; in
it they reach one of the Channel Islands. Again they fight, and again the police come. They
escape from them, but remain on the island in disguise, and make themselves an opportunity
to pick a quarrel and so fight a duel upon a matter in keeping with local prejudice. But Turnbull
has fallen in love. His irritatingly calm and beautiful devotee argues with him on religion
until he is driven to cast off his disguise. Then the police are on his tracks again. A lunatic
lends Turnbull and MacIan his yacht and so the chase continues. But by this time Chesterton
is getting just a trifle bored. He realizes that no matter how many adventures his heroes get
into, or how many paradoxes they fling down each other's throats, the end of the story, the
final inevitable end which alone makes a series of rapid adventures worth while, is not even
on the horizon. An element of that spurious mysticism already described invades the book. It
begins to be clear that Chesterton is trying to drag in a moral somehow, if need be, by the
hair of its head. The two yachters spend two weeks of geographical perplexity and come to a
desert island. They land, but think it wiser, on the whole, to postpone fighting until they
have finished the champagne and cigars with which their vessel is liberally stored. This takes
a week. Just as they are about to begin the definitive duel they discover that they are not
upon a desert island at all, they are near Margate. And the police are there, too. So once
more they are chased. They land in a large garden in front of an old gentleman who assures
them that he is God. He turns out to be a lunatic, and the place an asylum. There follows a
characteristic piece of that abuse of science for which Chesterton has never attempted to suggest
a substitute. MacIan and Turnbull find themselves prisoners, unable to get out. Then they dream
dreams. Each sees himself in an aeroplane flying over Fleet Street and Ludgate Hill, where
a battle is raging. But the woolly element is very pronounced by this time, and we can make
neither head nor tail of these dreams and the conversations which accompany them. The duellists
are imprisoned for a month in horrible cells. They find their way into the garden, and are
told that all England is now in the hands of the alienists, by a new Act of Parliament: this
has been the only possible manner of putting a stop to the revolution started by MacIan and
Turnbull. These two find all the persons they had met with during their odyssey, packed away
in the asylum, which is a wonderful place worked by petroleum machinery. But the matter-of-fact
grocer from the Channel Island, regarding the whole affair as an infringement of the Rights
of Man, sets the petroleum alight. Michael, the celestial being who had appeared in the first
chapter and disappeared at the end of it, is dragged out of a cell in an imbecile condition.
Lucifer comes down in his airship to collect the doctors, whose bodies he drops out, a little
later on. The buildings vanish in the flames, the keepers bolt, the inmates talk about their
souls. MacIan is reunited to the lady of the Channel Island, and the story ends.

When a stone has been tossed into a pond, the ripples gradually and symmetrically grow smaller.
A Chesterton novel is like an adventurous voyage of discovery, which begins on smooth water
and is made with the object of finding the causes of the ripples. As ripple succeeds ripple--or
chapter follows chapter--so we have to keep a tighter hold on such tangible things as are within
our reach. Finally we reach the centre of the excitement and are either sucked into a whirlpool,
or hit on the head with a stone. When we recover consciousness we feebly remember we have had
a thrilling journey and that we had started out with a misapprehension of the quality of Chestertonian
fiction. A man whose memory is normal should be able to give an accurate synopsis of a novel
six months after he has read it. But I should be greatly surprised if any reader of The Ball
and the Cross could tell exactly what it was all about, within a month or two of reading it.
The discontinuity of it makes one difficulty; the substitution of paradox for incident makes
another. Yet it is difficult to avoid the conviction that this novel will survive its day and
the generation that begot it. If it was Chesterton's endeavour (as one is bound to suspect)
to show that the triumph of atheism would lead to the triumph of a callous and inhuman body
of scientists, then he has failed miserably. But if he was attempting to prove that the uncertainties
of religion were trivial things when compared with the uncertainties of atheism, then the verdict
must be reversed. The dialogues on religion contained in The Ball and the Cross are alone enough
and more than enough to place it among the few books on religion which could be safely placed
in the hands of an atheist or an agnostic with an intelligence.

If we consider Manalive (1912) now we shall be departing from strict chronological order, as
it was preceded by The Innocence of Father Brown. It will, however, be more satisfactory to
take the two Father Brown books together. In the first of these and Manalive, a change can
be distinctly felt. It is not a simple weakening of the power of employing instruments, such
as befell Ibsen when, after writing The Lady from the Sea, he could no longer keep his symbols
and his characters apart. It is a more subtle change, a combination of several small changes,
which cannot be studied fairly in relation only to one side of Chesterton's work. In the last
chapter an attempt will be made to analyze these, for the present I can only indicate some
of the fallings-off noticeable in Manalive, and leave it at that. Chesterton's previous romances
were not constructed, the reader may have gathered, with that minute attention to detail which
makes some modern novels read like the report of a newly promoted detective. But a man may
do such things and yet be considered spotless. Shakespeare, after all, went astray on several
points of history and geography. The authors of the Old Testament talked about "the hare that
cheweth the cud." And, if any reader should fail to see the application of these instances
to modern fiction, I can only recommend him to read Vanity Fair and find out how many children
had the Rev. Bute Crawley, and what were their names. No, the trouble with Manalive is not
in its casual, happy-go-lucky construction. It is rather in a certain lack of ease, a tendency
to exaggerate effects, a continual stirring up of inconsiderable points. But let us come to
the story.

There is a boarding-house situated on one of the summits of the Northern Heights. A great wind
happens, and a large man, quite literally, blows in. His name is Innocent Smith and he is naturally
considered insane. But he is really almost excessively sane. His presence makes life at the
house a sort of holiday for the inmates, male and female. Smith is about to run for a special
licence in order to marry one of the women in the house, and the other boarders have just paired
off when a telegram posted by one of the ladies in a misapprehension brings two lunacy experts
around in a cab. Smith adds to the excitement of the moment by putting a couple of bullets
through a doctor's hat.

Now Smith is what somebody calls "an allegorical practical joker." But Chesterton gives a better
description of him than that.

          He's comic just because he's so startlingly
          commonplace. Don't you know what it is to be in
          all one family circle, with aunts and uncles, when
          a schoolboy comes home for the holidays? That bag
          there on the cab is only a schoolboy's hamper.
          This tree here in the garden is only the sort of
          tree that any schoolboy would have climbed. Yes,
          that's the sort of thing that has haunted us all
          about him, the thing we could never fit a word to.
          Whether he is my old schoolfellow or no, at least
          he is all my old schoolfellows. He is the endless
          bun-eating, ball-throwing animal that we have all
          been.

Innocent has an idea about every few minutes, but so far as the book is concerned we need mention
only one of them. That one is--local autonomy for Beacon House. This may be recommended as
a game to be played en famille. Establish a High Court, call in a legal member, and get a constitution.
The rest will be very hilarious. The legal member of the Beacon House ménage is an Irish ex-barrister,
one Michael Moon, who plans as follows:

          The High Court of Beacon, he declared, was a
          splendid example of our free and sensible
          constitution. It had been founded by King John in
          defiance of Magna Carta, and now held absolute
          power over windmills, wine and spirit licences,
          ladies travelling in Turkey, revision of sentences
          for dog-stealing and parricide, as well as
          anything whatever that happened in the town of
          Market Bosworth. The whole hundred and nine
          seneschals of the High Court of Beacon met about
          once in every four centuries; but in the intervals
          (as Mr. Moon explained) the whole powers of the
          institution were vested in Mrs. Duke [the
          landlady]. Tossed about among the rest of the
          company, however, the High Court did not retain
          its historical and legal seriousness, but was used
          somewhat unscrupulously in a riot of domestic
          detail. If somebody spilt the Worcester Sauce on
          the tablecloth, he was quite sure it was a rite
          without which the sittings and findings of the
          Court would be invalid; and if somebody wanted a
          window to remain shut, he would suddenly remember
          that none but the third son of the lord of the
          manor of Penge had the right to open it. They even
          went the length of making arrests and conducting
          criminal inquiries.

Before this tribunal Innocent Smith is brought. One alienist is an American, who is quite prepared
to acknowledge its jurisdiction, being by reason of his nationality not easily daunted by mere
constitutional queerness. The other doctor, being the prosecutor and a boarder, has no choice
in the matter. The doctors, it should be added, have brought with them a mass of documentary
evidence, incriminating Smith.

How the defence has time to collect this evidence is not explained, but this is just one of
the all-important details which do not matter in the Chestertonian plane. Smith is tried for
attempted murder. The prosecution fails because the evidence shows Smith to be a first-class
shot, who has on occasion fired life into people by frightening them. Then he is tried for
burglary on the basis of a clergyman's letter from which it is gathered that Smith tried one
night to induce him and another cleric to enter a house burglariously in the dark. This charge
breaks down because a letter is produced from the other clergyman who did actually accompany
Smith over housetops and down through trap-doors--into his own house! Smith, it is explained,
is in the habit of keeping himself awake to the romance and wonder of everyday existence by
such courses. From the second letter, however, it appears that there is a Mrs. Smith, so the
next charge is one of desertion and attempted bigamy. A series of documents is produced, from
persons in France, Russia, China, and California recounting conversations with Smith, a man
with a garden-rake, who left his house so that he might find it, and at the end leapt over
the hedge into the garden where Mrs. Smith was having tea. In the words of the servant "he
looked round at the garden and said, very loud and strong: 'Oh, what a lovely place you've
got,' just as if he'd never seen it before." After which the court proceeds to try Smith on
a polygamy charge. Documentary evidence shows that Smith has at one time or another married
a Miss Green, a Miss Brown, a Miss Black, just as he is now about to marry a Miss Gray, Moon
points out that these are all the same lady. Innocent Smith has merely broken the conventions,
he has religiously kept the commandments. He has burgled his own house, and married his own
wife. He has been perfectly innocent, and therefore he has been perfectly merry. Innocent is
acquitted, and the book ends.

In the course of Manalive, somebody says, "Going right round the world is the shortest way
to where you are already." These are the words of an overworked epigrammatist, and upon them
hangs the whole story. If Manalive is amusing, it is because Chesterton has a style which could
make even a debilitated paradox of great length seem amusing. The book has a few gorgeous passages.
Among the documents read at the trial of Innocent Smith, for example, is a statement made by
a Trans-Siberian station-master, which is a perfectly exquisite burlesque at the expense of
the Russian intelligenzia. The whole series of documents, in fact, are delightful bits of self-expression
on the part of a very varied team of selves. While Chesterton is able to turn out such things
we must be content to take the page, and not the story, as his unit of work. Manalive, by the
way, is the first of the author's stories in which women are represented as talking to one
another. Chesterton seems extraordinarily shy with his feminine characters. He is a little
afraid of woman. "The average woman is a despot, the average man is a serf."[2] Mrs. Innocent
Smith's view of men is in keeping with this peculiar notion. "At certain curious times they're
just fit to take care of us, and they're never fit to take care of themselves." Smith is the
Chestertonian Parsifal, just as Prince Muishkin is Dostoievsky's.

The transcendental type of detective, first sketched out in The Club of Queer Trades, is developed
more fully in the two Father Brown books. In the little Roman priest who has such a wonderful
instinct for placing the diseased spots in people's souls, we have Chesterton's completest
and most human creation. Yet, with all their cleverness, and in spite of the fact that from
internal evidence it is almost blatantly obvious that the author enjoyed writing these stories,
they bear marks which put the books on a lower plane than either The Napoleon of Notting Hill
or The Ball and the Cross. In the latter book Chesterton spoke of "the mere healthy and heathen
horror of the unclean; the mere inhuman hatred of the inhuman state of madness." His own critical
work had been a long protest against the introduction of artificial horrors, a plea for sanity
and the exercise of sanity. But in The Innocence of Father Brown these principles, almost the
fundamental ones of literary decency, were put on the shelf. Chesterton's criminals are lunatics,
perhaps it is his belief that crime and insanity are inseparable. But even if this last supposition
is correct, its approval would not necessarily license the introduction of some of the characters.
There is Israel Gow, who suffers from a peculiar mania which drives him to collect gold from
places seemly and unseemly, even to the point of digging up a corpse in order to extract the
gold filling from its teeth. There is the insane French Chief of Police, who commits a murder
and attempts to disguise the body, and the nature of the crime, by substituting the head of
a guillotined criminal for that of the victim. In another story we have the picture of a cheerful
teetotaller who suffers from drink and suicidal mania. There is also a doctor who kills a mad
poet, and a mad priest who drops a hammer from the top of his church-tower upon his brother.
Another story is about the loathsome treachery of an English general. It is, of course, difficult
to write about crime without touching on features which revolt the squeamish reader, but it
can be done, and it has been done, as in the Sherlock Holmes stories. There are subjects about
which one instinctively feels it is not good to know too much. Sex, for example, is one of
them. Strindberg, Weininger, Maupassant, Jules de Goncourt, knew too much about sex, and they
all went mad, although it is usual to disguise the fact in the less familiar terms of medical
science. Madness itself is another such subject. There are writers who dwell on madness because
they cannot help themselves--Strindberg, Edgar Allan Poe, Gogol, and many others--but they
scarcely produce the same nauseating sensation as the sudden introduction of the note of insanity
into a hitherto normal setting. The harnessing of the horror into which the discovery of insanity
reacts is a favourite device of the feeble craftsman, but it is illegitimate. It is absolutely
opposed to those elementary canons of good taste which decree that we may not jest at the expense
of certain things, either because they are too sacred or not sacred enough. The opposite of
a decadent author is not necessarily a writer who attacks decadents. Many decadents have attacked
themselves, by committing suicide, for example. The opposite of a decadent author is one to
whom decadent ideas and imagery are alien, which is a very different thing. For example, the
whole story The Wrong Shape is filled with decadent ideas; one is sure that Baudelaire would
have entirely approved of it. It includes a decadent poet, living in wildly Oriental surroundings,
attended by a Hindoo servant. Even the air of the place is decadent; Father Brown on entering
the house learns instinctively from it that a crime is to be committed.

Considered purely as detective stories, these cannot be granted a very good mark. There is
scarcely a story that has not a serious flaw in it. A man--Flambeau, of whom more later--gains
admittance to a small and select dinner party and almost succeeds in stealing the silver, by
the device of turning up and pretending to be a guest when among the waiters, and a waiter
when among the guests. But it is not explained what he did during the first two courses of
that dinner, when he obviously had to be either a waiter or a guest, and could not keep up
both parts, as when the guests were arriving. Another man, a "Priest of Apollo," is worshipping
the sun on the top of a "sky-scraping" block of offices in Westminster, while a woman falls
down a lift-shaft and is killed. Father Brown immediately concludes that the priest is guilty
of the murder because, had he been unprepared, he would have started and looked round at the
scream and the crash of the victim falling. But a man absorbed in prayer on, let us say, a
tenth floor, is, in point of fact, quite unlikely to hear a crash in the basement, or a scream
even nearer to him. But the most astonishing thing about The Eye of Apollo is the staging.
In order to provide the essentials, Mr. Chesterton has to place "the heiress of a crest and
half a county, as well as great wealth," who is blind, in a typist's office! The collocation
is somewhat too singular. One might go right through the Father Brown stories in this manner.
But, if the reader wishes to draw the maximum of enjoyment out of them, he will do nothing
of the sort. He will believe, as fervently as Alfred de Vigny, that L'Idée C'est Tout, and
lay down all petty regard for detail at the feet of Father Brown. This little Roman cleric
has listened to so many confessions (he calls himself "a man who does next to nothing but hear
men's real sins," but this seems to be excessive, even for a Roman Catholic) that he is really
well acquainted with the human soul. He is also extremely observant. And his greatest friend
is Flambeau, whom he once brings to judgment, twice hinders in crime, and thenceforward accompanies
on detective expeditions.

The Innocence of Father Brown had a sequel, The Wisdom of Father Brown, distinctly less effective,
as sequels always are, than the predecessor. But the underlying ideas are the same. In the
first place there is a deep detestation of "Science" (whatever that is) and the maintenance
of the theory incarnate in Father Brown, that he who can read the human soul knows all things.
The detestation of science (of which, one gathers, Chesterton knows nothing) is carried to
the same absurd length as in The Ball and the Cross. In the very first story, Father Brown
calls on a criminologist ostensibly in order to consult him, actually in order to show the
unfortunate man, who had retired from business fourteen years ago, what an extraordinary fool
he was.

The Father Brown of these stories--moon-faced little man--is a peculiar creation. No other
author would have taken the trouble to excogitate him, and then treat him so badly. As a detective
he never gets a fair chance. He is always on the spot when a murder is due to be committed,
generally speaking he is there before time. When an absconding banker commits suicide under
peculiar circumstances in Italian mountains, when a French publicist advertises himself by
fighting duels with himself (very nearly), when a murder is committed in the dressing-room
corridor of a theatre, when a miser and blackmailer kills himself, when a lunatic admiral attempts
murder and then commits suicide, when amid much incoherence a Voodoo murder takes place, when
somebody tries to kill a colonel by playing on his superstitions (and by other methods), and
when a gentleman commits suicide from envy, Father Brown is always there. One might almost
interpret the Father Brown stories by suggesting that their author had written them in order
to illustrate the sudden impetus given to murder and suicide by the appearance of a Roman priest.

Here we may suspend our reviews of Chestertonian romance. There remains yet The Flying Inn,
which shall be duly considered along with the other débris of its author. In summing up, it
may be said of Chesterton that at his best he invented new possibilities of romance and a new
and hearty laugh. It may be said of the decadents of the eighteen nineties, that if their motto
wasn't "Let's all go bad," it should have been. So one may say of Chesterton that if he has
not selected "Let's all go mad" as a text, he should have done. Madness, in the Chestertonian,
whatever it is in the pathological sense, is a defiance of convention, a loosening of visible
bonds in order to show the strength of the invisible ones; perhaps, as savages are said to
regard lunatics with great respect, holding them to be nearer the Deity than most, so Chesterton
believes of his own madmen. Innocent Smith, of course, the simple fool, the blithering idiot,
is a truly wise man.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Chesterton jeers at this man's "Scottish" ancestry because his surname was Gordon and he
was obviously a Jew. The author is probably unaware that there are large numbers of Jews bearing
that name in Russia. If he had made his Jew call himself Macpherson, the case would have been
different.

[2] All Things Considered, p. 106.

III

THE MAKER OF MAGIC

CHESTERTON'S only play, Magic, was written at the suggestion of Mr. Kenelm Foss and produced
by him in November, 1913, at the Little Theatre, where it enjoyed a run of more than one hundred
performances. This charming thing does not make one wish that Chesterton was an habitual playwright,
for one feels that Magic was a sort of tank into which its author's dramatic talents had been
draining for many years--although, in actual fact, Chesterton allowed newspaper interviewers
to learn that the play had been written in a very short space of time. His religious ideas
were expressed in Magic with great neatness. Most perhaps of all his works this is a quotable
production.

Patricia Carleon, a niece of the Duke, her guardian, is in the habit of wandering about his
grounds seeing fairies. On the night when her brother Morris is expected to return from America
she is having a solitary moonlight stroll when she sees a Stranger, "a cloaked figure with
a pointed hood," which last almost covers his face. She naturally asks him what he is doing
there. He replies, mapping out the ground with his staff:

          I have a hat, but not to wear;
          I have a sword, but not to slay;
          And ever in my bag I bear
          A pack of cards, but not to play.

This, he tells her, is the language of fairies. He tells her that fairies are not small things,
but quite the reverse. After a few sentences have been spoken the prologue comes to an end,
and the curtain rises upon the scene of the play, the drawing-room of the Duke. Here is seated
the Rev. Cyril Smith, a young clergyman, "an honest man and not an ass." To him enters the
Duke's Secretary, to tell him the Duke is engaged at the moment, but will be down shortly.
He is followed by Dr. Grimthorpe, an elderly agnostic, the red lamp of whose house can be seen
through the open French windows. Smith is erecting a model public-house in the village, and
has come to ask the Duke for a contribution towards the cost. Grimthorpe is getting up a league
for opposing the erection of the new public-house, and has also come to the Duke for help.
They discover the nature of each other's errand. Smith's case is, "How can the Church have
a right to make men fast if she does not allow them to feast?"; Grimthorpe's, that alcohol
is not a food. The Duke's Secretary enters and gives Smith a cheque for £50, then he gives
the Doctor another--also for £50. This is the first glimpse we have of the Duke's eccentricity,
an excessive impartiality based on the theory that everybody "does a great deal of good in
his own way," and on sheer absence of mind--an absence which sometimes is absolutely literal.
The Doctor explains in confidence to the Clergyman that there is something wrong about the
family of Patricia and Morris, who are of Irish origin. . . . "They saw fairies and things
of that sort."

          SMITH. And I suppose, to the medical mind, seeing
          fairies means much the same as seeing snakes?

          DOCTOR. [With a sour smile.] Well, they saw them
          in Ireland. I suppose it's quite correct to see
          fairies in Ireland. It's like gambling at Monte
          Carlo. It's quite respectable. But I do draw the
          line at their seeing fairies in England. I do
          object to their bringing their ghosts and goblins
          and witches into the poor Duke's own back garden
          and within a yard of my own red lamp. It shows a
          lack of tact.

Patricia, moreover, wanders about the park and the woods in the evenings. "Damp evenings for
choice. She calls it the Celtic twilight. I've no use for the Celtic twilight myself. It has
a tendency to get on the chest." The Duke, annoyed by this love of fairies, has blundered,
in his usual way, on an absurd compromise between the real and the ideal. A conjuror is to
come that very night. When explanations have gone so far, the Duke at last makes his entry.
The stage directions tell us that "in the present state of the peerage it is necessary to explain
that the Duke, though an ass, is a gentleman." His thoughts are the most casual on earth. He
is always being reminded of something or somebody which has nothing to do with the case. As
for instance, "I saw the place you're putting up . . . Mr. Smith. Very good work. Very good
work, indeed. Art for the people, eh? I particularly liked that woodwork over the west door--I'm
glad to see you're using the new sort of graining . . . why, it all reminds one of the French
Revolution." After one or two dissociations of this sort, the expected Morris Carleon enters
through the French window; he is rather young and excitable, and America has overlaid the original
Irishman. Morris immediately asks for Patricia and is told that she is wandering in the garden.
The Duke lets out that she sees fairies; Morris raves a bit about his sister being allowed
out alone with anything in the nature of a man, when Patricia herself enters. She is in a slightly
exalted state; she has just seen her fairy, him of the pointed hood. Morris, of course, is
furious, not to say suspicious.

          DOCTOR. [Putting his hand on MORRIS'S
          shoulder.] Come, you must allow a little more
          for poetry. We can't all feed on nothing but
          petrol.

          DUKE. Quite right, quite right. And being Irish,
          don't you know, Celtic, as old Buffle used to say,
          charming songs, you know, about the Irish girl who
          has a plaid shawl--and a Banshee. [Sighs
          profoundly.] Poor old Gladstone! [Silence.]

          SMITH. [Speaking to DOCTOR.] I thought you
          yourself considered the family superstition bad
          for the health?

          DOCTOR. I consider a family superstition is better
          for the health than a family quarrel.

A figure is seen to stand in front of the red lamp, blotting it out for a moment. Patricia
calls to it, and the cloaked Stranger with the pointed hood enters. Morris at once calls him
a fraud.

          SMITH. [Quickly.] Pardon me, I do not fancy that
          we know that. . . .

          MORRIS. I didn't know you parsons stuck up for any
          fables but your own.

          SMITH. I stick up for the thing every man has a
          right to. Perhaps the only thing every man has a
          right to.

          MORRIS. And what is that?

          SMITH. The benefit of the doubt.

Morris returns to the attack. The Stranger throws off his hood and reveals himself to the Duke.
He is the Conjuror, ready for the evening's performance. All laugh at this dénouement, except
Patricia, between whom and the Conjuror this bit of dialogue ensues:

          STRANGER. [Very sadly.] I am very sorry I am not
          a wizard.

          PATRICIA. I wish you were a thief instead.

          STRANGER. Have I committed a worse crime than
          thieving?

          PATRICIA. You have committed the cruellest crime,
          I think, that there is.

          STRANGER. And what is the cruellest crime?

          PATRICIA. Stealing a child's toy.

          STRANGER. And what have I stolen?

          PATRICIA. A fairy tale.

And the curtain falls upon the First Act.

An hour later the room is being prepared for the performance. The Conjuror is setting out his
tricks, and the Duke is entangling him and the Secretary in his peculiar conversation. The
following is characteristic:

          THE SECRETARY.   . . . The only other thing at all
          urgent is the Militant Vegetarians.

          DUKE. Ah! The Militant Vegetarians! You've heard
          of them, I'm sure. Won't obey the law [to the
          CONJUROR] so long as the Government serves out
          meat.

          CONJUROR. Let them be comforted. There are a good
          many people who don't get much meat.

          DUKE. Well, well, I'm bound to say they're very
          enthusiastic. Advanced, too--oh, certainly
          advanced. Like Joan of Arc.

          [Short silence, in which the CONJUROR stares at
          him.]

          CONJUROR. Was Joan of Arc a Vegetarian?

          DUKE. Oh, well, it's a very high ideal, after all.
          The Sacredness of Life, you know--the Sacredness
          of Life. [Shakes his head.] But they carry it
          too far. They killed a policeman down in Kent.

This conversation goes on for some time, while nothing in particular happens, except that the
audience feels very happy. The Duke asks the Conjuror several questions, receiving thoroughly
Chestertonian answers. ["Are you interested in modern progress?" "Yes. We are interested in
all tricks done by illusion."] At last the Conjuror is left alone. Patricia enters. He attempts
to excuse himself for the theft of the fairy tale. He has had a troublesome life, and has never
enjoyed "a holiday in Fairyland." So, when he, with his hood up, because of the slight rain,
was surprised by Patricia, as he was rehearsing his patter, and taken for a fairy, he played
up to her. Patricia is inclined to forgive him, but the conversation is interrupted by the
entrance of Morris, in a mood to be offensive. He examines the apparatus, proclaims the way
it is worked, and after a while breaks out into a frenzy of free thought, asking the universe
in general and the Conjuror in particular for "that old apparatus that turned rods into snakes."
The Clergyman and the Doctor enter, and the conversation turns on religion, and then goes back
to the tricks. Morris is still extremely quarrelsome, and for the second time has to be quieted
down. The Conjuror is dignified, but cutting. The whole scene has been, so far, a discussion
on Do Miracles Happen? Smith makes out a case in the affirmative, arguing from the false to
the true. Suppose, as Morris claims, the "modern conjuring tricks are simply the old miracles
when they have once been found out. . . . When we speak of things being sham, we generally
mean that they are imitations of things that are genuine." Morris gets more and more excited,
and continues to insult the Conjuror. At last he shouts . . . "You'll no more raise your Saints
and Prophets from the dead than you'll raise the Duke's great-grandfather to dance on that
wall." At which the Reynolds portrait in question sways slightly from side to side. Morris
turns furiously to the Conjuror, accusing him of trickery. A chair falls over, for no apparent
cause, still further exciting the youth. At last he blurts out a challenge. The Doctor's red
lamp is the lamp of science. No power on earth could change its colour. And the red light turns
blue, for a minute. Morris, absolutely puzzled, comes literally to his wits' end, and rushes
out, followed shortly afterwards by his sister and the Doctor. The youth is put to bed, and
left in the care of Patricia, while the Doctor and the Clergyman return to their argument.
Smith makes out a strong case for belief, for simple faith, a case which sounds strangely,
coming from the lips of a clergyman of the Church of England.

          DOCTOR. Weren't there as many who believed
          passionately in Apollo?

          SMITH. And what harm came of believing in Apollo?
          And what a mass of harm may have come of not
          believing in Apollo? Does it never strike you that
          doubt can be a madness, as well be faith? That
          asking questions may be a disease, as well as
          proclaiming doctrines? You talk of religious
          mania! Is there no such thing as irreligious
          mania? Is there no such thing in the house at this
          moment?

          DOCTOR. Then you think no one should question at
          all?

          SMITH. [With passion, pointing to the next
          room.] I think that is what comes of questioning!
          Why can't you leave the universe alone and let it
          mean what it likes? Why shouldn't the thunder be
          Jupiter? More men have made themselves silly by
          wondering what the devil it was if it wasn't
          Jupiter.

          DOCTOR. [Looking at him.] Do you believe in your
          own religion?

          SMITH. [Returning the look equally steadily.]
          Suppose I don't: I should still be a fool to
          question it. The child who doubts about Santa
          Claus has insomnia. The child who believes has a
          good night's rest.

          DOCTOR. You are a Pragmatist.

          SMITH. That is what the lawyers call vulgar abuse.
          But I do appeal to practice. Here is a family over
          which you tell me a mental calamity hovers. Here
          is the boy who questions everything and a girl who
          can believe anything. Upon whom has the curse
          fallen?

At this point the curtain was made to fall on the Second Act. The Third and last Act takes
place in the same room a few hours later. The Conjuror has packed his bag, and is going. The
Doctor has been sitting up with the patient. Morris is in a more or less delirious state, and
is continually asking how the trick was done. The Doctor believes that the explanation would
satisfy the patient and would probably help him to turn the corner. But the Conjuror will not
provide an explanation. He has many reasons, the most practical of which is that he would not
be believed. The Duke comes in and tries to make a business matter of the secret, even to the
extent of paying £2000 for it. Suddenly the Conjuror changes his mind. He will tell them how
the trick was done, it was all very simple. "It is the simplest thing in the world. That is
why you will not laugh. . . . I did it by magic." The Doctor and the Duke are dumbfounded.
Smith intervenes; he cannot accept the explanation. The Conjuror lets himself go, now he is
voicing Chesterton's views. The clergyman who merely believes in belief, as Smith does, will
not do. He must believe in a fact, which is far more difficult.

          CONJUROR. I say these things are supernatural. I
          say this is done by a spirit. The doctor does not
          believe me. He is an agnostic; and he knows
          everything. The Duke does not believe me; he
          cannot believe anything so plain as a miracle. But
          what the devil are you for, if you don't believe
          in a miracle? What does your coat mean if it
          doesn't mean that there is such a thing as the
          supernatural? What does your cursed collar mean if
          it doesn't mean that there is such a thing as a
          spirit? [Exasperated.] Why the devil do you
          dress up like that if you don't believe in it?
          [With violence.] Or perhaps you don't believe in
          devils?

          SMITH. I believe . . . [After a pause.] I wish
          I could believe.

          CONJUROR. Yes. I wish I could disbelieve.

Here Patricia enters. She wants to speak to the Conjuror, with whom she is left alone. A little
love scene takes place: rather the result of two slightly sentimental and rather tired persons
of different sexes being left alone than anything else. But they return to realities, with
an effort. Patricia, too, wants to know how the trick was done, in order to tell her brother.
He tells her, but she is of the world which cannot believe in devils, even although it may
manage to accept fairies as an inevitable adjunct to landscape scenery by moonlight. In order
to convince her the Conjuror tells her how he fell, how after dabbling in spiritualism he found
he had lost control over himself. But he had resisted the temptation to make the devils his
servants, until the impudence of Morris had made him lose his temper. Then he goes out into
the garden to see if he can find some explanation to give Morris. The Duke, Smith, the Doctor,
and the Secretary drift into the room, which is now tenanted by something impalpable but horrible.
The Conjuror returns and clears the air with an exorcism. He has invented an explanation, which
he goes out to give to Morris. Patricia announces that her brother immediately took a turn
for the better. The Conjuror refuses to repeat the explanation he gave Morris, because if he
did, "Half an hour after I have left this house you will all be saying how it was done." He
turns to go.

          PATRICIA. Our fairy tale has come to an end in the
          only way a fairy tale can come to an end. The only
          way a fairy tale can leave off being a fairy tale.

          CONJUROR. I don't understand you.

          PATRICIA. It has come true.

And the curtain falls for the last time.

No doubt Magic owed a great deal of its success to the admirable production of Mr. Kenelm Foss
and the excellence of the cast. Miss Grace Croft was surely the true Patricia. Of the Duke
of Mr. Fred Lewis it is difficult to speak in terms other than superlative. Those of my readers
who have suffered the misfortune of not having seen him, may gain some idea of his execution
of the part from the illustrations to Mr. Belloc's novels. The Duke was an extraordinarily
good likeness of the Duke of Battersea, as portrayed by Chesterton, with rather more than a
touch of Mr. Asquith superadded. Mr. Fred Lewis, it may be stated, gagged freely, introducing
topical lines until the play became a revue in little--but without injustice to the original.
Several of those who saw Magic came for a third, a fourth, even a tenth time.

The Editor of The Dublin Review had the happy idea of asking Chesterton to review Magic. The
result is too long to quote in full, but it makes two important points which may be extracted.

          I will glide mercifully over the more glaring
          errors, which the critics have overlooked--as that
          no Irishman could become so complete a cad merely
          by going to America--that no young lady would walk
          about in the rain so soon before it was necessary
          to dress for dinner--that no young man, however
          American, could run round a Duke's grounds in the
          time between one bad epigram and another--that
          Dukes never allow the middle classes to encroach
          on their gardens so as to permit a doctor's lamp
          to be seen there--that no sister, however
          eccentric, could conduct a slightly frivolous
          love-scene with a brother going mad in the next
          room--that the Secretary disappears half-way
          through the play without explaining himself; and
          the conjuror disappears at the end, with almost
          equal dignity. . . .

          By the exercise of that knowledge of all human
          hearts which descends on any man (however
          unworthy) the moment he is a dramatic critic, I
          perceive that the author of Magic originally
          wrote it as a short story. It is a bad play,
          because it was a good short story. In a short
          story of mystery, as in a Sherlock Holmes story,
          the author and the hero (or villain) keep the
          reader out of the secret. . . . But the drama is
          built on that grander secrecy which was called the
          Greek irony. In the drama, the audience must know
          the truth when the actors do not know it. That is
          where the drama is truly democratic: not because
          the audience shouts, but because it knows--and is
          silent. Now I do quite seriously think it is a
          weakness in a play like Magic that the audience
          is not in the central secret from the start. Mr.
          G. S. Street put the point with his usual unerring
          simplicity by saying that he could not help
          feeling disappointed with the Conjuror because he
          had hoped he would turn into the Devil.

A few additions may easily be made to the first batch of criticisms. Patricia's welcome to
her brother is not what a long-lost brother might expect. There is really no satisfactory reason
for the Doctor's continued presence. Patricia and Morris can only be half Irish by blood, unless
it is possible to become Irish by residence. Why should the Conjuror rehearse his patter out
in the wet? Surely the Duke's house would contain a spare room? Where did the Conjuror go,
at the end of the Third Act, in the small hours of the morning? And so on.

But these are little things that do not matter in an allegory. For in Magic "things are not
what they seem." The Duke is a modern man. He is also the world, the flesh, and the devil.
He has no opinions, no positive religion, no brain. He believes in his own tolerance, which
is merely his fatuousness. He follows the line of least resistance, and makes a virtue of it.
He sits on the fence, but he will never come off. The Clergyman is the church of to-day, preaching
the supernatural, but unwilling to recognize its existence at close quarters. As somebody says
somewhere in The Wisdom of Father Brown, "If a miracle happened in your office, you'd have
to hush it up, now so many bishops are atheists." The Doctor is a less typical figure. He is
the inconsistencies of science, kindly but with little joy of life, and extremely Chestertonian,
which is to say unscientific. Morris is the younger generation, obsessed with business and
getting on, and intellectually incapable of facing a religious fact. Patricia is the Chestertonian
good woman, too essentially domestic to be ever fundamentally disturbed. The Conjuror, if not
the Devil, is at any rate that inexplicable element in all life which most people do not see.

Nevertheless there is a flaw in Magic which really is serious. If I were to see, let us say,
a sheet of newspaper flying down the road against the wind, and a friend of mine, who happened
to be a gifted liar, told me that he was directing the paper by means of spirits, I should
still be justified in believing that another explanation could be possible. I should say, "My
dear friend, your explanation is romantic; I believe in spirits but I do not believe in you.
I prefer to think that there is an air-current going the wrong way." That is the matter with
the Conjuror's explanation. Why should the Clergyman or the Doctor--professional sceptics,
both of them, which is to say seekers after truth--take the word of a professional deceiver
as necessarily true?

There are two works which the critic of Chesterton must take into special consideration. They
are Magic and Orthodoxy; and it may be said that the former is a dramatized version of the
latter. The two together are a great work, striking at the very roots of disbelief. In a sense
Chesterton pays the atheist a very high compliment. He does what the atheist is generally too
lazy to do for himself; he takes his substitute for religion and systematizes it into something
like a philosophy. Then he examines it as a whole. And he finds that atheism is dogma in its
extremist form, that it embodies a multitude of superstitions, and that it is actually continually
adding to their number. Such are the reasons of the greatness of Magic. The play, one feels,
must remain unique, for the prolegomenon cannot be rewritten while the philosophy is unchanged.
And Chesterton has deliberately chosen the word orthodox to apply to himself, and he has not
limited its meaning.

IV

THE CRITIC OF LARGE THINGS

THE heroes of Chesterton's romances have an adipose diathesis, as a reviewer has been heard
to remark. In plain English they tend towards largeness. Flambeau, Sunday, and Innocent Smith
are big men. Chesterton, as we have seen, pays little attention to his women characters, but
whenever it comes to pass that he must introduce a heroine, he colours her as emphatically
as the nature of things will admit. Which is to say that the Chestertonian heroine always has
red hair.

These things are symptomatic of their author. He loves robustness. If he cannot produce it,
he can at any rate affect it, or attack its enemies. This worship of the robust is the fundamental
fact of all Chesterton's work. For example, as a critic of letters he confines himself almost
exclusively to the big men. When Mr. Bernard Shaw a few years ago committed what Chesterton
imagined was an attack upon Shakespeare, he almost instinctively rushed to the defence in the
columns of The Daily News. When Chesterton wrote a little book on The Victorian Age in Literature
he showed no interest in the smaller people. The book, it may be urged in his excuse, was a
little one, but we feel that even if it was not, Chesterton would have done much the same thing.
Among the writers he omitted to mention, even by name, are Sir Edwin Arnold, Harrison Ainsworth,
Walter Bagehot, R. Blackmore, A. H. Clough, E. A. Freeman, S. R. Gardiner, George Gissing,
J. R. Green, T. H. Green, Henry Hallam, Jean Ingelow, Benjamin Jowett, W. E. H. Lecky, Thomas
Love Peacock, W. M. Praed, and Mrs. Humphry Ward. The criticism which feeds upon research and
comparison, which considers a new date or the emendation of a mispunctuated line of verse,
worthy of effort, knows not Chesterton. He is the student of the big men. He has written books
about Dickens, Browning, and Shaw, of whom only one common quality can be noted, which is that
they are each the subjects of at least twenty other books. To write about the things which
have already yielded such a huge crop of criticism savours at first of a lack of imagination.
The truth is quite otherwise. Anybody, so to speak, can produce a book about Alexander Pope
because the ore is at the disposal of every miner. But that larger mine called Dickens has
been diligently worked by two generations of authors, and it would appear that a new one must
either plagiarize or labour extremely in order to come upon fresh seams. But Chesterton's taste
for bigness has come to his service in criticism. It has given him a power of seeing the large,
obvious things which the critic of small things misses. He has the "thinking in millions" trick
of the statistician transposed to literary ends.

Or as a poet. The robustness is omnipresent, and takes several forms. A grandiloquence that
sways uneasily between rodomontade and mere verbiage, a rotundity of diction, a choice of subjects
which can only be described as sanguinolent, the use of the bludgeon where others would prefer
a rapier.

Or as a simple user of words. Chesterton has a preference for the big words: awful, enormous,
tremendous, and so on. A word which occurs very often indeed is mystic: it suggests that the
noun it qualifies is laden with undisclosable attributes, and that romance is hidden here.

Now all these things add up, as it were, to a tendency to say a thing as emphatically as possible.
Emphasis of statement from a humorist gifted with the use of words results sometimes in epigram,
sometimes in fun, in all things except the dull things (except when the dullness is due to
an unhappy succession of scintillations which have misfired). For these reasons Chesterton
is regarded as entirely frivolous--by persons without a sense of humour. He is, in point of
fact, extremely serious, on those frequent occasions when he is making out a case. As he himself
points out, to be serious is not the opposite of to be funny. The opposite of to be funny is
not to be funny. A man may be perfectly serious in a funny way.

Now it has befallen Chesterton on more than one occasion to have to cross swords with one of
the few true atheists, Mr. Joseph MacCabe, the author of a huge number of books, mostly attacking
Christianity, and as devoid of humour as an egg-shell is of hair. The differences and the resemblances
between Chesterton and Mr. MacCabe might well be the occasion of a parable. Chesterton has
written some of the liveliest books about Christianity, Mr. MacCabe has written some of the
dullest. Chesterton has written the most amusing book about Mr. Bernard Shaw; Mr. MacCabe has
written the dullest. Chesterton and Mr. MacCabe have a habit of sparring at one another, but
up to the present I have not noticed either make any palpable hits. It is all rather like the
Party System, as Mr. Hilaire Belloc depicts it. The two antagonists do not understand each
other in the least. But, to a certain degree, Mr. MacCabe's confusion is the fault of Chesterton
and not of his own lack of humour. When Chesterton says, "I also mean every word I say," he
is saying something he does not mean. He is sometimes funny, but not serious, like Mr. George
Robey. He is sometimes irritating, but not serious, like a circus clown. And he sometimes appears
to be critical, but is not serious, like the young lady from Walworth in front of a Bond Street
shop-window, regretting that she could not possibly buy the crockery and glass displayed because
the monogram isn't on right. Chesterton's readers have perhaps spoiled him. He has pleaded,
so to speak, for the inalienable and mystic right of every man to be a blithering idiot in
all seriousness. So seriously, in fact, that when he exercised this inalienable and mystic
right, the only man not in the secret was G. K. Chesterton.

There are few tasks so ungrateful as the criticism of a critic's criticisms, unless it be the
job of criticizing the criticisms of a critic's critics. The first is part of the task of him
who would write a book in which all Chesterton's works are duly and fitly considered; and the
second will not be wholly escaped by him. Concerned as we are, however, with the ideas of one
who was far more interested in putting the world to rights than with guiding men and women
around literary edifices, there is no need for us to give any very detailed study to Chesterton's
critical work. Bacon said "distilled books are like common distilled waters, flashy things."
A second distillation, perhaps even a third, suggests a Euclidean flatness. The sheer management
of a point of view, however, is always instructive. We have seen an author use his exceptional
powers of criticism upon society in general, and ideas at large. How is he able to deal with
ideas and inventions stated in a more definite and particular manner? The latter task is the
more difficult of the two. We all know perfectly well, to take an analogous illustration, how
to deal with the Prussian militarist class, the "Junker caste," and so on. But we differ hopelessly
on the treatment to be meted out to the National Service League.

The outstanding feature of Chesterton's critical work is that it has no outstanding features
which differentiate it from his other writings. He is always the journalist, writing for the
day only. This leads him to treat all his subjects with special reference to his own day. Sometimes,
as in the essay on Byron in Twelve Types, his own day is so much under discussion that poor
Byron is left out in the cold to warm himself before a feebly flickering epigram. In writing
of Dickens, Chesterton says that he "can be criticized as a contemporary of Bernard Shaw or
Anatole France or C. F. G. Masterman . . . his name comes to the tongue when we are talking
of Christian Socialists or Mr. Roosevelt or County Council Steamboats or Guilds of Play." And
Chesterton does criticize Dickens as the contemporary of all these phenomena. In point of fact,
to G.K.C. everybody is either a contemporary or a Victorian, and "I also was born a Victorian."
Little Dorrit sets him talking about Gissing, Hard Times suggests Herbert Spencer, American
Notes leads to the mention of Maxim Gorky, and elsewhere Mr. George Moore and Mr. William Le
Queux are brought in. If Chesterton happened to be writing about Dickens at a time when there
was a certain amount of feeling about on the subject of rich Jews on the Rand, then the rich
Jews on the Rand would appear in print forthwith, whether or not Dickens had ever depicted
a rich Jew or the Rand, or the two in conjunction. Chesterton's first critical work of importance
was Robert Browning in the "English Men of Letters Series." It might be imagined that the austere
editorship of Lord Morley might have a dejournalizing effect upon the style of the author.
Far otherwise. The t's are crossed and the i's are dotted, so to speak, more carefully in Robert
Browning than in works less fastidiously edited, but that is all. The book contains references
to Gladstone and Home Rule, Parnell, Pigott, and Rudyard Kipling, Cyrano de Bergerac, W. E.
Henley, and the Tivoli. But of Browning's literary ancestors and predecessors there is little
mention.

It is conventional to shed tears of ink over the journalistic touch, on the ground that it
must inevitably shorten the life of whatever book bears its marks. If there is anything in
this condemnation, then Chesterton is doomed to forgetfulness, and his critical works will
be the first to slip into oblivion, such being the nature of critical works in general. But
if this condemnation holds true, it includes also Macaulay, R. L. Stevenson, Matthew Arnold,
and how many others! The journalistic touch, when it is good, means the preservation of a work.
And Chesterton has that most essential part of a critic's mental equipment--what we call in
an inadequately descriptive manner, insight. He was no mean critic, whatever the tricks he
played, who could pen these judgments:

          The dominant passion of the artistic Celt, such as
          Mr. W. B. Yeats or Sir Edward Burne-Jones, lies in
          the word "escape"; escape into a land where
          oranges grow on plum trees and men can sow what
          they like and reap what they enjoy. (G. F.
          Watts.)

          The supreme and most practical value of poetry is
          this, that in poetry, as in music, a note is
          struck which expresses beyond the power of
          rational statement a condition of mind, and all
          actions arise from a condition of mind. (Robert
          Browning.)

          This essential comedy of Johnson's character is
          one which has never, oddly enough, been put upon
          the stage. There was in his nature one of the
          unconscious and even agreeable contradictions
          loved by the true comedian. . . . I mean a strenuous
          and sincere belief in convention, combined with a
          huge natural inaptitude for observing it. (Samuel
          Johnson.)

          Rossetti could, for once in a way, write poetry
          about a real woman and call her "Jenny." One has a
          disturbed suspicion that Morris would have called
          her "Jehanne." (The Victorian Age in
          Literature.)

These are a few samples collected at random, but they alone are almost sufficient to enthrone
Chesterton among the critics. He has a wonderful intuitive gift of feeling for the right metaphor,
for the material object that best symbolizes an impression. But one thing he lacks. Put him
among authors whose view of the universe is opposed to his own, and Chesterton instantly adopts
an insecticide attitude. The wit of Wilde moves him not, but his morals stir him profoundly;
Mr. Thomas Hardy is "a sort of village atheist brooding and blaspheming over the village idiot."
Only occasionally has he a good word to say for the technique of an author whose views he dislikes.
His critical work very largely consists of an attempt to describe his subjects' views of the
universe, and bring them into relation with his own. His two books on Charles Dickens are little
more than such an attempt. When, a few years ago, Mr. Edwin Pugh, who had also been studying
the "aspects" of Dickens, came to the conclusion that the novelist was a Socialist, Chesterton
waxed exceeding wrath and gave the offending book a severe wigging in The Daily News.

He loves a good fighter, however, and to such he is always just. There are few philosophies
so radically opposed to the whole spirit of Chesterton's beliefs as that of John Stuart Mill.
On religion, economic doctrine, and woman suffrage, Mill held views that are offensive to G.K.C.
But Mill is nevertheless invariably treated by him with a respect which approximates to reverence.
The principal case in point, however, is Mr. Bernard Shaw, who holds all Mill's beliefs, and
waves them about even more defiantly. G.K.C.'s admiration in this case led him to write a whole
book about G.B.S. in addition to innumerable articles and references.

Chesterton, of course, could not possibly agree with such an avowed and utter Puritan as Mr.
Shaw. The Puritan has to be a revolutionary, which means a man who pushes forward the hand
of the clock. Chesterton, as near as may be, is a Catholic Tory, who is a man who pushes back
the hand of the clock. Superficially, the two make the clock show the same hour, but actually,
one puts it on to a.m., the other back to p.m. Between the two is all the difference that is
between darkness and day.

Chesterton's point of view is distinctly like Samuel Johnson's in more respects than one. Both
critics made great play with dogmatic assertions based on the literature that was before their
time, at the expense of the literature that was to come after. In the book on Shaw, Chesterton
strikes a blow at all innovators, although he aims only at the obvious failures.

          The truth is that all feeble spirits naturally
          live in the future, because it is featureless; it
          is a soft job; you can make it what you like. The
          next age is blank, and I can paint it freely with
          my favourite colour. It requires real courage to
          face the past, because the past is full of facts
          which cannot be got over; of men certainly wiser
          than we and of things done which we cannot do. I
          know I cannot write a poem as good as Lycidas.
          But it is always easy to say that the particular
          sort of poetry I can write will be the poetry of
          the future.

Sentiments such as these have made many young experimentalists feel that Chesterton is a traitor
to his youth and generation. Nobody will ever have the detachment necessary to appreciate "futurist"
poetry until it is very much a thing of the past, because the near past is so much with us,
and it is part of us, which the future is not. But fidelity to the good things of the past
does not exonerate us from the task of looking for the germs of the good things of the future.
The young poet of to-day sits at the feet of Sir Henry Newbolt, whose critical appreciation
is undaunted by mere dread of new things, while to the same youth and to his friends it has
simply never occurred, often enough, to think of Chesterton as a critic. It cannot be too strongly
urged that an undue admiration of the distant past has sat like an incubus upon the chest of
European literature, and Shakespeare's greatness is not in spite of his "small Latin and less
Greek," which probably contributed to it indirectly. Had Shakespeare been a classical scholar,
he would almost certainly have modelled his plays on Seneca or Aeschylus, and the results would
have been devastating. Addison's Cato, Johnson's Irene, and the dramas of Racine and Corneille
are among the abysmal dullnesses mankind owes to its excessive estimation of the past. Men
have always been too ready to forget that we inherit our ancestors' bad points as well as their
good ones. Ancestor-worship has deprived the Chinese of the capacity to create, it has seriously
affected Chesterton's power to criticize. Chesterton's own generation has seen both the victory
and the downfall of form in the novels of Mr. Galsworthy and Mr. H. G. Wells. It has witnessed
fascinating experiments in stagecraft, some of which have assuredly succeeded. It has listened
to new poets and wandered in enchanted worlds where no Victorians trod. A critic in sympathy
with these efforts at reform would have written the last-quoted passage something like this:

"The truth is that all feeble spirits naturally live in the past, because it has no boundaries;
it is a soft job; you can find in it what you like. The past ages are rank, and I can daub
myself freely with whatever colours I extract. It requires no courage to face the past, because
the past is full of facts which neutralize one another; of men certainly no wiser than we,
and of things done which we could not want to do. I know I cannot write a poem as good as Lycidas.
But I also know that Milton could not write a poem as good as The Hound of Heaven or M'Andrew's
Hymn. And it is always easy to say that the particular kind of poetry I can write has been
the poetry of some period of the past."

But Chesterton didn't; quite the reverse.

So that one comes to the sorrowful conclusion that Chesterton is at his best, as a critic,
when he is writing introductions, because then he has to leave the past alone. When he is writing
an introduction to one of the works of a great Victorian (Dickens always excepted) he makes
his subject stand out like a solitary giant, not necessarily because he is one, but on account
of the largeness of the contours, the rough shaping, and the deliberate contrasts. He has written
prefaces without number, and the British Museum has not a complete set of the books introduced
by him. The Fables of Æsop, the Book of Job, Matthew Arnold's Critical Essays, a book of children's
poems by Margaret Arndt, Boswell's Johnson, a novel by Gorky, selections from Thackeray, a
life of Mr. Will Crooks, and an anthology by young poets are but a few of the books he has
explained.

The last thing to be said on Chesterton as a critic is by way of illustration. For a series
of books on artists, he wrote two, on William Blake and G. F. Watts. The first is all about
mysticism, and so is the second. They are for the layman, not for the artist. They could be
read with interest and joy by the colourblind. And, incidentally, they are extremely good criticism.
Therein is the triumph of Chesterton. Give him a subject which he can relate with his own view
of the universe, and space wherein to accomplish this feat, and he will succeed in presenting
his readers with a vividly outlined portrait, tinted, of course, with his own personality,
but indisputably true to life, and ornamented with fascinating little gargoyles. But put him
among the bourgeoisie of literature and he will sulk like an angry child.

V

THE HUMORIST AND THE POET

THERE are innumerable books--or let us say twenty--on Mr. Bernard Shaw. They deal with him
as a sociologist, a dramatist, or what not, but never as a humorist. There is a mass of books
on Oscar Wilde, and they deal with everything concerned with him, except his humour. The great
humorists--as such--go unsung to their graves. That is because there is nothing so obvious
as a joke, and nothing so difficult to explain. It requires a psychologist, like William James,
or a philosopher, like Bergson, to explain what a joke is, and then most of us cannot understand
the explanation. A joke--especially another man's joke--is a thing to be handled delicately
and reverently, for once the bloom is off, the joke mysteriously shrivels and vanishes. Translators
are the sworn enemies of jokes; the exigencies of their deplorable trade cause them to maul
the poor little things about while they are putting them into new clothes, and the result is
death, or at the least an appearance of vacuous senescence. But jokes are only the crystallization
of humour; it exists also in less tangible forms, such as style and all that collection of
effects vaguely lumped together and called "atmosphere." Chesterton's peculiar "atmosphere"
rises like a sweet exhalation from the very ink he sheds. And it is frankly indefinable, as
all genuine style is. The insincere stylists can be reduced to a formula, because they work
from a formula; Pater may be brought down to an arrangement of adjectives and commas, Doctor
Johnson to a succession of rhythms, carefully pruned of excrescences, and so on, but the stylist
who writes as God made him defies such analysis. Meredith and Shaw and Chesterton will remain
mysteries even unto the latest research student of the Universities of Jena and Chicago. Patient
students (something of the sort is already being done) will count up the number of nouns and
verbs and commas in The Napoleon of Notting Hill and will express the result in such a form
as this--[A]

                       / / nouns³        sin A
  Chesterton (G. K.) = | | ------ +  / ·2log bn - -----
                      // verbs²  \/ c     e       47

But they will fail to touch the essential Chesterton, because one of the beauties of this form
of analysis is that when the formula has been obtained, nobody is any the wiser as to the manner
of its use. We know that James Smith is composed of beef and beer and bread, because all evidence
goes to show that these are the only things he ever absorbs, but nobody has ever suggested
that a synthesis of foodstuffs will ever give us James Smith.

Now the difficulty of dealing with the humour of Chesterton is that, in doing so, one is compelled
to handle it, to its detriment. If in the chapter on his Romances any reader thought he detected
the voice and the style of Chesterton, he is grievously mistaken. He only saw the scaffolding,
which bears the same relation to the finished product as the skeleton bears to the human body.

Consider these things:

          If you throw one bomb you are only a murderer; but
          if you keep on persistently throwing bombs, you
          are in awful danger of at last becoming a prig.

          If we all floated in the air like bubbles, free to
          drift anywhere at any instant, the practical
          result would be that no one would have the courage
          to begin a conversation.

          If the public schools stuck up a notice it ought
          to be inscribed, "For the Fathers of Gentlemen
          only." In two generations they can do the trick.

Now these propositions are not merely snippets from a system of philosophy, presented after
the manner of the admirers of Schopenhauer and Nietzsche. These are quotations which display
a quite exceptional power of surprising people. The anticlimaxes of the first two passages,
the bold dip into the future at the expense of the past in the third are more than instances
of mere verbal felicity. They indicate a writer capable of the humour which feeds upon daily
life, and is therefore thoroughly democratic and healthy. For there are two sorts of humour;
that which feeds upon its possessor, Oscar Wilde is the supreme example of this type of humorist,
and that which draws its inspiration from its surroundings, of which the great exemplar is
Dickens, and Chesterton is his follower. The first exhausts itself sooner or later, because
it feeds on its own blood, the second is inexhaustible. This theory may be opposed on the ground
that humour is both internal and external in its origin. The supporters of this claim are invited
to take a holiday in bed, or elsewhere away from the madding crowd, and then see how humorous
they can be.

Humour has an unfortunate tendency to stale. The joke of yesteryear already shows frays upon
its sleeves. The wit of the early volumes of Punch is in the last stages of decrepitude. Watch
an actor struggling to conceal from his audience the fact that he is repeating one of Shakespeare's
puns. We tolerate the humour of Congreve, not because it is thoroughly amusing, but because
it has survived better than most. Humorous verse stands a slightly better chance of evoking
smiles in its old age. There is always its unalterable verbal neatness; tradition, too, lingers
more lovingly around fair shapes, and a poem is a better instance of form than a paragraph.
Mankind may grow blasé, if it will, but as a poet of the comic, Chesterton will live long years.
Take for example that last and worst of his novels The Flying Inn. Into this he has pitched
with a fascinating recklessness a quantity of poems, garnered from The New Witness and worthy
of the immortality which is granted the few really good comic poems. There is the poem of Noah,
with that stimulating line with which each stanza ends. The last one goes:

  But Noah he sinned, and we have sinned; on tipsy feet we trod,
  Till a great big black teetotaller was sent to us for a rod,
  And you can't get wine at a P.S.A., or Chapel, or Eisteddfod;
  For the Curse of Water has come again because of the wrath of God.
  And water is on the Bishop's board, and the Higher Thinker's shrine,
  But I don't care where the water goes if it doesn't get into the wine.

There is a lunatic song against grocers, who are accused of nonconformity, and an equally lunatic
song in several instalments on being a vegetarian:

            I am silent in the Club,
            I am silent in the pub,
          I am silent on a bally peak in Darien;
            For I stuff away for life
            Shoving peas in with a knife,
          Because I am at heart a vegetarian.

There is a joyous thing about a millionaire who lived the simple life, and a new version of
"St. George for Merry England." Tea, cocoa, and soda-water are the subjects of another poem.
The verses about Roundabout are very happy:

          Some say that when Sir Lancelot
          Went forth to find the Grail,
          Grey Merlin wrinkled up the roads,
          For hope that he should fail;
          All roads led back to Lyonnesse
          And Camelot in the Vale,
          I cannot yield assent to this
          Extravagant hypothesis,
          The plain shrewd Briton will dismiss
          Such rumours (Daily Mail).
          But in the streets of Roundabout
          Are no such factions found,
          Or theories to expound about
          Or roll upon the ground about,
          In the happy town of Roundabout,
          That makes the world go round.

And there are lots more like this.

Then there are the Ballades Urbane which appeared in the early volumes of The Eye-Witness.
They have refrains with the true human note. Such as "But will you lend me two-and-six?"

          ENVOI
            Prince, I will not be knighted! No!
            Put up your sword and stow your tricks!
            Offering the Garter is no go--
            BUT WILL YOU LEND ME TWO-AND-SIX?

In prose Chesterton is seldom the mere jester; he will always have a moral or two, at the very
least, at his fingers' ends, or to be quite exact, at the end of his article. He is never quite
irresponsible. He seldom laughs at a man who is not a reformer.

Or let us take another set of illustrations, this time in prose. (Once more I protest that
I shall not take the reader through all the works of Chesterton.) I mean the articles "Our
Note Book" which he contributed to The Illustrated London News. They are of a familiar type;
a series of paragraphs on some topical subject, with little spaces between them in order to
encourage the weary reader. Chesterton wrote this class of article supremely well. He would
seize on something apparently trivial, and exalt it into a symptom. When he had given the disease
a name, he went for the quack doctors who professed to remedy it. He goes to Letchworth, in
which abode of middle-class faddery he finds a teetotal public-house, pretending to look like
the real thing, and calling itself "The Skittles Inn." He immediately raises the question,
Can we dissociate beer from skittles? Then he widens out his thesis.

          Our life to-day is marked by perpetual attempts to
          revive old-fashioned things while omitting the
          human soul in them that made them more than
          fashions.

And he concludes:

          I welcome a return to the rudeness of old times;
          when Luther attacked Henry VIII for being fat; and
          when Milton and his Dutch opponent devoted pages
          of their controversy to the discussion of which of
          them was the uglier. . . . The new controversialists
          . . . call a man a physical degenerate, instead of
          calling him an ugly fellow. They say that red hair
          is the mark of the Celtic stock, instead of
          calling him "Carrots."

Of this class of fun Chesterton is an easy master. It makes him a fearsome controversialist
on the platform or in his favourite lists, the columns of a newspaper. But he uses his strength
a little tyrannously. He is an adept at begging the question. The lost art called ignoratio
elenchi has been privately rediscovered by him, to the surprise of many excellent and honest
debaters, who have never succeeded in scoring the most obvious points in the face of Chesterton's
power of emitting a string of epigrams and pretending it is a chain of argument. The case,
in whatever form it is put, is always fresh and vigorous. Another epigrammatist, Oscar Wilde,
in comparison with him may be said to have used the midnight oil so liberally in the preparation
of his witticisms, that one might almost detect the fishy odour. But as with his prose so with
his verses; Chesterton's productions are so fresh that they seem to spring from his vitality
rather than his intellect. They are generally a trifle ragged and unpolished as if, like all
their author's productions, they were strangers to revision. And vitality demands boisterous
movement, more even than coherence. Sometimes the boisterousness is apparently unsupported
by the sense of the words.

   So you have gained the golden crowns and grasped the golden weather,
   The kingdoms and the hemispheres that all men buy and sell,
   But I will lash the leaping drum and swing the flaring feather,
   For the light of seven heavens that are lost to me like hell.

Here the stanza actually goes with such a swing that the reader will in all probability not
notice that the lines have no particular meaning.

On the other hand, Chesterton's poetry has exuberant moments of sheer delight. In one of his
essays he is lamenting the songlessness of modern life and suggests one or two chanties. Here
they are:

Chorus of Bank Clerks:

  Up, my lads, and lift the ledgers, sleep and ease are o'er.
  Hear the Stars of Morning shouting: "Two and Two are Four."
  Though the creeds and realms are reeling, though the sophists roar,
  Though we weep and pawn our watches, Two and Two are Four.

Chorus of Bank Clerks when there is a run on the bank:

  There's a run upon the Bank--
      Stand away!
  For the Manager's a crank and the Secretary drank, and the Upper
          Tooting Bank
      Turns to bay!

  Stand close: there is a run
      On the Bank.
  Of our ship, our royal one, let the ringing legend run, that she
          fired with every gun
      Ere she sank.

The Post Office Hymn would begin as follows:

          O'er London our letters are shaken like snow,
          Our wires o'er the world like the thunderbolts go.
          The news that may marry a maiden in Sark,
          Or kill an old lady in Finsbury Park.

Chorus (with a swing of joy and energy):

          Or kill an old lady in Finsbury Park.

The joke becomes simply immense when we picture the actual singing of the songs.

But that is not the only class of humour of which Chesterton is capable. He can cut as well
as hack. It is to be doubted whether any politician was ever addressed in lines more sarcastic
than those of Antichrist, an ode to Mr. F. E. Smith. This gentleman, speaking on the Welsh
Disestablishment Bill, remarked that it "has shocked the conscience of every Christian community
in Europe." It begins:

          Are they clinging to their crosses,
              F. E. Smith.
          Where the Breton boat-fleet tosses,
              Are they, Smith?
          Do they, fasting, tramping, bleeding,
            Wait the news from this our city?
          Groaning "That's the Second Reading!"
            Hissing "There is still Committee!"
          If the voice of Cecil falters,
              If McKenna's point has pith,
          Do they tremble for their altars?
              Do they, Smith?

Then in Russia, among the peasants,

          Where Establishment means nothing
            And they never heard of Wales,
          Do they read it all in Hansard
            With a crib to read it with--
          "Welsh Tithes: Dr. Clifford answered."
            Really, Smith?

The final verse is:

          It would greatly, I must own,
              Soothe me, Smith,
          If you left this theme alone,
              Holy Smith!

The wilting sarcasm of this poem is a feature which puts it with a few others apart from the
bulk of Chesterton's poems. Even as bellicosity and orthodoxy are two of the brightest threads
which run through the whole texture of his work, so Poems of Pugnacity (as Ella Wheeler Wilcox
would say) and religious verses constitute the largest part of the poetic works of G.K.C. His
first book of verses--after Greybeards at Play--The Wild Knight contained a bloodthirsty poem
about the Battle of Gibeon, written with strict adhesion to the spirit of the Old Testament.
It might have been penned by a survivor, glutted with blood and duly grateful to the God of
his race for the solar and lunar eccentricities which made possible the extermination of the
five kings of the Amorites. In 1911 came The Ballad of the White Horse, which is all about
Alfred, according to the popular traditions embodied in the elementary history books, and,
in particular, the Battle of Ethandune. How Chesterton revels in that Homeric slaughter! The
words blood and bloody punctuate the largest poem of G.K.C. to the virtual obliteration in
our memory of the fine imagery, the occasional tendernesses, and the blustering aggressiveness
of some of the metaphors and similes. Not many men would have the nerve, let alone the skill,
to write:

          And in the last eclipse the sea
            Shall stand up like a tower,
          Above all moons made dark and riven,
          Hold up its foaming head in heaven,
            And laugh, knowing its hour.

But, at the same time, this poem contains very touching and beautiful lines. The Ballad of
the White Horse is an epic of the struggle between Christian and Pagan. One of the essentials
of an epic is that its men should be decent men, if they cannot be heroes. The Iliad would
have been impossible if it had occurred to Homer to introduce the Government contractors to
the belligerent powers. All the point would have gone out of Orlando Furioso if it had been
the case that the madness of Orlando was the delirium tremens of an habitual drunkard. Chesterton
recognizing this truth makes the pagans of the White Horse behave like gentlemen. There is
a beautiful little song put into the mouth of one of them, which is in its way a perfect expression
of the inadequacy of false gods.

          There is always a thing forgotten
            When all the world goes well;
          A thing forgotten, as long ago
          When the gods forgot the mistletoe,
          And soundless as an arrow of snow
            The arrow of anguish fell.

          The thing on the blind side of the heart,
            On the wrong side of the door,
          The green plant groweth, menacing
          Almighty lovers in the spring;
          There is always a forgotten thing,
            And love is not secure.

This is insincere, because a pagan (as Swinburne was) could have committed suicide had he really
felt these things. Swinburne, like most modern pagans, really hated priestcraft when he thought
he was hating God. Chesterton's note is truer. He knows that the pagan has all the good things
of life but one, and that only an exceptionally nice pagan knows he lacks that much.

And so one might go on mining the White Horse, for it contains most things, as a good epic
should. Two short stanzas, however, should be quoted, whatever else is omitted, for the sake
of their essential Christianity, their claim that a man may make a fool of himself for Christ's
sake, whatever the bishops have to say about it.

          The men of the East may spell the stars,
            And times and triumphs mark,
          But the men signed of the Cross of Christ
            Go gaily in the dark.
          The men of the East may search the scrolls
            For sure fates and fame,
          But the men that drink the blood of God
            Go singing to their shame.

In his last volume of Poems (1915) Chesterton presents us with a varied collection of works,
written at any time during the last twelve or so years. The pugnacious element is present in
Lepanto, through the staccato syllables of which we hear drum-taps and men cheering. There
is a temptation to treat Lepanto, and indeed most of Chesterton's poems, with special reference
to their technique, but we must resist this temptation, with tears if need be, and with prayer,
for to give way to it would be to commit a form of vivisection. G.K.C. is not a text, praise
be, and whether he lives or dies, long may he be spared the hands of an editor or interpreter
who is also an irrepressible authority on anapaests and suchlike things. He is a poet, and
a considerable poet, not because of his strict attention to the rules of prosody, but because
he cannot help himself, and the rules in question are for the persons who can, the poets by
deliberate intention, the writers who polish unceasingly. Chesterton has more impulse than
finish, but he has natural gifts of rhythm and the effective use of words which more or less
(according to the reader's taste) compensate for his refusal or his incapacity to take pains.

Finally there are the religious poems. From these we can best judge the reality of Chesterton's
poetic impulse, for here, knowing that affectation would be almost indecent, he has expressed
what he had to express with a care denied to most of his other works. In one of his essays,
G.K.C. exults in that matchless phrase of Vaughan, "high humility." He has both adopted and
adapted this quality, and the results are wonderful. In The Wise Men occurs this stanza:

          The Child that was ere worlds begun
            (. . . We need but walk a little way,
          We need but see a latch undone . . .)
          The Child that played with moon and sun
            Is playing with a little hay.

The superb antithesis leaves one struggling against that involuntary little gasp which is a
reader's first tribute to a fine thought. He could be a great hymn writer, if he would. One
of his poems, in fact, has found its way into The English Hymnal, where it competes (if one
may use the word of a sacred song) with Recessional for the favour of congregations. If we
take a glance at a few of the finest hymns, we shall find that they share certain obvious qualities:
bold imagery, the vocabulary of conflict, an attitude of humility that is very nearly also
one of great pride, and certain tricks of style. And when we look through Chesterton's poems
generally, we shall find that these are exactly the qualities they possess.

FOOTNOTE:

[A] Transcriber's Note: The original equation was represented as clearly as possible. An image
of the original equation can be found in the html version of this text.

VI

THE RELIGION OF A DEBATER

IN his book on William Blake, Chesterton says that he is "personally quite convinced that if
every human being lived a thousand years, every human being would end up either in utter pessimistic
scepticism or in the Catholic creed." In course of time, in fact, everybody would have to decide
whether they preferred to be an intellectualist or a mystic. A debauch of intellectualism,
lasting perhaps nine hundred and fifty years, is a truly terrible thing to contemplate. Perhaps
it is safest to assert that if our lives were considerably lengthened, there would be more
mystics and more madmen.

To Chesterton modern thought is merely the polite description of a noisy crowd of persons proclaiming
that something or other is wrong. Mr. Bernard Shaw denounces meat and has been understood to
denounce marriage. Ibsen is said to have anathematized almost everything (by those who have
not read his works). Mr. MacCabe and Mr. Blatchford think that, on the whole, there is no God,
and Tolstoy told us that nearly everything we did, and quite all we wanted to do, was opposed
to the spirit of Christ's teaching. Auberon Herbert disapproved of law, and John Davidson disapproved
of life. Herbert Spencer objected to government, Passive Resisters to State education, and
various educational reformers to education of any description. There are people who would abolish
our spelling, our clothing, our food and, most emphatically, our drink. Mr. H. G. Wells adds
the finishing touch to this volume of denials, by blandly suggesting in an appendix to his
Modern Utopia, headed "Scepticism of the Instrument," that our senses are so liable to err,
that we can never be really sure of anything at all. This spirit of denial is extraordinarily
infectious. A man begins to suspect what he calls the "supernatural." He joins an ethical society,
and before he knows where he is, he is a vegetarian. The rebellious moderns have a curious
tendency to flock together in self-defence, even when they have nothing in common. The mere
aggregation of denials rather attracts the slovenly and the unattached. The lack of positive
dogma expressed by such a coalition encourages the sceptic and the uneducated, who do not realize
that the deliberate suppression of dogma is itself a dogma of extreme arrogance. We trust too
much to the label, nowadays, and the brief descriptions we attach to ourselves have a gradually
increasing connotation. In politics for example, the conservative creed, which originally contained
the single article that aristocracy, wealth and government should be in the same few hands,
now also implies adhesion to the economic doctrine of protection, and the political doctrine
that unitary government is preferable to federal. The liberal creed, based principally upon
opposition to the conservative, and to a lesser degree upon disrespect for the Established
Church, has been enlarged concurrently with the latter. The average liberal or conservative
now feels himself in honour bound to assert or to deny political dogmas out of sheer loyalty
to his party. This does not make for sanity. The only political creed in which a man may reasonably
expect to remain sane is Socialism, which is catholic and not the least dependent upon other
beliefs. Apart from the inconsiderable number of Socialists, the average politician follows
in the footsteps of those gentlemen already mentioned. He is not allowed to believe, so he
contents himself with a denial of the other side's promises. Assertion is infinitely more brain-wearing
than denial.

Side by side with the increase in those who deny is a growth in the numbers of those who come
to regard apathy, suspended judgment, or a lack of interest in a religious matter as a state
of positive belief. There are agnostics quite literally all over the place. Belief peters down
into acceptance, acceptance becomes a probability, a probability declines into a reasonable
doubt, and a reasonable doubt drifts into "it is highly conjectural and indeed extremely unlikely,"
or something of that sort. Tolerance was once an instrument for ensuring that truth should
not be suppressed; it is now an excuse for refusing to bother. There is, in fact, a growing
disrespect for truth. A great many men went to the stake years ago rather than admit the possibility
that they were wrong; they protested, so far as human endurance allowed them to protest, that
they were orthodox and that their persecutors, and not they, were the heretics. To-day a bunch
of Cambridge men calls itself "The Heretics" and imagines it has found a clever title. At the
same time there is an apparent decline in the power to believe. The average politician (the
principal type of twentieth-century propagandist) hardly ever makes a speech which does not
contain one at least of the following phrases:

          "I may be mistaken, but it seems to me that . . ."

          "We are all subject to correction, but as far as
          we know . . ."

          "In this necessarily imperfect world . . ."

          "So far as one is able to judge . . ."

          "Appearances are notoriously deceptive, but . . ."

          "Human experience is necessarily limited to . . ."

          "We can never be really sure . . ."

          "Pilate asked, 'What is truth?' Ah, my brethren,
          what indeed?"

          "The best minds of the country have failed to come
          to an agreement on this question; one can only
          surmise . . ."

          "Art is long and life is short. Art to-day is even
          longer than it used to be."

Now the politician, to do him justice, has retained the courage of his convictions to a greater
extent than the orthodox believer in God. Men are still prepared to make Home Rule the occasion
of bloodshed, or to spend the midnight hours denouncing apparent political heresies. But whereas
the politician, like the orthodox believer once pronounced apologetics, they now merely utter
apologies. To-day, equipped as never before with the heavy artillery of argument in the shape
of Higher Criticism, research, blue-books, statistics, cheap publications, free libraries,
accessible information, public lectures, and goodness only knows what else, the fighting forces
of the spiritual and temporal decencies lie drowsing as in a club-room, placarded "Religion
and politics must not be discussed here."

All this, with the exception of the political references, is a summary of Chesterton's claim
that a return to orthodoxy is desirable and necessary. It will be found at length in Heretics
and in the first chapters of Orthodoxy, and sprinkled throughout all his writings of a later
date than 1906 or so. He protests on more than one occasion against Mr. Shaw's epigram, which
seems to him to contain the essence of all that is wrong to-day, "The golden rule is that there
is no golden rule." Chesterton insists that there is a golden rule, that it is a very old one,
and that it is known to a great many people, most of whom belong to the working classes.

In his argument that, on the whole, the masses are (or were) right about religion, and that
the intellectuals are wrong, Chesterton is undoubtedly at his most bellicose and his sincerest.
His is the pugnacity that prefers to pull down another's banner rather than to raise his own.
His "defences" in The Defendant, and the six hundred odd cases made out by him in the columns
of The Daily News are largely and obviously inspired by the wish, metaphorically speaking,
to punch somebody's head. The fact that he is not a mere bully appears in the appeal to common
decency which Chesterton would be incapable of omitting from an article. Nevertheless he prefers
attack to defence. In war, the offensive is infinitely more costly than the defensive. But
in controversy this is reversed. The opener of a debate is in a much more difficult position
than his opponent. The latter need only criticize the former's case; he is not compelled to
disclose his own defences. Chesterton used to have a grand time hoisting people on their own
petards, and letting forth strings of epigrams at the expense of those from whom he differed,
and only incidentally revealing his own position. Then, as he tells us in the preface to Orthodoxy,
when he had published the saltatory series of indictments entitled Heretics, a number of his
critics said, in effect, "Please, Mr. Chesterton, what are we to believe?" Mr. G. S. Street,
in particular, begged for enlightenment. G.K.C. joyously accepted the invitation, and wrote
Orthodoxy, his most brilliant book.

There are few works in the English language the brilliancy of which is so sustained. Orthodoxy
is a rapid torrent of epigrammatically expressed arguments. Chesterton's method in writing
it is that of the digger wasp. This intelligent creature carries on the survival of the fittest
controversy by paralyzing its opponent first, and then proceeding to lay the eggs from which
future fitness will proceed in the unresisting but still living body. Chesterton begins by
paralyzing his reader, by savagely attacking all the beliefs which the latter, if he be a modern
and a sceptic, probably regards as first principles. Tolerance is dismissed, as we have just
seen, as a mere excuse for not caring. Reason, that awful French goddess, is shown to be another
apology. Nietzsche and various other authors to whom some of us have bent the knee are slaughtered
without misery. Then Chesterton proceeds to the argument, the reader being by this time receptive
enough to swallow a camel, on the sole condition that G.K.C. has previously slightly treacled
the animal.

Perhaps it would be more accurate to assert that at this point Chesterton pretends to begin
his argument. As a matter of strict fact he only describes his adventures in Fairyland, which
is all the earth. He tells us of his profound astonishment at the consistent recurrence of
apples on apple trees, and at the general jolliness of the earth. He describes, very beautifully,
some of the sensations of childhood making the all-embracing discovery that things are what
they seem, and the even more joyful feeling of pretending that they are not, or that they will
cease to be at any moment. A young kitten will watch a large cushion, which to it is a very
considerable portion of the universe, flying at it without indicating any very appreciable
surprise. A child, in the same way, would not be surprised if his house suddenly developed
wings and flew away. Chesterton cultivated this attitude of always expecting to be surprised
by the most natural things in the world, until it became an obsession, and a part of his journalistic
equipment. In a sense Chesterton is the everlasting boy, the Undergraduate Who Would Not Grow
Up. There must be few normally imaginative town-bred children to whom the pointed upright area-railings
do not appear an unsearchable armoury of spears or as walls of protective flames, temporarily
frozen black so that people should be able to enter and leave their house. Every child knows
that the old Norse story of a sleeping Brunnhilde encircled by flames is true; to him or her,
there is a Brunnhilde in every street, and the child knows that there it always has a chance
of being the chosen Siegfried. But because this view of life is so much cosier than that of
the grown-ups, Chesterton clings to his childhood's neat little universe and weeps pathetically
when anybody mentions Herbert Spencer, and makes faces when he hears the word Newton. He insists
on a fair dole of surprises. "Children are grateful when Santa Claus puts in their stockings
gifts of toys and sweets. Could I not be grateful to Santa Claus when he put in my stockings
the gift of two miraculous legs?"

Now this fairyland business is frankly overdone. Chesterton conceives of God, having carried
the Creation as far as this world, sitting down to look at the new universe in a sort of ecstasy.
"And God saw every thing that he had made, and, behold it was very good." He enjoyed His new
toy immensely, and as He sent the earth spinning round the sun, His pleasure increased. So
He said "Do it again" every time the sun had completed its course, and laughed prodigiously,
and behaved like a happy child. And so He has gone on to this day saying "Do it again" to the
sun and the moon and the stars, to the animal creation, and the trees, and every living thing.
So Chesterton pictures God, giving His name to what others, including Christians, call natural
law, or the laws of God, or the laws of gravitation, conservation of energy, and so on, but
always laws. For which reason, one is compelled to assume that in his opinion God is now [1915]
saying to Himself, "There's another bloody war, do it again, sun," and gurgling with delight.
It is dangerous to wander in fairyland, as Chesterton has himself demonstrated, "one might
meet a fairy." It is not safe to try to look God in the face. That is the reverent Hebrew manner
of conveying the glory of God. But Chesterton, cheerfully playing toss halfpenny among the
fairies, sees an idiot child, and calls it God.

Fortunately for the argument, Chesterton has no more to say about his excursion in Fairyland
after his return. He goes on to talk about the substitutes which people have invented for Christianity.
The Inner Light theory has vitriol sprayed upon it. Marcus Aurelius, it is explained, acted
according to the Inner Light. "He gets up early in the morning, just as our own aristocrats
leading the Simple Life get up early in the morning; because such altruism is much easier than
stopping the games in the amphitheatre or giving the English people back their land." The present
writer does not profess any ability to handle philosophic problems philosophically; it seems
to him, however, that if Chesterton had been writing a few years later, he would have attempted
to extinguish the latest form of the Inner Light, that "intuition" which has been so much associated
with M. Bergson's teachings.

The Inner Light is finally polished off as follows:

          Of all conceivable forms of enlightenment the
          worst is what these people call the Inner Light.
          Of all horrible religions the most horrible is the
          worship of the god within. Any one who knows
          anybody knows how it would work; anybody who knows
          any one from the Higher Thought Centre knows how
          it does work. That Jones should worship the god
          within him turns out ultimately to mean that Jones
          shall worship Jones. . . .

Continuing his spiritual autobiography, Chesterton describes his gradual emergence from the
wonted agnosticism of sixteen through the mediumship of agnostic literature. A man may read
Huxley and Bradlaugh, who knew their minds, and call himself an agnostic. But when it comes
to reading their followers, there's another story to tell. What especially struck Chesterton
was the wholesale self-contradictoriness of the literature of agnosticism. One man would say
that Christianity was so harmful that extermination was the least that could be desired for
it, and another would insist that it had reached a harmless and doddering old age. A writer
would assert that Christianity was a religion of wrath and blood, and would point to the Inquisition,
and to the religious wars which have at one time or another swept over the civilized world.
But by the time the reader's blood was up, he would come across some virile atheist's proclamation
of the feeble, mattoid character of the religion in question, as illustrated by its quietist
saints, the Quakers, the Tolstoyans, and non-resisters in general. When he had cooled down,
he would run into a denunciation of the asceticism of Christianity, the monastic system, hair-shirts,
and so on. Then he would come across a sweeping condemnation of its sensual luxuriousness,
its bejewelled chalices, its pompous rituals, the extravagance of its archbishops, and the
like. Christianity "was abused for being too plain and for being too coloured." And then the
sudden obvious truth burst upon Chesterton, What if Christianity was the happy mean?

          Perhaps, after all, it is Christianity that is
          sane and all its critics that are mad--in various
          ways. I tested this idea by asking myself whether
          there was about any of the accusers anything
          morbid that might explain the accusation. I was
          startled to find that this key fitted a lock. For
          instance, it was certainly odd that the modern
          world charged Christianity at once with bodily
          austerity and with artistic pomp. But then it was
          also odd, very odd, that the modern world itself
          combined extreme bodily luxury with an extreme
          absence of artistic pomp. The modern man thought
          Becket's robes too rich and his meals too poor.
          But then the modern man was really exceptional in
          history. No man before ever ate such elaborate
          dinners in such ugly clothes. The modern man found
          the church too simple exactly where modern life
          is too complex; he found the church too gorgeous
          exactly where modern life is too dingy. The man
          who disliked the plain fasts and feasts was mad on
          entrées. The man who disliked vestments wore a
          pair of preposterous trousers. And surely if there
          was any insanity involved in the matter at all it
          was in the trousers, not in the simply falling
          robe. If there was any insanity at all, it was in
          the extravagant entrées, not in the bread and
          wine.

Nevertheless, Christianity was centrifugal rather than centripetal; it was not a mere average,
but a centre of gravity; not a compromise, but a conflict. Christ was not half-God and half-man,
like Hercules, but "perfect God and perfect man." Man was not only the highest, but also the
lowest. "The Church was positive on both points. One can hardly think too little of one's self.
One can hardly think too much of one's soul."

At this point agreement with Mr. Chesterton becomes difficult. Christianity, he tells us, comes
in with a flaming sword and performs neat acts of bisection. It separates the sinner from the
sin, and tells us to love the former and hate the latter. He also tells us that no pagan would
have thought of this. Leaving aside the question whether or not Plato was a Christian, it may
be pointed out that whereas Chesterton condemns Tolstoyanism whenever he recognizes it, he
here proclaims Tolstoy's doctrine. On the whole, however, the mild perverseness of the chapter
on The Paradoxes of Christianity leaves its major implications safe. It does not matter greatly
whether we prefer to regard Christianity as a centre of gravity, or a point of balance. We
need only pause to note Chesterton personifies this dualism. The Napoleon of Notting Hill is
the arrangement of little bits of iron--the inhabitants of London, in this case--around the
two poles of a fantastic magnet, of which one is Adam Wayne, the fanatic, and the other, Auberon
Quin, the humorist. In The Ball and the Cross the diagram is repeated. James Turnbull, the
atheist, and Evan MacIan, the believer, are the two poles. We speak in a loose sort of way
of opposite poles when we wish to express separation. But, in point of fact, they symbolize
connection far more exactly. They are absolutely interdependent. The whole essence of a North
and a South Pole is that we, knowing where one is, should be able to say where the other is.
Nobody has ever suggested a universe in which the North Pole wandered about at large. This
is the idea which Chesterton seems to have captured and introduced into his definition of Christianity.

Democracy, to Chesterton, is the theory that one man is as good as another; Christianity, he
finds, is the virtual sanctification by supernatural authority of democracy. He points out
the incompatibility of political democracy, for example, with the determinism to which Mr.
Blatchford's logical atheism has brought him. If man is the creature of his heredity and his
environment, as Mr. Blatchford asserts, and if a slum-bred heredity and a slum environment
do not make for high intelligence, then obviously it is against the best interests of the State
to allow the slum inhabitant to vote. On the other hand, it is entirely to the best interests
of the State to entrust its affairs to the aristocracy, whose breeding and environment gives
it an enormous amount of intelligence. Christianity, by proclaiming that every man's body is
the temple of the Holy Ghost, insists both upon the necessity of abolishing the slums and of
honouring the slum-dwellers as sharers with the rest of humanity in a common sonship. This
is the case for Socialism, it may be pointed out parenthetically, and Chesterton has let it
slip past him. He insists that orthodoxy is the best conceivable guardian of liberty, for the
somewhat far-fetched reason that no believer in miracles would have such "a deep and sincere
faith in the incurable routine of the cosmos" as to cling to the theory that men should not
have the liberty to work changes. If a man believed in the freedom of God, in fact, he would
have to believe in the freedom of man. The obvious answer to which is that he generally doesn't.
Christianity made for eternal vigilance, Chesterton maintains, whereas Buddhism kept its eye
on the Inner Light--which means, in fact, kept it shut. In proof, or at least in confirmation
of this, he points to the statues of Christian saints and of the Buddha. The former keep their
eyes open wide, the latter keep their eyes firmly closed. Vigilance, however, does not always
make for liberty--the vigilance of the Inquisition, for example. Leaving out of account this
and other monstrous exceptions, we might say spiritual liberty, perhaps, but not political
liberty, not, at any rate, since the days of Macchiavelli, and the divorce of Church and State.

          By insisting specially on the immanence of God we
          get introspection, self-isolation, quietism,
          social indifference--Tibet. By insisting specially
          on the transcendence of God we get wonder,
          curiosity, moral and political adventure,
          religious indignation--Christendom. Insisting that
          God is inside man, man is always inside himself.
          By insisting that God transcends man, man has
          transcended himself.

In concluding the book, Chesterton joyously refutes a few anti-Christian arguments by means
of his extraordinary knack of seeing the large and obvious, and therefore generally overlooked
things. He believes in Christianity because he is a rationalist, and the evidence in its favour
has convinced him. The arguments with which he deals are these. That men are much like beasts,
and probably related to them. Answer: yes, but men are also quite wonderfully unlike them in
many important respects. That primeval religion arose in ignorance and fear. Answer: we know
nothing about prehistoric man, because he was prehistoric, therefore we cannot say where he
got his religion from. But "the whole human race has a tradition of the Fall." And so on: the
argument that Christ was a poor sheepish and ineffectual professor of a quiet life is answered
by the flaming energy of His earthly mission; the suggestion that Christianity belongs to the
Dark Ages is countered by the historical fact that it "was the one path across the Dark Ages
that was not dark." It was the path that led from Roman to modern civilization, and we are
here because of it. And the book ends with a peroration that might be likened to a torrent,
were it not for the fact that torrents are generally narrow and shallow. It is a most remarkable
exhibition of energy, a case from which flippancies and irrelevancies have been removed, and
where the central conviction advances irresistibly. Elsewhere in the book Chesterton had been
inconsequent, darting from point to point, lunging at an opponent one moment, formulating a
theory in the next, and producing an effect which, if judged by sample, would be considered
bizarre and undirected. The book contains a few perversities, of course. The author attempts
to rebut the idea "that priests have blighted societies with bitterness and gloom," by pointing
out that in one or two priest-ridden countries wine and song and dance abound. Yes, but if
people are jollier in France and Spain and Italy than in savage Africa, it is due not to the
priests so much as to the climate which makes wine cheap and an open-air life possible. No
amount of priests would be able to set the inhabitants of the Belgian Congo dancing around
a maypole singing the while glad songs handed down by their fathers. No amount of priests would
be able to make the festive Eskimo bask in the sun and sing in chorus when there wasn't any
sun and it was altogether too cold to open their mouths wide in the open air. In fact the priests
are not the cause of the blight where it exists, just as they are not the cause of the jolliness,
when there is any. But Orthodoxy is Chesterton's sincerest book. It is perhaps the only one
of the whole lot in the course of which he would not be justified in repeating a remark which
begins one of the Tremendous Trifles, "Every now and then I have introduced into my essays
an element of truth."

Twice upon a time there was a Samuel Butler who wrote exhilaratingly and died and left the
paradoxical contents of his notebooks to be published by posterity. The first (i.e. of Hudibras,
not of Erewhon) had many lively things to say on the question of orthodoxy, being the forerunner
of G.K.C. And I am greatly tempted to treat Samuel Butler as an ancestor to be described at
length. Chesterton might well have said, "It is a dangerous thing to be too inquisitive, and
search too narrowly into a true Religion, for 50,000 Bethshemites were destroyed only for looking
into the Ark of the Covenant, and ten times as many have been ruined for looking too curiously
into that Booke in which that Story is recorded"--in fact in Magic he very nearly did say the
same thing. He would have liked (as who would not?) to have been the author of the saying that
"Repentant Teares are the waters upon which the Spirit of God moves," or that "There is no
better Argument to prove that the Scriptures were written by Divine Inspiration, than that
excellent saying of our Savior, If any man will go to Law with thee for thy cloke, give him
thy Coate also." He might well have written dozens of those puns and aphorisms of Butler which
an unkind fate has omitted from the things we read, and even from the things we quote. But
Butler provides an answer to Chesterton, for he was an intelligent anticipator who foresaw
exactly what would happen when orthodoxy, which is to say the injunction to shout with the
larger crowd, should be proclaimed as the easiest way out of religious difficulties. Before
a reader has finally made up his mind on Orthodoxy (and it is highly desirable that he should
do so), let him consider two little texts:

          "They that profess Religion and believe it
          consists in frequenting of Sermons, do, as if they
          should say They have a great desire to serve God,
          but would faine be perswaded to it. Why should any
          man suppose that he pleases God by patiently
          hearing an Ignorant fellow render Religion
          ridiculous?"

          "He [a Catholic] prefers his Church merely for the
          Antiquity of it, and cares not how sound or
          rotten it be, so it be but old. He takes a liking
          to it as some do to old Cheese, only for the blue
          Rottenness of it. If he had lived in the primitive
          Times he had never been a Christian; for the
          Antiquity of the Pagan and Jewish Religion
          would have had the same Power over him against the
          Christian, as the old Roman has against the
          modern Reformation."

Here we leave Samuel Butler. The majority stands the largest chance of being right through
the sheer operation of the law of averages. But somehow one does not easily imagine a mob passing
through the gate that is narrow and the way that is narrow. One prefers to think of men going
up in ones and twos, perhaps even in loneliness, and rejoicing at the strange miracle of judgment
that all their friends should be assembled at the journey's end.

But the final criticism of Chesterton's Orthodoxy is that it is not orthodox. He claims that
he is "concerned only to discuss . . . the central Christian theology (sufficiently summarized
in the Apostles' Creed)" and, "When the word 'orthodoxy' is used here it means the Apostles'
Creed, as understood by everybody calling himself Christian until a very short time ago and
the general historic conduct of those who held such a creed." In other words he counts as orthodox
Anglicans, Roman Catholics, Orthodox Russians, Nonconformists, Lutherans, Calvinists, and all
manner of queer fish, possibly Joanna Southcott, Mrs. Annie Besant, and Mrs. Mary Baker Eddy.
He might even, by stretching a point or two (which is surely permissible by the rules of their
game), rope in the New Theologians. Now this may be evidence of extraordinary catholicity,
but not of orthodoxy. Chesterton stands by and applauds the Homoousians scalping the Homoiousians,
but he is apparently willing to leave the Anglican and the Roman Catholic on the same plane
of orthodoxy, which is absurd. We cannot all be right, even the Duke in Magic would not be
mad enough to assert that. And the average Christian would absolutely refuse his adherence
to a statement of orthodoxy that left the matter of supreme spiritual authority an open question.

In the fifteenth century practically every Englishman would have declared with some emphasis
that it lay in the Pope of Rome. In the twentieth century practically every Englishman would
declare with equal emphasis that it did not. This change of opinion was accompanied by considerable
ill-feeling on both sides, and was, as it were, illuminated by burning martyrs. The men of
both parties burned in both an active and a passive sense. Those charming Tudor sisters, Bloody
Mary (as the Anglicans call her) and Bloody Bess (as the Roman Catholics affectionately name
her) left a large smudge upon accepted ideas of orthodoxy; charred human flesh was a principal
constituent of it. The mark remains, the differences are far greater, but, to Chesterton, both
Anglican and Roman Catholic are "orthodox." Of such is the illimitable orthodoxy of an ethical
society, or of a body of Theosophists who "recognize the essential unity of all creeds and
religions"--the liars! Chesterton tells us that Messrs. Shaw, Kipling, Wells, Ibsen and others
are heretics, because of their doctrines. But he gives us no idea whether the Pope of Rome,
who sells indulgences, is a heretic. And as the Pope is likely to outlive Messrs. Shaw, etc.,
by perhaps a thousand years, it is possible that Chesterton has been attacking the ephemeral
heresies, while leaving the major ones untouched. In effect, Chesterton tells us no more than
that we should shout with the largest crowd. But the largest crowd prefers, just now, not to
do anything so clamorous.

The most curious feature about the present position of Christianity is the energy with which
its opponents combine to keep it going. While Mr. Robert Blatchford continues to argue that
man's will is not free, and Sir Oliver Lodge continues to maintain that it is, the Doctrine
of the Resurrection is safe; it is not even attacked. But the net result of all those peculiar
modern things called "movements" is a state of immobility like a nicely balanced tug-of-war.
Perhaps a Rugby scrum would make a better comparison.

          The great and grave changes in our political
          civilization all belong to the early nineteenth
          century, not to the later. They belong to the
          black-and-white epoch, when men believed fixedly
          in Toryism, in Protestantism, in Calvinism, in
          Reform, and not infrequently in Revolution. And
          whatever each man believed in, he hammered at
          steadily, without scepticism: and there was a time
          when the Established Church might have fallen, and
          the House of Lords nearly fell. It was because
          Radicals were wise enough to be constant and
          consistent; it was because Radicals were wise
          enough to be conservative. . . . Let beliefs fade
          fast and frequently if you wish institutions to
          remain the same. The more the life of the mind is
          unhinged, the more the machinery of matter will be
          left to itself. The net result of all our
          political suggestions, Collectivism, Tolstoyanism,
          Neo-Feudalism, Communism, Anarchy, Scientific
          Bureaucracy--the plain fruit of them all is that
          Monarchy and the House of Lords will remain. The
          net result of all the new religions will be that
          the Church of England will not (for heaven knows
          how long) be disestablished. It was Karl Marx,
          Nietzsche, Tolstoy, Cunninghame Graham, Bernard
          Shaw, and Auberon Herbert, who between them, with
          bowed, gigantic backs, bore up the throne of the
          Archbishop of Canterbury.

It is on these grounds that we must believe that, even as the Church survives, and prevails,
in order to get a hearing when the atheist and the New Theologian have finished shouting themselves
hoarse at each other, so must political creeds be in conformity with the doctrines of the Church.
Such is the foundation of democracy, according to Chesterton. Will anybody revise his political
views on this basis? Probably not. Every Christian believes that his political opinions are
thoroughly Christian, and so entire is the disrepute into which atheism has fallen as a philosophy
of life, that a great many atheists likewise protest the entire Christianity of their politics.
We are all democrats to-day, in one sense or another; each of us more loosely than his neighbour.
It is strange that by the criterion of almost every living man who springs to the mind as a
representative democrat, Chesterton is the most undemocratic of us all. This, however, needs
a separate chapter of explanation.

VII

THE POLITICIAN WHO COULD NOT TELL THE TIME

SOMEWHERE at the back of all Chesterton's political and religious ideas lies an ideal country,
a Utopia which actually existed. Its name is the Middle Ages. If some unemployed Higher Critic
chose to undertake the appalling task of reading steadily through all the works of G.K.C.,
copying out those passages in which there was any reference to the Middle Ages, the result
would be a description of a land flowing with milk and honey. The inhabitants would be large,
strong Christian men, and red-haired, womanly women. Their children would be unschooled, save
by the Church. They would all live in houses of their own, on lands belonging to them. Their
faith would be one. They would speak Latin as a sort of Esperanto, and drink enormous quantities
of good beer. The Church--but I have found the passage relating to the Church:

          Religion, the immortal maiden, has been a
          maid-of-all-work as well as a servant of mankind.
          She provided men at once with the theoretic laws
          of an unalterable cosmos; and also with the
          practical rules of the rapid and thrilling game of
          morality. She taught logic to the student and
          taught fairy tales to the children; it was her
          business to confront the nameless gods whose fear
          is on all flesh, and also to see that the streets
          were spotted with silver and scarlet, that there
          was a day for wearing ribbons or an hour for
          ringing bells.

The inhabitants of this happy realm would be instinctively democratic, and no woman would demand
a vote there. They would have that exalted notion of patriotism that works outwards from the
village pump to the universe at large. They would understand all humanity because they understood
themselves. They would understand themselves because they would have no newspapers to widen
their interests and so make them shallower.

In Magic, as we have seen, Chesterton's mouthpiece, the Conjuror, gave us to understand that
it was better to believe in Apollo than merely to disbelieve in God. The Chestertonian Middle
Ages are like Apollo; they did not exist, but they make an admirable myth. For Chesterton,
in common with the rest of us, flourishes on myths like the green bay; we, however, happen
not to know, in most cases, when our myths have a foundation. Mankind demands myths--and it
has them. Some day a History of the World's Myths will be compiled. It will show humanity climbing
perilous peaks in pursuit of somebody's misinterpretations of somebody else's books, or fighting
bloodily because somebody asserted or denied that a nation was the chosen one, or invading
new continents, physical or metaphysical, because of legendary gold to be found therein, or
in fact committing all its follies under the inspiration of myths--as in fact it has done.
The Middle Ages are to Chesterton what King Alfred was to the Chartists and early Radicals.
They believed that in his days England was actually governed on Chartist principles. So it
happens that two Radical papers of the early part of last century actually called themselves
The Alfred, and that Major Cartwright spent a considerable amount of energy in inducing the
Greeks to substitute pikes for bayonets in their struggles against the Turks, on the grounds
that the pike was used in Alfred's England.

So there we have Chesterton believing devoutly that that servile state, stricken with plague,
and afflicted with death in all its forms, is the dreamland of the saints. His political principles,
roughly speaking, are England was decent once--let us apply the same recipe to the England
of to-day. His suggestions, therefore, are rather negative than positive. He would dam the
flood of modern legislative tendencies because it is taking England farther away from his Middle
Ages. But he will not say "do this" about anything, because in the Middle Ages they made few
laws, not having, in point of fact, the power to enforce those offences against moral and economic
law which then took the place of legislation.

It is impossible to say to what extent Chesterton has surrendered himself to this myth; whether
he has come to accept it because he liked it, or in order to please his friend, Mr. Hilaire
Belloc, from whom G.K.C. never differs politically. Once they stood side by side and debated
against Mr. Shaw and Mr. Wells, arguing from Socialism to beer, and thence to religion.

In January, 1908, Chesterton accepted the invitation of the Editor of The New Age to explain
why he did not call himself a Socialist, in spite of his claim to possess "not only a faith
in democracy, but a great tenderness for revolution." The explanation is complicated, to say
the least. In the first place Chesterton does not want people to share, they should give and
take. In the second place, as a democrat (which nobody else is) he has a vast respect (which
nobody else has) for the working classes. And

          one thing I should affirm as certain, the whole
          smell and sentiment and general ideal of Socialism
          they detest and disdain. No part of the community
          is so specially fixed in those forms and feelings
          which are opposite to the tone of most Socialists;
          the privacy of homes, the control of one's own
          children, the minding of one's own business. I
          look out of my back windows over the black stretch
          of Battersea, and I believe I could make up a sort
          of creed, a catalogue of maxims, which I am
          certain are believed, and believed strongly, by
          the overwhelming mass of men and women as far as
          the eye can reach. For instance, that an
          Englishman's house is his castle, and that awful
          proprieties ought to regulate admission to it;
          that marriage is a real bond, making jealousy and
          marital revenge at the least highly pardonable;
          that vegetarianism and all pitting of animal
          against human rights is a silly fad; that on the
          other hand to save money to give yourself a fine
          funeral is not a silly fad, but a symbol of
          ancestral self-respect; that when giving treats to
          friends or children, one should give them what
          they like, emphatically not what is good for them;
          that there is nothing illogical in being furious
          because Tommy has been coldly caned by a
          schoolmistress and then throwing saucepans at him
          yourself. All these things they believe; they are
          the only people who do believe them; and they are
          absolutely and eternally right. They are the
          ancient sanities of humanity; the ten commandments
          of man.

A week later, Mr. H. G. Wells, who at that time had not yet broken away from organized Socialism,
but was actually a member of the Executive Committee of the Fabian Society, wrote a reply to
the case against Socialism which had been stated by Chesterton, and, a week earlier, by Mr.
Hilaire Belloc. He attempted to get Chesterton to look facts in the face. He pointed out that
as things are "I do not see how Belloc and Chesterton can stand for anything but a strong State
as against those wild monsters of property, the strong, big, private owners." Suppose that
Chesterton isn't a Socialist, is he more on the side of the Socialists or on that of the Free
Trade Liberal capitalists and landlords? "It isn't an adequate reply to say [of Socialism]
that nobody stood treat there, and that the simple, generous people like to beat their own
wives and children on occasion in a loving and intimate manner, and that they won't endure
the spirit of Sidney Webb."

A fortnight later, Chesterton replied. But, though many have engaged with him in controversy,
I doubt if anybody has ever pinned him down to a fact or an argument. On this occasion, G.K.C.
politely refused even to refer to the vital point of the case of Mr. H. G. Wells. On the other
hand he wrote a very jolly article about beer and "tavern hospitality." The argument marked
time for two weeks more, when Mr. Belloc once again entered the lists. The essence of his contribution
is "I premise that man, in order to be normally happy, tolerably happy, must own." Collectivism
will not let him own. The trouble about the present state of society is that people do not
own enough. The remedy proposed will be worse than the disease. Then Mr. Bernard Shaw had a
look in.

In the course of his lengthy article he gave "the Chesterbelloc"--"a very amusing pantomime
elephant"--several shrewd digs in the ribs. It claimed, according to G.B.S., to be the Zeitgeist.
"To which we reply, bluntly, but conclusively, 'Gammon!'" The rest was mostly amiable personalities.
Mr. Shaw owned up to musical cravings, compared with which the Chesterbelloc tendency to consume
alcohol was as nothing. He also jeered very pleasantly at Mr. Belloc's power to cause a stampede
of Chesterton's political and religious ideas. "For Belloc's sake Chesterton says he believes
literally in the Bible story of the Resurrection. For Belloc's sake he says he is not a Socialist.
On a recent occasion I tried to drive him to swallow the Miracle of St. Januarius for Belloc's
sake; but at that he stuck. He pleaded his belief in the Resurrection story. He pointed out
very justly that I believe in lots of things just as miraculous as the Miracle of St. Januarius;
but when I remorselessly pressed the fact that he did not believe that the blood of St. Januarius
reliquefies miraculously every year, the Credo stuck in his throat like Amen in Macbeth's.
He had got down at last to his irreducible minimum of dogmatic incredulity, and could not,
even with the mouth of the bottomless pit yawning before Belloc, utter the saving lie."

By this time the discussion was definitely off Socialism. Chesterton produced another article,
The Last of the Rationalists, in reply to Mr. Shaw, from which one gathered what one had been
previously suspected that "you [namely Mr. Shaw, but in practice both the opposition controversialists]
have confined yourselves to charming essays on our two charming personalities." And there they
stopped.

The year following this bout of personalities saw the publication of a remarkably brilliant
book by Chesterton, George Bernard Shaw, in which, one might have expected, the case against
the political creed represented by G.B.S. might have been carried a trifle farther. Instead
of which it was not carried anything like so far. Chesterton jeered at Mr. Shaw's vegetarianism,
denied his democracy, but decided that on the whole he was a good republican, "in the literal
and Latin sense; he cares more for the Public Thing than for any private thing." He ends the
chapter entitled "The Progressive" by saying the kindest things he ever said about any body
of Socialists.

          I have in my time had my fling at the Fabian
          Society, at the pedantry of schemes, the arrogance
          of experts; nor do I regret it now. But when I
          remember that other world against which it reared
          its bourgeois banner of cleanliness and common
          sense, I will not end this chapter without doing
          it decent honour. Give me the drain pipes of the
          Fabians rather than the panpipes of the later
          poets; the drain pipes have a nicer smell.

The reader may have grasped by this time the fact that Chesterton's objections to Socialism
were based rather on his dislike of what the working man calls "mucking people about" than
on any economic grounds. He made himself the sworn enemy of any Bill before Parliament which
contained any proposals to appoint inspectors. He took the line that the sacredness of the
home diminishes visibly with the entrance of the gas collector, and disappears down the kitchen
sink with the arrival of the school attendance officer. In those of his writings which I have
not seen I have no doubt there are pleadings for the retention of the cesspool, because it
is the last moat left to the Englishman's house, which is his castle. It is difficult to believe
in the complete sincerity of such an attitude. The inspector is the chief enemy of the bad
landlord and employer, he is a fruit of democracy. In the early days of the factory system,
when mercilessly long hours were worked by children and women, when legislation had failed
to ameliorate the conditions of employment, because the employers were also the magistrates,
and would not enforce laws against themselves, the great Reform Bill agitation, which so nearly
caused a revolution in this country, came to an end, having in 1832 achieved a partial success.
But the new House of Commons did not at once realize how partial it was, and at first it regarded
the interests of working men with something of the intensity of the Liberal Government of 1906,
which had not yet come to appreciate the new and portentous Labour Party at its true worth.
So in 1833 inspectors were appointed for the first time. This very brief excursion into history
is sufficient justification for refusing to take seriously those who would have us believe
that inspectors are necessarily the enemies of the human race. Chesterton's theory that middle-class
Socialists are people who want to do things to the poor in the direction of regimenting them
finds an easy refutation. When, in 1910, the whole of England fell down before the eloquence
of Mr. Lloyd George, and consented to the Insurance Bill, the one body of people who stood
out and fought that Bill was that middle-class Socialist body, the Fabian Society. It is sometimes
desirable, for purposes of controversy, to incarnate a theory or objection. Chesterton lumped
together all his views on the alleged intentions of the Socialists to interfere in the natural
and legitimate happinesses of the working class, and called this curious composite Mr. Sidney
Webb. So through many volumes Mr. Webb's name is continually bobbing up, like an irrepressible
Aunt Sally, and having to be thwacked into a temporary disappearance. But this is only done
for literary effect. To heave a brick at a man is both simpler and more amusing than to arraign
a system or a creed. A reader enjoys the feeling that his author is a clever dog who is making
it devilishly uncomfortable for his opponents. His appreciation would be considerably less
if the opponent in question was a mere theory. In point of fact, Chesterton is probably a warm
admirer of Mr. and Mrs. Sidney Webb. When they founded (in 1909) their National Committee for
the Prevention of Destitution, designed to educate the British public in the ideas of what
has been called Webbism, especially those contained in the Minority Report of the Poor Law
Commission, one of the first to join was G. K. Chesterton.

The word Socialism covers a multitude of Socialists, some of whom are not. The political faith
of a man, therefore, must not be judged upon his attitude towards Socialism, if we have anything
more definite to go upon. Chesterton overflows, so to speak, with predilections, such as beer
(in a political sense, of course), opposition to the Jingo, on the one hand, and to middle-class
faddery, such as vegetarianism, on the other, and so on. Anybody might indulge in most of his
views, in fact, without incurring severe moral reprobation. But there is an exception which,
unfortunately, links Chesterton pretty firmly with the sweater, and other undesirable lords
of creation. He is an anti-suffragist.

In a little essay Chesterton once wrote on Tolstoy, he argued that the thing that has driven
men mad was logic, from the beginning of time, whereas the thing that has kept them sane was
mysticism. Tolstoy, lacking mysticism, was at the mercy of his pitiless logic, which led him
to condemn things which are entirely natural and human. This attitude, one feels (and it is
only to be arrived at by feeling), is absolutely right. We all start off with certain scarce
expressible feelings that certain things are fundamentally decent and permissible, and that
others are the reverse, just as we do not take our idea of blackness and whiteness from a text-book.
If anybody proposed that all Scotsmen should be compelled to eat sago with every meal, the
idea, although novel to most of us, would be instantly dismissed, even, it is probable, by
those with sago interests, because it would be contrary to our instinct of what is decent.
In fact, we all believe in natural rights, or at any rate we claim the enjoyment of some. Now
natural rights have no logical basis. The late Professor D. G. Ritchie very brilliantly examined
the theory of natural rights, and by means of much subtle dissection and argument found that
there were no natural rights; law was the only basis of privilege. It is quite easy to be convinced
by the author's delightful dialectic, but the conviction is apt to vanish suddenly in the presence
of a dog being ill-treated.

Now on a basis of common decency--the basis of all democratic political thought--the case for
woman suffrage is irresistible. It is not decent that the sweated woman worker should be denied
what, in the opinion of many competent judges, might be the instrument of her salvation. It
is not decent that women should share a disqualification with lunatics, criminals, children,
and no others of their own race. It is not decent that the sex which knows most about babies
should have no opportunity to influence directly legislation dealing with babies. It is not
decent that a large, important and necessary section of humanity, with highly gregarious instincts,
should not be allowed to exercise the only gregarious function which concerns the whole nation
at once.

These propositions are fundamental; if a man or woman cannot accept them, then he is at heart
an "anti," even if he has constructed for himself a quantity of reasons, religious, ethical,
economic, political or what not, why women should be allowed to vote. Every suffrage argument
is, or can be, based on decencies, not on emotion or statistics.

Chesterton bases his case on decencies, but they are not the decencies that matter. In What's
Wrong with the World he insists on the indecency of allowing women to cease to be amateurs
within the home, or of allowing them to earn a living in a factory or office, or of allowing
them to share in the responsibility for taking the lives of condemned murderers, or of allowing
them to exercise the coercion which is government, which is a sort of pyramid, with a gallows
on top, the ultimate resort of coercive power. And in these alleged indecencies (the word is
not altogether my own) lies Chesterton's whole case against allowing any woman to vote. Into
these propositions his whole case, as expressed in What's Wrong with the World, is faithfully
condensed.

Well now, are these indecencies sincere or simulated? First, as regards the amateur, Chesterton's
case is that the amateur is necessary, in order to counteract the influences of the specialist.
Man is nowadays the specialist. He is confined to making such things as the thousandth part
of a motor-car or producing the ten-thousandth part of a daily newspaper. By being a specialist
he is made narrow. Woman, with the whole home on her hands, has a multiplicity of tasks. She
is the amateur, and as such she is free. If she is put into politics or industry she becomes
a specialist, and as such becomes a slave. This is a pretty piece of reasoning, but it is absolutely
hollow. There are few women who do not gladly resign part at least of their sovereignty, if
they have the chance, to a maid-servant (who may be, and, in fact, usually is an amateur, but
is not free to try daring experiments) or to such blatant specialists as cooks and nursemaids.
Nobody is the least bit shocked by the existence of specialist women. Indeed, it is a solemn
fact, that were it not for them Chesterton would be unable to procure a single article of clothing.
He would be driven to the fig-leaf, and would stand a good chance of not getting even so much,
now that so many gardeners are women. We are terribly dependent upon the specialist woman.
That is why the amateur within the home is beginning to wonder whether, on the whole, man is
so very much dependent upon her. She comes to rely more and more upon the specialist women
to help her feed, clothe, and nurse her husband. She has so much done for her that she comes
to understand the remainder left to her far better. She becomes a specialist herself, and feels
kindly towards other specialists. Then she demands a vote and meets Chesterton, who tells her
to go and mind the baby and be as free as she likes with the domestic apparatus for making
pastry, when her baby is in point of fact being brought up by other women at a Montessori school
to be much more intelligent and much more of a specialist than she herself is ever likely to
be, and when she knows that her dyspeptic husband has an absolute loathing for the amateurishness
that expresses itself in dough.

Then there is the alleged wrongness of permitting women to work in factories and offices. We
are all probably prepared to admit that we have been shocked at the commercial employment of
women. But it has probably occurred to few of us that the shock was due simply to their commercial
employment. It was due to their low wages and to the beastliness of their employers. When they
drew decent wages and their employers were decent men we were not the least bit hurt. But when
an employer made use of the amateurishness of young girls to underpay them, and then make deductions
from their wages on various trivial pretexts, and put them to work in overcrowded factories
and offices, then we all felt acutely that an indecency was being committed. The obvious democratic
remedy is the duckpond, but in our great cities none remain. So one is sorrowfully brought
round to the slower but surer expedient of attacking and destroying the amateurishness of women
at the point where it is dangerous to them. Amateurishness has encircled women in the past
like the seven rivers of Hades. Every now and again a daring excursion was made in order that
the wisdom of those imprisoned within should be added to our store. A good deal of aboriginal
amateurishness has been evaporating as the woman doctor has been taking the place of the time-honoured
amateur dispenser of brimstone and treacle, and even horrider things. And will Chesterton maintain
that it were better for us all if certain women had remained amateurs and had not studied and
specialized so that, in time of need, they were enabled to tend the sick and wounded at home,
in Flanders and in France, and wherever the powers of evil had been at work?

Lastly, is it decent that women should share the awful responsibility which is attached to
the ultimate control of the State, when the State is compelled to use the gallows? If women
vote, they are responsible for whatever blood is shed by the State. Yes, but, Mr. Chesterton,
aren't they just as responsible for it in any case? Don't women help to pay the hangman's wages
with every ounce of tea or of sweets they buy? If capital punishment is obscene, then we can
do without it, and a woman's vote will not make her a sharer in the evil. If capital punishment
is morally stimulating to the nation at large, there is no reason why women should not be allowed
to share in the stimulation. Now what has become of Chesterton's decencies? It is indeed saddening
that a man who never misses an opportunity to proclaim himself a democrat should take his stand
on this matter beside Lord Curzon, and in opposition to the instinctively and essentially democratic
views proclaimed by such men as Messrs. H. W. Nevinson and Philip Snowden.

In an article in The Illustrated London News on June 1st, 1912, Chesterton showed whose side
he was on with unusual distinctness. The subject of the article was Earnestness; the moral,
that it was a bad quality, the property of Socialists and Anti-Socialists, and Suffragists,
and that apathy was best of all. It concluded:

          Neither Socialists nor Suffragists will smash our
          politics, I fear. The worst they can do is to put
          a little more of the poison of earnestness into
          the strong, unconscious sanity of our race, and
          disturb that deep and just indifference on which
          all things rest; the quiet of the mother or the
          carelessness of the child.

In remarkably similar words, the late Procurator of the Holy Synod of the Russian Church, C.
P. Pobedonostsev, condemned democracy in his book, The Reflexions of a Russian Statesman, and
praised vis inertiæ for its preservative effects. But the Russian had more consistency; he
did not merely condemn votes for women, but also votes for men; and not only votes, but education,
the jury system, the freedom of the Press, religious freedom, and many other things.

Putting aside the question of woman suffrage, Chesterton's views on democracy may be further
illustrated by reference to the proceedings of the Joint Select Committee of the House of Lords
and the House of Commons, 1909, on Stage Plays (Censorship). He may speak for himself here.

Mr. G. K. Chesterton is called in, and examined.

          Question 6141 (Chairman). I understand that you
          appear here to give evidence on behalf of the
          average man?

          G.K.C. Yes, that is so. I represent the audience,
          in fact. I am neither a dramatist nor a dramatic
          critic. I do not quite know why I am here, but if
          anybody wants to know my views on the subject they
          are these: I am for the censorship, but I am
          against the present Censor. I am very strongly for
          the censorship, and I am very strongly against the
          present Censor. The whole question I think turns
          on the old democratic objection to despotism. I am
          an old-fashioned person and I retain the old
          democratic objection to despotism. I would trust
          12 ordinary men, but I cannot trust one ordinary
          man.

          6142. You prefer the jury to the judge?--Yes,
          exactly; that is the very point. It seems to me
          that if you have one ordinary man judging, it is
          not his ordinariness that appears, but it is his
          extraordinariness that appears. Take anybody you
          like--George III for instance. I suppose that
          George III was a pretty ordinary man in one sense.
          People called him Farmer George. He was very like
          a large number of other people, but when he was
          alone in his position things appeared in him that
          were not ordinary--that he was a German, and that
          he was mad, and various other facts. Therefore, my
          primary principle----

          6143. He gloried in the name of Briton?--I know he
          did. That is what showed him to be so thoroughly
          German.

          LORD NEWTON. He spelt it wrongly.

          WITNESS. Therefore, speaking broadly, I would not
          take George III's opinion, but I would take the
          opinion of 12 George III's on any question.

The taking of the "evidence" took several hours, but it never yielded anything more than this:
The local jury is a better judge of what is right and proper than a single Censor. Juries may
differ in their judgments; but why not? Is it not desirable that Hampstead and Highgate should
each have an opportunity of finding out independently what they like? May they not compete
in taste one against the other?

This introduction of the question of dramatic censorship invites a slight digression. Chesterton
has a decided regard for a dramatic censorship. A book need not be censored, because it need
not be finished by its reader, but it may be difficult to get out of a theatre in the course
of a performance. And there are performances of plays, written by "irresponsible modern philosophers,"
which, to Chesterton, seem to deserve suppression. A suggestive French farce may be a dirty
joke, but it is at least a joke; but a play which raises the question Is marriage a failure?
and answers it in the affirmative, is a pernicious philosophy. The answer to this last contention
is that, in point of strict fact, modern philosophers do not regard happy marriages as failures,
and opinion is divided on the others, which are generally the subjects of their plays. But
there is no doubt that a jury is better qualified than a single Censor. A French jury decided
that Madame Bovary was not immoral. An English jury decided that a certain book by Zola was
immoral and sent the publisher to prison. Another English jury, for all practical purposes,
decided that Dorian Gray was not immoral, and so on. The verdicts may be accepted. Twelve men,
picked from an alphabetical list, may not be judges of art, but they will not debase morality.

Chesterton's personal contribution to the political thought of his day lies in his criticism
of the humaneness of legislative proposals. A thing that is human is commonly a very different
matter from a thing that is merely humanitarian. G.K.C. is hotly human and almost bitterly
anti-humanitarian.

The difference between the two is illustrated by the institution of the gallows, which is human,
but not humanitarian. In its essentials it consists of a rope and a branch, which is precisely
the apparatus that an angry man might employ in order to rid himself of his captured enemy.
Herbert Spencer, seeking in his old age for means whereby to increase the happiness of mankind,
invented a humanitarian apparatus for the infliction of capital punishment. It consisted of
a glorified roundabout, on which the victim was laid for his last journey. As it revolved,
the blood-pressure on his head gradually increased (or decreased, I forget which) until he
fell asleep and died painlessly. This is humanitarianism. The process is safe and sure (so
long as the machine did not stop suddenly), highly efficient, bloodless and painless. But just
because it is so humanitarian it offends one a great deal more than the old-fashioned gallows.
The only circumstance which can justify violence is anger. The only circumstance which can
justify the taking of human life is anger. And anger may be expressed by a rope or a knife-edge,
but not by a roundabout or any other morbid invention of a cold-blooded philosopher such as
the electric chair, or the lethal chamber. In the same way, if flogging is to continue as a
punishment, it must be inflicted by a man and not by a machine.

Now this distinction (made without prejudice as to Chesterton's views on capital or corporal
punishment) holds good through his whole criticism of modern legislation. He believes that
it is better that a man and his family should starve in their own slum, than that they should
be moulded, by a cumbersome apparatus of laws and officials and inspectors, into a tame, mildly
prosperous and mildly healthy group of individuals, whose opinions, occupations and homes should
be provided for them. On these lines he attacks whatever in his opinion will tend to put men
into a position where their souls will be less their own. He believes that the man who has
been costered by the Government into a mediocre state of life will be less of a man than one
who has been left unbothered by officials, and has had to shift for himself.

Very largely, therefore, Chesterton's political faith is an up-to-date variety of the tenets
of the Self-Help School, which was own brother to the Manchester School. And here we come to
a curious contradiction, the first of a series. For Chesterton loathes the Manchester School.

The contradiction comes of an inveterate nominalism. To G.K.C. all good politics are summed
up in the words Liberty, Equality, Fraternity. But nobody, not even a Frenchman, can explain
what they mean. Chesterton used to believe that they mean Liberalism, being led astray by the
sound of the first word, but he soon realized his error. Let a man say "I believe in Liberty"
and only the vagueness of the statement preserves it from the funniness of a Higher Thinker's
affirmation, "I believe in Beauty." A man has to feel Liberty, Equality, Fraternity, for they
are not in the nature of facts. And one suspects horribly that what Chesterton really feels
is merely the masculine liberty, equality and fraternity of the public-house, where men meet
together but never do anything. For Chesterton has not yet asked us to do anything, he only
requests Parliament to refrain. He supports no political programme. He is opposed to Party
Government, which is government by the Government. He is in favour of Home Rule, it may be
inferred; and of making things nasty for the Jews, it may be supposed. But he does not poach
on the leader-writers' preserves, and his political programme is left hazy. His opposition
to Liberal proposals brings him near the Tories. If the Liberals continue in power for a few
years longer, and Home Rule drops out of the things opposed by Tories, the latter may well
find Chesterton among their doubtful assets. He will probably continue to call himself a Liberal
and a "child of the French Revolution," but that will be only his fun. For the interesting
abortions to which the French Revolution gave birth--well, they are quite another story.

Chesterton is a warm supporter of the queerly mixed proposals that are known as the "rights
of small nationalities," and the smaller the nationality, the more warmly he supports (so he
would have us believe) its demand for self-government. Big fleas have little fleas, alas, and
that is the difficulty he does not confront. For Home Rule carried to its final sub-division
is simply home rule; the independence of homes. Political Home Rule is only assented to on
general principles; apparently on the ground that on the day when an Englishman's home really
does become his castle he will not, so to speak, mind much whether he is an Englishman or an
Irishman.

And here we may bid farewell to the politician who is Chesterton. His politics are like his
perverse definitions of the meaning of such words as progress and reform. He is like a child
who plays about with the hands of a clock, and makes the surprising discovery that some clocks
may be made to tell a time that does not exist--with the small hand at twelve and the large
at six, for example. Also that if a clock goes fast, it comes to register an hour behind the
true time, and the other way round. And so Chesterton goes on playing with the times, until
at last a horrid suspicion grips us. What if he cannot tell the time himself?

VIII

A DECADENT OF SORTS

AN idea, if treated gently, may be brought up to perform many useful tasks. It is, however,
apt to pine in solitude, and should be allowed to enjoy the company of others of its own kind.
It is much easier to overwork an idea than a man, and of the two, the wearied idea presents
an infinitely more pathetic appearance. Those of us who, for our sins, have to review the novels
of other people, are accustomed to the saddening spectacle of a poor little idea, beautiful
and fresh in its youth, come wearily to its tombstone on page 300 (where or whereabouts novels
end), trailing after it an immense load of stiff and heavy puppets, taken down from the common
property-cupboards of the nation's fiction, and not even dusted for the occasion. Manalive,
as we have seen, suffered from its devotion to one single idea, but the poor little thing was
kept going to the bitter end by the flow of humorous encouragement given it by the author.
The later works of Chesterton, however, are symbolized by a performing flea, dragging behind
it a little cartload of passengers. But it sometimes happens that the humour of Manalive is
not there, that one weary idea has to support an intolerable deal of prose.

In An Essay on Two Cities[3] there is a long passage illustrating the adventures of a man who
tried to find people in London by the names of the places. He might go into Buckingham Palace
in search of the Duke of Buckingham, into Marlborough House in quest of the Duke of Marlborough.
He might even look for the Duke of Wellington at Waterloo.

          I wonder that no one has written a wild romance
          about the adventures of such an alien, seeking the
          great English aristocrats, and only guided by the
          names; looking for the Duke of Bedford in the town
          of that name, seeking for some trace of the Duke
          of Norfolk in Norfolk. He might sail for
          Wellington in New Zealand to find the ancient seat
          of the Wellingtons. The last scene might show him
          trying to learn Welsh in order to converse with
          the Prince of Wales.

Here is an idea that is distinctly amusing when made to fill one short paragraph, and might
be deadly tedious if extended into a wild romance. Perhaps the best way of summarizing the
peculiar decadence into which Chesterton seemed at one time to be falling is by the statement
that up to the present he has not found time to write the book, but has done others like it.
And yet the decadence has never showed signs of that fin de siècle rustiness that marked the
decadent movement (if it was really a movement and not just an obsession) of the generation
that preceded Chesterton. He cursed it in the dedication to Mr. E. C. Bentley of The Man who
was Thursday, and he remained true to the point of view expressed in that curse for ever afterwards.

          A cloud was on the mind of men, and wailing went the weather,
          Yea, a sick cloud upon the soul, when we were boys together.
          Science announced nonentity, and art admired decay;
          The world was old and ended: but you and I were gay.
          Round us in antic order their crippled vices came--
          Lust that had lost its laughter, fear that had lost its shame.
          Like the white lock of Whistler, that lit our aimless gloom,
          Men showed their own white feather as proudly as a plume.
          Life was a fly that faded, and death a drone that stung;
          The world was very old indeed when you and I were young.
          They twisted even decent sin to shapes not to be named:
          Men were ashamed of honour; but we were not ashamed.

The Chestertonian decadence was not even an all-round falling-off. If anybody were to make
the statement that in the year nineteen-hundred-and-something Chesterton produced his worst
work it would be open to anybody else to declare, with equal truth, that in the same year Chesterton
produced his best work. And the year in which these extremes met would be either 1913 or 1914,
the years of Father Brown and The Flying Inn on one hand, and of Father Brown and some of the
songs of The Flying Inn on the other. It was not a technical decline, but the period of certain
intellectual wearinesses, when Chesterton's mental resilience failed him for a time, and he
welcomed with too much enthusiasm the nasty ideas from which no man is wholly free.

The main feature indeed of this period of decadence is the brandishing about of a whole mass
of antipathies. A man is perfectly entitled to hate what he will, but it is generally assumed
that the hater has some ideas on the subject of the reform of the hatee. But Chesterton is
as devoid of suggestions as a goat is of modesty. A man may have a violent objection against
women earning their own livings, and yet be regarded as a reasonable being if he has any alternative
proposals for the well-being of the unendowed and temporarily or permanently unmarriageable
woman, with no relatives able to support her--and there are two or three millions of such women
in the United Kingdom. But a mere "You shouldn't" is neither here nor there.

Take this verse. It was written two or three years ago and is from a poem entitled To a Turk.

          With us too rage against the rood
            Your devils and your swine;
          A colder scorn of womanhood,
            A baser fear of wine,
          And lust without the harem,
            And Doom without the God,
          Go. It is not this rabble
            Sayeth to you "Ichabod."

A previous stanza talks about "the creedless chapel." Here is a whole mass of prejudices collected
into a large splutter at the expense of England. If the verse means anything at all, it means
that the English are nearer the beasts than the Turks.

Another of Chesterton's intellectual aberrations is his anti-Semitism. He continually denied
in the columns of The Daily Herald that he was an anti-Semite, but his references to the Jews
are innumerable and always on the same side. If one admits what appears to be Chesterton's
contention that Judaism is largely just an exclusive form of contemporary atheism, then one
is entitled to ask, Why is a wicked Gentile atheist merely an atheist, while a Jewish atheist
remains a Jew? Surely the morals of both are on the same level, and the atheism, and not the
race, is the offensive feature. The Jews have their sinners and their saints, including the
greatest Saint of all.

          They and they only, amongst all mankind,
          Received the transcript of the eternal mind;
          Were trusted with His own engraven laws,
          And constituted guardians of His cause:
          Their's were the prophets, their's the priestly call,
          And their's, by birth, the Saviour of us all.

Even if Chesterton cannot work himself up to Cowper's enthusiasm (and few of us can), he cannot
deny that the race he is continually blackguarding was preparing his religion, and discovering
the way to health at a time when his own Gentile ancestors were probably performing human sacrifices
and eating worms. Unquestionably what is the matter with the modern Jew, especially of the
educated classes, is that he refuses to be impressed by the Christian Church. But the Christian
Church cannot fairly be said to have made herself attractive in the past; her methods of Inquisition,
for example. . . .

It is difficult to write apathetically on this extreme instance of a great writer's intolerance.
One single example will suffice. A year or two ago, a Jew called Beilis was put on his trial
(after an imprisonment of nearly three years) for the murder of a small Christian boy named
Yushinsky, in order that his blood might be used for ritual purposes. Yushinsky, who was found
dead under peculiar circumstances, was probably a Jew himself, but that does not affect the
point at issue. Mr. Arthur Henderson, M.P., tried to arouse an agitation in order to secure
the freedom of Beilis, because it was perfectly evident from the behaviour of certain parties
that the prisoner's conviction would be the signal for the outbreak of a series of massacres
of the Jews, and because a case which had taken nearly three years to prepare was obviously
a very thin case. Chesterton wrote a ribald article in The Daily Herald on Mr. Henderson's
attempt at intervention, saying in effect, How do you know that Beilis isn't guilty? Now it
is impossible to hold the belief that Beilis might be guilty and at the same time disbelieve
that the Jews are capable of committing human sacrifice. When a leading Russian critic named
Rosanov, also an anti-Semite, issued a pamphlet proclaiming that the Jews did, in fact, commit
this loathsome crime, he was ignominiously ejected from a prominent Russian literary society.
The comparison should appeal to Chesterton.

The nadir of these antipathies is reached in The Flying Inn, a novel published a few months
before the Great War broke out, and before we all made the discovery that, hold what prejudices
we will, we are all immensely dependent on one another. In this book we are given a picture
of England of the future, conquered by the Turk. As a concession to Islam, all intoxicating
drink is prohibited in England. It is amusing to note that a few months after the publication
of this silly prognostication, the greatest Empire in Christendom prohibited drink within its
frontiers in order to conquer the Turk--and his Allies. A Patrick Dalroy, an Irishman (with
red hair), and of course a giant, has been performing Homeric feats against the conquering
Turks. A Lord Ivywood, an abstraction bloodless to the point of albinism, is at the head of
affairs in England. The Jews dominate everything. Dalroy and Humphrey Pump, an evicted innkeeper,
discovering that drinks may still be sold where an inn-sign may be found, start journeying
around England loaded only with the sign-board of "The Green Man," a large cheese, and a keg
of rum. They are, in fact, a peripatetic public-house, and the only democratic institution
of its kind left in England. Every other chapter the new innkeepers run into Ivywood and his
hangers-on. As the story wriggles its inconsequent length, the author curses through the mouths
of his heroes. He anathematizes teetotallers, brewers, vegetarians, temperance drinks, model
villages, æsthetic poets, Oriental art, Parliament, politicians, Jews, Turks, and infidels
in general, futurist painting, and other things. In the end, Dalroy and Pump lead a vast insurrection,
and thousands of dumb, long-suffering Englishmen attack Ivywood in his Hall, and so free their
country from the Turk.

Only the songs already described in Chapter V preserve this book from extreme dullness. Technically
it is poor. The action is as scattered as the parts of a futurist picture. A whole chapter
is devoted to a picture of a newspaper editor at work, inventing the phraseology of indefiniteness.
Epigrams are few and are very much overworked. Once a catchword is sprung, it is run to death.
The Turk who by means of silly puns attempts to prove that Islamic civilization is better than
European, never ceases in his efforts. The heartlessness of Ivywood is continuous, and ends
in insanity.

Parts of The Flying Inn convey the impression that Chesterton was tired of his own style and
his own manner of controversy, and had taken to parodying himself. The arguments of the already-mentioned
Turk, for example, might well pass for a really good parody of the theological dispute in the
first chapter of The Ball and the Cross. There, it may be remembered, two men (more or less)
discussed the symbolism of balls and crosses. In The Flying Inn people discuss the symbolism
of crescents and crosses, and the Turk, Misysra Ammon, explains, "When the English see an English
youth, they cry out 'He is crescent!' But when they see an English aged man, they cry out 'He
is cross!'" On these lines a great deal of The Flying Inn is written.

We now come to Chesterton's political decadence, traceable, like many features in his history,
to Mr. Hilaire Belloc. The friendship between G.K.C. and the ex-Liberal M.P. for Rochdale bore
a number of interesting fruits. There were the amusing illustrations to The Great Enquiry,
an amusing skit on the Tariff Reform League, to Emmanuel Burden and The Green Overcoat. But
curious artificialities sprang into existence, like so many funguses, under the lengthening
shadow of Mr. Belloc. To him is due the far-fetchedness of some of Chesterton's pleading in
support of the miraculous element in religion. To him also is due the growing antipathy against
the Liberal Party and the party system in general.

Up to the end of January, 1913, Chesterton had continued his connection with The Daily News.
On January 28th there took place, at the Queen's Hall, London, a debate between Mr. Bernard
Shaw and Mr. Hilaire Belloc. The latter moved "That if we do not re-establish the institution
of property, we shall re-establish the institution of slavery; there is no third course." The
debate was an extremely poor affair, as neither combatant dealt, except parenthetically, with
his opponent's points. In the course of it Mr. Shaw, to illustrate an argument, referred to
Chesterton as "a flourishing property of Mr. Cadbury," a remark which G.K.C. appears to have
taken to heart. His quarrel with official Liberalism was at the moment more bitter than ever
before. Mr. Belloc had taken a very decided stand on the Marconi affair, and Mr. Cecil Chesterton,
G.K.C.'s brother, was sturdily supporting him. The Daily News, on the other hand, was of course
vigorously defending the Government. Chesterton suddenly severed his long connection with The
Daily News and came over to The Daily Herald. This paper, which is now defunct, except in a
weekly edition, was the organ of Syndicalism and rebellion in general.

A week or so later, Chesterton started his series of Saturday articles in The Daily Herald.
His first few efforts show that he made a determined attempt to get down to the intellectual
level of the Syndicalist. But anybody who sits down to read through these articles will notice
that before many weeks had passed Chesterton was beginning to feel a certain discomfort in
the company he was keeping. He writes to say that he likes writing for The Daily Herald because
it is the most revolutionary paper he knows, "even though I do not agree with all the revolutions
it advocates," and goes on to state that, personally, he likes most of the people he meets.
Having thus, as it were, cleared his conscience in advance, Chesterton let himself go. He attacked
the Government for its alleged nepotism, dishonesty, and corruption. He ended one such article
with, "There is nothing but a trumpet at midnight, calling for volunteers." The New Statesman
then published an article, "Trumpets and How to Blow Them," suggesting, among other things,
that there was little use in being merely destructive. It is typical of what I have called
the decadence of Chesterton that he borrowed another writer's most offensive description of
a lady prominently connected with The New Statesman in order to quote it with glee by way of
answer to this article. The Syndicalist hates the Socialist for his catholicity. The Socialist
wishes to see the world a comfortable place, the Syndicalist merely wishes to work in a comfortable
factory. Chesterton seized the opportunity, being mildly rebuked by a Socialist paper, to declare
that the Fabians "are constructing a man-trap." A little later on he writes, with reference
to a controversialist's request, that he should explain why, after all, he was not a Socialist:

          If he wants to know what the Marconi Scandal has
          saved us from, I can tell him. It has saved us
          from Socialism. My God! what Socialism, and run by
          what sort of Socialists! My God! what an escape!
          If we had transferred the simplest national
          systems to the State (as we wanted to do in our
          youth) it is to these men that we should have
          transferred them.

There never was an example of more muddled thinking. Let us apply it to something definite,
to that harmless, necessary article of diet, milk, to be precise, cow's milk. To-day milk is
made expensive by a multiplicity of men who have interests in keeping milk expensive. There
are too many milkmen's wages to be paid, too many milk-carts to be built, too many shop-rents
paid, and too much apparatus bought, simply because we have not yet had the intelligence to
let any municipality or county run its own milk-service and so avoid all manner of duplication.
Chesterton's answer to this is: "I used to think so, but what about Lord Murray, Mr. Lloyd
George, and Mr. Godfrey Isaacs?" It would be as relevant to say, "What about Dr. Crippen, Jack
Sheppard, and Ananias," or, "But what about Mr. Bernard Shaw, the Grand Duke Nicolas, and my
brother?" The week later Chesterton addresses the Labour Party in these words:

          Comrades (I mean gentlemen), there is only one
          real result of anything you have done. You have
          justified the vulgar slander of the suburban
          Conservatives that men from below are men who
          merely want to rise. It is a lie. No one knows so
          well as you that it was a lie: you who drove out
          Grayson and deserted Lansbury. Before you went
          into Parliament to represent the working classes,
          the working classes were feared. Since you have
          represented the working classes, they are not even
          respected. Just when there was a hope of
          Democracy, you have revived the notion that the
          demagogue was only the sycophant. Just when there
          had begun to be an English people to represent,
          you have been paid to misrepresent them. Get out
          of our path. Take your money; go.

Regarding which passage there is only to be said that it is grossly unjust both to the Labour
Party and to the working classes. It was followed up in subsequent numbers by violent attacks
on woman suffrage and the economic independence of women; a proceeding quite commendably amusing
in a paper with a patron saint surnamed Pankhurst. A promise to say no more about Votes for
Women was followed by several more spirited references to it, from the same point of view.
After which Chesterton cooled off and wrote about detective stories, telephones, and worked
himself down into an all-round fizzle of disgust at things as they are, to illustrate which
"I will not run into a paroxysm of citations again," as Milton said in the course of his Epistle
in two books on Reformation in England.

The most unpleasant feature of The Daily Herald articles is the assumption of superiority over
the British working man, expressing itself in the patronizing tone. The British working man,
as Chesterton sees him, is a very different person from what he is. If the Middle Ages had
been the peculiar period Chesterton appears to believe it was, then his working man would be
merely a trifling anachronism of five centuries or so. But he is not even that. Five centuries
would be but a trifle compared with the difference between him and his real self. Chesterton's
attitude towards the working man must resemble that of a certain chivalrous knight towards
the distressed damsel he thought he had rescued. He observed, "Well, little one, aren't you
going to show me any gratitude?" And the lady replied, "I wasn't playing Andromeda, fathead,
I was looking for blackberries. Run away and play."

The attitude of the middle-class suburbanite towards the working man and his wife is not exactly
graceful, but the former at any rate does not pretend to love the latter, and to find all decency
of feeling and righteousness of behaviour in them. Chesterton both pretends to reverence the
working classes, and exhibits a profound contempt for them. He is never happier than when he
is telling the working classes that they are wrong. He delights in attacking the Labour Party
in order to have the supreme satisfaction of demonstrating that working men are their own worst
enemies.

At the beginning of August, 1914, the Great War broke out, and everything seemed changed. No
man now living will be able to say definitely what effects the war will have upon literature,
but one thing is certain: nothing will remain the same. We have already learned to view each
other with different eyes. For better or for worse, old animosities and party cleavages have
given way to unforeseen combinations. To assert that we have all grown better would be untrue.
But it might reasonably be argued that the innate generousness of the British people has been
vitiated by its childlike trust in its journalists, and the men who own them. When Mr. Bernard
Shaw wrote a brilliant defence of the British case for intervention in the war, his mild denigration
of some of the defects of the English nation, a few trivial inaccuracies, and his perverse
bellicosity of style made him the object of the attentions of a horde of panic-stricken heresy-hunters.
Those of us who had not the fortune to escape the Press by service abroad, especially those
of us who derived our living from it, came to loathe its misrepresentation of the English people.
There seemed no end to the nauseous vomits of undigested facts and dishonourable prejudices
that came pouring out in daily streams. Then we came to realize, as never before, the value
of such men as Chesterton. Christianity and the common decencies fare badly at the hands of
the bishops of to-day, and the journalists threw them over as soon as the war began. But, unfortunately
for us all, G.K.C. fell seriously ill in the early period of the war, and was in a critical
state for many months. But not before he had published a magnificent recantation--for it is
no less--of all those bitternesses which, in their sum, had very nearly caused him to hate
the British. It is a poem, Blessed are the Peacemakers.

          Of old with a divided heart
            I saw my people's pride expand,
          Since a man's soul is born apart
            By mother earth and fatherland.

          I knew, through many a tangled tale,
            Glory and truth not one but two:
          King, Constable and Amirail
            Took me like trumpets: but I knew

          A blacker thing than blood's own dye
            Weighed down great Hawkins on the sea;
          And Nelson turned his blindest eye
            On Naples and on liberty.

          Therefore to you my thanks, O throne,
            O thousandfold and frozen folk,
          For whose cold frenzies all your own
            The Battle of the Rivers broke;

          Who have no faith a man could mourn,
            Nor freedom any man desires;
          But in a new clean light of scorn
            Close up my quarrel with my sires;

          Who bring my English heart to me,
            Who mend me like a broken toy;
          Till I can see you fight and flee,
            And laugh as if I were a boy.

When we read this poem, with its proclamation of a faith restored, Chesterton's temporary absence
from the field of letters appears even more lamentable. For even before his breakdown he had
given other signs of a resurrection. Between the overworked descriptions of The Flying Inn
and the little book The Barbarism of Berlin which closely followed it, there is a fine difference
of style, as if in the interval Chesterton had taken a tonic. Thus there is a jolly passage
in which, describing German barbarism, he refers to the different ways of treating women.

And so on. It runs very easily; we recognize the old touch; the epigrams are not worked to
death; and the chains of argument are not mere strings of damped brilliancies. And before 1914
had come to its end, in another pamphlet, Letters to an Old Garibaldian, the same style, the
same freshness of thought, and the same resurgent strength were once again in evidence. Then
illness overcame.

       *       *       *       *       *

Of all futures, the future of literature and its professors is the least predictable. We have
all, so to speak, turned a corner since August, 1914, but we have not all turned the same way.
Chesterton would seem to have felt the great change early in the war. Soon he will break his
silence, and we shall know whether we have amongst us a giant with strength renewed or a querulous
Nonconformist Crusader, agreeing with no man, while claiming to speak for every man. Early
in the course of this study a distinction was drawn between Christians and Crusaders. Chesterton
has been throughout his career essentially a Crusader. He set out to put wrongs to rights in
the same spirit; in much the same spirit, too, he incidentally chivvied about the Jews he met
in his path, just as the Crusaders had done. He fought for the Holy Sepulchre, and gained it.
Like the Crusaders, he professed orthodoxy, and, like them, fell between several "orthodoxies."
He shared their visions and their faith, so far as they had any. But one thing is true of all
Crusaders, they are not necessarily Christians. And there is that about Chesterton which sometimes
makes me wonder whether, after all, he is not "a child of the French Revolution" in a sense
he himself does not suspect. He has cursed the barren fig-tree of modern religious movements.
But there comes a suspicion that he denies too much; that from between those supple sentences
and those too plausible arguments one may catch a glimpse of the features of a mocking spirit.
Chesterton has given us the keenest enjoyment, and he has provoked thought, even in the silly
atheist. We all owe him gratitude, but no two readers of his works are likely to agree as to
the causes of their gratitude. That, in itself, is a tribute. Wherefore let it be understood
that in writing this study I have been speaking entirely for myself, and if any man think me
misguided, inappreciative, hypercritical, frivolous, or anything else, why, he is welcome.

FOOTNOTE:

[3] All Things Considered.

BIBLIOGRAPHY (TO JULY, 1915)

WORKS

  1900. Greybeards at Play. Brimley Johnson. Cheaper edition, 1902.

        The Wild Knight. Grant Richards. Second edition,
           Brimley Johnson, 1905. Enlarged edition, Dent, 1914.

  1901. The Defendant. Brimley Johnson. Second enlarged edition,
           1902. Cheap edition, in Dent's Wayfarer's Library, 1914.

  1902. Twelve Types. A. L. Humphreys. Partly reprinted as Five
           Types, 1910, same publisher. Cheap edition, 1911.

        G. F. Watts. Duckworth. In Popular Library of Art. Reissued
           at higher price, 1914.

  1903. Robert Browning. In English Men of Letters Series. Macmillan.

  1904. The Patriotic Idea. In England a Nation. Edited by Lucien
           Oldershaw. Brimley Johnson.

        The Napoleon of Notting Hill. John Lane. With 7 full-page
           illustrations by W. Graham Robertson and a Map of the Seat
           of War.

  1905. The Club of Queer Trades. Harper. Cheap edition, Hodder and
           Stoughton, 1912.

        Heretics. John Lane.

  1906. Charles Dickens. Methuen. Cheaper edition, 1907. Popular
           edition, 1913.

  1908. The Man who was Thursday. Arrowsmith.

        All Things Considered. Methuen.

        Orthodoxy. John Lane.

  1909. Tremendous Trifles. Methuen.

  1910. Alarms and Discursions. Methuen.

        Five Types. A. L. Humphreys. Reprinted from Twelve
           Types, 1905.

        What's Wrong with the World? Cassell. Cheap edition, 1912.

        William Blake. Duckworth. In Popular Library of Art.

        George Bernard Shaw. John Lane. Cheap edition, 1914.

        The Ball and the Cross. Wells Gardner, Darton.

  1911. The Ballad of the White Horse. Methuen.

        Appreciations of Dickens. Dent. Reprinted prefaces from
           Everyman Series edition of Dickens.

        The Innocence of Father Brown. Cassell.

  1912. Simplicity and Tolstoy. A. L. Humphreys. Another edition,
           H. Siegle. In Watteau Series, 1913.

        A Miscellany of Men. Methuen.

        Manalive. Nelson.

  1913. Magic. Martin Seeker.

        The Victorian Age in Literature. Williams and Norgate. In
           Home University Library.

  1914. The Wisdom of Father Brown. Cassell.

        The Flying Inn. Methuen. (The Songs of the Simple Life
           appeared originally in The New Witness.)

        The Wild Knight. Dent. Enlarged edition, first published
           1900.

        The Barbarism of Berlin. Cassell.

        Letters to an Old Garibaldian. Methuen.

  1915. Poems. Burns and Oates.

        And articles on Tolstoy, Stevenson, Tennyson, and Dickens
           in a series of booklets published by The Bookman,
           1902-1904.

PREFACES TO THE FOLLOWING BOOKS

  1902. Past and Present. By Thomas Carlyle. In World's Classics.
           Grant Richards.

  1903. Life of Johnson. Extracts from Boswell. Isbister.

  1904. The Autocrat of the Breakfast Table. By O. W. Holmes.
           Red Letter Library. Blackie.

        Sartor Resartus. By Thomas Carlyle. Cassell's National
           Library.

        The Pilgrim's Progress. By John Bunyan. Cassell's National
           Library.

  1905. Creatures That Once Were Men. By Maxim Gorky. Rivers.

  1906 etc. Works of Dickens. In Everyman Library. Dent.

  1906. Essays. By Matthew Arnold. In the Everyman Library. Dent.

        Literary London. By Elsie M. Lang. Werner Laurie.

  1907. The Book of Job. (Wellwood Books.)

        From Workhouse to Westminster; the Life Story of Will Crooks,
           M.P. By George Haw. Cassell. Cheaper edition, 1908.

  1908. Poems. By John Ruskin. Muses Library. Routledge.

        The Cottage Homes of England. By W. W. Crotch. Industrial
           Publishing Co.

  1909. A Vision of Life. By Darrell Figgis. Lane.

        Meadows of Play. By Margaret Arndt. Elkin Mathews.

  1910. Selections from Thackeray. Bell.

        Eyes of Youth. An Anthology. Herbert and Daniel.

  1911. Samuel Johnson. Extracts from, selected by Alice
           Meynell. Herbert and Daniel.

        The Book of Snobs. By W. M. Thackeray. Red Letter
           Library. Blackie.

  1912. Famous Paintings Reproduced in Colour. Cassell.

        The English Agricultural Labourer. By A. H. Baverstock.
           The Vineyard Press.

       Fables. By Æsop. Translated by V. S. Vernon Jones.
           Illustrated by Arthur Rackham. Heinemann.

  1913.

ILLUSTRATIONS TO THE FOLLOWING BOOKS BY OTHER WRITERS

  1901. Nonsense Rhymes. By W. C. Monkhouse. Brimley Johnson.
           Cheaper edition, 1902.

  1903. The Great Enquiry. By H. B. (Hilaire Belloc). Duckworth.

  1904. Emmanuel Burden. By Hilaire Belloc. Methuen.

  1905. Biography for Beginners. By E. Clerihew. Cheaper edition,
           Werner Laurie, 1908. Cheap edition, 1910.

  1912. The Green Overcoat. By Hilaire Belloc. Arrowsmith.

CONTRIBUTIONS TO PERIODICALS

  Bookman. From 1898 onwards, passim.

  The Speaker (afterwards The Nation). From 1898 onwards.

  The Daily News. Weekly article, 1900-1913. Also occasional
           poems and reviews.

  The Daily Herald. Weekly article, 1913-1914.

  The Illustrated London News. 1905-1914; 1915-

  The Eye-Witness (afterwards The New Witness). Poems and
           articles, 1911 onwards.

  Also correspondence columns of The Tribune (1906-1908),
           The Clarion, and the London Press in general.

  The Oxford and Cambridge Review (afterwards The British
           Review). Articles 1911, etc.

  The Dublin Review. Occasional articles.

CONTRIBUTIONS TO OFFICIAL PUBLICATIONS

  Evidence before the Joint Select Committee of the House of Lords and
     the House of Commons on Stage Plays (Censorship), included in the
     Minutes of Evidence, 1909.

SPEECHES

  1908. The Press. Speech at Pan-Anglican Congress. Proceedings
           published by The Times.

  1910. What to do with the Backward Races. Speech at the
           Nationalities and Subject Races Conference, London.
           Proceedings published by P. S. King.

  1914. Do Miracles Happen? Report of a Discussion at the Little
           Theatre in January, 1914. Published as a pamphlet by The
           Christian Commonwealth Co.

          PRINTED BY
          WILLIAM BRENDON AND SON, LTD.
          PLYMOUTH, ENGLAND

MARTIN SECKER

HIS COMPLETE CATALOGUE MCMXV

          The Books in this list should be obtainable from
          all Booksellers and Libraries, and if any
          difficulty is experienced the Publisher will be
          glad to be informed of the fact. He will also be
          glad if those interested in receiving from time to
          time Announcement Lists, Prospectuses, &c., of new
          and forthcoming books from Number Five John Street
          will send their names and addresses to him for
          this purpose. Any book in this list may be
          obtained on approval through the booksellers, or
          direct from the Publisher, on remitting him the
          published price, plus the postage.

          MARTIN SECKER
          Publisher
          Number Five John Street
          Adelphi London

          Telephone Gerrard 4779
          Telegraphic Address:
          Psophidian London

PART ONE

INDEX OF AUTHORS

  ABERCROMBIE, LASCELLES
    SPECULATIVE DIALOGUES.   Cr. 8vo. 5s. net.
    THOMAS HARDY: A CRITICAL STUDY. Demy 8vo. 7s. 6d. net.
    THE EPIC (The Art and Craft of Letters). F'cap 8vo. 1s. net.

  AFLALO, F. G.
    BEHIND THE RANGES. Wide Demy 8vo. 10s. 6d. net.
    REGILDING THE CRESCENT. Demy 8vo. 10s. 6d. net.
    BIRDS IN THE CALENDAR. Crown 8vo. 3s. 6d. net.

  ALLSHORN, LIONEL
    STUPOR MUNDI.    Medium Octavo. 16s. net.

  APPERSON, G. L.
    THE SOCIAL HISTORY OF SMOKING. Post 8vo. 6s. net.

  ARMSTRONG, DONALD
    THE MARRIAGE OF QUIXOTE.    Crown 8vo. 6s.

  ARTZIBASHEF, MICHAEL
    SANINE. Preface by Gilbert Cannan. Crown 8vo. 6s.
    BREAKING-POINT.        Crown 8vo. 6s.
    THE MILLIONAIRE. Intro. by the Author. Cr. 8vo. 6s.
    THE REVOLUTION.         Crown 8vo. 6s.

  BARRINGTON, MICHAEL
    GRAHAME OF CLAVERHOUSE. Imperial 8vo. 30s.
    net. Edition de Luxe 63s. net.

  BENNETT, ARNOLD
    THOSE UNITED STATES.   Post 8vo. 2s. 6d. net.

  BLACK, CLEMENTINA
    THE LINLEYS OF BATH. Medium 8vo. 16s. net.
    THE CUMBERLAND LETTERS. Med. 8vo. 16s. net.

  BOULGER, D. C.
    THE BATTLE OF THE BOYNE. Med. 8vo. 21s. net.

  BOTTOME, PHYLLIS
    THE COMMON CHORD.     Crown 8vo. 6s.

  BROWN, IVOR
    YEARS OF PLENTY.      Crown 8vo. 6s.
    SECURITY.             Crown 8vo. 6s.

  BURROW, C. KENNETT
    CARMINA VARIA.     F'cap 8vo. 2s. 6d. net.

  CALDERON, GEORGE (With St. John Hankin)
    THOMPSON: A Comedy.   Sq. Cr. 8vo. 2s. net.

  CANNAN, GILBERT
    ROUND THE CORNER.      Crown 8vo. 6s.
    OLD MOLE.              Crown 8vo. 6s.
    YOUNG EARNEST.         Crown 8vo. 6s.
    SAMUEL BUTLER: A CRITICAL STUDY. Demy 8vo. 7s 6d. net.
    WINDMILLS: A Book of Fables. Cr. 8vo. 5s. net.
    SATIRE (The Art and Craft of Letters). F'cap 8vo. 1s. net.

  CHESTERTON, G. K.
    MAGIC: A Fantastic Comedy. Sq. Cr. 8vo. 2s. net.

  CLAYTON, JOSEPH
    THE UNDERMAN.           Crown 8vo. 6s.
    LEADERS OF THE PEOPLE.  Demy 8vo. 12s. 6d. net.
    ROBERT KETT.            Demy 8vo. 8s. 6d. net.

  COKE, DESMOND
    THE ART OF SILHOUETTE.  Demy 8vo. 10s. 6d. net.

  CRAVEN, A. SCOTT
    THE FOOL'S TRAGEDY.     Crown 8vo. 6s.

  DAWSON, WARRINGTON
    THE TRUE DIMENSION.     Crown 8vo. 6s.

  DE SELINCOURT, BASIL
    WALT WHITMAN: A CRITICAL STUDY.  Demy 8vo. 7s. 6d. net.
    RHYME (The Art and Craft of Letters). F'cap 8vo. 1s. net.

  DOUGLAS, LORD ALFRED
    THE WILDE MYTH.   Demy 8vo. 12s. 6d. net.

  DOUGLAS, NORMAN
    FOUNTAINS IN THE SAND. Wide Demy 8vo. 7s. 6d. net.
    OLD CALABRIA.     Demy 8vo. 15s. net.

  DRAYCOTT, G. M.
    MAHOMET: FOUNDER OF ISLAM.  Demy 8vo. 12s. 6d. net.

  DRINKWATER, JOHN
    WILLIAM MORRIS: A CRITICAL STUDY.  Demy 8vo. 7s. 6d. net.
    D. G. ROSSETTI: A CRITICAL STUDY.  Demy 8vo. 7s. 6d. net.
    THE LYRIC.   (The Art and Craft of Letters). F'cap 8vo. 1s. net.

  FALLS, CYRIL
    RUDYARD KIPLING: A CRITICAL STUDY. Demy 8vo. 7s. 6d. net.

  FEA, ALLAN
    OLD ENGLISH HOUSES.                Demy 8vo. 10s. 6d. net.
    NOOKS AND CORNERS OF OLD ENGLAND.  5s. net.
    THE REAL CAPTAIN CLEVELAND.        Demy 8vo. 8s. 6d. net.

  FLECKER, J. E.
    COLLECTED POEMS. Including THE GOLDEN JOURNEY TO SAMARKAND.
        Demy 8vo. 7s. 6d. net.

  FRANCIS, RENÉ
    EGYPTIAN ÆSTHETICS. Wide Demy 8vo. 7s. 6d. net.

  GRETTON, R. H.
    HISTORY (The Art and Craft of Letters). F'cap 8vo. 1s. net.

  HANKIN, ST. JOHN
    THE DRAMATIC WORKS, with an Introduction by John Drinkwater.
      Small 4to. Definitive Limited Edition in Three Volumes. 25s. net.
    THE RETURN OF THE PRODIGAL. Sq. Cr. 8vo. 2s. net.
    THE CASSILIS ENGAGEMENT.    Sq. Cr. 8vo. 2s. net.
    THE CHARITY THAT BEGAN AT HOME.         25s. net.
    THE CONSTANT LOVER, ETC.    Sq. Cr. 8vo. 2s. net.

  HAUPTMANN, GERHART
    THE COMPLETE DRAMATIC WORKS. 6 vols. Crown 8vo. 5s. net per volume.

  HEWLETT, WILLIAM
    TELLING THE TRUTH.      Crown 8vo. 6s.
    UNCLE'S ADVICE: A NOVEL IN LETTERS. Cr. 8vo. 6s.
    THE CHILD AT THE WINDOW.   Crown 8vo. 6s.

  HORSNELL, HORACE
    THE BANKRUPT. Crown 8vo. 6s.

  HOWE, P. P.
    THE REPERTORY THEATRE.  Cr. 8vo. 2s. 6d. net.
    DRAMATIC PORTRAITS.     Crown 8vo. 5s. net.
    BERNARD SHAW: A CRITICAL STUDY. Demy 8vo. 7s. 6d. net.
    J.M. SYNGE: A CRITICAL STUDY. Demy 8vo. 7s. 6d. net.
    CRITICISM (The Art and Craft of Letters). F'cap 8vo. 1s. net.

  HUEFFER, FORD MADOX
    HENRY JAMES: A CRITICAL STUDY. Demy 8vo. 7s. 6d. net.
    COLLECTED POEMS. Demy 8vo. 6s. net.

  IBSEN, HENRIK
    PEER GYNT. A New Translation by R. Ellis Roberts. Wide Crown 8vo.
           5s. net.

  JACOB, HAROLD
    PERFUMES OF ARABY. Wide Demy 8vo. 7s. 6d. net.

  JAMES, HENRY
    THE TURN OF THE SCREW.
    THE LESSON OF THE MASTER.
    THE DEATH OF THE LION.
    THE ASPERN PAPERS.
    DAISY MILLER.
    THE COXON FUND.
    THE REVERBERATOR.
    THE ALTAR OF THE DEAD.
    THE BEAST IN THE JUNGLE.
    THE FIGURE IN THE CARPET.
    GLASSES.
    THE PUPIL.

    Each F'cap 8vo. 2s. 6d. net.

  JOHNSON, OWEN
    THE SALAMANDER.   Crown 8vo. 6s.
    MAKING MONEY.     Crown 8vo. 6s.

  LAMONT, L. M.
    A CORONAL: AN ANTHOLOGY. F'cap 8vo. 2s. 6d. net.

  LEWISOHN, L.
    THE MODERN DRAMA Crown 8vo. 5s. net.

  LLUELLYN, RICHARD
    THE IMPERFECT BRANCH.          Crown 8vo. 6s.

  LOW, IVY
    THE QUESTING BEAST.            Crown 8vo. 6s.

  LYNCH, BOHUN
    UNOFFICIAL.                    Crown 8vo. 6s.
    L.S.D.                         Crown 8vo. 6s.

  McFEE, WILLIAM
    CASUALS OF THE SEA.            Crown 8vo. 6s.

  MACHEN, ARTHUR
    HIEROGLYPHICS              F'cap 8vo. 2s. 6d. net.

  MACKENZIE, COMPTON
    THE PASSIONATE ELOPMENT. Cr. 8vo. 6s. and 2s. net.
    CARNIVAL.      Crown 8vo. 6s. and 2s. net.
    SINISTER STREET. Volume I.   Crown 8vo. 6s.
    SINISTER STREET. Volume II.  Crown 8vo. 6s.
    GUY AND PAULINE.             Crown 8vo. 6s.
    KENSINGTON RHYMES.         Crown 4to. 5s. net.

  MAKOWER, S.V.
    THE OUTWARD APPEARANCE.   Crown 8vo. 6s.

  MAVROGORDATO, JOHN
    LETTER FROM GREECE.    F'cap 8vo. 2s. net.
    CASSANDRA IN TROY.     Small 4to. 5s. net.

  MELVILLE, LEWIS
    SOME ECCENTRICS AND A WOMAN. Demy 8vo. 10s. 6d. net.

  METHLEY, VIOLET
    CAMILLE DESMOULINS: A Biography. Dy. 8vo. 15s. net.

  MEYNELL, VIOLA
    LOT BARROW.    Crown 8vo. 6s.
    MODERN LOVERS. Crown 8vo. 6s.
    COLUMBINE.     Crown 8vo. 6s.
    NARCISSUS.     Crown 8vo. 6s.

  MURRY, J. MIDDLETON
    DOSTOEVSKY: A CRITICAL STUDY. Dy. 8vo. 7s. 6d. net.

  NORTH, LAURENCE
    IMPATIENT GRISELDA.             Crown 8vo. 6s.
    THE GOLIGHTLYS: FATHER AND SON. Cr. 8vo. 6s.

  ONIONS, OLIVER
    WIDDERSHINS.                     Crown 8vo. 6s.
    IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE EVIDENCE. Cr. 8vo. 6s.
    THE DEBIT ACCOUNT.               Crown 8vo. 6s.
    THE STORY OF LOUIE.              Crown 8vo. 6s.

  PAIN, BARRY
    ONE KIND AND ANOTHER.           Crown 8vo. 6s.
    COLLECTED TALES: Volume I.      Medium 8vo. 6s.
    COLLECTED TALES: Volume II.     Medium 8vo. 6s.
    THE SHORT STORY (The Art and Craft of Letters). F'cap 8vo.
           1s. net.

  PALMER, JOHN
    PETER PARAGON.        Crown 8vo. 6s.
    THE KING'S MEN.       Crown 8vo. 6s.
    COMEDY (The Art and Craft of Letters). F'cap 8vo. 1s. net.

  PERUGINI, MARK E.
    THE ART OF BALLET.  Demy 8vo. 12s. 6d. net.

  PHILIPS, AUSTIN
    BATTLES OF LIFE. Crown 8vo. 6s.

  PRESTON, ANNA
    THE RECORD OF A SILENT LIFE.  Crown 8vo. 6s.

  REID, FORREST
    YEATS: A CRITICAL STUDY. Dy. 8vo. 7s. 6d. net.

  ROBERTS, R. ELLIS
    IBSEN: A CRITICAL STUDY.      Dy. 8vo. 7s. 6d. net.
    TOLSTOI: A CRITICAL STUDY.    Dy. 8vo. 7s. 6d. net.
    PEER GYNT: A NEW TRANSLATION. Cr. 8vo. 5s. net.

  SABATINI, RAFAEL
    THE SEA-HAWK.              Crown 8vo. 6s.
    THE BANNER OF THE BULL.    Crown 8vo. 6s.

  SAND, MAURICE
    THE HISTORY OF THE HARLEQUINADE. Two Volumes. Med. 8vo. 25s.
           net the set.

  SCOTT-JAMES, R. A.
    PERSONALITY IN LITERATURE. Demy 8vo. 7s. 6d. net.

  SIDGWICK, FRANK
    THE BALLAD (The Art and Craft of Letters). F'cap 8vo. 1s. net.

  SOLOGUB, FEODOR
    THE OLD HOUSE.          Crown 8vo. 6s.
    THE LITTLE DEMON.       Crown 8vo. 6s.
    THE CREATED LEGEND.     Crown 8vo. 6s.

  STONE, CHRISTOPHER
    THE BURNT HOUSE.        Crown 8vo. 6s.
    PARODY (The Art and Craft of Letters). F'cap 8vo. 1s. net.

  STRAUS, RALPH
    CARRIAGES AND COACHES.   Med. 8vo. 18s. net.

  STREET, G. S.
    PEOPLE AND QUESTIONS.  Wide Cr. 8vo. 5s. net.

  SWINNERTON, FRANK
    GISSING: A CRITICAL STUDY.   Dy. 8vo. 7s. 6d. net.
    STEVENSON: A CRITICAL STUDY. Dy. 8vo. 7s. 6d. net.

  TAYLOR, G. R. STIRLING
    MARY WOLLSTONECRAFT.   Demy 8vo. 7s. 6d. net.
    THE PSYCHOLOGY OF THE GREAT WAR. 2s. 6d. net.

  TAYLOR, UNA
    MAETERLINCK: A CRITICAL STUDY. Dy. 8vo. 7s. 6d. net.

  THOMAS, EDWARD
    FEMININE INFLUENCE ON THE POETS. Demy 8vo. 10s. 6d. net.
    SWINBURNE: A CRITICAL STUDY.     Dy. 8vo. 7s. 6d. net.
    PATER: A CRITICAL STUDY.         Dy. 8vo. 7s. 6d. net.
    THE TENTH MUSE.                  F'cap 8vo. 2s. 6d. net.

  VAUGHAN, H. M.
    MELEAGER.                    Crown 8vo. 6s.
    AN AUSTRALASIAN WANDER-YEAR. Dy. 8vo. 10s. 6d. net.

  WALPOLE, HUGH
    FORTITUDE.                Crown 8vo. 6s.
    THE DUCHESS OF WREXE.     Crown 8vo. 6s.

  WEST, JULIUS
    CHESTERTON: A CRITICAL STUDY. Dy. 8vo. 7s. 6d. net.

  WILLIAMS, ORLO
    VIE DE BOHÈME.                              Demy 8vo. 15s. net.
    MEREDITH: A CRITICAL STUDY.                 Dy. 8vo. 7s. 6d. net.
    THE ESSAY (The Art and Craft of Letters). F'cap 8vo. 1s. net.

  YOUNG, FILSON
    NEW LEAVES.                              Wide Crown 8vo. 5s. net.
    A CHRISTMAS CARD.                             Demy 16mo. 1s. net.       Crown 8vo. 6s.
    THE DARK TOWER. Crown 8vo. 6s.
    THE IRON AGE.   Crown 8vo. 6s.

  YOUNG, F. & E. BRETT
    UNDERGROWTH.               Crown 8vo. 6s.
    BRIDGES: A CRITICAL STUDY. Dy. 8vo. 7s. 6d. net.

PART TWO: CLASSIFIED

INDEX OF TITLES

General Literature

    ART OF BALLET, THE. By Mark E. Perugini.
    ART OF SILHOUETTE, THE. By Desmond Coke.
    BATTLE OF THE BOYNE, THE. By D. C. Boulger.
    BEHIND THE RANGES. By F. G. Aflalo.
    BIRDS IN THE CALENDAR. By F. G. Aflalo.
    CAMILLE DESMOULINS. By Violet Methley.
    CARRIAGES AND COACHES. By Ralph Straus.
    CHRISTMAS CARD, A. By Filson Young.
    CUMBERLAND LETTERS, THE. By Clementina Black.
    DRAMATIC PORTRAITS. By P. P. Howe.
    FEMININE INFLUENCE ON THE POETS. By E. Thomas.
    GRAHAME OF CLAVERHOUSE. By Michael Barrington.
    HIEROGLYPHICS. By Arthur Machen.
    HISTORY OF THE HARLEQUINADE, THE.  By M. Sand.
    LEADERS OF THE PEOPLE. By Joseph Clayton.
    LETTERS FROM GREECE. By John Mavrogordato.
    LINLEYS OF BATH, THE. By Clementina Black.
    MAHOMET. By G. M. Draycott.
    MARY WOLLSTONECRAFT. By G. R. Stirling Taylor.
    NEW LEAVES. By Filson Young.
    PEOPLE AND QUESTIONS. By G. S. Street.
    PERSONALITY IN LITERATURE. By R. A. Scott-James.
    PSYCHOLOGY OF THE GREAT WAR. By Stirling Taylor.
    REAL CAPTAIN CLEVELAND, THE. By Allan Fea.
    REGILDING THE CRESCENT. By F. G. Aflalo.
    ROBERT KETT. By Joseph Clayton.
    SOCIAL HISTORY OF SMOKING, THE. By G. L. Apperson.
    SOME ECCENTRICS AND A WOMAN. By Lewis Melville.
    SPECULATIVE DIALOGUES. By Lascelles Abercrombie.
    STUPOR MUNDI. By Lionel Allsborn.
    TENTH MUSE, THE. By Edward Thomas.
    THOSE UNITED STATES. By Arnold Bennett.
    VIE DE BOHÈME. By Orlo Williams.
    WILDE MYTH, THE. By Lord Alfred Douglas.
    WINDMILLS. By Gilbert Cannan.

Verse

    COLLECTED POEMS OF J. E. FLECKER.
    COLLECTED POEMS OF F. M. HUEFFER.
    CARMINA VARIA. By C. Kennett Burrow.
    CORONAL, A. A New Anthology. By L. M. Lamont.
    GOLDEN JOURNEY TO SAMARKAND, THE. By J. E. Flecker.
        (See Collected Poems.)
    KENSINGTON RHYMES. By Compton Mackenzie.

Drama

    DRAMATIC WORKS OF ST. JOHN HANKIN.   3 vols.
    DRAMATIC WORKS OF GERHART HAUPTMANN. 6 vols.
    CASSANDRA IN TROY. By John Mavrogordato.
    MAGIC. By G. K. Chesterton.
    MODERN DRAMA, THE. By L. Lewisohn.
    PEER GYNT. Translated by R. Ellis Roberts.
    REPERTORY THEATRE, THE. By P. P. Howe.
    THOMPSON. By St. John Hankin and G. Calderon.

Travel

    AUSTRALASIAN WANDER YEAR, AN. By H. M. Vaughan.
    EGYPTIAN ÆSTHETICS. By René Francis.
    FOUNTAINS IN THE SAND. By Norman Douglas.
    NOOKS AND CORNERS OF OLD ENGLAND. By Allan Fea.
    OLD CALABRIA. By Norman Douglas.
    OLD ENGLISH HOUSES. By Allan Fea.
    PERFUMES OF ARABY. By Harold Jacob.

Martin Secker's Series of Critical Studies

    ROBERT BRIDGES. By F. E. Brett Young.
    SAMUEL BUTLER. By Gilbert Cannan.
    G. K. CHESTERTON. By Julius West.
    FEODOR DOSTOEVSKY. By J. Middleton Murry.
    GEORGE GISSING. By Frank Swinnerton.
    THOMAS HARDY. By Lascelles Abercrombie.
    HENRIK IBSEN. By R. Ellis Roberts.
    HENRY JAMES. By Ford Madox Hueffer.
    RUDYARD KIPLING. By Cyril Falls.
    MAURICE MAETERLINCK. By Una Taylor.
    GEORGE MEREDITH. By Orlo Williams.
    WILLIAM MORRIS. By John Drinkwater.
    WALTER PATER. By Edward Thomas.
    D. G. ROSSETTI. By John Drinkwater.
    BERNARD SHAW. By P. P. Howe.
    R. L. STEVENSON. By Frank Swinnerton.
    A. C. SWINBURNE. By Edward Thomas.
    J. M. SYNGE. By P. P. Howe.
    LEO TOLSTOI. By R. Ellis Roberts.
    WALT WHITMAN. By Basil de Selincourt.
    W. B. YEATS. By Forrest Reid.

The Art and Craft of Letters

    BALLAD, THE. By Frank Sidgwick.
    COMEDY. By John Palmer.
    CRITICISM. By P. P. Howe.
    EPIC, THE. By Lascelles Abercrombie.
    ESSAY, THE. By Orlo Williams.
    HISTORY. By R. H. Gretton.
    LYRIC, THE. By John Drinkwater.
    PARODY. By Christopher Stone.
    PUNCTUATION. By Filson Young.
    SATIRE. By Gilbert Cannan.
    SHORT STORY, THE. By Barry Pain.

Fiction

    ALTAR OF THE DEAD, THE. By Henry James.
    ASPERN PAPERS, THE. By Henry James.
    BANKRUPT, THE. By Horace Horsnell.
    BANNER OF THE BULL, THE. By Rafael Sabatini.
    BATTLES OF LIFE. By Austin Philips.
    BEAST IN THE JUNGLE, THE. By Henry James.
    BREAKING-POINT. By Michael Artzibashef.
    BURNT HOUSE, THE. By Christopher Stone.
    CARNIVAL. By Compton Mackenzie.
    CASUALS OF THE SEA. By William McFee.
    COLLECTED TALES: Vol. I. By Barry Pain.
    COLLECTED TALES: Vol. II. By Barry Pain.
    COLUMBINE. By Viola Meynell.
    COMMON CHORD, THE. By Phyllis Bottome.
    COXON FUND, THE. By Henry James.
    CREATED LEGEND, THE. By Feodor Sologub.
    DAISY MILLER. By Henry James.
    DARK TOWER, THE. By E. Brett Young.
    DEATH OF THE LION, THE. By Henry James.
    DEBIT ACCOUNT, THE. By Oliver Onions.
    DEEP SEA. By F. Brett Young.
    DUCHESS OF WREXE, THE. By Hugh Walpole.
    FIGURE IN THE CARPET, THE. By Henry James.
    FOOL'S TRAGEDY, THE. By A. Scott Craven.
    FORTITUDE. By Hugh Walpole.
    GLASSES. By Henry James.
    GOLIGHTLYS, THE. By Laurence North.
    GUY AND PAULINE. By Compton Mackenzie.
    IMPATIENT GRISELDA. By Laurence North.
    IMPERFECT BRANCH, THE. By Richard Lluellyn.
    IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE EVIDENCE. By O. Onions.
    IRON AGE, THE. By F. Brett Young.
    KING'S MEN, THE. By John Palmer.
    L.S.D. By Bohun Lynch.
    LESSON OF THE MASTER, THE. By Henry James.
    LITTLE DEMON, THE. By Feodor Sologub.
    LOT BARROW. By Viola Meynell.
    MARRIAGE OF QUIXOTE, THE. By Donald Armstrong.
    MAKING MONEY. By Owen Johnson.
    MELEAGER. By H. M. Vaughan.
    MILLIONAIRE, THE. By Michael Artzibashef.
    MODERN LOVERS. By Viola Meynell.
    NARCISSUS. By Viola Meynell.
    OLD MOLE. By Gilbert Cannan.
    OLD HOUSE, THE. By Feodor Sologub.
    ONE KIND AND ANOTHER. By Barry Pain.
    OUTWARD APPEARANCE, THE. By Stanley V. Makower.
    PASSIONATE ELOPEMENT, THE. By Compton Mackenzie.
    PETER PARAGON. By John Palmer.
    PUPIL, THE. By Henry James.
    QUESTING BEAST, THE. By Ivy Low.
    RECORD OF A SILENT LIFE, THE. By Anna Preston.
    REVERBERATOR, THE. By Henry James.
    ROUND THE CORNER. By Gilbert Cannan.
    SALAMANDER, THE. By Owen Johnson.
    SANINE. By Michael Artzibashef.
    SEA HAWK, THE. By Rafael Sabatini.
    SECURITY. By Ivor Brown.
    SINISTER STREET. I. By Compton Mackenzie.
    SINISTER STREET. II. By Compton Mackenzie.
    STORY OF LOUIE, THE. By Oliver Onions.
    TALES OF THE REVOLUTION. By M. Artzibashef.
    TELLING THE TRUTH. By William Hewlett.
    TRUE DIMENSION, THE. By Warrington Dawson.
    TURN OF THE SCREW, THE. By Henry James.
    UNCLE'S ADVICE. By William Hewlett.
    UNDERGROWTH. By F. & E. Brett Young.
    UNDERMAN, THE. By Joseph Clayton.
    UNOFFICIAL. By Bohun Lynch.
    WIDDERSHINS. By Oliver Onions.
    YEARS OF PLENTY. By Ivor Brown.
    YOUNG EARNEST. By Gilbert Cannan.

          BALLANTYNE PRESS: LONDON AND EDINBURGH

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 150, a period was changed to a comma. (as regards the amateur,)

