That he was a man whose life was one of meritorious achievement, every one knows. That he was
a diligent and successful working geologist, scarcely needs saying. That with indomitable perseverance
he struggled up from obscurity to a place in the world of literature and science, shows him
to have been highly endowed in character and intelligence. And that he had a remarkable power
of presenting his facts and arguments in an attractive form, a glance at any of his books will
quickly prove. By all means, let us respect him as a man of activity and sagacity, joined with
a large amount of poetry. But while saying this we must add, that his reputation stands by
no means so high in the scientific world as in the world at large. Partly from the fact that
our Scotch neighbours are in the habit of blowing the trumpet rather loudly before their notabilities--partly
because the charming style in which his books are written has gained him a large circle of
readers--partly, perhaps, through a praiseworthy sympathy with him as a self-made man; Hugh
Miller has met with an amount of applause which, little as we wish to diminish it, must not
be allowed to blind the public to his defects as a man of science. The truth is, he was so
far committed to a foregone conclusion, that he could not become a philosophical geologist.
He might be aptly described as a theologian studying geology. The dominant idea with which
he wrote, may be seen in the titles of two of his books--Footprints of the Creator,--The Testimony
of the Rocks. Regarding geological facts as evidence for or against certain religious conclusions,
it was scarcely possible for him to deal with geological facts impartially. His ruling aim
was to disprove the Development Hypothesis, the assumed implications of which were repugnant
to him; and in proportion to the strength of his feeling, was the one-sidedness of his reasoning.
He admitted that "God might as certainly have originated the species by a law of development,
as he maintains it by a law of development;--the existence of a First Great Cause is as perfectly
compatible with the one scheme as with the other." Nevertheless, he considered the hypothesis
at variance with Christianity; and therefore combated with it. He apparently overlooked the
fact, that the doctrines of geology in general, as held by himself, had been rejected by many
on similar grounds; and that he had himself been repeatedly attacked for his anti-Christian
teachings. He seems not to have perceived that, just as his antagonists were wrong in condemning
as irreligious, theories which he saw were not irreligious; so might he be wrong in condemning,
on like grounds, the Theory of Evolution. In brief, he fell short of that highest faith which
knows that all truths must harmonize; and which is, therefore, content trustfully to follow
the evidence whithersoever it leads.

Of course it is impossible to criticize his works without entering on this great question to
which he chiefly devoted himself. The two remaining doctrines to be here discussed, bear directly
on this question; and, as above said, we propose to treat them in connexion with Hugh Miller's
name, because, throughout his reasonings, he assumes their truth. Let it not be supposed, however,
that we shall aim to prove what he has aimed to disprove. While we purpose showing that his
geological arguments against the Development Hypothesis are based on invalid assumptions; we
do not purpose showing that the geological arguments urged in support of it are based on valid
assumptions. We hope to make it apparent that the geological evidence at present obtained,
is insufficient for either side; further, that there seems little probability that sufficient
evidence will ever be obtained; and that if the question is eventually decided, it must be
decided on other than geological grounds.

