Thus as the thickness of the film is altered different colors preponderate, causing the appearance
of rings or bands, according to the nature of the experiment. The dark appearance on the screen
corresponding to the thinnest part of the film is probably due to refraction of the ray of
light reflected from the second surface, consequent in its passing from a rare into a denser
medium, and again from the denser medium into the rare, which refraction Lord Rayleigh considers
to effect a retardation equivalent to half a wave length. Lord Rayleigh supported this theory
of the formation of Newton's rings by several interesting experiments. A beam of light was
intercepted by two of Nicol's prisms, one of which acted as a polarizer and the other as an
analyzer of the light, so that no light was able to pass through both on to the screen. Between
the two prisms a double refractive lens was now placed, in this case a double concave lens
of selenite, when the same series of concentric rings observed with the film of air was obtained
on the screen, only much more intense, while a wedge of selenite gave the bands of color in
the same order as with the soap bubble.

But perhaps the most striking proof of the dependence of the colors upon the thickness of the
film was shown by the reflection of a beam of light from a piece of mica composed of twenty-four
very attenuated plates overlapping each other. With each layer a marked gradation in color
was visible.

The remainder of the lecture was devoted to an explanation of the determination of the chromatic
relations of the colors of the spectrum. Lord Rayleigh at this point made a rather startling
statement that any color can be produced by two other colors. As an example of such a formation,
a ray of white light was passed separately through a solution of yellow chromate of potash
and an alkaline litmus solution, throwing respectively a yellow and violet-blue color upon
the screen. When the ray was made to pass through the two solutions successively, an orange-yellow
color was obtained upon the screen, which color Lord Rayleigh asserted to be made up of red
and green rays. To prove this, the ray of white light was decomposed by means of a prism, and
the decomposed rays passed through the two solutions. The one solution was found to exclude
all the yellow and orange rays from the spectrum, while the other excluded all the blue and
violet rays, so that when the ray had passed through both solutions, only the red and green
rays were left. If, instead of allowing the decomposed ray of light to pass through a slit,
and thus obtain definite bands in the spectrum, the ray was passed through a circular hole,
the red and green colors overlapped each other on the screen, forming by their combination
the identical orange-yellow color obtained with the primary white light. It was then stated
that if three definite positions be taken in a spectrum in the red, green, and violet bands
respectively, and these positions be represented by the corners of an equilateral triangle
(Clerk Maxwell's triangle), it has been mathematically determined in what position within this
triangle the colors of Newton's rings would fall. Lord Rayleigh, by means of a diagram and
the selenite wedge, showed that the relations to the three standard colors in practice were
identical with the position assigned them by theory.

In conclusion, the lecturer showed a piece of glass, the surface of which had been decomposed,
a ray of light transmitted through which showed upon the screen patches of very pure color.
These he considered to be due to the glass consisting of a number of thin plates, some of which
had been removed by the decomposition.

       *       *       *       *       *

BELT JOINTS.

