"Another case is that of a young girl who was brought to the meeting by her mother. She is
so impressed herself, that her great concern is for others with whom she has been associated,
to induce them to attend, the language of her heart being, 'Come with us, and we will do thee
good, for the Lord has spoken good concerning Israel.'

"There is a great outpouring of the Spirit in our midst; we have unmistakable evidence of it.
We have but to 'open our mouths wide that we may be filled with it.' All are ready to hear
and learn, and we are in every way encouraged to labor on with our whole hearts, knowing that
if we are strong, and of good courage, God will not fail in the performance of His promises.

"Our sewing-school is also improving; the children in good behavior; the mothers are asking,
in many cases, for Bibles, while the Sunday-school is filling up so fast, we cannot get a sufficient
number of teachers.

"There are many cases of sickness in my district, and a great deal of distress, occasioned
by want of work.

"I made about one hundred and sixty visits during the month, and sold but one Bible."

                   *     *     *     *     *     *

Her gratitude, when any kind-hearted friend like the above gave of their substance, to carry
on the Lord's work, was unbounded. Also, when those among whom she labored for years were brought
to confess Christ, by testifying at the meetings.

Her practical piety is continually manifested, not only by her strenuous exertions to save
souls, but in the recognition of Divine power in the execution. She says, "The change is remarkable.
It appears clear to my mind that nothing but Divine power could have effected it."

The doctrine of the personality of the Holy Spirit is here brought to our view, strongly reminding
us that it is not by might, nor by power, but by my spirit, saith the Lord of hosts.

CHAPTER XXVII.

DRAWN BY THE CORDS OF LOVE.

    Blest Saviour, slain for me,
    In grateful love to Thee
      The cross I bear;
    Thou didst for me endure,
    My pardon to insure,
    And thus for me secure
      A Crown to wear.

"One poor woman," she writes, "asked me to call and see her, as she wished to tell me her troubles.
She said she was afraid to believe that God loved her. I have seldom seen any one in such ecstacy
as she, when she was told that God loves her with an everlasting love, and that she need not
be afraid to trust Him, as the more she rejoices in Him, the more she would glorify Him."

The earnest desire of Paul for the Church at Colosse was: "That their hearts might be comforted,
being knit together in love, and unto all riches of the full assurance of understanding, to
the acknowledgment of the mystery of God, and of the Father, and of Christ; in whom are hid
all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge."

                   *     *     *     *     *     *

GRATEFUL OFFERING OF A SAVED SOUL.

She writes again thus: "One woman, to whom I took a Bible, said to me, 'If it had not been
for you I should have died in ignorance.' Although she is poor, two Sabbaths since when a collection
was taken, she put down her name for two dollars. She says, 'she can never thank the Lord enough
for bringing her out of darkness into light.'

"I visit a woman who endures great agony from cancer. She lives alone, in a tenement house,
poor and friendless, having been driven from her home by her relatives because she has become
a Protestant. But she has a firm trust in God, and it is indeed wonderful to see how she is
supported amid terrible sufferings. She cannot read, having never learned, but says, 'I thank
God that He sends His servants to read the Bible to such as I.'"

                   *     *     *     *     *     *

What a picture of all that is conceivable of human suffering. Alone, poor, persecuted, yet
thankful and trustful. Oh! How amazing is God's grace.

    Oh, yes, to the uttermost Jesus is able
      To save the poor sinner who cometh to Him;
    His word is most sure, and His promise is stable:
      Though feeble thy trust and thy faith very dim,
    Yet listen again to the soul-cheering sound,
    Our Jesus can save to the uttermost bound.

    Did I hear some one say, "But what of to-morrow,
      For my foes are so strong, and I'm sinful indeed?"
    He is able to save to the end of the journey--
      To the uttermost bound of thy uttermost need.
    That same Jesus who died for us now ever lives,
    And as mightily saves as He freely forgives.

                   *     *     *     *     *     *

WORK AMONG THE JEWS.

"Though laboring to bring souls to Christ, of any nation, my chief interest and work is among
the Jews.

"I called upon a family of very religious Jews. I talked with them of Christ as the true Messiah
and of His sacrifice for our sins. I saw that they had the Old and New Testament, given them
by a Christian lady. They said they often read it together, and I could not but think that
the good seed was sown in their hearts.

"I am often discouraged by the opposition of one member of a family. A child who goes to Sunday-school
is kept away by an unbelieving father, just as the truth has found a lodgement in her heart;
but, again, my heart is filled with joy when I find that my labor has not been in vain. Such
was the case in a family where I have prayed, and conversed often about their souls' salvation.
The mother, a Jewess by birth, had changed her Jewish religion some time ago. But her heart
remained untouched. I endeavored to make her understand what a change of heart is, and persuaded
her to go with me to a German church. Some weeks after the father spoke of his faith in Christ,
and a week since his wife also gave evidence of being a Christian woman. During the month of
March I visited a poor woman who had had great sorrows. She asked me for a Bible, for which
she was most thankful. Her husband, a Catholic, now reads it with her, and shows by his greater
kindness to her its blessed effect. What a blessing, indeed, is this holy book in these poor
homes?"

                   *     *     *     *     *     *

ANOTHER YOUNG JEWESS BROUGHT TO CHRIST.

"A young Jewess, who had found and believed in Jesus as her Saviour, wanted to unite with a
Christian church, but her aged mother would not allow it. I encouraged her to pray for her
mother, and one day calling to see her, I found she had now no objection to her daughter doing
as she wished. I have had many conversations with Jews, and have often been allowed to read
the Bible to them."

                   *     *     *     *     *     *

It is certainly very encouraging to read how intensely interested she was in the conversion
of the Hebrew people. We cannot wonder at this when we consider that they were the chosen people
of God; and also to those who are in the habit of prayerfully consulting their Bibles, especially
the prophecies pertaining to the Messiah, as they behold them literally fulfilled, not only
as to the time and place of His birth, but His person, life, miracles, death, resurrection,
and ascension of the Lord Jesus Christ.

"He surely came unto His own and His own received Him not, but to as many as received Him them
gave He power to become the Sons of God, even to those who believed in His name."

CHAPTER XXVIII.

LOVE FOR THE HEBREWS.

    A weeping sinner kneels,
      The chains of death are broken,
    And soon his glad heart feels
      The Saviour's welcome spoken.

Christ said, "Woe unto you, Scribes and Pharisees." She seemed to hate everything that looked
like spiritual pride, or idolatry, or worldliness. Hence her sternness and courage in watching
for sin in herself or others was marked.

She felt also that God was no respecter of persons, and her great ambition on this account
was to try and save the Hebrew people from their vain delusions that they were still the chosen
people of God, notwithstanding their rejection of the Messiah.

This is evident from the following conversation with a Jewish woman about God's Word.

"Visiting another Jewish woman, she asked me to sit down, and soon we were in earnest conversation
about the Bible, and her soul's salvation. After hearing me read some passages, she said, 'We
Jews must all be wrong if you are right.' I told her it was not my word, but the Word of God.
I begged her to search the Scriptures for herself, and left with her a tract relating to Christ,
written by a Jew. She asked to have a Bible, which I carried to her. Again we conversed on
this great subject. She liked the tract, and had lent it to several of her friends. She said
she would read the Bible with prayer, and if she was wrong, the Lord would open her eyes. During
these four months I have made over one thousand visits, distributed many tracts and given away
eight Bibles, besides taking several children to the Sunday-school, and using the Mission funds
in assisting the poor.

"There has been a great deal of sickness this summer, especially among the children. But I
have been enabled to do some good by taking these little ones and their mothers into the country.
Among them were several Roman Catholic families. They expressed surprise that we should do
so much for them, saying, 'It was more than their own people would do for them.' In visiting
one of these women soon after, she said her husband had told her she had better take my advice
and read the Bible. He said she had better have one, for it could do her no harm. I took her
the Gospel of Matthew, which she has been reading attentively, and her children learning verses
by heart. She gave me fifty cents, asking if that would be enough to buy a Bible.

"To several Catholic families I have lent Bibles, and they now wish to purchase them, paying
for them in small sums, as they are able. One man, who has led a very wicked life and abused
his family, is now so changed that when he comes home he asks his children to read to him.
He does not go to church, but says he does not know why his people are not allowed to read
the Bible.

"A poor woman to whom I gave a Bible handed me one dollar, saying she wished she was able to
give more, as it had been such a blessing to her in her sickness and poverty. I have been much
encouraged by the gratitude expressed for my reading the Scriptures in some families. A Catholic
woman was in great distress for her husband. She begged me to pray for him, and calling her
five children about her, we knelt in prayer.

"I have a mothers' meeting at my house, at which several women have desired prayers for their
husbands. Visiting in a house where were some Jewish families, I asked if they would allow
me to pray with them. They said they would not dare to kneel, but would stand and listen. On
my leaving them, they shook my hand, with tears in their eyes, and said they liked to hear
my prayer. Another Jewess said she would be sorry if she thought we would not meet in heaven.
I begged her to pray God to show her the true way, and read to her in Isaiah the prophecies
concerning the Messiah. She, too, promised to think, and pray for light.

"I have good hopes of several intemperate persons. They have abstained from drinking for several
weeks, one has joined the Temperance Society, and another has promised to drink no more. They
asked for a Bible, which I took to them. We have opened our Sewing-school again, and have the
hope of accomplishing much good this winter among the children."

                   *     *     *     *     *     *

GLADNESS IN COMING TO THE HOUSE OF GOD.

