Amongst the measures adopted for the extirpation of banditti, was the establishment of the
guardias civiles, a species of gendarmerie, dressed upon the French model, and who, from their
stations in towns, patrol the roads and wander about the country in the same prying and important
style observable amongst their brethren of the cocked hat north of the Pyrenees. Spaniards
have a sneaking regard for bold robbers, whom they look upon as half-brothers of the contrabandist--that
popular hero of the Peninsula: they have also an innate dislike of policemen, and a still stronger
one for every thing French. They have bestowed upon the Frenchified guardias the appellations
of polizones,--a word borrowed from their neighbours,--and of hijos de Luis Felipe, sons of
Louis Philippe. "Spaniards," saith Richard Ford, "are full of dry humour;" he might have added,
and of sharp wit. Nothing escapes them: they are ever ready with a sarcasm on public men and
passing events, and when offended, especially when their pride is hurt, they become savage
in their satire. When it was attempted to force Count Trapani upon Spain as a husband for the
Queen, the indignation of the people burst out in innumerable jokes and current allusions,
any thing but flattering to the Neapolitan prince. Every thing filthy and disgusting received
his name. In the Madrid coffee-houses, when a dirty table was to be wiped, the cry was invariably
for a Trapani, instead of a trapo, the Spanish word for a dishclout or rag used for the most
unclean purposes. Since then, the Duke of Montpensier has come in for his share of insulting
jests. The Madrileños got all unfounded notion that he was short-sighted, and made the most
of it. Mr. Hughes was at a bull-fight where one of the bulls showed the white feather, and
ran from the picador. "The crowd instantly exclaimed, 'Fuera el toro Monpenseer! Fuera Monpenseer!
Turn him out!' They used to call every lame dog and donkey a Trapani; and now every blind animal
is sure to be christened a Monpenseer."

If the danger to which peaceable travellers are exposed, in Spain, from the knives of robbers,
be considerably less than is generally believed, great peril is often incurred at the hands
of men who wield cutting weapons professedly for the good of their species. The ignorance and
inefficiency of Spanish surgeons and physicians is notorious, and admitted even by their countrymen,
who, it has already been shown, are not prone to expose the nakedness of the land. "The base,
bloody, and brutal Sangrados of Spain," says Mr. Ford, "have long been the butts of foreign
and domestic novelists, who spoke many a true word in their jests." The eagerness with which
Spaniards have recourse to French and English medical men whom chance throws in their way,
proves how low they estimate the skill and science of their professional countrymen. Many a
naval surgeon whose ship has been stationed on the Spanish coast, could tell strange tales
of the fatal ignorance he has had opportunity to observe amongst the native faculty. It will
be remembered how Zumalacarregui, whose wound would have offered little difficulty to an English
village practitioner, was hurried out of the world by the butchering manoeuvres of his conclave
of Spanish quacks and medicos, terms too often synonymous. And it may be remarked, that in
Spain, where there has been so much fighting during the last fifteen years, amputated persons
are more rarely met with than in countries that have enjoyed comparative peace during the same
period. The natural inference is, that the unlucky soldier whose leg or arm has been shattered
by the enemy's fire, usually dies under the hands of unskilful operators. "All Spaniards,"
Mr. Ford remarks, "are very dangerous with the knife, and more particularly if surgeons. At
no period were Spaniards careful even of their own lives, and much less of those of others,
being a people of untender bowels." If the Peninsula surgeon is reckless and destructive with
his steel, the physician, on the other hand, is usually overcautious with his drugs. Almond-milk
and vegetable decoctions, impotent to cure or aggravate disease, are prominent remedies in
the Spanish pharmacopoeia; minerals are looked upon with awe, and the timid tisane practice
of the French school is exaggerated to absurdity. Upon the principle of keeping edged tools
out of the hands of children, it is perhaps just as well that Spanish doctors do not venture
to meddle with the strong drugs commonly used in England. Left to nature, with whose operation
asses'-milk and herb-broth can in few cases interfere, the invalid has at least a chance of cure.

Unassailed by either variety of Spanish bloodletters, the doctor or the bandit, Mr. Hughes
pursued, in high spirits and great good humour, his long and leisurely journey from Irun to
Lisbon, via Madrid. We left him at Paris, strolling in the passages, dining with his friends
of the Charivari, frequenting the foyer de l'opera, leading, in short, rather a gay life for
a man in such delicate health; we take him up again upon his own favourite battle-ground of
the Peninsula, where we like him far better than in the French metropolis. At Burgos he is
in great feather, winning hearts by the dozen, frightening the garrison by sketching the fortress,
waging a victorious warfare of words at the table-d'hôte, and playing pranks which will doubtless
cause him to be long remembered in the ancient capital of Castile. There the maid of the inn,
a certain black-eyed Francisca, fell desperately in love with him, and so far forgot maidenly
reserve as to confess her flame. "She had large and expressive eyes," says the fortunate man,
"and had tried their power on me repeatedly, and the like, I am bound to say, (in narrating
this truthful history,) did sundry Burgalese dames and damsels of more pretensions and loftier
state." These were far from being the sole triumphs achieved at Burgos by this lover of truth,
and loved-one of the ladies. He managed to excite the suspicions of the whole population, especially
of the police, who set spies to dog him. He was taken for a political agent, a propagandist,
and at last for a diplomatist of the first water, and secretary of legation at Madrid. The
origin of these suspicions was traceable to his disregard of a ridiculous and barbarous prejudice,
a relic of orientalism worthy of the Sandwich islanders, still in force amongst Spaniards.
"Nothing throughout the length and breadth of the land"--we quote from Mr. Ford--"creates greater
suspicion or jealousy than a stranger's making drawings, or writing down notes in a book; whoever
is observed 'taking plans,' or 'mapping the country,'--for such are the expressions of the
simplest pencil sketches,--is thought to be an engineer, a spy, or, at all events, to be about
no good." Mr. Hughes was caught taking notes; forthwith Burgos was up in arms, whilst he, on
discovering the sensation made by his sketch-book, and by his free expression of political
opinions, did his utmost to increase the mysterious interest attached to him. He galloped about
the castle, book and pencil in hand, making imaginary sketches of bastions and ravelins; he
talked liberalism by the bushel, and raved against the Montpensior alliance. The results of
the triumphant logic with which he electrified a brigadier-general, a colonel, and the whole
company at his hotel, are recorded by him in a note. It will be seen that they were not unimportant.
"I have the satisfaction to state that the words which I said that day bore good fruit subsequently,
for the Ayuntamiento of Burgos declined to vote any taxation for extraordinary expenses to
commemorate the Duke of Montpensier's marriage." A dangerous man is the overland traveller
to Lisbon, and we are no way surprised that, at Madrid, Señor Chico, chief of police, vouchsafed
him his special attention, and even called upon him to inquire whether he did not intend to
get up a commotion on the entrance of the Infanta's bridegroom. Mr. Bulwer also, aware that
a book was in embryo, and anxious for a patronising word in its pages, paid his court to the
author by civilities, "all of which I carefully abstained from accepting, except one formal
dinner, to which I first declined going; but, on receiving a renewal of the invitation, could
not well refrain from appearing.... I have had six years' experience of foreign diplomatists,
and know that the dinner was pressed on me a second time for the very purpose of committing
me to a particular line of observation." After this, let any one tell us that Mr. Hughes has
not fulfilled his promise of being amusing. Unfettered by obligations, he runs full tilt at
poor Mr. Bulwer, the fatal error of whose career is, he says, an excessive opinion of himself.
This fault must be especially odious to the author of the "Journey to Lisbon." The British
ambassador at Madrid, we are told, by his vanity and lack of energy, left full scope for the
active and tortuous intrigues of M. Bresson, who fairly juggled and outmanoeuvred him. "The
marriages were arranged in his absence. He was not consulted on the question, nor was its decision
submitted to him; and when the news, on the following day, reached the British legation, after
having become previously known to the metropolis, our minister was at Carabanchal! (one of
his country-houses.) Then, indeed, he became very active, and displayed much ex post facto
energy, writing a series of diplomatic notes and protests, in one of which he went the length
of saying, 'Had he known this result, he would have voted for Don Carlos instead of Queen Isabel,'--for
even the ambassador cannot lose sight of the individual,--'when he (Mr. Bulwer) was member
of Parliament!'" Did Mr. Hughes see this note or protest? Unless he did, we decline believing
that a man of Mr. Bulwer's talents and reputation would expose himself to certain ridicule
by so childish and undiplomatic a declaration. Such loose and improbable statements need confirmation.

Very graphic and interesting is Mr. Hughes' narrative of his journey from Madrid to Portugal,
especially that of the three days from Elvas to Aldea Gallega, which were passed in a jolting
springless cart, drawn by mules, and driven by Senhor Manoel Alberto, a Portuguese carrier
and cavalheiro, poor in pocket, but proud as a grandee. Manoel was a good study, an excellent
specimen of his class and country, and as such his employer exhibits him. At Arroyolos Mr.
Hughes ordered a stewed fowl for dinner, and made his charioteer sit down and partake. "I soon
had occasion to repent my politeness, for Manoel, without hesitation, plunged his fork into
the dish, and drank out of my glass; and great was his surprise when I called for another tumbler,
and, extricating as much of the fowl as I chose to consume, left him in undisturbed possession
of the remainder." His next meal Mr. Hughes thought proper to eat alone, but sent out half
his chicken to the muleteer. "He refused to touch it, saying that he had ordered a chicken
for himself! This was a falsehood, for he supped, as I afterwards ascertained, on a miserable
sopa, but his pride would not permit him to touch what was given in a way that indicated inferiority."
In his rambles through Alemtejo, a province little visited and not often described by Englishmen,
Mr. Hughes exposes some of the blunders of Friend Borrow, of Bible and gipsy celebrity, whose
singularly attractive style has procured for his writings a popularity of which their mistatements
and inaccuracies render them scarcely worthy. He refers especially to the absurd notion of
the English caloro, that the Portuguese will probably some day adopt the Spanish language;
a most preposterous idea, when we remember the shyness, not to say the antipathy, existing
between the two nations, and the immense opinion each entertains of itself and all belonging
to it. He regrets "that one who has so stirring a style should take refuge in bounce and exaggeration
from the honourable task of candid and searching observation, and prefer the fame of a Fernão
Mendez Pinto to that of an honest and truthful writer." With respect to exaggeration, Mr. Borrow
might, if so disposed, retaliate on his censor, who, whilst wandering in the olive groves of
Venda do Duque, encounters "black ants as large almost as figs, unmolested in the vivid sun-beam."
Before such monsters as these, the terrible termes fatalis of the Indies, which undermines
houses and breakfasts upon quarto volumes, must hide its diminished head. A misprint can scarcely
be supposed, unless indeed an f has been substituted for a p, which would not mend the matter.
Apropos of Mr. Borrow: it appears that the ill success of his tract and Testament crusade did
not entirely check missionary zeal for the spiritual amelioration of the Peninsula. His followers,
however, met with small encouragement. One of their clever ideas was to bottle tracts, throw
them into the sea, and allow them to be washed ashore! This ingenious plan, adopted before
Cadiz, did not answer, "first," says Mr. Hughes, who, we must do him the justice to say, is
a stanch foe to humbug, "because the bottling gave a ludicrous colour to the transaction; and,
secondly, for the conclusive reason, that Cadiz, being surrounded by fortified sea walls, mounted
with frowning guns and sentries, the bottles never reached the inhabitants."

Whilst touching on Portuguese literature, Mr. Hughes refers to what he considers the depreciating
spirit of English critics. "There is a ludicrous difference," he says, "in the criticism of
London and Lisbon. Every thing is condemned in the former place, and every thing hailed with
rapture in the latter. There are faults on both sides." We have been informed that previous
literary efforts of the author of the "Overland Journey" met, at the hands of certain reviewers,
with rougher handling than they deserved. His present book is certainly not so cautiously written
as to guarantee it against censure. The good that is in it, which is considerable, is defaced
by triviality and bad taste. We shall not again dilate on faults to which we have already adverted,
but merely advise Mr. Hughes, when next he sits down to record his rambles, to eschew flimsy
and unpalatable gossip, and, bearing in mind Lord Bacon's admonition to travellers, to be "rather
advised in his discourse than forward to tell stories."

TO THE STETHOSCOPE

  "Tuba mirum spargens sonum."
                              Dies Iræ.

[The Stethoscope, as most, probably, of our readers are aware, is a short, straight, wooden
tube, shaped like a small post-horn. By means of it, the medical man can listen to the sounds
which accompany the movements of the lungs and heart; and as certain murmurs accompany the
healthy action of these organs, and certain others mark their diseased condition, an experienced
physician can readily discover not only the extent, but also the nature of the distemper which
afflicts his patient, and foretell more or less accurately the fate of the latter.

The Stethoscope has long ceased to excite merely professional interest. There are few families
to whom it has not proved an object of horror and the saddest remembrance, as connected with
the loss of dear relatives, though it is but a revealer, not a producer of physical suffering.

As an instrument on which the hopes and fears, and one may also say the destinies of mankind,
so largely hang, it appears to present a fit subject for poetic treatment. How far the present
attempt to carry out this idea is successful, the reader must determine.]

  STETHOSCOPE! thou simple tube,
    Clarion of the yawning tomb,
  Unto me thou seem'st to be
    A very trump of doom.

  Wielding thee, the grave physician
    By the trembling patient stands,
  Like some deftly skilled musician;
    Strange! the trumpet in his hands.
  Whilst the sufferer's eyeball glistens
    Full of hope and full of fear,
  Quietly he bends and listens
    With his quick, accustomed ear--
  Waiteth until thou shalt tell
    Tidings of the war within:
  In the battle and the strife,
  Is it death, or is it life,
    That the fought-for prize shall win?

  Then thou whisperest in his ear
  Words which only he can hear--
  Words of wo and words of cheer.
    Jubilatés thou hast sounded,
      Wild exulting songs of gladness;
    Misererés have abounded
      Of unutterable sadness.
  Sometimes may thy tones impart,
  Comfort to the sad at heart;
  Oftener when thy lips have spoken,
  Eyes have wept, and hearts have broken.

  Calm and grave physician, thou
    Art like a crownéd KING;
  Though there is not round thy brow
    A bauble golden ring,
  As a Czar of many lands,
  Life and Death are in thy hands.
  Sceptre-like, that Stethoscope
    Seemeth in thy hands to wave:
  As it points, thy subject goeth
    Downwards to the silent grave;
    Or thy kingly power to save
  Lifts him from a bed of pain,
  Breaks his weary bondage-chain,
  And bids him be a man again.

  Like a PRIEST beside the altar
    Bleeding victims sacrificing,
  Thou dost stand, and dost not falter
    Whatsoe'er their agonising:
  Death lifts up his dooming finger,
  And the Flamen may not linger!

  PROPHET art thou, wise physician,
    Down the future calmly gazing,
    Heeding not the strange amazing
  Features of the ghastly vision.
  Float around thee shadowy crowds,
  Living shapes in coming shrouds;--
  Brides with babes, in dark graves sleeping
    That still sleep which knows no waking;
  Eyes all bright, grown dim with weeping;
    Hearts all joy, with anguish breaking;
  Stalwart men to dust degraded;
  Maiden charms by worms invades;
  Cradle songs as funeral hymns;
  Mould'ring bones for living limbs;
  Stately looks, and angel faces,
  Loving smiles, and winning graces,
  Turned to skulls with dead grimaces.
  All the future, like a scroll,
    Opening out, that it may show,
  Like the ancient Prophet's roll,
    Mourning, lamentation, anguish,
    Grief, and every form of wo.

  On a couch with kind gifts laden,
    Flowers around her, books beside her,
    Knowing not what shall betide her,
  Languishes a gentle maiden.
  Cold and glassy is her bright eye,
    Hectic red her hollow cheek,
  Tangled the neglected ringlets,
    Wan the body, thin and weak;
  Like thick cords, the swelling blue veins
    Shine through the transparent skin;
  Day by day some fiercer new pains
    Vex without, or war within:
  Yet she counts it but a passing,
    Transient, accidental thing;
  Were the summer only here,
    It would healing bring!
  And with many a fond deceit
    Tries she thus her fears to cheat:
  "When the cowslip's early bloom
  Quite hath lost its rich perfume;
  When the violet's fragrant breath
  Tasted have the lips of death;
  When the snowdrop long hath died,
  And the primrose at its side
    In its grave is sleeping;
  When the lilies all are over,
  And amongst the scented clover
    Merry lambs are leaping;
  When the swallow's voice is ringing
    Through the echoing azure dome,
    Saying, 'From my far-off home
  I have come, my wild way winging
  O'er the waves, that I might tell,
  As of old, I love ye well.
  Hark! I sound my silver bell;
  All the happy birds are singing
               From each throat
               A merry note,
  Welcome to my coming bringing.'
  When that happy time shall be,
  From all pain and anguish free,
  I shall join you, full of life and full of glee."

  Then, thou fearful Stethoscope!
  Thou dost seem thy lips to ope,
  Saying, "Bid farewell to hope:
  I foretell thee days of gloom,
  I pronounce thy note of doom--
  Make thee ready for the tomb!
  Cease thy weeping, tears avail not,
  Pray to God thy courage fail not.
  He who knoweth no repenting,
  Sympathy or sad relenting,
  Will not heed thy sore lamenting--
  Death, who soon will be thy guide
  To his couch, will hold thee fast;
  As a lover at thy side
  Will be with thee to the last,
  Longing for thy latest gasp,
  When within his iron grasp
  As his bride he will thee clasp."

  Shifts the scene. The Earth is sleeping,
    With her weary eyelids closed,
      Hushed by darkness into slumber;
    Whilst in burning ranks disposed,
      High above, in countless number,
  All the heavens, in radiance steeping,
         Watch and ward
         And loving guard
  O'er her rest the stars are keeping.

  Often has the turret-chime
  Of the hasty flight of time
      Warning utterance given;
  And the stars are growing dim
  On the gray horizon's rim,
      In the dawning light of heaven.
  But there sits, the Bear out-tiring,
  As if no repose requiring,
  One pale youth, all unattending
  To the hour; with bright eye bending
  O'er the loved and honoured pages,
  Where are writ the words of sages,
  And the heroic deeds and thoughts of far distant ages.

  Closed the book,
    With gladsome look
    Still he sits and visions weaveth.
    Fancy with her wiles deceiveth;
      Days to come with glory gildeth;
        And though all is bleak and bare,
      With perversest labour buildeth
        Wondrous castles in the air.
    He who shall possess each palace,
    Fortune has for him no malice,
        Only countless joys in store:
    Over rim,
    And mantling brim,
        His full cup of life shall pour.
    Whilst he dreams,
    The future seems
      Like the present spread before him:
    Nought to fear him,
    All to cheer him,
      Coming greatness gathers o'er him;
    And into the ear of Night
    Thus he tells his visions bright:--

  "I shall be a glorious Poet!
  All the wond'ring world shall know it,
    Listening to melodious hymning;
      I shall write immortal songs.

    "I shall be a Painter limning
  Pictures that shall never fade;
  Round the scenes I have portrayed
    Shall be gathered gazing throngs:
  Mine shall be a Titian's palette!

  "I shall wield a Phidias' mallet!
    Stone shall grow to life before me,
    Looks of love shall hover o'er me,
    Beauty shall in heart adore me
  That I make her charms immortal.
  Now my foot is on the portal
    Of the house of Fame:
    Soon her trumpet shall proclaim
    Even this now unhonoured name,
  And the doings of this hand
  Shall be known in every land.

  "Music! my bewitching pen
  Shall enchant the souls of men.
  Aria, fugue, and strange sonata,
  Opera, and gay cantata,
  Through my brain,
  In linkéd train,
  Hark! I hear them winding go,
  Now with half-hushed whisper stealing,
  Now in full-voiced accent pealing,
  Ringing loud, and murmuring low.
  Scarcely can I now refrain,
  Whilst these blessed notes remain,
  From pouring forth one undying angel-strain.

  "Eloquence! my lips shall speak
    As no living lips have spoken--
  Advocate the poor and weak,
    Plead the cause of the heart-broken;
  Listening senates shall be still,
  I shall wield them at my will,
  And this little tongue, the earth
      With its burning words shall fill.

    "Ye stars which bloom like flowers on high,
    Ye flowers which are the stars of earth,
  Ye rocks that deep in darkness lie,
  Ye seas that with a loving eye
  Gaze upwards on the azure sky,
    Ye waves that leap with mirth;
  Ye elements in constant strife,
  Ye creatures full of bounding life:
  I shall unfold the hidden laws,
  And each unthought-of wondrous cause,
    That waked ye into birth.
  A high-priest I, by Nature taught
    Her mysteries to reveal:
  The secrets that she long hath sought
    In darkness to conceal
  Shall have their mantle rent away,
  And stand uncovered to the light of day.
  O Newton! thou and I shall be
    Twin brothers then!
  Together link'd, our names shall sound
    Upon the lips of men."

  Like the sullen heavy boom
    Of a signal gun at sea,
  When athwart the gathering gloom,
  Awful rocks are seen to loom
    Frowning on the lee;
  Like the muffled kettle-drum,
    With the measured tread,
  And the wailing trumpet's hum,
    Telling that a soldier's dead;
  Like the deep cathedral bell
  Tolling forth its doleful knell,
  Saying, "Now the strife is o'er,
  Death hath won a victim more"--
  So, thou doleful Stethoscope!
      Thou dost seem to say,
  "Hope thou on against all hope,
     Dream thy life away:
     Little is there now to spend;
     And that little's near an end.
     Saddest sign of thy condition
     is thy bounding wild ambition;
     Only dying eyes can gaze on so bright a vision.
     Ere the spring again is here,
          Low shall be thy head,
  Vainly shall thy mother dear,
  Strive her breaking heart to cheer,
  Vainly strive to hide the tear
      Oft in silence shed.
  Pangs and pains are drawing near,
  To plant with thorns thy bed:
  Lo! they come, a ghastly troop,
      Like fierce vultures from afar;
  Where the bleeding quarry is,
      There the eagles gathered are!
  Ague chill, and fever burning,
  Soon away, but swift returning,
  In unceasing alternation;
      Cold and clammy perspiration,
  Heart with sickening palpitation,
      Panting, heaving respiration;
  Aching brow, and wasted limb,
  Troubled brain, and vision dim,
  Hollow cough like dooming knell
  Saying, 'Bid the world farewell!'
  Parchéd lips, and quenchless thirst,
  Every thing as if accurst;
  Nothing to the senses grateful;
  All things to the eye grown hateful;
  Flowers without the least perfume;
  Gone from every thing its bloom;
  Music but an idle jangling;
  Sweetest tongues but weary wrangling;
  Books, which were most dearly cherished,
  Come to be, each one, disrelished;
  Clearest plans grown all confusion;
  Kindest friends but an intrusion:
    Weary day, and weary night--
      Weary night, and weary day;
    Would God it were the morning light!
      Would God the light were pass'd away!
  And when all is dark and dreary,
  And thou art all worn and weary,
  When thy heart is sad and cheerless,
  And thine eyes are seldom tearless,
  When thy very soul is weak,
  Satan shall his victim seek.
  Day by day he will be by thee,
  Night by night will hover nigh thee,
  With accursed wiles will try thee,
  Soul and spirit seek to buy thee.
  Faithfully he'll keep his tryst,
  Tell thee that there is no Christ,
  No long-suffering gracious Father,
  But an angry tyrant rather;
  No benignant Holy Spirit,
  Nor a heaven to inherit,
  Only darkness, desolation,
  Hopelessness of thy salvation,
  And at best annihilation.

  "God with his great power defend thee!
  Christ with his great love attend thee!
  May the blessed Spirit lend thee
  Strength to bear, and all needful succour send thee!"
  Close we here. My eyes behold,
  As upon a sculpture old,
  Life all warm and Death all cold
  Struggling which alone shall hold--
  Sign of wo, or sign of hope!--
  To his lips the Stethoscope.

  But the strife at length is past,
  They have made a truce at last,
  And the settling die is cast.
  Life shall sometimes sound a blast,
      But it shall be but "Tantivy,"
    Like a hurrying war reveillie,
      Or the hasty notes that levy
    Eager horse, and man, and hound,
      On an autumn morn,
    When the sheaves are off the ground,
      And the echoing bugle-horn
    Sends them racing o'er the scanty stubble corn.
    But when I a-hunting go,
      I, King Death,
    I that funeral trump shall blow
      With no bated breath.
    Long drawn out, and deep and slow
      Shall the wailing music go;
      Winding horn shall presage meet
      Be of coming winding-sheet,
    And all living men shall know
      That beyond the gates of gloom,
      In my mansions of the tomb,
      I for every one keep room,
    And shall hold and house them all, till the very
                                Day of Doom.

                                                V. V.

EPIGRAMS.

  Bait, hook, and hair, are used by angler fine;
  Emma's bright hair alone were bait, hook, line.

       *       *       *       *       *

Faraday was the first to elicit the electric spark from the magnet; he found that it is visible
at the instants of breaking and of renewing the contact of the conducting wires; and only then.

  Around the magnet, Faraday
  Is sure that Volta's lightnings play;
    But how to draw them from the wire?
  He took a lesson from the heart:
  'Tis when we meet, 'tis when we part,
    Breaks forth the electric fire.

                                                M.

LETTERS ON THE TRUTHS CONTAINED IN POPULAR SUPERSTITIONS.

1.--THE DIVINING ROD.

February, 1847.

DEAR ARCHY,--As a resource against the long ennui of the solitary evenings of commencing winter,
I determined to betake me to the neglected lore of the marvellous, the mystical, the supernatural.
I remembered the deep awe with which I had listened many a year ago to tales of seers, and
ghosts, and vampires, and all the dark brood of night; and I thought it would be infinitely
agreeable to thrill again with mysterious terrors, to start in my chair at the closing of a
distant door, to raise my eyes with uneasy apprehension towards the mirror opposite, and to
feel my skin creep with the sensible "afflatus" of an invisible presence. I entered, accordingly,
upon what I thought a very promising course of appalling reading; but, alack and well-a-day!
a change has come over me since the good old times, when Fancy, with Fear and Superstition
behind her, would creep on tiptoe to catch a shuddering glimpse of Cobbold Fay, or Incubus.
Vain were all my efforts to revive the pleasant horrors of earlier years. It was as if I had
planned going to the play to enjoy again the full gusto of scenic illusion, and through some
unaccountable absence of mind, was attending a morning rehearsal only; when, instead of what
I had expected, great coats, hats, umbrellas, and ordinary men and women, masks, tinsel, trap-doors,
pulleys, and a world of intricate machinery, lit by a partial gleam of sunshine, had met my
view. The spell I had anticipated was not there. But yet the daylight scene was worth a few
minutes' study. My imagination was not to be gratified; but still it might be entertaining
to see how the tricks are done, the effects produced, the illusion realised. I found myself
insensibly growing philosophical; what amused me became matter of speculation--speculation
turned into serious inquiry--the object of which shaped itself into "the amount of truth contained
in popular superstitions." For what has been believed for ages must have something real at
bottom. There can be no prevalent delusion without a corresponding truth. If the dragons, that
flew on scaly wings and expectorated flames, were fabulous, there existed nevertheless very
respectable reptiles, which it was a credit to a hero or even a saint to destroy. If the Egyptian
worship of cats and onions was a mistake, there existed nevertheless an object of worship.

Among the immortal productions of the Scottish Shakspeare,--you smile, but that phrase contains
the true belief, not a popular delusion; for the spirit of the poet lived not in the form of
his productions, but in his creative power and vivid intuition of nature; and the form even
is often nearer you than you think: See the works of imaginative prose writers, passim.

Well, among the novels of Scott, I was going to say, none perhaps more grows upon our preference
than the Antiquary. In no one has the great Author more gently and more indulgently, never
with happier humour, displayed the mixed web of strength and infirmity of human character,
(never, besides, with more facile power evoked pathos and terror, or disported himself in the
sublimity and beauty of nature.) Yet gentle as is his mood, he misses not the opportunity,
albeit in general he betrays an honest leaning towards old superstitions, mercilessly to crush
one of the humblest. Do you remember the Priory of St. Ruth, and the pleasant summer party
made to visit it, and the preparation for the subsequent rogueries of Dousterswivel, in the
tale of Martin Waldeck, and the discovery of a spring of water by means of the divining rod?

I am disposed, do you know, to rebel against the judgment of the novelist on this occasion,--to
take the part of the charlatan against the author of his being, and to question, whether his
performance last alluded to might not have been something more and better than a trick. Yet
I know not if it is prudent to brave public opinion, which has stamped this pretension as imposture.
But, courage! I will not flinch. I will be desperate, with Sir Arthur, defy the sneeze of the
great Pheulphan, and trust to unearth a real treasure in this discredited ground.

Therefore leave off appealing to the shade of Oldbuck, and listen to a plain narrative, and
you shall hear how much truth there is in the reputed popular delusion of the divining rod.

I see my tone of confidence has already half-staggered your disbelief; but pray do not, like
many other incredulous gentry, run off at once into the opposite extreme. Don't let your imagination
suddenly instal you perpetual chairman of the universal fresh-water company, or of the general
gold-mine-discovery-proprietary-association. What I have to fell you falls very far short of
so splendid a mark.

But perhaps you know nothing at all about the divining rod. Then I will enlighten your primitive
ignorance.

You are to understand, that, in mining districts, a superstition prevails among the people,
that some are gifted with an occult power of detecting the proximity of veins of metal, and
of underground springs of water. In Cornwall, they hold that about one in forty possesses this
faculty. The mode, of exercising it is very simple. They cut a hazel twig that forks naturally
into two equal branches; and having stripped the leaves off, they cut the stump of the twig,
to the length of three or four inches, and each branch to the length of a foot or something
less: for the end of a branch is meant to be held in each hand, in such a manner that the stump
of the twig may project straight forwards. The position is this: the elbows are bent, the forearms,
and hands advanced, the knuckles turned downwards, the ends of the branches come out between
the thumbs and roots of the forefingers, the hands are supinated, the inner side of each is
turned towards its fellow, as they are held a few inches apart. The mystic operator, thus armed,
walks over the ground he intends exploring, with the full expectation, that, when he passes
over a vein of metal, or underground spring of water, the hazel fork will move spontaneously
in his hands, the point or stump rising or falling as the case may be. This hazel fork is the
DIVINING ROD. The hazel has the honour of being preferred, because it divides into nearly equal
branches at angles the nearest equal.

