This most important factor, as I should have thought everyone of common sense would at once
perceive, is nothing less than the wrist. Yet I have known some teachers who confine their
attention to the action of the fingers, letting the wrist follow as best it can. It is from
such teachers, usually, that we receive the preposterous statement that the upper half of the
bow only should be used for this bowing; some, even, limiting it still further to the up-bow.
Now if the wrist be first well exercised the co-operation of the fingers will come naturally,
and a perfect staccato from end to end in either up or down stroke will be attained.

It should be practised slowly and firmly at first on one note thus:

The bow remaining on the string between each note. The action is really no different to ordinary
bowing; it is simply a short crisp stroke of about an inch in length, a short interval of silence
(without lifting the bow) and then another similar stroke in the same direction, this being
continued to the end of the hair. The part played by the forefinger is to impart a certain
"attack" to each note, and is best produced by a slight turn of the wrist instead of an independent
pressure of the finger itself. This "attack" is what the Germans call "ansatz," and consists
in making a slight sound at the initial impulse of each note somewhat resembling the hard pronunciation
of the letter "K." This is a most important sound, and one that adds greatly to the crispness
of one's playing. It should be produced in the hand, however, as if the arm is called on for
this purpose the tone will become gritty and harsh. In commencing the study of staccato bowing
it is well to confine oneself to the up-bow form at first. Great care must be exercised when
reaching the lower half of the bow that the notes remain of equal duration and loudness. Just
below the centre of the bow there is found a curious turning point, a sort of corner that is
very difficult to get round. It is even more noticeable in down bow staccato.

This turning point is in the wrist, for at that part of the stroke the most important change
in the position of this joint takes place. Therefore, as the muscles are so occupied in their
internal movements, they are not so ready to control the tendency to vibrate in the bow. Thus,
then, as a bad bow is nowhere so easily controlled as a good one, some inferior bows become
quite unmanageable when the attention of the wrist muscles is so divided. Consequently it is
useless to attempt the attainment of staccato without first being provided with a thoroughly
well-balanced bow. In commencing the down bow staccato, all tendency to lean on the string
and so drag the bow along in a series of jerks must be checked at once. The bow should be lightly
carried at the heel. This will seem difficult, but practice will be well repaid.

It may not be out of place to give here a short list of studies and solos that are concerned
chiefly with the art of bowing. Of course bowing studies are also to be found in all good schools
and books of studies.

CASORTI, "The Technic of the Bow."

DANCLA, "L'Art de l'Archet" (quite easy).

HAAKMAN, "Steadiness and flexibility of the Bow."

MEERTZ, "Twelve Etudes Elementaires" (giving the six fundamental bowings).

PAPINI, "L'Archet" (the most complete work on the subject).

POZNANSKI, "The Violin and Bow" (contains excellent photographs of positions).

Sautillé can be studied in a pleasing manner by practising pieces of the "Moto Perpetuo" type.
Of these the best are those by Paganini, Ries, Moszkowski, Papini, G. Saint-George and E. German.

Of solos devoted to particular forms of bowing, the most notable are:

DE BERIOT, "Le Tremolo."

KONTSKI, "La Cascade" (tremolo).

PANOFKA, "Le Staccato."

PRUME, "Les Arpèges."

VIEUXTEMPS, "Les Arpèges."

VIEUXTEMPS, 1st Concerto in E (staccato).

