"Perhaps she has had morning prayers and fainted again."

"Perhaps she has turned out to be Salemina's long-lost cousin."

"Perhaps she is upbraiding Salemina for kidnapping her when she was insensible."

"Perhaps she is relating her life history; if it is a sad one, Salemina is adopting her legally
at this moment."

"Perhaps she is one of Mr. Beresford's wards, and has come over to complain of somebody's ill
treatment."

Here Salemina entered, looking flushed and embarrassed. We thought it a bad sign that she could
not meet our eyes without confusion, but I made room for her on the sofa, and Francesca drew
her chair closer.

"She is from Salem," began the poor dear; "she has never been out of Massachusetts in her life."

"Unfortunate girl!" exclaimed Francesca, adding prudently, as she saw Salemina's rising colour,
"though of course if one has to reside in a single state, Massachusetts offers more compensations
than any other."

"She knows every nook and corner in the place," continued Salemina; "she has even seen the
house where I was born, and her name is Benella Dusenberry."

"Impossible!" cried Francesca. "Dusenberry is unlikely enough, but who ever heard of such a
name as Benella! It sounds like a flavouring extract."

"She came over to see the world, she says."

"Oh! then she has money?"

"No--or at least, yes; or at least she had enough when she left America to last for two or
three months, or until she could earn something."

"Of course she left her little all in a chamois-skin bag under her pillow on the steamer,"
suggested Francesca.

"That is precisely what she did," Salemina replied, with a pale smile. "However, she was so
ill in the steerage that she had to pay twenty-five or thirty dollars extra to go into the
second cabin, and this naturally reduced the amount of her savings, though it makes no difference
since she left them all behind her, save a few dollars in her purse. She says she is usually
perfectly well, but that she was very tired when she started, that it was her first sea-voyage,
and the passage was unusually rough."

"Where is she going?"

"I don't know; I mean she doesn't know. Her maternal grandmother was born in Trim, near Tara,
in Meath, but she does not think she has any relations over here. She is entirely alone in
the world, and that gives her a certain sentiment in regard to Ireland, which she heard a great
deal about when she was a child. The maternal grandmother must have gone to Salem at a very
early age, as Benella herself savours only of New England soil."

"Has she any trade, or is she trained to do anything whatsoever?" asked Francesca.

"No, she hoped to take some position of 'trust.' She does not care at all what it is, so long
as the occupation is 'interestin' work,' she says. That is rather vague, of course, but she
speaks and appears like a nice, conscientious person."

"Tell us the rest; conceal nothing," I said sternly.

"She--she thinks that we have saved her life, and she feels that she belongs to us," faltered
Salemina.

"Belongs to us!" we cried in a duet. "Was there ever such a base reward given to virtue; ever
such an unwelcome expression of gratitude! Belong to us, indeed! We can't have her; we won't
have her. Were you perfectly frank with her?"

"I tried to be, but she almost insisted; she has set her heart upon being our maid."

"Does she know how to be a maid?"

"No, but she is extremely teachable, she says."

"I have my doubts," remarked Francesca; "a liking for personal service is not a distinguishing
characteristic of New Englanders; they are not the stuff of which maids are made. If she were
French or German or Senegambian, in fact anything but a Saleminian, we might use her; we have
always said we needed some one."

Salemina brightened. "I thought myself it might be rather nice--that is, I thought it might
be a way out of the difficulty. Penelope had thought at one time of bringing a maid, and it
would save us a great deal of trouble. The doctor thinks she could travel a short distance
in a few days; perhaps it is a Providence in disguise."

"The disguise is perfect," murmured Francesca.

"You see," Salemina continued, "when the poor thing tottered along the wharf the stewardess
laid her on the pile of wool sacks-"

"Like a dying Chancellor," again interpolated the irrepressible.

"And ran off to help another passenger. When she opened her eyes, she saw straight in front
of her, in huge letters, 'Salem, Mass., U.S.A.' It loomed before her despairing vision, I suppose,
like a great ark of refuge, and seemed to her in her half-dazed condition not only a reminder,
but almost a message from home. She had then no thought of ever seeing the owner; she says
she felt only that she should like to die quietly on anything marked 'Salem, Mass.' Go in to
see her presently, Penelope, and make up your own mind about her. See if you can persuade her
to--to--well, to give us up. Try to get her out of the notion of being our maid. She is so
firm; I never saw so feeble a person who could be so firm; and what in the world shall we do
with her if she keeps on insisting, in her nervous state?"

"My idea would be," I suggested, "to engage her provisionally, if we must, not because we want
her, but because her heart is weak. I shall tell her that we do not feel like leaving her behind,
and yet we ourselves cannot be detained in Dublin indefinitely; that we will try the arrangement
for a month, and that she can consider herself free to leave us at any time on a week's notice."

"I approve of that," agreed Francesca, "because it makes it easier to dismiss her in case she
turns out to be a Massachusetts Borgia. You remember, however, that we bore with the vapours
and vagaries, the sighs and moans of Jane Grieve in Pettybaw, all those weeks, and not one
of us had the courage to throw off her yoke. Never shall I forget her at your wedding, Penelope;
the teardrop glistened in her eye as usual; I think it is glued there! Ronald was sympathetic,
because he fancied she was weeping for the loss of you, but on inquiry it transpired that she
was thinking of a marriage in that 'won'erfu' fine family in Glasgy,' with whose charms she
had made us all too familiar. She asked to be remembered when I began my own housekeeping,
and I told her truthfully that she was not a person who could be forgotten; I repressed my
feeling that she is too tearful for a Highland village where it rains most of the year, also
my conviction that Ronald's parish would chasten me sufficiently without her aid."

I did as Salemina wished, and had a conference with Miss Dusenberry. I hope I was quite clear
in my stipulations as to the perfect freedom of the four contracting parties. I know I intended
to be, and I was embarrassed to see Francesca and Salemina exchange glances next day when Benella
said she would show us what a good sailor she could be, on the return voyage to America, adding
that she thought a person would be much less liable to sea-sickness when travelling in the
first cabin.

Chapter V. The Wearing of the Green.

"This is an anniversary," said Salemina, coming into the sitting-room at breakfast-time with
a book under her arm. "Having given up all hope of any one's waking in this hotel, which, before
nine in the morning, is precisely like the Sleeping Beauty's castle, I dressed and determined
to look up Brian Boru."

"From all that I can recall of him he was not a person to meet before breakfast," yawned Francesca;
"still I shall be glad of a little fresh light, for my mind is in a most chaotic state, induced
by the intellectual preparation that you have made me undergo during the past month. I dreamed
last night that I was conducting a mothers' meeting in Ronald's new parish, and the subject
for discussion was the Small Livings Scheme, the object of which is to augment the stipends
of the ministers of the Church of Scotland to a minimum of 200 pounds per annum. I tried to
keep the members to the point, but was distracted by the sudden appearance, in all corners
of the church, of people who hadn't been 'asked to the party.' There was Brian Boru, Tony Lumpkin,
Finn McCool, Felicia Hemans, Ossian, Mrs. Delany, Sitric of the Silken Beard, St. Columba,
Mickey Free, Strongbow, Maria Edgeworth, and the Venerable Bede. Imagine leading a mothers'
meeting with those people in the pews,--it was impossible! St. Columbkille and the Venerable
Bede seemed to know about parochial charges and livings and stipends and glebes, and Maria
Edgeworth was rather helpful; but Brian and Sitric glared at each other and brandished their
hymn-books threateningly, while Ossian refused to sit in the same pew with Mickey Free, who
behaved in an odious manner, and interrupted each of the speakers in turn. Incidentally a group
of persons huddled together in a far corner rose out of the dim light, and flapping huge wings,
flew over my head and out of the window above the altar. This I took to be the Flight of the
Earls, and the terror of it awoke me. Whatever my parish duties may be in the future, at least
they cannot be any more dreadful and disorderly than the dream."

"I don't know which is more to blame, the seed that I sowed, or the soil on which it fell,"
said Salemina, laughing heartily at Francesca's whimsical nightmares; "but as I said, this
is an anniversary. The famous battle of Clontarf was fought here in Dublin on this very day
eight hundred years ago, and Brian Boru routed the Danes in what was the last struggle between
Christianity and heathenism. The greatest slaughter took place on the streets along which we
drove yesterday from Ballybough Bridge to the Four Courts. Brian Boru was king of Munster,
you remember" (Salemina always says this for courtesy's sake), "or at least you have read of
that time in Ireland's history when a fair lady dressed in fine silk and gold and jewels could
walk unmolested the length of the land, because of the love the people bore King Brian and
the respect they cherished for his wise laws. Well, Mailmora, the king of Leinster, had quarrelled
with him, and joined forces with the Danish leaders against him. Broder and Amlaff, two Vikings
from the Isle of Man, brought with them a 'fleet of two thousand Denmarkians and a thousand
men covered with mail from head to foot,' to meet the Irish, who always fought in tunics. Joyce
says that Broder wore a coat of mail that no steel would bite, that he was both tall and strong,
and that his black locks were so long that he tucked them under his belt,--there's a portrait
for your gallery, Penelope. Brian's army was encamped on the Green of Aha-Clee, which is now
Phoenix Park, and when he set fire to the Danish districts, the fierce Norsemen within the
city could see a blazing, smoking pathway that reached from Dublin to Howth. The quarrel must
have been all the more virulent in that Mailmora was Brian's brother-in-law, and Brian's daughter
was the wife of Sitric of the Silken Beard, Danish king of Dublin."

"I refuse to remember their relationships or alliances," said Francesca. "They were always
intermarrying with their foes in order to gain strength, but it generally seems to have made
things worse rather than better; still I don't mind hearing what became of Brian after his
victory; let us quite finish with him before the eggs come up. I suppose it will be eggs?"

"Broder the Viking rushed upon him in his tent where he was praying, cleft his head from his
body, and he is buried in Armagh Cathedral," said Salemina, closing the book. "Penelope, do
ring again for breakfast, and just to keep us from realising our hunger read 'Remember the
Glories of Brian the Brave.'"

We had brought letters of introduction to a dean, a bishop, and a Rt. Hon. Lord Justice, so
there were a few delightful invitations when the morning post came up; not so many as there
might have been, perhaps, had not the Irish capital been in a state of complete dementia over
the presence of the greatest Queen in the world. [*] Privately, I think that those nations
in the habit of having kings and queens at all should have four, like those in a pack of cards;
then they could manage to give all their colonies and dependencies a frequent sight of royalty,
and prevent much excitement and heart-burning.

     * Penelope's experiences in Scotland, given in a former
     volume, ended, the meticulous proof-reader will remember,
     with her marriage in the year of the Queen's Jubilee. It is
     apparent in the opening chapters of this story that Penelope
     came to Ireland the following spring, which, though the
     matter is hardly important, was not that of the Queen's
     memorable visit. The Irish experiences are probably the
     fruit of several expeditions, and Penelope has chosen to
     include this vivid impression of Her Majesty's welcome to
     Ireland, even though it might convict her of an anachronism.
     Perhaps as this is not an historical novel, but a 'chronicle
     of small beer,' the trifling inaccuracy may be pardoned.--K.
     D. W.

It was worth something to be one of the lunatic populace when the little lady in black, with
her parasol bordered in silver shamrocks, drove along the gaily decorated streets, for the
Irish, it seems to me, desire nothing better than to be loyal, if any persons to whom they
can be loyal are presented to them.

"Irish disaffection is, after all, but skin-deep," said our friend the dean; "it is a cutaneous
malady, produced by external irritants. Below the surface there is a deep spring of personal
loyalty, which needs only a touch like that of the prophet's wand to enable it to gush forth
in healing floods. Her Majesty might drive through these crowded streets in her donkey chaise
unguarded, as secure as the lady in that poem of Moore's which portrayed the safety of women
in Brian Boru's time. The old song has taken on a new meaning.

It was small use for the parliamentary misrepresentatives to advise treating Victoria of the
Good Deeds with the courtesy due to a foreign sovereign visiting the country. Under the miles
of flags she drove, red, white, and blue, tossing themselves in the sweet spring air, and up
from the warm hearts of the surging masses of people, men and women alike, Crimean soldiers
and old crones in rags, gentry and peasants, went a greeting I never before heard given to
any sovereign, for it was a sigh of infinite content that trembled on the lips and then broke
into a deep sob, as a knot of Trinity College students in a spontaneous burst of song flung
out the last verse of 'The New Wearing of the Green.' [**]

  'And so upon St. Patrick's Day, Victoria, she has said
   Each Irish regiment shall wear the Green beside the Red;
   And she's coming to ould Ireland, who away so long has been,
   And dear knows but into Dublin she'll ride Wearing of the Green.'

   ** Alfred Perceval Graves.

The first cheers were faint and broken, and the emotion that quivered on every face and the
tears that gleamed in a thousand eyes made it the most touching spectacle in the world. 'Foreign
Sovereign, indeed!' She was the Queen of Ireland, and the nation of courtiers and hero worshippers
was at her feet. There was the history of five hundred years in that greeting, and to me it
spoke volumes.

Plenty of people there were in the crowd, too, who were heartily 'agin the Government'; but
Daniel O'Connell is not the only Irishman who could combine a detestation of the Imperial Parliament
with a passionate loyalty to the sovereign.

There was a woman near us who 'remimbered the last time Her Noble Highness come, thirty-nine
years back,--glory be to God, thim was the times!'--and who kept ejaculating, "She's the best
woman in the wurrld, bar none, and the most varchous faymale!" As her husband made no reply,
she was obliged in her excitement to thump him with her umbrella and repeat, "The most varchous
faymale, do you hear?" At which he retorted, "Have conduct, woman; sure I've nothin' agin it."

"Look at the size of her now," she went on, "sittin' in that grand carriage, no bigger than
me own Kitty, and always in the black, the darlin'. Look at her, a widdy woman, raring that
large and heavy family of children; and how well she's married off her daughters (more luck
to her!), though to be sure they must have been well fortuned! They do be sayin' she's come
over because she's plazed with seein' estated gintlemen lave iverything and go out and be shot
by thim bloody Boers, bad scran to thim! Sure if I had the sons, sorra a wan but I'd lave go!
Who's the iligant sojers in the silver stays, Thady? Is it the Life Guards you're callin' thim?"

There were two soldiers' wives standing on the pavement near us, and one of them showed a half-sovereign
to the other, saying, "'Tis the last day's airnin' iver I seen by him, Mrs. Muldoon, ma'am!
Ah, there's thim says for this war, an' there's thim says agin this war, but Heaven lave Himself
where he is, I says, for of all the ragin' Turcomaniacs iver a misfortunate woman was curst
with, Pat Brady, my full private, he bates 'em all!"

Here the band played 'Come back to Erin,' and the scene was indescribable. Nothing could have
induced me to witness it had I realised what it was to be, for I wept at Holyrood when I heard
the plaintive strains of 'Bonnie Charlie's noo Awa' floating up to the Gallery of Kings from
the palace courtyard, and I did not wish Francesca to see me shedding national, political,
and historical tears so soon again. Francesca herself is so ardent a republican that she weeps
only for presidents and cabinet officers. For my part, although I am thoroughly loyal, I cannot
become sufficiently attached to a president in four years to shed tears when I see him driving
at the head of a procession.

Chapter VI. Dublin, then and now.

     'I found in Innisfail the fair,
      In Ireland, while in exile there,
      Women of worth, both grave and gay men,
      Many clerics, and many laymen.'
                        James Clarence Mangan.

Mrs. Delany, writing from Dublin in 1731, says: 'As for the generality of people that I meet
with here, they are much the same as in England--a mixture of good and bad. All that I have
met with behave themselves very decently according to their rank; now and then an oddity breaks
out, but never so extraordinary but that I can match it in England. There is a heartiness among
them that is more like Cornwall than any I have known, and great sociableness.' This picturesque
figure in the life of her day gives charming pictures in her memoirs of the Irish society of
the time, descriptions which are confirmed by contemporary writers. She was the wife of Dr.
Delany, Dean of Down, the companion of duchesses and queens, and the friend of Swift. Hannah
More, in a poem called 'Sensibility,' published in 1778, gives this quaint and stilted picture
of her:--

     'Delany shines, in worth serenely bright,
      Wisdom's strong ray, and virtue's milder light.
      And she who blessed the friend and graced the page of Swift,
              still lends her lustre to our age.
      Long, long protract thy light, O star benign,
      Whose setting beams with added brightness shine!'

The Irish ladies of Delany's day, who scarcely ever appeared on foot in the streets, were famous
for their grace in dancing, it seems, as the men were for their skill in swimming. The hospitality
of the upper classes was profuse, and by no means lacking in brilliancy or in grace. The humorous
and satirical poetry found in the fugitive literature of the period shows conclusively that
there were plenty of bright spirits and keen wits at the banquets, routs, and balls. The curse
of absenteeism was little felt in Dublin, where the Parliament secured the presence of most
of the aristocracy and of much of the talent of the country, and during the residence of the
viceroy there was the influence of the court to contribute to the sparkling character of Dublin
society.

How they managed to sparkle when discussing some of the heavy dinner menus of the time I cannot
think. Here is one of the Dean of Down's bills of fare:--

     Turkeys endove
     Boyled leg of mutton
     Greens, etc.
     Soup
     Plum Pudding
     Roast loin of veal
     Venison pasty
     Partridge
     Sweetbreads
     Collared Pig
     Creamed apple tart
     Crabs
     Fricassee of eggs
     Pigeons
           No dessert to be had.

Although there is no mention of beverages we may be sure that this array of viands was not
eaten dry, but was washed down with a plentiful variety of wines and liquors.

The hosts, either in Dublin or London, who numbered among their dinner guests such Irishmen
as Sheridan or Lysaght, Mangan or Lever, Curran or Lover, Father Prout or Dean Swift, had as
great a feast of wit and repartee as one will be apt soon to hear again; although it must have
been Lever or Lover who furnished the cream of Irish humour, and Father Prout and Swift the curds.

If you are fortunate enough to be bidden to the right houses in Ireland to-day, you will have
as much good talk as you are likely to listen to anywhere else in this degenerate age, which
has mostly forgotten how to converse in learning to chat; and any one who goes to the Spring
Show at Ball's Bridge, or to the Punchestown or Leopardstown races, or to the Dublin horse
show, will have to confess that the Irishwomen can dispute the palm with any nation.

     'Light on their feet now they passed me and sped,
        Give you me word, give you me word,
      Every girl wid a turn o' the head
        Just like a bird, just like a bird;
      And the lashes so thick round their beautiful eyes
      Shinin' to tell you it's fair time o' day wid them,
      Back in me heart wid a kind of surprise,
      I think how the Irish girls has the way wid them!'

Their charm is made up of beautiful eyes and lashes, lustre of hair, poise of head, shapeliness
of form, vivacity and coquetry; and there is a matchless grace in the way they wear the 'whatever,'
be it the chiffons of the fashionable dame, or the shawl of the country colleen, who can draw
the two corners of that faded article of apparel shyly over her lips and look out from under
it with a pair of luminous grey eyes in a manner that is fairly 'disthractin'.'

Yesterday was a red-letter day, for I dined in the evening at Dublin Castle, and Francesca
was bidden to the concert in the Throne Room afterwards. It was a brilliant scene when the
assembled guests awaited their host and hostess, the shaded lights bringing out the satins
and velvets, pearls and diamonds, uniforms, orders, and medals. Suddenly the hum of voices
ceased as one of the aides-de-camp who preceded the vice-regal party announced 'their Excellencies.'
We made a sort of passage as these dignitaries advanced to shake hands with a few of those
they knew best. The Lord Lieutenant then gave his arm to the lady of highest rank (alas, it
was not I!); her Excellency chose her proper squire, and we passed through the beautifully
decorated rooms to St. Patrick's Hall in a nicely graded procession, magnificence at the head,
humility at the tail. A string band was discoursing sweet music the while, and I fitted to
its measures certain well-known lines descriptive of the entrance of the beasts into the ark.

     'The animals went in two by two,
      The elephant and the kangaroo.'

As my escort was a certain brilliant lord justice, and as the wittiest dean in Leinster was
my other neighbour, I almost forgot to eat in my pleasure and excitement. I told the dean that
we had chosen Scottish ancestors before going to our first great dinner in Edinburgh, feeling
that we should be more in sympathy with the festivities and more acceptable to our hostess,
but that I had forgotten to provide myself for this occasion, my first function in Dublin;
whereupon the good dean promptly remembered that there was a Penelope O'Connor, daughter of
the King of Connaught. I could not quite give up Tam o' the Cowgate (Thomas Hamilton) or Jenny
Geddes of fauld-stule fame, also a Hamilton, but I added the King of Connaught to the list
of my chosen forebears with much delight, in spite of the polite protests of the Rev. Father
O'Hogan, who sat opposite, and who remarked that

     'Man for his glory
        To ancestry flies,
      But woman's bright story
        Is told in her eyes.
      While the monarch but traces
        Through mortal his line,
      Beauty born of the Graces
        Ranks next to divine.'

I asked the Reverend Father if he were descended from Galloping O'Hogan, who helped Patrick
Sarsfield to spike the guns of the Williamites at Limerick.

"By me sowl, ma'am, it's not discinded at all I am; I am one o' the common sort, just," he
answered, broadening his brogue to make me smile. A delightful man he was, exactly such an
one as might have sprung full grown from a Lever novel; one who could talk equally well with
his flock about pigs or penances, purgatory or potatoes, and quote Tom Moore and Lover when
occasion demanded.

Story after story fell from his genial lips, and at last he said apologetically, "One more,
and I have done," when a pretty woman, sitting near him, interpolated slyly, "We might say
to you, your reverence, what the old woman said to the eloquent priest who finished his sermon
with 'One word, and I have done'".

"An' what is that, ma'am?" asked Father O'Hogan.

"'Och! me darlin' pracher, may ye niver be done!'"

We all agreed that we should like to reconstruct the scene for a moment and look at a drawing-room
of two hundred years ago, when the Lady Lieutenant after the minuets at eleven o'clock went
to her basset table, while her pages attended behind her chair, and when on ball nights the
ladies scrambled for sweetmeats on the dancing-floor. As to their probable toilets, one could
not give purer pleasure than by quoting Mrs. Delany's description of one of them:--

'The Duchess's dress was of white satin embroidered, the bottom of the petticoat brown hills
covered with all sorts of weeds, and every breadth had an old stump of a tree, that ran up
almost to the top of the petticoat, broken and ragged, and worked with brown chenille, round
which twined nasturtiums, ivy, honeysuckles, periwinkles, and all sorts of running flowers,
which spread and covered the petticoat.... The robings and facings were little green banks
covered with all sorts of weeds, and the sleeves and the rest of the gown loose twining branches
of the same sort as those on the petticoat. Many of the leaves were finished with gold, and
part of the stumps of the trees looked like the gilding of the sun. I never saw a piece of
work so prettily fancied.'

She adds a few other details for the instruction of her sister Anne:--

'Heads are variously adorned; pompons with some accompaniment of feathers, ribbons, or flowers;
lappets in all sorts of curli-murlis; long hoods are worn close under the chin; the ear-rings
go round the neck(!), and tie with bows and ends behind. Night-gowns are worn without hoops.'

Part Second--Munster.

Chapter VII. A tour and a detour.

     '"An' there," sez I to meself, "we're goin' wherever we go,
       But where we'll be whin we git there it's never a know
                 I'll know."'
                                              Jane Barlow.

We had planned to go direct from Dublin to Valencia Island, where there is not, I am told,
'one dhry step 'twixt your fut an' the States'; but we thought it too tiring a journey for
Benella, and arranged for a little visit to Cork first. We nearly missed the train owing to
the late arrival of Salemina at the Kingsbridge station. She had been buying malted milk, Mellin's
Food, an alcohol lamp, a tin cup, and getting all the doctor's prescriptions renewed.

We intended, too, to go second or third class now an then, in order to study the humours of
the natives, but of course we went 'first' on this occasion on account of Benella. I told her
that we could not follow British usage and call her by her surname. Dusenberry was too long
and too--well, too extraordinary for daily use abroad.

"P'r'aps it is," she assented meekly; "and still, Mis' Beresford, when a man's name is Dusenberry,
you can't hardly blame him for wanting his child to be called by it, can you?"

This was incontrovertible, and I asked her middle name. It was Frances, and that was too like
Francesca.

"You don't like the sound o' Benella?" she inquired. "I've always set great store by my name,
it is so unlikely. My father's name was Benjamin and my mother's Ella, and mine is made from
both of 'em; but you can call me any kind of a name you please, after what you've done for
me," and she closed her eyes patiently.

     'Call me Daphne, call me Chloris,
      Call me Lalage or Doris,
      Only, only call me thine,'

which is exactly what we are not ready to do, I thought, in a poetic parenthesis.

Benella looks frail and yet hardy. She has an unusual and perhaps unnecessary amount of imagination
for her station, some native common-sense, but limited experience; she is somewhat vague and
inconsistent in her theories of life, but I am sure there is vitality, and energy too, in her
composition, although it has been temporarily drowned in the Atlantic Ocean. If she were a
clock, I should think that some experimenter had taken out her original works, and substituted
others to see how they would run. The clock has a New England case and strikes with a New England
tone, but the works do not match it altogether. Of course I know that one does not ordinarily
engage a lady's-maid because of these piquant peculiarities; but in our case the circumstances
were extraordinary. I have explained them fully to Himself in my letters, and Francesca too
has written pages of illuminating detail to Ronald Macdonald.

The similarity in the minds of men must sometimes come across them with a shock, unless indeed
it appeals to their sense of humour. Himself in America, and the Rev. Mr. Macdonald in the
north of Scotland, both answered, in course of time, that a lady's-maid should be engaged because
is a lady's-maid and for no other reason.

Was ever anything duller than this, more conventional, more commonplace or didactic, less imaginative?
Himself added, "You are a romantic idiot, and I love you more than tongue can tell." Francesca
did not say what Ronald added; probably a part of this same sentence (owing to the aforesaid
similarity of men's minds), reserving the rest for the frank intimacy of the connubial state.

Everything looked beautiful in the uncertain glory of the April day. The thistle-down clouds
opened now and then to shake out a delicate, brilliant little shower that ceased in a trice,
and the sun smiled through the light veil of rain, turning every falling drop to a jewel. It
was as if the fairies were busy at aerial watering-pots, without any more serious purpose than
to amuse themselves and make the earth beautiful; and we realised that Irish rain is as warm
as an Irish welcome, and soft as an Irish smile.

Everything was bursting into new life, everything but the primroses, and their glory was departing.
The yellow carpet seemed as bright as ever on the sunny hedgerow banks and on the fringe of
the woods, but when we plucked some at a wayside station we saw that they were just past their
golden prime. There was a grey-green hint of verdure in the sallows that stood against a dark
background of firs, and the branches of the fruit-trees were tipped with pink, rosy-hued promises
of May just threatening to break through their silvery April sheaths. Raindrops were still
glistening on the fronds of the tender young ferns and on the great clumps of pale, delicately
scented bog violets that we found in a marshy spot and brought in to Salemina, who was not
in her usual spirits; who indeed seemed distinctly anxious.

She was enchanted with the changeful charm of the landscape, and found Mrs. Delany's Memoirs
a book after her own heart, but ever and anon her eyes rested on Benella's pale face. Nothing
could have been more doggedly conscientious and assiduous than our attentions to the Derelict.
She had beef juice at Kildare, malted milk at Ballybrophy, tea at Dundrum; nevertheless, as
we approached Limerick Junction we were obliged to hold a consultation. Salemina wished to
alight from the train at the next station, take a three hours' rest, then jog on to any comfortable
place for the night, and to Cork in the morning.

"I shall feel much more comfortable," she said, "if you go on and amuse yourselves as you like,
leaving Benella to me for a day, or even for two or three days. I can't help feeling that the
chief fault, or at least the chief responsibility, is mine. If I hadn't been born in Salem,
or hadn't had the word painted on my trunk in such red letters she wouldn't have fainted on
it, and I needn't have saved her life. It is too late to turn back now; it is saved, or partly
saved, and I must persevere in saving it, at least until I find that it's not worth saving."

"Poor darling!" said Francesca sympathisingly. "I'll look in Murray and find a nice interesting
place. You can put Benella to bed in the Southern Hotel at Limerick Junction, and perhaps you
can then drive within sight of the Round Tower of Cashel. Then you can take up the afternoon
train and go to--let me see--how would you like Buttevant? (Boutez en avant, you know, the
'Push forward' motto of the Barrymores.) It's delightful, Penelope," she continued; "we'd better
get off, too. It is a garrison town, and there is a military hotel. Then in the vicinity is
Kilcolman, where Spenser wrote the Faerie Queene: so there is the beginning of your literary
pilgrimage the very first day, without any plotting or planning. The little river Aubeg, which
flows by Kilcolman Castle, Spenser called the Mulla, and referred to it as 'Mulla mine, whose
waves I whilom taught to weep.' That, by the way, is no more than our Jane Grieve could have
done for the rivers of Scotland. What do you say? and won't you be a 'prood woman the day'
when you sign the hotel register 'Miss Peabody and maid, Salem, Mass., U.S.A'"

I thought most favourably of Buttevant, but on prudently inquiring the guard's opinion, he
said it was not a comfortable place for an invalid lady, and that Mallow was much more the
thing. At Limerick Junction, then, we all alighted, and in the ten minutes' wait saw Benella
escorted up the hotel stairway by a sympathetic head waiter.

Detached from Salemina's fostering care and prudent espionage, separated, above all, from the
depressing Miss Dusenberry, we planned every conceivable folly in the way of guidebook expeditions.
The exhilarating sense of being married, and therefore properly equipped to undertake any sort
of excursion with perfect propriety, gave added zest to the affair in my eyes. Sleeping at
Cork in an Imperial Hotel was far too usual a proceeding,--we scorned it. As the very apex
of boldness and reckless defiance of common-sense, we let our heavy luggage go on to the capital
of Munster, and, taking our handbags, entered a railway carriage standing on a side track,
and were speedily on our way,--we knew not whither, and cared less. We discovered all too soon
that we were going to Waterford, the Star of the Suir,--

     'The gentle Shure, that making way
      By sweet Clonmell, adorns rich Waterford';

and we were charmed at first sight with its quaint bridge spanning the silvery river. It was
only five o'clock, and we walked about the fine old ninth-century town, called by the Cavaliers
the Urbs Intacta, because it was the one place in Ireland which successfully resisted the all-conquering
Cromwell. Francesca sent a telegram at once to

     MISS PEABODY AND MAID, Great Southern Hotel, Limerick Junction.

     Came to Waterford instead Cork.  Strongbow landed here 1771,
defeating Danes and Irish. Youghal to-morrow, pronounced Yawl. Address,
Green Park, Miss Murphy's. How's Derelict?

     FRANELOPE.

It was absurd, of course, but an absurdity that can be achieved at the cost of eighteen-pence
is well worth the money.

Nobody but a Baedeker or a Murray could write an account of our doings the next two days. Feeling
that we might at any hour be recalled to Benella's bedside, we took a childlike pleasure in
crowding as much as possible into the time. This zeal was responsible for our leaving the Urbs
Intacta, and pushing on to pass the night in something smaller and more idyllic.

I dissuaded Francesca from seeking a lodging in Ballybricken by informing her that it was the
heart of the bacon industry, and the home of the best-known body of pig-buyers in Ireland;
but her mind was fixed upon Kills and Ballies. On asking our jarvey the meaning of Bally as
a prefix, he answered reflectively: "I don't think there's annything onderhanded in the manin',
melady; I think it means BALLY jist."

The name of the place where we did go shall never be divulged, lest a curious public follow
in our footsteps; and if perchance it have not our youth, vigour, and appetite for adventure,
it might die there in the principal hotel, unwept, unhonoured, and unsung. The house is said
to be three hundred and seventy-five years old, but we are convinced that this is a wicked
understatement of its antiquity. It must have been built since the Deluge, else it would at
least have had one general spring cleaning in the course of its existence. Cromwell had been
there too, and in the confusion of his departure they must have forgotten to sweep under the
beds. We entered our rooms at ten in the evening, having dismissed our car, knowing well that
there was no other place to stop the night. We gave the jarvey twice his fare to avoid altercation,
'but divil a penny less would he take,' although it was he who had recommended the place as
a cosy hotel. "It looks like a small little house, melady, but 'tis large inside, and it has
a power o' beds in it." We each generously insisted on taking the dirtiest bedroom (they had
both been last occupied by the Cromwellian soldiers, we agreed), but relinquished the idea,
because the more we compared them the more impossible it was to decide which was the dirtiest.
There were no locks on the doors. "And sure what matther for that, Miss? Nobody has a right
(i.e. business) to be comin' in here but meself," said the aged woman who showed us to our rooms.

Chapter VIII. Romance and reality.

     'But he lay like a warrior taking his rest,
      With his martial cloak around him.'
                             Charles Wolfe.

At midnight I heard a faint tap at my door, and Francesca walked in, her eyes wide and bright,
her cheeks flushed, her long, dark braid of hair hanging over her black travelling cloak. I
laughed as I saw her, she looked so like Sir Patrick Spens in the ballad play at Pettybaw,--a
memorable occasion when Ronald Macdonald caught her acting that tragic role in his ministerial
gown, the very day that Himself came from Paris to marry me in Pettybaw, dear little Pettybaw!

"I came in to find out if your bed is as bad as mine, but I see you have not slept in it,"
she whispered.

"I was just coming in to see if yours could be any worse," I replied. "Do you mean to say that
you have tried it, courageous girl? I blew out my candle, and then, after an interval in which
to forget, sat down on the outside as a preliminary; but the moon rose just then, and I could
get no further."

I had not unpacked my bag. I had simply slipped on my macintosh, selected a wooden chair, and,
putting a Cromwellian towel over it, seated myself shudderingly on it and put my feet on the
rounds, quoting Moore meantime--

       'And the best of all ways
        To lengthen our days
      Is to steal a few hours from the night, my dear!"

Francesca followed my example, and we passed the night in reading Celtic romances to each other.
We could see the faint outline of sweet Slievenamann from our windows--the mountain of the
fair women of Feimheann, celebrated as the hunting-ground of the Finnian Chiefs.

       'One day Finn and Oscar
      Followed the chase in Sliabh-na-mban-Feimheann,
      With three thousand Finnian chiefs
      Ere the sun looked out from his circle.'

In the Finnian legend, the great Finn McCool, when much puzzled in the choice of a wife, seated
himself on its summit. At last he decided to make himself a prize in a competition of all the
fair women in Ireland. They should start at the foot of the mountain, and the one who first
reached the summit should be the great Finn's bride. It was Grainne Oge, the Gallic Helen,
and daughter of Cormac, the king of Ireland, who won the chieftain, 'being fleetest of foot
and longest of wind.'

We almost forgot our discomforts in this enthralling story, and slept on each other's nice
clean shoulders a little, just before the dawn. And such a dawn! Such infinite softness of
air, such dew-drenched verdure! It is a backward spring, they say, but to me the woods are
even lovelier than in their summer wealth of foliage, when one can hardly distinguish the beauty
of the single tree from that of its neighbours, since the colours are blended in one universal
green. Now we see the feathery tassels of the beech bursting out of their brown husks, the
russet hues of the young oak leaves, and the countless emerald gleams that 'break from the
ruby-budded lime.' The greenest trees are the larch, the horse-chestnut, and the sycamore,
three naturalised citizens who apparently still keep to their native fashions, and put out
their foliage as they used to do in their own homes. The young alders and the hawthorn hedges
are greening, but it will be a fortnight before we can realise the beauty of that snow-white
bloom, with its bitter-sweet fragrance. The cuckoo-flower came this year before instead of
after the bird, they tell us, showing that even Nature, in these days of anarchy and misrule,
is capable of taking liberties with her own laws. There is a fragrance of freshly turned earth
in the air, and the rooks are streaming out from the elms by the little church, and resting
for a bit in a group of plume-like yews. The last few days of warmth and sunshine have inspired
the birds, and as Francesca and I sit at our windows breathing in the sweetness and freshness
of the morning, there is a concert of thrushes and blackbirds in the shrubberies. The little
birds furnish the chorus or the undertone of song, the hedge-sparrows, redbreasts, and chaffinches,
but the meistersingers 'call the tune,' and lead the feathered orchestra with clear and certain
notes. It is a golden time for the minstrels, for nest-building is finished, and the feeding
of the younglings a good time yet in the future. We can see one little brown lady hovering
warm eggs under her breast, her bright eyes peeping through a screen of leaves as she glances
up at her singing lord, pouring out his thanks for the morning sun. There is only a hint of
breeze, it might almost be the whisper of uncurling fern fronds, but soft as it is, it stirs
the branches here and there, and I know that it is rocking hundreds of tiny cradles in the forest.

When I was always painting in those other days before I met Himself, one might think my eyes
would have been even keener to see beauty than now, when my brushes are more seldom used; but
it is not so. There is something, deep hidden in my consciousness, that makes all loveliness
lovelier, that helps me to interpret it in a different and in a larger sense. I have a feeling
that I have been lifted out of the individual and given my true place in the general scheme
of the universe, and, in some subtle way that I can hardly explain, I am more nearly related
to all things good, beautiful, and true than I was when I was wholly an artist, and therefore
less a woman. The bursting of the leaf-buds brings me a tender thought of the one dear heart
that gives me all its spring; and whenever I see the smile of a child, a generous look, the
flash of sympathy in an eye, it makes me warm with swift remembrance of the one I love the
best of all, just 'as a lamplight will set a linnet singing for the sun.'

Love is doing the same thing for Francesca; for the smaller feelings merge themselves in the
larger ones, as little streams lose themselves in oceans. Whenever we talk quietly together
of that strange, new, difficult life that she is going so bravely and so joyously to meet,
I know by her expression that Ronald's noble face, a little shy, a little proud, but altogether
adoring, serves her for courage and for inspiration, and she feels that his hand is holding
hers across the distance, in a clasp that promises strength.

At five o'clock we longed to ring for hot water, but did not dare. Even at six there was no
sound of life in the cosy inn which we have named The Cromwell Arms ('Mrs. Duddy, Manageress;
Comfort, Cleanliness, Courtesy; Night Porter; Cycling Shed'). From seven to half-past we read
pages and pages of delicious history and legend, and decided to go from Cappoquin to Youghal
by steamer, if we could possibly reach the place of departure in time. At half-past seven we
pulled the bell energetically. Nothing happened, and we pulled again and again, discovering
at last that the connection between the bell-rope and the bell-wire had long since disappeared,
though it had been more than once established with bits of twine, fishing-line, and shoe laces.
Francesca then went across the hall to examine her methods of communication, and presently
I heard a welcome tinkle, and another, and another, followed in due season by a cheerful voice,
saying, "Don't desthroy it intirely, ma'am; I'll be coming direckly." We ordered jugs of hot
water, and were told that it would be some time before it could be had, as ladies were not
in the habit of calling for it before nine in the morning, and as the damper of the kitchen-range
was out of order. Did we wish it in a little canteen with whisky and a bit of lemon-peel, or
were we afther wantin' it in a jug? We replied promptly that it was not the hour for toddy,
but the hour for baths, with us, and the decrepit and very sleepy night porter departed to
wake the cook and build the fire; advising me first, in a friendly way, to take the hearth
brush that was 'kapin' the windy up, and rap on the wall if I needed annything more.' At eight
o'clock we heard the porter's shuffling step in the hall, followed by a howl and a polite objurgation.
A strange dog had passed the night under Francesca's bed, and the porter was giving him what
he called 'a good hand and fut downstairs.' He had put down the hot water for this operation,
and on taking up the burden again we heard him exclaim: "Arrah! look at that now! May the divil
fly away with the excommunicated ould jug!" It was past saving, the jug, and leaked so freely
that one had to be exceedingly nimble to put to use any of the smoky water in it. "Thim fools
o' turf do nothing but smoke on me," apologised the venerable servitor, who then asked, "would
we be pleased to order breakquist." We were wise in our generation, and asked for nothing but
bacon, eggs, and tea; and after a smoky bath and a change of raiment we seated at our repast
in the coffee-room, feeling wonderfully fresh and cheerful. By looking directly at each other
most of the time, and making experimental journeys from plate to mouth, thus barring out any
intimate knowledge of the tablecloth and the waiter's linen, we managed to make a breakfast.
Francesca is enough to give any one a good appetite. Ronald Macdonald will be a lucky fellow,
I think, to begin his day by sitting opposite her, for her eyes shine like those of a child,
and one's gaze lingers fondly on the cool freshness of her cheek. Breakfast over and the bill
settled, we speedily shook off as much of the dust of Mrs. Duddy's hotel as could be shaken
off, and departed on the most decrepit sidecar that ever rolled on two wheels, being wished
a safe journey by a slatternly maid who stood in the doorway, by the wide Mrs. Duddy herself,
who realised in her capacious person the picturesque Irish phrase, 'the full-of-the-door of
a woman,' and by our friend the head waiter, who leaned against Mrs. Duddy's ancestral pillars
in such a way that the morning sun shone full upon his costume and revealed its weaknesses
to our reluctant gaze.

The driver said it was eleven miles to Cappoquin, the guide-book fourteen, but this difference
of opinion, we find, is only the difference between Irish and English miles, for which our
driver had an unspeakable contempt, as of a vastly inferior quality. He had, on the other hand,
a great respect for Mrs. Duddy and her comfortable, cleanly, and courteous establishment (as
per advertisement), and the warmest admiration for the village in which she had appropriately
located herself, a village which he alluded to as 'wan of the natest towns in the ring of Ireland,
for if ye made a slip in the street of it, be the help of God ye were always sure to fall into
a public-house!'

"We had better not tell the full particulars of this journey to Salemina," said Francesca prudently,
as we rumbled along; "though, oddly enough, if you remember, whenever any one speaks disparagingly
of Ireland, she always takes up cudgels in its behalf."

"Francesca, now that you are within three or four months of being married, can you manage to
keep a secret?"

"Yes," she whispered eagerly, squeezing my hand and inclining her shoulder cosily to mine.
"Yes, oh yes, and how it would raise my spirits after a sleepless night!"

"When Salemina was eighteen she had a romance, and the hero of it was the son of an Irish gentleman,
an M.P., who was travelling in America, or living there for a few years,--I can't remember
which. He was nothing more than a lad, less than twenty-one years old, but he was very much
in love with Salemina. How far her feelings were involved I never knew, but she felt that she
could not promise to marry him. Her mother was an invalid, and her father a delightful, scholarly,
autocratic, selfish old gentleman, who ruled his household with a rod of iron. Salemina coddled
and nursed them both during all her young life; indeed, little as she realised it, she never
had any separate existence or individuality until they both died, when she was thirty-one or
two years old."

"And what became of the young Irishman? Was he faithful to his first love, or did he marry?"

"He married, many years afterward, and that was the time I first heard the story. His marriage
took place in Dublin, on the very day, I believe, that Salemina's father was buried; for Fate
has the most relentless way of arranging these coincidences. I don't remember his name, and
I don't know where he lives or what has become of him. I imagine the romance has been dead
and buried in rose-leaves for years; Salemina never has spoken of it to me, but it would account
for her sentimental championship of Ireland."

Chapter IX. The light of other days.

If you want to fall head over ears in love with Ireland at the very first sight of her charms,
take, as we did, the steamer from Cappoquin to Youghal, and float down the vale of the Blackwater--

     'Swift Awniduff, which of the Englishman
      Is cal' de Blackwater.'

The shores of this Irish Rhine are so lovely that the sail on a sunny day is one of unequalled
charm. Behind us the mountains ranged themselves in a mysterious melancholy background; ahead
the river wended its way southward in and out, in and out, through rocky cliffs and well-wooded
shores.

The first tributary stream that we met was the little Finisk, on the higher banks of which
is Affane House. The lands of Affane are said to have been given by one of the FitzGeralds
to Sir Walter Raleigh for a breakfast, a very high price to pay for bacon and eggs, and it
was here that he planted the first cherry-tree in Ireland, bringing it from the Canary Islands
to the Isle of Weeping.

Looking back just below here, we saw the tower and cloisters of Mount Melleray, the Trappist
monastery. Very beautiful and very lonely looked 'the little town of God,' in the shadows of
the gloomy hills. We wished we had known the day before how near we were to it, for we could
have claimed a night's lodging at the ladies' guest-house, where all creeds, classes, and nationalities
are received with a cead-mile-failte, [*] and where any offering for food or shelter is given
only at the visitors pleasure. The Celtic proverb, 'Melodious is the closed mouth,' might be
written over the cloisters; for it is a village of silence, and only the monks who teach in
the schools or who attend visitors are absolved from the vow.

     *A hundred thousand welcomes.

Next came Dromana Castle, where the extraordinary old Countess of Desmond was born,--the wonderful
old lady whose supposed one hundred and forty years so astonished posterity. She must have
married Thomas, twelfth Earl of Desmond, after 1505, as his first wife is known to have been
alive in that year. Raleigh saw her in 1589, and she died in 1604: so it would seem that she
must have been at least one hundred and ten or one hundred and twelve when she met her untimely
death,--a death brought about entirely by her own youthful impetuosity and her fondness for
athletic sports. Robert Sydney, second Earl of Leicester, makes the following reference to
her in his Table-Book, written when he was ambassador at Paris, about 1640:--

'The old Countess of Desmond was a marryed woman in Edward IV. time in England, and lived till
towards the end of Queen Elizabeth, so she must needes be neare one hundred and forty yeares
old. She had a new sett of teeth not long afore her death, and might have lived much longer
had she not mett with a kinde of violent death; for she would needes climbe a nut-tree to gather
nuts; so falling down she hurt her thigh, which brought a fever, and that fever brought death.
This my cousin Walter Fitzwilliam told me.'

It is true that the aforesaid cousin Walter may have been a better raconteur than historian;
still, local tradition vigorously opposes any lessening of the number of the countess's years,
pinning its faith rather on one Hayman, who says that she presented herself at the English
court at the age of one hundred and forty years, to petition for her jointure, which she lost
by the attainder of the last earl; and it also prefers to have her fall from the historic cherry-tree
that Sir Walter planted, rather than from a casual nut-tree.

Down the lovely river we went, lazily lying back in the sun, almost the only passengers on
the little craft, as it was still far too early for tourists; down past Villierstown, Cooneen
Ferry, Strancally Castle, with its 'Murdering Hole' made famous by the Lords of Desmond, through
the Broads of Clashmore; then past Temple Michael, an old castle of the Geraldines, which Cromwell
battered down for 'dire insolence,' until we steamed slowly into the harbour of Youghal--and,
to use our driver's expression, there is no more 'onderhanded manin'' in Youghal than the town
of the Yew Wood, which is much prettier to the eye and sweeter to the ear.

Here we found a letter from Salemina, and expended another eighteenpence in telegraphing to her:--

     PEABODY, Coolkilla House, near Mardyke Walk, Cork.

     We are under Yew Tree at Myrtle Grove where Raleigh and Spenser
smoked, read manuscript Faerie Queene, and planted first potato.
Delighted Benella better. Join you to-morrow. Don't encourage
archaeologist.

     PENESCA.

We had a charming hour at Myrtle Grove House, an unpretentious, gabled dwelling, for a time
the residence of the ill-fated soldier captain, Sir Walter Raleigh. You remember, perhaps,
that he was mayor of Youghal in 1588. After the suppression of the Geraldine rebellion, the
vast estates of the Earl of Desmond and those of one hundred and forty of the leading gentlemen
of Munster, his adherents, were confiscated, and proclamation was made all through England
inviting gentlemen to 'undertake' the plantation of this rich territory. Estates were offered
at two or three pence an acre, and no rent was to be paid for the first five years. Many of
these great 'undertakers,' as they were called, were English noblemen who never saw Ireland;
but among them were Raleigh and Spenser, who received forty-two thousand and twelve thousand
acres respectively, and in consideration of certain patronage 'undertook' to carry the business
of the Crown through Parliament.

Francesca was greatly pleased with this information, culled mostly from Joyce's Child's History
of Ireland. The volume had been bought in Dublin by Salemina and presented to us as a piece
of genial humour, but it became our daily companion.

I made a rhyme for her, which she sent Miss Peabody, to show her that we were growing in wisdom,
notwithstanding our separation from her.

    'You have thought of Sir Walter as soldier and knight,
     Edmund Spenser, you've heard, was well able to write;
     But Raleigh the planter, and Spenser verse-maker,
     Each, oddly enough, was by trade 'Undertaker.''

It was in 1589 that the Shepherd of the Ocean, as Spenser calls him, sailed to England to superintend
the publishing of the Faerie Queene: so from what I know of authors' habits, it is probable
that Spenser did read him the poem under the Yew Tree in Myrtle Grove garden. It seems long
ago, does it not, when the Faerie Queene was a manuscript, tobacco just discovered, the potato
a novelty, and the first Irish cherry-tree just a wee thing newly transplanted from the Canary
Islands? Were our own cherry-trees already in America when Columbus discovered us, or did the
Pilgrim Fathers bring over 'slips' or 'grafts,' knowing that they would be needed for George
Washington later on, so that he might furnish an untruthful world with a sublime sentiment?
We re-read Salemina's letter under the Yew Tree:--

                                           Coolkilla House, Cork.
MY DEAREST GIRLS,--It seems years instead of days since we parted, and
I miss the two madcaps more than I can say. In your absence my life
is always so quiet, discreet, dignified,--and, yes, I confess it, so
monotonous! I go to none but the best hotels, meet none but the
best people, and my timidity and conservatism for ever keep me in
conventional paths. Dazzled and terrified as I still am when you
precipitate adventures upon me, I always find afterwards that I
have enjoyed them in spite of my fears. Life without you is like a
stenographic report of a dull sermon; with you it is by turns a dramatic
story, a poem, and a romance. Sometimes it is a penny-dreadful, as when
you deliberately leave your luggage on an express train going south,
enter another standing upon a side track, and embark for an unknown
destination. I watched you from an upper window of the Junction Hotel,
but could not leave Benella to argue with you. When your respected
husband and lover have charge of you, you will not be allowed such
pranks, I warrant you.

Benella has improved wonderfully in the last twenty-four hours, and I am trying to give her
some training for her future duties. We can never forget our native land so long as we have
her with us, for she is a perfect specimen of the Puritan spinster, though too young in years,
perhaps, for determined celibacy. Do you know, we none of us mentioned wages in our conversations
with her? Fortunately she seems more alive to the advantages of foreign travel than to the
filling of her empty coffers. (By the way, I have written to the purser of the ship that she
crossed in, to see if I can recover the sixty or seventy dollars she left behind her.) Her
principal idea in life seems to be that of finding some kind of work that will be 'interestin''
whether it is lucrative or not.

I don't think she will be able to dress hair, or anything of that sort--save in the way of
plain sewing, she is very unskilful with her hands; and she will be of no use as courier, she
is so provincial and inexperienced. She has no head for business whatever, and cannot help
Francesca with the accounts. She recites to herself again and again, 'Four farthings make one
penny, twelvepence make one shilling, twenty shillings make one pound'; but when I give her
a handful of money and ask her for six shillings and sixpence, five and three, one pound two,
or two pound ten, she cannot manage the operation. She is docile, well mannered, grateful,
and really likable, but her present philosophy of life is a thing of shreds and patches. She
calls it 'the science,' as if there were but one; and she became a convert to its teachings
this past winter, while living in the house of a woman lecturer in Salem, a lecturer, not a
'curist,' she explains. She attended to the door, ushered in the members of classes, kept the
lecture-room in order, and so forth, imbibing by the way various doctrines, or parts of doctrines,
which she is not the sort of person to assimilate, but with which she is experimenting: holding,
meantime, a grim intuition of their foolishness, or so it seems to me. 'The science' made it
easier for her to seek her ancestors in a foreign country with only a hundred dollars in her
purse; for the Salem priestess proclaims the glad tidings that all the wealth of the world
is ours, if we will but assert our heirship. Benella believed this more or less until a week's
sea-sickness undermined all her new convictions of every sort. When she woke in the little
bedroom at O'Carolan's, she says, her heart was quite at rest, for she knew that we were the
kind of people one could rely on! I mustered courage to say, "I hope so, and I hope also that
we shall be able to rely upon you, Benella!"

This idea evidently had not occurred to her, but she accepted it, and I could see that she
turned it over in her mind. You can imagine that this vague philosophy of a Salem woman scientist
superimposed on a foundation of orthodoxy makes a curious combination, and one which will only
be temporary.

We shall expect you to-morrow evening, and we shall be quite ready to go on to the Lakes of
Killarney or wherever you wish. By the way, I met an old acquaintance the morning I arrived
here. I went to see Queen's College; and as I was walking under the archway which has carved
upon it, 'Where Finbarr taught let Munster learn,' I saw two gentlemen. They looked like professors,
and I asked if I might see the college. They said certainly, and offered to take my card into
some one who would do the honours properly. I passed it to one of them: we looked at each other,
and recognition was mutual. He (Dr. La Touche) is giving a course of lectures here on Irish
Antiquities. It has been a great privilege to see this city and its environs with so learned
a man; I wish you could have shared it. Yesterday he made up a party and we went to Passage,
which you may remember in Father Prout's verses:--

     'The town of Passage is both large and spacious,
        And situated upon the say;
      'Tis nate and dacent, and quite adjacent
        To come from Cork on a summer's day.
      There you may slip in and take a dippin'
        Fornent the shippin' that at anchor ride;
      Or in a wherry cross o'er the ferry
        To Carrigaloe, on the other side.'

Dr. La Touche calls Father Prout an Irish potato seasoned with Attic salt. Is not that a good
characterisation?

Good-bye for the moment, as I must see about Benella's luncheon.

Yours affectionately S.P.

Chapter X. The belles of Shandon.

     'The spreading Lee that, like an Island fayre,
      Encloseth Corke with his divided floode.'
                               Edmund Spenser.

We had seen all that Youghal could offer to the tourist; we were yearning for Salemina; we
wanted to hear Benella talk about 'the science'; we were eager to inspect the archaeologist,
to see if he 'would do' for Salemina instead of the canon, or even the minor canon, of the
English Church, for whom we had always privately destined her. Accordingly we decided to go
by an earlier train, and give our family a pleasant surprise. It was five o'clock in the afternoon
when our car trundled across St. Patrick's Bridge, past Father Mathew's statue, and within
view of the church and bells of Shandon, that sound so grand on the pleasant waters of the
river Lee. Away to the west is the two-armed river. Along its banks rise hills, green and well
wooded, with beautiful gardens and verdant pastures reaching to the very brink of the shining
stream.

It was Saturday afternoon, and I never drove through a livelier, quainter, more easy-going
town. The streets were full of people selling various things and plying various trades, and
among them we saw many a girl pretty enough to recall Thackeray's admiration of the Corkagian
beauties of his day. There was one in particular, driving a donkey in a straw-coloured governess
cart, to whose graceful charm we succumbed on the instant. There was an exquisite deluderin'
wildness about her, a vivacity, a length of eyelash with a gleam of Irish grey eye, 'the greyest
of all things blue, the bluest of all things grey,' that might well have inspired the English
poet to write of her as he did of his own Irish wife; for Spenser, when he was not writing
the Faerie Queene, or smoking Raleigh's fragrant weed, wooed and wedded a fair colleen of County
Cork.

     'Tell me, ye merchant daughters, did ye see
      So fayre a creature in your town before?
      Her goodlie eyes, like sapphyres shining bright;
      Her forehead, ivory white;
      Her lips like cherries, charming men to byte.'

Now we turned into the old Mardyke Walk, a rus in urbe, an avenue a mile long lined with noble
elm-trees; forsaken now as a fashionable promenade for the Marina, but still beautiful and
still beloved, though frequented chiefly by nurse-maids and children. Such babies and such
children, of all classes and conditions--so jolly, smiling, dimpled, curly-headed; such joyous
disregard of rags and dirt; such kindness one to the other in the little groups, where a child
of ten would be giving an anxious eye to four or five brothers and sisters, and mothering a
contented baby in arms as well.

Our driver, though very loquacious, was not quite intelligible. He pronounced the simple phrase
'St. Patrick's Street' in a way to astonish the traveller; it would seem impossible to crowd
as many h's into three words, and to wrap each in flannel, as he succeeded in doing. He seemed
pleased with our admiration of the babies, and said that Irish children did be very fat and
strong and hearty; that they were the very best soldiers the Queen had, God kape her! They
could stand anny hardship and anny climate, for they were not brought up soft, like the English.
He also said that, fine as all Irish children undoubtedly were, Cork produced the flower of
them all, and the finest women and the finest men; backing his opinion with an Homeric vaunt
which Francesca took down on the spot:--

     'I'd back one man from Corkshire
      To bate ten more from Yorkshire:
        Kerrymen
        Agin Derrymen,
      And Munster agin creation,
      Wirrasthrue! 'tis a pity we aren't a nation!'

Here he slackened his pace as we passed a small bosthoon driving a donkey, to call out facetiously,
"Be good to your little brother, achree!"

"We must be very near Coolkilla House by this time," said Francesca. "That isn't Salemina sitting
on the bench under the trees, is it? There is a gentleman with her, and she never wears a wide
hat, but it looks like her red umbrella. No, of course it isn't, for whoever it is belongs
to that maid with the two children. Penelope, it is borne in upon me that we shouldn't have
come here unannounced, three hours ahead of the time arranged. Perhaps, whenever we had chosen
to come, it would have been too soon. Wouldn't it be exciting to have to keep out of Salemina's
way, as she has always done for us? I couldn't endure it; it would make me homesick for Ronald.
Go slowly, driver, please."

Nevertheless, as we drew nearer we saw that it was Salemina; or at least it was seven-eighths
of her, and one-eighth of a new person with whom we were not acquainted. She rose to meet us
with an exclamation of astonishment, and after a hasty and affectionate greeting, presented
Dr. La Touche. He said a few courteous words, and to our relief made no allusions to round
towers, duns, raths, or other antiquities, and bade us adieu, saying that he should have the
honour of waiting upon us that evening with our permission.

A person in a neat black dress and little black bonnet with white lawn strings now brought
up the two children to say good-bye to Salemina. It was the Derelict, Benella Dusenberry, clothed
in maid's apparel, and looking, notwithstanding that disguise, like a New England schoolma'am.
She was delighted to see us, scanned every detail of Francesca's travelling costume with the
frankest admiration, and would have allowed us to carry our wraps and umbrellas upstairs if
she had not been reminded by Salemina. We had a cosy cup of tea together, and told our various
adventures, but Salemina was not especially communicative about hers. Oddly enough, she had
met the La Touche children at the hotel in Mallow. They were travelling with a very raw Irish
nurse, who had no control of them whatever. They shrieked and kicked when taken to their rooms
at night, until Salemina was obliged to speak to them, in order that Benella's rest should
not be disturbed.

"I felt so sorry for them," she said--"the dear little girl put to bed with tangled hair and
unwashed face, the boy in a rumpled, untidy nightgown, the bedclothes in confusion. I didn't
know who they were nor where they came from, but while the nurse was getting her supper I made
them comfortable, and Broona went to sleep with my strange hand in hers. Perhaps it was only
the warm Irish heart, the easy friendliness of the Irish temperament, but I felt as if the
poor little things must be neglected indeed, or they would not have clung to a woman whom they
had never seen before." (This is a mistake; anybody who has the opportunity always clings to
Salemina.) "The next morning they were up at daylight, romping in the hall, stamping, thumping,
clattering, with a tin cart on wheels rattling behind them. I know it was not my affair, and
I was guilty of unpardonable rudeness, but I called the nurse into my room and spoke to her
severely. No, you needn't smile; I was severe. 'Will you kindly do your duty, and keep the
children quiet as they pass through the halls?' I said. 'It is never too soon to teach them
to obey the rules of a public place, and to be considerate of older people.' She seemed awestruck.
But when she found her tongue she stammered, 'Sure, ma'am, I've tould thim three times this
day already that when their father comes he'll bate thim with a blackthorn stick!'

"Naturally I was horrified. This, I thought, would explain everything: no mother, and an irritable,
cruel father.

"'Will he really do such a thing?' I asked, feeling as if I must know the truth.

"'Sure he will not, ma'am!' she answered cheerfully. 'He wouldn't lift a feather to thim, not
if they murdthered the whole counthryside, ma'am.'

"Well, they travelled third class to Cork, and we came first, so we did not meet, and I did
not ask their surnames; but it seems that they were being brought to their father, whom I met
many years ago in America."

As she did not volunteer any further information, we did not like to ask her where, how many
years ago, or under what circumstances. 'Teasing' of this sort does not appeal to the sophisticated
at any time, but it seems unspeakably vulgar to touch on matters of sentiment with a woman
of middle age. If she has memories, they are sure to be sad and sacred ones; if she has not,
that perhaps is still sadder. We agreed, however, when the evening was over, that Dr. La Touche
was probably the love of her youth--unless, indeed, he was simply an old friend, and the degree
of Salemina's attachment had been exaggerated; something that is very likely to happen in the
gossip of a New England town, where they always incline to underestimate the feeling of the
man, and overrate that of the woman, in any love affair. 'I guess she'd take him if she could
get him' is the spoken or unspoken attitude of the public in rural or provincial New England.

The professor is grave, but very genial when he fully recalls the fact that he is in company,
and has not, like the Trappist monks, taken vows of silence. Francesca behaved beautifully,
on the whole, and made no embarrassing speeches, although she was in her gayest humour. Salemina
blushed a little when the young sinner dragged into the conversation the remark that, undoubtedly,
from the beginning of the sixth century to the end of the eighth, Ireland was the University
of Europe, just as Greece was in the late days of the Roman Republic, and asked our guest when
Ireland ceased to be known as 'Insula sanctorum et doctorum,' the island of saints and scholars.

We had seen her go into Salemina's bedroom, and knew perfectly well that she had consulted
the Peabody notebook, lying open on the desk; but the professor looked as surprised as if he
had heard a pretty paroquet quote Gibbon. I don't like to see grave and reverend scholars stare
at pretty paroquets, but I won't belittle Salemina's exquisite and peculiar charm by worrying
over the matter.

     'Wirra, wirra!  Ologone!
      Can't ye lave a lad alone,
  Till he's proved there's no tradition left of any other girl--
      Not even Trojan Helen,
      In beauty all excellin'--
  Who's been up to half the divilment of Fan Fitzgerl?'

Of course Francesca's heart is fixed upon Ronald Macdonald, but that fact has not altered the
glance of her eyes. They no longer say, 'Wouldn't you like to fall in love with me, if you
dared?' but they still have a gleam that means, 'Don't fall in love with me; it is no use!'
And of the two, one is about as dangerous as the other, and each has something of 'Fan Fitzgerl's
divilment.

     'Wid her brows of silky black
      Arched above for the attack,
  Her eyes they dart such azure death on poor admiring man;
      Masther Cupid, point your arrows,
      From this out, agin the sparrows,
  For you're bested at Love's archery by young Miss Fan.'

Of course Himself never fell a prey to Francesca's fascinations, but then he is not susceptible;
you could send him off for a ten-mile drive in the moonlight with Venus herself, and not be
in the least anxious.

Dr. La Touche is grey for his years, tall and spare in frame, and there are many lines of anxiety
or thought in his forehead; but a wonderful smile occasionally smooths them all out, and gives
his face a rare though transient radiance. He looks to me as if he had loved too many books
and too few people; as if he had tried vainly to fill his heart and life with antiquities,
which of all things, perhaps, are the most bloodless, the least warming and nourishing when
taken in excess or as a steady diet. Himself (God bless him!) shall never have that patient
look, if I can help it; but how it will appeal to Salemina! There are women who are born to
be petted and served, and there are those who seem born to serve others. Salemina's first idea
is always to make tangled things smooth (like little Broona's curly hair); to bring sweet and
discreet order out of chaos; to prune and graft and water and weed and tend things, until they
blossom for very shame under her healing touch. Her mind is catholic, well ordered, and broad,--for
ever full of other people's interests, never of her own: and her heart always seems to me like
some dim, sweet-scented guest-chamber in an old New England mansion, cool and clean and quiet,
and fragrant of lavender. It has been a lovely, generous life, lived for the most part in the
shadow of other people's wishes and plans and desires. I am an impatient person, I confess,
and heaven seems so far away when certain things are in question: the righting of a child's
wrong, or the demolition of a barrier between two hearts; above all, for certain surgical operations,
more or less spiritual, such as removing scales from eyes that refuse to see, and stops from
ears too dull to hear. Nobody shall have our Salemina unless he is worthy, but how I should
like to see her life enriched and crowned! How I should enjoy having her dear little overworn
second fiddle taken from her by main force, and a beautiful first violin, or even the baton
for leading an orchestra, put into her unselfish hands!

And so good-bye and 'good luck to ye, Cork, and your pepper-box steeple,' for we leave you
to-morrow!

Chapter XI.

                                     Knockarney House, Lough Lein.

We are in the province of Munster, the kingdom of Kerry, the town of Ballyfuchsia, and the
house of Mrs. Mullarkey. Knockarney House is not her name for it; I made it myself. Killarney
is church of the sloe-trees; and as kill is church, the 'onderhanded manin'' of 'arney' must
be something about sloes; then, since knock means hill, Knockarney should be hill of the sloe-trees.

I have not lost the memory of Jenny Geddes and Tam o' the Cowgate, but Penelope O'Connor, daughter
of the king of Connaught, is more frequently present in my dreams. I have by no means forgotten
that there was a time when I was not Irish, but for the moment I am of the turf, turfy. Francesca
is really as much in love with Ireland as I, only, since she has in her heart a certain tender
string pulling her all the while to the land of the heather, she naturally avoids comparisons.
Salemina, too, endeavours to appear neutral, lest she should betray an inexplicable interest
in Dr. La Touche's country. Benella and I alone are really free to speak the brogue, and carry
our wild harps slung behind us, like Moore's minstrel boy. Nothing but the ignorance of her
national dishes keeps Benella from entire allegiance to this island; but she thinks a people
who have grown up without a knowledge of doughnuts, baked beans, and blueberry-pie must be
lacking in moral foundations. There is nothing extraordinary in all this; for the Irish, like
the Celtic tribes everywhere, have always had a sort of fascinating power over people of other
races settling among them, so that they become completely fused with the native population,
and grow to be more Irish than the Irish themselves.

We stayed for a few days in the best hotel; it really was quite good, and not a bit Irish.
There was a Swiss manager, an English housekeeper, a French head waiter, and a German office
clerk. Even Salemina, who loves comforts, saw that we should not be getting what is known as
the real thing, under these circumstances, and we came here to this--what shall I call Knockarney
House? It was built originally for a fishing lodge by a sporting gentleman, who brought parties
of friends to stop for a week. On his death is passed somehow into Mrs. Mullarkey's fair hands,
and in a fatal moment she determined to open it occasionally to 'paying guests,' who might
wish a quiet home far from the madding crowd of the summer tourist. This was exactly what we
did want, and here we encamped, on the half-hearted advice of some Irish friends in the town,
who knew nothing else more comfortable to recommend.

"With us, small, quiet, or out-of-the-way places are never clean; or if they are, then they
are not Irish," they said. "You had better see Ireland from the tourist's point of view for
a few years yet, until we have learned the art of living; but if you are determined to know
the humours of the people, cast all thought of comfort behind you."

So we did, and we afterward thought that this would be a good motto for Mrs. Mullarkey to carve
over the door of Knockarney House. (My name for it is adopted more or less by the family, though
Francesca persists in dating her letters to Ronald from 'The Rale Thing,' which it undoubtedly
is.) We take almost all the rooms in the house, but there are a few other guests. Mrs. Waterford,
an old lady of ninety-three, from Mullinavat, is here primarily for her health, and secondarily
to dispose of threepenny shares in an antique necklace, which is to be raffled for the benefit
of a Roman Catholic chapel. Then we have a fishing gentleman and his bride from Glasgow, and
occasional bicyclers who come in for a dinner, a tea, or a lodging. These three comforts of
a home are sometimes quite indistinguishable with us: the tea is frequently made up of fragments
of dinner, and the beds are always sprinkled with crumbs. Their source is a mystery, unless
they fall from the clothing of the chambermaids, who frequently drop hairpins and brooches
and buttons between the sheets, and strew whisk brooms and scissors under the blankets.

We have two general servants, who are supposed to do all the work of the house, and who are
as amiable and obliging and incapable as they well can be. Oonah generally waits upon the table,
and Molly cooks; at least she cooks now and then when she is not engaged with Peter in the
vegetable garden or the stable. But whatever happens, Mrs. Mullarkey, as a descendant of one
of the Irish kings, is to be looked upon only as an inspiring ideal, inciting one to high and
ever higher flights of happy incapacity. Benella ostensibly oversees the care of our rooms,
but she is comparatively helpless in such a kingdom of misrule. Why demand clean linen when
there is none; why seek for a towel at midday when it is never ironed until evening; how sweep
when a broom is all inadequate to the task? Salemina's usual remark, on entering a humble hostelry
anywhere, is: "If the hall is as dirty as this, what must the kitchen be! Order me two hard-boiled
eggs, please!"

"Use your 'science,' Benella," I say to that discouraged New England maiden, who has never
looked at her philosophy from its practical or humorous side. "If the universe is pure mind
and there is no matter, then this dirt is not a real thing, after all. It seems, of course,
as if it were thicker under the beds and bureaus than elsewhere, but I suppose our evil thoughts
focus themselves there rather than in the centre of the room. Similarly, if the broom handle
is broken, deny the dirt away--denial is much less laborious than sweeping; bring 'the science'
down to these simple details of everyday life, and you will make converts by dozens, only pray
don't remove, either by suggestion or any cruder method, the large key that lies near the table
leg, for it is a landmark; and there is another, a crochet needle, by the washstand, devoted
to the same purpose. I wish to show them to the Mullarkey when we leave."

Under our educational regime, the 'metaphysical' veneer, badly applied in the first place,
and wholly unsuited to the foundation material, is slowly disappearing, and our Benella is
gradually returning to her normal self. Perhaps nothing has been more useful to her development
than the confusion of Knockarney House.

Our windows are supported on decrepit tennis rackets and worn-out hearth brushes; the blinds
refuse to go up or down; the chairs have weak backs or legs; the door knobs are disassociated
from their handles. As for our food, we have bacon and eggs, with coffee made, I should think,
of brown beans and liquorice, for breakfast; a bit of sloppy chicken, or fish and potato, with
custard pudding or stewed rhubarb, for dinner; and a cold supper of--oh! anything that occurs
to Molly at the last moment. Nothing ever occurs either to Molly or Oonah at any previous moment,
and in that they are merely conforming to the universal habit. Last week, when we were starting
for Valencia Island, the Ballyfuchsia stationmaster was absent at a funeral; meantime the engine
had 'gone cold on the engineer,' and the train could not leave till twelve minutes after the
usual time. We thought we must have consulted a wrong time-table, and asked confirmation of
a man who seemed to have some connection with the railway. Goaded by his ignorance, I exclaimed,
"Is it possible you don't know the time the trains are going?"

"Begorra, how should I?" he answered. "Faix, the thrains don't always be knowin' thimselves!"

The starting of the daily 'Mail Express' from Ballyfuchsia is a time of great excitement and
confusion, which on some occasions increases to positive panic. The stationmaster, armed with
a large dinner-bell, stands on the platform, wearing an expression of anxiety ludicrously unsuited
to the situation. The supreme moment had really arrived some time before, but he is waiting
for Farmer Brodigan with his daughter Kathleen, and the Widdy Sullivan, and a few other local
worthies who are a 'thrifle late on him.' Finally they come down the hill, and he paces up
and down the station ringing the bell and uttering the warning cry, "This thrain never shtops!
This thrain never shtops! This thrain never shtops!"--giving one the idea that eternity, instead
of Killarney, must be the final destination of the passengers. The clock in the Ballyfuchsia
telegraph and post office ceases to go for twenty-four hours at a time, and nobody heeds it,
while the postman always has a few moments' leisure to lay down his knapsack of letters and
pitch quoits with the Royal Irish Constabulary. However, punctuality is perhaps an individual
virtue more than an exclusively national one. I am not sure that we Americans would not be
more agreeable if we spent a month in Ireland every year, and perhaps Ireland would profit
from a month in America.

At the Brodigans' (Mr. Brodigan is a large farmer, and our nearest neighbour) all the clocks
are from ten to twenty minutes fast or slow; and what a peaceful place it is! The family doesn't
care when it has its dinner, and, mirabile dictu, the cook doesn't care either!

"If you have no exact time to depend upon, how do you catch trains?" I asked Mr. Brodigan.

"Sure that's not an everyday matter, and why be foostherin' over it? But we do, four times
out o' five, ma'am!"

"How do you like it that fifth time when you miss it?"

"Sure it's no more throuble to you to miss it the wan time than to hurry five times! A clock
is an overrated piece of furniture, to my mind, Mrs. Beresford, ma'am. A man can ate whin he's
hungry, go to bed whin he's sleepy, and get up whin he's slept long enough; for faith and it's
thim clocks he has inside of himself that don't need anny winding!"

"What if you had a business appointment with a man in the town, and missed the train?" I persevered.

"Trains is like misfortunes; they never come singly, ma'am. Wherever there's a station the
trains do be dhroppin' in now and again, and what's the differ which of thim you take?"

"The man who is waiting for you at the other end of the line may not agree with you," I suggested.

"Sure, a man can always amuse himself in a town, ma'am. If it's your own business you're coming
on, he knows you'll find him; and if it's his business, then begorra let him find you!" Which
quite reminded me of what the Irish elf says to the English elf in Moira O'Neill's fairy story:
"A waste of time? Why, you've come to a country where there's no such thing as a waste of time.
We have no value for time here. There is lashings of it, more than anybody knows what to do with."

I suppose there is somewhere a golden mean between this complete oblivion of time and our feverish
American hurry. There is a 'tedious haste' in all people who make wheels and pistons and engines,
and live within sound of their everlasting buzz and whir and revolution; and there is ever
a disposition to pause, rest, and consider on the part of that man whose daily tasks are done
in serene collaboration with dew and rain and sun. One cannot hurry Mother Nature very much,
after all, and one who has much to do with her falls into a peaceful habit of mind. The mottoes
of the two nations are as well rendered in the vernacular as by any formal or stilted phrases.
In Ireland the spoken or unspoken slogan is, 'Take it aisy'; in America, 'Keep up with the
procession'; and between them lie all the thousand differences of race, climate, temperament,
religion, and government.

I don't suppose there is a nation on the earth better developed on what might be called the
train-catching side than we of the Big Country, and it is well for us that there is born every
now and again among us a dreamer who is (blessedly) oblivious of time-tables and market reports;
who has been thinking of the rustling of the corn, not of its price. It is he, if we do not
hurry him out of his dream, who will sound the ideal note in our hurly-burly and bustle of
affairs. He may never discover a town site, but he will create new worlds for us to live in,
and in the course of a century the coming Matthew Arnold will not be minded to call us an unimaginative
and uninteresting people.

Chapter XII. Life at Knockarney House.

     'See where Mononia's heroes lie, proud Owen More's
          descendants,--
      'Tis they that won the glorious name and had the grand
          attendants!'
                                       James Clarence Mangan.

It was a charming thing for us when Dr. La Touche gave us introductions to the Colquhouns of
Ardnagreena; and when they, in turn, took us to tea with Lord and Lady Killbally at Balkilly
Castle. I don't know what there is about us: we try to live a sequestered life, but there are
certain kind forces in the universe that are always bringing us in contact with the good, the
great, and the powerful. Francesca enjoys it, but secretly fears to have her democracy undermined.
Salemina wonders modestly at her good fortune. I accept it as the graceful tribute of an old
civilisation to a younger one; the older men grow the better they like girls of sixteen, and
why shouldn't the same thing be true of countries?

As long ago as 1589, one of the English 'undertakers' who obtained some of the confiscated
Desmond lands in Munster wrote of the 'better sorte' of Irish: 'Although they did never see
you before, they will make you the best cheare their country yieldeth for two or three days,
and take not anything therefor.... They have a common saying which I am persuaded they speake
unfeinedly, which is, 'Defend me and spend me.' Yet many doe utterly mislike this or any good
thing that the poor Irishman dothe.'

This certificate of character from an 'undertaker' of the sixteenth century certainly speaks
volumes for Irish amiability and hospitality, since it was given at a time when grievances
were as real as plenty; when unutterable resentment must have been rankling in many minds;
and when those traditions were growing which have coloured the whole texture of Irish thought,
until, with the poor and unlettered, to be 'agin the government' is an inherited instinct,
to be obliterated only by time.

We supplement Mrs. Mullarkey's helter-skelter meals with frequent luncheons and dinners with
our new friends, who send us home on our jaunting-car laden with flowers, fruit, even with
jellies and jams. Lady Killbally forces us to take three cups of tea and a half-dozen marmalade
sandwiches whenever we go to the Castle; for I apologised for our appetites, one day, by confessing
that we had lunched somewhat frugally, the meal being sweetened, however, by Molly's explanation
that there was a fresh sole in the house, but she thought she would not inthrude on it before
dinner!

We asked, on our arrival at Knockarney House, if we might breakfast at a regular hour,--say
eight thirty. Mrs. Mullarkey agreed, with that suavity which is, after her untidiness, her
distinguishing characteristic; but notwithstanding this arrangement we break our fast sometimes
at nine forty, sometimes at nine twenty, sometimes at nine, but never earlier. In order to
achieve this much, we are obliged to rise early and make a combined attack on the executive
and culinary departments. One morning I opened the door leading from the hall into the back
part of the establishment, but closed it hastily, having interrupted the toilets of three young
children, whose existence I had never suspected, and of Mr. Mullarkey, whom I had thought dead
for many years. Each child had donned one article of clothing, and was apparently searching
for the mate to it, whatever it chanced to be. Mrs. Mullarkey was fully clothed, and was about
to administer correction to one of the children who, unhappily for him, was not. I retired
to my apartment to report progress, but did not describe the scene minutely, nor mention the
fact that I had seen Salemina's ivory-backed hairbrush put to excellent if somewhat unusual
and unaccustomed service.

Each party in the house eats in solitary splendour, like the MacDermott, Prince of Coolavin.
That royal personage of County Sligo did not, I believe, allow his wife or his children (who
must have had the MacDermott blood in their veins, even if somewhat diluted) to sit at table
with him. This method introduces the last element of confusion into the household arrangements,
and on two occasions we have had our custard pudding or stewed fruit served in our bedrooms
a full hour after we had finished dinner. We have reasons for wishing to be first to enter
the dining-room, and we walk in with eyes fixed on the ceiling, by far the cleanest part of
the place. Having wended our way through an underbrush of corks with an empty bottle here and
there, and stumbled over the holes in the carpet, we arrive at our table in the window. It
is as beautiful as heaven outside, and the table-cloth is at least cleaner than it will be
later, for Mrs. Waterford of Mullinavat has an unsteady hand.

When Oonah brings in the toast rack now she balances it carefully, remembering the morning
when she dropped it on the floor, but picked up the slices and offered them to Salemina. Never
shall I forget that dear martyr's expression, which was as if she had made up her mind to renounce
Ireland and leave her to her fate. I know she often must wonder if Dr. La Touche's servants,
like Mrs. Mullarkey's, feel of the potatoes to see whether they are warm or cold!

At ten thirty there is great confusion and laughter and excitement, for the sportsmen are setting
out for the day and the car has been waiting at the door for an hour. Oonah is carolling up
and down the long passage, laden with dishes, her cheerfulness not in the least impaired by
having served seven or eight separate breakfasts. Molly has spilled a jug of milk, and is wiping
it up with a child's undershirt. The Glasgy man is telling them that yesterday they forgot
the corkscrew, the salt, the cup, and the jam from the luncheon basket,--facts so mirth-provoking
that Molly wipes tears of pleasure from her eyes with the milky undershirt, and Oonah sets
the hot-water jug and the coffee-pot on the stairs to have her laugh out comfortably. When
once the car departs, comparative quiet reigns in and about the house until the passing bicyclers
appear for luncheon or tea, when Oonah picks up the napkins that we have rolled into wads and
flung under the dining-table, and spreads them on tea-trays, as appetising details for the
weary traveller. There would naturally be more time for housework if so large a portion of
the day were not spent in pleasant interchange of thought and speech. I can well understand
Mrs. Colquhoun's objections to the housing of the Dublin poor in tenements,--even in those
of a better kind than the present horrible examples; for wherever they are huddled together
in any numbers they will devote most of their time to conversation. To them talking is more
attractive than eating; it even adds a new joy to drinking; and if I may judge from the groups
I have seen gossiping over a turf fire till midnight, it is preferable to sleeping. But do
not suppose they will bubble over with joke and repartee, with racy anecdote, to every casual
newcomer. The tourist who looks upon the Irishman as the merry-andrew of the English-speaking
world, and who expects every jarvey he meets to be as whimsical as Mickey Free, will be disappointed.
I have strong suspicions that ragged, jovial Mickey Free himself, delicious as he is, was created
by Lever to satisfy the Anglo-Saxon idea of the low-comedy Irishman. You will live in the Emerald
Isle for many a month, and not meet the clown or the villain so familiar to you in modern Irish
plays. Dramatists have made a stage Irishman to suit themselves, and the public and the gallery
are disappointed if anything more reasonable is substituted for him. You will find, too, that
you do not easily gain Paddy's confidence. Misled by his careless, reckless impetuosity of
demeanour, you might expect to be the confidant of his joys and sorrows, his hopes and expectations,
his faiths and beliefs, his aspirations, fears, longings, at the first interview. Not at all;
you will sooner be admitted to a glimpse of the travelling Scotsman's or the Englishman's inner
life, family history, personal ambition. Glacial enough at first and far less voluble, he melts
soon enough, if he likes you. Meantime, your impulsive Irish friend gives himself as freely
at the first interview as at the twentieth; and you know him as well at the end of a week as
you are likely to at the end of a year. He is a product of the past, be he gentleman or peasant.
A few hundred years of necessary reserve concerning articles of political and religious belief
have bred caution and prudence in stronger natures, cunning and hypocrisy in weaker ones.

Our days are very varied. We have been several times into the town and spent an hour in the
Petty Sessions Court with Mr. Colquhoun, who sits on the bench. Each time we have come home
laden with stories 'as good as any in the books,' so says Francesca. Have we not with our own
eyes seen the settlement of an assault and battery case between two of the most notorious brawlers
in that alley of the town which we have dubbed 'The Pass of the Plumes.' [*] Each barrister
in the case had a handful of hair which he introduced on behalf of his client, both ladies
apparently having pulled with equal energy. These most unattractive exhibits were shown to
the women themselves, each recognising her own hair, but denying the validity of the other
exhibit firmly and vehemently. Prisoner number one kneeled at the rail and insisted on exposing
the place in her head from which the hair had been plucked; upon which prisoner number two
promptly tore off her hat, scattered hairpins to the four winds, and exposed her own wounds
to the judicial eye. Both prisoners 'had a dhrop taken' just before the affair; that soft impeachment
they could not deny. One of them explained, however, that she had taken it to help her over
a hard job of work, and through a little miscalculation of quantity it had 'overaided her.'
The other termagant was asked flatly by the magistrate if she had ever seen the inside of a
jail before, but evaded the point with much grace and ingenuity by telling his Honour that
he couldn't expect to meet a woman anywhere who had not suffered a misforchin somewhere betwixt
the cradle and the grave.

     *The original Pass of the Plumes is near Maryborough, and
     was so called from the number of English helmet plumes that
     were strewn about after O'Moore's fight with five hundred of
     the Earl of Essex's men.

Even the all too common drunk-and-disorderly cases had a flavour of their own, for one man,
being dismissed with a small fine under condition that he would sign the pledge, assented willingly;
but on being asked for how long he would take it, replied, 'I mostly take it for life, your
worship.'

We also heard the testimony of a girl who had run away from her employer before the completion
of her six months' contract, her plea being that the fairies pulled her great toe at night
so that she could not sleep, whereupon she finally became so lame that she was unable to work.
She left her employer's house one evening, therefore, and went home, and curiously enough the
fairies 'shtopped pulling the toe on her as soon as iver she got there!'

Not the least enlivening of the prisoners was a decently educated person who had been arrested
for disturbing the peace. The constable asserted that he was intoxicated, but the gentleman
himself insisted that he was merely a poet in a more than usually inspired state.

"I am in the poetical advertising line, your worship. It is true I was surrounded by a crowd,
but I was merely practising my trade. I don't mind telling your worship that this holiday-time
makes things a little lively, and the tradesmen drink my health a trifle oftener than usual;
poetry is dry work, your worship, and a poet needs a good deal of liquid refreshment. I do
not disturb the peace, your worship, at least not more than any other poet. I go to a grocer's,
and, standing outside, I make up some rhymes about his nice sweet sugar or his ale. If I want
to please a butcher--well, I'll give you a specimen:--

     'Here's to the butcher who sells good meat--
      In this world it's hard to beat;
      It's the very best that's to be had,
      And makes the human heart feel glad.
      There's no necessity to purloin,
      So step in and buy a good sirloin.'

I can go on in this style, like Tennyson's brook, for ever, your worship." His worship was
afraid that he might make the offer good, and the poet was released, after promising to imbibe
less frequently when he felt the divine afflatus about to descend upon him.

These disagreements between light-hearted and bibulous persons who haunt the courts week after
week have nothing especially pathetic about them, but there are many that make one's heart
ache; many that seem absolutely beyond any solution, and beyond reach of any justice.

Chapter XIII. 'O! the sound of the Kerry dancing.'

     'The light-hearted daughters of Erin,
      Like the wild mountain deer they can bound;
      Their feet never touch the green island,
      But music is struck from the ground.
      And oft in the glens and green meadows,
      The ould jig they dance with such grace,
      That even the daisies they tread on,
      Look up with delight in their face.'
                               James M'Kowen.

One of our favourite diversions is an occasional glimpse of a 'crossroads dance' on a pleasant
Sunday afternoon, when all the young people of the district are gathered together. Their religious
duties are over with their confessions and their masses, and the priests encourage these decorous
Sabbath gaieties. A place is generally chosen where two or four roads meet, and the dancers
come from the scattered farmhouses in every direction. In Ballyfuchsia, they dance on a flat
piece of road under some fir-trees and larches, with stretches of mountain covered with yellow
gorse or purple heather, and the quiet lakes lying in the distance. A message comes down to
us at Ardnagreena--where we commonly spend our Sunday afternoons--that they expect a good dance,
and the blind boy is coming to fiddle; and 'so if you will be coming up, it's welcome you'll
be.' We join them about five o'clock--passing, on our way, groups of 'boys' of all ages from
sixteen upwards, walking in twos and threes, and parties of three or four girls by themselves;
for it would not be etiquette for the boys and girls to walk together, such strictness is observed
in these matters about here.

When we reach the rendezvous we find quite a crowd of young men and maidens assembled; the
girls all at one side of the road, neatly dressed in dark skirts and light blouses, with the
national woollen shawl over their heads. Two wide stone walls, or dykes, with turf on top,
make capital seats, and the boys are at the opposite side, as custom demands. When a young
man wants a partner, he steps across the road and asks a colleen, who lays aside her shawl,
generally giving it to a younger sister to keep until the dance is over, when the girls go
back to their own side of the road and put on their shawls again. Upon our arrival we find
the 'sets' are already in progress; a 'set' being a dance like a very intricate and very long
quadrille. We are greeted with many friendly words, and the young boatmen and farmers' sons
ask the ladies, "Will you be pleased to dance, miss?" Some of them are shy, and say they are
not familiar with the steps; but their would-be partners remark encouragingly: "Sure, and what
matter? I'll see you through." Soon all are dancing, and the state of the road is being discussed
with as much interest as the floor of a ballroom. Eager directions are given to the more ignorant
newcomers, such as, "Twirl your girl, captain!" or "Turn your back to your face!"--rather a
difficult direction to carry out, but one which conveys its meaning. Salemina confided to her
partner that she feared she was getting a bit old to dance. He looked at her grey hair carefully
for a moment, and then said chivalrously: "I'd not say that that was old age, ma'am. I'd say
it was eddication."

When the sets, which are very long and very decorous, are finished, sometimes a jig is danced
for our benefit. The spectators make a ring, and the chosen dancers go into the middle, where
their steps are watched by a most critical and discriminating audience with the most minute
and intense interest. Our Molly is one of the best jig dancers among the girls here (would
that she were half as clever at cooking!); but if you want to see an artist of the first rank,
you must watch Kitty O'Rourke, from the neighbouring village of Dooclone. The half door of
the barn is carried into the ring by one or two of her admirers, whom she numbers by the score,
and on this she dances her famous jig polthogue, sometimes alone and sometimes with Art Rooney,
the only worthy partner for her in the kingdom of Kerry. Art's mother, 'Bid' Rooney, is a keen
matchmaker, and we heard her the other day advising her son, who was going to Dooclone, to
have a 'weeny court' with his colleen, to put a clane shirt on him in the middle of the week,
and disthract Kitty intirely by showin' her he had three of thim, annyway!

Kitty is a beauty, and doesn't need to be made 'purty wid cows'--a feat that the old Irishman
proposed to do when he was consummating a match for his plain daughter. But the gifts of the
gods seldom come singly, and Kitty is well fortuned as well as beautiful; fifty pounds, her
own bedstead and its fittings, a cow, a pig, and a web of linen are supposed to be the dazzling
total, so that it is small wonder her deluderin' ways are maddening half the boys in Ballyfuchsia
and Dooclone. She has the prettiest pair of feet in the County Kerry, and when they are encased
in a smart pair of shoes, bought for her by Art's rival, the big constable from Ballyfuchsia
barracks, how they do twinkle and caper over that half barn door, to be sure! Even Murty, the
blind fiddler, seems intoxicated by the plaudits of the bystanders, and he certainly never
plays so well for anybody as for Kitty of the Meadow. Blindness is still common in Ireland,
owing to the smoke in these wretched cabins, where sometimes a hole in the roof is the only
chimney; and although the scores of blind fiddlers no longer traverse the land, finding a welcome
at all firesides, they are still to be found in every community. Blind Murty is a favourite
guest at the Rooney's cabin, which is never so full that there is not room for one more. There
is a small wooden bed in the main room, a settle that opens out at night, with hens in the
straw underneath, where a board keeps them safely within until they have finished laying. There
are six children besides Art, and my ambition is to photograph, or, still better, to sketch
the family circle together; the hens cackling under the settle, the pig ('him as pays the rint')
snoring in the doorway, as a proprietor should, while the children are picturesquely grouped
about. I never succeed, because Mrs. Rooney sees us as we turn into the lane, and calls to
the family to make itself ready, as quality's comin' in sight. The older children can scramble
under the bed, slip shoes over their bare feet, and be out in front of the cabin without the
loss of a single minute. 'Mickey jew'l,' the baby, who is only four, but 'who can handle a
stick as bould as a man,' is generally clad in a ragged skirt, slit every few inches from waist
to hem, so that it resembles a cotton fringe. The little coateen that tops this costume is
sometimes, by way of diversion, transferred to the dog, who runs off with it; but if we appear
at this unlucky moment, there is a stylish yoke of pink ribbon and soiled lace which one of
the girls pins over Mickey jew'l's naked shoulders.

Moya, who has this eye for picturesque propriety, is a great friend of mine, and has many questions
about the Big Country when we take our walks. She longs to emigrate, but the time is not ripe
yet. "The girls that come back has a lovely style to thim," she says wistfully, "but they're
so polite they can't live in the cabins anny more and be contint." The 'boys' are not always
so improved, she thinks. "You'd niver find a boy in Ballyfuchsia that would say annything rude
to a girl; but when they come back from Ameriky, it's too free they've grown intirely." It
is a dull life for them, she says, when they have once been away; though to be sure Ballyfuchsia
is a pleasanter place than Dooclone, where the priest does not approve of dancing, and, however
secretly you may do it, the curate hears of it, and will speak your name in church.

It was Moya who told me of Kitty's fortune. "She's not the match that Farmer Brodigan's daughter
Kathleen is, to be sure; for he's a rich man, and has given her an iligant eddication in Cork,
so that she can look high for a husband. She won't be takin' up wid anny of our boys, wid her
two hundred pounds and her twenty cows and her pianya. Och, it's a thriminjus player she is,
ma'am. She's that quick and that strong that you'd say she wouldn't lave a string on it."

Some of the young men and girls never see each other before the marriage, Moya says. "But sure,"
she adds shyly, "I'd niver be contint with that, though some love matches doesn't turn out
anny better than the others."

"I hope it will be a love match with you, and that I shall dance at your wedding, Moya," I
say to her smilingly.

"Faith, I'm thinkin' my husband's intinded mother died an old maid in Dublin," she answers
merrily. "It's a small fortune I'll be havin' and few lovers; but you'll be soon dancing at
Kathleen Brodigan's wedding, or Kitty O'Rourke's, maybe."

I do not pretend to understand these humble romances, with their foundations of cows and linen,
which are after all no more sordid than bank stock and trousseaux from Paris. The sentiment
of the Irish peasant lover seems to be frankly and truly expressed in the verses:--

     'Oh! Moya's wise and beautiful, has wealth in plenteous store,
      And fortune fine in calves and kine, and lovers half a score;
      Her faintest smile would saints beguile, or sinners captivate,
      Oh! I think a dale of Moya, but I'll surely marry Kate.

           .         .         .         .         .

     'Now to let you know the raison why I cannot have my way,
      Nor bid my heart decide the part the lover must obey--
      The calves and kine of Kate are nine, while Moya owns but
          eight,
      So with all my love for Moya I'm compelled to marry Kate!'

I gave Moya a lace neckerchief the other day, and she was rarely pleased, running into the
cabin with it and showing it to her mother with great pride. After we had walked a bit down
the boreen she excused herself for an instant, and, returning to my side, explained that she
had gone back to ask her mother to mind the kerchief, and not let the 'cow knock it'!

Lady Kilbally tells us that some of the girls who work in the mills deny themselves proper
food, and live on bread and tea for a month, to save the price of a gay ribbon. This is trying,
no doubt, to a philanthropist, but is it not partly a starved sense of beauty asserting itself?
If it has none of the usual outlets, where can imagination express itself if not in some paltry
thing like a ribbon?

Chapter XIV. Mrs. Mullarkey's iligant locks.

     'Where spreads the beautiful water to gay or cloudy skies,
      And the purple peaks of Killarney from ancient woods arise.'
                                        William Allingham.

Mrs. Mullarkey cannot spoil this paradise for us. When I wake in the morning, the fuchsia-tree
outside my window is such a glorious mass of colour that it distracts my eyes from the unwashed
glass. The air is still; the mountains in the far distance are clear purple; everything is
fresh washed and purified for the new day. Francesca and I leave the house sleeping, and make
our way to the bogs. We love to sit under a blossoming sloe-bush and see the silver pools glistening
here and there in the turf cuttings, and watch the transparent vapour rising from the red-brown
of the purple-shadowed bog fields. Dinnis Rooney, half awake, leisurely, silent, is moving
among the stacks with his creel. How the missel thrushes sing in the woods, and the plaintive
note of the curlew gives the last touch of mysterious tenderness to the scene. There is a moist,
rich fragrance of meadowsweet and bog myrtle in the air; and how fresh and wild and verdant it is!

     'For there's plenty to mind, sure, if on'y ye look to the grass
                    at your feet,
      For 'tis thick wid the tussocks of heather, an' blossoms and
                    herbs that smell sweet
      If ye tread thim; an' maybe the white o' the bog-cotton waves
                    in the win',
      Like the wool ye might shear off a night-moth, an' set an ould
                    fairy to spin;
      Or wee frauns, each wan stuck 'twixt two leaves on a grand
                    little stem of its own,
      Lettin' on 'twas a plum on a tree.' [*]

     * Jane Barlow.

As for Lough Lein itself, who could speak its loveliness, lying like a crystal mirror beneath
the black Reeks of the McGillicuddy, where, in the mountain fastnesses, lie spell-bound the
sleeping warriors who, with their bridles and broadswords in hand, await but the word to give
Erin her own! When we glide along the surface of the lakes, on some bright day after a heavy
rain; when we look down through the clear water on tiny submerged islets, with their grasses
and drowned daisies glancing up at us from the blue; when we moor the boat and climb the hillsides,
we are dazzled by the luxuriant beauty of it all. It hardly seems real--it is too green, too
perfect, to be believed; and one thinks of some fairy drop-scene, painted by cunning-fingered
elves and sprites, who might have a wee folk's way of mixing roses and rainbows, dew-drenched
greens and sun-warmed yellows; showing the picture to you first all burnished, glittering and
radiant, then 'veiled in mist and diamonded with showers.' We climb, climb, up, up, into the
heart of the leafy loveliness; peering down into dewy dingles, stopping now and again to watch
one of the countless streams as it tinkles and gurgles down an emerald ravine to join the lakes.
The way is strewn with lichens and mosses; rich green hollies and arbutus surround us on every
side; the ivy hangs in sweet disorder from the rocks; and when we reach the innermost recess
of the glen we can find moist green jungles of ferns and bracken, a very bending, curling forest
of fronds:--

     'The fairy's tall palm-tree, the heath bird's fresh nest,
      And the couch the red deer deems the sweetest and best.'

Carrantual rears its crested head high above the other mountains, and on its summit Shon the
Outlaw, footsore, weary, slept; sighing, "For once, thank God, I am above all my enemies."

You must go to sweet Innisfallen, too, and you must not be prosaic or incredulous at the boatman's
stories, or turn the 'bodthered ear to them.' These are no ordinary hillsides: not only do
the wee folk troop through the frond forests nightly, but great heroic figures of romance have
stalked majestically along these mountain summits. Every waterfall foaming and dashing from
its rocky bed in the glen has a legend in the toss and swirl of the water.

Can't you see the O'Sullivan, famous for fleetness of foot and prowess in the chase, starting
forth in the cool o' the morn to hunt the red deer? His dogs sniff the heather; a splendid
stag bounds across the path; swift as lightning the dogs follow the scent across moors and
glens. Throughout the long day the chieftain chases the stag, until at nightfall, weary and
thirsty, he loses the scent, and blows a blast on his horn to call the dogs homeward.

And then he hears a voice: "O'Sullivan, turn back!"

He looks over his shoulder to behold the great Finn McCool, central figure in centuries of romance.

"Why do you dare chase my stag?" he asks.

"Because it is the finest man ever saw," answers the chieftain composedly.

"You are a valiant man," says the hero, pleased with the reply; "and as you thirst from the
long chase, I will give you to drink." So he crunches his giant heel into the rock, and forth
burst the waters, seething and roaring as they do to this day; "and may the divil fly away
wid me if I've spoke an unthrue word, ma'am!"

Come to Lough Lein as did we, too early for the crowd of sightseers; but when the 'long light
shakes across the lakes,' the blackest arts of the tourist (and they are as black as they are
many) cannot break the spell. Sitting on one of these hillsides, we heard a bugle-call taken
up and repeated in delicate, ethereal echoes,--sweet enough, indeed, to be worthy of the fairy
buglers who are supposed to pass the sound along their lines from crag to crag, until it faints
and dies in silence. And then came the 'Lament for Owen Roe O'Neil.' We were thrilled to the
very heart with the sorrowful strains; and when we issued from our leafy covert, and rounded
the point of rocks from which the sound came, we found a fat man in uniform playing the bugle.
'Blank's Tours' was embroidered on his cap, and I have no doubt that he is a good husband and
father, even a good citizen, but he is a blight upon the landscape, and fancy cannot breathe
in his presence. The typical tourist should be encouraged within bounds, both because he is
of some benefit to Ireland, and because Ireland is of inestimable benefit to him; but he should
not be allowed to jeer and laugh at the legends (the gentle smile of sophisticated unbelief,
with its twinkle of amusement, is unknown to and for ever beyond him); and above all, he should
never be allowed to carry or to play on a concertina, for this is the unpardonable sin.

We had an adventure yesterday. We were to dine at eight o'clock at Balkilly Castle, where Dr.
La Touche is staying the week-end with Lord and Lady Killbally. We had been spending an hour
or two after tea in writing an Irish letter, and were a bit late in dressing. These letters,
written in the vernacular, are a favourite diversion of ours when visiting in foreign lands;
and they are very easily done when once you have caught the idioms, for you can always supplement
your slender store of words and expressions with choice selections from native authors.

What Francesca and I wore to the Castle dinner is, alas! no longer of any consequence to the
community at large. In the mysterious purposes of that third volume which we seem to be living
in Ireland, Francesca's beauty and mine, her hats and frocks as well as mine, are all reduced
to the background; but Salemina's toilet had cost us some thought. When she first issued from
the discreet and decorous fastnesses of Salem society, she had never donned any dinner dress
that was not as high at the throat and as long in the sleeves as the Puritan mothers ever wore
to meeting. In England she lapsed sufficiently from the rigid Salem standard to adopt a timid
compromise; in Scotland we coaxed her into still further modernities, until now she is completely
enfranchised. We achieved this at considerable trouble, but do not grudge the time spent in
persuasion when we see her en grande toilette. In day dress she has always been inclined ever
so little to a primness and severity that suggest old-maidishness. In her low gown of pale
grey, with all her silver hair waved softly, she is unexpectedly lovely,--her face softened,
transformed, and magically 'brought out' by the whiteness of her shoulders and slender throat.
Not an ornament, not a jewel, will she wear; and she is right to keep the nunlike simplicity
of style which suits her so well, and which holds its own even in the vicinity of Francesca's
proud and glowing young beauty.

On this particular evening, Francesca, who wished her to look her best, had prudently hidden
her eyeglasses, for which we are now trying to substitute a silver-handled lorgnette. Two years
ago we deliberately smashed her spectacles, which she had adopted at five-and-twenty.

"But they are more convenient than eye-glasses," she urged obtusely.

"That argument is beneath you, dear," we replied. "If your hair were not prematurely grey,
we might permit the spectacles, hideous as they are, but a combination of the two is impossible;
the world shall not convict you of failing sight when you are guilty only of petty astigmatism!"

The grey satin had been chosen for this dinner, and Salemina was dressed, with the exception
of the pretty pearl-embroidered waist that has to be laced at the last moment, and had slipped
on a dressing jacket to come down from her room in the second story, to be advised in some
trifling detail. She looked unusually well, I thought: her eyes were bright and her cheeks
flushed, as she rustled in, holding her satin skirts daintily away from the dusty carpets.

Now, from the morning of our arrival we have had trouble with the Mullarkey door-knobs, which
come off continually, and lie on the floors at one side of the door or the other. Benella followed
Salemina from her room, and, being in haste, closed the door with unwonted energy. She heard
the well-known rattle and clang, but little suspected that, as one knob dropped outside in
the hall, the other fell inside, carrying the rod of connection with it. It was not long before
we heard a cry of despair from above, and we responded to it promptly.

"It's fell in on the inside, knob and all, as I always knew it would some day; and now we can't
get back into the room!" said Benella.

"Oh, nonsense! We can open it with something or other," I answered encouragingly, as I drew
on my gloves; "only you must hasten, for the car is at the door."

The curling iron was too large, the shoe hook too short, a lead pencil too smooth, a crochet
needle too slender: we tried them all, and the door resisted all our insinuations. "Must you
necessarily get in before we go?" I asked Salemina thoughtlessly.

She gave me a glance that almost froze my blood, as she replied, "The waist of my dress is
in the room."

Francesca and I spent a moment in irrepressible mirth, and then summoned Mrs. Mullarkey. Whether
the Irish kings could be relied upon in an emergency I do not know, but their descendants cannot.
Mrs. Mullarkey had gone to the convent to see the Mother Superior about something; Mr. Mullarkey
was at the Dooclone market; Peter was not to be found; but Oonah and Molly came, and also the
old lady from Mullinavat, with a package of raffle tickets in her hand.

We left this small army under Benella's charge, and went down to my room for a hasty consultation.

"Could you wear any evening bodice of Francesca's?" I asked.

"Of course not. Francesca's waist measure is three inches smaller than mine."

"Could you manage my black lace dress?"

"Penelope, you know it would only reach to my ankles! No, you must go without me, and go at
once. We are too new acquaintances to keep Lady Killbally's dinner waiting. Why did I come
to this place like a pauper, with only one evening gown, when I should have known that if there
is a castle anywhere within forty miles you always spend half your time in it!"

This slur was totally unjustified, but I pardoned it, because Salemina's temper is ordinarily
perfect, and the circumstances were somewhat tragic. "If you had brought a dozen costumes,
they would all be in your room at this moment," I replied; "but we must think of something.
It is impossible for you to remain behind; we were invited more on your account than our own,
for you are Dr. La Touche's friend, and the dinner is especially in his honour. Molly, have
you a ladder?"

"Sorra a wan, ma'am."

"Could we borrow one?"

"We could not, Mrs. Beresford, ma'am."

"Then see if you can break down the door; try hard, and if you succeed I will buy you a nice
new one! Part of Miss Peabody's dress is inside the room, and we shall be late to the Castle
dinner."

The entire corps, with Mrs. Waterford of Mullinavat on top, cast itself on the door, which
withstood the shock to perfection. Then in a moment we heard: "Weary's on it, it will not come
down for us, ma'am. It's the iligant locks we do be havin' in the house; they're mortial shtrong,
ma'am!"

"Strong, indeed!" exclaimed the incensed Benella, in a burst of New England wrath. "There's
nothing strong about the place but the impidence of the people in it! If you had told Peter
to get a carpenter or a locksmith, as I've been asking you these two weeks, it would have been
all right; but you never do anything till a month after it's too late. I've no patience with
such a set of doshies, dawdling around and leaving everything to go to rack and ruin!"

"Sure it was yourself that ruinated the thing," responded Molly, with spirit, for the unaccustomed
word 'doshy' had kindled her quick Irish temper. "It's aisy handlin' the knob is used to, and
faith it would 'a' stuck there for you a twelvemonth!"

"They will be quarrelling soon," said Salemina nervously. "Do not wait another instant; you
are late enough now, and I insist on your going. Make any excuse you see fit: say I am ill,
say I am dead, if you like, but don't tell the real excuse--it is too shiftless and wretched
and embarrassing. Don't cry, Benella. Molly, Oonah, go downstairs to your work. Mrs. Waterford,
I think perhaps you have forgotten that we have already purchased raffle tickets, and we'll
not take any more for fear that we may draw the necklace. Good-bye, dears; tell Lady Killbally
I shall see her to-morrow."

Chapter XV. Penelope weaves a web.

Francesca and I were gloomy enough, as we drove along facing each other in Ballyfuchsia's one
'inside-car'--a strange and fearsome vehicle, partaking of the nature of a broken-down omnibus,
a hearse, and an overgrown black beetle. It holds four, or at a squeeze six, the seats being
placed from stem to stern lengthwise, and the balance being so delicate that the passengers,
when going uphill, are shaken into a heap at the door, which is represented by a ragged leather
flap. I have often seen it strew the hard highroad with passengers, as it jolts up the steep
incline that leads to Ardnagreena, and the 'fares' who succeed in staying in always sit in
one another's laps a good part of the way--a method pleasing only to relatives or intimate
friends. Francesca and I agreed to tell the real reason of Salemina's absence. "It is Ireland's
fault, and I will not have America blamed for it," she insisted; "but it is so embarrassing
to be going to the dinner ourselves, and leaving behind the most important personage. Think
of Dr. La Touche's disappointment, think of Salemina's; and they'll never understand why she
couldn't have come in a dressing jacket. I shall advise her to discharge Benella after this
episode, for no one can tell the effect it may have upon all our future lives, even those of
the doctor's two poor motherless children."

It is a four-mile drive to Balkilly Castle, and when we arrived there we were so shaken that
we had to retire to a dressing-room for repairs. Then came the dreaded moment when we entered
the great hall and advanced to meet Lady Killbally, who looked over our heads to greet the
missing Salemina. Francesca's beauty, my supposed genius, both fell flat; it was Salemina whose
presence was especially desired. The company was assembled, save for one guest still more tardy
than ourselves, and we had a moment or two to tell our story as sympathetically as possible.
It had an uncommonly good reception, and, coupled with the Irish letter I read at dessert,
carried the dinner along on a basis of such laughter and good-fellowship that finally there
was no place for regret save in the hearts of those who knew and loved Salemina--poor Salemina,
spending her dull, lonely evening in our rooms, and later on in her own uneventful bed, if
indeed she had been lucky enough to gain access to that bed. I had hoped Lady Killbally would
put one of us beside Dr. La Touche, so that we might at least keep Salemina's memory green
by tactful conversation; but it was too large a company to rearrange, and he had to sit by
an empty chair, which perhaps was just as salutary, after all. The dinner was very smart, and
the company interesting and clever, but my thoughts were elsewhere. As there were fewer squires
than dames at the feast, Lady Killbally kindly took me on her left, with a view to better acquaintance,
and I was heartily glad of a possible chance to hear something of Dr. La Touche's earlier life.
In our previous interviews, Salemina's presence had always precluded the possibility of leading
the conversation in the wished-for direction.

When I first saw Gerald La Touche I felt that he required explanation. Usually speaking, a
human being ought to be able, in an evening's conversation, to explain himself, without any
adventitious aid. If he is a man, alive, vigorous, well poised, conscious of his own individuality,
he shows you, without any effort, as much of his past as you need to form your impression,
and as much of his future as you have intuition to read. As opposed to the vigorous personality,
there is the colourless, flavourless, insubstantial sort, forgotten as soon as learned, and
for ever confused with that of the previous or the next comer. When I was a beginner in portrait-painting,
I remember that, after I had succeeded in making my background stay back where it belonged,
my figure sometimes had a way of clinging to it in a kind of smudgy weakness, as if it were
afraid to come out like a man and stand the inspection of my eye. How often have I squandered
paint upon the ungrateful object without adding a cubit to its stature! It refused to look
like flesh and blood, but resembled rather some half-made creature flung on the passive canvas
in a liquid state, with its edges running over into the background. There are a good many of
these people in literature, too,--heroes who, like home-made paper dolls, do not stand up well;
or if they manage to perform that feat, one unexpectedly discovers, when they are placed in
a strong light, that they have no vital organs whatever, and can be seen through without the
slightest difficulty. Dr. La Touche does not belong to either of these two classes: he is not
warm, magnetic, powerful, impressive: neither is he by any means destitute of vital organs;
but his personality is blurred in some way. He seems a bit remote, absentminded, and a trifle,
just a trifle, over-resigned. Privately, I think a man can afford to be resigned only to one
thing, and that is the will of God; against all other odds I prefer to see him fight till the
last armed foe expires. Dr. La Touche is devotedly attached to his children, but quite helpless
in their hands; so that he never looks at them with pleasure or comfort or pride, but always
with an anxiety as to what they may do next. I understand him better now that I know the circumstances
of which he has been the product. (Of course one is always a product of circumstances, unless
one can manage to be superior to them.) His wife, the daughter of an American consul in Ireland,
was a charming but somewhat feather-brained person, rather given to whims and caprices; very
pretty, very young, very much spoiled, very attractive, very undisciplined. All went well enough
with them until her father was recalled to America, because of some change in political administration.
The young Mrs. La Touche seemed to have no resources apart from her family, and even her baby
'Jackeen' failed to absorb her as might have been expected.

"We thought her a most trying woman at this time," said Lady Killbally. "She seemed to have
no thought of her husband's interests, and none of the responsibilities that she had assumed
in marrying him; her only idea of life appeared to be amusement and variety and gaiety. Gerald
was a student, and always very grave and serious; the kind of man who invariably marries a
butterfly, if he can find one to make him miserable. He was exceedingly patient; but after
the birth of little Broona, Adeline became so homesick and depressed and discontented that,
although the journey was almost an impossibility at the time, Gerald took her back to her people,
and left her with them, while he returned to his duties at Trinity College. Their life, I suppose,
had been very unhappy for a year or two before this, and when he came home to Dublin without
his children, he looked a sad and broken man. He was absolutely faithful to his ideals, I am
glad to say, and never wavered in his allegiance to his wife, however disappointed he may have
been in her; going over regularly to spend his long vacations in America, although she never
seemed to wish to see him. At last she fell into a state of hopeless melancholia; and it was
rather a relief to us all to feel that we had judged her too severely, and that her unreasonableness
and her extraordinary caprices had been born of mental disorder more than of moral obliquity.
Gerald gave up everything to nurse her and rouse her from her apathy; but she faded away without
ever once coming back to a more normal self, and that was the end of it all. Gerald's father
had died meanwhile, and he had fallen heir to the property and the estates. They were very
much encumbered, but he is gradually getting affairs into a less chaotic state; and while his
fortune would seem a small one to you extravagant Americans, he is what we Irish paupers would
call well to do."

Lady Killbally was suspiciously willing to give me all this information,--so much so that I
ventured to ask about the children.

"They are captivating, neglected little things," she said. "Madame La Touche, an aged aunt,
has the ostensible charge of them, and she is a most easy-going person. The servants are of
the 'old family' sort, the reckless, improvident, untidy, devoted, quarrelsome creatures that
always stand by the ruined Irish gentry in all their misfortunes, and generally make their
life a burden to them at the same time. Gerald is a saint, and therefore never complains."

"It never seems to me that saints are altogether adapted to positions like these," I sighed;
"sinners would do ever so much better. I should like to see Dr. La Touche take off his halo,
lay it carefully on the bureau, and wield a battle-axe. The world will never acknowledge his
merit; it will even forget him presently, and his life will have been given up to the evolution
of the passive virtues. Do you suppose he will recognise the tender passion if it ever does
bud in his breast, or will he think it a weed, instead of a flower, and let it wither for want
of attention?"

"I think his friends will have to enhance his self-respect, or he will for ever be too modest
to declare himself," said Lady Killbally. "Perhaps you can help us: he is probably going to
America this winter to lecture at some of your universities, and he may stay there for a year
or two, so he says. At any rate, if the right woman ever appears on the scene, I hope she will
have the instinct to admire and love and reverence him as we do," and here she smiled directly
into my eyes, and slipping her pretty hand under the tablecloth squeezed mine in a manner that
spoke volumes.

It is not easy to explain one's desire to marry off all the unmarried persons in one's vicinity.
When I look steadfastly at any group of people, large or small, they usually segregate themselves
into twos under my prophetic eye. It they are nice and attractive, I am pleased to see them
mated; if they are horrid and disagreeable, I like to think of them as improving under the
discipline of matrimony. It is joy to see beauty meet a kindling eye, but I am more delighted
still to watch a man fall under the glamour of a plain, dull girl, and it is ecstasy for me
to see a perfectly unattractive, stupid woman snapped up at last, when I have given up hopes
of settling her in life. Sometimes there are men so uninspiring that I cannot converse with
them a single moment without yawning; but though failures in all other relations, one can conceive
of their being tolerably useful as husbands and fathers; not for one's self, you understand,
but for one's neighbours.

Dr. La Touche's life now, to any understanding eye, is as incomplete as the unfinished window
in Aladdin's tower. He is too wrinkled, too studious, too quiet, too patient for his years.
His children need a mother, his old family servants need discipline, his baronial halls need
sweeping and cleaning (I haven't seen them, but I know they do!), and his aged aunt needs advice
and guidance. On the other hand, there are those (I speak guardedly) who have walked in shady,
sequestered paths all their lives, looking at hundreds of happy lovers on the sunny highroad,
but never joining them; those who adore erudition, who love children, who have a genius for
unselfish devotion, who are sweet and refined and clever, and who look perfectly lovely when
they put on grey satin and leave off eyeglasses. They say they are over forty, and although
this probably is exaggeration, they may be thirty-nine and three-quarters; and if so, the time
is limited in which to find for them a worthy mate, since half of the masculine population
is looking for itself, and always in the wrong quarter, needing no assistance to discover rose-cheeked
idiots of nineteen, whose obvious charms draw thousands to a dull and uneventful fate.

These thoughts were running idly through my mind while the Honourable Michael McGillicuddy
was discoursing to me of Mr. Gladstone's misunderstanding of Irish questions,--a misunderstanding,
he said, so colossal, so temperamental, and so all-embracing, that it amounted to genius. I
was so anxious to return to Salemina that I wished I had ordered the car at ten thirty instead
of eleven; but I made up my mind, as we ladies went to the drawing-room for coffee, that I
would seize the first favourable opportunity to explore the secret chambers of Dr. La Touche's
being. I love to rummage in out-of-the-way corners of people's brains and hearts if they will
let me. I like to follow a courteous host through the public corridors of his house and come
upon a little chamber closed to the casual visitor. If I have known him long enough I put my
hand on the latch and smile inquiringly. He looks confused and conscious, but unlocks the door.
Then I peep in, and often I see something that pleases and charms and touches me so much that
it shows in my eyes when I lift them to his to say "Thank you." Sometimes, after that, my host
gives me the key and says gravely "Pray come in whenever you like."

When Dr. La Touche offers me this hospitality I shall find out whether he knows anything of
that lavender-scented guest-room in Salemina's heart. First, has he ever seen it? Second, has
he ever stopped in it for any length of time? Third, was he sufficiently enamoured of it to
occupy it on a long lease?

Chapter XVI. Salemina has her chance.

     'And what use is one's life widout chances?
        Ye've always a chance wid the tide.'
                                  Jane Barlow.

I was walking with Lady Fincoss, and Francesca with Miss Clondalkin, a very learned personage
who has deciphered more undecipherable inscriptions than any lady in Ireland, when our eyes
fell upon an unexpected tableau.

Seated on a divan in the centre of the drawing-room, in a most distinguished attitude, in unexceptionable
attire, and with the rose-coloured lights making all her soft greys opalescent, was Miss Salemina
Peabody. Our exclamations of astonishment were so audible that they must have reached the dining-room,
for Lord Killbally did not keep the gentlemen long at their wine.

Salemina cannot tell a story quite as it ought to be told to produce an effect. She is too
reserved, too concise, too rigidly conscientious. She does not like to be the centre of interest,
even in a modest contretemps like being locked out of a room which contains part of her dress;
but from her brief explanation to Lady Killbally, her more complete and confidential account
on the way home, and Benella's graphic story when we arrived there, we were able to get all
the details.

When the inside-car passed out of view with us, it appears that Benella wept tears of rage,
at the sight of which Oonah and Molly trembled. In that moment of despair and remorse, her
mind worked as it must always have done before the Salem priestess befogged it with hazy philosophies,
understood neither by teacher nor by pupil. Peter had come back, but could suggest nothing.
Benella forgot her 'science,' which prohibits rage and recrimination, and called him a great,
hulking, lazy vagabone, and told him she'd like to have him in Salem for five minutes, just
to show him a man with head on his shoulders.

"You call this a Christian country," she said, "and you haven't got a screwdriver, nor a bradawl,
nor a monkey-wrench, nor a rat-tail file, nor no kind of a useful tool to bless yourselves
with; and my Miss Peabody, that's worth ten dozen of you put together, has got to stay home
from the Castle and eat warmed-up scraps served in courses, with twenty minutes' wait between
'em. Now you do as I say: take the dining-table and set it out under the window, and the carving-table
on top o' that, and see how fur up it'll reach. I guess you can't stump a Salem woman by telling
her there ain't no ladder."

The two tables were finally in position; but there still remained nine feet of distance to
that key of the situation, Salemina's window, and Mrs. Waterford's dressing-table went on top
of this pile. "Now, Peter," were the next orders, "if you've got sprawl enough, and want to
rest yourself by doin' something useful for once in your life, you just hold down the dining-table;
and you and Oonah, Molly, keep the next two tables stiddy, while I climb up."

The intrepid Benella could barely reach the sill, even from this ingeniously dizzy elevation,
and Mrs. Waterford and Salemina were called on to 'stiddy' the tables, while Molly was bidden
to help by giving an heroic 'boost' when the word of command came. The device was completely
successful, and in a trice the conqueror disappeared, to reappear at the window holding the
precious pearl-embroidered bodice wrapped in a towel. "I wouldn't stop to fool with the door-knob
till I dropped you this," she said. "Oonah, you go and wash your hands clean, and help Miss
Peabody into it,--and mind you start the lacing right at the top; and you, Peter, run down
to Rooney's and get the donkey and the cart, and bring 'em back with you,--and don't you let
the grass grow under your feet neither!"

There was literally no other mode of conveyance within miles, and time was precious. Salemina
wrapped herself in Francesca's long black cloak, and climbed into the cart. Dinnis hauls turf
in it, takes a sack of potatoes or a pig to market in it, and the stubborn little ass, blind
of one eye, has never in his wholly elective course of existence taken up the subject of speed.

It was eight o'clock when Benella mounted the seat beside Salemina, and gave the donkey a preliminary
touch of the stick.

"Be aisy wid him," cautioned Peter. "He's a very arch donkey for a lady to be dhrivin', and
mebbe he'd lay down and not get up for you."

"Arrah! shut yer mouth, Pether. Give him a couple of belts anondher the hind leg, melady, and
that'll put the fear o' God in him!" said Dinnis.

"I'd rather not go at all," urged Salemina timidly; "it's too late, and too extraordinary."

"I'm not going to have it on my conscience to make you lose this dinner-party,--not if I have
to carry you on my back the whole way," said Benella doggedly; "and this donkey won't lay down
with me more'n once,--I can tell him that right at the start."

"Sure, melady, he'll go to Galway for you, when oncet he's started wid himself; and it's only
a couple o' fingers to the Castle, annyways."

The four-mile drive, especially through the village of Ballyfuchsia, was an eventful one, but
by dint of prodding, poking, and belting, Benella had accomplished half the distance in three-quarters
of an hour, when the donkey suddenly lay down 'on her,' according to Peter's prediction. This
was luckily at the town cross, where a group of idlers rendered hearty assistance. Willing
as they were to succour a lady in disthress, they did not know of any car which could be secured
in time to be of service, but one of them offered to walk and run by the side of the donkey,
so as to kape him on his legs. It was in this wise that Miss Peabody approached Balkilly Castle;
and when a gilded gentleman-in-waiting lifted her from Rooney's 'plain cart,' she was just
on the verge of hysterics. Fortunately his Magnificence was English, and betrayed no surprise
at the arrival in this humble fashion of a dinner guest, but simply summoned the Irish housekeeper,
who revived her with wine, and called on all the saints to witness that she'd never heard of
such a shameful thing, and such a disgrace to Ballyfuchsia. The idea of not keeping a ladder
in a house where the door-knobs were apt to come off struck her as being the worst feature
of the accident, though this unexpected and truly Milesian view of the matter had never occurred
to us.

"Well, I got Miss Peabody to the dinner-party," said Benella triumphantly, when she was laboriously
unlacing my frock, later on, "or at least I got her there before it broke up. I had to walk
every step o' the way home, and the donkey laid down four times, but I was so nerved up I didn't
care a mite. I was bound Miss Peabody shouldn't lose her chance, after all she's done for me!"

"Her chance?" I asked, somewhat puzzled, for dinners, even Castle dinners, are not rare in
Salemina's experience.

"Yes, her chance," repeated Benella mysteriously; "you'd know well enough what I mean, if you'd
ben born and brought up in Salem, Massachusetts!"

                               * * * * *

Copy of a letter read by Penelope O'Connor, descendant of the King of Connaught, at the dinner
of Lord and Lady Killbally at Balkilly Castle. It needed no apology then, but in sending it
to our American friends, we were obliged to explain that though the Irish peasants interlard
their conversation with saints, angels, and devils, and use the name of the Virgin Mary, and
even the Almighty, with, to our ears, undue familiarity and frequency, there is no profane
or irreverent intent. They are instinctively religious, and it is only because they feel on
terms of such friendly intimacy with the powers above that they speak of them so often.

                                        At the Widdy Mullarkey's,
                                  Knockarney House, Ballyfuchsia,
                                                    County Kerry.

Och! musha bedad, man alive, but it's a fine counthry over here, and it bangs all the jewel
of a view we do be havin' from the windys, begorra! Knockarney House is in a wild, remoted
place at the back of beyant, and faix we're as much alone as Robinson Crusoe on a dissolute
island; but when we do be wishful to go to the town, sure there's ivery convaniency. There's
ayther a bit of a jauntin' car wid a skewbald pony for drivin', or we can borry the loan of
Dinnis Rooney's blind ass wid the plain cart, or we can just take a fut in a hand and leg it
over the bog. Sure it's no great thing to go do, but only a taste of divarsion like, though
it's three good Irish miles an' powerful hot weather, with niver a dhrop of wet these manny
days. It's a great old spring we're havin' intirely; it has raison to be proud of itself, begob!

Paddy, the gossoon that drives the car (it's a gossoon we call him, but faix he stands five
fut nine in his stockin's, when he wears anny)--Paddy, as I'm afther tellin' you, lives in
a cabin down below the knockaun, a thrifle back of the road. There's a nate stack of turf fornint
it, and a pitaty pot sets beside the doore, wid the hins and chuckens rachin' over into it
like aigles tryin' to swally the smell.

Across the way there does be a bit of sthrame that's fairly shtiff wid troutses in the saison,
and a growth of rooshes under the edge lookin' that smooth and greeny it must be a pleasure
intirely to the grand young pig and the goat that spinds their time by the side of it when
out of doores, which is seldom. Paddy himself is raggetty like, and a sight to behould wid
the daylight shinin' through the ould coat on him; but he's a dacint spalpeen, and sure we'd
be lost widout him. His mother's a widdy woman with nine moidtherin' childer, not countin'
the pig an' the goat, which has aquil advantages. It's nine she has livin', she says, and four
slapin' in the beds o' glory; and faix I hope thim that's in glory is quieter than the wans
that's here, for the divil is busy wid thim the whole of the day. Here's wan o' thim now makin'
me as onaisy as an ould hin on a hot griddle, slappin' big sods of turf over the dike, and
ruinatin' the timpers of our poulthry. We've a right to be lambastin' thim this blessed minute,
the crathurs; as sure as eggs is mate, if they was mine they'd sup sorrow wid a spoon of grief,
before they wint to bed this night!

Mistress Colquhoun, that lives at Ardnagreena on the road to the town, is an iligant lady intirely,
an' she's uncommon frindly, may the peace of heaven be her sowl's rist! She's rale charitable-like
an' liberal with the whativer, an' as for Himself, sure he's the darlin' fine man! He taches
the dead-and-gone languages in the grand sates of larnin', and has more eddication and comperhinson
than the whole of County Kerry rowled together.

Then there's Lord and Lady Killbally; faix there's no iliganter family on this counthryside,
and they has the beautiful quality stoppin' wid thim, begob! They have a pew o' their own in
the church, an' their coachman wears top-boots wid yaller chimbleys to thim. They do be very
openhanded wid the eatin' and the drinkin', and it bangs Banagher the figurandyin' we do have
wid thim! So you see Ould Ireland is not too disthressful a counthry to be divartin' ourselves
in, an' we have our healths finely, glory be to God!

Well, we must be shankin' off wid ourselves now to the Colquhouns', where they're wettin' a
dhrop o' tay for us this mortial instant.

It's no good for yous to write to us here, for we'll be quittin' out o' this before the letther
has a chanst to come; though sure it can folly us as we're jiggin' along to the north.

Don't be thinkin' that you've shlipped hould of our ricollections, though the breadth of the
ocean say's betune us. More power to your elbow! May your life be aisy, and may the heavens
be your bed!

                                   Penelope O'Connor Beresford.

Part Third--Ulster.

Chapter XVII. The Glens of Antrim.

     * The sea between Erin and Alban (Ireland and Scotland) was
     called in the olden time the Sea of Moyle, from the Moyle,
     or Mull, of Cantire.

                                    Sorley Boy Hotel,

                                     Glens of Antrim.

We are here for a week, in the neighbourhood of Cushendun, just to see a bit of the north-eastern
corner of Erin, where, at the end of the nineteenth century, as at the beginning of the seventeenth,
the population is almost exclusively Catholic and Celtic. The Gaelic Sorley Boy is, in Irish
state papers, Carolus Flavus--yellow-haired Charles--the most famous of the Macdonnell fighters;
the one who, when recognised by Elizabeth as Lord of the Route, and given a patent for his
estates, burned the document before his retainers, swearing that what had been won by the sword
should never be held by the sheepskin. Cushendun was one of the places in our literary pilgrimage,
because of its association with that charming Irish poetess and good glenswoman who calls herself
'Moira O'Neill.'

This country of the Glens, east of the river Bann, escaped 'plantation,' and that accounts
for its Celtic character. When the grand Ulster chieftains, the O'Donnells and the O'Neills
of Donegal, went under, the third great house of Ulster, the 'Macdonnells of the Isles,' was
more fortunate, and, thanks to its Scots blood, found favour with James I. It was a Macdonnell
who was created first Earl of Antrim, and given a 'grant of the Glens and the Route, from the
Curran of Larne to the Cutts of Coleraine.' Ballycastle is our nearest large town, and its
great days were all under the Macdonnells, where, in the Franciscan abbey across the bay, it
is said the ground 'literally heaves with Clandonnell dust.' Here are buried those of the clan
who perished at the hands of Shane O'Neill--Shane the Proud, who signed himself 'Myself O'Neill,'
and who has been called 'the shaker of Ulster'; here, too, are those who fell in the great
fight at Slieve-an-Aura up in Glen Shesk, when the Macdonnells finally routed the older lords,
the M'Quillans. A clansman once went to the Countess of Antrim to ask the lease of a farm.

"Another Macdonnell?" asked the countess. "Why, you must all be Macdonnells in the Low Glens!"

"Ay," said the man. "Too many Macdonnells now, but not one too many on the day of Aura."

From the cliffs of Antrim we can see on any clear day the Sea of Moyle and the bonnie blue
hills of Scotland, divided from Ulster at this point by only twenty miles of sea path. The
Irish or Gaels or Scots of 'Uladh' often crossed in their curraghs to this lovely coast of
Alba, then inhabited by the Picts. Here, 'when the tide drains out wid itself beyant the rocks,'
we sit for many an hour, perhaps on the very spot from which they pushed off their boats. The
Mull of Cantire runs out sharply toward you; south of it are Ailsa Craig and the soft Ayrshire
coast; north of the Mull are blue, blue mountains in a semicircle, and just beyond them somewhere,
Francesca knows, are the Argyleshire Highlands. And oh! the pearl and opal tints that the Irish
atmosphere flings over the scene, shifting them ever at will, in misty sun or radiant shower;
and how lovely are the too rare bits of woodland! The ground is sometimes white with wild garlic,
sometimes blue with hyacinths; the primroses still linger in moist, hidden places, and there
are violets and marsh marigolds. Everything wears the colour of Hope. If there are buds that
will never bloom and birds that will never fly, the great mother-heart does not know it yet.
"I wonder," said Salemina, "if that is why we think of autumn as sad--because the story of
the year is known and told?"

Long, long before the Clandonnell ruled these hills and glens and cliffs they were the home
of Celtic legend. Over the waters of the wee river Margy, with its half-mile course, often
sailed the four white swans, those enchanted children of Lir, king of the Isle of Man, who
had been transformed into this guise by their cruel stepmother, with a stroke of her druidical
fairy wand. After turning them into four beautiful white swans she pronounced their doom, which
was to sail three hundred years on smooth Lough Derryvara, three hundred on the Sea of Erris--sail,
and sail, until the union of Largnen, the prince from the north, with Decca, the princess from
the south; until the Taillkenn [**] should come to Erinn, bringing the light of a pure faith,
and until they should hear the voice of a Christian bell. They were allowed to keep their own
Gaelic speech, and to sing sweet, plaintive, fairy music, which should excel all the music
of the world, and which should lull to sleep all who listened to it. We could hear it, we three,
for we loved the story; and love opens the ear as well as the heart to all sorts of sounds
not heard by the dull and incredulous. You may hear it, too, any fine soft day if you will
sit there looking out on Fair Head and Rathlin Island, and read the old fairy tale. When you
put down the book you will see Finola, Lir's lovely daughter, in any white-breasted bird; and
while she covers her brothers with her wings, she will chant to you her old song in the Gaelic
tongue.

     ** A name given by the Druids to St. Patrick.

     'Ah, happy is Lir's bright home today
      With mirth and music and poet's lay;
      But gloomy and cold his children's home,
      For ever tossed on the briny foam.

      Our wreath-ed feathers are thin and light
      When the wind blows keen through the wintry night;
      Yet oft we were robed, long, long ago,
      In purple mantles and robes of snow.

      On Moyle's bleak current our food and wine
      Are sandy seaweed and bitter brine;
      Yet oft we feasted in days of old,
      And hazel-mead drank from cups of gold.

      Our beds are rocks in the dripping caves;
      Our lullaby song the roar of the waves;
      But soft, rich couches once we pressed,
      And harpers lulled us each night to rest.

      Lonely we swim on the billowy main,
      Through frost and snow, through storm and rain;
      Alas for the days when round us moved
      The chiefs and princes and friends we loved!'+

+Joyce's translation.

The Fate of the Children of Lir is the second of Erin's Three Sorrows of Story, and the third
and greatest is the Fate of the Sons of Usnach, which has to do with a sloping rock on the
north side of Fair Head, five miles from us. Here the three sons of Usnach landed when they
returned from Alba to Erin with Deirdre--Deirdre, who was 'beautiful as Helen, and gifted like
Cassandra with unavailing prophecy'; and by reason of her beauty many sorrows fell upon the
Ultonians.

Naisi, son of Conor, king of Uladh, had fled with Deirdre, daughter of Phelim, the king's story-teller,
to a sea-girt islet on Lough Etive, where they lived happily by the chase. Naisi's two brothers
went with them, and thus the three sons of Usnach were all in Alba. Then the story goes on
to say that Fergus, one of Conor's nobles, goes to seek the exiles, and Naisi and Deirdre,
while playing at the chess, hear from the shore 'the cry of a man of Erin.' It is against Deirdre's
will that they finally leave Alba with Fergus, who says, "Birthright is first, for ill it goes
with a man, although he be great and prosperous, if he does not see daily his native earth."

So they sailed away over the sea, and Deirdre sang this lay as the shores of Alba faded from
her sight:--

"My love to thee, O Land in the East, and 'tis ill for me to leave thee, for delightful are
thy coves and havens, thy kind, soft, flowery fields, thy pleasant, green-sided hills; and
little was our need of departing."

Then in her song she went over the glens of their lordship, naming them all, and calling to
mind how here they hunted the stag, here they fished, here they slept, with the swaying fern
for pillows, and here the cuckoo called to them. And "Never," she sang, "would I quit Alba
were it not that Naisi sailed thence in his ship."

They landed first under Fair Head, and then later at Rathlin Island, where their fate met them
at last, as Deirdre had prophesied. It is a sad story, and we can easily weep at the thrilling
moment when, there being no man among the Ultonians to do the king's bidding, a Norse captive
takes Naisi's magic sword and strikes off the heads of the three sons of Usnach with one swift
blow, and Deirdre, falling prone upon the dead bodies, chants a lament; and when she has finished
singing, she puts her pale cheek against Naisi's, and dies; and a great cairn is piled over
them, and an inscription in Ogam set upon it.

We were full of legendary lore, these days, for we were fresh from a sight of Glen Ariff. Who
that has ever chanced to be there in a pelting rain but will remember its innumerable little
waterfalls, and the great falls of Ess-na-Crubh and Ess-na-Craoibhe? And who can ever forget
the atmosphere of romance that broods over these Irish glens?

We have had many advantages here as elsewhere; for kind Dr. La Touche, Lady Killbally, and
Mrs. Colquhoun follow us with letters, and wherever there is an unusual personage in a district
we are commended to his or her care. Sometimes it is one of the 'grand quality,' and often
it is an Ossianic sort of person like Shaun O'Grady, who lives in a little whitewashed cabin,
and who has, like Mr. Yeats's Gleeman, 'the whole Middle Ages under his frieze coat.' The longer
and more intimately we know these peasants, the more we realise how much in imagination, or
in the clouds, if you will, they live. The ragged man of leisure you meet on the road may be
a philosopher, and is still more likely to be a poet; but unless you have something of each
in yourself, you may mistake him for a mere beggar.

"The practical ones have all emigrated," a Dublin novelist told us, "and the dreamers are left.
The heads of the older ones are filled with poetry and legends; they see nothing as it is,
but always through some iridescent-tinted medium. Their waking moments, when not tormented
by hunger, are spent in heaven, and they all live in a dream, whether it be of the next world
or of a revolution. Effort is to them useless, submission to everybody and everything the only
safe course; in a word, fatalism expresses their attitude to life."

Much of this submission to the inevitable is a product of past poverty, misfortune, and famine,
and the rest is undoubtedly a trace of the same spirit that we find in the lives and writings
of the saints, and which is an integral part of the mystery and the traditions of Romanism.
We who live in the bright (and sometimes staring) sunlight of common-sense can hardly hope
to penetrate the dim, mysterious world of the Catholic peasant, with his unworldliness and
sense of failure.

Dr. Douglas Hyde, an Irish scholar and staunch Protestant, says: "A pious race is the Gaelic
race. The Irish Gael is pious by nature. There is not an Irishman in a hundred in whom is the
making of an unbeliever. The spirit, and the things of the spirit, affect him more powerfully
than the body, and the things of the body... What is invisible for other people is visible
for him... He feels invisible powers before him, and by his side, and at his back, throughout
the day and throughout the night... His mind on the subject may be summed up in the two sayings:
that of the early Church, 'Let ancient things prevail,' and that of St. Augustine, 'Credo quia
impossibile.' Nature did not form him to be an unbeliever; unbelief is alien to his mind and
contrary to his feelings."

Here, only a few miles away, is the Slemish mountain where St. Patrick, then a captive of the
rich cattle-owner Milcho, herded his sheep and swine. Here, when his flocks were sleeping,
he poured out his prayers, a Christian voice in Pagan darkness. It was the memory of that darkness,
you remember, that brought him back, years after, to convert Milcho. Here, too, they say, lies
the great bard Ossian; for they love to think that Finn's son Oisin, [++] the hero poet, survived
to the time of St. Patrick, three hundred years after the other 'Fianna' had vanished from
the earth,--the three centuries being passed in Tir-nan-og, the Land of Youth, where the great
Oisin married the king's daughter, Niam of the Golden Hair. 'Ossian after the Fianna' is a
phrase which has become the synonym of all survivors' sorrow. Blinded by tears, broken by age,
the hero bard when he returns to earth has no fellowship but with grief, and thus he sings:--

       'No hero now where heroes hurled,--
      Long this night the clouds delay--
      No man like me, in all the world,
        Alone with grief, and grey.

        Long this night the clouds delay--
      I raise their grave carn, stone on stone,
      For Finn and Fianna passed away--
        I, Ossian left alone.'

     ++ Pronounced Isheen' in Munster, Osh'in in Ulster.

In more senses than one Irish folk-lore is Irish history. At least the traditions that have
been handed down from one generation to another contain not only the sometimes authentic record
of events, but a revelation of the Milesian temperament, with its mirth and its melancholy,
its exuberant fancy and its passion. So in these weird tales there is plenty of history, and
plenty of poetry, to one who will listen to it; but the high and tragic story of Ireland has
been cherished mainly in the sorrowful traditions of a defeated race, and the legends have
not yet been wrought into undying verse. Erin's songs of battle could only recount weary successions
of Flodden Fields, with never a Bannockburn and its nimbus of victory; for, as Ossian says
of his countrymen, "they went forth to the war, but they always fell"; but somewhere in the
green isle is an unborn poet who will put all this mystery, beauty, passion, romance, and sadness,
these tragic memories, these beliefs, these visions of unfulfilled desire, into verse that
will glow on the page and live for ever. Somewhere is a mother who has kept all these things
in her heart, and who will bear a son to write them. Meantime, who shall say that they have
not been imbedded in the language, as flower petals might be in amber?--that language which,
as an English scholar says, "has been blossoming there unseen, like a hidden garland of roses;
and whenever the wind has blown from the west, English poetry has felt the vague perfume of it."

Chapter XVIII. Limavady love-letters.

     'As beautiful Kitty one morning was tripping
      With a pitcher of milk from the fair of Coleraine,
      When she saw me she stumbled, the pitcher it tumbled,
      And all the sweet buttermilk watered the plain.'
                                           Anonymous.

We wanted to cross to Rathlin Island, which is 'like an Irish stockinge, the toe of which pointeth
to the main lande.' That would bring Francesca six miles nearer to Scotland and her Scottish
lover; and we wished to see the castle of Robert the Bruce, where, according to the legend,
he learned his lesson from the 'six times baffled spider.' We delayed too long, however, and
the Sea of Moyle looked as bleak and stormy as it did to the children of Lir. We had no mind
to be swallowed up in Brecain's Caldron, where the grandson of Niall and the Nine Hostages
sank with his fifty curraghs, so we took a day of golf at the Ballycastle links. Salemina,
who is a neophyte, found a forlorn lady driving and putting about by herself, and they made
a match just to increase the interest of the game. There was but one boy in evidence, and the
versatile Benella offered to caddie for them, leaving the more experienced gossoon to Francesca
and me. The Irish caddie does not, on the whole, perhaps manifest so keen an interest in the
fine points of the game as his Scottish brother. He is somewhat languid in his search for a
ball, and will occasionally, when serving amiable ladies, sit under a tree in the sun and speculate
as to its whereabouts. As for staying by you while you 'hole out' on your last green, he has
no possible interest in that proceeding, and is off and away, giving his perfunctory and half-hearted
polish to your clubs while you are passing through this thrilling crisis. Salemina, wishing
to know what was considered a good score by local players on these links, asked our young friend
'what they got round in, here,' and was answered, 'They tries to go round in as few as possible,
ma'am, but they mostly takes more!' We all came together again at luncheon, and Salemina returned
flushed with victory. She had made the nine hole course in one hundred and sixty, and had beaten
her adversary five up and four to play.

The next morning, bright and early, we left for Coleraine, a great Presbyterian stronghold
in what is called by the Roman Catholics the 'black north.' If we liked it, and saw anything
of Kitty's descendants, or any nice pitchers to break, or any reason for breaking them, we
intended to stop; if not, then to push on to the walled town of Derry,--

     'Where Foyle his swelling waters
      Rolls northward to the main.'

We thought it Francesca's duty, as she was to be the wife of a Scottish minister of the Established
Church, to look up Presbyterianism in Ireland whenever and wherever possible, with a view to
discoursing learnedly about it in her letters,--though, as she confesses ingenuously, Ronald,
in his, never so much as mentions Presbyterianism. As for ourselves, we determined to observe
all theological differences between Protestants and Roman Catholics, but leave Presbyterianism
to gang its ain gait. We had devoted hours--yes, days--in Edinburgh to the understanding of
the subtle and technical barriers which separated the Free Kirkers and the United Presbyterians;
and the first thing they did, after we had completely mastered the subject, was to unite. It
is all very well for Salemina, who condenses her information and stows it away neatly; but
we who have small storage room and inferior methods of packing must be as economical as possible
in amassing facts.

If we had been touring properly, of course we should have been going to the Giant's Causeway
and the swinging Bridge at Carrick-a-rede; but propriety is the last thing we aim at in our
itineraries. We were within worshipping distance of two rather important shrines in our literary
pilgrimage; for we had met a very knowledgeable traveller at the Sorley Boy, and after a little
chat with him had planned a day of surprises for the academic Miss Peabody. We proposed to
halt at Port Stewart, lunch at Coleraine, sleep at Limavady; and meantime Salemina was to read
all the books at her command, and guess, we hoped vainly, the why and wherefore of these stops.

On the appointed day, the lady in question drove in state on a car with Benella, but Francesca
and I hired a couple of very wheezy bicycles for the journey. We had a thrilling start; for
it chanced to be a fair day in Ballycastle, and we wheeled through a sea of squealing, bolting
pigs, stupid sheep, and unruly cows, all pursued on every side by their drivers. To alight
from a bicycle in such a whirl of beasts always seems certain death; to remain seated diminishes,
I believe, the number of one's days of life to an appreciable extent. Francesca chose the first
course, and, standing still in the middle of the street, called upon everybody within hearing
to save her, and that right speedily. A crowd of 'jibbing' heifers encircled her on all sides,
while a fat porker, 'who (his driver said) might be a prize pig by his impidence,' and a donkey
that was feelin' blue-mouldy for want of a batin', tried to poke their noses into the group.
Salemina's only weapon was her scarlet parasol, and, standing on the step of her side-car,
she brandished this with such terrible effect that the only bull in the cavalcade put up his
head and roared. "Have conduct, woman dear!" cried his owner to Salemina. "Sure if you kape
on moidherin' him wid that ombrelly, you'll have him ugly on me immajently, and the divil a
bit o' me can stop him." "Don't be cryin' that way, asthore," he went on, going to Francesca's
side, and piloting her tenderly to the hedge. "Sure I'll nourish him wid the whip whin I get
him to a more remoted place."

We had no more adventures, but Francesca was so unhinged by her unfortunate exit from Ballycastle
that, after a few miles, she announced her intention of putting her machine and herself on
the car; whereupon Benella proclaimed herself a competent cyclist, and climbed down blithely
to mount the discarded wheel. Her ideas of propriety were by this time so developed that she
rode ten or twelve feet behind me, where she looked quaint enough, in her black dress and little
black bonnet with its white lawn strings.

"Sure it's a quare footman ye have, me lady," said a genial and friendly person who was sitting
by the roadside smoking his old dudeen. An Irishman, somehow, is always going to his work 'jist,'
or coming from it, or thinking how it shall presently be done, or meditating on the next step
in the process, or resting a bit before taking it up again, or reflecting whether the weather
is on the whole favourable to its proper performance; but however poor and needy he may be,
it is somewhat difficult to catch him at the precise working moment. Mr. Alfred Austin says
of the Irish peasants that idleness and poverty seem natural to them. "Life to the Scotsman
or Englishman is a business to conduct, to extend, to render profitable. To the Irishman it
is a dream, a little bit of passing consciousness on a rather hard pillow; the hard part of
it being the occasional necessity for work, which spoils the tenderness and continuity of the
dream."

Presently we passed the Castle, rode along a neat quay with a row of houses advertising lodgings
to let; and here is Lever Cottage, where Harry Lorrequer was written; for Lever was dispensary
doctor in Port Stewart when his first book was appearing in the Dublin University Magazine.

We did not fancy Coleraine; it looked like anything but Cuil-rathain, a ferny corner. Kitty's
sweet buttermilk may have watered, but it had not fertilised the plain, though the town itself
seemed painfully prosperous. Neither the Clothworkers' Inn nor the Corporation Arms looked
a pleasant stopping-place, and the humble inn we finally selected for a brief rest proved to
be about as gay as a family vault, with a landlady who had all the characteristics of a poker
except its occasional warmth, as the Liberator said of another stiff and formal person. Whether
she was Scot or Saxon I know not; she was certainly not Celt, and certainly no Barney McCrea
of her day would have kissed her if she had spilled ever so many pitchers of sweet buttermilk
over the plain; so we took the railway, and departed with delight for Limavady, where Thackeray,
fresh from his visit to Charles Lever, laid his poetical tribute at the stockingless feet of
Miss Margaret of that town.

O'Cahan, whose chief seat was at Limavady, was the principal urraght of O'Neill, and when one
of the great clan was 'proclaimed' at Tullaghogue it was the magnificent privilege of the O'Cahan
to toss a shoe over his head. We slept at O'Cahan's Hotel, and--well, one must sleep; and wherever
we attend to that necessary function without due preparation, we generally make a mistake in
the selection of the particular spot. Protestantism does not necessarily mean cleanliness,
although it may have natural tendencies in that direction; and we find, to our surprise ( a
surprise rooted, probably, in bigotry), that Catholicism can be as clean as a penny whistle,
now and again. There were no special privileges at O'Cahan's for maids, and Benella, therefore,
had a delightful evening in the coffee-room with a storm-bound commercial traveller. As for
Francesca and me, there was plenty to occupy us in our regular letters to Ronald and Himself;
and Salemina wrote several sheets of thin paper to somebody,--no one in America, either, for
we saw her put on a penny stamp.

Our pleasant duties over, we looked into the cheerful glow of the turf sods while I read aloud
Thackeray's Peg of Limavady. He spells the town with two d's, by the way, to insure its being
rhymed properly with Paddy and daddy.

     'Riding from Coleraine
        (Famed for lovely Kitty),
      Came a Cockney bound
        Unto Derry city;
      Weary was his soul,
        Shivering and sad he
      Bumped along the road
        Leads to Limavaddy.

          .  .  .  .

      Limavaddy inn's
        But a humble baithouse,
      Where you may procure
        Whisky and potatoes;
      Landlord at the door
        Gives a smiling welcome
      To the shivering wights
        Who to his hotel come.
      Landlady within
        Sits and knits a stocking,
      With a wary foot
        Baby's cradle rocking.

          .  .  .  .

      Presently a maid
        Enters with the liquor
      (Half a pint of ale
        Frothing in a beaker).
      Gads! I didn't know
        What my beating heart meant:
      Hebe's self I thought
        Entered the apartment.
      As she came she smiled,
        And the smile bewitching,
      On my word and honour,
        Lighted all the kitchen!

          .  .  .  . Francesca sat on a low stool, looking
into the fire, Ronald's last letter in her lap, and it was easy indeed
to see that her heart was in the Highlands. She has been giving us a few
extracts from the communication, an unusual proceeding, as Ronald, in
his ordinary correspondence, is evidently not a quotable person. We
smiled over his account of a visit to his old parish of Inchcaldy in
Fifeshire. There is a certain large orphanage in the vicinity, in which
we had all taken an interest, chiefly because our friends the Macraes of
Pettybaw House were among its guardians.

It seems that Lady Rowardennan of the Castle had promised the orphans, en bloc, that those
who passed through an entire year without once falling into falsehood should have a treat or
festival of their own choosing. On the eventful day of decision, those orphans, male and female,
who had not for a twelve-month deviated from the truth by a hair's-breadth, raised their little
white hands (emblematic of their pure hearts and lips), and were solemnly counted. Then came
the unhappy moment when a scattering of small grimy paws was timidly put up, and their falsifying
owners confessed that they had fibbed more than once during the year. These tearful fibbers
were also counted, and sent from the room, while the non-fibbers chose their reward, which
was to sail around the Bass Rock and the Isle of May in a steam tug.

On the festival day, the matron of the orphanage chanced on the happy thought that it might
have a moral effect on the said fibbers to see the non-fibbers depart in a blaze of glory;
so they were taken to the beach to watch the tug start on its voyage. The confessed criminals
looked wretched enough, Ronald wrote, when forsaken by their virtuous playmates, who stepped
jauntily on board, holding their sailor hats on their heads and carrying nice little luncheon
baskets; so miserably unhappy, indeed, did they seem that certain sympathetic and ill-balanced
persons sprang to their relief, providing them with sandwiches, sweeties, and pennies. It was
a lovely day, and when the fibbers' tears were dried they played merrily on the sand, their
games directed and shared by the aforesaid misguided persons.

Meantime a high wind had sprung up at sea, and the tug was tossed to and fro upon the foamy
deep. So many and so varied were the ills of the righteous orphans that the matron could not
attend to all of them properly, and they were laid on benches or on the deck, where they languidly
declined luncheon, and wept for a sight of the land. At five the tug steamed up to the home
landing. A few of the voyagers were able to walk ashore, some were assisted, others were carried;
and as the pale, haggard, truthful company gathered on the beach, they were met by a boisterous,
happy crowd of Ananiases and Sapphiras, sunburned, warm, full of tea and cakes and high spirits,
and with the moral law already so uncertain in their minds that at the sight of the suffering
non-liars it tottered to its fall.

Ronald hopes that Lady Rowardennan and the matron may perhaps have gained some useful experience
by the incident, though the orphans, truthful and untruthful, are hopelessly mixed in their
views of right-doing.

He is staying now at the great house of the neighbourhood, while his new manse is being put
in order. Roderick, the piper, he says, has a grand collection of pipe tunes given him by an
officer of the Black Watch. Francesca, when she and Ronald visit the Castle on their wedding
journey, is to have 'Johnnie Cope' to wake her in the morning, 'Brose and Butter' just before
dinner is served, a reel, a strathspey, and a march while the meal is going on, and, last of
all, the 'Highland Wedding.' Ronald does not know whether there are any Lowland Scots or English
words to this pipe tune, but it is always played in the Highlands after the actual marriage,
and the words in Gaelic are, 'Alas for me if the wife I have married is not a good one, for
she will eat the food and not do the work!'

"You don't think Ronald meant anything personal in quoting that?" I asked Francesca teasingly;
but she shot me such a reproachful look that I hadn't the heart to persist, her face was so
full of self-distrust and love and longing.

What creatures of sense we are, after all; and in certain moods, of what avail is it if the
beloved object is alive, safe, loyal, so long as he is absent? He may write letters like Horace
Walpole or Chesterfield--better still, like Alfred de Musset, or George Sand, or the Brownings;
but one clasp of the hand that moved the pen is worth an ocean of words! You believe only in
the etherealised, the spiritualised passion of love; you know that it can exist through years
of separation, can live and grow where a coarser feeling would die for lack of nourishment;
still though your spirit should be strong enough to meet its spirit mate somewhere in the realms
of imagination, and the bodily presence ought not really to be necessary, your stubborn heart
of flesh craves sight and sound and touch. That is the only pitiless part of death, it seems
to me. We have had the friendship, the love, the sympathy, and these are things that can never
die; they have made us what we are, and they are by their very nature immortal; yet we would
come near to bartering all these spiritual possessions for the 'touch of a vanished hand, and
the sound of a voice that is still.'

How could I ever think life easy enough to be ventured on alone! It is so beautiful to feel
oneself of infinite value to one other human creature; to hear beside one's own step the tread
of a chosen companion on the same road. And if the way be dusty or the hills difficult to climb,
each can say to the other, 'I love you, dear; lean on me and walk in confidence. I can always
be counted on, whatever happens.'

Chapter XIX. 'In ould Donegal.'

     'Here's a health to you, Father O'Flynn!
      Slainte, and slainte, and slainte agin;
      Pow'rfulest preacher and tenderest teacher,
      And kindliest creature in ould Donegal.'
                                Alfred Perceval Graves.

                                     Coomnageeha Hotel,
                                       In Ould Donegal.

It is a far cry from the kingdom of Kerry to 'ould Donegal,' where we have been travelling
for a week, chiefly in the hope of meeting Father O'Flynn. We miss our careless, genial, ragged,
southern Paddy just a bit; for he was a picturesque, likable figure, on the whole, and easier
to know than this Ulster Irishman, the product of a mixed descent.

We did not stop long in Belfast; for if there is anything we detest, when on our journeys,
it is to mix too much with people of industry, thrift, and business sagacity. Sturdy, prosperous,
calculating, well-to-do Protestants are well enough in their way, and undoubtedly they make
a very good backbone for Ireland; but we crave something more romantic than the citizen virtues,
or we should have remained in our own country, where they are tolerably common, although we
have not as yet anything approaching over-production.

Belfast, it seems, is, and has always been, a centre of Presbyterianism. The members of the
Presbytery protested against the execution of Charles I., and received an irate reply from
Milton, who said that 'the blockish presbyters of Clandeboy' were 'egregious liars and impostors,'
who meant to stir up rebellion 'from their unchristian synagogue at Belfast in a barbarous
nook of Ireland.'

Dr. La Touche writes to Salemina that we need not try to understand all the religious and political
complications which surround us. They are by no means as violent or as many as in Thackeray's
day, when the great English author found nine shades of politico-religious differences in the
Irish Liverpool. As the impartial observer must, in such a case, necessarily displease eight
parties, and probably the whole nine, Thackeray advised a rigid abstinence from all intellectual
curiosity. Dr. La Touche says, if we wish to know the north better, it will do us no harm to
study the Plantation of Ulster, the United Irish movement, Orangeism, Irish Jacobitism, the
effect of French and Swiss Republicanism in the evolution of public sentiment, and the close
relation and affection that formerly existed between the north of Ireland and New England.
(This last topic seems to appeal to Salemina particularly.) He also alludes to Tories and Rapparees,
Rousseau and Thomas Paine and Owen Roe O'Neill, but I have entirely forgotten their connection
with the subject. Francesca and I are thoroughly enjoying ourselves, as only those people can
who never take notes, and never try, when Pandora's box is opened in their neighbourhood, to
seize the heterogeneous contents and put them back properly, with nice little labels on them.

Ireland is no longer a battlefield of English parties, neither is it wholly a laboratory for
political experiment; but from having been both the one and the other, its features are a bit
knocked out of shape and proportion, as it were. We have bought two hideous engravings of the
Battle of the Boyne and the Secret of England's Greatness; and whenever we stay for a night
in any inn where perchance these are not, we pin them on the wall, and are received into the
landlady's heart at once. I don't know which is the finer study: the picture of his Majesty
William III. crossing the Boyne, or the plump little Queen presenting a huge family Bible to
an apparently uninterested black youth. In the latter work of art the eye is confused at first
as the three principal features approach each other very nearly in size, and Francesca asked
innocently, "Which IS the secret of England's greatness--the Bible, the Queen, or the black man?"

This is a thriving town, and we are at a smart hotel which had for two years an English manager.
The scent of the roses hangs round it still, but it is gradually growing fainter under the
stress of small patronage and other adverse circumstances. The table linen is a trifle ragged,
though clean; but the circle of red and green wineglasses by each plate, an array not borne
out by the number of vintages on the wine-list, the tiny ferns scattered everywhere in innumerable
pots, and the dozens of minute glass vases, each holding a few blue hyacinths, give an air
of urban elegance to the dining-room. The guests are requested, in printed placards, to be
punctual at meals, especially at the seven-thirty table d'hote dinner, and the management itself
is punctual at this function about seven forty-five. This is much better than in the south,
where we, and sixty other travellers, were once kept waiting fifteen minutes between the soup
and the fish course. When we were finally served with half-cooked turbot, a pleasant-spoken
waitress went about to each table, explaining to the irate guests that the cook was 'not at
her best.' We caught a glimpse of her as she was being borne aloft, struggling and eloquent,
and were able to understand the reason of her unachieved ideals.

There is nothing sacred about dinner to the average Irishman; he is willing to take anything
that comes, as a rule, and cooking is not regarded as a fine art here. Perhaps occasional flashes
of starvation and seasons of famine have rendered the Irish palate easier to please; at all
events, wherever the national god may be, its pedestal is not in the stomach. Our breakfast,
day after day, week after week, has been bacon and eggs. One morning we had tomatoes on bacon,
and concluded that the cook had experienced religion or fallen in love, since both these operations
send a flush of blood to the brain and stimulate the mental processes. But no; we found simply
that the eggs had not been brought in time for breakfast. There is no consciousness of monotony--far
from it; the nobility and gentry can at least eat what they choose, and they choose bacon and
eggs. There is no running of the family gamut, either, from plain boiled to omelet; poached
or fried eggs on bacon it is, weekdays and Sundays. The luncheon, too, is rarely inspired:
they eat cold joint of beef with pickled beetroot, or mutton and boiled potatoes, with unfailing
regularity, finishing off at most hotels with semolina pudding, a concoction intended for,
and appealing solely to, the taste of the toothless infant, who, having just graduated from
rubber rings, has not a jaded palate.

How the long breakfast bill at an up-to-date Belfast hostelry awed us, after weeks of bacon
and eggs! The viands on the menu swam together before our dazed eyes.

     Porridge
     Fillets of Plaice
     Whiting
     Fried Sole
     Savoury Omelet
     Kidneys and Bacon
     Cold Meats.

I looked at this array like one in a dream, realising that I had lost the power of selection,
and remembering the scientific fact that unused faculties perish for want of exercise. The
man who was serving us rattled his tray, shifted his weight wearily from one foot to the other
and cleared his throat suggestively; until at last I said hastily, "Bacon and eggs, please,"
and Salemina, the most critical person in the party, murmured, "The same."

It is odd to see how soon, if one has a strong sense of humanity, one feels at home in a foreign
country. I, at least, am never impressed by the differences, but only by the similarities,
between English-speaking peoples. We take part in the life about us here, living each experience
as fully as we can, whether it be a 'hiring fair' in Donegal or a pilgrimage to the Doon 'Well
of Healing.' Not the least part of the pleasure is to watch its effect upon the Derelict. Where,
or in what way, could three persons hope to gain as much return from a monthly expenditure
of twenty dollars, added to her living and travelling expenses, as we have had in Miss Benella
Dusenberry? We sometimes ask ourselves what we found to do with our time before she came into
the family, and yet she is as busy as possible herself.

Having twice singed Francesca's beautiful locks, she no longer attempts hair-dressing; while
she never accomplishes the lacing of an evening dress without putting her knee in the centre
of your back once, at least, during the operation. She can button shoes, and she can mend and
patch and darn to perfection; she has a frenzy for small laundry operations, and, after washing
the windows of her room, she adorns every pane of glass with a fine cambric handkerchief, and,
stretching a line between the bedpost and the bureau knob, she hangs out her white neckties
and her bonnet strings to dry. She has learned to pack reasonably well, too. But if she has
another passion beside those of washing and mending, it is for making bags. She buys scraps
of gingham and print, and makes cases of every possible size and for every possible purpose;
so that all our personal property, roughly speaking--hair-brushes, shoes, writing materials,
pincushions, photographs, underclothing, gloves, medicines,--is bagged. The strings in the
bags pull both ways, and nothing is commoner than to see Benella open and close seventeen or
eighteen of them when she is searching for Francesca's rubbers or my gold thimble. But what
other lady's-maid or travelling companion ever had half the Derelict's unique charm and interest,
half her conversational power, her unusual and original defects and virtues? Put her in a third-class
carriage when we go 'first,' and she makes friends with all her fellow-travellers, discussing
Home Rule or Free Silver with the utmost prejudice and vehemence, and freeing her mind on any
point, to the delight of the natives. Occasionally, when borne along by the joy of argument,
she forgets to change at the point of junction, and has to be found and dragged out of the
railway carriage; occasionally, too, she is left behind when taking a cheerful cup of tea at
a way station, but this is comparatively seldom. Her stories of life belowstairs in the various
inns and hotels, her altercations with housemaid or boots or landlady in our behalf, all add
a zest to the day's doings.

Benella's father was an itinerant preacher, her mother the daughter of a Vermont farmer; and
although she was left an orphan at ten years, educating and supporting herself as best she
could after that, she is as truly a combination of both parents as her name is a union of their
two names.

"I'm so 'fraid I shan't run across any of grandmother's folks over here, after all," she said
yesterday, "though I ask every nice-appearin' person I meet anywheres if he or she's any kin
to Mary Boyce of Trim; and then, again, I'm scared to death for fear I shall find I'm own cousin
to one of these here critters that ain't brushed their hair nor washed their apurns for a month
o' Sundays! I declare, it keeps me real nerved up... I think it's partly the climate that makes
'em so slack," she philosophised, pinning a new bag on her knee, and preparing to backstitch
the seam. "There's nothin' like a Massachusetts winter for puttin' the git-up-an'-git into
you. Land! you've got to move round smart, or you'd freeze in your tracks. These warm, moist
places always makes folks lazy; and when they're hot enough, if you take notice, it makes heathen
of 'em. It always seems so queer to me that real hot weather and the Christian religion don't
seem to git along together. P'r'aps it's just as well that the idol-worshippers should get
used to heat in this world, for they'll have it consid'able hot in the next one, I guess! And
see here, Mrs. Beresford, will you get me ten cents'--I mean sixpence--worth o' red gingham
to make Miss Monroe a bag for Mr. Macdonald's letters? They go sprawlin' all over her trunk;
and there's so many of 'em I wish to the land she'd send 'em to the bank while she's travellin'!"

Chapter XX. We evict a tenant.

     'Soon as you lift the latch, little ones are meeting you,
      Soon as you're 'neath the thatch, kindly looks are
           greeting you;
      Scarcely have you time to be holding out the fist to them--
      Down by the fireside you're sitting in the midst of them.'
                                          Francis Fahy.

                                     Roothythanthrum Cottage,
                                    Knockcool, County Tyrone.

Of course, we have always intended sooner or later to forsake this life of hotels and lodgings,
and become either Irish landlords or tenants, or both, with a view to the better understanding
of one burning Irish question. We heard of a charming house in County Down, which could be
secured by renting it the first of May for the season; but as we could occupy it only for a
month at most we were obliged to forego the opportunity.

"We have been told from time immemorial that absenteeism has been one of the curses of Ireland,"
I remarked to Salemina; "so, whatever the charms of the cottage in Rostrevor, do not let us
take it, and in so doing become absentee landlords."

"It was you two who hired the 'wee theekit hoosie' in Pettybaw," said Francesca. "I am going
to be in the vanguard of the next house-hunting expedition; in fact, I have almost made up
my mind to take my third of Benella and be an independent householder for a time. If I am ever
to learn the management of an establishment before beginning to experiment on Ronald's, now
is the proper moment."

"Ronald must have looked the future in the face when he asked you to marry him," I replied,
"although it is possible that he looked only at you, and therefore it is his duty to endure
your maiden incapacities; but why should Salemina and I suffer you to experiment upon us, pray?"

It was Benella, after all, who inveigled us into making our first political misstep; for, after
avoiding the sin of absenteeism, we fell into one almost as black, inasmuch as we evicted a
tenant. It is part of Benella's heterogeneous and unusual duty to take a bicycle and scour
the country in search of information for us: to find out where shops are, post-office, lodgings,
places for good sketches, ruins, pretty roads for walks and drives, and many other things,
too numerous to mention. She came home from one of these expeditions flushed with triumph.

"I've got you a house!" she exclaimed proudly. "There's a lady in it now, but she'll move out
to-morrow when we move in; and we are to pay seventeen dollars fifty--I mean three pound ten--a
week for the house, with privilege of renewal, and she throws in the hired girl." (Benella
is hopelessly provincial in the matter of language: butler, chef, boots, footman, scullery-maid,
all come under the generic term of 'help.')

"I knew our week at this hotel was out to-morrow," she continued, "and we've about used up
this place, anyway, and the new village that I've b'en to is the prettiest place we've seen
yet; it's got an up-and-down hill to it, just like home, and the house I've partly rented is
opposite a fair green, where there's a market every week, and Wednesday's the day; and we'll
save money, for I shan't cost you so much when we can housekeep."

"Would you mind explaining a little more in detail," asked Salemina quietly, "and telling me
whether you have hired the house for yourself or for us?"

"For us all," she replied genially--"you don't suppose I'd leave you? I liked the looks of
this cottage the first time I passed it, and I got acquainted with the hired girl by going
in the side yard and asking for a drink. The next time I went I got acquainted with the lady,
who's got the most outlandish name that ever was wrote down, and here it is on a paper; and
to-day I asked her if she didn't want to rent her house for a week to three quiet ladies without
children and only one of them married and him away. She said it wa'n't her own, and I asked
her if she couldn't sublet to desirable parties--I knew she was as poor as Job's turkey by
her looks; and she said it would suit her well enough, if she had any place to go. I asked
her if she wouldn't like to travel, and she said no. Then I says, 'Wouldn't you like to go
to visit some of your folks?' And she said she s'posed she could stop a week with her son's
wife, just to oblige us. So I engaged a car to drive you down this afternoon just to look at
the place; and if you like it we can easy move over to-morrow. The sun's so hot I asked the
stableman if he hadn't got a top buggy, or a surrey, or a carryall; but he never heard tell
of any of 'em; he didn't even know a shay. I forgot to tell you the lady is a Protestant, and
the hired girl's name is Bridget Thunder, and she's a Roman Catholic, but she seems extra smart
and neat. I was kind of in hopes she wouldn't be, for I thought I should enjoy trainin' her,
and doin' that much for the country."

And so we drove over to this village of Knockcool (Knockcool, by the way, means 'Hill of Sleep'),
as much to make amends for Benella's eccentricities as with any idea of falling in with her
proposal. The house proved everything she said, and in Mrs. Wogan Odevaine Benella had found
a person every whit as remarkable as herself. She is evidently an Irish gentlewoman of very
small means, very flexible in her views and convictions, very talkative and amusing, and very
much impressed with Benella as a product of New England institutions. We all took a fancy to
one another at first sight, and we heard with real pleasure that her son's wife lived only
a few miles away. We insisted on paying the evicted lady the three pounds ten in advance for
the first week. She seemed surprised, and we remembered that Irish tenants, though often capable
of shedding blood for a good landlord, are generally averse to paying him rent. Mrs. Wogan
Odevaine then drove away in high good humour, taking some personal belongings with her, and
promising to drink tea with us some time during the week. She kissed Francesca good-bye, told
her she was the prettiest creature she had ever seen, and asked if she might have a peep at
all her hats and frocks when she came to visit us.

Salemina says that Rhododendron Cottage (pronounced by Bridget Thunder 'Roothythanthrum') being
the property of one landlord and the residence of four tenants at the same time makes us in
a sense participators in the old system of rundale tenure, long since abolished. The good-will
or tenant-right was infinitely subdivided, and the tiniest holdings sometimes existed in thirty-two
pieces. The result of this joint tenure was an extraordinary tangle, particularly when it went
so far as the subdivision of 'one cow's grass,' or even of a horse, which, being owned jointly
by three men, ultimately went lame, because none of them would pay for shoeing the fourth foot.

We have been here five days, and instead of reproving Benella, as we intended, for gross assumption
of authority in the matter, we are more than ever her bond-slaves. The place is altogether
charming, and here it is for you.

Knockcool Street is Knockcool village itself, as with almost all Irish towns; but the line
of little thatched cabins is brightened at the far end by the neat house of Mrs. Wogan Odevaine,
set a trifle back in its own garden, by the pillared porch of a modest hotel, and by the barracks
of the Royal Irish Constabulary. The sign of the Provincial Bank of Ireland almost faces our
windows; and although it is used as a meal-shop the rest of the week, they tell us that two
thousand pounds in money is needed there on fair-days. Next to it is a little house, the upper
part of which is used as a Methodist chapel; and old Nancy, the caretaker, is already a good
friend of ours. It is a humble house of prayer, but Nancy takes much pride in it, and showed
us the melodeon, 'worked by a young lady from Rossantach,' the Sunday-school rooms, and even
the cupboard where she keeps the jugs for the love-feast and the linen and wine for the sacrament,
which is administered once in three years. Next comes the Hoeys' cabin, where we have always
a cordial welcome, but where we never go all together, for fear of embarrassing the family,
which is a large one--three generations under one roof, and plenty of children in the last.
Old Mrs. Hoey does not rightly know her age, she says; but her daughter Ellen was born the
year of the Big Wind, and she herself was twenty-two when she was married, and you might allow
a year between that and when Ellen was born, and make your own calculation.

She tells many stories of the Big Wind, which we learn was in 1839, making Ellen's age about
sixty-one and her mother's eighty-four. The fury of the storm was such that it forced the water
of the Lough far ashore, stranding the fish among the rocks, where they were found dead by
hundreds. When next morning dawned there was confusion and ruin on every side: the cross had
tumbled from the chapel, the tombstones were overturned in the graveyard, trees and branches
blocked the roadways, cabins were stripped of their thatches, and cattle found dead in the
fields; so it is small wonder old Mrs. Hoey remembers the day of Ellen's birth, weak as she
is on all other dates.

Ellen's husband, Miles M'Gillan, is the carpenter on an estate in the neighbourhood. His shop
opens out of the cabin, and I love to sit by the Hoey fireside, where the fan bellows, turned
by a crank, brings in an instant a fresh flame to the sods of smouldering turf, and watch a
wee Colleen Bawn playing among her daddy's shavings, tying them about her waist and fat wrists,
hanging them on her ears and in among her brown curls. Mother Hoey says that I do not speak
like an American--that I have not so many 'caperin's' in my language, whatever they may be;
and so we have long delightful chats together when I go in for a taste of Ellen's griddle bread,
cooked over the peat coals. Francesca, meantime, is calling on Mrs. O'Rourke, whose son has
taken more than fifty bicycle prizes; and no stranger can come to Knockcool without inspecting
the brave show of silver, medals, and china that adorn the bedroom, and make the O'Rourkes
the proudest couple in ould Donegal. Phelim O'Rourke smokes his dudeen on a bench by the door,
and invites the passer-by to enter and examine the trophies. His trousers are held up with
bits of rope arranged as suspenders; indeed, his toilet is so much a matter of strings that
it must be a work of time to tie on his clothing in the morning, in case he takes it off at
night, which is open to doubt; nevertheless it is he that's the satisfied man, and the luck
would be on him as well as on e'er a man alive, were he not kilt wid the cough intirely! Mrs.
Phelim's skirt shows a triangle of red flannel behind, where the two ends of the waistband
fail to meet by about six inches, but are held together by a piece of white ball fringe. Any
informality in this part of her costume is, however, more than atoned for by the presence of
a dingy bonnet of magenta velvet, which she always dons for visitors.

The O'Rourke family is the essence of hospitality, so their kitchen is generally full of children
and visitors; and on the occasion when Salemina issued from the prize bedroom, the guests were
so busy with conversation that, to use their own language, divil a wan of thim clapt eyes on
the O'Rourke puppy, and they did not notice that the baste was floundering in a tub of soft,
newly made butter standing on the floor. He was indeed desperately involved, being so completely
wound up in the waxy mass that he could not climb over the tub's edge. He looked comical and
miserable enough in his plight: the children and the visitors thought so, and so did Francesca
and I; but Salemina went directly home, and kept her room for an hour. She is so sensitive!
Och, thin, it's herself that's the marthyr intirely! We cannot see that the incident affects
us so long as we avoid the O'Rourkes' butter; but she says, covering her eyes with her handkerchief
and shuddering: "Suppose there are other tubs and other pup--Oh, I cannot bear the thought
of it, dears! Please change the subject, and order me two hard-boiled eggs for dinner."

Leaving Knockcool behind us, we walk along the country road between high, thick hedges: here
a clump of weather-beaten trees, there a stretch of bog with silver pools and piles of black
turf, then a sudden view of hazy hills, a grove of beeches, a great house with a splendid gateway,
and sometimes, riding through it, a figure new to our eyes, a Lady Master of the Hounds, handsome
in her habit with red facings. We pass many an 'evicted farm,' the ruined house with the rushes
growing all about it, and a lonely goat browsing near; and on we walk, until we can see the
roofs of Lisdara's solitary cabin row, huddled under the shadow of a gloomy hill topped by
the ruins of an old fort. All is silent, and the blue haze of the peat smoke curls up from
the thatch. Lisdara's young people have mostly gone to the Big Country; and how many tears
have dropped on the path we are treading, as Peggy and Mary, Cormac and Miles, with a wooden
box in the donkey cart behind them, or perhaps with only a bundle hanging from a blackthorn
stick, have come down the hill to seek their fortune! Perhaps Peggy is barefooted; perhaps
Mary has little luggage beyond a pot of shamrock or a mountain thrush in a wicker cage; but
what matter for that? They are used to poverty and hardship and hunger, and although they are
going quite penniless to a new country, sure it can be no worse than the old. This is the happy-go-lucky
Irish philosophy, and there is mixed with it a deal of simple trust in God.

How many exiles and wanderers, both those who have no fortune and those who have failed to
win it, dream of these cabin rows, these sweet-scented boreens with their 'banks of furze unprofitably
gay,' these leaking thatches with the purple loosestrife growing in their ragged seams, and,
looking backward across the distance of time and space, give the humble spot a tender thought,
because after all it was in their dear native isle!

     'Pearly are the skies in the country of my fathers,
        Purple are thy mountains, home of my heart;
      Mother of my yearning, love of all my longings,
        Keep me in remembrance long leagues apart.'

I have been thinking in this strain because of an old dame in the first cabin in Lisdara row,
whose daughter is in America, and who can talk of nothing else. She shows us the last letter,
with its postal order for sixteen shillings, that Mida sent from New York, with little presents
for blind Timsy, 'dark since he were three years old,' and for lame Dan, or the 'Bocca,' as
he is called in Lisdara. Mida was named for the virgin saint of Killeedy in Limerick. [*] "And
it's she that's good enough to bear a saint's name, glory be to God!" exclaims the old mother
returning Mida's photograph to a hole in the wall where the pig cannot possibly molest it.

         * Saint Mide, the Brigit of Munster.

At the far end of the row lives 'Omadhaun Pat.' He is a 'little sthrange,' you understand;
not because he was born with too small a share of wit, but because he fell asleep one evening
when he was lying on the grass up by the old fort, and--'well, he was niver the same thing
since.' There are places in Ireland, you must know, where if you lie down upon the green earth
and sink into untimely slumber, you will 'wake silly'; or, for that matter, although it is
doubtless a risk, you may escape the fate of waking silly, and wake a poet! Carolan fell asleep
upon a faery rath, and it was the faeries who filled his ears with music, so that he was haunted
by the tunes ever afterward; and perhaps all poets, whether they are conscious of it or not,
fall asleep on faery raths before they write sweet songs.

Little Omadhaun Pat is pale, hollow-eyed, and thin; but that, his mother says, is 'because
he is over-studyin' for his confirmation.' The great day is many weeks away, but to me it seems
likely that, when the examination comes, Pat will be where he will know more than the priests!

Next door lives old Biddy Tuke. She is too aged to work, and she sits in her doorway, always
a pleasant figure in her short woollen petticoat, her little shawl, and her neat white cap.
She has pitaties for food, with stirabout of Indian meal once a day (oatmeal is too dear),
tea occasionally when there is sixpence left from the rent, and she has more than once tasted
bacon in her eighty years of life; more than once, she tells me proudly, for it's she that's
had the good sons to help her a bit now and then,--four to carry her and one to walk after,
which is the Irish notion of an ideal family.

"It's no chuckens I do be havin' now, ma'am," she says, "but it's a darlin' flock I had ten
year ago, whin Dinnis was harvestin' in Scotland! Sure it was two-and-twinty chuckens I had
on the floore wid meself that year, ma'am."

"Oh, it's a conthrary world, that's a mortial fact!" as Phelim O'Rourke is wont to say when
his cough is bad; and for my life I can frame no better wish for ould Biddy Tuke and Omadhaun
Pat, dark Timsy and the Bocca, than that they might wake, one of these summer mornings, in
the harvest-field of the seventh heaven. That place is reserved for the saints, and surely
these unfortunates, acquainted with grief like Another, might without difficulty find entrance
there.

I am not wise enough to say how much of all this squalor and wretchedness and hunger is the
fault of the people themselves, how much of it belongs to circumstances and environment, how
much is the result of past errors of government, how much is race, how much is religion. I
only know that children should never be hungry, that there are ignorant human creatures to
be taught how to live; and if it is a hard task, the sooner it is begun the better, both for
teachers and pupils. It is comparatively easy to form opinions and devise remedies, when one
knows the absolute truth of things; but it is so difficult to find the truth here, or at least
there are so many and such different truths to weigh in the balance,--the Protestant and the
Roman Catholic truth, the landlord's and the tenant's, the Nationalist's and the Unionist's
truth! I am sadly befogged, and so, pushing the vexing questions all aside, I take dark Timsy,
Bocca Lynch, and Omadhaun Pat up on the green hillside near the ruined fort, to tell them stories,
and teach them some of the thousand things that happier, luckier children know.

This is an island of anomalies: the Irish peasants will puzzle you, perplex you, disappoint
you with their inconsistencies, but keep from liking them if you can! There are a few cleaner
and more comfortable homes in Lisdara and Knockcool than when we came, and Benella has been
invaluable, although her reforms, as might be expected, are of an unusual character, and with
her the wheels of progress never move silently, as they should, but always squeak. With the
two golden sovereigns given her to spend, she has bought scissors, knives, hammers, boards,
sewing materials, knitting needles, and yarn,--everything to work with, and nothing to eat,
drink, or wear, though Heaven knows there is little enough of such things in Lisdara.

"The quicker you wear 'em out, the better you'll suit me," she says to the awestricken Lisdarians.
"I'm a workin' woman myself, an' it's my ladies' money I've spent this time; but I'll make
out to keep you in brooms and scrubbin' brushes, if only you'll use 'em! You mustn't take offence
at anything I say to you, for I'm part Irish--my grandmother was Mary Boyce of Trim; and if
she hadn't come away and settled in Salem, Massachusetts, mebbe I wouldn't have known a scrubbin'
brush by sight myself!"

Chapter XXI. Lachrymae Hibernicae.

     'What ails you, Sister Erin, that your face
      Is, like your mountains, still bedewed with tears?
            .   .   .   .   .   .   .
      Forgive! forget! lest harsher lips should say,
      Like your turf fire, your rancour smoulders long,
      And let Oblivion strew Time's ashes o'er your wrong.'
                                          Alfred Austin.

At tea-time, and again after our simple dinner--for Bridget Thunder's repertory is not large,
and Benella's is quite unsuited to the Knockcool markets--we wend our way to a certain house
that stands by itself on the road to Lisdara. It is only a whitewashed cabin with green window
trimmings, but it is a larger and more comfortable one than we commonly see, and it is the
perfection of neatness within and without. The stone wall that encloses it is whitewashed too,
and the iron picket railing at the top is painted bright green; the stones on the posts are
green also, and there is the prettiest possible garden, with nicely cut borders of box. In
fine, if ever there was a cheery place to look at, Sarsfield Cottage is that one; and if ever
there was a cheerless gentleman, it is Mr. Jordan, who dwells there. Mrs. Wogan Odevaine commended
him to us as the man of all others with whom to discuss Irish questions, if we wanted, for
once in a way, to hear a thoroughly disaffected, outraged, wrong-headed, and rancorous view
of things.

"He is an encyclopaedia, and he is perfectly delightful on any topic in the universe but the
wrongs of Ireland," said she; "not entirely sane and yet a good father, and a good neighbour,
and a good talker. Faith, he can abuse the English government with any man alive! He has a
smaller grudge against you Americans, perhaps, than against most of the other nations, so possibly
he may elect to discuss something more cheerful than our national grievances; if he does, and
you want a livelier topic, just mention--let me see--you might speak of Wentworth, who destroyed
Ireland's woollen industry, though it is true he laid the foundation of the linen trade, so
he wouldn't do, though Mr. Jordan is likely to remember the former point and forget the latter.
Well, just breathe the words 'Catholic Disqualification' or 'Ulster Confiscation,' and you
will have as pretty a burst of oratory as you'd care to hear. You remember that exasperated
Englishman who asked in the House why Irishmen were always laying bare their grievances. And
Major O'Gorman bawled across the floor, 'Because they want them redressed!'"

Salemina and I went to call on Mr. Jordan the very next day after our arrival at Knockcool.
Over the sitting-room or library door at Sarsfield Cottage is a coat of arms with the motto
of the Jordans, 'Percussus surgam'; and as our friend is descended from Richard Jordan of Knock,
who died on the scaffold at Claremorris in the memorable year 1798, I find that he is related
to me, for one of the De Exeter Jordans married Penelope O'Connor, daughter of the king of
Connaught. He took her to wife, too, when the espousal of anything Irish, names, language,
apparel, customs, or daughters, was high treason, and meant instant confiscation of estates.
I never thought of mentioning the relationship, for obviously a family cannot hold grievances
for hundreds of years and bequeath a sense of humour at the same time.

The name Jordan is derived, it appears, from a noble ancestor who was banner-bearer in the
Crusades and who distinguished himself in many battles, but particularly in one fought against
the infidels on the banks of the River Jordan in the Holy Land. In this conflict he was felled
to the ground three times during the day, but owing to his gigantic strength, his great valour,
and the number of the Saracens prostrated by his sword, he succeeded in escaping death and
keeping the banner of the Cross hoisted; hence by way of eminence he was called Jordan; and
the motto of this illustrious family ever since has been, 'Though I fall I rise.'

Mr. Jordan's wife has been long dead, but he has four sons, only one of them, Napper Tandy,
living at home. Theobald Wolfe Tone is practising law in Dublin; Hamilton Rowan is a physician
in Cork; and Daniel O'Connell, commonly called 'Lib' (a delicate reference to the Liberator),
is still a lad at Trinity. It is a great pity that Mr. Jordan could not have had a larger family,
that he might have kept fresh in the national heart the names of a few more patriots; for his
library walls, 'where Memory sits by the altar she has raised to Woe,' are hung with engravings
and prints of celebrated insurgents, rebels, agitators, demagogues, denunciators, conspirators,--pictures
of anybody, in a word, who ever struck a blow, right or wrong, well or ill judged, for the
green isle. That gallant Jacobite, Patrick Sarsfield, Burke, Grattan, Flood, and Robert Emmet
stand shoulder to shoulder with three Fenian gentlemen, names Allan, Larkin, and O'Brien, known
in ultra-Nationalist circles as the 'Manchester martyrs.' For some years after this trio was
hanged in Salford jail, it appears that the infant mind was sadly mixed in its attempt to separate
knowledge in the concrete from the more or less abstract information contained in the Catechism;
and many a bishop was shocked, when asking in the confirmation service, "Who are the martyrs?"
to be told, "Allan, Larkin, and O'Brien, me lord!"

Francesca says she longs to smuggle into Mr. Jordan's library a picture of Tom Steele, one
of Daniel O'Connell's henchmen, to whom he gave the title of Head Pacificator of Ireland. Many
amusing stories are told of this official, of his gaudy uniform, his strut and swagger, and
his pompous language. At a political meeting on one occasion, he attacked, it seems, one Peter
Purcell, a Dublin tradesman who had fallen out with the Liberator on some minor question. "Say
no more on the subject, Tom," cried O'Connell, who was in the chair, "I forgive Peter from
the bottom of my heart."

"You may forgive him, liberator and saviour of my country," rejoined Steele, in a characteristic
burst of his amazingly fervent rhetoric. "Yes, you, in the discharge of your ethereal functions
as the moral regenerator of Ireland, may forgive him; but, revered leader, I also have functions
of my own to perform; and I tell you that, as Head Pacificator of Ireland, I can never forgive
the diabolical villain that dared to dispute your august will."

The doughty Steele, who appears to have been but poorly fitted by nature for his office, was
considered at the time to be half a madman, but as Sir James O'Connell, Daniel's candid brother,
said, "And who the divil else would take such a job?" At any rate, when we gaze at Mr. Jordan's
gallery, imagining the scene that would ensue were the breath of life breathed into the patriots'
quivering nostrils, we feel sure that the Head Pacificator would be kept busy.

Dear old white-haired Mr. Jordan, known in select circles as 'Grievance Jordan,' sitting in
his library surrounded by his denunciators, conspirators, and martyrs, with incendiary documents
piled mountains high on his desk--what a pathetic anachronism he is after all!

The shillelagh is hung on the wall now, for the most part, and faction fighting is at an end;
but in the very last moments of it there were still 'ructions' between the Fitzgeralds and
the Moriartys, and the age-old reason of the quarrel was, according to the Fitzgeralds, the
betrayal of the 'Cause of Ireland.' The particular instance occurred in the sixteenth century,
but no Fitzgerald could ever afterward meet any Moriarty at a fair without crying, "Who dare
tread on the tail of me coat?" and inviting him to join in the dishcussion with shticks. This
practically is Mr. Jordan's position; and if an Irishman desires to live entirely in the past,
he can be as unhappy as any man alive. He is writing a book, which Mrs. Wogan Odevaine insists
is to be called The Groans of Ireland; but after a glance at a page of memoranda pencilled
in a collection of Swift's Irish Tracts that he lent to me (the volume containing that ghastly
piece of irony, The Modest Proposal for Preventing the Poor of Ireland from being a Burden
to their Parents and Country), I have concluded that he is editing a Catalogue of Irish Wrongs,
Alphabetically Arranged. This idea pleased Mrs. Wogan Odevaine extremely; and when she drove
over to tea, bringing several cheerful young people to call upon us, she proposed, in the most
light-hearted way in the world, to play what she termed the Grievance Game, an intellectual
diversion which she had invented on the instant. She proposed it, apparently, with a view of
showing us how small a knowledge of Ireland's ancient wrongs is the property of the modern
Irish girl, and how slight a hold on her memory and imagination have the unspeakably bitter
days of the long ago.

We were each given pencil and paper, and two or three letters of the alphabet, and bidden to
arrange the wrongs of Ireland neatly under them, as we supposed Mr. Jordan to be doing for
the instruction and the depression of posterity. The result proved that Mrs. Odevaine was a
true prophet, for the youngest members of the coterie came off badly enough, and read their
brief list of grievances with much chagrin at their lack of knowledge; the only piece of information
they possessed in common being the inherited idea that England never had understood Ireland,
never would, never could, never should, never might understand her.

Rosetta Odevaine succeeded in remembering, for A, F, and H, Absenteeism, Flight of the Earls,
Famine, and Hunger; her elder sister, Eileen, fresh from college, was rather triumphant with
O and P, giving us Oppression of the Irish Tenantry, Penal Laws, Protestant Supremacy, Poynings'
Law, Potato Rot, and Plantations. Their friend, Rhona Burke, had V, W, X, Y, Z, and succeeded
only in finding Wentworth and Woollen Trade Destroyed, until Miss Odevaine helped her with
Wood's Halfpence, about which everybody else had to be enlightened; and there was plenty of
laughter when Francesca suggested for V, Vipers Expelled by St. Patrick. Salemina carried off
the first prize; but we insisted C and D were the easiest letters; at any rate, her list showed
great erudition, and would certainly have pleased Mr. Jordan. C, Church Cess, Catholic Disqualification,
Crimes Act of 1887, Confiscations, Cromwell, Carrying Away of Lia Fail (Stone of Destiny) from
Tara. D, Destruction of Trees on Confiscated Lands, Discoverers (of flaws in Irish titles),
Debasing of the Coinage by James I.

Mrs. Odevaine came next with R and S. R, Recall of Lord Fitzwilliams by Pitt, Rundale Land
Tenure, Rack-Rents, Ribbonism. S, Schism Act, Supremacy Act, Sixth Act of George I.

I followed with T and U, having unearthed Tithes and the Test Act for the first, and Undertakers,
the Acts of Union and Uniformity, for the second; while Francesca, who had been given I, J,
K, L, and M, disgraced herself by failing on all the letters but the last, under which she
finally catalogued one particularly obnoxious wrong in Middlemen.

This ignorance of the past may have its bright side, after all, though to speak truthfully,
it did show a too scanty knowledge of national history. But if one must forget, it is as well
to begin with the wrongs of far-off years, those 'done to your ancient name or wreaked upon
your race.'

Part Fourth--Connaught.

Chapter XXII. The Weeping West.

     'Veiled in your mist, and diamonded with showers.'
                                     Alfred Austin.

                              Shan Van Vocht Hotel,
                                Heart of Connemara.

Shan Van Vocht means in English the 'Poor Little Old Woman,' one of the many endearing names
given to Ireland in the Gaelic. There is, too, a well-known rebel song called by this title--one
which was not only written in Irish and English, but which was translated into French for the
soldiers at Brest who were to invade Ireland under Hoche.

We had come from Knockcool, Donegal, to Westport, in County Mayo, and the day was enlivened
by two purely Irish touches, one at the beginning and one at the end. We alighted at a certain
railway junction to await our train, and were interested in a large detachment of soldiers--leaving
for a long journey, we judged, by the number of railway carriages and the amount of luggage
and stores. In every crowded compartment there were two or three men leaning out over the locked
doors; for the guard was making ready to start. All were chatting gaily with their sweethearts,
wives, and daughters, save one gloomy fellow sitting alone in a corner, searching the crowd
with sad eyes for a wished-for face or a last greeting. The bell rang, the engine stirred;
suddenly a pretty, rosy girl flew breathlessly down the platform, pushing her way through the
groups of onlookers. The man's eyes lighted; he rose to his feet, but the other fellows blocked
the way; the door was locked, and he had but one precious moment. Still he was equal to the
emergency, for he raised his fist and with one blow shattered the window, got his kiss, and
the train rumbled away, with his victorious smile set in a frame of broken glass! I liked that
man better than any one I've seen since Himself deserted me for his Duty! How I hope the pretty
girl will be faithful, and how I hope that an ideal lover will not be shot in South Africa!

And if he was truly Irish, so was the porter at a little way station where we stopped in the
dark, after being delayed interminably at Claremorris by some trifling accident. We were eight
persons packed into a second-class carriage, and totally ignorant of our whereabouts; but the
porter, opening the door hastily, shouted, "Is there anny one there for here?"--a question
so vague and illogical that none of us said anything in reply, but simply gazed at one another,
and then laughed as the train went on.

