BOTTOM, a weaver in the interlude in "Midsummer-Night's Dream," whom, with his ass's head,
Titania falls in love with under the influence of a love-potion.

BOTZARIS, one of the heroes of the war of Greek independence (1789-1823).

BOUCHARDON, a celebrated French sculptor (1698-1762).

BOUCHER, a French painter, born at Paris (1703-1770).

BOUCHER DE PERTHES, French naturalist and anthropologist, born in Ardennes (1783-1868).

BOUCICAULT, DION, a dramatic writer, author of popular Irish pieces, as "The Colleen Bawn"
and "The Shaughraun" (1822-1890).

BOUCICAUT, MARSHAL DE, one of the bravest and noblest of French soldiers, born at Tours; distinguished
in several famous battles; was taken captive by the English at Agincourt; died in England (1364-1421).

BOUFFLERS, CHEVALIER DE, field-marshal of France, courtier and author (1737-1815).

BOUFFLERS, MARQUIS DE, marshal of France, distinguished for his defence of Namur (1695) and
of Lille (1708), and his masterly retreat from Malplaquet (1645-1711).

BOUGAINVILLE, LOUIS ANTOINE DE, a French navigator, born in Paris; voyaged round the world,
which occupied him two years and a half; his "Travels" had a remarkably stimulating effect
on the imaginations of the "philosophies," as described by him in "Un Voyage autour du Monde"
(1729-1811).

BOUGH, SAM, landscape painter, born at Carlisle, and settled in Edinburgh for 20 years (1822-1878).

BOUGUER, PIERRE, French physicist, born in Brittany; wrote on optics and the figure of the
earth (1698-1758).

BOUGUEREAU, ADOLPHE, a distinguished French painter, born at Rochelle in 1825; his subjects
both classical and religious, as well as portraits.

BOUHOUR, LE PÈRE, French littérateur, born at Paris (1628-1702). (1759-1800). See for the part
he played in it, CARLYLE'S "FRENCH REVOLUTION."

BOUILLON, district in Belgium, originally a German duchy; belonged to Godfrey, the crusader,
who pledged it to raise funds for the crusade.

BOUILLY, JEAN NICOLAS, a French dramatist, born near Tours, nicknamed, from his sentimentality
"poète lacrymal" (1763-1842).

BOULAINVILLIERS, a French historian, author of a "History of Mahomet" (1658-1722).

BOULAK (20), the port of Cairo, on the Nile.

BOULAN`GER, JEAN MARIE, a French general, born at Rennes; of note for the political intrigues
with which he was mixed up during the last years of his life, and the dangerous popular enthusiasm
which he excited; accused of peculation; fled the country, and committed suicide at Brussels
(1837-1891).

BOULAY DE LA MEURTHE, a French statesman, distinguished as an orator; took part in the redaction
of the Civil Code; was a faithful adherent of Napoleon (1761-1840). Henri, a son, vice-president
of the Republic from 1849 to 1851 (1797-1858).

BOULDER, a large mass or block of rock found in localities often far removed from the place
of its formation, and transported thither on the ice of the Glacial Age.

BOULEVARD, the rampart of a fortified city converted into a promenade flanked by rows of trees
and a feature of Paris in particular, though the boulevard is not always on the line of a rampart.

BOULOGNE, BOIS DE, a promenade between Paris and St. Cloud, much frequented by people of fashion,
and a favourite place of recreation; it rivals that of the Champs Elysées.

BOULOGNE-SUR-MER (46), a fortified seaport in France, on the English Channel, in the dep. of
Pas-de-Calais, 27 m. SW. of Calais, one of the principal ports for debarkation from England;
where Napoleon collected in 1803 a flotilla to invade England; is connected by steamer with
Folkestone, and a favourite watering-place; the chief station of the North Sea fisheries; is
the centre of an important coasting trade, and likely to become a naval station.

BOULOGNE-SUR-SEINE (32), a town on the right bank of the Seine, 5 m. SW. of Paris, from which
it is separated by the Bois-de-Boulogne.

BOULTON, MATTHEW, an eminent engineer, born at Birmingham; entered into partnership with James
Watt, and established with him a manufactory of steam-engines at Soho, on a barren heath near
his native place; contributed to the improvement of the coinage (1728-1809).

"BOUNTY," MUTINY OF THE, a mutiny which took place on the ship Bounty, on the 28th April 1789,
bound from Otaheite to the West Indies, on the part of 25 of the crew, who returned to Otaheite
after setting the captain (Bligh) adrift with others in an open boat. Bligh reached England
after a time, reported the crime, to the seizure at length of certain of the offenders and
the execution of others. Those who escaped founded a colony on Pitcairn Island.

BOURBAKI, CHARLES DENIS SOTER, a French general, born at Pau, served in the Crimean War and
in Italy, suffered disastrously in the Franco-German War, and attempted suicide; served for
a time under Gambetta, afterwards retired; b. 1816.

BOURBON, a family of French origin, hailing from Bourbonnais, members of which occupied for
generations the thrones of France, Naples, and Spain, and who severally ruled their territories
under a more or less overweening sense of their rights as born to reign. Two branches, both
of which trace back to Henry IV., held sway in France, one beginning with Louis XIV., eldest
son of Louis XIII., and the other, called the Orleans, with Philip of Orleans, second son of
Louis XIII., the former ending with Charles X. and his family, and the latter ending with Louis
Philippe and his line. The branches of the family ruling in Spain and Naples began with Philip
VI., grandson of Louis XIV., the former branch still (1899) in power, the latter ending with
Francis II. in 1860.

BOURBON, CHARLES DE, styled the Constable de Bourbon, acquired immense wealth by the death
of an elder brother and by his marriage, and lived in royal state; was for his daring in the
field named Constable of France by Francis I.; offended at some, perhaps imaginary, injustice
Francis did him, he clandestinely entered the service of the Emperor Charles V., defeated the
French at Pavia, and took Francis captive; parted from Charles, laid siege to Rome, and fell
in the assault, mortally wounded, it is said, by Benvenuto Cellini (1489-1527).

BOURBONNAIS, ancient province in the centre of France, being the duchy of Bourbon; united to
the crown in 1531; cap. Moulins.

BOURDALOUE, LOUIS, a French Jesuit, born at Bourges, called the "king of preachers, and preacher
of kings"; one of the most eloquent pulpit orators of France; did not suffer by comparison
with Bossuet, his contemporary, though junior; one of the most earnest and powerful of his
sermons, the one entitled "The Passion," is deemed the greatest. His sermons are ethical in
their matter from a Christian standpoint, carefully reasoned, and free from ornament, but fearless
and uncompromising (1632-1704).

BOURDON, SEBASTIAN, a French painter, born at Montpellier; his chef-d'oeuvre "The Crucifixion
of St. Peter," executed for the church of Notre Dame (1616-1671).

BOURDON DE L'OISE, a French revolutionist, member of the Convention; banished to Guiana, where
he died in 1791.

BOURGELAT, a famous French veterinary surgeon, born at Lyons, and founder of veterinary colleges
at Lyons in 1762; was an authority on horse management, and often consulted on the matter (1712-1779).

BOURGEOIS, SIR FRANCIS, painter to George III.; left his collection to Dulwich College, and
£10,000 to build a gallery for them (1756-1811).

BOURGEOISIE, the name given in France to the middle class, professional people, and merchants,
as distinguished from the nobles and the peasants, but applied by the Socialists to the capitalists
as distinct from the workers.

BOURGES (43), a French town in the dep. of Cher; birthplace of Louis XI. and Bourdaloue.

BOURGET, PAUL, an eminent French novelist and essayist, born at Amiens; a subtle analyst of
character, with a clear and elegant style, on which he bestows great pains; his novels are
what he calls "psychological," and distinct from the romantist and naturalistic; b. 1852.

BOURIGNON, ANTOINETTE, a Flemish visionary and fanatic; resolved religion into emotion; brought
herself into trouble by the wild fancies she promulgated, to the derangement of others as well
as herself (1615-1680).

BOURMONT, LOUIS AUGUSTE VICTOR, COMTE DE, a French marshal; at the Revolution joined the Bourbons
on the frontiers; served the royal cause in La Vendée; held high commands under Napoleon; commanded
under Ney on Napoleon's return from Elba; deserted on the eve of Waterloo to Louis XVIII.;
gave evidence against Ney to his execution; commanded the expedition against Algiers; refused
allegiance to Louis Philippe on his accession, and was dismissed the service (1773-1846).

BOURNE, HUGH, founder of the Primitive Methodists, and a zealous propagator of their principles;
he was a carpenter by trade, and he appears to have wrought at his trade while prosecuting
his mission, which he did extensively both in Britain and America (1772-1852).

BOURNEMOUTH (38), a town in Hants, on Poole Bay, 37 m. SW. of Southampton, with a fine sandy
beach; a great health resort; is of recent, and has been of rapid, growth.

BOURRIENNE, LOUIS ANTOINE FAUVELET, secretary of Napoleon, and a school friend, born at Sens;
held the post for five years, but dismissed for being implicated in disgraceful money transactions;
joined the Bourbons at the Restoration; the Revolution of 1830 and the loss of his fortune
affected his mind, and he died a lunatic at Caen; wrote "Memoirs" disparaging to Napoleon (1769-1834).

BOUSSA, a town in Central Africa, capital of a State of the same name, where Mungo Park lost
his life as he was going up the Niger.

BOUSTROPHE`DON, an ancient mode of writing from right to left, and then from left to right,
as in ploughing a field.

BOUTERWEK, FRIEDRICH, a German philosopher and professor of Philosophy at Göttingen; a disciple
of Kant, then of Jacobi, and expounder of their doctrines; wrote "History of Poetry and Eloquence
among the Modern Races" (1766-1828).

BOWDICH, THOMAS EDWARD, an English traveller, born at Bristol; sent on a mission to Guinea,
and penetrated as far as Coomassie; wrote an interesting account of it in his "Mission to Ashanti"
(1791-1824).

BOWDITCH, NATHANIEL, American mathematician, born at Salem, Massachusetts; a practical scientist;
published "Practical Navigation," translated the "Mécanique Céleste" of Laplace, accompanied
with an elaborate commentary (1773-1838).

BOWDLER, THOMAS, an English physician; edited expurgated editions of Shakespeare and Gibbon
in the interest of moral purity; added in consequence a new term to the English language, Bowdlerism
(1754-1825).

BOWDOIN, JAMES, an American statesman, born in Boston, of French extraction; a zealous advocate
of American independence; author of "Discourse on the Constitution of the United States" (1727-1790).

BOWEN, RICHARD, a gallant British naval commander, distinguished himself in several engagements,
and by his captures of the enemy's ships; killed by grape-shot at the storming of Santa Cruz,
at the moment when Nelson was wounded (1761-1797).

BOWER, WALTER, abbot of Inchcolm, Scottish chronicler; continued Fordun's History down to the
death of James I. in 1437 from 1153 (1385-1449).

BOWLES, WILLIAM LISLE, a poet, born in Northamptonshire; his sonnets, by their "linking," as
Professor Saintsbury has it, "of nature's aspect to human feeling," were much admired by Coleridge,
and their appearance is believed to have inaugurated a new era in English poetry, as developed
in the Lake School (1762-1850).

BOWLING, TOM, a typical British sailor in "Roderick Random."

BOWLING, SIR JOHN, linguist and political writer, born at Exeter; friend and disciple of Bentham
as well as editor of his works; first editor of Westminster Review; at the instance of the
English Government visited the Continental States to report on their commercial relations;
became governor of Hong-Kong; ordered the bombardment of Canton, which caused dissatisfaction
at home (1792-1872).

BOWYER, WILLIAM, printer and scholar, born in London; wrote on the origin of printing, and
published an edition of the Greek New Testament with notes (1699-1777).

"BOX AND COX," a farce by J. M. Morton, remarkable for a successful run such as is said to
have brought the author £7000.

BOY BISHOP, a boy chosen on 6th December, St. Nicholas' Day, generally out of the choir, to
act as bishop and do all his episcopal duties, except celebrate mass. For the term of his office,
which varied, he was treated as bishop, and if he died during his tenure of it was buried with
episcopal honours. The term of office was limited in 1279 to 24 hours.

BOYARS, the old nobility of Russia, whose undue influence in the State was broken by Peter
the Great; also the landed aristocracy of Roumania.

BOYCE, WILLIAM, composer, chiefly of church music, born in London; published a collection of
the "Cathedral Music of the Old English Masters"; composed "Hearts of Oak," a naval song sung
by ships' crews at one time before going into action (1710-1779).

BOYCOTT, CAPTAIN, an Irish landlord's agent in Connemara, with whom the population of the district
in 1880 refused to have any dealings on account of disagreements with the tenantry.

BOYD, ANDREW KENNEDY HUTCHISON, a Scottish clergyman and writer; bred for the bar, but entered
the Church; known to fame as A. K. H. B.; author of "Recreations of a Country Parson," which
was widely read, and of Reminiscences of his life; died at Bournemouth by mischance of swallowing
a lotion instead of a sleeping-draught (1825-1899).

BOYD, ZACHARY, a Scottish divine; regent of a Protestant college at Samur, in France; returned
to Scotland in consequence of the persecution of the Huguenots; became minister of Barony Parish,
Glasgow, and rector of the University; preached before Cromwell after the battle of Dunbar;
author of the "Last Battell of the Soule in Death" and "Zion's Flowers," being mainly metrical
versions of Scripture, called "Boyd's Bible" (1585-1653).

BOYDELL, JOHN, an English engraver and print-seller, famous for his "Shakespeare Gallery,"
with 96 plates in illustration of Shakespeare, and the encouragement he gave to native artists;
he issued also Hume's "History of England," with 196 plates in illustration (1719-1804).

BOYER, BARON, French anatomist and surgeon; attendant on Napoleon, afterwards professor in
the University of Paris; wrote works on anatomy and surgical diseases, which continued for
long text-books on those subjects; was a man of very conservative opinions (1757-1833).

BOYER, JEAN PIERRE, president of Hayti, born at Port-au-Prince of a negress and a Creole father;
secured the independence of the country; held the presidency for 25 years from 1818, but suspected
of consulting his own advantage more than that of the country, was driven from power by a revolution
in 1843; retired to Paris, where he spent the rest of his life and died (1776-1850).

BOYLE, CHARLES, fourth Earl of Orrery, distinguished for the connection of his name with the
Bentley controversy, and for its connection with an astronomical contrivance by one Graham
to illustrate the planetary system (1676-1731).

BOYLE, RICHARD, first and great Earl of Cork, distinguished among Irish patriots and landlords
for what he did to improve his estates and develop manufactures and the mechanical arts in
Ireland, also for the honours conferred upon him for his patriotism; when Cromwell saw how
his estates were managed he remarked, that had there been one like him in every province in
Ireland rebellion would have been impossible (1566-1643).

BOYLE, THE HON. ROBERT, a distinguished natural philosopher, born at Lismore, of the Orrery
family; devoted his life and contributed greatly to science, especially chemistry, as well
as pneumatics; was one of the originators of the "Royal Society"; being a student of theology,
founded by his will an endowment for the "Boyle Lectures" in defence of Christianity against
its opponents and rivals; refused the presidentship of the Royal Society, and declined a peerage
(1626-1691).

BOYLE LECTURES, the lectureship founded by the Hon. Robert Boyle in 1691, and held for a tenure
of three years, the endowment being £50 per annum; the lecturer must deliver eight lectures
in defence of Christianity, and some of the most eminent men have held the post.

BOYLE'S LAW, that the volume of a gas is inversely as the pressure.

BOYNE, a river in Ireland, which flows through Meath into the Irish Sea; gives name to the
battle in which William III. defeated the forces of James II. on 30th July 1690.

BOZ, a nom de plume under which Dickens wrote at first, being his nickname when a boy for a
little brother.

BOZZY, Johnson's familiar name for Boswell.

BRABANT, in mediæval times was an important prov. of the Low Countries, inhabitants Dutch,
cap. Breda; is now divided between Holland and Belgium. It comprises three provs., the N. or
Dutch Brabant; Antwerp, a Belgian prov., inhabitants Flemings, cap. Antwerp; and S. Brabant,
also Belgian, inhabitants Walloons, cap. Brussels; the whole mostly a plain.

BRACTON, HENRY DE, an English "justice itinerant," a writer on English law of the 13th century;
author of "De Legibus et Consuetudinibus Angliæ," a "Treatise on the Laws and Customs of England,"
and the first attempt of the kind; d. 1268.

BRADAMANTE, sister to Rinaldo, and one of the heroines in "Orlando Furioso"; had a lance which
unhorsed every one it touched.

BRADDOCK, EDWARD, British general, born in Perthshire; entered the Coldstream Guards, and became
major-general in 1754; commanded a body of troops against the French in America, fell in an
attempt to invest Fort Duquesue, and lost nearly all his men (1695-1755).

BRADDON, MISS (Mrs. John Maxwell), a popular novelist, born in London; authoress of "Lady Audley's
Secret," "Aurora Floyd," and some 50 other novels; contributed largely to magazines; b. 1837.

BRADFORD (216), a Yorkshire manufacturing town, on a tributary of the Aire, 9 m. W. of Leeds;
it is the chief seat of worsted spinning and weaving in England, and has an important wool
market; coal and iron mines are at hand, and iron-works and machinery-making are its other
industries. Also the name of a manufacturing town on the Avon, in Wilts.

BRADLAUGH, CHARLES, a social reformer on secularist lines, born in London; had a chequered
career; had for associate in the advocacy of his views Mrs. Annie Besant; elected M.P. for
Northampton thrice over, but not allowed to sit till he took the oath, which he did in 1886;
died respected by all parties in the House of Commons; wrote the "Impeachment of the House
of Brunswick" (1833-1891).

BRADLEY, JAMES, astronomer, born in Gloucestershire; professor of Astronomy at Oxford, and
astronomer-royal at Greenwich; discovered the aberration of light and the nutation of the earth's
axis; made 60,000 astronomical observations (1693-1762).

BRADSHAW, GEORGE, an engraver of maps in Manchester; published maps illustrative of certain
canal systems, and did the same service for railways, which developed into the well-known "Railway
Guide" (1830-1863).

BRADSHAW, JOHN, president of the High Court of Justice for trial of Charles I., born at Stockport;
bred for the bar; a friend of Milton; a thorough republican, and opposed to the Protectorate;
became president of the Council on Cromwell's death; was buried in Westminster; his body was
exhumed and hung in chains at the Restoration (1586-1659).

BRADWARDIN, THOMAS, archbishop of Canterbury, surnamed "Doctor Profundus" from his treatise
"De Causa Dei" against Pelagianism; chaplain to Edward III.; was present at Crécy and at the
taking of Calais; died of the black death shortly after his consecration (1290-1348).

BRADWARDINE, the name of a baron and his daughter, the heroine of "Waverley."

BRAEMAR`, a Scottish Highland district SW. of Aberdeenshire; much frequented by tourists, and
resorted to for summer country quarters.

BRAG, JACK, a pretender who ingratiates himself with people above him.

BRAGA (23), a city, 34 m. NE. of Oporto, Portugal; the residence of the Primate; the capital
of Minho.

BRAGANZA, capital of Traz-os-Montes, in Portugal; gives name to the ruling dynasty of Portugal,
called the House of Braganza, the eighth duke of Braganza having ascended the throne in 1640,
on the liberation of Portugal from the yoke of Spain.

BRAGI, the Norse god of poetry and eloquence, son of Odin and Frigga; represented as an old
man with a long flowing beard and unwrinkled brow, with a mild expression of face; received
in Valhalla the heroes who fell in battle.

BRAHAM, JOHN, a celebrated tenor singer, the most so in Europe of his day, and known all over
Europe; was particularly effective in rendering the national songs; born in London, of Jewish
parents; composed operas, which, however, were only dramas interspersed with songs. Scott described
him as "a beast of an actor, but an angel of a singer" (1774-1856).

BRAHÉ, TYCHO, a Swedish astronomer, of noble birth; spent his life in the study of the stars;
discovered a new star in Cassiopeia; had an observatory provided for him on an island in the
Sound by the king, where he made observations for 20 years; he was, on the king's death, compelled
to retire under persecution at the hand of the nobles; accepted an invitation of the Kaiser
Rudolf II. to Prague, where he continued his work and had Kepler for assistant and pupil (1546-1601).

BRAHMA, in the Hindu religion and philosophy at one time the formless spirit of the Universe,
from which all beings issue and into which they all merge, and as such is not an object of
worship, but a subject of meditation; and at another the creator of all things, of which VISHNU
(q. v.) is the preserver AND SIVA (q. v.) the destroyer, killing that he may make alive. See
TRIMURTI.

BRAHMAN, or BRAHMIN, one of the sacred caste of the Hindus that boasts of direct descent from,
or immediate relationship with, Brahma, the custodians and mediators of religion, and therefore
of high-priestly rank.

BRAHMANAS, treatises on the ceremonial system of Brahminism, with prescriptions bearing upon
ritual, and abounding in legends and speculations.

BRAHMAPUTRA (i. e. son of Brahma), a river which rises in Tibet, circles round the E. of the
Himalayas, and, after a course of some 1800 m., joins the Ganges, called the Sampo in Tibet,
the Dihong in Assam, and the Brahmaputra in British India; it has numerous tributaries, brings
down twice as much mud as the Ganges, and in the lower part of its course overflows the land,
particularly Assam, like an inland sea.

BRAHMINISM, the creed and ritual of the Brahmans, or that social, political, and religious
organisation which developed among the Aryans in the valley of the Ganges under the influence
of the Brahmans. According to the religious conception of this class, Brahma, or the universal
spirit, takes form or incarnates himself successively as Brahma, Vishnu, and Siva, which triple
incarnation constitutes a trimurti or trinity. In this way Brahma, the first incarnation of
the universal spirit, had four sons, from whom issued the four castes of India--Brahmans, Kshatriyas,
Vaisyas, and Sudras--all the rest being outcasts or pariahs. See CASTE.

BRAHMO-SOMAJ (i. e. church of God), a secession from traditional Hinduism, originated in 1830
by Rammohun Roy, and developed by Chunder Sen; founded on theistic, or rather monotheistic,
i. e. unitarian, principles, and the rational ideas and philosophy of Europe, as well as a
profession of a sense of the brotherhood of man no less than the unity of God.

BRAHMS, JOHANNES, a distinguished composer, born at Hamburg; of great promise from a boy; settled
in Vienna; has no living rival; the appearance of compositions of his an event in the musical
world; approaches Beethoven as no other does; distinguished as a performer as well as a composer;
b. 1833.

BRAIDWOOD, JAMES, born in Edinburgh; director of the London fire brigade; distinguished for
his heroism on the occasion of great fires both in Edinburgh and London (1790-1861).

BRAILLE, a blind Frenchman, invented printing in relief for the blind (1809-1852).

BRAINERD, American missionary to the Red Indians, born in Connecticut; his Life was written
by Jonathan Edwards, in whose house he died (1718-1747).

BRAMAH, JOSEPH, an engineer, born in Barnsley, Yorkshire; author of many mechanical inventions,
18 of which were patented, among others the hydraulic press, named after him (1748-1814).

BRAMANTE, DONATO, architect; laid the foundation of St. Peter's at Rome, which he did not live
to complete (1444-1514).

BRAMBLE, MATTHEW, a gouty humorist in "Humphrey Clinker"; of a fretful temper, yet generous
and kind, who has a sister, MISS TABITHA, an ungainly maiden at forty-five, and of anything
but a sweet temper.

BRAMHALL, JOHN, archbishop of Armagh, born in Yorkshire, a high-handed Churchman and imitator
of Laud; was foolhardy enough once to engage, nowise to his credit, in public debate with such
a dialectician as Thomas Hobbes on the questions of necessity and free-will (1594-1663).

BRAMWELL, SIR FREDERICK, civil engineer, president of the British Association in 1888, and
previously of Association of Engineers; b. 1818.

BRAN, name given to Fingal's dog.

BRAND, JOHN, antiquary, born in Durham, wrote a "Popular Antiquities" (1744-1784).

BRANDAN, ST., ISLAND OF, an island reported of by St. Brandan as lying W. of the Canary Islands,
and that figured on charts as late as 1755, in quest of which voyages of discovery were undertaken
as recently as the beginning of the 18th century, up to which time it was believed to exist.

BRANDE, chemist, born in London; author of "Manual of Chemistry" and other works (1788-1866).

BRANDENBURG (2,542), in the great northern plain of Germany, is a central Prussian province,
and the nucleus of the Prussian kingdom; most of it a sandy plain, with fertile districts and
woodlands here and there.

BRANDENBURG, THE HOUSE OF, an illustrious German family dating from the 10th century, from
which descended the kings of Prussia.

BRANDES, GEORGE, a literary critic, born at Copenhagen, of Jewish parents; his views of the
present tendency of literature in Europe provoked at first much opposition in Denmark, though
they were received with more favour afterwards; the opposition to his views were such that
he was forced to leave Copenhagen, but, after a stay in Berlin, he returned to it in 1862,
with the support of a strong party in his favour.

BRANDT, a Swedish chemist; chanced on the discovery in 1669 of phosphorus while in quest of
a solvent to transmute metals, such as silver, into gold; d. 1692.

BRANDT, SEBASTIAN, a satirical writer, born at Strassburg; author of the "Narrenschiff" or
"Ship of Fools," of which there have been many translations and not a few imitations (1458-1521).

BRANDY NAN, a nickname for Queen Anne, from her fondness for brandy.

BRANDYWINE CREEK, a small river in Delaware; scene of a victory of the British over the Americans
in 1777.

BRANGTONS, THE, a vulgar, evil-spoken family in Miss Burney's "Evelina."

BRANT, JOSEPH, Indian chief who sided with the British in the American war; a brave and good
man; d. 1807.

BRANTÔME, PIERRE DE BOURDEILLES, a French chronicler, contemporary of Montaigne, born in Périgord;
led the life of a knight-errant, and wrote Memoirs remarkable for the free-and-easy, faithful,
and vivid delineations of the characters of the most celebrated of his contemporaries (1527-1614).

BRASIDAS, a Spartan general, distinguished in the Peloponnesian war; his most celebrated action,
the defeat at the expense of his life, in 422 B.C., of the flower of the Athenian army at Amphipolis,
with a small body of helots and mercenaries.

BRASS, SAMPSON, a knavish attorney in "Old Curiosity Shop"; affected feeling for his clients,
whom he fleeced.

BRASSES, sepulchral tablets of a mixed metal, called latten, inlaid in a slab of stone, and
insculpt with figures and inscriptions of a monumental character; the oldest in England is
at Stoke d'Abernon, in Surrey.

BRASSEY, THOMAS, a great railway contractor, born in Cheshire; contracted for the construction
of railways in all parts of the world (1805-1870).

BRAUN, AUGUSTE EMIL, German archæologist, born at Gotha; works numerous, and of value (1809-1856).

BRAVEST OF THE BRAVE, Marshal Ney, so called from his fearlessness in battle; Napoleon had
on one occasion said, "That man is a lion."

BRAXY, an inflammatory disease in sheep, due to a change in food from succulent to dry; and
the name given to the mutton of sheep affected with it. See AGES.

BRAZIL (14,000), the largest South American State, almost equal to Europe, occupies the eastern
angle of the continent, and comprises the Amazon basin, the tablelands of Matto Grosso, the
upper basin of the Paraguay, and the maritime highlands, with the valleys of the Paraná and
San Francisco. Great stretches of the interior are uninhabitable swamp and forest lands; forests
tenanted by an endless variety of brilliant-plumed birds and insects; the coasts are often
humid and unhealthy, but the upper levels have a fine climate. Almost all the country is within
the tropics. The population at the seaports is mostly white; inland it is negro, mulatto, and
Indian. Vegetable products are indescribably rich and varied; timber of all kinds, rubber,
cotton, and fruit are exported; coffee and sugar are the chief crops. The vast mineral wealth
includes diamonds, gold, mercury, and copper. Most of the trade is with Britain and America.
The language is Portuguese; the religion, Roman Catholic; education is very backward, and government
unsettled. Discovered in 1500, and annexed by Portugal; the Portuguese king, expelled by the
French in 1808, fled to his colony, which was made a kingdom 1815, and an empire in 1822. The
emperor, Pedro II., was driven out in 1889, and a republic established on the federal system,
which has been harassed ever since by desultory civil war. The capital is Rio Janeiro; Bahia
and Pernambuco, the other seaports.

BRAZIL-WOOD, a wood found in Brazil, of great value for dyeing red, the colouring principle
being named Brasilin.

BRAZZA (22), an island in the Adriatic, belonging to Austria; is richly wooded; noted for its
wines; yields marble.

BRAZZA, PIERRE SAVORGNAN DE, explorer, born in Rome; acquired land N. of the Congo for France,
and obtained a governorship; b. 1852.

BREADFRUIT-TREE, a South Sea island tree producing a fruit which, when roasted, is used as bread.

BRÉAL, MICHEL, a French philologist, born at Landau; translator into French of Bopp's "Comparative
Grammar"; b. 1832.

BRÈCHE-DE-ROLAND, a gorge in the dep. of the Haute-Pyrénées, which, according to tradition,
Charlemagne's Paladin of the name of Roland cleft with one stroke of his sword when he was
beset by the Gascons.

BRECHIN, a town in Forfarshire, W. of Montrose, on the S. Esk, with a cathedral and an old
round tower near it, 85 ft. high, the only one of the kind in Scotland besides being at Abernethy.

BREDA (23), fortified town, the capital of N. Brabant; a place of historical interest; Charles
II. resided here for a time during his exile, and issued hence his declaration prior to his
restoration.

BREECHES BIBLE, the Geneva Bible, so called from its rendering in Gen. iii. 7, in which "aprons"
is rendered "breeches."

BREECHES REVIEW, the Westminster, so called at one time, from one Place, an authority in it,
who had been a leather-breeches maker at Charing Cross.

BRÉGNET, a French chronometer-maker, born at Neuchâtel; a famous inventor of astronomical instruments
(1747-1823).

BREHM, ALFRED EDMUND, German naturalist; his chief work "Illustrirtes Thierleben" (1829-1884).

BREHON LAWS, a body of judge-created laws that for long formed the common law of Ireland, existed
from prehistoric times till Cromwell's conquest. The origin of the code is unknown, and whether
it was at first traditional; many manuscript redactions of portions exist still.

BREMEN (126), the chief seaport of Germany, after Hamburg; is on the Weser, 50 m. from its
mouth, and is a free city, with a territory less than Rutlandshire. Its export and import trade
is very varied; half the total of emigrants sail from its docks; it is the head-quarters of
the North German Lloyd Steamship Company. Textiles, tobacco, and paper industries add to its
prosperity; was one of the principal cities of the Hanseatic League.

BREMER, FREDRIKA, a highly popular Swedish novelist, born in Finland; "The Neighbours," "The
President's Daughter," and "Strife and Peace," are perhaps her best stories; has been called
the Jane Austen of Sweden.

BREMER, SIR JAMES, rear-admiral; distinguished in the Burmese and Chinese wars (1786-1850).

BREMERHAVEN, the port of Bremen, on the estuary of the Weser, founded for the accommodation
of large vessels in 1830, with a large hospice for emigrants.

BRENDAN, ST., an Irish saint, born at Tralee, celebrated for his voyages in quest of "a land
beyond human ken" and his discovery of "a paradise amid the waves of the sea"; founded a monastery
at Clonfert; died in 577, in his ninety-fourth year.

BRENNER PASS, pass on the central Tyrolese Alps, 6853 ft. high, between Innsbruck and Botzen,
crossed by a railway, which facilitates trade between Venice, Germany, and Austria.

BRENNUS, a Gallic chief, who, 300 B.C., after taking and pillaging Rome, invested the Capitol
for so long that the Romans offered him a thousand pounds' weight of gold to retire; as the
gold was being weighed out he threw his sword and helmet into the opposite scale, adding Væ
victis, "Woe to the conquered," an insolence which so roused Camillus, that he turned his back
and offered battle to him and to his army, and totally routed the whole host.

BRENTA, an Italian river; rises in the Tyrol, waters Bassano, and debouches near Venice.

BRENTANO, CLEMENS, poet of the romanticist school, born at Frankfort-on-the-Main, brother of
Goethe's Bettina von Arnim; was a roving genius (1778-1849).

BRENTFORD, market-town in Middlesex, on the Brent, 10 m. W. of London, that figures in history
and literature.

BRENZ, JOHANN, the reformer of Würtemberg, and one of the authors of the Würtemberg Confession,
as well as a catechism extensively used (1499-1570).

BRESCIA (43), a city of Lombardy, on the Mella and Garza, 50 m. E. of Milan; has two cathedrals,
an art gallery and library, a Roman temple excavated in 1822, and now a classical museum; its
manufactures are woollens, silks, leather, and wine.

BRESLAU (335), the capital of Silesia, second city in Prussia; an important commercial and
manufacturing centre, and has a first-class fortress; is on the Oder, 150 m. by rail SE. of
Frankfort; it stands in the centre of the Baltic, North Sea, and Danube trade, and has a large
woollen industry and grain market; there are a cathedral, university, and library.

BRESSAY, one of the Shetland Isles, near Lerwick, with one of the best natural harbours in
the world.

BREST (76), a strongly-fortified naval station in the extreme NW. of France; one of the chief
naval stations in France, with a magnificent harbour, and one of the safest, first made a marine
arsenal by Richelieu; has large shipbuilding yards and arsenal; its industries are chiefly
related to naval equipment, with leather, waxcloth, and paper manufactures.

BRÉTON, JULES ADOLPHE, a French genre and landscape painter, born at Courrières, in Pas-de-Calais,
1827.

BRETON DE LOS HERREROS, Spanish poet and dramatist; wrote comedies and satires in an easy,
flowing style (1800-1873).

BRETEUIL, BARON DE, an ex-secretary of Louis XVI. (1733-1807).

BRETHREN OF THE COMMON LIFE, a Dutch branch of the "Friends of God," founded at Deventer by
Gerard Groote.

BRETSCHNEIDER, HENRY GOTTFRIED VON, a German satirical writer, born at Gera; led a bohemian
life; served in the army; held political posts; composed, besides satirical writings, "Almanach
der Heiligen auf das Jahr, 1788," "Wallers Leben und Sitten," and the comic epic, "Graf Esau"
(1739-1810).

BRETSCHNEIDER, KARL GOTTLIEB, a German rationalistic theologian; much regarded for his sound
judgment in critical matters; his theological writings are of permanent value; his chief works,
"Handbuch der Dogmatik," and an edition of Melanchthon's works.

BRETWALDA, a title apparently of some kind of acknowledged supremacy among the Anglo-Saxon
kings, and the leader in war.

BREUGHEL, a family of Butch painters, a father and two sons, the father, Peter, called "OLD"
B. (1510-1570); a son, John, "VELVET" B., either from his dress or from the vivid freshness
of his colours (1560-1625); and the other, Peter, "HELLISH" B., from his fondness for horrible
subjects (1559-1637).

BREVET`, a commission entitling an officer in the army to a nominal rank above his real rank.

BREVIARY, a book containing the daily services in the Roman Catholic Church and corresponding
to the English Prayer-Book; differs from the "Missal," which gives the services connected with
the celebration of the Eucharist, and the "Pontifical," which gives those for special occasions.

BREWER, JOHN SHERREN, historian, professor of English Literature in King's College, London;
author of "Calendar of Letters and Papers of Henry VIII.'s Reign," his work the sole authority
on Henry's early reign (1810-1879).

BREWER OF GHENT, Jacob Arteveld.

BREWSTER, SIR DAVID, an eminent Scottish natural philosopher, born at Jedburgh; edited the
"Edinburgh Encyclopædia," in the pages of which Carlyle served his apprenticeship; specially
distinguished for his discoveries in light, his studies in optics, and for his optical inventions,
such as the kaleidoscope and the stereoscope; connected with most scientific associations of
his time; wrote largely on scientific and other subjects, e. g., a Life of Newton, as well
as Lives of Euler, Kepler, and others of the class; Principal of the United Colleges of St.
Andrews, and afterwards of Edinburgh, being succeeded at St. Andrews by James David Forbes,
who years before defeated him as candidate for the Natural Philosophy chair in Edinburgh; bred
originally for the Church, and for a time a probationer (1781-1868).

BREWSTER, WILLIAM, leader of the Pilgrim Fathers in the Mayflower, who conveyed them to Plymouth,
Massachusetts, in 1620; had been a clergyman of the Church of England.

BRIAN BOROIHME, an Irish chief, who early in the 10th century established his rule over a great
part of Ireland, and made great efforts for the civilisation of the country; died defeating
the Danes at Clontarf, being, it is said, the twenty-fifth battle in which he defeated them.

BRIANÇON, the highest town in France, 4300 ft. above sea-level, 42 m. SE. from Grenoble, with
a trade in cutlery.

BRIAREUS, a Uranid with 50 heads and 100 arms, son of Ouranos and Gaia, i. e. Heaven and Earth,
whom Poseidon cast into the sea and buried under Etna, but whom Zeus delivered to aid him against
the Titans; according to another account, one of THE GIANTS (q. v.).

BRICE, ST., bishop of Tours in the beginning of the 5th century, and disciple of St. Martin.
Festival, Nov. 19.

BRICE'S, ST., a day in 1002 on which a desperate attempt was made to massacre all the Danes
in England and stamp them wholly out, an attempt which was avenged by the Danish king, Sweyn.

BRICK, JEFFERSON, an American politician in "Martin Chuzzlewit."

BRIDE OF THE SEA, Venice, so called from a ceremony in which her espousals were celebrated
by the Doge casting a ring into the Adriatic.

BRIDEWELL, a house of correction in Blackfriars, London, so called from St. Bridget's well,
near it.

BRIDGE OF ALLAN, a village on Allan water, 3 m. N. of Stirling, with a mild climate and mineral
waters.

BRIDGE OF SIGHS, a covered way in Venice leading from the Ducal Palace to the State prison,
and over which culprits under capital sentence were transported to their doom, whence the name.

BRIDGENORTH, MAJOR RALPH, a Roundhead in "Peveril of the Peak."

BRIDGEPORT (48), a thriving manufacturing town and seaport of Connecticut, U.S., 58 m. NE.
from New York.

BRIDGET, MRS., a character in "Tristram Shandy."

BRIDGET, ST., an Irish saint, born at Dundalk; entered a monastery at 14; founded monasteries;
takes rank in Ireland with St. Patrick and St. Columba. Festival, Feb. 1 (453-523). Also the
name of a Swedish saint in the 14th century; founded a new Order, and 72 monasteries of the Order.

BRIDGETON, a manufacturing town in New Jersey, 38 m. S. of Philadelphia.

BRIDGETOWN (21), capital of Barbadoes, seat of the government, the bishop, a college, &c.;
it has suffered frequently from hurricane and fever.

BRIDGEWATER, FRANCIS EGERTON, 3RD DUKE OF, celebrated for his self-sacrificing devotion to
the improvement and extension of canal navigation in England, embarking in it all his wealth,
in which he was aided by the skill of Brindley; he did not take part in politics, though he
was a supporter of Pitt; died unmarried (1736-1803).

BRIDGEWATER, FRANCIS HENRY EGERTON, 8TH EARL OF, educated for the Church, bequeathed £8000
for the best work on natural theology, which his trustees expended in the production of eight
works by different eminent men, called "Bridgewater Treatises," all to be found in Bohn's Scientific
Library (1758-1829).

BRIDGMAN, LAURA, a deaf, dumb, and blind child, born in New Hampshire, U.S.; noted for the
surprising development of intellectual faculty notwithstanding these drawbacks; Dickens gives
an account of her in his "American Notes" (1829-1889).

BRIDGWATER, a seaport town in Somersetshire, 29 m. SW. of Bristol.

BRIDLEGOOSE, JUDGE, a judge in Rabelais' "Pantagruel," who decided cases by the throw of dice.

BRIDLINGTON, a watering-place in Yorkshire, 6 m. SW. of Flamborough Head, with a chalybeate spring.

BRIDPORT, VISCOUNT, a British admiral, distinguished in several engagements (1797-1814).

BRIEG (20), a thriving, third, commercially speaking, town in Prussian Silesia, 25 m. SE. of
Breslau.

BRIENNE, JEAN DE, descendant of an old French family; elected king of Jerusalem, then emperor
of Constantinople; d. 1237.

BRIENZ, LAKE OF, lake in the Swiss canton of Bern, 8 m. long, 2 m. broad, over 800 ft. above
sea-level, and of great depth in certain parts, abounding in fish. Town of, a favourite resort
for tourists.

BRIEUC, ST., (19), a seaport and an episcopal city in the dep. of Côtes-du-Nord, France.

BRIGADE, a body of troops under a general officer, called brigadier, consisting of a number
of regiments, squadrons, or battalions.

BRIGANTES, a powerful British tribe that occupied the country between the Humber and the Roman
Wall.

BRIGGS, HENRY, a distinguished English mathematician; first Savilian professor at Oxford; made
an important improvement on the system of logarithms, which was accepted by Napier, the inventor,
and is the system now in use (1561-1631).

BRIGHAM YOUNG, the chief of the Mormons (1801-1877).

BRIGHT, JAMES FRANCK, historian, Master of University College, Oxford; author of "English History
for the Use of Public Schools," a book of superior literary merit; b. 1832.

BRIGHT, JOHN, English statesman, son of a Lancashire cotton spinner, born near Rochdale; of
Quaker birth and profession; engaged in manufacture; took an early interest in political reform;
he joined the Anti-Corn-Law League on its formation in 1839, and soon was associated with Cobden
in its great agitation; entering Parliament in 1843, he was a strong opponent of protection,
the game laws, and later of the Crimean war; he advocated financial reform and the reform of
Indian administration; and on the outbreak of the American Civil War supported the North, though
his business interests suffered severely; he was closely associated with the 1867 Reform Act,
Irish Church Disestablishment 1869, and the 1870 Irish Land Act; his Ministerial career began
in 1868, but was interrupted by illness; in 1873, and again in 1881, he was Chancellor of the
Duchy of Lancaster; he seceded from Gladstone's Government on the Egyptian policy in 1882,
and strenuously opposed Home Rule in 1886; in 1880 he was Lord Rector of Glasgow University;
he was a man of lofty and unblemished character, an animated and eloquent orator; at his death
Mr. Gladstone pronounced one of the noblest eulogiums one public man has ever paid to another
(1811-1889).

BRIGHTON (128), a much-frequented watering-place in Sussex, 50 m. S. of London, of which it
is virtually a suburb; a place of fashionable resort ever since George IV. took a fancy to
it; a fine parade extends along the whole length of the sea front; has many handsome edifices,
a splendid aquarium, a museum, schools of science and art, public library and public gallery;
the principal building is the Pavilion or Marine Palace, originally built for George IV. Also
the name of a suburb of Melbourne.

BLIGHT'S DISEASE, a disease in the kidneys, due to several diseased conditions of the organ,
so called from Dr. Richard Bright, who first investigated its nature.

BRIL BROTHERS, MATTHEW AND PAUL, landscape painters, born at Antwerp; employed in the 16th
century by successive Popes to decorate the Vatican at Rome; of whom Paul, the younger, was
the greater artist; his best pictures are in Rome.

BRILLAT-SAVARIN, a French gastronomist, author of "Physiologie du Goût," a book full of wit
and learning, published posthumously; was professionally a lawyer and some time a judge (1755-1825).

BRIN`DISI (15), a seaport of Southern Italy, on the Adriatic coast; has risen in importance
since the opening of the Overland Route as a point of departure for the East; it is 60 hours
by rail from London, and three days by steam from Alexandria; it was the port of embarkation
for Greece in ancient times, and for Palestine in mediæval.

BRINDLEY, JAMES, a mechanician and engineer, born in Derbyshire; bred a millwright; devoted
his skill and genius to the construction of canals, under the patronage of the Duke of Bridgewater,
as the greatest service he could render to his country; regarded rivers as mere "feeders to
canals" (1716-1772).

BRINK, JAN TEN, a Dutch writer, distinguished as a critic in the department of belles-lettres;
b. 1834.

BRINVILLIERS, MARQUISE DE, notorious for her gallantries and for poisoning her father, brother,
and two sisters for the sake of their property; was tortured and beheaded; the poison she used
appears to have been the Tofana poison, an art which one of her paramours taught her (1630-1676).
See AQUA TOFANA.

BRISBANE (49), capital of Queensland, on the Brisbane River, 25 m. from the sea, 500 m. N.
of Sydney, is the chief trading centre and seaport of the Colony; it has steam communication
with Australian ports and London, and railway communication with Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide;
prosperity began when the colony was opened to free settlement in 1842; it was dissociated
from New South Wales and the city incorporated in 1859.

BRISBANE, ADMIRAL SIR CHARLES, a naval officer of distinction under Lords Hood and Nelson;
captured in 1796 Dutch warships, three ships of the line among them, in Saldanha Bay, and in
1807 the island of Curaçoa; was made governor of St. Vincent (1769-1829).

BRISBANE, SIR JAMES, naval officer, brother of the preceding, served under Lord Howe and under
Nelson at Copenhagen (1774-1829).

BRISBANE, SIR THOMAS MACDOUGALL, British general, a man of science and an astronomer, born
near Largs, Ayrshire; saw service as a soldier; was appointed governor of New South Wales to
the profit of the colony; gave name to the capital of Queensland; catalogued over 7000 stars;
succeeded Scott as president of the Royal Society (1773-1860).

BRISE`IS, a young virgin priestess, who fell to the lot of Achilles among the spoil of a victory,
but whom Agamemnon carried off from him, whereupon he retired to his tent and sullenly refused
to take any further part in the war, to its prolongation, in consequence, as Homer relates,
for ten long years; the theme of the "Iliad" being the "wrath of Achilles" on this account,
and what it led to.

BRISSAC, the name of a noble family which supplied several marshals to France.

BRISSON, HENRI, French publicist and journalist; after holding presidentships in the Chamber
became premier in 1885, but resigned after a few months; formed a Radical administration in
1898, which was short-lived; b. 1835.

BRISSOT DE WARVILLE, JEAN PIERRE, a French revolutionary, born at Chartres, son of a pastry-cook;
bred to the bar, took to letters; became an outspoken disciple of Rousseau; spent some time
in the Bastille; liberated, he went to America; returned on the outbreak of the Revolution,
sat in the National Assembly, joined the Girondists; became one of the leaders, or rather of
a party of his own, named after him Brissotins, midway between the Jacobins and them; fell
under suspicion like the rest of the party, was arrested, tried and guillotined (1754-1793).

BRISTOL (286), on the Avon, 6 m. from its mouth, and 118 m. W. of London, is the largest town
in Gloucestershire, the seventh in England, and a great seaport, with Irish, W. Indian, and
S. American trade; it manufactures tobacco, boots and shoes; it has a cathedral, two colleges,
a library and many educational institutions; by a charter of Edward III. it forms a county
in itself.

BRISTOL CHANNEL, an inlet in SW. of England, between S. Wales and Devon and Cornwall, 8 m.
in length, from 5 to 43 in breadth, and with a depth of from 5 to 40 fathoms; is subject to
very high tides, and as such dangerous to shipping; numerous rivers flow into it.

BRITANNIA, a name for Britain as old as the days of Cæsar, and inhabited by Celts, as Gaul
also was.

BRITANNIA TUBULAR BRIDGE, a railway bridge spanning the Menai Strait, designed by Robert Stephenson,
and completed in 1850; consists of hollow tubes of wrought-iron plates riveted together, and
took five years in erecting.

BRITANNICUS, the son of Claudius and Messalina, poisoned by Nero.

BRITISH ARISTIDES, name applied to Andrew Marvell from his corresponding incorruptible integrity
in life and poverty at death.

BRITISH ASSOCIATION, an association, of Sir David Brewster's suggestion, of men of all departments
of science for the encouragement of scientific research and the diffusion of scientific knowledge,
which holds its meetings annually under the presidency of some distinguished scientist, now
in this, now in that selected central city of the country; it is divided into eight sections--mathematical,
chemical, geological, biological, geographical, economic, mechanical, and anthropological.

BRITISH COLUMBIA (98), a western fertile prov. of British America, extending between the Rocky
Mountains and the Pacific, and from the United States on the S. to Alaska on the N., being
800 m. long and four times the size of Great Britain; rich in timber and minerals; rain is
abundant, and cereals do well.

BRITISH LION, the name given to John Bull when roused by opposition.

BRITISH MUSEUM, a national institution in London for the collection of MSS., books, prints
and drawings, antiquities, and objects of natural history, ethnology, &c.; founded as far back
as 1700, though not opened, in Montagu House as it happened, for the public benefit till 1759.

BRITOMART, is a lady knight in the "Faërie Queene," representing chastity with a resistless
magic spear.

BRITTANY (3,162), an old French prov., land of the Bretons, comprising the peninsula opposite
Devon and Cornwall, stretching westward between the Bays of Cancale and Biscay, was in former
times a duchy; a third of its inhabitants still retain their Breton language.

BRITTON, JOHN, topographer and antiquary, born in Wiltshire in humble position; author of "Beauties
of Wiltshire," instalment of a work embracing all the counties of England and Wales; his principal
works, and works of value, are "Antiquities of Great Britain" and "Cathedral Antiquities of
England"; his chief work is 14 volumes; the "Antiquities in Normandy" did much to create an
interest in antiquarian subjects (1771-1857).

BRIXTON, a southern suburb of London, on the Surrey side, a district of the city that has of
late years extended immensely.

BROAD ARROW, a stamp like an arrow-head to indicate government property.

BROAD BOTTOM MINISTRY, a coalition of great weight under Mr. Pelham, from Nov. 1744 to Mar.
1755, so called from the powerful parties represented in it.

BROAD CHURCH, that section of the Church which inclines to liberal opinions in theology, and
is opposed to the narrowing of either spirit or form, perhaps to an undue degree and to the
elimination of elements distinctive of the Christian system.

BROADS, THE NORFOLK, are a series of inland lakes in the E. of Norfolkshire, which look like
expansions of the rivers; they are favourite holiday resorts on account of the expanse of strange
scenery, abundant vegetation, keen air, fishing and boating attractions.

BROB`DINGNAG, an imaginary country in "Gulliver's Travels," inhabited by giants, each as tall
"as an ordinary spire-steeple"; properly a native of the country, in comparison with whom Gulliver
was a pigmy "not half so big as a round little worm plucked from the lazy finger of a maid."

BROCA, PAUL, an eminent French surgeon, anthropologist, and one of the chief French evolutionists;
held a succession of important appointments, and was the author of a number of medical works
(1824-1880).

BROCHANT DE VILLIERS, a mineralogist and geologist, born in Paris; director of the St. Gobin
manufactory (1773-1810).

BROCHS, dry-stone circular towers, called also Picts' towers and Duns, with thick Cyclopean
walls, a single doorway, and open to the sky, found on the edge of straths or lochs in the
N. and W. of Scotland.

BROCKEN, or BLOCKSBERG, the highest peak (3740 ft.) of the Harz Mts., cultivated to the summit;
famous for a "SPECTRE" so called, long an object of superstition, but which is only the beholder's
shadow projected through, and magnified by, the mists.

BROCKHAUS, FRIEDRICH ARNOLD, a German publisher, born at Dortmund; a man of scholarly parts;
began business in Amsterdam, but settled in Leipzig; publisher of the famous "Conversations
Lexikon," and a great many other important works (1772-1823).

BROCOLIANDO, a forest in Brittany famous in Arthurian legend.

BRODIE, SIR BENJAMIN, surgeon, born in Wiltshire; professor of surgery; for 30 years surgeon
in St. George's Hospital; was medical adviser to three sovereigns; president of the Royal Society
(1783-1862).

BRODIE, WILLIAM, a Scottish sculptor, born in Banff; did numerous busts and statues (1815-1881).

BROGLIE, ALBERT, son of the following, a Conservative politician and littérateur, author of
"The Church and the Roman Empire in the 4th century"; b. 1821

BROGLIE, CHARLES VICTOR, DUC DE, a French statesman, born at Paris; a Liberal politician; was
of the party of Guizot and Royer-Collard; held office under Louis Philippe; negotiated a treaty
with England for the abolition of slavery; was an Orleanist, and an enemy of the Second Empire;
retired after the coup d'état (1785-1870).

BROGLIE, VICTOR FRANÇOIS, DUC DE, marshal of France, distinguished in the Seven Years' War,
being "a firm disciplinarian"; was summoned by royalty to the rescue as "war god" at the outbreak
of the Revolution; could not persuade his troops to fire on the rioters; had to "mount and
ride"; took command of the Emigrants in 1792, and died at Münster (1718-1804).

BROKE, SIR PHILIP BOWES VERE, rear-admiral, born at Ipswich, celebrated for the action between
his ship Shannon, 38 guns, and the American ship Chesapeake, 49 guns, in June 1813, in which
he boarded the latter and ran up the British flag; one of the most brilliant naval actions
on record, and likely to be long remembered in the naval annals of the country (1776-1841).

BROMBERG (41), a busy town on the Brahe, in Prussian Posen; being a frontier town, it suffered
much in times of war.

BROME, ALEXANDER, a cavalier, writer of songs and lampoons instinct with wit, whim, and spirit;
and of his songs some are amatory, some festive, and some political (1626-1666).

BROME, RICHARD, an English comic playwright, contemporary with Ben Jonson, and a rival; originally
his servant; his plays are numerous, and were characterised by his enemies as the sweepings
of Jonson's study; d. 1652.

BROMINE, an elementary fluid of a dark colour and a disagreeable smell, extracted from bittern,
a liquid which remains after the separation of salt.

BROMLEY (21), a market-town in Kent, 10 m. SE. of London, where the bishops of Rochester had
their palace, and where there is a home called Warner's College for clergymen's widows.

BROMPTON, SW. district of London, in Kensington, now called S. Kensington; once a rustic locality,
now a fashionable district, with several public buildings and the Oratory.

BRÖNDSTED, PETER OLAF, a Danish archæologist; author of "Travels and Researches in Greece,"
where by excavations he made important discoveries; his great work "Travels and Archæological
Researches in Greece" (1780-1842).

BRONGNIART, ADOLPHE, French botanist, son of the succeeding, the first to discover and explain
the function of the pollen in plants (1801-1876).

BRONGNIART, ALEXANDRE, a French chemist and zoologist, collaborateur with Cuvier, born at Paris;
director of the porcelain works at Sèvres; revived painting on glass; introduced a new classification
of reptiles; author of treatises on mineralogy and the ceramic arts (1770-1847).

BRONTE (16), a town in Sicily, on the western slope of Etna, which gave title of duke to Nelson.

BRONTË, the name of three ladies, Charlotte, Emily, and Anne, daughters of a Yorkshire clergyman
of Irish extraction: CHARLOTTE, born at Thornton, Yorkshire; removed with her father, at the
age of four, to Haworth, a moorland parish, in the same county, where she lived most of her
days; spent two years at Brussels as a pupil-teacher; on her return, in conjunction with her
sisters, prepared and published a volume of poems under the pseudonyms respectively of "Currer,
Ellis, and Acton Bell," which proved a failure. Nothing daunted, she set to novel writing,
and her success was instant; first, "Jane Eyre," then "Shirley," and then "Villette," appeared,
and her fame was established. In 1854 she married her father's curate, Mr. Nicholls, but her
constitution gave way, and she died (1816-1855). EMILY (Ellis), two years younger, poet rather
than novelist; wrote "Wuthering Heights," a remarkable production, showing still greater genius,
which she did not live to develop. ANNE (Acton), four years younger, also wrote two novels,
but very ephemeral productions.

BRONZE AGE, the age in the history of a race intermediate between the Stone Age and the Iron,
and in some cases overlapping these two, when weapons and tools were made of bronze.

BRONZI`NO, a Florentine painter, painted both in oil and fresco; a great admirer of Michael
Angelo; his famous picture, "Descent of Christ into Hell" (1502-1572).

BROOK FARM, an abortive literary community organised on Fourier's principles, 8 m. from Boston,
U.S., by George Ripley in 1840; Nathaniel Hawthorne was one of the community, and wrote an
account of it.

BROOKE, HENRY, Irish dramatist and novelist, born in co. Cavan; author of the "Fool of Quality,"
a book commended by John Wesley and much lauded by Charles Kingsley, and the only one of his
works that survives; wrote, among other things, a poem called "Universal Beauty," and a play
called "Gustavus Vasa" (1703-1783).

BROOKE, SIR JAMES, rajah of Sarawak, born at Benares, educated in England; entered the Indian
army; was wounded in the Burmese war, returned in consequence to England; conceived the idea
of suppressing piracy and establishing civilisation in the Indian Archipelago; sailed in a
well-manned and well-equipped yacht from the Thames with that object; arrived at Sarawak, in
Borneo; assisted the governor in suppressing an insurrection, and was made rajah, the former
rajah being deposed in his favour; brought the province under good laws, swept the seas of
pirates, for which he was rewarded by the English government; was appointed governor of Labuan;
finally returned to England and died, being succeeded in Sarawak by a nephew (1803-1868).

BROOKE, STOPFORD, preacher and writer, born in Donegal; after other clerical appointments became
incumbent of Bedford Chapel, Bloomsbury, and Queen's chaplain; from conscientious motives seceded
from the Church, but continued to preach in Bloomsbury; wrote the "Life of Robertson of Brighton,"
a "Primer of English Literature," "History of English Poetry," "Theology in the English Poets,"
and "Life of Milton," all works in evidence of critical ability of a high order; b. 1832.

BROOKLYN (806), a suburb of New York, on Long Island, though ranking as a city, and the fourth
in the Union; separated from New York by the East River, a mile broad, and connected with it
by a magnificent suspension bridge, the largest in the world, as well as by some 12 lines of
ferry boats plied by steam; it is now incorporated in Greater New York; has 10 m. of water
front, extensive docks and warehouses, and does an enormous shipping trade; manufactures include
glass, clothing, chemicals, metallic wares, and tobacco; there is a naval yard, dock, and storehouse;
the city is really a part of New York; has many fine buildings, parks, and pleasure grounds.

BROOKS, CHARLES WILLIAM SHIRLEY, novelist and journalist, born in London; was on the staff
of the Morning Chronicle; sent to Russia to inquire into and report on the condition of the
peasantry and labouring classes there, as well as in Syria and Egypt; his report published
in his "Russians of the South"; formed a connection with Punch in 1851, writing the "Essence
of Parliament," and succeeded Mark Lemon as editor in 1870; he was the author of several works
(1816-1874).

BROSSES, CHARLES DE, a French archæologist, born at Dijon; wrote among other subjects on the
manners and customs of primitive and prehistoric man (1709-1777).

BROSSETTE, a French littérateur, born at Lyons; friend of Boileau, and his editor and commentator
(1671-1743).

BROTHERS, RICHARD, a fanatic, born in Newfoundland, who believed and persuaded others to believe
that the English people were the ten lost tribes of Israel (1757-1824).

BROUGHAM, HENRY, LORD BROUGHAM AND VAUX, born in Edinburgh, and educated at the High School
and University of that city; was admitted to the Scotch bar in 1800; excluded from promotion
in Scotland by his liberal principles, he joined the English bar in 1808, speedily acquired
a reputation as a lawyer for the defence in Crown libel actions, and, by his eloquence in the
cause of Queen Caroline, 1820, won universal popular favour; entering Parliament in 1810, he
associated with the Whig opposition, threw himself into the agitation for the abolition of
slavery, the cause of education, and law reform; became Lord Chancellor in 1830, but four years
afterwards his political career closed; he was a supporter of many popular institutions; a
man of versatile ability and untiring energy; along with Horner, Jeffrey, and Sidney Smith,
one of the founders of the Edinburgh Review, also of London University, and the Society for
the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge; a writer on scientific, historical, political, and philosophical
themes, but his violence and eccentricity hurt his influence; spent his last days at Cannes,
where he died (1778-1868).

BROUGHTON, LORD. See HOBHOUSE.

BROUGHTON, RHODA, novelist, her best work "Not Wisely but Too Well"; wrote also "Cometh Up
as a Flower," "Red as a Rose is She," &c.; b. 1840.

BROUGHTON, WILLIAM ROBERT, an English seaman, companion of Vancouver; discovered a portion
of Oceania (1763-1822).

BROUGHTY FERRY (9), a watering-place, with villas, near Dundee, and a favourite place of residence
of Dundee merchants.

BROUSSA (37), a city in the extreme NW. of Asiatic Turkey, at the foot of Mt. Olympus, 12 m.
from the Sea of Marmora; the capital of the Turkish empire till the taking of Constantinople
in 1453; abounds in mosques, and is celebrated for its baths.

BROUSSAIS, JOSEPH VICTOR, a French materialist, founder of the "physiological school" of medicine;
resolved life into excitation, and disease into too much or too little (1772-1838).

BROUSSEL, a member of the Parlement of Paris, whose arrest, in 1648, was the cause of, or pretext
for, the organisation of the Fronde.

BROUSSON, a French Huguenot who returned to France after the Revocation of the Edict of Nantes,
and was broken on the wheel, 1698.

BROUWER, a Dutch painter, mostly of low, vulgar life, which, as familiar with it, he depicted
with great spirit (1605-1638).

BROWN, AMY, the first wife of the Duc de Berri, born in England, died in France; the Pope,
in 1816, annulled her marriage, but declared her two daughters legitimate (1783-1876).

BROWN, CHARLES BROCKDEN, an American novelist, born in Philadelphia, of Quaker connection;
his best-known fictions are "Wieland," "Edgar Huntly," &c. (1771-1810).

BROWN, FORD MADOX, an English painter, born at Calais; his subjects nearly all of a historical
character, one of which is "Chaucer reciting his Poetry at the Court of Edward III."; anticipated
Pre-Raphaelitism (1821-1893).

BROWN, SIR GEORGE, British general, born near Elgin, distinguished both in the Peninsular and
in the Crimean war, was severely wounded at Inkerman, when in command of the Light Division
(1790-1863).

BROWN, HENRY KIRKE, an American sculptor, did a number of statues, a colossal one of Washington
among them (1814-1886).

BROWN, JOHN, American slavery abolitionist; settled in Kansas, and resolutely opposed the project
of making it a slave state; in the interest of emancipation, with six others, seized on the
State armoury at Harper's Ferry in hope of a rising, entrenched himself armed in it, was surrounded,
seized, tried, and hanged (1800-1859).

BROWN, JOHN, of Haddington, a self-educated Scotch divine, born at Carpow, near Abernethy,
Perthshire, son of a poor weaver, left an orphan at 11, became a minister of a Dissenting church
in Haddington; a man of considerable learning, and deep piety; author of "Dictionary of the
Bible," and "Self-interpreting Bible" (1722-1787).

BROWN, JOHN, M.D., great-grandson of the preceding, born at Biggar, educated in Edinburgh High
School and at Edinburgh University, was a pupil of James Syme, the eminent surgeon, and commenced
quiet practice in Edinburgh; author of "Horæ Subsecivæ," "Rab and his Friends," "Pet Marjorie,"
"John Leech," and other works; was a fine and finely-cultured man, much beloved by all who
knew him, and by none more than by John Ruskin, who says of him, he was "the best and truest
friend of all my life.... Nothing can tell the loss to me in his death, nor the grief to how
many greater souls than mine that had been possessed in patience through his love" (1810-1882).

BROWN, JOHN, M.D., founder of the Brunonian system of medicine, born at Bunkle, Berwickshire;
reduced diseases into two classes, those resulting from redundancy of excitation, and those
due to deficiency of excitation; author of "Elements of Medicine" and "Observations on the
Old and New Systems of Physic" (1735-1788). See BROUSSAIS.

BROWN, JONES, AND ROBINSON, three middle-class Englishmen on their travels abroad, as figured
in the pages of Punch, and drawn by Richard Doyle.

BROWN, MOUNT (16,000 ft.), the highest of the Rocky Mts., in N. America.

BROWN, OLIVER MADOX, son of Ford Madox, a youth of great promise both as an artist and poet;
died of blood-poisoning (1855-1874).

BROWN, RAWDON, historical scholar, spent his life at Venice in the study of Italian history,
especially in its relation to English history, which he prosecuted with unwearied industry;
his great work, work of 20 years' hard labour, "Calendar of State Papers and Manuscripts relating
to English Affairs existing in the Archives of Venice and Northern Italy," left unfinished
at his death; died at Venice, where he spent a great part of his life, where Ruskin found him
and conceived a warm friendship for him (1803-1883).

BROWN, ROBERT, a distinguished botanist, born at Montrose, son of an Episcopal clergyman; accompanied
an expedition to survey the coast of Australia in 1801, returned after four years' exploration,
with 4000 plants mostly new to science, which he classified and described in his "Prodromus
Floræ Novæ Hollandiæ"; became librarian to, and finally president of, the Linnean Society;
styled by Humboldt botanicorum facile princeps; he was a man of most minute and accurate observation,
and of a wide range of knowledge, much of which died along with him, out of the fear of committing
himself to mistakes (1773-1858).

BROWN, SAMUEL, M.D., chemist, born in Haddington, grandson of John Brown of Haddington, whose
life was devoted, with the zeal of a mediæval alchemist, to a reconstruction of the science
of atomics, which he did not live to see realised: a man of genius, a brilliant conversationist
and an associate of the most intellectual men of his time, among the number De Quincey, Carlyle,
and Emerson; wrote "Lay Sermons on the Theory of Christianity," "Lectures on the Atomic Theory,"
and two volumes of "Essays, Scientific and Literary" (1817-1856).

BROWN, THOMAS, Scottish psychologist, born in Kirkcudbrightshire, bred to medicine; professor
of Moral Philosophy in the University of Edinburgh, colleague and successor to Dugald Stewart;
his lectures, all improvised on the spur of the moment, were published posthumously; "Lectures
on the Philosophy of the Human Mind" established a sixth sense, which he called the "muscular."
He was a man of precocious talent, and a devoted student, to the injury of his health and the
shortening of his life; he was obliged from ill-health to resign his professorship after 10
years (1778-1820).

BROWN WILLY, the highest peak (1368 ft.) in Cornwall.

BROWNE, CHARLES FARRAR, a humorist and satirist, known by the pseudonym of "Artemus Ward,"
born in Maine, U.S.; his first literary effort was as "showman" to an imaginary travelling
menagerie; travelled over America lecturing, carrying with him a whimsical panorama as affording
texts for his numerous jokes, which he brought with him to London, and exhibited with the same
accompaniment with unbounded success; he spent some time among the Mormons, and defined their
religion as singular, but their wives plural (1834-1867).

BROWNE, HABLOT KNIGHT, artist, born in London; illustrated Dickens's works, "Pickwick" to begin
with, under the pseudonym of "Phiz," as well as the works of Lever, Ainsworth, Fielding, and
Smollett, and the Abbotsford edition of Scott; he was skilful as an etcher and an architectural
draughtsman (1815-1882).

BROWNE, ROBERT, founder of the Brownists, born in Rutland; the first seceder from the Church
of England, and the first to found a Church of his own on Congregational principles, which
he did at Norwich, though his project of secession proved a failure, and he returned to the
English Church; died in jail at Northampton, where he was imprisoned for assaulting a constable;
he may be accounted the father of the Congregational body in England (1540-1630). He meditated
much on death and the hereafter, and on the former in its relation to, or leading on to, the
latter" (1605-1682).

BROWNE WILLIAM, English pastoral poet, born at Tavistock; author of "Britannia's Pastorals"
and "The Shepherd's Pipe," a collection of eclogues and "The Inner Temple and Masque," on the
story of Ulysses and Circe, with some opening exquisitely beautiful verses, "Steer hither,
steer," among them; was an imitator of Spenser, and a parallel has been instituted between
him and Keats (1590-1645).

BROWNIE, a good-natured household elf, believed in Scotland to render obliging services to
good housewives, and his presence an evidence that the internal economies were approved of,
as he favoured good husbandry, and was partial to houses where it was observed.

BROWNING, ELIZABETH BARRETT, née BARRETT, poetess, born at Carlton Hall, Durham; a woman of
great natural abilities, which developed early; suffered from injury to her spine; went to
Torquay for her health; witnessed the death by drowning of a brother, that gave her a shock
the effect of which never left her; published in 1838 "The Seraphim," and in 1844 "The Cry
of the Children"; fell in with and married Robert Browning in 1846, who immediately took her
abroad, settling in Florence; wrote in 1850 "Sonnets from the Portuguese," in 1851 "Casa Guidi
Windows," and in 1856 "Aurora Leigh," "a novel in verse," and in 1860 "Poems before Congress";
ranks high, if not highest, among the poetesses of England; she took an interest all through
life in public affairs; her work is marked by musical diction, sensibility, knowledge, and
imagination, which no poetess has rivalled (1806-1861).

BROWNING, ROBERT, poet, one of the two greatest in the Victorian era, born in Camberwell; early
given to write verses; prepared himself for his literary career by reading through Johnson's
Dictionary; his first poem "PAULINE" (q. v.) published in 1833, which was followed by "Paracelsus"
in 1835, "Sordello" in 1840; after a time, in which he was not idle, appeared, with some of
his "Dramatic Romances and Lyrics," in 1855 his "Men and Women," and in 1868 "THE RING AND
THE BOOK" (q. v.), his longest poem, and more analytic than poetic; this was succeeded by a
succession of others, finishing up with "Asolando," which appeared the day he died at Venice;
was a poet of great subtlety, deep insight, creative power, and strong faith, of a genius and
learning which there are few able to compass the length and breadth of; lies buried in Westminster
Abbey; of Browning it has been said by Professor Saintsbury, "Timor mortis non conturbabat,
'the fear of death did not trouble him.' In the browner shades of age as well as in the spring
of youth he sang, not like most poets, Love and Death, but Love and Life.... 'James Lee,' 'Rabbi
Ben Ezra,' and 'Prospice' are among the greatest poems of the century." His creed was an optimism
of the brightest, and his restful faith "it is all right with the world" (1812-1889).

BROWN-SÉQUARD, physiologist, born in Mauritius, of American parentage; studied in Paris; practised
in New York, and became a professor in the Collège de France; made a special study of the nervous
system and nervous diseases, and published works on the subject; b. 1818.

BRUANT, a French architect, born in Paris; architect of the Invalides and the Salpétrière; d. 1697.

BRUAT, a French admiral, commanded the French fleet at the Crimea (1796-1885).

BRUCE, a family illustrious in Scottish history, descended from a Norman knight, Robert de
Bruis, who came over with the Conqueror, and who acquired lands first in Northumberland and
then in Annandale.

BRUCE, JAMES, traveller, called the "Abyssinian," born at Kinnaird House, Stirlingshire, set
out from Cairo in 1768 in quest of the source of the Nile: believed he had discovered it; stayed
two years in Abyssinia, and returned home by way of France, elated with his success; felt hurt
that no honor was conferred on him, and for relief from the chagrin wrote an account of his
travels in five quarto vols., the general accuracy of which, as far as it goes, has been attested
by subsequent explorers (1730-1794).

BRUCE, MICHAEL, a Scotch poet, born near Loch Leven, in poor circumstances, in the parish of
Portmoak; studied for the Church; died of consumption; his poems singularly plaintive and pathetic;
his title to the authorship of the "Ode to the Cuckoo" has been matter of contention (1746-1767).

BRUCE, ROBERT, rival with John Baliol for the crown of Scotland on the death of Margaret, the
Maiden of Norway, against whose claim Edward I. decided in favour of Baliol (1210-1295).

BRUCE, ROBERT, son of the preceding, earl of Carrick, through Marjory his wife; served under
Edward at the battle of Dunbar for one instance; sued for the Scottish crown in vain (1269-1304).

BRUCE, ROBERT, king of Scotland, son of the preceding, did homage for a time to Edward, but
joined the national party and became one of a regency of four, with Comyn for rival; stabbed
Comyn in a quarrel at Dumfries, 1306, and was that same year crowned king at Scone; was defeated
by an army sent against him, and obliged to flee to Rathlin, Ireland; returned and landed in
Carrick; cleared the English out of all the fortresses except Stirling, and on 24th June 1314
defeated the English under Edward II. at Bannockburn, after which, in 1328, the independence
of Scotland was acknowledged as well as Bruce's right to the crown; suffering from leprosy,
spent his last two years at Cardross Castle, on the Clyde, where he died in the thirty-third
year of his reign (1274-1329).

BRUCIN, an alkaloid, allied in action to strychnine, though much weaker, being only a twenty-fifth
of the strength.

BRÜCKENAU, small town in Bavaria, 17 m. NW. of Kissingen, with mineral springs good for nervous
and skin diseases.

BRUCKER, historian of philosophy, born at Augsburg, and a pastor there; author of "Historia
Critica Philosophiæ" (1696-1770).

BRUEYS, DAVID AUGUSTIN DE, French dramatist, born at Aix, an abbé converted by Bossuet, and
actively engaged in propagating the faith; managed to be joint editor with Palaprat in the
production of plays (1650-1725).

BRUGES (49), cap. of W. Flanders, in Belgium, intersected by canals crossed by some 50 bridges,
whence its name "Bridges"; one of these canals, of considerable depth, connecting it with Ostend;
though many of them are now, as well as some of the streets, little disturbed by traffic, in
a decayed and a decaying place, having once had a population of 200,000; has a number of fine
churches, one specially noteworthy, the church of Notre Dame; it has several manufactures,
textile and chemical, as well as distilleries, sugar-refineries, and shipbuilding yards.

BRUGSCH, HEINRICH KARL, a German Egyptologist, born at Berlin; was associated with Mariette
in his excavations at Memphis; became director of the School of Egyptology at Cairo; his works
on the subject are numerous, and of great value; b. 1827.

BRÜHL, HEINRICH, COUNT VON, minister of Augustus III., king of Poland, an unprincipled man,
who encouraged his master, and indulged himself, in silly foppery and wasteful extravagance,
so that when the Seven Years' War broke out he and his master had to flee from Dresden and
seek refuge in Warsaw (1700-1763).

BRUIN, the bear personified in the German epic of "Reynard the Fox."

BRUMAIRE, the 18th (i. e. the 9th November 1799, the foggy month), the day when Napoleon, on
his return from Egypt, overthrew the Directory and established himself in power.

BRUMMELL, BEAU, born in London, in his day the prince of dandies; patronised by the Prince
of Wales, afterwards George IV.; quarrelled with the prince; fled from his creditors to Calais,
where, reduced to destitution, he lived some years in the same reckless fashion; settled at
length in Caen, where he died insane (1778-1805).

BRUNCK, an able French Hellenist, classical scholar, and critic, born at Strassburg; edited
several classical works, played a perilous part in the French Revolution; was imprisoned, and,
on his release, had to sell his library in order to live (1729-1803).

BRUNE, G. MARIE, French marshal, saw service in the Vendéan war and in Italy, distinguished
himself under Napoleon in Italy and Holland; submitted to Bourbons in 1814; joined Napoleon
on his return from Elba; was appointed to a post of command in the S. of France, but had to
surrender after Waterloo, and was attacked by a mob of Royalists at Avignon as he was setting
out for Paris, and brutally murdered and his body thrown into the Rhône (1763-1815).

BRUNEL, SIR ISAMBARD, engineer, born in Rouen, entered the French navy, emigrated to the United
States; was chief engineer of New York; settled in England, became block-maker to the Royal
Navy; constructed the Thames tunnel, begun in 1825 and finished in 1843 (1759-1849).

BRUNEL, ISAMBARD KINGDOM, son of the preceding, assisted his father in his engineering operations,
in particular the Thames tunnel; was engineer of the Great Western Railway; designed the Great
Western steamship, the first to cross the Atlantic; was the first to apply the screw propeller
to steam navigation; designed and constructed the Great Eastern; constructed bridges and naval
docks (1806-1859).

BRUNELLESCHI, Italian architect, born in Florence, bred a goldsmith, studied at Rome; returned
to his native city, built the Duomo of the Cathedral, the Pitti Palace, and the churches of
San Lorenzo and Spirito Santo (1377-1444).

BRUNETIÈRE, French critic, connected with the Revue des Deux Mondes and now editor; a very
sound and sensible critic; his chief work, begun in the form of lectures in 1890, entitled
"L'Évolution des Genres de l'Histoire de la Littérature Française"; according to Prof. Saintsbury,
promises to be one of the chief monuments that the really "higher" criticism has yet furnished;
b. 1849.

BRUNETTO-LATINI, an Italian writer, who played an important part among the Guelfs, and was
obliged to flee to Paris, where he had Dante for a pupil (1220-1294).

BRUNHILDA, a masculine queen in the "Nibelungen Lied" who offered to marry the man that could
beat her in feats of strength, was deceived by Siegfried into marrying Gunther, and meditated
the death of Siegfried, who had married her rival Chriemhilda, which she accomplished by the
hand of Hagen. Also a queen of Austrasia, who, about the 7th century, had a lifelong quarrel
with Fredegunde, queen of Neustria, the other division of the Frankish world, which at her
death she seized possession of for a time, but was overthrown by Clothaire II., Fredegunde's
son, and dragged to death at the heels of an infuriated wild horse.

BRUNI, LEONARDO, Italian humanist, born at Arezzo, hence called Aretino; was papal secretary;
settled in Florence, and wrote a history of it; did much by his translations of Greek authors
to promote the study of Greek (1369-1444).

BRÜNN (95), Austrian city, capital of Moravia, beautifully situated, 93 m. N. of Vienna, with
large manufactures; woollens the staple of the country; about one-half of the population Czechs.

BRUNNOW, COUNT VON, a Russian diplomatist, born at Dresden; represented Russia in several conferences,
and was twice ambassador at the English Court (1797-1875).

BRUNO, GIORDANO, a bold and fervid original thinker, born at Nola, in Italy; a Dominican monk,
quitted his monastery, in fact, was for heterodoxy obliged to flee from it; attached himself
to Calvin for a time, went for more freedom to Paris, attacked the scholastic philosophy, had
to leave France as well; spent two years in England in friendship with Sir Philip Sidney, propagated
his views in Germany and Italy, was arrested by the Inquisition, and after seven years spent
in prison was burned as a heretic; he was a pantheist, and regarded God as the living omnipresent
soul of the universe, and Nature as the living garment of God, as the Earth-Spirit does in
Goethe's "Faust"--a definition of Nature in relation to God which finds favour in the pages
of "Sartor Resartus"; d. 1600.

BRUNO, ST., born at Cologne, retired to a lonely spot near Grenoble with six others, where
each lived in cells apart, and they met only on Sundays; founder of the Carthusian Order of
Monks, the first house of which was established in the desert of Chartreuse (1030-1101). Festival,
Oct. 6.

BRUNO THE GREAT, third son of Henry the Fowler; archbishop of Cologne, chancellor of the Empire,
a great lover of learning, and promoter of it among the clergy, who he thought should, before
all, represent and encourage it (928-965).

BRUNONIAN SYSTEM, a system which regards and treats diseases as due to defective or excessive
excitation, as sthenic or asthenic. See BROWN, JOHN.

BRUNSWICK (404), a N. German duchy, made up of eight detached parts, mostly in the upper basin
of the Weser; is mountainous, and contains part of the Harz Mts.; climate and crops are those
of N. Germany generally. BRUNSWICK (101), the capital, a busy commercial town, once a member
of the Hanseatic League, and fell into comparative decay after the decay of the League, on
the Oker, 140 m. SW. of Berlin; an irregularly built city, it has a cathedral, and manufactures
textiles, leather, and sewing-machines.

BRUNSWICK, CHARLES WILLIAM, DUKE OF, Prussian general, commanded the Prussian and Austrian
forces levied to put down the French Revolution; emitted a violent, blustering manifesto, but
a Revolutionary army under Dumouriez and Kellermann met him at Valmy, and compelled him to
retreat in 1792; was beaten by Davout at Auerstädt, and mortally wounded (1735-1806).

BRUNSWICK, FREDERICK WILLIAM, DUKE OF, brother of Queen Caroline; raised troops against France,
which, being embarked for England, took part in the Peninsular war; fell fighting at Ligny,
two days before the battle of Waterloo (1771-1815).

BRUSSELS (477), on the Senne, 27 m. S. of Antwerp, is the capital of Belgium, in the heart
of the country. The old town is narrow and crooked, but picturesque; the town-hall a magnificent
building. The new town is well built, and one of the finest in Europe. There are many parks,
boulevards, and squares; a cathedral, art-gallery, museum and library, university and art schools.
It is Paris in miniature. The manufactures include linen, ribbons, and paper; a ship-canal
and numerous railways foster commerce.

BRUTUS, LUCIUS JUNIUS, the founder of Republican Rome, in the 6th century B.C.; affected idiocy
(whence his name, meaning stupid); it saved his life when Tarquin the Proud put his brother
to death; but when Tarquin's son committed an outrage on Lucretia, he threw off his disguise,
headed a revolt, and expelled the tyrant; was elected one of the two first Consuls of Rome;
sentenced his two sons to death for conspiring to restore the monarchy; fell repelling an attempt
to restore the Tarquins in a hand-to-hand combat with Aruns, one of the sons of the banished king.

BRUTUS, MARCUS JUNIUS, a descendant of the preceding, and son of Cato Uticensis's sister; much
beloved by Cæsar and Cæsar's friend, but persuaded by Cassius and others to believe that Cæsar
aimed at the overthrow of the republic; joined the conspirators, and was recognised by Cæsar
among the conspirators as party to his death; forced to flee from Rome after the event, was
defeated at Philippi by Antony and Augustus, but escaped capture by falling on a sword held
out to him by one of his friends, exclaiming as he did so, "O Virtue, thou art but a name!"
(85-42 B.C.).

BRUYÈRE, a French writer, author of "Charactères de Théophraste," a satire on various characters
and manners of his time (1644-1696).

BRYAN, WILLIAM JENNINGS, American statesman, born in Salem, Illinois; bred to the bar and practised
at it; entered Congress in 1890 as an extreme Free Silver man; lost his seat from his uncompromising
views on that question; was twice nominated for the Presidency in opposition to Mr McKinley,
but defeated; b. 1860.

BRYANT, WILLIAM CULLEN, American poet; his poems were popular in America, the chief, "The Age,"
published in 1821; was 50 years editor of the New York Evening Post; wrote short poems all
through his life, some of the later his best (1794-1878).

BRYCE, JAMES, historian and politician, born at Belfast; Fellow of Oriel College, Oxford; bred
to the bar; for a time professor of Civil Law at Oxford; entered Parliament in 1880; was member
of Mr. Gladstone's last cabinet; his chief literary work, "The Holy Roman Empire," a work of
high literary merit; b. 1838.

BRYDGES, SIR SAMUEL EGERTON, English antiquary, born at Wootton House, in Kent; called to the
bar, but devoted to literature; was M.P. for Maidstone for six years; lived afterwards and
died at Geneva; wrote novels and poems, and edited old English writings of interest (1762-1837).

BUBASTIS, an Egyptian goddess, the Egyptian Diana, the wife of Ptah; and a city in Lower Egypt,
on the eastern branch of the Nile.

BUCCANEERS, an association, chiefly English and French, of piratical adventurers in the 16th
and 17th centuries, with their head-quarters in the Caribbean Sea, organised to plunder the
ships of the Spaniards in resentment of the exclusive right they claimed to the wealth of the
S. American continent, which they were carrying home across the sea.

BUCCLEUCH, a glen 18 m. SW. of Selkirk, with a stronghold of the Scott family, giving the head
the title of earl or duke.

BUCEN`TAUR, the state galley, worked by oars and manned by 168 rowers, in which the Doge of
Venice used to sail on the occasion of the annual ceremony of wedding anew the Adriatic Sea
by sinking a ring in it.

BUCEPH`ALUS (i. e. ox-head), the horse which Alexander the Great, while yet a youth, broke
in when no one else could, and on which he rode through all his campaigns; it died in India
from a wound. The town, Bucephala, on the Hydaspes, was built near its grave.

BUCER MARTIN, a German Reformer, born at Strassburg; originally a Dominican, adopted the Reformed
faith, ministered as pastor and professor in his native place, differed in certain matters
from both Luther and Zwingli, while he tried to reconcile them; invited by Cranmer to England,
he accepted the invitation, and became professor of Divinity at Cambridge, where he died, but
his bones were exhumed and burned a few years later (1491-1551).

BUCH, LEOPOLD VON, a German geologist, a pupil of Werner and fellow-student of Alexander von
Humboldt, who esteemed him highly; adopted the volcanic theory of the earth; wrote no end of
scientific memoirs (1774-1853).

BUCHAN, a district in the NE. of Aberdeenshire, between the rivers Deveron and Ythan; abounds
in magnificent rock scenery. The Comyns were earls of it till they forfeited the title in 1309.

BUCHANAN, CLAUDIUS, born at Cambuslang, near Glasgow, chaplain in Barrackpur under the East
India Company, vice-provost of the College at Fort William, Calcutta; one of the first to awaken
an interest in India as a missionary field; wrote "Christian Researches in Asia" (1756-1815).

BUCHANAN, GEORGE, a most distinguished scholar and humanist, born at Killearn, Stirlingshire;
educated at St. Andrews and Paris; professor for three years in the College at St. Barbe; returned
to Scotland, became tutor to James V.'s illegitimate sons; imprisoned by Cardinal Beaton for
satires against the monks, escaped to France; driven from one place to another, imprisoned
in a monastery in Portugal at the instance of the Inquisition, where he commenced his celebrated
Latin version of the Psalms; came back to Scotland, was appointed in 1562 tutor to Queen Mary,
in 1566 principal of St. Leonard's College, in St. Andrews, in 1567 moderator of the General
Assembly in 1570 tutor to James VI., and had several offices of State conferred on him; wrote
a "History of Scotland," and his book "De Jure Regni," against the tyranny of peoples by kings;
died in Edinburgh without enough to bury him; was buried at the public expense in Greyfriars'
churchyard; when dying, it is said he asked his housekeeper to examine his money-box and see
if there was enough to bury him, and when he found there was not, he ordered her to distribute
what there was among his poor neighbours and left it to the city to bury him or not as they
saw good (1506-1582).

BUCHANAN, JAMES, statesman of the United States, was ambassador in London in 1853, made President
in 1856, the fifteenth in order, at the time when the troubles between the North and South
came to a head, favoured the South, retired after his Presidentship into private life (1791-1868).

BUCHANAN, ROBERT, a writer in prose and verse, born in Warwickshire, educated at Glasgow University;
his first work, "Undertones," a volume of verse published by him in 1863, and he has since
written a goodly number of poems, some of them of very high merit, the last "The Wandering
Jew," which attacks the Christian religion; besides novels, has written magazine articles,
and one in particular, which involved him in some trouble; b.1841.

BUCHANITES, a fanatical sect who appeared in the W. of Scotland in 1783, named after a Mrs.
Buchan, who claimed to be the woman mentioned in Rev. xii.

BUCHAREST (220), capital of Roumania, picturesquely situated on the Dambovitza, a tributary
of the Danube, in a fertile plain, 180 m. from the Black Sea; is a meanly built but well-fortified
town, with the reputation of the most dissolute capital in Europe; there is a Catholic cathedral
and a university; it is the emporium of trade between the Balkan and Austria; textiles, grain,
hides, metal, and coal are the chief articles in its markets.

BUCHEZ, JOSEPH, a French historian, politician, and Socialist; joined the St. Simonian Society,
became a Christian Socialist, and a collaborateur in an important historical work, the "Parliamentary
History of the French Revolution"; figured in political life after the Revolution of 1848,
but retired to private life after the establishment of the Empire (1796-1865).

BÜCHNER, LUDWIG, physician and materialist, born at Darmstadt; lectured at Tübingen University;
wrote a book entitled "Kraft und Stoff," i. e. Force and Matter, and had to retire into private
practice as a physician on account of its materialistic philosophy, which he insisted on teaching
(1824-1899).

BUCHON, a learned Frenchman; wrote chronologies of French history (1791-1846).

BUCKINGHAM, GEORGE VILLIERS, DUKE OF, favourite of James I. and Charles I., born in Leicestershire;
rose under favour of the former to the highest offices and dignities of the State; provoked
by his conduct wars with Spain and France; fell into disfavour with the people; was assassinated
at Portsmouth by Lieutenant Felton, on the eve of his embarking for Rochelle (1592-1628).

BUCKINGHAM, GEORGE VILLIERS, DUKE OF, son of the preceding; served under Charles I. in the
Civil War, was at the battle of Worcester; became minister of Charles II.; a profligate courtier
and an unprincipled man (1627-1688).

BUCKINGHAM, JAMES SILK, traveller and journalist, born in Falmouth; conducted a journal in
Calcutta, and gave offence to the East India Company by his outspokenness; had to return to
England, where his cause was warmly taken up; by his writings and speeches paved the way for
the abolition of the Company's charter (1784-1855).

BUCKINGHAMSHIRE (185), English S. midland county, lying E. of Oxford, W. of Bedford and Hertford,
is full of beautiful and varied scenery; hill, dale, wood, and water. The Thames forms the
southern boundary, the Ouse flows through the N., and the Thame through the centre. The Chiltern
Hills cross the county. Agriculture is the prevailing industry; dairy produce, cattle and poultry
feeding, and sheep rearing the sources of wealth. The county town is BUCKINGHAM (3), on the
Ouse, 60 m. NW. of London.

BUCKLAND, FRANCIS (FRANK), naturalist, son of the succeeding, bred to medicine; devoted to
the study of animal life; was inspector of salmon fisheries; wrote "Curiosities of Natural
History," "Familiar History of British Fishes," &c.; contributed largely to the journals, such
as the Field, and edited Land and Water, which he started in 1866 (1826-1880).

BUCKLAND, WILLIAM, a distinguished geologist, born at Tiverton; had a predilection from boyhood
for natural science; awoke in Oxford University an interest in it by his lectures on mineralogy
and geology; his pen was unceasingly occupied with geological subjects; exerted himself to
reconcile the teachings of science with the accounts in Genesis; was made Dean of Westminster
by Sir Robert Peel; his intellect gave way in 1850, and he remained in mental weakness till
his death (1784-1856).

BUCKLE, GEORGE EARLE, editor of the Times, born near Bath; studied at Oxford, where he distinguished
himself; is a Fellow of All Souls' College; became editor in 1884, having previously belonged
to the editorial staff; b. 1854.

BUCKLE, HENRY THOMAS, an advanced thinker, born in Lee, in Kent; in delicate health from his
infancy, too ambitious for his powers, thought himself equal to write the "History of Civilisation
in England," in connection with that of Europe, tried it, but failed; visited the East for
his health, and died at Damascus; his theory as regards the development of civilisation is,
that national character depends on material environment, and that progress depends upon the
emancipation of rationality, an extremely imperfect reading and rendering of the elements at
work, and indeed a total omission of nearly all the more vital ones; he was distinguished as
a chess-player (1822-1862).

BUCKSTONE, JOHN BALDWIN, an able comic actor and popular dramatist, born in London; for a long
period the lessee of the Haymarket Theatre, London (1802-1870).

BUDA-PESTH (506), a twin city, the capital of Hungary, on the Danube; Buda (Ger. Ofen) on the
right bank and Pesth on the left, the two cities being connected by a suspension bridge, the
former on a rocky elevation and the latter on level ground; a great commercial centre.

BUDASTIS, an ancient town in Lower Egypt, where festivals in honour of Bacchus used to be held
every year.

BUDDHA, GAUTAMA, or SAKYA-MUNI, the founder of Buddhism about the 5th century B.C., born a
Hindu, of an intensely contemplative nature, the son of a king, who did everything in his power
to tempt him from a religious life, from which, however, in his contemplation of the vanity
of existence, nothing could detain him; retired into solitude at the age of 30, as Sakyamuni,
i. e. solitary of the Sakyas, his tribe; consulted religious books, could get no good out of
them, till, by-and-by, he abstracted himself more and more from everything external, when at
the end of ten years, as he sat brooding under the Bo-tree alone with the universe, soul with
soul, the light of truth rose full-orbed upon him, and he called himself henceforth and gave
himself out as Buddha, i. e. the Enlightened; now he said to himself, "I know it all," as Mahomet
in his way did after him, and became a preacher to others of what had proved salvation to himself,
which he continued to do for 40 years, leaving behind him disciples, who went forth without
sword, like Christ's, to preach what they, like Christ's, believed was a gospel to every creature.

BUDDHISM, the religion of Buddha, a religion which, eschewing all speculation about God and
the universe, set itself solely to the work of salvation, the end of which was the merging
of the individual in the unity of being, and the "way" to which was the mortification of all
private passion and desire which mortification, when finished, was the Buddhist Nirvâna. This
is the primary doctrine of the Buddhist faith, which erelong became a formality, as all faiths
of the kind, or of this high order, ever tend to do. Buddha is not answerable for this, but
his followers, who in three successive councils resolved it into a system of formulæ, which
Buddha, knowing belike how the letter killeth and only the spirit giveth life, never attempted
to do. Buddha wrote none himself, but in some 300 years after his death his teachings assumed
a canonical form, under the name of Tripitaka, or triple basket, as it is called. Buddhism
from the first was a proselytising religion; it at one time overran the whole of India, and
though it is now in small favour there, it is, in such form as it has assumed, often a highly
beggarly one, understood to be the religion of 340 millions of the human race.

BUDE-LIGHT, a very brilliant light produced by introducing oxygen into the centre of an Argand
burner, so called from the place of the inventor's abode.

BUDWEIS (28), a Bohemian trading town on the Moldau, 133 m. NW. of Vienna.

BUENOS AYRES (543), capital of the Argentine Republic, stands on the right bank of the broad
but shallow river Plate, 150 m. from the Atlantic; it is a progressing city, improving in appearance,
with a cathedral, several Protestant churches, a university and military school, libraries
and hospitals; printing, cigar-making, cloth and boot manufacture are the leading industries;
it is the principal Argentine port, and the centre of export and import trade; the climate
does not correspond with the name it bears; a great deal of the foreign trade is conducted
through Monte Video, but it monopolises all the inland trade.

BUFFALO (256), a city of New York State, at the E. end of Lake Erie, 300 m. due NW. of New
York; is a well-built, handsome, and healthy city; the railways and the Erie Canal are channels
of extensive commerce in grain, cattle, and coal; while immense iron-works, tanneries, breweries,
and flour-mills represent the industries; electric power for lighting, traction, &c., is supplied
from Niagara.

BUFFON, GEORGE LOUIS LECLERC, COMTE DE, a great French naturalist, born at Montbard, in Burgundy;
his father one of the noblesse de robe; studied law at Dijon; spent some time in England, studying
the English language; devoted from early years to science, though more to the display of it,
and to natural science for life on being appointed intendant of the Jardin du Roi; assisted,
and more than assisted, by Daubenton and others, produced 15 vols. of his world-famous "Histoire
Naturelle" between the years 1749 and 1767. The saying "Style is the man" is ascribed to him,
and he has been measured by some according to his own standard. Neither his style nor his science
is rated of any high value now: "Buffon was as pompous and inflated as his style" (1707-1780).

BUGEAUD, THOMAS, marshal of France, born at Limoges; served under Napoleon; retired from service
till 1830; served under Louis Philippe; contributed to the conquest of Algiers; was made governor,
and created duke for his victory over the forces of the emperor of Morocco at the battle of
Isly in 1844; his motto was Ense et aratro, "By sword and plough" (1784-1849).

BUGENHAGEN, JOHANN, a German Reformer, a convert of Luther's and coadjutor; helpful to the
cause as an organiser of churches and schools (1485-1558).

BUGGE, Norwegian philologist, professor at Christiania; b. 1833.

BUHL, ornamental work for furniture, which takes its name from the inventor (see INFRA), consisted
in piercing or inlaying metal with tortoise-shell or enamel, or with metals of another colour;
much in fashion in Louis XIV.'s reign.

BUHL, CHARLES ANDRÉ, an Italian cabinet-maker, inventor of the work which bears his name (1642-1732).

BUKOWINA (640), a small prov. and duchy in the E. of Austria-Hungary; rich in minerals, breeds
cattle and horses.

BULGARIA, with Eastern Roumelia (3,154), constitutes a Balkan principality larger than Ireland,
with hills and fertile plains in the N., mountains and forests in the S.; Turkey is the southern
boundary, Servia the western, the Danube the northern, while the Black Sea washes the eastern
shores. The climate is mild, the people industrious; the chief export is cereals; manufactures
of woollens, attar of roses, wine and tobacco, are staple industries; the chief import is live
stock. SOFIA (50), the capital, is the seat of a university. VARNA (28), on the Black Sea,
is the principal port. Bulgaria was cut out of Turkey and made independent in 1878, and Eastern
Roumelia incorporated with it in 1885.

BULL, an edict of the Pope, so called from a leaden seal attached to it.

BULL, GEORGE, bishop of St. Davids, born at Wells; a stanch Churchman; wrote "Harmonia Apostolica"
in reconciliation of the teachings of Paul and James on the matter of justification, and "Defensio
Fidei Nicenæ," in vindication of the Trinity as enunciated in the ATHANASIAN CREED (q. v.),
and denied or modified by Arians, Socinians, and Sabellians (1634-1709).

BULL, JOHN, a humorous impersonation of the collective English people, conceived of as well-fed,
good-natured, honest-hearted, justice-loving, and plain-spoken; the designation is derived
from Arbuthnot's satire, "The History of John Bull," in which the Church of England figures
as his mother.

BULL, OLE BORNEMANN, a celebrated violinist, born in Bergen, Norway, pupil of Paganini; was
a wise man at making money, but a fool in spending it (1810-1880).

BULL RUN, a stream in Virginia, U.S., 25 m. from Washington, where the Union army was twice
defeated by the Confederate, July 1861 and August 1862.

BULLANT, a French architect and sculptor; built the tombs of Montmorency, Henry II., and Catherine
de Medicis, as well as wrought at the Tuileries and the Louvre (1510-1578).

BULLER, CHARLES, a politician, born in Calcutta, pupil of Thomas Carlyle; entered Parliament
at 24, a Liberal in politics; held distinguished State appointments; died in his prime, universally
beloved and respected (1806-1848).

BULLER, GENERAL SIR REDVERS HENRY, served in China, Ashanti, South Africa, Egypt, and the Soudan,
with marked distinction in the 60th King's Royal Rifles; has held staff appointments, and was
for a short time Under-Secretary for Ireland; b. 1839.

BULLINGER, HEINRICH, a Swiss Reformer, born in Aargau; friend and successor of Zwingli; assisted
in drawing up the Helvetic Confession; was a correspondent of Lady Jane Grey (1504-1575).

BULLS AND BEARS, in the Stock Exchange, the bull being one who buys in the hope that the value
may rise, and the bear one who sells in the hope that it may fall. See BEAR.

BÜLOW, BERNARD VON, Foreign Secretary of the German empire; early entered the Foreign Office,
and has done important diplomatic work in connection with it, having been secretary to several
embassies and chargé d'affaires to Greece during the Russo-Turkish war; b. 1850.

BÜLOW, FRIEDRICH WILHELM, BARON VON, a Prussian general; served his country in the war with
Revolutionary France; defeated the French under the Empire in several engagements, and contributed
to the victory at Waterloo, heading the column that first came to Wellington's aid at the decisive
moment (1755-1816).

BÜLOW, GUIDO VON, a famous pianist, pupil of Liszt (1830-1894).

BULOZ, a French littérateur, born near Geneva; originator of the Revue des Deux Mondes (1803-1877).

BULWER, HENRY LYTTON, an experienced and successful diplomatist, served the Liberal interest;
was party to the conclusion of several important treaties; wrote several works, "An Autumn
in Greece," a "Life of Byron," &c. (1801-1872).

BUMBLE, MR., a beadle in "Oliver Twist."

BUNAU, a German historian, author of a "History of the Seven Years' War" (1697-1762).

BUNCOMBE, a district in N. Carolina, for the ears of the constituency of which a dull speech
was some years ago delivered in the U.S. Congress, whence the phrase to "talk Buncombe," i.
e. to please one's constituency.

BUNDELKHAND (2,000), a territory in NW. Provinces, India, between the Chambal and the Jumna;
has been extensively irrigated at great labour and expense.

BUNKER HILL, an eminence 112 ft., now included in Boston, the scene on 19th June 1775 of the
first great battle in the American War of Independence.

BUNSBY, JACK, commander of a ship in "Dombey & Son," regarded as an oracle by Captain Cuttle.

BUNSEN, BARON VON, a diplomatist and man of letters, born at Korbach; in Waldeck; studied at
Marburg and Göttingen; became acquainted with Niebuhr at Berlin; studied Oriental languages
under Silvestre de Sacy at Paris; became secretary, under Niebuhr, to the Prussian embassy
at Rome; recommended himself to the king, and succeeded Niebuhr; became ambassador in Switzerland
and then in England; was partial to English institutions, and much esteemed in England; wrote
the "Church of the Future," "Hippolytus and his Age," &c. (1791-1860).

BUNSEN, ROBERT WILLIAM, a distinguished German chemist, born at Göttingen, settled as professor
of Chemistry at Heidelberg; invented the charcoal pile, the magnesian light, and the burner
called after him; discovered the antidote to arsenic, with hydrate of iron and the SPECTRUM
ANALYSIS (q. v.); b. 1811.

BUNSEN BURNER, a small gas-jet above which is screwed a brass tube with holes at the bottom
of it to let in air, which burns with the gas, and causes at the top a non-luminous flame;
largely used in chemical operations.

BUNYAN, JOHN, author of the "Pilgrim's Progress," born in Elstow, near Bedford, the son of
a tinker, and bred himself to that humble craft; he was early visited with religious convictions,
and brought, after a time of resistance to them, to an earnest faith in the gospel of Christ,
his witness for which to his poor neighbours led to his imprisonment, an imprisonment which
extended first and last over twelve and a half years, and it was towards the close of it, and
in the precincts of Bedford jail, in the spring of 1676, that he dreamed his world-famous dream;
here two-thirds of it were written, the whole finished the year after, and published at the
end of it; extended, it came out eventually in two parts, but it is the first part that is
the Pilgrim's Progress, and ensures it the place it holds in the religious literature of the
world; encouraged by the success of it--for it leapt into popularity at a bound--Bunyan wrote
some sixty other books, but except this, his masterpiece, not more than two of these, "Grace
Abounding" and the "Holy War," continue to be read (1628-1688).

BUONTALENTI, an Italian artist, born at Florence, one of the greatest, being, like Michael
Angelo, at once architect, painter, and sculptor (1536-1608).

BURBAGE, RICHARD, English tragedian, born in London, associate of Shakespeare, took the chief
rôle in "Hamlet," "King Lear," "Richard III.," &c. (1562-1618).

BURCHELL, MR., a character in the "Vicar of Wakefield," noted for his habit of applying "fudge"
to everything his neighbours affected to believe.

BURCKHARDT, Swiss historian and archæologist, born at Bâle, author of "Civilisation in Italy
during the Renaissance"; b. 1818.

BURCKHARDT, JOHN LUDVIG, traveller, born at Lausanne, sent out from England by the African
Association to explore Africa; travelled by way of Syria; acquired a proficiency in Arabic,
and assumed Arabic customs; pushed on to Mecca as a Mussulman pilgrim--the first Christian
to risk such a venture; returned to Egypt, and died at Cairo just as he was preparing for his
African exploration; his travels were published after his death, and are distinguished for
the veracious reports of things they contain (1784-1817).

BURDER, GEORGE, Congregational minister, became secretary to the London Missionary Society,
author of "Village Sermons," which were once widely popular (1752-1832).

BURDETT, SIR FRANCIS, a popular member of Parliament, married Sophia, the youngest daughter
of Thomas Coutts, a wealthy London banker, and acquired through her a large fortune; becoming
M.P., he resolutely opposed the government measures of the day, and got himself into serious
trouble; advocated radical measures of reform, many of which have since been adopted; was prosecuted
for a libel; fined £1000 for condemning the Peterloo massacre, and imprisoned three months;
joined the Conservative party in 1835, and died a member of it (1770-1844).

BURDETT-COUTTS, THE RIGHT HONOURABLE ANGELA GEORGINA, BARONESS, daughter of Sir Francis, inherited
the wealth of Thomas Coutts, her grandfather, which she has devoted to all manner of philanthropic
as well as patriotic objects; was made a peeress in 1871; received the freedom of the city
of London in 1874, and in 1881 married Mr. William Lehman Ashmead-Bartlett, an American, who
obtained the royal license to assume the name of Burdett-Coutts; b. 1804.

BUREAU, a name given to a department of public administration, hence bureaucracy, a name for
government by bureaux.

BÜRGER, GOTTFRIED AUGUST, a German lyric poet, author of the ballads "Lenore," which was translated
by Sir Walter Scott, and "The Wild Huntsman," as well as songs; led a wild life in youth, and
a very unhappy one in later years; died in poverty (1747-1794).

BURGKMAIR, HANS, painter and engraver, born at Augsburg; celebrated for his woodcuts, amounting
to nearly 700 (1473-1531).

BURGOS (34), ancient cap. of Old Castile, on the Arlanzon, 225 m. N. of Madrid by rail; boasts
a magnificent cathedral of the Early Pointed period, and an old castle; was the birthplace
of the Cid, and once a university seat; it has linen and woollen industries.

BURGOYNE, JOHN, English general, and distinguished as the last sent out to subdue the revolt
in the American colonies, and, after a victory or two, being obliged to capitulate to General
Gates at Saratoga, fell into disfavour; defended his conduct with ability and successfully
afterwards; devoted his leisure to poetry and the drama, the "Heiress" in the latter his best
(1723-1792).

BURGOYNE, SIR JOHN, field-marshal, joined the Royal Engineers, served under Abercromby in Egypt,
and under Sir John Moore and Wellington in Spain; was present at the battles of Alma, Balaclava,
and Inkerman in the Crimea; was governor of the Tower (1782-1871).

BURGUNDY was, prior to the 16th century, a Teutonic duchy of varying extent in the SE. and
E. of France; annexed to France as a province in the 6th century; the country is still noted
for its wines.

BURHANPUR (32), a town in the Central Provinces of India, in the Nimar district, 280 m. NE.
of Bombay; was at one time a centre of the Mogul power in the Deccan, and a place of great
extent; is now in comparative decay, but still famous, as formerly, for its muslins, silks,
and brocades.

BURIDAN, JEAN, a scholastic doctor of the 14th century, born in Artois, and famous as the reputed
author, though there is no evidence of it in his works, of the puzzle of the hungry and thirsty
ass, called after him Buridan's Ass, between a bottle of hay and a pail of water, a favourite
illustration of his in discussing the freedom of the will.

BURKE, EDMUND, orator and philosophic writer, born at Dublin, and educated at Dublin University;
entered Parliament in 1765; distinguished himself by his eloquence on the Liberal side, in
particular by his speeches on the American war, Catholic emancipation, and economical reform;
his greatest oratorical efforts were his orations in support of the impeachment of Warren Hastings;
he was a resolute enemy of the French Revolution, and eloquently denounced it in his "Reflections,"
a weighty appeal; wrote in early life two small but notable treatises, "A Vindication of Natural
Society," and another on our ideas of the "Sublime and Beautiful," which brought him into contact
with the philosophic intellects of the time, and sometime after planned the "Annual Register,"
to which he was to the last chief contributor. "He was," says Professor Saintsbury, "a rhetorician
(i. e. an expert in applying the art of prose literature to the purpose of suasion), and probably
the greatest that modern times has ever produced" (1730-1797).

BURKE, SIR JOHN BERNARD, genealogist, born in London, of Irish descent, author of the "Peerage
and Baronetage of the United Kingdom"; produced, besides editing successive editions of it,
a number of works on aristocratic genealogies (1815-1892).

BURKE, ROBERT O'HARA, Australian explorer, born in Galway; conducted an expedition across Australia,
but on the way back both he and his companion Wells perished, after terrible sufferings from
privation and drought (1820-1861).

BURKE, WILLIAM, a notorious murderer, native of Ireland; executed in 1828 for wholesale murders
of people in Edinburgh by suffocation, after intoxicating them with drink, whose bodies he
sold for dissection to an Edinburgh anatomist of the name of Knox, whom the citizens mobbed;
he had an accomplice as bad as himself, who, becoming informer, got off.

BURKITT, WILLIAM, Biblical expositor, born in Suffolk; author of "Expository Notes on the New
Testament," once held in high esteem (1650-1703).

BURLEIGH, WILLIAM CECIL, LORD, a great statesman, born in Lincolnshire; bred to the legal profession,
and patronised and promoted by the Protector Somerset; managed to escape the Marian persecution;
Queen Elizabeth recognised his statesman-like qualities, and appointed him chief-secretary
of state, an office which, to the glory of the queen and the good of the country, he held for
forty years, till his death. His administration was conducted in the interest of the commonweal
without respect of persons, and nearly all his subordinates were men of honour as well as himself
(1520-1598).

BURLINGAME, ANSON, American diplomatist; sent ambassador to China, and returned as Chinese
envoy to the American and European courts; concluded treaties between them and China (1820-1870).

BURMA (9,606), a vast province of British India, lying E. of the Bay of Bengal, and bounded
landward by Bengal, Tibet, China, and Siam; the country is mountainous, drained by the Irawadi,
Salween, and Sittang Rivers, whose deltas are flat fertile plains; the heights on the Chinese
frontier reach 15,000 ft; the climate varies with the elevation, but is mostly hot and trying;
rice is the chief crop; the forests yield teak, gum, and bamboo; the mines, iron, copper, lead,
silver, and rubies. Lower Burma is the coast-land from Bengal to Siam, cap. Rangoon, and was
seized by Britain in 1826 and 1854. Upper Burma, cap. Mandalay, an empire nearly as large as
Spain, was annexed in 1886.

BURN, RICHARD, English vicar, born in Westmoreland; compiled several law digests, the best
known his "Justice of the Peace" and "Ecclesiastical Law" (1709-1785).

BURNABY, COLONEL, a traveller of daring adventure, born at Bedford, a tall, powerful man; Colonel
of the Horse Guards Blue; travelled in South and Central America, and with Gordon in the Soudan;
was chiefly distinguished for his ride to Khiva in 1875 across the steppes of Tartary, of which
he published a spirited account, and for his travels next year in Asia Minor and Persia, and
his account of them in "On Horseback through Asia Minor"; killed, pierced by an Arab spear,
at Abu Klea as he was rallying a broken column to the charge; he was a daring aëronaut, having
in 1882 crossed the Channel to Normandy in a balloon (1842-1885).

BURNAND, FRANCIS COWLEY, editor of Punch; studied for the Church, and became a Roman Catholic;
an expert at the burlesque, and author of a series of papers, entitled "Happy Thoughts," which
give evidence of a most keen, observant wit: b. 1836.

BURNE-JONES, SIR EDWARD, artist, born at Birmingham, of Welsh descent; came early under the
influence of the Pre-Raphaelite movement, and all along produced works imbued with the spirit
of it, which is at once mystical in conception and realistic in execution; he was one of the
foremost, if not the foremost, of the artists of his day; imbued with ideas that were specially
capable of art-treatment; William Morris and he were bosom friends from early college days
at Oxford, and used to spend their Sunday mornings together (1831-1898).

BURNES, SIR ALEXANDER, born at Montrose, his father a cousin of Robert Burns; was an officer
in the Indian army; distinguished for the services he rendered to the Indian Government through
his knowledge of the native languages; appointed Resident at Cabul; was murdered, along with
his brother and others, by an Afghan mob during an Insurrection (1805-1841).

BURNET, GILBERT, bishop of Salisbury, born at Edinburgh, of an old Aberdeen family; professor
of Divinity in Glasgow; afterwards preacher at the Rolls Chapel, London; took an active part
in supporting the claims of the Prince of Orange to the English throne; was rewarded with a
bishopric, that of Salisbury; wrote the "History of the Reformation," an "Exposition of the
Thirty-nine Articles," the "History of His Own Times"; he was a Whig in politics, a broad Churchman
in creed, and a man of strict moral principle as well as Christian charity; the most famous
of his works is his "History of His Own Times," a work which Pope, Swift, and others made the
butt of their satire (1643-1715).

BURNET, JOHN, engraver and author, born at Fisherrow; engraved Wilkie's works, and wrote on
art (1784-1868).

BURNET, THOMAS, master of the Charterhouse, born in Yorkshire, author of the "Sacred Theory
of the Earth," eloquent in descriptive parts, but written wholly in ignorance of the facts
(1635-1715).

BURNETT, FRANCES HODGSON, novelist, born in Manchester, resident for a time in America; wrote
"That Lass o' Lowrie's," and other stories of Lancashire manufacturing life, characterised
by shrewd observation, pathos, and descriptive power; b. 1849.

BURNEY, CHARLES, musical composer and organist, born at Shrewsbury; a friend of Johnson's;
author of "The History of Music," and the father of Madame d'Arblay; settled in London as a
teacher of music (1726-1814).

BURNEY, CHARLES, son of preceding, a great classical scholar; left a fine library, purchased
by the British Museum for £13,500 (1757-1817).

BURNEY, JAMES, brother of preceding, rear-admiral, accompanied Cook in his last two voyages;
wrote "History of Voyages of Discovery" (1750-1821).

BURNLEY (87), a manufacturing town in Lancashire, 27 m. N. of Manchester; with cotton mills,
foundries, breweries, &c.

BURNOUF, EUGENE, an illustrious Orientalist, born in Paris; professor of Sanskrit in the College
of France; an authority on Zend or Zoroastrian literature; edited the text of and translated
the "Bhâgavata Purána," a book embodying Hindu mythology; made a special study of Buddhism;
wrote an introduction to the history of the system (1801-1852).

BURNS, JOHN, politician and Socialist, born at Vauxhall, of humble parentage; bred to be an
engineer; imbibed socialistic ideas from a fellow-workman, a Frenchman, a refugee of the Commune
from Paris; became a platform orator in the interest of Socialism, and popular among the working
class; got into trouble in consequence; was four times elected member of the London County
Council for Battersea; and has been twice over chosen to represent that constituency in Parliament;
b. 1858.

BURNS, ROBERT, celebrated Scottish poet, born at Alloway, near Ayr, in 1759, son of an honest,
intelligent peasant, who tried farming in a small way, but did not prosper; tried farming himself
on his father's decease in 1784, but took to rhyming by preference; driven desperate in his
circumstances, meditated emigrating to Jamaica, and published a few poems he had composed to
raise money for that end; realised a few pounds thereby, and was about to set sail, when friends
and admirers rallied round him and persuaded him to stay; he was invited to Edinburgh; his
poems were reprinted, and money came in; soon after he married, and took a farm, but failing,
accepted the post of exciseman in Dumfries; fell into bad health, and died in 1796, aged 37.
"His sun shone as through a tropical tornado, and the pale shadow of death eclipsed it at noon....
To the ill-starred Burns was given the power of making man's life more venerable, but that
of wisely guiding his own life was not given.... And that spirit, which might have soared could
it but have walked, soon sank to the dust, its glorious faculties trodden under foot in the
blossom; and died, we may almost say, without ever having lived." See Carlyle's "Miscellanies"
for by far the justest and wisest estimate of both the man and the poet that has yet by any
one been said or sung. He is at his best in his "Songs," he says, which he thinks "by far the
best that Britain has yet produced.... In them," he adds, "he has found a tune and words for
every mood of man's heart; in hut and hall, as the heart unfolds itself in many-coloured joy
and woe of existence, the name, the voice of that joy and that woe, is the name and voice which
Burns has given them."

BURRA-BURRA, a copper-mine in S. Australia, about 103 m. NE. of Adelaide.

BURRARD INLET, an inlet of river Fraser, in British Columbia, forming one of the best harbours
on the Pacific coast.

BURRITT, ELIHU, a blacksmith, born in Connecticut; devoted to the study of languages, of which
he knew many, both ancient and modern; best known as the unwearied Advocate of Peace all over
America and a great part of Europe, on behalf of which he ruined his voice (1810-1879).

BURROUGHS, JOHN, popular author, born in New York; a farmer, a cultured man, with a great liking
for country life and natural objects, on which he has written largely and con amore; b. 1837.

BURRUS, a Roman general, who with Seneca had the conduct of Nero's education, and opposed his
tyrannical acts, till Nero, weary of his expostulations, got rid of him by poison.

BURSCHENSCHAFT, an association of students in the interest of German liberation and unity;
formed in 1813, and broken up by the Government in 1819.

BURSLEM (31), a pottery-manufacturing town in Staffordshire, and the "mother of the potteries";
manufactures porcelain and glass.

BURTON, JOHN HILL, historian and miscellaneous writer, born at Aberdeen; an able man, bred
for the bar; wrote articles for the leading reviews and journals, "Life of Hume," "History
of Scotland," "The Book-Hunter," "The Scot Abroad," &c.; characterised by Lord Rosebery as
a "dispassionate historian"; was Historiographer-Royal for Scotland (1809-1881).

BURTON, SIR RICHARD FRANCIS, traveller, born in Hertfordshire; served first as a soldier in
Scind under Sir C. Napier; visited Mecca and Medina as an Afghan pilgrim; wrote an account
of his visit in his "Personal Narrative of a Pilgrimage, &c."; penetrated Central Africa along
with Captain Speke, and discovered Lake Tanganyika; visited Utah, and wrote "The City of the
Saints"; travelled in Brazil, Palestine, and Western Africa, accompanied through many a hardship
by his devoted wife; translated the "Arabian Nights"; his works on his travels numerous, and
show him to have been of daring adventure (1821-1890).

BURTON, ROBERT, an English clergyman, born in Leicestershire; Scholar of Christ Church, Oxford;
lived chiefly in Oxford, spending his time in it for some 50 years in study; author of "The
Anatomy of Melancholy," which he wrote to alleviate his own depression of mind, a book which
is a perfect mosaic of quotations on every conceivable topic, familiar and unfamiliar, from
every manner of source (1576-1640). See ANATOMY OF MELANCHOLY.

BURTON-ON-TRENT (46), a town in Staffordshire; brews and exports large quantities of ale, the
water of the place being peculiarly suitable for brewing purposes.

BURY (56), a manufacturing town in Lancashire, 10 m. NW. of Manchester; originally but a small
place engaged in woollen manufacture, but cotton is now the staple manufacture in addition
to paper-works, dye-works, &c.

BURY ST. EDMUNDS, or ST. EDMUNDSBURY (16), a market-town in Suffolk, 26 m. NW. of Ipswich,
named from Edmund, king of East Anglia, martyred by the Danes in 870, in whose honour it was
built; famous for its abbey, of the interior life of which in the 12th century there is a matchlessly
graphic account in CARLYLE'S "PAST AND PRESENT."

BUSA`CO, a mountain ridge in the prov. of Beira, Portugal, where Wellington with 40,000 troops
beat Masséna with 65,000.

BUSBY, RICHARD, distinguished English schoolmaster, born at Lutton, Lincolnshire; was head-master
of Winchester School; had a number of eminent men for his pupils, among others Dryden, Locke,
and South (1606-1695).

BÜSCHING, ANTON FRIEDRICH, a celebrated German geographer; his "Erdbeschreibung," the first
geographical work of any scientific merit; gives only the geography of Europe (1724-1793).

BUSHIRE (27), the chief port of Persia on the Persian Gulf, and a great trading centre.

BUSHMEN, or BOSJESMANS, aborigines of South-west Africa; a rude, nomadic race, at one time
numerous, but now fast becoming extinct.

BUSHRANGERS, in Australia a gang made up of convicts who escaped to the "bush," and there associated
with other desperadoes; at one time caused a great deal of trouble in the colony by their maraudings.

BUSIRIS, a king of Egypt who used to offer human beings in sacrifice; seized Hercules and bound
him to the altar, but Hercules snapped the bonds he was bound with, and sacrificed him.

BUSK, HANS, one of the originators of the Volunteer movement, born in Wales; author of "The
Rifle, and How to Use it" (1815-1882).

BUSKIN, a kind of half-boot worn after the custom of hunters as part of the costume of actors
in tragedy on the ancient Roman stage, and a synonym for tragedy.

BUTE, an island in the Firth of Clyde, about 16 m. long and from 3 to 5 broad, N. of Arran,
nearly all the Marquis of Bute's property, with his seat at Mount Stuart, and separated from
the mainland on the N. by a winding romantic arm of the sea called the "Kyles of Bute."

BUTE, JOHN STUART, THIRD EARL OF, statesman, born of an old Scotch family; Secretary of State,
and from May 1762 to April 1763 Prime Minister under George III., over whom he had a great
influence; was very unpopular as a statesman, his leading idea being the supremacy of the king;
spent the last 24 years of his life in retirement, devoting himself to literature and science
(1712-1792).

BUTE, MARQUIS OF, son of the second marquis, born in Bute; admitted to the Roman Catholic Church
in 1868; devoted to archæological studies, and interested in university education; b. 1849.

BUTLER, ALBAN, hagiographer, born in Northampton; head of the college at St. Omer; wrote "Lives
of the Saints" (1710-1773).

BUTLER, CHARLES, an English barrister, born in London; wrote "Historical Account of the Laws
against the Catholics" (1750-1832).

BUTLER, JOSEPH, an eminent English divine, born at Wantage, in Berks; born a Dissenter; conformed
to the Church of England; became preacher at the Rolls, where he delivered his celebrated "Sermons,"
the first three of which contributed so much to the stability of moral science; was raised,
in virtue of his merits alone, to the see of Bristol; made dean of St. Paul's, and finally
bishop of Durham; his great work, "The Analogy of Religion, Natural and Revealed, to the Constitution
and Course of Nature," the aim of which is twofold--first, to show that the objections to revealed
religion are equally valid against the constitution of nature; and second, to establish a conformity
between the divine order in revelation and the order of nature; his style is far from interesting,
and is often obscure (1692-1752).

BUTLER, SAMUEL, a master of burlesque, born at Strensham, in Worcestershire, the son of a small
farmer; the author of "Hudibras," a poem of about 10,000 octosyllabic lines, in which he subjects
to ridicule the ideas and manners of the English Puritans of the Civil War and the Commonwealth;
it appeared in three parts, the first in 1663, the second soon after, and the third in 1678;
it is sparkling with wit, yet is hard reading, and few who take it up read it through; was
an especial favourite with Charles II., who was never weary of quoting from it. "It represents,"
says Stopford Brooke, "the fierce reaction that (at the Restoration) had set in against Puritanism.
It is justly famed," he adds, "for wit, learning, good sense, and ingenious drollery, and,
in accordance with the new criticism, is absolutely without obscurity. It is often as terse
as Pope's best work; but it is too long; its wit wearies us at last, and it undoes the force
of its attacks on the Puritans by its exaggeration" (1612-1680).

BUTLER, WILLIAM ARCHER, a philosophical writer, born near Clonmel, Ireland; professor of Moral
Philosophy at Dublin; author of "Lectures on the History of Ancient Philosophy" (1814-1848).

BUTT, CLARA, operatic singer, born in Sussex; made her début in London at the Albert Hall in
the "Golden Legend," and in "Orfeo" at the Lyceum, ever since which appearances she has been
much in demand as a singer; b. 1872.

BUTT, ISAAC, Irish patriot, distinguished for his scholarship at Dublin University; became
editor of the Dublin University Magazine; entered Parliament, and at length took the lead of
the "Home Rule" party, but could not control it, and retired (1813-1879).

BUTTMANN, PHILIPP, a German philologist, born at Frankfort-on-the-Main; professor of Philology
in Berlin; best known by his "Greek Grammar" (1764-1829).

BUXTON, a high-lying town in Derbyshire, noted for its calcareous and chalybeate springs, and
a resort for invalids; is also famous for its rock crystals, stalactite cavern, and fine scenery.

BUXTON, SIR THOMAS FOWELL, a philanthropist, born in Essex, a tall man of energetic character;
entered life as a brewer, and made his fortune; was conspicuous for his interest in benevolent
movements, such as the amelioration of criminal law and the abolition of slavery; represented
Weymouth in Parliament from 1818 to 1837; was made a baronet in 1840; he was Wilberforce's
successor (1786-1845).

BUXTON, SIR THOMAS FOWELL, once governor of S. Australia, grandson of the preceding; educated
at Harrow and Cambridge; a Liberal in politics, and member for King's Lynn from 1865 to 1868;
a philanthropist and Evangelical Churchman; b. 1837.

BUXTORF, a celebrated Hebraist, born in Westphalia, member of a family of Orientalists; professor
of Hebrew for 39 years at Basle; was known by the title, "Master of the Rabbis" (1564-1629).

BYBLIS, in the Greek mythology a daughter of Miletus, in love with her brother Caunus, whom
she pursued into far lands, till, worn out with sorrow, she was changed into a fountain.

BYNG, GEORGE, VISCOUNT TORRINGTON, admiral, favoured the Prince of Orange, and won the navy
over to his interest; commanded the squadron that took Gibraltar in 1704: conquered the Spaniards
off Cape Passaro; was made First Lord of the Admiralty in 1727, an office he held till his
death (1663-1733).

BYNG, JOHN, admiral, fourth son of the preceding; having failed to compel the French to raise
the blockade of Minorca, was recalled, in deference to popular clamour, and being tried and
condemned as guilty of treason, was shot at Portsmouth, a fate it is now believed he did not
deserve, and which he bore like a man and a Christian (1704-1757).

BYROM, JOHN, poet and stenographer, born near Manchester; invented a system of shorthand, now
superseded, and which he had the sole right of teaching for 21 years; contributed as "John
Shadow" to the Spectator; author of the pastoral, "My Time, O ye Muses, was Happily Spent";
his poetry satirical and genial (1692-1763).

BYRON, GEORGE GORDON, SIXTH LORD, an English poet, born in London, son of Captain Byron of
the Guards, and Catherine Gordon of Gight, Aberdeenshire; spent his boyhood at Aberdeen under
his mother, now a widow, and was educated at Harrow and Cambridge, spending, when at the latter,
his vacations in London, where his mother had taken a house; wrote "Hours of Idleness," a poor
first attempt, which called forth a severe criticism in the Edinburgh Review, and which he
satirised in "English Bards and Scotch Reviewers," and soon afterwards left England and spent
two years in foreign travel; wrote first part of "Childe Harold," "awoke one morning and found
himself famous"; produced the "Giaour," "Bride of Abydos," "Hebrew Melodies," and other work.
In his school days he had fallen in love with Mary Chaworth, but she had not returned his affection,
and in 1815 he married Miss Millbank, an heiress, who in a year left him never to return, when
a storm raised against him on account of his private life drove him from England, and he never
came back; on the Continent, moved from place to place, finished "Childe Harold," completed
several short poems, and wrote "Don Juan"; threw himself into revolutionary movements in Italy
and Greece, risked his all in the emancipation of the latter, and embarking in it, died at
Missolonghi in a fit, at the age of 36. His poems, from the character of the passion that breathed
in them, made a great impression on his age, but the like interest in them is happily now passing
away, if not already past; the earth is looking green again once more, under the breath, it
is believed, of a new spring-time, or anyhow, the promise of such. See "Organic Filaments"
in "Sartor Resartus" (1788-1824).

BYRON, HENRY JAMES, dramatist, born in Manchester, wrote "Our Boys" (1834-1884).

BYRON, JOHN, naval officer, grandfather of the poet, nicknamed from his misfortunes "Foul-weather
Jack"; accompanied Anson in his voyage round the world, but was wrecked in his ship the Wager;
suffered almost unexampled hardships, of which he wrote a classical account on his safe return
home; he rose to the rank of admiral, and commanded the squadron in the West Indies during
the American war; died in England (1723-1786).

BYRSA, a celebrated citadel of Carthage.

BYZANTINE ART, a decorative style of art patronised by the Romans after the seat of empire
was removed to the East; it has been described by Mr. Fairholt as "an engraftment of Oriental
elaboration of detail upon classic forms, ending in their debasement."

BYZANTINE EMPIRE, called also the Eastern, the Lower, or the Greek Empire; dates from 395 A.D.,
when, by the death of Theodosius, the Roman empire was divided between his two sons, Arcadius
and Honorius, the Eastern section falling to the share of the former, who established the seat
of his government at Byzantium; the empire included Syria, Asia Minor, Pontus, Egypt in Africa,
and Ancient Greece, and it lasted with varied fortune for ten centuries after the accession
of Arcadius, till Constantinople was taken by the Turks in 1453.

BYZANTIUM, the ancient name of Constantinople; founded by Greek colonists in 667 B.C.

C

CAABA, an ancient Arab temple, a small square structure in the grand mosque of Mecca, with
a mysterious black stone, probably an aerolite, built in it, on which all pilgrims who visit
the shrine imprint a kiss; "the Keblah of all Moslem, the eyes of innumerable praying men being
turned towards it from all the quarters of the compass five times a day."

CABAL`, a secret intriguing faction in a State, a name applied to a junto of five ministers
of Charles II. in power from 1668 to 1673, the initials of whose names go to make up the word;
their names were Clifford, Ashley, Buckingham, Arlington, and Lauderdale; derived from CABALA
(q. v.).

CAB`ALA, a secret science alleged to have been divinely imparted to Moses and preserved by
tradition, by means of which the Rabbis affected to interpret the pretended mystic sense of
the words, letters, and very accents of the Hebrew Scriptures, a science which really owes
its existence to a dissatisfaction in the rabbinical mind with the traditional literal interpretation,
and a sense that there is more in Scripture than meets the ear. The name comes from a Hebrew
word suggesting "to receive," and denotes "that which is received" or tradition.

CABALLERO, FERNAN, the nom de plume of Cecilia Boehl, a popular Spanish authoress, born in
Switzerland, of German descent; a collector of folk tales; wrote charmingly; told stories of
Spanish, particularly Andalusian, peasant life (1797-1877).

CABANEL, ALEXANDRE, a French painter, born at Montpellier (1828-1889).

CABANIS, PIERRE JEAN GEORGE, a celebrated French medical man, born in Cosnac, in the dep. of
Charente Inférieure, a pronounced materialist in philosophy, and friend of Mirabeau; attended
him in his last illness, and published an account of it; his materialism was of the grossest;
treated the soul as a nonentity; and held that the brain secretes thought just as the liver
secretes bile (1757-1808).

CABEL, a celebrated painter of the Dutch school, born at Ryswick (1631-1698).

CABET, ÉTIENNE, a French communist, born in Dijon; a leader of the Carbonari; provoked prosecution,
and fled to England; wrote a history of the First Revolution, in which he defended the Jacobins;
author of the "Voyage en Icarie," in description of a communistic Utopia, which became the
text-book of a communistic sect called "Icarians," a body of whom he headed to carry out his
schemes in America, first in Texas and then at Nauvoo, but failed; died at St. Louis broken-hearted
(1788-1856).

CABI`RI, certain mysterious demonic beings to whom mystic honours were paid in Lemnos and elsewhere
in Greece, in connection with nature-worship, and especially with that of DEMETER and DIONYSUS
(q. v.).

CABLE, GEORGE WASHINGTON, a journalist, born at New Orleans, has written interestingly on,
and created an interest in, Creole life in America; b. 1844.

CABOT, GIOVANNI, a Venetian pilot, born at Genoa, settled in Bristol, entered the service of
Henry VII., and discovered part of the mainland of N. America, at Labrador, about 1497: d. 1498.

CABOT, SEBASTIAN, son of the preceding, born either in Venice or Bristol; accompanied his father
to N. America; sought service as a navigator, first in Spain then in England, but failed; returned
to Spain; attempted under Charles V. to plant colonies in Brazil with no success, for which
he was imprisoned and banished; was the first to notice the variation of the magnetic needle,
and to open up to England trade with Russia (1474-1557).

CABRAL, PEDRO ALVAREZ, a Portuguese navigator, sailing for the Indies, drifted on the coast
of Brazil, on which he planted the Portuguese flag, 1500, and of which he is accounted by some
the discoverer, continued his course, and established a factory at Calicut in 1501 (1460-1526).

CABRE`RA, one of the Balearic Isles, used as a penal settlement by Spain, produces wild olives.

CABRERA, a Spanish general, born at Tortosa, Catalonia, a zealous supporter of the claims of
Don Carlos, took up arms in his behalf; died in England; he was an unscrupulous adversary (1810-1877).

CABUL`, or KABUL (50), cap. of a province of the name in Afghanistan, in a mild climate, on
an elevated plateau of great fertility, 6000 ft. in height, on the high route between Central
Asia and the Punjab, a great highway of trade, and a depôt for European goods.

CACCIA, Italian fresco-painter, did altar-pieces; his best work, "Deposition from the Cross,"
at Novara; d. 1625.

CACERAS (350), a Spanish province in the N. of Estremadura; the name also of its capital (14),
famous for its bacon and sausages, as the province is for cattle-rearing.

CACHAR (313), a great tea-growing district in Assam.

CACHE, name given in Canada to a hole in the ground for hiding provisions when they prove cumbersome
to carry.

CACHET, LETTRE DE, a warrant issued in France before the Revolution, under the royal seal,
for the arrest and imprisonment of a person, often obtained to gratify private ends; abolished
in 1790.

CA`CUS, a mythological brigand of gigantic stature who occupied a cave in Mount Aventine, represented
by Virgil as breathing smoke and flames of fire; stole the oxen of Hercules as he was asleep,
dragging them to his cave tail foremost to deceive the owner; strangled by Hercules in his
rage at the deception quite as much as the theft.

CADASTRE, a register of the landed proprietors of a district, and the extent of their estates,
with maps illustrative called Cadastral Maps.

CADE, JACK, an Irish adventurer, headed an insurrection in Kent, in 1450, in the reign of Henry
VI.; encamped with his following on Blackheath; demanded of the king redress of grievances;
was answered by an armed force, which he defeated; entered the city, could not prevent his
followers from plundering; the citizens retaliating, he had to flee, but was overtaken and slain.

CADEMOSTO, a Venetian in the service of Portugal, discovered the Cape de Verde Islands in 1457;
wrote the first book giving an account of modern voyages, published posthumously (1432-1480).

CADIZ (62), one of the chief commercial ports in Spain, in Andalusia; founded by the Phoenicians
about 1100 B.C.; called Gades by the Romans; at the NW. extremity of the Isle of Leon, and
separated from the rest of the island by a channel crossed by bridges; it is 7 m. from Xeres
and 50 m. from Gibraltar, and carries on a large export trade.

CAD`MUS, a semi-mythological personage, founder of Thebes, in Boeotia, to whom is ascribed
the introduction of the Greek alphabet from Phoenicia and the invention of writing; in the
quest of his sister Europa, was told by the oracle at Delphi to follow a cow and build a city
where she lay down; arrived at the spot where the cow lay down, he sent, with a view to its
sacrifice, his companions to a well guarded by a dragon, which devoured them; slew the dragon;
sowed its teeth, which sprang up into a body of armed men, who speared each other to death,
all but five, who, the story goes, became the forefathers of Thebes.

CADOUDAL, GEORGES, a brave man, chief of the CHOUANS (q. v.), born in Brittany, the son of
a farmer; tried hard and took up arms to restore the Bourbons in the teeth of the Republic,
but was defeated; refused to serve under Bonaparte, who would fain have enlisted him, having
seen in him "a mind cast in the true mould"; came over from London, whither he had retired,
on a secret mission from Charles X.; was suspected of evil designs against the person of Bonaparte;
arrested, and, after a short trial, condemned and executed, having confessed his intention
to overthrow the Republic and establish Louis XVIII. on the throne (1769-1804).

CADUCEUS, the winged rod of Hermes, entwined with two serpents; originally a simple olive branch;
was in the hands of the god possessed of magical virtues; it was the symbol of peace.

CÆDMON, an English poet of the 7th century, the fragment of a hymn by whom, preserved by Bede,
is the oldest specimen extant of English poetry; wrote a poem on the beginning of things at
the call of a voice from heaven, saying as he slept, "Cædmon, come sing me some song"; and
thereupon he began to sing, as Stopford Brooke reports, the story of Genesis and Exodus, many
other tales in the sacred Scriptures, and the story of Christ and the Apostles, and of heaven
and hell to come.

CAEN (45), a fine old Norman town, capital of Calvados, about 80 m. SE. of Cherbourg; lace
the chief manufacture; the burial-place of William the Conqueror, and the native place of Charlotte
Corday; it is a well-built town, and has fine old public buildings, a large library, and a
noble collection of pictures.

CAER`LEON, a small old town in Monmouthshire, on the Usk, 2½ m. NE. of Newport; celebrated
by Tennyson in connection with Arthurian legend; it is a very ancient place, and contains relics
of Roman times.

CÆSALPINUS, Italian natural philosopher, born at Arezzo; was professor of botany at Pisa; was
forerunner of Harvey and Linnæus; discovered sex in plants, and gave hints on their classification
(1519-1603).

CÆSAR, name of an old Roman family claiming descent from the Trojan Æneas, which the emperors
of Rome from Augustus to Nero of right inherited, though the title was applied to succeeding
emperors and to the heirs-apparent of the Western and the Eastern Empires; it survives in the
titles of the Kaiser of Germany and the Czar of Russia.

CÆSAR, CAIUS JULIUS, pronounced the greatest man of antiquity, by birth and marriage connected
with the democratic party; early provoked the jealousy of Sulla, then dictator, and was by
an edict of proscription against him obliged to quit the city; on the death of Sulla returned
to Rome; was elected to one civic office after another, and finally to the consulship. United
with Pompey and Crassus in the First Triumvirate (60 B.C.); was appointed to the government
of Gaul, which he subdued after nine years to the dominion of Rome; his successes awoke the
jealousy of Pompey, who had gone over to the aristocratic side, and he was recalled; this roused
Cæsar, and crossing the Rubicon with his victorious troops, he soon saw all Italy lying at
his feet (49 B.C.); pursued Pompey, who had fled to Greece, and defeated him at Pharsalia (48
B.C.); was thereupon elected dictator and consul for five years, distinguishing himself in
Egypt and elsewhere; returned to Rome (47 B.C.); conceived and executed vast schemes for the
benefit of the city, and became the idol of its citizens; when he was assassinated on the Ides
(the 15th) of March, 44 B.C., in the fifty-sixth year of his age; b.100 B.C.

CÆSAREA, a Syrian seaport, 30 m. N. of Joppa, built in honour of Augustus Cæsar by Herod the
Great, now in ruins, though a place of note in the days of the Crusades. Also C. PHILIPPI,
at the source of the Jordan, whence Christ, on assuring Himself that His disciples were persuaded
of His divine sonship, turned to go up to Jerusalem, and so by His sacrifice perfect their
faith in Him.

CAGLIARI (44), the cap of Sardinia, and the chief port, on the S. coast, was a colony of Jews
from the time of Tiberius till 1492, whence they were expelled by the Spaniards; lies on the
slopes of a hill, the summit of which is 300 ft. high, and is on the site of an ancient Carthaginian
town.

CAGLIARI, PAOLO, proper name of PAUL VERONESE (q. v.).

CAGLIOSTRO, COUNT ALESSANDRO DI, assumed name of an arch-impostor, his real name being Giuseppe
Balsamo, born in Palermo, of poor parents; early acquired a smattering of chemistry and medicine,
by means of which he perpetrated the most audacious frauds, which, when detected in one place
were repeated with even more brazen effrontery in another; married a pretty woman named Lorenza
Feliciani, who became an accomplice; professed supernatural powers, and wrung large sums from
his dupes wherever they went, after which they absconded to Paris and lived in extravagance;
here he was thrown into the Bastille for complicity in the DIAMOND NECKLACE AFFAIR (q. v.);
on his wife turning informer, he was consigned to the tender mercies of the Inquisition, and
committed to the fortress of San Leone, where he died at 52, his wife having retired into a
convent (1743-1795). See CARLYLE'S "MISCELLANIES" for an account of his character and career.

CAGNOLA, LUIGI, MARQUIS OF, Italian architect, born at Milan; his greatest work, the "Arco
della Pace," of white marble, in his native city, the execution of which occupied him over
30 years (1762-1833).

CAGOTS, a race in the SW. of France of uncertain origin; treated as outcasts in the Middle
Ages, owing, it has been supposed, to some taint of leprosy, from which, it is argued, they
were by their manner of life in course of time freed.

CAHORS (13), a town in the dep. of Lot, in the S. of France, 71 m. N. of Toulouse, with interesting
Roman and other relics of antiquity.

CAIAPHAS, the High-Priest of the Jews who condemned Christ to death as a violator of the law
of Moses.

CAIAPOS, a wild savage race in the woods of Brazil, hard to persuade to reconcile themselves
to a settled life.

CAICOS, a group of small islands connected with the Bahamas, but annexed to Jamaica since 1874.

CAILLE, LOUIS DE LA, astronomer, studied at the Cape of Good Hope, registered stars of the
Southern Hemisphere, numbering 9000, before unknown; calculated the table of eclipses for 1800
years (1713-1762).

CAILLET, a chief of the Jacquerie, a peasant insurrection in France in 1358, taken prisoner
and tortured to death.

CAILLIAUD, French mineralogist, born in Nantes, travelled in Egypt, Nubia, and Ethiopia, collecting
minerals and making observations (1787-1869).

CAILLIÉ, RENÉ, French traveller in Africa, born in Poitou, the first European to penetrate
as far as Timbuctoo, in Central Africa, which he did in 1828; the temptation was a prize of
10,000 marks offered by the Geographical Society of Paris, which he received with a pension
of 1000 besides (1799-1839).

CAIN, according to Genesis, the first-born of Adam and Eve, and therefore of the race, and
the murderer of his brother Abel.

CAIN, THOMAS HENRY HALL, eminent novelist, born in Cheshire, of Manx blood; began life as architect
and took to journalism; author of a number of novels bearing on Manx life, such as the "Deemster"
and the "Manxman"; his most recent novel, the "Christian," his greatest but most ambiguous
work, and much challenged in England, though less so in America; it has been translated into
most of the languages of Europe, where the verdict is divided; b. 1853.

ÇA IRA, "It will go on," a popular song in France during the Revolution, said to have been
a phrase of Benjamin Franklin's, which he was in the habit of using in answering inquirers
about the progress of the American revolution by his friends in France.

CAIRD, EDWARD, brother of the following, interpreter of Kant and Hegel; succeeded Jowett as
master of Balliol; has written on the "Evolution of Religion," and edited the lectures and
sermons of his brother; b. 1825.

CAIRD, JOHN, an eloquent Scotch preacher, born at Greenock, Principal of Glasgow University,
famous for a sermon entitled "The Religion of Common Life" preached before the Queen at Crathie
in 1855; made a special study of the philosophy of religion, and wrote eloquently on it, more
especially the Christian version of it (1820-1898).

CAIRN, a heap of stones often, though not always, loosely thrown together, generally by way
of a sepulchral monument, and it would seem sometimes in execration of some foul deed.

CAIRNES, JOHN ELLIOT, a political economist of the school of John Stuart Mill with modifications,
born in co. Louth, Ireland; professor successively in Dublin, Galway, and London; author of
works on political economy (1823-1875).

CAIRNGORM, a yellowish-brown variety of rock-crystal, so called from being found, among other
places, on one of the Scottish Grampians, in Aberdeenshire, so named.

CAIRNS, HUGH MACCALMONT, EARL, lawyer and politician, born in co. Down, Ireland; called to
the English bar; entered Parliament, representing Belfast; became Lord Chancellor under Disraeli's
government in 1868, and again in 1874; took an active interest in philanthropic movements (1819-1885).

CAIRO (400), cap. of Egypt, and largest city in Africa, on the right bank of the Nile, just
above the Delta, 120 m. SE. of Alexandria, covers an extensive area on a broad sandy plain,
and presents a strange agglomeration of ancient and modern elements. The modern city is the
fourth founded in succession on the same site, and remains of the former cities are included
in it, old walls, gateways, narrow streets, and latticed houses, palaces, and 400 mosques.
These, though much spoiled by time and tourists, still represent the brightest period of Saracenic
art. The most modern part of the city consists of broad boulevards, with European-built villas,
hotels, &c., and has all the advantages of modern civic appliances. There is a rich museum,
and university with 2000 students. Extensive railway communication and the Nile waterway induce
a large transport trade, but there is little industry. The population is mixed; the townsfolk
are half Arab, half Egyptian, while Copts, Turks, Jews, Italians, and Greeks are numerous;
it is a centre of Mohammedan learning, and since 1882 the centre of British influence in Egypt.

CAITHNESS (37), a level, except in the W. and S., bare, and somewhat barren, county in the
NE. of Scotland, 43 m. by 28 m., with a bold and rocky coast; has flagstone quarries; fishing
the chief industry, of which Wick is the chief seat; the inhabitants are to a great extent
of Scandinavian origin, and English, not Gaelic, is the language spoken.

CAJETAN, CARDINAL, general of the Dominicans, born in Gaeta; represented the Pope at the Diet
of Augsburg, and tried in vain to persuade Luther to recant; wrote a Commentary on the Bible,
and on the "Summa Theologiæ" of Aquinas.

CALABAR`, a district under British protection on the coast of Upper Guinea, the country flat
and the climate unhealthy.

CALABAR BEAN, seed of an African bean, employed in medicine, known as the Ordeal Bean, as,
being poisonous, having been used to test the innocence of people charged with witchcraft.

CALABRIA (1,500), a fertile prov. embraced in the SW. peninsula of Italy, and traversed by
the Apennines, with tunny and anchovy fisheries; yields grains and fruits, and a variety of
minerals; is inhabited by a race of somewhat fiery temper; is much subject to earthquakes.

CALAIS (56), a fortified seaport in France, on the Strait of Dover, where it is 21 m. across;
was in possession of the English from 1347 to 1558, and the last town held by them on French
soil; is the chief landing-place for travellers from England to the Continent, and has considerable
export trade, as well as cotton and tulle manufactures.

CALAMY, EDMUND, a Presbyterian divine, born in London; favourable to Royalty, but zealously
opposed to Episcopacy, against which he vigorously protested with his pen; opposed the execution
of Charles I. and the protectorate of Cromwell; made chaplain to Charles II. after the Restoration;
refused a bishopric, which he could not, on conscientious grounds, accept (1600-1666).

CALAMY, EDMUND, a grandson of the preceding, an eminent Nonconformist minister in London, on
whom, for the high esteem in which he was held, honorary degrees were conferred by the Edinburgh,
Glasgow, and Aberdeen universities (1671-1732).

CALAS, JEAN, a tradesman of Toulouse, whose son committed suicide, and who was charged with
murdering him to prevent his going over to the Catholic Church; was tried, convicted, and sentenced
to torture and death on the wheel (1762); after which his property was confiscated, and his
children compelled to embrace the Catholic faith, while the widow escaped into Switzerland.
Voltaire, to his immortal honour, took up her case, proved to the satisfaction of the legal
authorities in France the innocence of the victims, got the process revised, and Louis XV.
to grant a sum of money out of the royal bounty for the benefit of the family.

CALAVE`RAS, an inland county of California, E. of San Francisco, rich in minerals, with copper
and gold mines.

CALCHAS, the soothsayer who accompanied Agamemnon to the siege of Troy; enjoined the sacrifice
of Iphigenia to propitiate the gods, foretold the length or the war, and advised the construction
of the wooden horses, a device by means of which Troy was surprised and taken.

CALCULUS, DIFFERENTIAL AND INTEGRAL, in mathematics, is the method by which we discuss the
properties of continuously varying quantities. The nature of the method and the necessity for
it may be indicated by a simple example; e. g. the motion of a train in a track, or the motion
of a planet in its orbit. If we know the successive positions of the moving body at successive
short intervals of time, the rules of the differential calculus enable us to calculate the
speed, the change of speed, the change of direction of motion (i. e. the curvature of the path),
and the effective force acting on the body. Conversely, given the force at every point, and
the initial position and velocity, the rules of the integral calculus assist us in calculating
the position and velocity of the body at any future time. Expressed somewhat crudely, the differential
calculus has to do with the differentials (increments or decrements) of varying quantities;
while the integral calculus is a process of summation or integration of these differentials.

CALCUTTA (900), on the left bank of the Hooghly, the largest and westernmost branch of the
Ganges delta, about 80 m. from the sea; is the capital of Bengal and the Indian Empire, and
the residence of the Governor-General; the Government buildings, Bishop's College (now an engineering
school) High Court, town hall, bank, museum, university, St. Paul's cathedral, and many other
English Buildings have earned for it the name "city of palaces"; but the native quarters, though
being improved, are still squalid, the houses of mud or bamboo; an esplanade, numerous quays,
an excellent water-supply, gas, and tramway services, add to the amenities; there are extensive
dockyards, warehouses, iron-works, timber yards, and jute mills; extensive railway and steamboat
communications make it the chief emporium of commerce in Asia; ships of 5000 tons enter the
docks; founded in 1686, Calcutta was captured by Surajah Dowlah, and the "Black Hole" massacre
perpetrated in 1756; became the capital of India in 1772, and has suffered frequently from
cyclones; the population are two-thirds Hindus, less than a third Mohammedan, and 4½ per cent.
Christian.

CALDECOTT, RANDOLPH, artist, born in Chester; exercised his art chiefly in book illustrations,
which were full of life, and instinct with a kindly, graceful humour; though professionally
untrained, his abilities as an artist were promptly and generously recognised by the Academy;
he suffered from ill-health, and died in Florida, whither he had gone to recruit (1846-1886).

CALDER, SIR ROBERT, British naval officer; served bravely in several naval engagements; was
tried by court-martial, and reprimanded for not following up a victory which he had gained,
a sentence which was afterwards found to be unjust; attained afterwards the rank of admiral
(1745-1818).

CALDERON DE LA BARCA, the great Spanish dramatist, born at Madrid; entered the army, and served
in Italy and Flanders, producing the while dramas which were received with great enthusiasm;
took holy orders, and became a canon of Toledo, but to the last continued to write poems and
plays; he was a dramatist of the first order, and has been ranked by the more competent critics
among the foremost of the class in both ancient and modern times (1600-1681).

CALDERWOOD, DAVID, a Scotch ecclesiastic, born at Dalkeith; became minister of Crailing; first
imprisoned, and then banished for resisting the attempts of James VI. to establish Episcopacy
in Scotland; wrote a book, "Altare Damascenum," in Holland, whither he had retired, being a
searching criticism of the claims of the Episcopacy; returned on the death of the king, and
wrote a "History of the Kirk" (1575-1650).

CALEDONIA, the Roman name for Scotland N. of the Wall of Antoninus, since applied poetically
to the whole of Scotland.

CALEDONIAN CANAL, a canal across the NW. of Scotland, executed by Telford, for the passage
of ships between the Atlantic and the North Sea, 60 m. long, 40 m. of which consist of natural
lakes; begun 1803, finished 1823; cost £1,300,000; has 28 locks; was constructed for the benefit
of coasting vessels to save the risks they encountered in the Pentland Firth.

CALENDS, the first day of the Roman month, so called as the day on which the feast days and
unlucky days of the month were announced.

CAL`GARY, the capital of Alberta, in NW. territory of Canada.

CALHOUN, JOHN CALDWELL, an American statesman, born in S. Carolina, of Irish descent; all through
his public life in high civic position; leader of "the States rights" movement, in vindication
of the doctrine that the Union was a mere compact, and any State had a right to withdraw from
its conditions; and champion of the slave-holding States, regarding slavery as an institution
fraught with blessing to all concerned. His chief work is a treatise on the "Nature of Government"
(1789-1850).

CALIBAN, a slave in Shakespeare's "Tempest," of the grossest animality of nature.

CALICUT (66), chief town on the Malabar coast, in the Madras Presidency of India, the first
port at which Vasco da Gama landed in 1498, whence the cotton cloth first imported from the
place got the name "calico."

CALIFORNIA (1,208), the most south-westerly State in the American Union; occupies the Pacific
seaboard between Oregon and Mexico, and is bounded landward by Nevada and Arizona. It is the
second largest State, larger by a quarter than the United Kingdom. In the N. the rainfall is
excessive, and winters severe; in the S. there is little rain, and a delightful climate. Wheat
is the most important product; the grape and all manner of fruits grow luxuriantly. Mineral
wealth is great: it is the foremost State for gold and quicksilver; lead, silver, copper, iron,
sulphur, coal, and many other minerals abound. The industries include brandy and sugar manufactures,
silk-growing, shipbuilding, and fishing. All products are exported, eastward by the great Central,
Union, and Southern Pacific railroads; and seaward, the chief port being San Francisco, the
largest city, as Sacramento is the capital of the State. The Yosemite Valley, in the Sierra
Nevada, through which falls the Merced River, is the most wonderful gorge in the world. Captured
from Mexico in 1847, the discovery of gold next year raised great excitement, and brought thousands
of adventurers from all over the world. Constituted a State in 1850, the original lawlessness
gradually gave way to regular administration, and progress has since been steady and rapid.

CALIFORNIA, LOWER (30), an extensive, mountainous, dry, and scarcely habitable peninsula, stretching
southward from the State, in Mexican territory; agriculture is carried on in some of the valleys,
and pearl and whale fisheries support some coast towns.

CALIGULA, Roman emperor from A.D. 37 to 41, youngest son of Germanicus and Agrippina, born
at Antium; having ingratiated himself with Tiberius, was named his successor; ruled with wisdom
and magnanimity at first, while he lived in the unbridled indulgence of every lust, but after
an illness due to his dissipation, gave way to the most atrocious acts of cruelty and impiety;
would entertain people at a banquet and then throw them into the sea; wished Rome had only
one head, that he might shear it off at a blow; had his horse installed as consul in mockery
of the office; declared himself a god, and had divine honours paid to him, till a conspiracy
was formed against him on his return from an expedition into Gaul, when he was assassinated
(12-41).

CALIPH, the title adopted by the successors of Mahomet, as supreme in both civil and religious
matters. The principal caliphates are: (1) the Caliphate of the East, established by Abubekr
at Mecca, transferred to Bagdad by the Abassides (632-1258); (2) the Caliphate of Cordova,
established at Cordova by Abderrahman (756-1031); (3) the Caliphate of Egypt, established by
the Fatimites (909-1171). It was at Bagdad that Moslem civilisation achieved its final development.

CALISTO, daughter of Lycaon, king of Arcadia; changed by Juno into a she-bear, and placed by
Jupiter among the stars.

CALIXTUS, the name of three popes: C. I., Pope from 218 to 222; C. II., pope from 1119 to 1124;
C. III., Pope from 1455 to 1458.

CALIXTUS, GEORGE, a Lutheran theologian of an eminently tolerant type, born at Sleswick; travelled
for four years in Germany, Belgium, England, and France; accused of heresy, or rather apostasy,
for the liberal spirit in which he had learned in consequence to treat both Catholics and Calvinists,
and for considering the Apostles' Creed a broad enough basis for Christian union and communion,
which might embrace both; his friends, however, stood by him, and he retained the position
he held in the Lutheran Church (1586-1656).

CALLA`O (32), a port in Peru, 7 m. from Lima, with a fine harbour the safest on the coast,
if not in the world; its prosperity depends on trade, which is less than it was before the
annexation of the nitrate fields to Chile.

CALLCOTT, JOHN WALL, an eminent musical composer, born at Kensington; was a pupil of Händel's,
and is celebrated for his glee compositions (1766-1821). SIR AUGUSTUS WALL, landscape painter,
brother; was knighted for his eminent skill as an artist (1779-1841). LADY MARIA, wife of Sir
Augustus, author of "Little Arthur's History of England" (1779-1842).

CALLERNISH, a district in the W. of the island of Lewis, 10 m. from Stornoway; noted for its
circles of standing stones, from 10 to 17 ft. in height, the whole in cruciform arrangement.

CALLIC`RATES, along with Ictinos, architect of the Parthenon in Athens.

CALLIM`ACHUS, Greek architect, inventor of the Corinthian order, 4th century B.C.

CALLIMACHUS, Greek poet, born in Cyrena; taught grammar and belles-lettres at Alexandria; was
keeper of the library there; of his writings, which are said to have been on a variety of subjects
and very numerous, only a few epigrams and hymns remain; was admired by Catullus, Ovid, and
Propertius, and flourished in the 3rd century B.C.

CALLI`OPE, the muse of epic poetry and eloquence, is represented with a tablet and stylus,
and sometimes with a paper roll. See MUSES.

CALLIS`THENES, a disciple of Aristotle, who accompanied Alexander the Great to India, and was
put to death by his order for remonstrating with him on his adoption of the manners and style
of the potentates of the East, but professedly on a charge of treason.

CALLIS`TRATUS, an Athenian orator, who kindled in Demosthenes a passion for his art; his Spartan
sympathies brought him to grief, and led to his execution as a traitor.

CALLOT, JACQUES, engraver and etcher, born at Nancy; his etchings, executed many of them at
the instance of the Grand-duke of Tuscany and Louis XIII. of France, amounted to 1600 pieces,
such as those of the sieges of Breda and Rochelle, which are much admired, as also those of
the gipsies with whom he associated in his youth (1593-1633).

CALMET, AUGUSTINE, a learned Benedictine and biblical scholar, born in Lorraine, but known
in England by his "Historical, Critical, and Chronological Dictionary of the Bible," the first
published book of its kind of any note, and much referred to at one time as an authority; he
wrote also a "Commentary on the Bible" in 23 vols., and a "Universal History" in 17 vols. (1672-1757).

CALMS, THE, tracts of calm in the ocean, on the confines of the trade winds, and which lasts
for weeks at a time.

CALOMAR`DE, DUKE, a Spanish statesman; minister of Ferdinand VII.; a violent enemy of liberal
principles and measures, and a reactionary; obnoxious to the people; arrested for treachery,
escaped into France by bribing his captors (1773-1842).

CALONNE, CHARLES ALEXANDRE DE, French financier under Louis XVI., born at Douay; a man of "fiscal
genius; genius for persuading, before all things for borrowing"; succeeded Necker in 1783 as
comptroller-general of the finances in France; after four years of desperate attempts at financial
adjustment, could do nothing but convoke the Notables in 1787; could give no account of his
administration that would satisfy them; was dismissed, and had to quit Paris and France; "his
task to raise the wind and the winds," says Carlyle, "and he did it," referring to the Revolution
he provoked; was permitted by Napoleon to return to France, where he died in embarrassed circumstances
(1734-1802).

CALORIC, the name given by physicists to the presumed subtle element which causes heat.

CALORIUS, ABRAHAM, a fiery Lutheran polemic, a bitter enemy of George Calixtus (1612-1686).

CALOTYPE, a process of photography invented by Fox Talbot in 1840, by means of the action of
light on nitrate of silver.

CALPË, Gibraltar, one of the PILLARS OF HERCULES (q. v.).

CALPURNIA, the last wife of Julius Cæsar, daughter of the consul Piso, who, alive to the danger
of conspiracy, urged Cæsar to stay at home the day he was assassinated.

CALTAGIRONE (28), a city 38 m. SW. of Catania; the staple industry is pottery and terra-cotta ware.

CAL`UMET, among the American Indians a pipe for smoking, which if accepted when offered, was
an emblem of peace, and if rejected, a declaration of war.

CALVADOS (428), a maritime dep. in N. of France, skirted by dangerous rocks of the same name,
with a fertile soil and a moist climate.

CALVAERT, DENIS, a painter, born at Antwerp; settled at Bologna, where he founded a school,
from whence issued many eminent artists, among others Guidi Reni, Domenichino, and Albani;
his masterpiece, "St. Michael" in St. Peter's, Bologna (1555-1619).

CALVARY, the place of the crucifixion, identified with a hill on the N. of Jerusalem, looked
down upon from the city, with a cliff on which criminals were cast down prior to being stoned;
also name given to effigies of the crucifixion in Catholic countries, erected for devotion.

CALVERLEY, CHARLES STUART, a clever English parodist, Fellow of Christ's Church, Oxford; wrote
"Fly-Leaves" and "Verses and Translations"; his parodies among the most amusing of the century,
flavoured by the author's scholarship (1831-1884).

CALVERT, GEORGE and CECIL, father and son, Lords Baltimore; founders, under charter from James
I., of Maryland, U.S.

CALVIN, JOHN, or CAUVIN, the great Reformer, born at Noyon, in Picardy; devoted for a time
to the law, was sent to study at the university of Orleans, after having mastered Latin as
a boy at Paris; became acquainted with the Scriptures, and acquired a permanently theological
bent; professed the Protestant faith; proceeded to Paris; became the centre of a dangerous
religious excitement; had to flee for his life from France; retired to Basel, where he studied
Hebrew and wrote his great epoch-making book, the "Institutes of the Christian Religion"; making
after this for Strassburg, he chanced to pass through Geneva, was arrested as by the hand of
God to stay and help on God's work in the place, but proceeded with such rigour that he was
expelled, though recalled after three years; on his return he proposed and established his
system of Church government, which allowed of no license in faith any more than conduct, as
witness the burning of Servetus for denying the doctrine of the Trinity; for twenty years he
held sway in Geneva, and for so long he was regarded as the head of the Reformed Churches in
Scotland, Switzerland, Holland, and France. Besides his "Institutes," he found time to write
Commentaries on nearly all the books of the Bible; was a man of masculine intellect and single-hearted
devotion to duty, as ever in the "Great Taskmaster's" eye. His greatest work was his "Institutes,"
published in Basel in 1535-36. It was written in Latin, and four years after translated by
himself into French. "In the translated form," says Prof. Saintsbury, "it is beyond all question
the first serious work of great literary merit not historical in the history of French prose....
Considering that the whole of it was written before the author of it was seven-and-twenty,
it is perhaps the most remarkable work of its particular kind to be anywhere found; the merits
of it being those of full maturity and elaborate preparation rather than of youthful exuberance"
(1509-1564).

CALVINISM, the theological system of Calvin, the chief characteristic of which is that it assigns
all in salvation to the sovereign action and persistent operation of Divine grace.

CALVO, CHARLES, an Argentine publicist, born at Buenos Ayres in 1824; author of "International
Law, Theoretical and Practical."

CALYPSO, in the Greek mythology a nymph, daughter of Atlas, queen of the island of Ogygia,
who by her fascinating charms detained Ulysses beside her for 7 of the 10 years of his wanderings
home from Troy; she died of grief on his departure.

CAMARILLA, a name of recent origin in Spain for a clique of private counsellors at court, who
interpose between the legitimate ministers and the crown.

CAMBACÉRÈS, JEAN JACQUES RÉGIS DE, Duke of Parma, born at Montpellier; bred to the legal profession,
took a prominent part as a lawyer in the national Convention; after the Revolution of the 18th
Brumaire, was chosen second consul; was sincerely attached to Napoleon; was made by him High
Chancellor of the Empire as well as Duke of Parma; his "Projet de Code" formed the basis of
the Code Napoléon (1753-1824).

CAMBAY (31), a town and seaport N. of Bombay, on a gulf of the same name, which is fast silting
up, in consequence of which the place, once a flourishing port, has fallen into decay.

CAMBO`DIA (1,500), a small kingdom in Indo-China, occupying an area as large as Scotland in
the plains of the Lower Mekong. The coast-line is washed by the Gulf of Siam; the landward
boundaries touch Siam, Annam, and French Cochin-China; in the N. are stretches of forest and
hills in which iron and copper are wrought; a branch of the Mekong flows backward and forms
the Great Lake; most of the country is inundated in the rainy season, and rice, tobacco, cotton,
and maize are grown in the tracts thus irrigated; spices, gutta-percha, and timber are also
produced; there are iron-works at Kompong Soai; foreign trade is done through the port Kampot.
The capital is Pnom-Penh (35), on the Mekong. The kingdom was formerly much more extensive;
remarkable ruins of ancient grandeur are numerous; it has been under French protection since 1863.

CAMBRAI (17), a city in the dep. of Nord, in France, on the Scheldt; famous for its fine linen
fabrics, hence called cambrics. Fénélon was archbishop here, in the cathedral of which is a
monument to his memory.

CAMBRIA, the ancient name of Wales, country of the Kymry, a Celtic race, to which the Welsh belong.

CAMBRIDGE (44), county town of Cambridgeshire, stands in flat country, on the Cam, 28 m. NE.
of London; an ancient city, with interesting archæological remains; there are some fine buildings,
the oldest round church in England, Holy Sepulchre, and a Roman Catholic church. The glory
of the city is the University, founded in the 12th century, with its colleges housed in stately
buildings, chapels, libraries, museums, &c., which shares with Oxford the academic prestige
of England. It lays emphasis on mathematical, as Oxford on classical, culture. Among its eminent
men have been Bacon, Newton, Cromwell, Pitt, Thackeray, Spenser, Milton, Dryden, Wordsworth,
and Tennyson.

CAMBRIDGE (70), a suburb of Boston, U.S., one of the oldest towns in New England; seat of Harvard
University; the centre of the book-making trade; here Longfellow resided for many years.

CAMBRIDGE, FIRST DUKE OF, seventh and youngest son of George III.; served as volunteer under
the Duke of York, and carried a marshal's baton; was made viceroy of Hanover, which he continued
to be till, in 1837, the crown fell to the Duke of Cumberland (1774-1850).

CAMBRIDGE, SECOND DUKE OF, son of the preceding and cousin to the Queen, born in Hanover; served
in the army; became commander-in-chief in 1856 on the resignation of Viscount Hardinge; retired
in 1895, and was succeeded by Lord Wolseley; b. 1819.

CAMBRIDGE UNIVERSITY contains 17 colleges: Peterhouse, founded 1257; Clare College, 1326; Pembroke,
1347; Gonville and Caius, 1348; Trinity Hall, 1350; Corpus Christi, 1352; King's, 1441; Queens',
1448; St. Catherine's, 1473; Jesus, 1496; Christ's, 1505; St John's, 1511; Magdalene, 1519;
Trinity, 1546; Emmanuel, 1584; Sidney Sussex, 1598; and Downing, 1800. Each college is a corporation
by itself, governed by statutes sanctioned by the crown, and capable of holding landed or other
property.

CAMBRIDGESHIRE (188), an inland agricultural county, nine-tenths of its surface under cultivation;
famed for its butter and cheese; very flat, marshy in the N., with a range of chalk-hills,
the Gog-Magog in the S.; is rich in Roman remains.

CAMBRONNE, French general, born at Nantes; served under the Republic and the Empire; accompanied
Napoleon to Elba in 1814; commanded a division of the Old Guard at Waterloo; fought to the
last; though surrounded by the enemy and summoned to surrender, refused, and was taken prisoner;
is credited with the saying, La Garde meurt, et ne se rend pas, "The Guard dies, but does not
surrender" (1770-1842).

CAMBUS`CAN, king of Tartary, identified with Genghis Khan, who had a wonderful steed of brass,
magically obedient to the wish of the rider, together with a magical mirror, sword, and ring.

CAMBY`SES, king of Persia, succeeded his father, the great Cyrus; invaded and subdued Egypt,
but afterwards suffered serious reverses, and in the end gave himself up to dissipation and
vindictive acts of cruelty, from which not only his subjects suffered, but the members of his
own family; d. 54 B.C.

CAMBYSES, KING, a ranting character in a play called "The Lamentable Tragedy"; referred to
by Falstaff in I Henry IV., Act ii. sc. 4.

CAMDEN (58), a busy town in New Jersey, U.S., on the left bank of the Delaware, opposite Philadelphia;
the terminus of six railways.

CAMDEN, CHARLES PRATT, FIRST EARL OF, a distinguished British lawyer and statesman, chief-justice
of the King's Bench in George I.'s reign, and ultimately Lord Chancellor of England; opposed,
as judge in the case, the prosecution of Wilkes as illegal, and as a statesman the policy and
action of the government towards the American colonies; he was created earl in 1786 (1713-1794).

CAMDEN, WILLIAM, a learned English antiquary, the first and most famous born in London; second
master, and eventually head-master in Westminster School, during which time he gave proof of
his antiquarian knowledge, which led to his appointment as Clarencieux king-at-arms; author
of "Britannia," a historical and topographical account of the British Isles, his most widely
known work, and "Annals of Elizabeth's Reign," both, as all the rest of his works, written
in Latin; he has been surnamed the Strabo and the Pausanias of England (1551-1623).

CAMELOT, a place in Somerset, where, it is presumed, King Arthur held his court, and where
entrenchments of an old town are still to be seen.

CAMENÆ, in the Roman mythology a set of nymphs endowed with semi-prophetic powers, and sometimes
identified with the Muses.

CAMEO, a precious stone cut in relief; consists generally of two or three different colours,
the upper cut in relief and the under forming the ground.

CAMERA LUCIDA, an optical instrument or contrivance, by means of which the image of an object
may be made to appear on a light or white surface.

CAMERA OBSCURA, an optical contrivance, by means of which the images of external objects are
exhibited distinctly on a surface in the focus of the lens.

CAMERARIUS, a distinguished scholar, born at Bamberg; active as a German Reformer; played a
prominent part in the religious struggles of his time; friend and biographer of Melanchthon;
collaborated with him in drawing up the Augsburg Confession (1500-1574).

CAMERON, JOHN, a learned divine, born in Glasgow, who held several professorial appointments
on the Continent; was for a time Principal of Glasgow University; his knowledge was so extensive
that he was styled a "walking library," but he fell in disfavour with the people for his doctrine
of passive obedience, and he died of a wound inflicted by an opponent of his views (1579-1625).

CAMERON, RICHARD, a Scotch Covenanter of the 17th century, born in Falkland, Fife; a ringleader
of the persecuted Presbyterians, took to arms along with sixty others in defence of his rights;
was surprised by a body of dragoons at AIRDS MOSS (q. v.), and after a brave fight slain, his
head and hands cut off, and fixed on the Netherbow Port, at the head of the Canongate, Edinburgh,
in 1680.

CAMERON, VERNEY LOVETT, African explorer, born near Weymouth; traversed Africa all the way
from east to west (1873-75); he was on the track of important discoveries, but his explorations
were cut short by the natives; wrote "Across Africa" (1844-1894).

CAMERONIANS (1), a Presbyterian body in Scotland who derived their name from Richard Cameron,
contended like him for the faith to which the nation by covenant had bound itself, and even
declined to take the oath of allegiance to sovereigns such as William III. and his successors,
who did not explicitly concede to the nation this right. (2) Also a British regiment, originally
raised in defence of Scottish religious rights; for long the 26th Regiment of the British line,
now the Scottish Rifles.

CAMEROON, (1) a river in W. Africa, falling by a wide estuary into the Bight of Biafra, known
as the oil river, from the quantities of palm-oil exported; (2) a mountain range, a volcanic
group, the highest peak nearly 14,000 ft., NW. of the estuary; (3) also a German colony, extending
199 m. along the coast.

CAMILLA, (1) a virgin queen of the Volsci, one of the heroines in the "Æneid," noted for her
preternatural fleetness on the racecourse, and her grace; (2) also a sister of the HORATII
(q. v.), killed by her brother because she wept at the death of her affiancé, one of the CURIATII
(q. v.), whom the Horatii slew.

CAMILLUS, MARCUS FURIUS, a famous patrician of early Rome; took Veii, a rival town, after a
ten years' siege; retired into voluntary exile at Ardea on account of the envy of his enemies
in Rome; recalled from exile, saved Rome from destruction by the Gauls under Brennus, was five
times elected dictator, and gained a succession of victories over rival Italian tribes; died
at eighty of the plague, in 365 B.C., lamented by the whole nation, and remembered for generations
after as one of the noblest heroic figures in Roman history.

CAMISARDS, Huguenots of the Cévennes, who took up arms by thousands in serious revolt against
Louis XIV., in which others joined, under Jean Cavalier their chief, after, and in consequence
of, the revocation of the Edict of Nantes (1685); so called because they wore a camiso (Fr.
a chemise), a blouse over their armour; were partly persuaded and partly compelled into submission
by Marshal Villars in 1704.

CAMOËNS, the poet of Portugal, born at Lisbon, studied at Coimbra; fell in passionate love
with a lady of high rank in Lisbon, as she with him, but whom he was not allowed to marry;
left Lisbon, joined the army, and fought against the Moors; volunteered service in India, arrived
at Goa, and got into trouble with the Portuguese authorities; was banished to Macao, and consoled
himself by writing his "Lusiad"; coming home he lost everything but his poem; died neglected
and in poverty; the title of the poem is properly "The Lusiads," or the Lusitanians, i. e.
the Portuguese, and is their national epic, called, not inaptly, the "Epos of Commerce"; it
has been translated into most European languages, and into English alone no fewer than six
times (1524-1580).

CAMORRA, a secret society in Naples with wide ramifications, which at one time had by sheer
terrorism considerable political influence in the country; when steps were taken by Francis
II. to suppress it, the members of it joined the revolutionary party, and had their revenge
in the expulsion eventually of the Bourbons from Italy.

CAMPAGNA, (1) an unhealthy flat district round Rome, co-extensive with ancient Latium, infested
with malaria; (2) a town in Italy, in Salerno, with a cathedral, and a trade in wine, oil,
and fruit.

CAMPAIGN, THE, poem by Addison in celebration of Marlborough's victory at Blenheim.

CAMPAN, MME. DE, born at Paris, faithful friend and confidante of Marie Antoinette; after the
Revolution opened a boarding-school at St. Germain; became under Napoleon matron of an institution
for daughters of officers of the Legion of Honour; wrote the "Private Life of Marie Antoinette"
(1752-1822).

CAMPANELLA, TOMMASO, an Italian philosopher of the transition period, originally a Dominican
monk, born in Calabria; contemporary of Bacon; aimed, like him, at the reform of philosophy;
opposed scholasticism, fell back upon the ancient systems, and devoted himself to the study
of nature; was persecuted all along by the Church, and spent 27 years of his life in a Neapolitan
dungeon; released, he retired to France, and enjoyed the protection of Richelieu; he was the
author of sonnets as well as philosophical works (1568-1639).

CAMPANIA, an ancient prov. in the W. of Italy, of great fertility, and yields corn, wine, and
oil in great abundance; Capua was the capital, the chief towns of which now are Naples, Salerno,
and Gaeta; it was a favourite resort of the wealthy families of ancient Rome.

CAMPANILE, a tower for bells constructed beside a church, but not attached to it; very common
in Italian cities, the leaning tower of Pisa being one, and that of Florence one of the most
famous.

CAMPBELL, a celebrated Scottish Highland clan, the members of which have played an important
role in English and Scottish history.

CAMPBELL, ALEXANDER, an Anti-Calvinistic Baptist, born in Antrim; emigrated to America in 1807,
and founded a sect called the "Disciples of Christ"; disowned creeds, and owned no authority
in religion but the Bible; the sect has upwards of 5000 meeting-houses in America, and over
half a million members. Campbell executed a translation of the New Testament, in which he employed
the words "immercer" and "immersion" for "baptist" and "baptism" (1788-1866).

CAMPBELL, SIR COLIN, LORD CLYDE, born in Glasgow, son of a carpenter named Macliver; entered
the army, and rose rapidly; served in China and the Punjab; commanded the Highland Brigade
in the Crimea; won the day at Alma and Balaclava; commanded in India during the Mutiny; relieved
Lucknow, and quelled the rebellion; was made field-marshal, with a pension of £2000, and created
Lord Clyde; he was one of the bravest soldiers of England (1792-1863).

CAMPBELL, GEORGE, a Scotch divine, Principal of Aberdeen University; wrote "Philosophy of Rhetoric,"
and an able reply to Hume's argument against miracles, entitled "Dissertation on Miracles"
(1709-1796).

CAMPBELL, JOHN, Lord Chancellor of England, born at Cupar-Fife; a son of the manse; destined
for the Church, but took the study of law; was called to the bar; did journalistic work and
law reports; was a Whig in politics; held a succession of offices both on the Bench and in
the Cabinet; wrote the "Lives of the Chancellors" and the "Lives of the Chief Justices" (1779-1861).

CAMPBELL, JOHN FRANCIS, born at Islay, author of, among other works, "Popular Tales of the
West Highlands, orally collected," a collection all his own, and a remarkable one for the enthusiasm
and the patriotic devotion it displays (1822-1885).

CAMPBELL, JOHN MACLEOD, a Scotch clergyman, born in Argyll; deposed from the ministry of the
Scotch Church in 1831 for his liberal theological sentiments; a saintly man, whose character
alone should have protected him from such an indignity; his favourite theme was the self-evidencing
character of revelation, while the doctrine for which he was deposed, the Fatherhood of God,
is being now adopted as the central principle of Scotch theology; he continued afterwards to
ply his vocation as a minister of Christ in a quiet way to some quiet people like himself,
and before his death a testimonial and address in recognition of his worth was presented to
him by representatives of nearly every religious community in Scotland (1801-1872).

CAMPBELL, THOMAS, poet, born in Glasgow; studied with distinction at the University; when a
student of law in Edinburgh wrote "The Pleasures of Hope"; the success of the work, which was
great, enabled him to travel on the Continent, where he wrote the well-known lines, "Ye Mariners
of England," "Hohenlinden," and "The Exile of Erin"; married, and settled in London, where
he did writing, lecturing, and some more poetry, in particular "The Last Man"; after settling
in London a pension of £200 was awarded him through the influence of Fox; he wrote in prose
as well as verse; he was elected Rector of Glasgow University in 1827, and again in the following
year: buried in Westminster (1777-1844).

CAMPBELTOWN, a town in Kintyre, Argyllshire, with a fine harbour; is a great fishing centre;
and has over 20 whisky distilleries.

CAMPE, JOACHIM HEINRICH, German educationist; disciple of Basedow, and author of educational
works (1746-1818).

CAMPEACHY (12), a Mexican seaport on a bay of the same name; manufactures cigars.

CAMPEGGIO, LORENZO, cardinal; twice visited England as legate, the last time in connection
with the divorce between Henry VIII. and Catherine, with the effect of mortally offending the
former and being of no real benefit to the latter, whom he would fain have befriended; his
mission served only to embitter the relations of Henry with the see of Rome (1474-1539).

CAMPER, PETER, a Dutch anatomist, born at Leyden; held sundry professorships; made a special
study of the facial angle in connection with intelligence; he was an artist as well as a scientist,
and a patron of art (1722-1789).

CAMPERDOWN, a tract of sandy hills on the coast of N. Holland, near which Admiral Duncan defeated
the Dutch fleet under Van Winter in 1797.

CAMPHUYSEN, a Dutch landscape painter of the 17th century, famous for his moonlight pieces.

CAMPI, a family of painters, distinguished in the annals of Italian art at Cremona in the 16th
century.

CAMPINE, a vast moor of swamp and peat to the E. of Antwerp, being now rendered fertile by
irrigation.

CAMPION, EDMUND, a Jesuit, born in London; a renegade from the Church of England; became a
keen Catholic propagandist in England; was arrested for sedition, of which he was innocent,
and executed; was in 1886 beatified by Pope Leo XIII. (1540-1581).

CAMPO-FORMIO, a village near Udine, in Venetia, where a treaty was concluded between France
and Austria in 1797, by which the Belgian provinces and part of Lombardy were ceded to France,
and certain Venetian States to Austria in return.

CAMPO SANTO (Holy Ground), Italian and Spanish name for a burial-place.

CAMPOS (13), a trading city of Brazil, in the prov. of Rio Janeiro.

CAMPVERE, now called VERE, on the NE. of the island of Walcheren; had a Scotch factory under
Scotch law, civil and ecclesiastical.

CAMUS, bishop of Belley, born at Paris; a violent enemy of the mendicant monks (1582-1663).

CAMUS, a learned French jurisconsult, member of the National Convention; a determined enemy
of the Court party in France; voted for the execution of the king as a traitor and conspirator;
was conservator of the national records, and did good service in preserving them (1740-1804).

CANAAN, originally the coast land, but eventually the whole, of Palestine W. of the Jordan.

CANAANITES, a civilised race with towns for defence; dependent on agriculture; worshippers
of the fertilising powers of nature; and the original inhabitants of Palestine, from which
they were never wholly rooted out.

CANALETTO, ANTONIO, a Venetian painter, famous for his pictures of Venice and handling of light
and shade (1697-1768).

CANALETTO, BERNARDO BELLOTTO, nephew and pupil of preceding; distinguished for his perspective
and light and shade (1720-1780).

CANARIS, CONSTANTINE, a Greek statesman, did much to free and consolidate Greece, more than
any other statesman (1790-1877).

CANARY ISLANDS (288), a group of mountainous islands in the Atlantic, off the NW. African coast,
belonging to Spain, with rocky coasts, and wild, picturesque scenery; on the lower levels the
climate is delightful, and sugar, bananas, and dates grow; farther up there are zones where
wheat and cereals are cultivated; the rainfall is low, and water often scarce; sugar, wine,
and tobacco are exported; the islands are a health resort of growing favour.

CANCAN, the name of an ungraceful and indecent dance practised in the Paris dancing saloons.

CANDIA (12), the ancient name of Crete, now the name of the capital, in the centre of the N. coast.

CANDIDE, a philosophic romance by Voltaire, and written in ridicule of the famous maxim of
Leibnitz, "All for the best in the best of all possible worlds"; it is a sweeping satire, and
"religion, political government, national manners, human weakness, ambition, love, loyalty,
all come in for a sneer."

CANDLEMAS, a festival in commemoration of the purification of the Virgin, held on February
2, celebrated with lighted candles; an old Roman custom in honour of the goddess Februa.

CANDLISH, ROBERT SMITH, a Scottish ecclesiastic, born in Edinburgh; distinguished, next to
Chalmers, for his services in organising the Free Church of Scotland; was an able debater and
an eloquent preacher (1806-1873).

CANDOLLE. See DE CANDOLLE.

CANDOUR, MRS., a slanderess in Sheridan's "Rivals."

CANEA (12), chief commercial town in Crete, on NW. coast; trades in wax, oil, fruit, wool,
and silk.

CANINA, LUIGI, Italian architect; wrote on the antiquities of Rome, Etruria, &c. (1795-1856).

CANNÆ, ancient town in Apulia, near the mouth of the Aufidus, where Hannibal, in a great battle,
defeated the Romans in 216 B.C., but failing to follow up his success by a march on Rome, was
twitted by Maherbal, one of his officers, who addressing him said, "You know how to conquer,
Hannibal, but not how to profit by your victory."

CANNES (15), a French watering-place and health resort on the Mediterranean, in the SE. of
France, where Napoleon landed on his return from Elba.

CANNING, CHARLES JOHN, EARL, grandson of the succeeding; after service in cabinet offices,
was made Governor-General of India, 1856, in succession to Lord Dalhousie; held this post at
the time of the Mutiny in 1857; distinguished himself during this trying crisis by his discretion,
firmness, and moderation; became viceroy on the transfer of the government to the crown in
1858; died in London without issue, and the title became extinct (1812-1862).

CANNING, GEORGE, a distinguished British statesman and orator, born in London; studied for
the bar; entered Parliament as a protégé of Pitt, whom he strenuously supported; was rewarded
by an under-secretaryship; married a lady of high rank, with a fortune; satirised the Whigs
by his pen in his "Anti-Jacobin"; on the death of Pitt became minister of Foreign Affairs;
under Portland distinguished himself by defeating the schemes of Napoleon; became a member
of the Liverpool ministry, and once more minister of Foreign Affairs; on the death of Liverpool
was made Prime Minister, and after a period of unpopularity became popular by adopting, to
the disgust of his old colleagues, a liberal policy; was not equal to the opposition he provoked,
and died at the age of 57 (1770-1827).

CANO, ALONZO, a celebrated artist, born at Granada; surnamed the Michael Angelo of Spain, having
been painter, sculptor, and architect (1601-1667).

CANO, SEBASTIAN DEL, a Spanish navigator, the first to sail round the world; perished on his
second voyage to India (1460-1526).

CANON, the name given to the body of Scripture accepted by the Church as of divine authority.

CAÑON OF COLORADO, a gorge in Arizona through which the Colorado River flows, the largest and
deepest in the world, being 300 m. long, with a wall from 3000 to 6000 ft. in perpendicular height.

CANONISATION, in the Romish Church, is the solemn declaration by the Pope that a servant of
God, renowned for his virtue and for miracles he has wrought, is to be publicly venerated by
the whole Church, termed Saint, and honoured by a special festival. A preparatory stage is
beatification, and the beatification and canonisation of a saint are promoted by a long, tedious,
and costly process, much resembling a suit at law.

CANOPUS, the blue vault of heaven with its stars, revered and worshipped by the son of the
sandy desert as a friend and guide to him, as he wanders over the waste at night alone.

CANOSA (18), a town in Apulia, abounding in Roman remains, on the site of ancient Canusium.

CANOSSA, a town NW. of Bologna, in the courtyard of the castle of which the Emperor Henry IV.
stood three days in the cold, in January 1077, bareheaded and barefooted, waiting for Pope
Gregory VII. to remove from him the sentence of excommunication.

CANOVA, ANTONIO, a great Italian sculptor, born in Venetia; gave early proof of his genius;
his first great work, and which established his fame, was the group of "Theseus and the Minotaur,"
which was by-and-by succeeded by his "Cupid and Psyche," distinguished by a tenderness and
grace quite peculiar to him, and erelong by "Perseus with the Head of Medusa," perhaps the
triumph of his art; his works were numerous, and brought him a large fortune, which he made
a generous use of (1757-1822).

CANROBERT, FRANÇOIS, marshal of France; served for some 20 years in Algeria; was a supporter
of Napoleon III., and a tool; commanded in the Crimea, first under, and then in succession
to St. Arnaud; fought in Italy against Austria; was shut up in Metz with Bazaine, and made
prisoner; became a member of the senate under the Republic (1809-1895).

CANT, affectation of thinking, believing, and feeling what one in his heart and reality does
not, of which there are two degrees, insincere and sincere; insincere when one cants knowing
it, and sincere when one cants without knowing it, the latter being of the darker and deeper dye.

CANT, ANDREW, a Scotch Presbyterian minister, who had an equal zeal for the Scotch covenant
and the cause of Charles Stuart (1610-1664). A son of his was Principal of Edinburgh University
from 1675 to 1685.

CANTABRI, the original inhabitants of the N. of Spain; presumed to be the ancestors of the Basques.

CANTACUZE`NUS, JOHN, emperor of the East; an able statesman, who acting as regent for the heir,
had himself crowned king, but was driven to resign at length; retired to a monastery on Mount
Athos, where he wrote a history of his time; died in 1411, 100 years old.

CANTARINI, SIMONE, an Italian painter, born at Pesaro; a pupil of Guido and a rival, but only
an imitator from afar (1612-1648).

CANTERBURY (23), in E. Kent, on the Stour, by rail 62 m. SE. of London; is the ecclesiastical
capital of England; the cathedral was founded A.D. 597 by St. Augustin; the present building
belongs to various epochs, dating as far back as the 11th century; it contains many interesting
monuments, statues, and tombs, among the latter that of Thomas à Becket, murdered in the north
transept, 1170; the cloisters, chapter-house, and other buildings occupy the site of the old
monastic houses; the city is rich in old churches and ecclesiastical monuments; there is an
art gallery; trade is chiefly in hops and grain. Kit Marlowe was a native.

CANTERBURY (128), a district in New Zealand, in the centre of the South Island, on the east
side of which are the Canterbury Plains or Downs, a great pasture-land for sheep of over three
million acres.

CANTERBURY TALES, a body of tales by Chaucer, conceived of as related by a small company of
pilgrims from London to the shrine of Thomas à Becket at Canterbury. They started from the
Tabard Inn at Southwark, and agreed to tell each a tale going and each another coming back,
the author of the best tale to be treated with a supper. None of the tales on the homeward
journey are given.

CANTICLES, a book in the Bible erroneously ascribed to Solomon, and called in Hebrew the Song
of Songs, about the canonicity and interpretation of which there has been much debate, though,
as regards the latter, recent criticism inclines, if there is any unity in it at all, to the
conclusion that it represents a young maiden seduced into the harem of Solomon, who cannot
be persuaded to transfer to the king the affection she has for a shepherd in the northern hills
of Galilee, her sole beloved; the aim of the author presumed by some to present a contrast
between the morals of the south and those of the north, in justification possibly of the secession.
It was for long, and is by some still, believed to be an allegory in which the Bridegroom represents
Christ and the Bride His Church.

CANTON (1,800), chief commercial city and port of Southern China; stands on a river almost
on the seaboard, 90 m. NW. of Hong-Kong, and is a healthy town, but with a heavy rainfall;
it is surrounded by walls, has narrow crooked streets, 125 temples, mostly Buddhist, and two
pagodas, 10 and 13 centuries old respectively; great part of the population live in boats on
the river; the fancy goods, silk, porcelain, ivory, and metal work are famous; its river communication
with the interior has fostered an extensive commerce; exports, tea, silk, sugar, cassia, &c.

CANTON, JOHN, an ingenious experimentalist in physics, and particularly in electricity, born
at Stroud; discovered the means of making artificial magnets and the compressibility of water
(1718-1772).

CANTÙ, CÆSARE, an Italian historian, born in Lombardy; imprisoned by the Austrian government
for his bold advocacy of liberal views, but at length liberated; wrote, among a number of other
works, literary as well as historical, a "Universal History" in 35 vols. (1807-1895).

CANUTE, or CNUT, THE DANE, called the Great, son of Sweyn, king of Denmark; invaded England,
and after a success or two was elected king by his fleet; the claim was repudiated by the Saxons,
and he had to flee; returned in 1015, and next year, though London held out for a time, carried
all before him; on the death of his sole rival became undisputed king of England, and ruled
it as an Englishman born, wisely, equitably, and well, though the care of governing Denmark
and Norway lay on his shoulders as well; died in England, and was buried in Winchester Minster;
every one is familiar with the story of the rebuke he administered to the courtiers by showing
how regardless the waves of the sea were of the authority of a king (994-1035).

CAPE BRETON (92), the insular portion of the prov. of Nova Scotia at its eastern extremity,
100 m. long and 85 broad; is covered with forests of pine, oak, &c., and exports timber and fish.

CAPE COAST CASTLE (11), capital of the Gold Coast colony.

CAPE COLONY (1,527), comprises the extremity of the African continent south of the Orange River
and Natal, and is nearly twice the size of the United Kingdom; the Nieuwveld Berge, running
E. and W., divides the country into two slopes, the northern slope long and gradual to the
Orange River, the southern shorter and terraced to the sea; two-thirds of the country is arid
plain, which, however, only requires irrigation to render it very fertile; the climate is dry
and healthy, but hot in summer; the prevalent vegetation is heath and bulbous plants. Sheep
and ostrich farming are the chief industries; wool, goats' hair, ostrich feathers, hides, diamonds
from Kimberley and copper from Namaqualand are the chief exports; two-thirds of the people
are of African race, chiefly Kaffirs, who flourish under British rule; the remainder are of
Dutch, English, French, and German origin; Cape Town is the capital, Kimberley and Port Elizabeth
the only other large towns, but there are many small towns; roads are good; railway and telegraph
communication is rapidly developing. The government is in the hands of a governor, appointed
by the crown, assisted by an executive council of five and a parliament of two houses; local
government is in vogue all over the country; education is well cared for; the university of
the Cape of Good Hope was founded in 1873. Discovered by the Portuguese Diaz in 1486, the Cape
was taken possession of by the Dutch in 1652, from whom it was captured by Great Britain in
1805. Various steps towards self-government culminated in 1872. In recent years great tracts
to the N. have been formally taken under British protection, and the policy of extending British
sway from the Cape to Cairo is explicitly avowed.

CAPE HORN, a black, steep, frowning rock at the SE. extremity of the Fuegean Islands; much
dreaded at one time by sailors.

CAPE OF GOOD HOPE, a cape in South Africa, discovered by Diaz in 1486; called at first "Cape
of Storms," from the experience of the first navigators; altered in consideration of the promised
land reached beyond.

CAPE TOWN (84), capital of Cape Colony, situated at the head of Table Bay, on the SW. coast,
with Table Mountain rising behind it; is a regularly built, flat-roofed, imposing town, with
handsome buildings and extensive Government gardens; well drained, paved, and lit, and with
a good water supply. The Government buildings and law courts, museum and art gallery, bank
and exchange, are its chief architectural features. It has docks, and a graving dock, and is
a port of call for vessels of all nations, with a thriving commerce.

CAPE VERDE ISLANDS (110), a group of mountainous, volcanic islands, belonging to Portugal,
350 m. from Cape Verde, on the W. of Africa, of which 10 are inhabited, the largest and most
productive Santiago and St. Vincent, with an excellent harbour, oftenest visited. These islands
are unhealthy, and cattle-breeding is the chief industry.

CAPELL, EDWARD, an inspector of plays, born at Bury St. Edmunds; spent 20 years in editing
the text of Shakespeare, in three vols., with notes and various readings (1713-1781).

CAPELLA, a reddish star of the first magnitude in the northern constellation of Auriga.

CAPELLA, an encyclopædist, born in North Africa in the 5th century; author of a work called
the "Satiricon," a strange medley of curious learning.

CAPERCAILZIE, the wood-grouse, a large game-bird found in fir woods in mountainous districts,
and highly esteemed for table.

CAPERNAUM, a town on the N. side of the Sea of Galilee, the centre of Christ's labours, the
exact site of which is uncertain.

CAPET, the surname of Hugh, the founder, in 987, of the third dynasty of French kings, which
continued to rule France till 1328, though the name is applied both to the Valois dynasty,
which ruled till 1589, and the Bourbon, which ruled till 1848, Louis XVI. having been officially
designated as a Capet at his trial, and under that name sentenced to the guillotine.

CAPGRAVE, JOHN, Augustine friar, wrote "Chronicle of England," and voluminously both in French
and English (1393-1464).

CAPISTRANO, GIOVANNI DA, an Italian Franciscan, a rabid adversary of the Hussites, aided John
Hunniades in 1456 in defending Belgrade against the Turks (1385-1456).

CAPITOL, a temple and citadel erected by Tarquin on the Capitoline Hill, one of the seven hills
of Rome, and where victors who were voted a triumph were crowned; terminated at its southern
extremity by Tarpeian Rock, from which criminals guilty of treason were precipitated; hence
the saying, "The Tarpeian Rock is near the Capitol," to denote the close connection between
glory and disgrace.

CAPITULARIES, collections of royal edicts issued by the Frankish kings of the Carlovingian
dynasty, with sanction of the nobles, for the whole Frankish empire, as distinct from the laws
for the separate peoples comprising it, the most famous being those issued or begun by Charlemagne
and St. Louis.

CAPO D'ISTRIA, COUNT OF, born in Corfu; entered the Russian diplomatic service; played a prominent
part in the insurrection of the Greeks against Turkey; made President of the Greek Republic;
assassinated at Nauplia from distrust of his fidelity (1776-1831).

CAPO D'ISTRIA, a port of a small island in the government of Trieste, connected with the mainland
by a causeway half a mile in length.

CAPPADOCIA, an ancient country in the heart of Asia Minor, of varied political fortune; a plateau
with pastures for immense flocks.

CAPRARA, CARDINAL, born at Bologna, legate of Pius VII. in France, concluded the "Concordat"
of 1801 (1733-1810).

CAPRE`RA, a small, barren island off the N. coast of Sardinia, the home of Garibaldi, where
he died, and his burial-place.

CAPRI, a small island at the entrance from the S. of the bay of Naples, with a capital of the
same name on the eastern side; a favourite retreat of the Emperors Augustus and Tiberius, and
noted for its fine air and picturesque scenery.

CAPRIVI, COUNT, born in Berlin, entered the army in 1849; held chief posts in the Austrian
and Franco-German wars; in 1890 succeeded Bismarck as Imperial Chancellor; resigned in 1894
(1831-1899).

CAPUA (11), a fortified city in Campania, on the Volturno, 27 m. N. of Naples, where, or rather
near which, in a place of the same name, Hannibal, at the invitation of the citizens, retired
with his army to spend the winter after the battle of Cannæ, 216 B.C., and where, from the
luxurious life they led, his soldiers were enervated, after which it was taken by the Romans,
destroyed by the Saracens in 840, and the modern city built in its stead.

CAPUCHINS, monks of the Franciscan Order, founded in 1526, so called from a cowl they wear;
they were a mendicant order, and were twice over suppressed by the Pope, though they exist
still in Austria and Switzerland.

CAPULETS, a celebrated Ghibelline family of Verona at mortal feud with that of the Montagues,
familiar to us through Shakespeare's "Romeo and Juliet," Romeo being of the latter and Juliet
of the former.

CAPYBA`RA, the water-hog, the largest rodent extant, in appearance like a small pig.

CARACALLA, a Roman emperor, son of Septimius Severus, born at Lyons; his reign (211-217) was
a series of crimes, follies, and extravagances; he put to death 20,000 persons, among others
the jurist Papinianus, and was assassinated himself by one of his guards.

CARACAS or CARRACAS (72), the cap. of Venezuela, stands at an altitude 3000 ft. above the level
of the sea; subject to earthquakes, in one of which (1812) 12,000 perished, and great part
of the city was destroyed; it contains the tomb of Bolivar.

CARACCI or CARRACCI, a family of painters, born at Bologna: LUDOVICO, the founder of a new
school of painting, the principle of which was eclecticism, in consequence of which it is known
as the Eclectic School, or imitation of the styles of the best masters (1555-1619); ANNIBALE,
cousin and pupil, did "St. Roche distributing Alms," and his chief, "Three Marys weeping over
Christ"; went to Rome and painted the celebrated Farnese gallery, a work which occupied him
four years (1560-1609); AGOSTINO, brother of above, assisted him in the frescoes of the gallery,
the "Communion of St. Jerome" his greatest work (1557-1602).

CARACTACUS, a British chief, king of the Silures, maintained a gallant struggle against the
Romans for nine years, but was overthrown by Ostorius, 50 A.D., taken captive, and led in triumphal
procession through Rome, when the Emperor Claudius was so struck with his dignified demeanour,
that he set him and all his companions at liberty.

CARADOC, a knight of the Round Table, famous for his valour and the chastity and constancy
of his wife.

CARAFFA, a distinguished Neapolitan family, which gave birth to a number of distinguished ecclesiastics,
Paul IV. one of them.

CARAGLIO, an eminent Italian engraver, born at Verona, engraved on gems and medals as well
as copper-plate, after the works of the great masters (1500-1570).

CARAVAGGIO, an Italian painter, disdained the ideal and the ideal style of art, and kept generally
to crass reality, often in its grossest forms; a man of a violent temper, which hastened his
end; a painting by him of "Christ and the Disciples at Emmaus" is in the National Gallery,
London (1569-1609).

CARAVANSERAI, a large unfurnished inn, with a court in the middle for the accommodation of
caravans and other travellers at night in the East.

CARBOHYDRATES, a class of substances such as the sugars, starch, &c., consisting of carbon,
hydrogen, and oxygen, the latter in the proportion in which they exist in water.

CARBONARI (lit. charcoal burners), a secret society that, in the beginning of the 19th century,
originated in Italy and extended itself into France, numbering hundreds of thousands, included
Lord Byron, Silvio Pellico, and Mazzini among them, the object of which was the overthrow of
despotic governments; they were broken up by Austria, and absorbed by the Young Italy party.

CARDAN, JEROME, Italian physician and mathematician, born at Pavia; was far-famed as a physician;
studied and wrote on all manner of known subjects, made discoveries in algebra, believed in
astrology, left a candid account of himself entitled "De Vita Propria"; was the author of "Cardan's
Formula" a formula for the solution of cubic equations; he is said to have starved himself
to death so as to fulfil a prophecy he had made as to the term of his life (1501-1576).

CARDIFF (129), county town of Glamorganshire, S. Wales, on the river Taff, the sea outlet for
the mineral wealth and products of the district, a town that has risen more rapidly than any
other in the kingdom, having had at the beginning of the century only 2000 inhabitants; it
has a university, a number of churches, few of them belonging to the Church of England, and
has also three daily papers.

CARDIGAN, EARL OF, a British officer; commanded the Light Cavalry Brigade in the Crimean war,
and distinguished himself in the famous charge of the Six Hundred, which he led; his favourite
regiment, the 11th Hussars, on the equipment of which he lavished large sums of money (1797-1868).

CARDIGANSHIRE (62), a county in S. Wales, low-lying on the coast, level towards the coast,
and mountainous in the interior, but with fertile valleys.

CARDINALISTS, name given to the partisans in France of Richelieu and Mazarin.

CARDUCCI, Florentine artists, brothers, of the 17th century; did their chief work in Spain.

CARDUCCI, GIOSUE, an Italian poet and critic; author of "Hymn to Satan," "Odi Barbari," "Commentaries
on Petrarch," &c.; b. 1837.

CAREW, THOMAS, English courtier poet; his poems, chiefly masks and lyrics (1589-1639).

CAREY, HENRY, English poet and musician, excelled in ballads; composed "Sally in Our Alley";
d. 1743.

CAREY, SIR ROBERT, warden of the Border Marches under Elizabeth; present at her deathbed rode
off post-haste on the occurrence of the death with the news to Edinburgh to announce it to
King James (1560-1639).

CAREY, WILLIAM, celebrated Baptist missionary, born in Northamptonshire; founder of the Baptist
Missionary Society, and its first missionary; founded the mission at Serampore and directed
its operations, distributing Bibles and tracts by thousands in native languages, as well as
preparing grammars and dictionaries; was 29 years Oriental professor in the College of Fort
William. Calcutta (1761-1834).

CARGILL, DONALD, a Scotch Covenanter, born in Perthshire; was minister of the Barony Parish,
Glasgow; fought at Bothwell Brig; suffered at the Cross of Edinburgh for daring to excommunicate
the king; died with the faith and courage of a martyr (1619-1681).

CARIA, a SW. country in Asia Minor, bordering on the Archipelago, of which the Mæander is the
chief river.

CARIBBEAN SEA, an inland sea of the Atlantic, lying between the Great Antilles and South America,
subject to hurricanes; it corresponds to the Mediterranean in Europe, and is the turning-point
of the Gulf Stream.

CARIBS, a race of American Indians, originally inhabiting the West Indies, now confined to
the southern shores of the Caribbean Sea, as far as the mouth of the Amazon; they are a fine
race, tall, and of ruddy-brown complexion, but have lost their distinctive physique by amalgamation
with other tribes; they give name to the Caribbean Sea.

CARINTHIA (361), since 1849 crownland of Austria, near Italy; is a mountainous and a mineral
country; rears cattle and horses; manufactures hardware and textile fabrics; the principal
river is the Drave; capital, Klagenfurt.

CARISBROOKE, a village in the Isle of Wight, in the castle of which, now in ruins, Charles
I. was imprisoned 13 months before his trial; it was at one time a Roman station.

CARLÉN, EMILIA, Swedish novelist; her novels, some 30 in number, treat of the everyday life
of the lower and middle classes (1807-1883).

CARLETON, WILLIAM, Irish novelist; his first work, and the foundation of his reputation, "Traits
and Stories of the Irish Peasantry," followed by others of a like class (1794-1860).

CARLI, Italian archæologist, numismatist, and economist, born at Capo d'Istria; wrote as his
chief work on political economy; president of the Council of Commerce at Milan (1720-1795).

CARLILE, RICHARD, English Radical and Freethinker, born in Devonshire; a disciple of Tom Paine's,
and propagandist of his views with a zeal which no prosecution could subdue, although he time
after time suffered imprisonment for it, as well as those who associated themselves with him,
his wife included; his principal organ was "The Republican," the first twelve volumes of which
are dated from his prison; he was a martyr for the freedom of the press, and in that interest
did not suffer in vain (1790-1843).

CARLISLE (39), county town of Cumberland, on the Eden; a great railway centre; with an old
castle of historical interest, and a cathedral founded by William Rufus and dedicated to Henry I.

CARLISLE, GEORGE FREDERICK WILLIAM HOWARD, EARL OF, a Whig in politics; supported the successive
Whig administrations of his time, and became eventually Lord-Lieutenant of Ireland under Palmerston
(1802-1864).

CARLISTS, a name given in France to the partisans of Charles X. (1830), and especially in Spain
to those of Don Carlos (1833), and those of his grandson (1873-1874).

CARLOMAN, son of Charles Martel, and brother of Pepin le Bref, king of Austrasia from 741 to
747; abdicated, and retired into a monastery, where he died.

CARLOMAN, son of Pepin le Bref, and brother of Charlemagne, king of Austrasia, Burgundy, and
Provence in 768; d. 771.

CARLOMAN, king of France conjointly with his brother Louis III.; d. 884.

CARLOS, DON, son of Philip II. of Spain, born at Valladolid, and heir to the throne, but from
incapacity, or worse, excluded by his father from all share in the government; confessed to
a priest a design to assassinate some one, believed to be his father; was seized, tried, and
convicted, though sentence against him was never pronounced; died shortly after; the story
of Don Carlos has formed the subject of tragedies, especially one by Schiller, the German poet
(1545-1568).

CARLOS, DON, the brother of Ferdinand VII. of Spain, on whose death he laid claim to the crown
as heir, against Isabella, Ferdinand's daughter who by the Salic law, though set aside in her
favour by her father, had, he urged, no right to the throne; his cause was taken up by a large
party, and the struggle kept up for years; defeated at length he retired from the contest,
and abdicated in favour of his son (1785-1855).

CARLOS, DON, grandson of the preceding, and heir to his rights; revived the struggle in 1870,
but fared no better than his grandfather; took refuge in London; b. 1848.

CARLOVINGIANS, or KARLINGS, the name of the second dynasty of Frankish kings, in succession
to the Merovingian, which had become fainéant; bore sway from 762 to 987, Pepin le Bref the
first, and Louis V. the last; Charlemagne was the greatest of the race, and gave name to the
dynasty.

CALLOW (40), an inland county in Leinster, Ireland; also the county town.

CARLOWITZ, a town on the Danube, 30 m. NW. of Belgrade, where a treaty was concluded in 1699
between Turkey and other European powers, very much to the curtailment of the territories of
the former.

CARLSBAD (10), a celebrated watering-place in Bohemia, of aristocratic resort, the springs
being the hottest in Europe, the water varying from 117° to 165°; population nearly trebled
in the season; the inhabitants are engaged in industries which minister to the tastes of the
visitors and their own profit.

CARLSCRONA (21), a Swedish town, strongly fortified, on the Baltic, with a spacious harbour,
naval station, and arsenal; it is built on five rocky islands united by dykes and bridges.

CARLSRUHE (73), the capital of the Grand-Duchy of Baden, a great railway centre; built in the
form of a fan, its streets, 32 in number, radiating so from the duke's palace in the centre.

CARLSTADT, a German Reformer, associated for a time with Luther, but parted from him both on
practical and dogmatical grounds; succeeded Zwingli as professor at Basel (1483-1541).

CARLTON CLUB, the Conservative club in London, so called, as erected on the site of Carlton
House, demolished in 1828, and occupied by George IV. when he was Prince of Wales.

CARLYLE, ALEXANDER, surnamed Jupiter Carlyle, from his noble head and imposing person, born
in Dumfriesshire; minister of Inveresk, Musselburgh, from 1747 to his death; friend of David
Hume, Adam Smith, and Home, the author of "Douglas"; a leader of the Moderate party in the
Church of Scotland; left an "Autobiography," which was not published till 1860, which shows
its author to have been a man who took things as he found them, and enjoyed them to the full
as any easy-going, cultured pagan (1722-1805).

CARLYLE, THOMAS, born in the village of Ecclefechan, Annandale, Dumfriesshire; son of James
Carlyle, a stone-mason, and afterwards a small farmer, a man of great force, penetration, and
integrity of character, and of Margaret Aitken, a woman of deep piety and warm affection; educated
at the parish school and Annan Academy; entered the University of Edinburgh at the age of 14,
in the Arts classes; distinguished himself early in mathematics; enrolled as a student in the
theological department; became a teacher first in Annan Academy, then at Kirkcaldy; formed
there an intimate friendship with Edward Irving; threw up both school-mastering and the church;
removed to Edinburgh, and took to tutoring and working for an encyclopedia, and by-and-by to
translating from the German and writing criticisms for the Reviews, the latter of which collected
afterwards in the "Miscellanies," proved "epoch-making" in British literature, wrote a "Life
of Schiller"; married Jane Welsh, a descendant of John Knox; removed to Craigenputtock, in
Dumfriesshire, "the loneliest nook in Britain," where his original work began with "Sartor
Resartus," written in 1831, a radically spiritual book, and a symbolical, though all too exclusively
treated as a speculative, and an autobiographical; removed to London in 1834, where he wrote
his "French Revolution" (1837), a book instinct with the all-consuming fire of the event which
it pictures, and revealing "a new moral force" in the literary life of the country and century;
delivered three courses of lectures to the élite of London Society (1837-1840), the last of
them "Heroes and Hero-Worship," afterwards printed in 1840; in 1840 appeared "Chartism," in
1843 "Past and Present," and in 1850 "Latter-Day Pamphlets"; all on what he called the "Condition-of-England-Question,"
which to the last he regarded, as a subject of the realm, the most serious question of the
time, seeing, as he all along taught and felt, the social life affects the individual life
to the very core; in 1845 he dug up a hero literally from the grave in his "Letters and Speeches
of Oliver Cromwell," and after writing in 1851 a brief biography of his misrepresented friend,
John Sterling, concluded (1858-1865) his life's task, prosecuted from first to last, in "sore
travail" of body and soul, with "The History of Friedrich II. of Prussia, called Frederick
the Great," "the last and grandest of his works," says Froude; "a book," says Emerson, "that
is a Judgment Day, for its moral verdict on men and nations, and the manners of modern times";
lies buried beside his own kindred in the place where he was born, as he had left instructions
to be. (1795-1881).

CARMAGNOLE, a Red-republican song and dance.

CARMARTHENSHIRE (30), a county in S. Wales, and the largest in the Principality; contains part
of the coal-fields in the district; capital Carmarthen, on the right bank of the Towy, a river
which traverses the county.

CARMEL, a NW. extension of the limestone ridge that bounds on the S. the Plain of Esdraëlon,
in Palestine, and terminates in a rocky promontory 500 ft. high; forms the southern boundary
of the Bay of Acre; its highest point is 1742 ft. above the sea-level.

CARMELITES, a monastic order, originally an association of hermits on Mount Carmel, at length
mendicant, called the Order of Our Lady of Mount Carmel, i. e. the Virgin, in consecration
to whom it was founded by a pilgrim of the name Berthold, a Calabrian, in 1156. The Order is
said to have existed from the days of Elijah.

CARMEN SYLVA, the nom-de-plume of Elizabeth, queen of Roumania; lost an only child, and took
to literature for consolation; has taken an active interest in the elevation and welfare of
her sex; b. 1843.

CARMONTEL, a French dramatist; author of little pieces under the name of "Proverbes" (1717-1806).

CARNAC, a seaside fishing-village in the Bay of Quibéron, in the dep. of Morbihan, France,
with interesting historical records, particularly Celtic, many of them undecipherable by the
antiquary.

CARNARVON, a maritime county in N. Wales, with the highest mountains and grandest scenery in
the Principality, and a capital of the same name on the Menai Strait, with the noble ruins
of a castle, in which Edward II., the first Prince of Wales, was born.

CARNARVON, HENRY HOWARD, Earl of, Conservative statesman; held office under Lord Derby and
Disraeli; was a good classical scholar; wrote the "Druses of Mount Lebanon" (1831-1890).

CARNATIC, an old prov. in the Madras Presidency of India that extended along the Coromandel
coast from Cape Comorin, 600 m. N.

CARNEADES, a Greek philosopher, born at Cyrene; his whole philosophy a polemic against the
dogmatism of the Stoics, on the alleged ground of the absence of any criterion of certainty
in matters of either science or morality; conceded that truth and virtue were admirable qualities,
but he denied the reality of them; sent once on an embassy to Rome, he propounded this doctrine
in the ears of the Conscript Fathers, upon which Cato moved he should be expelled from the
senate-house and sent back to Athens, where he came from (213-129 B.C.).

CARNEGIE, ANDREW, ironmaster, born in Dunfermline, the son of a weaver; made a large fortune
by his iron and steel works at Pittsburg, U.S., out of which he has liberally endowed institutions
and libraries, both in America and his native country; b. 1835.

CARNIOLA (500), a crownland of the Austrian empire, SW. of Austria, on the Adriatic, S. of
Carinthia; contains quicksilver mines, second only to those of Almaden, in Spain; the surface
is mountainous, and the soil is not grain productive, though in some parts it yields wine and
fine fruit.

CARNIVAL, in Roman Catholic countries the name given to a season of feasting and revelry immediately
preceding Lent, akin to the Saturnalia of the Romans.

CARNOT, LEONARD SADI, son of Nicolas, founder of thermo-dynamics; in his "Reflexions sur la
Puissance du Feu" enunciates the principle of Reversibility, considered the most important
contribution to physical science since the time of Newton (1796-1832). See DR. KNOTT'S "PHYSICS."

CARNOT, MARIE FRANÇOIS, civil engineer and statesman, born at Limoges, nephew of the preceding;
Finance Minister in 1879 and 1887; became President in 1887; was assassinated at Lyons by an
anarchist in 1894.

CARNOT, NICOLAS, French mathematician and engineer, born at Nolay, in Burgundy; a member of
the National Convention; voted for the death of the king; became member of the Committee of
Public Safety, and organiser of the armies of the Republic, whence his name, the "organiser
of victory"; Minister of War under Napoleon; defender of Antwerp in 1814; and afterwards Minister
of the Interior (1753-1823).

CARO, ANNIBALE, an Italian author and poet, notable for his classic style (1507-1566).

CARO, MARIE, a French philosopher, born at Poitiers; a popular lecturer on philosophy, surnamed
le philosophe des dames; wrote on mysticism, materialism, and pessimism (1826-1887).

CAROLINA, NORTH, one of the original 13 States of N. America, on the Atlantic, about the size
of England, S. of Virginia, 480 m. from E. to W. and 180 m. from N. to S.; has a fertile, well-watered
subsoil in the high lands; is rich in minerals and natural products; the mountains are covered
with forests, and the manufactures are numerous.

CAROLINA, SOUTH, S. of N. Carolina, is alluvial with swamps, 100 m. inland from the coast,
is well watered; produces rice and cotton in large quantities and of a fine quality.

CAROLINE ISLANDS (36), a stretch of lagoon islands, 2000 m. from E. to W., belonging to Spain,
N. of New Guinea and E. of the Philippine Islands; once divided into eastern, western, and
central; the soil of the western is fertile, and there is plenty of fish and turtle in the lagoons.

CAROLINE OF BRUNSWICK, queen of George IV. and daughter of the Duke of Brunswick; married George,
then Prince of Wales, in 1795; gave birth to the Princess Charlotte the year following, but
almost immediately after her husband abandoned her; she retired to a mansion at Blackheath;
was allowed to go abroad after a time; on the accession of her husband she was offered a pension
of £50,000 if she stayed out of the country, but rejected it and claimed her rights as queen;
was charged with adultery, but after a long trial acquitted; on the day of the coronation sought
admission to Westminster Abbey, but the door was shut against her; she died a fortnight after
(1768-1821).

CARON, LIEUTENANT-COLONEL, under the first Empire; head of the Belford conspiracy in 1820 under
the Restoration; executed 1822.

CARPACCIO, VITTORE, a Venetian painter of great celebrity, particularly in his early pieces,
for his truth of delineation, his fertile imagination, and his rich colouring; his works are
numerous, and have nearly all of them sacred subjects; an Italian critic says of him, "He had
truth in his heart" (1450-1522).

CARPATHIANS, a range of wooded mountains in Central Europe, 880 m. long, which, in two great
masses, extend from Presburg to Orsova, both on the Danube, in a semicircle round the greater
part of Hungary, particularly the whole of the N. and E., the highest of them Negoi, 8517 ft.,
they are rich in minerals, and their sides clothed with forests, principally of beech and pine.

CARPEAUX, JEAN BAPTISTE, sculptor, born at Valenciennes; adorned by his art, reckoned highly
imaginative, several of the public monuments of Paris, and the façade of the Opera House (1827-1875).

CARPENTARIA, GULF OF, a broad, deep gulf in the N. of Australia; contains several islands,
and receives several rivers.

CARPENTER, MARY, a philanthropist, born at Exeter, daughter of Dr. Lant Carpenter, Unitarian
minister; took an active part in the establishment of reformatory and ragged schools, and a
chief promoter of the Industrial Schools Act; her philanthropic efforts extended to India,
which, in her zeal, she visited four times, and she was the founder of the National Indian
Association (1807-1877).

CARPENTER, WILLIAM BENJAMIN, biologist, brother of the preceding; author, among other numerous
works, of the "Principles of General and Comparative Physiology" (1838); contributed to mental
physiology; held several high professional appointments in London; inaugurated deep-sea soundings,
and advocated the theory of a vertical circulation in the ocean (1813-1877).

CARPI, GIROLAMO DA, Italian painter and architect, born at Ferrara; successful imitator of
Correggio (1501-1556).

CARPI, UGO DA, Italian painter and wood engraver; is said to have invented engraving in chiaroscuro
(1486-1530).

CARPINI, a Franciscan monk, born in Umbria; headed an embassy from Pope Innocent IV. to the
Emperor of the Mogul Tartars to persuade him out of Europe, which he threatened; was a corpulent
man of 60; travelled from Lyons to beyond Lake Baikal and back; wrote a report of his journey
in Latin, which had a quieting effect on the panic in Europe (1182-1252).

CARPIO, a legendary hero of the Moors of Spain; is said to have slain Roland at Roncesvalles.

CARPOC`RATES, a Gnostic of Alexandria of the 2nd century, who believed in the transmigration
of the soul and its final emancipation from all external bonds and obligations, by means of
concentrated meditation on the divine unity, and a life in conformity therewith; was the founder
of a sect called after his name.

CARRARA (11), a town in N. Italy, 30 m. NW. of Leghorn; famous for its quarries of white statuary
marble, the working of which is its staple industry; these quarries have been worked for 2000
years, are 400 in number, and employ as quarrymen alone regularly over 3000 men.

CARREL, ARMAND, French publicist, born at Rouen; a man of high character, and highly esteemed;
editor of the National, which he conducted with great ability, and courage; died of a wound
in a duel with Émile de Girardin (1800-1836).

CARRICK, the southern division of Ayrshire. See AYRSHIRE.

CARRICKFERGUS (9), a town and seaport N. of Belfast Lough, 9½ m. from Belfast, with a picturesque
castle.

CARRIER, JEAN BAPTISTE, one of the most blood-thirsty of the French Revolutionists, born near
Aurillac; an attorney by profession; sent on a mission to La Vendée; caused thousands of victims
to be drowned, beheaded, or shot; was guillotined himself after trial by a Revolutionary tribunal
(1756-1794). See NOYADES.

CARRIÈRE, MORITZ, a German philosopher and man of letters, born in Hesse, author of works on
æsthetics and art in its relation to culture and the ideal; advocated the compatibility of
the pantheistic with the deistic view of the world (1817-1893).

CARROL, LEWIS, pseudonym of C. L. DODGSON (q. v.), the author of "Alice in Wonderland," with
its sequel, "Through the Looking-Glass."

CARSE, the name given in Scotland to alluvial lands bordering on a river.

CARSON, KIT, American trapper, born in Kentucky; was of service to the States in expeditions
in Indian territories from his knowledge of the habits of the Indians (1809-1878).

CARSTAIRS, WILLIAM, a Scotch ecclesiastic, born at Cathcart, near Glasgow; sent to Utrecht
to study theology; recommended himself to the regard of the Prince of Orange, and became his
political adviser; accompanied him to England as chaplain in 1688, and had no small share in
bringing about the Revolution; controlled Church affairs in Scotland; was made Principal of
Edinburgh University; was chief promoter of the Treaty of Union; was held in high esteem by
his countrymen for his personal character as well as his public services; was a most sagacious
man (1649-1715).

CARSTENS, ASMUS JAKOB, Danish artist, born in Sleswig; on the appearance of his great picture,
"The Fall of the Angels," rose at once into fame; was admitted to the Berlin Academy; afterwards
studied the masters at Rome; brought back to Germany a taste for art; was the means of reviving
it; treated classical subjects; quarrelled the Academy; died in poverty at Rome (1754-1798).

CARTAGENA (86), a naval port of Spain, on the Mediterranean, with a capacious harbour; one
of the oldest towns in it, founded by the Carthaginians; was once the largest naval arsenal
in Europe. Also capital (12) of the Bolivar State in Colombia.

CARTE, THOMAS, historian, a devoted Jacobite, born near Rugby; wrote a "History of England,"
which has proved a rich quarry of facts for subsequent historians (1686-1754).

CARTE-BLANCHE, a blank paper with a signature to be filled up with such terms of an agreement
as the holder is authorised to accept in name of the person whose signature it bears.

CARTER, ELIZABETH, an accomplished lady, born at Deal, friend of Dr. Johnson, Sir Joshua Reynolds,
and others; a great Greek and Italian scholar; translated Epictetus and Algarotti's exposition
of Newton's philosophy; some of her papers appear in the Rambler (1717-1806).

CARTERET, JOHN, EARL GRANVILLE, eminent British statesman, orator, and diplomatist, entered
Parliament in the Whig interest; his first speech was in favour of the Protestant succession;
after service as diplomatist abroad, was made Lord-Lieutenant of Ireland, in which capacity
he was brought into contact with Swift, first as an enemy but at length as a friend, and proved
a successful viceroy; in Parliament was head of the party opposed to Sir Robert Walpole and
of the subsequent administration; his foreign policy has been in general approved of; had the
satisfaction of seeing, which he was instrumental in securing, the elder Pitt installed in
office before he retired; was a "fiery, emphatic man" (1690-1763).

CARTERET, PHILIP, English sailor and explorer, explored in the Southern Seas, and discovered
several islands, Pitcairn's Island among the number; d. 1796.

CARTHAGE, an ancient maritime city, on a peninsula in the N. of Africa, near the site of Tunis,
and founded by Phoenicians in 850 B.C.; originally the centre of a colony, it became the capital
of a wide-spread trading community, which even ventured to compete with, and at one time threatened,
under Hannibal, to overthrow, the power of Rome, in a series of protracted struggles known
as the Punic Wars, in the last of which it was taken and destroyed by Publius Cornelius Scipio
in 146 B.C., after a siege of two years, though it rose again as a Roman city under the Cæsars,
and became a place of great importance till burned in A.D. 698 by Hassan, the Arab; the struggle
during the early part of its history was virtually a struggle for the ascendency of the Semitic
people over the Aryan race in Europe.

CARTHUSIANS, a monastic order of a very severe type, founded by St. Bruno in 1086, each member
of which had originally a single cell, eventually one consisting of two or three rooms with
a garden, all of them opening into one corridor; they amassed considerable wealth, but were
given to deeds of benefaction, and spent their time in study and contemplation, in consequence
of which they figure not so much in the outside world as many other orders do.

CARTIER, a French navigator, born at St. Malo, made three voyages to N. America in quest of
a North-West passage, at the instance of Francis I.; took possession of Canada in the name
of France, by planting the French flag on the soil (1494-1554).

CARTOONS, drawings or designs made on stiff paper for a fresco or other paintings, transferred
by tracing or pouncing to the surface to be painted, the most famous of which are those of Raphael.

CARTOUCHE, a notorious captain of a band of thieves, born in Paris, who was broken on the wheel
alive in the Place de Grève (1698-1721).

CARTWRIGHT, EDMUND, inventor of the powerloom and the carding machine, born in Nottinghamshire;
bred for the Church; his invention, at first violently opposed, to his ruin for the time being,
is now universally adopted; a grant of £10,000 was made him by Parliament in consideration
of his services and in compensation for his losses; he had a turn for versifying as well as
mechanical invention (1743-1823).

CARTWRIGHT, JOHN, brother of the preceding; served in the navy and the militia, but left both
services for political reasons; took to the study of agriculture, and the advocacy of radical
political reform much in advance of his time (1740-1824).

CARUS, KARL GUSTAV, a celebrated German physiologist, born at Leipzig; a many-sided man; advocate
of the theory that health of body and mind depends on the equipoise of antagonistic principles
(1789-1869).

CARY, HENRY FRANCIS, translator of Dante, born at Gibraltar; his translation is admired for
its fidelity as well as for its force and felicity (1772-1844).

CARYATIDES, draped female figures surmounting columns and supporting entablatures; the corresponding
male figures are called Atlantes.

CASA, Italian statesman, Secretary of State under Pope Paul IV.; wrote "Galateo; or, the Art
of Living in the World" (1503-1556).

CASABIANCA, LOUIS, a French naval officer, born in Corsica, who, at the battle of Aboukir,
after securing the safety of his crew, blew up his ship and perished along with his son, who
would not leave him (1755-1798).

CASA`LE (17), a town on the Po; manufactures silk twist.

CASANOVA, painter, born in London, of Venetian origin; painted landscapes and battle-pieces
(1727-1806).

CASANOVA DE SEINGALT, a clever Venetian adventurer and scandalous impostor, of the Cagliostro
type, who insinuated himself into the good graces for a time of all the distinguished people
of the period, including even Frederick the Great, Voltaire, and others; died in Bohemia after
endless roamings and wrigglings, leaving, as Carlyle would say, "the smell of brimstone behind
him"; wrote a long detailed, brazen-faced account of his career of scoundrelism (1725-1798).

CASAS, BARTOLOMEO DE LAS, a Spanish prelate, distinguished for his exertions in behalf of the
Christianisation and civilisation of the Indians of S. America (1474-1566).

CASAUBON, ISAAC, an eminent classical scholar and commentator, born in Geneva; professor of
Greek at Geneva and Montpellier, and afterwards of belles-lettres at Paris, invited thither
by Henry IV., who pensioned him; being a Protestant he removed to London on Henry's death,
where James I. gave him two prebends; has been ranked with Lepsius and Scaliger as a scholar
(1559-1614).

CASAUBON, MERIC, son of preceding; accompanied his father to England; held a church living
under the Charleses; became professor of Theology at Oxford, and edited his father's works
(1599-1671).

CASCADE MOUNTAINS, a range in Columbia that slopes down toward the Pacific from the Western
Plateau, of which the Rocky Mountains form the eastern boundary; they are nearly parallel with
the coast, and above 100 m. inland.

CASERTA (35), a town in Italy, 20 m. from Naples, noted for a magnificent palace, built after
plans supplied by Vanvitelli, one of the architects of St. Peter's at Rome.

CASHEL, a town in Tipperary, Ireland, 49 m. NE. of Cork; a bishop's see, with a "Rock" 300
ft. high, occupied by interesting ruins; it was formerly the seat of the kings of Munster.

CASHMERE or KASHMIR (2,543), a native Indian State, bordering upon Tibet, 120 m. long and 80
m. wide, with beautiful scenery and a delicious climate, in a valley of the Himalayas, forming
the basin of the Upper Indus, hemmed in by deep-gorged woods and snow-peaked mountains, and
watered by the Jhelum, which spreads out here and there near it into lovely lakes; shawl weaving
and lacquer-work are the chief occupations of the inhabitants.

CASIMIR, the name of five kings of Poland; the most eminent, Casimir III., called the Great,
after distinguishing himself in wars against the Teutonic Knights, was elected king in 1333;
recovered Silesia from Bohemia in two victories; defeated the Tartars on the Vistula, and annexed
part of Lithuania; formed a code of laws, limiting both the royal authority and that of the
nobles (1309-1370).

CASIMIR-PERIER, president of the French Republic, born in Paris; a man of moderate views and
firm character; was premier in 1893; succeeded Carnot in 1894; resigned 1895, because, owing
to misrepresentation, the office had become irksome to him; b. 1847.

CASINO, a club-house or public building in Continental towns provided with rooms for social
gatherings, music, dancing, billiards, &c.

CASIRI, a Syro-Maronite religious, and a learned Orientalist (1710-1791).

CASPARI, KARL PAUL, German theologian, born at Dessau; professor at Christiania (1814-1892).

CASPIAN SEA, an inland sea, partly in Europe and partly in Asia, the largest in the world,
being 600 m. from N. to S. and from 270 to 130 m. in breadth, with the Caucasus Mts. on the
W. and the Elburz on the S., is the fragment of a larger sea which extended to the Arctic Ocean;
shallow in the N., deep in the S.; the waters, which are not so salt as the ocean, abound in
fish, especially salmon and sturgeon.

CASS, LEWIS, an eminent American statesman, a member of the Democratic party, and openly hostile
to Great Britain; though in favour of slave-holding, a friend of Union; wrote a "History of
the U.S. Indians" (1782-1867).

CASSAGNAC, GRANIER DE, a French journalist; at first an Orleanist, became a supporter of the
Empire; started several journals, which all died a natural death; edited Le Pays, a semi-official
organ; embroiled himself in duels and lawsuits without number (1806-1880).

CASSAGNAC, PAUL, son of preceding; editor of Le Pays and the journal L'Autorité; an obstinate
Imperialist; b. 1843.

CASSANDER, king of Macedonia, passed over in the succession by his father Antipater; allied
himself with the Greek cities; invaded Macedonia and ascended the throne; married Thessalonica,
the sister of Alexander the Great, but put Alexander's mother to death, thus securing himself
against all rival claimants; left his son Philip as successor (354-297 B.C.).

CASSANDRA, a beautiful Trojan princess, daughter of Priam and Hecuba, whom Apollo endowed with
the gift of prophecy, but, as she had rejected his suit, doomed to utter prophecies which no
one would believe, as happened with her warnings of the fate and the fall of Troy, which were
treated by her countrymen as the ravings of a lunatic; her name is applied to any one who entertains
gloomy forebodings.

CASSANO, a town in the S. of Italy; also a town near Milan, scene of a French victory under
Vendôme in 1705, and a French defeat under Moreau in 1799.

CASSATION, COURT OF, a court of highest and last appeal in France, appointed in the case of
appeal to revise the forms of a procedure in an inferior court; it consists of a president
and vice-president, 49 judges, a public prosecutor called the procureur-général, and six advocates-general;
it consists of three sections: first, one to determine if the appeal should be received; second,
one to decide in civil cases; and third, one to decide in criminal cases.

CASSEL (72), capital of Hesse-Cassel, an interesting town, 120 m. from Frankfort-on-Main; it
is the birthplace of Bunsen.

CASSELL, JOHN, the publisher, born in Manchester; a self-made man, who knew the value of knowledge
and did much to extend it (1817-1865).

CASSIANUS, JOANNUS, an Eastern ascetic; came to Constantinople, and became a pupil of Chrysostom,
who ordained him; founded two monasteries in Marseilles; opposed the extreme views of Augustine
in regard to grace and free-will, and human depravity; and not being able to go the length
of Pelaganism, adopted SEMI-PELAGIANISM, q. v. (360-448).

CASSINI, name of a family of astronomers of the 17th and 18th centuries, of Italian origin;
distinguished for their observations and discoveries affecting the comets, the planets, and
the moon; they settled, father and son and grandson, in Paris, and became in succession directors
of the observatory of Paris, the last of whom died in 1864, after completing in 1793 a great
topographical map of France begun by his father.

CASSIODO`RUS, a Latin statesman and historian, born in Calabria; prime minister of Theodoric
the Great and his successor; retired into a monastery about 70, and lived there nearly 30 years;
wrote a history of the Goths, and left letters of great historical value (468-568).

CASSIOPE`IA, queen of Ethiopia, mother of Andromeda, placed after death among the constellations;
a constellation well north in the northern sky of five stars in the figure of a W.

CASSIQUIA`RI, a remarkable river in Venezuela, which, like a canal, connects the Rio Negro,
an affluent of the Amazon, with the Orinoco.

CASSITER`IDES, islands in the Atlantic, which the Phoenician sailors visited to procure tin;
presumed to have been the Scilly Islands or Cornwall, which they adjoin.

CASSIUS, CAIUS, chief conspirator against Cæsar; won over Brutus to join in the foul plot;
soon after the deed was done fled to Syria, made himself master of it; joined his forces with
those of Brutus at Philippi; repulsed on the right, thought all was lost; withdrew into his
tent, and called his freedmen to kill him; Brutus, in his lamentation over him, called him
the "last of the Romans"; d. 42 B.C.

CASSIUS, SPURIUS, a Roman, thrice chosen consul, first time 502 B.C.; subdued the Sabines,
made a league with the Latins, promoted an agrarian law, the first passed, which conceded to
the plebs a share in the public lands.

CASSIVELLAUNUS, a British warlike chief, who unsuccessfully opposed Cæsar on his second invasion
of Britain, 52 B.C.; surrendered after defeat, and became tributary to Rome.

CASTALIA, a fountain at the foot of Parnassus sacred to the Muses; named after a nymph, who
drowned herself in it to escape Apollo.

CASTANET, bishop of Albi; procured the canonisation of St. Louis (1256-1317).

CASTAÑOS, a Spanish general; distinguished for his victory over the French under Dupont, whom
he compelled to surrender and sign the capitulation of Baylen, in 1808; after this he served
under Wellington in several engagements, and was commander of the Spanish army, ready, if required,
to invade France in 1815 (1758-1852).

CASTE, rank in society of an exclusive nature due to birth or origin, such as prevails among
the Hindus especially. Among them there are originally two great classes, the twice-born and
the once-born, i. e. those who have passed through a second birth, and those who have not;
of the former there are three grades, Brahmans, or the priestly caste, from the mouth of Brahma;
Kshatriyas, or the soldier caste, from the hands of Brahma; and Vaisyas, or the agricultural
caste, from the feet of Brahma; while the latter are of one rank and are menial to the other,
called Sudras, earth-born all; notwithstanding which distinction often members of the highest
class sink socially to the lowest level, and members of the lowest rise socially to the highest.

CASTEL, RENÉ-RICHARD, French poet and naturalist (1758-1832).

CASTELAR, EMILIO, a Spanish republican, born in Cadiz; an eloquent man and a literary; appointed
dictator of Spain in 1873, but not being equal to the exigency in the affairs of the State,
resigned, and made way for the return of monarchy, though under protest; wrote a history of
the "Republican Movement in Europe" among other works of political interest; b. 1832.

CASTELLAMARE (15), a port on the coast of Italy, 115 m. SE. of Naples, the scene of Pliny's
death from the eruption of Vesuvius in A.D. 79. It takes its name from a castle built on it
by the Emperor Frederick II.; has a cathedral, arsenal, and manufactures.

CASTELLIO, Protestant theologian, a protégé of Calvin's for a time, till he gave expression
to some heretical views, which led to a rupture; he ventured to pronounce the Song of Solomon
a mere erotic poem (1515-1563).

CASTIGLIONE, a town of Sicily, on N. slope of Etna, 35 m. SW. of Messina; famed for hazel nuts.

CASTIGLIONE, COUNT, an accomplished Italian, born in Mantua; author of "II Cortegiano," a manual
for courtiers, called by the Italians in admiration of it "The Golden Book"; had spent much
of his time in courts in England and Spain, as well as Rome, and was a courtly man (1478-1529).

CASTILE, a central district of Spain, divided by the mountains of Castile into Old Castile
(1,800) in the N., and New Castile (3,500) in the S.: the former consisting of a high bare
plateau, bounded by mountains on the N. and on the S., with a variable climate, yields wheat
and good pasturage, and is rich in minerals; the latter, also tableland, has a richer soil,
and yields richer produce, breeds horses and cattle, and contains besides the quicksilver mines
of Almaden. Both were at one time occupied by the Moors, and were created into a kingdom in
the 11th century, and united to the crown of Spain in 1469 by the marriage of Ferdinand and
Isabella.

CASTLE GARDEN, the immigration depôt of New York where immigrants land, report themselves,
and are advised where to settle or find work.

CASTLE OF INDOLENCE, a poem of Thomson's, a place in which the dwellers live amid luxurious
delights, to the enervation of soul and body.

CASTLEFORD (14), a town 10 m. SE. of Leeds, with extensive glass-works, especially bottles.

CASTLEREAGH, LORD, entered political life as a member of the Irish Parliament, co-operated
with Pitt in securing the Union, after which he entered the Imperial Parliament, became War
Minister (1805), till the ill-fated Walcheren expedition and a duel with Canning obliged him
to resign; became Foreign Secretary in 1812, and the soul of the coalition against Napoleon;
represented the country in a congress after Napoleon's fall; succeeded his father as Marquis
of Londonderry in 1821, and committed suicide the year following; his name has been unduly
defamed, and his services to the country as a diplomatist have been entirely overlooked (1769-1822).

CASTLES IN SPAIN, visionary projects.

CASTLETOWN, a seaport in the Isle of Man, 11 m. SW. of Douglas, and the former capital.

CASTLEWOOD, the heroine in Thackeray's "Esmond."

CASTOR AND POLLUX, the Dioscuri, the twin sons of Zeus by Leda; great, the former in horsemanship,
and the latter in boxing; famed for their mutual affection, so that when the former was slain
the latter begged to be allowed to die with him, whereupon it was agreed they should spend
a day in Hades time about; were raised eventually to become stars in the sky, the Gemini, twin
signs in the zodiac, rising and setting together; this name is also given to the electric phenomenon
called ST. ELMO'S FIRE (q. v.).

CASTREN, MATHIAS ALEXANDER, an eminent philologist, born in Finland, professor of the Finnish
Language and Literature in Helsingfors; travelled all over Northern Europe and Asia, and left
accounts of the races he visited and their languages; translated the "KALEVALA" (q. v.) the
epic of the Finns; died prematurely, worn out with his labours (1813-1852).

CASTRES (22), a town in the dep. of Tarn, 46 m. E. of Toulouse; was a Roman station, and one
of the first places in France to embrace Calvinism.

CASTRO, GUILLEN DE, a Spanish dramatist, author of the play of "The Cid," which gained him
European fame; he began life as a soldier, got acquainted with Lope de Vega, and took to dramatic
composition (1569-1631).

CASTRO, INEZ DE, a royal heiress of the Spanish throne in the 14th century, the beloved wife
of Don Pedro, heir of the Portuguese throne; put to death out of jealousy of Spain by the latter's
father, but on his accession dug out of her grave, arrayed in her royal robes, and crowned
along with him, after which she was entombed again, and a magnificent monument erected over
her remains.

CASTRO, JUAN DE, a Portuguese soldier, born at Lisbon, distinguished for his exploits in behalf
of Portugal; made viceroy of the Portuguese Indies, but died soon after in the arms of Francis
Xavier (1500-1548).

CASTRO, VACA DE, a Spaniard, sent out by Charles V. as governor of Peru, but addressing himself
to the welfare of the natives rather than the enrichment of Spain, was recalled, to pine and
die in prison in 1558.

CASTROGIOVANNI (18), a town in a strong position in the heart of Sicily, 3270 ft. above the
sea-level; at one time a centre of the worship of Ceres, and with a temple to her.

CASTRUCCIO-CASTRACANI, Duke of Lucca, and chief of the Ghibelline party in that town, the greatest
war-captain in Europe in his day; lord of hundreds of strongholds; wore on a high occasion
across his breast a scroll, inscribed, "He is what God made him," and across his back another,
inscribed, "He shall be what God will make"; d. 1328, "crushed before the moth."

CATACOMBS, originally underground quarries, afterwards used as burial-places for the dead,
found beneath Paris and in the neighbourhood of Rome, as well as elsewhere; those around Rome,
some 40 in number, are the most famous, as having been used by the early Christians, not merely
for burial but for purposes of worship, and are rich In monuments of art and memorials of history.

CATALANI, ANGELICA, a celebrated Italian singer and prima donna, born near Ancona; began her
career in Rome with such success that it led to engagements over all the chief cities of Europe,
the enthusiasm which followed her reaching its climax when she came to England, where, on her
first visit, she stayed eight years; by the failure of an enterprise in Paris she lost her
fortune, but soon repaired it by revisiting the capitals of Europe; died of cholera in Paris
(1779-1840).

CATALONIA (1,900), old prov. of Spain, on the NE.; has a most fertile soil, which yields a
luxuriant vegetation; chief seat of manufacture in the country, called hence the "Lancashire
of Spain"; the people are specially distinguished from other Spaniards for their intelligence
and energy.

CATAMAR`CA (ISO), NW. prov. of the Argentine Republic; rich in minerals, especially copper.

CATA`NIA (123), an ancient city at the foot of Etna, to the S., on a plain called the Granary
of Sicily; has been several times devastated by the eruptions of Etna, particularly in 1169,
1669, and 1693; manufactures silk, linen, and articles of amber, &c., and exports sulphur,
grain, and fruits.

CATANZA`RO (20), a city in Calabria, 6 m. from the Gulf of Squillace, with an old castle of
Robert Guiscard.

CATEGORICAL IMPERATIVE, Kant's name for the self-derived moral law, "universal and binding
on every rational will, a commandment of the autonomous, one and universal reason."

CATEGORIES are either classes under which all our Notions of things may be grouped, or classes
under which all our Thoughts of things may be grouped; the former called Logical, we owe to
Aristotle, and the latter called Metaphysical, we owe to Kant. The Logical, so derived, that
group our notions, are ten in number: Substance or Being, Quantity, Quality, Relation, Place,
Time, Position, Possession, Action, Passion. The Metaphysical, so derived, that group our thoughts,
are twelve in number: (1) as regards quantity, Totality, Plurality, Unity; (2) as regards quality,
Reality, Negation, Limitation; (3) as regards relation, Substance, Accident, Cause and Effect,
Action and Reaction; (4) as regards modality, Possibility and Impossibility, Existence and
Nonexistence, Necessity and Contingency. John Stuart Mill resolves the categories into five,
Existence, Co-existence, Succession, Causation, and Resemblance.

CATESBY, MARK, an English naturalist and traveller, wrote a natural history of Carolina, Florida,
and the Bahamas (1680-1750).

CATESBY, ROBERT, born in Northamptonshire, a Catholic of good birth; concerned in the famous
Gunpowder Plot; shot dead three days after its discovery by officers sent to arrest him (1573-1605).

CATH`ARI, OR CATHARISTS, i. e. purists or puritans, a sect of presumably Gnostic derivation,
scattered here and there under different names over the S. and W. of Europe during the Middle
Ages, who held the Manichæan doctrine of the radically sinful nature of the flesh, and the
necessity of mortifying all its desires and affections to attain purity of soul.

CATHARINE, ST., OF ALEXANDRIA, a virgin who, in 307, suffered martyrdom after torture on the
wheel, which has since borne her name; is represented in art as in a vision presented to Christ
by His Mother as her sole husband, who gives her a ring. Festival, Nov. 25.

CATHARINE I., wife of Peter the Great and empress of Russia, daughter of a Livonian peasant;
"a little stumpy body, very brown,... strangely chased about from the bottom to the top of
the world,... had once been a kitchen wench"; married first to a Swedish dragoon, became afterwards
the mistress of Prince Menschikoff, and then of Peter the Great, who eventually married her;
succeeded him as empress, with Menschikoff as minister; for a time ruled well, but in the end
gave herself up to dissipation, and died (1682-1727).

CATHARINE II. THE GREAT, empress of Russia, born at Stettin, daughter of Prince of Anhalt-Zerbst;
"a most-clever, clear-eyed, stout-hearted woman"; became the wife of Peter III., a scandalous
mortal, who was dethroned and then murdered, leaving her empress; ruled well for the country,
and though her character was immoral and her reign despotic and often cruel, her efforts at
reform, the patronage she accorded to literature, science, and philosophy, and her diplomatic
successes, entitle her to a high rank among the sovereigns of Russia; she reigned from 1763
to 1796, and it was during the course of her reign, and under the sanction of it, that Europe
witnessed the three partitions of Poland (1729-1796).

CATHARINE DE' MEDICI, daughter of Lorenzo de' Medici, wife of Henry II. of France, and mother
of his three successors; on the accession of her second son, Charles IX.--for the reign of
her first, Francis II., was very brief--acted as regent during his minority; joined heart and
soul with the Catholics in persecuting the Huguenots, and persuaded her son to issue the order
which resulted in the massacre of St. Bartholomew; on his death, which occurred soon after,
she acted as regent during the minority of her third son, Henry III., and lived to see both
herself and him detested by the whole French people, and this although she was during her ascendency
the patroness of the arts and of literature (1519-1589).

CATHARINE OF ARAGON, fourth daughter of Ferdinand and Isabella of Spain, and wife of Henry
VIII., her brother-in-law as widow of Arthur, from whom, and at whose instance, after 18 years
of married life, and after giving birth to five children, she was divorced on the plea that,
as she had been his brother's wife before, it was not lawful for him to have her; after her
divorce she remained in the country, led an austere religious life, and died broken-hearted.
The refusal of the Pope to sanction this divorce led to the final rupture of the English Church
from the Church of Rome, and the emancipation of the nation from priestly tyranny (1483-1536).

CATHARINE OF BRAGANZA, the wife of Charles II. of England, of the royal house of Portugal;
was unpopular in the country as a Catholic and neglected by her husband, on whose death, however,
she returned to Portugal, and did the duties ably of regent for her brother Don Pedro (1638-1705).

CATHARINE OF SIENNA, born at Sienna, a sister of the Order of St. Dominic, and patron saint
of the Order; celebrated for her ecstasies and visions, and the marks which by favour of Christ
she bore on her body of His sufferings on the Cross (1347-1380). Festival, April 30. Besides
her, are other saints of the same name.

CATHARINE OF VALOIS, daughter of Charles VI. of France, and wife of Henry V. of England, who,
on his marriage to her, was declared heir to the throne of France, with the result that their
son was afterwards, while but an infant, crowned king of both countries; becoming a widow,
she married Owen Tudor, a Welsh gentleman, whereby a grandson of his succeeded to the English
throne as Henry VII., and the first of the Tudors (1401-1438).

CATHARINE PARR, the sixth wife of Henry VIII. and the daughter of a Westmoreland knight; was
of the Protestant faith and obnoxious to the Catholic faction, who trumped up a charge against
her of heresy and treason, from which, however, she cleared herself to the satisfaction of
the king, over whom she retained her ascendency till his death; d. 1548.

CATHARINE THEOT, a religious fanatic, born in Avranches; gave herself out as the Mother of
God; appeared in Paris in 1794, and declared Robespierre a second John the Baptist and forerunner
of the Word; the Committee of Public Safety had her arrested and guillotined.

CATHAY, the name given to China by mediæval writers, which it still bears in Central Asia.

CATHCART, EARL, a British general and diplomatist, born in Renfrewshire; saw service in America
and Flanders; distinguished himself at the bombardment of Copenhagen; represented England at
the court of Russia and the Congress of Vienna (1755-1843).

CATHCART, SIR GEORGE, a lieutenant-general, son of the preceding; enlisted in the army; served
in the later Napoleonic wars; was present at Quatre-Bras and Waterloo; was governor of the
Cape; brought the Kaffir war to a successful conclusion; served in the Crimea, and fell at
Inkerman (1794-1854).

CATHEDRAL, the principal church in a diocese, and which contains the throne of the bishop as
his seat of authority; is of a rank corresponding to the dignity of the bishop; the governing
body consists of the dean and chapter.

CATHELINEAU, JACQUES, a famous leader of the Vendéans in their revolt against the French Republic
on account of a conscription in its behalf; a peasant by birth; mortally wounded in attacking
Nantes; he is remembered by the peasants of La Vendée as the "Saint of Anjou" (1759-1793).

CATHOLIC EMANCIPATION, the name given to the emancipation in 1829 of the Roman Catholics of
the United Kingdom from disabilities which precluded their election to office in the State,
so that they are eligible now to any save the Lord Chancellorship of England and offices representative
of royalty.

CATHOLIC EPISTLES, the name, equivalent to encyclical, given to certain epistles in the New
Testament not addressed to any community in particular, but to several, and given eventually
to all not written by St. Paul.

CATHOLIC MAJESTY, a title given by the Pope to several Spanish monarchs for their zeal in the
defence of the Catholic faith.

CATILINE, or LUCIUS SERGIUS CATILINA, a Roman patrician, an able man, but unscrupulously ambitious;
frustrated in his ambitious designs, he formed a conspiracy against the State, which was discovered
and exposed by Cicero, a discovery which obliged him to leave the city; he tried to stir up
hostility outside; this too being discovered by Cicero, an army was sent against him, when
an engagement ensued, in which, fighting desperately, he was slain, 62 B.C.

CATINAT, NICOLAS, a marshal of France, born in Paris; one of the greatest military captains
under Louis XIV.; defeated the Duke of Savoy twice over, though defeated by Prince Eugene and
compelled to retreat; was an able diplomatist as well as military strategist (1637-1712).

CATLIN, GEORGE, a traveller among the North American Indians, and author of an illustrated
work on their life and manners; spent eight years among them (1796-1872).

CATO DIONYSIUS, name of a book of maxims in verse, held in high favour during the Middle Ages;
of unknown authorship.

CATO, MARCUS PORTIUS, or CATO MAJOR, surnamed Censor, Priscus, and Sapiens, born at Tusculum,
of a good old family, and trained to rustic, frugal life; after serving occasionally in the
army, removed to Rome; became in succession censor, ædile, prætor, and consul; served in the
second Punic war, towards the end of it, and subjugated Spain; was a Roman of the old school;
disliked and denounced all innovations, as censor dealt sharply with them; sent on an embassy
to Africa, was so struck with the increasing power and the threateningly evil ascendency of
Carthage, that on his return he urged its demolition, and in every speech which he delivered
afterwards he ended with the words, Ceterum censeo Carthaginem esse delendam, "But, be that
as it may, my opinion is Carthage must be destroyed" (234-149 B.C.).

CATO, MARCUS PORTIUS, or CATO THE YOUNGER, or UTICENSIS, great-grandson of the former, and
a somewhat pedantic second edition of him; fortified himself by study of the Stoic philosophy;
conceived a distrust of the public men of the day, Cæsar among the number; preferred Pompey
to him, and sided with him; after Pompey's defeat retired to Utica, whence his surname, and
stabbed himself to death rather than fall into the hands of Cæsar (95-46 B.C.).

CATO-STREET CONSPIRACY, an insignificant, abortive plot, headed by one Thistlewood, to assassinate
Castlereagh and other ministers of the crown in 1820; so called from their place of meeting
off the Edgeware Road, London.

CATRAIL, an old Roman earthwork, 50 m. long, passing S. from near Galashiels, through Selkirk
and Roxburgh, or from the Cheviots; it is known by the name of the "Devil's Dyke."

CATS, JACOB, a Dutch poet and statesman, venerated in Holland as "Father Cats"; his works are
written in a simple, natural style, and abound in wise maxims; he did service as a statesman;
twice visited England as an envoy, and was knighted by Charles I. (1577-1660).

CATSKILL MOUNTAINS, a group of mountains, of steep ascent, and with rocky summits, in New York
State, W. of the Hudson, none of them exceeding 4000 feet; celebrated as the scene of Rip Van
Winkle's long slumber; belong to the Appalachians.

CATTEGAT, an arm of the sea, 150 m. in length and 84 of greatest width, between Sweden and
Jutland; a highway into the Baltic, all but blocked up with islands; is dangerous to shipping
on account of the storms that infest it at times.

CATTERMOLE, GEORGE, artist, born in Norfolk; illustrated Britton's "English Cathedrals," "Waverley
Novels," and the "Historical Annual" by his brother; painted mostly in water-colour; his subjects
chiefly from English history (1800-1868).

CATTLE PLAGUE, or RINDERPEST, a disease which affects ruminants, but especially bovine cattle;
indigenous to the East, Russia, Persia, India, and China, and imported into Britain only by
contagion of some kind; the most serious outbreaks were in 1865 and 1872.

CATULLUS, CAIUS VALERIUS, the great Latin lyric poet, born at Verona, a man of wealth and good
standing, being, it would seem, of the equestrian order; associated with the best wits in Rome;
fell in love with Clodia, a patrician lady, who was the inspiration, both in peace and war,
of many of his effusions, and whom he addresses as Lesbia; the death of a brother affected
him deeply, and was the occasion of the production of one of the most pathetic elegies ever
penned; in the civic strife of the time he sided with the senate, and opposed Cæsar to the
length of directing against him a coarse lampoon (84-54 B.C.).

CAUCA, a river in Colombia, S. America, which falls into the Magdalena after a northward course
of 600 m.

CAUCASIA, a prov. of Russia, geographically divided into Cis-Caucasia on the European side,
and Trans-Caucasia on the Asiatic side of the Caucasus, with an area about four times as large
as England.

CAUCASIAN RACE, a name adopted by Blumenbach to denote the Indo-European race, from the fine
type of a skull of one of the race found in Georgia.

CAUCASUS, an enormous mountain range, 750 m. in length, extending from the Black Sea ESE. to
the Caspian, in two parallel chains, with tablelands between, bounded on the S. by the valley
of the Kur, which separates it from the tableland of Armenia; snow-line higher than that of
the Alps; has fewer and smaller glaciers; has no active volcanoes, though abundant evidence
of volcanic action.

CAUCHON, bishop of Beauvais, infamous for the iniquitous part he played in the trial and condemnation
of Joan of Arc; d. 1443.

CAUCHY, AUGUSTIN LOUIS, mathematician, born in Paris; wrote largely on physical subjects; his
"Memoir" on the theory of the waves suggested the undulatory theory of light; professor of
Astronomy at Paris; declined to take the oath of allegiance to Napoleon III., and retired (1789-1857).

CAUCUS, a preliminary private meeting to arrange and agree on some measure or course to propose
at a general meeting of a political party.

CAUDINE FORKS, a narrow mountain gorge in Samnium, in which, during the second Samnite war,
a Roman army was entrapped and caught by the Samnites, who obliged them to pass under the yoke
in token of subjugation, 321 B.C.

CAUDLE, MRS., an imaginary dame, a conception of Douglas Jerrold, famous for her "Curtain Lectures"
all through the night for 30 years to her husband Mr. Job Caudle.

CAUL, a membrane covering the head of some children at birth, to which a magical virtue was
at one time ascribed, and which, on that account, was rated high and sold often at a high price.

CAULAINCOURT, ARMAND DE, a French general and statesman of the Empire, a faithful supporter
of Napoleon, who conferred on him a peerage, with the title of Duke of Vicenza, of which he
was deprived at the Restoration; represented Napoleon at the Congress of Châtillon (1772-1827).

CAUS, SALOMON DE, a French engineer, born at Dieppe; discovered the properties of steam as
a motive force towards 1638; claimed by Arago as the inventor of the steam-engine in consequence.

CAUSALITY, the philosophic name for the nature of the relation between cause and effect, in
regard to which there has been much diversity of opinion among philosophers.

CAUTERETS, a fashionable watering-place in the dep. of the Hautes-Pyrénées, 3250 ft. above
the sea, with sulphurous springs of very ancient repute, 25 in number, and of varying temperature.

CAVAIGNAC, LOUIS EUGÈNE, a distinguished French general, born in Paris; appointed governor
of Algeria in 1849, but recalled to be head of the executive power in Paris same year; appointed
dictator, suppressed the insurrection in June, after the most obstinate and bloody struggle
the streets of Paris had witnessed since the first Revolution; stood candidate for the Presidency,
to which Louis Napoleon was elected; was arrested after the coup d'état, but soon released;
never gave in his adherence to the Empire (1802-1857).

CAVALCASELLE, GIOVANNI BATTISTA, Italian writer on art; joint-author with J. A. Crowe of works
on the "Early Flemish Painters" and the "History of Painting in Italy"; chief of the art department
under the Minister of Public Instruction in Rome; b. 1820.

CAVALIER, JEAN, leader of the CAMISARDS (q. v.), born at Ribaute, in the dep. of Gard; bred
a baker; held his own against Montreval and Villars; in 1704 concluded peace with the latter
on honourable terms; haughtily received by Louis XIV., passed over to England; served against
France, and died governor of Jersey (1679-1740).

CAVALIERS, the royalist partisans of Charles I. in England in opposition to the parliamentary
party, or the Roundheads, as they were called.

CAVALLO, a distinguished Italian physicist, born at Naples (1749-1809).

CAVAN (111), inland county S. of Ulster, Ireland, with a poor soil; has minerals and mineral
springs.

CAVE, EDWARD, a London bookseller, born in Warwickshire; projected the Gentleman's Magazine,
to which Dr. Johnson contributed; was the first to give Johnson literary work, employing him
as parliamentary reporter, and Johnson was much attached to him; he died with his hand in Johnson's
(1691-1754).

CAVE, WILLIAM, an English divine; author of works on the Fathers of the Church and on primitive
Christianity, of high repute at one time (1637-1713).

CAVENDISH, the surname of the Devonshire ducal family, traceable back to the 14th century.

CAVENDISH, GEORGE, the biographer of Wolsey; never left him while he lived, and never forgot
him or the lesson of his life after he was dead; this appears from the vivid picture he gives
of him, though written 30 years after his death (1500-1561).

CAVENDISH, LORD FREDERICK, brother of the ninth Duke of Devonshire, educated at Trinity College,
Cambridge, and a Liberal; was made Chief-Secretary for Ireland in 1882, but chancing to walk
home one evening through the Phoenix Park, he fell a victim, stabbed to the heart, of a conspiracy
that was aimed at Mr. Burke, an unpopular subordinate, who was walking along with him, and
came to the same fate. Eight months after, 20 men were arrested as concerned in the murder,
when one of the 20 informed; five of them were hanged; the informer Carey was afterwards murdered,
and his murderer, O'Donnel, hanged (1836-1882).

CAVENDISH, HENRY, natural philosopher and chemist, born at Nice, of the Devonshire family;
devoted his entire life to scientific investigations; the first to analyse the air of the atmosphere,
determine the mean density of the earth, discover the composition of water, and ascertain the
properties of hydrogen; was an extremely shy, retiring man; born rich and died rich, leaving
over a million sterling (1731-1810).

CAVENDISH, SPENCER COMPTON, ninth Duke of Devonshire, for long known in public life as Marquis
of Hartington; also educated at Trinity College, and a leader of the Liberal party; served
under Gladstone till he adopted Home Rule for Ireland, but joined Lord Salisbury in the interest
of Union, and one of the leaders of what is called the Liberal-Unionist party; b. 1833.

CAVENDISH, THOMAS, an English navigator, fitted out three vessels to cruise against the Spaniards;
extended his cruise into the Pacific; succeeded in taking valuable prizes, with which he landed
in England, after circumnavigating the globe; he set out on a second cruise, which ended in
disaster, and he died in the island of Ascension broken-hearted (1555-1592).

CAVENDISH, WILLIAM, English courtier and cavalier in the reigns of James I. and Charles I.;
joined Charles II. in exile; returned at the Restoration; was made Duke of Newcastle; wrote
on horsemanship (1592-1676).

CAVENDISH, WILLIAM, first Duke of Devonshire; friend and protector of Lord William Russell;
became a great favourite at court, and was raised to the dukedom (1640-1707).

CAVIARE, the roe (the immature ovaries) of the common sturgeon and other kindred fishes, caught
chiefly in the Black and Caspian Seas, and prepared and salted; deemed a great luxury by those
who have acquired the taste for it; largely imported from Astrakhan.

CAVOUR, COUNT CAMILLO BENSO DE, one of the greatest of modern statesmen, born the younger son
of a Piedmontese family at Turin; entered the army, but was precluded from a military career
by his liberal opinions; retired, and for 16 years laboured as a private gentleman to improve
the social and economic condition of Piedmont; in 1847 he threw himself into the great movement
which resulted in the independence and unification of Italy; for the next 14 years, as editor
of Il Risorgimento, member of the chamber of deputies, holder of various portfolios in the
government, and ultimately as prime minister of the kingdom of Sardinia, he obtained a constitution
and representative government for his country, improved its fiscal and financial condition,
and raised it to a place of influence in Europe; he co-operated with the allies in the Crimean
war; negotiated with Napoleon III. for the expulsion of the Austrians from Italy, and so precipitated
the successful war of 1859; he encouraged Garibaldi in the expedition of 1860, which liberated
Sicily and Southern Italy, and saw the parliament of 1861 summoned, and Victor Emmanuel declared
king of Italy; but the strain of his labours broke his health, and he died a few months later
(1810-1861).

CAWNPORE (188), a city on the right bank of the Ganges, in the North-Western Provinces of India,
40 m. SW. of Lucknow, and 628 NW. of Calcutta; the scene of one of the most fearful atrocities,
perpetrated by Nana Sahib, in the Indian Mutiny in 1857.

CAXTON, WILLIAM, the first English printer, born in Kent, bred a mercer, settled for a time
in Bruges, learned the art of printing there, where he printed a translation of the "Recuyell
of the Historyes of Troyes," and "The Game and Playe of Chesse"; returning to England, set
up a press in Westminster Abbey, and in 1477 issued "Dictes and Sayings of the Philosophers,"
the first book printed in England, which was soon followed by many others; he was a good linguist,
as well as a devoted workman (1422-1491).

CAYENNE (10), cap. and port of French Guiana, a swampy, unhealthy place, rank with tropical
vegetation; a French penal settlement since 1852.

CAYLA, COUNTESS OF, friend and confidante of Louis XVIII. (1784-1850).

CAYLEY, ARTHUR, an eminent English mathematician, professor at Cambridge, and president of
the British Association in 1883 (1821-1895).

CAYLEY, CHARLES BAGOT, a linguist, translated Dante into the metre of the original, with annotations,
besides metrical versions of the "Iliad," the "Prometheus" of Æschylus, the "Canzoniere" of
Petrarch, &c. (1823-1883).

CAYLUS, COUNT, a distinguished archæologist, born in Paris; author of a "Collection of Antiquities
of Egypt, Etruria," &c., with excellent engravings (1692-1765).

CAYLUS, MARQUISE DE, born in Poitou, related to Mme. de Maintenon; left piquant souvenirs of
the court of Louis XIV. and the house of St. Cyr (1672-1729).

CAZALÈS, a member of French Constituent Assembly, a dragoon captain, a fervid, eloquent orator
of royalism, who "earned thereby," says Carlyle, "the shadow of a name" (1758-1805).

CAZOTTE, author of the "Diable Amoureux"; victim as an enemy of the French Revolution; spared
for his daughter's sake for a time, but guillotined at last; left her a "lock of his old grey
hair" (1720-1792).

CEAN-BERMUDEZ, a Spanish writer on art; author of a biographical dictionary of the principal
artists of Spain (1749-1834).

CEARA (35), cap. of the prov. (900) of the name, in N. of Brazil.

CE`BES, a Greek philosopher, disciple and friend of Socrates, reputed author of the "Pinax"
or Tablet, a once popular book on the secret of life, being an allegorical representation of
the temptations that beset it.

CECIL, ROBERT, EARL OF SALISBURY, succeeded his father, Lord Burleigh, as first Minister under
Elizabeth, and continued in office under James I., whose friendship he sedulously cultivated
before his accession, and who created him earl (1565-1612). See BURLEIGH, LORD.

CECILIA, ST., a Roman virgin and martyr, A.D. 230, patron saint of music, especially church
music, and reputed inventor of the organ; sometimes represented as holding a small organ, with
her head turned heavenwards as if listening to the music of the spheres, and sometimes as playing
on an organ and with a heavenly expression of face. Festival, Nov. 22.

CECROPS, the mythical first king and civiliser of Attica and founder of Athens with its citadel,
dedicated by him to Athena, whence the name of the city.

CEDAR RAPIDS (25), a manufacturing town in Iowa, U.S.; a great railway centre.

CELADON, poetical name for a languid swain, all sighs and longings.

CELÆNO, name of one of the HARPIES (q. v.).

CELEBES (1,000), an island in the centre of the Eastern Archipelago, third in size, in the
shape of a body with four long limbs, traversed by mountain chains, and the greater part of
it a Dutch possession, though it contains a number of small native states; it yields among
its mineral products gold, copper, tin, &c.; and among its vegetable, tea, coffee, rice, sugar,
pepper, &c.; capital. Macassar.

CÉLESTE, MME., a dancer, born in Paris; made her début in New York; in great repute in England,
and particularly in the States, where she in her second visit realised £40,000 (1814-1882).

CELESTIAL EMPIRE, China, as ruled over by a dynasty appointed by Heaven.

CELESTINE, the name of five Popes: C. I., Pope from 422 to 432; C. II., Pope from 1143 to 1144;
C. III., Pope from 1191 to 1198; C. IV., Pope for 18 days in 1241; C. V., Pope in 1294, a hermit
for 60 years; nearly 80 when elected against his wish; abdicated in five months; imprisoned
by order of Boniface VIII.; d. 1296; canonised 1313.

CELESTINES, an order of monks founded by Celestine V. before he was elected Pope in 1354; they
followed the rule of the Benedictine Order, and led a contemplative life.

CELLINI, BENVENUTO, a celebrated engraver, sculptor, and goldsmith, a most versatile and erratic
genius, born at Florence; had to leave Florence for a bloody fray he was involved in, and went
to Rome; wrought as a goldsmith there for 20 years, patronised by the nobles; killed the Constable
de Bourbon at the sack of the city, and for this received plenary indulgence from the Pope;
Francis I. attracted him to his court and kept him in his service five years, after which he
returned to Florence and executed his famous bronze "Perseus with the Head of Medusa," which
occupied him four years; was a man of a quarrelsome temper, which involved him in no end of
scrapes with sword as well as tongue; left an autobiography, from its self-dissection of the
deepest interest to all students of human nature (1500-1571).

CELSIUS, a distinguished Swedish astronomer, born at Upsala, and professor of Astronomy there;
inventor of the Centigrade thermometer (1701-1744).

CELSUS, a celebrated Roman physician of the age of Augustus, and perhaps later; famed as the
author of "De Medicina," a work often referred to, and valuable as one of the sources of our
knowledge of the medicine of the ancients.

CELSUS, a philosopher of the 2nd century, and notable as the first assailant on philosophic
grounds of the Christian religion, particularly as regards the power it claims to deliver from
the evil that is inherent in human nature, inseparable from it, and implanted in it not by
God, but some inferior being remote from Him; the book in which he attacked Christianity is
no longer extant, only quotations from it scattered over the pages of the defence of Origen
in reply.

CELTIBE`RI, an ancient Spanish race occupying the centre of the peninsula, sprung from a blending
of the aborigines and the Celts, who invaded the country; a brave race, divided into four tribes;
distinguished in war both as cavalry and infantry, and whom the Romans had much trouble in
subduing.

CELTS. The W. of Europe was in prehistoric times subjected to two invasions of Aryan tribes,
all of whom are now referred to as Celts. The earlier invaders were Goidels or Gaels; they
conquered the Ivernian and Iberian peoples of ancient Gaul, Britain, and Ireland; their successors,
the Brythons or Britons pouring from the E., drove them to the westernmost borders of these
countries, and there compelled them to make common cause with the surviving Iberians in resistance;
in the eastern parts of the conquered territories they formed the bulk of the population, in
the W. they were in a dominant minority; study of languages in the British Isles leads to the
conclusion that the Irish, Manx, and Scottish Celts belonged chiefly to the earlier immigration,
while the Welsh and Cornish represent the latter; the true Celtic type is tall, red or fair,
and blue-eyed, while the short, swarthy type, so long considered Celtic, is now held to represent
the original Iberian races.

CENCI, THE, a Roman family celebrated for their crimes and misfortunes as well as their wealth.
FRANCESCO CENCI was twice married, had had twelve children by his first wife, whom he treated
cruelly; after his second marriage cruelly treated the children of his first wife, but conceived
a criminal passion for the youngest of them, a beautiful girl named BEATRICE, whom he outraged,
upon which, being unable to bring him to justice, she, along with her stepmother and a brother,
hired two assassins to murder him; the crime was found out, and all three were beheaded (1599);
this is the story on which Shelley founded his tragedy, but it is now discredited.

CENIS, MONT, one of the Cottian Alps, over which Napoleon constructed a pass 6884 ft. high
in 1802-10, through which a tunnel 7½ m. long passes from Modane to Bardonnêche, connecting
France with Italy; the construction of this tunnel cost £3,000,000, and Napoleon's pass a tenth
of the sum.

CENSORS, two magistrates of ancient Rome, who held office at first for five years and then
eighteen months, whose duty it was to keep a register of the citizens, guard the public morals,
collect the public revenue, and superintend the public property.

CEN`TAURS, a savage race living between Pelion and Ossa, in Thessaly, and conceived of at length
by Pindar as half men and half horses, treated as embodying the relation between the spiritual
and the animal in man and nature, in all of whom the animal prevails over the spiritual except
in Chiron, who therefore figures as the trainer of the heroes of Greece; in the mythology they
figure as the progeny of Centaurus, son of IXION (q. v.) and the cloud, their mothers being mares.

CENTRAL AMERICA (3,000), territory of fertile tableland sloping gradually to both oceans, occupied
chiefly by a number of small republics, lying between Tehuantepec and Panama in N. America;
it includes the republics of Guatemala, Honduras, St. Salvador, Nicaragua, and Costa Rica,
and a few adjoining fractions of territory.

CENTRAL INDIA (10,000), includes a group of feudatory States lying between Rajputana in the
N. and Central Provinces in the S.

CENTRAL PROVINCES (12,944), States partly British and partly native, occupying the N. of the
Deccan, and lying between the Nerbudda and the Godavary.

CEOS, one of the Cyclades, a small island 13 m. by 8 m., yields fruits; was the birthplace
of Simonides and Bacchylides.

CEPHALONIA (80), the largest of the Ionian Islands, 30 m. long, the ancient Samos; yields grapes
and olive oil.

CEPHALUS, king of Thessaly, who having involuntarily killed his wife Procris, in despair put
himself to death with the same weapon.

CERAM` (195), the largest of S. Moluccas; yields sago, which is chiefly cultivated and largely
exported.

CERBERUS, the three-headed or three-throated monster that guarded the entrance to the nether
world of Pluto, could be soothed by music, and tempted by honey, only Hercules overcame him
by sheer strength, dragging him by neck and crop to the upper world.

CERES, the Latin name for DEMETER (q. v.); also the name of one of the asteroids, the first
discovered, by Piazzi, in 1801.

CERI`GO (14), an Ionian island, the southernmost, the ancient Cythera; yields wine and fruits.

CERINTHUS, a heresiarch of the first century, whom, according to tradition, St. John held in
special detestation, presumably as denying the Father and the Son.

CERRO DE PASCO, a town in Peru, 14,200 ft. above the sea-level, with the richest silver mine
in S. America.

CERUTTI, a Jesuit, born at Turin; became a Revolutionary in France; pronounced the funeral
oration at the grave of Mirabeau in 1789.

CERVANTES-SAAVEDRA, MIGUEL DE, the author of "Don Quixote," born at Alcalá de Henares; was
distinguished in arms before he became distinguished in letters; fought in the battle of Lepanto
like a very hero, and bore away with him as a "maimed soldier" marks of his share in the struggle;
sent on a risky embassy, was captured by pirates and remained in their hands five years; was
ransomed by his family at a cost which beggared them, and it was only when his career as a
soldier closed that he took himself to literature; began as a dramatist before he devoted himself
to prose romance; wrote no fewer than 30 dramas; the first part of the work which has immortalised
his name appeared in 1605, and the second in 1615; it took the world by storm, was translated
into all the languages of Europe, but the fortune which was extended to his book did not extend
to himself, for he died poor, some ten days before his great contemporary, William Shakespeare;
though carelessly written, "Don Quixote" is one of the few books of all time, and is as fresh
to-day as when it was first written (1547-1616).

CERVIN, MONT, the French name for the Matterhorn, 705 ft., the summit of the Pennine Alps,
between Valais and Piedmont.

CESAREWITCH, the eldest son and heir of the Czar of Russia.

CE`SARI, GIUSEPPE, sometimes called ARPINO, an eminent Italian painter; painted a series of
frescoes in the Conservatorio of the Capitol, illustrative of events in the history of Rome
(1568-1640).

CESAROTTI, an Italian poet, translator of the "Iliad" and "Ossian" into Italian (1730-1808).

CESTUS, a girdle worn by Greek and Roman women, specially the girdle of Aphrodité, so emblazoned
with symbols of the joys of love that no susceptible soul could resist the power of it; it
was borrowed by Hera to captivate Zeus.

CETINJE, the capital of Montenegro, in a valley 2000 ft. high; smallest of capital cities,
with a population under 2000.

CETTE (36), a seaport, trading, and manufacturing town, on a tongue of land between the lagoon
of Thau and the Mediterranean, 23 m. SW. of Montpellier, with a large safe harbourage.

CE`UTA (12), a port opposite Gibraltar belonging to Spain, on the coast of Morocco, guarded
by a fort on one of the Pillars of Hercules, overlooking it; of importance as a military and
convict station.

CÉVENNES, a range of low mountains on the eastern edge of the central plateau of France, separating
the basin of the Rhône from those of the Loire and Garonne; average height from 3000 to 4000
ft.; the chief scene of the dragonnades against the Huguenots under Louis XIV.

CEYLON (3,008), a pear-shaped island about the size of Scotland, separated from India, to which
it geographically belongs, and SE. of which it lies, by Palk Strait, 32 m. broad; comprises
a lofty, central tableland with numerous peaks, the highest Tallagalla, 8000 ft., and a broad
border of well-watered plains. It was an ancient centre of civilisation; the soil is everywhere
fertile; the climate is hot, but more equitable than on the mainland; the chief products are
tea, cinnamon, and tobacco; the forests yield satin-wood, ebony, &c.; the cocoa-nut palm abounds;
there are extensive deposits of iron, anthracite, and plumbago; precious stones, sapphires,
rubies, amethysts, &c., are in considerable quantities; the pearl fisheries are a valuable
government monopoly. The chief exports are tea, rice, cotton goods, and coals. Two-thirds of
the people are Singhalese and Buddhists, there are 6000 Europeans. The island is a crown colony,
the largest in the British Empire, administered by a governor with executive and legislative
councils; the capital and chief port is Colombo (127).

CHABAS, FRANÇOIS, a French Egyptologist, born in Briançon; his works have contributed much
to elucidate the history of the invasion and repulsion of the Hyksos in Egypt (1817-1882).

CHABOT, a member of the National Convention of France, a "disfrocked Capuchin," adjured "Heaven,"
amid enthusiasm, "that at least they may have done with kings"; guillotined (1759-1794).

CHACKTAW INDIANS. See CHOCKTAW.

CHAD, LAKE, a shallow lake in the Sahara, of varied extent, according as the season is dry
or rainy, at its largest covering an area as large as England, and abounding in hippopotamuses,
rhinoceroses, &c., as well as waterfowl and fish.

CHADBAND, REV. MR., a character in "Bleak House."

CHADWICK, SIR EDWIN, an English social reformer, born in Manchester, associated with measures
bearing upon sanitation and the improvement of the poor-laws, and connected with the administration
of them (1801-1890).

CHÆRONEA, a town in Boeotia, where Philip of Macedon defeated the Athenians, and extinguished
the liberties of Greece.

CHALAIS, COUNT DE, a favourite of Louis XIII., accused of conspiracy against Richelieu, arrested
at Nantes, and beheaded (1599-1626).

CHALAZA, one of the two filaments attached to the ends of the yoke of an egg to steady it in
the albumen.

CHALCEDON, a city of Bithynia, at the entrance of the Thracian Bosphorus, where the fourth
Council of the Church was held in 451, which defined the orthodox conception of Christ as God-man.

CHALCIDICÉ, the 3-fingered peninsula of the Balkan territory stretching into the Ægean Sea.

CHALCIS, the ancient capital of Euboea or Negropont.

CHALDEA, ancient name for Babylonia.

CHALIER, a Piedmontese, head of the party of the Mountain at Lyons; his execution the signal
for an insurrection at Lyons against the Convention (1747-1793).

CHALLENGER EXPEDITION, a scientific expedition sent out by the British Government in the Challenger
in 1872 in the interest of science, and under the management of scientific experts, to various
stations over the globe, to explore the ocean, and ascertain all manner of facts regarding
it open to observation, an expedition which concluded its operations in 1876, of which as many
as 50 volumes of reports have been compiled.

CHALLIS, JAMES, an astronomer, born in Essex, noted the position of the planet Neptune before
its actual discovery (1803-1882).

CHALLONER, RICHARD, a Roman Catholic bishop, born at Lewes; a zealous Catholic, author of "Garden
of the Soul," a popular devotional book, as well as several controversial books (1691-1781).

CHALMERS, ALEXANDER, a miscellaneous writer, born at Aberdeen; settled in London; edited the
"British Essayists" in 45 vols., and author of "A General Biographical Dictionary."

CHALMERS, GEORGE, an English publicist, born at Fochabers, author of "An Account, Historical
and Topographical, of North Britain" (1742-1825).

CHALMERS, THOMAS, a celebrated Scotch ecclesiastic and pulpit orator, born at Anstruther, Fife;
studied for the Church, and entered the ministry; after he did so was for some years more engrossed
with physical studies and material interests than spiritual, but he by-and-by woke up to see
and feel that the spiritual interest was the sovereign one, and to the promotion of that he
henceforth devoted himself body and soul; it was for the sake of the spiritual he took the
interest he did in the ecclesiastical affairs of the nation, and that the Church might have
scope and freedom to discharge its spiritual functions was one chief ruling passion of his
life, and it is no wonder he bent all his energies on a movement in the Church to secure this
object; he was not much of a scholar or even a theologian, but a great man, and a great force
in the religious life of his country; though the first pulpit-orator of his day, and though
he wrote largely, as well as eloquently, he left no writings worthy of him except the "Astronomical
Discourses" perhaps, to perpetuate his memory; he was distinguished for his practical sagacity,
and was an expert at organisation; in his old age he was a most benignant, venerable-looking
man: "It is a long time," wrote Carlyle to his mother, just after a visit he had paid him a
few days before he died--"it is a long time since I have spoken to so good and really pious-hearted
and beautiful old man" (1780-1847).

CHÂLONS-SUR-MARNE (25), capital of the French dep. of Marne, 100 m. E. of Paris, where Attila
was defeated by the Romans and Goths in 451; Napoleon III. formed a camp near it for the training
of troops.

CHÂLONS-SUR-SAÔNE (24), a trading centre some 80 m. N. of Lyons; manufactures machinery, glass,
paper, and chemicals.

CHAINS, chief town of the French dep. of Haute Vienne, where Richard Coeur de Lion was mortally
wounded in 1199 by a shot with an arrow.

CHAM, the pseudonym of the French caricaturist Amédee de Noé, famous for his humorous delineations
of Parisian life (1819-1884).

CHAMBER OF COMMERCE, an association of merchants to promote and protect the interests of trade,
particularly of the town or the district to which they belong.

CHAMBER OF DEPUTIES, a French legislative assembly, elected now by universal suffrage.

CHAMBERLAIN, RIGHT HON. JOSEPH, born in London, connected as a business man with Birmingham;
after serving the latter city in a municipal capacity, was elected the parliamentary representative
in 1876; became President of the Board of Trade under Mr. Gladstone in 1880, and chief promoter
of the Bankruptcy Bill; broke with Mr. Gladstone on his Home Rule measure for Ireland, and
joined the Liberal-Unionists; distinguished himself under Lord Salisbury as Colonial Secretary;
b. 1836.

CHAMBERS, EPHRAIM, an English writer, born in Kendal, author of a cyclopædia which bears his
name, and which formed the basis of subsequent ones, as Johnson confessed it did of his Dictionary
(1680-1750).

CHAMBERS, GEORGE, an English marine painter, born at Whitby; d. 1840.

CHAMBERS, ROBERT, brother of the succeeding and in the same line of life, but of superior accomplishments,
especially literary and scientific, which served him well in editing the publications issued
by the firm; was the author of a great many works of a historical, biographical, and scientific,
as well as literary interest; wrote the "Vestiges of Creation," a book on evolutionary lines,
which made no small stir at the time of publication, 1844, and for a time afterwards, the authorship
of which he was slow to own (1802-1871).

CHAMBERS, SIR WILLIAM, born at Peebles; apprenticed to a bookseller in Edinburgh, and commenced
business on his own account in a small way; edited with his brother the "Gazetteer of Scotland";
started, in 1832, Chambers's Edinburgh Journal to meet a demand of the time for popular instruction
in company with his brother founded a great printing and publishing establishment, from which
there has issued a number of valuable works in the interest especially of the propagation of
useful knowledge of all kinds; was a distinguished Edinburgh citizen, and did much for the
expansion and improvement of the city (1800-1883)

CHAMBERS, SIR WILLIAM, architect, born at Stockholm, of Scotch origin; architect of Somerset
House; was of the Johnson circle of wits (1726-1796)

CHAMBÉRY (19), chief town of dep. of Savoy, in a beautiful district; is the ancient capital,
and contains the castle, of the dukes of Savoy; manufactures cloth, wines, soap, and textile
fabrics; is also a summer resort.

CHAMBEZE, a head-stream of the Congo, N. of lake Nyassa.

CHAMBORD, spacious château in the dep. of Loire-et-Cher, France, built by Francis I.; after
being long a residence for royalty and people of distinction, was presented in 1821 to the
Duc de Bordeaux, the Comte de Chambord.

CHAMBORD, COMTE DE, Duc de Bordeaux, son of the Duc de Berri and grandson of Charles X., born
at Paris; exiled in 1830, he retired to the château of Frohsdorf, in Austria, where he died
without issue; his father and grandfather being dead, the monarchical party resolved to attempt
a restoration in his behalf in 1872, but he refused to adopt the tricolor flag of the Revolution,
and the scheme was abandoned, a like opportunity offering itself twice before being let slip
(1820-1883).

CHAMBRE ARDENTE, a name given to certain courts of justice established to try certain cases
that required to be sharply dealt with; they were held at night, and even when held in the
daytime with lighted torches; a court of the kind was instituted for trial of the Huguenots
in 1530, and again in 1680 and 1716.

CHAMFORT, a French wit and littérateur, born in Auvergne; took to the Revolution, but offended
the leaders, and being threatened with arrest committed suicide, "cutting and slashing with
frantic, uncertain hand, gaining, not without difficulty, the refuge of death"; he was a born
cynic, and was famous for his keen insight into human nature and his sharp criticisms of it,
summed up in a collection of maxims he left, as well as for his anecdotes in incisive portraiture
of character. "He was a man," says Professor Saintsbury, "soured by his want of birth, health,
and position, and spoilt by hanging on to the great persons of his time. But for a kind of
tragi-comic satire, a soeva indignatio, taking the form of contempt for all that is exalted
and noble, he has no equal in literature except Swift" (1741-1794).

CHAMILLARD, Minister of Finance and of War under Louis XIV.; "distinguished himself by his
incapacity" (1651-1721).

CHAMISSO, ADALBERT VON, a German naturalist and littérateur born in France, but educated in
Berlin; is famous for his poetical productions, but especially as the author of "Peter Schlemihl,"
the man who lost his shadow, which has been translated into nearly every European language;
he wrote several works on natural history (1781-1838).

CHAMOUNI, OR CHAMONIX, a village in the dep. of Haute-Savoie, 33 m. SE. of Geneva, in a valley
forming the upper basin of the Arve, famous for its beauty and for its glaciers; it is from
this point that the ascent of Mont Blanc is usually made.

CHAMOUSSET, a French philanthropist, born in Paris; the originator of mutual benefit societies
(1717-1773).

CHAMPAGNE, an ancient province of France, 180 m. long by 150 broad, annexed to the Crown 1286,
and including the deps. of Aube, Haute-Marne, Marne, and Ardennes; the province where the wine
of the name is principally manufactured.

CHAMP-DE-MARS, a large space, of ground in Paris, between the front of the École Militaire
and the left bank of the Seine; the site of recent Expositions, and the scene of the Federation
Féte, 14th July 1790.

CHAMPLAIN`, a beautiful lake between the States of New York and Vermont; it is 100 m. in length,
and from 1 m. at its S. end to 14 m. at its N. end broad.

CHAMPLAIN, SAMUEL DE, a French navigator, born at Brouage, in Saintonge, was founder of Quebec,
and French Governor of Canada; wrote an account of his voyages (1570-1635).

CHAMPOLLION, JEAN FRANÇOIS, a celebrated French Egyptologist, born in Figeac, dep. of Lot;
early gave himself to the study of Coptic and Egyptian antiquities; was the first to decipher
the hieroglyphics of ancient Egypt, a great discovery; conducted a scientific expedition to
Egypt in 1828, and returned in 1830 with the fruits of his researches; a chair of Egyptology
was in consequence instituted in the College of France, and he was installed as the first professor;
his writings on the science, of which he laid the foundation, are numerous (1790-1832).

CHAMPS-ELYSÉES, a Parisian promenade between the Place de la Concorde and the Arc de Triomphe.

CHANCELLOR, RICHARD, an English seaman, voyaging in northern parts, arrived in the White Sea,
and travelled to Moscow, where he concluded a commercial treaty with Russia on behalf of an
English company; wrote an interesting account of his visit; after a second visit, in which
he visited Moscow, was wrecked on the coast of Aberdeenshire in 1556.

CHANDERNAGORE (25), a small town and territory on the Hooghly, 22 m. N. of Calcutta, belonging
to France.

CHANDLER, RICHARD, a learned Hellenistic archæologist, born in Hants; travelled in Asia Minor
and Greece, along with two artists, to examine and describe the antiquities; the materials
collected were published in his "Ionian Antiquities," "Travels in Asia Minor," &c. (1738-1810).

CHANDOS, an English title inherited by the Grenville family, of Norman origin.

CHANDOS, JOHN, a celebrated English general in the 14th century; was present at Crécy, governor
of English provinces in France ceded by treaty of Bretigny; defeated and took prisoner Du Guesclin
of Auray; served under the Black Prince, and was killed near Poitiers, 1369.

CHANGARNIER, NICOLAS, French general, born at Autun; distinguished himself in Algeria, was
exiled after the coup-d'état, returned in 1870, served in the Franco-German war; surrendered
at Metz, at the close of the war came back, and assisted in reorganising the army (1793-1877).

CHANNEL, THE ENGLISH, an arm of the Atlantic between France and England, 280 m. long and 100
m. wide at the mouth; the French call it La Manche (the sleeve) from its shape.

CHANNEL ISLANDS (92), a group of small islands off the NW. coast of France, of which the largest
are Jersey, Guernsey, Alderney, and Sark; formerly part of the Duchy of Normandy, and now all
that remains to Britain of her French dominions, being subject to it since 1066; have a delightful
climate mild and bright, and varied and beautiful scenery; the soil is fertile; flowers and
fruit are grown for export to Britain, also early potatoes for the London market; Guernsey
pears and Jersey cows are famous; valuable quarries of granite are wrought; the language is
Norman-French.

CHANNING, WILLIAM ELLERY, a Unitarian preacher and miscellaneous writer, born at Newport, Rhode
Island, U.S.; a man of the most liberal sentiments, who shrank from being classed with any
sect; ranked high in point of moral character; was a vigorous thinker, and eloquent with the
pen; "a man of faithful, long-continued striving towards what is Best" (1780-1842).

CHANSON DE GESTES (i. e. Songs of Deeds), poems of a narrative kind much in favour in the Middle
Ages, relating in a legendary style the history and exploits of some famous hero, such as the
"Chanson de Roland," ascribed to Théroulde, a trouvère of the 9th century.

CHANTREY, SIR FRANCIS, an English sculptor, born in Derbyshire; was apprenticed to a carver
and gilder in Sheffield; displayed a talent for drawing and modelling; received a commission
to execute a marble bust for the parish, church, which was so successful as to procure him
further and further commissions; executed four colossal busts of admirals for Greenwich Hospital;
being expert at portraiture, his busts were likenesses; executed busts of many of the most
illustrious men of the time, among them of Sir Walter Scott, Wordsworth, Southey, and Wellington,
as well as of royal heads; made a large fortune, and left it for the encouragement of art (1781-1841).

CHANZY, a French general, born at Nouart, Ardennes; served in Algeria; commanded the army of
the Loire in 1870-71; distinguished himself by his brilliant retreat from Mans to Laval; was
afterwards Governor-General in Algeria; died suddenly, to the regret of his country (1823-1883).

CHAOS, a name in the ancient cosmogomy for the formless void out of which everything at first
sprang into existence, or the wide-spread confusion that prevailed before it shaped itself
into order under the breath of the spirit of life.

CHAPELAIN, a French poet, protégé of Richelieu, born at Paris; composed a pretentious poem
on Joan of Arc, entitled "Pucelle," which was laughed out of existence on the appearance of
the first half, consisting of only 12 of the 24 books promised, the rest having never passed
beyond the MS. stage (1595-1674).

CHAPMAN, GEORGE, English dramatic poet, born at Hitchin, Hertfordshire; wrote numerous plays,
both in tragedy and comedy, as well as poems, of unequal merit, but his great achievement,
and the one on which his fame rests, is his translation into verse of the works of Homer, which,
though not always true to the letter, is instinct with somewhat of the freshness and fire of
the original; his translation is reckoned the best yet done into English verse, and the best
rendering into verse of any classic, ancient or modern (1559-1634).

CHAPPELL, musical amateur, collector and editor of old English airs, and contributor to the
history of English national music; was one of the founders of the Musical Hungarian Society,
and the Percy Society (1809-1888).

CHAPTAL, a distinguished French chemist and statesman, born at Nogaret, Lozère; author of inventions
in connection with the manufacture of alum and saltpetre, the bleaching and the dyeing of cotton;
held office under Napoleon, and rendered great service to the arts and manufactures of his
country (1756-1832).

CHARCOT, JEAN MARTIN, a French pathologist; made a special study of nervous diseases, including
hypnotism, and was eminent for his works in connection therewith (1823-1893).

CHARDIN, SIR JOHN, traveller, born in Paris; author of "Travels in India and Persia," valuable
for their accuracy (1643-1713).

CHARENTE (360), a dep. of France, W. of the Gironde, capital Angoulême; with vast chestnut
forests; produces wines, mostly distilled into brandy.

CHARENTE-INFÉRIEURE (456), a maritime dep. of France, W. of the former; includes the islands
of Rhé, Oléron, Aix, and Madame; capital, La Rochelle.

CHARIVA`RI, a satirical journal, such as the English Punch; originally a discordant mock serenade.

CHARLEMAGNE i. e. Charles or Karl the Great, the first Carlovingian king of the Franks, son
and successor of Pepin le Bref (the Short); became sole ruler on the death of his brother Carloman
in 771; he subjugated by his arms the southern Gauls, the Lombards, the Saxons, and the Avares,
and conducted a successful expedition against the Moors in Spain, with the result that his
kingdom extended from the Ebro to the Elbe; having passed over into Italy in support of the
Pope, he was on Christmas Day 800 crowned Emperor of the West, after which he devoted himself
to the welfare of his subjects, and proved himself as great in legislation as in arms; enacted
laws for the empire called capitularies, reformed the judicial administration, patronised letters,
and established schools; kept himself in touch and au courant with everything over his vast
domain; he died and was buried at Aix-la-Chapelle (742-814).

CHARLEROI (21), a manufacturing town in Hainault, Belgium, 35 m. SE. of Brussels.

CHARLES II., surnamed THE BALD, son of Louis "le Débonnaire"; after conquering his brother
Lothaire at Fontenoy in 841, became by the treaty of Verdun king of France, 843; was unable
to defend his kingdom against the Normans; went to Italy, and had himself crowned emperor at
Rome: d. 877.

CHARLES III., surnamed THE SIMPLE, became king of France in 893; his reign one long struggle
against the Normans, which ended by conceding Normandy to Rollo; was conquered by Hugh Capet,
a rival for the crown, at Soissons, and dethroned in 922; died in captivity, 929.

CHARLES IV., THE FAIR, third son of Philip the Fair, king of France from 1322 to 1328; lost
to France Guienne, which was taken from him by the English; was the last of the Capetians; d. 1328.

CHARLES V., THE WISE, son of John II., king of France from 1361 to 1380; recovered from the
English almost all the provinces they had conquered, successes due to his own prudent policy,
and especially the heroism of Du Guesclin, De Clisson, and De Boucicaut; France owed to him
important financial reforms, the extension of privileges to the universities, and the establishment
of the first national library, into which were gathered together thousands of MSS.; the Bastille
was founded in his reign.

CHARLES VI., THE WELL-BELOVED, king of France from 1380 to 1422, was son and successor of Charles
V.; began his reign under the guardianship of his uncles, who rifled the public treasury and
provoked rebellion by their exactions; gained a victory at Rossbach over the Flemings, then
in revolt, and a little after dismissed his uncles and installed in their stead the wise councillors
of his father, whose sage, upright, and beneficent administration procured for him the title
of "Well-Beloved," a state of things, however, which did not last long, for the harassments
he had been subjected to drove him insane, and his kingdom, torn in pieces by rival factions,
was given over to anarchy, and fell by treaty of Troyes almost entirely into the hands of the
English conquerors at Agincourt (1368-1422).

CHARLES VII., THE VICTORIOUS, son of Charles VI., became king of France in 1422; at his accession
the English held possession of almost the whole country, and he indolently made no attempt
to expel them, but gave himself up to effeminate indulgences; was about to lose his whole patrimony
when the patriotism of the nation woke up at the enthusiastic summons of Joan of Arc; her triumphs
and those of her associates weakened the English domination, and even after her death the impulse
she gave continued to work, till at the end of 20 years the English were driven out of France,
and lost all they held in it except the town of Calais, along with Havre, and Guines Castle
(1403-1461).

CHARLES VIII., king of France, son and successor of Louis XI.; during his minority the kingdom
suffered from the turbulence and revolts of the nobles; married Anne of Brittany, heiress of
the rich duchy of that name, by which it was added to the crown of France; sacrificed the interests
of his kingdom by war with Italy to support the claims of French princes to the throne of Naples,
which, though successful in a military point of view, proved politically unfruitful (1470-1498).

CHARLES IX., second son of Henry II. and Catharine de' Medici, became king of France in 1560;
the civil wars of the Huguenots and Catholics fill up this reign; the first war concluded by
the peace of Amboise, during which Francis of Guise was assassinated; the second concluded
by the peace of Longjumeau, during which Montmorency fell; the third concluded by the peace
of St. Germain, in which Condé and Moncontour fell, which peace was broken by the massacre
of St. Bartholomew, into the perpetration of which Charles was inveigled by his mother and
the Guises; incensed at this outrage the Huguenots commenced a fourth war, and were undertaking
a fifth when Charles died, haunted by remorse and in dread of the infinite terror (1550-1574).

CHARLES X., brother of Louis XVI. and Louis XVIII., the latter of whom he succeeded on the
throne of France in 1824; was unpopular in France as Duc d'Artois in the time of the Revolution,
and had to flee the country at the outbreak of it, and stayed for some time as an exile in
Holyrood, Edinburgh; on his accession he became no less unpopular from his adherence to the
old régime; at an evil hour in 1830 he issued ordinances in defiance of all freedom, and after
an insurrection of three days in the July of that year had again to flee; abdicating in favour
of his son, found refuge for a time again in Holyrood, and died at Görtz in his eightieth year
(1757-1837).

CHARLES V., (I. of Spain), emperor of Germany, son of Philip, Archduke of Austria, born at
Ghent; became king of Spain in 1516, on the death of his maternal grandfather Ferdinand, and
emperor of Germany in 1519 on the death of his paternal grandfather Maximilian I., being crowned
at Aix-la-Chapelle in 1520; reigned during one of the most important periods in the history
of Europe; the events of the reign are too numerous to detail; enough to mention his rivalry
with Francis I. of France, his contention as a Catholic with the Protestants of Germany, the
inroads of the Turks, revolts in Spain, and expeditions against the pirates of the Mediterranean;
the ambition of his life was the suppression of the Protestant Reformation and the succession
of his son Philip to the Imperial crown; he failed in both; resigned in favour of his son,
and retired into the monastery of St. Yuste, in Estremadura, near which he built a magnificent
retreat, where, it is understood, notwithstanding his apparent retirement, he continued to
take interest in political affairs, and to advise in the management of them (1500-1558).

CHARLES VI., emperor of Germany from 1711 to 1740, as well as king of Spain from 1703, was
son of the Emperor Leopold I., and father of Maria Theresa.

CHARLES XII., king of Sweden, son of Charles XI., a warlike prince; ascended the throne at
the age of 15; had to cope with Denmark, Russia, and Poland combined against him; foiled the
Danes at Copenhagen, the Russians at Narva, and Augustus II. of Poland at Riga; trapped in
Russia, and cooped up to spend a winter there, he was, in spring 1709, attacked by Peter the
Great at Pultowa and defeated, so that he had to take refuge with the Turks at Bender; here
he was attacked, captured, and conveyed to Demotica, but escaping, he found his way miraculously
back to Sweden, and making peace with the Czar, commenced an attack on Norway, but was killed
by a musket-shot at the siege of Friedrickshall; "the last of the Swedish kings"; "his appearance,
among the luxurious kings and knights of the North" at the time, Carlyle compares to "the bursting
of a cataract of bombshells in a dull ballroom" (1697-1718).

CHARLES I., king of England, third son of James I., born at Dunfermline; failing in his suit
for the Infanta of Spain, married Henrietta Maria, a French princess, a devoted Catholic, who
had great influence over him, but not for good; had for public advisers Strafford and Laud,
who cherished in him ideas of absolute power adverse to the liberty of the subject; acting
on these ideas brought him into collision with the Parliament, and provoked a civil war; himself
the first to throw down the gauntlet by raising the royal standard at Nottingham; in the end
of which he surrendered himself to the Scots army at Newark, who delivered him to the Parliament;
was tried as a traitor to his country, condemned to death, and beheaded, 30th January, at Whitehall
(1600-1649).

CHARLES II., king of England, son of Charles I., horn at St. James's Palace, London; was at
The Hague, in Holland, when his father was beheaded; assumed the royal title; was proclaimed
King by the Scots; landed in Scotland, and was crowned at Scone; marching into England, was
defeated by Cromwell at Worcester, 3rd September 1651; fled to France; by the policy of General
Monk, after Cromwell's death, was restored to his crown and kingdom in 1660, an event known
as the Restoration; he was an easy-going man, and is known in history as the "Merry Monarch";
his reign was an inglorious one for England, though it is distinguished by the passing of the
Habeas Corpus Act, one of the great bulwarks of English liberty next to the Magna Charta (1630-1685).

CHARLES, a French physicist, born at Beaugency; was the first to apply hydrogen to the inflation
of balloons (1746-1823).

CHARLES, ARCHDUKE, of Austria, son of the Emperor Leopold II. and younger brother of Francis
II., one of the ablest generals of Austria in the wars against the French Republic and the
Empire; lost the battle of Wagram, after which, being wounded, he retired into private life
(1771-1847).

CHARLES ALBERT, king of Sardinia, succeeded Charles Felix in 1831; conceived a design to emancipate
and unite Italy; in the pursuit of this object he declared war against Austria; though at first
successful, was defeated at Novara, and to save his kingdom was compelled to resign in favour
of his son Victor Emmanuel; retired to Oporto, and died of a broken heart (1798-1849).

CHARLES EDWARD, the Young Pretender, grandson of James II. of England, born at Rome, landed
in Scotland (1745); issued a manifesto in assertion of his father's claims; had his father
proclaimed king at Edinburgh; attacked and defeated General Cope at Prestonpans; marched at
the head of his adherents into England as far as Derby; returned, and defeated the king's force
at Falkirk, but retired before the Duke of Cumberland, who dispersed his army at Culloden;
wandered about thereafter in disguise; escaped to France, and died at Florence (1721-1789).

CHARLES MARTEL (i. e. "Charles the Hammer"), son of Pépin d'Héristal and grandfather of Charlemagne;
became mayor of the Palace, and as such ruler of the Franks; notable chiefly for his signal
victory over the Saracens at Poitiers in 732, whereby the tide of Mussulman invasion was once
for all rolled back and the Christianisation of Europe assured; no greater service was ever
rendered to Europe by any other fighting man (689-741).

CHARLES OF ANJOU, brother of St. Louis, king of Naples; lost Sicily after the Sicilian Vespers
(1220-1285).

CHARLES OF VALOIS, third son of Philip the Bold, one of the greatest captains of his age (1270-1324).

CHARLES THE RASH, last Duke of Burgundy, son of Philip the Good, born at Dijon; enemy of Louis
XI. of France, his feudal superior; was ambitious to free the duchy from dependence on France,
and to restore it as a kingdom, and by daring enterprises tried hard to achieve this; on the
failure of the last effort was found lying dead on the field (1433-1477).

CHARLES'S WAIN, the constellation of Ursa Major, a wagon without a wagoner.

CHARLESTON (56), the largest city in S. Carolina, and the chief commercial city; also a town
in Western Virginia, U.S., with a spacious land-locked harbour; is the chief outlet for the
cotton and rice of the district, and has a large coasting trade.

CHARLET, NICOLAS TOUSSAINT, a designer and painter, born in Paris; famous for his sketches
of military subjects and country life, in which he displayed not a little humour (1792-1845).

CHARLEVILLE (17), a manufacturing and trading town in the dep. of Ardennes, France; exports
iron, coal, wines, and manufactures hardware and beer.

CHARLEVOIX, a Jesuit and traveller, born at St. Quentin, explored the St. Lawrence and the
Mississippi (1682-1761).

CHARLOTTE, PRINCESS, daughter and only child of George IV. of England, married to Prince Leopold
of Saxe-Coburg, afterwards king of Belgium; died after giving birth to a still-born boy, to
the great grief of the whole nation (1796-1817).

CHARLOTTE ELIZABETH OF BAVARIA, second wife of the Duke of Orleans, brother of Louis XIV.,
called the Princess Palatine (1652-1722).

CHARLOTTENBURG (76), a town on the Spree, 3 m. W. of Berlin, with a palace, the favourite residence
of Sophie Charlotte, the grandmother of Frederick the Great, and so named by her husband Frederick
I. after her death; contains the burial-place of William I., emperor of Germany.

CHARLOTTETOWN (13), the capital of Prince Edward Island.

CHARMETTES, a picturesque hamlet near Chambéry, a favourite retreat of Rousseau's.

CHARNAY, a French traveller; a writer on the ancient civilisation of Mexico, which he has made
a special study; b. 1828.

CHARON, in the Greek mythology the ferryman of the ghosts of the dead over the Styx into Hades,
a grim old figure with a mean dress and a dirty beard, peremptory in exacting from the ghosts
he ferried over the obolus allowed him for passage-money.

CHARONDAS, a Sicilian law-giver, disciple of Pythagoras; is said to have killed himself when
he found he had involuntarily broken one of his own laws (600 B.C.).

CHARRON, PIERRE, a French moralist and theologian, as well as pulpit orator, born in Paris;
author of "Les Trois Vérités," the unity of God, Christianity the sole religion, and Catholicism
the only Christianity; and of a sceptical treatise "De la Sagesse"; a friend and disciple of
Montaigne, but bolder as more dogmatic, with less bonhommie and originality, and much of a
cynic withal (1541-1603).

CHARTERHOUSE, a large London school, originally a Carthusian monastery, and for a time a residence
of the dukes of Norfolk.

CHARTIER, ALAIN, an early scholarly French poet and prose writer of note, born at Bayeux; secretary
to Charleses V., VI., and VII. of France, whom Margaret, daughter of James I. of Scotland and
wife of Louis XI., herself a poetess, once kissed as he lay asleep for the pleasure his poems
gave her; was a patriot, and wrote as one (1390-1458).

CHARTISM, a movement of the working-classes of Great Britain for greater political power than
was conceded to them by the Reform Bill of 1832, and which found expression in a document called
the "People's Charter," drawn up in 1838, embracing six "points," as they were called, viz.,
Manhood Suffrage, Equal Electoral Districts, Vote by Ballot, Annual Parliaments, Abolition
of a Property Qualification in the Parliamentary Representation, and Payment of Members of
Parliament, all which took the form of a petition presented to the House of Commons in 1839,
and signed by 1,380,000 persons. The refusal of the petition gave rise to great agitation over
the country, which gradually died out in 1848.

CHARTRES (23), the capital of the French dep. of Eure-et-Lois, 55 m. SW. of Paris; gave title
of Duke to the eldest of the Orleanist Bourbons.

CHARTREUSE, LA GRANDE, a monastery founded by St. Bruno in 1084 in the dep. of Isère, 14 m.
NE. of Grenoble; famous as the original place of the manufacture of the Chartreuse liqueur,
held in much repute; it was honoured by a visit of Queen Victoria in 1887; Ruskin was disappointed
with both monks and monastery.

CHARYBDIS. See SCYLLA.

CHASE, SALMON PORTLAND, Chief-Justice of the United States; a great anti-slavery advocate and
leader of the Free-Soil party; aimed at the Presidency, but failed (1773-1808).

CHASI`DIM, a party among the Jews identified with the Pharisees, their supreme concern the
observance of their religion in its purity.

CHASLES, MICHEL, an eminent French mathematician, and held one of the first in the century;
on the faith of certain autographs, which were afterwards proved to be forgeries, he in 1867
astonished the world by ascribing to Pascal the great discoveries of Newton, but had to admit
he was deceived (1793-1880).

CHASLES, PHILARÈTE, a French littérateur, born near Chartres, a disciple of Rousseau; lived
several years in England, and wrote extensively on English subjects, Shakespeare, Mary Stuart,
Charles I., and Cromwell among the chief (1799-1873).

CHASSÉ, DAVID HENDRIK, BARON, a Dutch soldier; served France under Napoleon, who called him
"General Baïonnette," from his zealous use of the bayonet; fought at Waterloo on the opposite
side; as governor of Antwerp, gallantly defended its citadel in 1832 against a French and Belgian
force twelve times larger than his own (1765-1849).

CHASSEPOT, a French breech-loading rifle named from the inventor.

CHASSEURS, picked bodies of light cavalry and infantry in the French service, called respectively
Chasseurs-à-cheval and Chasseurs-à-pied.

CHASTELARD, PIERRE DE BOSCOSEL DE, grandson of Bayard; conceived an insane passion for Queen
Mary, whom he accompanied to Scotland; was surprised in her bedchamber, under her bed, and
condemned to death, it being his second offence (1540-1562).

CHAT MOSS, a large bog in Lancashire, 7 m. W. of Manchester, which is partly reclaimed and
partly, through the ingenuity of George Stephenson, traversed by the Liverpool and Manchester
Railway.

CHÂTEAUBRIAND, FRANÇOIS RENÉ DE, eminent French littérateur, born in St. Malo, younger son
of a noble family of Brittany; travelled to N. America in 1791; returned to France on the arrest
of Louis XVI., and joined the EMIGRANTS (q. v.) at Coblenz; was wounded at the siege of Thionville,
and escaped to England; wrote an "Essay on Revolutions Ancient and Modern," conceived on liberal
lines; was tempted back again to France in 1800; wrote "Atala," a story of life in the wilds
of America, which was in 1802 followed by his most famous work, "Génie du Christianisme"; entered
the service of Napoleon, but withdrew on the murder of the Duc d'Enghien; though not obliged
to leave France, made a journey to the East, the fruit of which was his "Itinéraire de Paris
à Jerusalem"; hailed with enthusiasm the restoration of the Bourbons in 1814; supported the
Bourbon dynasty all through, though he wavered sometimes in the interest of liberty; withdrew
from public life on the elevation of Louis Philippe to the throne; he was no thinker, but he
was a fascinating writer, and as such exercised no small influence on the French literature
of his day; he lived in a transition period, and hovered between legitimism and liberty, the
revolution and reaction, and belonged to the Romantic school of literature--was perhaps the
father of it in France (1766-1848).

CHÂTEAUX EN ESPAGNE, castles in Spain, visionary projects.

CHÂTELET, MARQUISE DE, a learned Frenchwoman, born at Paris, with whom Voltaire kept up an
intimate acquaintanceship (1706-1749).

CHÂTELLERAULT (18), a town in the dep. of Vienne, 24 m. NE. of Poitiers; gave title to the
Scottish regent, the Earl of Arran; manufactures cutlery and small-arms for the Government.

CHATHAM (59), a town in Kent, on the estuary of the Medway, a fortified naval arsenal; is connected
with Rochester.

CHATHAM, WILLIAM PITT, EARL OF, a great British statesman and orator, born in Cornwall; determined
opponent of Sir Robert Walpole; succeeded in driving him from power, and at length installing
himself in his place; had an eye to the greatness and glory of England, summoned the English
nation to look to its laurels; saw the French, the rivals of England, beaten back in the four
quarters of the globe; driven at length from power himself, he still maintained a single regard
for the honour of his country, and the last time his voice was heard in the Parliament of England
was to protest against her degradation by an ignoble alliance with savages in the war with
America; on this occasion he fell back in a faint into the arms of his friends around, and
died little more than a month after; "for four years" (of his life), says Carlyle, "king of
England; never again he; never again one resembling him, nor indeed can ever be." See SMELFUNGUS
on his character and position in Carlyle's "Frederick," Book xxi. chap. i. (1708-1775).

CHATHAM ISLANDS, a group of islands 360 m. E. of New Zealand, and politically connected with
it; the chief industry is the rearing of cattle.

CHATSWORTH, the palatial seat of the Duke of Devonshire, in Derbyshire, 8 m. W. of Chesterfield,
enclosed in a park, with gardens, 10 m. in circumference.

CHATTERTON, THOMAS, a poet of great promise, had a tragic fate, born at Bristol, passed off
while but a boy as copies of ancient MSS., and particularly of poems which he ascribed to one
Rowley, a monk of the 17th century, what were compositions of his own, exhibiting a genius
of no small literary, not to say lyric, power; having vainly endeavoured to persuade any one
of their genuineness, though he had hopes of the patronage of Sir Robert Walpole, he left Bristol
for London, and made vehement efforts with his pen to bespeak regard, but failed; grew desperate,
and committed suicide at the early age of 18 (1752-1770).

CHAUCER, GEOFFREY, the great early English poet, and father of English poetry, the son of a
vintner and taverner, born probably in London, where he lived almost all his days; when a lad,
served as page in the royal household; won the favour and patronage of the king, Edward III.
and his son, John of Gaunt, who pensioned him; served in an expedition to France; was made
prisoner, but ransomed by the king; was often employed on royal embassies, in particular to
Italy; held responsible posts at home; was thus a man of the world as well as a man of letters;
he comes first before us as a poet in 1369; his poetic powers developed gradually, and his
best and ripest work, which occupied him at intervals from 1373 to 1400, is his "CANTERBURY
TALES" (q. v.), characterised by Stopford Brooke as "the best example of English story-telling
we possess"; besides which he wrote, among other compositions, "The Life of St. Cecilia," "Troilus
and Cressida," the "House of Fame," and the "Legend of Good Women"; his influence on English
literature has been compared to that of Dante on Italian, and his literary life has been divided
into three periods--the French, the Italian, and the English, according as the spirit of it
was derived from a foreign or a native source (1340-1400).

CHAUMETTE, PIERRE GASPARD, a violent member of the extreme party in the French Revolution,
could "recognise the suspect from the very face of them"; provoked the disgust of even Robespierre,
and was arrested amid jeers and guillotined (1763-1794).

CHAUTAUQUA, a summer resort on a lake of the name in the W. of New York State, centre of a
novel institution, which prescribes a four years' course of private readings, and grants diplomas
to those who anywhere achieve it.

CHAUVINISM, a name among the French for what is known as Jingoism among the English, i. e.
an extravagant zeal for the glory of one's country or party, from one Chauvin, who made threatening
displays of his devotion to Napoleon after his fall in 1815.

CHEDDAR, a village in Somersetshire, on the Mendip Hills, famous for its cheese.

CHEKE, SIR JOHN, a zealous Greek scholar, born at Cambridge, and first regius professor of
Greek there; did much to revive in England an interest in Greek and Greek literature; was tutor
to Edward VI., who granted him landed estates; favouring the cause of Lady Jane Grey on the
accession of Mary, left the country, was seized, and sent back; for fear of the stake abjured
Protestantism, but never forgave himself, and died soon after; he introduced the mode of pronouncing
Greek prevalent in England (1514-1557).

CHELMSFORD (11), the county town of Essex, on the Chelmer.

CHELSEA (96), a western suburb of London, on the N. of the Thames; famous for its hospital
for old and disabled soldiers, and the place of residence of sundry literary celebrities, among
others Sir Thomas More, Swift, Steele, and Carlyle.

CHELTENHAM (49), a healthy watering-place and educational centre in Gloucestershire; first
brought into repute as a place of fashionable resort by the visits of George III. to it; contains
a well-equipped college, where a number of eminent men have been educated.

CHELYUSKIN, CAPE, in Siberia, the most northerly point in the Eastern hemisphere.

CHEMICAL AFFINITY, the tendency elementary bodies have to combine and remain in combination.

CHEMISM, in the Hegelian philosophy "the mutual attraction, interpenetration, and neutralisation
of independent individuals which unite to form a whole."

CHEMISTRY, the science that treats of elementary bodies and their combinations: inorganic,
relating to physical compounds; organic, relating to vegetable and animal compounds.

CHEMNITZ (160), a manufacturing town in Saxony, called the "Saxon Manchester," at the foot
of the Erzgebirge, in a rich mineral district; manufactures cottons, woollens, silks, machinery,
&c.

CHEMNITZ, MARTIN, an eminent Lutheran theologian, born in Brandenburg, a disciple of Melanchthon;
author of "Loci Theologici," a system of theology; took a leading part in procuring the adoption
of the "Formula of Concord"; his chief work "Examen Concilii Tridentini" (1522-1586).

CHEMOSH, the national god of the Moabites, akin to Moloch, and their stay in battle, but an
abomination to the children of Jehovah.

CHEMULPO, a town on the W. coast of Corea; a thriving town since it became a treaty-port in 1883.

CHENAB`, an affluent on the left bank of the Indus, and one of the five rivers, and the largest,
which give name to the Punjab; is 750 m. long.

CHENERY, THOMAS, a journalist; became editor of the Times; was distinguished for his knowledge
of Arabic and Hebrew, and was one of the Old Testament revisers (1826-1884).

CHÉNIER, MARIE-ANDRÉ, French poet, greatest in the 18th century, born at Constantinople; author
of odes, idylls, and elegies, which place him high among French poets; took part in the Revolution
as a lover of order as well as of liberty; offended Robespierre, and was guillotined two days
before the fall of Robespierre; as a poet he was distinguished for the purity of his style
and his originality (1762-1794).

CHENONCEAUX, a magnificent château near Amboise, in, France; built by Francis I. for the Duchesse
d'Etampes, afterwards the property of the Condés, and afterwards of Madame Dupont.

CHENU, a French naturalist; author of an "Encyclopædia of Natural History" (1808-1879).

CHEOPHREN, king of Egypt, brother and successor of Cheops; built the second great pyramid.

CHEOPS, king of Memphis, in Egypt, of the 4th dynasty; builder of the largest of the pyramids
about 3000 B.C.

CHEPSTOW (4), a port on the Wye, Monmouthshire, 17 m. N. of Newport; with a tubular suspension
bridge, and where the tides are higher than anywhere else in Britain.

CHER, an affluent of the Loire below Tours; also the dep. in France (359) to which it gives
name; an agricultural and pastoral district; capital Bourges.

CHERBOURG (40), a French port and arsenal in the dep. of Manche, opposite the Isle of Wight,
70 m. distant, on the construction and fortifications of which immense sums were expended,
as much as eight millions; the fortifications were begun by Vauban.

CHERBULIEZ, VICTOR, novelist, critic, and publicist, born at Geneva, of a distinguished family;
professor of Greek at Geneva; holds a high place, and is widely known, as a writer of a series
of works of fiction; b. 1826.

CHER`IBON (11), a seaport of Java, on the N. of the island.

CHERITH, a brook E. of the Jordan, Elijah's hiding-place.

CHEROKEES, a tribe of American Indians, numbering some 20,000, in the NW. of the Indian Territory,
U.S.; civilised, self-governing, and increasing; formerly occupied the region about the Tennessee
River.

CHERONE`A, a town in Boeotia, where Philip of Macedon conquered the Athenians and Thebans,
338 B.C., and Sulla defeated Mithridates, 86 B.C.; the birthplace of Plutarch, who is hence
called the Cheronean Sage.

CHERRA PUNJI (5), a village in the Khasi Hills, Assam, with the heaviest rainfall of any place
on the globe.

CHERSONE`SUS (i. e. continent island), a name which the Greeks gave to several peninsulas,
viz., the Tauric C., the Crimea, the Thracian C., Gallipoli; the Cimbric C., Jutland; the Golden
C., the Malay Peninsula.

CHERTSEY (11), a very old town of Surrey, 21 m. SW. of London, on the right bank of the Thames.

CHERUBIM, an order of angelic beings conceived of as accompanying the manifestations of Jehovah,
supporting His throne and protecting His glory, guarding it from profane intrusion; winged
effigies of them overshadowed the MERCY SEAT (q. v.).

CHERUBIM, a character in the "Mariage de Figaro"; also the 11th Hussars, from their trousers
being of a cherry colour.

CHERUBINI, a celebrated musical composer, born at Florence; naturalised in France; settled
in Paris, the scene of his greatest triumphs; composed operas, of which the chief were "Iphigenia
in Aulis," and "Les deux Journeés; or, The Water-Carrier," his masterpiece; also a number of
sacred pieces and requiems, all of the highest merit; there is a portrait of him by Ingres
(1842) in the Louvre, representing the Muse of his art extending her protecting hand over his
head (1760-1842).

CHÉRUEL, ADOLPHE, French historian, born at Rouen; author of "History of France during the
Minority of Louis XIV."; published the "Memoirs of Saint-Simon" (1809-1891).

CHERUSCI, an ancient people of Germany, whose leader was Arminius, and under whom they defeated
the Romans, commanded by Varus, in 9 A.D.

CHESAPEAKE BAY, a northward-extending inlet on the Atlantic coast of the United States, 200
m. long and from 10 to 40 m. broad, cutting Maryland in two.

CHESELDEN, WILLIAM, an English anatomist and surgeon, whose work, "Anatomy of the Human Body,"
was long used as a text-book on that science (1688-1752).

CHESHIRE (730), a western county of England, between the Mersey and the Dee, the chief mineral
products of which are coal and rock-salt, and the agricultural, butter and cheese; has numerous
manufacturing towns, with every facility for inter-communication, and the finest pasture-land
in England.

CHESHUNT (9), a large village in Hertfordshire, 14 m. N. of London, with rose gardens, and
a college founded by the Countess of Huntingdon.

CHESIL BEACH, a neck of land on the Devonshire coast, 15 m. long, being a ridge of loose pebbles
and shingle.

CHESNEY, C. CORNWALLIS, professor of Military History, nephew of the succeeding, author of
"Waterloo Lectures" (1826-1876).

CHESNEY, FRANCIS RAWDON, explorer, born in co. Down, Ireland; explored with much labour the
route to India by way of the Euphrates, though his labours were rendered futile by the opposition
of Russia; proved, by survey of the isthmus, the practicability of the Suez Canal (1798-1872).

CHESTER (41), the county town of Cheshire, on the Dee, 16 m. SE. of Liverpool; an ancient city
founded by the Romans; surrounded by walls nearly 2 m. long, and from 7 to 8 ft. thick, forming
a promenade with parapets; the streets are peculiar; along the roofs of the lower storeys of
the houses there stretch piazzas called "Rows," at the original level of the place, 16 ft.
wide for foot-passengers, approached by steps; it abounds in Roman remains, and is altogether
a unique town.

CHESTERFIELD (22), a town in Derbyshire, 21 m. N. of Derby; in a mineral district; manufactures
cotton, woollen, and silk; has a canal connecting it with the Trent.

CHESTERFIELD, PHILIP DORMER STANHOPE, EARL OF, statesman, orator, and man of letters, eldest
son of the third earl, born in London; sat in the House of Commons from 1716 to 1726; was an
opponent of Walpole; held office under the Pelhams; in 1748 retired from deafness, or perhaps
disgust, into private life; celebrated for his "Letters to his Son," models of elegance, though
of questionable morality, which it appears he never intended to publish, and for the scorn
with which Dr. Johnson treated him when he offered to help him, after he no longer needed any,
in a letter which gave the death-blow to the patronage of literature; is credited by Carlyle
with having predicted the French Revolution; it should be added, the "Letters" were printed
by his son's widow (1694-1773).

CHEVALIER, MICHEL, a celebrated French economist, born at Limoges; originally a Socialist of
the St. Simonian school; for defending Socialism was imprisoned, but recanted, and wrote ably
against Socialism; was a free-trader and coadjutor of Cobden (1806-1879).

CHEVALIER, SULPICE. See GAVARNI.

CHEVALIER D'INDUSTRIE, one who lives by his wits, specially by swindling.

CHEVALIER ST. GEORGE, the Pretender.

CHEVAUX-DE-FRISE, a military fence composed of a beam or a bar armed with long spikes, literally
Friesland horses, having been first used in Friesland.

CHEVERT, a French general, born at Verdun; "a bit of right soldier stuff"; distinguished himself
in many engagements, and especially at the siege of Prague in 1757 (1696-1773).

CHEVIOT HILLS, a range on the borders of England and Scotland, extending 35 m. south-westwards,
the highest in Northumberland 2676 ft., the Carter Fell being 2020 ft.; famous for its breed
of sheep.

CHEVREUL, MICHEL EUGÈNE, a French chemist, born at Angers; an expert in the department of dyeing,
and an authority on colours, as well as the chemistry of fats; was director in the dyeing department
in the Gobelins manufactory; he lived to witness the centenary of his birth (1786-1889).

CHEVREUSE, DUCHESSE DE, played an important part in the Fronde and in the plots against Richelieu
and Mazarin; her Life has been written by Victor Cousin (1600-1679).

CHEVRON, in heraldry an ordinary of two bands forming an angle descending to the extremities
of the shield; representing the two rafters of a house, meeting at the top.

CHEVY CHASE, the subject and title of a highly popular old English ballad, presumed to refer
to an event in connection with the battle of Otterburn; there were strains in it which Sir
Philip Sidney said moved his heart more than with a trumpet.

CHEYENNE INDIANS, a warlike tribe of Red Indians, now much reduced, and partially settled in
the Indian Territory, U.S.; noted for their horsemanship.

CHEYNE, GEORGE, a physician and medical writer, born in Aberdeenshire, in practice in London;
suffered from corpulency, being 32 stone in weight, but kept it down by vegetable and milk
diet, which he recommended to others in the like case; wrote on fevers, nervous disorders,
and hygiene; wrote also on fluxions (1671-1743).

CHEYNE, THOMAS KELLY, an eminent Biblical scholar, born in London; Oriel Professor of Scripture
Exegesis, Oxford, and canon of Rochester; author of numerous works on the Old Testament, particularly
on "Isaiah" and the "Psalms," in which he advocates conclusions in accord with modern critical
results; b. 1841.

CHÉZY, DE, a French Orientalist, born at Neuilly; the first to create in France an interest
in the study of Sanskrit (1773-1832).

CHIABRERA, GABRIELLO, an Italian lyric poet, born at Savona; distinguished, especially for
his lyrics; surnamed the "Pindar of Italy," Pindar being a Greek poet whom it was his ambition
to imitate (1552-1637).

CHIA`NA, a small, stagnant, pestilential affluent of the Tiber, now deepened into a healthful
and serviceable stream, connecting the Tiber with the Arno.

CHIAPAS, LAS (270), a Pacific State of Mexico, covered with forests; yields maize, sugar, cacao,
and cotton.

CHIAROSCURO, the reproduction in art of the effects of light and shade on nature as they mutually
affect each other.

CHIBCHAS or MUYSCAS, a civilised people, though on a lower stage than the Peruvians, whom the
Spaniards found established in New Granada in the 16th century, now merged in the Spanish population;
they worship the sun.

CHICA, an orange-red colouring matter obtained from boiling the leaves of the Bignonia chica,
and used as a dye.

CHICAGO (1,700), the metropolis of Illinois, in the NE. of the State, on the SW. shore of Lake
Michigan, is the second city in the Union; its unparalleled growth, dating only from 1837--in
1832 a mere log-fort, and now covering an area of 180 sq. m., being 21 m. in length and 10
m. in breadth--is due to its matchless facilities for communication. Situated in the heart
of the continent, a third of the United States railway system centres in it, and it communicates
with all Canada, and with the ocean by the Great Lakes and the St. Lawrence River; laid out
with absolute regularity, it has many magnificent buildings, enormously tall office "sky-scrapers,"
and an unrivalled system of parks and avenues; there are a university, medical, commercial,
and theological colleges, an art institute, libraries, and observatory; it suffered severely
from fire in 1871 and 1874; it is the greatest grain and pork market in the world, and its
manufactures include almost every variety of production; the population is a mixture of all
European peoples; native-born Americans are a small minority, outnumbered by the Germans and
almost equalled by the Irish.

CHICARD, the harlequin of the modern French carnival, grotesquely dressed up.

CHICHELEY, HENRY, archbishop of Canterbury, a scholar and statesman, often employed on embassies,
a moderate churchman; accompanied Henry V. to Agincourt (1362-1442).

CHICHESTER (9), a cathedral city in the W. of Sussex, 17 m. NE. of Portsmouth, with a port
on the Channel 2 m. SW. of it; chief trade in agricultural produce.

CHICHEVACHE, a monster fabled to feed on good women, and starved, from the scarcity of them,
to skin and bone, in contrast with another called Bicorn, that fed on good men, who are more
plentiful, and was fat and plump.

CHICKASAWS, N. American Indians, allied to the Chocktaws, settled in a civilised state in the
Indian Territory like the Cherokees.

CHICLANA (12), a watering-place 12 m. SB. of Cadiz, with mineral baths.

CHIEF, the upper part of an escutcheon cut off by a horizontal line.

CHIEM-SEE, a high-lying lake in Upper Bavaria, 48 m. from Münich, adorned with three islands;
famous for its fish.

CHIEN DE JEAN DE NIVELLE, the dog that never came when it was called. See NIVELLE.

CHIË`TI (22), a city in Central Italy, 78 m. NE. of Rome, with a fine Gothic cathedral.

CHIGI, a distinguished Italian family, eminent in the Church.

CHIGOE, an insect which infests the skin of the feet, multiplies incredibly, and is a great
annoyance to the negro, who, however, is pretty expert in getting rid of it.

CHIHUA`HUA (25), a town in Mexico; capital of a State (298), the largest in Mexico, of the
same name, with famous silver and also copper mines.

CHILD, FRANCIS JAMES, an American scholar, born in Boston; professor of Anglo-Saxon and Early
English Literature at Harvard; distinguished as the editor of Spenser and of "English and Scottish
Ballads," "a monumental collection"; b. 1825.

CHILD, LYDIA MARIA, an American novelist and anti-slavery advocate (1802-1880).

CHILD, SIR JOSHUA, a wealthy London merchant, author of "Discourse on Trade," with an appendix
against usury; advocated the compulsory transportation of paupers to the Colonies (1630-1699).

CHILDE, the eldest son of a nobleman who has not yet attained to knighthood, or has not yet
won his spurs.

CHILDE HAROLD, a poem of Byron's, written between 1812 and 1819, representing the author himself
as wandering over the world in quest of satisfaction and returning sated to disgust; it abounds
in striking thoughts and vivid descriptions; in his "Dernier Chant of C. H." Lamartine takes
up the hero where Byron leaves him.

CHILDERBERT I., son of Clovis, king of Paris, reigned from 511 to 558. C. II., son of Siegbert
and Brunhilda, king of Austrasia, reigned from 575 to 596. C. III., son of Thierri III., reigned
over all France from 695 to 711, under the mayor of the palace, Pépin d'Héristal.

CHILDERBRAND, a Frank warrior, who figures in old chronicles as the brother of Charles Martel,
signalised himself in the expulsion of the Saracens from France.

CHILDÉRIC I., the son of Merovig and father of Clovis, king of the Franks; d. 481. C. II.,
son of Clovis II., king of Austrasia in 660, and of all France in 670; assassinated 673. C.
III., son of the preceding, last of the Merovingian kings, from 743 to 752; was deposed by
Pepin le Bref; died in the monastery of St. Omer in 755.

CHILDERMAS, a festival to commemorate the massacre of the children by Herod.

CHILDERS, ROBERT C., professor of Pâli and Buddhistic Literature in University College, and
author of Pâli Dictionary (1809-1876).

CHILDREN OF THE WOOD, two children, a boy and girl, left to the care of an uncle, who hired
two ruffians to murder them, that he might inherit their wealth; one of the ruffians relented,
killed his companion, and left the children in a wood, who were found dead in the morning,
a redbreast having covered their bodies with strawberry leaves; the uncle was thereafter goaded
to death by the furies.

CHILE (2,867), the most advanced and stable of the S. American States, occupies a strip of
country, 100 m. broad, between the Andes and the Pacific Ocean, and stretching from Cape Horn
northward 2200 m. to Peru, with Argentine and Bolivia on its eastern borders. The climate is
naturally various. In the N. are rainless tracts of mountains rich in copper, manganese, silver,
and other metals, and deserts with wonderful deposits of nitrate. In the S. are stretches of
pastoral land and virgin forest, with excessive rains, and cold, raw climate. The central portion
enjoys a temperate climate with moderate rainfall, and produces excellent wheat, grapes, and
fruits of all kinds. The Andes tower above the snow-line, Aconcagua reaching 23,500 ft. The
rivers are short and rapid, of little use for navigation. The coast-line is even in the N.,
but excessively rugged and broken in the S., the most southerly regions being weird and desolate.
The people are descendants of Spaniards, mingled with Araucanian Indians; but there is a large
European element in all the coast towns. Mining and agriculture are the chief industries; manufactures
of various kinds are fostered with foreign capital. The chief trade is with Britain: exports
nitre, wheat, copper, and iodine; imports, textiles, machinery, sugar, and cattle. Santiago
(250) is the capital; Valparaiso (150) and Iquique the principal ports. The government is republican;
Roman Catholicism the State religion; education is fairly well fostered; there is a university
at Santiago. The country was first visited by Magellan in 1520. In 1540 Pedro Valdivia entered
it from Peru and founded Santiago. During colonial days it was an annex of Peru. In 1810 the
revolt against Spain broke out. Independence was gained in 1826. Settled government was established
in 1847. Since then a revolution in 1851, successful wars with Spain 1864-66, with Bolivia
and Peru 1879-81, and a revolution in 1891, have been the most stirring events in its history.

CHILLIANWALLA, a village in the Punjab, 80 m. NW. of Lahore, the scene in 1849 of a bloody
battle in the second Sikh War, in which the Sikhs were defeated by Gen. Gough; it was also
the scene of a battle between Alexander the Great and Porus.

CHILLINGHAM, a village in Northumberland, 8 m. SW. of Belford, with a park attached to the
castle, the seat of the Earl of Tankerville, containing a herd of native wild cattle.

CHILLINGWORTH, WILLIAM, an able English controversial divine, who thought forcibly and wrote
simply, born at Oxford; championed the cause of Protestantism against the claims of Popery
in a long-famous work, "The Religion of Protestants the Safe Way to Salvation," summing up
his conclusion in the oft-quoted words, "The Bible, the Bible alone, is the religion of Protestants";
though a Protestant, he was not a Puritan or a man of narrow views, and he suffered at the
hands of the Puritans as an adherent of the Royalist cause (1602-1643).

CHILLON, CASTLE OF, a castle and state prison built on a rock, 62 ft. from the shore, at the
eastern end of the Lake of Geneva; surnamed the Bastille of Switzerland, in which Bonivard,
the Genevese patriot, was, as celebrated by Byron, incarcerated for six years; it is now an
arsenal.

CHILOË (77), a thickly wooded island off the coast, and forming a province, of Chile, 115 m.
long from N. to S., and 43 m. broad; inhabited chiefly by Indians; exports timber; is said
to contain vast deposits of coal.

CHILTERN HILLS, a range of chalk hills extending about 70 m. NE. from the Thames in Oxfordshire
through Bucks, from 15 to 20 m. broad, the highest Wendover, 950 ft.

CHILTERN HUNDREDS, a wardship of beech forests on the Chiltern Hills against robbers, that
at one time infested them; now a sinecure office, the acceptance of which enables a member
of Parliament to resign his seat if he wishes to retire, the office being regarded as a Government
one.

CHIMÆRA, a fire-breathing monster of the Greek mythology, with a goat's body, a lion's head,
and a dragon's tail; slain by Bellerophon, and a symbol of any impossible monstrosity.

CHIMBORA`ZO, one of the loftiest peaks of the Andes, in Ecuador, 20,700 ft.; is an extinct
volcano, and covered with perpetual snow.

CHIMPANZEE, a large African ape, from 3 to 4 ft. in height, and more allied in several respects
to man than any other ape: it is found chiefly in W. Africa.

CHINA (300,000 to 400,000), which, with Tibet, Mongolia (from which it is separated by the
Great Wall), and parts of Turkestan, forms the Chinese Empire; is a vast, compact, and densely
peopled country in Eastern Asia; bounded on the N. by Mongolia; W. by Tibet and Burmah; S.
by Siam, Annam, and the China Sea; and E. by the Pacific. In the W. are lofty mountain ranges
running N. and S., from which parallel ranges run E. and W., rising to greatest height in the
S. Two great rivers traverse the country, the Hoang-ho and the Yangtse-kiang, the latter with
many large lakes in its course, and bearing on its waters an innumerable fleet of boats and
barges. Between the lower courses of these rivers lies the Great Plain, one of the vastest
and richest in the world, whose yellow soil produces great crops with little labour and no
manure. The coast-line is long and much indented, and out of it are bitten the gulfs of Pe-che-lee,
the Yellow Sea, and Hang-chou. There are many small islands off the coast; the mountainous
Hainau is the only large one still Chinese. The climate in the N. has a clear frosty winter,
and warm rainy summer; in the S. it is hot. The country is rich in evergreens and flowering
plants. In the N. wheat, millet, and cotton are grown; in the S. rice, tea, sugar, silk, and
opium. Agriculture is the chief industry, and though primitive, it is remarkably painstaking
and skilful. Forests have everywhere been cleared away, and the whole country is marvellously
fertile. Its mineral wealth is enormous. Iron, copper, and coal abound in vast quantities;
has coal-fields that, it is said, if they were worked, "would revolutionise the trade of the
world." The most important manufactures are of silk, cotton, and china. Commerce is as yet
chiefly internal; its inter-provincial trade is the largest and oldest in the world. Foreign
trade is growing, almost all as yet done with Britain and her Colonies. Tea and silk are exported;
cotton goods and opium imported. About twenty-five ports are open to British vessels, of which
the largest are Shanghai and Canton. There are no railways; communication inland is by road,
river, and canals. The people are a mixed race of Mongol type, kindly, courteous, peaceful,
and extremely industrious, and in their own way well educated. Buddhism is the prevailing faith
of the masses, Confucianism of the upper classes. The Government is in theory a patriarchal
autocracy, the Emperor being at once father and high-priest of all the people, and vicegerent
of heaven. The capital is Pekin (500), in the NE. Chinese history goes back to 2300 B.C. English
intercourse with the Chinese began in 1635 A.D., and diplomatic relations between London and
Pekin were established this century. The Anglo-Chinese wars of 1840, 1857, and 1860 broke down
the barrier of exclusion previously maintained against the outside world. The Japanese war
of 1894-95 betrayed the weakness of the national organisation; and the seizure of Formosa by
Japan, the Russo-Japanese protectorate over Manchuria and Corea, the French demand for Kwang-si
and Kwang-tung, enforced lease of Kiao-chau to Germany, and of Wei-hai-wei to Britain (1898),
seem to forebode the partition of the ancient empire among the more energetic Western nations.

CHINA, THE GREAT WALL OF, a wall, with towers and forts at intervals, about 2000 m. long, from
20 to 30 ft. high, and 25 ft. broad, which separates China from Mongolia on the N., and traverses
high hills and deep valleys in its winding course.

CHINAMPAS, floating gardens.

CHINCHA ISLANDS, islands off the coast of Peru that had beds of guano, often 100 ft. thick,
due to the droppings of penguins and other sea birds, now all but, if not quite, exhausted.

CHINCHILLA, a rodent of S. America, hunted for its fur, which is soft and of a grey colour;
found chiefly in the mountainous districts of Peru and Chile.

CHINESE GORDON, General Gordon, killed at Khartoum; so called for having, in 1851, suppressed
a rebellion in China which had lasted 15 years.

CHINOOK, a tribe of Indians in Washington Territory, noted for flattening their skulls.

CHINSURA, a Dutch-built town on the right bank of the Hoogly, 20 m. N. of Calcutta, with a
college; is famous for cheroots.

CHINZ, a calico printed with flowers and other devices in different colours; originally of
Eastern manufacture.

CHIOGGIA (25), a seaport of Venetia, built on piles, on a lagoon island at the mouth of the
Brenta, connected with the mainland by a bridge with 43 arches.

CHIOS, or SCIO (25), a small island belonging to Turkey, in the Grecian Archipelago; subject
to earthquakes; yields oranges and lemons in great quantities; claims to have been the birthplace
of Homer.

CHIPPENDALE, THOMAS, a cabinet-maker, born in Worcestershire; famous in the last century for
the quality and style of his workmanship; his work still much in request.

CHIPPEWAYS, a Red Indian tribe, some 12,000 strong, located in Michigan, U.S., and in Canada
adjoining; originally occupied the N. and W. of Lake Superior.

CHIQUITOS, Indians of a low but lively type in Bolivia and Brazil.

CHIRIQUI, an archipelago and a lagoon as well as province in Costa Rica.

CHIRON, a celebrated Centaur, in whose nature the animal element was subject to the human,
and who was intrusted with the education of certain heroes of Greece, among others Peleus and
Achilles; was endowed with the gift of prophecy, and skilled in athletics as well as music
and the healing art. See CENTAURS.

CHISLEHURST (6), a village in Kent, 10 m. SE. of London, where Napoleon III. died in exile in 1873.

CHISWICK (21), a suburb of London, 7 m. SW. of St. Paul's; the Church of St. Nicholas has monuments
to several people of distinction.

CHITIN, a white horny substance found in the exoskeleton of several invertebrate animals.

CHITRAL, a State on the frontier of India, NW. of Cashmere; since 1895 occupied by the British;
a place of great strategical importance.

CHITTAGONG (24), a seaport in the Bay of Bengal, 220 m. E. of Calcutta; exports rice, gum,
tobacco, and jute.

CHITTIM, the Bible name for Cyprus.

CHIVALRY, a system of knighthood, for the profession of which the qualifications required were
dignity, courtesy, bravery, generosity; the aim of which was the defence of right against wrong,
of the weak against the strong, and especially of the honour and the purity of women, and the
spirit of which was of Christian derivation; originally a military organisation in defence
of Christianity against the infidel.

CHIVALRY, COURT OF, a court established by Edward III., which took cognisance of questions
of honour and heraldry, as well as military offences.

CHLADNI, FRIEDRICH, a physicist, born at Wittenberg; one of the earliest investigators of the
phenomena of sound; wrote also on aërolites (1756-1827).

CHLOPICKI, JOSEPH, a Polish hero, born in Galicia; fought against Russia under Napoleon; was
chosen Dictator in 1830, but was forced to resign; fought afterwards in the ranks, and was
severely wounded (1771-1854).

CHLORAL, a colourless narcotic liquid, obtained at first by the action of chlorine on alcohol;
treated with water it produces chloral hydrate.

CHLORINE, elementary, greenish-yellow gas obtained from common salt; powerful as a disinfectant,
and a bleaching agent.

CHLORIS, the wife of Zephyrus, the goddess of flowers.

CHLOROFORM, a limpid, volatile liquid, in extensive use as an anæsthetic; produced by treating
alcohol with chloride of lime.

CHLOROPHYLL, the green colouring matter in plants, especially the leaves; due to the presence
and action of light.

CHLOROSIS, green sickness, a disease incident to young females at a critical period of life,
causing a pale-greenish complexion.

CHOCOLATE, a paste made by grinding the kernels of cocoa-nuts.

CHOCKTAWS, or CHACTAWS, a tribe of American Indians, settled to civilised life in the Indian
Territory, U.S.; the Chactaw Indian, with his proud array of scalps hung up in his wigwam,
is, with Carlyle, the symbol of the pride of wealth acquired at the price of the lives of men
in body and soul.

CHOISEUL, DUC DE, minister of Louis XV.; served his master in various capacities; was rewarded
with a peerage; effected many reforms in the army, strengthened the navy, and aided in bringing
about the family compact of the Bourbons; exercised a great influence on the politics of Europe;
was nicknamed by Catharine of Russia Le Cocher de l'Europe, "the Driver of Europe"; but becoming
obnoxious to Mme. du Barry, "in whom he would discern nothing but a wonderfully dizened scarlet
woman," was dismissed from the helm of affairs, Louis's "last substantial man" (1719-1795).

CHOISY, ABBÉ, a French writer, born in Paris; author of a "History of the Church" (1644-1724).

CHOLERA MORBUS, an epidemic disease characterised by violent vomiting and purging, accompanied
with spasms, great pain, and debility; originated in India, and has during the present century
frequently spread itself by way of Asia into populous centres of both Europe and America.

CHOLET (15), a French manufacturing town, 32 m. SW. of Angers.

CHOLULA, an ancient city, 60 m. SE. of Mexico; the largest city of the Aztecs, with a pyramidal
temple, now a Catholic church.

CHOPIN, a musical composer, born near Warsaw, of Polish origin; his genius for music early
developed itself; distinguished himself as a pianist first at Vienna and then in Paris, where
he introduced the mazurkas; became the idol of the salons; visited England twice, in 1837 and
1848, and performed to admiration in London and three of the principal cities; died of consumption
in Paris; he suffered much from great depression of spirits (1809-1849).

CHORLEY (23), a manufacturing town in N. Lancashire, 25 m. NE. of Liverpool, with mines and
quarries near it.

CHORUS, in the ancient drama a group of persons introduced on the stage representing witnesses
of what is being acted, and giving expression to their thoughts and feelings regarding it;
originally a band of singers and dancers on festive occasions, in connection particularly with
the Bacchus worship.

CHOSROËS I., surnamed the Great, king of Persia from 531 to 579, a wise and beneficent ruler;
waged war with the Roman armies successfully for 20 years. CH. II., his grandson, king from
590 to 625; made extensive inroads on the Byzantine empire, but was defeated and driven back
by Heraclius; was eventually deposed and put to death.

CHOUANS, insurrectionary royalists in France, in particular Brittany, during the French Revolution,
and even for a time under the Empire, when their head-quarters were in London; so named from
their muster by night at the sound of the chat-huant, the screech-owl, a nocturnal bird of
prey which has a weird cry.

CHRÉTIEN, or CHRESTIEN, DE TROYES, a French poet or trouvère of the last half of the 12th century;
author of a number of vigorously written romances connected with chivalry and the Round Table.

CHRIEMHILDE, a heroine in the "Niebelungen" and sister of Gunther, who on the treacherous murder
of her husband is changed from a gentle woman into a relentless fury.

CHRISAOR, the sword of Sir Artegal in the "Faërie Queene"; it excelled every other.

CHRIST CHURCH, a college in Oxford, founded by Wolsey 1525; was Gladstone's college and John
Ruskin's, as well as John Locke's.

CHRISTABEL, a fragmentary poem of Coleridge's; characterised by Stopford Brooke as, for "exquisite
metrical movement and for imaginative phrasing," along with "Kubla Khan," without a rival in
the language.

CHRISTADELPHIANS, an American sect, called also Thomasites, whose chief distinctive article
of faith is conditional immortality, that is, immortality only to those who believe in Christ,
and die believing in him.

CHRISTCHURCH (16), capital of the province of Canterbury, New Zealand, 5 m. from the sea; Littleton
the port.

CHRISTIAN, the name of nine kings of Denmark, of whom the first began to reign in 1448 and
the last in 1863, and the following deserve notice: CHRISTIAN II., conquered Sweden, but proving
a tyrant, was driven from the throne by Gustavus Vasa in 1522, upon which his own subjects
deposed him, an act which he resented by force of arms, in which he was defeated in 1531, his
person seized, and imprisoned for life; characterised by Carlyle as a "rash, unwise, explosive
man" (1481-1559). CHRISTIAN IV., king from 1588 to 1648; took part on the Protestant side in
the Thirty Years' War, and was defeated by Tilly; he was a good ruler, and was much beloved
by his subjects; was rather unsteady in his habits, it is said (1577-1648). CHRISTIAN IX.,
king from 1863; son of Duke William of Sleswick-Holstein, father of the Princess of Wales,
George I., king of Greece, and the dowager Empress of Russia; b. 1818.

CHRISTIAN CONNECTION, a sect in the United States which acknowledges the Bible alone as the
rule of faith and manners.

CHRISTIAN KING, THE MOST, a title of the king of France conferred by two different Popes.

CHRISTIAN KNOWLEDGE, SOCIETY FOR PROMOTING (S. P. C. K.), a religious association in connection
with the Church of England, under the patronage of the Queen and the presidency of the Archbishop
of Canterbury, established 1698, the object of which is to disseminate a knowledge of Christian
doctrine both at home and abroad by means of churches, schools, and libraries, and by the circulation
of Bibles and Christian literature.

CHRISTIANIA (130), the capital of Norway, romantically situated at the head of Christiania
Fiord; the residence of the king and the seat of government; a manufacturing and trading city,
but it is blocked up against traffic for four months in the year.

CHRISTIANITY, BELIEF (q. v.) that there is in Christ, as in no other, from first to last a
living incarnation, a flesh and blood embodiment, for salvation of the ever-living spirit of
the ever-living God and Father of man, and except that by eating His flesh and drinking His
blood, that is, except by participating in His divine-human life, or except in His spirit,
there is no assurance of life everlasting to any man; but perhaps it has never been defined
all round with greater brevity and precision than it is by Ruskin in his "Præterita," under
the impression that the time is come when one should say a firm word concerning it: "The total
meaning of it," he says, "was, and is, that the God who made earth and its creatures, took,
at a certain time upon the earth, the flesh and form of man; in that flesh sustained the pain
and died the death of the creature He had made; rose again after death into glorious human
life, and when the date of the human race is ended, will return in visible human form, and
render to every mail according to his work. Christianity is the belief in, and love of, God
thus manifested. Anything less than this," he adds, "the mere acceptance of the sayings of
Christ, or assertion of any less than divine power in His Being, may be, for aught I know,
enough for virtue, peace, and safety; but they do not make people Christians, or enable them
to understand the heart of the simplest believer in the old doctrine."

CHRISTIANSAND (12), a town and seaport in the extreme S. of Norway, with a considerable trade.

CHRISTIE, WILLIAM HENRY MAHONEY, astronomer-royal, born at Woolwich, of Trinity College, Cambridge;
author of "Manual of Elementary Astronomy"; b. 1845.

CHRISTINA, queen of Sweden, daughter and only child of Gustavus Adolphus; received a masculine
education, and was trained in manly exercises; governed the country well, and filled her court
with learned men, but by-and-by her royal duties becoming irksome to her, she declared her
cousin as her successor, resigned the throne, and turned Catholic; her cousin dying, she claimed
back her crown, but her subjects would not now have her; she stayed for a time in France, but
was obliged to leave; retired to Rome, where she spent 20 years of her life engaged in scientific
and artistic studies, and died (1628-1689).

CHRISTINA, MARIA, daughter of Francis I. of Naples, and wife of Ferdinand VII. of Spain, on
whose death she acted for four years as regent, during the infancy of her daughter Isabella
(1806-1878).

CHRISTISON, SIR ROBERT, toxicologist, born at Edinburgh, and professor, first of Medical Jurisprudence
and then of Materia Medica, in his native city; wrote a "Treatise on Poison," a standard work
(1797-1882).

CHRISTMAS, the festival in celebration of the birth of Christ now celebrated all over Christendom
on 25th December, as coinciding with an old heathen festival celebrated at the winter solstice,
the day of the return of the sun northward, and in jubilation of the prospect of the renewal
of life in the spring.

CHRISTOLOGY, the department of theology which treats of the person of Christ.

CHRISTOPHE, HENRI, a negro, born in Grenada; one of the leaders of the insurgent slaves in
Hayti, who, proving successful in arms against the French, became king under the title of Henry
I., but ruling despotically provoked revolt, and shot himself through the heart; he was a man
of powerful physique; b. 1820.

CHRISTOPHER, ST., (the Christ-Bearer), according to Christian legend a giant of great stature
and strength, who, after serving the devil for a time, gave himself up to the service of Christ
by carrying pilgrims across a bridgeless river, when one day a little child, who happened to
be none else than Christ Himself, appeared to be carried over, but, strange to say, as he bore
Him across, the child grew heavier and heavier, till he was nearly baffled in landing Him on
the opposite shore. The giant represented the Church, and the increasing weight of the child
the increasing sin and misery which the Church has from age to age to bear in carrying its
Christ across the Time-river; the giant is represented in art as carrying the infant on his
shoulder, and as having for staff the stem of a large tree.

CHRISTOPHER NORTH, the name assumed by JOHN WILSON (q. v.) in Blackwood's Magazine.

CHRISTOPHER'S, ST., (30), popularly called St. Kitts, one of the Leeward Islands, discovered
by Columbus (1493), who named it after himself; belongs to England; has sugar plantations.

CHRIST'S HOSPITAL, the Blue-Coat School, London, was founded in 1547, a large institution,
on the foundation of which there are now 2170 pupils instead of 1200 as formerly; entrance
to it is gained partly by presentation and partly by competition, and attached are numerous
exhibitions and prizes; among the alumni have been several noted men, such as Bishop Stillingfleet,
Coleridge, Leigh Hunt, and Charles Lamb.

CHROMATICS, that department of optics which treats of colours, and resolves the primary colours
into three--red, yellow, and blue.

CHRONICLERS, THE RHYMING, a series of writers who flourished in England in the 13th century,
and related histories of the country in rhyme, in which the fabulous occupies a conspicuous
place, among which Layamon's "Brut" (1205) takes the lead.

CHRONICLES I. and II., two historical books of the Old Testament, the narratives of which,
with additions and omissions, run parallel with those of Samuel and Kings, but written from
a priestly standpoint, give the chief prominence to the history of Judah as the support in
Jerusalem of the ritual of which the priests were the custodians; Ezra and Nehemiah are continuations.

CHRYSËIS, the daughter of Chryses, priest of Apollo, a beautiful maiden who fell among the
spoils of a victory to Agamemnon, and became his slave, and whom he refused to restore to her
father until a deadly plague among the Greeks, at the hands of Apollo, whose priest her father
was, compelled him to give her up.

CHRYSIPPUS, a Greek philosopher, born at Soli, in Cilicia, and lived in Athens; specially skilled
in dialectic; the last and greatest expounder and defender of the philosophy of the Stoa, so
pre-eminent, that it was said of him, "If Chrysippus were not, the Stoa were not"; is said
to have written 705 books, not one of which, however, has come down to us save a few fragments
(280-208 B.C.). See STOICISM.

CHRYSOLO`RAS, a Grecian scholar, born at Constantinople, left his native country and lived
in Florence, where he, in the 14th century, became a teacher of Greek literature, and contributed
thereby to the revival of letters in Italy; d. 1415.

CHRYSOSTOM, ST. JOHN, that is, Mouth of Gold, so called from his eloquence, born at Antioch;
converted to Christianity from a mild paganism; became one of the Fathers of the Church, and
Patriarch of Constantinople; he was zealous in suppressing heresy, as well as corruption in
the Church, and was for that reason thrice over subjected to banishment; in the course of the
third of which and while on the way, he died, though his remains was brought to Constantinople
and there deposited with great solemnity; he left many writings behind him--sermons, homilies,
commentaries, and epistles, of which his "Homilies" are most studied and prized (347-407).
Festival, Jan. 27.

CHUBB, THOMAS, an English Deist, born near Salisbury; he regarded Christ as a divine teacher,
but held reason to be sovereign in matters of religion, yet was on rational grounds a defender
of Christianity; had no learning, but was well up in the religious controversies of the time,
and bore his part in them creditably (1679-1746).

CHUNDER SEN, one of the founders of the BRAHMO-SOMAJ (q. v.); he visited Europe in 1870, and
was welcomed with open arms by the rationalist class of Churchmen and Dissenters.

CHUQUISA`CA (20), (i. e. Bridge of Gold), the capital of Bolivia, in a sheltered plain 9000
ft. above the sea-level; is a cathedral city; has a mild climate; it was founded in 1538 by
the Spaniards on the site of an old Peruvian town.

CHURCH, RICHARD WILLIAM, dean of St. Paul's, born in Lisbon; a scholarly man; distinguished
himself first as such by his "Essays and Reviews," wrote thoughtful sermons, and "A Life of
Anselm," also essays on eminent men of letters, such as Dante, Spenser, and Bacon (1815-1890).

CHURCH, STATES OF THE, the Papal States, extending irregularly from the Po to Naples, of which
the Pope was the temporal sovereign, now part of the kingdom of Italy.

CHURCHILL, CHARLES, an English poet, born at Westminster; began life as a curate, an office
which he was compelled to resign from his unseemly ways; took himself to the satire, first
of the actors of the time in his "Rosciad," then of his critics in his "Apology," and then
of Dr. Johnson in the "Ghost"; he wrote numerous satires, all vigorous, his happiest being
deemed that against the Scotch, entitled "The Prophecy of Famine"; his life was a short one,
and not wisely regulated (1731-1764).

CHURCHILL, LORD RANDOLPH, an English Conservative politician, third son of the 7th Duke of
Marlborough, who, though a man of mark, and more than once in office, could never heart and
soul join any party and settle down to steady statesmanship; set out on travel, took ill on
the journey, and came home in a state of collapse to die (1849-1895).

CHUZZLEWIT, MARTIN, the hero of a novel by Dickens of the name. JAMES, a character in the same
novel, a man distinguished for his mean and tyrannical character.

CHUSAN (30 or 40), principal island in the Chusan Archipelago, 18 m. long and 10 broad; near
the estuary of the Yangtse-kiang, has been called "the Key of China."

CHYLE, a fluid of a milky colour, separated from the chyme by the action of the pancreatic
juice and the bile, and which, being absorbed by the lacteal vessels, is gradually assimilated
into blood.

CHYME, the pulpy mass into which the food is converted in the stomach prior to the separation
in the small intestines of the chyle.

CIALDINI, ENRICO, an Italian general and politician, born at Modena; distinguished himself
in Spain against the Carlists, and both as a soldier and diplomatist in connection with the
unification of Italy (1811-1892).

CIBBER, COLLEY, actor and dramatist, of German descent; was manager and part-proprietor of
Drury Lane; wrote plays, one in particular, which procured for him the post of poet-laureate,
which he held till his death; was much depreciated by Pope; wrote an "Apology for his Life,"
the most amusing autobiography in the language (1671-1757).

CIBRARIO, LUIGI, an Italian historian and statesman, born at Turin; he held office under Charles
Albert of Sardinia (1802-1870).

CICERO, MARCUS TULLIUS, a Roman orator, statesman, and man of letters, born near Arpinum, in
Latium; trained for political life partly at Rome and partly at Athens; distinguished himself
as the first orator at the Roman bar when he was 30, and afterwards rose through the successive
grades of civic rank till he attained the consulship in 63 B.C.; during this period he acquired
great popularity by his exposure and defeat of the conspiracy of Catiline, by which he earned
the title of Father of his Country, though there were those who condemned his action and procured
his banishment for a time; on his recall, which was unanimous, he took sides first with Pompey,
then with Cæsar after Pharsalia, on whose death he delivered a Philippic against Antony; was
proscribed by the second triumvirate, and put to death by Antony's soldiers; he was the foremost
of Roman orators, the most elegant writer of the Latin language, and has left behind him orations,
letters, and treatises, very models of their kind; he was not a deep thinker, and his philosophy
was more eclectic than original (100-43 B.C.).

CICERO OF GERMANY, John III., Elector of Brandenburg, "could speak 'four hours at a stretch,
in elegantly flowing Latin,' with a fair share of meaning in it too" (1455-1499).

CICOGNARA, COUNT, an Italian writer, born at Ferrara; author of a "History of Sculpture" (1767-1834).

CID CAMPEADOR, a famed Castilian warrior of the 11th century, born at Burgos; much celebrated
in Spanish romance; being banished from Castile, in the interest of which he had fought valiantly,
he became a free-lance, fighting now with the Christians and now with the Moors, till he made
himself master of Valencia, where he set up his throne and reigned, with his faithful wife
Ximena by his side, till the news of a defeat by the Moors took all spirit out of him, and
he died of grief. Faithful after death, his wife had his body embalmed and carried to his native
place, on the high altar of which it lay enthroned for 10 years; his real name was Don Rodrigo
Diaz of Bivar, and the story of his love for Ximena is the subject of Corneille's masterpiece,
"The Cid."

CIGOLI, a Florentine painter, called the Florentine Correggio, whom he specially studied in
the practice of his art; "The Apostle Healing the Lame," in St. Peter's, is by him, as also
the "Martyrdom of St. Stephen," in Florence (1559-1613).

CILICIA, an ancient province in S. of Asia Minor.

CILICIAN GATES, the pass across Mount Taurus by which Alexander the Great entered Cilicia.

CIMABU`E, a Florentine painter, and founder of the Florentine school, which ranked among its
members such artists as Michael Angelo, Raphael, and Leonardo da Vinci; was the first to leave
the stiff traditional Byzantine forms of art and copy from nature and the living model, though
it was only with the advent of his great disciple Giotto that art found beauty in reality,
and Florence was made to see the divine significance of lowly human worth, at sight of which,
says Ruskin, "all Italy threw up its cap"; his "Madonna," in the Church of Santa Maria, has
been long regarded as a marvel of art, and of all the "Mater Dolorosas" of Christianity, Ruskin
does not hesitate to pronounce his at Assisi the noblest; "he was the first," says Ruskin,
"of the Florentines, first of European men, to see the face of her who was blessed among women,
and with his following hand to make visible the Magnificat of his heart" (1240-1302).

CIMAROSA, DOMENICO, a celebrated Italian composer; composed between 20 and 30 operas, mostly
comic, his masterpiece being "II Matrimoneo Segreto"; he was imprisoned for sympathising with
the principles of the French Revolution, and treated with a severity which shortened his life;
said by some to have been poisoned by order of Queen Caroline of Naples (1754-1801).

CIMBER, a friend of Cæsar's who turned traitor, whose act of presenting a petition to him was
the signal to the conspirators to take his life.

CIMBRI, a barbarian horde who, with the Teutons, invaded Gaul in the 2nd century B.C.; gave
the Romans no small trouble, and were all but exterminated by Marius in 101 B.C.; believed
to have been a Celtic race, who descended on Southern Europe from the N.

CIMERIANS, an ancient people N. of the shores of the Black Sea, fabled to inhabit a region
unvisited by a single ray of the sun.

CIMON, an Athenian general, son of Miltiades; distinguished himself in the struggle of Athens
against Persia in 466 B.C.; gained two victories over the Persians in one day, one by land
and another by sea, was banished by the democratic party, and after four years recalled to
continue his victories over his old foes, and died at Cyprus (510-449 B.C.).

CINCINNATI (326), the metropolis of Ohio, stands on the Ohio River, opposite Covington and
Newport, by rail 270 m. SE. of Chicago; the city stands on hilly ground, and is broken and
irregular; there are many fine buildings, among them a Roman Catholic cathedral, and large
parks; there is a university, the Lane Theological Seminary (Presbyterian), schools of medicine,
law, music, and art, an observatory, zoological garden, and large libraries; it is a centre
of culture in the arts; manufactures include clothing, tobacco, leather, moulding and machine
shops; there is some boat-building and printing; but the most noted trade is in pork and grain;
is the greatest pork market in the world; a third of the population is of German origin.

CINCINNATUS, LUCIUS QUINCTIUS, an old hero of the Roman republic, distinguished for the simplicity
and austerity of his manners; was consul in 460 B.C., and on the defeat of a Roman army by
the Æqui, called to the dictatorship from the plough, to which he returned on the defeat of
the Æqui; he was summoned to fill the same post a second time, when he was 80, on the occasion
of the conspiracy of Mælius, with the like success.

CINCINNATUS, THE ORDER OF, an American order founded by officers of the revolutionary army
at its dissolution in 1753; was denounced by Franklin as anti-republican in its spirit and
tendency; it still survives in a feeble way; the order is hereditary.

CINCINNATUS OF THE AMERICANS, George Washington.

CINDERELLA (the little cinder-girl), the youngest member of a family who must drudge at home
while her elder sisters go to balls, till one day a fairy befriends her and conveys her to
a ball, where she shines as the centre of attraction, and wins the regard of a prince. On quitting
the hall she leaves a slipper behind her, by means of which she is identified by the prince,
who finds that hers is the only foot that the slipper will fit, and marries her. The story
in one version or another is a very ancient and wide-spread one.

CINEAS, the minister of Pyrrhus, king of Epirus; was the ablest orator of his time, and his
master was in the habit of saying of him, that his eloquence had gained him more cities than
his own arms; sent on a mission to Rome, the senate refused to hear him, lest his eloquence
should prove too fascinating.

CINGALESE, a native of Ceylon.

CINNA, LUCIUS CORNELIUS, a Roman patrician, a friend and supporter of Marius; drove Sulla from
Rome and recalled Marius from exile; participated in the murders which followed his recall,
and after the death of Marius was assassinated when organising an expedition against Sulla, 84 B.C.

CINNABAR, a sulphide of mercury from which the mercury of commerce is obtained.

CINQ-MARS, HENRI, MARQUIS DE, a French courtier, a favourite of Louis XIII.; a man of handsome
figure and fascinating manners; died on the scaffold for conspiring with his friend De Thou
against Richelieu (1620-1642).

CINQUÉ CENTO (lit. five hundred), the Renaissance in literature and art in the 16th century,
the expression 5 hundred standing for 15 hundred.

CINQUE PORTS, the five ports of Hastings, Romney, Hythe, Dover, and Sandwich, to which were
added Winchelsea and Rye, which possessed certain privileges in return for supplying the royal
power with a navy; the Lord Warden of the Cinque Ports is only an honorary dignity.

CINTRA, a Portuguese town, 17 m. NW. of Lisbon, where a much reprobated convention between
the French under Marshal Junot and the English under Sir Hew Dalrymple was signed in 1808,
whereby the former were let off with all their arms and baggage on condition of evacuating
Portugal.

CIPANGO, an island on the Eastern Ocean, described by Marco Polo as a sort of El Dorado, an
object of search to subsequent navigators, and an attraction among the number to Columbus,
it is said.

CIPRIANI, an Italian painter and etcher, born in Florence; settled in London; was an original
member of the Royal Academy, and designed the diploma (1727-1785).

CIRCARS, THE, a territory in India along the coast of the Bay of Bengal, from 18 to 100 m.
wide; ceded first to the French and in 1766 to the East India Company, now of course under
the Crown, and forming part of the Madras Presidency.

CIRCASSIA, a territory on the Western Caucasus, now subject to Russia; celebrated for the sturdy
spirit of the men and the beauty of the women; the nobles professing Mohammedanism and the
lower classes a certain impure form of Christianity; they are of the Semite race, and resemble
the Arabs in their manners.

CIRCE, a sorceress who figures in the "Odyssey." Ulysses having landed on her isle, she administered
a potion to him and his companions, which turned them into swine, while the effect of it on
himself was counteracted by the use of the herb moly, provided for him by Hermes against sorcery;
she detained him with her for years, and disenchanted his companions on his departure.

CIRCEAN POISON, a draught of any kind that is magically and fatally infatuating, such as the
effect often of popular applause.

CIRCUITS, districts outside of London into which England is divided for judicial purposes,
for the trial of civil as well as criminal cases connected with them; are seven in number--the
Midland, the Oxford, the North-Eastern, the South-Eastern, the Northern, the Western, and North
Wales and South Wales; the courts are presided over by a judge sent from London, or by two,
and are held twice a year, or oftener if the number of cases require it.

CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD, the course of the blood from the heart through the arteries to the
minute vessels of the body, and from these last through the veins back to the heart again.

CIRCUMCISION, the practice of cutting away the foreskin, chiefly of males, as observed by the
Jews and the Mohammedans, as well as other nations of remote antiquity; regarded by some as
a mark of belonging to the tribe, and by others as a sacrifice in propitiation by blood.

CIRCUMLOCUTION OFFICE, a name employed by Dickens in "Little Dorrit" to designate the wearisome
routine of public business.

CISALPINE GAUL, territory occupied by Gauls on the Italian or south side of the Alps.

CISALPINE REPUBLIC, a republic so called on both sides of the Po, formed out of his conquests
by Napoleon, 1797; became the Italian Republic in 1802, with Milan for capital, and ceased
to exist after the fall of Napoleon.

CISLEITHANIA, Austria proper as distinguished from Hungary, which is called Transleithania,
on account of the boundary between them being formed by the river Leitha.

CISTERCIANS, a monastic order founded by Abbot Robert in 1098 at Citeaux, near Dijon; they
followed the rule of St. Benedict, who reformed the Order after it had lapsed; became an ecclesiastical
republic, and were exempt from ecclesiastical control; contributed considerably to the progress
of the arts, if little to the sciences.

CITHÆRON, a wood-covered mountain on the borders of Boeotia and Attica; famous in Greek legend.

CITIES OF REFUGE, among the Jews; three on the E. and three on the W. of the Jordan, in which
the manslayer might find refuge from the avenger of blood.

CITIES OF THE PLAIN, Sodom and Gomorrah, with adjoining cities under the like doom.

CITIZEN KING, Louis Philippe of France, so called as elected by the citizens of Paris.

CITY OF BELLS, Strasburg.

CITY OF CHURCHES, Brooklyn, now incorporated with New York.

CITY OF DESTRUCTION, Bunyan's name for the world as under divine judgment.

CITY OF GOD, Augustine's name for the Church as distinct from the cities of the world, and
the title of a book of his defining it.

CITY OF PALACES, Calcutta and Rome.

CITY OF THE PROPHET, Medina, where Mahomet found refuge when driven out of Mecca by the Koreish
and their adherents.

CITY OF THE SEVEN HILLS, Rome, as built on seven hills--viz., the Aventine, Coelian, Capitoline,
Esquiline, Palatine, Quirinal, and Viminal.

CITY OF THE SUN, BAALBEK (q. v.); and a work by Campanella, describing an ideal republic, after
the manner of Plato and Sir Thomas More.

CITY OF THE VIOLET CROWN, Athens.

CIUDAD REAL (royal city) (13), a Spanish town in a province of the same name, 105 m. S. of
Madrid, where Sebastian defeated the Spaniards in 1809.

CIUDAD RODRIGO (8), a Spanish town near the Portuguese frontier, 50 m. SW. of Salamanca; stormed
by Wellington, after a siege of 11 days, in 1812, for which brilliant achievement he earned
the title of Earl in England, and Duke of Ciudad Rodrigo in Spain.

ÇIVA, or SIVA, the third member of the Hindu Trinity, the destroyer of what Vishnu is the preserver
and Brahma is the creator, is properly Brahma undoing what he has made with a view to reincarnation.

CIVIL LAW, a system of laws for the regulation of civilised communities formed on Roman laws,
digested in the pandects of Justinian.

CIVIL LIST, the yearly sum granted by the Parliament of England at the commencement of each
reign for the support of the royal household, and to maintain the dignity of the Crown: it
amounts now to £385,000.

CIVIL SERVICE, the paid service done to the State, exclusive of that of the army and navy.

CIVILIS, CLAUDIUS, a Batavian chief who revolted against Vespasian, but on defeat was able
to conclude an honourable peace.

CIVITA VECCHIA (11), a fortified port on the W. coast of Italy, 40 m. NW. of Rome, with a good
harbour, founded by Trajan; exports wheat, alum, cheese, &c.

CLACKMANNANSHIRE (28), the smallest county in Scotland, lies between the Ochils and the Forth;
rich in minerals, especially coal.

CLAIR, ST., a lake 30 m. long by 12 broad, connecting Lake Erie with Lake Huron.

CLAIRAUT, ALEXIS CLAUDE, a French mathematician and astronomer, born at Paris, of so precocious
a genius, that he was admitted to the Academy of Sciences at the age of 18; published a theory
of the figure of the earth, and computed the orbit of Halley's comet (1713-1765).

CLAIRVAUX, a village of France, on the Aube, where St. Bernard founded a Cistercian monastery
in 1115, and where he lived and was buried; now used as a prison or reformatory.

CLAIRVOYANCE, the power ascribed to certain persons in a mesmeric state of seeing and describing
events at a distance or otherwise invisible.

CLAN, a tribe of blood relations descended from a common ancestor, ranged under a chief in
direct descent from him, and having a common surname, as in the Highlands of Scotland; at bottom
a military organisation for defensive and predatory purposes.

CLAN-NA-GAEL, a Fenian organisation founded at Philadelphia in 1870, to secure by violence
the complete emancipation of Ireland from British control.

CLAPHAM, a SW. suburb of London, in the county of Surrey, 4 m. from St. Paul's, and inhabited
by a well-to-do middle-class community, originally of evangelical principles, and characterised
as the Clapham Set.

CLAPPERTON, CAPTAIN HUGH, an African explorer, born at Annan; bred in the navy, joined two
expeditions into Central Africa to ascertain the length and course of the Niger, but got no
farther than Sokoto, where he was attacked with dysentery and died (1788-1827).

CLÄRCHEN, a female character in Goethe's "Egmont."

CLARE (124), a county in Munster, Ireland; also an island at the mouth of Clew Bay, county Mayo.

CLARE, JOHN, the peasant poet of Northamptonshire, born near Peterborough; wrote "Poems Descriptive
of Rural Life and Scenery," which attracted attention, and even admiration, and at length with
others brought him a small annuity, which he wasted in speculation; fell into despondency,
and died in a lunatic asylum (1793-1864).

CLARE, ST., a virgin and abbess, born at Assisi; the founder of the Order of Poor Clares (1193-1253).
Festival, Aug. 12.

CLAREMONT, a mansion in Surrey, 14 m. SW. of London, built by Lord Clive, where Princess Charlotte
lived and died, as also Louis Philippe after his flight from France; is now the property of
the Queen, and the residence of the Duchess of Albany.

CLARENCE, DUKE OF, brother of Edward IV.; convicted of treason, he was condemned to death,
and being allowed to choose the manner of his death, is said to have elected to die by drowning
in a butt of Malmsey wine (1459-1478).

CLARENCEUX, or CLARENCIEUX, the provincial king-at-arms, whose jurisdiction extends from and
includes all England S. of the Trent.

CLARENDON, a place 2 m. SE. of Salisbury, where the magnates of England, both lay and clerical,
met in 1164 under Henry II. and issued a set of ordinances, called the Constitutions of Clarendon,
16 in number, to limit the power of the Church and assert the rights of the crown in ecclesiastical
affairs.

CLARENDON, EDWARD HYDE, Earl of, sat in the Short Parliament and the Long on the popular side,
but during the Civil War became a devoted Royalist; was from 1641 one of the chief advisers
of the king; on the failure of the royal cause, took refuge first in Jersey, and then in Holland
with the Prince of Wales; contributed to the Restoration; came back with Charles, and became
Lord Chancellor; fell into disfavour, and quitted England in 1667; died at Rouen; wrote, among
other works, a "History of the Great Rebellion," dignifiedly written, though often carelessly,
but full of graphic touches and characterisations especially of contemporaries; it has been
called an "epical composition," as showing a sense of the central story and its unfolding.
"Few historians," adds Prof. Saintsbury, "can describe a given event with more vividness. Not
one in all the long list of the great practitioners of the art has such skill in the personal
character" (1608-1674).

CLARENDON, GEORGE VILLIERS, EARL OF, a Whig statesman; served as a cabinet minister under Lord
Melbourne, Lord John Russell twice, Lord Aberdeen, Lord Palmerston, and Mr. Gladstone; held
the office of Foreign Secretary under the three preceding; was Lord-Lieutenant of Ireland at
the time of the potato failure, and represented Britain at the Congress of Paris; died in harness,
deeply lamented both at home and abroad (1800-1870).

CLARÉTIE, JULES, a French journalist, novelist, dramatic author, and critic, born at Limoges;
has published some 40 volumes of causeries, history, and fiction; appointed Director of the
Theatre Français in 1893; b. 1840.

CLARISSA HARLOWE, the heroine of one of Richardson's novels, exhibiting a female character
which, as described by him, is pronounced to be "one of the brightest triumphs in the whole
range of imaginative literature," is described by Stopford Brooke "as the pure and ideal star
of womanhood."

CLARK, SIR ANDREW, an eminent London physician, born near Cargill, in Perthshire, much beloved,
and skilful in the treatment of diseases affecting the respiratory and digestive organs (1826-1893).

CLARK, SIR JAMES, physician to the Queen, born in Cullen; an authority on the influence of
climate on chronic and pulmonary disease (1788-1870).

CLARK, THOMAS, chemist, born in Ayr; discovered the phosphate of soda, and the process of softening
hard water (1801-1867).

CLARKE, ADAM, a Wesleyan divine, of Irish birth; a man of considerable scholarship, best known
by his "Commentary" on the Bible; author also of a "Bibliographical Dictionary" (1762-1832).

CLARKE, CHARLES COWDEN, a friend of Lamb, Keats, and Leigh Hunt; celebrated for his Shakespearian
learning; brought out an annotated Shakespeare, assisted by his wife; lectured on Shakespeare
characters (1787-1877).

CLARKE, DR. SAMUEL, an English divine, scholar and disciple of Newton, born at Norwich; author,
as Boyle lecturer, of a famous "Demonstration of the Being and Attributes of God," as also
independently of "The Evidences of Natural and Revealed Religion"; as a theologian he inclined
to Arianism, and his doctrine of morality was that it was congruity with the "eternal fitness
of things" (1675-1729).

CLARKE, EDWARD DANIEL, a celebrated English traveller, born in Sussex; visited Scandinavia,
Russia, Circassia, Asia Minor, Syria, Palestine, Egypt, and Greece; brought home 100 MSS. to
enrich the library of Cambridge, the colossal statue of the Eleusinian Ceres, and the sarcophagus
of Alexander, now in the British Museum; his "Travels" were published in six volumes (1769-1822).

CLARKE, HENRI, Duc de Feltre, of Irish origin, French marshal, and minister of war under Napoleon;
instituted the prevotal court, a pro re nata court without appeal (1767-1818).

CLARKE, MARY COWDEN, née Novello, of Italian descent, wife of Charles Cowden, assisted her
husband in his Shakespeare studies, and produced amid other works "Concordance to Shakespeare,"
a work which occupied her 16 years (1809-1898).

CLARKE, WILLIAM GEORGE, English man of letters; Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge; edited
the "Cambridge Shakespeare," along with Mr. Aldis Wright (1821-1867).

CLARKSON, THOMAS, philanthropist, born in Wisbeach, Cambridgeshire; the great English anti-slavery
advocate, and who lived to see in 1833 the final abolition in the British empire of the slavery
he denounced, in which achievement he was assisted by the powerful advocacy in Parliament of
Wilberforce (1760-1846).

CLASSIC RACES, the English horse-races at Newmarket--Derby, the Oaks, and the St. Leger.

CLASSICS, originally, and often still, the standard authors in the literature of Greece or
Rome, now authors in any literature that represent it at its best, when, as Goethe has it,
it is "vigorous, fresh, joyous, and healthy," as in the "Nibelungen," no less than in the "Iliad."

CLAUDE, JEAN, a French Protestant controversial divine, a powerful antagonist of Bossuet and
other Catholic writers, allowed only 24 hours to escape on the eve of the Revocation of the
Edict of Nantes, though other Protestant ministers were allowed 15 days (1619-1687).

CLAUDE LORRAINE, a great landscape painter, born in Lorraine, of poor parents, and apprenticed
to a pastry-cook; went as such to Rome; became servant and colour-grinder to Tassi, who instructed
him in his art; by assiduous study of nature in all her aspects attained to fame; was eminent
in his treatment of aërial perspective, and an artist whom it was Turner's ambition to rival;
he was eminent as an etcher as well as a painter; Turner left one of his finest works to the
English nation on condition that it should hang side by side of a masterpiece of Claude, which
it now does; his pictures are found in every gallery in Europe, and a goodly number of them
are to be met with in England; there are in the St. Petersburg gallery four pieces of exquisite
workmanship, entitled "Morning," "Noon," "Evening," and "Twilight" (1600-1682).

CLAUDIAN, a Latin epic poet of the 4th century, born in Alexandria, panegyrist of Stilicho
on his victory over Alaric; a not unworthy successor of Catullus and Propertius, though his
native tongue was Greek.

CLAUDIUS, APPIUS, a Roman decemvir and patrician in 451 B.C.; outraged Virginia, a beautiful
plebeian damsel, whom her father, on discovering of the crime, killed with a knife snatched
from a butcher's stall, rousing thereby the popular rage against the decemvir, who was cast
into prison, where he put an end to himself, 449 B.C.

CLAUDIUS, APPIUS, censor in 312-307 B.C.; wrought important changes in the Roman constitution;
set on foot the construction of the Appian Way and the Appian Aqueduct, named after him.

CLAUDIUS I, TIBERIUS DRUSUS, surnamed GERMANICUS, brother of Tiberius, emperor of Rome from
41 to 54, born at Lyons; after spending 50 years of his life in private, occupying himself
in literary study, was, on the death of Caligula, raised very much against his wish by the
soldiers to the imperial throne, a post which he filled with honour to himself and benefit
to the State; but he was too much controlled by his wives, of whom he had in succession four,
till the last of them, Agrippina, had him poisoned to make way for her son Nero.

CLAUDIUS II., surnamed GOTHICUS, Roman emperor from 268 to 270; an excellent prince and a good
general; distinguished himself by his ability and courage against the Goths and other hordes
of barbarians.

CLAUSEL, BERTRAND, marshal of France, born at Mirepoix; served under Napoleon in Holland, Italy,
Austria, and Spain; was defeated at Salamanca, executing thereafter a masterly retreat; left
France for America in 1815 on the fall of Napoleon, to whom he was devoted; returned in 1830,
became commander-in-chief in Algeria, and ultimately governor (1772-1842).

CLAUSEWITZ, KARL VON, a Prussian general, born at Burg; distinguished himself against Napoleon
in Russia in 1812; an authority on the art of war, on which he wrote a treatise in three volumes,
entitled "Vom Krieg" (1780-1831).

CLAUSIUS, RUDOLF, an eminent German physicist, born at Köslin, in Pomerania; professor of Natural
Philosophy at Bonn; specially distinguished for his contributions to the science of thermo-dynamics,
and the application of mathematical methods to the study, as also to electricity and the expansion
of gases (1822-1888).

CLAVERHOUSE, JOHN GRAHAM OF, VISCOUNT DUNDEE, commenced life as a soldier in France and Holland;
on his return to Scotland in 1677 was appointed by Charles II. to the command of a troop to
suppress the Covenanters; was defeated at Drumclog 1679, but by the help of Monmouth had his
revenge at Bothwell Brig; affected to support the Revolution, but intrigued in favour of the
Stuarts; raised in Scotland a force in their behalf; was met at Killiecrankie by General Mackay,
where he fell (1643-1689).

CLAVIÈRE, Minister of Finance in France after Necker, born at Geneva; projector of the Moniteur;
friend of Mirabeau; committed suicide in prison (1735-1793).

CLAVIJE`RO, a Jesuit missionary, born in Vera Cruz; laboured for 40 years as missionary in
Mexico; on the suppression of his Order went to Italy, and wrote a valuable work on Mexico
(1718-1793).

CLAVIGO, a drama by Goethe in five acts, the first work to which he put his name; was received
with disfavour.

CLAVILEÑO, Don Quixote's wooden horse.

CLAY, HENRY, an American statesman, born in Virginia; bred for the bar, and distinguished for
his oratory; was for many years Speaker of the House of Representatives; was a supporter of
war with Britain in 1812-15, and party to the treaty which ended it; was an advocate of protection;
aspired three times unsuccessfully to the Presidency; his public career was a long one, and
an honourable (1777-1852).

CLEAR THE CAUSEWAY RIOTS, bickerings in the streets of Edinburgh in 1515 between the rival
factions of Angus and Arran, to the utter rout of the former, or the Douglas party.

CLEANTHES, a Stoic philosopher, born at Assos, in Troas, of the 3rd century B.C.; wrought as
a drawer of water by night that he might earn his fee as pupil of Zeno's by day; became Zeno's
successor and the head of his school; regarded "pleasure as a remission of that moral energy
of the soul, which alone is happiness, as an interruption to life, and as an evil, which was
not in accordance with nature, and no end of nature."

CLEAR, CAPE, a headland S. of Clear Island, most southerly point of Ireland, and the first
land sighted coming from America.

CLEARCHUS, a Spartan general who accompanied Cyrus on his expedition against Artaxerxes; commanded
the retreat of the Ten Thousand; was put to death by Tissaphernes in 401 B.C., and replaced
by Xenophon.

CLEARING-HOUSE, a house for interchanging the respective claims of banks and of railway companies.

CLEISHBOTHAM, JEDEDIAH, an imaginary editor in Scott's "Tales of My Landlord."

CLELIA, a Roman heroine, who swam the Tiber to escape from Porsenna, whose hostage she was;
sent back by the Romans, she was set at liberty, and other hostages along with her, out of
admiration on Porsenna's part of both her and her people.

CLEMENCEAUX, GEORGES BENJAMIN, French politician, born in La Vendée; bred to medicine; political
adversary of Gambetta; proprietor of La Justice, a Paris journal; an expert swordsman; b. 1841.

CLEMENCET, CHARLES, a French Benedictine, born near Autun; one of the authors of the great
chronological work, "Art de Vérifier les Dates," and wrote the history of the Port Royal (1703-1778).

CLEMENCIN, DIEGO, a Spanish statesman and littérateur; his most important work a commentary
on "Don Quixote."

CLEMENS, SAMUEL LANGHORNE, an American humorist with the pseudonym of "Mark Twain," born at
Florida, Missouri, U.S.; began his literary career as a newspaper reporter and a lecturer;
his first book "The Jumping Frog"; visited Europe, described in the "Innocents Abroad"; married
a lady of fortune; wrote largely in his peculiar humorous vein, such as the "Tramp Abroad";
produced a drama entitled the "Gilded Age," and compiled the "Memoirs of General Grant"; b. 1835.

CLEMENS ALEXANDRINUS, one of the Greek Fathers of the Church, of the 2nd and 3rd centuries;
had Origen for pupil; brought up in Greek philosophy; converted in manhood to Christianity
from finding in his appreciation of knowledge over faith confirmations of it in his philosophy,
which he still adhered to; his "Stromata" or "Miscellanies" contain facts and quotations found
nowhere else.

CLEMENT, the name of 14 popes: C. I., Pope from 91 to 100; one of the Apostolic Fathers; wrote
an Epistle to the Church of Corinth, with references to the Canonical books. C. II., Pope from
1046 to 1047. C. III., pope from 1187 to 1191. C. IV., Pope from 1265 to 1268. C. V., Bertrand
de Goth, Pope from 1305 to 1314; transferred the seat of the Papacy to Avignon, and abolished
the Order of the Knights Templars. C. VI. Pope from 1342 to 1352; resided at Avignon. C. VII.,
Giulio de Medici, Pope from 1523 to 1534; celebrated for his quarrels with Charles V. and Henry
VIII., was made prisoner in Rome by the Constable of Bourbon; refused to sanction the divorce
of Henry VIII., and brought about the schism of England from the Holy See. C. VIII., Pope from
1592 to 1605; a patron of Tasso's; readmitted Henry IV. to the Church and the Jesuits to France.
C. IX., Pope from 1667 to 1669. C. X., pope from 1670 to 1676. C. XI., Pope from 1700 to 1721;
as Francesco Albani opposed the Jansenists; issued the bull Unigenitus against them; supported
the Pretender and the claims of the Stuarts. C. XII., Pope from 1738 to 1740. C. XIII., Pope
from 1758 to 1769. C. XIV., Pope from 1769 to 1774, Ganganelli, an able, liberal-minded, kind-hearted,
and upright man; abolished the Order of the Jesuits out of regard to the peace of the Church;
his death occurred not without suspicions of foul-play.

CLEMENT, French critic, born at Dijon, surnamed by Voltaire from his severity the "Inclement"
(1742-1812).

CLEMENT, a French manufacturer and savant, born near Dijon; author of a memoir on the specific
heat of the gases (1779-1841).

CLEMENT, JACQUES, a Dominican monk; assassinated Henry III. of France in 1589.

CLEMENT, ST., St. Paul's coadjutor, the patron saint of tanners; his symbol an anchor.

CLEMENTI, MUZIO, a musical composer, especially of pieces for the pianoforte, born in Rome;
was the father of pianoforte music; one of the foremost pianists of his day; was buried in
Westminster (1752-1832).

CLEMENTINE, THE LADY, a lady, accomplished and beautiful, in Richardson's novel, "Sir Charles
Grandison," in love with Sir Charles, who marries another he has no partiality for.

CLEOBULUS, one of the seven sages of Greece; friend of Plato; wrote lyrics and riddles in verse,
530 B.C.

CLEOM`BROTUS, a philosopher of Epirus, so fascinated with Plato's "Phædon" that he leapt into
the sea in the expectation that he would thereby exchange this life for a better.

CLEOME`DES, a Greek astronomer of the 1st or 2nd century; author of a treatise which regards
the sun as the centre of the solar system and the earth as a globe.

CLEOMENES, the name of three Spartan kings.

CLEOMENES, an Athenian sculptor, who, as appears from an inscription on the pedestal, executed
the statue of the Venus de Medici towards 220 B.C.

CLEON, an Athenian demagogue, surnamed the Tanner, from his profession, which he forsook that
he might champion the rights of the people; rose in popular esteem by his victory over the
Spartans, but being sent against Brasidas, the Spartan general, was defeated and fell in the
battle, 422 B.C.; is regarded by Thucydides with disfavour, and by Aristophanes with contempt,
but both these writers were of the aristocracy, and possibly prejudiced, though the object
of their disfavour had many of the marks of the vulgar agitator, and stands for the type of one.

CLEOPA`TRA, Queen of Egypt, a woman distinguished for her beauty, her charms, and her amours;
first fascinated Cæsar, to whom she bore a son, and whom she accompanied to Rome, and after
Cæsar's death took Mark Antony captive, on whose fall and suicide at Actium she killed herself
by applying an asp to her arm, to escape the shame of being taken to Rome to grace the triumph
of the victor (69-30 B.C.).

CLEOPATRA'S NEEDLE, an obelisk of 186 tons weight and 68½ ft. high, brought from Alexandria
to London in 1878, and erected on the Thames Embankment, London.

CLERC, or LECLERC, JEAN, a French theologian of the Arminian school, born at Geneva; a prolific
author; wrote commentaries on all the books of the Old Testament, on lines since followed by
the Rationalist school or Neologians of Germany (1657-1736).

CLERFAYT, COMTE DE, an Austrian general, distinguished in the Seven Years' War; commanded with
less success the Austrian army against the French armies of the Revolution (1733-1798).

CLERK, JOHN, OF ELDIN, of the Penicuik family, an Edinburgh merchant, first suggested the naval
manoeuvre of "breaking the enemy's lines," which was first successfully adopted against the
French in 1782 (1728-1812).

CLERK, JOHN, son of preceding, a Scottish judge, under the title of Lord Eldin, long remembered
in Edinburgh for his wit (1757-1832).

CLERKENWELL (66), a parish in Finsbury, London, originally an aristocratic quarter, now the
centre of the manufacture of jewellery and watches.

CLERMONT, ROBERT, COMTE DE, sixth son of St. Louis, head of the house of Bourbon.

CLERMONT FERRAND (45), the ancient capital of Auvergne and chief town of the dep. Puy-de-Dôme;
the birthplace of Pascal, Gregory of Tours, and Dessaix, and where, in 1095, Pope Urban II.
convoked a council and decided on the first Crusade; it has been the scene of seven Church
Councils.

CLERMONT-TONNERRE, Marquis, minister of France under the Restoration of the Bourbons (1779-1865).

CLERY, Louis XVI.'s valet, who waited on him in his last hours, and has left an account of
what he saw of his touching farewell with his family.

CLEVELAND, a hilly district in the North Riding of Yorkshire, rich in iron-stone.

CLEVELAND (381), the second city of Ohio, on the shores of Lake Erie, 230 m. NE. of Cincinnati;
is built on a plain considerably above the level of the lake; the winding Cuyahoga River divides
it into two parts, and the industrial quarters are on the lower level of its banks; the city
is noted for its wealth of trees in the streets and parks, hence called "The Forest City,"
and for the absence of tenement houses; it has a university, several colleges, and two libraries;
it is the terminus of the Ohio Canal and of seven railways, and the iron ore of Lake Superior
shores, the limestone of Lake Erie Islands, and the Ohio coal are brought together here, and
every variety of iron manufacture carried on; there is a great lumber market, and an extensive
general trade.

CLEVELAND, GROVER, President of the United States, born in New Jersey, son of a Presbyterian
minister; bred for the bar; became President in the Democratic interest in 1885; unseated for
his free-trade leaning by Senator Harrison, 1889; became the President a second time in 1893;
retired in 1897.

CLEVELAND, JOHN, partisan of Charles I.; imprisoned for abetting the Royalist cause against
the Parliament, but after some time set at liberty in consequence of a letter he wrote to Cromwell
pleading that he was a poor man, and that in his poverty he suffered enough; he was a poet,
and used his satirical faculty in a political interest, one of his satires being an onslaught
on the Scots for betraying Charles I.; d. 1650.

CLÈVES (10), a Prussian town 46 m. NW. of Düsseldorf, once the capital of a duchy connected
by a canal with the Rhine; manufactures textile fabrics and tobacco.

CLICHY (30), a manufacturing suburb of Paris, on the NW. and right bank of the Seine.

CLIFFORD, GEORGE, Earl of Cumberland, a distinguished naval commander under Queen Elizabeth,
and one of her favourites (1558-1605).

CLIFFORD, JOHN, D.D., Baptist minister in London, author of "Is Life Worth Living?" b. 1836.

CLIFFORD, PAUL, a highwayman, the subject of a novel by Bulwer Lytton, who was subdued and
reformed by the power of love.

CLIFTON (13), a fashionable suburb of Bristol, resorted to as a watering-place; romantically
situated on the sides and crest of high cliffs, whence it name.

CLIMACTERIC, THE GRAND, the 63rd year of a man's life, and the average limit of it; a climacteric
being every seven years of one's life, and reckoned critical.

CLINKER, HUMPHRY, the hero of Smollett's novel, a poor waif, reduced to want, who attracts
the notice of Mr. Bramble, marries Mrs. Bramble's maid, and proves a natural son of Mr. Bramble.

CLINTON, GEORGE, American general and statesman; was governor of New York; became Vice-President
in 1804 (1739-1812).

CLINTON, SIR HENRY, an English general; commanded in the American war; censured for failure
in the war; wrote an exculpation, which was accepted (1738-1795).

CLINTON, HENRY FYNES, a distinguished chronologist, author of "Fasti Hellenici" and "Fasti
Romani" (1781-1852).

CLIO, the muse of history and epic poetry, represented as seated with a half-opened scroll
in her hand.

CLISSON, OLIVIER DE, constable of France under Charles VI.; companion in arms of Du Gueselin,
and victor at Roosebeke (1326-1407).

CLISTHENES, an Athenian, uncle of Pericles, procured the expulsion of Hippias the tyrant, 510
B.C., and the establishment of OSTRACISM (q. v.).

CLITUS, a general of Alexander, and his friend, who saved his life at the battle of Granicus,
but whom, at a banquet, he killed when heated with wine, to his inconsolable grief ever afterwards.

CLIVE, ROBERT, LORD CLIVE AND BARON PLASSEY, the founder of the dominion of Britain in India,
born in Shropshire; at 19 went out a clerk in the East India Company's service, but quitted
his employment in that capacity for the army; distinguishing himself against the rajah of Tanjore,
was appointed commissary; advised an attack on Arcot, in the Carnatic, in 1751; took it from
and held it against the French, after which, and other brilliant successes, he returned to
England, and was made lieutenant-colonel in the king's service; went out again, and marched
against the nabob Surajah Dowlah, and overthrew him at the battle of Plassey, 1757; established
the British power in Calcutta, and was raised to the peerage; finally returned to England possessed
of great wealth, which exposed him to the accusation of having abused his power; the accusation
failed; in his grief he took to opium, and committed suicide (1725-1774).

CLODIUS, a profligate Roman patrician; notorious as the enemy of Cicero, whose banishment he
procured; was killed by the tribune Milo, 52 B.C.

CLODOMIR, the second son of Clovis, king of Orleans from 511 to 524; fell fighting with his
rivals; his children, all but one, were put to death by their uncles, Clotaire and Childebert.

CLOOTZ, ANACHARSIS, Baron Jean Baptiste de Clootz, a French Revolutionary, born at Clèves;
"world-citizen"; his faith that "a world federation is possible, under all manner of customs,
provided they hold men"; his pronomen Anacharsis suggested by his resemblance to an ancient
Scythian prince who had like him a cosmopolitan spirit; was one of the founders of the worship
of Reason, and styled himself the "orator of the human race"; distinguished himself at the
great Federation, celebrated on the Champ de Mars, by entering the hall on the great Federation
Day, June 19, 1790, "with the human species at his heels"; was guillotined under protest in
the name of the human race (1755-1794).

CLORINDA, a female Saracen knight sent against the Crusaders, whom Tancred fell in love with,
but slew on an encounter at night; before expiring she received Christian baptism at his hands.

CLOTAIRE I., son and successor of Clovis, king of the Franks from 558; cruel and sanguinary;
along with Childebert murdered the sons of his brother Clodomir. C. II., son of Chilpéric and
Fredigonda, king of the Franks from 613 to 628; caused Brunhilda to be torn in pieces. C. III.,
son of Clovis II., King of Neustria and Burgundy from 656 to 670. C. IV., king of ditto from
717 to 720.

CLOTHES, Carlyle's name in "Sartor Resartus" for the guises which the spirit, especially of
man, weaves for itself and wears, and by which it both conceals itself in shame and reveals
itself in grace.

CLOTHO, that one of the three Fates which spins the thread of human destiny.

CLOTILDA, ST., the wife of Clovis I.; persuaded her husband to profess Christianity; retired
into a monastery at Tours when he died (475-545). Festival, June 3.

CLOUD, ST., the patron saint of smiths.

CLOUD, ST., or CLODOALD, third son of Clodomir, who escaped the fate of his brothers, and retired
from the world to a spot on the left bank of the Seine, 6 m. SW. of Paris, named St. Cloud
after him.

CLOUDS, THE, the play in which Aristophanes exposes Socrates to ridicule.

CLOUGH, ARTHUR HUGH, a lyric poet, born at Liverpool; son of a cotton merchant; educated at
Rugby under Dr. Arnold, whom he held in the highest regard; was at Oxford, as a Fellow of Oriel,
at the time of the Tractarian movement, which he arrayed himself against, and at length turned
his back upon and tore himself away from by foreign travel; on his return he was appointed
examiner in the Education Office; falling ill from overwork he went abroad again, and died
at Florence; he was all alive to the tendencies of the time, and his lyrics show his sense
of these, and how he fronted them; in the speculative scepticism of the time his only refuge
and safety-anchor was duty; Matthew Arnold has written in his "Thyrsis" a tribute to his memory
such as has been written over few; his best-known poem is "The Bothie of Tober-na-Vuolich"
(1819-1861).

CLOVIS I., king of the Franks, son of Childéric I.; conquered the Romans at Soissons 486, which
he made his centre; married CLOTILDA (q. v.) 493; beat the Germans near Cologne 496, by assistance,
as he believed, of the God of Clotilda, after which he was baptized by St. Remi at Rheims;
and overthrew the Visigoths under Alaric II. near Poitiers in 507, after which victories he
made Paris his capital. C. II., son of Dagobert; was king of Neustria and Burgundy from 638
to 656. C. ILL, son of Thierry III., and king of ditto from 691 to 695, and had Pépin d'Héristal
for mayor of the palace.

CLUNY (3), a town in the dep. of Saône-et-Loire, on an affluent of the Saône; renowned in the
Middle Ages for its Benedictine abbey, founded in 910, and the most celebrated in Europe, having
been the mother establishment of 2000 others of the like elsewhere; in ecclesiastical importance
it stood second to Rome, and its abbey church second to none prior to the erection of St. Peter's;
a great normal school was established here in 1865.

CLUSIUM, the ancient capital of Etruria and Porsenna's.

CLUTHA, the largest river in New Zealand, in Otago, very deep and rapid, and 200 m. long.

CLUTTERBUCK, the imaginary author of the "Fortunes of Nigel," and the patron to whom the "Abbot"
is dedicated.

CLYDE, a river in the W. of Scotland which falls into a large inlet or firth, as it is called,
the commerce on which extends over the world, and on the banks of which are shipbuilding yards
second to none in any other country; it is deepened as far as Glasgow for ships of a heavy tonnage.

CLYDE, LORD. See CAMPBELL, COLIN.

CLYTEMNESTRA, the wife of Agamemnon, and the mother of Iphigenia, Electra, and Orestes; killed
her husband, and was killed by her son, Orestes, seven years after.

CLYTIE, a nymph in love with Apollo, god of the sun, who did not respond to her; but, with
all the passion he durst show to her, turned her into a sunflower.

COANZA, a W. African river, which rises in the Mossamba Mountains, falling into the sea after
a course of 600 m.; owing to falls is navigable for only 140 m. from its mouth.

COAST RANGE, a range in the U.S., W. of the Sierra Nevada, parallel to it, with the Sacramento
Valley between.

COBBETT, WILLIAM, a political and miscellaneous writer, born at Farnham, Sussex; commenced
life as a farm labourer, and then as copying clerk; enlisted, and saw seven years' service
in Nova Scotia; being discharged, travelled in France and America; on his return started the
Weekly Register, at first Tory, then Radical; published a libel against the Government, for
which he was imprisoned; on his release issued his Register at a low price, to the immense
increase of its circulation; vain attempts were made to crush him, against which he never ceased
to protest; after the passing of the Reform Bill he got into Parliament, but made no mark;
his writings were numerous, and include his "Grammar," his "Cottage Economy," his "Rural Rides,"
and his "Advice to Young Men"; his political opinions were extreme, but his English was admirable
(1762-1835).

COBBLER POET, HANS SACHS (q. v.).

COBDEN, RICHARD, a great political economist and the Apostle of Free Trade, born near Midhurst,
Sussex; became partner in a cotton-trading firm in Manchester; made a tour on the Continent
and America in the interest of political economy; on the formation of the Corn-Law League in
1838, gave himself heart and soul to the abolition of the Corn Laws; became Member of Parliament
for Stockport in 1841; on the conversion of Sir Robert Peel to Free-Trade principles saw these
laws abolished in 1846; for his services in this cause he received the homage of his country
as well as of Continental nations, but refused all civic honours, and finished his political
career by negotiating a commercial treaty with France (1804-1865).

COBENTZELL, COMTE DE, an Austrian diplomatist, born at Brussels; negotiated the treaties of
Campo Formio and Lunéville; founded the Academy of Sciences at Brussels (1753-1808).

COBLENZ (32), a fortified city, manufacturing and trading town, in Prussia, at the junction
of the Rhine and the Moselle, so called as at the confluence of the two; opposite it is Ehrenbreitstein.

COBURG (18), capital of the duchy of Saxe-Coburg-Gotha, on the Itz, the old castle on a height
500 ft. above the town; gave shelter to Luther in 1530, and was besieged by Wallenstein.

COBURG, field-marshal of Austria; vanquished Dumouriez at Neerwinden; was conquered by Moreau
and Jourdan (1737-1815).

COCAINE, an alkaloid from the leaf of the coca plant, used as an anæsthetic.

COCCEIUS, or KOCH, JOHANN, a Dutch divine, professor at Leyden; held that the Old Testament
was a type or foreshadow of the New, and was the founder of the federal theology, or the doctrine
that God entered into a threefold compact with man, first prior to the law, second under the
law, and third under grace (1603-1669).

COCCEJI, HENRY, learned German jurist, born at Bremen; an authority on civil law; was professor
of law at Frankfurt (1644-1719).

COCCEJI, SAMUEL, son of the preceding; Minister of Justice and Chancellor of Prussia under
Frederick the Great; a prince of lawyers, and "a very Hercules in cleansing law stables" as
law-reformer (1679-1755).

COCHABAMBA (14), a high-lying city of Bolivia, capital of a department of the name; has a trade
in grain and fruits.

COCHIN (722), a native state in India N. of Travancore, cooped up between W. Ghâts and the
Arabian Sea, with a capital of the same name, where Vasco da Gama died; the first Christian
church in India was built here, and there is here a colony of black Jews.

COCHIN-CHINA (2,034), the region E. of the Mekong, or Annam proper, called HIGH COCHIN-CHINA
(capital Hué), and LOW COCHIN-CHINA, a State S. of Indo-China, and S. of Cambodia and Annam;
belonging to France, with an unhealthy climate; rice the chief crop; grows also teak, cotton,
&c.; capital Saigon.

COCHLÆUS, JOHANN, an able and bitter antagonist of Luther's; d. 1592.

COCHRANE, the name of several English naval officers of the Dundonald family; SIR ALEXANDER
FORRESTER INGLIS (1758-1832); SIR THOMAS JOHN, his son (1798-1872); and THOMAS, LORD. See DUNDONALD.

COCK LANE GHOST, a ghost which was reported in a lane of the name in Smithfield, London, in
1762, to the excitement of the public, due to a girl rapping on a board in bed.

COCKAIGNE, an imaginary land of idleness and luxury, from a satirical poem of that name (coquina,
a kitchen), where the monks live in an abbey built of pasties, the rivers run with wine, and
the geese fly through the air ready roasted. The name has been applied to London and Paris.

COCKATRICE, a monster with the wings of a fowl, the tail of a dragon, and the head of a cock;
alleged to have been hatched by a serpent from a cock's egg; its breath and its fatal look
are in mediæval art the emblem of sin.

COCKBURN, SIR ALEXANDER, Lord Chief-Justice of England from 1859; called to the bar in 1829;
became Liberal member for Southampton in 1847, and Solicitor-General in 1850; was prosecutor
in the Palmer case, judge in the Tichborne, and an arbitrator in the Alabama (1802-1880).

COCKBURN, ALISON, author of "Flowers of the Forest"; in her day the leader of Edinburgh society;
was acquainted with Burns, and recognised in his boyhood the genius of Scott (1713-1795).

COCKBURN, SIR GEORGE, an English admiral, born in London; rose by rapid stages to be captain
of a frigate; took an active part in the expedition to the Scheldt, in the defence of Cadiz,
and of the coast of Spain; was second in command of the expedition against the United States;
returned to England in 1815, and was selected to convey Napoleon to St. Helena (1771-1853).

COCKBURN, HENRY, LORD, an eminent Scotch judge, born in Edinburgh; called to the bar in 1800;
one of the first contributors to the Edinburgh Review; was Solicitor-General for Scotland in
1830, and appointed a judge four years after; was a friend and colleague of Lord Jeffrey; wrote
Jeffrey's Life, and left "Memorials of His Own Time" and "Journals"; he was a man of refined
tastes, shrewd common-sense, quiet humour, and a great lover of his native city and its memories;
described by Carlyle as "a bright, cheery-voiced, hazel-eyed man; a Scotch dialect with plenty
of good logic in it, and of practical sagacity; a gentleman, and perfectly in the Scotch type,
perhaps the very last of that peculiar species" (1779-1854).

COCKER, EDWARD, an arithmetician, and a schoolmaster by profession; wrote an arithmetic, published
after his death, long the text-book on the subject, and a model of its kind; gave rise to the
phrase "according to Cocker" (1631-1672).

COCKNEY, a word of uncertain derivation, but meaning one born and bred in London, and knowing
little or nothing beyond it, and betraying his limits by his ideas, manners, and accent.

COCKNEY SCHOOL, a literary school, so called by Lockhart, as inspired with the idea that London
is the centre of civilisation, and including Leigh Hunt, Hazlitt, and others.

COCKPIT OF EUROPE, Belgium, as the scene of so many battles between the Powers of Europe.

COCKTON, HENRY, a novelist, born in London, author of "Valentine Vox" (1807-1853).

COCLES, HORATIUS, a Roman who defended a bridge against the army of Porsenna till the bridge
was cut down behind him, when he leapt into the river and swam across scatheless amid the darts
of the enemy.

COCOS ISLANDS, a group of 20 small coral islands about 700 m. SW. of Sumatra.

COCYTUS, a dark river which environed Tartarus with bitter and muddy waters.

CODRINGTON, SIR EDWARD, a British admiral; entered the navy at 13; served under Howe at Brest,
in the capacity of captain of the Orion at Trafalgar, in the Walcheren expedition, in North
America, and at Navarino in 1827, when the Turkish fleet was destroyed; served also in Parliament
from 1832 to 1839, when he was appointed Commander-in-Chief at Portsmouth (1770-1851).

CODRINGTON, SIR WILLIAM JOHN, a British general; served in the Crimean war, and Commander-in-Chief
after the death of General Simpson (1800-1884).

CODRUS, the last king of Athens; sacrificed his life to fulfil an oracle, which promised victory
to the side whose king fell in an engagement between the Athenians and Dorians in 1132 B.C.

COEHOORN, BARON VAN, a Dutch military engineer; fortified Namur, and defended it against Vauban;
was successful in besieging many towns during the war of the Spanish Succession; author of
a treatise on fortification (1641-1704).

COELEBS (a bachelor), the title of a novel by Hannah More.

COELE-SYRIA (the Howe of Syria), or EL BUKA'A, a valley between the Lebanons, about 100 m.
long by 10 m. broad.

COELIAN, one of the seven hills of Rome, S. of the Capitoline.

COELLO, the name of two Spanish painters in the 16th and 17th centuries, whose works are in
the Escurial.

COEUR, JACQUES, a rich merchant of Bourges, financier to Charles VII., for whom he provided
the sinews of war against the English, but who banished him at the instigation of detractors;
he was reinstated under Louis XI. (1400-1456).

COEUR DE LION (lion-hearted), a surname on account of their courage given to Richard I. of
England (1151), Louis VIII. of France (1181), and Boselas I. of Poland (960).

COGITO, ERGO SUM, "I think, therefore I am." Descartes' principle of certainty, and on which,
as on a stable basis, he reared his whole philosophy. See DESCARTES. "Alas, poor cogitator,"
Carlyle exclaims, "this takes us but a little way. Sure enough, I am; and lately was not; but
Whence? How? Whereto?"

COGNAC (17), a French town in the dep. of Charente, birthplace of Francis I.; famous for its
vines and the manufacture of brandy.

COGNIET, a French painter, author of "Tintoret painting his Dead Daughter" (1794-1880).

COILA, a poetic name for Kyle, the central district of Ayrshire.

COIMBATORE (46), a town of strategic importance in the Madras Presidency, 30 m. SW. of Madras,
situated in a gorge of the Ghâts, 1437 ft. above the sea-level, in a district (2,004) of the
same name.

COIMBRA (14), a rainy town in Portugal, of historical interest, 110 m. NNE. of Lisbon, with
a celebrated university, in which George Buchanan was a professor, where he was accused of
heresy and thrown into prison, and where he translated the Psalms into Latin.

COKE, coal with a residue of carbon and earthy matter after the volatile constituents are driven
off by heat in closed spaces.

COKE, SIR EDWARD, Lord Chief-Justice of England, born at Milcham, Norfolk; being a learned
lawyer, rose rapidly at the bar and in offices connected therewith; became Lord Chief-Justice
in 1613; was deposed in 1617 for opposing the king's wishes; sat in his first and third Parliaments,
and took a leading part in drawing up the Petition of Rights; spent the last three years of
his life in revising his works, his "Institutes," known as "Coke upon Littleton," and his valuable
"Reports" (1549-1634).

COLBERT, JEAN BAPTISTE, a French statesman, of Scotch descent, born in Rheims, the son of a
clothier; introduced to Louis XIV. by Mazarin, then first minister; he was appointed Controller-General
of the Finances after the fall of Fouquet, and by degrees made his influence felt in all the
departments of State affairs; he favoured, by protectionist measures--free trade not yet being
heard of--French industry and commerce; was to the French marine what Louvois was to the army,
and encouraged both arts and letters; from 1671 his influence began to decline; he was held
responsible for increased taxation due to Louis XIV.'s wars, while the jealousy of Louvois
weakened his credit at Court; he became so unpopular that on his death his body was buried
at night, but a grateful posterity has recognised his services, and done homage to his memory
as one of the greatest ministers France ever had (1619-1683).

COLBURN, ZERAH, an American youth, with an astonishing power of calculation, born in Vermont,
and exhibited as such, a faculty which he lost when he grew up to manhood (1804-1840).

COLCHESTER (35), the largest town in Essex, 51 m. from London, on the right bank of the Colne,
of great antiquity, and with Roman remains; has been long famous for its oyster fishery; has
silk manufactures; is the port of outlet of a large corn-growing district.

COLCHESTER, CHARLES ABBOT, LORD, English statesman; sometime Chief Secretary of Ireland, and
Speaker of the House of Commons; raised to the peerage in response to an address of the House
of Commons (1757-1829).

COLCHIS, a district on the E. of the Black Sea, and S. of Caucasus, where the Argonauts, according
to Greek tradition, found and conquered the Golden Fleece; the natives had a reputation for
witchcraft and sorcery.

COLDSTREAM GUARDS, one of the three regiments of Foot Guards; was raised by General Monk in
Scotland in 1660, and marched under him from Coldstream to place Charles II. on the throne;
originally called Monk's regiment.

COLE, HENRY an English ecclesiastical zealot, who held handsome preferments under Henry VIII.
and Mary, but was stripped of them under Edward VI. and Elizabeth.

COLE, KING, a legendary jovial British king, celebrated in song.

COLEBROOKE, HENRY THOMAS, a celebrated Indianist, born in London; served under the East India
Company, and devoted his spare time to Indian literature; studied the Sanskrit language, wrote
on the Vedas, translated the "Digest of Hindu Law" compiled by Sir William Jones, compiled
a Sanskrit Dictionary, and wrote various treatises on the law and philosophy of the Hindus;
he was one of the first scholars in Europe to reveal the treasures that lay hid in the literature
of the East (1765-1837).

COLENSO, DR., an English clergyman and mathematician; was appointed bishop of Natal in 1845;
applied himself to the study of the Zulu language, and translated parts of the Bible and Prayer-book
into it; calling in question the accuracy and Mosaic authorship of the Pentateuch, was deposed
by his metropolitan, which deposition was declared null and void by the Privy Council; besides
his theological work, produced text-books on arithmetic and algebra; died at Durban, Natal;
he favoured the cause of the Zulus against the Boers, and did his utmost to avert the Zulu
war (1814-1883).

COLERIDGE, HARTLEY, an English man of letters, eldest son of Samuel Taylor Coleridge, born
at Clevedon, Somerset; lived with his father in the Lake District, and grew up in the society
of Wordsworth, De Quincey, and others; gained a Fellowship at Oxford, but forfeited it through
intemperance; tried school-mastering at Ambleside, but failed, and took to literature, in which
he did some excellent work, both in prose and poetry, though he led all along a very irregular
life; had his father's weaknesses, and not a little of his ability; his best memorials as a
poet are his sonnets, of which two have been especially admired, "The Soul of Man is Larger
than the Sky," and "When I Survey the Course I have Run" (1796-1849).

COLERIDGE, HENRY NELSON, nephew of Samuel Taylor Coleridge, and a great admirer; editor of
many of his works, his "Table Talk" in especial (1800-1843).

COLERIDGE, JOHN DUKE, LORD, an English lawyer, cousin of Hartley Coleridge; after serving in
inferior appointments, appointed Lord Chief-Justice of England in 1880; when at the bar he
was prominent in connection with Tichborne case.

COLERIDGE, SIR JOHN TAYLOR, an English judge, nephew of Samuel Taylor Coleridge; was editor
of the Quarterly, edited "Blackstone," &c.; wrote a "Memoir of the Rev. John Keble" (1790-1876).

COLERIDGE, SAMUEL TAYLOR, poet, philosopher, and critic, born in Devonshire; passionately devoted
to classical and metaphysical studies; educated at Christ's Hospital; had Charles Lamb for
schoolmate; at Cambridge devoted himself to classics; falling into debt enlisted as a soldier,
and was, after four months, bought off by his friends; gave himself up to a literary life;
married, and took up house near Wordsworth, in Somersetshire, where he produced the "Ancient
Mariner," "Christabel," and "Remorse"; preached occasionally in Unitarian pulpits; visited
Germany and other parts of the Continent; lectured in London in 1808; when there took to opium,
broke off the habit in 1816, and went to stay with the Gillmans at Highgate as their guest,
under whose roof, after four years' confinement to a sick-room, he died; among his works were
"The Friend," his "Biographia Literaria," "Aids to Reflection," &c., published in his lifetime,
and "Confessions of an Inquiring Spirit," "Literary Remains," and "Table Talk" after his death;
he was a man of subtle and large intellect, and exercised a great influence on the thinkers
of his time, though in no case was the influence a decisive one, as it had the most opposite
effects on different minds; his philosophy was hazy, and his life was without aim, "once more
the tragic story of a high endowment with an insufficient will" (1772-1834). See Carlyle's
estimate of him in the "Life of Sterling."

COLERIDGE, SARAH, poetess, only daughter of preceding; her sole poem, "Phantasmion"; left "Letters"
of interest (1803-1852).

COLES, COWPER PHIPPS, an English naval captain and architect; entered the navy at 11; distinguished
himself at Sebastopol; designer of the turret-ship the Captain, which capsized off Finisterre,
himself on board, and drowned with a crew of 500 men (1819-1870).

COLET, JOHN, dean of St. Paul's, a patron of learning, a friend and scholar of Erasmus, a liberal
and much persecuted man; far in advance of his time; founded and endowed St. Paul's School;
wrote a number of works, chiefly theological, and "Letters to Erasmus"' (1466-1519).

COLET, LOUISE, a French literary lady, born at Aix; wrote numerous works for the young (1808-1876).

COLIGNY, GASPARD DE, French admiral, born at Châtillon; a leader of the Huguenots; began his
life and distinguished himself as a soldier; when the Guises came into power he busied himself
in procuring toleration for the Huguenots, and succeeded in securing in their behalf what is
known as the Pacification of Amboise, but on St. Bartholomew's Eve he fell the first victim
to the conspiracy in his bed; was thrown out of the window, and exposed to every manner of
indignity in the streets, though it is hard to believe that the Duke of Guise, as is said,
demeaned himself to kick the still living body (1517-1572).

COLIMA (25), capital of a State of the same name in Mexico.

COLIN CLOUT, the name Spenser assumes in the "Shepherd's Calendar."

COLIN TAMPON, the nickname of a Swiss, as John Bull of an Englishman.

COLISE`UM, a magnificent amphitheatre in Rome, begun under Vespasian and finished under Titus;
it rose from the area by 80 tiers of seats, and could contain 80,000 spectators; it was here
the gladiators fought with wild beasts, and also the early Christians.

COLLATINUS, the nephew of Tarquinius Priscus, the husband of Lucretia, and with Brutus, her
avenger, the first consul of Rome.

COLLECTIVISM, the Socialistic doctrine that industry should be carried on by capital as the
joint property of the community.

COLLÈGE DE FRANCE, an institution founded at Paris by Francis I. in 1530, where instruction
is given to advanced students in several departments of knowledge.

COLLIER, ARTHUR, an English metaphysician, born in Wilts; studied Descartes and Malebranche,
and who, anticipating Berkeley, published a "Demonstration of the Non-Existence and the Impossibility
of an External World" (1680-1732). See BERKELEY.

COLLIER, JEREMY, an English non-juring divine, refused to take oath at the Revolution; was
imprisoned for advocating the rights of the Stuarts; had to flee the country at length, and
was outlawed; wrote with effect against "The Profaneness and Immorality of the Stage," as well
as an "Ecclesiastical History of Great Britain," and a translation of the "Meditations of Marcus
Aurelius" (1650-1726).

COLLIER, JOHN PAYNE, a Shakespearian commentator and critic; wrote a great deal on various
subjects, but got into trouble by his emendations of Shakespeare (1789-1883).

COLLINGWOOD, CUTHBERT, LORD, a celebrated English admiral, entered the navy at 13; his career
was intimately connected all along with that of Nelson; succeeded in command when Nelson fell
at Trafalgar, and when he died himself, which happened at sea, his body was brought home and
buried beside Nelson's in St. Paul's Cathedral (1740-1810).

COLLINS, ANTHONY, an English deist, an intimate friend of Locke; his principal works were "Discourse
on Freethinking," "Philosophical Inquiry into Liberty and Necessity," and "Grounds and Reasons
of the Christian Religion," which gave rise to much controversy; he was a necessitarian, and
argued against revelation (1676-1729).

COLLINS, MORTIMER, a versatile genius, born at Plymouth; wrote poems, novels, and essays; was
the author of "Who was the Heir?" and "Sweet Anne Page"; was a tall, handsome man, fond of
athletics, a delightful companion, and dear to his friends (1827-1876).

COLLINS, WILKIE, English novelist, son of the succeeding, born in London; tried business, then
law, and finally settled to literature; his novel "The Woman in White" was the first to take
with the public, and was preceded and succeeded by others which have ensured for him a high
place among the writers of fiction (1824-1889).

COLLINS, WILLIAM, a gifted and ill-fated English poet, born at Chichester; settled in London;
fell into dissipated habits and straitened circumstances; had £2000 left him by an uncle, but
both health and spirits were broken, and he died in mental imbecility; his "Odes" have not
been surpassed, among which the most celebrated are the "Odes to the Passions," to "Simplicity,"
and to "Evening" (1720-1756).

COLLINS, WILLIAM, R.A., a distinguished English painter, born in London; he made his reputation
by his treatment of coast and cottage scenes, and though he tried his skill in other subjects,
it was in the subjects he started with that he achieved his greatest triumphs; among his best-known
works are "The Blackberry Gatherers," "As Happy as a King," "The Fisherman's Daughter," and
"The Bird-Catchers" (1788-1847).

COLLINSON, PETER, an English horticulturist, to whom we are indebted for the introduction into
the country of many ornamental shrubs (1694-1768).

COLLOT D'HERBOIS, JEAN MARIE, a violent French Revolutionary, originally a tragic actor, once
hissed off the Lyons stage, "tearing a passion to rags"; had his revenge by a wholesale butchery
there; marched 209 men across the Rhône to be shot; by-and-by was banished beyond seas to Cayenne,
and soon died there (1750-1790).

COLLYER, JOSEPH, an eminent stipple engraver, born in London (1768-1827).

COLMAN, GEORGE, an English dramatist, born at Florence; bred for and called to the bar; author
of a comedy entitled "The Jealous Wife," also of "The Clandestine Marriage"; became manager
of Drury Lane, then of the Haymarket (1733-1794).

COLMAN, GEORGE, son of the preceding, and his successor in the Haymarket; author of "The Iron
Chest," "John Bull," "The Heir at Law," &c. (1762-1836).

COLMAR (30), the chief town of Upper Alsace, on the Lauch, on a plain near the Vosges, 42 m.
SW. of Strasburg; passed into the hands of the French by treaty of Ryswick in 1697, was ceded
to Germany in 1871.

COLOCETRONIS, a Greek patriot, born in Messina, distinguished himself in the War of Independence,
which he chiefly contributed to carry through to a successful issue (1770-1843).

COLOGNE (282), in German KÖLN, capital of Rhenish Prussia, and a fortress of first rank, on
the left bank of the Rhine, 175 m. SE. of Rotterdam; is a busy commercial city, and is engaged
in eau-de-Cologne, sugar, tobacco, and other manufactures. It has some fine old buildings,
and a picture gallery; but its glory is its great cathedral, founded in the 9th century, burnt
in 1248, since which time the rebuilding was carried on at intervals, and only completed in
1880; it is one of the masterpieces of Gothic architecture.

COLOGNE, THE THREE KINGS OF, the three Magi who paid homage to the infant Christ, and whose
bones were consigned to the archbishop in 1164; they were called Gaspar, Melchior, and Balthazar.

COLOMBIA (4,000), a federal republic of nine States, occupying the isthmus of Panama and the
NW. corner of S. America, between Venezuela and Ecuador. The country, nearly three times the
size of France, though it has only a ninth of the population, comprises in the W. three chains
of the Andes and the plateaus between them, in the E. plains well watered by tributaries of
the Orinoco. The upper valleys of the Magdalena and Cauca are the centres of population, where
the climate is delightful, and grain grows. Every climate is found in Colombia, from the tropical
heats of the plains to the Arctic cold of the mountains. Natural productions are as various:
the exports include valuable timbers and dye-woods, cinchona bark, coffee, cacao, cotton, and
silver ore. Most of the trade is with Britain and the United States. Manufactures are inconsiderable.
The mineral wealth is very great, but little wrought. The Panama Railway, from Colon to Panama,
connects the Atlantic and the Pacific Oceans, and is a most important highway of commerce.
The people are descendants of Spaniards and Indians; education is meagre, but compulsory; the
State Church is Roman Catholic. The capital is Bogotá. Panama and Cartagena the chief ports.

COLOMBO (126), the capital of Ceylon, and the chief port on the W. coast; it is surrounded
on three sides by the sea, and on the other by a lake and moat; is supplied with water and
gas; has many fine buildings; has a very mixed population, and has belonged to Britain since
1796; communicates with Kandy by railway.

COLON, a town at the Atlantic terminus of the Panama Railway. See ASPINWALL.

COLONNA, an illustrious Italian family, to which belonged popes, cardinals, and generals.

COLONNA, VICTORIA, a poetess, married to a member of the above family, who consoled herself
for his early death by cultivating her poetic gift; one of her most devoted friends was Michael
Angelo (1490-1547).

COLONNE, EDOUARD, musical conductor, born at Bordeaux, conductor of what are known as "Colonne
Concerts"; b. 1838.

COLONUS, a demos of Attica, a mile NW. of Athens, the birthplace of Sophocles.

COLOPHON, an Ionian city in Asia Minor, N. of Ephesus, is supposed to give name to the device
at the end of books, the cavalry of the place being famous for giving the finishing stroke
to a battle.

COLORA`DO (412), an inland State of the American Union, traversed by the Rocky Mountains, and
watered by the upper reaches of the S. Platte and Arkansas Rivers, is twice as large as England.
The mountains are the highest in the States (13,000 to 14,000 ft.), are traversed by lofty
passes through which the railways run, have rich spacious valleys or parks among them, and
have great deposits of gold, silver, lead, and iron. There are also extensive coal-beds; hence
the leading industries are mining and iron working. The eastern portion is a level, treeless
plain, adapted for grazing. Agriculture, carried on with irrigation, suffers from insect plagues
like the Colorado potato beetle. The climate is dry and clear, and attracts invalids. Acquired
partly from France in 1804, and the rest from Mexico in 1848; the territory was organised in
1861, and admitted to the Union in 1876. The capital is Denver (107). There is a small Spanish-speaking
population in the S.

COLOSSÆ, a city in the S. of Phrygia, in Asia Minor, and the site of one of the earliest Christian
churches.

COLOSSIANS, THE EPISTLE TO THE, by St. Paul, directed mainly against two errors of that early
date, that the fleshly nature of man is no adequate vehicle for the reception and revelation
of the divine nature, and that for redemption recourse must be had to direct mortification
of the flesh.

COLOSSUS, any gigantic statue, specially one of Apollo in bronze, 120 ft. high, astride over
the mouth of the harbour at Rhodes, reckoned one of the seven wonders of the world, erected
in 280 B.C., destroyed by an earthquake 56 years after, and sold to a Jew centuries later for
old metal; besides this are celebrated the statue of Memnon at Thebes, the Colossi of Athene
in the Parthenon at Athens, and of Zeus at Olympia and at Tarentum, as well as others of modern
date; for instance, Germania, 112 ft. high, in the Niederwald, and Liberty enlightening the
World, 160 ft. high, in New York harbour.

COLOT, the name of a family of French surgeons in the 16th and 17th century, distinguished
for their skill in operating in the case of stone.

COLOUR-BLINDNESS, inability, still unaccounted for, to distinguish between colours, and especially
between red and green, more common among men than women; a serious disqualification for several
occupations, such as those connected with the study of signals.

COLOUR-SERGEANT, a sergeant whose duty is to guard the colours and those who carry them.

COLQUHOUN, JOHN, a noted sportsman and writer on sport in Scotland, born in Edinburgh (1805-1885).

COLSTON, EDWARD, an English philanthropist, founded and endowed a school in Bristol for the
education of 100 boys, as well as almshouses elsewhere (1636-1721).

COLT, SAMUEL, the inventor of the revolver, born in Hartford, Connecticut, U.S.; having difficulty
in raising money to carry out his invention it proved a commercial failure, but being adopted
by the Government in the Mexican war it proved a success, since which time it has been everywhere
in use (1814-1862).

COLUMBA, ST., the apostle of Christianity to the Scots, born in Donegal; coming to Scotland
about 563, in his forty-second year, founded a monastery in Iona, and made it the centre of
his evangelistic operations, in which work he was occupied incessantly till 596, when his health
began to fail, and he breathed his last kneeling before the altar, June 9, 597.

COLUMBAN, ST., an Irish missionary, who, with twelve companions, settled in Gaul in 585; founded
two monasteries, but was banished for the offence of rebuking the king; went to Italy, founded
a monastery at Bobbio, where he died 616.

COLUMBIA, a district of 70 sq. m. in the State of Maryland, U.S., in which Washington, the
capital of the Union, stands.

COLUMBIA, BRITISH (100), the most westerly province in Canada, lies between the Rocky Mountains
and the Pacific, the United States and Alaska, and is four times the size of Great Britain.
It is a mountainous country, rugged and picturesque, containing the highest peaks on the continent,
Mount Hooker, 15,700 ft., and Mount Brown, 16,000 ft, with a richly indented coast-line, off
which lie Queen Charlotte Islands and Vancouver. The chief river is the Frazer, which flows
from the Lake region southwards through the centre and then westward to the Gulf of Georgia;
the upper waters of the Columbia flow southward through the E. of the State. The climate resembles
that of northern England, but is in some parts very rainy. The chief industries are lumbering--the
forests are among the finest in the world, fishing--the rivers abound in salmon and sturgeon,
and mining--rich deposits of gold, silver, iron, copper, mercury, antimony, and many other
valuable minerals are found; there are great coal-fields in Vancouver. In Vancouver and in
the river valleys of the mainland are extensive tracts of arable and grazing land; but neither
agriculture nor manufactures are much developed. Made a Crown colony in 1858, it joined the
Dominion as a province in 1871. The completion of the Canadian Pacific Railway in 1885 joined
it to the eastern provinces. The capital is Victoria (17), in the S. of Vancouver.

COLUMBUS (125), capital of Ohio, U.S., a manufacturing town.

COLUMBUS, BARTHOLOMEW, cosmographer, brother of Christopher Columbus; accompanied him to St.
Domingo, and became governor; d. 1514. (1438-1506).

COLUMELLA, JUNIUS, a Latin writer of the 1st century, born at Cadiz; author of "De Re Rustica,"
in 12 books, on the same theme as Virgil's "Georgics," viz., agriculture and gardening; he
wrote also "De Arboribus," on trees.

COLU`THUS, a Greek epic poet of 6th century, born in Egypt; wrote the "Rape of Helen."

COLVIN, SIDNEY, Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge, Slade Professor of Art at Cambridge,
born at Norwood; contributor to the journals on art and literature; has written Lives of Keats
and Landor; friend of Robert Louis Stevenson, and his literary executor; b. 1845.

COMACCHIO (10), a walled town, 30 m. SE. of Ferrara; famous for fish, specially eel-culture
in a large lagoon adjoining, 90 in. in circumference.

COMBE, ANDREW, M.D., a physician and physiologist, born in Edinburgh; studied under Spurzheim
in Edinburgh and Paris, but on his return to his native city was seized with pulmonary consumption,
which rendered him a confirmed invalid, so that he had to spend his winters abroad; was eminent
as a physician; was a believer in phrenology; produced three excellent popular works on Physiology,
Digestion, and the Management of Infancy (1797-1847).

COMBE, GEORGE, brother of the preceding, born in Edinburgh; trained to the legal profession;
like his brother, he became, under Spurzheim, a stanch phrenologist and advocate of phrenology;
but his ablest and best-known work was "The Constitution of Man," to the advocacy of the principles
of which and their application, especially to education, he devoted his life; he married a
daughter of the celebrated Mrs. Siddons (1788-1858).

COMBE, WILLIAM, born in Bristol; author of the "Three Tours of Dr. Syntax"; inherited a small
fortune, which he squandered by an irregular life; wrote some 86 works (1741-1823).

COMBERMERE, VISCOUNT, a British field-marshal, born in Denbighshire; served in Flanders, at
the Cape of Good Hope, and in India; was present at the siege of Seringapatam; was sent to
Spain in 1808; distinguished himself in the Peninsula, and particularly at Talavera; received
a peerage in 1827; was made commander-in-chief in India, and Constable of the Tower in succession
to Wellington in 1832 (1773-1865).

COMENIUS, JOHN AMOS, a Moravian educational reformer, particularly as regards the acquisition
of languages in their connection with the things they denote; his two most famous books are
his "Janua Linguarum" and his "Orbis Sensualium Pictus"; his principle at bottom was, words
must answer to and be associated with things and ideas of things, a principle still only very
partially adopted in education, and that only at the most elementary stages.

COMET, a member of the solar system under control of the sun, consisting of a bright nucleus
within a nebulous envelope, generally extended into a tail on the rear of its orbit, which
is extremely eccentric, pursuing its course with a velocity which increases as it approaches
the sun, and which diminishes as it withdraws from it; these bodies are very numerous, have
their respective periods of revolution, which have been in many cases determined by observation.

COMINES, a French town in the dep. of Nord, France, 15 m. SW. of Courtrai.

COMINES, PHILIPPE DE, a French chronicler, born at Comines; was of Flemish origin; served under
Charles the Bold, then under Louis XI. and Charles VIII.; author of "Memoires," in seven vols.,
of the reigns of these two monarchs, which give a clear and faithful picture of the time and
the chief actors in it, but with the coolest indifference as to the moral elements at work,
with him the end justifying the means, and success the measure of morality (1443-1509).

COMITIA, constitutional assemblies of the Roman citizens for electing magistrates, putting
some question to the vote of the people, the declaration of war, &c.

COMITY OF NATIONS, the name given for the effect given in one country to the laws and institutions
of another in dealing with a native of it.

COMMANDITE, SOCIÉTÉ EN, partnership in a business by a supply of funds, but without a share
in the management or incurring further liability.

COMMELIN, ISAAC, Dutch historian; wrote the "Lives of the Stadtholders William I. and Maurice"
(1598-1676).

COMMENTARIES OF JULIUS CÆSAR, his memoirs of the Gallic and Civil Wars, reckoned the most perfect
model of narration that in such circumstances was ever written, and a masterpiece.

COMMITTEE OF PUBLIC SAFETY, a committee of nine created by the French Convention, April 6,
1793, to concentrate the power of the executive, "the conscience of Marat, who could see salvation
in one thing only, in the fall of 260,000 aristocrats' heads"; notable, therefore, for its
excesses in that line; was not suppressed till Oct. 19, 1796, on the advent of the Directory
to power.

COM`MODUS, LUCIUS AURELIUS, Roman emperor, son and successor of Marcus Aurelius; carefully
trained, but on his father's death threw up the reins and gave himself over to every form of
licentiousness; poison administered by his mistress Marcia being slow in operating, he was
strangled to death by a hired athlete in 162.

COMMON LAW is law established by usage and confirmed by judicial decision.

COMMON-SENSE, PHILOSOPHY OF, the philosophy which rests on the principle that the perceptions
of the senses reflect things as they actually are irrespectively of them.

COMMUNE, THE, a revolutionary power installed in Paris after the "admonitory" insurrection
of March 18, 1871, and overthrown in the end of May.

COMMUNISM, community of property in a State.

COMNE`NUS, name of a dynasty of six emperors of Constantinople.

COMO, LAKE OF, one of the chief lakes of Lombardy and the third in size, at the foot of the
Pennine Alps, 80 m. long and 2½ at greatest breadth; is traversed by the Adda, and is famed
for the beauty and rich variety of its scenery.

COMORIN, CAPE, a low sandy point, the most southerly of India, from which the seaman is beckoned
off by a peak 18 m. inland.

COMORO ISLES (63), an archipelago of four volcanic islands at the N. of the channel of Mozambique;
under the protectorate of France since 1886; the people are Mohammedans, and speak Arabic.

COMPARETTI, an Italian philologist; his writings are numerous; b. 1835.

COMPIÈGNE (14), a quiet old town in the dep. of Oise, 50 m. NE. of Paris; has some fine old
churches, but the chief edifice is the palace, built by St. Louis and rebuilt by Louis XIV.,
where the marriage of Napoleon to Maria Louisa was celebrated; here Joan of Arc was made prisoner
in 1430, and Louis Napoleon had hunting ground.

COMPTON, HENRY, bishop of London, son of the Earl of Northampton; fought bravely for Charles
I.; was colonel of dragoons at the Restoration; left the army for the Church; was made bishop;
crowned William and Mary when the archbishop, Sancroft, refused; d. 1713.

COMRIE (8), a village in Perthshire, on the Earn, 20 m. W. of Perth, in a beautiful district
of country; subject to earthquakes from time to time; birthplace of George Gilfillan.

COMTE, AUGUSTE, a French philosopher, born at Montpellier, the founder of POSITIVISM (q. v.);
enough to say here, it consisted of a new arrangement of the sciences into Abstract and Concrete,
and a new law of historical evolution in science from a theological through a metaphysical
to a positive stage, which last is the ultimate and crowning and alone legitimate method, that
is, observation of phenomena and their sequence; Comte was first a disciple of St. Simon, but
he quarrelled with him; commenced a "Cours de Philosophie Positive" of his own, in six vols.;
but finding it defective on the moral side, he instituted a worship of humanity, and gave himself
out as the chief priest of a new religion, a very different thing from Carlyle's hero-worship
(1795-1857).

COMUS, the Roman deity who presided over festive revelries; the title of a poem by Milton,
"the most exquisite of English or any masks."

COMYN, JOHN (the Black Comyn), Lord of Badenoch, a Scottish noble of French descent, his ancestor,
born at Comines, having come over with the Conqueror and got lands given him; was one of the
competitors for the Scottish crown in 1291, and lost it.

COMYN, JOHN (the Red Comyn), son of the preceding; as one of the three Wardens of Scotland
defended it against the English, whom he defeated at Roslin; but in 1304 submitted to Edward
I., and falling under suspicion of Bruce, was stabbed by him in a monastery at Dumfries in 1306.

CONCEPCION (24), a town in Chile, S. of Valparaiso, with its port, Talcahuano, 7 m. off, one
of the safest and most commodious in the country, and ranks next to Valparaiso as a trading centre.

CONCEPTION OF OUR LADY, an order of nuns founded in Portugal in 1484; at first followed the
rule of the Cistercians, but afterwards that of St. Clare.

CONCIERGERIE, a prison in the Palais de Justice, Paris.

CONCLAVE, properly the room, generally in the Vatican, where the cardinals are confined under
lock and key while electing a Pope.

CONCORD, a town in U.S., 23 m. NW. of Boston; was the residence of Emerson, Thoreau, and Hawthorne;
here the first engagement took place in the American war in 1775.

CONCORD (17), capital of New Hampshire, U.S., a thriving trading place.

CONCORDAT, THE, a convention of July 15, 1801, between Bonaparte and Pius V., regulative of
the relations of France with the Holy See.

CONCORDE, PLACE DE LA, a celebrated public place, formed by Louis XV. in 1748, adorned by a
statue of him; at the Revolution it was called Place de la Revolution; here Louis XVI. and
his queen were guillotined.

CONCORDIA, the Roman goddess of peace, to whom Camillus the dictator in 367 B.C. dedicated
a temple on the conclusion of the strife between the patricians and plebeians.

CONDÉ, HENRY I., PRINCE OF, fought in the ranks of the Huguenots, but escaped the massacre
of St. Bartholomew by an oath of abjuration (1552-1588).

CONDÉ, HOUSE OF, a collateral branch of the house of Bourbon, the members of which played all
along a conspicuous rôle in the history of France.

CONDÉ, LOUIS I., PRINCE OF, founder of the house of Condé, a brave, gallant man, though deformed;
distinguished himself in the wars between Henry II. and Charles V., particularly in the defence
of Metz; affronted at court, and obnoxious to the Guises, he became a Protestant, and joined
his brother the king of Navarre; became the head of the party, and was treacherously killed
after the battle of Jarnac; he had been party, however, to the conspiracy of Amboise, which
aimed a death-blow at the Guises (1530-1569).

CONDÉ, LOUIS II., PRINCE OF, named "the Great Condé," born at Paris; was carefully educated;
acquired a taste for literature, which stood him in good stead at the end of his career; made
his reputation by his victory over the Spaniards at Recroi; distinguished himself at Fribourg,
Nordlingen, and Lens; the settlement of the troubles of the Fronde alienated him, so that he
entered the service of Spain, and served against his country, but was by-and-by reconciled;
led the French army to success in Franche-Comté and Holland, and soon after retired to Chantilly,
where he enjoyed the society of such men as Molière, Boileau, and La Bruyère, and when he died
Bossuet pronounced a funeral oration over his grave (1621-1686).

CONDÉ, LOUIS JOSEPH, PRINCE DE, born at Chantilly; served in the Seven Years' War; attended
in the antechamber in the palace when Louis XV. lay dying; was one of the first to emigrate
on the fall of the Bastille; seized every opportunity to save the monarchy; was declared a
traitor to the country, and had his estates confiscated for threatening to restore Louis XVI.;
organised troops to aid in the Restoration; settled at Malmesbury, in England, during the Empire;
returned to France with Louis XVIII. (1736-1818).

CONDILLAC, ÉTIENNE BONNOT, a French philosopher, born at Grenoble, of good birth; commenced
as a disciple of Locke, but went further, for whereas Locke was content to deduce empirical
knowledge from sensation and reflection, he deduced reflection from sensation, and laid the
foundation of a sensationalism which, in the hands of his successors, went further still, and
swamped the internal in the external, and which is now approaching the stage of self-cancelling
zero; he lived as a recluse, and had Rousseau and Diderot for intimate friends (1715-1780).

CONDITIONAL IMMORTALITY, the doctrine that only believers in Christ have any future existence,
a dogma founded on certain isolated passages of Scripture.

CONDORCET, MARQUIS DE, a French mathematician and philosopher, born near St. Quentin; contributed
to the "Encyclopédie"; was of the Encyclopedist school; took sides with the Revolutionary party
in the interest of progress; voted with the Girondists usually; suspected by the extreme party;
was not safe even under concealment; "skulked round Paris in thickets and stone-quarries; entered
a tavern one bleared May morning, ragged, rough-bearded, hunger-stricken, and asked for breakfast;
having a Latin Horace about him was suspected and haled to prison, breakfast unfinished; fainted
by the way with exhaustion; was flung into a damp cell, and found next morning lying dead on
the floor"; his works are voluminous, and the best known is his "Exquisse du Progrès de l'Esprit
Humain"; he was not an original thinker, but a clear expositor (1743-1794).

CONDOTTIE`RI, leaders of Italian free-lances, who in the 14th and 15th centuries lived by plunder
or hired themselves to others for a share in the spoils.

CONFEDERATE STATES, 11 Southern States of the American Union, which seceded in 1861 on the
question of slavery, and which occasioned a civil war that lasted till 1865.

CONFEDERATION OF THE RHINE, a confederation of 16 German States, which in 1806 dissolved their
connection with Germany and leagued with France, and which lasted till disaster overtook Napoleon
in Russia, and then broke up; the Germanic Confederation, or union of all the States, took
its place, till it too was dissolved by the defeat of Austria in 1866, and which gave ascendency
to Prussia and ensured the erection of the German empire on its ruins.

CONFERENCE, a stated meeting of Wesleyan ministers for the transaction of the business of their
Church.

CONFESSIONS OF FAITH, are statements of doctrine very similar to Creeds, but usually longer
and polemical, as well as didactic; they are in the main, though not exclusively, associated
with Protestantism; the 16th century produced many, including the Sixty-seven Articles of the
Swiss reformers, drawn up by Zwingli in 1523; the Augsburg Confession of 1530, the work of
Luther and Melanchthon, which marked the breach with Rome; the Tetrapolitan Confession of the
German Reformed Church, 1530; the Gallican Confession, 1559; and the Belgic Confession of 1561.
In Britain the Scots Confession, drawn up by John Knox in 1560; the Thirty-nine Articles of
the Church of England in 1562; the Irish Articles in 1615; and the Westminster Confession of
Faith in 1647; this last, the work of the Westminster Assembly of Divines, has by its force
of language, logical statement, comprehensiveness, and dependence on Scripture, commended itself
to the Presbyterian Churches of all English-speaking peoples, and is the most widely recognised
Protestant statement of doctrine; it has as yet been modified only by the United Presbyterian
Church of Scotland, which adopted a Declaratory Statement regarding certain of its doctrines
in 1879, and by the Free Church of Scotland, which adopted a similar statement in 1890.

CONFESSIONS OF ROUSSEAU, memoirs published after his death in 1788, in which that writer makes
confession of much that was good in him and much that was bad.

CONFESSIONS OF ST. AUGUSTINE, an account which that Father of the Church gives of the errors
of his youth and his subsequent conversion.

CONFUCIUS, the Latin form of the name of the great sage of China, Kung Futsze, and the founder
of a religion which is based on the worship and practice of morality as exemplified in the
lives and teachings of the wise men who have gone before, and who, as he conceived, have made
the world what it is, and have left it to posterity to build upon the same basis; while he
lived he was held in greater and greater honour by multitudes of disciples, till on his death
he became an object of worship, and even his descendants came to be regarded as a kind of sacred
caste; he flourished about 550 B.C.

CONGÉ D'ÉLIRE, a warrant granted by the Crown to the dean and chapter of a cathedral to elect
a particular bishop to a vacant see.

CONGO, the second in length and largest in volume of the African rivers, rises NE. of the Muchinga
Mountains in Rhodesia, flows SW. through Lake Bangueola, then N. to the equator; curving in
a great semicircle it continues SW., passes in a series of rapids through the coast range,
and enters the S. Atlantic by an estuary 6 m. broad. It brings down more water than the other
African rivers put together. The largest affluents are the Kassai on the left, and the Mobangi
on the right bank; 110 m. are navigable to ocean steamers, then the cataracts intervene, and
250 m. of railway promote transit; the upper river is 2 to 4 m. broad, and navigable for small
craft up to Stanley Falls, 1068 m. The name most associated with its exploration is H. M. Stanley;
during its course of 3000 m. it bears several names.

CONGO, FRENCH (5,000), a continuous and connected territory extending westward along the right
bank of the Congo from Brazzaville to the mouth of the Mobangi, and as far as 4° N. run N.
behind the Cameroons, and along the E. of Shari to Lake Tchad.

CONGO FREE STATE embraces most of the basin of the Congo, touching British territory in Uganda
and Rhodesia, with a very narrow outlet to the Atlantic at the river mouth. It is under the
sovereignty of Leopold II. of Belgium, who, in 1890, made over his rights to Belgium with power
to annex the State in 1900. It is nine times the size of Great Britain, and continual native
unrest gives great trouble to its administrators. Its waters are open to all nations, and traders
exchange manufactured goods for ivory, palm-oil, coffee and caoutchouc, bees-wax and fruits.
The climate is tropical, on the lower levels malarial. The population is from 20 to 40 millions.
The centre of administration is Boma, 80 m. from the sea.

CONGREGATIONALISM, the ecclesiastical system which regards each congregation of believers in
Christ a church complete in itself, and free from the control of the other Christian communities,
and which extends to each member equal privileges as a member of Christ's body. It took its
rise in England about 1571, and the most prominent name connected with its establishment is
that of ROBERT BROWN (q. v.), who seceded from the Church of England and formed a church in
Norwich in 1580. The body was called Brownists after him, and Separatists, as well as "Independents."
The several congregations are now united in what is called "The Congregational Union of England
and Wales."

CONGRESS is a diplomatic conference at which the representatives of sovereign States discuss
matters of importance to their several countries, the most celebrated of which are those of
Münster and Osnabrück, which issued in the treaty of Westphalia in 1648, at the end of the
Thirty Years' War; of Rastadt, at the end of Spanish Succession War, in 1797; of Vienna, at
the end of Napoleon's wars, in 1815; of Paris, in 1856, at the end of Russian War; and of Berlin,
in 1878, at the end of Russo-Turkish war; but the name has come to be applied in federal republics
to the legislative assembly which directs national as distinct from State concerns. In the
United States, Congress consists of the Senate, elected by the State legislatures and the House
of Representatives, elected directly by the people. It meets on the first Monday in December,
and receives the President's message for the year. It imposes taxes, contracts loans, provides
for national defence, declares war, looks after the general welfare, establishes postal communication,
coins money, fixes weights and measures, &c. &c., but it is prohibited from preferential treatment
of the several States, establishing or interfering with religion, curtailing freedom of speech,
or pursuing towards any citizen, even under legal forms, a course of conduct which is unjust
or even oppressive.

CONGRESS, the Belgian Constituent Assembly, 1830-1831.

CONGREVE, RICHARD, author of political tracts, was a pupil of Dr. Arnold's, and a disciple
of Comte in philosophy; b. 1818.

CONGREVE, WILLIAM, English comic dramatist, born near Leeds; entered a student of the Middle
Temple, but soon abandoned law for literature; the "Old Bachelor" first brought him into repute,
and a commissionership of substantial value; the production of "Love for Love" and the "Mourning
Bride," a stilted tragedy, added immensely to his popularity, but his comedy "The Way of the
World" being coldly received, he gave up writing plays, and only wrote a few verses afterwards;
he was held in great esteem by his contemporaries, among others Dryden, Pope, and Steele (1670-1729).

CONGREVE, SIR WILLIAM, an English artillery officer, inventor of the rocket which bears his
name (1772-1828).

CONINGSBY, a novel by Disraeli.

CONINGTON, JOHN, classical scholar and professor of Latin at Oxford, born at Boston, translator
of the "Æneid" of Virgil, "Odes, Satires, and Epistles" of Horace, and 12 books of the "Iliad"
into verse, as well as of other classics; his greatest work is his edition of "Virgil" (1823-1869).

CONISBURGH CASTLE, an old round castle referred to in "Ivanhoe," 5 in. SW. of Doncaster.

CONISTON WATER, a lake 5 m. long and ½ m. broad, at the foot of Coniston Fells, in Lancashire,
with Brantwood on the E. side of it, the residence of John Ruskin.

CONKLING, ROSCOE, an American politician, a leading man on the Republican side; was a member
of the House of Representatives, and also of the Senate; retired from politics, and practised
law at New York (1828-1888).

CONNAUGHT (724), a western province of Ireland, 105 m. long and 92 m. broad, divided into five
counties; is the smallest and most barren of the provinces, but abounds in picturesque scenery;
the people are pure Celts.

CONNAUGHT, DUKE OF, the third son of Queen Victoria, bred for the army, has held several military
appointments; was promoted to the rank of general in 1893, and made commander-in-chief at Aldershot;
b. 1850.

CONNECTICUT (746), southernmost of the New England States, is washed by Long Island Sound,
has New York on the W., Rhode Island on the E., and Massachusetts on the N. It is the third
smallest State, rocky and uneven in surface, unfertile except in the Connecticut River valley.
Streams abound, and supply motive-power for very extensive manufactures of clocks, hardware,
india-rubber goods, smallwares, textiles, and firearms. There are iron-mines in the NW., stone-quarries,
lead, copper, and cobalt mines. Climate is healthy, changeable, and in winter severe. Education
is excellently provided for. Yale University, at New Haven, is thoroughly equipped; there are
several divinity schools, Trinity College at Hartford, and the Wesleyan University at Middleton.
The capital is Hartford (53); New Haven (81) is the largest town and chief port. The original
colony was a democratic secession from Massachusetts in 1634. The constitution of 1639 was
the first written democratic constitution on record. Its present constitution as a State dates
from 1818.

CONNECTICUT, a river in the United States which rises on the confines of Canada, and, after
a course of 450 m., falls into the Atlantic at Long Island.

CONNEMARA, a wild district with picturesque scenery in W. of co. Galway, Ireland.

CONOLLY, JOHN, physician, born in Lincolnshire, studied at Edinburgh, settled in London, distinguished
for having introduced and advocated a more rational and humane treatment of the insane (1794-1866).

CONRAD, CADET OF THE HOUSE OF HOHENZOLLERN, served under the illustrious Barbarossa; proved
a capable young fellow under him; married the heiress of the Vohburgs; was appointed Burggraf
of Nürnberg, 1170, and prince of the empire; "he is the lineal ancestor of Frederick the Great,
twentieth in direct ascent, let him wait till nineteen generations, valiantly like Conrad,
have done their part, Conrad will find he has come to this," that was realised in Frederick
and his time.

CONRAD, MARQUIS OF TYRE, threw himself into Tyre when beset by Saladin, and held it till Richard
Coeur de Lion and Philip Augustus arrived; was assassinated by emissaries of the Old Man of
the Mountain in 1192.

CONRAD I., count of Franconia, elected on the extinction of the Carlovingian line Emperor of
the Germans, which he continued to be from 911 to 915; fell wounded in battle with the Huns,
egged on by a rival.

CONRAD II., the Salic, of the same family as the preceding; elected Emperor of Germany in 1024;
reigned 15 years, extending the empire, suppressing disorders, and effecting reforms.

CONRAD III., founder of the Hohenstaufen dynasty; elected Emperor of Germany in 1138; had Henry
the Proud, as head of the German Guelfs, for rival; crushed him at Weinsberg; joined Louis
VII. of France on a third crusade, and returning, overthrew the Guelfs again, leaving Barbarossa
as his heir; d. 1152.

CONRAD OF THÜRINGIA, a proud, quick, fiery-tempered magnate, seized the archbishop of Mainz
once, swung him round, and threatened to cut him in two; stormed, plundered, and set fire to
an imperial free town for an affront offered him; but admonished of his sins became penitent,
and reconciled himself by monastic vow to the Pope and mankind about 1234.

CONRADIN THE BOY, or CONRAD V., the last representative of the Hohenstaufen dynasty of Romish
Kaisers, had fallen into the Pope's clutches, who was at mortal feud with the empire, and was
put to death by him on the scaffold at Naples, October 25, 1265, the "bright and brave" lad,
only 16, "throwing out his glove (in symbolic protest) amid the dark mute Neapolitan multitudes"
that idly looked on. See CARLYLE'S "FREDERICK THE GREAT" FOR THE CONRADS.

CONSALVI, Italian cardinal and statesman, born at Rome, secretary of Pius VII.; concluded the
Concordat with Napoleon in 1801; represented the Pope at the Congress of Vienna; was a liberal
patron of literature, science, and arts; continued minister of the Pope till his death (1757-1824).

CONSCIENCE, HENDRIK, a brilliant Flemish novelist, born at Antwerp; rose to popularity among
his countrymen by his great national romance the "Lion of Flanders," a popularity which soon
extended all over Europe; his writings display great descriptive power and perfect purity of
sentiment (1812-1883).

CONSCRIPT FATHERS, the collective name of members of the Roman Senate, and addressed as such,
fathers as seniors and conscripts as enrolled.

CONSERVATION OF ENERGY, the doctrine that, however it may be transformed or dissipated, no
fraction of energy is ever lost, that the amount of force, as of matter, in the universe, under
all mutation remains the same.

CONSERVATISM, indisposition to change established laws and customs that have wrought beneficially
in the past and contributed to the welfare of the country; in practical politics often a very
different thing, and regarded by Carlyle in his time "a portentous enbodied sham; accursed
of God, and doomed to destruction, as all lies are."

CONSIDÉRANT, VICTOR PROSPER, a French Socialist and disciple of Fourier; founded a colony in
Texas on Fourier's principles, which proved a failure; wrote much in advocacy of his principles,
of which the most important is "La Destinée Sociale"; b. 1808.

CONSOLS, the Consolidated Fund, loans to Government made at different times and at different
rates of interest, consolidated for convenience into one common loan, bearing interest at 3
per cent., reduced in 1830 to 2¾, and in 1893 to 2½.

CONSTABLE, a high officer of State in the Roman empire, in France, and in England, charged
at one time with military, judicial, and regulative functions.

CONSTABLE, ARCHIBALD, Edinburgh publisher, born in Carnbee, Fife; started as a bookseller near
the Cross in Edinburgh; published the Scots Magazine, the Edinburgh Review, and the "Encyclopædia
Britannica," and from 1802 to 1826 the works of Sir Walter Scott, when the bankruptcy connected
with the publication of these so affected him that it ruined his health, though he lived after
the crash came to start the "Miscellany" which bears his name (1774-1827).

CONSTABLE, HENRY, English poet, author of sonnets, 28 in number, under the title of "Diana"
(1560-1612).

CONSTABLE, JOHN, an eminent landscape-painter, born in Suffolk; his works were more generously
appreciated in France than in his own country, as they well might be, where they had not, as
in England, to stand comparison with those of Turner; but he is now, despite the depreciation
of Ruskin, becoming recognised among us as one of our foremost landscapists, and enormous prices
have been given of late for his best pictures; some of his best works adorn the walls of the
National Gallery; Ruskin allows his art is original, honest, free from affectation, and manly
(1776-1837).

CONSTABLE DE BOURBON, Charles, Duc de Bourbon, a brilliant military leader, and a powerful
enemy of Francis I.; killed when leading the assault on Rome (1489-1527).

CONSTANCE (16), a city of the Grand-Duchy of Baden, on the S. bank of the Rhine, at its exit
from the lake; famous for the seat of the council (1414-1418) which condemned John Huss and
Jerome of Prague to death; long famous for its linen manufacture.

CONSTANCE, LAKE, or BODENSEE, partly in Germany and partly in Switzerland; is about 44 m. long
and 9 m. broad at most; is traversed by the Rhine from W. to E., is 1306 ft. above sea-level;
is surrounded by vineyards, cornfields, and wooded slopes; its waters are hardly ever frozen,
and often rise and fall suddenly.

CONSTANT, BENJAMIN, a highly popular French painter of the Realistic school, born at Paris;
his first picture was "Hamlet and the King"; afterwards he took chiefly to Oriental subjects,
which afforded the best scope for his talent; occupies a high place in the modern French school,
and has been promoted to the rank of Officer of the Legion of Honour; b. 1845.

CONSTANT DE REBECQUE, HENRY BENJAMIN DE, a French politician, of liberal constitutional principles,
born at Lausanne, of Huguenot parents; settled in Paris at the commencement of the Revolution,
where he distinguished himself by his political writings and speeches; was expelled from France
in 1802, along with Mme. de Staël, for denouncing the military ascendency of Napoleon; lived
for a time at Weimar in the society of Goethe and Schiller; translated Schiller's "Wallenstein";
returned to France in 1814; declared for the Bourbons, and pled in favour of constitutional
liberty; he was a supporter of Louis Philippe, and a rationalist in religion, and declared
himself opposed to the supernatural element in all religions (1760-1830).

CONSTANTIA, a wine district of Cape Colony under E. flank of Table Mountain.

CONSTANTINE (50), inland city of Algeria, on a rocky height; leather-working its staple industry.

CONSTANTINE, the name of 13 emperors who reigned at Rome or Byzantium between 306 and 1453.

CONSTANTINE I., called the Great, born in Moesia, son of Constantius Chlorus by Helena; on
the death of his father at York, where he accompanied him, was proclaimed Emperor by the troops;
this title being challenged by Maximian, his father-in-law, and Maxentius, his brother-in-law,
he took up arms against first the one and then the other, and defeated them; when one day he
saw a cross in the sky with the words By this Conquer in Greek, under this sign, known as the
labarum, which he adopted as his standard, he accordingly marched straight to Rome, where he
was acknowledged Emperor by the Senate in 312; and thereafter an edict was issued named of
Milan, granting toleration to the Christians; he had still to extend his empire over the East,
and having done so by the removal of Lucinius, he transferred the seat of his empire to Byzantium,
which hence got the name of Constantinople, i. e. Constantine's city; had himself baptized
in 337 as a Christian, after having three years before proclaimed Christianity the State religion
(274-337).

CONSTANTINE NICOLAIEVITCH, second son of the Czar Nicholas I.; was appointed grand-admiral
while but a boy; had command of the Baltic fleet during the Crimean war; came under suspicion
of sinister intriguing; became insane, and died in seclusion (1827-1892).

CONSTANTINE PAULOVITCH, Grand-duke of Russia, son of Paul I.; distinguished himself at Austerlitz;
was commander-in-chief in Poland, where he ruled as despot; waived his right to the throne
in favour of his brother Nicholas (1779-1831).

CONSTANTINE XIII., Palæologus, the last of the Greek emperors; had to defend Constantinople
against a besieging force of 300,000 under Mahomet II., and though he defended it bravely,
the city was taken by storm, and the Eastern empire ended in 1543.

CONSTANTINOPLE (1,000), capital of the Turkish empire, on the Bosphorus, situated on a peninsula
washed by the Sea of Marmora on the S. and by the Golden Horn on the N., on the opposite side
of which creek lie the quarters of Galata and Pera, one of the finest commercial sites in the
world; it became the capital of the Roman empire under Constantine the Great, who gave name
to it; was capital of the Eastern empire from the days of Theodosius; was taken by the crusaders
in 1204, and by Mahomet II. in 1452, at which time the Greek and Latin scholars fled the city,
carrying the learning of Greece and Rome with them, an event which led to the revival of learning
in Europe, and the establishment of a new era--the Modern--in European history.

CONSTANTIUS CHLORUS, or THE PALE, Roman emperor; after a struggle of three years reunited Britain
with the empire, which had been torn from it by Allectus; was equally successful against the
Alemanni, defeating them with great loss; died at York, on an expedition against the Picts;
was succeeded by Constantine, his son (250-305).

CONSTITUENT ASSEMBLY, the legislative body which the National Assembly of France resolved itself
into in 1789, a name it assumed from the task it imposed on itself, viz., of making a constitution,
a task which, from the nature of it proved impossible, as a constitution is an entity which
grows, and is not made, nascitur, non fit.

CONSUELO, the heroine of George Sand's novel of the name, her masterpiece; the impersonation
of the triumph of moral purity over manifold temptations.

CONSUL, (1) one of the two magistrates of Rome elected annually after the expulsion of the
kings, and invested with regal power; (2) a chief magistrate of the French Republic from 1799
to 1804; (3) one commissioned to protect, especially the mercantile rights of the subjects
of a State in foreign country.

CONSULATE, name given to the French Government from the fall of the Directory till the establishment
of the Empire. At first there were three provisional consuls, Bonaparte, Siéyès, and Roger
Ducos; then three consuls for ten years, Bonaparte, Cambacérès, and Lebrun, which was dissolved
with the establishment of the Empire on the 20th May 1804.

CONTARI`NI, an illustrious Venetian family, which furnished eight Doges to the Republic, as
well as an array of men eminent in the Church, statecraft, generalship, art, and letters.

CONTE, NICOLAS JACQUES, a French painter; distinguished for his mechanical genius, which was
of great avail to the French army in Egypt (1755-1805).

CONTI, an illustrious French family, a younger branch of the house of Bourbon-Condé, all more
or less distinguished as soldiers; FRANÇOIS LOUIS especially, who was a man of supreme ability
both in war and science, and had the merit to be elected king of Poland (1664-1709).

CONTINENTAL SYSTEM, Napoleon's scheme for interdicting all commerce between the Continent and
Great Britain, carried out with various issues till the fall of Napoleon. See BERLIN and MILAN
DECREES.

CONTRAT, SOCIAL, Rousseau's theory of society that it is based on mere contract, each individual
member of it surrendering his will to the will of all, under protection of all concerned, a
theory which led to the conclusion that the rule of kings is an usurpation of the rights of
the community, and which bore fruit as an explosive in the Revolution at the end of the century.

CONVENTION, NATIONAL, a revolutionary convention in France which, on September 20, 1792, succeeded
the Legislative Assembly, proclaimed the Republic, condemned the king to death, succeeded in
crushing the royalists of La Vendée and the south, in defeating all Europe leagued against
France, and in founding institutions of benefit to France to this day; it was dissolved on
October 26, 1795, to make way for the Directory.

CONVERSATIONS LEXICON, a popular German encyclopædia of 16 vols., started in 1796, and since
1808 published by Brockhaus, in Leipzig.

CONVERSION, "the grand epoch for a man," says Carlyle, "properly the one epoch; the turning-point,
which guides upwards, or guides downwards, him and his activities for evermore."

CONVOCATION, an assemblage of the English clergy, with little or no legislative power, summoned
and prorogued by an archbishop under authority of the Crown; one under the Archbishop of Canterbury,
held at Canterbury, and one under the Archbishop of York, held at York, consisting each of
two bodies, an Upper of bishops, and an Under of lesser dignitaries and inferior clergy, in
separate chambers, though they originally met in one.

CONWAY, a port in Carnarvon, on the river Conway, with a massive castle, one of those built
by Edward I. to keep Wales in check; is a favourite summer resort, and is amid beautiful scenery.

CONWAY, HUGH, the nom de plume of Frederick Fargus, born in Bristol; bred to the auctioneer
business; author of "Called Back," a highly sensational novel, and a success; gave up his business
and settled in London, where he devoted himself to literature, and the production of similar
works of much promise, but caught malarial fever at Monte Carlo and died (1847-1885).

CONWAY, MONCURE, an American writer, born in Virginia; began life as a Unitarian preacher;
came to England as a lecturer on war; became leader of the advanced school of thought, so called;
was a great admirer of Emerson, and wrote, among other works, "Emerson at Home and Abroad";
b. 1832.

CONYBEARE, WILLIAM DANIEL, an English clergyman, devoted to the study of geology and palæontology,
and a Bampton lecturer (1787-1857).

CONYBEARE, WILLIAM JOHN, son of the preceding; author, along with Dean Howson, of the "Life
and Epistles of St. Paul," and of an "Essay on Church Parties" (1815-1857).

COOK, DUTTON, novelist, dramatic author, and critic; born in London, and bred a solicitor;
contributed to several periodicals, and the "Dictionary of National Biography" (1822-1883).

COOK, EDWARD T., journalist, born at Brighton; educated at Oxford; had been on the editorial
staff of the Pall Mall Gazette and the Westminster Gazette, became, in 1893, editor of the
Daily News; is an enthusiastic disciple of Ruskin; wrote "Studies on Ruskin"; b. 1857.

COOK, ELIZA, a writer of tales, verses, and magazine articles; born in Southwark; daughter
of a merchant; conducted, from 1849 to 1854, a journal called by her name, but gave it up from
failing health; enjoyed a pension of £100 on the Civil List till her death; was the authoress
of "The Old Arm-Chair" and "Home in the Heart," both of which were great favourites with the
public, and did something for literature and philanthropy by her Journal (1818-1889).

COOK, JAMES, the distinguished English navigator, born at Marton, Yorkshire; was the son of
a farm labourer; began sea-faring on board a merchantman; entered the navy in 1755, and in
four years became a master; spent some nine years in survey of the St. Lawrence and the coasts
of Newfoundland; in 1768, in command of the Endeavour, was sent out with an expedition to observe
the transit of Venus, and in 1772 as commander of two vessels on a voyage of discovery to the
South Seas; on his return, receiving further promotion, he set out on a third voyage of farther
exploration in the Pacific, making many discoveries as far N. as Behring Strait; lost his life,
on his way home, in a dispute with the natives, at Owhyhee, in the Sandwich Islands, being
savagely murdered, a fate which befell him owing to a certain quickness of temper he had displayed,
otherwise he was a man of great kindness of heart, and his men were warmly attached to him
(1728-1779).

COOK, JOSEPH, a popular lecturer, born near New York; delivered Monday Lectures at Boston in
the discussion of social questions, and the alleged discrepancy between science and religion
or revelation; b. 1838.

COOK, MOUNT, the highest point, 12,350 ft., in the Southern Alps, Canterbury Island, New Zealand.

COOK STRAIT, strait between the North and the South Island, New Zealand.

COOKE, SIR ANTONY, an eminent scholar, tutor to Edward VI.; of his daughters, one was married
to Lord Burleigh and another to Sir Nicholas Bacon, who became the mother of Lord Bacon (1506-1576).

COOKE, BENJAMIN, composer, born in London; organist in Westminster Abbey; author of "How Sleep
the Brave," "Hark! the Lark," and other glees, as well as some excellent church music (1739-1793).

COOKE, GEORGE FREDERICK, an actor, famous for his representation of Richard III.; stood in
his day next to Kemble in spite of his intemperate habits (1756-1811).

COOKE, T. P., an actor in melodrama; began life at sea; took to the stage; his most popular
representations were William in "Black-eyed Susan" and Long Tom Coffin in the "Pilot" (1786-1864).

COOLGARDIE, a mining district and head-quarters of rich gold-fields in W. Australia.

COOLIES, labourers from India and China, who now emigrate in large numbers, especially from
China, often to where they are not wanted, and where they, as in the British Colonies and the
United States, are much disliked, as they bring down the wages of native labourers.

COOMASSIE, the capital of the negro kingdom of Ashanti, 130 m. NNW. of Cape Coast Castle; once
a large populous place; was much reduced after its capture by Wolseley in 1874, though it is
being rebuilt.

COOPER, ANTHONY ASHLEY. See SHAFTESBURY.

COOPER, SIR ASTLEY, English surgeon, born in Norfolk; was great in anatomy and a skilful operator,
stood high in the medical profession; contributed much by his writings to raise surgery to
the rank of a science; was eminent as a lecturer as well as a practitioner (1768-1841).

COOPER, JAMES FENIMORE, an American novelist, born in Burlington, New Jersey; having a passion
for the sea, he entered the navy as a midshipman in 1808, but in three years resigned his commission,
married, and settled to literature; his novels, which are well known, achieved instant popularity,
made him a great favourite with boys, in which he showed himself an expert in the narration
of events, the description of scenes, as well as in the delineation of character; he came to
loggerheads with the newspaper press, had recourse to actions for libel, conducted his own
cases himself, and was always successful (1789-1851).

COOPER, THOMAS, a self-taught man, born in Leicester; bred a shoemaker; became a schoolmaster,
a Methodist preacher, and then a journalist; converted to Chartism; was charged with sedition,
and committed to prison for two years; wrote here "Purgatory of Suicides"; after liberation
went about lecturing on politics and preaching scepticism; returning to his first faith, he
lectured on the Christian evidences, and wrote an autobiography (1805-1892).

COOPER, THOMAS SIDNEY, a distinguished animal-painter, born in Canterbury; struggled with adversity
in early life: rose to be supreme in his own department of art; he has written an account of
his career; b. 1803.

COOPERAGE, a system of barter which has for some time gone on in the North Seas, consisting
of exchange of spirits and tobacco for other goods or money, a demoralising traffic, which
endeavours are now being made to suppress.

COOPER'S HILL, a hill of slight elevation near Runnymede, with a Government civil engineering
college, originally for the training for the service in India, now for education in other departments
of the Government service, forestry especially.

COORG (173), an inland high-lying province, about the size of Kent, on the eastern slope of
the W. Ghâts, on the SW. border of Mysore, under the Indian Government; it is covered with
forests, infested with wild animals; the natives, a fine race, are distinguished for their
loyalty to the British.

COOTE, SIR EYRE, a general, born in co. Limerick, Ireland; distinguished himself at Plassey;
gained victories over the French in India; afterwards routed Hyder Ali at Porto Novo; died
at Madras (1726-1783).

COPE, CHARLES WEST, a painter, born at Leeds; his pictures have for subjects historical or
dramatic scenes, and were very numerous; executed the frescoes that adorn the Peers' corridor
at Westminster; was professor of Painting to the Royal Academy (1811-1890).

COPE, SIR JOHN, a British general; was in command at Prestonpans, and defeated by the Pretender
there in 1745, in connection with which his name is remembered in Scotland as not having been
ready when the Highlanders attacked him, by the song "Heigh! Johnnie Cowp, are ye wauken yet?"
d. 1760.

COPENHAGEN (380), the capital of Denmark, and the only large town in it; lies low, and is built
partly on the island of Seeland and partly on the island of Amager, the channel between which
forms a commodious harbour; is a thriving place of manufacture and of trade, as its name "Merchants'
Haven" implies; has also a university, an arsenal, and numerous public buildings.

COPERNICUS, NICOLAS, founder of modern astronomy, born at Thorn, in Poland, and educated at
Cracow and Bologna; became canon of Frauenburg, on the Frisches Haff; studied medicine; was
doctor to a wealthy uncle, with whom he lived, and became his heir when he died; his chief
interest lay in the heavenly bodies, and his demonstrations regarding their movements, which
yet he deferred publishing till he was near his end; and indeed it was only when he was unconscious
and dying that the first printed copy of the work was put into his hands; it was entitled "De
Orbium Revolutionibus," and was written in proof of the great first principle of astronomy,
that the sun is the centre of the solar system, and that the earth and planets circle round
it; the work was dedicated to Pope Paul III., and was received with favour by the Catholic
Church, though, strange to say, it was denounced by Luther and Melanchthon as contrary to the
Scriptures of truth (1473-1543).

COPIAPÓ, a river, a village, a city, and a district in Chile.

COPLEY, JOHN SINGLETON, portrait and historical painter, born in Boston, U.S.; painted Washington's
portrait at the age of eighteen; came to England in 1776, having previously sent over for exhibition
sundry of his works; painted portraits of the king and the queen; began the historical works
on which his fame chiefly rests, the most widely known perhaps of which is the "Death of Chatham,"
now in the National Gallery (1737-1815).

COPPÉE, FRANÇOIS, a poet, born in Paris; has produced several volumes of poetry, excellent
dramas in verse, and tales in prose; his poetry is the poetry of humble life, and "has given
poetic pleasure," as Professor Saintsbury says, "to many who are not capable of receiving it
otherwise, while he has never sought to give that pleasure by unworthy means"; b. 1842.

COPPER CAPTAIN, a Brummagem captain; the name given to Percy in Beaumont and Fletcher's play,
"Rule a Wife and Have a Wife."

COPPER NOSE, name given to Oliver Cromwell, from a brownish tinge on his nose.

COPPERHEADS, secret foes in one's own camp, so called from a set of serpents which conceal
their purpose to attack.

COPPERMINE, a river in NW. Canada which falls into the Arctic Ocean after a broken course of 250 m.

COPPET, a Swiss village in the Canton de Vaud, on the Lake of Geneva; celebrated as the abode
of Mme. de Staël, her burial-place and that of Necker, her father.

COPTS, the Christian descendants of the ancient Egyptians, who are Monophysites in belief,
some regarding the Patriarch of Alexandria and some the Pope as their head; they adhere to
the ancient ritual, are prelatic, sacramentarian, and exclusive; they speak Arabic, their original
Coptic being as good as dead, though the grammar is taught in the schools.

COPYRIGHT, the sole right of an author or his heirs to publish a work for a term of years fixed
by statute, a book for 42 years, or the author's lifetime and 7 years after, whichever is longer;
copyright covers literary, artistic, and musical property. By the Act an author must present
one copy of his work, if published, to the British Museum, and one copy, if demanded, to the
Bodleian Library, Oxford; the University Library, Cambridge; the Advocates' Library, Edinburgh;
and Trinity College Library, Dublin.

COQUELIN, BENOIT CONSTANT, a noted French actor, born at Boulogne; played in classical pieces
and others, composed for himself in the Théâtre Français from 1860 to 1886; since then in London,
S. America, and the United States; without a rival in the broader aspects of comedy; b. 1841.

COQUEREL, ATHANASE, a pastor of the French Reformed Church, born in Paris, where he preached
eloquently from 1830 till his death; was elected in 1848 deputy for the Seine to the national
Assembly, but retired from political life after the coup d'état; wrote a reply to Strauss (1795-1858).

COQUEREL, ATHANASE, a Protestant pastor, son of preceding, born at Amsterdam; celebrated for
his liberal and tolerant views, too much so for M. Guizot; edited Voltaire's letters on toleration;
his chief work, "Jean Calas et sa Famille" (1820-1875).

COQUIMBO (14), capital of a mining province of Chile (176) of the name; exports minerals and
cattle.

CORAÏS, a distinguished Hellenist, born in Smyrna, of the mercantile class; settled in Paris,
where he devoted himself to awakening an interest in Greek literature and the cause of the
Greeks (1748-1833).

CORAM, THOMAS, English philanthropist, the founder of the Foundling Hospital, born at Lyme
Regis; a man of varied ventures by sea and land; settled in London; was touched by the sufferings
of the poor, where, with warm support from Hogarth, he founded the said institution; his charity
so impoverished him that he ended his days as an object of charity himself, being dependent
on a small annuity raised by subscription (1667-1751).

CORATO (30), a town in a fertile region in S. Italy, 25 m. W. of Bari.

CORBLE-STEPS, or CROW-STEPS, steps ascending the gable of a house, common in old Scotch gables
as well as in the Netherlands and elsewhere in old towns.

COR`BULO, a distinguished general under Claudius and Nero, who conquered the Parthians; Nero,
being jealous of him, invited him to Corinth, where he found a death-warrant awaiting him,
upon which he plunged his sword into his breast and exclaimed, "Well deserved!" in 72 A.D.

CORCY`RA, an Ionian island, now CORFU (q. v.).

CORDAY, CHARLOTTE, a French heroine, born at St. Saturnin, of good birth, granddaughter of
Corneille; well read in Voltaire and Plutarch; favoured the Revolution, but was shocked at
the atrocities of the Jacobins; started from Caen for Paris as an avenging angel; sought out
Marat, with difficulty got access to him, stabbed him to the heart as he sat "stewing in slipper-bath,"
and "his life with a groan gushed out, indignant, to the shades below"; when arrested, she
"quietly surrendered"; when questioned as to her motive, she answered, "I killed one man to
save a hundred thousand"; she was guillotined next day (1763-1793).

CORDELIA, the youngest and favourite daughter of King Lear.

CORDELIERS, (1) the strictest branch of the Franciscan Order of Monks, so called from wearing
a girdle of knotted cord; (2) also a club during the French Revolution, founded in 1789, its
prominent members, Danton, Camille Desmoulins, and Marat; was a secession from the Jacobin
Club, which was thought lukewarm, and met in what had been a convent of the Cordeliers monks;
it expired with Danton.

CORDERIUS, a grammarian, born in Normandy; being a Protestant settled in Geneva and taught;
author of Latin "Colloquies," once very famous (1478-1567).

CORDILLERAS, the name of several chains of mountains in S. America.

CORDITE, a smokeless powder, invented by Sir F. A. Abel, being composed principally of gun-cotton
and glycerine.

CORDON BLUE, formerly the badge of the Order of the Holy Ghost, now the badge of highest excellence
in a cook.

CORDOUAN, a lighthouse at the mouth of the Gironde.

COR`DOVA (70), a city on the Paraná, in the Argentine; also a town (48) in Andalusia, Spain,
on the right bank of the Guadalquivir, in a province of the name, 80 m. NE. of Seville; once
a Moorish capital, and famous for its manufacture of goat leather; has a cathedral, once a
magnificent mosque.

COREA (6,511), an Eastern Asiatic kingdom occupying the mountainous peninsula between the Yellow
and Japan Seas, in the latitude of Italy, with Manchuria on its northern border, a country
as large as Great Britain. The people, an intelligent and industrious race, are Mongols, followers
of Confucius and Buddha. After being for 300 years tributary to China, it passed under Japanese
influence, and by the Chinese defeat in the war with Japan, 1894-95, was left independent.
The climate is healthy, but subject to extremes; rivers are ice-bound for four months. Wheat,
rice, and beans are grown. There are gold, silver, iron, and coal mines, and great mineral
wealth. There are extensive manufactures of paper, and some silk industry. Three ports are
open to foreigners; but most of the trade is with Japan; exports hides, beans, and paper; imports
cotton goods. The capital is Seoul (193).

CORELLI, ARCANGELO, an Italian musical composer, celebrated for his skill on the violin; his
compositions mark a new musical epoch; he has been called the father of instrumental music
(1653-1713).

CORELLI, MARIE, a novelist, a prolific authoress, and very popular; her first work "The Romance
of Two Worlds," one of her latest "The Sorrows of Satan"; b. 1864.

CORFE CASTLE, a village in the Isle of Purbeck, Dorsetshire, round a castle now in ruins, and
the scene of martyrdoms and murders not a few in its day.

CORFU (78), the most northerly of the Ionian Islands and the largest, 40 m. long, from 4 to
18 broad; was under the protection of Britain, 1815-64; has since belonged to Greece; has a
capital (79) of the same name.

CORIN`NA, a poetess of ancient Greece, born in Boeotia; friend and rival of Pindar; only a
few fragments of her poetry remain.

CORINNE, the heroine and title of a novel of Mme. de Staël's, her principal novel, in which
she celebrates the praises of the great men and great masterpieces of Italy; her heroine is
the type of a woman inspired with poetic ideas and the most generous sentiments.

CORINTH, an ancient city of Greece, and one of the most flourishing, on an isthmus of the name
connecting the Peloponnesus with the mainland; a great centre of trade and of material wealth,
and as a centre of luxury a centre of vice; the seat of the worship of Aphrodité, a very different
goddess from Athene, to whom Athens was dedicated.

CORINTHIANS, EPISTLES TO THE, two epistles of St. Paul to the Church he had established in
Corinth, the chief object of which was to cleanse it of certain schisms and impurities that
had arisen, and to protest against the disposition of many in it to depart from simple gospel
which they had been taught.

CORIOLA`NUS, a celebrated Roman general of patrician rank, who rallied his countrymen when,
in besieging Corioli, they were being driven back, so that he took the city, and was in consequence
called Coriolanus; having afterwards offended the plebs, he was banished from the city; took
refuge among the people he had formerly defeated; joined cause with them, and threatened to
destroy the city, regardless of every entreaty to spare it, till his mother, his wife, and
the matrons of Rome overcame him by their tears, upon which he withdrew and led back his army
to Corioli, prepared to suffer any penalty his treachery to them might expose him.

CORIOLI, a town of ancient Latium, capital of the Volsci.

CORK (73), a fine city, capital of a county (436) of the same name in Munster, Ireland, on
the Lee, 11 m. from its mouth; with a magnificent harbour, an extensive foreign trade, and
manufactures of various kinds.

CORMENIN, a French statesman and jurist, born at Paris; had great influence under Louis Philippe;
his pamphlets, signed Timon, made no small stir; left a work on administrative law in France
(1788-1886).

CORMONTAIGNE, a celebrated French engineer, born at Strasburg; successor of Vauban (1696-1752).

CORNARO, an illustrious patrician family in Venice, from which for centuries several Doges sprung.

CORN-CRACKER, the nickname of a Kentucky man.

CORNEILLE, PIERRE, the father of French tragedy, born at Rouen, the son of a government legal
official; was bred for the bar, but he neither took to the profession nor prospered in the
practice of it, so gave it up for literature; threw himself at once into the drama; began by
dramatising an incident in his own life, and became the creator of the dramatic art in France;
his first tragedies are "The Cid," which indeed is his masterpiece, "Horace," "Cinna," "Polyeucte,"
"Rodogune," and "Le Menteur"; in his verses, which are instinct with vigour of conception as
well as sublimity of feeling, he paints men as they should be, virtuous in character, brave
in spirit, and animated by the most exalted sentiments. Goethe contrasts him with Racine: "Corneille,"
he says, "delineated great men; Racine, men of eminent rank." "He rarely provokes an interest,"
says Professor Saintsbury, "in the fortunes of his characters; it is rather in the way that
they bear their fortune, and particularly in a kind of haughty disdain for fortune itself...
He shows an excellent comic faculty at times, and the strokes of irony in his serious plays
have more of true humour in them than appears in almost any other French dramatist" (1606-1684).

CORNEILLE, THOMAS, younger brother of the preceding, a dramatist, whose merits were superior,
but outshone by those of his brother (1625-1709).

CORNELIA, the daughter of Scipio Africanus and the mother of the GRACCHI (q. v.), the Roman
matron who, when challenged by a rival lady to outshine her in wealth of gems, proudly led
forth her sons saying, "These are my jewels"; true to this sentiment, it was as the mother
of the Gracchi she wished to be remembered, and is remembered, in the annals of Rome.

CORNELIUS, PETER VON, a distinguished German painter, born at Düsseldorf; early gave proof
of artistic genius, which was carefully fostered by his father; spent much time as a youth
in studying and copying Raphael; before he was 20 he decorated a church at Neuss with colossal
figures in chiaroscuro; in 1810 executed designs for Goethe's "Faust"; in the year after went
to Rome, where, along with others, he revived the old art of fresco painting, in which he excelled
his rivals; the subjects of these were drawn from Greek pagan as well as Christian sources,
his "Judgment" being the largest fresco in the world; the thought which inspires his cartoons,
critics say, surpasses his power of execution; it should be added, he prepared a set of designs
to illustrate the "Nibelungen" (1787-1867).

CORNELL UNIVERSITY, a university in Ithaca, New York State, founded in 1868 at a cost of £152,000,
named after its founder, Ezra Cornell; it supports a large staff of teachers, and gives instruction
in all departments of science, literature, and philosophy; it provides education to sundry
specified classes free of all fees, as well as means of earning the benefits of the institution
to any who may wish to enjoy them.

CORN-LAWS, laws in force in Great Britain regulating the import and export of corn for the
protection of the home-producer at the expense of the home-consumer, and which after a long
and bitter struggle between these two classes were abolished in 1846.

CORN-LAW RHYMER, THE, EBENEZER ELLIOTT (q. v.) who, in a volume of poems, denounced the corn-laws
and contributed to their abolition.

CORNO, MONTE, the highest peak of the Apennines, 9545 ft.

CORNWALL (322), a county in the SW. extremity of England, forming a peninsula between the English
and the Bristol Channels, with a rugged surface and a rocky coast, indented all round with
more or less deep bays inclosed between high headlands; its wealth lies not in the soil, but
under it in its mines, and in the pilchard, mackerel, and other fisheries along its stormy
shores; the county town is Bodmin (5), the largest Penzance (12), and the mining centre Truro (11).

CORNWALL, BARRY, the nom de plume of B. W. PROCTER (q. v.).

CORNWALLIS, LORD, an English general and statesman; saw service in the Seven Years' and the
American Wars; besieged in the latter at York Town, was obliged to capitulate; became Governor-General
of India, and forced Tippoo Sahib to submit to humiliating terms; as Lord-Lieutenant of Ireland
crushed the rebellion of '98; re-appointed Governor-General of India; died there (1738-1805).

COROMANDEL COAST, E. coast of Hindustan, extending from the Krishna to Cape Comorin.

CORONATION CHAIR, a chair inclosing a stone carried off by Edward I. from Scone in 1296, on
which the sovereigns of England are crowned.

COROT, JEAN BAPTISTE, a celebrated French landscape-painter, born at Paris; was 26 years of
age before he began to apply himself to art, which he did by study in Italy and Rome, returning
to Paris in 1827, where he began to exhibit, and continued to exhibit for nearly 50 years;
it was long before his pieces revealed what was in him and the secret of his art; he appeared
also as a poet as well as a painter, giving free play to his emotions and moving those of others
(1796-1875).

CORPS LÉGISLATIF, the lower house of the French legislature, consisting of deputies.

CORPUSCULAR PHILOSOPHY, the philosophy which accounts for physical phenomena by the position
and the motions of corpuscles.

CORR, ERIN, an eminent engraver, born in Brussels, of Irish descent; spent 10 years in engraving
on copper-plate Rubens's "Descent from the Cross" (1793-1862).

CORRECTOR, ALEXANDER THE, Alexander Cruden, who believed he had a divine mission to correct
the manners of the world.

CORREGGIO, ANTONIO ALLEGRI DA, an illustrious Italian painter, born at Correggio, in Modena;
founder of the Lombard school, and distinguished among his contemporaries for the grace of
his figures and the harmony of his colouring; he has been ranked next to Raphael, and it has
been said of him he perfected his art by adding elegance to truth and grandeur; he is unrivalled
in chiaroscuro, and he chose his subjects from pagan as well as Christian legend (1494-1534).

CORRIB, LOUGH, an irregularly shaped lake in Galway and Mayo, 25 m. long and from 1 to 6 m.
broad, with stone circles near it.

CORRIENTES (300), a province of the Argentine Republic, between the Paraná and the Uruguay;
also its capital (18), surrounded by orange-groves; so called from the currents that prevail
in the river, along which steamers ply between it and Buenos Ayres.

CORRUGATED IRON, in general, sheet-iron coated with zinc.

CORSAIR, THE, a poem of Byron's, in which the author paints himself in heroic colours as an
adventurer who drowns reflection in the intoxication of battle.

CORSICA (288), an island belonging to France, in the Mediterranean, ceded to her by Genoa in
1768, but by position, race, and language belongs to Italy; has been subject by turns to the
powers that in succession dominated that inland sea; is 116 m. long and 52 broad; it abounds
in mountains, attaining 9000 ft.; covered with forests and thickets, which often serve as shelter
for brigands; it affords good pasturage, and yields olive-oil and wine, as well as chesnuts,
honey, and wax.

CORSICA PAOLI, a native of Corsica, who vainly struggled to achieve the independence of his
country, and took refuge in England, where he enjoyed the society of the Johnson circle, and
was much esteemed. See PAOLI.

CORSSEN, WILLIAM PAUL, a learned German philologist, born at Bremen; made a special study of
the Latin languages, and especially the Etruscan, which he laboured to prove was cognate with
that of the Romans and of the races that spoke it (1820-1875).

CORT, an eminent Dutch engraver, went to Venice, lived with Titian; engraved some of his pictures;
went to Rome and engraved Raphael's "Transfiguration"; executed over 150 plates, all displaying
great accuracy and refinement (1536-1578).

CORTES, the name given in Spain and Portugal to the National Assembly, consisting of nobles
and representatives of the nation.

CORTES, a Spanish soldier and conqueror of Mexico, born in Estremadura; went with Velasquez
to Cuba; commanded the expedition to conquer Mexico, and by burning all his ships that conveyed
his men, cut off all possibility of retreat; having conquered the tribes that he met on landing,
he marched on to the capital, which, after a desperate struggle, he reduced, and laid waste
and then swept the country, by all which he added to the wealth of Spain, but by his cruelty
did dishonour to the chivalry of which Spain was once so proud (1485-1547).

CORTONA, PIETRO DA, an Italian painter, born at Cortona, in Tuscany, and eminent as an architect
also; decorated many of the finest buildings in Rome (1596-1669).

CORUÑA (34), a fortified town on NW. of Spain, with a commodious harbour, where Sir John Moore
fell in 1809 while defending the embarkation of his army against Soult, and where his tomb is.

CORVÉE, obligation as at one time enforced in France to render certain services to Seigneurs,
such as repairing of roads, abolished by the Contituent Assembly.

CORYAT, THOMAS, an English traveller and wit, who, in his "Crudities," quaintly describes his
travels through France and Italy (1577-1617).

CORYBANTES, priests of CYBELE (q. v.), whose religious rites were accompanied with wild dances
and the clashing of cymbals.

CORYDON, a shepherd in Virgil, name for a lovesick swain.

CORYPHÆUS, originally the leader of the chorus in a Greek drama, now a leader in any dramatic
company, or indeed in any art.

COS (10), an island in the Ægean Sea, birthplace of Hippocrates and Apelles.

COSENZA (18), a town in Calabria, in a deep valley, where Alaric died.

COSIN, JOHN, a learned English prelate, Dean of Peterborough, deposed by the Puritans for his
ritualistic tendencies; exiled for 10 years in Paris; returned at the Restoration, and was
made Bishop of Durham, where he proved himself a Bishop indeed, and a devoted supporter of
the Church which he adorned by his piety (1594-1672).

COSMAS, ST., Arabian physician and patron of surgeons, brother of St. Damian; suffered martyrdom
in 303. Festival, Sept. 27.

COSMAS INDICOPLEUSTES (i. e. voyager to India), an Egyptian monk of the 6th century, born in
Alexandria, singular for his theory of the system of the world, which, in opposition to the
Ptolemaic system, he viewed as in shape like that of the Jewish Tabernacle, with Eden outside,
and encircled by the ocean, a theory he advanced as in conformity with Scripture.

COSMO I., Grand-duke of Tuscany, head of the Republic of Florence, of which he made himself
absolute master, a post he held in defiance of all opposition, in order to secure the independence
of the state he governed, as well as its internal prosperity (1519-1574).

COSMOGRAPHY, any theory which attempts to trace the system of things back to its first principle
or primordial element or elements.

COSQUIN, EMMANUEL, a French folk-lorist, and author of "Popular Tales of Lorraine," in the
introduction to which he argues for the theory that the development as well as the origin of
such tales is historically traceable to India; b. 1841.

COSSACKS, a military people of mixed origin, chiefly Tartar and Slav, who fought on horseback,
in their own interest as well as that of Russia, defending its interests in particular for
centuries past in many a struggle, and forming an important division of the Russian army.

COSTA RICA (262), a small republic of Central America; it is mostly tableland; contains many
volcanoes; is chiefly agricultural, though rich in minerals.

COSTARD, a clown in "Love's Labour Lost," who apes the affected court-wits of the time in a
misappropriate style.

COSTELLO, LOUISA STUART, an English authoress; her descriptive powers were considerable, and
her novels had a historical groundwork (1799-1870).

COSTER, alias LAURENS JANSZOON, born at Haarlem, to whom his countrymen, as against the claims
of Gutenberg, ascribe the invention of printing (1370-1440).

COSWAY, RICHARD, a distinguished miniature portrait-painter, born at Tiverton; Correggio his
model (1740-1821).

CÔTE D'OR, a range of hills in the NE. of France, connecting the Cévennes with the Vosges,
which gives name to a department (376) famed for its wines.

COTENTIN, a peninsula NW. of Normandy, France, jutting into the English Channel, now forms
the northern part of the dep. La Manche, the fatherland of many of the Norman conquerors of
England.

COTES, ROGER, an English mathematician of such promise, that Newton said of him, "If he had
lived, we should have known something" (1682-1716).

CÔTES DU NORD (618), a dep. forming part of Brittany; the chief manufacture is linen.

COTIN, THE ABBÉ, a French preacher, born in Paris; a butt of the sarcasm of Molière and Boileau
(1604-1682)

COTMAN, JOHN SELL, an English painter, born at Norwich; made Turner's acquaintance; produced
water-colour landscapes, growing in repute; has been pronounced "the most gifted of the Norwich
School" (1782-1842).

COTOPAXI, a volcano of the Andes, in Ecuador, the highest and most active in the world, nearly
20,000 ft., 35 m. SE. of Quito; it rises in a perfect cone, 4400 ft. above the plateau of Quito.

COTSWOLD HILLS, in Gloucestershire, separating the Lower Severn from the sources of the Thames;
they are of limestone rock, 50 m. long, and extend N. and S.

COTTA, CAIUS, a distinguished Roman orator, 1st century B.C.; mentioned with honour by Cicero.

COTTA, German publisher, born at Stuttgart; established in Tübingen; published the works of
Goethe, Schiller, Jean Paul, Herder, and others of note among their contemporaries (1764-1832).

COTTIAN ALPS, the range N. of the Maritime between France and Italy.

COTTIN, SOPHIE, a celebrated French authoress; wrote, among other romances, the well-known
and extensively translated "Elizabeth; or, the Exiles of Siberia," a wildly romantic but irreproachably
moral tale (1773-1807).

COTTLE, JOSEPH, a publisher and author; started business in Bristol; published the works of
Coleridge and Southey on generous terms; wrote in his "Early Recollections" an exposure of
Coleridge that has been severely criticised and generally condemned (1770-1853).

COTTON, BISHOP, born at Chester; eminent as a master at Rugby under Dr. Arnold, and as head-master
at Marlborough College; was appointed Bishop of Calcutta, an office he fulfilled zealously;
was drowned in the Ganges; he figures as "the young master" in "Tom Brown's School-days" (1813-1866).

COTTON, CHARLES, a poet, born in Staffordshire; his poetry was of the burlesque order, and
somewhat gross; chiefly famous for his translation of "Montaigne's Essays"; was friend and
admirer of Isaak Walton, and wrote a supplement to his "Angler" (1630-1687).

COTTON, SIR ROBERT BRUCE, a distinguished antiquary, and founder of the Cottonian Library,
now in the British Museum, born at Denton; was a friend of Camden, and assisted him in his
great work; was a great book-collector; was exposed to persecution for his presumed share in
the publication of an obnoxious book, of which the original was found in his collection; had
his books, in which he prided himself, taken from him, in consequence of which he pined and
died (1571-1631).

COUCY, an old noble family of Picardy, who had for device, "Roi ne suis, ne duc, ne comte aussi;
je suis le sire de Coucy." RAOUL, a court-poet of the family in the 12th century, lost his
life at the siege of Acre in the third crusade.

COULOMB, a learned French physicist and engineer, born at Angoulême; the inventor of the torsion
balance, and to whose labours many discoveries in electricity and magnetism are due; lived
through the French Revolution retired from the strife (1736-1806).

COUNCILS, CHURCH, assemblies of bishops to decide questions of doctrine and ecclesiastical
discipline. They are oecumenical, national, or provincial, according as the bishops assembled
represented the whole Church, a merely national one, or a provincial section of it. Eastern:
Nice, 325 (at which Arius was condemned), 787; Constantinople, 381 (at which Apollinaris was
condemned), 553, 680, 869; Ephesus, 431 (at which Nestorius was condemned); Chalcedon, 451
(at which Eutyches was condemned). Western: Lateran, 1123, 1139, 1179, 1215, 1274; Synod of
Vienne, 1311; Constance, 1414; Basel, 1431-1443; Trent, 1545-1563; Vatican, 1869.

COURAYES, a French Roman Catholic ecclesiastic who pled on behalf of Anglican orders; was censured;
fled to England, where he was welcomed, and received academic honours (1681-1777).

COURBET, a French vice-admiral, born at Abbeville; distinguished himself by his rapid movements
and brilliant successes in the East (1827-1885).

COURBET, GUSTAVE, French painter, born at Ornans; took to landscape-painting; was head of the
Realistic school; joined the Commune in 1871; his property and pictures were sold to pay the
damage done, and especially to restore the Vendôme Column; died an exile in Switzerland (1819-1877).

COURIER, PAUL LOUIS, a French writer, born at Paris; began life as a soldier, but being wounded
at Wagram, retired from the army, and gave himself to letters; distinguished himself as the
author of political pamphlets, written with a scathing irony such as has hardly been surpassed,
which brought him into trouble; was assassinated on his estate by his gamekeeper (1772-1825).

COURLAND (637), a partly wooded and partly marshy province of Russia, S. of the Gulf of Riga;
the population chiefly German, and Protestants; agriculture their chief pursuit.

COURT DE GÉBELIN, a French writer, born at Nîmes, author of a work entitled "The Primitive
World analysed and compared with the Modern World" (1725-1784).

COURTNEY, WILLIAM, archbishop of Canterbury, no match for Wickliffe in debate, but had his
revenge in persecuting his followers (1341-1396).

COURTOIS, JACQUES, a French painter of battle-pieces; became a Jesuit, died a monk (1621-1676).

COURTRAIS (29), a Belgian town on the Lys.

COUSIN, VICTOR, a French philosopher, born in Paris; founder of an eclectic school, which derived
its doctrines partly from the Scottish philosophy and partly from the German, and which Dr.
Chalmers in his class-room one day characterised jocularly as neither Scotch nor German, but
just half seas over; he was a lucid expounder, an attractive lecturer, and exerted no small
influence on public opinion in France; had a considerable following; retired from public life
in 1848, and died at Cannes; he left a number of philosophic works behind him, the best known
among us "Discourses on the True, the Beautiful, and the Good" (1792-1867).

COUSIN MICHAEL, a disparaging designation of our German kindred, as slow, heavy, unpolished,
and ungainly.

COUSIN-MONTAUBAN, a French general, commanded the Chinese expedition of 1860, and, after a
victory over the Chinese, took possession of Pekin (1796-1878).

COUSINS, SAMUEL, a mezzotint engraver, born at Exeter; engraved "Bolton Abbey," "Marie Antoinette
in the Temple," and a number of plates after eminent painters; left a fund to aid poor artists
(1801-1880).

COUSTON, the name of three eminent French sculptors: NICOLAS (1658-1733); GUILLAUME, father
(1678-1746); and GUILLAUME, son (1716-1777).

COUTHON, GEORGES, a violent revolutionary, one of a triumvirate with Robespierre and St. Just,
who would expel every one from the Jacobin Club who could not give evidence of having done
something to merit hanging, should a counter-revolution arrive; was paralysed in his limbs
from having had to spend a night "sunk to the middle in a cold peat bog" to escape detection
as a seducer; trapped for the guillotine; tried to make away with himself under a table, but
could not (1756-1794).

COUTTS, THOMAS, a banker, born in Edinburgh, his father having been Lord Provost of that city;
joint-founder and eventually sole manager of the London banking house, Coutts & Co.; left a
fortune of £900,000 (1735-1822).

COUVADE, a custom among certain races of low culture in which a father before and after childbirth
takes upon himself the duties and cares of the mother.

COUZA, PRINCE, born at Galatz, hereditary prince of Moldavia and Wallachia; reigned from 1858
to 1860; died in exile, 1873.

COVENANT, SOLEMN LEAGUE AND, an engagement, with representatives from Scotland, on the part
of the English Parliament to secure to the Scotch the terms of their National Covenant, and
signed by honourable members in St. Margaret's Church, Westminster, September 25, 1643, on
the condition of assistance from the Scotch in their great struggle with the king.

COVENANT, THE NATIONAL, a solemn engagement on the part of the Scottish nation subscribed to
by all ranks of the community, the first signature being appended to it in the Greyfriars'
Churchyard, Edinburgh, on February 28, 1638, to maintain the Presbyterian Church and to resist
all attempts on the part of Charles I. to foist Episcopacy upon it; it was ratified by the
Scottish Parliament in 1640, and subscribed by Charles II. in 1650 and 1651.

COVENANTERS, a body of strict Presbyterians who held out against the breach of the Solemn League
and Covenant.

COVENT GARDEN, properly Convent Garden, as originally the garden of Westminster Abbey, the
great fruit, flower, and vegetable market of London; is one of the sights of London early on
a summer morning.

COVENTRY (55), a town in Warwickshire, 18½ m. SE. of Birmingham; famous for the manufacture
of ribbons and watches, and recently the chief seat of the manufacture of bicycles and tricycles;
in the old streets are some quaint old houses; there are some very fine churches and a number
of charitable institutions.

COVENTRY, SIR JOHN, a member of the Long Parliament; when, as a member of Parliament in Charles
II.'s reign, he made reflections on the profligate conduct of the king, he was set upon by
bullies, who slit his nose to the bone; a deed which led to the passing of the Coventry Act,
which makes cutting and maiming a capital offence (1640-1682).

COVERDALE, MILES, translator of the English Bible, born in Yorkshire; his translation was the
first issued under royal sanction, being dedicated to Henry VIII.; done at the instance of
Thomas Cromwell, and brought out in 1535, and executed with a view to secure the favour of
the authorities in Church and State, displaying a timid hesitancy unworthy of a manly faith
in the truth; both he and his translation nevertheless were subjected to persecution, 2500
copies of the latter, printed in Paris, having been seized by the Inquisition and committed
to the flames (1487-1568).

COVERLEY, SIR ROGER DE, member of the club under whose auspices the Spectator is professedly
edited; represents an English squire of Queen Anne's reign.

COWELL, JOHN, an English lawyer, author of "Institutes of the Laws of England" and of a law
dictionary burnt by the common hangman for matter in it derogatory to the royal authority; d. 1611.

COWEN, FREDERICK HYMEN, a popular English composer, born in Kingston, Jamaica; his works consist
of symphonies, cantatas, oratories, as well as songs, duets, &c.; is conductor of the Manchester
Subscription Concerts in succession to Sir Charles Hallé; b. 1852.

COWES, a watering-place in the N. of the Isle of Wight, separated by the estuary of Medina
into E. and W.; engaged in yacht-building, and the head-quarters of the Royal Yacht Club.

COWLEY, ABRAHAM, poet and essayist, born in London; a contemporary of Milton, whom he at one
time outshone, but has now fallen into neglect; he was an ardent royalist, and catered to the
taste of the court, which, however, brought him no preferment at the Restoration; he was a
master of prose, and specially excelled in letter-writing; he does not seem to have added much
to the literature of England, except as an essayist, and in this capacity has been placed at
the head of those who cultivated that clear, easy, and natural style which culminated in Addison
(1618-1667).

COWLEY, HENRY WELLESLEY, EARL, an eminent diplomatist, brother of the Duke of Wellington; served
as a diplomatist in Vienna, Constantinople, and Switzerland, and was ambassador to France from
1852 to 1867 (1804-1884).

COWPER, WILLIAM, a popular English poet, born at Great Berkhampstead, Hertford, of noble lineage;
lost his mother at six, and cherished the memory of her all his days; of a timid, sensitive
nature, suffered acutely from harsh usage at school; read extensively in the classics; trained
for and called to the bar; was appointed at 32 a clerk to the House of Lords; qualifying for
the duties of the appointment proved too much for him, and he became insane; when he recovered,
he retired from the world to Huntingdon beside a brother, where he formed an intimacy with
a family of the name of Unwin, a clergyman in the place; on Mr. Unwin's death he removed with
the family to Olney, in Buckinghamshire, where he lived as a recluse and associated with the
Rev. John Newton and Mrs. Unwin; shortly after he fell insane again, and continued so for two
years; on his recovery he took to gardening and composing poems, his first the "Olney Hymns,"
the melancholy being charmed away by the conversation of a Lady Austin, who came to live in
the neighbourhood; it was she who suggested his greatest poem, the "Task"; then followed other
works, change of scene and associates, the death of Mrs. Unwin, and the gathering of a darker
and darker cloud, till he passed away peacefully; it is interesting to note that it is to this
period his "Lines to Mary Unwin" and his "Mother's Picture" belong (1731-1800).

COX, DAVID, an eminent landscape painter, rated by some next to Turner, born at Birmingham;
began his art as a scene-painter; painted as a landscapist first in water-colour, then in oil;
many of his best works are scenes in N. Wales; his works have risen in esteem and value; an
ambition of his was to get £100 for a picture, and one he got only £20 for brought £3602 (1793-1830).

COX, SIR GEORGE, an English mythologist, specially distinguished for resolving the several
myths of Greece and the world into idealisations of solar phenomena; he has written on other
subjects, all of interest, and is engaged with W. T. Brande on a "Dictionary of Science, Literature,
and Art"; b. 1827.

COXCIE, MICHAEL, a celebrated Flemish painter, born at Mechlin (1497-1592).

COXE, HENRY OCTAVIUS, librarian, became assistant-librarian of the Bodleian Library, Oxford,
in 1838, and ultimately head-librarian in 1860; under his direction the catalogue, consisting
of 720 folio volumes, was completed; held this post till his death; has edited several works
of value; is one of Dean Burgon's "Twelve Good Men" (1811-1881).

COXE, WILLIAM, a historical writer, heavy but painstaking, born in London; wrote "History of
the House of Austria" and the "Memoirs of Marlborough," and on "Sir Robert Walpole and the
Pelham Administrations" (1747-1828).

COXWELL, a celebrated English aëronaut; bred a dentist; took to ballooning; made 700 ascents;
reached with Glaisher an elevation of 7 m.; b. 1819.

COZENS, JOHN ROBERT, a landscape painter, a natural son of Peter the Great; pronounced by Constable
the greatest genius that ever touched landscape, and from him Turner confessed he had learned
more than from any other landscapist; his mind gave way at last, and he died insane (1752-1801).

CRABBE, GEORGE, an English poet, born at Aldborough, in Suffolk; began life as apprentice to
an apothecary with a view to the practice of medicine, but having poetic tastes, he gave up
medicine for literature, and started for London with a capital of three pounds; his first productions
in this line not meeting with acceptance, he was plunged in want; appealing in vain for assistance
in his distress, he fell in with Burke, who liberally helped him and procured him high patronage,
under which he took orders and obtained the living of Trowbridge, which he held for life, and
he was now in circumstances to pursue his bent; his principal poems are "The Library," "The
Village," "The Parish Register," "The Borough," and the "Tales of the Hall," all, particularly
the earlier ones, instinct with interest in the lives of the poor, "the sacrifices, temptations,
loves, and crimes of humble life," described with the most "unrelenting" realism; the author
in Byron's esteem, "though Nature's sternest painter, yet the best" (1754-1832).

CRACOW (75), a city in Galicia, the old capital of Poland; where the old Polish kings were
buried, and the cathedral of which contains the graves of the most illustrious of the heroes
of the country and Thorwaldsen's statue of Christ; a large proportion of the inhabitants are Jews.

CRADLE MOUNTAIN, a mountain in the W. of Tasmania.

CRAIG, JOHN, a Scottish Reformer, educated at St. Andrews, and originally a Dominican monk;
had been converted to Protestantism by study of Calvin's "Institutes," been doomed to the stake
by the Inquisition, but had escaped; the coadjutor in Edinburgh of Knox, and his successor
in his work, and left a confession and catechism (1512-1580).

CRAIG, SIR THOMAS, an eminent Scottish lawyer, author of a treatise on the "Jus Feudale," which
has often been reprinted, as well as three others in Latin of less note; wrote in Latin verse
a poem on Queen Mary's marriage to Darnley (1538-1608).

CRAIGENPUTTOCK, a craig or whinstone hill of the puttocks (small hawks), "a high moorland farm
on the watershed between Dumfriesshire and Galloway, 10 m. from Dumfries," the property for
generations of a family of Welshes, and eventually that of their heiress, Jane Welsh Carlyle,
"the loneliest spot in all the British dominions," which the Carlyles made their dwelling-house
in 1828, where they remained for seven years, and where "Sartor" was written. "It is certain,"
Carlyle says of it long after, "that for living and thinking in I have never since found in
the world a place so favourable.... How blessed," he exclaims, "might poor mortals be in the
straitest circumstances if their wisdom and fidelity to heaven and to one another were adequately
great!"

CRAIK, GEORGE LITTLE, an English author, born in Fife, educated at St. Andrews; settled early
in London as a littérateur; was associated with Charles Knight in his popular literary undertakings;
was author of the "Pursuit of Knowledge under Difficulties," and the "History of English Literature
and Learning"; edited "Pictorial History of England," contributed to "Penny Cyclopædia," and
became professor of English Literature, Queen's College, Belfast (1799-1866).

CRAIK, MRS., née MULOCK, born at Stoke-upon-Trent; authoress of "John Halifax, Gentleman,"
her chief work, which has had, and maintains, a wide popularity; married in 1865 a nephew and
namesake of the preceding, a partner of the publishing house of Macmillan & Co.; wrote for
the magazines, besides some 14 more novels (1826-1887).

CRAIL, a little old-fashioned town near the East Neuk of Fife, where James Sharp was minister;
a decayed fishing-place, now a summer resort.

CRAMER, JOHANN BAPTIST, a distinguished German composer and pianist (1771-1858).

CRANACH, LUCAS, a celebrated German painter, born at Kronach, in the bishopric of Bamberg;
was patronised by Frederick the Wise, Elector of Saxony, whom he accompanied in 1493 to the
Holy Land; was engraver as well as painter, skilled in portraiture as well as in historical
scenes; was intimately associated with the German reformers Luther and Melanchthon, whose portraits
he painted among others; the works of his that remain are chiefly altar-pieces; his chief work
is the "Crucifixion" in Weimar, where he died (1472-1553).

CRANE, ICHABOD, a tall, lean, lank, Yankee schoolmaster in Irving's "Legend of Sleepy Hollow."

CRANE, WALTER, poet and painter; has published various illustrated books and poems illustrated
by himself, and is an authority on decorative art; b. 1845.

CRANMER, THOMAS, archbishop of Canterbury, born in Nottinghamshire; educated at Jesus College,
Cambridge; recommended himself to Henry VIII. by favouring his divorce, writing in defence
of it, and pleading for it before the Pope, the latter in vain, as it proved; on his return
was elevated to the archbishopric, in which capacity he proved a zealous promoter of the Reformation,
by having the Bible translated and circulated, and by the suppression of monasteries; pronounced
sentence of divorce of Catharine, and confirmed the king's marriage with Anne Boleyn; by these
and other compliances he kept the favour of Henry, but on the accession of Mary he was committed
to the Tower and persuaded to recant, and even signed a recantation, but on being called to
recant in public, and refusing to do so, he was dragged to the stake, thrust his right hand
into the flames, and exclaimed, "Oh, this unworthy hand" (1489-1566).

CRANNOGE, a species of lake-dwelling and stronghold, of which remains are found in Scotland
and Ireland.

CRAPAUD, JEAN, a nickname of the Frenchmen.

CRASHAW, RICHARD, a minor poet, born in London; bred for the English Church; went to Paris,
where he became a Roman Catholic; fell into pecuniary difficulties, but was befriended by Cowley
and recommended to a post; was an imitator of George Herbert, and his poems were of the same
class, but more fantastical; his principal poems were "Steps to the Temple" and the "Delights
of the Muses"; both Milton and Pope are indebted to him (1616-1650).

CRASSUS, LUCIUS LICINIUS, the greatest Roman orator of his day, became consul 55 B.C.; during
his consulship a law was passed requiring all but citizens to leave Rome, an edict which provoked
the Social War (140-91 B.C.).

CRASSUS, MARCUS LICINIUS, the triumvir with Pompey and Cæsar; was avaricious, and amassed great
wealth; appointed to the province of Syria, provoked out of cupidity war with the Parthians,
in which he was treacherously slain; Orodes, the king, cut off his head, and poured melted
gold into his mouth, saying as he did so, "Now sate thyself with the metal of which thou wert
so greedy when alive" (115-53 B.C.).

CRATES, a Greek cynic philosopher, disciple of Diogenes; 4th century B.C.

CRATINUS, a Greek comic poet, born at Athens; limited the actors in a piece to three, and the
first to introduce into the drama attacks on public men, wrote also satires on vice (519-424 B.C.).

CRATIPPUS, a Peripatetic philosopher of Mytilene, contemporary of Pompey and Cicero; soothed
the sunken spirit of the former after the defeat at Pharsalia with the consolations of philosophy.

CRATYLUS, a dialogue of Plato's on the connection between language and thought.

CRAWFORD, MARION, a novelist, born in Tuscany, of American origin, son of the succeeding; spent
a good deal of his early years in India, and now lives partly in New York and partly in Italy;
his works, which are numerous, are chiefly novels, his first "Mr. Isaacs" (1882), original
and striking; an able writer, and a scholarly; b. 1854.

CRAWFORD, THOMAS, an American sculptor, studied at Rome under Thorwaldsen; his "Orpheus in
Search of Eurydice" brought him into notice, and was followed by an array of works of eminent
merit; died in London from a tumour on the brain, after being struck with blindness (1814-1857).

CRAWFORD AND BALCARRES, EARL OF, better known as Lord Lindsay, and as the author of "Letters
from the Holy Land," "Progression by Antagonism," and "Sketches of the History of Christian
Art"; died at Florence, and was entombed at Dunecht, whence his body was abstracted and found
again in a wood near by after a seven months' search (1812-1880).

CRAYER, CASPAR DE, a celebrated Flemish painter, born at Antwerp; pictures and altar-pieces
by him are to be seen in Brussels and Ghent (1582-1669).

CREAKLE, MR., a bullying schoolmaster in "David Copperfield."

CREASY, SIR EDWARD, chief-justice of Ceylon, author of "The Fifteen Decisive Battles of the
World," "Rise and Progress of the British Constitution," &c. (1812-1878).

CREATIN, a substance found in the muscles of vertebrate animals, but never in invertebrate.

CRÉBILLON, a French dramatist, born at Dijon, bred to the law, devoted to literature and the
composition of tragedies, of which he produced several, mostly on classical subjects, such
as "Atreus and Thyestes," "Electra," of unequal merit, though at times of great power; he ranked
next Voltaire among the dramatists of the time (1674-1762).

CRÉCY, a French village, 12 m. NE. of Abbeville, where Edward III., with 30,000, defeated the
French with 68,000, and destroyed the flower of the chivalry of France, Aug. 26, 1346.

CRÉDIT FONCIER, a system of credit originating in France on the security of land, whereby the
loan is repayable so that principal and interest are extinguished at the same time.

CREECH, WILLIAM, an Edinburgh bookseller, for 40 years the chief publisher in the city; published
the first Edinburgh edition of Burns's poems (1745-1815).

CREEKS, a tribe of American Indians settled in Indian territory.

CREIGHTON, MANDELL, bishop of London, born at Carlisle; previously bishop of Peterborough;
has written on Simon de Montfort, on Wolsey, and on the Tudors and the Reformation, but his
great work is the "History of the Papacy from the Great Schism to the Sack of Rome," a work
of great value; b. 1843.

CRÉMIEUX, a French advocate and politician, born at Nîmes, of Jewish birth; a member of the
Provisional Government of 1848, and of the National Defence in 1870; took a deep interest in
the destiny of his race (1796-1880).

CREMONA, old town on the Po, in Lombardy, 46 m. SE. of Milan; interesting for its churches,
with their paintings and frescoes; noted at one time for the manufacture of violins.

CREMORNE (37), gardens in Chelsea; a popular place of amusement, now closed.

CREOLE STATE, Louisiana, U.S.

CRESCENT CITY, New Orleans, U.S., as originally occupying a convex bend of the Mississippi.

CRESCENTINI, a celebrated Italian soprano (1769-1846).

CRESCENTIUS, a patrician of Rome who, in the 10th century, sought to destroy the imperial power
and restore the republic; on this he was defeated by Otho III., to whom he surrendered on promise
of safety, but who hanged and beheaded him; Stephano, his widow, avenged this treachery by
accepting Otho as her lover, and then poisoning him.

CRESPI, GIUSEPPE, an Italian painter; copied the works of Correggio, Caracci, and other masters
(1665-1747).

CRESWELL, SIR CRESWELL, judge, born in Newcastle; represented Liverpool in Parliament; was
raised to the bench by Peel, and, on the establishment of the Divorce Court, was in 1858 named
first judge (1794-1863).

CRESWICK, THOMAS, an English landscape painter, born in Sheffield; simple, pleasantly-suggestive,
and faithfully-painted scenes from nature were the subjects of his art; was employed a good
deal in book illustrations (1811-1869).

CRETE or CANDIA (295), a mountainous island in the Mediterranean, 160 m. long and from 7 to
30 m. broad; in nominal subjection to Turkey after 1669, it was in perpetual revolt. The rising
of 1895 led to the intervention of the great powers of Europe, and the Turkish troops having
been withdrawn in 1898 under pressure from Great Britain, Russia, France, and Italy, Prince
George of Greece was appointed High Commissioner, ruling on behalf of these powers. Turkey
still retains the nominal suzerainty.

CRETINISM, a disease prevalent in valleys as those of the Alps, characterised by mental imbecility,
and associated with abnormal and arrested physical development.

CREUSA, a wife of Æneas, fell behind her husband, lost her way in escaping from Troy, and perished.

CREUSOT, LE (18), a town in the dep. Saône-et-Loire, near Autun, which owes its importance
to the large iron-works established there; is a district rich in coal and iron.

CREUZER, a learned German philologist, born at Marburg; became professor of Ancient History
and Philology at Heidelberg; his chief work, and one by which he is most widely known, "Symbolik
und Mythologie der Alten Völker, besonders der Griechen," "Symbolism and Mythology of Ancient
Peoples, especially the Greeks"; left an autobiography (1771-1858).

CREWE (29), a town in Cheshire, 43 m. SE. of Liverpool, a great railway junction, and where
the London and North-Western Railway Company have their works.

CRICHTON, JAMES, surnamed The Admirable, a Scotchman of gentle, even noble birth, educated
at St. Andrews, had George Buchanan for tutor; early developed the most extraordinary gifts
of both body and mind; travelled to Paris, Rome, Venice, Milan, and Mantua; astonished every
one by his strength and skill as an athlete, and his dexterity and agility in debate; at Mantua
he became tutor to the son of the Duke, when one night he was attacked in the streets by a
band of masked men, whom he overcame by his skill, recognised his pupil among them, and presented
to him his sword, upon which, it is said, the young man immediately ran him through with it
(1560-1585).

CRIEFF (5), a town in Perthshire, at the foot of the Grampians, 18 m. W. of Perth, amid exquisite
scenery; has a climate favourable for invalids. (1541-1615).

CRIMEA (250), a peninsula in the S. of Russia, almost surrounded by the Black Sea and the Sea
of Azov, being connected with the mainland by the narrow isthmus of Perekop; has a bold and
precipitous coast 650 m. in length; is barren in the N., but fertile and fruitful in the S.;
population chiefly Russians and Tartars.

CRIMEAN WAR, a war carried on chiefly in the Crimea, on the part of Turkey aided by Britain
and France, in which Sardinia eventually joined them, against the encroachments of Russia in
the E., and which was proclaimed against Russia, March 24, 1854, and ended by the fall of Sebastopol,
September 8, 1855, the treaty of peace following having been signed at Paris, March 1856.

CRINAN CANAL, a canal for vessels of light burden, 9 m. long, from Loch Fyne, in Argyllshire,
constructed to avoid sailing round the Mull of Kintyre, thereby saving a distance of 115 m.

CRISPI, FRANCESCO, an Italian statesman, born in Sicily; co-operated with Garibaldi in the
Sicilian Revolution, and since active as a member of the Government in the kingdom of Italy;
b. 1819.

CRISPIN, the patron saint of shoemakers, of noble birth, who with his brother had to flee from
persecution in Rome to Gaul, where they settled at Soissons; preached to the people and supported
themselves by shoemaking; they finally suffered martyrdom in 287. Festival, Oct. 25.

CRITIAS, a pupil of Socrates, who profited so little by his master's teaching that he became
the most conspicuous for his cruelty and rapacity of all the thirty tyrants set up in Athens
by the Spartans (450-402 B.C.).

CRITON, a rich Athenian, friend and disciple of Socrates; supported him by his fortune, but
could not persuade him to leave the prison, though he had procured the means of escape.

CROA`TIA AND SLAVONIA (2,201), a Hungarian crownland, lying between the Drave and Save, tributaries
of the Danube, and stretching westward to the Adriatic. It is half as large as Ireland, wooded
and mountainous, with marshy districts along the river courses. The soil is fertile, growing
cereals, fibres, tobacco, and grapes; silkworms and bees are a source of wealth; horses, cattle,
and swine are raised in large numbers. The province is poor in minerals, and lacks a harbour.
The people are Slavs, of Roman Catholic faith; backward in education, but showing signs of
progress.

CROCKETT, SAMUEL RUTHERFORD, novelist, born near New Galloway, Kirkcudbright; bred for the
Church, and for some time Free Church minister at Penicuik, Midlothian, a charge he resigned
in 1895, having previously published a volume of sketches entitled "The Stickit Minister,"
which was so received as to induce him to devote himself to literature, as he has since done
with more or less success; b. 1859.

CROESUS, the last of the kings of Lydia, in the 6th century B.C.; celebrated for his wealth,
so that his name became a synonym for a man overwhelmed by the favours of fortune; being visited
by Solon, he asked him one day if he knew any one happier than he was, when the sage answered,
"No man can be counted happy till after death." Of the truth of this Croesus had ere long experience;
being condemned to death by Cyrus, who had defeated him and condemned him to be burnt, and
about to be led to the burning pile, he called out thrice over the name of Solon; when Cyrus,
having learned the reason, moved with pity, ordered his release, retained him among his counsellors,
and commended him when dying to the care of his son.

CROKER, JOHN WILSON, a politician and man of letters, born in Galway, though of English descent;
bred for the bar; wrote in advocacy of Catholic emancipation; represented Downpatrick in Parliament;
was in 1809 appointed Secretary to the Admiralty, a post he held for 20 years; was one of the
founders of the Quarterly Review, to which, it is said, he contributed 200 articles; edited
Boswell's "Life of Johnson" with Notes; was an obstinate Tory, satirised by Disraeli and severely
handled by Macaulay; founded the Athenæum Club (1780-1857).

CROKER, T. CROFTON, Irish folk-lorist, born in Cork; held a well-paid clerkship in the Admiralty;
collected and published stories, legends, and traditions of the S. of Ireland; he wrote with
a humour which was heartily Irish; his most original work being "The Adventures of Barney Mahoney";
he was a zealous antiquary; he was a brilliant conversationalist (1798-1854).

CROLL, JAMES, a geologist, born near Coupar-Angus; contributed materially to geology by his
study of the connection between alterations of climate and geological changes (1821-1890).

CROLY, GEORGE, a versatile author; designed for the Church; took to literature, and wrote in
all kinds, poetry, biography, and romance; his best romance "Salathiel"; died rector of St.
Stephen's, Walbrook (1780-1860).

CROMARTY, a county in the N. of Scotland, consisting of ten fragments scattered up and down
Ross-shire; the county town, the birthplace of Hugh Miller, being on the N. side of Cromarty
Firth, which opens eastward into the Moray Firth, and forms a large harbour 1 m. long and 7
broad, protected at the mouth by two beetling rocks called Sutors, one on each side, 400 and
463 ft. high.

CROME, JOHN, usually called Old Crome, a landscape-painter, born in Norwich, of poor parents;
began as a house-painter and then a drawing-master; one of the founders of the Norwich Society
of Artists; took his subjects from his native county, and treated them with fidelity to nature;
his pictures have risen in value since his death (1768-1821).

CROMPTON, SAMUEL, inventor of the spinning-mule, born near Bolton; for five years he worked
at his project, and after he got it into shape was tormented by people prying about him and
trying to find out his secret; at last a sum was raised by subscription to buy it, and he got
some £60 for it, by which others became wealthy, while he had to spend, and end, his days in
comparative poverty, all he had to subsist on being a life annuity of £63 which some friends
bought him (1753-1827).

CROMWELL, OLIVER, Lord-Protector of the commonwealth of England, born at Huntingdon, the son
of Robert Cromwell, the younger son of Sir Henry Cromwell, and of Elizabeth Steward, descended
from the royal family of Scotland, their third child and second boy; educated at Huntingdon
and afterwards at Cambridge; left college at his father's death, and occupied himself in the
management of his paternal property; entered Parliament in 1629, and represented Cambridge
in 1640, where to oppose the king he, by commission in 1642 from Essex, raised a troop of horse,
famous afterwards as his "Ironsides"; with these he distinguished himself, first at Marston
Moor in 1644, and next year at Naseby; crushed the Scots at Preston in 1648, who had invaded
the country in favour of the king, now in the hands of the Parliament, and took Berwick; sat
at trial of the king and signed his death-warrant, 1649; sent that same year to subdue rebellion
in Ireland, he sternly yet humanely stamped it out; recalled from Ireland, he set out for Scotland,
which had risen up in favour of Charles II., and totally defeated the Scots at Dunbar, Sept.
3, 1650, after which Charles invaded England and the Royalists were finally beaten at Worcester,
Sept. 3, 1651, upon which his attention was drawn to affairs of government; taking up his residence
at Hampton Court, his first step was to dissolve the Rump, which he did by military authority
in 1653; a new Parliament was summoned, which also he was obliged to dismiss, after being declared
Lord-Protector; from this time he ruled mainly alone, and wherever his power was exercised,
beyond seas even, it was respected; at last his cares and anxieties proved too much for him
and wore him out, he fell ill and died, Sept. 3, 1658, the anniversary of his two great victories
at Dunbar and Worcester; they buried him in Westminster, but his body was dug up at the Restoration,
hanged at Tyburn, and buried under the gallows; such treatment his body was subjected to after
he was gone, and for long after he was no less ignobly treated by several succeeding generations
as a hypocrite, a fanatic, or a tyrant; but now, thanks to Carlyle, he is come to be regarded
as one of the best and wisest rulers that ever sat on the English throne (1599-1658). See "Cromwell's
Letters and Speeches," edited by Carlyle.

CROMWELL, RICHARD, son of the Protector; appointed to succeed him; was unequal to the task,
and compelled to abdicate, April 26, 1659; retired into private life; went after the Restoration
for a time abroad; returned under a feigned name, and lived and died at Cheshunt (1626-1712).

CROMWELL, THOMAS, minister of Henry VIII., and malleus monachorum, the "mauler of the monks,"
born at Putney; the son of a blacksmith; led a life of adventure for eight or nine years on
the Continent; settled in England about the beginning of Henry's reign; came under notice of
Wolsey, whose confidant he became, and subordinate agent in suppressing the smaller monasteries;
on his master's fall rose into favour with Henry by suggesting he should discard the supremacy
of the Pope, and assume the supremacy of the Church himself; attained, in consequence, the
highest rank and authority in the State, for the proposal was adopted, with the result that
the Crown remains the head of ecclesiastical authority in England to this day; the authority
he thus acquired he employed in so high-handed a fashion that he lost the favour of both king
and people, till on a sudden he was arrested on charges of treason, was condemned to death,
and beheaded on Tower Hill (1485-1540).

CRONSTADT (42), the port of St. Petersburg, at the mouth of the Neva; a strongly fortified
place, and the greatest naval station in the country; it is absolutely impregnable.

CROOKES, WILLIAM, an eminent chemist and physicist, born in London; distinguished for researches
in both capacities; discovered the metal thallium, and invented the radiometer; b. 1832.

CROSS, MRS., George Eliot's married name.

CROSS, SOUTHERN, a bright constellation in the southern hemisphere, consisting of four stars.

CROSS, VICTORIA, a naval and military decoration instituted in 1854; awarded for eminent personal
valour in the face of the enemy.

CROSS FELL, one of the Pennine range of mountains in the N. of England, 2892 ft., on the top
of which five counties meet.

CROSSE, ANDREW, electrician, born at Somersetshire; made several discoveries in the application
of electricity; he was a zealous scientist, and apt to be over-zealous (1784-1855).

CROSSRAGUEL, an abbey, now in ruins, 2 m. SW. of Maybole, Ayrshire, where John Knox held disputation
with the abbot, and of which in his "History of the Reformation" he gives a humorous account
(1562).

CROTCH, WILLIAM, musical composer of precocious gifts, and writer in music, born in Norwich;
became, in 1797, professor of Music in Oxford, and in 1822 Principal of the Royal Academy;
his anthems are well known (1775-1847).

CROTONA, an ancient large and flourishing Greek city, Magna Græcia, in Italy; the residence
of the philosopher Pythagoras and the athlete Milo.

CROWE, EYRE EVANS, historian and miscellaneous writer, born in Hants; editor of the Daily News;
author of the "History of France" and "Lives of Eminent Foreign Statesmen" (1799-1868).

CROWE, SIR JAMES ARCHER, writer on art and a journalist, born in London, son of the preceding;
is associated with Cavalcaselle in several works on art and famous artists; b. 1825.

CROWNE, JOHN, playwright, born in Nova Scotia, a contemporary and rival of Dryden; supplied
the stage with plays for nearly 30 years (1640-1705).

CROWTHER, SAMUEL ADJAI, bishop of the Niger Territory; an African by birth; was captured to
be sold as a slave, but released by an English cruiser; baptized a Christian in 1825; joined
the first Niger Expedition in 1841; sent out as a missionary in 1843; appointed bishop in 1864,
the duties of which he discharged faithfully, zealously, and well (1810-1891).

CROYDON (103), the largest town in Surrey, on the Wandle, 10 m. SW. of London Bridge, and practically
now a suburb of London.

CRUDEN, ALEXANDER, author of a "Complete Concordance of the Holy Scriptures," with which alone
his name is now associated; born in Aberdeen; intended for the Church, but from unsteadiness
of intellect not qualified to enter it; was placed frequently in restraint; appears to have
been a good deal employed as a press corrector; gave himself out as "Alexander the Corrector,"
commissioned to correct moral abuses (1701-1770).

CRUIKSHANK, GEORGE, a richly gifted English artist, born in London, of Scotch descent; the
first exhibition of his talent was in the illustration of books for children, but it was in
the line of humorous satire he chiefly distinguished himself; and he first found scope for
his gifts in this direction in the political squibs of William Hone, a faculty he exercised
at length over a wide area; the works illustrated by him include, among hundreds of others,
"Grimm's Stories," "Peter Schlemihl," Scott's "Demonology," Dickens's "Oliver Twist," and Ainsworth's
"Jack Shepherd"; like Hogarth, he was a moralist as well as an artist, and as a total abstainer
he consecrated his art at length to dramatise the fearful downward career of the drunkard;
his greatest work, done in oil, is in the National Gallery, the "Worship of Bacchus," which
is a vigorous protestation against this vice (1792-1878).

CRUSADES, THE, military expeditions, organised from the 11th century to the 13th, under the
banner of the Cross for the recovery of the Holy Land from the hands of the Saracens, to the
number of eight. The First (1096-1099), preached by Peter the Hermit, and sanctioned by the
Council of Clermont (1095), consisted of two divisions: one, broken into two hordes, under
Peter the Hermit and Walter the Penniless respectively, arrived decimated in Syria, and was
cut to pieces at Nicæa by the sultan; while the other, better equipped and more efficiently
organised, laid siege to and captured in succession Nicæa, Antioch, and Jerusalem, where Godfrey
of Bouillon was proclaimed king. The Second (1147-1149), preached by St. Bernard, consisting
of two armies under Conrad III. of Germany and Louis VII. of France, laid siege in a shattered
state to Damascus, and was compelled to raise the siege and return a mere remnant to Europe.
The Third (1189-1193), preached by William, archbishop of Tyre, and provoked by Saladin's capture
of Jerusalem, of which one division was headed by Barbarossa, who, after taking Iconium, was
drowned while bathing in the Orontes, and the other, headed by Philippe Augustus and Richard
Coeur de Lion, who jointly captured Acre and made peace with Saladin. The Fourth (1202-1204),
under sanction of Pope Innocent III., and undertaken by Baldwin, count of Flanders, having
got the length of Venice, was preparing to start for Asia, when it was called aside to Constantinople
to restore the emperor to his throne, when, upon his death immediately afterwards, the Crusaders
elected Baldwin in his place, pillaged the city, and left, having added it to the domain of
the Pope. The Fifth (1217-1221), on the part of John of Brienne, king of Jerusalem, and Andrew
II., king of Hungary, who made a raid upon Egypt against the Saracens there, but without any
result. The Sixth (1228-1229), under conduct of Frederick II. of Germany, as heir through John
of Brienne to the throne of Jerusalem, who made a treaty with the sultan of Egypt, whereby
the holy city, with the exception of the Mosque of Omar, was made over to him as king of Jerusalem.
The Seventh (1248-1254), conducted by St. Louis in the fulfilment of a vow, in which Louis
was defeated and taken prisoner, and only recovered his liberty by payment of a heavy ransom.
The Eighth (1270), also undertaken by St. Louis, who lay dying at Tunis as the towns of Palestine
fell one after another into the hands of the Saracens. The Crusades terminated with the fall
of Ptolemaïs in 1291.

CRUSOE, ROBINSON, the hero of Defoe's fiction of the name, a shipwrecked sailor who spent years
on an uninhabited island, and is credited with no end of original devices in providing for
his wants. See SELKIRK.

CSOMA DE KÖRÖS, ALEXANDER, a Hungarian traveller and philologist, born in Körös, Transylvania;
in the hope of tracing the origin of the Magyar race, set out for the East in 1820, and after
much hardship by the way arrived in Thibet, where, under great privations, though aided by
the English Government, he devoted himself to the study of the Thibetan language; in 1831 settled
in Calcutta, where he compiled his Thibetan Grammar and Dictionary, and catalogued the Thibetan
works in the library of the Asiatic Society; died at Darjeeling just as he was setting out
for fresh discoveries (1784-1836).

CTESIAS, Greek physician and historian of Persia; was present with Artaxerxes Mnemon at the
battle of Cunaxa, 401 B.C., and stayed afterwards at the Persian court, where he got the materials
for his history, of which only a few fragments are extant.

CTESIPHON, an Athenian who, having proposed that the city should confer a crown of gold on
Demosthenes, was accused by Æschines of violating the law in so doing, but was acquitted after
an eloquent oration by Demosthenes in his defence.

CUBA (1,500), the largest of the West India Islands, 700 m. long and from 27 m. to 290 m. in
breadth; belonged to Spain, but is now under the protection of the United States; is traversed
from E. to W. by a range of mountains wooded to the summit; abounds in forests--ebony, cedar,
mahogany, &c.; soil very fertile; exports sugar and tobacco; principal town, Havana.

CUBBIT, SIR WILLIAM, an eminent English engineer, born in Norfolk; more or less employed in
most of the great engineering undertakings of his time (1785-1861).

CUDWORTH, RALPH, an eminent English divine and philosopher, born in Somerset; his chief work,
a vast and discursive one, and to which he owes his fame, "The True Intellectual System of
the Universe," in which he teaches a philosophy of the Platonic type, which ascribes more to
the abiding inner than the fugitive outer of things; he defends revealed religion on grounds
of reason against both the atheist and the materialist; his candour and liberality exposed
him to much misconstruction, and on that account was deemed a latitudinarian. "He stands high
among our early philosophers for his style, which, if not exactly elegant and never splendid,
is solid and clear" (1617-1688).

CUENCA, a fine old city in Spain, 83 m. E. of Madrid; also a high-lying city of Ecuador, over
100 m. S. of Quito, with a delightful climate; both in provinces of the same name.

CUJAS, or CUJACIUS, a celebrated French jurist, born at Toulouse; devoted to the study of Roman
law in its historical development, and the true founder of the Historical school in that department
(1522-1590).

CULDEES, fraternities of uncertain origin and character scattered up and down Ireland, and
especially Scotland, hardly at all in England, from the 9th or 10th to the 14th century; instituted,
as would appear, to keep alive a religious spirit among themselves and disseminate it among
their neighbours, until on the establishment of monastic orders in the country they ceased
to have a separate existence and lost their individuality in the new communities, as well as
their original character; they appear to have been originally, whatever they became at length,
something like those fraternities we find later on at Deventer, in Holland, with which Thomas
à Kempis was connected, only whereas the former sought to plant Christianity, the latter sought
to purify it. The name disappears after 1332, but traces of them are found at Dunkeld, St.
Andrews, Brechin, and elsewhere in Scotland; in Ireland they continued in Armagh to the Reformation,
and were resuscitated for a few years in the 17th century.

CULLEN, PAUL, Cardinal, Catholic primate of Ireland, born in Kildare; was an extreme Ultramontanist;
vigorously opposed all secret societies in the country with revolutionary aims, as well as
the system of mixed education then in force (1803-1878).

CULLEN, WILLIAM, physician, born at Hamilton; studied in Glasgow; held successively the chairs
of Chemistry, the Institutes of Medicine, and Medicine in Edinburgh University; author of several
medical works; did much to advance the science of medicine; the celebrated Dr. Black was one
of his pupils in chemistry (1710-1790).

CULLODEN, a moor, 5 m. NE. of Inverness, where the Duke of Cumberland defeated Prince Charles
in 1746, and finally wrecked the Stuart cause in the country.

CULPEPER, NICHOLAS, a herbalist, born in London, who practised medicine and associated therewith
the art of the astrologer as well as the faith of a Puritan; was a character and a phenomenon
of his time (1616-1654).

CULVERWEL, NATHANIEL, an English author, born in Middlesex; educated at Cambridge, and one
of the Platonist school there; wrote "Light of Nature," "Spiritual Optics," "Worth of Souls,"
&c., works which evince vigour of thinking as well as literary power (1633-1651).

CUMÆ, a considerable maritime city of Campania, now in ruins; alleged to be the earliest Greek
settlement in Italy; famous as the residence of the SIBYL (q. v.), and a place of luxurious
resort for wealthy Romans.

CUMBERLAND (250), a county in N. of England, of mountain and dale, with good agricultural and
pasture land, and a rich coal-field on the coast, as well as other minerals in the interior.

CUMBERLAND, DR. RICHARD, bishop of Peterborough, born in London, educated at Cambridge, wrote
several works, the chief "An Inquiry into the Laws of Nature," in reply to Hobbes, in which
he elevates the tendency to produce happiness into something like a moral principle; wrought
hard, lived to a great age, and is credited with the saying, "Better wear out than rust out"
(1631-1718).

CUMBERLAND, RICHARD, dramatist, great-grandson of the preceding; was a prolific writer for
the stage; the play "The West Indian," which established his reputation, was his best (1732-1811).

CUMBERLAND, WILLIAM AUGUSTUS, DUKE OF, second son of George II., was defeated at Fontenoy by
the French in 1745; defeated the Pretender next year at Culloden; earned the title of "The
Butcher" by his cruelties afterwards; was beaten in all his battles except this one (1721-1765).

CUMBRIA, a country of the Northern Britons which, in the 6th century, extended from the Clyde
to the Dee, in Cheshire.

CUMMING, GORDON, the African lion-hunter, of Celtic origin; served for a time in the army;
wrote an account of his hunting exploits in his "Five Years of a Hunter's Life" (1820-1866).

CUMMING, JOHN, a Scotch clergyman, popular in London, born at Fintray, in Aberdeenshire; of
a highly combative turn, and rather foolhardy in his interpretations of prophecy (1807-1881).

CUNARD, SIR SAMUEL, founder of Cunard Line of Steamships, born in Halifax, Nova Scotia (1787-1865).

CUNAXA, a town in Babylonia, on the Euphrates, 60 m. N. of Babylon.

CUNCTATOR, a name given to Fabius Maximus on account of the tantalising tactics he adopted
to wear out his adversary Hannibal.

CUNE`IFORM, an epithet applied to the wedge-shaped characters in which the Assyrian and other
ancient monumental inscriptions are written.

CUNNINGHAM, ALLAN, poet and man of letters, born in the parish of Keir, Dumfriesshire; bred
to the mason craft, but devoted his leisure hours to study and the composition of Scottish
ballads, which, when published, gained him the notice of Sir Walter Scott; in 1810 he went
to London, where he wrote for periodicals, and obtained employment as assistant to Chantrey
the sculptor, in which post he found leisure to cultivate his literary proclivities, collating
and editing tales and songs, editing Burns with a Life, and writing the Lives of famous artists,
and died in London; "a pliant, Naturmensch," Carlyle found him to be, "with no principles or
creed that he could see, but excellent old habits of character" (1784-1842).

CUNNINGHAM, PETER, son of the preceding, author of the "Life of Drummond of Hawthornden," "Handbook
of London," &c. (1816-1867).

CUNNINGHAM, WILLIAM, a Scotch divine, born in Hamilton, well read in the Reformation and Puritan
theology, a vigorous defender of Scottish orthodoxy, and a stanch upholder of the independence
of the Church of State control; was a powerful debater, and a host in any controversy in which
he embarked (1805-1861).

CUPID, or AMOR, the god of love, viewed as a chubby little boy, armed with bow and arrows,
and often with eyes bandaged.

CUPID AND PSYCHE, an allegorical representation of the trials of the soul on its way to the
perfection of bliss, being an episode in the "Golden Ass" of Apuleius. See PSYCHE.

CURAÇA`O (26), one of Antilles, in the West Indies, belonging to the Dutch, 36 m. long by about
8 broad; yields, along with other West Indian products, an orange from the peel of which a
liqueur is made in Holland.

CURÉ OF MEUDON, Rabelais.

CURE`TES, priests of Cybele, in Crete, whose rites were celebrated with clashing of cymbals.

CURETON, WILLIAM, Syriac scholar, born in Shropshire, assistant-keeper of MSS. at the British
Museum; applied himself to the study and collation of Syriac MSS., and discovered, among other
relics, a version of the Epistle of Ignatius; was appointed canon of Westminster (1808-1864).

CURIATII, three Alban brothers who fought with the three Horatii Roman brothers, and were beaten,
to the subjection of Alba to Rome.

CURLE, EDMUND, a London bookseller, notorious for the issue of libellous and of obscene publications,
and for prosecutions he was subjected to in consequence (1675-1747).

CURLING, a Scottish game played between rival clubs, belonging generally to different districts,
by means of cheese-shaped stones hurled along smooth ice, the rules of which are pretty much
the same as those in bowling.

CURRAN, JOHN PHILPOT, an Irish orator and wit, born in co. Cork; became member of Parliament
in 1784; though a Protestant, employed all his eloquence to oppose the policy of the Government
towards Ireland, together with the Union; retired on the death of Pitt; was Master of the Rolls
for a time; was Irish to the core (1750-1817).

CURRIE, JAMES, a Liverpool physician, born in Kirkpatrick-Fleming, Dumfriesshire; was the earliest
biographer and editor of Burns, in 4 vols., a work he undertook for behoof of his widow and
family, and which realised £1400, involved no small labour, was done con amore, and done well
(1756-1805).

CURRIE, SIR PHILIP, her Majesty's ambassador at Constantinople since 1893; has been connected
with the Foreign Office since 1854; had been attaché at St. Petersburg, and was secretary to
Lord Salisbury; b. 1834.

CURTIS, GEORGE WILLIAM, an American writer, born in Rhode Island, distinguished as contributor
or editor in connection with several American journals and magazines; b. 1824.

CURTIUS, a noble youth of Roman legend who leapt on horseback full-armed into a chasm in the
Forum, which the soothsayers declared would not close unless at the sacrifice of what Rome
held dearest, and which he did, judging that the wealth of Rome lay in its citizens, and tradition
says the chasm thereupon immediately closed.

CURTIUS, ERNST, a German archæologist and philosopher, born at Lübeck; travelled in Greece
and Asia Minor; contributed much by his researches to the history of Greece, and of its legends
and works of art; his jubilee as a professor was celebrated in 1891, when he received the congratulations
of the Emperor William II., to whose father he at one time had acted as tutor; b. 1814.

CURTIUS, GEORG, German philologist, born at Lübeck, brother of the preceding; held professorial
appointments in Prague, Kiel, and Berlin; one of the best Greek scholars in Germany, and contributed
largely to the etymology and grammar of the Greek language (1820-1885).

CURTMANTLE, a surname of Henry II., from a robe he wore shorter than that of his predecessors.

CURULE CHAIR, a kind of ivory camp-stool, mounted on a chariot, on which a Roman magistrate,
if consul, prætor, censor, or chief edile, sat as he was conveyed in state to the senate-house
or some public function.

CURWEN, JOHN, an Independent clergyman, born in Yorkshire; the founder of the Tonic Sol-fa
system in music; from 1864 gave himself up to the advocacy and advancement of his system (1816-1880).

CURZON, GEORGE NATHANIEL, LORD, English statesman, son of a clergyman, educated at Eton and
Oxford; became Fellow of All Souls; became Under-Secretary for India in 1891; travelled in
the East, and wrote on Eastern topics, on which he became an authority; was appointed Viceroy
of India in 1899; b. 1859.

CUSHING, an American jurist and diplomatist (1800-1879).

CUSHMAN, CHARLOTTE, an American actress, born in Boston; represented, among other characters,
Lady Macbeth, Rosalind, Meg Merilees, and Romeo (1810-1876).

CUSTINE, COUNT DE, a French general, born at Metz; seized and occupied Mayence, 1792; was forced
out of it by the Prussians and obliged to retreat; was called to account and sent to the guillotine;
"unsuccessfulness," his crime; "had fought in America; was a proud, brave man, and his fortune
led him hither" (1746-1793)

CÜSTRIN, a strong little town, 68 or 70 m. E. of Berlin, where young Frederick the Great was
kept in close confinement by his father.

CUTCH, a native State in the Bombay Presidency, in the country called Gujarat.

CUTCH, RANN OF, a salt-water morass between Gujarat and Scinde, which becomes a lake during
the SW. monsoon.

CUTHBERT, a monk of Jarrow, a disciple of Bede; was with him when he died, and wrote in a letter
a graphic and touching account of his death.

CUTHBERT, ST., born in Northumbria; originally a shepherd; saw a vision in the night-watches
of the soul of St. Aidan ascending to heaven, which determined his destiny, and he became a
monk; entered the monastery of Melrose, and eventually became prior, but devoted most of his
time to mission-work in the surrounding districts; left Melrose to be prior of Lindisfarne,
but longing for an austerer life, he retired to, and led the life of a hermit on, an island
by himself; being persuaded to come back, he acted as bishop of Lindisfarne, and continued
to act as such for two years, but his previous longings for solitude returned, and he went
back to a hermit life, to spend a short season, as it happened, in prayer and meditation; when
he died; what he did, and the memory of what he did, left an imperishable impression for good
in the whole N. of England and the Scottish borders; his remains were conveyed to Lindisfarne,
and ere long to Durham (635-687).

CUTTACK (47), capital of a district in S. of Bengal, at the apex of the delta formed by the
Mahanuddy; noted for its gold and silver filigree work.

CUVIER, GEORGES, a celebrated naturalist, born at Montebéliard, of Huguenot ancestry; the creator
of comparative anatomy and palæontology; was educated at Stuttgart, where he studied natural
science; but the observation of marine animals on the coast of Normandy, where he held a tutorship,
first led him to the systematic study of anatomy, and brought him into correspondence with
Geoffroy St. Hilaire and others, who invited him to Paris, where he prosecuted his investigations,
matured his views, and became professor of Comparative Anatomy at the Jardin des Plantes, a
member of the French Institute, and Permanent Secretary of the Academy of Sciences, and eventually
a peer of France; his labours in the science to which he devoted his life were immense, but
he continued to the last a determined opponent of the theory, then being broached and now in
vogue, of a common descent (1769-1832).

CUXHAVEN, a German watering-place at the mouth of the Elbe, on the southern bank.

CUYP, ALBERT, a celebrated Dutch landscape-painter, son of Jacob Cuyp, commonly called Old
Cuyp, also a landscapist, born at Dort; painted scenes from the banks of the Meuse and the
Rhine; is now reckoned a rival of Claude, though he was not so in his lifetime, his pictures
selling now for a high price; he has been praised for his sunlights, but these, along with
Claude's, have been pronounced depreciatively by Ruskin as "colourless" (1605-1691).

CUZCO (20), a town in Peru, about 11,440 ft. above the sea-level, the ancient capital of the
Incas; still retains traces of its former extent and greatness, the inhabitants reckoned as
then numbering 200,000, and the civilisation advanced.

CYBELE, a nature-goddess worshipped in Phrygia and W. Asia, whose worship, like that of the
nature divinities generally, was accompanied with noisy, more or less licentious, revelry;
identified by the Greeks with RHEA (q. v.), their nature-goddess.

CYCLADES, islands belonging to Greece, on the East or the Ægean Sea, so called as forming a
circle round Delos, the most famous of the group.

CYCLIC POETS, poets who after Homer's death caught the contagion of his great poem and wrote
continuations, additions, &c.

CYCLOPEAN WALLS, a name given to structures found in Greece, Asia Minor, Italy, and Sicily,
built of large masses of unhewn stone and without cement, such as it is presumed a race of
gigantic strength like the Cyclops (3) must have reared.

CYCLOPS, a name given to three distinct classes of mythological beings: (1) a set of one-eyed
savage giants infesting the coasts of Sicily and preying upon human flesh; (2) a set of Titans,
also one-eyed, belonging to the race of the gods, three in number, viz., Brontes, Steropes,
and Arges--three great elemental powers of nature, subjected by and subject to Zeus; and (3)
a people of Thrace, famed for their skill in building.

CYMBELINE, a legendary British king, and the hero of Shakespeare's romance play of the name.

CYNÆGIRUS, a brother of Æschylus; distinguished himself at Marathon; is famed for his desperate
attempt to seize a retreating ship.

CYNEWULF, a Saxon poet, flourished at the second half of the 8th century; seems to have passed
through two phases, first as a glad-hearted child of nature, and then as a devout believer
in Christ; at the former stage wrote "Riddles" and "Ode to the West Wind," at the latter his
themes were the lives of Christ and certain Saints.

CYNICS, a sect of Greek philosophers, disciples of Antisthenes, who was a disciple of Socrates,
but carried away with him only part of Socrates' teaching and enforced that as if it were the
whole, dropped all regard for humanity and the universal reason, and taught that "virtue lay
wholly in the avoidance of evil, and those desires and greeds that bind us to enjoyments,"
so that his disciples were called the "Capuchins of the Old World." These in time went further
than their master, and conceived a contempt for everything that was not self-derived; they
derived their name from the gymnasium in Athens, where their master taught.

CYPRIAN, ST., one of the Fathers of the Church, born at Carthage, about the year 200, converted
to Christianity in 245; devoted himself thereafter to the study of the Bible, with the help
of Tertullian his favourite author; became bishop of Carthage in 248; on the outbreak of the
Decian persecution had to flee for his life, ministering to his flock the while by substitutes;
on his return, after two years, he was involved in the discussion about the reception of the
lapsed; under the Valerian persecution was banished; being recalled, he refused to sacrifice
to the gods, and suffered martyrdom in 258; he was a zealous bishop of the High Church type,
and the father of such, only on broader lines. Festival, Sept. 16.

CYPRUS (21), a fertile, mountainous island in the Levant, capital Nicosia (12); geographically
connected with Asia, and the third largest in the Mediterranean, being 140 m. long and 60 m.
broad; government ceded to Great Britain in 1878 by the Sultan, on condition of an annual tribute;
is a British colony under a colonial governor or High Commissioner; is of considerable strategic
importance to Britain; yields cereals, wines, cotton, &c., and has 400 m. of good road, and
a large transit trade.

CYRENAICS, a sect of Greek philosophers, disciples of Aristippus, who was a disciple of Socrates,
but who broke away from his master by divorcing virtue from happiness, and making "pleasure,
moderated by reason, the ultimate aim of life, and the supreme good."

CYRE`NE, a town and Greek colony in Africa, E. of Egypt, extensive ruins of which still exist,
and which was the capital of the State, called Cyrenaica after it, and the birthland of several
illustrious Greeks.

CYRIL, ST., surnamed the PHILOSOPHER, along with his brother Methodius, the "Apostle of the
Slavs," born in Thessalonica; invented the Slavonic alphabet, and, with his brother's help,
translated the Bible into the language of the Slavs; d. 868. Festival, March 9.

CYRIL OF ALEXANDRIA, ST., born at Alexandria, and bishop there; an ecclesiastic of a violent,
militant order; persecuted the Novatians, expelled the Jews from Alexandria, quarrelled with
the governor, excited a fanaticism which led to the seizure and shameful murder of Hypatia;
had a lifelong controversy with Nestorius, and got him condemned by the Council of Ephesus,
while he himself was condemned by the Council at Antioch (608), and both cast into prison;
after release lived at peace (376-444). Festival, Jan. 28.

CYRIL OF JERUSALEM, ST., patriarch of Jerusalem, elected 351, and a Father of the Greek Church;
in the Arian controversy then raging was a Semi-Arian, and was persecuted by the strict Arians;
joined the Nicene party at the Council of Constantinople in 381; was an instructor in church
doctrine to the common people by his catechisms (315-386). Festival, March 18.

CYROPÆDIA, a work by Xenophon, being an idealistic account of the "education of Cyrus the Great."

CYRUS, surnamed the GREAT, or the ELDER, the founder of the Persian empire; began his conquests
by overthrowing his grandfather Astyages, king of the Medes; subdued Croesus, king of Lydia;
laid siege to Babylon and took it, and finished by being master of all Western Asia; was a
prince of great energy and generosity, and left the nations he subjected and rendered tributary
free in the observances of their religions and the maintenance of their institutions; this
is the story of the historians, but it has since been considerably modified by study of the
ancient monuments (560-529 B.C.).

CYRUS, surnamed the YOUNGER, second son of Darius II.; conspired against his brother Artaxerxes
Mnemon, was sentenced to death, pardoned, and restored to his satrapy in Asia Minor; conspired
anew, raised a large army, including Greek mercenaries, marched against his brother, and was
slain at Cunaxa, of which last enterprise and its fate an account is given in the "Anabasis"
of Xenophon; d. 401 B.C.

CYTHERA, the ancient name of Cerigo; had a magnificent temple to Venus, who was hence called
Cytheræa.

CZARTORYSKI, a Polish prince, born at Warsaw; passed his early years in England; studied at
Edinburgh University; fought under Kosciusko against the Russians, and was for some time a
hostage in Russia; gained favour at the Court there, and even a high post in the State; in
1830 threw himself into the revolutionary movement, and devoted all his energies to the service
of his country, becoming head of the government; on the suppression of the revolution his estates
were confiscated; he escaped to Paris, and spent his old age there, dying at 90 (1770-1861).

CZECHS, a branch of the Slavonic family that in the later half of the 6th century settled in
Bohemia; have a language of their own, spoken also in Moravia and part of Hungary.

CZERNO`WITZ (54), the capital of the Austrian province of Bukowina, on the Pruth.

CZERNY, CHARLES, a musical composer and pianist, born at Vienna; had Liszt and Thalberg for
pupils (1791-1857).

CZERNY, GEORGE, leader of the Servians in their insurrection against the Turks; assisted by
Russia carried all before him; when that help was withdrawn the Turks gained the advantage,
and he had to flee; returning after the independence of Servia was secured, he was murdered
at the instigation of Prince Milosch (1766-1817).

D

DACCA (82), a city 150 m. NE. of Calcutta, on a branch of the Brahmaputra, once the capital
of Bengal, and a centre of Mohammedanism; famous at one time for its muslins; the remains of
its former grandeur are found scattered up and down the environs and half buried in the jungle;
it is also the name of a district (2,420), well watered, both for cultivation and commerce.

DACIA, a Roman province, N. of the Danube and S. of the Carpathians.

DACIER, ANDRÉ, a French scholar and critic, born at Castres, in Languedoc; assisted by his
wife, executed translations of various classics, and produced an edition of them known as the
"Delphin Edition" (1651-1722).

DACIER, MADAME, distinguished Hellenist and Latinist, wife of the preceding, born in Saumur
(1651-1720).

DACOITS, gangs of semi-savage Indian brigands and robbers, often 40 or 50 in a gang.

DA COSTA, ISAAC, a Dutch poet, born at Amsterdam, of Jewish parents; turned Christian, and
after the death of Bilderdijk was chief poet of Holland (1798-1860).

DÆDALUS, an architect and mechanician in the Greek mythology; inventor and constructor of the
Labyrinth of Crete, in which the Minotaur was confined, and in which he was also imprisoned
himself by order of Minos, a confinement from which he escaped by means of wings fastened on
with wax; was regarded as the inventor of the mechanic arts.

DAGHESTAN (529), a Russian province W. of the Caspian Sea, traversed by spurs of the Caucasus
Mountains; chief town Derbend.

DAGO, a marshy Russian island, N. of the Gulf of Riga, near the entrance of the Gulf of Finland.

DAGOBERT I., king of the Franks, son of Clotaire II., reformed the laws of the Franks; was
the last of the Merovingian kings who knew how to rule with a firm hand; the sovereign power
as it passed from his hands was seized by the mayor of the palace; d. 638.

DAGON, the national god of the Philistines, represented as half-man, sometimes half-woman,
and half-fish; appears to have been a symbol to his worshippers of the fertilising power of
nature, familiar to them in the fruitfulness of the sea.

DAGUERREOTYPE, a process named after its inventor, Louis Daguerre, a Frenchman, of producing
pictures by means of the camera on a surface sensitive to light and shade, and interesting
as the first step in photography.

DAHL, a Norwegian landscape-painter, born at Bergen; died professor of Painting at Dresden
(1788-1857).

DAHLGREN, JOHN ADOLPH, a U.S. naval officer and commander; invented a small heavy gun named
after him; commanded the blockading squadron at Charleston (1809-1870).

DAHLMANN, FRIEDRICH CHRISTOPH, a German historian and politician, born at Wismar; was in favour
of constitutional government; wrote a "History of Denmark," "Histories of the French Revolution
and of the English Revolution"; left an unfinished "History of Frederick the Great" (1785-1860).

DAHN, FELIX, a German jurist, historian, novelist, and poet, born in Hamburg; a man of versatile
ability and extensive learning; became professor of German jurisprudence at Königsberg; b. 1834.

DAHNA DESERT, the central division of the Arabian Desert.

DAHOMEY (150), a negro kingdom of undefined limits, and under French protectorate, in W. Africa,
N. of the Slave Coast; the religious rites of the natives are sanguinary, they offer human
victims in sacrifice; is an agricultural country, yields palm-oil and gold dust, and once a
great centre of the slave-trade.

DAÏRI, the Mikado's palace or his court, and sometimes the Mikado himself.

DAKO`TA, NORTH and SOUTH (400), three times as large as England, forming two States of the
American Union; consist of prairie land, and extend N. from Nebraska as far as Canada, traversed
by the Missouri; yield cereals, especially wheat, and raise cattle.

DALAI-LAMA, chief priest of Lamaism, reverenced as a living incarnation of deity, always present
on earth in him. See LAMAISM.

DALAYRAC, celebrated French composer; author of a number of comic operas (1753-1809).

DALBERG, BARON DE, an eminent member of a noble German family; trained for the Church; was
a prince-bishop; a highly cultured man, held in high esteem in the Weimar Court circles, and
a friend of Goethe and Schiller; an ecclesiastic, as one might suppose, only in name (1744-1817).

DALBERG, DUC DE, nephew of the preceding; contributed to political changes in France in 1814,
and accompanied Talleyrand to the Congress of Vienna (1773-1833).

D'ALBRET, JEANNE, queen of Navarre, and mother of Henry IV. of France; came to Paris to treat
about the marriage of her son to Charles IX.'s sister; died suddenly, not without suspicion
of foul-play, after signing the treaty; she was a Protestant (1528-1572).

D'ALEMBERT, a French philosopher, devoted to science, and especially to mathematics; along
with Diderot established the celebrated "Encyclopédie," wrote the Preliminary Discourse, and
contributed largely to its columns, editing the mathematical portion of it; trained to quiet
and frugality, was indifferent to wealth and honour, and a very saint of science; no earthly
bribe could tear him away from his chosen path of life (1717-1783).

DALGARNO, LORD, a heartless profligate in the "Fortunes of Nigel."

DALGETTY, DUGALD, a swaggering soldier of fortune in the "Legend of Montrose," who let out
his services to the highest bidder.

DALHOUSIE, JAMES ANDREW BROUN-RAMSAY, MARQUIS OF, Governor-General of India, third son of the
ninth Earl; as Lord Ramsay served in Parliament as member for Haddingtonshire; on his father's
death in 1838 entered the House of Lords; held office under Sir Robert Peel and Lord Russell;
went to India as Governor-General in 1848; ruled vigorously, annexed territory, developed the
resources of the country, projected and carried out important measures for its welfare; his
health, however, gave way at the end of eight years, and he came home to receive the thanks
of the Parliament, elevation in the peerage, and other honours, but really to end his days
in pain and prostration; dying without male issue, he was succeeded in the earldom by Fox Maule,
Lord Panmure (1812-1860).

DALKEITH (7), a grain-market town in Midlothian, 6 m. SE. of Edinburgh, with a palace adjoining,
a seat of the Duke of Buccleuch.

DALLAS, GEORGE MIFFLIN, an American diplomatist, born in Philadelphia; represented the United
States as ambassador at St. Petersburg and at London, and was from 1844 to 1849 Vice-President
(1792-1864).

DALMATIA (527), a crownland of Austria, lying along the NE. coast of the Adriatic, and bounded
on the land side by Croatia, Bosnia, and Herzegovina; half the land is pasture, only one-ninth
of it arable, which yields cereals, wine, oil, honey, and fruit.

DALRI`ADS, a Celtic race who came over from Ireland to Argyllshire, and established a kingdom
in the SW. of Scotland, till King Kenneth Macalpin succeeded in 843, who obtained rule both
over it and the northern kingdom of the Picts, and became the first king of Scotland.

DALRYMPLE, ALEXANDER, hydrographer to the Admiralty and the East India Company, born at New
Hailes, and brother of Lord Hailes; produced many good maps (1737-1808).

DALTON, JOHN, chemist and physicist, born near Cockermouth, of a Quaker family; took early
an interest in meteorology, and kept through life a record of meteorological observations;
taught mathematics and physics in Manchester; made his first appearance as an author in 1793
in a volume of his observations and essays, and in 1808 published "A New System of Chemical
Philosophy," which he finished in 1810; famous for his experiments on the elastic force of
steam, for his researches on the proportional weights of simple bodies, for his discovery of
the atomic theory, as also for his investigations on colour-blindness by experimenting on himself
and his brother, who along with himself was colour-blind (1766-1844).

DALTONISM, COLOUR-BLINDNESS (q. v.). See DALTON, JOHN.

DALZIEL, THOMAS, general, born in Linlithgowshire; being hand-idle at home, entered the Russian
service against the Turks; returning at the request of Charles II., was appointed commander-in-chief
in Scotland; suppressed a rising of the Covenanters at Pentland in 1666; never once shaved
his beard after the execution of Charles I. (1599-1685).

DAMAN, a Portuguese settlement with a port of the same name in Gujarat, India, 100 m. N. of Bombay.

DAM`ARALAND, a territory on the W. coast of South Africa, N. of Namaqualand; the chief industry
is pastoral; the mountain districts, which are rich in minerals, particularly copper, are inhabited
by Damaras, who are nomads and cattle-rearers; it is a German protectorate since 1890.

DAMAS, COLONEL COMTE DE, a devoted adherent of Louis XVI., and one of his convoys on his attempt
at flight.

DAMASCUS (220), the capital of Syria, one of the oldest cities in the world; stands 2260 ft.
above the sea-level; is a great centre of the caravan trade; is embosomed in the midst of gardens
and orchards, hence its appearance as the traveller approaches it is most striking; its history
goes as far back as the days of Abraham; it was the scene of two great events in human destiny--the
conversion of St. Paul, and, according to Moslem tradition, a great decisive moment in the
life of Mahomet, when he resolutely turned his back once for all on the pleasures of the world.

DAMASUS, ST., Pope from 366 to 384, a Spaniard; a zealous opponent of the Arians and a friend
of St. Jerome, who, under his sanction, executed his translation of the Bible into the Vulgate;
there was a Damasus II., Pope in 1048.

DAME AUX CAMÉLIAS, LA, a romance and a drama by Alexander Dumas fils, one of his best creations.

DAMIEN, FATHER, a French priest, born at Louvain; devoted his life to nurse and instruct the
lepers in an island of the Hawaian group, and, though after 12 years infected with the disease
himself, continued to minister to them till his death (1841-1889).

DAMIENS, ROBERT FRANÇOIS, the would-be assassin of Louis XV., born near Arras; aimed at the
king as he was entering his carriage at Trianon, but failed to wound him mortally; was mercilessly
tortured to death; was known before as Robert le Diable; his motive for the act was never known
(1715-1757).

DAMIETTA (36), a town, the third largest, in Egypt, on an eastern branch of the Nile, 8 m.
from its mouth; has a trade in grain, rice, hides, fish, &c.; was taken by St. Louis in 1249,
and restored on payment of his ransom from captivity.

DAMOCLES, a flatterer at the court of the elder Dionysius, tyrant of Syracuse, whom, after
one day extravagantly extolling the happiness of kings, Dionysius set down to a magnificent
banquet, but who, when seated at it, looked up and saw a sword hanging over his head suspended
by a single hair; a lesson this which admonished him, and led him to change his views of the
happiness of kings.

DAMON AND PYTHIAS, two Pythagoreans of Syracuse of the days of Dionysius I., celebrated for
their friendship; upon the latter having been condemned to death, and having got leave to go
home to arrange his affairs beforehand, the former pledged his life for his return, when just
as, according to his promise, he presented himself at the place of execution, Pythias turned
up and prepared to put his head on the block; this behaviour struck the tyrant with such admiration,
that he not only extended pardon to the offender, but took them both into his friendship.

DAMPIER, WILLIAM, an English navigator and buccaneer; led a roving and adventurous life, and
parting company with his comrades, set off on a cruise in the South Seas; came home and published
a "Voyage Round the World"; this led to his employment in further adventures, in one of which
Alexander Selkirk accompanied him, but was wrecked on Juan Fernandez; in his last adventure,
it is said, he rescued Selkirk and brought him home (1652-1715).

DANA, CHARLES ANDERSON, American journalist, member of BROOK FARM (q. v.), and became editor
of the New York Tribune, the Sun, and a cyclopædia: b. 1829.

DANA, JAMES DWIGHT, American mineralogist and geologist, born at Utica, New York State; was
associated as scientific observer with Commodore Wilkes on his Arctic and Antarctic exploring
expeditions, on the results of which he reported; became geological professor in Yale College;
author of works on mineralogy and geology, as also on South Sea volcanoes (1813-1895).

DANA, RICHARD HENRY, an American poet and critic; editor of the North American Review, author
of the "Dying Raven," the "Buccaneer," and other poems (1787-1879).

DANA, RICHARD HENRY, a son of the preceding, lawyer; author of "Two Years before the Mast"
(1815-1882).

DANAË, daughter of Acrisius, king of Argos, confined by her father in an inaccessible tower
of brass to prevent the fulfilment of an oracle that she should be the mother of a son who
would kill him, but Zeus found access to her in the form of a shower of gold, and she became
the mother of Perseus, by whose hand Acrisius met his fate. See PERSEUS.

DANA`IDES, daughters of Danaüs, who, for murdering their husbands on the night after marriage,
were doomed in the nether world to the impossible task of filling with water a vessel pierced
with holes. See DANAÜS.

DANAÜS, son of Belus, and twin-brother of Ægyptus, whom fearing, he fled from with his fifty
daughters to Argos, where he was chosen king; by-and-by the fifty sons of Ægyptus, his brother,
came to Argos to woo, and were wedded to, their cousins, whom their father provided each with
a dagger to murder her husband, which they did, all except Hypermnestra, whose husband, Lynceus,
escaping, succeeded her father as king, to the defeat of the old man's purpose in the crime.

DANBY, FRANCIS, painter, born near Wexford; settled for a time in Bristol, then in Switzerland,
and finally at Exmouth; his works are mostly landscape, instinct with feeling, but some of
them are historical, the subjects being taken from Scripture, as the "Passage of the Red Sea,"
or from pagan sources, as "Marius among the Ruins of Carthage" (1793-1861).

DANCE, GEORGE, English architect; was architect to the City of London, and designed the Mansion
House, his chief work (1700-1768). GEORGE, his son, built Newgate Prison (1740-1825).

DANCE OF DEATH, an allegorical representation in a dramatic or pictorial form of Death, figuring,
originally as a skeleton, and performing his part as a chief actor all through the drama of
life, and often amid the gayest scenes of it; a succession of woodcuts by Holbein in representation
of this dance is well known.

DANCING MANIA, an epidemic of frequent occurrence, especially in German towns, during the Middle
Ages, of the nature of hysteria, showing itself in convulsive movements beyond the control
of the will, and in delirious acts, sometimes violently suicidal; the most signal occurrence
of the mania was at Aix-la-Chapelle in July 1374.

DANCOURT, FLORENT CARTON, French dramatist, a prolific author; a favourite of Louis XIV.; wrote
comedies, chiefly on the follies of the middle classes of the time (1661-1725).

DANDIE DINMONT, a humorous, jovial store-farmer in "Guy Mannering."

DANDIN, GEORGE, one of Molière's comedies, illustrative of the folly a man commits when he
marries a woman of higher rank than his own, George being his impersonation of a husband who
has patiently to endure all the extravagant whims and fancies of his dame of a wife.

DANDIN, PERRIN, a simple citizen in the "Pantagruel" of Rabelais, who seats himself judge-wise
on the first stump that offers, and passes offhand a sentence in any matter of litigation;
a character who figures similarly in a comedy of Racine's, and in a fable of La Fontaine's.

DAN`DOLO, a Venetian family that furnished four Doges to the Republic, ENRICO being the most
illustrious; chosen Doge in his eighty-fourth year, assisted the Crusaders of the Fourth Crusade
with ships; joined them, when blind and aged 90, in laying siege to Constantinople; led the
attack by sea, and was the first to leap ashore; was offered the imperial crown, but declined
it; died instead "despot" of Roumania in 1205, at 97.

DANEGELT, originally a tax imposed on land to buy off the Danes from the shores of England,
and subsequently for other objects, such as the defence of the coast; abolished by Henry II.,
though re-imposed subsequently under other names.

DANELAGH, a district in the E. of England, N. of the Thames; dominated at one time more or
less by the Danes; of vague extent.

DANGEAU, MARQUIS, author of "Memoirs" affecting the court of Louis XIV. and its manners (1638-1720).

D'ANGOULÊME, DUCHESSE, daughter of Louis XVI. and Marie Antoinette; was released from restraint
after the execution of her parents in exchange for prisoners in the Royalist's hands; fled
to Vienna, where she was driven forth; married her cousin, to whom she was early betrothed;
could find no place of safe refuge but in England; returned to France on Napoleon's exile to
Elba, and headed a body of troops against him on his return; after Waterloo, returned to France
and stayed till July 1830, and lived to see Louis Philippe, in 1848, driven from the throne;
Napoleon called her "the only man of her family"; left "Memoirs" (1778-1851).

DANGS, THE, a forest district in the N. of the Presidency of Bombay, occupied by fifteen wild
tribes, each under a chief.

DANIEL, a Hebrew of fine physique and rare endowment, who was, while but a youth, carried captive
to Babylon, and trained for office in the court of the king; was found, after three years'
discipline, to excel "in wisdom and understanding" all the magicians and enchanters of the
realm, of which he gave such proof that he rose step by step to the highest official positions,
first in the Babylonian and then in the Persian empire. He was a Hebrew prophet of a new type,
for whereas the old prophet had, for the most part, more regard to the immediate present and
its outlooks, his eye reached forth into the future and foresaw in vision, as his book has
foretold in symbol, the fulfilment of the hope for which the fathers of his race had lived
and died.

DANIEL, SAMUEL, English poet, born near Taunton; wrote dramas and sonnets; his principal production
a "History of the Civil Wars" of York and Lancaster, a poem in seven books; is called the "Well-Englished
Daniel," and is much admired for his style; in prose he wrote a "History of England," and a
"Defence of Rhyme," which Swinburne pronounces to be "one of the most perfect examples of sound
sense, of pure style, and of just judgment in the literature of criticism"; he is associated
with Warner and Drayton as having given birth to "a poetry which has devoted itself to extol
the glory of England" (1562-1619).

DANIELL, JOHN FREDERICK, a distinguished chemist, born in London; professor of Chemistry in
King's College, London; wrote "Meteorological Essays," and "Introduction to Chemical Philosophy";
invented a hygrometer and an electric battery (1790-1845).

DANIELL, WILLIAM, an eminent draughtsman; spent his early life in India; author of "Oriental
Scenery," in six folio vols. (1769-1837).

DANITES, or Destroying Angels, a band of Mormons organised to prevent the entrance into Mormon
territory of other than Mormon immigrants, but whose leader, for a massacre they perpetrated,
was in 1827 convicted and shot.

DANNECKER, JOHANN HEINRICH VON, a distinguished German sculptor, born near Stuttgart, and educated
by the Duke of Würtemberg, who had become his patron; became professor of Sculpture in the
Academy at Stuttgart; his earlier subjects were from the Greek mythology, and his later Christian,
the principal of the latter being a colossal "Christ," which he took eight years to complete;
he executed besides busts of contemporaries, which are wonderful in expression, such as those
of Schiller, Lavater, and Glück; "Ariadne on the Panther" is regarded as his masterpiece (1758-1841).

DANTE ALIGHIERI, the great poet of Italy, "the voice of ten silent centuries," born in Florence;
was of noble birth; showed early a great passion for learning; learned all that the schools
and universities of the time could teach him "better than most"; fought as a soldier; did service
as a citizen; at thirty-five filled the office of chief magistrate of Florence; had, while
but a boy of ten, "met a certain Beatrice Portinari, a beautiful girl of his own age and rank,
and had grown up in partial sight of her, in some distant intercourse with her," who became
to him the ideal of all that was pure and noble and good; "made a great figure in his poem
and a great figure in his life"; she died in 1290; he married another, "not happily, far from
happily; in some civic Guelf-Ghibelline strife he was expelled the city, and his property confiscated;
tried hard to recover it, even 'with arms in his hand,' but could not, and was doomed, 'whenever
caught, to be burned alive'; invited to confess his guilt and return, he sternly answered:
'If I cannot return without calling myself guilty, I will never return.'" He died after finishing
it, not yet very old, at the age of 56. He lies buried in his death-city Ravenna, "shutout
from my native shores." See CARLYLE'S "HEROES AND HERO-WORSHIP," and Dean Plumptre's "LIFE
OF DANTE."

DANTON, GEORGES JACQUES, "The Titan of the Forlorn Hope" of the French Revolution, born at
Arcis-sur-Aube, "of good farmer people ... a huge, brawny, black-browed man, with a waste energy
as of a Hercules"; an advocate by profession, "esurient, but with nothing to do; found Paris
and his country in revolt, rose to the front of the strife; resolved to do or die"; the cause
threatened, he threw himself again and again into the breach defiant, his motto "to dare, and
to dare, and again to dare," so as to put and keep the enemy in fear; "Let my name be blighted,"
he said, "what am I? The cause alone is great, and will live and not perish"; but the "SEA-GREEN"
(q. v.) viewed him with jealousy, held him suspect, had him arrested, brought before the Revolutionary
Tribunal, the severity of whose proceedings under him he had condemned, and sentenced to the
guillotine; a reflection of his in prison has been recorded: "Oh, it were better to be a poor
fisherman than to meddle with governing of men." "No weakness, Danton," he said to himself
on the scaffold, as his heart began to sink within him as he thought of his wife. His last
words were to Samson the headsman: "Thou wilt show my head to the people, it is worth showing";
words worthy of the brother of Mirabeau, who died saying, "I wish I could leave my head behind
me, France needs it just now"; a man fiery-real, as has been said, genuine to the core, with
many sins, yet lacking that greatest of sins, cant. "He was," says Mr. Belloc, "the most French,
the most national, the nearest to the mother of all the Revolutionary group. He summed up France
... when we study him, we see France" (1759-1794). See CARLYLE'S "FRENCH REVOLUTION."

DANTZIG (116), the capital of W. Prussia, once a Hanse town, on the Vistula, 4 m. from the
mouth; one of the great ports and trading centres of Germany and in the N. of Europe; it is
traversed by canals, and many of the houses are built on piles of wood; exports grain brought
down the river on timber rafts from the great grain country in the S.; it is one of the chief
stations of the German navy.

DANUBE, THE, the great south-eastward-flowing river of Europe, 1750 m. in length, rises in
the Black Forest, and is divided into Upper, Middle, and Lower; the Upper extends as far as
Pressburg, begins to be navigable to Ulm, flows NE. as far as Ratisbon, and then bends SE.
past Vienna; the Middle extends from Pressburg to the Iron Gate, enclosing between its gorges
a series of rapids, below Orsova; and the Lower extends from the Iron Gate to the Black Sea.
It receives numerous tributary rivers, 60 of them navigable, in its course; forms with them
the great water highway of the SE. of Europe, and is of avail for traffic to all the races
and nations whose territories it traverses; the navigation of the river is free indeed to all
nations.

DANUBIAN PRINCIPALITIES, Moldavia and Wallachia.

DANVILLE, the name of several towns in the United States.

D'ANVILLE, geographer to the king of France; left numerous valuable maps and geographical works
(1697-1782).

DAPHNE (lit. a laurel), a nymph chased by Apollo, transformed into a laurel as he attempts
to seize her; henceforth sacred to the god.

DAPHNIS, a Sicilian shepherd, the mythical inventor of pastoral poetry.

DAPSANG, the highest of the Karakorum Mountains.

D'ARBLAY, MADAME, a distinguished novelist, daughter of Dr. Burney, the historian of music;
authoress of "Evelina" and "Cecilia," the first novels of the time, which brought her into
connection with all her literary contemporaries, Johnson in chief; left "Diary and Letters"
(1752-1840).

DARBOY, GEORGES, archbishop of Paris: was a defender of the Gallican liberties of the Church;
had been assiduous in offices of benevolence during the siege of Paris; was arrested as a hostage
by the Communists, and shot (1813-1871).

DARBY AND JOAN, a married couple celebrated for their mutual attachment.

DARBYITES, the PLYMOUTH BRETHREN (q. v.), from the name of one of their founders, a man of
scholarly ability and culture, and the chief expounder of their views (1800-1852).

DARDANELLES, a strait extending between the Archipelago and the Sea of Marmora, anciently called
the Hellespont, 40 m. long, from 1 to 4 broad; commanded by Turkey, both sides of the strait
being strongly fortified.

DARDANUS, a son of Zeus and Electra, mythical ancestor of the Trojans; originally a king in Greece.

DARFUR (500), a district in the Egyptian Soudan, in which vegetation is for the most part dormant
all the year round, except from June to September, when it is rank and rich; was snatched from
Egypt by the Mahdi, but is now restored.

D'ARGENS, MARQUIS, born at Aix; disinherited owing to his misconduct; turned author, and became
a protégé of Frederick the Great, but lost caste with him too, and was deprived of his all
once more (1704-1771).

D'ARGENSON, COMTE, an eminent French statesman, head of the police in Paris; introduced lettres
de cachet, and was a patron of the French philosophes; had the "Encyclopédie" dedicated to
him; fell out of favour at Court, and had to leave Paris, but returned to die there (1696-1764).

DARIC, a gold coin current in ancient Persia, stamped with an archer kneeling, and weighing
little over a sovereign.

DARIEN, GULF OF, an inlet of the Caribbean Sea, NW. of S. America. For isthmus of, see PANAMA.

DARIEN SCHEME, a project to plant a colony on the Atlantic side of the Isthmus, which was so
far carried out that some 1200 left Scotland in 1698 to establish it, but which ended in disaster,
and created among the Scotch, who were the chief sufferers, an animus against the English,
whom they blamed for the disaster, an animus which did not for long die out.

DARIUS I., eldest son of Hystaspes, king of the Persians; subdued subject places that had revolted,
reorganised the empire, carried his conquests as far as India, subdued Thrace and Macedonia,
declared war against the Athenians; in 492 B.C. sent an expedition against Greece, which was
wrecked in a storm off Athos; sent a second, which succeeded in crossing over, but was defeated
in a famous battle at Marathon, 490 B.C.

DARIUS II., called OCHUS or NOTHUS, king of the Persians; subject to his eunuchs and his wife
Parysatis; his reign was a succession of insurrections; he supported the Spartans against the
Athenians, to the ascendency of the former in the Peloponnesus; d. 405 B.C.

DARIUS III., surnamed CODOMANNUS, king of the Persians, a handsome man and a virtuous; could
not cope with Alexander of Macedon, but was defeated by him in successive engagements at Granicus,
Issus, and Arbela; was assassinated on his flight by BESSUS (q. v.), one of his satraps, in
330 B.C.; with him the Persian empire came to an end.

DARJEELING (14), a sanitary station and health resort in the Lower Himalayas, and the administrative
head-quarters of the district, 7167 ft. above the level of the sea; it has greatly increased
of late years.

DARLEY, GEORGE, poet and critic, born in Dublin; author of "Sylvia" and "Nepenthe"; wrote some
good songs, among them "I've been Roaming," once very popular; much belauded by Coleridge;
contributed to the Athenæum (1795-1846).

DARLING, a tributary of the Murray River, in Australia, now stagnant, now flooded.

DARLING, GRACE, a young maiden, daughter of the lighthouse keeper of one of the Farne Islands,
who with her father, amid great peril, saved the lives of nine people from the wreck of the
Forfarshire, on Sept. 7, 1838; died of consumption (1815-1842).

DARLINGTON (38), a town in S. of Durham, on the Tees, with large iron and other works; a considerable
number of the inhabitants belong to the Society of Friends.

DARMESTETER, JAMES, Orientalist, born in Lorraine, of Jewish descent; a distinguished Zend
scholar and authority in Zend literature; in the interpretation of the Zend and other ancient
literatures was of the modern critical school (1849-1894).

DARMSTADT (55), the capital of the grand-duchy of Hesse-Darmstadt, on the Darm, an affluent
of the Rhine, 15 m. S. of Frankfort; is divided into an old and a new town; manufactures tobacco,
paper, carpets, chemicals, &c.

DARNLEY, HENRY STUART, LORD, eldest son of the Earl of Lennox and grand-nephew of Henry VIII.;
husband of Queen Mary; was murdered on Feb. 5, 1567, in Kirk-o'-Field, which stood on the site
of the present University of Edinburgh.

DARTMOOR, moor in Devonshire, a tableland of an average height of 1200 ft. above the sea-level,
and of upwards of 120,000 acres in extent, incapable of cultivation, but affording pasturage
for sheep, of which it breeds a small hardy race; it has rich veins of minerals; abounds in
British remains, and contains a large convict prison.

DARU, COMTE, a French administrator and littérateur, born at Montpellier; translated Horace
when in prison during the Reign of Terror; served as administrator under Napoleon; on the return
of the Bourbons devoted himself to letters, and wrote the "History of the Republic of Venice"
(1767-1829).

DARWIN, CHARLES ROBERT, great English naturalist and biologist, born at Shrewsbury, grandson
of Erasmus Darwin on his father's side, and of Josiah Wedgwood on his mother's; studied at
Edinburgh and Cambridge; in 1831 accompanied as naturalist without salary the Beagle in her
voyage of exploration in the Southern Seas, on the condition that he should have the entire
disposal of his collections, all of which he got, and which he ultimately distributed among
various public institutions; he was absent from England for five years, and on his return published
in 1836 his "Naturalist's Voyage Round the World," in 1839-43 accounts of the fruits of his
researches and observations in the departments of geology and natural history during that voyage,
in 1842 his treatise on the "Structure and Distribution of Coral Reefs," and in 1859 his work
on the "Origin of Species by Means of Natural Selection," a work which has proved epoch-making
and gone far to revolutionise thought in the scientific study of, especially, animated nature,
and is being applied to higher spheres of being; this work was followed by others more or less
confirmatory, finishing off with "The Descent of Man" in 1871, in which he traces the human
race to an extinct quadrumanous animal related to that which produced the orang-outang, the
chimpanzee, and the gorilla. He may be said to have taken evolution out of the region of pure
imagination, and by giving it a basis of fact, to have set it up as a reasonable working hypothesis.
He was buried in Westminster Abbey (1809-1882).

DARWIN, ERASMUS, physician and natural philosopher, born in Nottinghamshire; studied at Cambridge
and Edinburgh; practised medicine in Lichfield, and finally settled in Derby; occupied his
mind with the study of fanciful analogies in the different spheres of nature, and committed
his views, often not without genuine poetic sentiment and melody of expression, to verse, while
in the views themselves there have been recognised occasional glimpses of true insight, and
at times a foreshadow of the doctrine developed on strict scientific lines by his illustrious
grandson. His chief poetic works were the "Botanic Garden" and the "Zoonomia; or, The Laws
of Organic Life," deemed, in the philosophy of them, not unworthy of criticism by such sane
thinkers as Paley and Dugald Stewart (1731-1802).

DARWINIAN THEORY, the theory established by Darwin that the several species of plants and animals
now in existence were not created in their present form, but have been evolved by natural law
of descent, with modifications of structure, from cruder forms. See DARWIN, C. R.

DASENT, SIR GEORGE WEBBE, Icelandic scholar, born at St. Vincent, West Indies; studied at Oxford;
from 1845 to 1870 was assistant-editor of the Times; has translated "The Prose, or Younger,
Edda" and Norse tales and sagas; written also novels, and contributed to reviews and magazines;
b. 1817.

DASH, COUNTESS, the nom de plume of the Viscountess de Saint-Mars, a French novelist, born
at Poitiers; in straits for a living, took desperately to writing; treated of aristocratic
life and its hollow artificialities and immoralities (1804-1872).

DASHKOFF, a Russian princess of note; played a part in the conspiracy which ended in the elevation
of Catharine II. to the throne; was a woman of culture; founded the Russian Academy; projected
and assisted in the compilation of a Russian dictionary; died at Moscow (1744-1810).

DATES OF EPOCH-MAKING EVENTS, the Ascendency in Athens of Pericles (445 B.C.); the Fall of
the Persian Empire (330 B.C.); the Death of Alexander the Great (323 B.C.); the Reduction of
Greece to a Roman province, and the Ruin of Carthage (146 B.C.); the Battle of Actium (31 B.C.);
Birth of Christ, 14th year of Augustus; Commencement of the Middle Ages (395); Ruin of the
Roman Empire by the Barbarians (476); Clovis, ruler of Gaul (509); the Flight of Mahomet (622);
Charlemagne, Emperor of the West (800); Treaty of Verdun (843); the Crusades (1096-1291); Employment
of Cannon at Crécy (1346); Invention of Printing (1436); Taking of Constantinople by Mahomet
II. (1453); Discovery of America by Columbus (1492); Copernican System published (1500); Accession
of Leo X. as Pope (1513); the Reformation of Luther (1517); Publication of Bacon's "Novum Organon"
(1620); Publication of Descartes's "Discourse on Method" (1637); the Peace of Westphalia (1648);
Reign of Louis XIV. at its Height, and Peace of Nimeguen (1678); Publication of Newton's Theory
of Gravitation (1682); Watt's Invention of the Steam-Engine (1769); Independence of the United
States (1776); Coup d'état of 10th Brumaire (1799); Waterloo, and Congress of Vienna (1815);
Introduction of Railroads into England (1830); First Attempt at Electric Telegraphy in France
(1837); Africa traversed by Livingstone (1852-1854); Publication of Darwin's "Origin of Species"
(1859); Opening of the Suez Canal (1869); Proclamation of the German Empire (1871); Congress
of Berlin (1878).

DAUBENTON, LOUIS JEAN MARIE, a French naturalist, born at Montbard; associated with Buffon
in the preparation of the first 15 vols. of his "Histoire Naturelle," and helped him materially
by the accuracy of his knowledge, as well as his literary qualifications; contributed largely
to the "Encyclopédie," and was 50 years curator of the Cabinet of Natural History at Paris
(1716-1799).

DAUBENY, CHARLES, English chemist and botanist, author of "A Description of Active and Extinct
Volcanoes," an "Introduction to the Atomic Theory," and other works, all like the latter more
or less related to chemistry (1795-1867).

D'AUBIGNÉ, MERLE, a popular Church historian, born near Geneva; studied under Neander at Berlin;
became pastor at Hamburg, court-preacher at Brussels, and professor of Church History at Geneva;
his reputation rests chiefly on his "History of the Reformation in the Sixteenth Century" (1794-1872).

D'AUBIGNÉ, THEODORE AGRIPPA, a historian, bred to the military profession; held appointments
under Henry IV., on whose assassination he returned to Geneva, where he wrote his "Histoire
Universelle," which had the honour to be burned by the common hangman in Paris; was a satirical
writer; grandfather to Mme. de Maintenon (1550-1630).

DAUBIGNY, CHARLES FRANÇOIS, a French landscape painter and skilful etcher, born in Paris, attained
distinction as an artist late in life (1817-1878).

D'AUBUSSON, PIERRE, grand-master of the order of St. John of Jerusalem, of French origin; served
under the Emperor Sigismund against the Turks; went to Rhodes; became a knight of St. John,
and was chosen grand-master; defended Rhodes against 100,000 Turks, and thus stayed the career
of Mahomet II., who, after establishing himself in Constantinople, was threatening to overrun
Europe (1423-1503).

DAUDET, ALPHONSE, a noted French novelist of great versatility, born at Nîmes, of poor parents;
early selected literature as his career in life; wrote poems and plays, and contributed to
the Figaro and other journals; worked up into his novels characters and situations that had
come under his own observation, often in too satirical a vein to become universally popular;
has been likened to Dickens in his choice of subjects and style of treatment; died suddenly
(1840-1897).

D'AULNOY, THE COUNTESS, authoress of charmingly-written "Contes des Fées" (Fairy Tales), and
on which her reputation rests (1650-1705).

DAUMIER, HENRI, a French caricaturist of great fertility and playfulness of genius, born at
Marseilles; became blind in his old age (1808-1879).

DAUN, KARL, German theologian, born at Cassel, professor at Heidelberg, sought to ground theology
on a philosophic basis, and found what he sought in the philosophy of Hegel (1765-1836).

DAUN, LEOPOLD, GRAF VON, an able Austrian general, born at Vienna; distinguished himself by
his prudence and valour in the Seven Years' War, gained a victory over Frederick the Great
at Kolin in 1757, and another at Hochkirch in 1758; could prevail little or not at all against
Frederick afterwards as soon as Frederick saw through his tactics, which he was not long in
doing (1705-1766).

DAUPHIN, a name originally given to the Seigneurs of the province of Dauphiné, in allusion
to the dolphin which several members of the family wore as a badge, but in 1349 given to the
heir-presumptive to the crown of France, when Humbert II., dauphin of Vienne, ceded Dauphiné
to Philippe of Valois, on condition that the eldest son of the king of France should assume
the title, a title which was abolished after the Revolution of 1830. The word signifies dolphin
in French.

DAUPHINÉ, a SW. province of France, of which the capital was Grenoble; annexed to the French
crown under Philippe II. in 1349.

DAURAT, JEAN, French scholar, a member of the Pléiade (q. v.), and who figures as one of the
leading spirits in the fraternity (1507-1588).

DAVENANT, SIR WILLIAM, an English playwright, born at Oxford, who succeeded Ben Jonson as poet-laureate,
and was for a time manager of Drury Lane; was knighted by Charles I. for his zeal in the Royalist
cause; his theatrical enterprise had small success during the Commonwealth, but interest in
it revived with the Restoration, at which time "the drama broke loose from the prison of Puritanism
to indulge in a shameless license" (1606-1668).

DAVID, FÉLICIEN, a French composer, born at Vaucluse; author, among other compositions, of
the "Desert," a production which achieved an instant and complete triumph; was in his youth
an ardent disciple of St. Simon (1810-1876).

DAVID, GERHARD, a Flemish painter; painted religious subjects, several from the life of Christ
(1450-1525).

DAVID, KING OF ISRAEL, 11th century B.C., born in Bethlehem; tended the flocks of his father;
slew Goliath with a stone and a sling; was anointed by Samuel, succeeded Saul as king; conquered
the Philistines; set up his throne in Jerusalem, and reigned thirty-three years; suffered much
from his sons, and was succeeded by Solomon; the book of Psalms was till recently accepted
as wholly his by the Church, but that hypothesis no longer stands the test of criticism.

DAVID, LOUIS, a French historical painter, born in Paris; studied in Rome and settled in Paris;
was carried away with the Revolution; joined the Jacobin Club, swore eternal friendship with
Robespierre; designed "a statue of Nature with two mammelles spouting out water" for the deputes
to drink to, and another of the sovereign people, "high as Salisbury steeple"; was sentenced
to the guillotine, but escaped out of regard for his merit as an artist; appointed first painter
by Napoleon, but on the Restoration was banished and went to Brussels, where he died; among
his paintings are "The Oath of the Horatii," "The Rape of the Sabines," "The Death of Socrates,"
and "The Coronation of Napoleon" (1748-1825).

DAVID D'ANGERS, a French sculptor, born at Angers; came to Paris and became a pupil of the
preceding, afterwards proceeded to Rome and associated with Canova; executed in Paris a statue
of the Great Condé, and thereafter the pediment of the Pantheon, his greatest work, as well
as numerous medallions of great men; on a visit to Weimar he modelled a bust of Goethe (1788-1856).

DAVID I., king of Scotland, youngest son of Malcolm Canmore and Queen Margaret; was brought
up at the English court; was prince of Cumbria under the reign of his brother Alexander, on
whose decease he succeeded to the throne in 1124; on making a raid in England to avenge an
insult offered to his son Henry, was defeated at Northallerton in the Battle of the Standard;
addressed himself after this to the unification of the country and civilisation of his subjects;
founded and endowed bishoprics and abbeys at the expense of the crown, on account of which
he was called St. David, and characterised by James VI., a successor of his, as a "sair saunt
to the croon"; the death of his son Henry was a great grief to him, and shortened his days
(1084-1153).

DAVID II., king of Scotland, son of King Robert the Bruce, born at Dunfermline; succeeded his
father when a boy of four; spent from 1334 to 1341 in France; was taken prisoner by the English
at the battle of Neville's Cross, and was afterwards, till his death, dependent on England
(1326-1371).

DAVID, ST., or DEWI, the patron saint of Wales, lived about the 5th century; archbishop of
Caerleon; transferred his see to St. David's; founded churches, opposed Pelagianism, and influenced
many by the odour of his good name.

DAVIDS, RHYS, professor of Pâli and Buddhist literature, born in Colchester; author of "Buddhism:
a Sketch of the Life and Teachings of Gautama, the Buddha," and of other works in that department
of literature; b. 1843.

DAVIDSON, ANDREW BRUCE, Hebrew scholar and professor, born in Aberdeenshire; a most faithful,
clear, and effective interpreter of the spirit of Hebrew literature, and influential for good
as few men of the time have been in matters of biblical criticism; b. 1831.

DAVIDSON, JOHN, poet and journalist, born at Barrhead, Renfrewshire; has written novels and
plays as well as poems; b. 1859.

DAVIDSON, SAMUEL, biblical scholar and exegete, born near Ballymena; wrote Introductions to
the Old and the New Testaments; was pioneer in the higher criticism (1807-1898).

DAVIES, BEN, a popular tenor vocalist, born near Swansea in 1858.

DAVIES, SIR JOHN, poet and statesman, born in Wiltshire; wrote two philosophic poems, "The
Orchestra," a poem in which the world is exhibited as a dance, and "Nosce Teipsum" (Know Thyself),
a poem on human learning and the immortality of the soul; became a favourite with James I.,
and was sent Attorney-General to Ireland (1569-1626).

DAVILA, a celebrated historian, born near Padua, brought up in France; served in the French
army under Henry IV.; did military and other service in Venice; was assassinated; his great
work "The History of the Civil War in France" (1576-1631).

DAVIS, JEFFERSON, President of the Confederate States, born in Kentucky; entered the army;
fought against the Indians; turned cotton-planter; entered Congress as a Democrat; distinguished
himself in the Mexican war; defended slave-holding and the interests of slave-holding States;
was chosen President of the Confederate States; headed the conflict with the North; fled on
defeat, which he was the last to admit; was arrested and imprisoned; released after two years;
retired into private life, and wrote a "History of the Rise and Fall of the Confederate Government"
(1808-1889).

DAVIS, JOHN, an English navigator, born near Dartmouth; took early to the sea; conducted (1585-1587)
three expeditions to the Arctic Seas in quest of a NW. passage to India and China, as far N.
as 73°; discovered the strait which bears his name; sailed as pilot in two South Sea expeditions,
and was killed by Japanese pirates near Malacca; wrote the "Seaman's Secret" (1550-1605).

DAVIS, THOMAS, an Irish patriot, born at Mallow; educated at Trinity College, Dublin, and called
to the Irish bar; took to journalism in the interest of Irish nationality; founded the Nation
newspaper, and by his contributions to it did much to wake up the intelligence of the country
to national interests; died young; was the author of "Songs of Ireland" and "Essays on Irish
Songs" (1814-1845).

DAVIS STRAIT, strait connecting Baffin's Bay with the Atlantic, discovered by JOHN DAVIS (q. v.).

DAVITT, MICHAEL, a noted Irish patriot, born in co. Mayo, son of a peasant, who, being evicted,
settled in Lancashire; joined the Fenian movement, and was sentenced to 15 years' penal servitude;
released on ticket-of-leave after seven years; founded the Land League; was for over a year
imprisoned again for breaking his ticket-of-leave; published in 1885 "Leaves from a Prison
Diary"; entered Parliament in 1895 for co. Mayo; b. 1846.

DAVOS-PLATZ, a village 5105 ft. above the sea-level, in a valley of the East Grisons; a place
frequented in winter by invalids suffering from chest disease, the dry air and sunshine that
prevail being favourable for patients of that class.

DAVOUT, Duke of Auerstädt, Prince of Eckmühl, marshal of France, born at Annoux, in Burgundy;
was fellow-student with Napoleon at the military school in Brienne; entered the army in 1788,
served in the Revolutionary wars under Dumouriez and Desaix, and became general; served under
Bonaparte in Egypt; distinguished himself at Austerlitz, Auerstädt, Eckmühl, and Wagram; was
made governor of Hamburg; accompanied Napoleon to Moscow; returned to Hamburg, and defended
it during a siege; was made Minister of War in 1815, and assisted Napoleon in his preparations
for the final struggle at Waterloo; commanded the remains of the French army which capitulated
under the walls of Paris; adhered to the Bourbon dynasty on its return, and was made a peer;
was famous before all the generals of Napoleon for his rigour in discipline (1770-1823).

DAVY, SIR HUMPHRY, a great English chemist, born at Penzance; conceived early in life a passion
for the science in which he made so many discoveries; made experiments on gases and the respiration
of them, particularly nitrous oxide and carbonic acid; discovered the function of plants in
decomposing the latter in the atmosphere, and the metallic bases of alkalies and earths; proved
chlorine to be a simple substance and its affinity with iodine, which he discovered; invented
the safety-lamp, his best-known achievement; he held appointments and lectured in connection
with all these discoveries and their applications, and received knighthood and numerous other
honours for his services; died at Geneva (1778-1829).

DAVY JONES'S LOCKER, the sailors' familiar name for the sea as a place of safe-keeping, though
why called of Davy Jones is uncertain.

DAVY-LAMP, a lamp encased in gauze wire which, while it admits oxygen to feed the flame, prevents
communication between the flame and any combustible or explosive gas outside.

DAWKINS, WILLIAM BOYD, geologist and palæontologist, born in Montgomeryshire; has written "Cave
Hunting," "Early Man in Britain," &c.; b. 1838.

DAWSON, GEORGE, a popular lecturer, born in London; educated in Aberdeen and Glasgow; bred
for the ministry by the Baptist body, and pastor of a Baptist church in Birmingham, but resigned
the post for ministry in a freer atmosphere; took to lecturing on a purely secular platform,
and was for thirty years the most popular lecturer of the day; no course of lectures in any
institute was deemed complete if his name was not in the programme; did much to popularise
the views of Carlyle and Emerson (1821-1876).

DAWSON, SIR JOHN WILLIAM, geologist and naturalist, born in Pictou, Nova Scotia; studied in
Edinburgh; distinguished himself as a palæontologist; published in 1872, "Story of the Earth
and Man"; in 1877, "Origin of the World"; and recently, "Geology and History"; called in question
the Darwinian theory as to the origin of species; b. 1820.

DAY, JOHN, an English dramatist, contemporary of Ben Jonson; author of the "Parliament of Bees,"
a comedy in which all the characters are bees.

DAY, THOMAS, an eccentric philanthropist, born in London; author of "Sandford and Merton";
he was a disciple of Rousseau; had many a ludicrous adventure in quest of a model wife, and
happily fell in with one to his mind at last; was a slave-abolitionist and a parliamentary
reformer (1748-1789).

DAYAKS. See DYAKS.

DAYTON (85), a prosperous town in Ohio, U.S.; a great railway centre, with a court-house of
marble, after the Parthenon in Athens.

D'AZARA, a Spanish naturalist, born in Aragon; spent 20 years in South America; wrote a "Natural
History of the Quadrupeds in Paraguay" (1781-1811).

DEAD SEA, called also the Salt Sea and 'the Asphalt Lake, a sea in Palestine, formed by the
waters of the Jordan, 46 m. long, 10 m. broad, and in some parts 1300 ft. deep, while its surface
is 1312 ft. below the level of the Mediterranean, just as much as Jerusalem is above it; has
no outlet; its waters, owing to the great heat, evaporate rapidly, and are intensely salt;
it is enclosed E. and W. by steep mountains, which often rise to a height of 6000 ft.

DEÁK, FRANCIS, an eminent Hungarian statesman, born at Kehida, of an ancient noble Magyar family;
his aim for Hungary was the same as that of CAVOUR (q. v.) for Italy, the establishment of
constitutional government, and he succeeded; standing all along as he did from Hungarian republicanism
on the one hand, and Austrian tyranny on the other, he urged on the Emperor of Austria the
demand of the Diet, of which he had become leader, at first without effect, but after the humiliation
of Austria in 1866, all that he asked for was conceded, and the Austrian Emperor received the
Hungarian crown (1803-1876).

DEAL (9), a town, one of the old Cinque ports, oil the E. of Kent, opposite the Goodwin Sands,
89 m. from London, with a fine sea-beach; much resorted to for sea-bathing quarters.

DEAN, FOREST OF, a forest of 22,000 acres in the W. of Gloucestershire, between the Severn
and the Wye; the property of the Crown for the most part; the inhabitants are chiefly miners,
who at one time enjoyed special privileges.

DEAN OF GUILD, a burgh magistrate in Scotland who has the care of buildings, originally the
head of the Guild brethren of the town.

DEAN OF ST. PATRICK'S, Jonathan Swift, who held that post from 1713 till his death.

DEANS, DAVIE, EFFIE, AND JEANIE, characters in the "Heart of Midlothian."

DÉBATS, JOURNAL DES, a daily paper, established in 1789; it defends at present the Conservative
Republican policy, and publishes often remarkable literary articles.

DEBENTURE, a deed acknowledging a debt on a specified security.

DEBO`RAH, a Hebrew prophetess; reckoned one of the judges of Israel by her enthusiasm to free
her people from the yoke of the Canaanites; celebrated for her song of exultation over their
defeat, instinct at once with pious devotion and with revengeful feeling; Coleridge calls her
"this Hebrew Boadicea."

DEBRECZEN (56), a Hungarian town, 130 m. E. of Buda-Pesth; is the head-quarters of Protestantism
in the country, and has an amply equipped and a largely attended Protestant College; is a seat
of manufactures and a large trade.

DECAMERON, a collection of a hundred tales, conceived of as rehearsed in ten days at a country-house
during the plague at Florence; are of a licentious character, but exquisitely told; were written
by Boccaccio; published in 1352; the name comes from deka, ten, and hemera, a day.

DECAMPS, ALEXANDRA GABRIEL, a distinguished French painter, born in Paris; brought up as a
boy among the peasants of Picardy; represented nature as he in his own way saw it himself,
and visited Switzerland and the East, where he found materials for original and powerful pictures;
his pictures since his death have brought great prices (1803-1860).

DE CANDOLLE, AUGUSTIN PYRAME, an eminent botanist, born at Geneva, of Huguenot descent; studied
in Paris; attracted the attention of Cuvier and Lamarck, whom he assisted in their researches;
published his "Flore Française," in six vols.; became professor at Montpellier, and then at
Geneva; is the historical successor of Jussieu; his great contribution to botanical science
is connected with the classification of plants (1778-1841).

DECA`TUR, STEPHEN, an American naval commodore; distinguished for his feats of valour displayed
in the war with Tripoli and with England (1779-1820).

DECCAN, a triangular plateau of from 2000 to 3000 ft. of elevation in the Indian peninsula,
extending S. of the Vindhya Mountains; is densely peopled, and contains some of the richest
soil in the globe.

DECEMBER, the twelfth month of the year, so called, i. e. tenth, by the Romans, as their year
began with March.

DEC`EMVIRS, the patricians of Rome, with Consular powers, appointed in 450 B.C. to prepare
a code of laws for the Republic, which, after being agreed upon, were committed first to ten,
then to twelve tables, and set up in the Forum that all might read and know the law they lived
under.

DECIUS, Roman emperor from 249 to 251; was a cruel persecutor of the Christians; perished in
a morass fighting with the Goths, who were a constant thorn in his side all through his reign.

DECIUS MUS, the name of three Romans, father, son, and grandson, who on separate critical emergencies
(340, 295, 279 B.C.) devoted themselves in sacrifice to the infernal gods in order to secure
victory to the Roman arms; the name is mostly employed ironically.

DECLINE AND FALL OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE, the immortal work of Gibbon, of which the first volume
was published in 1776.

DECRETALS, THE, a collection of laws added to the canon law of the Church of Rome, being judicial
replies of the Popes to cases submitted to them from time to time for adjudication.

DEE, JOHN, an alchemist, born in London; a man of curious learning; earned the reputation of
being a sorcerer; was imprisoned at one time, and mobbed at another, under this imputation;
died in poverty; left 79 works, the majority of which were never printed, though still extant
in MS. in the British Museum and other places of safe-keeping (1527-1608).

DEFAUCONPRET, French littérateur; translator of the novels of Sir Walter Scott and Fenimore
Cooper (1767-1843).

DEFENDER OF THE FAITH, a title conferred by Pope Leo X. in 1521 upon Henry VIII. for his defence
of the Catholic faith in a treatise against Luther, and retained ever since by the sovereigns
of England, though revoked by Pope Paul III. in 1535 in consequence of Henry's apostasy.

DEFFAND, MARIE, MARQUISE DU, a woman of society, famed for her wit and gallantry; corresponded
with the eminent philosophes of the time, in particular Voltaire, as well as with Horace Walpole;
her letters are specially brilliant, and display great shrewdness; she is characterised by
Prof. Saintsbury as "the typical French lady of the eighteenth century"; she became blind in
1753, but retained her relish for society, though at length she entered a monastery, where
she died (1697-1780).

DEFOE, DANIEL, author of "Robinson Crusoe," born in London; bred for the Dissenting ministry;
turned to business, but took chiefly to politics; was a zealous supporter of William III.;
his ironical treatise, "The Shortest Way with Dissenters" (1703), which, treated seriously,
was burned by order of the House of Commons, led to his imprisonment and exposed him for three
days to the pillory, amidst the cheers, however, not the jeers, of the mob; in prison wrote
a "Hymn to the Pillory," and started his Review; on his release he was employed on political
missions, and wrote a "History of the Union," which he contributed to promote. The closing
years of his life were occupied mainly with literary work, and it was then, in 1719, he produced
his world-famous "Robinson Crusoe"; has been described as "master of the art of forging a story
and imposing it on the world for truth." "His circumstantial invention," as Stopford Brooke
remarks, "combined with a style which exactly fits it by its simplicity, is the root of the
charm of his great story" (1661-1731).

DEGE`RANDO, BARON, a French philanthropist and philosopher, born at Lyons, of Italian descent;
wrote "History of Philosophy," long in repute as the best French work on the subject (1772-1842).

DEIANEIRA, the wife of Hercules, whose death she had been the unwitting cause of by giving
him the poisoned robe which NESSUS (q. v.) had sent her as potent to preserve her husband's
love; on hearing the fatal result she killed herself in remorse and despair.

DEIPHOBUS, a son of Priam and Hecuba, second in bravery to Hector; married Helen after the
death of Paris, and was betrayed by her to the Greeks.

DEIR-AL-KAMAR, a town in Syria, once the capital of the Druses, on a terrace in the heart of
the Lebanon Mountains.

DEISM, belief on purely rational grounds in the existence of God, and distinguished from theism
as denying His providence.

DEISTS, a set of free-thinkers of various shades, who in England, in the 17th and 18th centuries,
discarded revelation and the supernatural generally, and sought to found religion on a purely
rational basis.

DÉJAZET, VIRGINIE, a celebrated French actress, born in Paris; made her début at five years
of age (1797-1875).

DEKKER, THOMAS, a dramatist, born in London; was contemporary of Ben Jonson, between whom and
him, though they formerly worked together, a bitter animosity arose; wrote lyrics as well as
dramas, which are light comedies, and prose as well as poetry; the most famous among his prose
works, "The Gull's Hornbook," a pamphlet, in which he depicts the life of a young gallant;
his pamphlets are valuable (1570-1641).

DE LA BECHE, SIR HENRY THOMAS, geologist, born in London; wrote the "Depth and Temperature
of the Lake of Geneva," and published a "Manual of Geology" and the "Geological Observer";
was appointed head of the Geological Survey in England (1796-1855).

DELACROIX, EUGÈNE, a French painter, born at Charenton, dep. of Seine; one of the greatest
French painters of the 19th century; was the head of the French Romantic school, a brilliant
colourist and a daring innovator; his very first success, "Dante crossing Acheron in Charon's
Boat," forms an epoch in the history of contemporary art; besides his pictures, which were
numerous, he executed decorations and produced lithographic illustrations of "Hamlet," "Macbeth,"
and Goethe's "Faust" (1799-1863).

DELAGOA BAY, an inlet in the SE. of Africa, E. of the Transvaal, subject to Portugal; stretches
from 25° 30' to 26° 20' S.; extends 52 m. inland, where the Transvaal frontier begins, and
between which and it a railway of 52 m., constructed by an English company, extends.

DELAISTRE, a French statuary, born in Paris (1836-1891).

DELAMBRE, JEAN JOSEPH, an eminent French astronomer, born at Amiens, a pupil of Lalande; measured
with Méchain the arc of the meridian between Dunkirk and Barcelona towards the establishment
of the metric system; produced numerous works of great value, among others "Theoretical and
Practical Astronomy" and the "History of Astronomy" (1749-1822).

DELANE, JOHN THADEUS, editor of the Times, born in London; studied at Oxford; after some experience
as a reporter was put on the staff of the Times, and in 1841 became editor, a post he continued
to hold for 36 years; was the inspiring and guiding spirit of the paper, but wrote none of
the articles (1817-1879).

DELAROCHE, PAUL, a French historical painter and one of the greatest, born in Paris; was the
head of the modern Eclectic school, so called as holding a middle place between the Classical
and Romantic schools of art; among his early works were "St. Vincent de Paul preaching before
Louis XIII." and "Joan of Arc before Cardinal Beaufort"; the subjects of his latest pictures
are from history, English and French, such as "The Princes in the Tower" and "Cromwell contemplating
the corpse of Charles I.," a great work; but the grandest monument of his art is the group
of paintings with which he adorned the wall of the semicircle of the Palais des Beaux Arts
in Paris, which he completed in 1841 (1797-1856).

DELAUNAY, LE VICOMTE, the nom de plume of Mme. Delphine, under which she published her "Parisian
Letters."

DELAUNAY, LOUIS ARSÈNE, a great French actor, born in Paris; made his début in 1846, retired 1887.

DELAVIGNE, CASIMIR, a popular French lyric poet and dramatist, born at Havre; his verse was
conventional and without originality (1793-1843).

DELAWARE (168), one of the Atlantic and original States of the American Union, as well as the
smallest of them; the soil is rather poor, but porcelain clay abounds.

DELCASSÉ, THÉOPHILE, French Minister of Foreign Affairs, born at Pamiers; began life as a journalist;
was elected to the Chamber in 1889; became Colonial Minister; advocated colonial expansion;
dealt skilfully with the Fashoda affair as Foreign Minister; b. 1852.

DELECTABLE MOUNTAINS, mountains covered with sheep in the "Pilgrim's Progress," from which
the pilgrim obtains a view of the Celestial City.

DELESCLUZE, a French Communist, born at Dreux; was imprisoned and transported for his extreme
opinions; started a journal, the Rèveil, in 1868, to advocate the doctrines of the International;
was mainly answerable for the atrocities of the Paris Commune; was killed in the barricades
(1809-1871).

DELFT (27), a Dutch town, S m. NW. of Rotterdam, once famous for its pottery; is intersected
by canals; has an important polytechnic school.

DELGADO, a cape of E. Africa, on the border between Zanzibar and Mozambique.

DELHI (192), on the right bank of the Jumna, once the capital of the Mogul empire and the centre
of the Mohammedan power in India; it is a great centre of trade, and is situated in the heart
of India; it contains the famous palace of Shah Jahan, and the Jama Masjid, which occupies
the heart of the city, and is the largest and finest mosque in India, which owes its origin
to Shah Jahan; it is walled, is 51 m. in circumference, and divided into Hindu, Mohammedan,
and European quarters; it was captured by Lord Lake in 1803, and during the Mutiny by the Sepoys,
but after a siege of seven days retaken in 1857.

DELIGHT OF MANKIND, the Roman Emperor Trajan.

DELILAH, the Philistine woman who beguiled and betrayed Samson.

DELILLE, JACQUES, a French poet, born at Aigues Perse, in Auvergne; translator of the "Georgics"
of Virgil into verse, afterwards the "Æneid" and "Paradise Lost," besides producing also certain
didactic and descriptive works; was a good versifier, but properly no poet, and much overrated;
died blind (1738-1813).

DELITZSCH, FRANZ, a learned biblical scholar and exegete, born at Leipzig; his commentaries,
which are numerous, were of a conservative tendency; he wrote on Jewish antiquities, biblical
psychology, and Christian apologetics; was professor at Erlangen and Leipzig successively,
where his influence on the students was distinctly marked (1813-1899).

DELIUS, NICOLAUS, a German philologist, born at Bremen; distinguished especially as a student
of Shakespeare and for his edition of Shakespeare's works, which is of transcendent merit (1813-1888).

DELIA CRUSCANS, a set of English sentimental poetasters, the leaders of them hailing from Florence,
that appeared in England towards the close of the 18th century, and that for a time imposed
on many by their extravagant panegyrics of one another, the founder of the set being one Robert
Merry, who signed himself Della Crusca; he first announced himself by a sonnet to Love, in
praise of which Anne Matilda wrote an incomparable piece of nonsense; "this epidemic spread
for a term from fool to fool," but was soon exposed and laughed out of existence.

DELLYS (3), a seaport in Algeria, 49 m. E. of Algiers.

DELOLME, JOHN LOUIS, a writer on State polity, born at Geneva, bred to the legal profession;
spent some six years in England as a refugee; wrote a book on the "Constitution of England,"
and in praise of it, which was received for a time with high favour in the country, but is
now no longer regarded as an authority; wrote a "History of the Flagellants," and on "The Union
of Scotland with England" (1740-1806).

DELORME, a French architect, born at Lyons; studied in Rome; was patronised by Catherine de
Medici; built the palace of the Tuileries, and contributed to the art of building (1518-1577).

DELORME, MARION, a Frenchwoman celebrated for her wit and fascination, born at Châlons-sur-Marne;
came to Paris in the reign of Louis XIII., where her drawing-room became the rendezvous of
all the celebrities of the time, many of whom were bewitched by her charms; she gave harbour
to the chiefs of the Fronde, and was about to be arrested when she died; the story that her
death was a feint, and that she had subsequent adventures, is distrusted; she is the subject
of a drama by Victor Hugo (1612-1650).

DELOS, the smallest and central island of the Cyclades, the birthplace of Apollo and Artemis,
and where the former had a famous oracle; it was, according to the Greek mythology, a floating
island, and was first fixed to the spot by Zeus to provide Leda with a place, denied her elsewhere
by Hera, in which to bring forth her twin offspring; it was at one time a centre of Apollo
worship, but is now uninhabited, and only frequented at times by shepherds with their flocks.

DELPHI, a town of ancient Greece in Phocis, at the foot of Parnassus, where Apollo had a temple,
and whence he was wont to issue his oracles by the mouth of his priestess the Pythia, who when
receiving the oracle used to sit on a tripod over an opening in the ground through which an
intoxicating vapour exhaled, deemed the breath of the god, and that proved the vehicle of her
inspiration; the Pythian games were celebrated here.

DELPHIN CLASSICS, an edition of the Greek and Roman classics, edited by Bossuet and Huet, assisted
by thirty-nine scholars, for the use of the dauphin of Louis XIV.; of little use now.

DELPHINE, a novel by Mme. de Staël; presumed to be an idealised picture of herself.

DELTA, the signature of D. Macbeth Moir in Blackwood's Magazine.

DELUC, JEAN ANDRÉ, geologist, born in Geneva; lived in England; was reader to Queen Charlotte,
and author of several works (1727-1817).

DELUGE, name given to the tradition, common to several races, of a flood of such universality
as to sweep the land, if not the earth, of all its inhabitants, except the pair by whom the
land of the earth was repeopled.

DEM`ADES, an Athenian orator, a bitter enemy of Demosthenes, in the interest of Philip of Macedon;
put to death for treason by Antipater, 318 B.C.; was a man of no principle, but a great orator.

DEMARA`TUS, king of Sparta from 510 to 491 B.C.; dispossessed of his crown, fled to Persia
and accompanied Xerxes into Greece.

DEMAVEND, MOUNT, an extinct volcano, the highest peak (18,600 ft.) of the Elburz chain, in Persia.

DEMBEA, a lake, the largest in Abyssinia, being 60 m. long and 6000 ft. above the sea-level,
from which the Blue Nile issues.

DEMBINSKI, HENRY, a Polish general, born near Cracow; served under Napoleon against Russia,
under Kossuth against Austria; fled to Turkey on the resignation of Kossuth; died in Paris
(1791-1864).

DEMERARA, a division of British Guiana; takes its name from the river, which is 200 m. long,
and falls into the Atlantic at Georgetown.

DEMETER (lit. Earth-mother), the great Greek goddess of the earth, daughter of Kronos and Rhea
and sister of Zeus, and ranks with him as one of the twelve great gods of Olympus; is specially
the goddess of agriculture, and the giver of all the earth's fruits; the Latins call her Ceres.

DEMETRIUS, the name of two kings of Macedonia who ruled over the country, the first from 290
to 289 B.C., and the second from 240 to 229 B.C.

DEMETRIUS, or DIMITRI, the name of several sovereigns of Russia, and of four adventurers called
the four false Dimitri.

DEMETRIUS I., Soter (i. e. saviour), king of Syria from 162 to 150 B.C.; was grandson of Antiochus
the Great. D. II., Nicator (i. e. conqueror), king of Syria from 143 to 125 B.C. D. III., Eucæros
(i. e. the happy), king of Syria in 95, died in 84 B.C.

DEMETRIUS PHALEREUS, an eminent Athenian orator, statesman, and historian, born at Phalerus,
a seaport of Athens; was held in high honour in Athens for a time as its political head, but
fell into dishonour, after which he lived retired and gave himself up to literary pursuits;
died from the bite of an asp; left a number of works (345-283 B.C.).

DEMIDOFF, a Russian family distinguished for their wealth, descended from a serf of Peter the
Great, and who amassed a large fortune by manufacturing firearms for him, and were raised by
him to the rank of nobility; they were distinguished in the arts, in arms, and even literature;
ANATOL in particular, who travelled over the SE. of Europe, and wrote an account of his travels,
a work magnificently illustrated.

DEMIGOD, a hero elevated in the imagination to the rank of a divinity in consequence of the
display of virtues and the achievement of feats superior to those of ordinary men.

DEMI-MONDE, a class in Parisian society dressing in a fashionable style, but of questionable
morals.

DEMIURGUS, a name employed by Plato to denote the world-soul, the medium by which the idea
is made real, the spiritual made material, the many made one, and it was adopted by the Gnostics
to denote the world-maker as a being derived from God, but estranged from God, being environed
in matter, which they regarded as evil, and so incapable as such of redeeming the soul from
matter, from evil, such as the God of the Jews, and the Son of that God, conceived of as manifest
in flesh.

DEMOCRACY has been defined to be government of the people by the people and for the people,
or as a State in which the government rests directly with the majority of the citizens, but
this under the protest of some that it is not an end but a means "to the attainment of a truer
and truer aristocracy, or government again by the Best."

DEMOCRATS, a political party in the United States that contends for the rights of the several
States to self-government as against undue centralisation.

DEMOCRITUS, a Greek philosopher, born in Abdera, Thrace, of wealthy parents; spent his patrimony
in travel, gathered knowledge from far and near, and gave the fruits of it in a series of writings
to his contemporary compatriots, only fragments of which remain, though they must have come
down comparatively entire to Cicero's time, who compares them for splendour and music of eloquence
to Plato's; his philosophy was called the Atomic, as he traced the universe to its ultimate
roots in combinations of atoms, in quality the same but in quantity different, and referred
all life and sensation to movements in them, while he regarded quiescence as the summum bonum;
he has been called the Laughing Philosopher from, it is alleged, his habit of laughing at the
follies of mankind; b. 460 B.C.

DEMOCRITUS JUNIOR, a pseudonym under which Burton published his "Anatomy of Melancholy."

DEMOGEOT, French littérateur, born at Paris; wrote a history of literature, chiefly French
(1808-1894).

DEMOGORGON, a terrible deity, the tyrant of the elves and fairies, who must all appear before
him once every five years to give an account of their doings.

DEMOIVRE, ABRAHAM, a mathematician, born in Champagne; lived most of his life in England to
escape, as a Protestant, from persecution in France; became a friend of Newton, and a Fellow
of the Royal Society, and was of such eminence as a mathematician that he was asked to arbitrate
between the claims of Newton and Leibnitz to the invention of fluxions (1667-1754).

DEMON, or DAIMON, a name which Socrates gave to an inner divine instinct which corresponds
to one's destiny, and guides him in the way he should go to fulfil it, and is more or less
potent in a man according to his purity of soul.

DE MORGAN, AUGUSTUS, an eminent mathematician, born in Madura, S. India; was professor of Mathematics
in London University from 1828 till his death, though he resigned the appointment for a time
in consequence of the rejection of a candidate, James Martineau, for the chair of logic, on
account of his religious opinions; wrote treatises on almost every department of mathematics,
on arithmetic, algebra, trigonometry, differential and integral calculus, the last pronounced
to be "the most complete treatise on the subject ever produced in England"; wrote also "Formal
Logic" (1806-1871).

DEMOSTHENES, the great Athenian orator, born in Athens; had many impediments to overcome to
succeed in the profession, but by ingenious methods and indomitable perseverance he subdued
them all, and became the first orator not of Greece only, but of all antiquity; a stammer in
his speech he overcame by practising with pebbles in his mouth, and a natural diffidence by
declaiming on the sea-beach amid the noise of the waves; while he acquired a perfect mastery
of the Greek language by binding himself down to copy five times over in succession Thucydides'
"History of the Peloponnesian War"; he employed 15 years of his life in denunciation of Philip
of Macedon, who was bent on subjugating his country; pronounced against him his immortal "Philippics"
and "Olynthiacs"; took part in the battle of Cheronea, and continued the struggle even after
Philip's death; on the death of Alexander he gave his services as an orator to the confederated
Greeks, and in the end made away with himself by poison so as not to fall into the hands of
Autipater (385-322 B.C.). See CTESIPHON.

DEMPSTER, THOMAS, a learned Scotchman, born in Aberdeenshire; held several professorships on
the Continent; was the author of "Historia Ecclesiastica Gentis Scotorum," a work of great
learning, but of questionable veracity; has been reprinted by the Bannatyne Club; his last
days were embittered by the infidelity of his wife (1579-1625).

DENARIUS, a silver coin among the Romans, first coined in 269 B.C., and worth 8½ d.

DENBIGH (6), the county town of Denbighshire, in the Vale of the Clwyd, 30 m. W. of Chester;
manufactures shoes and leather.

DENBIGHSHIRE (117), a county in North Wales, of rugged hills and fertile vales, 40 m. long
and 17 m. on an average broad, with a coal-field in the NE., and with mines of iron, lead,
and slate.

DENDERA, a village in Upper Egypt, on the left bank of the Nile, 28 m. N. of Thebes, on the
site of ancient Tentyra, with the ruins of a temple in almost perfect preservation; on the
ceiling of a portico of which there was found a zodiac, now in the museum of the Louvre in
Paris, and dates from the period of Cleopatra and the early Roman emperors, and has sculptured
portraits of that queen and her son Cæsarion.

DENGUE, a disease peculiar to the tropics, occurs in hot weather, and attacks one suddenly
with high fever and violent pains, and after a relapse returns in a milder form and leaves
the patient very weak.

DENHAM, DIXON, an English traveller, companion of Clapperton; visited Bornu and Lake Tchad
(1785-1828).

DENHAM, SIR JOHN, an English poet, born at Dublin, the son of an Irish judge; took to gambling
and squandered his patrimony; was unhappy in his marriage, and his mind gave way; is best known
as the author of "Cooper's Hill," a descriptive poem, interspersed with reflections, and written
in smooth flowing verse (1615-1669).

DENINA, CARLO, an Italian historian, born in Piedmont; banished from Italy for a cynical remark
injurious to the monks; paid court to Frederick the Great in Berlin, where he lived a good
while, and became eventually imperial librarian in Paris under Napoleon (1731-1813).

DENIS, a king of Portugal from 1279 to 1325; the founder of the University of Coimbra and the
Order of Christ.

DENIS, ST., the apostle of the Gauls, the first bishop of Paris, and the patron saint of France;
suffered martyrdom in 270.

DENIS, ST., a town 6 m. N. of Paris, within the line of the fortifications, with an abbey which
contains the remains of St. Denis, and became the mausoleum of the kings of France.

DENISON, EDWARD, philanthropist; distinguished by his self-denying benevolent labours in the
East End of London (1840-1870).

DENISON, GEORGE ANTHONY, archdeacon of Taunton, born in Notts; was charged with holding views
on the eucharist inconsistent with the teaching of the Church of England, first condemned and
then acquitted on appeal; a stanch High Churchman, and equally opposed to Broad Church and
Low; b. 1805.

DENISON, JOHN EVELYN, Speaker of the House of Commons from 1858 to 1872, brother of the above
(1800-1873).

DENMAN, LORD, Lord Chief-Justice of England from 1832 to 1850, born in London; was along with
Brougham counsel for Queen Caroline (1779-1854).

DENMARK (2,182), the smallest of the three Scandinavian kingdoms, consisting of Jutland and
an archipelago of islands in the Baltic Sea, divided into 18 counties, and is less than half
the size of Scotland; is a low-lying country, no place in it more above the sea-level than
500 ft., and as a consequence has no river to speak of, only meres or lakes; the land is laid
out in cornfields and grazing pastures; there are as good as no minerals, but abundance of
clay for porcelain; while the exports consist chiefly of horses, cattle, swine, hams, and butter;
it has 1407 m. of railway, and 8686 of telegraph wires; the government is constitutional, and
the established religion Lutheran.

DENNEWITZ, a village in Brandenburg, 40 m. SW. of Berlin, where Marshal Ney with 70,000 was
defeated by Marshal Bülow with 50,000.

DENNIS, JOHN, a would-be dramatist and critic, born in London, in constant broils with the
wits of his time; his productions were worth little, and he is chiefly remembered for his attacks
on Addison and Pope, and for the ridicule these attacks brought down at their hands on his
own head, from Pope in "Narrative of the Frenzy of John Dennis," and "damnation to everlasting
fame" in "Dunciad"; he became blind, and was sunk in poverty, when Pope wrote a prologue to
a play produced for his benefit (1657-1734).

DENS, PETER, a Catholic theologian, born at Boom near Antwerp; author of a work entitled "Theologia
Moralis et Dogmatica," a minute and casuistic vindication in catechetical form of the tenets
of the Catholic Church, and in use as a text-book in Catholic colleges (1690-1775).

DENTATUS, M. CURIUS, a Roman of the old stamp; as consul gained two victories over rival States
and two triumphs in one year; drove Pyrrhus out of Italy (275 B.C.), and brought to Rome immense
booty, of which he would take nothing to himself; in his retirement took to tilling a small
farm with his own hand.

DENVER (134), the capital of Colorado, U.S., on a plain 5196 ft. above the sea-level; originally
founded as a mining station in 1858, now a large and flourishing and well-appointed town; is
the centre of a great trade, and a great mining district.

DEODAR (25), a small protected independent State in the NW. of Gujarat, India.

DEODORAKI, a glacier in the Caucasus Mountains.

DEPARCIEUX, French mathematician, born at Cessoux, dep. of Gard; known for the "Tables" which
bear his name, containing a reckoning of the chances of longevity for different ages (1703-1768).

DEPARTMENT, a territorial division in France instituted in 1790, under which the old division
into provinces was broken up; each department, of which there are now 87, is broken up into
arrondissements.

DEPPING, a learned French historian, born at Münster; wrote a "History of Normandy," and on
"Trade of Europe with the Levant" (1784-1853).

DEPTFORD (101), a town on the S. bank of the Thames, partly in Kent and partly in Surrey, now
forming part of London; once with an extensive Government dockyard and arsenal, the site of
it purchased by the Corporation of London as a market for foreign cattle; is now the central
station for the Electric Light Company.

DE QUINCEY, THOMAS, a great English prose writer, born in Manchester; son of a merchant called
Quincey; his father dying, he was under a guardian, who put him to school, from which in the
end he ran away, wandered about in Wales for a time, and by-and-by found his way to London;
in 1803 was sent to Oxford, which in 1807 he left in disgust; it was here as an anodyne he
took to opium, and acquired that habit which was the bane of his life; on leaving Oxford he
went to Bath beside his mother, where he formed a connection by which he was introduced to
Wordsworth and Southey, and led to settle to literary work at Grasmere, in the Lake District;
here he wrote for the reviews and magazines, particularly Blackwood's, till in 1821 he went
up to London and published his "Confessions" under the nom de plume of "The English Opium-Eater";
leaving Grasmere in 1828 he settled in Edinburgh, and at Polton, near Lasswade, where he died;
is characterised by Stopford Brooke as "owing to the overlapping and involved melody of his
style one of our best, as he is one of our most various miscellaneous writers"; he was a writer
of very miscellaneous ability and acquirement (1785-1859).

DERBEND (14), capital of Russian Daghestan, on the W. of the Caspian Sea, 140 m. NW. of Baku.

DERBY (94), county town of Derbyshire, on the Derwent, with manufactures of silk, cotton hosiery,
lace, porcelain, &c.; it is the centre of a great railway system.

DERBY, CHARLOTTE COUNTESS OF, wife of the 7th Earl who was taken prisoner at Worcester in 1651,
and was beheaded at Bolton; famous for her gallant defence of Lathom House against the Parliamentary
forces, which she was obliged to surrender; lived to see the Restoration; d. 1663.

DERBY, 14TH EARL OF, British statesman, born at Knowsley Hall, Lancashire; entered Parliament
in 1820 in the Whig interest, and was hailed as an accession to their ranks by the Whigs; supported
the cause of reform; in 1830 became Chief Secretary for Ireland under Earl Grey's administration;
introduced a coercive measure against the Repeal agitation of O'Connell; contributed to the
passing of the Reform Bill in 1832; seceded from the Whigs in 1834, and became Colonial Secretary
in 1845 under a Conservative administration, but when Sir Robert Peel brought in a bill to
repeal the Corn Laws, he retired from the Cabinet, and in 1848 became the head of the Protectionist
party as Earl of Derby, to which title he succeeded in 1851; was after that Prime Minister
three times over, and it was with his sanction Disraeli carried his Reform Act of 1867, though
he spoke of it as "a leap in the dark"; he resigned his Premiership in 1868, and the last speech
he made was against the Irish Disestablishment Bill; was distinguished for his scholarship
as well as his oratory, and gave proof of this by his scholarly translation of the "Iliad"
of Homer (1797-1869).

DERBY, 15TH EARL OF, eldest son of the preceding; entered Parliament as Lord Stanley in 1848;
was a member of the three Derby administrations, in the first and third in connection with
foreign affairs, and in the second as Secretary for India, at the time when the government
of India passed from the Company to the Crown; became Earl in 1869; was Foreign Secretary under
Mr. Disraeli in 1874, but retired in 1878; in 1885 joined the Liberal party, and held office
under Mr. Gladstone, but declined to follow him in the matter of Home Rule, and joined the
Unionist ranks; was a man of sound and cool judgment, and took a deep interest in economical
questions (1826-1893).

DERBY DAY, the last Wednesday in May, or, as may happen, the 1st of June, being the second
day of the Summer Meeting at Epsom, on which the Derby Stakes for colts and fillies three years
old are run for, so called as having been started by the 12th Earl of Derby in 1780; the day
is held as a great London holiday, and the scene is one to which all London turns out. The
stakes run for are £6000, of which the winner gets £5000.

DERBYSHIRE (520), a northern midland county of England, hilly in the N., undulating and pastoral
in the S., and with coal-fields in the E.; abounds in minerals, and is more a manufacturing
and mining county than an agricultural.

DERG, LOUGH, an expansion of the waters of the Shannon, Ireland, 24 m. long, from 2 to 6 broad;
also a small lake in the S. of Donegal, with small islands, one of which, Station Island, was,
as the reputed entrance to St. Patrick's Purgatory, a place of pilgrimage to thousands at one time.

DERVISHES, a name given to members of certain mendicant orders connected with the Mohammedan
faith in the East. Of these there are various classes, under different regulations, and wearing
distinctive costumes, with their special observances of devotion, and all presumed to lead
an austere life, some of whom live in monasteries, and others go wandering about, some of them
showing their religious fervour in excited whirling dances, and others in howlings; all are
religious fanatics in their way, and held sacred by the Moslems.

DERWENTWATER, one of the most beautiful of the Cumberland lakes, in the S. of the county; extends
S. from Keswick; is over 3 m. long, and over 1 m. broad; is dotted with wooded islands, and
is overlooked by Skiddaw; it abounds with perch.

DERWENTWATER, EARL OF, a Jacobite leader; was 3rd Earl and the last; several warrants were
issued for his apprehension in 1714; he joined the Jacobite rising in 1715; was taken prisoner
at Preston, and beheaded on Tower Hill, London, next year, after trial in Westminster Hall,
confession of guilt, and pleadings on his behalf with the king.

DERZHAVEN, GABRIEL, a Russian lyric poet, born at Kasan; rose from the ranks as a common soldier
to the highest offices in the State under the Empress Catharine II. and her successors; retired
into private life, and gave himself up to poetry; the ode by which he is best known is his
"Address to the Deity" (1743-1816).

DESAIX, LOUIS CHARLES ANTOINE, a distinguished French general, born at the Château d'Ayat,
Auvergne, of a noble family; entered the army at 15; commanded a division of the Army of the
Rhine in 1796, and after the retreat of Moreau defended Kehl against the Austrians for two
months; accompanied Bonaparte to the East, and in 1799 conquered Upper Egypt; contributed effectively
to the success at Marengo, and fell dead at the moment of victory, shot by a musket-ball; he
was an upright and a chivalrous man, known in Egypt as "the just Sultan," and in Germany as
"the good general" (1768-1800).

DESAUGIERS, MARC, a celebrated French composer of songs and vaudevilles; "stands second to
Béranger as a light song-writer," and is by some preferred to him (1772-1827).

DESAULT, a French surgeon, born in dep. of Haute-Saône; his works contributed largely to the
progress of surgery (1714-1795).

DESBARRES, JOSEPH FREDERICK, military engineer and hydrographer, aide-de-camp of General Wolfe
at Quebec; fortified Quebec; surveyed the St. Lawrence; revised the maps of the American coast
at the outbreak of the American war; died at Halifax, Nova Scotia, aged 102 (1722-1824).

DESCAMPS, a French painter, born at Dunkirk; painted village scenes (1714-1791).

DESCARTES, RENÉ, the father of modern philosophy, born at La Haye, in Touraine; was educated
at the Jesuit College of La Flèche, where he made rapid progress in all that his masters could
teach him, but soon grew sceptical as to their methods of inquiry; "resolved, on the completion
of his studies, to bid adieu to all school and book learning, and henceforth to gain knowledge
only from himself, and from the great book of the world, from nature and the observation of
man"; in 1616 he entered the army of the Prince of Orange, and after a service of five years
quitted it to visit various centres of interest on the Continent; made a considerable stay
in Paris; finally abandoned his native land in 1629, and betook himself to seclusion in Holland
in order to live there, unknown and undisturbed, wholly for philosophy and the prosecution
of his scientific projects; here, though not without vexatious opposition from the theologians,
he lived twenty years, till in 1649, at the invitation of Christina of Sweden, he left for
Stockholm, where, the severe climate proving too much for him, he was carried off by pneumonia
next year; Descartes' philosophy starts with Doubt, and by one single step it arrives at Certainty;
"if I doubt, it is plain I exist," and from this certainty, that is, the existence of the thinking
subject, he deduces his whole system; it all comes from the formula Cogito, ergo sum, "I think,
therefore I exist," that is, the thinking ego exists; in which thinking philosophy ere long
sums the universe up, regarding it as a void, without thought; Descartes' philosophy is all
comprehended in two works, his "Discourse on Method," and his "Meditations" (1596-1650).

DESCHAMPS, ÉMILE, a French poet, born at Bourges, one of the chiefs of the Romantic school
(1795-1871).

DESCHAMPS, EUSTACHE, a French poet, born at Vertus, in Champagne; studied in Orleans University;
travelled over Europe; had his estate pillaged by the English, whom, in consequence, he is
never weary of abusing; his poems are numerous, and, except one, all short, consisting of ballads,
as many as 1175 of them, a form of composition which he is said to have invented; he deals
extensively in satire, and if he wields the shafts of it against the plunderers of his country,
he does no less against the oppressors of the poor (1328-1415).

DESDEMONA, the wife of Othello the Moor, who, in Shakespeare's play of that name, kills her
on a groundless insinuation of infidelity, to his bitter remorse.

DESMOND, EARLDOM OF, an Irish title long extinct by the death of the last earl in 1583; he
had rebelled against Elizabeth's government, been proclaimed, and had taken refuge in a peasant's
cabin, and been betrayed.

DES MOINES (62), the largest city in Iowa, U.S., and the capital, founded in 1846.

DESMOULINS, CAMILLE, one of the most striking figures in the French Revolution, born at Guise,
in Picardy; studied for the bar in the same college with Robespierre, but never practised,
owing to a stutter in his speech; was early seized with the revolutionary fever, and was the
first to excite the same fever in the Parisian mob, by his famous call "To arms, and, for some
rallying sign, cockades--green ones--the colour of Hope, when," as we read in Carlyle, "as
with the flight of locusts, the green tree-leaves, green ribbons from the neighbouring shops,
all green things, were snatched to make cockades of"; was one of the ablest advocates of the
levelling principles of the Revolution; associated himself first with Mirabeau and then with
Danton in carrying them out, and even supported Robespierre in the extreme course he took;
but his heart was moved to relent when he thought of the misery the guillotine was working
among the innocent families, the wives and the children, of its victims, would, along with
Danton, fain have brought the Reign of Terror to a close; for this he was treated as a renegade,
put under arrest at the instance of Robespierre, subjected to trial, sentenced to death, and
led off to the place of execution; while his young wife, for interfering in his behalf, was
arraigned and condemned, and sent to the guillotine a fortnight after him (1762-1794).

DE SOTO, a Spanish voyager, was sent to conquer Florida, penetrated as far as the Mississippi;
worn out with fatigue in quest of gold, died of fever, and was buried in the river (1496-1542).

DES PERIERS, BONAVENTURE, a French humanist and story-teller, born at Autun, in Burgundy; valet-de-chamber
of Margaret of Valois; wrote "Cymbalum Mundi," a satirical production, in which, as a disciple
of Lucian, he holds up to ridicule the religious beliefs of his day; also "Novelles Recréations
et Joyeux Devis," a collection of some 129 short stories admirably told; was one of the first
prose-writers of the century, and is presumed to be the author of the "Heptameron," ascribed
to Margaret of Valois; d. 1544.

DESPRE`AUX. See BOILEAU.

DESSALINES, JEAN JACQUES, emperor of Hayti, born in Guinea, W. Africa, a negro imported into
Hayti as a slave; on the emancipation of the slaves there he acquired great influence among
the insurgents, and by his cruelties compelled the French to quit the island, upon which he
was raised to the governorship, and by-and-by was able to declare himself emperor, but his
tyranny provoked a revolt, in which he perished (1760-1806).

DESSAU (34), a North German town, the capital of the Duchy of Anhalt, on the Mulde, affluent
of the Elbe, some 70 m. SW. of Berlin; it is at once manufacturing and trading.

DESSAUER, THE OLD. See LEOPOLD OF DESSAU.

DESTOUCHES, a French dramatist, born at Tours; his plays were comedies, and he wrote 17, all
excellent (1680-1754); also a French painter (1790-1884).

DETMOLD (9), capital of Lippe, 47 m. SW. of Hanover, with a bronze colossal statue of ARMINIUS
(q. v.) near by.

DETROIT (285), the largest city in Michigan, U.S., a great manufacturing and commercial centre,
situated on a river of the same name, which connects Lake St. Clair with Lake Erie; is one
of the oldest places in the States, and dates from 1670, at which time it came into the possession
of the French; is a well-built city, with varied manufactures and a large trade, particularly
in grain and other natural products.

DETTINGEN, a village in Bavaria, where an army of English, Hanoverians, and Austrians under
George II., in 1743 defeated the French under Duc de Noailles.

DEUCALION, son of Prometheus, who, with his wife Pyrrha, by means of an ark which he built,
was saved from a flood which for nine days overwhelmed the land of Hellas. On the subsidence
of the flood they consulted the oracle at Delphi as to re-peopling the land with inhabitants,
when they were told by Themis, the Pythia at the time, to throw the bones of their mother over
their heads behind them. For a time the meaning of the oracle was a puzzle, but the readier
wit of the wife found it out; upon which they took stones and threw them over their heads,
when the stones he threw were changed into men and those she threw were changed into women.

DEUS EX MACHINA, the introduction in high matters of a merely external, material, or mechanical
explanation instead of an internal, rational, or spiritual one, which is all a theologian does
when he simply names God, and all a scientist does when he simply says EVOLUTION (q. v.).

DEUTERONOMY (i. e. the Second Law), the fifth book of the Pentateuch, and so called as the
re-statement and re-enforcement, as it were, by Moses of the Divine law proclaimed in the wilderness.
The Mosaic authorship of this book is now called in question, though it is allowed to be instinct
with the spirit of the religion instituted by Moses, and it is considered to have been conceived
at a time when that religion with its ritual was established in Jerusalem, in order to confirm
faith in the Divine origin and sanction of observances there.

DEUTSCH, EMANUEL, a distinguished Hebrew scholar, born at Neisse, in Silesia, of Jewish descent;
was trained from his boyhood to familiarity with the Hebrew and Chaldea languages; studied
under Boeckh at the university of Berlin; came to England, and in 1855 obtained a post in the
library of the British Museum; had made a special study of the "Talmud," on which he wrote
a brilliant article for the Quarterly Review, to the great interest of many; his ambition was
to write an exhaustive treatise on the subject, but he did not live to accomplish it; died
at Alexandria, whither he had gone in the hope of prolonging his days (1829-1873).

DEUTZ (17), a Prussian town on the right bank of the Rhine, opposite Cologne.

DEUX PONTS, French name for ZWEIBRÜCKEN (q. v.).

DEVA, the original Hindu name for the deity, meaning the shining one, whence deus, god, in Latin.

DEVANAG`ARI, the character in which Sanskrit works are printed.

DEVELOPMENT, the biological doctrine which ascribes an innate expansive power to the organised
universe, and affirms the deviation of the most complex forms through intermediate links from
the simplest, without the intervention of special acts of creation. See EVOLUTION.

DEV`ENTER (25), a town in Holland, in the province of Overyssel, 55 m. SE. of Amsterdam; has
carpet manufactures; is celebrated for its gingerbread; was the locality of the Brotherhood
of Common Life, with which the life and work of Thomas à Kempis are associated.

DE VERE, THOMAS AUBREY, poet and prose writer, born in co. Limerick, Ireland; educated at Trinity
College, Dublin; wrote poetical dramas of "Alexander the Great" and "St. Thomas of Canterbury";
his first poem "The Waldenses"; also critical essays; b. 1814.

DEVIL, THE, a being regarded in Scripture as having a personal existence, and, so far as this
world is concerned, a universal spiritual presence, as everywhere thwarting the purposes of
God and marring the destiny of man; only since the introduction of Christianity, which derives
all evil as well as good from within, he has come to be regarded less as an external than an
internal reality, and is identified with the ascendency in the human heart of passions native
to it, which when subject ennoble it, but when supreme debase it. He is properly the spirit
that deceives man, and decoys him to his eternal ruin from truth and righteousness.

DEVIL, THE, IS AN ASS, a farce by Ben Jonson, full of vigour, but very coarse.

DEVIL-WORSHIP, a homage paid by primitive tribes to the devil or spirit of evil in the simple-hearted
belief that he could be bribed from doing them evil.

DEVONPORT (70), a town in Devonshire, adjoining Plymouth to the W., and the seat of the military
and naval government of the three towns, originally called Plymouth Dock, and established as
a naval arsenal by William III.

DEVONSHIRE, a county in the S. of England, with Exmoor in the N. and Dartmoor in the S.; is
fertile in the low country, and enjoys a climate favourable to vegetation; it has rich pasture-grounds,
and abounds in orchards.

DEVONSHIRE, DUKE OF. See CAVENDISH.

DEVRIENT, LUDWIG, a popular German actor, born in Berlin, of exceptional dramatic ability,
the ablest of a family with similar gifts (1784-1832).

D'EWES, SIR SIMONDS, antiquary, born in Dorsetshire; bred for the bar; was a member of the
Long Parliament; left notes on its transactions; took the Puritan side in the Civil War; his
"Journal of all the Parliaments of Elizabeth" is of value; left an "Autobiography and Correspondence"
(1602-1656).

DE WETTE, WILHELM MARTIN LEBERECHT, a German theologian, born near Weimar; studied at Jena,
professor of Theology ultimately at Basel; was held in high repute as a biblical critic and
exegete; contributed largely to theological literature; counted a rationalist by the orthodox,
and a mystic by the rationalists; his chief works "A Critical Introduction to the Bible" and
a "Manual to the New Testament" (1780-1849).

DE WITT, JAN, a Dutch statesman, born at Dort; elected grand pensionary in 1652; like his father,
Jacob de Witt, before him, was a declared enemy of the House of Orange, and opposed the Stadtholdership,
and for a time he carried the country along with him, but during a war with England his influence
declined, the Orange party prevailed, and elected the young Prince of Orange, our William III.,
Stadtholder. He and his brother Cornelius were murdered at last by the populace (1625-1672).

DEWSBURY (73), a town in the West Riding of Yorkshire, 8 m. SW. of Leeds; engaged in the manufacture
of woollens, blankets, carpets, and yarns.

DEXTRINE, a soluble matter into which the interior substance of starch globules is converted
by acids or diastase, so called because when viewed by polarised light it has the property
of turning the plane of polarisation to the right.

DEYSTER, LOUIS DE, a Flemish painter, born at Bruges; was of a deeply religious temper, and
his character was reflected in his choice of subjects, such as the "Death of the Virgin," "The
Resurrection of Christ," &c.; he was a recluse (1656-1711).

DEZOBRY, CHARLES, a French writer, born at St. Denis; author of "Rome in the Time of Augustus"
(1798-1871).

DHAGOBA, a mound with a dome-shaped top, found to contain Buddhist relics.

DHARMA, the name given to the law of Buddha, as distinct from the Sangha, which is the Church.

DHARWAR (32), a town in the S. of the Bombay Presidency, a place of considerable trade in a
district noted for its cotton growing.

DHWALAGIRI, one of the peaks of the Himalayas, the third highest, 26,826 ft. high.

DIABETES, a disease characterised by an excessive discharge of urine, and accompanied with
great thirst; there are two forms of this disease.

DIAB`LERETS, a mountain of the Bernese Alps, between the Cantons de Vaud and de Valois.

DIAFOIRUS, THOMAS, the name of two pedantic doctors, father and son, who figure in Molière's
"Malade Imaginaire."

DIAGORAS, a Greek philosopher, born in Melos, one of the Cyclades, 5th century B.C., surnamed
the Atheist, on account of the scorn with which he treated the gods of the popular faith, from
the rage of whose devotees he was obliged to seek safety by flight; died in Corinth.

DIALECTIC, in the Hegelian philosophy the logic of thought, and, if of thought, the logic of
being, of essential being.

DIALOGUES OF PLATO, philosophical dialogues, in which Socrates figures as the principal interlocutor,
although the doctrine expounded is rather Plato's than his master's; they discuss theology,
psychology, ethics, æsthetics, politics, physics, and related subjects.

DIALYSIS, the process of separating the crystalloid or poisonous ingredients in a substance
from the colloid or harmless ingredients.

DIAMANTE, a Spanish dramatic poet, who plagiarised Corneille's "Cid" and passed it off as original;
b. 1826.

DIAMANTINA (13), a district in Brazil, in the province of Minas Geraes, rich in diamonds.

DIAMOND, the name of Newton's favourite dog that, by upsetting a lamp, set fire to MSS. containing
notes of experiments made over a course of years, an irreparable loss.

DIAMOND NECKLACE, a necklace consisting of 500 diamonds, and worth £80,000, which one Madame
de la Motte induced the jeweller who "made" it to part with for Marie Antoinette, on security
of Cardinal de Rohan, and which madame made away with, taking it to pieces and disposing of
the jewels in London; the swindle was first discovered when the jeweller presented his bill
to the queen, who denied all knowledge of the matter; this led to a trial which extended over
nine months, gave rise to great scandal, and ended in the punishment of the swindler and her
husband, and the disgrace of the unhappy, and it is believed innocent, queen. See CARLYLE'S
"MISCELLANIES."

DIAMOND NET, a name given in the Hegelian philosophy to "the connective tissue, so to speak,
that not only supports, but even in a measure constitutes, the various organs" of the universe.
See HEGELIANISM.

DIAMOND STATE, Delaware, U.S., from its small size and great wealth.

DIANA, originally an Italian deity, dispenser of light, identified at length with the Greek
goddess Artemis, and from the first with the moon; she was a virgin goddess, and spent her
time in the chase, attended by her maidens; her temple at Ephesus was one of the seven wonders
of the world. See ARTEMIS.

DIANA DE POITIERS, the mistress of Henry II. of France, for whom he built the magnificent Château
d'Anet, in Eure-et-Loir; she had a great influence over him, and the cruel persecutions of
the Huguenots in his reign were due to her instigation (1490-1566).

DIANA OF FRANCE, the Duchess of Angoulême, the natural daughter of Henry II. and the Duchess
de Castro (1538-1619).

DIARBEKIR (42), the largest town in the Kurdistan Highlands, on the Tigris, 194 m. NE. of Aleppo,
and on the highway between Bagdad and Constantinople, with a large and busy bazaar.

DIASTASE, a nitrogenous substance developed during the germination of grain, and having the
property of converting starch first into dextrine and then into sugar.

DIAVOLO, FRA (lit. Brother Devil), Michele Porsa, a Calabrian, originally a monk, who left
his monastery and joined a set of bandits, who lent themselves to and conducted insurrectionary
movements in Italy; taken prisoner, was hanged at Naples; Auber's opera, "Fra Diavolo," has
no connection with him except the name (1760-1806).

DIAZ, BARTHÉLEMY, a Portuguese navigator, sent on a voyage of discovery by John II., in the
command of two ships; sailed down the W. coast of Africa and doubled the Cape of Good Hope,
which, from the storm that drove him past it, he called the Cape of Storms; returning to Lisbon
he was superseded by Vasco da Gama, or rather subordinated to him; subsequently accompanied
Cabral on his voyage to Brazil, and was lost in a storm in 1500.

DIAZ MIGUEL, governor of Porto Rico, born in Aragon; friend and companion of Columbus; suffered
from the usual Jealousies in enterprises of the kind, but prevailed in the end; d. 1514.

DIAZ DE LA PEÑA, a French painter, born at Bordeaux, of Spanish descent; a landscapist of the
Romantic school, eminent as a colourist (1809-1876).

DIAZ DEL CASTELLO, historian; accompanied Cortes to Mexico; took part in the conquest, and
left a graphic, trustworthy account of it; died in Mexico, 1560.

DIBDIN, CHARLES, musician, dramatist, and song-writer, born in Southampton; began life as an
actor; invented a dramatic entertainment consisting of music, songs, and recitations, in which
he was the sole performer, and of which he was for the most part the author; wrote some 30
dramatic pieces, and it is said 1400 songs; his celebrity is wholly due to his sea songs, which
proved of the most inspiring quality, and did much to man the navy during the war with France;
was the author of "Tom Bowling"; left an account of his "Professional Life" (1745-1814).

DIBDIN, THOMAS, dramatic author and song-writer, son of the preceding; was an actor as well
as an author, and a most versatile one; performed in all kinds of characters, and wrote all
kinds of plays, as well as numerous songs (1771-1841).

DIBDIN, THOMAS FROGNALL, bibliographer, nephew of Charles Dibdin, born in Calcutta; took orders
in the Church of England; held several preferments; wrote several works all more or less of
a bibliographical character, which give proof of extensive research, but are lacking often
in accuracy and critical judgment; was one of the founders of the Roxburghe Club (1775-1847).

DICÆARCHUS, an ancient geographer, born at Messina, 4th century B.C.; a disciple of Aristotle.

DICK, JAMES, a West Indian and London merchant, born in Forres; bequeathed £113,787 to encourage
learning and efficient teaching among the parish schoolmasters of Elgin, Banff, and Aberdeen
shires; it is known as the Dick Bequest, and the property is vested in a governing body of
thirteen duly elected (1743-1828).

DICKENS, CHARLES, celebrated English novelist, born at Landport, Portsmouth; son of a navy
clerk, latterly in great straits; was brought up amid hardships; was sent to a solicitor's
office as a clerk, learned shorthand, and became a reporter, a post in which he learned much
of what afterwards served him as an author; wrote sketches for the Monthly Magazine under the
name of "Boz" in 1834, and the "Pickwick Papers" in 1836-37, which established his popularity;
these were succeeded by "Oliver Twist" in 1838, "Nicholas Nickleby" in 1839, and others which
it is needless to enumerate, as they are all known wherever the English language is spoken;
they were all written with an aim, and as Ruskin witnesses, "he was entirely right in his main
drift and purpose in every book he has written," though he thinks we are apt "to lose sight
of his wit and insight, because he chooses to speak in a circle of stage fire.... Allowing
for his manner of telling them, the things he tells us are always true"; being a born actor,
and fain in his youth to become one, he latterly gave public readings from his works, which
were immensely popular; "acted better," says Carlyle, who witnessed one of these performances,
"than any Macready in the world; a whole tragic, comic, heroic theatre visible, performing
under one hat, and keeping us laughing--in a sorry way some of us thought--the whole night";
the strain proved too much for him; he was seized with a fit at his residence, Gad's Hill,
near Rochester, on June 8, 1870, and died the following morning; he was a little man, with
clear blue intelligent eyes, a face of most extreme mobility, and a quiet shrewdness of expression
(1812-1870).

DICTATOR, a magistrate invested with absolute authority in ancient republican Rome in times
of exigence and danger; the constitution obliged him to resign his authority at the end of
six months, till which time he was free without challenge afterwards to do whatever the interest
of the commonwealth seemed to him to require; the most famous dictators were Cincinnatus, Camillus,
Sulla, and Cæsar, who was the last to be invested with this power; the office ceased with the
fall of the republic, or rather, was merged in the perpetual dictatorship of the emperor.

DICTATOR OF LETTERS, Voltaire.

DICTYS CRETENSIS (i. e. of Crete), the reputed author of a narrative of the Trojan war from
the birth of Paris to the death of Ulysses, extant only in a Latin translation; the importance
attached to this narrative and others ascribed to the same author is, that they are the source
of many of the Greek legends we find inwoven from time to time in the mediæval literature that
has come down to us.

DIDDLER, JEREMY, a needy, artful swindler in Kenny's farce of "Raising the Wind."

DIDEROT, DENIS, a French philosopher, born at Langres, the son of a cutler there; a zealous
propagator of the philosophic ideas of the 18th century, and the projector of the famous "Encyclopédie,"
which he edited along with D'Alembert, and which made a great noise in its day, but did not
enrich its founder, who was in the end driven to offer his library for sale to get out of the
pecuniary difficulties it involved him in, and he would have been ruined had not Catharine
of Russia bought it, which she not only did, but left it with him, and paid him a salary as
librarian. Diderot fought hard to obtain a hearing for his philosophical opinions; his first
book was burnt by order of the parlement of Paris, while for his second he was clapped in jail;
and all along he had to front the most formidable opposition, so formidable that all his fellow-workers
were ready to yield, and were only held to their task by his indomitable resolution and unquenchable
ardour. "A deist in his earlier writings," says SCHWEGLER, "the drift of his subsequent writings
amounts to the belief that all is God. At first a believer in the immateriality and immortality
of the soul, he peremptorily declares at last that only the race endures, that individuals
pass, and that immortality is nothing but life in the remembrance of posterity; he was kept
back, however, from the materialism his doctrines issued in by his moral earnestness"; that
Diderot was at heart no sceptic is evident, as Dr. Stirling suggests, from his "indignation
at the darkness, the miserable ignorance of those around him, and his resolution to dispel
it" (1713-1784).

DIDIUS, JULIANUS, a Roman emperor who in 193 purchased the imperial purple from the prætorian
guards, and was after two months murdered by the soldiers when Severus was approaching the city.

DIDOT, the name of a French family of paper-makers, printers, and publishers, of which the
most celebrated is Ambroise Firmin, born in Paris, a learned Hellenist (1790-1876).

DIDYMUS (twin), a surname of St. Thomas; also the name of a grammarian of Alexandria, a contemporary
of Cicero, and who wrote commentaries on Homer.

DIEBITSCH, COUNT, a Russian general, born in Silesia; commander-in-chief in 1829 of the Russian
army against Turkey, over the forces of which he gained a victory in the Balkans; commissioned
to suppress a Polish insurrection, he was baffled in his efforts, and fell a victim to cholera
in 1831.

DIEFFENBACH, JOHANN FRIEDRICH, an eminent German surgeon, born at Königsberg; studied for the
Church; took part in the war of liberation, and began the study of medicine after the fall
of Napoleon; was appointed to the chair of Surgery in Berlin; his fame rests on his skill as
an operator (1792-1847).

DIEFFENBACH, LORENZ, a distinguished philologist and ethnologist, born at Ostheim, in the grand-duchy
of Hesse; was for 11 years a pastor; in the end, until his death, librarian at Frankfort-on-the-Main;
his literary works were numerous and varied; his chief were on philological and ethnological
subjects, and are monuments of learning (1806-1883).

DIEGO SUAREZ, BAY OF, is situated on the NE. of Madagascar, and has been ceded to France.

DIEMEN, ANTONY VAN, governor of the Dutch possessions in India, born in Holland; was a zealous
coloniser; at his instance Abel Tasman was sent to explore the South Seas, when he discovered
the island which he named after him Van Diemen's Land, now Tasmania after the discoverer (1593-1645).

DIEPENBECK, ABRAHAM VAN, a Flemish painter and engraver (1599-1675).

DIEPPE (22), a French seaport on the English Channel, at the mouth of the river Arques, 93
m. NW. of Paris; a watering and bathing place, with fisheries and a good foreign trade.

DIES IRAE (lit. the Day of Wrath), a Latin hymn on the Last Judgment, so called from first
words, and based on Zeph. i. 14-18; it is ascribed to a monk of the name of Thomas de Celano,
who died in 1255, and there are several translations of it in English, besides a paraphrastic
rendering in the "Lay of the Last Minstrel" by Scott, and it is also the subject of a number
of musical compositions.

DIET, a convention of the princes, dignitaries, and delegates of the German empire, for legislative
or administrative purposes, of which the most important in a historical point of view are diets
held at Augsburg in 1518, at Worms in 1521, at Nüremberg in 1523, 1524, at Spires in 1526,
1529, at Augsburg in 1530, at Cologne in 1530, at Worms in 1536, at Frankfort in 1539, at Ratisbon
in 1541, at Spires in 1544, at Augsburg in 1547, 1548, 1550, and at Ratisbon in 1622.

DIETRICH, mayor of Strasburg, at whose request Rouget de Lisle composed the "Marseillaise";
was guillotined (1748-1793).

DIETRICH OF BERN, a favourite hero of German legend, who in the "Nibelungen" avenges the death
of Siegfried, and in the "Heldenbuch" figures as a knight-errant of invulnerable prowess, from
whose challenge even Siegfried shrinks, hiding himself behind Chriemhilda's veil; has been
identified with Theodoric the Great, king of the Ostrogoths.

DIEZ, FRIEDRICH CHRISTIAN, a German philologist, born at Giessen; after service as a volunteer
against Napoleon, and a tutorship at Utrecht, went to Bonn, where, advised by Goethe, he commenced
the study of the Romance languages, and in 1830 became professor of them, the philology of
which he is the founder; he left two great works bearing on the grammar and etymology of these
languages (1794-1876).

DIEZ, JUAN MARTIN, a Spanish brigadier-general of cavalry, born at Valladolid, the son of a
peasant; had, as head of guerilla bands, done good service to his country during the Peninsular
war and been promoted; offending the ruling powers, was charged with conspiracy, tried, and
executed (1775-1825).

DIGBY, a seaport on the Bay of Fundy, Nova Scotia; noted for the curing of pilchards, called
from it digbies.

DIGBY, SIR EVERARD, member of a Roman Catholic family; concerned in the Gunpowder Plot, and
executed (1581-1606).

DIGBY, SIR KENELM, a son of the preceding; was knighted by James I.; served under Charles I.;
as a privateer defeated a squadron of Venetians, and fought against the Algerines; was imprisoned
for a time as a Royalist; paid court afterwards to the Protector; was well received at the
Restoration; was one of the first members of the Royal Society, and a man of some learning;
wrote treatises on the Nature of Bodies and Man's Soul, on the corpuscular theory (1603-1665).

DIHONG, the name given to the Brahmaputra as it traverses Assam; in the rainy season it overflows
its channel and floods the whole lowlands of the country.

DIJON (61), the ancient capital of Burgundy, and the principal town in the dep. of Côte d'Or,
195 m. SE. of Paris, on the canal of Bourgogne; one of the finest towns in France, at once
for its buildings, particularly its churches, and its situation; is a centre of manufacture
and trade, and a seat of learning; the birthplace of many illustrious men.

DIKË (i. e. Justice), a Greek goddess, the daughter of Zeus and Themis; the guardian of justice
and judgment, the foe of deceit and violence, and the accuser before Zeus of the unjust judge.

DIKTYS, the fisherman of Seriphus; saved Perseus and his mother from the perils of the deep.

DILETTANTE SOCIETY, THE, a society of noblemen and gentlemen founded in England in 1734, and
which contributed to correct and purify the public taste of the country; their labours were
devoted chiefly to the study of the relics of ancient Greek art, and resulted in the production
of works in illustration.

DILETTANTISM, an idle, often affected, almost always barren admiration and study of the fine
arts, "in earnest about nothing."

DILKE, CHARLES WENTWORTH, English critic and journalist; served for 20 years in the Navy Pay-Office;
contributed to the Westminister and other reviews; was proprietor and editor of the Athenæum;
started the Daily News; left literary Papers, edited by his grandson (1789-1864).

DILKE, SIR CHARLES WENTWORTH, English publicist and politician, grandson of the preceding,
born at Chelsea; called to the bar; travelled in America and the English colonies, and wrote
a record of his travels in his "Greater Britain"; entered Parliament as an extreme Liberal;
held office under Mr. Gladstone; from exposures in a divorce case had to retire from public
life, but returned after a time; b. 1843.

DILLMANN, a great German Orientalist, born at Illingen, a village of Würtemberg; studied under
Ewald at Tübingen; became professor at Kiel, at Giessen, and finally at Berlin; as professor
of Old Testament exegesis made a special study of the Ethiopic languages, and is the great
authority in their regard; wrote a grammar and a lexicon of these, as well as works on theology;
b. 1823.

DILLON, a general in the service of France, born in Dublin; was butchered by his troops near
Lille (1745-1792).

DILLON, JOHN, an Irish patriot, born in New York; entered Parliament in 1880 as a Parnellite;
was once suspended, and four times imprisoned, for his over-zeal; sat at first for Tipperary,
and since for East Mayo; in 1891 threw in his lot with the M'Carthyites; b. 1851.

DIMANCHE, M. (Mr. Sunday), a character in Molière's "Don Juan," the type of an honest merchant,
whom, on presenting his bill, his creditor appeases by his politeness.

DIME, a U.S. silver coin, worth the tenth part of a dollar, or about fivepence.

DINAN (10), an old town in the dep. of Côtes du Nord, France, 14 m. S. of St. Malo; most picturesquely
situated on the top of a steep hill, amid romantic scenery, of great archæological interest;
the birthplace of Duclos.

DINANT, an old town on the Meuse, 14 m. S. of Namur, Belgium; noted for its gingerbread, and
formerly for its copper wares, called Dinanderie.

DINAPUR (44), a town and military station on the right bank of the Ganges, 12 m. NW. of Patna.

DINARCHUS, an orator of the Phocion party in Athens, born at Corinth.

DINARIC ALPS, a range of the Eastern Alps in Austria, runs SE. and parallel with the Adriatic,
connecting the Julian Alps with the Balkans.

DINDORF, WILHELM, a German philologist, born at Leipzig; devoted his life to the study of the
ancient Greek classics, particularly the dramatists, and edited the chief of them, as well
as the "Iliad" and "Odyssey" of Homer, with notes; was joint-editor with his brothers Ludwig
and Hase of the "Thesaurus Græcæ Linguæ" of Stephanus (1802-1883).

DINGELSTEDT, a German poet, novelist, and essayist, born near Marburg; was the Duke of Würtemberg's
librarian at Stuttgart, and theatre superintendent at Münich, Weimar, and Vienna successively;
his poems show delicacy of sentiment and graphic power (1814-1881).

DINGWALL, the county town of Ross-shire, at the head of the Cromarty Firth.

DINKAS, an African pastoral people occupying a flat country traversed by the White Nile; of
good stature, clean habits; of semi-civilised manners, and ferocious in war.

DINMONT, DANDIE, a jovial, honest-hearted store-farmer in Scott's "Guy Mannering."

DINOCRATES, a Macedonian architect, who, in the time of Alexander the Great, rebuilt the Temple
of Ephesus destroyed by the torch of Erostratus; was employed by Alexander in the building
of Alexandria.

DIOCLETIAN, Roman emperor from 284 to 308, born at Salona, in Dalmatia, of obscure parentage;
having entered the Roman army, served with distinction, rose rapidly to the highest rank, and
was at Chalcedon, after the death of Numerianus, invested by the troops with the imperial purple;
in 286 he associated Maximianus with himself as joint-emperor, with the title of Augustus,
and in 292 resigned the Empire of the West to Constantius Chlorus and Galerius, so that the
Roman world was divided between two emperors in the E. and two in the W.; in 303, at the instance
of Galerius, he commenced and carried on a fierce persecution of the Christians, the tenth
and fiercest; but in 305, weary of ruling, he abdicated and retired to Salona, where he spent
his remaining eight years in rustic simplicity of life, cultivating his garden; bating his
persecution of the Christians, he ruled the Roman world wisely and well (245-313).

DIODATI, a Calvinistic theologian, born at Lucca; was taken while a child with his family to
Geneva; distinguished himself there in the course of the Reformation as a pastor, a preacher,
professor of Hebrew, and a professor of Theology; translated the Bible into Italian and into
French; a nephew of his was a school-fellow and friend of Milton, who wrote an elegy on his
untimely death (1576-1614).

DIODORUS SICULUS, historian, born in Sicily, of the age of Augustus; conceived the idea of
writing a universal history; spent 30 years at the work; produced what he called "The Historical
Library," which embraced the period from the earliest ages to the end of Cæsar's Gallic war,
and was divided into 40 books, of which only a few survive entire, and some fragments of the rest.

DIOGENES LAËRTIUS, a Greek historian, born at Laerte, in Cilicia; flourished in the 2nd century
A.D.; author of "Lives of the Philosophers," a work written in 10 books; is full of interesting
information regarding the men, but is destitute of critical insight into their systems.

DIOGENES OF APOLLONIA, a Greek philosopher of the Ionic school, and an adherent of ANAXIMENES
(q. v.), if of any one, being more of an eclectic than anything else; took more to physics
than philosophy; contributed nothing to the philosophic movement of the time.

DIOGENES THE CYNIC, born in Sinope, in Pontus, came to Athens, was attracted to ANTISTHENES
(q. v.) and became a disciple, and a sansculotte of the first water; dressed himself in the
coarsest, lived on the plainest, slept in the porches of the temples, and finally took up his
dwelling in a tub; stood on his naked manhood; would not have anything to do with what did
not contribute to its enhancement; despised every one who sought satisfaction in anything else;
went through the highways and byways of the city at noontide with a lit lantern in quest of
a man; a man himself not to be laughed at or despised; visiting Corinth, he was accosted by
Alexander the Great: "I am Alexander," said the king, and "I am Diogenes" was the prompt reply;
"Can I do anything to serve you?" continued the king; "Yes, stand out of the sunlight," rejoined
the cynic; upon which Alexander turned away saying, "If I were not Alexander, I would be Diogenes."
D'Alembert declared Diogenes the greatest man of antiquity, only that he wanted decency. "Great
truly," says Carlyle, but adds with a much more serious drawback than that (412-323 B.C.).
See "SARTOR RESARTUS," BK. III. CHAP. 1.

DIOGENES THE STOIC, born in Seleucia; a successor of Zeno, and head of the school at Athens,
2nd century B.C.

DIOMEDES, king of Argos, called Tydides, from his father; was, next to Achilles, the bravest
of the Greeks at the Trojan war; fought under the protection of Athene against both Hector
and Æneas, and even wounded both Aphrodité and Ares; dared along with Ulysses to carry off
the Palladium from Troy; was first in the chariot race in honour of Patroclus, and overcame
Ajax with the spear.

DIOMEDES, king of Thrace; fed his horses with human flesh, and was killed by Hercules for his
inhumanity.

DION CASSIUS, a Greek historian, born at Nicæa, in Bithynia, about A.D. 155; went to Rome,
and served under a succession of emperors; wrote a "History of Rome" from Æneas to Alexander
Severus in 80 books, of which only 18 survive entire; took years to prepare for and compose
it; it is of great value, and often referred to.

DION CHRYSOSTOMUS (Dion with the golden, or eloquent, mouth), a celebrated Greek rhetorician,
born at Prusa, in Bithynia, about the middle of the 1st century; inclined to the Platonic and
Stoic philosophies; came to Rome, and was received with honour by Nerva and Trajan; is famous
as an orator and as a writer of pure Attic Greek.

DION OF SYRACUSE, a pupil of Plato, and an austere man; was from his austerity obnoxious to
his pleasure-loving nephew, Dionysius the Younger; subjected to banishment; went to Athens;
learned his estates had been confiscated, and his wife given to another; took up arms, drove
his nephew from the throne, usurped his place, and was assassinated in 353 B.C., the citizens
finding that in getting rid of one tyrant they had but saddled themselves with another, and
greater.

DIONE, a Greek goddess of the earlier mythology; figures as the wife of the Dodonian Zeus;
drops into subordinate place after his nuptials with Hera.

DIONYSIUS THE ELDER, tyrant of Syracuse from 406 to 367 B.C.; at first a private citizen; early
took interest in public affairs, and played a part in them; entered the army, and rose to be
head of the State; subdued the other cities of Sicily, and declared war against Carthage; was
attacked by the Carthaginians, and defeated them three times over; concluded a treaty of peace
with them, and spent the rest of his reign, some 20 years, in maintaining and extending his
territory; was distinguished, it is said, as he might well be, both as a poet and a philosopher;
tradition represents him as in perpetual terror of his life, and taking every precaution to
guard it from attack.

DIONYSIUS THE YOUNGER, tyrant of Syracuse, son of the preceding, succeeded him in 367 B.C.
at the age of thirty; had never taken part in public affairs; was given over to vicious indulgences,
and proved incapable of amendment, though DION (q. v.) tried hard to reform him; was unpopular
with the citizens, who with the help of Dion, whom he had banished, drove him from the throne;
returning after 10 years, was once more expelled by Timoleon; betook himself to Corinth, where
he associated himself with low people, and supported himself by keeping a school.

DIONYSIUS OF ALEXANDRIA, patriarch from 348, a disciple of Origen, and his most illustrious
pupil; a firm but judicious defender of the faith against the heretics of the time, in particular
the Sabellians and the Chiliasts; d. 264.

DIONYSIUS, ST., THE AREOPAGITE (i. e. judge of the Areopagus), according to Acts xvii. 34,
a convert of St. Paul's; became bishop of Athens, and died a martyr in 95; was long regarded
as the father of mysticism in the Christian Church, on the false assumption that he was the
author of writings of a much later date imbued with a pantheistic idea of God and the universe.

DIONYSIUS OF HALICARNASSUS, a Greek historian and rhetorician of the age of Augustus; came
to Italy in 29 B.C., and spent 27 years in Rome, where he died; devoted himself to the study
of the Roman republic, its history and its people, and recorded the result in his "Archæologia,"
written in Greek, which brings down the narrative to 264 B.C.; it consisted of 20 books, of
which only 9 have come down to us entire; he is the author of works in criticism of the orators,
poets, and historians of Greece.

DIONYSIUS PERIEGETES, a Greek geographer who lived about the 4th century, and wrote a description
of the whole earth in hexameters and in a terse and elegant style.

DIONYSUS, the god of the vine or wine; the son of ZEUS AND SEMELE (q. v.), the "twice born,"
as plucked first from the womb of his dead mother and afterwards brought forth from the thigh
of Zeus, which served to him as his "incubator." See BACCHUS.

DIOPHANTUS, a Greek mathematician, born in Alexandria; lived presumably about the 4th century;
left works in which algebraic methods are employed, and is therefore credited with being the
inventor of algebra.

DIOSCOR`IDES, a Greek physician, born in Cilicia, lived in the 1st century; left a treatise
in 5 books on materia medica, a work of great research, and long the standard authority on
the subject.

DIOSCURI, twin sons of Zeus, Castor and Pollux, a stalwart pair of youths, of the Doric stock,
great the former as a horse-breaker and the latter as a boxer; were worshipped at Sparta as
guardians of the State, and pre-eminently as patrons of gymnastics; protected the hearth, led
the army in war, and were the convoy of the traveller by land and the voyager by sea, which
as constellations they are still held to be.

DIPHILUS, a Greek comic poet, born at Sinope; contemporary of Menander; was the forerunner
of Terence and Plautus, the Roman poets.

DIPHTHERIA, a contagious disease characterised by the formation of a false membrane on the
back of the throat.

DIPPEL, JOHANN KONRAD, a celebrated German alchemist; professed to have discovered the philosopher's
stone; did discover Prussian blue, and an animal oil that bears his name (1672-1734).

DIPPEL'S OIL, an oil obtained from the distinctive distillation of horn bones.

DIRCÆAN SWAN, Pindar, so called from the fountain Dirce, near Thebes, his birthplace.

DIRCE, the wife of Lycus, king of Thebes, who for her cruelty to Antiope, her divorced predecessor,
was, by Antiope's two sons, Zethos and Amphion, tied to a wild bull and dragged to death, after
which her carcass was flung by them into a well; the subject is represented in a famous antique
group by Apollonius and Tauriscus.

DIRECTORY, THE, the name given to the government of France, consisting of a legislative body
of two chambers, the Council of the Ancients and the Council of Five Hundred, which succeeded
the fall of the Convention, and ruled France from October 27, 1795, till its overthrow by Bonaparte
on the 18th Brumaire (November 9, 1799). The Directors proper were five in number, and were
elected by the latter council from a list presented by the former, and the chief members of
it were Barras and Carnot.

DIRSCHAU (11), a Prussian town on the Vistula, 21 m. SE. of Danzig, with iron-works and a timber
trade.

DIS, a name given to Pluto and the nether world over which he rules.

DISCIPLINE, THE TWO BOOKS OF, books of dates 1561 and 1581, regulative of ecclesiastical order
in the Presbyterian churches of Scotland, of which the ground-plan was drawn up by Knox on
the Geneva model.

DISCOBOLUS, THE, an antique statue representing the thrower of the discus, in the Louvre, and
executed by the sculptor Myron.

DISCORD, APPLE OF. See infra.

DISCORD, THE GODDESS OF, a mischief-making divinity, daughter of Night and sister of Mars,
who on the occasion of the wedding of Thetis with Peleus, threw into the hall where all the
gods and goddesses were assembled a golden apple inscribed "To the most Beautiful," and which
gave rise to dissensions that both disturbed the peace of Olympus and the impartial administration
of justice on earth. See PARIS.

DISMAL SCIENCE, Carlyle's name for the political economy that with self-complacency leaves
everything to settle itself by the law of supply and demand, as if that were all the law and
the prophets. The name is applied to every science that affects to dispense with the spiritual
as a ruling factor in human affairs.

DISMAS, ST., the good thief to whom Christ promised Paradise as he hung on the cross beside Him.

DISRAELI, BENJAMIN. See BEACONSFIELD.

D'ISRAELI, ISAAC, a man of letters, born at Enfield, Middlesex; only son of a Spanish Jew settled
in England, who left him a fortune, which enabled him to cultivate his taste for literature;
was the author of several works, but is best known by his "Curiosities of Literature," a work
published in six vols., full of anecdotes on the quarrels and calamities of authors; was never
a strict Jew; finally cut the connection, and had his children baptized as Christians (1766-1848).

DITHYRAMB, a hymn in a lofty and vehement style, originally in honour of Bacchus, in celebration
of his sorrows and joys, and accompanied with flute music.

DITMARSH (77), a low-lying fertile district in West Holstein, between the estuaries of the
Elbe and the Eider; defended by dykes; it had a legal code of its own known as the "Ditmarisches
Landbuch."

DITTON, HUMPHRY, author of a book on fluxions (1675-1715).

DIU (12), a small Portuguese island, with a port of the same name, in the Gulf of Cambay, S.
of the peninsula of Gujarat, India; was a flourishing place once, and contained a famous Hindu
temple; inhabited now chiefly by fishermen.

DIVAN, THE, a collection of poems by Häfiz, containing nearly 600 odes; also a collection of
lyrics in imitation of Goethe, entitled "Westöstlicher Divan."

DIVES, the name given, originally in the Vulgate, to the rich man in the parable of the Rich
Man and Lazarus.

DIVIDING RANGE, a range of mountains running E. from Melbourne, and then N., dividing the basin
of the Murray from the plain extending to the coast. See DANTE, and CARLYLE'S "HEROES AND HERO-WORSHIP."

DIVINE RIGHT, a claim on the part of kings, now all but extinct, though matter of keen debate
at one time, that they derive their authority to rule direct from the Almighty, and are responsible
to no inferior power, a right claimed especially on the part of and in behalf of the Bourbons
in France and the Stuart dynasty in England, and the denial of which was regarded by them and
their partisans as an outrage against the ordinance of very Heaven.

DIXIE LAND, nigger land in U.S.

DIXON, W. HEPWORTH, an English writer and journalist, born in Manchester; called to the bar,
but devoted himself to literary work; wrote Lives of Howard, Penn, Robert Blake, and Lord Bacon,
"New America," "Spiritual Wives," &c.; was editor of the Athenoeum from 1853 to 1869; died
suddenly (1821-1879).

DIZIER, ST. (13), a flourishing French town, 30 m. from Châlons-sur-Marne.

DIZZY, a nickname given to Benjamin Disraeli.

DJEZZAR (i. e. Butcher), the surname of Achmed Pasha, pacha of Acre; was born at Bosnia; sold
as a slave, and raised himself by his servility to his master to the length of executing his
cruellest wishes; in 1799 withstood a long siege of Acre by Bonaparte, and obliged him to retire
(1735-1804).

DJINNESTAN, the region of the Jinns.

DNIEPER, a river of Russia, anciently called the Borysthenes, the third largest for volume
of water in Europe, surpassed only by the Danube and the Volga; rises in the province of Smolensk,
and flowing in a generally southerly direction, falls into the Black Sea below Kherson after
a course of 1330 m.; it traverses some of the finest provinces of the empire, and is navigable
nearly its entire length.

DNIESTER, a river which takes its rise in Austria, in the Carpathians, enters Russia, flows
generally in a SE. direction past Bender, and after a rapid course of 650 m. falls into the
Black Sea at Akjerman.

DOAB, THE, a richly fertile, densely peopled territory in the Punjab, between the Jumna and
Ganges, and extending 500 m. N., that is, as far as the Himalayas; it is the granary of Upper
India.

DOBELL, SIDNEY, poet, born at Cranbrook, in Kent; wrote, under the pseudonym of Sidney Yendys,
the "Roman," a drama, "Balder," and, along with Alexander Smith, sonnets on the war (the Crimean);
suffered much from weak health (1824-1874).

DÖBEREINER, a German chemist, professor at Jena; inventor of a lamp called after him; Goethe
was much interested in his discoveries (1780-1849).

DÖBEREINER'S LAMP, a light caused by a jet of hydrogen passing over spongy platinum.

DOBROVSKI, JOSEPH, a philologist, born in Gyarmet, in Hungary; devoted his life to the study
of the Bohemian language and literature; wrote a history of them, the fruit of immense labour,
under which his brain gave way more than once; was trained among the Jesuits (1753-1829).

DOBRENTER, Hungarian archæologist; devoted 30 years of his life to the study of the Magyar
language; author of "Ancient Monuments of the Magyar Language" (1786-1851).

DOBRUDJA (196), the part of Roumania between the Danube and the Black Sea, a barren, unwholesome
district; rears herds of cattle.

DOBSON, AUSTIN, poet and prose writer, born at Plymouth, is in a department of the Civil Service;
wrote "Vignettes in Rhyme," "Proverbs in Porcelain," "Old World Idylls," in verse, and in prose
Lives of Fielding, Hogarth, Steele, and Goldsmith; contributed extensively to the magazines;
b. 1840.

DOBSON, WILLIAM, portrait-painter, born in London; succeeded Vandyck as king's serjeant-painter
to Charles I.; painted the king and members of his family and court; supreme in his art prior
to Sir Joshua Reynolds; died in poverty (1610-1646).

DOCETÆ, a sect of heretics in the early Church who held that the humanity of Christ was only
seeming, not real, on the Gnostic or Manichæan theory of the essential impurity and defiling
nature of matter or the flesh.

DOCTOR (lit. teacher), a title implying that the possessor of it is such a master of his art
that he can teach it as well as practise it.

DOCTOR MIRABILIS, Roger Bacon.

DOCTOR MY-BOOK, John Abernethy, from his saying to his patients, "Read my book."

DOCTOR OF THE INCARNATION, Cyril of Alexandria, from his controversy with the Nestorians.

DOCTOR SLOP, a doctor in "Tristram Shandy," fanatical about a forceps he invented.

DOCTOR SQUINTUM, George Whitfield.

DOCTOR SYNTAX. See COMBE, WILLIAM.

DOCTORS' COMMONS, a college of doctors of the civil law in London, where they used to eat in
common, and where eventually a number of the courts of law were held.

DOCTRINAIRES, mere theorisers, particularly on social and political questions; applied originally
to a political party that arose in France in 1815, headed by Roger-Collard and represented
by Guizot, which stood up for a constitutional government that should steer clear of acknowledging
the divine right of kinghood on the one hand and the divine right of democracy on the other.

DODABETTA, the highest peak, 8700 ft., in the Nilgherries.

DODD, DR. WILLIAM, an English divine, born at Bourne, Lincolnshire; was one of the royal chaplains;
attracted fashionable audiences as a preacher in London, but lived extravagantly, and fell
hopelessly into debt, and into disgrace for the nefarious devices he adopted to get out of
it; forged a bond for £4500 on the Earl of Chesterfield, who had been a pupil of his; was arrested,
tried, convicted, and sentenced to death, a sentence which was carried out notwithstanding
the great exertions made to procure a pardon; wrote a "Commentary on the Bible," and compiled
"The Beauties of Shakespeare" (1729-1777).

DODDRIDGE, PHILIP, a Nonconformist divine, born in London; was minister at Kebworth, Market
Harborough, and Northampton successively, and much esteemed both as a man and a teacher; suffered
from pulmonary complaint; went to Lisbon for a change, and died there; was the author of "The
Family Expositor," but is best known by his "Rise and Progress of Religion in the Soul," and
perhaps also by his "Life of Colonel Gardiner" (1702-1751).

DÖDERLEIN, LUDWIG, a German philologist, born at Jena; became professor of Philology at Erlangen;
edited Tacitus, Horace, and other classic authors, but his principal works were on the etymology
of the Latin language (1791-1863).

DODGER, THE ARTFUL, a young expert in theft and other villanies in Dickens's "Oliver Twist."

DODGSON, CHARLES LUTWIDGE, English writer and man of genius, with the nom de plume of Lewis
Carroll; distinguished himself at Oxford in mathematics; author of "Alice's Adventures in Wonderland,"
with its sequel, "Through the Looking-Glass," besides other works, mathematical, poetic, and
humorous; mingled humour and science together (1833-1898).

DODINGTON, GEORGE BUBB, an English politician, notorious for his fickleness, siding now with
this party, now with that; worked for and won a peerage before he died; with all his pretensions,
and they were many, a mere flunkey at bottom (1691-1762).

DODO, an ungainly bird larger than a turkey, with short scaly legs, a big head and bill, short
wings and tail, and a greyish down plumage, now extinct, though it is known to have existed
in the Mauritius some 200 years ago.

DODO`NA, an ancient oracle of Zeus, in Epirus, close by a grove of oak trees, from the agitation
of the branches of which the mind of the god was construed, the interpreters being at length
three old women; it was more or less a local oracle, and was ere long superseded by the more
widely known oracle of DELPHI (q. v.).

DODS, MEG, an old landlady of consistently inconsistent qualities in "St. Ronan's Well"; also
the pseudonym of the authoress of a book on cookery.

DODSLEY, ROBERT, an English poet, dramatist, and publisher; wrote a drama called "The Toyshop,"
which, through Pope's influence, was acted in Drury Lane with such success as to enable the
author to commence business as a bookseller in Pall Mall; projected and published the Miscellany,
and continued to write plays, the most popular "Cleone"; is best known in connection with his
"Collection of Old Plays"; he was a patron of Johnson, and much esteemed by him (1703-1764).

DOEG, a herdsman of Saul (1 Sam. xxi. 7); a name applied by Dryden to Elkanah Settle in "Absalom
and Achitophel."

DOGBERRY, a self-satisfied night constable in "Much Ado about Nothing."

DOG-DAYS, 20 days before and 20 after the rising of the dog-star Sirius, at present from 3rd
July to 11th August.

DOGE, the name of the chief magistrate of Venice and Genoa, elected at first annually and then
for life in Venice, with, in course of time, powers more and more limited, and at length little
more than a figure-head; the office ceased with the fall of the republic in 1797, as it did
in Genoa in 1804.

DOGGER BANK, a sandbank in the North Sea; a great fishing-field, extending between Jutland
in Denmark and Yorkshire in England, though distant from both shores, 170 m. long, over 60
m. broad, and from 8 to 10 fathoms deep.

DOGS, ISLE OF, a low-lying projection of a square mile in extent from the left bank of the
Thames, opposite Greenwich, and 3½ m. E. of St. Paul's.

DOG-STAR, SIRIUS (q. v.).

DOLABELLA, son-in-law of Cicero, a profligate man, joined Cæsar, and was raised by him to the
consulship; joined Cæsar's murderers after his death; was declared from his profligacy a public
enemy; driven to bay by a force sent against him, ordered one of his soldiers to kill him.

DOLCI, CARLO, a Florentine painter, came of a race of artists; produced many fine works, the
subjects of them chiefly madonnas, saints. &c. (1616-1686).

DOLCINO, a heresiarch and martyr of the 14th century, of the Apostolic Brethren, a sect which
rose in Piedmont who made themselves obnoxious to the Church; was driven to bay by his persecutors,
and at last caught and tortured and burnt to death; a similar fate overtook others of the sect,
to its extermination.

DOLDRUMS, a zone of the tropics where calms, squalls, and baffling winds prevail.

DÔLE (12), a town in the dep. of Jura, on the Doubs, and the Rhône and Rhine Canal, 28 m. SE.
of Dijon, with iron-works, and a trade in wine, grain, &c.

DOLET, ÉTIENNE, a learned French humanist, born at Orleans, became, by the study of the classics,
one of the lights of the Renaissance, and one of its most zealous propagandists; suffered persecution
after persecution at the hands of the Church, and was burned in the Place Maubert, Paris, a
martyr to his philosophic zeal and opinions (1509-1546).

DOLGELLY, capital of Merioneth, Wales, with manufactures of flannel.

DOLGOROUKI, the name of a noble and illustrious Russian family.

DOLLART ZEE, a gulf in Holland into which the Ems flows, 8 m. long by 7 broad, and formed by
inundation of the North Sea.

DÖLLINGER, a Catholic theologian, born in Bamberg, Bavaria, professor of Church History in
the University of Münich; head of the old Catholic party in Germany; was at first a zealous
Ultramontanist, but changed his opinions and became quite as zealous in opposing, first, the
temporal sovereignty, and then the infallibility of the Pope, to his excommunication from the
Church; he was a polemic, and as such wrote extensively on theological and ecclesiastical topics;
lived to a great age, and was much honoured to the last (1799-1890).

DOLLOND, JOHN, a mathematical instrument-maker, born in Spitalfields, London, of Dutch descent;
began life as a silk-weaver; made good use of his leisure hours in studies bearing mainly on
physics; went into partnership with his son, who was an optician; made a study of the telescope,
suggested improvements which commended themselves to the Royal Society, and in especial how,
by means of a combination of lenses, to get rid of the coloured fringe in the image (1706-1761).

DOLMEN, a rude structure of prehistoric date, consisting of upright unhewn stones supporting
one or more heavy slabs; long regarded as altars of sacrifice, but now believed to be sepulchral
monuments; found in great numbers in Bretagne especially.

DOLOMITE ALPS, a limestone mountain range forming the S. of the Eastern Alps, in the Tyrol
and N. Italy, famous for the remarkable and fantastic shapes they assume; named after Dolomieu,
a French mineralogist, who studied the geology of them.

DOMAT, JEAN, a learned French jurist and friend of Pascal, regarded laws and customs as the
reflex of political history (1625-1696).

DOMBASLE, an eminent French agriculturist, born at Nancy (1771-1818).

DOM-BOKE (i. e. Doom-book), a code of laws compiled by King Alfred from two prior Saxon codes,
to which he prefixed the Ten Commandments of Moses, and rules of life from the Christian code
of ethics.

DOMBROWSKI, JOHN HENRY, a Polish general, served in the Polish campaigns against Russia and
Prussia in 1792-1794; organised a Polish legion which did good service in the wars of Napoleon;
covered the retreat of the French at the Beresina in 1812 (1755-1818).

DOMDANIEL, a hall under the ocean where the evil spirits and magicians hold council under their
chief and pay him homage.

DOMENICHI`NO, a celebrated Italian painter, born at Bologna; studied under Calvaert and Caracci;
was of the Bolognese school, and reckoned one of the first of them; his principal works are
his "Communion of St. Jerome," now in the Vatican, and the "Martyrdom of St. Agnes," at Bologna,
the former being regarded as his masterpiece; he was the victim of persecution at the hands
of rivals; died at Naples, not without suspicion of having been poisoned (1581-1641).

DOMESDAY BOOK, the record, in 2 vols., of the survey of all the lands of England made in 1081-1086
at the instance of William the Conqueror for purposes of taxation; the survey included the
whole of England, except the four northern counties and part of Lancashire, and was made by
commissioners appointed by the king, and sent to the different districts of the country, where
they held courts, and registered everything on evidence; it is a valuable document.

DOMINIC DE GUZMAN, ST., saint of the Catholic Church, born in Old Castile; distinguished for
his zeal in the conversion of the heretic; essayed the task by simple preaching of the Word;
sanctioned persecution when persuasion was of no avail; countenanced the crusade of Simon de
Montfort against the Albigenses for their obstinate unbelief, and thus established a precedent
which was all too relentlessly followed by the agents of the Spanish Inquisition, the chiefs
of which were of the Dominican order, so that he is ignominiously remembered as the "burner
and slayer of heretics" (1170-1221). Festival, Aug. 4.

DOMINICA, or DOMINIQUE (26), the largest and most southerly of the Leeward Islands, and belongs
to Britain; one-half of the island is forest, and parts of it have never been explored; was
discovered by Columbus on Sunday, November 3, 1493, whence its name.

DOMINICAL LETTER, one of seven letters, A, B, C, D, E, F, G, used to mark the Sundays throughout
the year, so that if A denote the first Sunday, it will denote all the rest, and so on with
B, C, &c., till at the end of seven years A becomes the dominical letter again.

DOMINICAN REPUBLIC, or ST. DOMINGO (610), a republic forming the E. part of the island of Haiti,
and consisting of two-thirds of it; it belonged alternately to France and Spain till 1865,
when, on revolt, the Spaniards were expelled, and a republic established; the capital is St.
Domingo (15), and the chief port Puerto Plata.

DOMINICANS, a religious order of preaching friars, founded at Toulouse in 1215 by St. Dominic,
to aid in the conversion of the heretic Albigenses to the faith, and finally established as
the order whose special charge it was to guard the orthodoxy of the Church. The order was known
by the name Black Friars in England, from their dress; and Jacobins in France, from the street
of Paris in which they had their head-quarters.

DOMINIS, MARCO ANTONIO DE, a vacillating ecclesiastic, born in Dalmatia; was educated by the
Jesuits; taught mathematics in Padua; wrote a treatise in which an explanation was for the
first time given of the phenomenon of the rainbow; became archbishop of Spalatro; falling under
suspicion he passed over to England, professed Protestantism, and was made dean of Windsor;
reconciled to the Papacy, returned to the Church of Rome, and left the country; his sincerity
being distrusted, was cast into prison, where he died, his body being afterwards disinterred
and burned (1566-1624).

DOMITIAN, Roman emperor, son of Vespasian, brother of Titus, whom he succeeded in 81, the last
of the twelve Cæsars; exceeded the expectations of every one in the beginning of his reign,
as he had given proof of a licentious and sanguinary character beforehand, but soon his conduct
changed, and fulfilled the worst fears of his subjects; his vanity was wounded by the non-success
of his arms, and his vengeful spirit showed itself in a wholesale murder of the citizens; many
conspiracies were formed against his life, and he was at length murdered by an assassin, who
had been hired by his courtiers and abetted by his wife Domitia, in 96.

DOMRÉMY, a small village on the Meuse, in the dep. of Vosges; the birthplace of Joan of Arc.

DON, a Russian river, the ancient Tanaïs; flows southward from its source in the province of
Tula, and after a course of 1153 m. falls into the Sea of Azov; also the name of a river in
Aberdeenshire, and another in Yorkshire.

DON JUAN, the member of a distinguished family of Seville, who seduces the daughter of a noble,
and when confronted by her father stabs him to death in a duel; he afterwards prepares a feast
and invites the stone statue of his victim to partake of it; the stone statue turns up at the
least, compels Don Juan to follow him, and delivers him over to the abyss of hell, the depths
of which he had qualified himself for by his utter and absolute depravity.

DON QUIXOTE, the title of a world-famous book written by Miguel Cervantes, in satire of the
romances of chivalry with which his countrymen were so fascinated; the chief character of which
gives title to it, a worthy gentleman of La Mancha, whose head is so turned by reading tales
of knight-errantry, that he fancies he is a knight-errant himself, sallies forth in quest of
adventures, and encounters them in the most commonplace incidents, one of his most ridiculous
extravagancies being his tilting with the windmills, and the overweening regard he has for
his Dulcinea del Tobosa.

DONALDSON, JOHN WILLIAM, a philologist, born in London; Fellow of Cambridge and tutor of Trinity
College; author of "New Cratylus; or Contributions towards a more Accurate Knowledge of the
Greek Language," a work of great erudition and of value to scholars; contributed also to the
philological study of Latin, and wrote a grammar of both languages; he failed when he intruded
into the field of biblical criticism (1811-1861).

DONATELLO, a great Italian sculptor, born at Florence, where he was apprenticed to a goldsmith;
tried his hand at carving in leisure hours; went to Rome and studied the monuments of ancient
art; returned to Florence and executed an "Annunciation," still preserved in a chapel in Santa
Croce, which was followed by marble statues of St. Peter, St. Mark, and St. George, before
one of which, that of St. Mark, Michael Angelo exclaimed, "Why do you not speak to me?"; he
executed tombs and figures, or groups in bronze as well as marble; his schoolmasters were the
sculptors of Greece, and the real was his ultimate model (1383-1460).

DONATI, an Italian astronomer, born at Pisa; discoverer of the comet of 1858, called Donati's
comet (1826-1873).

DONATISTS, a sect in N. Africa, founded by Donatus, bishop of Carthage, in the 4th century,
that separated from the rest of the Church and formed itself into an exclusive community, with
bishops and congregations of its own, on the ground that no one was entitled to be a member
of Christ's body, or an overseer of Christ's flock, who was not of divine election, and that
in the face of an attempt, backed by the Emperor Constantine, to thrust a bishop on the Church
at Carthage, consecrated by an authority that had betrayed and sold the Church to the world;
the members of it were subject to cruel persecutions in which they gloried, and were annihilated
by the Saracens in the 7th century.

DONATUS, a Latin grammarian and rhetorician of the 4th century, the teacher of St. Jerome;
the author of treatises in grammar known as Donats, and, along with the sacred Scriptures,
the earliest examples of printing by means of letters cut on wooden blocks, and so appreciated
as elementary treatises that they gave name to treatises of the kind on any subject; he wrote
also scholia to the plays of Terence.

DONAU, the German name for the Danube.

DONCASTER (26), a market and manufacturing town in the West Riding of Yorkshire, well built,
in a pleasant country, on the right bank of the Don, 33 m. S. of York; famous for its races,
the St. Leger in particular, called after Colonel St. Leger, who instituted them in 1776.

DONDRA HEAD, the southern extremity of Ceylon, once the site of the capital.

DONEGAL (185), a county in the NW. of Ireland, in the province of Ulster, the most mountainous
in the country; is mossy and boggy, and is indented along the coast with bays, and fringed
with islands.

DONETZ, a tributary of the Russian Don, the basin of which forms one large coal-field, reckoned
to be as large as all Yorkshire, and is reckoned one of the largest of any in the world.

DONGOLA, NEW, a town in Nubia, on the left bank of the Nile, above the third cataract, 20°
N. and over 700 m. from Cairo; was founded by the Mamelukes.

DONIZETTI, a celebrated Italian composer, born at Bergamo, Lombardy, and studied at Bologna;
devoted himself to dramatic music; produced over 60 operas, among the number "Lucia di Lammermoor,"
the "Daughter of the Regiment," "Lucrezia Borgia," and "La Favorita," all well known, and all
possessing a melodious quality of the first order (1797-1848).

DONNE, JOHN, English poet and divine, born in London; a man of good degree; brought up in the
Catholic faith; after weighing the claims of the Romish and Anglican communions, joined the
latter; married a young lady of sixteen without consent of her father, which involved him in
trouble for a time; was induced to take holy orders by King James; was made his chaplain, and
finally became Dean of St. Paul's; wrote sermons, some 200 letters and essays, as well as poems,
the latter, amid many defects, revealing a soul instinct with true poetic fire (1573-1631).
See "Professor Saintsbury on Donne."

DONNYBROOK, a village now included in Dublin, long celebrated for its fairs and the fights
it was the scene of on such occasions.

DONON, the highest peak of the Vosges Mountains.

DOO, GEORGE THOMAS, a celebrated English line-engraver, and one of the best in his day (1800-1886).

DOON, a river rendered classic by the muse of Burns, which after a course of 30 m. joins the
Clyde 2 m. S. of Ayr.

DORA, the child-wife of "David Copperfield," Dickens's novel.

DORA D'ISTRIA, the pseudonym of Helena Ghika, born in Wallachia, of noble birth; distinguished
for her beauty and accomplishments; was eminent as a linguist; translated the "Iliad" into
German; wrote works, the fruits of travels (1829-1888).

DORAN, JOHN, an English man of letters, born In London, of Irish descent; wrote on miscellaneous
subjects; became editor of the Athenæum and Notes and Queries (1807-1878).

DORAT, JEAN, a French poet, born at Limoges; a Greek scholar; contributed much to the revival
of classical literature in France, and was one of the FRENCH PLÉIADE (q. v.); d. 1588.

DORCAS SOCIETY, a society for making clothing for the poor. See Acts ix. 39.

DORCHESTER (7), the county town of Dorset, on the Frome; was a Roman town, and contains the
ruins of a Roman amphitheatre.

DORDOGNE, a river in the S. of France, which, after a course of 300 m., falls into the estuary
of Garonne; also a dep. (478) through which it flows.

DORÉ, GUSTAVE, a French painter and designer, born in Strasburg; evinced great power and fertility
of invention, having, it is alleged, produced more than 50,000 designs; had a wonderful faculty
for seizing likenesses, and would draw from memory groups of faces he had seen only once; among
the books he illustrated are the "Contes Drolatiques" of Balzac, the works of Rabelais and
Montaigne, Dante's "Inferno," also his "Purgatorio" and "Paradiso," "Don Quixote," Tennyson's
"Idylls," Milton's works, and Coleridge's "Ancient Mariner"; among his paintings were "Christ
Leaving the Prætorium," and "Christ's Entry into Jerusalem"; he has left behind him works of
sculpture as well as drawings and pictures; his art has been severely handled by the critics,
and most of all by Ruskin, who treats it with unmitigated scorn (1832-1883).

DORIA, ANDREA, a naval commander, born in Genoa, of noble descent, though his parents were
poor; a man of patriotic instincts; adopted the profession of arms at the age of 19; became
commander of the fleet in 1513; attacked with signal success the Turkish corsairs that infested
the Mediterranean; served under Francis I. to free his country from a faction that threatened
its independence, and, by his help, succeeded in expelling it; next, in fear of the French
supremacy, served, under Charles V., and entering Genoa, was hailed as its liberator, and received
the title of "Father and Defender of his country"; the rest of his life, and it was a long
one, was one incessant wrestle with his great rival Barbarossa, the chief of the corsairs,
and which ended in his defeat (1466-1560).

DORIANS, one of the four divisions of the Hellenic race, the other three being the Achæans,
the Æolians, and the Ionians; at an early period overran the whole Peloponnesus; they were
a hardy people, of staid habits and earnest character.

DORIC, the oldest, strongest, and simplest of the four Grecian orders of architecture.

DORINE, a petulant domestic in Molière's "Tartuffe."

DORIS, a small mountainous country of ancient Greece, S. of Thessaly, and embracing the valley
of the Pindus.

DORIS, the wife of Nereus, and mother of the Nereids.

DORISLAUS, ISAAC, a lawyer, born at Alkmaar, in Holland; came to England, and was appointed
Judge-Advocate; acted as such at King Charles's trial, and was for that latter offence assassinated
at the Hague one evening by certain high-flying Royalist cut-throats, Scotch several of them;
"his portrait represents him as a man of heavy, deep-wrinkled, elephantine countenance, pressed
down by the labours of life and law" (1595-1649).

DORKING (7), a market-town picturesquely situated in the heart of Surrey, 24 m. SW. of London;
gives name to a breed of fowls; contains a number of fashionable villas.

DORN, a distinguished German orientalist; wrote a History of the Afghans, and on their language
(1805-1881).

DORNER, ISAAK AUGUST, a German theologian, born at Würtemberg; studied at Tübingen; became
professor of Theology in Berlin, after having held a similar post in several other German universities;
his principal works were the "History of the Development of the Doctrine of the Person of Christ,"
and the "History of Protestant Theology" (1809-1884).

DORNOCH, the county town of Sutherland, a small place, but a royal burgh; has a good golf course.

DOROS, a son of Helen and grandson of Deucalion, the father of the Dorians, as his brother
Æolis was of the Æolians.

DOROTHEA, ST., a virgin of Alexandria, suffered martyrdom by being beheaded in 311. Festival,
Feb. 6.

DORPAT (38), a town on the Embach, in Livonia, Russia, 150 m. NE. of Riga, with a celebrated
university founded by Gustavus Adolphus in 1632; it has a well-equipped staff, and is well
attended; the majority of the population is German.

D'ORSAY, COUNT, a man of fashion, born in Paris; entered the French army; forsook it for the
society of Lord and Lady Blessington; married Lady B.'s daughter by a former marriage; came
to England with her ladyship on her husband's death; started a joint establishment in London,
which became a rendezvous for all the literary people and artists about town; was "Phoebus
Apollo of Dandyism"; paid homage to Carlyle at Chelsea one day in 1839; "came whirling hither
in a chariot that struck all Chelsea into mute amazement with splendour," says Carlyle, who
thus describes him, "a tall fellow of six feet three, built like a tower, with floods of dark
auburn hair, with a beauty, with an adornment unsurpassable on this planet: withal a rather
substantial fellow at bottom, by no means without insight, without fun, and a sort of rough
sarcasm, rather striking out of such a porcelain figure"; having shown kindness to Louis Napoleon
when in London, the Prince did not forget him, and after the coup d'état appointed him to a
well-salaried post, but he did not live to enjoy it (1798-1852).

DORSET (194), maritime county in the S. of England, with a deeply indented coast; it consists
of a plain between two eastward and westward reaching belts of downs; is mainly a pastoral
county; rears sheep and cattle, and produces butter and cheese.

DORT, or DORDRECHT (34), a town on an island in the Maas, in the province of South Holland,
12 m. SE. of Rotterdam; admirably situated for trade, connected as it is with the Rhine as
well, on which rafts of wood are sent floating down to it; is famous for a Synod held here
in 1618-19, at which the tenets of Arminius were condemned, and the doctrines of Calvin approved
of and endorsed as the doctrines of the Reformed Church.

DORTMUND (89), a town in Westphalia; a great mineral and railway centre, with large iron and
steel forges, and a number of breweries.

DORY, JOHN, the hero of an old ballad.

DO-THE-BOYS'-HALL, a scholastic establishment in "Nicholas Nickleby."

DOUAY (31), a town on the Scarpe, in the dep. of Nord, France, 20 m. S. of Lille, and one of
the chief military towns of the country; has a college founded in 1568 for the education of
Catholic priests intended for England, and is where a version of the Bible in English for the
use of Catholics was issued.

DOUBS, a tributary of the Saône, which it falls into below Dôle; gives name to the dep. (303),
which it traverses.

DOUBTING CASTLE, a castle belonging to Giant Despair in the "Pilgrim's Progress," which only
one key could open, the key Promise.

DOUCE, FRANCIS, a learned antiquary, born in London; for a time keeper of MSS. in the British
Museum; author of "Illustrations of Shakespeare," and an illustrated volume, "The Dance of
Death"; left in the Museum a chest of books and MSS. not to be opened till 1900; was a man
of independent means, and a devoted archæologist (1757-1834).

DOUGLAS (19), the largest town and capital as well as chief port of the Isle of Man, 74 m.
from Liverpool; much frequented as a bathing-place; contains an old residence of the Dukes
of Atholl, entitled Castle Mona, now a hotel. See MAN, ISLE OF.

DOUGLAS, the name of an old Scotch family, believed to be of Celtic origin, and that played
a conspicuous part at one time in the internal and external struggles of the country; they
figure in Scottish history in two branches, the elder called the Black and the later the Red
Douglases or the Angus branch, now represented by the houses of Hamilton and Home. The eldest
of the Douglases, William, was a kinsman of the house of Murray, and appears to have lived
about the end of the 12th century. One of the most illustrious of the family was the Good Sir
James, distinguished specially as the "Black" Douglas, the pink of knighthood and the associate
of Bruce, who carried the Bruce's heart in a casket to bury it in Palestine, but died fighting
in Spain, 1330.

DOUGLAS, GAWIN or GAVIN, a Scottish poet and bishop of Dunkeld, third son of Archibald, Earl
of Angus, surnamed "Bell-the-Cat"; political troubles obliged him to leave the country and
take refuge at the Court of Henry VII., where he was held in high regard; died here of the
plague, and was buried by his own wish in the Savoy; besides Ovid's "Art of Love," now lost,
he translated (1512-1513) the "Æneid" of Virgil into English verse, to each book of which he
prefixed a prologue, in certain of which there are descriptions that evince a poet's love of
nature combined with his love as a Scotchman for the scenery of his native land; besides this
translation, which is his chief work, he indited two allegorical poems, entitled the "Palace
of Honour," addressed to James IV., and "King Hart" (1474-1522).

DOUGLAS, SIR HOWARD, an English general and writer on military subjects, born at Gosport; saw
service in the Peninsula; was Governor of New Brunswick and Lord High Commissioner of the Ionian
Islands (1776-1861).

DOUGLAS, JOHN, bishop of Salisbury, born at Pittenweem, Fife; wrote "The Criterion of, or a
Discourse on, Miracles" against Hume; was a friend of Samuel Johnson's (1721-1807).

DOUGLAS, STEPHEN ARNOLD, an American statesman, born in Brandon, Vermont; a lawyer by profession,
and a judge; a member of Congress and the Senate; was a Democrat; stood for the Presidency
when Lincoln was elected; was a leader in the Western States; a splendid monument is erected
to his memory in Chicago (1813-1861).

DOUGLASS, FREDERICK, American orator, born a slave in Maryland; wrought as a slave in a Baltimore
shipbuilder's yard; escaped at the age of 21 to New York; attended an anti-slavery meeting,
where he spoke so eloquently that he was appointed by the Anti-Slavery Society to lecture in
its behalf, which he did with success and much appreciation in England as well as America;
published an Autobiography, which gives a thrilling account of his life (1817-1895).

DOULTON, SIR HENRY, the reviver of art pottery, born in Lambeth; knighted in the Jubilee year
for his eminence in that department; b. 1820.

DOURO, a river, and the largest, of the Spanish Peninsula, which rises in the Cantabrian Mountains;
forms for 40 m. the northern boundary of Portugal, and after a course of 500 m. falls into
the Atlantic at Oporto; is navigable only where it traverses Portugal.

DOUSTER-SWIVEL, a German swindling schemer in the "Antiquary."

DOVE, in Christian art the symbol of the Holy Ghost, or of a pure, or a purified soul, and
with an olive branch, the symbol of peace and the gospel of peace.

DOVE, HEINRICH WILHELM, a German physicist, born at Liegnitz, Silesia; professor of Natural
Philosophy in Berlin; was eminent chiefly in the departments of meteorology and optics; he
discovered how by the stereoscope to detect forged bank-notes (1803-1879).

DOVER (33), a seaport on the E. coast of Kent, and the nearest in England to the coast of France,
60 m. SE. of London, and with a mail service to Calais and Ostend; is strongly fortified, and
the chief station in the SE. military district of England; was the chief of the Cinque Ports.

DOVER, STRAIT OF, divides France from England and connects the English Channel with the North
Sea, and at the narrowest 20 m. across; forms a busy sea highway; is called by the French Pas
de Calais.

DOVREFELD, a range of mountains in Norway, stretching NE. and extending between 62° and 63°
N. lat., average height 3000 ft.

DOW or DOUW, GERARD, a distinguished Dutch genre-painter, born at Leyden; a pupil of Rembrandt;
his works, which are very numerous, are the fruit of a devoted study of nature, and are remarkable
for their delicacy and perfection of finish; examples of his works are found in all the great
galleries of Europe (1613-1675).

DOWDEN, EDWARD, literary critic, professor of English Literature in Dublin University, born
in Cork; is distinguished specially as a Shakesperian; is author of "Shakespeare: a Study of
his Mind and Art," "Introduction to Shakespeare," and "Shakesperian Sonnets, with Notes"; has
written "Studies in Literature," and a "Life of Shelley"; is well read in German as well as
English literature; has written with no less ability on Goethe than on Shakespeare; b. 1843.

DOWN (266), a maritime county in the SE. of the province of Ulster, Ireland, with a mostly
level and fairly fertile soil, and manufactures of linen.

DOWNS, THE, a safe place of anchorage, 8 m. long by 6 m. broad, for ships between Goodwin Sands
and the coast of Kent.

DOWNS, THE NORTH AND SOUTH, two parallel ranges of low broad hills covered with a light soil
and with a valley between, called the Weald, that extend eastward from Hampshire to the sea-coast,
the North terminating in Dover cliffs, Kent, and the South in Beachy Head, Sussex; the South
famous for the breed of sheep that pastures on them.

DOYLE, DR. CONAN, novelist, nephew of Richard and grandson of John, born in Edinburgh; studied
and practised medicine, but gave it up after a time for literature, in which he had already
achieved no small success; several of his productions have attracted universal attention, especially
his "Adventures" and his "Memoir of Sherlock Holmes"; wrote a short play "A Story of Waterloo,"
produced with success by Sir Henry Irving; b. 1859.

DOYLE, SIR FRANCIS HASTINGS, an English poet, born near Tadcaster; bred to the bar, but devoted
to poetry and horse-racing; became professor of Poetry at Oxford; author of "Miscellaneous
Verses," "Two Destinies," "Retreat of the Guards," "The Thread of Honour," and "The Private
of the Buffs" (1810-1858).

DOYLE, JOHN, an eminent caricaturist, of Irish origin, under the initials H. B. (1797-1868).

DOYLE, RICHARD, eminent caricaturist, born in London, son of the preceding; contributed to
Punch, of which he designed the cover, but left the staff, in 1850 owing to the criticisms
in the journal adverse to the Catholic Church; devoted himself after that chiefly to book illustration
and water-colour painting (1824-1883).

DOZY, REINHART, an Orientalist and linguist, born at Leyden, where he became professor of History;
devoted himself to the study of the history of the Arabs or Moors in North-Western Africa and
Spain, his chief work being "The History of the Mussulmans of Spain"; wrote also a "Detailed
Dictionary of the Names of the Dress of the Arabs" (1820-1883).

DRACHENFELS (Dragon's Rock), one of the Siebengebirge, 8 m. SE. of Bonn, 1056 ft. above the
Rhine, and crowned by a castle with a commanding view; the legendary abode of the dragon killed
by Siegfried in the "Lay of the Nibelungen."

DRACO, a celebrated Athenian law-giver, who first gave stability to the State by committing
the laws to writing, and establishing the Ephetæ, or court of appeal, 621 B.C.; only he punished
every transgressor of his laws with death, so that his code became unbearable, and was superseded
ere long by a milder, instituted by Solon, who affixed the penalty of death to murder alone;
he is said to have justified the severity of his code by maintaining that the smallest crime
deserved death, and he knew no severer punishment for greater; it is said he was smothered
to death in the theatre by the hats and cloaks showered on him as a popular mark of honour;
he was archon of Athens.

DRAGON, a fabulous monster, being a hideous impersonation of some form of deadly evil, which
only preternatural heroic strength and courage can subdue, and on the subdual and slaying of
which depends the achievement of some conquest of vital moment to the human race or some members
of it; is represented in mediæval art as a large, lizard-like animal, with the claws of a lion,
the wings of an eagle, and the tail of a serpent, with open jaws ready and eager to devour,
which some knight high-mounted thrusts at to pierce to death with a spear; in the Greek mythology
it is represented with eyes ever on the watch, in symbol of the evil that waylays us to kill
us if we don't kill it, as in guarding the "Apples of the Hesperides" and the "Golden Fleece,"
because these are prizes that fall only to those who are as watchful of him as he is of them;
and it is consecrated to Minerva to signify that true wisdom, as sensible of the ever-wakeful
dragon, never goes to sleep, but is equally ever on the watch.

DRAGONNADES, the name given to the persecution at the instance of Louis XIV. to force the Huguenots
of France back into the bosom of the Catholic Church by employment of dragoons.

DRAGON'S TEETH, the teeth of the dragon that Cadmus slew, and which when sown by him sprang
up as a host of armed men, who killed each other all to the five who became the ancestors of
the Thebans, hence the phrase to "sow dragon's teeth," to breed and foster strife.

DRAKE, SIR FRANCIS, a great English seaman of the reign of Queen Elizabeth, born near Tavistock,
in Devon; served in the Royal Navy under his relative, Sir John Hawkins, and distinguished
himself with signal success by his valour and daring against the pride of Spain, towards which,
as the great Catholic persecuting power, he had been taught to cherish an invincible hatred;
came swoop down like a hawk on its ports across seas, and bore himself out of them laden with
spoil; in 1577 sailed for America with five ships, passed through the Strait of Magellan, the
first Englishman to do it; plundered the W. coast as far as Peru; lost all his ships save one;
crossed the Pacific, and came home by way of the Cape--the first to sail round the world--with
spoil to the value of £300,000, his successes contributing much to embolden his countrymen
against the arrogance of the Catholic king; and he was vice-admiral in the fleet that drove
back the Armada from our shores (1540-1596).

DRAKE, FRIEDRICH, a German sculptor, born at Pyrmont; studied under Rauch; executed numerous
statues and busts, among others busts of Oken and Ranke, Bismarck and Moltke; his chief works
are the "Eight Provinces of Prussia," represented by large allegorical figures, and the "Warrior
crowned by Victory" (1805-1882).

DRAKE, NATHAN, a physician, born at York; author of "Shakespeare and his Times" (1766-1836).

DRAKENBERG MOUNTAINS, a range of mountains in S. Africa, 6500 ft. high, between Natal and the
Orange Free State.

DRAMATIC UNITIES, three rules of dramatic construction prescribed by Aristotle, observed by
the French dramatists, but ignored by Shakespeare, that (1) a play should represent what takes
place within eight hours, (2) there must be no change of locality, and (3) there must be no
minor plot.

DRAMMEN (20), a Norwegian seaport on a river which falls into Christiania Bay, 30 m. SW. of
Christiania; trade chiefly in timber.

DRAPER, JOHN WILLIAM, a chemist, scientist, and man of letters, born at Liverpool; settled
in the United States; wrote on chemistry, physiology, and physics generally, as well as works
of a historical character, such as the "History of the Intellectual Development of Europe"
and the "History of the Conflict between Science and Religion," an able book (1811-1882).

DRAPIER, a pseudonym adopted by Swift in his letters to the people of Ireland anent Wood's
pence, and which led to the cancelling of the patent.

DRAVE, a river from the Eastern Alps which flows eastward, and after a course of 380 miles
falls into the Danube 10 m. below Essek.

DRAVIDIANS, races of people who occupied India before the arrival of Aryans, and being driven
S. by them came to settle chiefly in the S. of the Dekkan; they are divided into numerous tribes,
each with a language of its own, but of a common type or group, some of them literary and some
of them not, the chief the Tamil; the tribes together number over 20 millions.

DRAWCANSIR, a blustering, bullying boaster in Buckingham's play the "Rehearsal"; he kills every
one of the combatants, "sparing neither friend nor foe."

DRAYTON, MICHAEL, an English poet, born In Warwickshire, like Shakespeare; was one of the three
chief patriotic poets, Warner and Daniel being the other two, which arose in England after
her humiliation of the pride of Spain, although he was no less distinguished as a love poet;
his great work is his "Polyolbion," in glorification of England, consisting of 30 books and
100,000 lines; it gives in Alexandrines "the tracts, mountains, forests, and other parts of
this renowned isle of Britain, with intermixture of the most remarkable stories, antiquities,
wonders, pleasures, and commodities of the same digested in a poem"; this was preceded by other
works, and succeeded by a poem entitled "The Ballad of Agincourt," pronounced one of the most
spirited martial lyrics in the language (1563-1631).

DRELINCOURT, a French Protestant divine, born at Sedan; author of "Consolations against the
Fear of Death" (1595-1669).

DRENTHE (137), a province of Holland lying between Hanover and the Zuyder Zee; the soil is
poor, and the population sparse.

DRESDEN (250), the capital of Saxony, on the Elbe, 116 m. SE. of Berlin; a fine city, with
a museum rich in all kinds of works of art, and called in consequence the "Florence of Germany";
here the Allies were defeated by Napoleon in 1813, when he entered the city, leaving behind
him 30,000 men, who were besieged by the Russians and compelled to surrender as prisoners of
war the same year.

DREYFUS, L'AFFAIRE. On 23rd December 1894, Alfred Dreyfus, an Alsatian Jew, captain of French
Artillery; was by court-martial found guilty of revealing to a foreign power secrets of national
defence, and sentenced to degradation and perpetual imprisonment; he constantly maintained
his innocence, and, in time, the belief that he had been unjustly condemned became prevalent,
and a revision of the trial being at length ordered, principally through the exertions of Colonel
Picquart and Zola, the well-known author, Dreyfus was brought back from Cayenne, where he had
been kept a close prisoner and cruelly treated, and a fresh trial at Rennes began on 6th August
1899, and lasted till 9th September; the proceedings, marked by scandalous "scenes," and by
an attempt to assassinate one of prisoner's counsel--disclosed an alarmingly corrupt condition
of affairs in some lines of French public life under the Republic of the time, and terminated
in a majority verdict of "guilty"; M. Dreyfus was set at liberty on 20th September, the sentence
of ten years' imprisonment being remitted; b. 1860.

DREYSE, NICHOLAUS VON, inventor of the needle-gun, born at Sömmerda, near Erfurt, the son of
a locksmith, and bred to his father's craft; established a large factory at Sömmerda for a
manufactory of firearms; was ennobled 1864 (1787-1867).

DROGHEDA (11), a seaport in co. Louth, near the mouth of the Boyne, 32 m. N. of Dublin, with
manufactures and a considerable export trade; was stormed by Cromwell in 1649 "after a stout
resistance," and the garrison put to the sword; surrendered to William III. after the battle
of the Boyne in 1690.

DROMORE, a cathedral town in co. Down, Ireland, 17 m. SW. of Belfast, of which Jeremy Taylor
was bishop.

DROOGS, steep rocks which dot the surface of Mysore, in India, and resemble hay-ricks, some
of these 1500 ft. high, some with springs on the top, and scalable only by steps cut in them.

DROSTE-HÜLSHOFF, FRAULEIN VON, a German poetess, born near Münster; was of delicate constitution;
wrote tales as well as lyrics in record of deep and tender experiences (1797-1848).

DROUET, JEAN BAPTISTE, notable king-taker, a violent Jacobin and member of the Council of the
Five Hundred; had been a dragoon soldier; was postmaster at St. Menehould when Louis XVI.,
attempting flight, passed through the place, and by whisper of surmise had the progress of
Louis and his party arrested at Varennes, June 21, 1791, for which service he received honourable
mention and due reward in money; was taken captive by the Austrians at last; perched on a rock
100 ft. high, descended one night by means of a paper kite he had constructed, but was found
at the foot helpless with leg broken (1763-1824).

DROUET, JEAN BAPTISTE, COMTE D'ERLON, marshal of France, born at Rheims; distinguished in the
wars of the Republic and the Empire; on Napoleon's return from Elba seized on the citadel of
Lille, and held it for the emperor; commanded the first corps d'armée at Waterloo; left France
at the Restoration; returned after the July Revolution; became governor of Algiers, and was
created marshal (1765-1844).

DROUOT, a French general, son of a baker at Nancy; Napoleon, whom, as commander of artillery,
he accompanied over all his battlefields in Europe and to Elba, used to call him the Sage of
the Grande Armée (1774-1847).

DROUYN DE LHUYS, French statesman and diplomatist, born in Paris; was ambassador at the Hague
and Madrid; distinguished himself by his opposition to Guizot; served as Minister of Foreign
Affairs under Louis Napoleon; withdrew into private life after the collapse at Sedan (1805-1881).

DROYSEN, a German historian, born in Pomerania; professor in Berlin; author of the "History
of Prussian Policy," "History of Alexander the Great," and "History of Hellenism" (1808-1884).

DROZ, the name of a Swiss family of mechanicians, one of them, Jean Pierre, an engraver of
medals (1746-1833); also of a French moralist and historian, author of "History of Louis XVI."
(1773-1850).

DROZ, GUSTAV, a highly popular and brilliant novelist, born in Paris; author of "Monsieur,
Madam, et Bébé," "Entre Nous," and "Cahier bleu de Mlle. Cibot" (1832-1895).

DRUIDS, a sacred order of learned men under a chief called the Archdruid, among the ancient
Celtic nations, particularly of Gaul and Britain, who, from their knowledge of the arts and
sciences of the day, were the ministers of religion and justice, as well as the teachers of
youth to the whole community, and exercised an absolute control over the unlearned people whom
they governed; they worshipped in oak groves, and the oak tree and the mistletoe were sacred
to them; the heavenly bodies appear to have been also objects of their worship, and they appear
to have believed in the immortality and transmigration of the soul; but they committed nothing
to writing, and for our knowledge of them we have to depend on the reports of outsiders.

DRUMCLOG MOSS, a flat wilderness of broken bog and quagmire in Lanarkshire, where the Covenanters
defeated Claverhouse's dragoons in 1679.

DRUMMOND, HENRY, popular scientist and Christian teacher, born in Stirling; was educated at
Edinburgh and Tübingen; studied for the Free Church; lectured on natural science; became famous
by the publication of "Natural Law in the Spiritual World," a book which took with the Christian
public at once, and had an enormous sale, which was succeeded by "Tropical Africa," a charmingly-written
book of travel, and by a series of booklets, commencing with "The Greatest Thing in the World,"
intended to expound and commend the first principles of the Christian faith; his last work
except one, published posthumously, entitled the "Ideal Life," was the "Ascent of Man," in
which he posits an altruistic element in the process of evolution, and makes the goal of it
a higher and higher life (1851-1897).

DRUMMOND, CAPTAIN THOMAS, civil engineer, born in Edinburgh; inventor of the Drummond Light;
was employed in the trigonometrical survey of Great Britain and Ireland; became Under-Secretary
for Ireland, and was held in high favour by the Irish (1797-1840).

DRUMMOND, WILLIAM, of Hawthornden, a Scottish poet, named the "Petrarch of Scotland," born
in Hawthornden; studied civil law at Bourges, but poetry had more attractions for him than
law, and on the death of his father he returned to his paternal estate, and devoted himself
to the study of it and the indulgence of his poetic tastes. "His work was done," as Stopford
Brooke remarks, "in the reign of James I., but is the result of the Elizabethan influence extending
to Scotland. Drummond's sonnets and madrigals have some of the grace of Sidney, and he rose
at intervals into grave and noble verse, as in his sonnet on John the Baptist." He was a devoted
Royalist; his first poem was "Tears" on the death of James I.'s eldest son Henry, and the fate
of Charles I. is said to have cut short his days; the visit of Ben Jonson to him at Hawthornden
is well known (1585-1649).

DRUMMOND LIGHT, an intensely-brilliant and pure white light produced by the play of an oxyhydrogen
flame upon a ball of lime, so called from the inventor, Captain Thomas Drummond.

DRURY, DRU, a naturalist, born in London; bred a silversmith; took to entomology; published
"Illustrations of Natural History"; his principal work "Illustrations of Exotic Entomology"
(1725-1803).

DRURY LANE, a celebrated London theatre founded in 1663, in what was a fashionable quarter
of the city then; has since that time been thrice burnt down; was the scene of Garrick's triumphs,
and of those of many of his illustrious successors, though it is now given up chiefly to pantomimes
and spectacular exhibitions.

DRUSES, a peculiar people, numbering some 80,000, inhabiting the S. of Lebanon and Anti-lebanon,
with the Maronites on the N., whose origin is very uncertain, only it is evident, though they
speak the Arab language, they belong to the Aryan race; their religion, a mixture of Christian,
Jewish, and Mohammedan beliefs, is grounded on faith in the unity and the incarnation of God;
their form of government is half hierarchical and half feudalistic; in early times they were
under emirs of their own, but in consequence of the sanguinary, deadly, and mutually exterminating
strife between them and the Christian Maronites in 1860, they were put under a Christian governor
appointed by the Porte.

DRUSUS, M. LIVIUS, a tribune of the people at Rome in 122 B.C., but a stanch supporter of the
aristocracy; after passing a veto on a popular measure proposed by Gracchus his democratic
colleague, proposed the same measure himself in order to show and prove to the people that
the patricians were their best friends; the success of this policy gained him the name of "patron
of the senate."

DRUSUS, M. LIVIUS, tribune of the people, 91 B.C., son of the preceding, and an aristocrat;
pursued the same course as his father, but was baffled in the execution of his purpose, which
was to broaden the constitution, in consequence of which he formed a conspiracy, and was assassinated,
an event which led to the SOCIAL WAR (q. v.).

DRUSUS, NERO CLAUDIUS, surnamed "Germanicus," younger brother of Tiberius and son-in-law of
Marc Antony; distinguished himself in four successive campaigns against the tribes of Germany,
but stopped short at the Elbe, scared by the apparition of a woman of colossal stature who
defied him to cross, so that he had to "content himself with erecting some triumphal pillars
on his own safe side of the river and say that the tribes across were conquered"; falling ill
of a mortal malady, his brother the emperor hastened across the Alps to close his eyes, and
brought home his body, which was burned and the ashes buried in the tomb of Augustus.

DRYADS, nymphs of forest trees, which were conceived of as born with the tree they were attached
to and dying along with it; they had their abode in wooded mountains away from men; held their
revels among themselves, but broke them off at the approach of a human footstep.

DRYAS, the father of Lycurgus, a Thracian king, and slain by him, who, in a fit of frenzy against
the Bacchus worshippers, mistook him for a vine and cut him down. See LYCURGUS.

DRYASDUST, a name of Sir Walter Scott's invention, and employed by him to denote an imaginary
character who supplied him with dry preliminary historical details, and since used to denote
a writer who treats a historical subject with all due diligence and research, but without any
appreciation of the human interest in it, still less the soul of it.

DRYBURGH, an abbey, now a ruin, founded by David I., on the Tweed, in Berwickshire, 3 m. SE.
of Melrose; the burial-place of Sir Walter Scott.

DRYDEN, JOHN, a celebrated English poet, "glorious John," born in Northamptonshire, of a good
family of Puritan principles; educated at Westminster School and Cambridge; his first poetic
production of any merit was a set of "heroic stanzas" on the death of Cromwell; at the Restoration
he changed sides and wrote a poem which he called "Astræa Redux" in praise of the event, which
was ere long followed by his "Annus Mirabilis," in commemoration of the year 1666, which revealed
at once the poet and the royalist, and gained him the appointment of poet-laureate, prior to
which and afterwards he produced a succession of plays for the stage, which won him great popularity,
after which he turned his mind to political affairs and assumed the role of political satirist
by production of his "Absalom and Achitophel," intended to expose the schemes of Shaftesbury,
represented as Achitophel and Monmouth as Absalom, to oust the Duke of York from the succession
to the throne; on the accession of James II. he became a Roman Catholic, and wrote "The Hind
and the Panther," characterised by Stopford Brooke as "a model of melodious reasoning in behalf
of the milk-white hind of the Church of Rome," and really the most powerful thing of the kind
in the language; at the Revolution he was deprived of his posts, but it was after that event
he executed his translation of Virgil, and produced his celebrated odes and "Fables" (1631-1700).

DUALISM, or MANICHÆISM, the doctrine that there are two opposite and independently existing
principles which go to constitute every concrete thing throughout the universe, such as a principle
of good and a principle of evil, light and darkness, life and death, spirit and matter, ideal
and real, yea and nay, God and Devil, Christ and Antichrist, Ormuzd and Ahriman.

DU BARRY, COUNTESS, mistress of Louis XV., born at Vaucouleurs, daughter of a dressmaker; came
to Paris, professing millinery; had fascinating attractions, and was introduced to the king;
governed France to its ruin and the dismissal of all Louis' able and honourable advisers; fled
from Paris on the death of Louis, put on mourning for his death; was arrested, brought before
the Revolutionary tribunal, condemned for wasting the finances of the State, and guillotined
(1746-1793).

DU BELLAY, a French general, born at Montmirail; served under Francis I. (1541-1590).

DUBLIN (360), the capital of Ireland, at the mouth of the Liffey, which divides it in two,
and is crossed by 12 bridges; the principal and finest street is Sackville Street, which is
about 700 yards long and 40 wide; it has a famous university and two cathedrals, besides a
castle, the residence of the Lord-Lieutenant; and a park, the Phoenix, one of the finest in
Europe; manufactures porter, whisky, and poplin.

DUBOIS, GUILLAUME, cardinal and prime minister of France; notorious for his ambition and his
debauchery; appointed tutor to the Duke of Orleans; encouraged him in vice, and secured his
attachment and patronage in promotion, so that in the end he rose to the highest honours, and
even influence, in both Church and state; notwithstanding his debauchery he was an able man
and an able minister (1656-1723).

DUBOIS, REYMOND, a German physiologist, born in Berlin, of French descent; professor of Physiology
at Berlin; distinguished for his researches in animal electricity; b. 1818.

DUBOIS DE CRANCÉ, a violent French revolutionary, born at Charleville; besieged and captured
Lyons, giving no quarter; was Minister of War under the Directory; secured the adoption of
the principle of conscription in recruiting the army (1747-1814).

DUBOURG, a French magistrate, member of the parlement of Paris; burnt as a heretic for recommending
clemency in the treatment of the Huguenots (1521-1559).

DUBUFE, a distinguished French portrait-painter (1820-1883).

DUBUQUE (36), a town in Iowa, U.S., on the Mississippi, with lead-mines and a trade in grain,
timber, &c.

DUCAMP, MAXIME, a French littérateur, born in Paris; has written "Travels in the East"; is
the author of "Paris," its civic life, as also an account of its "Convulsions"; b. 1822.

DU CANGE, CHARLES, one of the most erudite of French scholars, born at Amiens, and educated
among the Jesuits; wrote on language, law, archæology, and history; devoted himself much to
the study of the Middle Ages; contributed to the rediscovery of old French literature, and
wrote a history of the Latin empire; his greatest works are his Glossaries of the Latin and
Greek of the Middle Ages (1614-1688).

DUCAT, a coin, generally in gold, that circulated in Venice, and was current in Germany at
one time, of varied value.

DU CHAILLU, PAUL BELLONI, an African traveller, born in Louisiana; his principal explorations
confined to the equatorial region of West Africa, and the result an extension of our knowledge
of its geography, ethnology, and zoology, and particularly of the character and habits of the
ape tribes, and above all the gorilla; b. 1837.

DU CHÂTELET, MARQUISE DE, a scientific lady and friend of Voltaire's, born in Paris; "a too
fascinating shrew," as he at length found to his cost (1706-1749).

DUCHESNE, ANDRÉ, French historian and geographer, born in Touraine; styled the "Father of French
History"; famous for his researches in it and in French antiquities, and for histories of England,
Scotland, and Ireland respectively; his industry was unwearied; he left more than 100 folios
in MS. (1584-1640).

DUCHOBORTZI, a religious community in Russia of Quaker principles, and of a creed that denied
the doctrine of the Trinity and the divinity of Christ; they became a cause of trouble to the
empire by their fanaticism, and were removed to a high plateau in Transcaucasia, where they
live by cattle-rearing.

DUCIS, JEAN, a French dramatist, born at Versailles; took Shakespeare for his model; declined
Napoleon's patronage, thinking it better, as he said, to wear rags than wear chains (1733-1816).

DUCKING STOOL, a stool or chair in which a scolding woman was confined, and set before her
own door to be pelted at, or borne in a tumbrel through the town to be jeered at, or placed
at the end of a see-saw and ducked in a pool.

DUCLOS, CHARLES, a witty and satirical French writer, born at Dinan; author of "Observations,"
and "A History of the Manners of the Eighteenth Century," and "Mémoires of the Reigns of Louis
XIV. and Louis XV."; he mingled much in French society of the period, and took studious note
of its passing whims (1704-1772).

DUCORNET, a French historical-painter, born at Lille; being born without arms, painted with
his foot (1805-1856).

DUCOS, ROGER, French politician, born at Bordeaux, member of the National Convention and of
the Directory (1754-1816).

DUCROT, a French general, born at Nivers; served in Algeria, in the Italian campaign of 1859,
and as head of a division in the German War; was imprisoned for refusing to sign the capitulation
treaty of Sedan, but escaped and took part in the defence of Paris when besieged by the Germans
(1817-1882).

DU DEFFAND, MARQUISE. See DEFFAND.

DUDLEY (90), the largest town in Worcestershire, 8½ m. NW. of Birmingham, in the heart of the
"Black Country," with coal-mines, iron-works, and hardware manufactures.

DUDLEY, EDMUND, an English lawyer and privy-councillor; was associated with Empson as an agent
in carrying on the obnoxious policy of Henry VII., and beheaded along with him at the instance
of Henry VIII. on a charge of high treason in 1510.

DUDLEY, JOHN, grand-marshal of England, son of the preceding, father-in-law of Lady Jane Grey;
beheaded in 1558 for his part in an insurrection in her favour.

DUFF, ALEXANDER, an eminent Indian missionary, born at Moulin, near Pitlochry, Perthshire;
a man of Celtic blood, apostolic zeal, and fervid eloquence; was the first missionary sent
out to India by the Church of Scotland; sailed in 1830, returned in 1840, in 1849, and finally
in 1863, stirring up each time the missionary spirit in the Church; he was the originator of
a new method of missionary operations in the East by the introduction of English as the vehicle
of instruction in the Christian faith, which met at first with much opposition, but was finally
crowned with conspicuous success; died in Edinburgh (1806-1873).

DUFF, JAMES GRANT, Indian soldier and statesman, born at Banff; conspicuous as a soldier for
his services in subduing the Mahratta chiefs, and as a statesman for establishing friendly
relations between the Mahrattas and the East India Company (1789-1858).

DUFFERIN, MARQUIS OF, and EARL OF AVA, statesman and diplomatist; held office under Lord John
Russell and Mr. Gladstone; was in succession Governor-General of Canada, ambassador first at
St. Petersburg, then at Constantinople, and finally Governor-General of India; has since acted
as ambassador at Rome and Paris; is a man of literary as well as administrative ability; b. 1826.

DUFFY, SIR CHARLES GAVAN, an Irish patriot, born in co. Monaghan; bred for the bar; took to
journalism in the interest of his country's emancipation; was one of the founders of the Nation
newspaper; was twice over tried for sedition, but acquitted; emigrated at length to Australia,
where he soon plunged into Colonial politics, and in his political capacity rendered distinguished
services to the Australian colonies, especially in obtaining important concessions from the
mother-country; he is the author of the "Ballad Poetry of Ireland," and an interesting record
of his early experiences in "Young Ireland"; b. 1816.

DUFOUR, a Swiss general, born at Constance; commanded the army directed against the SONDERBUND
(q. v.), and brought the war there to a close (1787-1875).

DUFRESNE, CHARLES. See DU CANGE.

DUFRESNY, French painter and poet, born at Paris (1765-1825).

DUFRESNY, CHARLES RIVIÈRE, French dramatist, a universal genius, devoted to both literature
and the arts; held in high esteem by Louis XIV.; wrote a number of comedies, revealing a man
of the world, instinct with wit, and careless of style (1648-1724).

DUGDALE, SIR WILLIAM, antiquary, born in Warwickshire; was made Chester herald, accompanied
Charles I. throughout the Civil War; his chief work was the "Monasticum Anglicanum," which
he executed conjointly with Roger Duckworth; wrote also on the antiquities of Warwickshire
and heraldry; left 27 folio MSS. now in the Bodleian Library (1605-1686).

DUGOMMIER, French general, pupil of Washington, born at Guadeloupe; distinguished himself in
Italy; commanded at the siege of Toulon, which he took; fell at the battle of Sierra-Negra,
in Spain, which he had invaded (1736-1794).

DUGUAY-TROUIN, RENÉ, a celebrated French sea-captain, born at St. Malo; distinguished at first
in privateer warfare during the reign of Louis XIV., and afterwards as a frigate captain in
the royal navy, to which the royal favour promoted him; was much beloved by the sailors and
subordinate officers; died poor (1673-1736).

DU GUESCLIN, BERTRAND, constable of France, born in Côtes du Nord; one of the most illustrious
of French war-captains, and distinguished as one or the chief instruments in expelling the
English from Normandy, Guienne, and Poitou; was taken prisoner at the battle of Auray in 1364,
but ransomed for 100,000 francs, and again by the Black Prince, but soon liberated; he was
esteemed for his valour by foe and friend alike, and he was buried at St. Denis in the tomb
of the kings of France (1314-1380).

DUHESME, a French general; covered with wounds at Waterloo, he was cruelly massacred by the
Brunswick hussars in the house to which he had fled for refuge (1760-1815).

DUILIUS, CAIUS, a Roman consul; distinguished for having on the coast of Sicily gained the
first naval victory recorded in the annals of Rome, 260 B.C.

DULCE DOMUM (for Sweet Home), a song sung by the pupils at Winchester College on the approach
of and at the break-up of the school for the summer holidays.

DULCINEA DEL TOBOSA, the name Don Quixote gave to his beloved Aldonza Lorenzo, a coarse peasant-girl
of Tobosa, conceived by him as a model of all feminine perfection, and as such adored by him.

DULIA, an inferior kind of worship paid to angels and saints, in contradistinction to LATRIA
(q. v.).

DULONG, a French chemist, born at Rouen; discoverer, by accidental explosion, of the chloride
of nitrogen (1785-1838).

DULUTH (52), a port on Lake Superior, with a fine harbour, and a great centre of commerce.

DULWICH, a southern Surrey suburb of London, with a flourishing college founded in 1619, and
a picture gallery attached, rich especially in Dutch paintings. See ALLEYN, EDWARD.

DUMACHUS, the impenitent thief, figures in Longfellow's "Golden Legend" as one of a band of
robbers who attacked St. Joseph on his flight into Egypt.

DUMAS, ALEXANDRE, THE ELDER, a celebrated French author, born at Villers-Cotterets, son of
General Dumas, a Creole; lost his father at four, and led for a time a miscellaneous life,
till, driven by poverty, he came to Paris to seek his fortune; here he soon made his mark,
and became by-and-by the most popular dramatist and romancier of his time; his romances are
numerous, and he reached the climax of his fame by the production of "Monte Cristo" in 1844,
and the "Three Musketeers" the year after; he was unhappy in his marriage and with his wife,
as afterwards, he squandered his fortune in reckless extravagance; before the end it was all
spent, and he died at Dieppe, broken in health and impaired in intellect, ministered to by
his son and daughter (1806-1876).

DUMAS, ALEXANDRE, THE YOUNGER or fils, dramatist and novelist, born in Paris, son of the preceding;
he made his début as a novelist with "La Dame aux Camélias" in 1848, which was succeeded by
a number of other novels; he eventually gave himself up to the production of dramas, in which
he was more successful than in romance (1824-1895).

DUMAS, JEAN BAPTISTE ANDRÉ, a distinguished French chemist, born at Alais; was admitted to
the Académie française at the age of 25; at the Revolution of 1848 he became a member of the
National Assembly; was created a senator under the Empire, but retired into private life after
Sedan; he was distinguished for his studies in chemistry, both theoretical and practical, and
ranks among the foremost in the science (1800-1884).

DU MAURIER, artist, born in Paris; started in London as a designer of wood engravings; did
illustrations for Once a Week, the Cornhill Magazine, &c.., and finally joined the staff of
Punch, to which he contributed numerous clever sketches; he published a novel, "Peter Ibbetson,"
in 1891, which was succeeded in 1895 by "Trilby," which had such a phenomenal success in both
England and America (1834-1897).

DUMB OX, THOMAS AQUINAS (q. v.), so called from his taciturnity before he opened his mouth
and began, as predicted, to fill the world with his lowing.

DUMBARTON (17), the county town of Dumbartonshire, and a royal burgh, at the mouth of the Leven,
on the Clyde, 15 m. from Glasgow; shipbuilding the chief industry; it was the capital of the
kingdom of Strathclyde; adjoining is a castle of historic interest, 250 ft. high, kept up as
a military fortress; the county, which is fertile, and was originally part of Lennox, is traversed
by the Leven, with its bleach-fields and factories.

DUMBDRUDGE, an imaginary village referred to in "Sartor," where the natives toil and drudge
away and say nothing about it, as villagers all over the world used contentedly to do, and
did for most part, at the time "Sartor" was written, though less so now.

DUMBIEDIKES, a Scotch laird who figures in the "Heart of Midlothian," in love with Jeanie Deans.

DUMESNIL, MARIE FRANÇOISE, a celebrated French tragédienne, born near Alençon; like Mrs. Siddons,
surpassed all others at the time in the representation of dignity, pathos, and strong emotion;
made her first appearance in 1737, retired in 1775 (1711-1803).

DUMFRIES (18), an agricultural market-town, county town of Dumfriesshire and a seaport, stands
on the left bank of the Nith, with Maxwelltown as suburb on the right, 90 m. SW. of Edinburgh;
manufactures tweeds and hosiery, and trades in cattle; here Robert Burns spent the last five
years of his life, and his remains lie buried.

DUMFRIESSHIRE (74), a south-western Border county of Scotland; an agricultural district, which
slopes from a northern pastoral region to the Solway, and is traversed by the fertile valleys
of Nithsdale and Annandale.

DUMNORIX, a chief of the Æduan nation in Gaul, who gave some trouble to Cæsar in his conquest
of Gaul.

DUMONT, AUGUSTIN-ALEXANDRE, a sculptor, born in Paris (1801-1884).

DUMONT, JEAN, an eminent French publicist, who settled in Austria and served the emperor; wrote
on international law (1660-1726).

DUMONT, LOUIS, a French publicist, born at Geneva, a friend of Mirabeau, memoirs of whom he
wrote, and who, coming to England, formed a close intimacy with Jeremy Bentham, and became
his disciple and expounder (1759-1829).

DUMONT D'URVILLE, JULES, a celebrated French navigator, born at Condé-sur-Noireau; made a three
years' voyage round the world, and visited the Antarctic regions, of which he made a survey;
he was distinguished as a scientist no less than a sea-captain; lost his life in a railway
accident at Versailles (1790-1842).

DUMOULIN, a celebrated French jurist, born at Paris; did for French law what Cujas (q. v.)
did for Roman (1500-1560).

DUMOURIEZ, a French general, born at Cambrai, "a wiry, elastic, unwearied man ... creature,"
as he boasted in his old age, "of God and his own sword ... on the whole, one of Heaven's Swiss";
took when already grey to the Revolution and fought on its behalf; gained the battles of Valmy
and Jemmapes; conquered Belgium, but being distrusted, passed over to the ranks of the enemies
of France; a man really "without faith; wanted above all things work, work on any side"; died
an exile in England (1739-1824). See Carlyle's "French Revolution."

DÜNA, a river of Russia, which rises near the source of the Volga, and after a W. and NW. course
of 650 m. falls into the Gulf of Riga; it is connected with the Dnieper by the Beresina Canal.

DUNBAR, an ancient seaport and town of Haddingtonshire, on the coast of the Forth, 29 m. E.
of Edinburgh; is a fishing station, and manufactures agricultural implements and paper; was,
with its castle, which has stood many a siege, a place of importance in early Scottish history;
near it Cromwell beat the Scots under Leslie on September 3, 1650.

DUNBAR, William, a Scottish poet, entered the Franciscan order and became an itinerant preaching
friar, in which capacity he wandered over the length and breadth of the land, enjoying good
cheer by the way; was some time in the service of James IV., and wrote a poem, his most famous
piece, entitled "The Thistle and the Rose," on the occasion of the King's marriage with the
Princess Margaret Tudor, daughter of Henry VII. His poems were of three classes--allegoric,
moral, and comic, the most remarkable being "The Dance," in which he describes the procession
of the seven deadly sins in the infernal regions. Scott says he "was a poet unrivalled by any
that Scotland has produced" (1480-1520).

DUNBLANE, a town in Perthshire, 5 m. N. of Stirling, with a beautiful cathedral, which dates
back as far as 1240; of the diocese the saintly Leighton was bishop.

DUNCAN, ADAM, VISCOUNT, a British admiral, born at Dundee; entered the navy in 1746; steadily
rose in rank till, in 1795, he became admiral of the Blue and commander of the North Sea fleet
in 1795; kept watching the movements of the Dutch squadron for two years, till, at the end
of that term, it put to sea, and came up with it off Camperdown, and totally defeated it, June
11, 1797 (1731-1804).

DUNCAN, THOMAS, a Scotch artist, born at Kinclaven, Perthshire; painted fancy and Scoto-historical
subjects, and a number of excellent portraits; his career, which was full of promise, was cut
short by an early death (1807-1845).

DUNCIAD, THE, a satire of Pope's in four books, the "fiercest" as well as the best of his satires,
in which, with merciless severity, he applies the lash to his critics, and in which Colley
Cibber figures as the King of Dunces.

DUNCKER, MAX, a historical writer, born in Berlin; held a professorship at Halle and Tübingen,
and became a minister of State; wrote among other works a work of great learning, in seven
vols., entitled the "History of Antiquity" (1811-1886).

DUNCOMBE, T. S., an English politician, M.P. for Finsbury, one of the extreme Liberal party
of the time, presented to the House of Commons the Chartist petition in 1842; denounced Sir
James Graham, the Home Secretary of the day, for opening Mazzini's letter, and advocated Jewish
emancipation (1796-1861).

DUNDALK (12), capital of co. Louth, Ireland, 50 m. N. of Dublin; a place of considerable trade
and manufactures; is an ancient city; Edward Bruce, the last king of all Ireland, was crowned
and resided here; it was besieged and taken more than once, by Cromwell for one.

DUNDAS (of Arniston), the name of a Scottish family, many of the members of which have distinguished
themselves at the bar and on the bench.

DUNDAS, HENRY, VISCOUNT MELVILLE, a junior member of the above family; trained for the bar;
rose to be Lord Advocate for Scotland and M.P. for the county of Edinburgh; opposed at first
to Pitt, he became at last his ablest coadjutor in Parliament, and did important services in
connection with the military and naval defences of the country; his power was sovereign in
Scotland; his statue, mounted on a lofty column, adorns one of the principal squares of the
New Town of Edinburgh (1741-1811).

DUNDEE (153), the third largest city in Scotland, stands on the Firth of Tay, 10 m. from the
mouth; has a large seaport; is a place of considerable commercial enterprise; among its numerous
manufactures the chief is the jute; it has a number of valuable institutions, and sends two
members to Parliament.

DUNDONALD, THOMAS COCHRANE, EARL OF, entered the navy at the age of 17; became captain of the
Speedy, a sloop-of-war of 14 guns and 54 men; captured in ten months 33 vessels; was captured
by a French squadron, but had his sword returned to him; signalised himself afterwards in a
succession of daring feats; selected to burn the French fleet lying at anchor in the Basque
Roads, he was successful by means of fire-ships in destroying several vessels, but complained
he was not supported by Lord Gambier, the admiral, a complaint which was fatal to his promotion
in the service; disgraced otherwise, he went abroad and served in foreign navies, and materially
contributed to the establishment of the republic of Chile and the empire of Brazil; in 1830
he was restored by his party, the Whigs, to his naval rank, as a man who had been the victim
of the opposite party, and made a vice-admiral of the Blue in 1841; he afterwards vindicated
himself in his "Autobiography of a Seaman" (1775-1860).

DUNDREARY, LORD, a character of the play "Our American Cousin"; the personification of a good-natured,
brainless swell; represented uniquely on the stage by Mr. Sothern.

DUNEDIN (47), the capital of Otago, in New Zealand, situated well south on the E. side of the
South Isle, at the head of a spacious bay, and the largest commercial city in the colony; founded
by Scotch emigrants in 1848, one of the leaders a nephew of Robert Burns.

DUNES, low hills of sand extending along the coast of the Netherlands and the N. of France.

DUNFERMLINE (19), an ancient burgh in the W. of Fife; a place of interest as a residence of
the early kings of Scotland, and as the birthplace of David II., James I., and Charles I.,
and for its abbey; it stands in the middle of a coal-field, and is the seat of extensive linen
manufactures.

DUNKELD, a town in Perthshire, 15 m. NW. of Perth, with a fine 14th-century cathedral.

DUNKERS, a sect of Quakerist Baptists in the United States.

DUNKIRK (40), the most northern seaport and fortified town of France, on the Strait of Dover;
has manufactures and considerable trade.

DUNNET HEAD, a rocky peninsula, the most northerly point in Scotland, the rocks from 100 to
600 ft. high.

DUNNOTTAR CASTLE, an old castle of the Keiths now in ruins, on the flat summit of a precipitous
rock 1½ m. S. of Stonehaven, Kincardineshire, Scotland, and connected with the mainland by
a neck of land called the "Fiddle Head"; famous in Scottish history as a State prison, and
as the place of safe-keeping at a troubled period for the Scottish regalia, now in Edinburgh
Castle.

DUNOIS, JEAN, a French patriot, called the Bastard of Orleans, born in Paris, natural son of
Louis of Orleans, brother of Charles VI.; one of the national heroes of France; along with
Joan of Arc, compelled the English to raise the siege of Orleans, and contributed powerfully,
by his sword, to all but expel the English from France after the death of that heroine (1402-1468).

DUNS SCOTUS, JOHANNES, one of the most celebrated of the scholastics of the 14th century, whether
he was native of England, Scotland, or Ireland is uncertain; entered the Franciscan order,
and from his acuteness got the name of "Doctor Subtilis"; lectured at Oxford to crowds of auditors,
and also at Paris; was the contemporary of Thomas Aquinas, and the head of an opposing school
of Scotists, as against Thomists, as they were called; whereas Aquinas "proclaimed the Understanding
as principle, he proclaimed the Will, from whose spontaneous exercise he derived all morality;
with this separation of theory from practice and thought from thing (which accompanied it)
philosophy became divided from theology, reason from faith; reason took a position above faith,
above authority (in modern philosophy), and the religious consciousness broke with the traditional
dogma (at the Reformation)."

DUNSTAN, ST., an English ecclesiastic, born at Glastonbury; a man of high birth and connection
as well as varied accomplishments; began a religious life as a monk living in a cell by himself,
and prevailed in single combat on one occasion with the devil; became abbot of Glastonbury,
in which capacity he adopted the rôle of statesman, and arose to great authority during the
reign of Edgar, becoming archbishop of Canterbury, ruling the nation with vigour and success,
but with the death of Edgar his power declined, and he retired to Canterbury, where he died
of grief and vexation; he is the patron saint of goldsmiths (924-988).

DUNTON, WATTS. See WATTS, THEODORE.

DUPANLOUP, a French prelate, bishop of Orleans, born at St. Felix, in Savoy; a singularly able
and eloquent man; devoted himself to educational emancipation and reform; protested vigorously
against papal infallibility; yielded at length, and stood up in defence of the Church (1802-1878).

DUPERRÉ, a French admiral, born at La Rochelle; contributed along with Marshal Bourmont to
the taking of Algiers (1775-1846).

DUPERRON, cardinal, a Swiss by birth and a Calvinist by religious profession; went to Paris,
turned papist, and rose to ecclesiastical eminence in France under Henry IV. (1556-1618).

DUPIN, ANDRÉ, French jurist and statesman; distinguished at the time of the revolution of the
three days as a supporter of Louis Philippe, and of the house of Orleans after him (1783-1865).

DUPLEIX, JOSEPH, a French merchant, head of a factory at Chandernagore, who rose to be governor
of the French settlements in India, and in the management of which he displayed conspicuous
ability, defending them against the English and receiving the dignity of marquis; jealousy
at home, however, led to his recall, and he was left to end his days in neglect and poverty,
though he pled hard with the cabinet at Versailles to have respect to the sacrifices he made
for his country (1697-1763).

DUPLESSIS, MORNAY, a soldier, diplomatist, and man of letters; a leader of the Huguenots, who,
after the massacre of St. Bartholomew, visited England, where he was received with favour by
Elizabeth in 1575; entered the service of the King of Navarre, afterwards Henry IV. of France,
but on Henry's reconciliation with the Church of Rome, retired into private life and devoted
himself to literary pursuits; he was called the "Pope of the Huguenots"; d. 1623.

DUPONT, PIERRE, French song-writer; his songs, "Le Chant des Ouvriers" and "Les Boeufs," the
delight of the young generation of 1848 (1820-1872).

DUPONT DE L'EURE, a French politician, born at Neubourg; filled several important offices in
the successive periods of revolution in France; was distinguished for his integrity and patriotism,
and made President of the Provisional Government in 1848 (1767-1855).

DUPONT DE NEMOURS, French political economist; took part in the Revolution; was opposed to
the excesses of the Jacobin party, but escaped with his life; wrote a book entitled "Philosophie
de l'Universe" (1739-1817).

DUPUIS, CHARLES FRANÇOIS, a French savant; was a member of the Convention of the Council of
the Five Hundred, and President of the Legislative Body during the Revolution period; devoted
himself to the study of astronomy in connection with mythology, the result of which was published
in his work in 12 vols., entitled "Origine de tous les Cultes, ou la Religion Universelle";
he advocated the unity of the astronomical and religious myths of all nations (1742-1809).

DUPUY, M. CHARLES, French statesman, born at Puy; elected to the Chamber in 1885; became Premier
in 1893 and in 1894; was in office when Dreyfus was condemned and degraded, and resigned in
1895; b. 1851.

DUPUYTREN, BARON, a celebrated French surgeon, born at Pierre-Buffière; he was a man of firm
nerve, signally sure and skilful as an operator, and contributed greatly, both by his inventions
and discoveries, to the progress of surgery; a museum of pathological anatomy, in which he
made important discoveries, bears his name (1777-1835).

DUQUESNE, ABRAHAM, MARQUIS, an illustrious naval officer of France, born at Dieppe; distinguished
himself in many a naval engagement, and did much to enhance the naval glory of the country;
among other achievements plucked the laurels from the brow of his great rival, De Ruyter, by,
in 1676, defeating the combined fleets of Spain and Holland under his command; Louis XIV. offered
him a marshal's baton if he would abjure Calvinism, but he declined; he was the only one of
the Huguenots excepted from proscription in the Revocation of the Edict of Nantes, but his
last days were saddened by the banishment of his children (1610-1688).

DURA DEN, a glen near Cupar-Fife, famous for the number of ganoid fossil fishes entombed in
its sandstone.

DURANCE, a tributary of the Rhône, which, after a rapid course of 180 m., falls into that river
by its left bank 3 m. below Avignon.

DURAND, an Indian officer; served in the Afghan and Sikh Wars, and became Lieutenant-Governor
of the Punjab (1828-1871).

DURANDAL, the miraculous sword of Orlando, with which he could cleave mountains at a blow.

DURBAN (27), the port of Natal, largest town in the colony, with a land-locked harbour.

DURBAR, a ceremonious State reception in India.

DÜRER, ALBERT, the great early German painter and engraver, born at Nürnberg, son of a goldsmith,
a good man, who brought him up to his own profession, but he preferred painting, for which
he early exhibited a special aptitude, and his father bound him apprentice for three years
to the chief artist in the place, at the expiry of which he travelled in Germany and other
parts; in 1506 he visited Venice, where he met Bellini, and painted several pictures; proceeded
thence to Bologna, and was introduced to Raphael; his fame spread widely, and on his return
he was appointed court-painter by the Emperor Maximilian, an office he held under Charles V.;
he was of the Reformed faith, and a friend of Melanchthon as well as an admirer of Luther,
on whose incarceration in Wartburg he uttered a long lament; he was a prince of painters, his
drawing and colouring perfect, and the inventor of etching, in which he was matchless; he carved
in wood, ivory, stone, and metal; was an author as well as an artist, and wrote, among other
works, an epoch-making treatise on proportion in the human figure; "it could not be better
done" was his quiet, confident reply as a sure workman to a carper on one occasion (1471-1528).

D'URFEY, TOM, a facetious poet; author of comedies and songs; a great favourite of Charles
II. and his court; of comedies he wrote some 30, which are all now discarded for their licentiousness,
and a curious book of sonnets, entitled "Pills to Purge Melancholy"; came to poverty in the
end of his days; Addison pled on his behalf, and hoped that "as he had made the world merry,
the world would make him easy" (1628-1723).

DURGÂ, in the Hindu mythology the consort of Siva.

DURHAM (15), an ancient city on the Wear, with a noble cathedral and a castle, once the residence
of the bishop, now a university seat, in the heart of a county of the same name (1,106), rich
in coal-fields, and with numerous busy manufacturing towns.

DURHAM, ADMIRAL, entered the navy in 1777; was officer on the watch when the Royal George went
down off Spithead, and the only one with Captain Waghorn who escaped; served as acting-lieutenant
of a ship under Lord Howe at the relief of Gibraltar, and commanded the Defence, a ship of
74 guns, at the battle of Trafalgar (1763-1815).

DURHAM, JOHN G. L., EARL OF, an English statesman, born in Durham Co.; a zealous Liberal and
reformer, and a member of the Reform Government under Earl Grey, which he contributed much
to inaugurate; was ambassador in St. Petersburg, and was sent governor-general to Canada in
1839, but owing to some misunderstanding took the extraordinary step of ultroneously returning
within the year (1792-1840).

DURWARD, QUENTIN, a Scottish archer in the service of Louis XI., the hero of a novel of Scott's
of the name.

DÜSSELDORF (176), a well-built town of Rhenish Prussia, on the right bank of the Rhine; it
is a place of manufactures, and has a fine picture-gallery with a famous school of art associated.

DUTENS, JOSEPH, a French engineer and political economist (1763-1848).

DUTENS, LOUIS, a French savant, born at Tours; after being chaplain to the British minister
at Turin, settled in England, and became historiographer-royal; was a man of varied learning,
and well read in historical subjects and antiquities (1730-1812).

DUTROCHET, a French physiologist and physicist, known for his researches on the passage of
fluids through membranous tissues (1776-1847).

DUUMVIRS, the name of two Roman magistrates who exercised the same public functions.

DUVAL, CLAUDE, a French numismatist, and writer on numismatics; keeper of the imperial cabinet
of Vienna; was originally a shepherd boy (1695-1775).

DWIGHT, TIMOTHY, an American theologian, grandson of Jonathan Edwards, and much esteemed in
his day both as a preacher and a writer; his "Theology Explained and Defended," in 5 vols.,
was very popular at one time, and was frequently reprinted (1752-1817).

DWINA, a Russian river, distinguished from the DÜNA (q. v.), also called Duna, and an important,
which flows N. to the White Sea.

DYAKS, the native name of tribes of Malays of a superior class aboriginal to Borneo.

DYCE, ALEXANDER, an English literary editor and historian, born in Edinburgh; edited several
of the old English poets and authors, some of them little known before; also the poems of Shakespeare,
Pope, &c.; was one of the founders of the Percy Society, for the publication of old English
works (1798-1869).

DYCE, WILLIAM, a distinguished Scottish artist, born in Aberdeen, studied in Rome; settled
for a time in Edinburgh, and finally removed to London; painted portraits at first, but soon
took to higher subjects of art; his work was such as to commend itself to both German and French
artists; he gave himself to fresco-painting, and as a fresco-painter was selected to adorn
the walls of the Palace of Westminster and the House of Lords; his "Baptism of Ethelbert,"
in the latter, is considered his best work (1806-1864).

DYCK, VAN. See VANDYCK.

DYER, JOHN, English poet; was a great lover and student of landscape scenery, and his poems,
"Grongar Hill" and the "Fleece," abound in descriptions of these, the scenery of the former
lying in S. Wales (1700-1758).

DYNAM, the unit of work, or the force required to raise one pound one foot in one second.

DYNAMITE, a powerful explosive substance, intensely local in its action; formed by impregnating
a porous siliceous earth or other substance with some 70 per cent. of nitro-glycerine.

DYNAMO, a machine by which mechanical work is transformed into powerful electric currents by
the inductive action of magnets on coils of copper wire in motion.

E

EACUS. See ÆACUS.

EADMER, a celebrated monk of Canterbury; flourished in the 12th century; friend and biographer
of St. Anselm, author of a History of His Own Times, as also of many of the Lives of the Saints;
elected to the bishopric of St. Andrews in 1120; resigned on account of Alexander I. refusing
to admit the right of the English Archbishop of Canterbury to perform the ceremony of consecration.

EADRIC, a Saxon, notorious for his treachery, fighting now with his countrymen against the
Danes and now with the Danes against them, till put to death by order of Canute in 1017.

EADS, JAMES BUCHANAN, an American engineer, born in Laurenceburg, Indiana; designed ingenious
boats for floating submerged ships; built with remarkable speed warships for the Federalists
in 1861; constructed a steel bridge spanning the Mississippi at St. Louis, noteworthy for its
central span of 520 ft. (1820-1887).

EAGLE, the king of birds, and bird of Jove; was adopted by various nations as the emblem of
dominant power, as well as of nobility and generosity; in Christian art it is the symbol of
meditation, and the attribute of St. John; is represented now as fighting with a serpent, and
now as drinking out of a chalice or a communion cup, to strengthen it for the fight.

EAGLE, ORDER OF THE BLACK, an order of knighthood founded by the Elector of Brandenburg in
1701; with this order was ultimately incorporated the ORDER OF THE RED EAGLE, founded in 1734
by the Markgraf of Bayreuth.

EAGLE OF BRITTANY, DU GUESCLIN (q. v.).

EAGLE OF MEAUX, BOSSUET (q. v.).

EAGRE, a name given in England to a tidal wave rushing up a river or estuary on the top of
another, called also a BORE (q. v.).

EARL, a title of nobility, ranking third in the British peerage; originally election to the
dignity of earl carried with it a grant of land held in feudal tenure, the discharge of judicial
and administrative duties connected therewith, and was the occasion of a solemn service of
investiture. In course of time the title lost its official character, and since the reign of
Queen Anne all ceremony of investiture has been dispensed with, the title being conferred by
letters-patent. The word is derived from the Anglo-Saxon eorls which signified the "gentle
folk," as distinguished from the ceorls, the "churls" or "simple folk."

EARL MARSHAL, a high officer of State, an office of very ancient institution, now the head
of the college of arms, and hereditary in the family of the Dukes of Norfolk; formerly one
of the chief officers in the court of chivalry, a court which had to do with all matters of
high ceremonial, such as coronations.

EARLOM, RICHARD, a mezzotint engraver, born in London; celebrated for his series of 200 prints
after the original designs of Claude de Lorraine (1743-1822).

EARLSTON or ERCILDOUNE, a village in Berwickshire, with manufactures of ginghams and other
textiles. In its vicinity stand the ruins of the "Rhymer's Tower," alleged to have been the
residence of Thomas the Rhymer.

EARLY ENGLISH, a term in architecture used to designate that particular form of Gothic architecture
in vogue in England in the 13th century, whose chief characteristic was the pointed arch.

EARTH HOUSES, known also as Yird Houses, Weems and Picts' Houses, underground dwellings in
use in Scotland, extant even after the Roman evacuation of Britain. Entrance was effected by
a passage not much wider than a fox burrow, which sloped downwards 10 or 12 ft. to the floor
of the house; the inside was oval in shape, and was walled with overlapping rough stone slabs;
the roof frequently reached to within a foot of the earth's surface; they probably served as
store-houses, winter-quarters, and as places of refuge in times of war. Similar dwellings are
found in Ireland.

EARTHLY PARADISE, poem by William Morris, his greatest effort, considered his masterpiece;
consists of 24 tales by 24 travellers in quest of an earthly paradise.

EAST INDIA COMPANY, founded in 1600; erected its first factories on the mainland in 1612 at
Surat, but its most profitable trade in these early years was with the Spice Islands, Java,
Sumatra, &c.; driven from these islands by the Dutch in 1622, the Company established itself
altogether on the mainland; although originally created under royal charter for purely commercial
purposes, it in 1689 entered upon a career of territorial acquisition, which culminated in
the establishment of British power in India; gradually, as from time to time fresh renewals
of its charter were granted, it was stripped of its privileges and monopolies, till in 1858,
after the Mutiny, all its powers were vested in the British Crown.

EAST RIVER, the strait which separates Brooklyn and New York cities, lying between Long Island
Sound and New York Bay, about 10 m. long; is spanned by a bridge.

EASTBOURNE (35), a fashionable watering-place and health resort on the Sussex coast, between
Brighton and Hastings, and 66 m. S. of London; has Roman remains, and is described in "Domesday
Book."

EASTER, an important festival of the Church commemorating the resurrection of Christ; held
on the first Sunday after the first full moon of the calendar which happens on or next after
21st of March, and constituting the beginning of the ecclesiastical year; the date of it determines
the dates of other movable festivals; derives its name from Eastre, a Saxon goddess, whose
festival was celebrated about the same time, and to which many of the Easter customs owe their
origin.

EASTERN STATES, the six New England States in N. America--Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts,
Rhode Island, and Connecticut.

EASTLAKE, SIR CHARLES LOCK, artist and author, born at Plymouth; studied painting in London
and in Paris; produced the last portrait of Napoleon, which he executed from a series of sketches
of the emperor on board the Bellerophon in Plymouth harbour; he travelled in Greece, and from
1816 to 1830 made his home at Rome; "Christ Weeping over Jerusalem," his greatest work, appeared
in 1841; was President of the Royal Academy; wrote several works on subjects relating to his
art, and translated Goethe's "Farbenlehre" (1793-1865).

EASTWICK, EDWARD BACKHOUSE, Orientalist and diplomatist, born at Warfield, in Berkshire; went
to India as a cadet, acquired an extensive knowledge of Indian dialects and Eastern languages,
and passed an interpretership examination, gaining the high proficiency reward of 1000 rupees;
carried through peace negotiations with China in 1842; invalided home, he became professor
of Hindustani at Haileybury College; afterwards studied law and was called to the bar; entered
Parliament, and held various political appointments, including a three years' embassy in Persia;
was a fellow of many antiquarian and philological societies; amongst his numerous philological
productions and translations his "Gulistan" and "Life of Zoroaster" from the Persian are noted
(1814-1883).

EAU CREOLE, a liqueur from the distillation of the flowers of the mammee apple with spirits
of wine.

EAU-DE-COLOGNE, a perfume originally manufactured at Cologne by distillation from certain essential
oils with rectified spirit.

EBAL, MOUNT, a mountain with a level summit, which rises to the height of 3077 ft. on the N.
side of the narrow Vale of Shechem, in Palestine, and from the slopes of which the people of
Israel responded to the curses which were pronounced by the Levites in the valley.

EBERHARD, JOHANN AUGUST, German philosophical writer, born at Halberstadt; professor at Halle;
rationalistic in his theology, and opposed to the Kantian metaphysics; was a disciple of Leibnitz;
wrote a "New Apology of Socrates," in defence of rationalism in theology, as well as a "Universal
History of Philosophy," and a work on German synonyms (1739-1809).

EBERS, GEORGE MORITZ, German Egyptologist, born at Berlin; discovered an important papyrus;
was professor successively at Jena and Leipzig; laid aside by ill-health, betook himself to
novel-writing as a pastime; was the author of "Aarda, a Romance of Ancient Egypt," translated
by Clara Bell (1837-1898).

EBERT, KARL EGON, a Bohemian poet, born at Prague; his poems, dramatic and lyric, are collected
in 7 vols., and enjoy a wide popularity in his country (1801-1882).

EBIONITES, a sect that in the 2nd century sought to combine Judaism and the hopes of Judaism
with Christianity, and rejected the authority of St. Paul and of the Pauline writings; they
denied the divinity of Christ, and maintained that only the poor as such were the objects of
salvation.

EBLIS, in Mohammedan tradition the chief of the fallen angels, consigned to perdition for refusing
to worship Adam at the command of his Creator, and who gratified his revenge by seducing Adam
and Eve from innocency.

EBONY, a name given to Blackwood by James Hogg, and eventually applied to his magazine.

EBRO, a river of Spain, rises in the Cantabrian Mountains, flows SE. into the Mediterranean
80 m. SW. of Barcelona, after a course of 422 m.

ECBATANA, the ancient capital of Media, situated near Mount Orontes (now Elvend); was surrounded
by seven walls of different colours that increased in elevation towards the central citadel;
was a summer residence of the Persian and Parthian kings. The modern town of Hamadan now occupies
the site of it.

ECCE HOMO (i. e. Behold the Man), a representation of Christ as He appeared before Pilate crowned
with thorns and bound with ropes, as in the painting of Correggio, a subject which has been
treated by many of the other masters, such as Titian and Vandyck.

ECCHYMOSIS, a discolouration of the skin produced by extravasated blood under or in the texture
of the skin, the result of a blow or of disease.

ECCLEFECHAN, a market-town of Dumfriesshire, consisting for the most part of the High Street,
5 m. S. of Lockerbie, on the main road to Carlisle, 16 m. to the S.; noted as the birth and
burial place of Thomas Carlyle.

ECCLESIASTES (i. e. the Preacher), a book of the Old Testament, questionably ascribed to Solomon,
and now deemed of more recent date as belonging to a period when the reflective spirit prevailed;
and it is written apparently in depreciation of mere reflection as a stepping-stone to wisdom.
The standpoint of the author is a religious one; the data on which he rests is given in experience,
and his object is to expose the vanity of every source of satisfaction which is not founded
on the fear, and has not supreme regard for the commandments, of God, a doctrine which is the
very ground-principle of the Jewish faith; but if vanity is written over the whole field of
human experience, he argues, this is not the fault of the system of things, but due, according
to the author, to the folly of man (chap. vii. 29).

ECCLESIASTICAL POLITY, THE LAW OF, a vindication of the Anglican Church against the Puritans,
written by Richard Hooker; the most splendid and stately piece of literary prose that exists
in the language.

ECCLESIASTICAL STATES, territories in Italy once subject to the Pope as a temporal prince as
well as ecclesiastically.

ECCLESIASTICUS, one of the books of the Apocrypha, ascribed to Jesus, the son of Sirach, admitted
to the sacred canon by the Council of Trent, though excluded by the Jews. It contains a body
of wise maxims, in imitation, as regards matter as well as form, of the Proverbs of Solomon,
and an appendix on the men who were the disciples of wisdom. Its general aim, as has been said,
is "to represent wisdom as the source of all virtue and blessedness, and by warnings, admonitions,
and promises to encourage in the pursuit of it." It was originally written in Hebrew, but is
now extant only in a Greek translation executed in Egypt, professedly by the author's grandson.

ECCLESIOLOGY, the name given in England to the study of church architecture and all that concerns
the ground-plan and the internal arrangements of the parts of the edifice.

ECGBERHT, archbishop of York; was a pupil of Bede, and the heir to his learning; founded a
far-famed school at York, which developed into a university; flourished in 766.

ECHIDNA, a fabulous monster that figures in the Greek mythology, half-woman, half-serpent,
the mother of Cerberus, the Lernean Hydra, the Chimæra, the Sphinx, the Gorgons, the Nemean
Lion, the vulture that gnawed the liver of Prometheus, &c.

ECHO, a wood-nymph in love with Narcissus, who did not return her love, in consequence of which
she pined away till all that remained of her was only her voice.

ECK, JOHN, properly MAÍER, a German theologian, of Swabian birth, professor at Ingolstadt;
a violent, blustering antagonist of Luther and Luther's doctrines; in his zeal went to Rome,
and procured a papal bull against both; undertook at the Augsburg Diet to controvert Luther's
doctrine from the Fathers, but not from the Scriptures; was present at the conferences of Worms
and Regensburg (1486-1543).

ECKERMANN, JOHANN PETER, a German writer, born at Winsen, in Hanover; friend of Goethe, and
editor of his works; the author of "Conversations with Goethe in the Last Years of his Life,
1823-32," a record of wise reflections and of Goethe's opinions on all subjects, of the utmost
interest to all students of the German sage (1792-1854).

ECKHART, MEISTER, a German philosopher and divine, profoundly speculative and mystical; entered
the Dominican Order, and rapidly attained to a high position in the Church; arraigned for heresy
in 1325, and was acquitted, but two years after his death his writings were condemned as heretical
by a papal bull; died in 1327.

ECKMÜHL, a village in Bavaria where Napoleon defeated the Austrians in 1809, and which gave
the title of Duke to DAVOUT (q. v.), one of Napoleon's generals.

ECLECTICS, so-called philosophers who attach themselves to no system, but select what, in their
judgment, is true out of others. In antiquity the Eclectic philosophy is that which sought
to unite into a coherent whole the doctrines of Pythagoras, Plato, and Aristotle, such as that
of Plotinus and Proclus was. There is an eclecticism in art as well as philosophy, and the
term is applied to an Italian school which aimed at uniting the excellencies of individual
great masters.

ECLIPTIC, the name given to the circular path in the heavens round which the sun appears to
move in the course of the year, an illusion caused by the earth's annual circuit round the
sun, with its axis inclined at an angle to the equator of 23½ degrees; is the central line
of the ZODIAC (q. v.), so called because it was observed that eclipses occurred only when the
earth was on or close upon this path.

ECONOMY, "the right arrangement of things," and distinct from Frugality, which is "the careful
and fitting use of things."

ECORCHEURS (lit. flayers properly of dead bodies), armed bands who desolated France in the
reign of Charles VII., stripping their victims of everything, often to their very clothes.

ECSTATIC DOCTOR, Jean Ruysbroek, a schoolman given to mysticism (1294-1381).

ECUADOR (1,271), a republic of S. America, of Spanish origin, created in 1822; derives its
name from its position on the equator; lies between Columbia and Peru; is traversed by the
Andes, several of the peaks of which are actively volcanic; the population consists of Peruvian
Indians, negroes, Spanish Creoles; exports cocoa, coffee, hides, and medicinal plants; the
administration is vested in a president, a vice-president, two ministers, a senate of 18, and
a house of deputies of 30, elected by universal suffrage.

ECUMENICAL COUNCIL, an ecclesiastical council representative, or accepted as representative,
of the Church universal or Catholic. See COUNCILS.

ECZEMA, a common skin disease, which may be either chronic or acute; develops in a red rash
of tiny vesicles, which usually burst and produce a characteristic scab; is not contagious,
and leaves no scar.

EDDYSTONE LIGHTHOUSE, situated on a low reef of rocks submerged at high tide, 14 m. SW. of
Plymouth; first built of wood by Winstanley, 1696; destroyed by a storm in 1703; rebuilt of
wood on a stone base by Rudyard; burnt in 1755, and reconstructed by Smeaton of solid stone;
the present edifice, on a different site, was completed by Sir James Douglas in 1882, is 133
ft. in height, and has a light visible 17½ m. off.

EDELINCK, GERARD, a Flemish copper-plate engraver, born at Antwerp; invited to France by Colbert,
and patronised by Louis XIV.; executed in a masterly manner many works from historical subjects
(1640-1707).

EDEN (i. e. place of delight), Paradise, the original spot referred to by tradition wholly
uncertain, though believed to have been in the Far East, identified in Moslem tradition with
the moon.

EDESSA (40), an ancient city in Mesopotamia; figures in early Church history, and is reputed
to have contained at one time 300 monasteries; it fell into the hands of the Turks in 1515;
is regarded as the sacred city of Abraham by Orientals.

EDFU, a town in Upper Egypt, on the left bank of the Nile; has unique ruins of two temples,
the larger founded by Ptolemy IV. Philopater before 200 B.C.

EDGAR, a king of Saxon England from 959 to 975, surnamed the Peaceful; promoted the union and
consolidation of the Danish and Saxon elements within his realm; cleared Wales of wolves by
exacting of its inhabitants a levy of 300 wolves' heads yearly; eight kings are said to have
done him homage by rowing him on the Dee; St. Dunstan, the archbishop of Canterbury, was the
most prominent figure of the reign.

EDGAR THE ATHELING, a Saxon prince, the grandson of Edmund Ironside; was hurriedly proclaimed
king of England after the death of Harold in the battle of Hastings, but was amongst the first
to offer submission on the approach of the Conqueror; spent his life in a series of feeble
attempts at rebellion, and lived into the reign of Henry I.

EDGEHILL, in the S. of Warwickshire, the scene of the first battle in the Civil War, in 1642,
between the royal forces under Charles I. and the Parliamentary under Essex; though the Royalists
had the worst of it, no real advantage was gained by either side.

EDGEWORTH, HENRY ESSEX, known as the "Abbé" Edgeworth, born in Ireland, son of a Protestant
clergyman; educated at the Sorbonne, in Paris; entered the priesthood, and became the confessor
of Louis XVI., whom he attended on the scaffold; exclaimed as the guillotine came down, "Son
of St. Louis, ascend to heaven!" left France soon after; was subsequently chaplain to Louis
XVIII. (1745-1807).

EDGEWORTH, MARIA, novelist, born at Blackbourton, Berks; from her fifteenth year her home was
in Ireland; she declined the suit of a Swedish count, and remained till the close of her life
unmarried; amongst the best known of her works are "Moral Tales," "Tales from Fashionable Life,"
"Castle Rackrent," "The Absentee," and "Ormond"; her novels are noted for their animated pictures
of Irish life, and were acknowledged by Scott to have given him the first suggestion of the
Waverley series; the Russian novelist, Turgenief, acknowledges a similar indebtedness; "in
her Irish stories she gave," says Stopford Brooke, "the first impulse to the novel of national
character, and in her other tales to the novel with a moral purpose" (1766-1849).

EDGEWORTH, RICHARD LOVELL, an Irish landlord, father of Maria Edgeworth, with a genius for
mechanics, in which he displayed a remarkable talent for invention; was member of the last
Irish Parliament; educated his son in accordance with the notions of Rousseau; wrote some works
on mechanical subjects in collaboration with his daughter (1744-1817).

EDICT OF NANTES, an edict issued in 1598 by Henry IV. of France, granting toleration to the
Protestants; revoked by Louis XIV. in 1685.

EDIE OCHILTREE, a character in Scott's "Antiquary."

EDINA, poetic name for Edinburgh.

EDINBURGH (263), the capital of Scotland, on the Firth of Forth, picturesquely situated amid
surrounding hills; derives its name from Edwin, king of Northumbria in the 7th century; was
created a burgh in 1329 by Robert the Bruce, and recognised as the capital in the 15th century,
under the Stuarts; it has absorbed in its growth adjoining municipalities; is noted as an educational
centre; is the seat of the Supreme Courts; has a university, castle, and royal palace, and
the old Scotch Parliament House, now utilised by the Law Courts; brewing and printing are the
chief industries, but the upper classes of the citizens are for the most part either professional
people or living in retirement.

EDINBURGH REVIEW, a celebrated quarterly review started in October 1802 in Edinburgh to further
the Whig interest; amongst its founders and contributors were Horner, Brougham, Jeffrey, and
Sidney Smith, the latter being editor of the first three numbers; Jeffrey assumed the editorship
in 1803, and in his hands it became famous for its incisive literary critiques, Carlyle and
Macaulay contributing some of their finest essays to it.

EDINBURGH UNIVERSITY, founded in 1583; was the last of the Scotch Universities to receive its
charter; was raised to an equal status with the others in 1621; its site was the famous Kirk
o'Field, the scene of the Darnley tragedy; now consists of two separate buildings, one entirely
devoted to medicine, and the other to arts and training in other departments; has an average
matriculation roll of about 3000.

EDISON, THOMAS ALVA, a celebrated American inventor, born at Milan, Ohio; started life as a
newsboy; early displayed his genius and enterprise by producing the first newspaper printed
in a railway train; turning his attention to telegraphy, he revolutionised the whole system
by a series of inventions, to which he has since added others, to the number of 500, the most
notable being the megaphone, phonograph, kinetoscope, a carbon telegraph transmitter, and improvements
in electric lighting; b. 1847.

EDITH, the alleged name of Lot's wife.

EDITHE, ST., an English princess, the natural daughter of Edgar, king of England (961-984).
Festival, Sept. 16.

EDMUND, ST., king or "landlord" of East Anglia from 855 to 870; refused to renounce Christianity
and accept heathenism at the hands of a set of "mere physical force" invading Danes, and suffered
martyrdom rather; was made a saint of and had a monastery called "Bury St. Edmunds," in Norfolk,
raised to his memory over his grave.

EDMUND, ST., Edmund Rich, archbishop of Canterbury, born at Abingdon; while still at school
made a vow of celibacy and wedded the Virgin Mary; sided as archbishop with the popular party
against the tyranny of both Pope and king; coming into disfavour with the papal court retired
to France, where, on his arrival, the mother of St. Louis with her sons met him to receive
his blessing, and where he spent his last days in a monastery; died in 1240, and was canonised
six years after by Innocent IV., somewhat reluctantly it is said.

EDMUND IRONSIDE, succeeded to the throne of England on the death of his father Ethelred the
Unready in 1016, but reigned only seven months; he struggled bravely, and at first successfully,
against Canute the Dane, but being defeated, the kingdom ultimately was divided between them
(981-1016).

EDOM, or IDUMÆA, a mountainous but not unfertile country, comprising the S. of Judæa and part
of the N. of Arabia Petræa, 100 m. long by 20 m. broad, peopled originally by the descendants
of Esau, who were ruled by "dukes," and were bitterly hostile to the Jews.

EDRED, king of the Anglo-Saxons, son of Edward the Elder; subdued Northumbria; had in the end
of his reign St. Dunstan for chief adviser; d. 955.

EDRISI, an Arabian geographer, born at Ceuta, in Spain; by request of Roger II. of Sicily wrote
an elaborate description of the earth, which held a foremost place amongst mediæval geographers
(1099-1180).

EDUCATION, as conceived of by Ruskin, and alone worthy of the name, "the leading human souls
to what is best, and making what is best out of them"; and attained, "not by telling a man
what he knew not, but by making him what he was not."

EDUI, an ancient Gallic tribe, whose capital was Bibracte (Autun).

EDWARD, THOMAS, naturalist, born at Gosport; bred a shoemaker; settled in Banff, where he devoted
his leisure to the study of animal nature, and collected numerous specimens of animals, which
he stuffed and exhibited, but with pecuniary loss; the Queen's attention being called to his
case, settled on him an annual pension of £50, while the citizens of Aberdeen presented him
in March 1877 with a gift of 130 sovereigns, on which occasion he made a characteristic speech
(1814-1886).

EDWARD I., surnamed Longshanks, king of England, born at Westminster, son of Henry III., married
ELEANOR (q. v.) of Castile; came first into prominence in the Barons' War; defeated the nobles
at Evesham, and liberated his father; joined the last Crusade in 1270, and distinguished himself
at Acre; returned to England in 1274 to assume the crown, having been two years previously
proclaimed king; during his reign the ascendency of the Church and the nobles received a check,
the growing aspiration of the people for a larger share in the affairs of the nation was met
by an extended franchise, while the right of Parliament to regulate taxation was recognised;
under his reign Wales was finally subdued and annexed to England, and a temporary conquest
of Scotland was achieved (1239-1307).

EDWARD II., king of England (1307-1327), son of the preceding; was first Prince of Wales, being
born at Carnarvon; being a weakling was governed by favourites, Gaveston and the Spencers,
whose influence, as foreigners and unpatriotic, offended the barons, who rose against him;
in 1314 Scotland rose in arms under Bruce, and an ill-fated expedition under him ended in the
crushing defeat at Bannockburn; in 1327 he was deposed, and was brutally murdered in Berkeley
Castle (1284-1327).

EDWARD III., king of England (1327-1377), son of the preceding, married Philippa of Hainault;
during his boyhood the government was carried on by a council of regency; in 1328 the independence
of Scotland was recognised, and nine years later began the Hundred Years' War with France,
memorable in this reign for the heroic achievements of EDWARD THE BLACK PRINCE (q. v.), the
king's eldest son; associated with this reign are the glorious victories of Crécy and Poitiers,
and the great naval battle at Sluys, one of the earliest victories of English arms at sea;
these successes were not maintained in the later stages of the war, and the treaty of Bretigny
involved the withdrawal of Edward's claim to the French crown; in 1376 the Black Prince died.

EDWARD IV., king of England (1461-1483), son of Richard, Duke of York, and successor to the
Lancastrian Henry VI., whom he defeated at Towton; throughout his reign the country was torn
by the Wars of the Roses, in which victory rested with the Yorkists at Hedgeley Moor, Hexham,
Barnet, and Tewkesbury; in this reign little social progress was made, but a great step towards
it was made by the introduction of printing by Caxton (1442-1483)

EDWARD V., king of England for three months in 1483, son of the preceding; deposed by his uncle,
Richard, Duke of Gloucester; was ultimately murdered in the Tower, along with his young brother
(1470-1483).

EDWARD VI., king of England (1547-1553), son of Henry VIII. and Jane Seymour; his reign, which
was a brief one, was marked by a victory over the Scots at Pinkie (1547), Catholic and agrarian
risings, and certain ecclesiastical reforms (1537-1553).

EDWARD VII., king of Great Britain and Ireland and "all the British Dominions beyond the Seas,"
born 9th November 1841, succeeded his mother, Queen Victoria, 22nd Jan. 1901. On 10th March
1863 he married Princess Alexandra, eldest daughter of Christian IX. of Denmark, and has four
surviving children: George, Prince of Wales, b. 1865; Louise, Duchess of Fife, b. 1867; Victoria,
b. 1868; and Maud, b. 1869, who married Prince Charles of Denmark. The king's eldest son, Albert
Victor, b. 1864, died January 14, 1892.

EDWARD THE CONFESSOR, king of England, married Edith, daughter of the great EARL GODWIN (q.
v.); was a feeble monarch of ascetic proclivities; his appeal to the Duke of Normandy precipitated
the Norman invasion, and in him perished the royal Saxon line; was canonised for his piety
(1004-1066).

EDWARD THE ELDER, king of the Anglo-Saxons from 901 to 925; was the son and successor of Alfred
the Great; extended the Anglo-Saxon dominions.

EDWARDES, SIR HERBERT BENJAMIN, soldier and administrator in India, born at Frodesley, Shropshire;
was actively engaged in the first Sikh War and in the Mutiny; served under Sir Henry Lawrence,
whose Life he partly wrote (1819-1868).

EDWARDS, BRYAN, historian, born at Westbury; traded in Jamaica; wrote a "History of British
Colonies in the West Indies" (1743-1800).

EDWARDS, JONATHAN, a celebrated divine, born at E. Windsor, Connecticut; graduated at Yale;
minister at Northampton, Mass.; missionary to Housatonnuck Indians; was elected to the Presidency
of Princeton College; wrote an acute and original work, "The Freedom of the Will," a masterpiece
of cogent reasoning; has been called the "Spinoza of Calvinism" (1703-1758).

EDWIN, king of Northumbria in the 6th century; through the influence of his wife Ethelburga
Christianity was introduced into England by St. Augustine; founded Edinburgh; was defeated
and slain by the Mercian King Penda in 634.

EDWY, king of the Anglo-Saxons from 955 to 957; offended the clerical party headed by Dunstan
and Odo, who put his wife Elgiva to death, after which he soon died himself at the early age of 19.

EECKHOUT, a Dutch portrait and historical painter, born at Antwerp; the most eminent disciple
of Rembrandt, whose style he successfully imitated (1621-1674).

EFFEN, VAN, a Dutch author, who wrote chiefly in French; imitated the Spectator of Addison,
and translated into French Swift's "Tale of a Tub" and Defoe's "Robinson Crusoe" (1684-1735).

EFFENDI, a title of honour among the Turks, applied to State and civil officials, frequently
associated with the name of the office, as well as to men of learning or high position.

EGALITÉ, PHILIPPE, Duke of Orleans, born April 13th, 1787, father of Louis Philippe; so called
because he sided with the Republican party in the French Revolution, and whose motto was "Liberté,
Fraternité, et Egalité." See ORLEANS, DUKE OF.

EGATES, three islands on the W. coast of Sicily.

EGBERT, king of Wessex, a descendant of Cedric the founder; after an exile of 13 years at the
court of Charlemagne ascended the throne in 800; reigned till 809, governing his people in
tranquillity, when, by successful wars with the other Saxon tribes, he in two years became
virtual king of all England, and received the revived title of Bretwalda; d. 837.

EGEDE, HANS, a Norwegian priest, founder of the Danish mission in Greenland, whither he embarked
with his family and a small colony of traders in 1721; leaving his son to carry on the mission,
and returning to Denmark, he became head of a training school for young missionaries to Greenland
(1686-1758).

EGEDE, PAUL, son of Hans; assisted his father in the Greenland mission, and published a history
of the mission; translated part of the Bible into the language of the country, and composed
a grammar and a dictionary of it; d. 1789.

EGER (17), a town in Bohemia, on the river Eger, 91 m. W. of Prague, a centre of railway traffic;
Wallenstein was murdered here in 1634; the river flows into the Elbe after a NE. course of 190 m.

EGERIA, a nymph who inhabited a grotto in a grove in Latium, dedicated to the Camenæ, some
16 m. from Rome, and whom, according to tradition, Numa was in the habit of consulting when
engaged in framing forms of religious worship for the Roman community; she figures as his spiritual
adviser, and has become the symbol of one of her sex, conceived of as discharging the same
function in other the like cases.

EGERTON, FRANCIS. See BRIDGEWATER, EARL OF.

EGGER, ÉMILE, a French Hellenist and philologist (1813-1885).

EGHAM (10), a small town in Surrey, on the Thames, 20 m. W. of London; has in its vicinity
Runnymede, where King John signed Magna Charta in 1215.

EGINHARD, or EINHARD, a Frankish historian, born in Mainyan, in East Franconia; a collection
of his letters and his Annals of the Franks, as well as his famous "Life of Charlemagne," are
extant; was a favourite of the latter, who appointed him superintendent of public buildings,
and took him with him on all his expeditions; after the death of Charlemagne he continued at
the Court as tutor to the Emperor Louis's son; died in retirement (770-840).

EGLANTINE, MADAME, the prioress in the "Canterbury Tales" of Chaucer.

EGLINTON AND WINTON, EARL OF, Archibald William Montgomerie, born at Palermo; became Lord-Lieutenant
of Ireland; Rector of Glasgow University; was a noted sportsman and patron of the turf; is
chiefly remembered in connection with a brilliant tournament given by him at Eglinton Castle
in 1839, in which all the splendour and detail of a mediæval tourney were spectacularly reproduced
(1812-1861).

EGMONT, LAMORAL, COUNT OF, born in Hainault; became attached to the Court of Charles V., by
whom, for distinguished military and diplomatic services, he was appointed governor of Flanders;
fell into disfavour for espousing the cause of the Protestants of the Netherlands, and was
beheaded in Brussels by the Duke of Alva; his career and fate form the theme of Goethe's tragedy
"Egmont," a play nothing as a drama, but charming as a picture of the two chief characters
in the piece, Egmont and Clärchen.

EGMONT, MOUNT, the loftiest peak in the North Island, New Zealand, is 8270 ft. in height, and
of volcanic origin.

EGO and NON-EGO (i. e. I and Not-I, or Self and Not-Self), are terms used in philosophy to
denote respectively the subjective and the objective in cognition, what is from self and what
is from the external to self, what is merely individual and what is universal.

EGOISM, the philosophy of those who, uncertain of everything but the existence of the Ego or
I, resolve all existence as known into forms or modifications of its self-consciousness.

EGOIST, a novel by George Meredith, much admired by R. L. Stevenson, who read and re-read it
at least five times over.

EGYPT (8,000), a country occupying the NE. corner of Africa, lies along the W. shore of the
Red Sea, has a northern coast-line on the Mediterranean, and stretches S. as far as Wady Halfa;
the area is nearly 400,000 sq. m.; its chief natural features are uninhabitable desert on the
E. and W., and the populous and fertile valley of the Nile. Cereals, sugar, cotton, and tobacco
are important products. Mohammedan Arabs constitute the bulk of the people, but there is also
a remnant of the ancient Coptic race. The country is nominally a dependency of Turkey under
a native government, but is in reality controlled by the British, who exercise a veto on its
financial policy, and who, since 1882, have occupied the country with soldiers. The noble monuments
and relics of her ancient civilisation, chief amongst which are the Pyramids, as well as the
philosophies and religions she inherited, together with the arts she practised, and her close
connection with Jewish history, give her a peculiar claim on the interested regard of mankind.
Nothing, perhaps, has excited more wonder in connection with Egypt than the advanced state
of her civilisation when she first comes to play a part in the history of the world. There
is evidence that 4000 years before the Christian era the arts of building, pottery, sculpture,
literature, even music and painting, were highly developed, her social institutions well organised,
and that considerable advance had been made in astronomy, chemistry, medicine, and anatomy.
Already the Egyptians had divided the year into 365 days and 12 months, and had invented an
elaborate system of weights and measures, based on the decimal notation.

EGYPTIAN NIGHT, such as in Egypt when, by judgment of God, a thick darkness of three days settled
down on the land. See Exodus x. 22.

EGYPTIANS, THE, of antiquity were partly of Asiatic and partly of African origin, with a probable
infusion of Semitic blood, and formed both positively and negatively a no inconsiderable link
in the chain of world-history, positively by their sense of the divinity of nature-life as
seen in their nature-worship, and negatively by the absence of all sense of the divinity of
a higher life as it has come to light in the self-consciousness or moral sense and destiny of man.

EGYPTOLOGY, the science, in the interest of ancient history, of Egyptian antiquities, such
as the monuments and their inscriptions, and one in which of late years great interest has
been taken, and much progress made.

EGYPTUS, the brother of Danaüs, whose 50 sons, all but one, were murdered by the daughters
of the latter. See DANAÜS.

EHKILI, a dialect of S. Arabia, interesting to philologists as one of the oldest of Semitic
tongues.

EHRENBERG, a German naturalist, born in Delitsch; intended for the Church; devoted himself
to medical studies, and graduated in medicine in 1818; acquired great skill in the use of the
microscope, and by means of it made important discoveries, particularly in the department of
infusory animals; contributed largely to the literature of science (1795-1878).

EHRENBREITSTEIN (5) (i. e. broad stone of honour), a strongly fortified town in Prussia, on
the Rhine, opposite Coblentz, with which it has communication by a bridge of boats and a railway
viaduct; the fortress occupies the summit of the rock, which is precipitous; is about 500 ft.
high, and has large garrison accommodation.

EICHHORN, JOHANN GOTTFRIED, a German theologian and Orientalist, born at Dorrenzimmern, Franconia;
a man of extensive scholarship; held the chair of Oriental languages in Jena, and afterwards
at Göttingen; was the first to apply a bold rationalism to the critical treatment of the Scriptures;
he was of the old school of rationalists, now superseded by the historico-critical; his chief
works are a Universal Library of Biblical Literature, in 10 vols., Introductions to the Old
and to the New Testament, each in 5 vols., and an Introduction to the Apocrypha (1752-1827).

EICHTHAL, GUSTAVE D', a French publicist, born at Nancy; an adherent of St. Simonianism; wrote
"Les Evangiles"; Mrs. Carlyle describes him as "a gentle soul, trustful, and earnest-looking,
ready to do and suffer all for his faith" (1804-1886).

EICHWALD, CHARLES EDWARD, an eminent Russian naturalist, born in Mitau, Russia; studied science
at Berlin and Vienna; held the chairs of Zoology and Midwifery at Kasan and Wilna, and of Palæontology
at St. Petersburg; his explorations, which led him through most of Europe, Persia, and Algeria,
and included a survey of the Baltic shores, as well as expeditions into the Caucasus, are described
in his various works, and their valuable results noted (1795-1876).

EIFFEL, GUSTAVE, an eminent French engineer, born at Dijon; early obtained a reputation for
bridge construction; designed the great Garabit Viaduct, and also the enormous locks for the
Panama Canal; his most noted work is the gigantic iron tower which bears his name; in 1893
became involved in the Panama scandals, and was fined, and sentenced to two years' imprisonment;
b. 1832.

EIFFEL TOWER, a structure erected on the banks of the Seine in Paris, the loftiest in the world,
being 985 ft. in height, and visible from all parts of the city; it consists of three platforms,
of which the first is as high as the towers of Notre Dame; the second as high as Strasburg
Cathedral spire, and the third 863 ft; it was designed by Gustave Eiffel, and erected in 1887-1889;
there are cafés and restaurants on the first landing, and the ascent is by powerful lifts.

EIGG or EGG, a rocky islet among the Hebrides, 5 m. SW. of Skye; St. Donnan and 50 monks from
Iona were massacred here in 617 by the queen, notwithstanding a remonstrance on the part of
the islanders that it would be an irreligious act; here also the Macleods of the 10th century
suffocated in a cave 200 of the Macdonalds, including women and children.

EIGHTEENTH CENTURY, "a sceptical century and a godless," according to Carlyle's deliberate
estimate, "opulent in accumulated falsities, as never century before was; which had no longer
the consciousness of being false, so false has it grown; so steeped in falsity, and impregnated
with it to the very bone, that, in fact, the measure of the thing was full, and a French Revolution
had to end it"; which it did only symbolically, however, as he afterwards admitted, and but
admonitorily of a doomsday still to come. See "FREDERICK THE GREAT," BK. I. CHAP, II., and
"HEROES."

EIKON BASILIKË (i. e. the Royal Likeness), a book containing an account of Charles I. during
his imprisonment, and ascribed to him as author, but really written by Bishop Gauden, though
the MS. may have been perused and corrected by the king; it gives a true picture of his character
and possible state of mind.

EILDONS, THE, a "triple-crested eminence" near Melrose, 1385 ft., and overlooking Teviotdale
to the S., associated with Sir Walter Scott and Thomas the Rhymer; they are of volcanic origin,
and are said to have been cleft in three by the wizard Michael Scott, when he was out of employment.

EIMEO, one of the French Society Islands; is hilly and woody, but well cultivated in the valleys;
missionary enterprise in Polynesia first found a footing here.

EINSIEDELN (8), a town in the canton of Schwyz, Switzerland; has a Benedictine abbey, containing
a famous black image of the Virgin, credited with miraculous powers, which attracts, it is
said, 200,000 pilgrims annually.

EISENACH (21), a flourishing manufacturing town in Saxe-Weimar, close to the Thuringian Forest
and 48 m. W. of Weimar; is the birthplace of Sebastian Bach; in the vicinity stands the castle
of Wartburg, the hiding-place for 10 months of Luther after the Diet of Worms.

EISLEBEN (23), a mining town in Prussian Saxony, 24 m. NW. of Halle; the birthplace and burial-place
of Luther.

EISTEDDFOD, a gathering of Welsh bards and others, now annual, at which, out of a patriotic
motive, prizes are awarded for the encouragement of Welsh literature and music and the preservation
of the Welsh language and ancient national customs.

EKATERINBURG (37), a Russian town on the Isset, on the E. side of the Ural Mountains, of the
mining industry in which it is the chief centre; has various manufactures, and a trade in the
cutting and sorting of precious stones.

EKRON, a town in N. Palestine, 30 m. N. from Gaza and 9 m. from the sea.

ELAINE, a lady of the court of King Arthur in love with Lancelot, and whose story is related
by Malory in his "History" and by Tennyson in his "Idylls of the King."

ELATERIUM, a drug obtained from the mucus of the fruit of the squirting cucumber; is a most
powerful purgative, and was known to the ancients.

ELBA, a small and rocky island in the Mediterranean between Corsica and Tuscany, with a bold
precipitous coast; belongs to Italy; has trade in fish, fruits, and iron ore; famous as Napoleon's
place of exile from May 1814 to February 1815.

ELBE, the most important river in N. Germany; rises in the Riesengebirge, in Austria, flows
NW. through Germany, and enters the North Sea at Cuxhaven, 725 m. long, navigable 520 m.; abounds
in fish.

ELBERFELD (126), an important manufacturing commercial centre, 16 m. NE. of Düsseldorf; noted
for its textiles and dye-works.

ELBOEUF (21), a town on the Seine, 75 m. NW. of Paris; has flourishing manufactures in cloths,
woollens, &c.

ELBURZ, a lofty mountain range in N. Persia, S. of the Caspian; also the name of the highest
peak in the Caucasus (18,571 ft.).

ELDER, a name given to certain office-bearers in the Presbyterian Church, associated with the
minister in certain spiritual functions short of teaching and administering sacraments; their
duties embrace the general oversight of the congregation, and are of a wider nature than those
of the deacons, whose functions are confined strictly to the secular interests of the church;
they are generally elected by the church members, and ordained in the presence of the congregation;
their term of office is in some cases for a stated number of years, but more generally for life.

ELDON, JOHN SCOTT, LORD, a celebrated English lawyer, born at Newcastle, of humble parentage;
educated at Oxford for the Church, but got into difficulties through a runaway marriage; he
betook himself to law, rose rapidly in his profession, and, entering Parliament, held important
legal offices under Pitt; was made a Baron and Lord Chancellor, 1801, an office which he held
for 26 years; retired from public life in 1835, and left a large fortune at his death; was
noted for the shrewd equity of his judgments and his delay in delivering them (1751-1838).

EL DORADO (lit. the Land of Gold), a country which Orellana, the lieutenant of Pizzaro, pretended
to have discovered in S. America, between the Amazon and Orinoco, and which he represented
as abounding in gold and precious gems; now a region of purely imaginary wealth.

ELEANOR, queen of Edward I. of England and sister of ALFONSO X. (q. v.) of Castile, surnamed
the Wise, accompanied her husband to the Crusade in 1269, and is said to have saved him by
sucking the poison from a wound inflicted by a poisoned arrow; was buried at Westminster (1244-1290).

ELEATICS, a school of philosophy in Greece, founded by Xenophanes of Elia, and of which Parmenides
and Zeno, both of Elia, were the leading adherents and advocates, the former developing the
system and the latter completing it, the ground-principle of which was twofold--the affirmation
of the unity, and the negative of the diversity, of being--in other words, the affirmation
of pure being as alone real, to the exclusion of everything finite and merely phenomenal. See
"SARTOR," BK. I. CHAP. 8.

ELECTION, THE DOCTRINE OF, the doctrine that the salvation of a man depends on the election
of God for that end, of which there are two chief phases--the one is election to be Christ's,
or unconditional election, and the other that it is election in Christ, or conditional election.

ELECTORS, THE, or KURFÜRSTS, OF GERMANY, German princes who enjoyed the privilege of disposing
of the imperial crown, ranked next the emperor, and were originally six in number, but grew
to eight and finally nine; three were ecclesiastical--the Archbishops of Mayence, Cologne,
and Trèves, and three secular--the Electors of Saxony, the Palatinate, and Bohemia, to which
were added at successive periods the Electors of Brandenburg, of Bavaria, and Hanover. "There
never was a tenth; and the Holy Roman Empire, as it was called, which was a grand object once,
but had gone about in a superannuated and plainly crazy state some centuries, was at last put
out of pain by Napoleon, August 6, 1806, and allowed to cease from the world."

ELECTRA (i. e. the Bright One), an ocean nymph, the mother of ISIS (q. v.).

ELECTRA, the daughter of Agamemnon and Clytemnestra, who, with her brother Orestes, avenged
the death of her father on his murderers.

ELECTRIC LIGHT, a brilliant white light due to positive and negative currents rushing together
between two points of carbon or (the "incandescent" light) to the intense heat in a solid body,
caused by an electric current passing through it.

ELECTRICITY, the name given to a subtle agent called the electric fluid, latent in all bodies,
and first evolved by friction, and which may manifest itself, under certain conditions, in
brilliant flashes of light, or, when in contact with animals, in nervous shocks more or less
violent. It is of two kinds, negative and positive, and as such exhibits itself in the polarity
of the magnet, when it is called MAGNETIC (q. v.), and is excited by chemical action, when
it is called VOLTAIC (q. v.).

ELEGY, a song expressive of sustained earnest yearning, or mild sorrow after loss.

ELEMENTAL SPIRITS, a general name given in the Middle Ages to salamanders, undines, sylphs,
and gnomes, spirits superstitiously believed to have dominion respectively over, as well as
to have had their dwelling in, the four elements--fire, water, air, and earth.

ELEMENTS, originally the four forms of matter so deemed--fire, air, earth, and water, and afterwards
the name for those substances that cannot be resolved by chemical analysis, and which are now
found to amount to sixty-seven.

ELEPHANT, a genus of mammals, of which there are two species, the Indian and the African; the
latter attains a greater size, and is hunted for the sake of its tusks, which may weigh as
much as 70 lbs.; the former is more intelligent, and easily capable of being domesticated;
the white elephant is a variety of this species.

ELEPHANT, ORDER OF THE WHITE, a Danish order of knighthood, restricted to 30 knights, the decoration
of which is an elephant supporting a tower; it was instituted by Canute IV., king of Denmark,
at the end of the 12th century.

ELEPHANTA, an island 6 m. in circuit in Bombay harbour, so called from its colossal figure
of an elephant which stood near the landing-place; it contains three temples cut out of solid
rock, and covered with sculptures, which, along with the figure at the landing, are rapidly
decaying.

ELEPHANTIASIS, a peculiar skin disease, accompanied with abnormal swelling; so called because
the skin becomes hard and stiff like an elephant's hide; attacks the lower limbs and scrotum;
is chiefly confined to India and other tropical countries.

ELEPHANTINE, a small island below the first cataract of the Nile; contains interesting monuments
and ruins of the ancient Roman and Egyptian civilisations.

ELEUSINIAN MYSTERIES, rites, initiation into which, as religiously conducive to the making
of good men and good citizens, was compulsory on every free-born Athenian, celebrated annually
at Eleusis in honour of Demeter and Persephone, and which lasted nine days.

ELEUSIS, a town in ancient Attica, NW. of Athens, with a temple for the worship of Demeter,
the largest in Greece; designed by the architect of the PARTHENON (q. v.).

ELEUTHERIA, the goddess of liberty, as worshipped in ancient Greece.

ELF-ARROWS, arrow-heads of flint used in hunting and war by the aborigines of the British Isles
and of Europe generally, as they still are among savages elsewhere; derived their name from
the superstitious belief that they were used by the fairies to kill cattle and sometimes human
beings in their mischief-joy; they were sometimes worn as talismans, occasionally set in silver,
as a charm against witchcraft.

ELGIN or MORAY (43), a northern Scottish county, fronting the Moray Firth and lying between
Banff and Nairn, mountainous in the S. but flat to the N., watered by the Spey, Lossie, and
Findhorn; agriculture, stone-quarrying, distilling, and fishing are the staple industries;
has some imposing ruins and interesting antiquities.

ELGIN (8), the county town of above, on the Lossie; created a royal burgh by David I.; has
ruins of a fine Gothic cathedral and royal castle.

ELGIN (17), a city in Illinois, on the Fox, 35 m. NW. of Chicago; watchmaking the chief industry.

ELGIN, JAMES BRUCE, 8TH EARL OF, statesman and diplomatist, born in London; governor of Jamaica
and Canada; negotiated important treaties with China and Japan; rendered opportune assistance
at the Indian Mutiny by diverting to the succour of Lord Canning an expedition that was proceeding
to China under his command; after holding office as Postmaster-General he became Viceroy of
India (1861), where he died; his Journal and Letters are published (1811-1863).

ELGIN MARBLES, a collection of ancient sculptured marbles brought from Athens by the Earl of
Elgin in 1812, and now deposited in the British Museum, after purchase of them by the Government
for £35,000; these sculptures adorned certain public buildings in the Acropolis, and consist
of portions of statues, of which that of Theseus is the chief, of alto-reliefs representing
the struggle of the Centaurs and Lapithæ, and of a large section of a frieze.

ELIA, the nom de plume adopted by Charles Lamb in connection with his Essays.

ELIAS, MOUNT, a mountain in NW. coast of N. America; conspicuous far off at sea, being about
18,000 ft. or 3½ m. above it.

ELIJAH, a Jewish prophet, born at Tishbe, in Gilead, near the desert; prophesied in the reign
of Ahab, king of Israel, in the 10th century B.C.; revealed himself as the deadly enemy of
the worship of Baal, 400 of whose priests he is said to have slain with his own hand; his zeal
provoked persecution at the hands of the king and his consort Jezebel, but the Lord protected
him, and he was translated from the earth in a chariot of fire, "went up by a whirlwind into
heaven." See PROPHETS, THE.

ELIOT, GEORGE, the nom de plume of Mary Ann Evans, distinguished English novelist, born at
Arbury, in Warwickshire; was bred on evangelical lines, but by-and-by lost faith in supernatural
Christianity; began her literary career by a translation of Strauss's "Life of Jesus"; became
in 1851 a contributor to the Westminster Review, and formed acquaintance with George Henry
Lewes, whom she ere long lived with as his wife, though unmarried, and who it would seem discovered
to her her latent faculty for fictional work; her first work in that line was "Scenes from
Clerical Life," contributed to Blackwood in 1856; the stories proved a signal success, and
they were followed by a series of seven novels, beginning in 1858 with "Adam Bede," "the finest
thing since Shakespeare," Charles Reade in his enthusiasm said, the whole winding up with the
"Impressions of Theophrastus Such" in 1879; these, with two volumes of poems, make up her works;
Lewes died in 1878, and two years after she formally married an old friend, Mr. John Cross,
and after a few months of wedded life died of inflammation of the heart; "she paints," says
Edmond Scherer, "only ordinary life, but under these externals she makes us assist at the eternal
tragedy of the human heart... with so much sympathy," he adds, "the smile on her face so near
tears, that we cannot read her pages without feeling ourselves won to that lofty toleration
of hers" (1819-1880).

ELIOT, JOHN, the apostle of the Indians, born in Hertfordshire; entered the Church of England,
but seceded and emigrated to New England; became celebrated for his successful evangelistic
expeditions amongst the Indians during his lifelong occupancy of the pastorate at Roxbury (1604-1690).

ELIS, a district of Greece, on the W. coast of the Peloponnesus, sacred to all Hellas as the
seat of the greatest of the Greek festivals in connection with the Olympian Games, a circumstance
which imparted a prestige to the inhabitants.

ELISA or ELISSA, Dido, queen of Carthage, in love with Æneas.

ELISHA, a Jewish prophet, the successor of Elijah, who found him at the plough, and consecrated
him to his office by throwing his mantle over him, and which he again let fall on him as he
ascended to heaven. He exercised his office for 55 years, but showed none of the zeal of his
predecessor against the worship of Baal; was, however, accredited as a prophet of the Lord
by the miracles he wrought in the Lord's name.

ELIZABETH, sister of Louis XVI.; was guillotined (1764-1794).

ELIZABETH FARNESE, queen of Spain, a daughter of Odoardo II. of Parma; in 1714 she married
Philip V. of Spain, when her bold and energetic nature soon made itself felt in the councils
of Europe, where she carried on schemes for territorial and political aggrandisement; was an
accomplished linguist; is called by Carlyle "the Termagant of Spain"; her Memoirs are published
in four volumes (1692-1766).

ELIZABETH, EMPRESS OF RUSSIA, daughter of Peter the Great and Catharine I.; assisted Maria
Theresa in the war of the Austrian Succession; opposed Frederick the Great in the Seven Years'
War; indolent and licentious, she left the affairs of the State mainly in the hands of favourites
(1709-1762).

ELIZABETH, QUEEN OF BOHEMIA, daughter of James VI. of Scotland and I. of England; married Frederick
V., Elector Palatine, who for a brief time held the throne of Bohemia; her daughter Sophia,
by marrying the Elector of Hanover, formed a tie which ultimately brought the crown of England
to the House of Brunswick (1596-1662).

ELIZABETH, QUEEN OF ENGLAND (1658-1603), daughter of Henry VIII. and Anne Boleyn, born in Greenwich
Palace; was an indefatigable student in her youth; acquired Greek and Latin, and a conversational
knowledge of German and French; the Pope's opposition to her succession on the ground of being
judged illegitimate by the Church strengthened her attachment to the Protestant faith, which
was her mother's, and contributed to its firm establishment during the reign; during it the
power of Spain was crushed by the defeat of the Armada; maritime enterprise flourished under
Drake, Raleigh, and Frobisher; commerce was extended, and literature carried to a pitch of
perfection never before or since reached; masterful and adroit, Elizabeth yet displayed the
weakness of vanity and vindictiveness; the execution of Mary, Queen of Scots, is a blot upon
her fame, and her intrigues with Seymour, Leicester, and Essex detract from her dignity; her
wisdom was manifested in her wise choice of counsellors and leaders, and her patriotism won
her a secure place in the hearts of her people (1533-1608).

ELIZABETH, ST., "a very pious, but also a very fanciful young woman; her husband, a Thuringian
landgraf, going to the Crusade, where he died straightway," Carlyle guesses, "partly the fruit
of the life she led him; lodging beggars, sometimes in her very bed; continually breaking his
night's rest for prayer and devotional exercises of undue length, 'weeping one moment, then
smiling in joy the next'; meandering about, capricious, melodious, weak, at the will of devout
whim mainly; went to live at Marburg after her husband's death, and soon died there in a most
melodiously pious sort" in 1231, aged 24.

ELIZABETHAN ARCHITECTURE, a term applied to the style of architecture which flourished in the
reigns of Elizabeth and James I., and which was characterised by a revival of classic designs
wrought into the decadent Gothic style. Lord Salisbury's house at Hatfield is a good specimen
of this mixed style.

ELIZABETHAN ERA, according to Carlyle, "the outcome and flowerage of all which had preceded
it... in that old age lies the only true poetical literature of England. The poets of the last
ago took to pedagogy (Pope and his school), and shrewd men they were; those of the present
age to ground-and-lofty tumbling; and it will do your heart good," he adds, "to see how they
vault."

ELKARGEH (4), a town in the great oasis in the Libyan Desert; has ancient remains, and is an
important resting stage in crossing the desert.

ELLENBOROUGH, EDWARD LAW, EARL OF, an English Conservative statesman, son of Baron Ellenborough,
Lord Chief-Justice of England; entered Parliament in 1813; held office under the Duke of Wellington
and Sir Robert Peel; appointed Governor-General of India (1841); recalled in 1844; subsequently
First Lord of the Admiralty and Indian Minister under Lord Derby (1790-1871).

ELLENRIEDER, MARIE, a painter of great excellence, born at Constance; studied in Rome; devoted
herself to religious subjects, such as "Christ Blessing Little Children," "Mary and the Infant
Jesus," &c. (1771-1863).

ELLESMERE, FRANCIS EGERTON, EARL OF, statesman and author, born in London, second son of the
Duke of Sutherland; was Secretary for Ireland and War Secretary; author of some books of travel,
and a translation of "Faust" (1800-1857).

ELLIOT, GEORGE AUGUSTUS. See HEATHFIELD.

ELLIOTSON, JOHN, an English physician, born in London; lost his professorship in London University
on account of employing mesmerism for medical purposes; promoted clinical instruction and the
use of the stethoscope; founded the Phrenological Society (1791-1868).

ELLIOTT, EBENEZER, poet, known popularly as the "Corn-Law Rhymer," born in Rotherham parish,
Yorkshire; an active worker in iron; devoted his leisure to poetic composition; proved a man
that could handle both pen and hammer like a man; wrote the "Corn-Law Rhymes" and other pieces;
his works have been "likened to some little fraction of a rainbow, hues of joy and harmony,
painted out of troublous tears; no full round bow shone on by the full sun, and yet, in very
truth, a little prismatic blush, glowing genuine among the wet clouds, ... proceeds from a
sun cloud-hidden, yet indicates that a sun does shine...; a voice from the deep Cyclopean forges
where Labour, in real soot and sweat, beats with his thousand hammers, doing personal battle
with Necessity and her brute dark powers to make them reasonable and serviceable" (1781-1849).

ELLIS, ALEXANDER J., an eminent English philologist, born at Horeton; published many papers
on phonetics and early English pronunciation; was President of the Philological Society; his
name, originally Sharpe, changed by royal license (1814-1890).

ELLIS, GEORGE, literary critic, born in London; did much to promote the study of early English
literature; contributed to the Anti-Jacobin, and was joint-author of the "Rolliad," a satire
on Pitt, and of "Specimens of Early English Metrical Romances"; Scott declared him to be the
best conversationalist he had ever met (1753-1815).

ELLIS, SIR HENRY, chief librarian of the British Museum from 1827 to 1856, born in London;
edited various works on antiques; wrote an "Introduction to Domesday Book"; knighted in 1833
(1777-1869).

ELLIS, WILLIAM, a missionary and author, born in London; laboured in the South Sea Islands,
and afterwards in Madagascar; wrote various works descriptive of these islands; he married
Sarah Stickney, who is the authoress of a number of popular works, including "The Women of
England," "The Daughters of England," &c. (1794-1872).

ELLISTON, ROBERT WILLIAM, a celebrated actor, born in London; ran away from home and joined
the stage, rose to the front rank both as comedian and tragedian (1774-1831).

ELLORA, an Indian village in Hyderabad, 12 m. NW. of Aurungabad, famed for its Buddhist and
Hindu cave and monolithic temples, the most magnificent of which is hewn out of a solid hill
of red stone, the most beautiful being the Hindu temple of Kailás.

ELMO'S FIRE, ST., a popular name for the display of electric fire which sometimes plays about
the masts of ships, steeples, &c., accompanied at times with a hissing noise; commoner in southern
climates, known by other names, e. g. Fire of St. Clara, of St. Elias.

ELOGE, a discourse in panegyric of some illustrious person deceased, in which composition Fontenelle
took the lead, and in which he was followed by D'Alembert, Condorcet, Flourens, and others.

ELOHIM, a Hebrew word in the plural number, signifying God or one as God, but with a verb in
the singular, signifying generally the one true God; according to the Talmud it denotes God
as just in judgment to all in contradistinction to Jehovah, which denotes God as merciful to
His people.

ELOHIST, a name given by the critics to the presumed author of the earlier part of the Pentateuch,
whose work in it they allege is distinguished by the use of the word Elohim for God; he is
to be distinguished from the Jehovist, the presumed author of the later portions, from his
use, on the other hand, of the word Jehovah for God.

ELPHINSTONE, GEORGE KEITH, ADMIRAL. See KEITH.

ELPHINSTONE, MOUNTSTUART, a noted Indian civil servant and historian; co-operated with Wellesley
in firmly establishing British rule in India; was governor of Bombay, where he accomplished
many useful reforms, and issued the Elphinstone Code of Laws; wrote a "History of India," which
earned for him the title of the "Tacitus of India" (1779-1859).

ELPHINSTONE, WILLIAM, an erudite and patriotic Scottish ecclesiastic and statesman, born in
Glasgow; took holy orders; went to Paris to study law, and became a professor in Law there,
and afterwards at Orleans; returned to Scotland; held several high State appointments under
James III. and James IV.; continued a zealous servant of the Church, holding the bishoprics
of Ross and of Aberdeen, where he founded the university (1431-1514).

ELSASS (French ALSACE), a German territory on the left bank of the Rhine, traversed by the
Vosges Mountains; taken from the French in 1870-71.

ELSINORE, a seaport on the island of Zeeland, in Denmark, 20 m. N. of Copenhagen; has a good
harbour; the scene of Shakespeare's "Hamlet."

ELSWICK (53), a town in the vicinity of Newcastle, noted for the great engineering and ordnance
works of Sir W. G. (now Lord) Armstrong.

ELTON, a salt lake of SE. Russia, in the government of Astrakhan; has an area of about 65 sq.
m., but is very shallow; yields annually some 90,000 or 95,000 tons of salt, which is shipped
off viâ the Volga.

ELTON, CHARLES ISAAC, jurist and ethnologist, born in Somerset; held a Fellowship in Queen's
College, Oxford; called to the bar in 1865, and in 1884 was returned to Parliament as a Conservative;
his first works were juridical treatises on the tenure of land, but in 1882 he produced a learned
book on the origins of English history; b. 1839.

ELVAS, a strongly fortified town in Portugal, in the province of Alemtejo, 12 m. W. of Badajoz;
is a bishop's see; has a Moorish aqueduct 3½ m. long and 250 ft. high.

ELY (8), a celebrated cathedral city, in the fen-land of Cambridgeshire, on the Ouse, 30 m.
SE. of Peterborough; noted as the scene of Hereward's heroic stand against William the Conqueror
in 1071; the cathedral, founded in 1083, is unique as containing specimens of the various Gothic
styles incorporated during the course of 400 years.

ELY, ISLE OF, a name given to the N. portion of Cambridgeshire on account of its having been
at one time insulated by marshes; being included in the region of the Fens, has been drained,
and is now fertile land.

ELYOT, SIR THOMAS, author and ambassador, born in Wiltshire; ambassador to the court of Charles
V.; celebrated as the author of "The Governour," the first English work on moral philosophy,
and also of the first Latin-English dictionary (1490-1546).

ELYSIUM the abode of the shades of the virtuous dead in the nether world as conceived of by
the poets of Greece and Rome, where the inhabitants live a life of passive blessedness, which,
however, is to such a man as Achilles a place of woe rather and unrest, where he would fain
exchange places with the meanest hind that breathes in the upper world.

ELZE, FREDERICK CARL, a German Shakespearian scholar, born at Dessau; early devoted himself
to the study of English literature; lived some time in England and Scotland; in 1875 became
professor of English Literature at Halle; his various publications on Shakespeare and the Elizabethan
dramatists are full of excellent criticisms; also wrote Lives of Scott and Byron (1821-1889).

ELZEVIR, the name of an eminent family of printers residing in Amsterdam and Leyden, Louis
the first of them, who started in Leyden; their publications date from 1594 to 1680.

ELZEVIR EDITIONS, editions of the classics printed at Amsterdam and Leyden during the 16th
and 17th centuries by a family of the Elzevirs, and considered to be immaculate.

EMANATION, THE DOCTRINE OF, a doctrine of Eastern origin, which derives everything that exists
from the divine nature by necessary process of emanation, as light from the sun, and ascribes
all evil and the degrees of it to a greater and greater distance from the pure ether of this
parent source, or to the extent in consequence to which the being gets immersed in and clogged
with matter.

EMANCIPATION, originally a term in Roman law and name given to the process of the manumission
of a son by his father; the son was sold to a third party and after the sale became sui juris;
it is now applied to the remission of old laws in the interest of freedom, which Carlyle regards
in his "Shooting Niagara," as the sum of nearly all modern recent attempts at Reform.

EMANUEL I., king of Portugal from 1495 to 1521; his reign inaugurated the golden period of
Portuguese history, during which Portugal became the first maritime and commercial power in
Europe; was the patron of Vasco da Gama and Albuquerque; issued an edict for the expulsion
of the Jews from his kingdom, and wrote to the Elector of Saxony begging him to get rid of
Luther (1469-1521).

EMBALMING, the art of preserving dead bodies from decay by means of antiseptic agents applied
both externally and internally; although known to other people, e. g. the Peruvians, the art
was chiefly practised among the Egyptians, and the practice of it dates back to 4000 B.C.;
the thoroughness of the process depended on the money expended, but it usually involved the
removal of the viscera, save the heart and kidneys, the extraction of the brain, the introduction
of drugs to the cavities, and the pickling of the body in native carbonate of soda, and the
wrapping of it in linen; experiments in embalming, more or less successful, have been made
in recent times, and even still are.

EMBER DAYS, four annually recurring periods of three days each, appointed by the Romish and
English Churches to be devoted to fasting and praying; they are the Wednesday, Friday, and
Saturday after the first Sunday in Lent, after Pentecost, after the 14th September, and after
the 13th December.

EMBRYO, the scientific term for the young of an animal while yet in the initial stage of development
in the womb; also applied to the plant in its rudimentary stage within the seed.

EMBRYOLOGY, the section of biology which treats of the development of the embryo.

EMDEN (14), the chief part of the province of Hanover, in Prussia, situated at the outlet of
the river Ems; is intersected by canals; shipbuilding and brewing are the chief industries.

EMERALD, a precious stone of great value, allied in composition to the beryl; is of a beautiful
transparent green colour; the finest specimens are found in Colombia and Venezuela.

EMERALD ISLE, Ireland, from the fresh verdure of its herbage.

EMERSON, RALPH WALDO, an American philosophic thinker and poet, of English Puritan descent,
born at Boston, where he started in life as a Unitarian preacher and pastor, an office he resigned
in 1832 for literature, in which he found he would have freer and fuller scope to carry out
his purpose as a spiritual teacher; in 1833 he paid a visit to England, and in particular a
notable one to CRAIGENPUTTOCK (q. v.), with the inmates of which he formed a lifelong friendship;
on his return the year after, he married, a second time as it happened, and, settling down
in Concord, began his career as a lecturer and man of letters; by his "Essays," of which he
published two series, one in 1841 and a second in 1844, he commended himself to the regard
of all thinking men in both hemispheres, and began to exercise an influence for good on all
the ingenuous youth of the generation; they were recognised by Carlyle, and commended as "the
voice of a man"; these embraced subjects one and all of spiritual interest, and revealed transcendent
intellectual power; they were followed by "Representative Men," lectures delivered in Manchester
on a second visit to England in 1847, and thereafter, at successive periods, by "Society and
Solitude," "English Traits," "The Conduct of Life," "Letters and Social Aims," besides a long
array of poems, as well as sundry remarkable Addresses and Lectures, which he published; he
was a man of exceptional endowment and great speculative power, and is to this day the acknowledged
head of the literary men of America; speculatively, Carlyle and he were of the same school,
but while Carlyle had "descended" from the first "into the angry, noisy Forum with an argument
that could not but exasperate and divide," he continued pretty much all his days engaged in
little more than in a quiet survey and criticism of the strife; Carlyle tried hard to persuade
him to "descend," but it would appear Emerson never to his dying day understood what Carlyle
meant by the appeal, an appeal to take the devil by the throat and cease to merely speculate
and dream (1803-1882).

EMERSON TENNENT, SIR JAMES, bred for the bar; was from 1845 to 1852 colonial secretary and
lieutenant-governor of Ceylon, and became on his return joint-secretary to the Board of Trade;
wrote "Christianity in Ceylon" and "Ceylon: an Account of the Island" (1804-1869).

EMERY, a dull, blue-black mineral, allied in composition to the sapphire, but containing a
varying quantity of iron oxide; is found in large masses; is exceedingly hard, and largely
used in polishing metals, plate-glass, and precious stones.

EMIGRANTS, THE (Les Emigrés), the members of the French aristocracy and of the partisans of
the ancient régime who at the time of the Revolution, after the fall of the Bastille, fled
for safety to foreign lands, congregating particularly in Coblenz, where they plotted for its
overthrow, to the extent of leaguing with the foreigner against their country, with the issue
of confiscation of their lands and properties by the republic that was set up.

ÉMILE, the hero of a philosophic romance by Rousseau of the same name, in which the author
expounds his views on education, and presents his reasons, with his ideal of what, according
to him, a good education is, a theory practically adopted by many would-be educationists with
indifferent fruit.

EMIR, a title bestowed on the descendants of Mahomet's daughter Fatima, the word denoting a
"prince" or "ruler"; has lost this its primary meaning; the emirs, of whom there are large
numbers in Turkey, enjoying no privileges save the sole right to wear a green turban, the supposed
favourite colour of Mahomet, though they hold a high social position; the title is also given
to chieftains of N. Africa.

EMMET, ROBERT, a patriotic Irishman, born in Dublin; bred for the bar; took part in the Irish
rebellion; was hanged for his share in attempting to seize Dublin Castle (1778-1803).

EMPE`DOCLES, a philosopher of Agrigentum, in Sicily; "extolled in antiquity as a statesman
and orator, as physicist, physician, and poet, and even as prophet and worker of miracles,"
who flourished about the year 440 B.C.; he conceived the universe as made up of "four eternal,
self-subsistent, mutually underivative, but divisible, primal material bodies, mingled and
moulded by two moving forces, the uniting one of friendship and the disuniting one of strife";
of him it is fabled that, to persuade his fellow-citizens, with whom he had been in high favour
as their deliverer from the tyranny of the aristocracy, of his bodily translation from earth
to heaven, he threw himself unseen into the crater of Etna, but that at the next eruption of
the mountain his slipper was cast up and revealed the fraud.

EMPIRES: the ROMAN, capital Rome, dates from the reign of Augustus, 25 B.C., to that of Theodosius,
A.D. 395; OF THE EAST, or Low Empire, capital Constantinople, being part of the Roman empire,
dates from 295 to 1453; OF THE WEST, capital Rome, dates from 295 to 476; the HOLY, or Second
Empire of the West, founded by Charlemagne, dates from 800 to 911; the LATIN, capital Constantinople,
founded by the Crusaders, dates from 1204 to 1261; the GERMAN, founded by Otho the Great in
962, ended by abdication of Francis II. of Austria in 1806, and restored under William I. in
1870; the FRENCH, founded by Napoleon I., dates from 1804 to 1815, and as established by Napoleon
III. dates from 1852 to 1870; OF THE INDIES, founded in 1876 under the crown of England.

EMPIRIC, the name given to any who practises an art from the mere experience of results, apart
from all reference to or knowledge of the scientific explanation.

EMPIRICISM, a philosophical term applied to the theory that all knowledge is derived from the
senses and experience alone, to the rejection of the theory of innate ideas; Locke, in modern
times, is the great representative of the school that advocates this doctrine supported by
Aristotle.

EMPSON, SIR RICHARD, a lawyer in the reign of Henry VII.; was Speaker of the House of Commons;
incurred the hatred of the populace by acting as the king's agent in forcing payment of taxes
and penalties; was convicted of tyranny and treason, and beheaded in 1510.

EMPYEMA, a medical term signifying a diseased condition of the chest, in which pus accumulates
in the pleura, cures of which are sometimes effected by drawing off the pus by means of tubes.

EMPYREAN, the highest heaven, or region of pure elemental fire, whence everything of the nature
of fire has been conceived to emanate, whether in the phenomena of nature or the life of man.

EMS, 1, a river of NW. Germany, rises in Westphalia, and after a course of 205 m. discharges
into Dollart Bay, an inlet of the North Sea; is navigable, and is joined to the Lippe by means
of a canal, and also similarly to Dortmund. 2, A celebrated German watering-place, on the Lahn,
near Coblenz; its mineral springs, known to the Romans, vary in warmth from 80° to 135° F.

ENAMEL, a vitreous compound, easily fusible, and coloured in various tints by the admixture
of different metallic oxides; is fused to the surface of metals for utility and ornament; was
known to the European and Asiatic ancients, and has maintained its popularity to the present
day. Various schools have been formed, of which the Byzantine, Rhenish, and Limoges are the
most noted.

ENCAUSTIC PAINTING, an ancient style of decorative art somewhat similar to enamelling, which
consisted in overlaying the surface (e. g. of walls) with wax, then inlaying a coloured design,
the whole being subsequently polished.

ENCELADUS, one of the chief giants that revolted against Zeus, and who, as he fled and took
refuge in Sicily, was transfixed by a thunderbolt, and buried under Etna. The fiery eruptions
of the mountain are his breath, and the shaking of it ascribed to his shifting from one side
to another. In the latter regard he serves in literature as the symbol of a blind, often impotent,
struggle to throw off some oppressive incubus.

ENCELADUS, MANUEL BLANCO, a distinguished Chilian statesman and soldier, born in Buenos Ayres;
trained for the navy in Spain, but joined the Chilian revolutionaries; served with distinction
under Lord Cochrane, and rose to high rank both in the army and navy; was commander of the
Chilian forces in 1825, and for two months in the following year President of the Republic;
was subsequently Governor of Valparaiso, and minister to France (1790-1876).

ENCHIRIDION OF EPICTETUS. See EPICTETUS.

ENCINA or ENZINA, JUAN DE LA, a Spanish dramatist, whose works mark the rise of the Spanish
drama, born at Salamanca; was at one time secretary to the Duke of Alva, and afterwards conductor
of music in the chapel of Leo X. at Rome (1469-1534).

ENCKE, JOHANN FRANZ, a celebrated German astronomer, born at Hamburg; determined the sun's
distance, and the orbit of the comet of 1680; calculated the time of the revolution of the
comet which now bears his name, and which appeared in 1818; determined also the distance of
the sun by the two transits of Venus in 1761 and 1769 (1791-1865).

ENCYCLICAL LETTER, a letter addressed by the Pope to the bishops of the Church, condemnatory
of prevailing errors or counselling them how to act in connection with public questions of the day.

ENCYCLOPÆDIA, a name of Greek derivation, given to works which embrace within their pages a
more or less complete account, in alphabetical order, of the whole round of human knowledge,
or of some particular section of it. Attempts in this direction were made as far back as Aristotle's
day, and various others have since been made from time to time, according as the circle of
knowledge widened. Amongst famous encyclopædias which have appeared, mention may be made of
the French "ENCYCLOPÉDIE" (q. v.); the "Encyclopædia Britannica," Edinburgh (1708-1771), now
in its ninth edition (1889); the German "Encyclopedie," begun in 1818 by Ersch and Gruber,
and not yet completed, although 170 volumes have appeared; while the largest of all is the
Chinese encyclopædia, in 5020 vols., printed in Pekin in 1726.

ENCYCLOPÉDIE, a French encyclopædia consisting of 28 vols., to which a supplement of 5 vols.
was added; edited by D'Alembert and Diderot; contributed to by a number of the eminent savants
of France, and issued in 1751-1777, and which contributed to feed, but did nothing to allay,
or even moderate, the fire of the Revolution.

ENCYCLOPEDIST, generally a man of encyclopedic knowledge, or who conducts or contributes to
an encyclopædia; specially one who has, as the French encyclopedists, an overweening, false,
and illusory estimate of the moral worth and civilising power of such knowledge. See CARLYLE'S
"SARTOR," BK. I. CHAP. 10, ON THE "ENCYCLOPEDIC HEAD."

ENDEMIC, a term applied to diseases which affect the inhabitants of certain countries and localities,
and which arise from strictly local causes, e. g. neighbouring swamps, bad sanitation, impure
water, climate, &c.

ENDOGENS, those plants in which the new fibrous matter is developed in the centre of the stem,
and which is pushed outward by the formation of new tissue within, thus developing the stem
outwards from the inside. See EXOGENS.

ENDOR, a place on the S. of Mount Tabor, in Palestine, where the sorceress lived who was consulted
by Saul before the battle of Gilboa, and who professed communication with the ghost of Samuel
(1 Sam, xxviii. 7).

ENDOSMOSE, a word used in physics to describe the intermingling of two liquids of different
densities, in close juxtaposition, but separated by a thin membranous tissue. The liquid of
lesser density passes more rapidly through the dividing tissue, and raises the level of the
liquid in the other vessel, this action is named endosmose; while the flowing of the liquid
of greater density into the vessel whose level is falling, is called exosmose.

ENDYMION, a beautiful shepherd, son of Zeus, whom SELENE (q. v.) carried off to Mount Lemnos,
in Caria, where, as she kissed him, he sank into eternal sleep. This is one version of the story.

ENEID, an epic poem of Virgil, the hero of which is Æneas of Troy.

ENERGY, CONSERVATION OF, the doctrine that, however it may change in form and character, or
be dissipated, no smallest quantity of force in the universe is ever lost.

ENFANTIN, BARTHÉLEMY PROSPER, a Socialist and journalist, born in Paris, adopted the views
of SAINT-SIMON (q. v.); held subversive views on the marriage laws, which involved him in some
trouble; wrote a useful and sensible book on Algerian colonisation, and several works, mainly
interpretative of the theories of Saint-Simon (1796-1864).

ENFIELD (32), a town in Middlesex, 10 m. NE. of London, has a celebrated Government rifle factory;
was for six years the dwelling-place of Charles Lamb.

ENGADINE, a noted Swiss valley in the canton of the Grisons, stretches about 65 m. between
the Lepontine or Rhætian Alps; is divided into the Lower Engadine, wild and desolate, and the
Upper Engadine, fertile and populous, and a favourite health resort; the river Inn flows through
it, its waters collected here and there into lakes.

ENGEDI, an oasis, a spot of rare beauty, once a place of palm-trees, 23 m. W. of the N. end
of the Dead Sea.

ENGHIEN, LOUIS DE BOURBON, DUC D', an ill-fated French Royalist, born at Chantilly; joined
the Royalists under his grandfather, Prince of Condé, and took part in the Rhine campaign against
the Republicans; was suspected of being concerned in a Bourbon plot to assassinate the Emperor
Napoleon; was seized in the neutral territory of Baden, brought to Vincennes, and, after an
inconclusive and illegal trial, shot by Napoleon's orders, a proceeding which gave rise to
Fouché's remark, "It is worse than a crime--it is a blunder" (1772-1804).

ENGINEERS, ROYAL NAVAL, since 1848 have ranked as commissioned officers; salaries vary from
£110 to £639 a year; admission is by examination; duties include the entire oversight and management
of the ship-machinery; there are three ranks--inspectors of machinery, chief engineers, and
assistants, the latter being of three grades; in 1888 engineer studentships were created.

ENGINEERS, THE CORPS OF ROYAL, in the British army, instituted in 1763, consists of about 900
officers and 5000 non-commissioned officers and men, usually recruited from skilled artisans;
their duties comprise the undertaking of all engineering operations necessary in the conduct
of war, e. g. bridging and mining, road and railway and telegraph construction, building of
fortifications, &c.; their term of service is 7 years in the active army and 5 in the reserve,
or maybe 3 in the former and 9 in the latter.

ENGLAND (27,000), the "predominant partner" of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland,
comprises along with Wales the southern, and by far the greater, portion of Great Britain,
the largest of the European islands; it is separated from the Continent on the E. and S. by
the North Sea and English Channel, and from Ireland on the W. by St. George's Channel, while
Scotland forms its N. boundary; its greatest length N. and S. is 430 m., and greatest breadth
(including Wales) 370. It is of an irregular triangular shape; has a long and highly-developed
coast-line (1800 m.); is divided into 40 counties (with Wales 52); has numerous rivers with
navigable estuaries, while transit is facilitated by a network of railways and canals; save
the highlands in the N., and the Pennine Range running into Derby, England is composed (if
we except the mountainland of Wales) of undulating plains, 80 per cent, of which is arable;
while coal and iron are found in abundance, and copper, lead, zinc, and tin in lesser quantities;
in the extent and variety of its textile factories, and in the production of machinery and
other hardware goods, England is without an equal; the climate is mild and moist, and affected
by draughts; but for the Gulf Stream, whose waters wash its western shores, it would probably
resemble that of Labrador. Under a limited monarchy and a widely embracing franchise, the people
of England enjoy an unrivalled political freedom. Since Henry VIII.'s time, the national religion
has been an established Protestantism, but all forms are tolerated. In 1896 education was made
free. The name England is derived from Engle-land, or land of the Angles, a Teutonic people
who, with kindred Saxons and Jutes, came over from the mainland in the 5th century, and took
possession of the island, driving Britons and Celts before them. Admixtures to the stock took
place during the 11th century through the Danish and Norman conquests. E. annexed Wales in
1284, and was united with Scotland under one crown in 1603, and under one Parliament in 1707.

ENGLAND, THE WANT OF, "England needs," says Ruskin, "examples of people who, leaving Heaven
to decide whether they are to rise in the world, decide for themselves that they will be happy
in it, and have resolved to seek, not greater wealth, but simpler pleasures; not higher fortune,
but deeper felicity; making the first of possessions self-possession, and honouring themselves
in the harmless pride and calm pursuits of peace."

ENGLES, FRIEDRICH, a Socialist, the friend of Karl Marx; an active propagandist of socialistic
theories; author of several works on Socialism (1820-1895).

ENID, the daughter of Yniol and the wife of Geraint; one of the ladies of the court of King
Arthur; celebrated for her steadfast conjugal affection, the story regarding whom is given
in Tennyson's "Idylls of the King."

ENNISKILLEN (5), the county town of Fermanagh, Ireland, on an isle in the river which joins
Lower and Upper Loughs Erne; the scene of the defeat of James II.'s troops by those of William
of Orange; gives its name to a well-known dragoon regiment.

ENNIUS, an early Roman poet, the father of Roman epic poetry, born in Rudiæ, Calabria; promoted
the study of Greek literature in Rome; of his poems, dramatic and epic, only a few fragments
are extant (239-169 B.C.).

ENOCH, a godly man, who lived in antediluvian times among a race gone godless, and whom the
Lord in judgment removed from the earth to return Himself by-and-by with a flood in order to
clear the world of the ungodly.

ENOCH, THE BOOK OF, an apocryphal book, quoted from by Jude, discovered over a century ago,
composed presumably about the 2nd century, though subsequently enlarged and ascribed to Enoch;
it professes to be a series of revelations made to the patriarch bearing upon the secrets of
the material and spiritual universe and the course of Providence, and written down by him for
the benefit of posterity.

ENOCH ARDEN, a poem of Tennyson, and one of his happiest efforts to translate an incident of
common life into the domain of poetry; the story is: A sailor, presumed to be lost, and whose
wife marries another, returns, finds her happily wedded, and bears the sorrow rather than disturb
her felicity by revealing himself.

ENTABLATURE, a term in classic architecture applied to the ornamented portion of a building
which rests in horizontal position upon supporting columns; is subdivided into three parts,
the lower portion being called the architrave, the middle portion the frieze, and the uppermost
the cornice; the depth assigned to these parts varies in the different schools, but the whole
entablature generally measures twice the diameter of the column.

ENTAIL, a term in law which came to be used in connection with the practice of limiting the
inheritance of estates to a certain restricted line of heirs. Attempts of the kind, which arise
naturally out of the deeply-seated desire which men have to preserve property--especially landed
estates--in their own families, are of ancient date; but the system as understood now, involving
the principle of primogeniture, owes its origin to the feudal system. Sometimes the succession
was limited to the male issue, but this was by no means an invariable practice; in modern times
the system has been, by a succession of Acts of Parliaments (notably the Cairns Act of 1882),
greatly modified, and greater powers given to the actual owner of alienating the estates to
which he has succeeded, a process which is called "breaking the entail."

ENTSAGEN, the renunciation with which, according to Goethe, life, strictly speaking, begins,
briefly explained by Froude as "a resolution, fixedly and clearly made, to do without pleasant
things--wealth, promotion, fame, honour, and the other rewards with which the world recompenses
the services it appreciates," or, still more briefly, the renunciation of the flesh symbolised
in the Christian baptism by water.

ENVIRONMENT, a term of extensive use in biological science, especially employed to denote the
external conditions which go to determine modifications in the development of organic life
to the extent often of producing new species.

EOLUS. See ÆOLUS.

EON. See ÆON.

EON DE BEAUMONT, CHARLES D', the "Chevalier d'Eon," a noted French diplomatist, born at Tonnerre,
Burgundy; notorious as having, while on secret missions, adopted a woman's dress for purposes
of disguise; was ambassador at the English Court, but degraded and recalled by Louis XVI.,
and condemned to wear feminine garb till the close of his life; died in destitution, when the
popular doubt as to his real sex was set at rest (1728-1810).

EOS, the goddess of the dawn, the daughter of Hyperion, and the sister of Helios and Selene.
See AURORA.

EÖTVÖS, JOZSEF, Hungarian statesman and author, born at Buda; adopted law as a profession,
but devoted himself to literature, and eventually politics; Minister of Public Instruction,
and then of Worship and Education; published some powerful dramas and novels, notably "The
Village Notary," a work pronounced equal in many respects to the best of Scott's novels; also
vigorous political essays (1813-1871).

EPACT, a name given to the excess of the solar month over the lunar, amounting to 1 day 11
hours 11 minutes and 57 seconds, and of the solar year over the lunar amounting to 11 days.

EPAMINONDAS, a famous Theban statesman and soldier, defeated Sparta in the great victory of
Leuctra, and during his lifetime raised Thebes to a position of dominant power; was slain in
the battle of Mantinea when again successfully engaging the Spartans; blameless in his private
life as he was heroic in the field, he figures as the great hero of Theban history; born about
the close of the 5th century B.C.

EPÉE, CHARLES MICHEL, ABBÉ DE L', a noted philanthropist, born at Versailles; took holy orders,
but was divested of them on account of Jansenist views; devoted his life to the instruction
of deaf-mutes, for whom he founded an institute, and invented a language of signs (1712-1789).

EPEIUS, the contriver of the wooden horse, by means of which the Greeks entered and took possession
of Troy, and who was assisted by Athena in the building of it.

ÉPERNAY (18), a French town on the Marne, 20 m. NW. of Châlons; the chief emporium of the champagne
district.

EPHESIANS, THE EPISTLE TO, a presumably circular letter of St. Paul to the Church at Ephesus,
among other Churches in the East, written to show that the Gentile had a standing in Christ
as well as the Jew, and that it was agreeable to the eternal purpose of God that the two should
form one body in Him; it contains Paul's doctrine of the Church, and appears to have been written
during his first imprisonment in Rome (61-63); it appears from the spirit that breathes in
it and the similar thoughts and exhortations, contained to have been written at the same time
as the Epistle to the Colossians.

EPHIALTES, one of the giants who revolted against Zeus and threatened to storm heaven; he appears
to have been maimed by Apollo and Hercules.

EPHIALTES, a Malian Greek who led the Persians across a pass in the mountains, whereby they
were able to surround and overcome Leonidas and his Spartans at Thermopylæ.

EPH`ORI (i. e. overseers), the name of five magistrates annually elected in ancient Sparta
from among the people as a countercheck to the authority of the kings and the senate; had originally
to see to the execution of justice and the education of youth; their authority, which resembled
that of the tribunes in Rome, was at last destroyed in 225 B.C.

EPHRAEM SYRUS, the most famous of the Church Fathers in Syria, and called "prophet of the Syrians,"
also "Pillar of the Church" and "Help of the Holy Ghost," born at Nisibis, Mesopotamia; lived
a hermit's life in a cave near Edessa; left exegetical writings, homilies, and poems, and so
great was his piety and self-denial, that he was looked upon as a saint, and is still so reverenced
in several Churches (320-370).

EPHRAIM, one of the 12 tribes of Israel, the one to which Joshua belonged, located in the centre
of the land; powerful in the days of the Judges, the chief of the 10 tribes that revolted under
Jeroboam after the death of Solomon, and is found often to give name to the whole body of them.

EPIC, a poem that treats of the events in the life of a nation or a race or the founder of
one, agreeably to the passion inspiring it and in such form as to kindle and keep alive the
heroism thereof in the generations thereafter; or a poem in celebration of the thoughts, feelings,
and feats of a whole nation or race; its proper function is to disimprison the soul of the
related facts and give a noble rendering of them; of compositions of this kind the "Iliad"
of Homer, the "Æneid" of Virgil, and the "Divine Comedy" of Dante take the lead.

EPIC MELODY, melody in accord with the feeling of the whole race or the subject as a whole.

EPICHARIS, a Roman lady who conspired against Nero and strangled herself rather than reveal
her accomplices after undergoing the cruellest tortures.

EPICHARMUS, a Greek philosopher and poet in the island of Cos; studied philosophy under Pythagoras;
conceived a taste for comedy; gave himself up to that branch of the drama, and received the
name of the "Father of Comedy"; lived eventually at the court of Hiero of Syracuse (540-430 B.C.).

EPICTETUS, a celebrated Stoic philosopher of the 1st century, originally a slave; lived and
taught at Rome, but after the expulsion of the philosophers retired to Nicopolis, in Epirus;
was lame, and lived in poverty; his conversations were collected by Arrian, and his philosophy
in a short manual under the Greek name of "Enchiridion of Epictetus," written, as is alleged,
in utter obliviousness of the fact that "the end of man is an action, not a thought."

EPICUREANS, a sect of philosophers who derived their name from Epicurus, and who divided the
empire of philosophy with the STOICS (q. v.), at the birth of Christ; they held that the chief
end of man was happiness, that the business of philosophy was to guide him in the pursuit of
it, and that it was only by experience that one could learn what would lead to it and what
would not; they scouted the idea of reason as regulative of thought, and conscience as regulative
of conduct, and maintained that our senses were our only guides in both; in a word, they denied
that God had implanted in man an absolute rational and moral principle, and maintained that
he had no other clue to the goal of his being but his experience in life, while the distinction
of right and wrong was only a distinction of what was found conducive to happiness and what
was not; they had no faith in or fear of a divine Being above man any more than of a divine
principle within man, and they scorned the idea of another world with its awards, and concerned
themselves only with this, which, however, in their hands was no longer a cosmos but a chaos,
out of which the quickening and ordinative spirit had fled.

EPICURUS, a Greek philosopher, born at Samos, of Athenian origin; settled at Athens in his
thirty-sixth year, and founded a philosophical school there, where he taught a philosophy in
opposition to that of the Stoics; philosophy he defined as "an activity which realises a happy
life through ideas and arguments," summing itself up "in ethics, which are to teach us how
to attain a life of felicity"; his system comprised "the three branches included in philosophy,
viz., logic, physics, and ethics," but he arranges them in reverse order, logic and physics
being regarded only as the handmaids of ethics; for he "limited logic to the investigation
of the criterion of truth," and physics he valued as disillusioning the mind of "the superstitious
fear that went to disturb happiness"; he was a man of a temperate and blameless life, and it
is a foul calumny on him to charge him with summing up happiness as mere self-indulgence, though
it is true he regarded "virtue as having no value in itself, but only in so far as it offered
us something--an agreeable life."

EPICYCLE, an expression used in the PTOLEMAIC (q. v.) system of astronomy; the old belief that
the celestial bodies moved in perfect circles round the earth was found to be inadequate to
explain the varying position of the planets, a difficulty which led Ptolemy to invent his theory
of epicycles, which was to the effect that each planet revolved round a centre of its own,
greater or less, but that all these centres themselves moved in procession round the earth,
a theory which fell to pieces before the investigations of Kepler and Newton.

EPIDAURUS, a town of ancient Greece, in Argolis, on the eastern shore of the Peloponnesus;
was at one time an independent State and an active centre of trade, but was chiefly noted for
its famous temple of Æsculapius, to which people flocked to be cured of their diseases, and
which bore the inscription "Open only to pure souls"; ruins of a magnificent theatre are still
extant here.

EPIDEMIC, a name given to contagious diseases which, arising suddenly in a community, rapidly
spread through its members, often travelling from district to district, until often a whole
country is affected; the theory of the transmission of disease by microbes has largely explained
the spread of such scourges, but the part which atmospheric and other physical, and perhaps
psychic, causes play in these disorders is still matter of debate, especially as regards epidemic
mental diseases. See ENDEMIC.

EPIGONI (the Descendants), the name given to the sons of the Seven who perished before Thebes;
they avenged the death of their fathers by razing Thebes to the ground; the war first and last
has been made the subject of epic and tragic poems.

EPIGRAM, in modern usage, is a neat, witty, and pointed utterance briefly couched in verse
form, usually satiric, and reserving its sting to the last line; sometimes made the vehicle
of a quaintly-turned compliment, as, for example, in Pope's couplet to Chesterfield, when asked
to write something with that nobleman's pencil;--

    "Accept a miracle; instead of wit,
    See two dull lines by Stanhope's pencil writ."

The Latin epigrammatists, especially Martial and Catullus, were the first to give a satirical
turn to the epigram, their predecessors the Greeks having employed it merely for purposes of
epitaph and monumental inscriptions of a laudatory nature.

EPILEPSY, a violent nervous affection, manifesting itself usually in sudden convulsive seizures
and unconsciousness, followed by temporary stoppage of the breath and rigidity of the body,
popularly known as "falling sickness"; origin as yet undecided; attributed by the ancients
to demoniacal possession.

EPIMENIDES, a philosopher of Crete of the 7th century B.C., of whom it is fabled that he fell
asleep in a cave when a boy, and that he did not awake for 57 years, but it was to find himself
endowed with all knowledge and wisdom. He was invited to Athens during a plague to purify the
city, on which occasion he performed certain mysterious rites with the effect that the plague
ceased. The story afforded Goethe a subject for a drama entitled "Das Epimenides Erwachen,"
"in which he symbolises his own aloofness from the great cause of the Fatherland, the result
of want of faith in the miraculous power that resides in an enthusiastic outbreak of patriotic
feeling."

EPIMETHEUS (i. e. Afterthought), the brother of Prometheus (Forethought), who in spite of the
warnings of the latter opened Pandora's box, and let loose a flood of evils on the earth, which
oppress it to this day.

EPINAL (21), the capital of the dep. of Vosges, in France, charmingly situated at the foot
of the Vosges Mountains, on the Moselle; is elegantly built, and has ruins of an old castle,
surrounded by fine gardens, a 10th-century church, and a fine library, &c.; a suspension bridge
spans the Moselle; there is industry in cotton, paper, &c.

EPINAY, MADAME D', a French writer, unhappily married in her youth; became notorious for her
illicit intimacy with Rousseau and Grimm; her "Mémoires et Correspondence" give a lively picture
of her times (1725-1783).

EPIPHANIUS, ST., one of the Fathers of the Greek Church; of Jewish descent; flourished in the
4th century; led a monastic life, and founded a monastery in Eleutheropolis; was bishop of
Constantia in 367; bigoted and tyrannical, he became notorious for his ecclesiastical zeal,
and for his indictments of Origen and St. Chrysostom; left writings that show great but indiscriminate
learning (330-402).

EPIPHANY, as observed in the Christian Church, is a festival held on the 12th day after Christmas,
in commemoration of the manifestation of Christ to the Magi of the East; but up to the close
of the 4th century the festival also commemorated the incarnation of Christ as well as the
divine manifestation at His baptism.

EPI`RUS, was the NW. portion of ancient Hellas, Dodona its capital, and Acheron one of its
rivers; in 1466 became part of the Ottoman empire, but in 1881 a portion was ceded to Greece.

EPISCOPACY, the name given to the form of Church government in which there are superior and
inferior orders among the clergy, as between that of bishop and that of a presbyter; called
also Prelacy.

EPISCOPIUS, SIMON, a Dutch theologian, born at Amsterdam; the head of the Arminian party after
the death of Arminius; was unjustly misrepresented, and tyrannically, even cruelly, treated
by the opposite party; he was a man of great ability, enlightened views, and admirable temper,
and set more store by integrity and purity of character than orthodoxy of belief (1583-1643).

EPISTOLÆ OBSCURORUM VIRORUM (i. e. letters of obscure men), a celebrated collection of Latin
letters which appeared in the 16th century in Germany, attacking with merciless severity the
doctrines and modes of living of the scholastics and monks, credited with hastening the Reformation.

EPITAPH, an inscription placed on a tombstone in commemoration of the dead interred below.
The natural feeling which prompts such inscriptions has manifested itself among all civilised
peoples, and not a little of a nation's character may be read in them. The Greeks reserved
epitaphs for their heroes, but amongst the Romans grew up the modern custom of marking the
tombs of relatives with some simple inscription, many of their sepulchres being placed on the
side of the public roads, a circumstance which explains the phrase, Siste, viator--Stay, traveller--found
in old graveyards.

EPITHALAMIUM, a nuptial song, sung before the bridal chamber in honour of the newly-wedded
couple, particularly among the Greeks and Romans, of whom Theocritus and Catullus have left
notable examples; but the epithalamium of Edmund Spenser is probably the finest specimen extant
of this poetic form.

EPPING FOREST, as it now exists in the SE. of Essex, is a remnant--5600 acres--of the famous
Epping or Waltham Forest, which once extended over all Essex, and which then served as a royal
hunting-ground, is now a favourite pleasure-ground and valuable field for explorations of botanical
and entomological collectors.

EPSOM, a market-town in Surrey, skirting Banstead Downs, 15 m. SW. of London; formerly noted
for its mineral springs, now associated with the famous Derby races.

EQUINOCTIAL POINTS are the two points at which the celestial equator intersects the ECLIPTIC
(q. v.), so called because the days and nights are of equal duration when the sun is at these
points.

EQUINOXES, the two annually recurring times at which the sun arrives at the EQUINOCTIAL POINTS
(q. v.), viz., 21st March and 22nd September, called respectively the vernal and the autumnal
equinoxes in the northern hemisphere, but vice versa in the southern; at these times the sun
is directly over the equator, and day and night is then of equal length over the whole globe.

EQUITES, THE, a celebrated equestrian order in ancient Rome, supposed to have been instituted
by Romulus; at first purely military, it was at length invested with the judicial functions
of the Senate, and the power of farming out the public revenues; gradually lost these privileges
and became defunct.

ERASMUS, DESIDERIUS, a famous scholar and man of letters, born at Rotterdam; illegitimate son
of one Gerhard; conceived a disgust for monkish life during six years' residence in a monastery
at Steyn; wandered through Europe and amassed stores of learning at various universities; visited
Oxford in 1489, and formed a lifelong friendship with Sir Thomas More; was for some years professor
of Divinity and Greek at Cambridge; edited the first Greek Testament; settled finally at Basel,
whence he exercised a remarkable influence over European thought by the wit and tone of his
writings, notably the "Praise of Folly," the "Colloquia" and "Adagia"; he has been regarded
as the precursor of the Reformation; is said to have laid the egg which Luther hatched; aided
the Reformation by his scholarship, though he kept aloof as a scholar from the popular movement
of Luther (1467-1536).

ERASTIANISM, the right of the State to override and overrule the decisions of the Church that
happen to involve civil penalties. See ERASTUS.

ERASTUS, an eminent physician, born at Baden, in Switzerland, whose fame rests mainly on the
attitude he assumed in the theological and ecclesiastical questions of the day; he defended
Zwingli's view of the Eucharist as a merely symbolical ordinance, and denied the right of the
Church to inflict civil penalties, or to exercise discipline--the power of the keys--that belonging,
he maintained, to the province of the civil magistrate and not to the Church (1534-1583).

ERATO (i. e. the Lovely), the muse of erotic poetry and elegy, represented with a lyre in her
left hand.

ERATOSTHENES, surnamed the Philologist, a philosopher of Alexandria, born at Cyrene, 276 B.C.;
becoming blind and tired of life, he starved himself to death at the age of 80; he ranks high
among ancient astronomers; measured the obliquity of the ecliptic, and estimated the size of
the earth (276-194 B.C.).

ERCILLA Y ZUÑIGA, a Spanish poet, born at Madrid; took part in the war of the Spaniards with
the Araucos in Chile, which he celebrated in an epic of no small merit called "La Araucana";
he ended his days in poverty (1553-1595).

ERDGEIST, the Spirit of the Earth, represented in Goethe's "Faust" as assiduously weaving,
at the Time-Loom, night and day, in death as well as life, the earthly vesture of the Eternal,
and thereby revealing the Invisible to mortal eyes.

ERDMANN, a German philosopher, born at Wolmar, professor at Halle; was of the school of Hegel,
an authority on the history of philosophy (1805-1892).

EREBUS, a region of utter darkness in the depths of Hades, into which no mortal ever penetrated,
the proper abode of Pluto and his Queen with their train of attendants, such as the Erinnyes,
through which the spirits of the dead must pass on their way to Hades; equivalent to the valley
of the shadow of death.

ERECTHEUS or ERICHTHONIUS, the mythical first king of Athens; favoured and protected from infancy
by Athena, to whom accordingly he dedicated the city; he was buried in the temple of Athena,
and worshipped afterwards as a god; it is fabled of him that when an infant he was committed
by Athena in a chest to the care of Agraulos and Herse, under a strict charge not to pry into
it; they could not restrain their curiosity, opened the chest, saw the child entwined with
serpents, were seized with madness, and threw themselves down from the height of the Acropolis
to perish at the foot.

ERFURT (72), a town in Saxony, on the Gera, 14 m. W. of Weimar, formerly capital of Thüringia,
and has many interesting buildings, amongst the number the 14th-century Gothic cathedral with
its great bell, weighing 13½ tons, and cast in 1497; the monastery of St. Augustine (changed
into an orphanage in 1819), in which Luther was a monk; the Academy of Sciences, and the library
with 60,000 vols. and 1000 MSS.; various textile factories flourish.

ERGOT, a diseased state of grasses, &c., but a disease chiefly attacking rye, produced by a
fungus developing on the seeds; the drug "ergot of rye" is obtained from a species of this fungus.

ERIC, the name of several of the kings of Denmark, and Sweden, and Norway, the most notorious
being the son of the noble Swedish king GUSTAVUS VASA (q. v.), who aspired to the hand of Elizabeth
of England and challenged his rival Leicester to a duel; afterwards sought Mary of Scotland,
but eventually married a peasant girl who had nursed him out of madness brought on by dissipation;
was deposed after a State trial instigated by his own brothers, and ultimately poisoned himself
in prison eight years later (1533-1577).

ERIC THE RED, a Norwegian chief who discovered Greenland in the 10th century, and sent out
expeditions to the coast of North America.

ERICSSON, JOHN, a distinguished Swedish engineer, born at Langbanshyttan; went to England in
1826 and to United States of America in 1839, where he died; invented the screw propeller of
steamships; built warships for the American navy, and amongst them the famous Monitor; his
numerous inventions mark a new era in naval and steamship construction (1802-1889).

ERIE, LAKE, the fourth in size among the giant lakes of North America, lies between Lakes Huron
and Ontario, on the Canadian border, is 240 m. long and varies from 30 to 60 m. in breadth;
is very shallow, and difficult to navigate; ice-bound from December till about April.

ERIGENA, JOHANNES SCOTUS, a rationalistic mystic, the most distinguished scholar and thinker
of the 9th century, of Irish birth; taught at the court of Charles the Bald in France, and
was summoned by Alfred to Oxford in 877; died abbot of Malmesbury; held that "damnation was
simply the consciousness of having failed to fulfil the divine purpose"; he derived all authority
from reason, and not reason from authority, maintaining that authority unfounded on reason
was of no value; d. 882.

ERIN, the ancient Celtic name of Ireland, used still in poetry.

ERINNA, a Greek poetess, the friend of Sappho, died at 19; wrote epic poetry, all but a few
lines of which has perished; born about 612 B.C.

ERINNYES, THE (i. e. the roused-to-anger, in Latin, the Furies), the Greek goddesses of vengeance,
were the daughters of Gaia, begotten of the blood of the wounded Uranus, and at length reckoned
three in number, Alecto, Tisiphone, and Megara; they were conceived of as haunting the wicked
on earth and scourging them in hell; they were of the court of Pluto, and the executioners
of his wrath.

ERIS, the Greek goddess of strife or discord, sowing the seeds thereof among the gods to begin
with, which she has since continued to do among men.

ERIVAN (15), a fortified town in Transcaucasia, situated 30 m. NE. of Mount Ararat on an elevated
plateau; was ceded to Russia in 1828 by Persia.

ERLANGEN (13), a Bavarian town on the Regnitz, has a celebrated Protestant university, founded
by Wilhelmina, sister of Frederick the Great, who was the Electress; was a place of refuge
for the Huguenots in 1685; manufactures in gloves, mirrors, and tobacco are carried on, and
brewing.

ERLAU (22), an ecclesiastical city of Hungary, on the Erlau, 89 m. NE. of Pesth; is the seat
of an archbishop; has a fine cruciform cathedral, built since 1837, several monasteries, a
lyceum with a large library and an observatory; is noted for its red wine.

ERL-KING, a Norse impersonation of the spirit of superstitious fear which haunts and kills
us even in the guardian embrace of paternal affection.

ERMINIA, a Syrian, the heroine of Tasso's "Jerusalem Delivered," in love with the Christian
prince Tancred.

ERNESTI, JOHANN AUGUST, a celebrated German classicist and theologian, called the "German Cicero,"
born at Tennstädt, Thüringia; professor of Philology in Leipzig, and afterwards of Theology;
edited various classical works, his edition of Cicero specially noted; was the first to apply
impartial textual criticism to the Bible, and to him, in consequence, we owe the application
of a more correct exegesis to the biblical writings (1707-1781).

ERNST, ELECTOR OF SAXONY, founder of the Ernestine line of Saxon princes, ancestor of Prince
Consort, born at Altenburg; was kidnapped along with his brother Albert in 1455, an episode
famous in German history as the "Prinzenraub" (i. e. the stealing of the prince); succeeded
his father in 1464; annexed Thüringia in 1482, and three years later shared his territory with
his brother Albert (1441-1486).

ERNST I., Duke of Saxe-Gotha and Altenburg; served in the Thirty Years' War under Gustavus
Adolphus, and shared in the victory of Lützen; was an able and wise ruler, and gained for himself
the surname of "the Pious" (1601-1675).

EROS (in Latin, Cupido), the Greek god of love, the son of Aphrodité, and the youngest of the
gods, though he figures in the cosmogony as one of the oldest of the gods, and as the uniting
power in the life of the gods and the life of the universe, was represented at last as a wanton
boy from whose wiles neither gods nor men were safe.

EROSTRATUS, an obscure Ephesian, who, to immortalise his name, set fire to the temple of Ephesus
on the night, as it happened, when Alexander the Great was born; the Ephesians thought to defeat
his purpose by making it death to any one who named his name, but in vain, the decree itself
giving wider and wider publicity to the act.

ERPENIUS (Thomas van Erpen), Arabic scholar, born at Gorkum, in Holland; after completing his
studies at Leyden and Paris, became professor of Oriental Languages there; famed for his Arabic
grammar and rudiments, which served as text-books for upwards of 200 years (1585-1624).

ERSCH, JOHANN SAMUEL, a bibliographer, born at Grossglogau; after a college career at Halle
devoted himself to journalism, and in 1800 became librarian of the University of Jena; subsequently
filled the chair of Geography and Statistics at Halle; his "Handbook of German Literature"
marks the beginning of German bibliography; began in 1818, along with Gruber, the publication
of an encyclopædia which is still unfinished (1766-1828).

ERSKINE, EBENEZER, founder of the Secession Church of Scotland, born at Chirnside, Berwickshire;
minister at Portmoak for 28 years; took part in the patronage dispute, and was deposed (1733),
when he formed a church at Gairney Bridge, near Kinross, the nucleus of the Secession Church
(1703-1754).

ERSKINE, HENRY, a famous Scotch lawyer, second son of the Earl of Buchan, born at Edinburgh;
called to the bar and became Lord Advocate; a Whig in politics; brought about useful legal
reforms; noted as a brilliant wit and orator (1746-1817).

ERSKINE, JOHN, a Scottish jurist; called to the bar in 1719; became professor of Scots Law
in Edinburgh University in 1837, resigned 1763; author of two important works on Scots Law,
"The Institutes" and "Principles" (1695-1768).

ERSKINE, JOHN, D.D., son of the preceding; a celebrated Scotch preacher and author of various
essays and pamphlets; a prominent leader on the Evangelical side in the General Assemblies;
was minister of the Old Greyfriars, Edinburgh, and the colleague of Principal Robertson; is
remembered for a retort in the pulpit and for another in the General Assembly; the former was
to a remark of his colleague, Principal Robertson, "If perfect virtue were to appear on earth
we would adore it." ... "Perfect virtue did appear on earth and we crucified it"; and that
other in the General Assembly was "Rax (reach) me that Bible," as certain Moderates in the
court began derisively to scoff at the proposal to send missions to the heathen (1721-1803).

ERSKINE, JOHN, OF DUN, a Scotch Reformer, supported Knox and Wishart; was several times Moderator
of the General Assembly, and assisted in the formation of "The Second Book of Discipline" (1509-1591).

ERSKINE, RALPH, a Scotch divine, brother of EBENEZER (q. v.), with whom he co-operated in founding
the Secession Church; his sermons and religious poems, called "Gospel Sonnets," were widely
read; one of the first of the Scotch seceders, strange to contemplate, "a long, soft, poke-shaped
face, with busy anxious black eyes, looking as if he could not help it; and then such a character
and form of human existence, conscience living to the finger ends of him, in a strange, venerable,
though highly questionable manner ... his formulas casing him all round like the shell of a
beetle"; his fame rests chiefly on his "Gospel Sonnets," much appreciated at one time (1685-1752).

ERSKINE, THOMAS, LORD, a famous lawyer, youngest son of the Earl of Buchan, born in Edinburgh;
spent his early years in the navy, and afterwards joined the army; resigned in 1775 to enter
upon the study of law; called to the bar in 1778; a king's counsel in 1783; created a baron
and Lord Chancellor in 1806; was engaged in all the famous trials of his time; an unrivalled
orator in the law courts; his speeches rank as masterpieces of forensic eloquence (1750-1823).

ERSKINE, THOMAS, OF LINLATHEN, member of the Scottish bar, but devoted in an intensely human
spirit to theological interests, "one of the gentlest, kindliest, best bred of men," says Carlyle,
who was greatly attached to him; "I like him," he says, "as one would do a draught of sweet
rustic mead served in cut glasses and a silver tray ... talks greatly of symbols, seems not
disinclined to let the Christian religion pass for a kind of mythus, provided one can retain
the spirit of it"; he wrote a book, much prized at one time, on the "Internal Evidences of
Revealed Religion," also on Faith; besides being the constant friend of Carlyle, he corresponded
on intimate terms with such men as Maurice and Dean Stanley (1788-1870).

ERWIN, a German architect, born at Steinbach, Baden; the builder of the western façade of the
cathedral of Strasburg (1240-1318).

ERYMANTHUS, a mountain in Arcadia that was the haunt of the boar killed by Hercules.

ERYSIPELAS, known popularly as St. Anthony's Fire and Rose, a febrile disease, manifesting
itself in acute inflammation of the skin, which becomes vividly scarlet and ultimately peels;
confined chiefly to the head; is contagious, and recurrent.

ERYTHEMA, a medical term used loosely to designate a diseased condition of the skin; characterised
by a scarlet or dark-red rash or eruption, distinct from erysipelas.

ERYTHREA (220), a colony belonging to Italy, extending from Cape Kasar 670 m. along the western
shore of the Red Sea to a point in the Strait of Bab-el-Mandeb; Massowah the capital.

ERYTHREAN SEA, a name of the Red Sea.

ERZERUM (60), a city in Turkish Armenia, capital of the province of the same name, 125 m. SE.
of Trebizond; situated on a fertile plain 6300 ft. above sea-level; is an important entrepôt
for commerce between Europe and Asia; is irregularly built, but contains imposing ruins; has
a fortress, and in the suburbs a number of mosques and bazaars; is famed for its iron and copper
ware; fell into the hands of the Turks in 1517; figured as a military centre in many Turkish
wars; was reduced by the Russians in 1878; was a scene of Armenian massacres by the Turks in 1895.

ERZGEBIRGE, a range of mountains lying between Saxony and Bohemia; the highest peak is the
Keilberg, 4052 ft.; is rich in various metallic ores, especially silver and lead.

ERYX, an ancient town in the NW. of Sicily, at the foot of a mountain of the same name, with
a temple to Venus, who was hence called Erycina.

ESAU, the eldest son of Isaac, who sold his birthright to Jacob for a mess of lentils; led
a predatory life, and was the forefather of the Edomites.

ESCHATOLOGY, the department of theology which treats of the so-called last things, such as
death, the intermediate state, the millennium, the return of Christ, the resurrection, the
judgment, and the end of the world.

ESCHENBACH, WOLFRAM VON, a famous minnesinger, born at Eschenbach, in Bavaria, at about the
close of the 12th century; was of good birth, and lived some time at the Thuringian Court;
enjoyed a wide reputation in his time as a poet; of his poems the epic "Parzival" is the most
celebrated, and records the history of the "Grail."

ESCHER, JOHANN HEINRICH ALFRED. Swiss statesman, born at Zurich; bred for the law, and lectured
for a while in his native town; became President of the Council of Zurich; co-operated with
Farrer in expelling the Jesuits; became member of the Diet; supported Federal union, and did
much to promote and establish State education in Switzerland; b. 1819.

ESCHINES. See ÆSCHINES; as also ESCULAPIUS, ESCHYLUS, ESOP, &c., under Æ.

ESCOBAR, MENDOZA ANTONIO, a Spanish Jesuit and casuist, born at Valladolid, a preacher and
voluminous writer (1589-1669).

ESCURIAL, a huge granite pile, built in the form of a gridiron, 30 m. NW. from Madrid, and
deemed at one time the eighth wonder of the world; was built in 1563-1584; was originally dedicated
as a monastery to St. Lorenzo in recognition of the services which the Saint had rendered to
Philip II. at the battle of St. Quentin, and used at length as a palace and burial-place of
kings. It is a mere shadow of what it was, and is preserved from ruin by occasional grants
of money to keep it in repair.

ESDRAËLON, a flat and fertile valley in Galilee, called also the valley of Jezreel, which,
with a maximum breadth of 9 m., extends in a NW. direction from the Jordan at Bathshean to
the Bay of Acre.

ESDRAS, the name of two books of the Apocrypha, the first, written 2nd century B.C., containing
the history of the rebuilding of the Temple and the restoration of its cultus, with a discussion
on the strangest of all things, ending in assigning the palm to truth; and the second, written
between 97 and 81 B.C., a forecast of the deliverance of the Jews from oppression and the establishment
of the Messianic kingdom.

ESK, the name of several Scottish streams: (1) in Dumfriesshire, the Esk of young Lochinvar,
has a course of 31 m. after its formation by the junction of the North and South Esks, and
flows into the Solway; (2) in Edinburgh, formed by the junction of the North and South Esks,
joins the Firth of Forth at Musselburgh; (3) in Forfarshire, the South Esk discharges into
the North Sea at Montrose, and the North Esk also flows into the North Sea 4 m. N. of Montrose.

ESKIMO or ESQUIMAUX, an aboriginal people of the Mongolian or American Indian stock, in all
not amounting to 40,000, thinly scattered along the northern seaboard of America and Asia and
in many of the Arctic islands; their physique, mode of living, religion, and language are of
peculiar ethnological interest; they are divided into tribes, each having its own territory,
and these tribes in turn are subdivided into small communities, over each of which a chief
presides; the social organisation is a simple tribal communism; Christianity has been introduced
amongst the Eskimo of South Alaska and in the greater part of Labrador; in other parts the
old religion still obtains, called Shamanism, a kind of fetish worship; much of their folk-lore
has been gathered and printed; fishing and seal-hunting are their chief employments; they are
of good physique, but deplorably unclean in their habits; their name is supposed to be an Indian
derivative signifying "eaters of raw meat."

ESKIMO DOG, a dog found among the Eskimo, about the size of a pointer, hair thick, and of a
dark grey or black and white; half tamed, but strong and sagacious; invaluable for sledging.

ESMOND, HENRY, the title of one of Thackeray's novels, deemed by the most competent critics
his best, and the name of its hero, a chivalrous cavalier of the time of Queen Anne. "Esmond"
is pronounced by Prof. Saintsbury to be "among the very summits of English prose fiction, exquisitely
written in a marvellous resurrection of eighteenth-century style, touched somehow with a strange
modernity and life which make it no pastiche, containing the most brilliant passages of mere
incident, and, above all, enshrining such studies of character ... as not four other makers
of English prose and verse can show."

ESNÉ, a town in Upper Egypt, on the left bank of the Nile, and 25 m. S. of Thebes; famous for
the ruins of a temple.

ESOTERIC, a term used to denote teaching intended only for the initiated, and intelligible
only to them.

ESPARTERO, a celebrated Spanish general and statesman, born at Granatula; supported, against
the Carlist faction, the claims of Isabella to the throne of Spain; was for his services made
Duke of Vittoria, and in 1841 elected regent; compelled to abdicate, he fled to England, but
afterwards returned for a time to the head of affairs; an able man, but wanting in the requisite
astuteness and tact for such a post (1793-1879).

ESPINASSE, CLARE FRANÇOISE, a wit and beauty, born at Lyons, illegitimate child of the Countess
d'Albon; went to Paris as companion to Madame du Deffand, with whom she quarrelled; set up
a salon of her own, and became celebrated for her many attractions; D'Alembert was devoted
to her; many of her letters to her lovers, the Marquis de Mora and M. de Guilbert in particular,
have been published, and display a charming personality (1732-1776).

ESPINEL, VINCENT DE, a Spanish poet and musician, born at Ronda, Granada; first a soldier and
then a priest, the friend of Lope de Vega, and author of a work which Le Sage made free use
of in writing "Gil Blas"; was an expert musician; played on the guitar, and added a fifth string
(1551-1634).

ESPIRITU SANTO, (1) a small and swampy maritime province of Brazil (121), lying on the N. border
of Rio de Janeiro; does some trade in timber, cotton, coffee, and sugar; Victoria is the capital;
(2) a town (32) in central Cuba; (3) the largest of the NEW HEBRIDES (q. v.) (20); the climate
is unhealthy, but the soil fertile.

ESPRIT DES LOIS (i. e. the Spirit of Laws), the title of Montesquieu's great work, at once
speculative and historical, published in 1748, characterised in "Sartor" as the work, like
many others, of "a clever infant spelling letters from a hieroglyphic book the lexicon of which
lies in Eternity, in Heaven."

ESPY, JAMES POLLARD, a meteorologist, born in Pennsylvania; did notable work in investigating
the causes of storms, and in 1841 published "The Philosophy of Storms"; was appointed to the
Washington observatory, where he carried on experiments in the cooling of gases and atmospheric
expansion (1785-1860).

ESQUIRE, originally meant a shield-bearer, and was bestowed upon the two attendants of a knight,
who were distinguished by silver spurs, and whose especial duty it was to look after their
master's armour; now used widely as a courtesy title.

ESQUIROS, HENRY ALPHONSE, poet and physician, born at Paris; his early writings, poems and
romances, are socialistic in bias; member of the Legislative Assembly in 1848; retired to England
after the coup d'état; returned to France and rose to be a member of the Senate (1875); wrote
three works descriptive of the social and religious life of England (1814-1876).

ESSEN (79), a town in the Rhine province of Prussia, 20 m. NE. of Düsseldorf, the seat of the
famous "Krupp" steel-works.

ESSENES, a religious communistic fraternity, never very numerous, that grew up on the soil
of Judea about the time of the Maccabees, and had establishments in Judea when Christ was on
earth, as well as afterwards in the time of Josephus; they led an ascetic life, practised the
utmost ceremonial cleanness, were rigorous in their observance of the Jewish law, and differed
from the Pharisees in that they gave to the Pharisaic spirit a monastic expression; they represented
Judaism in its purest essence, and in the spirit of their teaching came nearer Christianity
than any other sect of the time; "Essenism," says Schürer, "is first and mainly of Jewish formation,
and in its non-Jewish features it had most affinity with the Pythagorean tendency of the Greeks."

ESSEQUIBO, an important river in British Guiana, 620 m. long, rises in the Sierra Acaray, navigable
for 50 m. to small craft, flows northward into the Atlantic.

ESSEX (785), a county in the SE. of England, between Suffolk on the N. and Kent in the S.,
faces the German Ocean on the E.; is well watered with streams; has an undulating surface;
is chiefly agricultural; brewing is an important industry, and the oyster fisheries of the
Colne are noted; Chelmsford is the county town.

ESSEX, ROBERT DEVEREUX, EARL OF, a favourite of Queen Elizabeth, born at Netherwood, Hereford;
served in the Netherlands under Leicester, his stepfather; won the capricious fancy of Elizabeth;
lost favour by marrying clandestinely the widow of Sir Philip Sidney, but was restored, and
led a life of varying fortune, filling various important offices, till his final quarrel with
the Queen and execution (1567-1601).

ESSEX, ROBERT DEVEREUX, EARL OF, son of preceding; commander of the Parliamentary forces against
Charles I.; the title died with him, but was conferred again upon the present family in 1661
(1591-1646).

ESSLING, a village near Vienna, where the French gained a bloody victory over the Austrians
in 1809, and which gave the title of prince to Masséna.

ESSLINGEN (22), an old historic and important manufacturing town in Würtemberg, on the Neckar,
9 m. SE. of Stuttgart; has a citadel and the Liebfrauen Church, which is a fine Gothic structure
with a spire 246 ft.; is a noted hardware centre, and celebrated for its machinery; a good
trade is done in textiles, fruit, and sparkling champagne.

ESTAING, COMTE D', a French admiral, "one of the bravest of men," fought against the English
in the Indies and in America; winced as a Royalist at the outbreak of the French Revolution;
his loyalty to royalty outweighed, it was thought, his loyalty to his country, and he was guillotined
(1729-1794).

ESTE, an ancient and illustrious Italian family from which, by an offshoot founded by Welf
IV., who became Duke of Bavaria in the 11th century, the Guelph Houses of Brunswick and Hanover,
also called the Este-Guelphs, trace their descent. Of the Italian branch the most noted descendant
was Alphonso I., a distinguished soldier and statesman and patron of art, whose second wife
was the famous Lucrezia Borgia. His son, Alphonso II., is remembered for his cruel treatment
of Tasso, placing him in prison for seven years as a madman who dared to make love to one of
the princesses.

ESTE (6), an Italian town, 18 m. SW. of Padua, on the S. side of the Euganean Hills; has a
castle and church with a leaning campanile.

ESTERHAZY, the town of a noble Austrian family of ancient date, and that gave birth to a number
of illustrious men.

ESTERHAZY DE GALANTHA, the name of a powerful and famous Hungarian family holding the rank
of Princes of the Empire since the 17th century. Their estates include upwards of 4000 villages,
60 market-towns, many castles and lordships, but they are heavily mortgaged.

ESTHER, THE BOOK OF, a book of the Old Testament, which takes its name from the chief figure
in the story related, an orphan Jewess and ward of her cousin Mordecai, who, from her beauty,
was chosen into the royal harem and raised to be consort to the king. It is read through in
the Jewish synagogues at the feast of PURIM (q. v.). It is observed that the name of God does
not occur once in the book, but the story implies the presence of an overruling Providence,
responding to the cry of His oppressed ones for help.

ESTHONIA (393), one of the Russian Baltic provinces, has a northern foreshore on the Gulf of
Finland, and on the W. abuts on the Baltic; what of the country that is free from forest and
marsh is chiefly agricultural, but fishing is also an important industry; the people are a
composite of Finns and immigrant Germans, with latterly Russians superimposed.

ESTIENNE, the name of a family of French painters. See STEPHENS.

EST-IL-POSSIBLE? the name given by James II. to Prince George of Denmark, the husband of Princess
Anne, from his invariable exclamation on hearing how one after another had deserted the Stuart
cause; he ended with deserting it himself.

ESTRADES, COUNT D', a French diplomatist (1579-1680).

ESTREMADURA (1,111), a coast province of Portugal, between Beira and Alemtejo, watered by the
Tagus; richly fertile in many parts, but sparely cultivated; silk is an important industry,
and an increasing; Lisbon is the chief city, and with Setubal monopolises the trade; salt,
fruits, wine, and oil are exported; also name of a district in Spain between Portugal and New
Castile, now divided into the provinces of Badajoz and Cácéres.

ETÉOCLES, a son of Oedipus, king of Thebes, agreed on the banishment of his father to govern
the state alternately with his brother Polynices, but failing to keep his engagement, the latter
appealed to his guardian, out of which there arose the War of the Seven against Thebes, which
ended in the slaughter of the whole seven, upon which the brothers thought to end the strife
in single combat, when each fell by the sword of the other.

ETERNAL CITY, ancient Rome in the esteem of its inhabitants, in accordance with the promise,
as Virgil feigns, of Jupiter to Venus, the goddess-mother of the race.

ETERNITIES, THE CONFLUX OF, Carlyle's expressive phrase for Time, as in every moment of it
a centre in which all the forces to and from Eternity meet and unite, so that by no past and
no future can we be brought nearer to Eternity than where we at any moment of Time are; the
Present Time, the youngest born of Eternity, being the child and heir of all the Past times
with their good and evil, and the parent of all the Future, the import of which (see Matt.
xvi. 27) it is accordingly the first and most sacred duty of every successive age, and especially
the leaders of it, to know and lay to heart as the only link by which Eternity lays hold of
it and it of Eternity.

ETHELBERT, a king of Kent, in whose reign Christianity was introduced by St. Augustin and a
band of missionaries in 597; drew up the first Saxon law code (552-616).

ETHELDREDA, a Saxon princess, whose name, shortened into St. Audrey, was given to a certain
kind of lace, whence "tawdry"; she took refuge from the married state in the monastery of St.
Abb's Head, and afterwards founded a monastery in the Isle of Ely (630-679).

ETHELRED I., king of Saxon England (866-871), predecessor and brother of Alfred; his reign
was a long and unsuccessful struggle with the Danes.

ETHELRED II., the Unready, a worthless king of Saxon England (979-1016), married Emma, daughter
of Richard, Duke of Normandy, a step which led in the end to the claim which issued in the
Norman Conquest (968-1016).

ETHER, a volatic liquid prepared from the distillation of alcohol and sulphuric acid at high
temperature; is colourless, and emits a sweet, penetrating odour; is highly combustible; a
useful solvent, and an important anæsthetic.

ETHER, a subtle element presumed to pervade all interstellar space, vibrations in which are
assumed to account for the transmission of light and all radiant energy.

ETHEREDGE, SIR GEORGE, the originator of the kind of comedy "containing a vein of lively humour
and witty dialogue which were afterwards displayed by Congreve and Farquhar"; has been called
the "founder of the comedy of intrigue"; he was the author of three clever plays, entitled
"Love in a Tub," "She Would if She Could," and "Sir Fopling Flutter" (1636-1694).

ETHICS, the science which treats of the distinction between right and wrong and of the moral
sense by which they are discriminated.

ETHICS OF DUST, THE, "a book by Ruskin about crystallography, but it twists symbolically in
the strangest way all its geology into morality, theology, Egyptian mythology, with fiery cuts
at political economy, pretending not to know whether the forces and destinies and behaviour
of crystals are not very like those of a man."

ETHIOPIA, a term loosely used in ancient times to indicate the territory inhabited by black
or dark-coloured people; latterly applied to an undefined tract of land stretching S. of Egypt
to the Gulf of Aden, which constituted the kingdom of the Ethiopians, a people of Semitic origin
and speaking a Semitic language called Ge'ez, who were successively conquered by the Egyptians,
Persians, and Romans; are known in the Bible; their first king is supposed to have been Menilehek,
son of Solomon and the Queen of Sheba; their literature consists mostly of translations and
collections of saws and riddles; the language is no longer spoken.

ETHNOLOGY, a science which treats of the human race as grouped in tribes or nations, but limits
itself to tracing the origin and distribution of races, and investigating the physical and
mental peculiarities and differences exhibited by men over all parts of the globe; the chief
problem of the science is to decide between the monogenous and polygenous theories of the origin
of the race, and investigation inclines to favour the former view. The polygenous argument,
based on the diversity of languages, has been discarded, as, if valid, necessitating about
a thousand different origins, while the monogenous position is strengthened by the ascertained
facts that the different racial groups are fruitful amongst themselves, and present points
of mental and physical similarity which accord well with this theory. Ethnologists now divide
the human race into three main groups: the Ethiopian or negro, the Mongolic or yellow, and
the Caucasic or white.

ÉTIENNE, ST., (133), an important French town, capital of the dep. of the Loire, on the Furens,
35 m. SW. of Lyons; chief seat of the iron-works of France; also has noted ribbon factories.

ETIVE, a sea-loch in Argyllshire, Scotland, is an inland extension of the Firth of Lorne, about
20 m. in length, and varying in breadth from 2 to ¼ m.; the mountain scenery along the shores
grandly picturesque; the river which bears the same name rises in Rannoch Moor, and joins the
loch after a SW. course of 15 m.; both loch and river afford salmon-fishing.

ETNA, a volcanic mountain on the E. coast of Sicily, 10,840 ft. high; a striking feature is
the immense ravine, the Val del Bove, splitting the eastern side of the mountain, and about
5 m. in diameter; on the flanks are many smaller cones. Etna is celebrated for its many and
destructive eruptions; was active in 1892; its observatory, built in 1880, at an elevation
of 9075 ft. above sea-level, is the highest inhabited dwelling in Europe.

ETON, a town in Buckinghamshire, on the Thames, 22 m. SW. of London; celebrated for its public
school, Eton College, founded in 1440 by Henry VI., which has now upwards of 1000 scholars.

ÊTRE SUPRÊME, the Supreme Being agreeably to the hollow and vacant conception of the boasted,
beggarly 18th-century Enlightenment of Revolutionary France.

ETRURIA, the ancient Roman name of a region in Italy, W. of the Apennines from the Tiber to
the Macra in the N.; inhabited by the Etruscans, a primitive people of Italy; at one time united
in a confederation of twelve States; gradually absorbed by the growing Roman power, and who
were famous for their artistic work in iron and bronze. Many of the Etruscan cities contain
interesting remains of their early civilised state; but their entire literature, supposed to
have been extensive, has perished, and their language is only known through monumental inscriptions.
Their religion was polytheistic, but embraced a belief in a future life. There is abundant
evidence that they had attained to a high degree of civilisation; the status of women was high,
the wife ranking with the husband; their buildings still extant attest their skill as engineers
and builders; vases, mirrors, and coins of fine workmanship have been found in their tombs,
and jewellery which is scarcely rivalled; while the tombs themselves are remarkable for their
furnishings of chairs, ornaments, decorations, &c., showing that they regarded these sanctuaries
more as dwellings of departed spirits than as sepulchres of the dead.

ETTMÜLLER, ERNST MORITZ LUDWIG, a German philologist, born at Gerfsdorf, Saxony, professor
of German literature in Zurich in 1863; did notable work in connection with Anglo-Saxon and
in Middle German dialects (1802-1877).

ETTRICK, a Scottish river that rises in Selkirkshire and joins the Tweed, 3 m. below Selkirk;
the Yarrow is its chief tributary; a forest of the same name once spread over all Selkirkshire
and into the adjoining counties; the district is associated with some of the finest ballad
and pastoral poetry of Scotland.

ETTRICK SHEPHERD, JAMES HOGG (q. v.).

ETTY, WILLIAM, a celebrated painter, born at York; rose from being a printer's apprentice to
the position of a Royal Academician; considered by Ruskin to have wasted his great powers as
a colourist on inadequate and hackneyed subjects (1787-1849).

EUBOEA (82), the largest of the Grecian Isles, skirts the mainland on the SE., to which it
is connected by a bridge spanning the Talanta Channel, 40 yards broad; it is about 100 m. in
length; has fine quarries of marble, and mines of iron and copper are found in the mountains;
Chalcis is the chief town.

EUCLID OF ALEXANDRIA, a famous geometrican, whose book of "Elements," revised and improved,
still holds its place as an English school-book, although superseded as such in America and
the Continent; founded a school of Mathematics in Alexandria; flourished about 300 B.C.

EUCLID OF MEGARA, a Greek philosopher, a disciple of Socrates, was influenced by the ELEATICS
(q. v.); founded the Megaric school of Philosophy, whose chief tenet is that the "good," or
that which is one with itself, alone is the only real existence.

EUDÆMONISM, the doctrine that the production of happiness is the aim and measure of virtue.

EUDOCIA, the ill-fated daughter of an Athenian Sophist, wife of Theodosius II., embraced Christianity,
her name Athenais previously; was banished by her husband on an ill-founded charge of infidelity,
and spent the closing years of her life in Jerusalem, where she became a convert to the views
of EUTYCHES (q. v.) (394-400).

EUDOXUS OF CNIDUS, a Grecian astronomer, was a pupil of Plato, and afterwards studied in Egypt;
said to have introduced a 365½ day year into Greece; flourished in the 4th century B.C.

EUGENE, FRANÇOIS, PRINCE OF SAVOY, a renowned general, born at Paris, and related by his mother
to Cardinal Mazarin; he renounced his native land, and entered the service of the Austrian
Emperor Leopold; first gained distinction against the Turks, whose power in Hungary he crushed
in the great victory of Pieterwardein (1697); co-operated with Marlborough in the war of the
Spanish Succession, and shared the glories of his great victories, and again opposed the French
in the cause of Poland (1663-1736).

EUGÉNIE, EX-EMPRESS OF THE FRENCH, born at Granada, second daughter of Count Manuel Fernandez
of Montigos and Marie Manuela Kirkpatrick of Closeburn, Dumfriesshire; married to Napoleon
III. in 1853; had to leave France in 1870, and has since January 1873 lived as his widow at
Chiselhurst, Kent; b. 1826.

EUGENIUS, the name of four Popes. E., St., I., Pope from 654 to 658 (festival, August 27);
E. II., Pope from 824 to 827; E. III., Pope from 1145 to 1153; E. IV., Pope from 1431 to 1447.

EUGENIUS IV., Pope, born at Venice; his pontificate was marked by a schism created by proceedings
in the Council of Basel towards the reform of the Church and the limitation of the papal authority,
the issue of which was that he excommunicated the Council and the Council deposed him; he had
an unhappy time of it, and in his old age regretted he had ever left his monastery to assume
the papal crown.

EUGUBINE TABLES, seven bronze tablets discovered in 1441 near Eugubium, in Italy, containing
inscriptions which supply a key to the original tongues of Italy prior to Latin.

EUHEMERISM, the theory that the gods of antiquity are merely deified men, so called from Euhemeros,
the Greek who first propounded the theory, and who lived 316 B.C.

EULENSPIEGEL (i. e. Owl-glass), the hero of a popular German tale, which relates no end of
pranks, fortunes, and misfortunes of a wandering mechanic born in a village in Brunswick; buried
in 1350 at Mölln, in Lauenburg, where they still show his tombstone sculptured with an owl
and a glass.

EULER, LEONHARD, a celebrated mathematician, born at Basel; professor in St. Petersburg successively
of Physics and Mathematics; came to reside in Berlin in 1741 at the express invitation of Frederick
the Great; returned to St. Petersburg in 1746, where he died; besides many works issued in
his lifetime, he left 200 MSS., which were published after his death (1707-1783).

EUMENIDES (i. e. the Well-meaning), a name given to the ERINNYES (q. v.) or Furies, from a
wholesome and prudent dread of calling them by their true name.

EUMOLPUS, the founder of the Eleusinian Mysteries, alleged to have been a priest of Demeter
or Ceres.

EUNOMIANS, an ultra-Arian sect of the 4th century, which soon dwindled away after breaking
from the orthodox Church; called after EUNOMIUS (q. v.).

EUNOMIUS, an Arian divine, born in Cappadocia; head of a sect who maintained that the Father
alone was God, that the Son was generated from Him, and the Spirit from the Son; was bishop
of Cyzicum, a post he by-and-by resigned; d. 394.

EUPATORIA (13), a Russian town on the Crimean coast, in the government of Taurida, 40 m. NW.
of Simferopol; has a fine Tartar mosque, and does a large export trade in hides and cereals;
during the Crimean War was an important military centre of the Allies.

EUPHEMISM, is in speech or writing the avoiding of an unpleasant or indelicate word or expression
by the use of one which is less direct, and which calls up a less disagreeable image in the
mind. Thus for "he died" is substituted "he fell asleep," or "he is gathered to his fathers";
thus the Greeks called the "Furies" the "Eumenides," "the benign goddesses," just as country
people used to call elves and fairies "the good folk neighbours."

EUPHRATES, a river in West Asia, formed by the junction of two Armenian streams; flows SE.
to Kurnah, where it is joined by the Tigris. The combined waters--named the Shat-el-Arab--flow
into the Persian Gulf; is 1700 m. long, and navigable for 1100 m.

EUPHROSYNE, the cheerful one, or life in the exuberance of joy, one of the three Graces. See
GRACES.

EUPHUISM, an affected bombastic style of language, so called from "Euphues," a work of Sir
John Lyly's written in that style.

EURE (349), a dep. of France, in Normandy, so called from the river Eure which traverses it.

EURE-ET-LOIR (285), a dep. of France lying directly S. of the preceding; chief rivers the Eure
in the N. and the Loir in the S.

EUREKA (i. e. I have found it), the exclamation of Archimedes on discovering how to test the
purity of the gold in the crown of HIERO (q. v.); he discovered it, tradition says, when taking
a bath.

EURIPIDES, a famous Greek tragic dramatist, born at Salamis, of wealthy parents; first trained
as an athlete, and then devoted himself to painting, and eventually to poetry; he brought out
his first play at the age of 25, and is reported to have written 80 plays, of which only 18
are extant, besides fragment of others; of these plays the "Alcestes," "Bacchæ," "Iphigenia
at Aulis," "Electra," and "Medea" may be mentioned; he won the tragic prize five times; tinged
with pessimism, he is nevertheless less severe than his great predecessors Sophocles and Æschylus,
surpassing them in tenderness and artistic expression, but falling short of them in strength
and loftiness of dramatic conception; Sophocles, it is said, represented men as they ought
to be, and Euripides as they are; he has been called the Sophist of tragic poets (480-406 B.C.).

EUROPA, a maiden, daughter of Agenor, king of Phoenicia, whom Zeus, disguised as a white bull,
carried off to Crete, where she became by him the mother of MINOS, RHADAMANTHUS, and SARPEDON
(q. v.).

EUROPE (361,000), the most important, although the second smallest, of the five great land
divisions of the globe; is, from a geographical point of view, a peninsula of Asia; the Caspian
Sea, Ural River and mountains, form its Asiatic boundary, while on the other three sides it
is washed by the Mediterranean on the S., Atlantic on the W., and Arctic Ocean on the N.; its
coast-line is so highly developed that to every 190 sq. m. of surface there is 1 m. of coast;
this advantage, combined with the varied adaptability of its land, rivers, and inland seas,
and its central position, has made it the centre of civilisation and the theatre of the main
events of the world's history. Its greatest length is 3370 m. from Cape St. Vincent to the
Urals, and its greatest breadth 2400 m. from Cape Matapan to Nordkyn, while its area is about
3,800,000 sq. m.; it is singularly free from wild animals, has a fruitful soil richly cultivated,
and possesses in supreme abundance the more useful metals. Its peoples belong to the two great
ethnological divisions, the Caucasian and Mongolian groups; to the former belong the Germanic,
Romanic, Slavonic, and Celtic races, and to the latter the Finns, Magyars, and Turks. Christianity
is professed throughout, except amongst the Jews, of whom there are about six millions, and
in Turkey, where Mohammedanism claims about seven millions; of Catholics there are about 155
millions, of Protestants 85, and of the Greek Church 80. Amongst the 18 countries the form
of government most prevailing is the hereditary monarchy, resting more and more on a wide representation
of the people.

EUROTAS, the classic name of the Iri, a river of Greece, which flows past Sparta and discharges
into the Gulf of Laconia, 30 m. long.

EURUS, the god of the withering east wind.

EURYDICE. See ORPHEUS.

EURYSTHEUS, the king of Mycenæ, at whose command, as subject to him by fate, Hercules was required
to perform his 12 labours, on the achievement of which depended his admission to the rank of
an immortal.

EUSEBIUS PAMPHILI, a distinguished early Christian writer, born in Palestine, bishop of Cæsarea
in 313; headed the moderate Arians at the Council of Nice, who shrank from disputing about
a subject so sacred as the nature of the Trinity; wrote a history of the world to A.D. 328;
his "Ecclesiastical History" is the first record of the Christian Church up to 324; also wrote
a Life of Constantine, who held him in high favour; many extracts of ancient writers no longer
extant are found in the works of Eusebius (about 264-340).

EUSTACHIO, BARTOLOMMEO, an Italian physician of the 16th century; settled at Rome, made several
anatomical discoveries, among others those of the tube from the middle ear to the mouth, and
a valve on the wall of the right auricle of the heart, both called Eustachian after him.

EUSTATHIUS, archbishop of Thessalonica, a Greek commentator of Homer, born in Constantinople;
a man of wide classical learning, and his work on Homer of value for the extracts of writings
that no longer exist; d. 1198.

EUTERPË, the Muse of lyric poetry, represented in ancient works of art with a flute in her hand.

EUTROPIUS, FLAVIUS, a Roman historian, secretary to the Emperor Constantine; wrote an epitome
of Roman history, which from its simplicity and accuracy still retains its position as a school-book;
d. about 370.

EUTYCHES, a Byzantine heresiarch, who, in combating NESTORIANISM (q. v.), fell into the opposite
extreme, and maintained that in the incarnation the human nature of Christ was absorbed in
the divine, a doctrine which was condemned by the Council of Chalcedon in 448 (378-454).

EUTYCHIANISM. See SUPRA.

EUXINE, a Greek name for the BLACK SEA (q. v.).

EVANDER, an Arcadian, who is said to have come from Greece with a colony to Latium and settled
in it 60 years before the Trojan war, and with whom Æneas formed an alliance when he landed
in Italy; he is credited with having introduced the civilising arts of Greece.

EVANGELICAL, a term applied to all those forms of Christianity which regard the atonement of
Christ, or His sacrifice on the Cross for sin, as the ground and central principle of the Christian
faith.

EVANGELICAL ALLIANCE, an alliance of Christians of all countries and denominations holding
what are called evangelical principles, and founded in 1845.

EVANGELICAL UNION, a religious body in Scotland which originated in 1843 under the leadership
of James Morison of Kilmarnock, and professed a creed which allowed them greater freedom as
preachers of the gospel of Christ. See MORISONIANISM.

EVANGELINE, the heroine of a poem by Longfellow of the same name, founded on an incident connected
with the expulsion of the natives of Acadia from their homes by order of George II.

EVANGELIST, a name given in the early Church to one whose office it was to persuade the ignorant
and unbelieving into the fold of the Church.

EVANS, SIR DE LACY, an English general, born at Moeg, Ireland; served in the Peninsular war;
was present at Quatre-Bras and Waterloo; commanded the British Legion sent to assist Queen
Isabella in Spain, and the second division of the army in the Crimea and the East; was for
many years a member of Parliament (1787-1870).

EVANS, MARY ANN, the real name of GEORGE ELIOT (q. v.).

EVELYN, JOHN, an English writer, born at Wotton, Surrey; travelled in France and Italy during
the Civil War, where he devoted much time to gardening and the study of trees; was author of
a celebrated work, entitled "Sylva; or, A Discourse of Forest Trees," &c.; did much to improve
horticulture and introduce exotics into this country; his "Memoirs," written as a diary, are
full of interest, "is justly famous for the fulness, variety, and fidelity of its records"
(1620-1706).

EVEREST, MOUNT, the highest mountain in the world; is one of the Himalayan peaks in Nepal,
India; is 29,002 ft. above sea-level.

EVERETT, ALEXANDER HILL, an American diplomatist and author, born at Boston; was U.S. ambassador
at The Hague and Madrid, and commissioner to China; wrote on a variety of subjects, including
both politics and belles-lettres, and a collection of critical and miscellaneous essays (1792-1847).

EVERETT, EDWARD, American scholar, statesman, and orator, brother of the preceding; was a Unitarian
preacher of great eloquence; distinguished as a Greek scholar and professor; for a time editor
of the North American Review; was a member of Congress, and unsuccessful candidate for the
Vice-Presidency of the Republic; his reputation rests on his "orations," which are on all subjects,
and show great vigour and versatility of genius (1794-1865).

EVERLASTING NO, THE, Carlyle's name for the spirit of unbelief in God, especially as it manifested
itself in his own, or rather Teufelsdröckh's, warfare against it; the spirit, which, as embodied
in the MEPHISTOPHELES (q. v.) of Goethe, is for ever denying,--der stets verneint--the reality
of the divine in the thoughts, the character, and the life of humanity, and has a malicious
pleasure in scoffing at everything high and noble as hollow and void. See SARTOR RESARTUS.

EVERLASTING YEA, THE, Carlyle's name for the spirit of faith in God in an express attitude
of clear, resolute, steady, and uncompromising antagonism to the Everlasting No, an the principle
that there is no such thing as faith in God except in such antagonism, no faith except in such
antagonism against the spirit opposed to God.

EVERSLEY, a village in Hampshire, 13 m. NE. of Basingstoke; the burial-place of Charles Kingsley,
who for 35 years was rector of the parish.

EVERSLEY, CHARLES SHAW LEFEVRE, VISCOUNT, politician; graduated at Cambridge; called to the
bar; entered Parliament, and in 1839 became Speaker of the House of Commons, a post he held
with great acceptance for 18 years; retired, and was created a peer (1794-1888).

EVIL EYE, a superstitious belief that certain people have the power of exercising a baneful
influence on others, and even animals, by the glance of the eyes. The superstition is of ancient
date, and is met with among almost all races, as it is among illiterate people and savages
still. It was customary to wear amulets toward the evil off.

EVOLUTION, the theory that the several species of plants and animals on the globe were not
created in their present form, but have all been evolved by modifications of structure from
cruder forms under or coincident with change of environment, an idea which is being applied
to everything organic in the spiritual as well as the natural world. See DARWINIAN THEORY.

EV`ORA, a city of Portugal, beautifully situated in a fertile plain 80 m. E. of Lisbon, once
a strong place, and the seat of an archbishop; it abounds in Roman antiquities.

EVREMOND, SAINT, a lively and witty Frenchman; got into trouble in France from the unbridled
indulgence of his wit, and fled to England, where he became a great favourite at the court
of Charles II., and enjoyed himself to the top of his bent; his letters are written in a most
graceful style (1613-1703).

EVREUX (14), capital of the dep. of Eure, on the Iton, 67 m. NW. of Paris; is an elegant town;
has a fine 11th-century cathedral, an episcopal palace with an old clock tower; interesting
ruins have been excavated in the old town; is the seat of a bishop; paper, cotton, and linen
are manufactured, and a trade is carried on in cereals, timber, and liqueurs.

EWALD, GEORG HEINRICH AUGUST VON, a distinguished Orientalist and biblical scholar, born at
Göttingen, and professor both there and at Tübingen; his works were numerous, and the principal
were "The Poetic Books of the Old Testament," "The Prophets," and "The History of the People
of Israel"; he was a student and interpreter of the concrete, and belonged to no party (1803-1875).

EWALD, JOHANNES, a Danish dramatist and lyrist, born at Copenhagen; served as a soldier in
the German and Austrian armies; studied theology at Copenhagen; disappointed in love, he devoted
himself to poetical composition; ranks as the founder of Danish tragedy, and is the author
of some of the finest lyrics in the language (1743-1781).

EWIGE JUDE, the Everlasting Jew, the German name for the Wandering Jew.

EXCALIBUR, the magic sword of King Arthur, which only he could unsheathe and wield. When he
was about to die he requested a knight to throw it into a lake close by, who with some reluctance
threw it, when a hand reached out to seize it, flourished it round three times, and then drew
it under the water for good.

EXCOMMUNICATION, an ecclesiastical punishment inflicted upon heretics and offenders against
the Church laws and violators of the moral code; was formulated in the Christian Church in
the 2nd and 3rd centuries. It varied in severity according to the degree of transgression,
but in its severest application involved exclusion from the Eucharist, Christian burial, and
the rights and privileges of the Church; formerly it had the support of the civil authority,
but is now a purely spiritual penalty.

EXELMANS, REMY JOSEPH ISODORE, COMTE, a distinguished French marshal, born at Bar-le-Duc; entered
the army at 16; won distinction in the Naples campaign, and for his services at Eylau in 1807
was made a Brigadier-General; was taken prisoner in Spain while serving under Murat, and sent
to England, where he was kept prisoner three years; liberated, took part in Napoleon's Russian
campaign, for his conduct in which he was appointed a General of Division; after Napoleon's
fall lived in exile till 1830; received honours from Louis Philippe, and was created a Marshal
of France by Louis Napoleon in 1851 (1775-1852).

EXETER (50), the capital of Devonshire, on the Exe, 75 m. SW. of Bristol, a quaint old town;
contains a celebrated cathedral founded in 1112.

EXETER HALL, a hall in the Strand, London; head-quarters of the Y.M.C.A.; erected in 1831 for
holding religious and philanthropic meetings.

EXMOOR, an elevated stretch of vale and moorland in the SW. of Somerset, NE. of Devonshire;
has an area of over 100 sq. m., 25 of which are covered with forest.

EXMOUTH (8), a noted seaside resort on the Devonshire coast, at the mouth of the Exe, 11 m.
SE. of Exeter; has a fine beach and promenade.

EXODUS (i. e. the Going out), the book of the Old Testament which records the deliverance of
the children of Israel from Egyptian bondage, and the institution of the moral and ceremonial
laws for the nation; consists partly of history and partly of legislation.

"EXODUS FROM HOUNDSDITCH," the contemplated title of a work which Carlyle would fain have written,
but found it impossible in his time. "Out of Houndsditch indeed!" he exclaims. "Ah, were we
but out, and had our own along with us" (our inheritance from the past, he means). "But they
that have come hitherto have come in a state of brutal nakedness, scandalous mutilation" (having
cast their inheritance from the past away), "and impartial bystanders say sorrowfully, 'Return
rather; it is better even to return!'" Houndsditch was a Jew's quarter, and old clothesmarket
in London, and was to Carlyle the symbol of the alarming traffic at the time in spiritualities
fallen extinct. Had he given a list of these, as he has already in part done, without labelling
them so, he would only, he believed, have given offence both to the old-rag worshippers and
those that had cast the rags off, and were all, unwittingly to themselves, going about naked;
considerate he in this of preserving what of worth was in the past.

EXOGENS, the name for the order of plants whose stem is formed by successive accretions to
the outside of the wood under the bark.

EXORCISM, conjuration by God or Christ or some holy name, of some evil spirit to come out of
a person; it was performed on a heathen as an idolater, and eventually on a child as born in
sin prior to baptism.

EXOTERIC, a term applied to teaching which the uninitiated may be expected to comprehend, and
which is openly professed, as in a public confession of faith.

EXTERNALITY, the name for what is ab extra as apart from what is ab intra in determining the
substance as well as form of things, and which in the Hegelian philosophy is regarded as working
conjointly with the latter.

EXTREME UNCTION, one of the seven sacraments of the Catholic Church; an anointing of consecrated
or holy oil administered by a priest in the form of a cross to a sick person upon the eyes,
ears, nose, mouth, hands, and face at the point of death, which is presumed to impart grace
and strength against the last struggle.

EYCK, JAN VAN, a famous Flemish painter, born at Mass-Eyck; was instructed by his eldest brother
Hubert (1370-1426), with whom he laboured at Bruges and Ghent; reputed to have been the first
to employ oil colours (1389-1440).

EYLAU, a small town, 23 m. S. of Königsberg, the scene of a great battle between Napoleon and
the Russian and Prussian allies in February 8, 1807; the fight was interrupted by darkness,
under cover of which the allies retreated, having had the worst of it.

EYRE, EDWARD JOHN, explorer and colonial governor, born in Yorkshire; emigrated to Australia
in 1832; successfully explored the interior of SW. Australia in 1841; governor of New Zealand
in 1846, of St. Vincent in 1852, and of Jamaica in 1862; recalled in 1865, and prosecuted for
harsh treatment of the natives, but was acquitted; his defence was championed by Carlyle, Ruskin,
and Kingsley, while J. S. Mill supported the prosecution; b. 1815.

EYRE, JANE, the heroine of a novel of Charlotte Brontë's so called, a governess who, in her
struggles with adverse fortune, wins the admiration and melts the heart of a man who had lived
wholly for the world.

EZEKIEL, a Hebrew prophet, born in Jerusalem; a man of priestly descent, who was carried captive
to Babylon 599 B.C., and was banished to Tel-abib, on the banks of the Chebar, 201 m. from
the city, where, with his family about him, he became the prophet of the captivity, and the
rallying centre of the Dispersion. Here he foretold the destruction of Jerusalem as a judgment
on the nation, and comforted them with the promise of a new Jerusalem and a new Temple on their
repentance, man by man, and their return to the Lord. His prophecies arrange themselves in
three groups--those denouncing judgment on Jerusalem, those denouncing judgment on the heathen,
and those announcing the future glory of the nation.

EZRA, a Jewish scribe of priestly rank, and full of zeal for the law of the Lord and the restoration
of Israel; author of a book of the Old Testament, which records two successive returns of the
people from captivity, and embraces a period of 79 years, from 576 to 457 B.C., being a continuation
of the book of Chronicles, its purpose being to relate the progress of the restored theocracy
in Judah and Jerusalem, particularly as regards the restoration of the Temple and the re-institution
of the priesthood.

F

FABER, FREDERICK WILLIAM, a Catholic divine and hymn-writer, born at Calverley, Yorkshire;
at Oxford he won the Newdigate Prize in 1836; for three years was rector of Elton, but under
the influence of Newman joined the Church of Rome (1845), and after founding a brotherhood
of converts at Birmingham in 1849, took under his charge a London branch of the Oratory of
St. Philip Neri; wrote several meritorious theological works, but his fame chiefly rests on
his fine hymns, the "Pilgrims of the Night" one of the most famous (1814-1863).

FABER, GEORGE STANLEY, an Anglican divine, born in Holland; a voluminous writer on theological
subjects and prophecy (1773-1854).

FABIAN, ST., Pope from 236 to 251; martyred along with St. Sebastian during the persecution
of Decius. See FABIUS QUINTUS (1).

FABII, a family of ancient Rome of 307 members, all of whom perished in combat with the Veii,
477 B.C., all save one boy left behind in Rome, from whom descended subsequent generations
of the name.

FABIUS PICTOR, the oldest annalist of Rome; his annals of great value; 216 B.C.

FABIUS QUINTUS, (Maximus Verrucosus), a renowned Roman general, five times consul, twice censor
and dictator in 221 B.C.; famous for his cautious generalship against Hannibal in the Second
Punic War, harassing to the enemy, which won him the surname of "Cunctator" or delayer; d. 203 B.C.

FABIUS QUINTUS (Rullianus), a noted Roman general, five times consul and twice dictator; waged
successful war against the Samnites in 323 B.C.

FABIUS, THE AMERICAN, General Washington, so called from his Fabian tactics. See FABIUS QUINTUS
(1).

FABLE OF THE BEES, a work by Mandeville, a fable showing how vice makes some people happy and
virtue miserable, conceived as bees.

FABLIAUX, a species of metrical tales of a light and satirical nature in vogue widely in France
during the 12th and 13th centuries; many of the stories were of Oriental origin, but were infused
with the French spirit of the times; La Fontaine, Boccaccio, and Chaucer drew freely on them;
they are marked by all the vivacity and perspicuity, if also lubricity, of their modern successors
in the French novel and comic drama.

FABRE, JEAN, a French Protestant, celebrated for his filial piety; he took the place of his
father in the galleys, who had been condemned to toil in them on account of his religious opinions
(1727-1797).

FABRE D'EGLANTINE, a French dramatic poet, born at Carcassonne; wrote comedies; was a member
of the Convention and of the Committee of Public Safety, of the extreme party of the Revolution;
falling under suspicion, was guillotined along with Danton (1752-1794).

FABRICIUS, CAIUS, a Roman of the old school, distinguished for the simplicity of his manners
and his incorruptible integrity; his name has become the synonym for a poor man who in public
life deals honourably and does not enrich himself; was consul 282 B.C.

FABRICIUS or FABRIZIO, GIROLAMO, a famous Italian anatomist, born at Aquapendente; became professor
at Padua in 1565, where he gained a world-wide reputation as a teacher; Harvey declares that
he got his first idea of the circulation of the blood from attending his lectures (1537-1619).

FABRONI, ANGELO, a learned Italian, born in Tuscany; wrote the Lives of the illustrious literati
of Italy in the 17th and 18th centuries, and earned for himself the name of the "Plutarch"
of his country (1732-1803).

FACCIOLATI, JACOPO, lexicographer, born at Torreglia; became a professor of Theology and Logic
at Padua; chiefly interested in classical literature; he, in collaboration with an old pupil,
Egidio Forcellini (1688-1768), began the compilation of a new Latin dictionary, which was completed
and published two years after his death by his colleague; this work has been the basis of all
subsequent lexicons of the Latin language (1682-1769).

FACIAL ANGLE, an angle formed by drawing two lines, one horizontally from the nostril to the
ear, and the other perpendicularly from the advancing part of the upper jawbone to the most
prominent part of the forehead, an angle by which the degree of intelligence and sagacity in
the several members of the animal kingdom is by some measured.

FAËRIE QUEENE, the name of an allegorical poem by Edmund Spenser, in which 12 knights were,
in twelve books, to represent as many virtues, described as issuing forth from the castle of
Gloriana, queen of England, against certain impersonations of the vices and errors of the world.
Such was the plan of the poem, but only six of the books were finished, and these contain the
adventures of only six of the knights, representing severally Holiness, Temperance, Chastity,
Friendship, Justice, and Courtesy.

FAED, JOHN, a Scottish artist, son of a millwright, born at Barley Mill, Kirkcudbright; was
elected an A.R.S.A. in 1847, and R.S.A. in 1851; his paintings are chiefly of humble Scottish
life, the "Cottar's Saturday Night" among others; b. 1820.

FAED, THOMAS, brother of the preceding, born at Barley Mill; distinguished himself in his art
studies at Edinburgh; went to London, where his pictures of Scottish life won him a foremost
place among those of his contemporaries; was elected R.A. in 1864 and honorary member of the
Vienna Royal Academy; b. 1826.

FAENZA (14), an old Italian cathedral town, 31 m. SE. of Bologna; noted for its manufacture
of majolica ware, known from the name of the town as "faience."

FAGEL, GASPAR, a Dutch statesman, distinguished for his integrity and the firmness with which
he repelled the attempts of Louis XIV. against his country, and for his zeal in supporting
the claims of the Prince of Orange to the English throne (1629-1688).

FAGOT VOTE, a vote created by the partitioning of a property into as many tenements as will
entitle the holders to vote.

FAHRENHEIT, GABRIEL DANIEL, a celebrated physicist, born at Danzig; spent much of his life
in England, but finally settled in Holland; devoted himself to physical research; is famed
for his improvement of the thermometer by substituting quicksilver for spirits of wine and
inventing a new scale, the freezing-point being 32° above zero and the boiling 212° (1686-1736).

FAINEANT, LE NOIR, Richard Coeur-de-Lion in "Ivanhoe."

FAINEANTS (i. e. the Do-nothings), the name given to the kings of France of the Merovingian
line from 670 to 752, from Thierry III. to Childéric III., who were subject to their ministers,
the mayors of the palace, who discharged all their functions.

FAIR CITY, Perth, from the beauty of its surroundings.

FAIR MAID OF KENT, the Countess of Salisbury, eventually wife of the Black Prince, so called
from her beauty.

FAIR MAID OF NORWAY, daughter of Eric II. of Norway, and granddaughter of Alexander III. of
Scotland; died on her way from Norway to succeed her grandfather on the throne of Scotland,
an event which gave rise to the famous struggle for the crown by rival competitors.

FAIR MAID OF PERTH, a beauty of the name of Kate Glover, the heroine of Scott's novel of the name.

FAIR ROSAMOND, the mistress of Henry II.; kept in a secret bower at Woodstock, in the heart
of a labyrinth which only he could thread.

FAIRBAIRN, ANDREW M., able and thoughtful theologian, born in Edinburgh where he also graduated
(1839); received the charge of the Evangelical Church at Bathgate, and subsequently studied
in Berlin. In 1878 became Principal of the Airedale Congregational College at Bradford; was
Muir Lecturer on Comparative Religions in Edinburgh University in 1881-83, and five years later
was elected Principal of Mansfield College at Oxford; author of "The Place of Christ in Modern
Theology," and several other scholarly works; b. 1838.

FAIRBAIRN, SIR WILLIAM, an eminent engineer, born at Kelso; served an apprenticeship in N.
Shields, and in 1817 started business in Manchester, where he came to the front as a builder
of iron ships; improved upon Robert Stephenson's idea of a tubular bridge, and built upwards
of 1000 of these; introduced iron shafts into cotton mills, and was employed by Government
to test the suitability of iron for purposes of defence; created a baronet in 1869 (1789-1874).

FAIRFAX, EDWARD, translator of Tasso, born at Denton, Yorkshire, where he spent a quiet and
studious life; his stately translation of Tasso's "Gerusalemme Liberata" was published in 1600,
and holds rank as one of the best poetical translations in the language; he wrote also a "Discourse"
on witchcraft (about 1572-1632).

FAIRFAX, THOMAS, LORD, a distinguished Parliamentary general, nephew of the preceding, born
at Denton, Yorkshire; served in Holland, but in 1642 joined the Parliamentarians, of whose
forces he became general (1645); after distinguishing himself at Marston Moor and Naseby, was
superseded by Cromwell (1650), and retired into private life until Cromwell's death, when he
supported the restoration of Charles II. to the English throne (1612-1671).

FAIRIES, imaginary supernatural beings conceived of as of diminutive size but in human shape,
who play a conspicuous part in the traditions of Europe during the Middle Ages, and are animated
more or less by a spirit of mischief out of a certain loving regard for, or humorous interest
in, the affairs of mankind, whether in the way of thwarting or helping.

FAIRSERVICE, ANDREW, a shrewd gardener in "Rob Roy."

FAIRY RINGS, circles of seemingly withered grass often seen in lawns and meadows, caused by
some fungi below the surface, but popularly ascribed in superstitious times to fairies dancing
in a ring.

FAITH, in its proper spiritual sense and meaning is a deep-rooted belief affecting the whole
life, that the visible universe in every section of it, particularly here and now, rests on
and is the manifestation of an eternal and an unchangeable Unseen Power, whose name is Good,
or God.

FAITH, ST., a virgin martyr who, in the 4th century, was tortured on an iron bed and afterwards
beheaded.

FAKIR (lit. poor), a member of an order of monkish mendicants in India and adjoining countries
who, from presumed religious motives, practise or affect lives of severe self-mortification,
but who in many cases cultivate filthiness of person to a disgusting degree.

FALAISE (8), a French town in the dep. of Calvados, 22 m. SW. of Caen; the birthplace of William
the Conqueror.

FALCONER, HUGH, botanist and palæontologist, born at Forres, Elginshire; studied at Aberdeen
and Edinburgh; joined the East India Company's medical service; made large collections of fossils
and plants; became professor of Botany in Calcutta; introduced the tea-plant into India, and
discovered the asafoetida plant; died in London (1808-1865).

FALCONER, ION KEITH, missionary and Arabic scholar, the third son of the Earl of Kintore; after
passing through Harrow and Cambridge, his ardent temperament carried him into successful evangelistic
work in London; was appointed Arabic professor at Cambridge, but his promising career was cut
short near Aden while engaged in missionary work; translated the Fables of Bidpaï; a noted
athlete, and champion cyclist of the world in 1878 (1856-1887).

FALCONER, WILLIAM, poet, born in Edinburgh; a barber's son; spent most of his life at sea;
perished in the wreck of the frigate Aurora, of which he was purser; author of the well-known
poem "The Shipwreck" (1732-1769).

FALCONRY, the art and practice of employing trained hawks in the pursuit and capture on the
wing of other birds, a sport largely indulged in by the upper classes in early times in Europe.

FALK, ADALBERT, Prussian statesman, born at Metschkau, Silesia; as Minister of Public Worship
and Education he was instrumental in passing laws designed to diminish the influence of the
clergy in State affairs; retired in 1879; b. 1827.

FALKIRK (20), a town in Stirlingshire, 26 m. NW. of Edinburgh, noted for its cattle-markets
and the iron-works in its neighbourhood; Wallace was defeated here in 1298 by Edward I.

FALKLAND (2), a royal burgh in Fifeshire, 10 m. SW. of Cupar; has ruins of a famous palace,
a royal residence of the Stuart sovereigns, which was restored by the Marquis of Bute in 1888.

FALKLAND, LUCIUS GARY, VISCOUNT, soldier, scholar, and statesman, son of Sir Henry Cary, Viscount
Falkland; was lord-deputy of Ireland under James I.; entered the service of the new Dutch Republic,
but soon returned to England and settled at Tew, Oxfordshire, where he indulged his studious
tastes, and entertained his scholarly friends Clarendon, Chillingworth, and others; after joining
Essex's expedition into Scotland he sat in Parliament, and in 1642 became Secretary of State;
suspicious of Charles's weakness and duplicity, he as much distrusted the Parliamentary movement,
and fell at Newbury fighting for the king (1610-1643).

FALKLAND ISLANDS (2), a group of islands in the S. Atlantic, 240 m. E. of Tierra del Fuego;
discovered in 1592 by Davis; purchased from the French in 1764 by Spain, but afterwards ceded
to Britain, by whom they were occupied in 1833 and used as a convict settlement until 1852;
besides E. and W. Falkland there are upwards of 100 small islands, mostly barren; wheat and
flax are raised, but sheep-farming is the main industry.

FALL, THE, the first transgression of divine law on the part of man, conceived of as involving
the whole human race in the guilt of it, and represented as consisting in the wilful partaking
of the fruit of the forbidden tree of the knowledge of both good and evil. The story of the
Fall in Genesis has in later times been regarded as a spiritual allegory, and simply the Hebrew
attempt, one amongst many, to explain the origin of evil. It is worthy of note that a narrative,
similar even to detail, exists in the ancient religious writings of the Hindus and Persians.

FALLOPIUS, GABRIELLO, anatomist, born at Modena; professor of Anatomy at Pisa and at Padua;
the Fallopian tubes which connect the ovaries with the uterus, first accurately described by
him, are called after his name, as also the duct which transmits the facial nerve after it
leaves the auditory nerve (1523-1562).

FALLOUX, FRÉDÉRIC ALFRED PIERRE, VICOMTE DE, author and statesman, born at Angers; member of
the House of Deputies; favoured the revolutionaries of 1848, and under the Presidency of Louis
Napoleon became Minister of Public Instruction; retired in 1849, and became a member of the
French Academy (1857); author of a "History of Louis XVI." and a "History of Pius V.," both
characterised by a strong Legitimist bias (1811-1886).

FALMOUTH (13), a seaport on the Cornish coast, on the estuary of the Fal, 18 m. NE. of the
Lizard; its harbour, one of the finest in England, is defended E. and W. by St. Mawes Castle
and Pendennis Castle; pilchard fishing is actively engaged in, and there are exports of tin
and copper.

FALSTAFF, SIR JOHN, a character in Shakespeare's "Henry IV." and the "Merry Wives of Windsor";
a boon companion of Henry, Prince of Wales; a cowardly braggart, of sensual habits and great
corpulency. See FASTOLF.

FAMILIAR SPIRITS, certain supernatural beings presumed, agreeably to a very old belief (Lev.
xix. 31), to attend magicians or sorcerers, and to be at their beck and call on any emergency.

FAMILISTS, or the Brotherhood of Love, a fanatical sect which arose in Holland in 1556, and
affected to love all men as brothers.

FAMILY COMPACT, a compact concluded in 1761 between the Bourbons of France, Spain, and Italy
to resist the naval power of England.

FAN, a light hand implement used to cause a draught of cool air to play upon the face; there
are two kinds, the folding and non-folding; the latter, sometimes large and fixed on a pole,
were known to the ancients, the former were invented by the Japanese in the 7th century, and
became popular in Italy and Spain in the 16th century; but Paris soon took a lead in their
manufacture, carrying them to their highest pitch of artistic perfection in the reign of Louis XIV.

FANARIOTS, the descendants of the Greeks of noble birth who remained in Constantinople after
its capture by Mahomet II. in 1453, so called from Fanar, the quarter of the city which they
inhabited; they rose at one time to great influence in Turkish affairs, though they have none now.

FANDANGO, a popular Spanish dance, specially in favour among the Andalusians; is in ¾ time,
and is danced to the accompaniment of guitars and castanets.

FANS, an aboriginal tribe dwelling between the Gaboon and Ogoway Rivers, in western equatorial
Africa; are brave and intelligent, and of good physique, but are addicted to cannibalism.

FANSHAWE, SIR RICHARD, diplomatist and poet, born at Ware Park, Hertford; studied at the Inner
Temple, and after a Continental tour became attached to the English embassy at Madrid; sided
with the Royalists at the outbreak of the Civil War; was captured at the battle of Worcester,
but escaped and shared the exile of Charles II.; on the Restoration negotiated Charles's marriage
with Catharine, and became ambassador at the court of Philip IV. of Spain; translated Camoëns's
"Lusiad" and various classical pieces (1608-1666).

FANTINE, one of the most heart-affecting characters in "Les Misérables" of Victor Hugo.

FANTIS, an African tribe on the Gold Coast, enemies of their conquerors the Ashantis; fought
as allies of the British in the Ashanti War (1873-74), but, although of strong physique, proved
cowardly allies.

FARAD, the unit of electrical energy, so called from Faraday.

FARADAY, MICHAEL, a highly distinguished chemist and natural philosopher, born at Newington
Butts, near London, of poor parents; received a meagre education, and at 13 was apprenticed
to a bookseller, but devoted his evenings to chemical and electrical studies, and became a
student under Sir H. Davy, who, quick to detect his ability, installed him as his assistant;
in 1827 he succeeded Davy as lecturer at the Royal Institution, and became professor of Chemistry
in 1833; was pensioned in 1835, and in 1858 was allotted a residence in Hampton Court; in chemistry
he made many notable discoveries, e. g. the liquefaction of chlorine, while in electricity
and magnetism his achievements cover the entire field of these sciences, and are of the first
importance (1791-1867).

FARAIZI, a Mohammedan sect formed in 1827, and met with chiefly in Eastern Bengal; they discard
tradition, and accept the Korân as their sole guide in religious and spiritual concerns, in
this respect differing from the Sunnites, with whom they have much else in common; although
of a purer morality than the main body of Mohammedans, they are narrow and intolerant.

FAREL, WILLIAM, a Swiss reformer, born at Dauphiné; introduced, in 1534, after two futile attempts,
the reformed faith into Geneva, where he was succeeded in the management of affairs by John
Calvin; he has been called the "pioneer of the Reformation in Switzerland and France" (1489-1565).

FARIA Y SOUSA, MANUEL DE, a Portuguese poet and historian; entered the diplomatic service,
and was for many years secretary to the Spanish embassy at Rome; was a voluminous writer of
history and poetry, and did much to develop the literature of his country (1590-1649).

FARINATA, a Florentine nobleman of the Ghibelline faction, whom for his infidelity and sensuality
Dante has placed till the day of judgment in a red-hot coffin in hell.

FARINELLI, CARLO, a celebrated singer, born in Naples; his singing created great enthusiasm
in London, which he visited in 1734 (1705-1782).

FARINI, LUIGO CARLO, an Italian statesman and author, born at Russi; practised as a doctor
in his native town; in 1841 was forced, on account of his liberal sympathies, to withdraw from
the Papal States, but returned in 1846 on the proclamation of the Papal amnesty, and afterwards
held various offices of State; was Premier for a few months in 1863; author of "Il Stato Romano,"
of which there is an English translation by Mr. Gladstone (1812-1866).

FARMER, RICHARD, an eminent scholar, born at Leicester; distinguished himself at Cambridge,
where he became classical tutor of his college, and in the end master (1775); three years later
he was appointed chief-librarian to the university, and afterwards was successively canon of
Lichfield, Canterbury, and St. Paul's; wrote an erudite essay on "The Learning of Shakespeare"
(1735-1797).

FARMER GEORGE, George III., a name given to him from his plain, homely, thrifty manners and tastes.

FARMERS-GENERAL, a name given in France prior to the Revolution to a privileged syndicate which
farmed certain branches of the public revenue, that is, obtained the right of collecting certain
taxes on payment of an annual sum into the public treasury; the system gave rise to corruption
and illegal extortion, and was at best an unproductive method of raising the national revenue;
it was swept away at the Revolution.

FARNE or FERNE ISLES, THE, also called the Staples, a group of 17 isles 2 m. off the NE. coast
of Northumberland, many of which are mere rocks visible only at low-water; are marked by two
lighthouses, and are associated with a heroic rescue by GRACE DARLING (q. v.) in 1838; on House
Isle are the ruins of a Benedictine priory; about 50 people have their homes upon the larger isles.

FARNESE, the surname of a noble Italian family dating its rise from the 13th century.

FARNESE, ALESSANDRO, attained the papal chair as Paul III. in 1534; the excommunication of
Henry VIII. of England, the founding of the Order of the Jesuits (1540), the convocation of
the Council of Trent (1542), mark his term of office (1468-1549).

FARNESE, ALESSANDRO, grandson of the following, and 3rd duke of Parma, a famous general; distinguished
himself at the battle of Lepanto; was governor of the Spanish Netherlands, and fought successfully
against France, defeating Henry IV. before the walls of Paris, and again two years later at
Rouen, where he was mortally wounded (1546-1592).

FARNESE, PIETRO LUIGI, a natural son of Pope Paul III., who figures in Benvenuto Cellini's
Life; received in fief from the Papal See various estates, including the dukedom of Parma;
he ill requited his father's trust and affection by a life of debauchery and finally suffered
assassination in 1549.

FAROE ISLANDS (13), a group of 22 islands of basaltic formation, about 200 m. NW. of the Shetlands;
originally Norwegian, they now belong to Denmark; agriculture is limited, and fishing and sheep-farming
chiefly engage the natives; there is an export trade in wool, fish, and wild-fowl leathers.
The people, who still speak their old Norse dialect, although Danish is the language of the
schools and law courts, are Lutherans, and enjoy a measure of self-government, and send representatives
to the Danish Rigsdag.

FARQUHAR, GEORGE, comic dramatist, born at Londonderry; early famous for his wit, of which
he has given abundant proof in his dramas, "Love and a Bottle" being his first, and "The Beaux'
Stratagem" his last, written on his deathbed; died young; he commenced life on the stage, but
threw the profession up in consequence of having accidentally wounded a brother actor while
fencing (1678-1707).

FARR, WILLIAM, statistician, born at Kenley, Shropshire; studied medicine, and practised in
London; obtained a post in the Registrar-General's office, and rose to be head of the statistical
department; issued various statistical compilations of great value for purposes of insurance
(1807-1883).

FARRAGUT, DAVID GLASGOW, a famous American admiral, of Spanish extraction, born at Knoxville,
Tennessee; entered the navy as a boy; rose to be captain in 1855, and at the outbreak of the
Civil War attached himself to the Union; distinguished himself by his daring capture of New
Orleans; in 1862 was created rear-admiral, and two years later gained a signal victory over
the Confederate fleet at Mobile Bay; was raised to the rank of admiral in 1866, being the first
man to hold this position in the American navy (1801-1870).

FARRAR, FREDERICK WILLIAM, a celebrated divine and educationalist, born at Bombay; graduated
with distinction at King's College, London, and at Cambridge; was ordained in 1854, and became
head-master of Marlborough College; was for some years a select preacher to Cambridge University,
and held successively the offices of honorary chaplain and chaplain-in-ordinary to the Queen;
became canon of Westminster, rector of St. Margaret's, archdeacon, chaplain to the House of
Commons, and dean of Canterbury; his many works include the widely-read school-tales, "Eric"
and "St. Winifred's," philological essays, and his vastly popular Lives of Christ and St. Paul,
besides the "Early Days of Christianity," "Eternal Hope," and several volumes of sermons; in
recent years have appeared "Darkness and Dawn" (1892) and "Gathering Clouds" (1895); b. 1831.

FASCES, a bundle of rods bound round the helve of an axe, and borne by the lictors before the
Roman magistrates in symbol of their authority at once to scourge and decapitate.

FASCINATION, the power, originally ascribed to serpents, of spell-binding by the eye.

FASTI, the name given to days among the Romans on which it was lawful to transact business
before the prætor; also the name of books among the Romans containing calendars of times, seasons,
and events.

FASTOLF, SIR JOHN, a distinguished soldier of Henry V.'s reign, who with Sir John Oldcastle
shares the doubtful honour of being the prototype of Shakespeare's Falstaff, but unlike the
dramatist's creation was a courageous soldier, and won distinction at Agincourt and at the
"Battle of the Herrings"; after engaging with less success in the struggle against Joan of
Arc, he returned to England and spent his closing years in honoured retirement at Norfolk,
his birthplace; he figures in the "Paston Letters" (1378-1459).

FATA MORGANA, a mirage occasionally observed in the Strait of Messina, in which, from refraction
in the atmosphere, images of objects, such as men, houses, trees, etc., are seen from the coast
under or over the surface of the water.

FATALISM, the doctrine that all which takes place in life and history is subject to fate, that
is is to say, takes place by inevitable necessity, that things being as they are, events cannot
fall out otherwise than they do.

FATES, THE, in the Greek mythology the three goddesses who presided over the destinies of individuals--CLOTHO,
LACHESIS, and ATROPOS (Q. V.). See PARCÆ.

FATHER OF COMEDY, ARISTOPHANES (q. v.).

FATHER OF ECCLESIASTICAL HISTORY, EUSEBIUS (q. v.).

FATHER OF FRENCH HISTORY, DUCHESNE (q. v.).

FATHER OF GERMAN LITERATURE, LESSING (q. v.).

FATHER OF HISTORY, HERODOTUS (q. v.).

FATHER OF TRAGEDY, ESCHYLUS (q. v.).

FATHER PAUL, PAUL SARPI (q. v.).

FATHERS OF THE CHURCH, the early teachers of Christianity and founders of the Christian Church,
consisting of live Apostolic Fathers--Clement of Home, Barnabas, Hermes, Ignatius, and Polycarp,
and of nine in addition called Primitive Fathers--Justin, Theophilus of Antioch, Irenæus, Clemens
of Alexandria, Cyprian of Carthage, Origen, Gregory Thaumaturgus, Dionysius of Alexandria,
and Tertullian. The distinctive title of Apostolic Fathers was bestowed upon the immediate
friends and disciples of the Apostles, while the patristic period proper may be said to commence
with the 2nd century, but no definite date can be assigned as marking its termination, some
closing it with the deaths of Gregory the Great (601) and John of Damascus (756), while Catholic
writers bring it down as far as the Council of Trent (1542); discarded among Protestants, the
Fathers are regarded by Catholics as decisive in authority on points of faith, but only when
they exhibit a unanimity of opinion.

FATHOM, a measure of 6 ft. used in taking marine soundings, originally an Anglo-Saxon term
for the distance stretched by a man's extended arms; is sometimes used in mining operations.

FATHOM, COUNT FERDINAND, a villain in the novel of Smollett so named.

FATIMA, the last of Bluebeard's wives, and the only one who escaped being murdered by him;
also Mahomet's favourite daughter.

FATIMIDES, a Mohammedan dynasty which assumed the title of caliphs and ruled N. Africa and
Egypt, and later Syria and Palestine, between the 10th and 12th centuries inclusive; they derived
their name from the claim (now discredited) of their founder, Obeidallah Almahdi, to be descended
from Fatima, daughter of Mahomet and wife of Ali; they were finally expelled by Saladin in 1169.

FAUCHER, LÉON, a political economist, brought into notice by the Revolution of 1830; edited
Le Temps; opposed Louis Philippe's minister, M. Guizot; held office under the Presidency of
Louis Napoleon, but threw up office on the coup d'état of 1851 (1803-1854).

FAUCHET, ABBÉ, a French Revolutionary, a Girondin; blessed the National tricolor flag; "a man
of Te Deums and public consecrations"; was a member of the first parliament; stripped of his
insignia, lamented the death of the king, perished on the scaffold (1744-1793).

FAUCIT, HELEN, a famous English actress; made her début in London (1836), and soon won a foremost
place amongst English actresses by her powerful and refined representations of Shakespeare's
heroines under the management of Macready; she retired from the stage in 1851 after her marriage
with THEODORE MARTIN (q. v.); in 1885 she published a volume of studies "On Some of Shakespeare's
Female Characters" (1820-1899).

FAUNS, divinities of the woods and fields among the Romans, and guardians of flocks against
the wolf.

FAUNTLEROY, HENRY, banker and forger; in his twenty-third year became a partner in the bank
of Marsh, Sibbald, & Co., London; was put on trial for a series of elaborate forgeries, found
guilty, and hanged; the trial created a great sensation at the time, and efforts were made
to obtain a commutation of the sentence (1785-1824).

FAUNUS, a god, grandson of Saturn, who figures in the early history of Latium, first as the
god of fields and shepherds, and secondly, as an oracular divinity and founder of the native
religion, afterwards identified with the Greek Pan.

FAURE, FRANÇOIS FELIX, President of the French Republic, born in Paris; carried on business
in Touraine as a tanner, but afterwards settled in Havre and became a wealthy shipowner; he
served with distinction as a volunteer in the Franco-German War; entered the Assembly in 1881,
where he held office as Colonial and Commercial Minister in various Cabinets; was elected President
in 1895 (1841-1899).

FAUST, JOHANNES. See FUST.

FAUST, or DOCTOR FAUSTUS, a reputed professor of the black art, a native of Germany, who flourished
in the end of the 15th century and the beginning of the 16th century, and who is alleged to
have made a compact with the devil to give up to him body and soul in the end, provided he
endowed him for a term of years with power to miraculously fulfil all his wishes. Under this
compact the devil provided him with a familiar spirit, called Mephistopheles, attended by whom
he traversed the world, enjoying life and working wonders, till the term of the compact having
expired, the devil appeared and carried him off amid display of horrors to the abode of penal
fire. This myth, which has been subjected to manifold literary treatment, has received its
most significant rendering at the hands of Goethe, such as to supersede and eclipse every other
attempt to unfold its meaning. It is presented by him in the form of a drama, in two parts
of five acts each, of which the first, published in 1790, represents "the conflicting union
of the higher nature of the soul with the lower elements of human life; of Faust, the son of
Light and Free-Will, with the influences of Doubt, Denial, and Obstruction, or MEPHISTOPHELES
(q. v.), who is the symbol and spokesman of these; and the second, published in 1832, represents
Faust as now elevated, by the discipline he has had, above the hampered sphere of the first,
and conducted into higher regions under worthier circumstances."

FAUSTA, the wife of Constantino the Great.

FAUSTINA, ANNIA GALERI, called Faustina, Senior, wife of Antoninus Pius, died three years after
her husband became emperor (105-141).

FAUSTINA, ANNIA, JUNIOR, wife of the Emperor Marcus Aurelius, daughter of the preceding. Both
she and her mother are represented by historians as profligate and unfaithful, and quite unworthy
the affection lavishly bestowed upon them by their husbands.

FAUSTULUS, the shepherd who, with his wife Laurentia, was the foster-parent of Romulus and
Remus, who, as infants, had been exposed on the Palatine Hill.

FAVART, CHARLES SIMON, French dramatist, born at Paris, where he became director of the Opéra
Comique; was celebrated as a vivacious playwright and composer of operas; during a temporary
absence from Paris he established his Comedy Company in the camp of Marshal Saxe during the
Flanders campaign; his memoirs and correspondence give a bright picture of theatrical life
in Paris during the 18th century (1710-1792).

FAVONIUS, the god of the favouring west wind.

FAVRE, JULES CLAUDE GABRIEL, a French Republican statesman, born at Lyons; called to the Paris
bar in 1830; a strong Republican, he joined the Revolutions of 1830 and 1848; held office as
Minister of the Interior in the New Republic, and disapproving of the coup d'état, resumed
practice at the bar; defended the Italian conspirator ORSINI (q. v.), and in 1870, on the dissolution
of the Empire, became Minister of Foreign Affairs; mistakes in his negotiations with Bismarck
led to his resignation and resumption of his legal practice (1809-1880).

FAWCETT, HENRY, statesman and political economist, born at Salisbury; though blind, it was
his early ambition to enter the arena of politics, and he devoted himself to the study of political
economy, of which he became professor at Cambridge; entering Parliament, he became Postmaster-General
under Mr. Gladstone in 1880; he wrote and published works on his favourite study (1832-1884).

FAWKES, GUY, a notorious English conspirator, born of a respected Yorkshire family; having
spent a slender patrimony, he joined the Spanish army in Flanders; was converted to the Catholic
faith; and on his return to England allied himself with the conspirators of the GUNPOWDER PLOT
(q. v.), and was arrested in the cellars of the House of Commons when on the point of firing
the explosive; was tried and executed (1570-1606).

FAY, ANDREAS, Hungarian dramatist and novelist, born at Kohany; studied law, but the success
of a volume of fables confirmed him in his choice of literature in preference; wrote various
novels and plays; was instrumental in founding the Hungarian National Theatre; was a member
of the Hungarian Diet (1786-1804).

FAYAL (26), a fruit-bearing island among the AZORES (q. v.), exports wine and fruits; Horta,
with an excellent bay, is its chief town.

FAYYUM (160), a fertile province of Central Egypt, lies W. of the Nile, 65 miles from Cairo,
is in reality a southern oasis in the Libyan desert, irrigated by means of a canal running
through a narrow gorge to the Nile valley; its area is about 840 sq. m., a portion of which
is occupied by a sheet of water, the Birket-el-Kern (35 m. long), known to the ancients as
Lake Moeris, and by the shores of which stood one of the wonders of the world, the famous "Labyrinth."

FEASTS, JEWISH, OF DEDICATION, a feast in commemoration of the purification of the Temple and
the rebuilding of the altar by Judas Maccabæus in 164 B.C., after profanation of them by the
Syrians: OF THE PASSOVER, a festival in April on the anniversary of the exodus from Egypt,
and which lasted eight days, the first and the last days of solemn religious assembly: OF PENTECOST,
a feast celebrated on the fiftieth day after the second of the Passover, in commemoration of
the giving of the law on Mount Sinai; both this feast and the Passover were celebrated in connection
with harvest, what was presented in one in the form of a sheaf being in the other presented
as a loaf of bread: OF PURIM, a feast in commemoration of the preservation of the Jews from
the wholesale threatened massacre of the race in Persia at the instigation of Haman: OF TABERNACLES,
a festival of eight days in memory of the wandering tentlife of the people in the wilderness,
observed by the people dwelling in bowers made of branches erected on the streets or the roofs
of the house; it was the Feast of Ingathering as well.

FEBRUARY, the second month of the year, was added along with January by Numa to the end of
the original Roman year of 10 months; derived its name from a festival offered annually on
the 15th day to Februus, an ancient Italian god of the nether world; was assigned its present
position in the calendar by Julius Cæsar, who also introduced the intercalary day for leap-year.

FÉCAMP (13), a seaport in the dep. of Seine-Inférieure, 25 m. NE. of Havre; has a fine Gothic
Benedictine church, a harbour and lighthouse, hardware and textile factories; fishing and sugar
refineries also flourish; exports the celebrated Benedictine liqueurs.

FECHNER, GUSTAV THEODOR, physicist and psychophysicist, born at Gross-Särchen, in Lower Lusatia;
became professor of Physics in Leipzig, but afterwards devoted himself to psychology; laid
the foundations of the science of psychophysics in his "Elements of Pyschophysics"; wrote besides
on the theory of colour and galvanism, as well as poems and essays (1801-1887).

FECHTER, CHARLES ALBERT, a famous actor, born in London, his father of German extraction and
his mother English; made his début in Paris at the age of 17; after a tour through the European
capitals established himself in London as the lessee of the Lyceum Theatre in 1863; became
celebrated for his original impersonations of Hamlet and Othello; removed to America in 1870,
where he died (1824-1879).

FECIALES, a college of functionaries in ancient Rome whose duty it was to make proclamation
of peace and war, and confirm treaties.

FEDERAL GOVERNMENT, in modern parlance is the political system which a number of independent
and sovereign States adopt when they join together for purposes of domestic and especially
International policy; local government is freely left with the individual States, and only
in the matter of chiefly foreign relations is the central government paramount, but the degree
of freedom which each State enjoys is a matter of arrangement when the contract is formed,
and the powers vested in the central authority may only be permitted to work through the local
government, as in the German Confederation, or may bear directly upon the citizens throughput
the federation, as in the U.S. of America, and since 1847 in Switzerland.

FEDERALIST, a name in the United States for a supporter of the Union and its integrity as such;
a party which was formed in 1788, but dissolved in 1820; has been since applied to a supporter
of the integrity of the Union against the South in the late Civil War. Louis XVI. too assisted
at the ceremony, and took solemn oath to the constitution just established in the interest
of mankind. See Carlyle's "French Revolution."

FEHMGERICHT. See VEHMGERICHTE.

FEITH, a Dutch poet, born at Zwolle, where, after studying at Leyden, he settled and died;
his writings include didactic poems, songs, and dramas; had a refining influence on the literary
taste of his countrymen (1753-1824).

FÉLICITÉ, ST., a Roman matron, who with her seven sons suffered martyrdom in 164. Festival,
July 10.

FELIX, the name of five popes: F. I., ST., Pope from 269 to 274, said to have been a victim
of the persecution of Aurelius; F. II., Pope from 356 to 357, the first anti-pope having been
elected in place of the deposed Liberius who had declined to join in the persecution of ATHANASIUS
(q. v.), was banished on the restoration of Liberius; F. III., Pope from 483 to 492, during
his term of office the first schism between the Eastern and Western Churches took place; F.
IV., Pope from 526 to 530, was appointed by Theodoric in face of the determined opposition
of both people and clergy; F. V., Pope from 1439 to 1449. See AMADEUS VIII..

FELIX, CLAUDIUS, a Roman procurator of Judæa in the time of Claudius and Nero; is referred
to in Acts xxiii. and xxiv. as having examined the Apostle Paul and listened to his doctrines;
was vicious in his habits, and formed an adulterous union with Drusilla, said by Tacitus to
have been the granddaughter of Antony and Cleopatra; was recalled in A.D. 62.

FELIX HOLT, a novel of George Eliot's, written in 1866.

FELL, JOHN, a celebrated English divine; Royalist in sympathy, he continued throughout the
Puritan ascendency loyal to the English Church, and on the Restoration became Dean of Christ
Church and a royal chaplain; was a good man and a charitable, and a patron of learning; in
1676 was raised to the bishopric of Oxford; was the object of the well-known epigram, "I do
not like thee, Dr. Fell, The reason why I cannot tell" (1625-1686).

FELLAH, the name applied contemptuously by the Turks to the agricultural labourer of Egypt;
the Fellahin (pl. of Fellah) comprise about three-fourths of the population; they are of good
physique, and capable of much toil, but are, despite their intelligence and sobriety, lazy
and immoral; girls marry at the age of 12, and the children grow up amidst the squalor of their
mud-built villages; their food is of the poorest, and scarcely ever includes meat; tobacco
is their only luxury; their condition has improved under British rule.

FELLOWS, SIR CHARLES, archæologist, born at Nottingham; early developed a passion for travel;
explored the Xanthus Valley in Asia Minor, and discovered the ruins of the cities Teos and
Xanthus, the ancient capital of Lycia (1838); returned to the exploration of Lycia in 1839
and again in 1841, discovering the ruins of 13 other ancient cities; accounts of these explorations
and discoveries are fully given in his various published journals and essays; was knighted
in 1845 (1799-1861).

FELLOWSHIP, a collegiate term for a status in many universities which entitles the holder (a
Fellow) to a share in their revenues, and in some cases to certain privileges as regards apartments
and meals in the college, as also to a certain share in the government; formerly Fellowships
were usually life appointments, but are now generally for a prescribed number of years, or
are held during a term of special research; the old restrictions of celibacy and religious
conformity have been relaxed.

FELO-DE-SE, in English law the crime which a man at the age of discretion and of a sound mind
commits when he takes away his life.

FELONY, "a crime which involves a total forfeiture of lands or goods or both, to which capital
or other punishment may be superadded, according to the degree of guilt."

FELTON, CORNELIUS CONWAY, American scholar, born at West Newbury, Massachusetts; graduated
at Harvard in 1827, and became professor of Greek there, rising to the Presidency of the same
college in 1860; edited Greek classics, and made translations from the German; most important
work is "Greece, Ancient and Modern," in 2 vols. (1807-1862).

FELTON, JOHN, the Irish assassin of the Duke of Buckingham in 1628.

FEMMES SAVANTES, a comedy in five acts by Molière, and one of his best, appeared in 1672.

FENELLA, a fairy-like attendant of the Countess of Derby, deaf and dumb, in Scott's "Peveril
of the Peak," a character suggested by Goethe's Mignon in "Wilhelm Meister."

FÉNÉLON, FRANÇOIS DE SALIGNAC DE LA MOTHE, a famous French prelate and writer, born in the
Château de Fénélon, in the prov. of Périgord; at the age of 15 came to Paris, and, having already
displayed a remarkable gift for preaching, entered the Plessis College, and four years later
joined the Seminary of St. Sulpice, where he took holy orders in 1675; his directorship of
a seminary for female converts to Catholicism brought him into prominence, and gave occasion
to his well-known treatise "De l'Éducation des Filles"; in 1685, after the revocation of the
Edict of Nantes, he conducted a mission for the conversion of the Huguenots of Saintonge and
Poitou, and four years later Louis XIV. appointed him tutor to his grandson, the Duke of Burgundy,
an appointment which led to his writing his "Fables," "Dialogues of the Dead," and "History
of the Ancient Philosophers"; in 1694 he became abbé of St. Valery, and in the following year
archbishop of Cambrai; soon after this ensued his celebrated controversy with BOSSUET (q. v.)
regarding the doctrines of QUIETISM (q. v.), a dispute which brought him into disfavour with
the king and provoked the Pope's condemnation of his "Explication des Maximes des Saints sur
la Vie intérieure"; the surreptitious publication of his most famous work "Télémache," the
MS. of which was stolen by his servant, accentuated the king's disfavour, who regarded it as
a veiled attack on his court, and led to an order confining the author to his own diocese;
the rest of his life was spent in the service of his people, to whom he endeared himself by
his benevolence and the sweet piety of his nature; his works are extensive, and deal with subjects
historical and literary, as well as philosophical and theological (1651-1715).

FENIANS, an Irish political organisation having for its object the overthrow of English rule
in Ireland and the establishment of a republic there. The movement was initiated in the United
States soon after the great famine in Ireland of 1846-47, which, together with the harsh exactions
of the landlords, compelled many Irishmen to emigrate from their island with a deeply-rooted
sense of injustice and hatred of the English. The Fenians organised themselves so far on the
model of a republic, having a senate at the head, with a virtual president called the "head-centre,"
and various "circles" established in many parts of the U.S. They collected funds and engaged
in military drill, and sent agents to Ireland and England. An invasion of Canada in 1866 and
a rising at home in 1867 proved abortive, as also the attack on Clerkenwell Prison in the same
year. Another attempt on Canada in 1871 and the formation of the Skirmishing Fund for the use
of the Dynamitards and the institution of the Clan-na-Gael leading to the "Invincibles," and
the Phoenix Park murders (1882) are later manifestations of this movement. The Home Rule and
Land League movements practically superseded the Fenian. The name is taken from an ancient
military organisation called the Fionna Eirinn, said to have been instituted in Ireland in 300 B.C.

FERDINAND THE CATHOLIC, V. of Castile, II. of Aragon and Sicily, and III. of Naples, born at
Sos, in Aragon, married Isabella of Castile in 1849, a step by which these ancient kingdoms
were united under one sovereign power; their joint reign is one of the most glorious in the
annals of Spanish history, and in their hands Spain quickly took rank amongst the chief European
powers; in 1492 Columbus discovered America, and the same year saw the Jews expelled from Spain
and the Moorish power crushed by the fall of Granada. In 1500-1 Ferdinand joined the French
in his conquest of Naples, and three years later managed to secure the kingdom to himself,
while by the conquest of Navarre in 1512 the entire Spanish peninsula came under his sway.
He was a shrewd and adroit ruler, whose undoubted abilities, both as administrator and general,
were, however, somewhat marred by an unscrupulous cunning, which found a characteristic expression
in the institution of the notorious Inquisition, which in 1480 was started by him, and became
a powerful engine for political as well as religious persecution for long years after (1452-1516).

FERDINAND I., emperor of Germany (1556-64), born at Alcalá, in Spain, son of Philip I., married
Anna, a Bohemian princess, in 1521; was elected king of the Romans (1531), added Bohemia and
Hungary to his domains (1503-1564).

FERDINAND II., emperor of Germany (1619-37), grandson of the preceding and son of Charles,
younger brother of Maximilian II., born at Grätz; his detestation of the Protestants, early
instilled into him by his mother and the Jesuits, under whom he was educated, was the ruling
passion of his life, and involved the empire in constant warfare during his reign; an attempt
on the part of Bohemia, restless under religious and political grievances, to break away from
his rule, brought about the Thirty Years' War; by ruthless persecutions he re-established Catholicism
in Bohemia, and reduced the country to subjection; but the war spread into Hungary and Germany,
where Ferdinand was opposed by a confederacy of the Protestant States of Lower Saxony and Denmark,
and in which the Protestant cause was in the end successfully sustained by the Swedish hero,
GUSTAVUS ADOLPHUS (q. v.), who had opposed to him the imperial generals TILLY and WALLENSTEIN
(q. v.); his reign is regarded as one of disaster, bloodshed, and desolation to his empire,
and his connivance at the assassination of Wallenstein will be forever remembered to his discredit
(1578-1637).

FERDINAND III., emperor of Germany (1637-57), son of the preceding, born at Grätz; more tolerant
in his views, would gladly have brought the war to a close, but found himself compelled to
face the Swedes reinforced by the French; in 1648 the desolating struggle was terminated by
the Peace of Westphalia; the rest of his reign passed in tranquillity (1608-1657).

FERDINAND I., king of the Two Sicilies, third son of Charles III. of Spain, succeeded his father
on the Neapolitan throne (1759), married Maria Caroline, daughter of Maria-Theresa; joined
the Allies in the struggle against Napoleon, and in 1806 was driven from his throne by the
French, but was reinstated at the Congress of Vienna; in 1816 he constituted his two States
(Sicily and Naples) into the kingdom of the Two Sicilies, and in the last four years of his
reign ruled, with the aid of Austria, as a despot, and having broken a pledge to his people,
was compelled ere his return to grant a popular constitution (1751-1825).

FERDINAND II., king of the Two Sicilies, grandson of the preceding and son of Francis I.; after
the death of his first wife, a daughter of Victor Emmanuel I., he married the Austrian princess
Maria-Theresa, and fell under the influence of Austria during the rest of his reign; in 1848
he was compelled to grant constitutional rights to his people, but was distrusted, and an insurrection
broke out in Sicily; with merciless severity he crushed the revolt, and by his savage bombardment
of the cities won him the epithet "Bomba"; a reign of terror ensued, and in 1851 Europe was
startled by the revelations of cruel injustice contained in Mr. Gladstone's famous Neapolitan
letters (1810-1859).

FERDINAND III., Grand-duke of Tuscany and Archduke of Austria, born at Florence; succeeded
to the government of Tuscany in 1790; introduced many wise measures of reform, which brought
peace and prosperity to his State; reluctantly joined the coalition against Napoleon in 1793,
but two years later entered into friendly relations with France, and in 1797, in order to save
his States being merged in the Cisalpine Republic, undertook to make payment of an annual subsidy;
later he formed an alliance with Austria, and was by Napoleon driven from his possessions,
which were, however, restored to him in 1814 by the Peace of Paris (1769-1824).

FERDINAND VII. OF SPAIN, son of Charles IV. of Spain; too weak to steer his way through the
intrigues of the court, he appealed to Napoleon in 1807 to support the king, his father, and
himself; but his letter was discovered, and his accomplices exiled; the following year the
French entered Spain, and Charles abdicated in favour of his son Ferdinand; but soon after,
under Napoleon's influence, the crown was surrendered to the French, and Joseph Bonaparte became
king; in 1813 Ferdinand was reinstated, but found himself immediately met by a demand of his
people for a more liberal representative government; the remaining years of his reign were
spent in an internecine struggle against these claims, in which he had French support under
Louis XVIII. (1784-1833).

FERDUSI. See FIRDAUSI.

FERETRUM, the shrine containing the sacred effigies and relics of a saint.

FERGUS, the name of three Scottish kings: F. I., d. 356; F. II., king from 411 to 427; and
F. III., king from 764 to 767.

FERGUSON, ADAM, a Scotch philosopher and historian, born at Logierait, Perthshire; after passing
through the universities of St. Andrews and Edinburgh, he in 1745 was appointed Gaelic chaplain
to the Black Watch Highland Regiment, and was present at the battle of Fontenoy; in 1757 he
became keeper of the Advocates' Library in Edinburgh; two years later professor of Natural
Philosophy, and subsequently of Moral Philosophy in the university there; during his professorship
he, as secretary, was attached to the commission sent out by Lord North to bring about a friendly
settlement of the dispute pending between England and the North American colonies; resigning
his chair in 1785 he retired to Neidpath Castle, to engage in farming at Hallyards, an estate
in the same neighbourhood; died at St. Andrews; his best-known works are "Institutes of Moral
Philosophy," "History of the Roman Republic," and "Principles of Moral and Political Science"
(1723-1816).

FERGUSON, JAMES, a popular writer on astronomy and mechanics, born at Rothiemay, Banff, son
of a labourer; his interest in astronomy was first aroused by his observation of the stars
while acting as a "herd laddie," and much of his time among the hills was spent in the construction
of mechanical contrivances; compelled by circumstances to betake himself to various occupations,
pattern-drawing, clock-mending, copying prints, and portrait sketching, he still in his leisure
hours pursued those early studies, and coming to London in 1743 (after a residence of some
years in Edinburgh), began lecturing on his favourite subjects; a pension of £50 was granted
him out of the privy purse, and in 1763 he was elected an F.R.S.; besides publishing lectures
on mechanics, hydrostatics, optics, &c., he wrote several works on astronomy, chiefly popular
expositions of the methods and principles of Sir Isaac Newton (1710-1776).

FERGUSON, PATRICK, soldier and inventor of the breech-loading gun, born at Pitfour, Aberdeenshire;
served in the English army in Germany and Tobago; brought out his new rifle in 1766, which
was tried with success in the American War of Independence; rose to be a major, and fell at
the battle of King's Mountains, in South Carolina (1744-1780).

FERGUSON, ROBERT, a notorious plotter, who took part in Monmouth's invasion in 1685 and was
prominent in the various plots against Charles II. and James II., but after the Revolution
turned Jacobite; published a history of the Revolution in 1706; died in poverty (about 1637-1714).

FERGUSSON, JAMES, a writer on the history and art of architecture, born at Ayr; went to India
as an indigo-planter, but afterwards gave himself up to the study of the rock-temples; published
various works, and in his later years interested himself in the fortifications of the United
Kingdom; his "History of Architecture," in 4 vols., is a standard work (1808-1886).

FERGUSSON, ROBERT, a Scottish poet, born in Edinburgh; after a university course at St. Andrews
he obtained a post in the office of the commissionary-clerk of Edinburgh; his first poems appeared
in Ruddiman's Weekly Magazine, and brought him a popularity which proved his ruin; some years
of unrestrained dissipation ended in religious melancholia, which finally settled down into
an incurable insanity; his poems, collected in 1773, have abundant energy, wit, and fluency,
but lack the passion and tenderness of those of Burns; he was, however, held in high honour
by Burns, who regarded him as "his elder brother in the Muses." "In his death," says Mr. Henley,
"at four-and-twenty, a great loss was inflicted to Scottish literature; he had intelligence
and an eye, a right touch of humour, the gifts of invention and observation and style, together
with a true feeling for country and city alike ... Burns, who learned much from him, was an
enthusiast in his regard for him, bared his head and shed tears over 'the green mound and the
scattered gowans,' under which he found his exemplar lying in Canongate Churchyard, and got
leave from the managers to put up a headstone at his own cost there" (1750-1774). See Mr. Henley's
"Life of Burns" in the Centenary Burns, published by the Messrs. T. C. and E. C. Jack.

FERGUSSON, SIR W., surgeon, born at Prestonpans; graduated at Edinburgh; was elected to the
chair of Surgery in King's College, London, and in 1866 was made a baronet; was serjeant-surgeon
to the Queen, and president of the Royal College of Surgeons; Fergusson was a bold and skilful
surgeon; is the author, amongst other treatises, of a "System of Practical Surgery," besides
being the inventor of many surgical instruments (1808-1877).

FERISHTAH, a Persian historian, born at Astrabad, on the Black Sea; went at an early age, accompanied
by his father, to India, where his life was spent in the service, first of Murtaza Nizam Shah,
in Ahmednagar, and afterwards at the court of the prince of Bijapur; his famous history of
the Mohammedan power in India, finished in 1609, and the writing of which occupied him for
20 years, is still a standard work, and has been translated into English (about 1570-1611).

FERMANAGH (74), an Irish county in the SW. corner of Ulster, of a hilly surface, especially
in the W.; is well wooded, and produces indifferent crops of oats, flax, and potatoes; some
coal and iron, and quantities of limestone, are found in it; the Upper and Lower Loughs Erne
form a waterway through its centre; chief town, Enniskillen.

FERMAT, PIERRE DE, a French mathematician, born near Montauban; made important discoveries
in the properties of numbers, and with his friend Pascal invented a calculus of probabilities;
was held in high esteem by Hallam, who ranks him next to Descartes (1601-1665).

FERNANDEZ, JUAN, a Spanish navigator, discovered the island off the coast of Chile that bears
his name; d. in 1576.

FERNANDO PO (25), a mountainous island, with an abrupt and rocky coast, in the Bight of Biafra,
W. Africa; the volcano, Mount Clarence (9300 ft.), rises in the N.; is covered with luxuriant
vegetation, and yields maize and yams, some coffee, and palm-oil and wine; is inhabited by
the Bubis, a Bantu tribe; is the chief of the Spanish Guinea Isles.

FEROZEPORE (50), the chief town of the district of the same name in the Punjab, India, a few
miles S. of the Sutlej; is strongly fortified, and contains a large arsenal; the present town
was laid out by Lord Lawrence. F. DISTRICT (887), lies along the S. bank of the Sutlej; came
into the possession of the British in 1835; cereals, cotton, sugar, and tobacco are cultivated.

FERRAR, NICHOLAS, a religious enthusiast in the reign of Charles I.; was elected a Fellow of
Clare Hall, Cambridge, in 1610; afterwards devoted himself to medicine and travelled on the
Continent; subsequently joined his father in business in London, and entered Parliament in
1624; but a year later retired to the country, and at Little Gidding, Huntingdonshire, founded,
with some of his near relations, a religious community, known as the "Arminian Nunnery," some
account of which is given in Shorthouse's "John Inglesant"; it was broken up by the Puritans
in 1647; he was the intimate friend of George Herbert; this community consisted of some "fourscore
persons, devoted to a kind of Protestant monasticism; they followed celibacy and merely religious
duties, employed themselves in binding prayer-books, &c., in alms-giving and what charitable
work was possible to them in their desert retreat, kept up, night and day, a continual repetition
of the English liturgy, never allowing at any hour the sacred fire to go out" (1592-1637).

FERRAR, ROBERT, an English prelate, born at Halifax, was prior of the monastery of St. Oswald's,
embraced the Reformation, and was made Bishop of St. David's by Edward VI.; suffered martyrdom
under Mary in 1555.

FERRARA, a broadsword bearing the name of Andrea Ferrara, one of an Italian family famous in
the 16th and 17th centuries for the quality of their swords.

FERRARA (31), a fortified and walled Italian city, capital of the province of the name, situated
on a low and marshy plain between the dividing branches of the Po, 30 m. from the Adriatic;
it has many fine ecclesiastical buildings and a university founded in 1264, with a library
of 100,000 vols., but now a mere handful of students; a fine old Gothic castle, the residence
of the Estes (q. v.), still stands; it was the birthplace of Savonarola, and the sometime dwelling-place
of Tasso and Ariosto; once populous and prosperous, it has now fallen into decay.

FERRARI, GAUDENZIO, Italian painter and sculptor, born at Valduggia, in Piedmont; studied at
Rome under Raphael; many of his paintings and frescoes are to be found in the Lombard galleries,
and principally in Milan; his work is characterised by bold and accurate drawing, inventiveness,
and strong colouring, but it somewhat lacks the softer qualities of his art (1484-1550).

FERRARI, PAOLO, Italian dramatist, born at Modena; produced his first play at the age of 25;
his numerous works, chiefly comedies, and all marked by a fresh and piquant style, are the
finest product of the modern Italian drama; in 1860 he was appointed professor of History at
Modena and afterwards at Milan; his dramatic works have been published in 14 vols. (1822-1889).

FERRIER, DAVID, a distinguished medical scientist, born at Woodside, Aberdeen; graduated in
arts there; studied at Heidelberg, and coming to Edinburgh graduated in medicine with high
distinction in 1868; in 1872 became professor of Forensic Medicine at King's College, London,
and afterwards physician to the National Hospital for the Paralysed and Epileptic; his most
notable work has been done in connection with the brain, and his many experiments on the brains
of living animals have resulted in much valuable information, embodied in his various writings;
is editor and co-founder of the periodical Brain; b. 1843.

FERRIER, JAMES FREDERICK, a metaphysician of singular ability and originality, born at Edinburgh;
after graduating at Oxford was called to the Scotch bar in 1832; but under the influence of
Sir W. Hamilton, metaphysics became his dominant interest, and he found an outlet for his views
in the pages of Blackwood by a paper on "Consciousness," which attracted the attention of Emerson;
in 1842 was appointed professor of History in Edinburgh University, and three years later of
Moral Philosophy in St. Andrews; published the "Institutes of Metaphysics," a lucid exposition
of the Berkleian philosophy, and "Lectures on Greek Philosophy," and edited the works of his
uncle and father-in-law, Christopher North; "he belongs," says Dr. Stirling, "to an era of
thought that was inaugurated by Thomas Carlyle" (1808-1864).

FERRIER, SUSAN EDMONSTON, a Scottish novelist, aunt of the preceding, born in Edinburgh, where
her life was chiefly spent, her father being Clerk in the Court of Session, and a colleague
of Sir Walter Scott; her novels, "Marriage," "The Inheritance," and "Destiny," &c., are rich
in humour and faithful in their pictures of Scottish life and character; Scott held her in
high esteem, and kept up a warm friendship with her till his death (1782-1854).

FERROL (26), a strongly fortified seaport in Galicia, Spain, 10 m. NE. of Coruña, on a narrow
inlet of the sea which forms a splendid harbourage, narrow at the entrance and capacious within,
and defended by two forts; it possesses one of the largest Spanish naval arsenals; manufactures
linen and cotton, and exports corn, brandy, and sardines.

FERRY, JULES FRANÇOIS CAMILLE, a distinguished French statesman, born at Saint Dié, in the
Vosges; called to the Paris bar in 1854, he speedily plunged into the politics of the time,
and offered uncompromising opposition to the party of Louis Napoleon; as a member of the Corps
Législatif he opposed the war with Prussia, but as central mayor of Paris rendered signal service
during the siege by the Germans; during his tenure of office as Minister of Public Instruction
in 1879 was instrumental in bringing about the expulsion of the Jesuits; as Prime Minister
in 1880 and again in 1883-85 he inaugurated a spirited colonial policy, which involved France
in war in Madagascar, and brought about his own downfall (1832-1893).

FESCH, JOSEPH, an eminent French ecclesiastic, born at Ajaccio, the half-brother of Napoleon's
mother; was educated for the Church, but, on the outbreak of the Revolution, joined the revolutionaries
as a storekeeper; co-operated with his illustrious nephew in restoring Catholicism in France,
and became in 1802 archbishop of Lyons, and a cardinal in 1803; as ambassador at Rome in 1804
he won the Pope's favour, and brought about a more friendly understanding between him and Napoleon;
later he lost favour with the emperor, and retired to Lyons, whence in 1814 he fled to Rome,
there to end his life; was a lover of art, and left a magnificent collection of pictures (1763-1839).

FESTUS, the name of a poem by Philip James Bailey (q. v.), first published in 1839, but extended
to three times its length since, a poem that on its first production produced no small sensation.

FESTUS, SEXTUS POMPEIUS, a Latin grammarian of probably the 3rd century; noted for an epitome
of a great work by Verrius Flaccus on the meaning and derivation of Latin words, which, although
only a portion of it exists, is regarded as an invaluable document, and is preserved at Naples.

FETICHISM, the worship of a fetich, an object superstitiously invested with divine or demonic
power, and as such regarded with awe and worshipped.

FEUDALISM, or the Feudal system, that system which prevailed in Europe during the Middle Ages
and in England from the Norman Conquest, by which vassals held their lands from the lord-superior
on condition of military service when required, for "the extreme unction day" of which see
CARLYLE'S "FRENCH REVOLUTION," VOL. I. BK. 4.

FEUERBACH, LUDWIG ANDREAS, German philosopher, son of the succeeding, born at Landshut; studied
theology at Hiedelberg, but coming under the influence of Hegel went to Berlin and devoted
himself to philosophy; after failing in an attempt to support himself by lecturing in Erlangen,
he was fortunate in his marriage, and upon his wife's means lived a retired and studious life
at Bruckberg; in his philosophy, which is a degeneracy and finally total departure from Hegel,
he declines to find a higher sanction for morality than man's own conception of right and wrong
as based on a doctrine of Hedonism (q. v.); his chief work, on the nature of Christianity,
which was translated into English by George Eliot, is extravagant in its departure from orthodox
lines of thought; his influence has been trifling outside his own country; he began with Hegel,
but "descended at last from Hegel's logical idea to naked sense," and what guidance for life
might be involved in it (1804-1872).

FEUERBACH, PAUL JOHANN ANSELM VON, a highly distinguished criminal jurist, born at Jena, where
he studied philosophy and law; at 23 came into prominence by a vigorous criticism of Hobbes's
theory on civil power; and soon afterwards, in lectures on criminal jurisprudence he set forth
his famous theory, that in administering justice judges should be strictly limited in their
decisions by the penal code; this new doctrine gave rise to a party called "Rigorists," who
supported his theory; he held professorships in Jena and in Kiel, and in 1804 was appointed
to an official post in Münich; in 1814 he became president of the Court of Appeal at Anspach;
his chief work was the framing of a penal code for Bavaria, which became a model for several
other countries (1775-1833).

FEUILLANS, a reformed brotherhood of Cistercian monks, founded in 1577 by Jean de la Barrière,
abbot of the Cistercian monastery at Feuillans, in Languedoc. The movement thus organised was
a protest against the laxity which had crept into the Church, and probably received some stimulus
from the Reformation, which was then in progress. The Feuillans settled in a convent in the
Rue St. Honoré, Paris, which in after years became the meeting-place of a revolutionary club,
which took the name of Feuillans; founded in 1790 by Lafayette, La Rochefoucauld, &c., and
which consisted of members of the respectable property classes, whose views were more moderate
than those of the Jacobins. They could not hold out against the flood of revolutionary violence,
and on March 28, 1791, a mob burst into their place of meeting and dispersed them.

FÉUILLET, OCTAVE, a celebrated French novelist, born at Saint-Lò, in La Manche; started his
literary career as one of Dumas' assistants, but made his first independent success in the
Revue des Deux Mondes by a series of tales, romances, &c., begun in 1848; in 1862 he was elected
a member of the Academy, and later became librarian to Louis Napoleon; his novels, of which
"Le Roman d'un Jeune Homme Pauvre" and "Sibylle" are the most noted, are graceful in style,
and reveal considerable dramatic force, but often lapse into sentimentality, and too often
treat of indelicate subjects, although in no spirit of coarseness (1812-1890).

FEZ (150), the largest city in Morocco, of which it is the second capital; is surrounded by
walls and prettily situated in the valley of the Sebu, a stream which flows through its centre
and falls into the Atlantic 100 m. to the E. It has been for many centuries one of the most
important of the sacred cities of the Moslem; has many fine mosques, the Sultan's palace, and
an important university; is yet a busy commercial centre, although signs of decay appear all
over the city, and carries on an active caravan trade with Central Africa.

FEZZAN (50), a Turkish province lying to the S. of Tripoli, to which it is politically united;
in character partakes of the desert region to which it belongs, being almost wholly composed
of barren sandy plateaux, with here and there an oasis in the low valleys, where some attempt
at cultivation is made. The people, who belong to the Berber stock, are Mohammedans, honest,
but lazy and immoral. Murzuk (6) is the chief town.

FIARS, an expression in Scotch law given to the prices of grain which are determined, by the
respective sheriffs in the various counties assisted by juries. The Court for "striking the
fiars" is held towards the end of February in accordance with Acts of Sederunt of the Court
of Session. The prices fixed are used in the settling of contracts where no prices have been
determined upon, e. g. in fixing stipends of ministers of the Church of Scotland, and are found
useful in other ways.

FICHTE, JOHANN GOTTLIEB, a celebrated German philosopher, born in Upper Lusatia; a man of an
intensely thoughtful and noble nature; studied theology at Jena, and afterwards philosophy;
became a disciple of Kant, and paid homage to him personally at Königsberg; was appointed professor
of Philosophy at Jena, where he enthusiastically taught, or rather preached, a system which
broke away from Kant, which goes under the name of "Transcendental Idealism," and which he
published in his "Wissenschaftslehre" and his "System der Sittenlehre"; obliged to resign his
chair at Jena on a charge of atheism, he removed to Berlin, where he rose into favour by his
famous "Address to the Germans" against the tyranny of Napoleon, and after a professorate in
Erlangen he became head of the New University, and had for colleagues such men as Wolff, Humboldt,
Scheiermacher, and Neander; he fell a victim to the War of Independence which followed, dying
of fever caught through his wife and her nursing of patients in the hospitals, which were crowded
with the wounded; besides his more esoterico-philosophical works, he was the author of four
of a popular cast, which are worthy of all regard, on "The Destiny of Man," "The Nature of
the Scholar," "The Characteristics of the Present Age," and "The Way to the Blessed Life";
"so robust an intellect, a soul so calm," says Carlyle, "so lofty, massive, and immovable,
has not mingled in philosophic discussion since the time of Luther ... the cold, colossal,
adamantine spirit, standing erect and clear, like a Cato Major among degenerate men; fit to
have been the teacher of the Stoa, and to have discoursed of Beauty and Virtue in the groves
of Academe" (1762-1814).

FICHTELGEBIRGE, a mountain chain in North-East Bavaria, so called from its having once been
covered with pines, Fichtel meaning a pine. In its valleys rise the Elbe, Rhine, and Danube;
considerable quantities of iron, copper, and lead are found, which give rise to a smelting
industry, while mother-of-pearl is obtained from the streams. The climate is cold and damp,
but the district has of late become a favourite resort of tourists.

FICINO, MARSILIO, an eminent Italian Platonist, born at Florence; in 1463 became president
of a Platonic school, founded by Cosmo de' Medici, where he spent many years spreading and
instilling the doctrines of Plato, and, indeed, ancient philosophy generally; entered the Church
in 1473, and under the patronage of Lorenzo de' Medici was appointed to the canonry of Florence
Cathedral; his religious beliefs were a strange blend of Platonism and Christianity, but were
the foundation of a pure life, while his interest in classical studies helped considerably
to further the Renaissance (1433-1499).

FICK, AUGUST, a German philologist, born at Petershagan; spent his life chiefly at Göttingen,
where he first studied philology under Benfey; became a teacher in the Gymnasium, and eventually
in 1876 professor of Comparative Philology in the university; in 1887 accepted a professorship
in Breslau, but retired four years later; author of a variety of learned works on philology;
b. 1833.

FIDELIO, a celebrated opera by Beethoven, and his only one.

FI`DES, the Roman goddess of fidelity, or steadfast adherence to promises and engagements.
Numa built a shrine for her worship and instituted a festival in her honour; in later times
a temple containing a statue of her dressed in white adjoined the temple of Jupiter, on the
Capitol at Rome.

FIELD, CYRUS WEST, brother of the following, born at Stockbridge, Massachusetts; was first
a successful paper manufacturer, but turning his attention to submarine telegraphy was instrumental
in establishing cable communication between England and America, and founded the Atlantic Telegraph
Company in 1856; on the successful laying of the 1866 cable, since which time communication
between the Old and New Worlds has never been interrupted, he was awarded a gold medal and
the thanks of the nation; afterwards interested himself in developing the overhead railway
in New York (1819-1892).

FIELD, DAVID DUDLEY, an eminent American Jurist, born in Haddam, Connecticut; for 57 years
a prominent member of the New York bar, during which time he brought about judiciary reforms,
and drew up, under Government directions, political, civil, and penal codes; interested himself
in international law, and laboured to bring about an international agreement whereby disputes
might be settled by arbitration and war done away with; was President of the London Peace Congress
in 1890 (1805-1894).

FIELD OF THE CLOTH OF GOLD, a plain near Guisnes, where Henry VIII. had an interview with Francis
I.; was so called from the magnificence displayed on the occasion on the part of both sovereigns
and their retinue.

FIELDING, COPLEY, an eminent English water-colour painter; became secretary and treasurer and
finally president of the Society of Water-Colour Painters (1787-1855).

FIELDING, HENRY, a famous novelist, who has been styled by Scott "the father of the English
novel," born at Sharpham Park, Glastonbury, son of General Edmund Fielding and a cousin of
LADY MARY WORTLEY MONTAGU (q. v.); was educated at Eton and at Leyden, where he graduated in
1728; led for some years a dissipated life in London, and achieved some celebrity by the production
of a series of comedies and farces, now deservedly sunk into oblivion; in 1735 he married Miss
Charlotte Cradock, and after a brief experiment as a theatre lessee studied law at the Middle
Temple, and was called to the bar; literature was, however, his main pursuit, and in 1742 he
came to the front with "Joseph Andrews," a burlesque on Richardson's "Pamela," in which his
powers as a novelist first showed themselves; in 1743 followed three volumes of "Miscellanies,"
including "Jonathan Wild"; after his wife's death he turned again to law, but in 1745 we find
him once more engaged in literature as editor of the True Patriot and afterwards of the Jacobite's
Journal; "Tom Jones," his masterpiece, appeared in 1749, and three years later "Amelia"; journalism
and his duties as a justice of the peace occupied him till 1754, when ill-health forced him
abroad to Lisbon, where he died and was buried. Fielding is a master of a fluent, virile, and
attractive style; his stories move with an easy and natural vigour, and are brimful of humour
and kindly satire, while his characters in their lifelike humanness, with all their foibles
and frailties, are a marked contrast to the buckram and conventional figures of his contemporary
Richardson; something of the laxity of his times, however, finds its way into his pages, and
renders them not always palatable reading to present-day readers (1707-1754).

FIESCHI, COUNT, a Genoese of illustrious family who conspired against Andrea Doria, but whose
plot was frustrated on the eve of its fulfilment by his falling into the sea and being drowned
as he stept full-armed from one of his ships into another (1523-1547).

FIESCHI, JOSEPH MARCO, a Corsican conspirator; served under Murat and in Russia in 1812; obtained
a government post in 1830, and in consequence of his discharge from this five years later he,
by means of an infernal machine, made an unsuccessful attempt to assassinate Louis Philippe,
for which, along with his accomplices, he was tried and executed (1790-1836).

FIESOLE, a small town, 3 m. from Florence, where the wealthy Florentines have villas, and near
which Fra Angelico lived as a monk.

FIFE (190), a maritime county in the E. of Scotland, which juts out into the German Ocean and
is washed by the Firths of Tay and Forth on its N. and S. shores respectively, thus forming
a small peninsula; has for the most part a broken and hilly surface, extensively cultivated
however, while the "How of Fife," watered by the Eden, is a fertile valley, richly wooded;
and valuable coal deposits are worked in the S. and W.; its long coast-line is studded with
picturesque towns, many of them of ancient date, a circumstance which led James VI. to describe
the county as "a beggar's mantle fringed with gold"; it is associated with much that is memorable
in Scottish history.

FIFTH-MONARCHY MEN, a set of fanatics of extreme levelling tendencies, who, towards the close
of the Protectorate, maintained that Jesus Christ was about to reappear on the earth to establish
a fifth monarchy that would swallow up and forcibly suppress all that was left of the four
preceding--the Assyrian, the Persian, the Macedonian, and the Roman; their standard exhibited
the lion of the tribe of Judah couchant, with the motto, "Who will rouse him up?" some of them
conspired to murder the Protector, but were detected and imprisoned till after his death.

FIGARO, a name given by the French dramatist Beaumarchais to a cunning and intriguing barber
who figures in his "Barbier de Seville" and his "Mariage de Figaro," and who has since become
the type of all such characters. The name has been adopted by various journals in England and
in France.

FIGARO, MARIAGE DE, a play by Beaumarchais, "issued on the stage in Paris 1784, ran its hundred
nights; a lean and barren thing; succeeded, as it flattered a pruriency of the time and spoke
what all were feeling and longing to speak."

FIGUIER, LOUIS, a popular writer on scientific subjects, born at Montpellier, where he became
professor of Pharmacy in 1846, and subsequently in Paris; his voluminous writings have done
much to popularise science, and they comprise a volume on alchemy and one in defence of immortality;
many of these have been received with favour in England (1819-1894).

FIJI (125), a group of islands in the S. Pacific Ocean, known also as the Viti Islands; they
lie between 15°-22° S. lat. and 176° E.-178° W. long., and are a dependency of Britain; sighted
by Tasman in 1643, though first discovered, properly speaking, by Cook in 1773, came first
into prominence in 1858, when the sovereignty was offered to England and declined, but in 1874
were taken over and made a crown colony; they number over 200 islands, of which Viti Leon and
Vanua Leon are by far the largest; Suva is the capital; sugar, cotton, vanilla, tea, and coffee
are cultivated, besides fruit.

FILDES, S. LUKE, artist, born in Lancashire; made his mark first as a designer of woodcuts;
contributed to various magazines and illustrated books, notably Dickens's "Edwin Drood"; his
most noted pictures are "Applicants for a Casual Ward," "The Widower," and "The Doctor"; he
was made an R.A. in 1887; b. 1844.

FILIBUSTER, a name given to buccaneers who infested the Spanish-American coasts or those of
the West Indies, but more specially used to designate the followers of Lopez in his Cuban expedition
in 1851, and those of Walker in his Nicaraguan in 1855; a name now given to any lawless adventurers
who attempt to take forcible possession of a foreign country.

FILIGREE, a name given to a species of goldsmith's ornamental work fashioned out of fine metallic
(usually gold or silver) wire into lace-like patterns; the art is of ancient date, and was
skilfully practised by the Etruscans and Egyptians, as well as in Central Asia and India.

FILIOQUE CONTROVERSY, a controversy which ended in the disruption of the Western from the Eastern
Church on the question whether the Spirit proceeded from the Father and the Son or from the
Father only, the Western maintaining the former and the Eastern the latter.

FILLAN, ST., a name borne by two Scottish saints: (1) the son of a Munster prince, lived in
the 8th century, was first abbot of the monastery on the Holy Loch in Argyll, and afterwards
laboured at Strathfillan, Perthshire; some of his relics are to be seen in the Edinburgh Antiquarian
Museum; (2) or Faolan, known as "the leper," had his church at the end of Loch Earn, Perthshire;
a healing well and chair are associated with his name.

FILLMORE, President of the United States from 1850 to 1853.

FINALITY JOHN, Lord John Russell, from his complacently pronouncing the Reform Bill of 1832
a final measure.

FINCH, HENEAGE, first Earl of Nottingham and Lord Chancellor of England, born in Kent, studied
at Oxford, and was called to the bar in 1645; at the Restoration he was appointed Solicitor-General,
and took an active part in prosecuting the regicides; in 1670 he became Attorney-General, and
in 1675 Lord-Chancellor; he presided as Lord-High Steward at the trial of Stafford in 1680,
and pronounced judgment in a speech of great eloquence (1621-1682).

FINDLATER, ANDREW, encyclopedist, born near Aberdour, in Aberdeenshire, of humble parentage;
graduated at Aberdeen, and became a schoolmaster at Tillydesk, and afterwards held the post
of head-master of Gordon's Hospital in Aberdeen; in 1853 joined the staff of Messrs. W. & R.
Chambers, Edinburgh, and became eventually editor of the first edition of their encyclopedia
(1861-1868); amongst other work done for the Messrs. Chambers were various manuals on astronomy,
geography, &c.; was a man of wide and accurate scholarship (1810-1877).

FINGAL or FIONN, the great hero of Gaelic mythology, represented by OSSIAN (q. v.) to have
ruled over the kingdom of Morven, which may be said to have been then co-extensive with Argyllshire
and the West Highlands; in ballad literature he is represented as belonging also to Ireland.

FINGAL'S CAVE, a remarkable cave of basaltic formation on the coast of the ISLE OF STAFFA (q.
v.); entrance to the cave is effected in boats through a natural archway 42 ft. wide and 66
ft. high, and the water fills the floor of this great hall to a distance of 227 ft.

FINISTERRE or FINISTÈRE (727), the most westerly department of France, washed on the N. by
the English Channel, and on the S. and W. by the Atlantic; has a rugged and broken coast-line,
but inland presents a picturesque appearance with tree-clad hills and fertile valleys; the
climate is damp, and there is a good deal of marshy land; mines of silver, lead, &c., are wrought,
and quarries of marble and granite; fishing is largely engaged in; and the manufacture of linen,
canvas, pottery, &c., are important industries, while large quantities of grain are raised.

FINLAND (2,431), a grand-duchy forming the NW. corner of Russia; was ceded by the Swedes in
1809, but still retains an independent administration. The coast-line is deeply indented, and
fringed with small islands; the interior, chiefly elevated plateau, consists largely of forest
land, and is well furnished with lakes, many of which are united by canals, one 36 m. connecting
Lake Saima with the Gulf of Finland. Various cereals (barley, oats, &c.) are grown, and there
is a varied and valuable fauna; fishing is an extensive industry, and no less than 80 kinds
of fish are found in the rivers, lakes, and coast waters. The country is divided into eight
counties, and is governed by a Senate and Diet, the reigning Russian emperor holding rank as
grand-duke; education is highly advanced; Swedish and Finnish are the two languages of the
country, Russian being practically unknown. There is an excellent Saga literature, and the
beginnings of a modern literature. The Finns came under the dominion of the Swedes in the 12th
and 13th centuries, and were by them Christianised.

FINLAY, GEORGE, a distinguished historian, horn at Faversham, Kent, but of Scotch parents;
received a university training at Glasgow and Göttingen, and in 1822 went to Greece, where
he met Byron and fought in the War of Independence; henceforth Greece became his home, and
there, after an unavailing effort to promote agriculture, he betook himself to a studious life
and to writing the history of his adopted country; his valuable history, published in various
parts, traces the national life of Greece from 146 B.C. to A.D. 1864 (1799-1875).

FINMARK (29), a province of Norway, lying in the extreme N., with a rocky and indented coast
and a barren and mountainous interior; fishing is the main industry of the inhabitants, who
are chiefly Lapps.

FINNS, the native inhabitants of Finland, and originally of the districts in Sweden and Norway
as well, are of the Mongolian type, and were settled in Europe before the arrival of the Slavic
and Teutonic races.

FIORDS, deep indentations forming inlets of the sea, especially on the coast of Norway, overlooked
by high mountains and precipitous cliffs.

FIRDAUSI or FIRDUSI, the pseudonym of Abu-'l Kasim Mansur, the great poet of Persia, born near
Tûs, in Khorassan; flourished in the 10th century B.C.; spent 30 years in writing the "Shah
Nama," a national epic, but having been cheated out of the reward promised by Sultan Mahmud,
he gave vent to bitter satire against his royal master and fled the court; for some time he
led a wandering life, till at length he returned to his birthplace, where he died; a complete
translation of his great poem exists in French.

FIRE-WORSHIP, worship of fire, especially as embodied in the sun viewed as the most express
and emphatic exhibition of beneficent divine power.

FIRMAMENT, a name given to the vault of the sky conceived as a solid substance studded with
stars, so applied in the Vulgate.

FIRMAN, a Persian word denoting a mandate or decree; among the Turks the term is applied to
such decrees as issue from the Ottoman Porte, and also to passports, the right of signing which
lies with the Sultan or a Pasha; the word is also used in India to denote a permit to trade.

FIRMIN, ST., bishop of Amiens, who suffered martyrdom in 287. Festival, Sept. 25.

FIRST GENTLEMAN OF EUROPE, George IV., from his fine style and manners.

FISCHART, JOHANN, a German satirist; an imitator of Rabelais (1545-1589).

FISCHER, ERNST KUNO BERTHOLD, a German historian of philosophy, born at Sandewalde, Silesia;
as a student of Erdmann at Halle he was smitten with the love of philosophy, and gave his life
to the study of it; after graduating he went to Heidelberg and there established himself as
a private lecturer, in which capacity he was eminently successful, but in 1853 was deprived
of his status by Government, probably on account of the alleged Pantheistic trend of his teaching;
in 1856, however, he was elected to the chair of Philosophy in Jena, and 16 years later was
called back to Heidelberg as Zeller's successor; his chief work is a "History of Modern Philosophy";
b. 1824.

FISHER, JOHN, bishop of Rochester, born at Beverley; was distinguished at Cambridge, and became
chaplain and confessor to the Countess of Richmond, Henry VII.'s mother, who had him appointed
professor of Divinity at his alma mater; in 1504 he was elected Chancellor of the University
and made bishop of Rochester, but incurred the royal displeasure by opposing Henry VIII.'s
divorce of Catherine of Aragon, and by upholding the Pope's supremacy; became involved in the
deceptions of Elizabeth Barton, maid of Kent, and was sent to the Tower in 1534 for refusing
to take the oath of succession; was created a cardinal, but was beheaded by order of the king
ere his hat arrived; was beatified in 1886 (1469-1535).

FISKE, JOHN, American writer, born at Hartford, Conn., U.S.; studied at Harvard; in 1869 lectured
at his old university as a Positivist, and was under-librarian from 1872 to 1879; he is the
author of a number of works on Darwinism, American history, philosophy, etc.; b. 1842.

FITCH, JOHN, an American inventor, born in Connecticut; led a life of adventure, at one time
acting as gunsmith to the American revolutionaries and at another falling into the hands of
Indians whilst trading in the West; in 1785 he brought out a model steamboat with side wheels,
and in 1788 and in 1790 constructed larger vessels, one of the latter being for some time employed
as a passenger boat; some of his plans are said to have fallen into Robert Fulton's hands and
given him the idea of his steamship; disheartened by the ill-success of a trip to France he
committed suicide at Bardstown, Kentucky (1743-1798).

FITZ-BOODLE, GEORGE, Thackeray's pseudonym in Fraser's Magazine.

FITZGERALD, EDWARD, English scholar, born in Suffolk; at Cambridge, where he graduated in 1830,
he formed close friendships with James Spedding and Thackeray, and afterwards was on intimate
terms with Carlyle and Tennyson; his life was quietly spent in his country residence in Suffolk,
varied by yachting expeditions and visits to London, where he made the round of his friends;
his first book, "Euphranor," a dialogue on youth, appeared when he was 42, "Polonius" followed
and some Spanish translations, but his fame rests on his translations of Persian poetry, and
especially on his rendering of the 11th-century poet, Omar Khayyám (1809-1883).

FITZGERALD, LADY, a daughter of Egalité and Mme. Genlis, called Pamela; distinguished for her
beauty and enthusiasm for liberty, and who became the wife of LORD FITZGERALD, the Irish patriot
(q. v.); d. 1831.

FITZGERALD, LORD EDWARD, the younger son of the Duke of Leinster, born at Carlton Castle, near
Dublin; spent his early years in France; joined the English army and served with distinction
in the American War; in 1784 he was elected to the Irish Parliament, and opposed the English
Government; was attracted to France by the Revolution, but returned to Ireland and joined the
United Irishmen in 1796, and began plotting the rising of 1798; his scheme was betrayed, and
he was arrested in Dublin after a determined resistance, during which he received wounds of
which he died in prison (1763-1798).

FITZHERBERT, MRS., a Roman Catholic lady, maiden name Maria Anne Smythe, with whom, after her
second widowhood, George IV., while Prince of Wales, contracted a secret marriage in 1785,
which, however, under the Royal Marriage Act, was declared invalid (1756-1837).

FITZROY, ROBERT, admiral, navigator, and meteorologist, born at Ampton Hall, near Bury St.
Edmunds; entered the navy at 14, and in 1828-1830 conducted a survey of the coasts of Patagonia
and Tierra del Fuego, a work he continued while commanding the Beagle (1831-1836), in which
Darwin accompanied him; in 1843-1845 was governor of New Zealand; in his later years devoted
himself to meteorology, and, on the retired list, rose to be vice-admiral; published accounts
of his voyages, etc.; under pressure of work his mind gave way, and he committed suicide (1805-1865).

FITZWILLIAM, WILLIAM, EARL, a politician of George the Third's time; the excesses of the French
Revolution caused him to come over from the Whigs and support Pitt; favoured Catholic emancipation
during his Lord-Lieutenancy of Ireland, but was recalled; held office under Grenville in 1806,
and took some part in the Reform Bill agitation of the day (1748-1833).

FIUME (29), a seaport of Hungary, on the Adriatic, at the rocky entrance of the Fiumara, 40
m. SE. of Trieste; a new town of spacious and colonnaded streets and many fine buildings, has
grown up on the ground sloping down from the old town; has an excellent harbour, and flourishing
industries in paper, torpedoes, tobacco, etc., besides being the entrepôt of an important and
increasing commerce.

FLACIUS or VLACICH, MATTHIAS, surnamed Illyricus, a German theologian, born at Albona, in Illyria;
was the pupil of Luther and Melanchthon; became professor of the Old Testament Scriptures at
Wittenberg, but four years later lost his position on account of certain attacks he made on
Melanchthon; subsequently he was elected professor at Jena, but was again deposed for heterodox
notions on original sin; died in poverty; was author of an ecclesiastical history and other
works (1520-1575).

FLAGELLANTS, a set of medieval fanatics, who first arose in Italy in 1260, and subsequently
appeared in other quarters of Europe, and who thought by self-flagellation to atone for sin
and avert divine judgment, hoping by a limited number of stripes to compensate for a century
of scourgings; the practice arose at a time when it was reckoned that the final judgment of
the world was at hand.

FLAHAULT DE LA BILLARDERIE, AUGUSTE CHARLES JOSEPH, COMTE DE, a French soldier and diplomatist,
born at Paris; was aide-de-camp to Napoleon, and for distinguished services in the Peninsular
war and at Leipzig was made a general and count; fought at Waterloo, and two years later married
Margaret Elphinston, who by inheritance became Baroness Keith; he was ambassador at the Courts
of Venice (1841-48) and at London (1860) (1785-1870).

FLAMBARD, RANDOLPH, a Norman who came over with the Conqueror to England and became chaplain
to William Rufus, whom he abetted and pandered to in his vices, in return for which, and a
heavy sum he paid, he was in 1099 made bishop of Durham.

FLAMBOYANT, the name given, from the flame-like windings of its tracery, to a florid style
of architecture in vogue in France during the 15th and 16th centuries.

FLAMENS, priests elected in Rome by the people and consecrated by the chief pontiff to the
service of a particular god, such as Jupiter, Mars, &c.

FLAMINIUS, CAIUS, a Roman tribune and consul, who constructed the Flaminian Way; perished at
Lake Trasimene, where he was defeated by Hannibal in the Second Punic War, 217 B.C.

FLAMINIUS, T. QUINTUS, a Roman consul, who defeated Philip of Macedon and proclaimed the freedom
of Greece, and it was his close neighbourhood to Hannibal that induced the latter to take poison
rather than fall into his hands (230-174 B.C.).

FLAMMARION, CAMILLE, French astronomer, born at Montigny-le-Roi; he was attached to the Paris
Observatory in 1858, and by means of books and lectures has spent a busy life in popularising
his science; many of his works have been translated into English; b. 1842.

FLAMSTEED, JOHN, the first astronomer-royal of England, born near Derby; his devotion to astronomy
gained him the favour of Sir Jonas Moore, who was the means of getting him the appointment
of astronomer-royal in 1675; from the Observatory of Greenwich, specially built for his use,
he catalogued the fixed stars and supplied Newton with useful information bearing on his lunar
theory; in 1675 he took holy orders, and was presented to the living of Burstow in Surrey,
which he held till his death (1646-1719).

FLANDERS, the land of the Flemings, borders upon the North Sea, formerly extended from the
Scheldt to the Somme, and included, besides the present Belgian provinces of East and West
Flanders, part of Zealand, and also of Artois, in France; the ancient county dates from 862,
in which year Charles the Bold of France, as suzerain, raised it to the status of a sovereign
county, and bestowed it upon his son Baldwin I.; it has successively belonged to Spain and
Austria, and in Louis XIV.'s reign a portion of it was ceded to France, now known as French
Flanders, while Zealand passed into the hands of the Dutch; the remainder was in 1714 made
the Austrian Netherlands, and in 1831 was incorporated with the new kingdom of BELGIUM (q. v.).

FLANDRIN, a French painter, born at Lyons; was a pupil of Ingres; represented the religious
movement in art in the 19th century (1809-1864).

FLAUBERT, GUSTAVE, a realistic romancer, born at Rouen; author of "Madame Bovary," a study
of provincial life, which became the subject of a prosecution, and "Salammbô," wonderful for
its vigour and skill in description; he indulged in repulsive subjects (1821-1880).

FLAVEL, JOHN, an English Nonconformist divine of spiritualising tendencies, much read by pious
people of his class; d. 1691.

FLAXMAN, JOHN, an eminent sculptor, born at York; was brought up in London, where his father
carried on business as a moulder of plaster figures; his love of drawing and modelling soon
marked him out as an artist, and helped by friends he devoted himself to art; exhibited at
the age of 12, and won the silver medal of the Royal Academy at 14; for some years he supplied
the Wedgwoods with designs for their famous pottery, and in 1787 he went to Rome, which for
seven years became his home; in 1810 became professor of Sculpture to the Royal Academy; besides
many fine statues of eminent men and much exquisite work in bas-reliefs, he executed a series
of noble designs illustrating Homer, Dante, and Æschylus; he was a Swedenborgian by religious
creed (1755-1826).

FLECHIER, a famous French pulpit orator, bishop of Nîmes; his funeral orations compare with
Bossuet's (1632-1710).

FLEET MARRIAGES, clandestine marriages, suppressed in 1754, performed without license by the
chaplains of Fleet Prison, London.

FLEET PRISON, a celebrated London jail in Farringdon Street; was a debtor's prison as far back
as the 12th century.

FLEETWOOD, CHARLES, a Cromwellian officer; fought as lieutenant-general against the king at
Worcester, and acted as lord-deputy in Ireland; on the death of Cromwell advised the abdication
of Richard; d. 1692.

FLEGEL, African explorer, born in Wilna, of German descent; made three journeys from Europe
to explore the Niger territory, in which he made important discoveries; was suddenly stricken
down in the last (1855-1886).

FLEISCHER, HEINRICH LEBERECHT, Orientalist, born at Schandau, Saxony; after a university training
at Leipzig he undertook a catalogue of the Oriental MSS. in the royal library at Dresden, and
in 1836 became professor of Oriental Languages at Leipzig; did important work as a critical
editor of Oriental works and MSS. (1801-1888).

FLEMING, PAUL, a celebrated German poet, born at Hartenstein, Vogtland; received a medical
training at Leipzig, and was engaged in embassies in Russia and Persia; settled in Hamburg
in 1639, but died the following year; as a lyrist he stood in the front rank of German poets
(1609-1640).

FLEMISH SCHOOL, a school of painting established in the 15th century, and to which Reubens,
Vandyck, and Teniers belonged.

FLESHLY SCHOOL, a name given by Robert Buchanan to a realistic school of poets, to which Rossetti,
William Morris, and Swinburne belong.

FLESSELLES, the last provost of the merchants of the Hôtel de Ville, Paris; "shot by an unknown
hand at the turn of a street" after the fall of the Bastille (1721-1789).

FLETCHER, ANDREW, of Saltoun, a Scottish patriot and politician; after travelling on the Continent
for four years he entered the Scottish Parliament, but got into trouble through his opposition
to James, Duke of York, the Royal Commissioner in Scotland, and fled to Holland; his estates
were confiscated, and for the next seven years he was a political refugee; he took part in
the Rye House Plot and in Monmouth's invasion; his estates were restored in 1688, and he again
sat in the Scottish Parliament; he was an active promoter of the abortive Darien Scheme, and
a strong opponent of the Union of 1707 (1653-1716).

FLETCHER, GILES, an English poet, born in London; was the unappreciated rector of Alderton,
in Suffolk, and author of a fervid and imaginative poem, "Christ's Victory and Triumph," which
won the admiration of Milton (1588-1623).

FLETCHER, JOHN, English dramatist, the son of a bishop of London; was left an orphan and in
poverty; collaborated with BEAUMONT (q. v.) in the production of the plays published under
their joint names; died of the plague (1570-1625).

FLETCHER, PHINEAS, poet, brother of preceding; was rector of Hilgay, Norfolk; celebrated for
his poem the "Purple Island, or the Isle of Man," an ingenious allegory descriptive of the
human body--i. e. the Purple Island--and its vices and virtues.

FLEURANT, MONSIEUR, a character in Molière's "Malade Imaginaire."

FLEUR-DE-LIS (i. e. lily-flower), a badge of ultimately three golden fleurs-de-lis on a blue
field, borne from the days of Clovis on their arms by the kings of France.

FLEURY, ANDRÉ HERCULE DE. CARDINAL, French statesman, born at Lodève, in Languedoc; studied
philosophy in Paris; became a doctor of the Sorbonne and almoner to the Queen and King Louis
XIV., who subsequently made him bishop of Frèjus and tutor to his son Louis; in 1726 he was
chosen Prime Minister by Louis XV., and created a cardinal; he carried through a successful
war with Germany, which resulted in the acquisition of Lorraine by France, but although honest
and cautious, he cannot be styled a great statesman (1653-1743).

FLEURY, CLAUDE, ABBÉ, an ecclesiastical historian, born in Paris; was at the outset of his
career a successful advocate, but afterwards entered the Church; as tutor he educated various
princes, including an illegitimate son of Louis XIV., who in reward appointed him to the priory
of Argenteuil; was chosen confessor to the young Louis XV., and in 1696 was elected to the
Academy; his chief work is his great "Ecclesiastical History" in 20 vols., on which he laboured
for 30 years, and the learning, ability, and impartiality of which procured for him the esteem
of all parties (1640-1723).

FLINDERS, MATTHEW, a naval officer, born in Lincolnshire; explored the coast of Australia,
experiencing not a few adventures, and adding materially to our geographical knowledge (1760-1814).

FLINT, 1, a maritime county (77) of North Wales, between Lancashire and Denbigh, of which a
detached portion lies to the N. of Shropshire; low stretches of sand form its foreshore, but
inland it is hilly, with here and there a picturesque and fertile valley in which dairy-farming
is extensively carried on. 2, a seaport (5), on the estuary of the Dee, 13 m. NW. of Chester;
has ruins of a castle with interesting historical associations; in the neighbourhood are copper-works
and lead and coal mines.

FLINT, ROBERT, a theologian, born in Dumfriesshire; professor of Divinity in Edinburgh University;
an eminent scholar, a vigorous thinker, and a man of broad sympathies, who takes a deep interest
in all the vital questions of the times, and has contributed to the solution of them; has written
on Theism, the Philosophy of History, Socialism, &c.; b. 1838.

FLOATING ISLANDS are sometimes formed of masses of driftwood on which débris, vegetation, &c.,
gradually form a soil, but are more commonly portions of river banks detached by the force
of the current when swollen and drifted put, sometimes as much as 100 m., to sea, carrying
with them plants, reptiles, and larger animals, and thus contributing to the distribution to
distant shores of animal and vegetable life; they are to be met with off the mouths of the
larger American, Asian, and African rivers, and sometimes in inland seas and lakes; Derwent
Lake, in England, has a notable one, which sinks, and rises periodically; they are also made
artificially in districts subject to floods as asylums of refuge.

FLODDEN, BATTLE OF, fought on Flodden Hill, a low spur of the Cheviots, 6 m. S. of Coldstream,
between James IV. of Scotland and the English under the Earl of Surrey on the 9th of September
1513, which resulted in the crushing defeat of the Scots, who lost their king and the flower
of their nobility, an event celebrated in Jean Elliot's "Flowers of the Forest"; a spirited
account is given in the sixth canto of Scott's "Marmion."

FLOOD, HENRY, an Irish Nationalist, trained at Dublin and Oxford Universities; entering the
Irish Parliament, he by his fervid oratory soon won a place in the front rank of Irish politicians;
in 1769 he was put on trial for killing an opponent in a duel, but was acquitted; from 1775
to 1781 he was Vice-Treasurer of Ireland; to Grattan's Irish Bill of Right he offered bitter
opposition, holding it to be an altogether inadequate measure; in 1783 he was returned to the
English House of Commons, but failed to make his mark (1732-1791).

FLORA, goddess of the blossom of flowers and the spring, an early Roman divinity; had in the
time of NUMA a flamen (q. v.) to herself.

FLORENCE (137), a famous Italian city, situated 50 m. from the sea; it lies in the valley of
the Arno, and is built on both sides of the river, but chiefly on the N.; the outlying suburbs
are singularly beautiful, and are surrounded by finely wooded hills, bright with gay villas
and charming gardens; the old city itself is characterised by a sombre grandness, and is full
of fine buildings of historic and artistic interest; chief amongst these is the cathedral,
or Duomo, begun in 1298, with its grand dome and campanile (293 ft.), by Giotto. It is the
city of Dante, Petrarch, Michael Angelo, Leonardo da Vinci, Boccaccio, Machiavelli, Galileo
and many more of Italy's great men, and has a history of exceptional interest; it has many
fine art galleries; is an educational centre, and carries on a trade in straw-plaiting and silk.

FLORIAN, JEAN PIERRE DE, a French novelist and writer of fables; was the friend of Voltaire,
from whom he received his first literary impulse; was the author of several romances plays,
&c., but his finest work is found in his Fables, in which department of literature he ranks
next La Fontaine (1755-1794).

FLORIDA (391), "Land of Flowers," the most southern of the American States, forms a bold peninsula
on the E. side of the Gulf of Mexico, and has on its eastern shore the Atlantic; has a coast-line
of 1150 m.; the chief physical feature is the amount of water surface, made up of 19 navigable
rivers and lakes and ponds to the number of 1200, besides swamps and marshes; the climate is,
however, equable, and for the most part healthy; fruit-growing is largely engaged in; the timber
trade flourishes, also the phosphate industry, and cotton and the sugar-cane are extensively
cultivated; a successful business in cigar-making has also of recent years sprung up, and there
are valuable fisheries along the coast; Florida was admitted into the Union in 1845; the capital
is Tallahassee.

FLORIO, JOHN, the translator of Montaigne, born in London, of Italian parents; was a tutor
of foreign languages for some years at Oxford, and in 1581 became a member of Magdalen College
and teacher of French and Italian; published two works of a miscellaneous character, called
"First Fruits" and "Second Fruits," and an English-Italian dictionary called a "World of Words,"
but his fame rests on his translation of Montaigne, which Shakespeare used so freely (1553-1625).

FLORUS, a Latin historian, contemporary of Trajan.

FLUDD, ROBERT, physician and theosophist, born at Milgate, Kent; studied at Oxford, and travelled
on the Continent, where he came under the influence of Paracelsus's writings; settled in London
as a doctor, and published a work embodying a vague theosophy (1574-1637).

FLUSHING (13), a Dutch seaport, strongly fortified, on the island of Walcheren, at the mouth
of the western Scheldt; has an active shipping trade, docks, arsenals, &c.

FLUXIONS, a method, invented by Sir Isaac Newton, of determining the rate of increase or decrease
of a quantity or magnitude whose value depends on that of another which itself varies in value
at a uniform and given rate. See CALCULUS, DIFFERENTIAL, AND INTEGRAL.

FLYING DUTCHMAN, a Dutch captain, fated for his sins to scour the sea and never reach port,
who appeared from time to time to sea-captains as on a black spectral ship, and from the very
terror he inspired made them change their course; there are many versions of this fable in
the German mythology.

FO, the name in China for Buddha.

FO-HI, or FUH-HE, the mythical founder of the Chinese dynasty, is said to have introduced cattle-rearing,
instituted marriage, and invented letters.

FOIX, GASTON DE, illustrious French captain, nephew of Louis XII., was from his daring exploits
called the Thunderbolt of Italy; he beat the Swiss, routed the Papal troops, captured Brescia
from the Venetians, and gained the battle of Ravenna against the Spaniards, but was slain when
pursuing the fugitives (1489-1512).

FOIX, GASTON III. DE, French captain, surnamed Phoebus on account of his beauty and handsome
presence; distinguished in the wars against the English and in the Jacquerie revolt, in which
he rescued the dauphin at Meaux (1331-1391).

FOLEY, JOHN HENRY, an eminent sculptor, born in Dublin; his first success was achieved in a
series of classical figures, including some Shakespearian subjects; statues of Hampden, Burke,
J. S. Mill, Goldsmith, &c., brought him further fame, and he was commissioned by the Queen
to execute the figure of Prince Albert in the Albert Memorial; his vigour and genius were further
revealed in the noble equestrian statues of Hardinge and Outram (1818-1874).

FOLKESTONE (24), a seaport and watering-place on the coast of Kent, 7 m. SW. of Dover; has
a fine harbour and esplanade; is much engaged in the herring and mackerel fisheries, and is
steam-packet station for Boulogne; a fine railway viaduct spans the valley in which the old
town lies.

FONBLANQUE, ALBANY WILLIAM, journalistic editor, after serving on the staff of the Times and
the Morning Chronicle became editor of the Examiner, which he conducted successfully from 1830
to 1847; Carlyle was introduced to him on his visit to London in 1831, and describes him as
"a tall, loose, lank-haired, wrinkly, wintry, vehement-looking flail of a man," but "the best
of the Fourth Estate" then extant; "I rather like the man," he adds, "has the air of a true-hearted
Radical" (1793-1872).

FONTAINEBLEAU, a town on the left bank of the Seine, 35 m. SE. of Paris, and famous for a château
or palace of the kings of France, and the forest that surrounds it. This château, founded towards
the end of the 10th century, was enlarged and embellished by successive kings, beginning with
Francis I., and was the place where Napoleon signed his abdication in 1814.

FONTANES, LOUIS, MARQUIS DE, poet and man of letters, born at Niort, Poitou; came to Paris
and achieved some celebrity by his poems and translations from Pope and Gray; changing from
the Royalist side, he, during the Revolution, edited two journals in the Republican interest,
and held the post of professor of Literature at the College of the Four Nations; was for some
time a refugee in England, but afterwards returned and became a zealous supporter of Napoleon,
on the downfall of whom he embraced the Bourbon cause, and was raised to the peerage (1757-1821).

FONTENELLE, BERNARD LE BOVIER DE, a miscellaneous French writer, born at Rouen, a nephew of
Corneille, whose Life he wrote; was designed for the bar, but under his uncle's patronage embarked
on a literary career in Paris; he vehemently upheld the moderns in the famous literary quarrel
of Moderns versus Ancients, and brought upon himself the satirical attacks of Boileau and Racine;
became Secretary and then President of the Académie des Sciences; died in his hundredth year;
his vigorous and versatile nature found vent in a wide variety of writings--literary, scientific,
and historical; author of "Dialogues of the Dead," in imitation of Lucian, and "Conversations
on the Plurality of Worlds"; is credited with the saying, "A man may have his hand full of
truth, and yet only care to open his little finger," and this other, "No man was ever written
down but by himself" (1657-1757).

FONTENOY, a village in Belgium, 5 m. SW. of Tournay, where Marshal Saxe beat the English, Dutch,
and Austrians under the Duke of Cumberland in 1745.

FOOCHOW (630), a Chinese city, the capital of the province of Fu-chien, situated on the Min,
125 m. NE. of Amoy. Massive walls 30 ft. high enclose the original town, but the extensive
suburbs reach down to the river, which is bridged, and is a convenient waterway for trading
with the interior; it was made a free port in 1842, and is the centre of a busy trade in tea,
timber, and textiles.

FOOLS, FEAST OF, a festival of wild mirth in the Middle Ages, held on 1st January, in which
the Ass of Scripture celebrity played a chief part, and in which many of the rites and ceremonies
of the Church were travestied.

FOOT-POUND, the name given in mechanics to the force required to raise 1 lb. through 1 foot,
the unit of work.

FOOTE, SAMUEL, a celebrated English actor and playwright, born at Truro, Cornwall, of a good
family; was educated at Oxford, and studied law, but ruined himself by gaming, and took to
the stage; he became the successful lessee of Haymarket Theatre in 1747, where, by his inimitable
powers of mimicry and clever comedies, he firmly established himself in popular favour (1720-1777).

FORBES, ARCHIBALD, a noted war-correspondent, born in Morayshire; was educated at Aberdeen
University; served in a cavalry regiment, acted as war-correspondent for the Daily News during
the Franco-German war, and has since been the brilliant chronicler of war news in all parts
of the globe; has published several volumes; b. 1838.

FORBES, DUNCAN, of Culloden, a distinguished lawyer and patriotic politician, born at Bunchrew;
was trained at Edinburgh and Leyden, and called to the Scotch bar in 1709; took an active part
in putting down the rebellion of 1715, and in 1722 entered Parliament; three years later he
was appointed Lord Advocate and Lord President of the Court of Session; succeeded his brother
in the estates of Culloden and Bunchrew; during the 1745 rebellion he was active in the Hanoverian
interest, and did much to quell the uprising; Forbes was a devoted Scot, and unweariedly strove
to allay the Jacobite discontent and to establish the country in peace, and used his great
influence and wealth to further these ends, services which, in the end, impoverished him, and
received little or no recognition at the hands of Government (1685-1747).

FORBES, EDWARD, a noted naturalist, born at Douglas, in the Isle of Man; studied medicine at
Edinburgh, where he became smitten with the love of natural science, to which he devoted his
life; in 1841 he accompanied the Beacon as naturalist, and returning in 1843 found himself
elected to the chair of Botany in King's College, London; various geological appointments followed,
and in 1852 he became President of the Geological Society, and two years later received the
chair of Natural History in Edinburgh; Forbes was a prolific author, and his writings cover
the whole field of natural science, to every section of which he has made contributions of
great value (1815-1854).

FORBES, JAMES DAVID, physicist, born at Edinburgh, the grandson of Sir William, and the son
of the first lady-love of Sir Walter Scott, and very like her; was called to the bar in 1830;
physical science, however, was his ruling passion, and in 1833 he became professor of Natural
Philosophy in Edinburgh University, from which he was called in 1859 to the Principalship of
the United College, St. Andrews, in which he succeeded Sir David Brewster, whom he had defeated
in obtaining the Edinburgh chair; he made some valuable contributions to natural science, including
discoveries in the polarisation of heat and in regard to the motion of glaciers, to investigate
which he travelled in Norway and in the Alps (1809-1868).

FORBES, SIR JOHN, physician, born at Cuttlebrae, Banffshire; entered the navy as assistant-surgeon
in 1807, and became M.D. of Edinburgh ten years later; practised at Penzance and Chichester,
but finally settled at London in 1840, where he became physician to the Queen; was for twelve
years editor of the British and Foreign Medical Review, which he founded in 1836, and was joint-author
of the "Cyclopædia of Practical Medicine"; first to use the stethoscope in England (1787-1861).

FORBES, SIR WILLIAM, an eminent banker, son of a Scotch advocate and baronet, born in Edinburgh;
became partner in the banking firm of Messrs. John Coutts & Co.; two years later a new company
was formed, of which he rose to be manager, and which in 1830 became the Union Bank of Scotland;
he is author of a Life of his friend Beattie, the Scottish poet, and of "Memoirs of a Banking-House"
(1739-1806).

FORD, JOHN, dramatist, born at Islington, North Devon; studied at Oxford, and entered the Middle
Temple in 1602, but was never called to the bar; in 1606 appeared his first poetic work "Fame's
Memorial," an elegy on the death of the Earl of Devonshire, and for the next 33 years he was
a prolific writer of plays, chiefly tragedies, collaborating in some cases with Dekker and
Webster; "The Broken Heart" was greatly admired by Charles Lamb, and "Perkin Warbeck" is considered
by Stopford Brooke the best historical drama after Shakespeare; there is little of the lighter
graces about his work, and he is prone to go beyond the bounds of nature in his treatment of
the tragic, but his grip on the greater human passions, and his power of moving presentment,
are undoubted (1586-1639).

FORDUN, JOHN OF, a Scottish chronicler; lived in the 14th century; was a canon of Aberdeen
Cathedral, and wrote a chronicle of Scottish history, bringing the story up to 1153; materials
for further volumes, which he left, were utilised by Walter Bower, an abbot of Inchcolm, in
the Forth, who extended the account to 1437, but often tampered with Fordun's narrative; the
work is the chief authority in Scottish history up to the time it treats of.

FORELAND, NORTH AND SOUTH, two rocky promontories on the E. coast of Kent, which lie 16 m.
apart; have the Downs and Goodwin Sands between them; they are well marked with lighthouses.

FORENSIC MEDICINE, or MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE, a branch of legal science in which the principles
of medicine are applied to the purposes of the law, and originating out of the frequency with
which medical points arise in the administration of justice, e. g. in murder trials and in
cases where insanity is involved.

FOREST LAWS, laws enacted in ancient times for the purpose of guarding the royal forest lands
as hunting preserves, and which were up to the time of Henry III. of excessive harshness, death
being a not infrequent penalty for infringement. The privileges of forest (at one time the
sole prerogative of the sovereign, but by him capable of being vested in another), which might
include the right to the wild animals in the forests lying in the domains of a private estate,
have now fallen into abeyance, as also the special Forest Courts, while many of the royal forests,
which in Henry VIII.'s time numbered 69, have been disafforested.

FORFAR (13), the county town of Forfarshire, 14 m. NE. of Dundee; manufactures linen; was once
an important royal residence, and was made a royal burgh by David I.

FORFARSHIRE or ANGUS (278), a maritime county on the E. side of Scotland, lying N. of the Firth
of Tay; Strathmore and the Carse of Gowrie are fertile valleys, where agriculture and cattle-rearing
flourish, and which, with the Braes of Angus in the N. and the Sidlaw Hills to the S., make
up a finely diversified county; jute and linen are the most important articles of manufacture,
of which Dundee and Arbroath are centres; Forfarshire is a county particularly rich in antiquities--Roman
remains, castles, priories, &c.

FORMOSA (3,500), a large island off the coast of China, from which it is separated by the Fukien
Channel, 90 m. broad. Formosa was ceded to Japan by the Chinese in 1895; it is an island of
much natural beauty, and is traversed N. and S. by a fine range of hills; is famed for its
bamboos, and exports coal, rice, tea, &c. Name also of a large territory in the Argentine.

FORNARINA, a Roman lady of great beauty, a friend of Raphael's, and who frequently posed as
a model to him.

FORRES (3), a royal burgh in Elginshire, on the Findhorn, 2 m. from the sea and 10 m. SW. of
Elgin by railway; has ruins of a castle--once a royal residence--and a famous "Stan'in Stane,"
Sueno's Stone, 25 ft. high, placed in the year 900.

FORREST, EDWIN, a celebrated American actor, born in Philadelphia; went on the stage at 14,
and from the provinces made his way to New York, where his rendering of Othello at the age
of 20 raised him to the front rank among actors; he made three tours in England, but during
his last in 1845 he entirely lost the popular favour through his conduct in an embittered quarrel
with Macready; after his final appearance on the stage in 1871 he continued for a short while
to give Shakespearian readings; he was a tragedian of the highest order, and in his profession
amassed a large fortune (1806-1872).

FORS CLAVIGERA, the name given by Ruskin to a series of letters to workmen, written during
the seventies of this century, and employed by him to designate three great powers which go
to fashion human destiny, viz., Force, wearing, as it were, (clava) the club of Hercules; Fortitude,
wearing, as it were, (clavis) the key of Ulysses; and Fortune, wearing, as it were, (clavus)
the nail of Lycurgus; that is to say, Faculty waiting on the right moment, and then striking
in. See Shakespeare's "Time and tide in the affairs of men," &c., the "flood" in which is the
"Third Fors." The letters are represented as written at the dictation of the Third Fors, or,
as it seems to the author, the right moment, or the occurrence of it.

FÖRSTER, ERNST, an art critic, brother of succeeding, author of a number of elaborate and important
works bearing on the history of art in Germany and Italy; was the son-in-law of Jean Paul,
whose works he edited, and to whose biography he made contributions of great value (1800-1885).

FÖRSTER, FRIEDRICH CHRISTOPH, German poet and historian; his poetic gifts were first called
into exercise during the war of liberation, in which he served as a volunteer, and the series
of spirited war-songs he then wrote procured him a wide-spread fame; afterwards he lived in
Berlin, teaching in the school of artillery, and subsequently becoming custodian of the Royal
Art Museum; besides poems he wrote several historical and biographical works (1791-1868).

FORSTER, JOHANN GEORGE ADAM, naturalist, son of the succeeding; accompanied his father in the
voyage with Cook, and contributed to the literature anent the expedition; subsequently became
professor of Natural History at Cassel and at Wilna, and eventually librarian to the Elector
of Mayence in 1788; his works are published in 9 vols. (1754-1794).

FORSTER, JOHANN REINHOLD, a German naturalist and traveller, born in Prussia; accompanied Captain
Cook as a naturalist on his second expedition to the South Seas, and in connection with which
he wrote a volume of observations; died professor of Natural History and Mineralogy at Halle
(1729-1798).

FORSTER, JOHN, a noted English writer, born at Newcastle; was educated for the bar, but took
to journalism, and soon made his mark as a political writer in the Examiner; he subsequently
edited the Foreign Quarterly Review, the Daily News (succeeding Dickens), and the Examiner
(1847-56); he was the author of several historical sketches, but his best-known works are the
admirable biographies of Goldsmith, Landor, and Dickens (1812-1876).

FORSTER, WILLIAM EDWARD, statesman, born at Bradpole, Dorset, son of a Quaker; entered upon
a commercial career in a worsted manufactory at Bradford, but from the first politics engaged
his paramount attention, and in 1861 he became member of Parliament for Bradford; became in
succession Under-Secretary for the Colonies, Vice-president of the Council of Education, and
a Privy Councillor; his chief legislative measure was the Elementary Education Bill of 1870,
which, as a member of Mr. Gladstone's Cabinet, he carried through Parliament, two years after
which the Ballot Act was introduced by him; in 1874 he visited the United States, and on his
return was elected Lord Rector of Aberdeen University; as Irish Secretary in 1880 he made an
earnest effort to grapple with the Irish problem, but losing the support of his colleagues,
over the imprisonment of Mr. Parnell and other Land League leaders, he resigned; he was married
to Jane, eldest daughter of Dr. Arnold of Rugby; his transparent honesty and rugged independence
of character won him universal esteem (1819-1886).

FORT AUGUSTUS, a small village on the Caledonian Canal, 33 m. SW. of Inverness; the fort, built
in 1716 and enlarged in 1730, was utilised as a barrack during the disturbances in the Highlands,
but after being dismantled and again garrisoned down to 1857, it finally, in 1876, passed into
the hands of the BENEDICTINES (q. v.), who have converted it into an abbey and college.

FORT GEORGE, a fortress on the Moray Firth, 12 m. NE. of Inverness; was built in 1748, and
is now the head-quarters of the Seaforth Highlanders.

FORT WILLIAM, a small police-burgh in Inverness-shire, 66 m. SW. of Inverness, near the southern
end of the Caledonian Canal; the railway station stands on the site of the old fort, which
in 1655 was built by Monk; a meteorological observatory was erected here in 1889.

FORTESCUE, SIR JOHN, an eminent English lawyer, born in Somersetshire; flourished in the 15th
century; was called to the bar at Lincoln's Inn, and in 1442 became Lord Chief-Justice of the
Court of King's Bench; he was a staunch Lancastrian during the Wars of the Roses, and shared
the exile of Queen Margaret and her son Edward, for whom he wrote in dialogue form his famous
"De Laudibus Legum," a treatise still read; the fate of the Lancastrian cause was sealed on
the field of Tewkesbury, and he himself was taken prisoner; he died at the advanced age of 90.

FORTH, a river of Scotland, formed by the junction of Duchray Water and the Avondhu, streams
which rise one on Ben Lomond and the other on Ben Venue, and which, after 14 and 9 m., unite
at Aberfoyle; the river thence flows with many windings, called Links, through some of the
fairest country of the eastern lowlands to Alloa (51½ m.), where begins the Firth, which stretches
51 m. to the German Ocean, and which at Queensferry is spanned by a massive railway bridge
known as the Forth Bridge (1882-1890).

FORTUNA, a Roman divinity, the goddess of luck, and especially good luck, to whom Servius Tullius,
in acknowledgment of her favours to him, erected several temples in Rome; is represented in
art as standing poised on a globe or a wheel, to express her inconstancy.

FORTUNATUS, a character in a popular German legend, who possessed a purse out of which he was
able to provide himself with money as often as he needed it and cap, by putting on of which,
and wishing to be anywhere, he was straightway there; these he got, by his own free election
and choice, conceded to him by the Upper Powers, and they proved a curse to him rather than
a blessing, he finding out when too late that "the god Wish is not the true God."

FORTY THIEVES, a fraternity in the "Arabian Nights" who inhabited a secret den in a forest,
the gate of which would open only to the magic word "Sesamë."

FORUM, a public place in Rome and Roman cities where the courts of justice were held, and popular
assemblies for civic business.

FORWARDS, MARSHAL, MARSHAL BLÜCHER (q. v.).

FOSCARI, a Doge of Venice from 1423 to his death; his reign was distinguished by the glories
of conquest, but his life was embittered by the misfortunes of his sons, and the judicial tortures
inflicted on one of them which he was compelled to witness; he died at the age of 87, broken-hearted
(1370-1457).

FOSCOLO, UGO, an Italian patriot and author, born at Zante; his literary career began in Venice
with the successful performance of his tragedy "Trieste," but on the Austrian occupation of
the town he joined the French army; disappointed in the hope that France would unite with and
free Italy, he returned to literary work in Milan, and in 1809 was called to the chair of Eloquenco
in Pavia; but the conquering Austrians again forced him to become a refugee, first in Switzerland
and finally in England, where he died; he was the author of various essays, poems, etc., and
of a translation of Sterne's "Sentimental Journey" (1778-1827).

FOSTER, BIRKET, a celebrated artist, born at North Shields; his earliest work was done in wood-engraving
under the direction of Landells, and many of his sketches appeared in the Illustrated London
News; following this he executed, in collaboration with John Gilbert, a series of illustrations
for the works of Goldsmith, Cowper, Scott, and other poets, in which he exhibited a rare skill
in rural scenes; subsequent work has been in water-colours, and in 1861 he was elected a member
of the Water-Colour Society (1825-1899).

FOSTER, JOHN, an English essayist, born in Halifax, Yorkshire; was trained for the Baptist
ministry, and for 25 years officiated in various congregations, but met with little success;
from 1817 he devoted himself solely to literature, and became a contributor to the Eclectic
Review, for which he wrote no fewer than 184 articles; his best-known work is an "Essay on
the Evils of Popular Ignorance," in which he advocates a system of national education (1770-1843).

FOTHERINGAY, a village in Northamptonshire, on the Nen, 9 m. SW. of Peterborough; the ruined
castle there was the scene of the execution of Mary, Queen of Scots, in 1587.

FOUCAULT, JOHN BERNARD, a French physicist, born in Paris; distinguished for his studies in
optics and problems connected with light; demonstrated the rate of the rotation of the globe
by the oscillation of a pendulum (1819-1868).

FOUCHÉ, JOSEPH, Duke of Otranto, born at Nantes, a member of the National Convention, and voted
for the death of Louis XVI.; became Minister of Police under Napoleon; falling into disfavour,
was sent into exile, but recalled to Paris in 1814; advised Napoleon to abdicate at that time
and again after Waterloo; served under Louis XVIII. for a time, but was obliged at length to
quit France for good; died at Trieste (1763-1820).

FOULA, a high and rocky islet among the Shetlands, 32 m. W. of Lerwick; its sandstone cliffs
on the NW. are 1220 ft. in height, and rise sheer from the water; it is sparsely peopled; fishing
is the almost sole pursuit.

FOULD, ACHILLE, French statesman, born at Paris; entered political life in 1842; became an
authority in finance, served in that capacity under Louis Napoleon (1800-1865).

FOULIS, ROBERT and ANDREW, celebrated printers; were brought up in Glasgow, where Robert, the
elder, after practising as a barber, took to printing, and in 1743 became printer to the university;
his press was far-famed for the beauty and accuracy of editions of the classics; Andrew was
trained for the ministry, but subsequently joined his brother; an academy, started by the brothers
in 1753 for engraving, moulding, etc., although a complete success artistically, involved them
in expense, and eventually financial ruin; they have been called the "Scottish Elzevirs" (Robert,
1707-1776; Andrew, 1712-1775).

FOULON, a French financier, nicknamed the Ame damnée, Familiar demon, of the parlement of Paris
prior to the Revolution; "once, when it was objected to some financial scheme of his, 'What
will the people do?' made answer, 'The people may eat grass,'" words which the people never
forgot; when attacked by them "he defended himself like a mad lion, but was borne down, trampled,
hanged, and mangled," his head thereafter paraded through the city on a pike and the mouth
stuffed with grass (1715-1789).

FOUNDLING HOSPITALS are institutions for the rearing of children who have been deserted by
their parents, and exist with varying regulations in most civilised countries; the first foundling
hospital was established at Milan in 787, and others arose in Germany, Italy, and France before
the 14th century; the Paris foundling hospital is a noted institution of the kind, and offers
every encouragement for children to be brought in, and admits legitimate orphans and children
pronounced incorrigible criminals by the court; the London foundling hospital was founded by
Captain Thomas Coram, and supports about 500 illegitimates.

FOUQUIER-TINVILLE, a merciless revolutionary, born near Artois; member of the Jacobin Club,
Attorney-General of the Revolutionary Tribunal, purveyor of the guillotine; was guillotined
himself after the fall of Robespierre (1747-1795).

FOURTH ESTATE, the daily press, so called by Edmund Burke, pointing, in the House of Commons,
to the reporters' gallery.

FOURTH OF JULY, the anniversary of the declaration of American Independence in 1776.

FOWLER, SIR JOHN, K.C.M.G., civil engineer, born at Sheffield; was actively engaged in the
construction of numerous railways (notably the London and Brighton), and in dock and bridge
building; carried through important works in Egypt in 1885, and, along with Sir B. Baker, he
designed the Forth Bridge, on the completion of which he received a baronetcy (1817-1889).

FOX, CHARLES JAMES, an eminent Whig statesman, third son of Henry Fox, first Lord Holland,
born in London; was educated at Eton and Oxford, and at the age of 19 sat in Parliament for
Midhurst; under Lord North he held office, but quarrelled with the premier and went over to
the Whigs, then led by Rockingham; here he came under the influence of Burke, and with him
offered uncompromising opposition to the American War; in the Rockingham ministry which followed
he was Foreign Secretary, and subsequently joined North in the short-lived coalition ministry
of 1783; during the next 14 years he was the great opponent of Pitt's Government, and his brilliant
powers of debate were never more effectively displayed than in his speeches against Warren
Hastings and in the debates arising out of the French Revolution, in which he advocated a policy
of non-intervention; his sympathy with the French revolutionaries cost him the friendship of
Burke; during a retirement of five years he wrote his "History of James II."; on Pitt's death
in 1806 he again came into office as Foreign Secretary, but died shortly afterwards when about
to plead in the House of Commons the cause of slave abolition; Fox stands in the front rank
of our parliamentary debaters, and was a man of quick and generous sympathies, but the reckless
dissipation of his private life diminished his popular influence, and probably accounts for
the fact that he never reached the highest office of State (1749-1806).

FOX, GEORGE, the first of the Quakers, born at Drayton, Leicestershire; son of a poor weaver,
and till his twentieth year plied the trade of a shoemaker; conceived, as he drudged at this
task, that he had a call from above to withdraw from the world and give himself up to a higher
ministry; stitched for himself one day a suit of leather, and so encased wandered through the
country, rapt in his thoughts and bearing witness to the truth that God had revealed to him;
about 1646 began his crusade against the religion of mere formality, and calling upon men to
trust to the "inner light" alone; his quaint garb won him the title of "the man with the leather
breeches," and his mode of speech with his "thou's" and "thee's" subjected him to general ridicule;
but despite these eccentricities he by his earnestness gathered disciples about him who believed
what he said and adopted his principles, and in the prosecution of his mission he visited Wales,
Scotland, America, and various parts of Germany, not without results; he had no kindly feeling
towards Cromwell, with whom he had three interviews, and who in his public conduct seemed to
him to pay no regard to the claims of the "inner light" and the disciples of it (1624-1690).
See "SARTOR RESARTUS," BOOK III. CHAP. I.

FOX, WILLIAM JOHNSON, religious and political orator, born near Southwold, Suffolk; was trained
for the Independent ministry, but seceded to the Unitarians, and subsequently established himself
as a preacher of pronounced rationalism at Finsbury; as a supporter of the Anti-Corn-Law movement
he won celebrity as an impassioned orator, and from 1847 to 1863 represented Oldham in Parliament;
he was editor of the Monthly Repository, and a frequent contributor to the Westminster Review,
and published various works on political and religious topics (1786-1864).

FOXE, JOHN, martyrologist, born at Boston, Lincolnshire; in 1545 he resigned his Fellowship
in Magdalen College, Oxford, on account of his espousing the doctrines of the Reformation,
and for some years after he acted as a private tutor in noble families; during Queen Mary's
reign he sought refuge on the Continent, where he formed acquaintance with Knox and other leading
Reformers; he returned to England on the accession of Elizabeth, and was appointed a prebend
in Salisbury cathedral, but his Nonconformist leanings precluded his further preferment; his
most famous work is his "Book of Martyrs," first published in Latin on the Continent, the noble
English version appearing in 1563 (1516-1587).

FOYERS, FALL OF, a fine cascade, having a fall of 165 ft., on the lower portion of the Foyers,
a river of Inverness-shire, which enters Loch Ness on the E. side, 10 in. NE. of Fort Augustus.

FRA DIAVOLO, chief of a band of Italian brigands, born in Calabria; leader in sundry Italian
insurrections; was hanged at Naples for treachery, in spite of remonstrances from England;
gave name to an opera by Auber, but only the name (1760-1806).

FRACAS`TORO, GIROLAMO, a learned physician and poet, born at Verona; became professor of Dialectic
at Padua in his twentieth year; subsequently practised as a physician, but eventually gave
himself up to literature (1483-1553).

FRAGONARD, JEAN HONORÉ, a French artist, born at Grasse; gained the "prix de Rome" in 1752,
and afterwards studied in Rome; was a member of the French Academy, and during the Revolution
became keeper of the Musée; many of his paintings are in the Louvre, and are characterised
by their free and luscious colouring (1732-1806).

FRANC, a silver coin 835/1000 fine, the monetary unity of France since 1799, weighs 5 grammes
and equals about 9½ d. in English currency (£1 = 25.3 francs); has been adopted by Belgium
and Switzerland, while under other names a similar coin is in use in Spain (peseta), Italy
(lira), and Greece (drachma).

FRANCE (38,343), the land of the French; a nation standing in the front rank among the powers
of Europe. It occupies a geographical position of peculiar advantage in the western portion
of it, having a southern foreshore on the Mediterranean and a western and northern seaboard
washed by the Atlantic and the English Channel, possessing altogether a coast-line, rather
undeveloped however, of upwards of 2000 m., while to the E. it abuts upon Belgium, Germany,
Switzerland, and Italy. It is divided into 87 departments, including Corsica. It is mainly
composed of lowland and plateau, but has the Cévennes in the S., while the Pyrenees and Alps
(with the Vosges and Ardennes farther N.) lie on its southern and eastern boundaries. Rivers
abound and form, with the splendid railway, canal, and telegraph systems, an unrivalled means
of internal communication; but there are singularly few lakes. It enjoys on the whole a fine
climate, which favours the vineyards in the centre (the finest in the world), the olive groves
in the S., and the wheat and beetroot region in the N. The mineral wealth is inconsiderable,
and what of coal and iron there is lies widely apart. Her manufactures, which include silk,
wine, and woollen goods, are of the best, and in fine artistic work she is without an equal.
The colonies are together larger in area than the mother-country, and include Algeria, Madagascar,
and Cochin China. The French are a people of keen intelligence, of bright, impulsive, and vivacious
nature; urbane, cultured, and pleasure-loving in the cities, thrifty and industrious in the
country; few races have given so rich a bequest to the literature and art of the world. Roman
Catholicism is the dominant form of religion, but Protestantism and the Jewish religion are
also State supported, as also Mohammedanism in Algiers. Free compulsory education is in vogue.
The Government is a Republic, and there are two chambers--a Senate and a Chamber of Deputies.
Originally occupied by Celts, the country, then called Gallia, was conquered by the Romans
between 58 and 51 B.C., who occupied it till the 4th century, when it was overrun by the Teutons,
including the Franks, who became dominant; and about 870 the country, under Charles the Bald,
became known as France. The unsettling effects of the great cataclysm of 1789 have been apparent
in the series of political changes which have swept across the country this century; within
that time it has been thrice a monarchy, thrice an empire, and thrice a republic.

FRANCESCA, PISTRO DELLA, an Italian painter, sometimes called Piero Borghese after his native
place; did fresco-work in Florence and at Loretto; painted pictures for the Duke of Rimini,
notably "The Flagellation"; was a friend of Raphael's father; some of his pictures are in the
London National Gallery (1420-1492).

FRANCESCA DA RIMINI, a beautiful Italian lady of the 13th century, whose pathetic love story
finds a place in Dante's "Inferno"; she was betrothed by her father, the Lord of Ravenna, to
Giovanni of Rimini, but her affections were engaged by Paolo, his brother; the lovers were
found together by Giovanni and murdered by him.

FRANCESCO DI PAULA or ST. FRANCIS OF PAOLA, founder of the order of the Minims, born at Paula,
in Calabria; was trained in a Franciscan convent, but at the age of 19 took up his abode in
a cave, where the severe purity and piety of his life attracted to him many disciples; subsequently
he founded an ascetic brotherhood, first called the Hermits of St. Francis of Assisi, but afterwards
changed to Minim-Hermits of St. Francis of Paola; he eventually lived in France, where convents
were built for him and his brotherhood under royal patronage (1416-1507).

FRANCHE-COMTÉ, an ancient province in the E. of France, added to the crown of France in the
reign of Louis XIV. at the peace of Nimeguen in 1671.

FRANCIA, DR. JOSÉ GASPAR RODRIGUEZ DA, dictator of Paraguay, born near Asunçion, in Paraguay;
graduated as a doctor of theology, but subsequently took to law, in the practice of which profession
he was engaged for 30 years, and won a high reputation for ability and undeviating honesty;
in the revolutionary uprising which spread throughout Spanish South America, Paraguay played
a conspicuous part, and when in 1811 she declared her independence, Francia was elected secretary
of the first national junta, and two years later one of two consuls; eventually, in 1814, he
became dictator, a position he held till his death; he ruled the country with a strong hand
and with scrupulous, if somewhat rough, justice, making it part of his policy to allow no intercourse,
political or commercial, with other countries; the country flourished under his rule, but fell
into disorder after his death; he is the subject of a well-known essay by Carlyle, who finds
him a man very much after his own heart (1757-1840).

FRANCIS, ST., OF ASSISI, founder of the Franciscan order, born at Assisi, in Umbria; began
life as a soldier, but during a serious illness his thoughts were turned from earth to heaven,
and he devoted himself to a life of poverty and self-denial, with the result that his enthusiasm
provoked emulation, and some of his neighbours associated with him and formed a brotherhood,
which gave rise to the order; St. Dominic and he were contemporaries, "the former teaching
Christian men how to behave, and the latter what they should think"; each sent a little company
of disciples to teach and preach in Florence, where their influence soon made itself felt,
St. Francis in 1212 and St. Dominic in 1220.

FRANCIS, ST., OF SALES, bishop of Geneva, born In the château of Sales, near Amiens, founder
of the Order of the Visitation; was sent to persuade the Calvinists of Geneva back to the Church
of Rome, and applied himself zealously to the reform of his diocese and the monasteries (1567-1622).

FRANCIS JOSEPH, emperor of Austria and king of Hungary; succeeded to the throne in 1848 on
the abdication of his uncle, Ferdinand I.; the Hungarian difficulty has been the chief problem
of his reign, with which he at first dealt in a spirit of harsh oppression, but since 1866
a milder policy has been adopted, and the desire for national autonomy was met by the creation
of a dual monarchy in 1867, Francis being crowned king of Hungary; other important events have
been the cession of Lombardy to Sardinia in 1859 and of Venetia in 1866, after an unsuccessful
war with Prussia; b. 1830.

FRANCISCANS, or MINORITES, an order of monks founded by St. Francis of Assisi in 1208; according
to Ruskin, they were the order that preached with St James the gospel of Works as distinct
from the Dominicans, who preached with St. Paul the gospel of Faith, and their gospel required
three things: "to work without money and be poor, to work without pleasure and be chaste, and
to work according to orders and be obedient"; these were the rules they were sworn to obey
at first, but they gradually forsook the austerity they enjoined, acquired great wealth, instituted
a highly sensuous ceremonial, and became invested with privileges which excited the jealousy
of the regular clergy; with the order were associated a number of men eminent in the Church,
and many no less so in philosophy, literature, and art.

FRANCK, SEBASTIAN, early German writer, born at Donauwörth; from a Catholic priest became a
Protestant, but fell into disfavour for promulgating the doctrine that regeneration of life
is of more importance than reform of dogma, and in 1531 was banished from Strasburg; subsequently
he became a soap-boiler and eventually a printer; his most noted work is his "Chronica," a
rough attempt--the first in Germany--at a general history (1499-1542).

FRANCKE, AUGUST HERMANN, a German religious philanthropist, born at Lübeck; was professor of
Oriental Languages and subsequently of Theology at Halle; he founded various educational institutions
and a large orphanage, all of which still exist and afford education for some 3000 children
annually; he was active in promoting PIETISM, q. v. (1663-1727).

FRANCONIA, the name formerly applied to a loosely defined district in Central Germany, which,
as the home of the Franks, was regarded as the heart of the Holy Roman Empire; the emperors
long continued to be crowned within its boundaries; subsequently it was divided into two duchies,
East Franconia and Rhenish Franconia; the latter was abolished in 1501 and the former much
diminished; from 1806 to 1837 the name had no official existence, but in 1837 the names Upper,
Middle, and Lower Franconia were given to the three northern divisions of Bavaria.

FRANC-TIREURS (i. e. free-shooters), French volunteers, chiefly peasants, who carried on a
guerilla warfare against the Germans in the Franco-German War; were at first denied the status
of regular soldiers by the Germans and mercilessly shot when captured, but subsequently, having
joined in the movements of the regular army, they were when captured treated as prisoners of war.

FRANKENSTEIN, a monster of romance created without a soul, yet not without craving for human
sympathy, who found existence on these terms a curse, as a man with high cravings might find
science to be without God.

FRANKFORT-ON-THE-MAIN (180), one of the old free cities of Germany, a centre of importance
under the Kaisers and the seat of the Diet of the Germanic Confederation, and one of the great
banking cities of the world; it is the birthplace of the poet Goethe, and is associated with
his early history.

FRANKFORT-ON-THE-ODER (56), a town of Prussia, in the province of Brandenburg, 51 m. SE. of
Berlin, is a well-built town; has a university incorporated with Breslau in 1811, and is actively
engaged in the manufacture of machinery, chemicals, paper, &c.

FRANKLAND, SIR EDWARD, an eminent chemist, born at Churchtown, Lancashire; has held successively
the chairs of Chemistry in Owens College, in Bartholomew's Hospital, in the Royal Institution,
in the Royal College of Chemistry, and in the Normal School of Science, South Kensington, the
latter of which he resigned in 1885; has published various works, and was engaged with Lockyer
in researches on the atmosphere of the sun; b. 1825.

FRANKLIN, BENJAMIN, born in Boston, was the youngest son of a tallow-chandler and one of a
family of 17; received a meagre education, and at the age of 12 became apprenticed to his brother,
a printer and proprietor of a small newspaper, to whose columns he began to contribute; but
subsequently quarrelling with him made his way almost penniless to Philadelphia, where he worked
as a printer; in 1724 he came to England under promises of assistance, which were not fulfilled,
and for 18 months laboured at his printing trade in London, when he returned to Philadelphia,
and there, by steady industry, won a secure position as a printer and proprietor of the Pennsylvania
Gazette; in 1732 began to appear his Poor Richard's Almanac, which, with its famous maxims
of prudential philosophy, had a phenomenal success; four years later he entered upon a public
career, rising through various offices to the position of Deputy Postmaster-General for the
Colonies, and sitting in the Assembly; carried through important political missions to England
in 1757 and 1764, and was prominent in the deliberations which ended in the declaration of
American independence in 1776; he visited France and helped to bring about the French alliance,
and made an unavailing effort to bring in Canada, and, as American minister, signed the Treaty
of Independence in 1783; was subsequently minister to France, and was twice unanimously elected
President of Pennsylvania; his name is also associated with discoveries in natural science,
notably the discovery of the identity of electricity and lightning, which he achieved by means
of a kite; received degrees from Oxford and Edinburgh Universities, and was elected an F.R.S.;
in 1730 he married Deborah Reid, by whom he had two children (1706-1790).

FRANKLIN, SIR JOHN, a famous Arctic explorer, born at Spilsby, Lincolnshire; entered the navy
in 1800; was a midshipman; was present at the battle of Copenhagen; shortly afterwards accompanied
an expedition, under Captain Minders, to explore and survey the coasts of Australia; was wrecked,
and returned home on board the Camden as a signal-midshipman; he subsequently distinguished
himself at the battle of Trafalgar, and took part in the attack on New Orleans; in 1818 he
was second in command of an expedition sent out under Captain Buchan to discover a North-West
Passage, which, although unsuccessful, contributed to reveal Franklin's admirable qualities
as a leader, and in 1819 he was chosen to head another Arctic expedition, which, after exploring
the Saskatchewan and Copper-Mine Rivers and adjacent territory, returned in 1822; Franklin
was created a post-captain, and for services in a further expedition in search of a North-West
Passage was, in 1829, knighted; after further services he was in 1845 put in command of an
expedition, consisting of the Erebus and Terror, for the discovery of the North-West Passage;
the expedition never returned, and for many years a painful interest was manifested in the
various expeditions (17 in all) which were sent out to search for the lost party; many relics
of this unfortunate explorer were found, demonstrating the discovery of the North-West Passage;
but the story of his fate has never been precisely ascertained (1786-1847).

FRANKS, the name given in the 3rd century to a confederation of Germanic tribes, who subsequently
grouped themselves into two main bodies called the Salians and the Ripuarians, the former dwelling
on the Upper Rhine, and the latter on the Middle Rhine. Under their king, Clovis, the Salians
overran Central Gaul, subjugating the Ripuarians, and extending their territory from the Scheldt
to the Loire, whence in course of time there generally developed the kingdom of France. The
Franks were of a tall and martial bearing, and thoroughly democratic in their political instincts.

FRANZ, ROBERT, musical composer, born at Halle; his first songs appeared in 1843, and were
cordially appreciated by Mendelssohn and other masters; in 1868 ill-health forced him to resign
his musical appointments in Halle, but by the efforts of Liszt, Joachim, and others, funds
were raised by means of concerts to ensure him a competence for life; he published upwards
of 250 songs (1815-1892).

FRANZENSBAD or FRANZENSBRUNN (2), a watering-place on the NW. frontier of Bohemia, 3 m. NW.
of Eger; is 1460 ft. above sea-level, amidst a mountainous country; is much frequented by invalids
for its mineral springs.

FRANZ-JOSEF LAND, an archipelago in the Arctic Ocean, N. of Nova Zembla; was discovered and
partly explored in 1873-74 by Payer and Weyprecht; consists of two main divisions, Wilczek
Land to the E., and Zichy Land to the W., between which runs Austria Sound. Arctic animals
are found in good numbers. It is considered an excellent base for expeditions in quest of the
North Pole.

FRASER, ALEXANDER CAMPBELL, philosopher, born at Ardchattan, Argyllshire; after a university
training at Edinburgh and Glasgow he entered the Free Church; was for a brief term Free Church
minister of Cramond, from which he was transferred to a chair in the Free Church College, but
in 1856 succeeded Sir William Hamilton as professor of Logic and Metaphysics at Edinburgh,
a position he held till 1891, when he resigned; his writings include the standard edition of
Berkeley, with notes and a life, monographs on Locke and Berkeley in the series of "Philosophical
Classics," and two vols. on the "Philosophy of Theism," being the Gifford Lectures delivered
1895-96; b. 1819.

FRASER, JAMES, bishop of Manchester, born near Cheltenham, became a Fellow of Oriel after graduating
with highest honours, and in 1847 was appointed to a college living; he issued in 1862-1864
valuable reports on education in Canada and the United States after visiting these countries;
and in 1870 was appointed bishop by Mr. Gladstone; his strong sense and wide sympathy and interest
in the labour questions won him universal respect (1818-1885).

FRASER RIVER, the chief river of British Columbia, is formed by the junction near Fort George
of two streams, one rising in the Rockies, the other flowing out of the Lakes Stuart and Fraser;
it discharges into the Georgian Gulf, 800 m. below Fort George. Rich deposits of gold are found
in the lower basin, and an active industry in salmon-catching and canning is carried on.

FRATICELLI (i. e. Little Brethren), a religious sect which arose in Italy in the 13th century,
and continued to exist until the close of the 15th. They were an offshoot from the FRANCISCANS
(q. v.), who sought in their lives to enforce more rigidly the laws of St. Francis, and declined
to accept the pontifical explanations of monastic rules; ultimately they broke away from the
authority of the Church, and despite the efforts of various popes to reconcile them, and the
bitter persecutions of others, maintained a separate organisation, going the length of appointing
their own cardinals and pope, having declared the Church in a state of apostasy. Their régime
of life was of the severest nature; they begged from door to door their daily food, and went
clothed in rags.

FRAUNHOFER, JOSEPH VON, German optician, born in Straubing, Bavaria; after serving an apprenticeship
as a glass-cutter in Münich, he rose to be manager of an optical institute there, and eventually
attained to the position of professor in the Academy of Sciences; his name is associated with
many discoveries in optical science as well as inventions and improvements in the optician's
art; but he is chiefly remembered for his discovery of the dark lines in the solar spectrum,
since called after him the Fraunhofer lines (1787-1826).

FREDEGONDA, wife of Chilpéric I. of Neustria; a woman of low birth, but of great beauty and
insatiable ambition, who scrupled at no crime to attain her end; made away with Galswintha,
Chilpéric's second wife, and superseded her on the throne; slew Siegbert, who had been sent
to avenge Galswintha's death, and imprisoned Brunhilda, her sister, of Austrasia, and finally
assassinated her husband and governed Neustria in the name of her son, Clotaire II. (543-597).

FREDERICK I., surnamed Barbarossa (Red-beard), of the house of Swabia, emperor of the HOLY
ROMAN EMPIRE (q. v.) from 1152 till 1190; "a magnificent, magnanimous man, the greatest of
all the Kaisers"; his reign is the most brilliant in the annals of the empire, and he himself
among the most honoured of German heroes; his vast empire he ruled with iron rigour, quelling
its rival factions and extending his sovereign rights to Poland, Hungary, Denmark, and Burgundy;
the great struggle of his reign, however, was with Pope Alexander III. and the Lombard cities,
whose right to independence he acknowledged by the treaty of Constanz (1183); he "died some
unknown sudden death" at 70 in the crusade against Saladin and the Moslem power; his lifelong
ambition was to secure the independence of the empire, and to subdue the States of Italy to
the imperial sway (1123-1190).

FREDERICK II., called the Wonder of the World, grandson of the preceding; he was crowned emperor
in 1215, at Aix-la-Chapelle, having driven Otto IV. from the throne; he gave much attention
to the consolidating of his Italian possessions, encouraged learning and art, founded the university
of Naples, and had the laws carefully codified; in these attempts at harmonising the various
elements of his empire he was opposed by the Papal power and the Lombards; in 1228 he gained
possession of Jerusalem, of which he crowned himself king; his later years were spent in struggles
with the Papal and Lombard powers, and darkened by the treachery of his son Henry and of an
intimate friend; he was a man of outstanding intellectual force and learning, but lacked the
moral greatness of his grandfather (1194-1250).

FREDERICK III., emperor of Germany, born at Potsdam; bred for the army; rose to command; did
signal service at Königgratz in 1860, and again in 1870 in the Franco-German War; married the
Princess Royal of England; succeeded his father, but fell a victim to a serious throat malady
after a reign of only 101 days, June 18 (1831-1888).

FREDERICK V., Electoral Prince Palatine; succeeded to the Palatinate in 1610, and three years
later married Elizabeth, daughter of James I. of England; an attempt to head the Protestant
union of Germany and his usurpation of the crown of Bohemia brought about his ruin and expulsion
from the Palatinate in 1620 by the Spaniards and Bavarians; he took refuge in Holland, but
two years later his principality was given to Bavaria by the emperor (1596-1632).

FREDERICK III., of Denmark, succeeded to the throne in 1648; during his reign the arrogance
and oppression of the nobles drove the commons, headed by the clergy, to seek redress of the
king by proclaiming the constitution a hereditary and absolute monarchy (1609-1670).

FREDERICK V., of Denmark, ascended the throne in 1746; during his reign Denmark made great
progress, manufactures were established, commerce extended, while science and the fine arts
were liberally patronised (1723-1766).

FREDERICK VI., of Denmark, became regent in 1784 during the insanity of his father, who died
in 1808; his reign is noted for the abolishment of feudal serfdom and the prohibition of the
slave-trade in Danish colonies, and the granting of a liberal constitution in 1831; while his
participation in the maritime confederation between Russia, Sweden, and Prussia led to the
destruction of the Danish fleet off Copenhagen in 1800 by the British, and his sympathy and
alliance with Napoleon brought about the bombardment of Copenhagen in 1807, and the cession
of Norway to Sweden in 1814 (1768-1839).

FREDERICK I., first king of Prussia, third elector of Brandenburg, and son of the Great Elector
Frederick-William, whom as elector he succeeded in 1688; he extended his territory by purchase;
supported William of Orange in his English expedition, and lent assistance to the Grand Alliance
against France, for which he received the title of king of Prussia, being crowned such in Königsberg
in 1701; he was "an expensive Herr, and much given to magnificent ceremonies, etiquettes, and
solemnities" (1657-1713).

FREDERICK II., king of Prussia from 1740 to 1786, surnamed "The Great," grandson of the preceding,
and nephew of George I. of England, born at Berlin; the irksome restraints of his early military
education induced him to make an attempt, which failed, to escape to England, an episode which
incensed his father, and nearly brought him to the scaffold; after his marriage in 1733 he
resided at Rheinsburg, indulging his taste for music and French literature, and corresponding
with Voltaire; he came to the throne with the ambition of extending and consolidating his power;
from Austria, after two wars (1740-1744), he wrested Silesia, and again in the Seven Years'
War (1756-1763), and in 1778 by force of arms acquired the duchy of Franconia; as administrator
he was eminently efficient, the country flourished under his just, if severe, rule; his many
wars imposed no debt on the nation; national industries were fostered, and religious toleration
encouraged; he was not so successful in his literary attempts as his military, and all he wrote
was in French, the spirit of it as well as the letter; he is accounted the creator of the Prussian
monarchy "the first," says Carlyle, "who, in a highly public manner, announced its creation;
announced to all men that it was, in very deed, created; standing on its own feet there, and
would go a great way on the impulse it got from him and others" (1712-1786).

FREDERICK CHARLES, PRINCE, nephew of William I. of Germany; bred for the army; distinguished
himself in the wars against Denmark and Austria, and in the Franco-German War (1828-1885).

FREDERICK-WILLIAM I., king of Prussia, born at Berlin, ascended the throne in 1713; in 1720,
at the peace of Stockholm, he received part of Pomerania with Stettin for espousing the cause
of Denmark in her war with Russia and Poland against Sweden; the rest of his reign was passed
in improving the internal conditions of his country and her military resources; in praise of
him as a sternly genuine man and king, Carlyle has much to say in the early volumes of his
"Frederick"; "No Baresark of them" ("the primeval sons of Thor"), among whom he ranks him,
"no Baresark of them, not Odin's self, I think, was a bit of truer human stuff; his value to
me in these times, rare and great" (1688-1740).

FREDERICK-WILLIAM II., king of Prussia, nephew of FREDERICK THE GREAT (q. v.); succeeded to
the throne in 1786, but soon lost favour by indolence and favouritism; in 1788 the freedom
of the press was withdrawn, and religious freedom curtailed; he involved himself in a weak
and vacillating foreign policy, wasting the funds accumulated by his uncle in a useless war
with Holland; at the partition of Poland in 1793 and 1795 various districts were added to the
kingdom (1744-1797).

FREDERICK-WILLIAM III., king of Prussia from 1797 till 1840; incited by the queen and the commons
he abandoned his position of neutrality towards Napoleon and declared war in 1806; defeat followed
at Jena and in other battles, and by the treaty of Tilsit (1807) Prussia was deprived of half
her possessions; under the able administration of Stein the country began to recover itself,
and a war for freedom succeeded in breaking the power of France at the victory of Leipzig (1813),
and at the treaty of Vienna (1815) her lost territory was restored; his remaining years were
spent in consolidating and developing his dominions, but his policy was sometimes reactionary
in its effects (1770-1840).

FREDERICK-WILLIAM IV., king of Prussia from 1840 till 1861; his reign is marked by the persistent
demands of the people for a constitutional form of government, which was finally granted in
1850; a year previous he had declined the imperial crown offered by the Frankfort Diet; in
1857 he became insane, and his brother was appointed regent (1795-1861).

FREDERIKSHALD, a fortified seaport of Norway, 65 m. SE. of Christiania; was burnt in 1826,
but handsomely restored in modern style; timber is the main trade; in the immediate neighbourhood
is the impregnable fortress of Frederiksteen, associated with the death of Charles XII. of
Sweden, who fell fighting in the trenches before its walls in 1718.

FREE CHURCH OF SCOTLAND, an ecclesiastical body formed by those who left the Established Church
in 1843 on the ground that they were not free in their connection with the State to enforce
certain obligations which they considered lay on them as a Church of Christ, to whom, and not
to the State, they held themselves as a Church subject.

FREE CITIES OF GERMANY, were cities which enjoyed sovereign rights within their own walls,
independent representation in the Diet, and owned allegiance solely to the emperor. Their internal
government was sometimes democratic, sometimes the opposite. Their peculiar privileges were
obtained either by force of arms, by purchase, or by gift of the emperors, who found in them
a convenient means of checking the power of their feudal lords. Most of them lost their privileges
in 1803, and since 1866 only Lübeck, Bremen, and Hamburg remain in the category of free cities.

FREE PORT, name given to a port at which ships of all nations may discharge or load cargo without
payment of customs or other duties, save harbour dues. They were created in various Continental
countries during the Middle Ages for the purpose of stimulating trade, but Copenhagen and,
in a restricted sense, Hamburg and Bremen are now the only free ports in Europe. The system
of bonded warehousing has superseded them.

FREE SOILERS, a political party which arose in the United States in 1848 to oppose slave-extension.
In 1856 their principles were adopted, and the party absorbed in the newly-formed Republican party.

FREE TRADE, the name given to the commercial policy of England, first elaborately set forth
with cogent reasoning by Adam Smith in his "Wealth of Nations," and of which the repeal of
the Corn Laws in 1846 was the first step towards its adoption. Strictly used, the term is applicable
only to international or foreign trade, and signifies a policy of strict non-intervention in
the free competition of foreign goods with home goods in the home markets. Differential duties,
artificial encouragements (e. g. bounties, drawbacks), to the home producer, all of which are
characteristic of a protective system of trading, are withheld, the belief being entertained
by free-traders that the industrial interests of a country are best served by permitting the
capital to flow into those channels of trade into which the character and resources of the
country naturally dispose it to do, and also by bringing the consumer as near as possible to
the cheapest producer. But it is not considered a violation of the Free Trade principles to
impose a duty for revenue purposes on such imported articles as have no home competitor, e. g. tea.

FREEMAN, EDWARD AUGUSTUS, historian, born at Mitchley Abbey, Staffordshire; was a Fellow of
Trinity College, Oxford; examiner in the School of Law and Modern History; in 1884 he was elected
Regius Professor of Modern History at Oxford; most of his life was spent in country retirement
at Somerleaze, varied by Continental travel; he is the author of many scholarly works ranging
over the whole field of history, his fame, however, mainly resting on his great "History of
the Norman Conquest" (1823-1892).

FREEMASONRY, in modern times is the name given to a world-wide institution of the nature of
a friendly benevolent society, having for its objects the promotion of social intercourse amongst
its members, and, in its own language, "the practice of moral and social virtue," the exercise
of charity being particularly commended. By a peculiar grip of the hand and certain passwords
members are enabled to recognise each other, and the existence of masonic lodges in all countries
enables the freemason to find friendly intercourse and assistance wherever he goes. Its origin
is found in the masonic brotherhoods of the Middle Ages, and some of the names, forms, and
symbols of these old craft guilds are still preserved. In an age when great cathedrals and
monasteries were rapidly springing up masons were in great demand, and had to travel from place
to place, hence signs were adopted by which true masons might be known amongst each other and
assisted. The idea of utilising this secret method of recognition for general, social, and
charitable purposes, without reference to the mason's craft, seems to have originated in the
Edinburgh Lodge, where, in 1600, speculative or theoretical masons were admitted. In its present
form of organisation it dates back to 1813, when the "United Grand Lodge of Ancient Free and
Accepted Masons of England" was formed, and of which, since 1874, the Prince of Wales has been
Grand-Master, and which has nearly 2000 local lodges under its protection.

FREEPORT, SIR ANDREW, a London merchant; a member of the imaginary club under whose auspices
the Spectator was issued.

FREIBERG (29), in the centre of the Saxon mining district, 20 m. SW. of Dresden; is an old
town, which arose upon the discovery of its silver mines in 1163. It has a fine old cathedral,
and a famous school of mines; and the manufactures comprise gold and silver work, wire, chemicals,
etc.

FREIBURG, 1, a Swiss canton (119) between Bern and Vaud, and having three esclaves in the latter;
the population consists chiefly of French Catholics; is hilly; dairy-farming, watchmaking,
and straw-plaiting are the chief industries. 2, Capital (12) of the canton, is situated on
the Saane, 19 m. SW. of Bern; the river is spanned by a suspension bridge, and there is an
old Gothic cathedral with one of the finest-toned organs in Europe.

FREIBURG (49), in Breisgau, an important town in Baden, at the W. side of the Black Forest,
and 32 m. NE. of Basel; has a Gothic cathedral famous for its architectural beauty, a university
with 87 professors and teachers and 884 students; has important manufactures in silk, cotton,
thread, paper, etc.; is the seat of a Catholic archbishop, and is associated with many stirring
events in German history.

FREILIGRATH, FERDINAND, a popular German poet, born at Detmold; was engaged in commerce in
his early years, but the success of a small collection of poems in 1838 induced him to adopt
a literary career; subsequently his democratic principles, expressed in stirring verse, involved
him in trouble, and in 1846 he became a refugee in London; he was permitted to return in 1848,
and shortly afterwards was the successful defendant in a celebrated trial for the publication
of his poem "The Dead to the Living," after which fresh prosecution drove him to London in
1851, where, till his return in 1868, he engaged in poetical work, translating Burns, Shakespeare,
and other English poets (1810-1876).

FREISCHÜTZ (i. e. Freeshooter), a legendary hunter who made a compact with the devil whereby
of seven balls six should infallibly hit the mark, and the seventh be under the direction of
the devil, a legend which was rife among the troopers in the 13th and 14th centuries, and has
given name to one of Weber's operas.

FRÉMONT, JOHN CHARLES, an American explorer, born at Savannah, Georgia; at first a teacher
of mathematics in the navy, subsequently took to civil-engineering and surveying; in 1843 explored
the South Pass of the Rockies, and proved the practicability of an overland route; explored
the Great Salt Lake, the watershed between the Mississippi and Pacific, and the upper reaches
of the Rio Grande; he rendered valuable services in the Mexican War, but was deprived of his
captaincy for disobedience; after unsuccessfully standing for the Presidency in the anti-slavery
interest, he again served in the army as major-general; a scheme for a southern railway to
the Pacific brought him into trouble with the French government in 1873, when he was tried
and condemned for fraud, unjustly it would seem; from 1878 to 1882 he was governor of Arizona;
he was the recipient of distinctions from various geographical societies (1813-1890).

FRENCH PHILOSOPHISM, an analysis of things conducted on the presumption that scientific knowledge
is the key to unlock the mystery and resolve the riddle of the universe.

FRENCH REVOLUTION, according to Carlyle "the open violent revolt, and victory, of disimprisoned
Anarchy against corrupt, worn-out Authority, the crowning Phenomenon of our Modern Time," but
for which, he once protested to Mr. Froude, he would not have known what to make of this world
at all; it was a sign to him that the God of judgment still sat sovereign at the heart of it.

FRERE, SIR HENRY BARTLE EDWARD, a distinguished diplomatist and colonial governor, born near
Abergavenny; entering the East India Company in 1834, he rendered important services as administrator
in Mahratta and as Resident in Sattara in 1847; as the chief-commissioner in Sind he did much
to open up the country by means of canals, roads, etc.; during the Mutiny, which arrested these
works of improvement, he distinguished himself by the prompt manner in which he suppressed
the rising in his own province; from 1862 to 1867 he was governor of Bombay; in 1867 was knighted,
and five years later carried through important diplomatic work in Zanzibar, signing the treaty
abolishing the slave-trade; his last appointment was as governor of the Cape and High-Commissioner
for the settlement of South African affairs; the Kaffir and Zulu Wars involved him in trouble,
and in 1880 he was recalled, having effected little (1815-1884).

FRERE, JOHN HOOKHAM, English politician and author, born in London, uncle of the preceding;
he was a staunch supporter of Pitt, and in 1799 became Under-Secretary for Foreign Affairs;
a year later he was envoy to Lisbon, and subsequently minister to Spain; in 1821 he retired
to Malta, where he devoted himself to scholarly pursuits, twice declining a peerage; in his
early days he was a contributor to the Anti-Jacobin, and shares with his school-fellow Canning
the authorship of the "Needy Knife-Grinder"; but he is best known by his fine translations
of some of Aristophanes' plays (1769-1841).

FRESCO, the art of painting on walls freshly laid with plaster, or which have been damped so
as to permit of the colour sinking into the lime; there were two methods, the fresco secco
and the fresco buon; in the first the wall was sprinkled with water, and the colours were then
worked into the damp surface; in the second process, in which finer and more permanent effects
were obtained, the artist worked upon the fresh plaster of the wall (which is laid for him
as he proceeds), pouncing or tracing his designs with a stylus; only colours which are natural
earths can be employed, as they require to be mixed with lime ere being applied, and are subject
to the destroying effect of that substance; as a method of mural decoration it was known to
the ancients, and some of the finest specimens are to be seen in the Italian cathedrals of
the 14th and 15th centuries; the art is still in vogue, but can only be practised successfully
in a dry climate.

FRESNEL, AUGUSTIN JEAN, French physicist, born at Broglie, Eure; as an engineer he rose to
be head of the Department of Public Works at Paris; in 1825 he was elected an F.R.S. of London;
he made discoveries in optical science which helped to confirm the undulatory theory of light,
also invented a compound lighthouse lens (1783-1827).

FRESNO (11), a town in California, on the Southern Pacific Railway, 207 m. SE. of San Francisco;
the surrounding district, extensively irrigated, produces abundance of fruit, and raisins and
wine are largely exported.

FREUND, WILHELM, German philologist, born at Kempen, in Posen; studied education at Berlin
and Breslau, and was chiefly occupied in teaching till 1870, when he retired in order to devote
himself to his literary pursuits; besides classical school-books and some works on philology,
he compiled an elaborate Latin dictionary in 4 vols., which has been the basis of the standard
English-Latin dictionaries since; b. 1806.

FREYR, figures in the Scandinavian mythology as the god who rules the rain and sunshine, and
whose gifts were peace, wealth, and abundant harvests; the wooing of Gerda, daughter of the
giant Gymer, by Freyr is one of the most beautiful stories in the northern mythology; his festival
was celebrated at Christmas, and his first temple was built at Upsala by the Swedes, who especially
honoured him.

FREYTAG, GUSTAV, an eminent German novelist and dramatist, born at Kreuzburg, Silesia; from
1839 was teacher of German language and literature at Breslau, and became editor of a journal,
a position he held till 1870; was a member of the North German Diet, and accompanied the Crown
Prince during the war of 1870-71; from 1879 resided at Wiesbaden; his many novels and plays
and poems, which reveal a powerful and realistic genius, place him in the front rank of modern
German littérateurs; several of his novels have been translated into English, amongst which
his masterpiece, "Soll und Haben" (Debit and Credit) (1816-1895).

FRIAR (i. e. brother), a name applied generally to members of religious brotherhoods, but which
in its strict significance indicated an order lower than that of priest, the latter being called
"father," while they differed from monks in that they travelled about, whereas the monk remained
secluded in his monastery; in the 13th century arose the Grey Friars or Franciscans, the Black
Friars or Dominicans, the White Friars or Carmelites, Augustinians or Austin Friars, and later
the Crutched Friars or Trinitarians.

FRIAR JOHN, a friar of Seville, in Rabelais' "Pantagruel," notorious for his irreverence in
the discharge of his religious duties and for his lewd, lusty ways.

FRIAR TUCK, Robin Hood's chaplain and steward, introduced by Scott into "Ivanhoe" as a kind
of clerical Falstaff.

FRIDAY, the young savage, the attendant of Robinson Crusoe, so called as discovered on a Friday.

FRIDAY, the sixth day of the week, so called as consecrated to Freyia or Frigga, the wife of
Odin; is proverbially a day of ill luck; held sacred among Catholics as the day of the crucifixion,
and the Mohammedan Sunday in commemoration as the day on which, as they believe, Adam was created.

FRIEDLAND, VALENTIN, an eminent scholar and educationist, born in Upper Lusatia; friend of
Luther and Melanchthon; his fame as a teacher attracted to Goldberg, in Silesia, where he taught,
pupils from far and near; the secret of his success lay in his inculcating on his pupils respect
for their own honour; had a great faith in the intelligence that evinced itself in clear expression
(1490-1556).

FRIEND OF MAN, Marquis de Mirabeau, so called from the title of one of his works, "L'Ami des
Hommes."

FRIENDLY ISLANDS, islands of the S. Pacific, some 180 in number, mostly of coral or volcanic
origin, and of which 30 are inhabited; the natives rank high among the South Sea islanders
for intelligence. See TONGA ISLANDS.

FRIENDLY SOCIETIES, associations of individuals for the purpose of mutual benefit in sickness
and distress, and of old and wide-spread institution and under various names and forms.

FRIENDS, SOCIETY OF, a community of Christians popularly known as Quakers, founded in 1648
by GEORGE FOX (q. v.), distinguished for their plainness of speech and manners, and differing
from other sects chiefly in the exclusive deference they pay to the "inner light," and their
rejection of both clergy and sacrament as media of grace; they refuse to take oath, are averse
to war, and have always been opposed to slavery.

FRIENDS OF THE PEOPLE, an association formed as far back as 1792 to secure by constitutional
means parliamentary reform.

FRIES, ELIAS, Swedish cryptogamic botanist, professor at Upsala; wrote on fungi and lichens
(1794-1878).

FRIES, JAKOB FRIEDRICH, a German Kantian philosopher; was professor at Jena; aimed at reconciling
the Kantian philosophy with Faith, or the intuitions of the Pure Reason (1773-1843).

FRIESLAND, the most northerly province of Holland, with a rich soil; divided into East and
West Friesland; low-lying and pastoral; protected by dykes.

FRIGGA, a Scandinavian goddess, the wife of Odin; worshipped among the Saxons as a goddess
mother; was the earth deified, or the Norse Demeter.

FRISIANS, a Low German people, who occupied originally the shores of the North Sea from the
mouths of the Rhine and Ems; distinguished for their free institutions; tribes of them at one
time invaded Britain, where traces of their presence may still be noted.

FRITH, WILLIAM POWELL, an English painter, born near Ripon, Yorkshire; his works are numerous,
his subjects varied and interesting, and his most popular pictures have brought large sums;
b. 1819.

FRITZ, FATHER, name given to Frederick the Great by his subjects "with a familiarity which
did not breed contempt in his case."

FROBISHER, SIR MARTIN, famous English sailor and navigator, born near Doncaster; thrice over
enthusiastically essayed the discovery of the North-West Passage under Elizabeth; accompanied
Drake to the West Indies; was knighted for his services against the Armada; conducted several
expeditions against Spain; was mortally wounded when leading an attack on Brest, and died on
his passage home (1535-1594).

FROEBEL, FRIEDRICH, a devoted German educationist on the principles of Pestalozzi, which combined
physical, moral, and intellectual training, commencing with the years of childhood; was the
founder of the famous Kindergarten system (1782-1852).

FROGMORE, a royal palace and mausoleum in Windsor Park, the burial-place of Prince Albert.

FROISSART, JEAN, a French chronicler and poet, born at Valenciennes; visited England in the
reign of Edward III., at whose Court, and particularly with the Queen, he became a great favourite
for his tales of chivalry, and whence he was sent to Scotland to collect more materials for
his chronicles, where he became the guest of the king and the Earl of Douglas; after this he
wandered from place to place, ranging as far as Venice and Rome, to add to his store; he died
in Flanders, and his chronicles, which extend from 1322 to 1400, are written without order,
but with grace and naïveté (1337-1410).

FROMENTIN, EUGÈNE, an eminent French painter and author, born at Rochelle; was the author of
two travel-sketches, and a brilliant novel "Dominique" (1820-1876).

FRONDE, a name given to a revolt in France opposed to the Court of Anne of Austria and Mazarin
during the minority of Louis XIV. The war which arose, and which was due to the despotism of
Mazarin, passed through two phases: it was first a war on the part of the people and the parlement,
called the Old Fronde, which lasted from 1648 till 1649, and then a war on the part of the
nobles, called the New Fronde, which lasted till 1652, when the revolt was crushed by Turenne
to the triumph of the royal power. The name is derived from the mimic fights with slings in
which the boys of Paris indulged themselves, and which even went so far as to beat back at
times the civic guard sent to suppress them.

FROUDE, HURRELL, elder brother of the succeeding, a leader in the Tractarian movement; author
of Tracts IX. and LXIII. (1803-1836).

FROUDE, WILLIAM, another brother, a civil engineer, assistant to Brunel; made important discoveries
in hydro-dynamics of great practical avail (1810-1879).

FRY, MRS. ELIZABETH, philanthropist, born at Norwich, third daughter of John Gurney, the Quaker
banker; married Joseph Fry of Plashet, Essex; devoted her life to prison reform and the reform
of criminals, as well as other benevolent enterprises; she has been called "the female Howard"
(1780-1845).

FUAD-MAHMED, PASHA, a Turkish statesman, diplomatist, and man of letters; studied medicine,
but soon turned himself to politics; was much esteemed and honoured at foreign courts, at which
he represented Turkey, for his skill, sagacity, and finesse; became Minister of Foreign Affairs
in 1852; was hostile to the pretensions of Russia, and gave umbrage to the Czar; published
a Turkish grammar, which is received with favour (1814-1869).

FUDGE FAMILY, THE, a satiric piece by Thomas Moore, published in 1818.

FUENTES, COUNT, a Spanish general and statesman, eminent both in war and diplomacy; commanded
the Spanish infantry at the siege of Rocroi when he was eighty-two, borne on a litter in the
midst of the fight, and perished by the sword, the Great Condé having attacked the besiegers
(1560-1643).

FUERO-FUEGO, a Wisigoth Spanish law of the 7th century, a curious monument of the legislation
of the Middle Ages.

FUGGER, the name of a family of Augsburg who rose from the loom by way of commerce to great
wealth and eminence in Germany, particularly under the Emperors Maximilian and Charles V.,
the real founder of the wealth being Jacob, who died 1409.

FULHAM, a suburb of London, on the Middlesex bank of the Thames, opposite Putney, with the
palace and burying-place of the bishops of London.

FULLAH, a people of the Upper Soudan whose territory extends between Senegal and Darfur, a
race of superior physique and intelligence, and of a certain polish of manners, and with Caucasian
type of feature.

FULLER, ANDREW, an eminent Baptist minister, born in Cambridgeshire, was settled at Kettering,
and a zealous controversialist in defence of the gospel against hyper-Calvinism on the one
hand and Socinianism on the other, but he is chiefly distinguished in connection with the foundation
of the Baptist Missionary Society, to which he for most part devoted the energies of his life
(1754-1815).

FULLER, MARGARET, an American authoress, born at Cambridgepont, Mass., a woman of speculative
ability and high aims, a friend of Emerson, and much esteemed by Carlyle, though he thought
her enthusiasm extravagant and beyond the range of accomplishment; she was one of the leaders
of the transcendental movement in America; visited Europe, and Italy in particular; engaged
there in the struggle for political independence; married the young Marquis of Ossoli; sailed
for New York, and was drowned with her husband and child on the sand-bars of Long Island (1810-1850).

FULLER, THOMAS, historian, divine, and wit, born in Northamptonshire, son of the rector of
Sarum; entering into holy orders, he held in succession several benefices in the Church of
England, and was a prebend in Salisbury Cathedral; taking sides with the king, he lost favour
under the Commonwealth; wrote a number of works, in which one finds combined gaiety and piety,
good sense and whimsical fancy; composed among other works the "History of the Holy War," a
"History of the Crusades," "The Holy and the Profane States," the "Church History of Great
Britain," and the "Worthies of England," the last his principal work, and published posthumously;
he was a man of great shrewdness, broad sympathies, and a kindly nature; was an author much
admired by Charles Lamb (1608-1661).

FULTON, ROBERT, an American engineer, born in Pennsylvania; began life as a miniature portrait
and landscape painter, in which he made some progress, but soon turned to engineering; he was
one of the first to apply steam to the propulsion of vessels, and devoted much attention to
the invention of submarine boats and torpedoes; he built a steamboat to navigate the Hudson
River, with a very slow rate of progress however, making only five miles an hour (1615-1765).

FUM, a grotesque animal figure, six cubits high, one of four presumed to preside over the destinies
of China.

FUNCHAL (19), the capital of Madeira, at the head of a bay on the S. coast, and the base of
a mountain 4000 ft. high, extends a mile along the shore, and slopes up the sides of the mountain;
famous as a health resort, more at one time than now.

FUNDY BAY, an arm of the sea between New Brunswick and Nova Scotia; it is of difficult navigation
owing to the strong and rapid rush of the tides.

FÜNEN (221), the second in size of the Danish islands, separated from Zealand on the E. by
the Great Belt and from Jutland on the W. by the Little Belt; is flat except on S. and W.,
fertile, well cultivated, and yields crops of cereals.

FURIES. See ERINNYES.

FURNIVALL, FREDERICK JAMES, English barrister, born at Egham, in Surrey; devoted to the study
of Early and Middle English Literature; founder and director of numerous societies for promoting
the study of special works, such as the Early English Text, Chaucer, Ballad, and New Shakespeare
Societies, and editor of publications in connection with them; was in his early days a great
authority on boating and boat-building; b. 1825.

FÜRST, JULIUS, a distinguished German Orientalist, born in Posen, of Jewish descent; a specialist
in Hebrew and Aramaic; author of a Hebrew and Chaldee Manual (1805-1873).

FÜRST, WALTER, of Uri, a Swiss patriot, who, along with William Tell, contributed to establish
the liberty and independence of Switzerland; d. 1317.

FUSELI, HENRY, properly FUSOLI, a famous portrait-painter, born at Zurich; coming to England
at the age of 22, he became acquainted with Sir Joshua Reynolds, who advised him to go to Rome;
after eight years spent in study of the Italian masters, and Michael Angelo in particular,
he returned to England and became an R.A.; he painted a series of pictures, afterwards exhibited
as the "Milton Gallery" (1741-1825).

FUST JOHANN, a rich burgher of Mainz, associated with Gutenberg and Schöffer, to whom along
with them the invention of printing has been ascribed; d. 1466.

FYNE, LOCH, an Argyllshire arm of the sea, extending N. from Bute to Inveraray, and from 1
m. to 5 m. broad; famed for its herrings.

FYZABAD (78), capital of Oudh, in India, at one time, 78 m. E. of Lucknow; much decayed.

G

GABELENTZ, HANS CONON VON DER, a distinguished German philologist, born at Altenburg: was master,
it is said, of 80 languages, contributed treatises on several of them, his most important work
being on the Melanesian (1807-1874).

GABELLE, an indirect tax, specially one on salt, the term applied to a State monopoly in France
in that article, and the exaction in connection with which was a source of much discontent;
the people were obliged to purchase it at government warehouses and at extravagant, often very
unequal, rates; the impost dates from 1286; was abolished in 1789.

GABELSBERGER, FRANZ XAVIER, inventor of the shorthand in use in German countries as well as
elsewhere (1789-1849).

GABERLUNZIE, a licensed beggar, or any of the mendicant class, so called from the wallet he
carried.

GABINUS, a Roman tribune in 66 B.C., afterwards consul; party to the banishment of Cicero, 57 B.C.

GABOON and FRENCH CONGO (5,000), a French Colony in W. Africa fronting the Atlantic, between
the Cameroon country and the Congo State, and stretching inland as far as the head-waters of
the Congo River; in the NW. is the great Gaboon estuary, 40 m. long and 10 broad at its mouth,
with Libreville on its N. bank; along the coast the climate is hot and unhealthy, but it improves
inland; the natives belong to the Bantu stock; the French settled in it first in 1842, but
only since the explorations of De Brazza in 1876-86 have they begun to extend and colonise it.

GABRIEL, an angel, one of the seven archangels, "the power of God," who is represented in the
traditions of both the Jews and the Moslems as discharging the highest functions, and in Christian
tradition as announcing to the Virgin Mary her election of God to be the mother of the Messiah;
he ranks fully higher among Moslems than Jews.

GABRIEL, a French architect, born in Paris (1710-1782).

GABRIELLES D'ESTRÉES, the mistress of Henry IV. of France, who for State reasons was not allowed
to marry her (1571-1599).

GAD, one of the Jewish tribes inhabiting the E. of the Jordan.

GADAMES or GHADAMES (7 to 10), an oasis and town in Africa, situated in the SW. corner of Tripoli,
on the N. border of the Sahara; the fertility of the oasis is due to hot springs, from which
the place takes its name; high walls protect the soil and the fruit of it, which is abundant,
from sand-storms; it is an entrepôt for trade with the interior; the inhabitants are Berber
Mohammedans.

GADDI, GADDO, a Florentine painter and worker in mosaic, friend of Cimabue and Giotto (1239-1312).

GADDI, TADDEO, son of the preceding, and pupil of Giotto both in architecture and fresco-painting
(1300-1366).

GADDI, AGNOLO, son of the preceding, and a painter of frescoes (1350-1396).

GADES, the ancient name of CADIZ (q. v.).

GADSHILL, an eminence in Kent, 3 m. NW. of Rochester, associated with the name of Falstaff,
also of Dickens, who resided here from 1856 to 1870, and where he died.

GAETA (17), a fortified seaport of S. Italy, finely situated on a steep promontory 50 m. NW.
of Naples; it was a favourite watering-place of the ancient Roman nobility, and the beauty
of its bay is celebrated by Virgil and Horace; it is rich in classic remains, and in its day
has witnessed many sieges; the inhabitants are chiefly employed with fishing and a light coast
trade.

GAGE, THOMAS, English general, son of Viscount Gage; he served in the Seven Years' War, and
took part in 1755 in Braddock's disastrous expedition in America; in 1760 he became military
governor of Montreal, and three years later commander-in-chief of the British forces in America;
as governor of Massachusetts he precipitated the revolution by his ill-timed severity, and
after the battle of Bunker's Hill was recalled to England (1721-1787).

GAIA or GE, in the Greek mythology the primeval goddess of the earth, the alma mater of living
things, both in heaven and on earth, called subsequently Demeter, i. e. Gemeter, Earth-mother.

GAILLARD, French historian, born at Amiens; devoted his life to history (1726-1806).

GAINSBOROUGH, THOMAS, one of England's greatest artists in portrait and landscape painting,
born at Sudbury, Suffolk; he early displayed a talent for drawing, and at 14 was sent to London
to study art; when 19 he started as a portrait-painter at Ipswich, having by this time married
Margaret Burr, a young lady with £200 a year; patronised by Sir Philip Thicknesse, he removed
in 1760 to Bath, where he rose into high favour, and in 1774 he sought a wider field in London;
he shared the honours of painting portraits with Reynolds and of landscape with Wilson; his
portraits have more of grace, if less of genius, than Reynolds, while his landscapes inaugurated
a freer and more genial manner of dealing with nature, while as a colourist Ruskin declares
him the greatest since Rubens; among his most famous pictures are portraits of Mrs. Siddons,
the Duchess of Devonshire, and the Hon. Mrs. Graham, "Shepherd Boy in the Shower," "The Seashore,"
&c. (1727-1788).

GAIUS, a Roman jurist of the 2nd century, whose "Institutes" served for the basis of Justinian's.

GALAHAD, SIR, son of Lancelot, one of the Knights of the Round Table; distinguished for the
immaculate purity of his character and life; was successful in his search for the Holy Graal.

GALAOR, a hero of Spanish romance, brother of Amadis de Gaul, the model of a courtly paladin,
and always ready with his sword to avenge the wrongs of the widow and the orphan.

GALAPÁGOS, a sparsely populated group of islands (13 in number), barren on the N., but well
wooded on the S., situated on the equator, 600 m. W. of Ecuador, and which, although belonging
to Ecuador, all bear English names, bestowed upon them, it would appear, by the buccaneers
of the 17th century; Albemarle Island makes up more than half of their area; they are volcanic
in formation, and some of their 2000 craters are not yet inactive; their fauna is of peculiar
scientific interest as exhibiting many species unknown elsewhere; besides the islands proper
there is a vast number of islets and rocks.

GALATA, a faubourg of Constantinople where the European merchants reside.

GALATEA, a nymph whom Polyphemus made love to, but who preferred Acis to him, whom therefore
he made away with by crushing him under a rock, in consequence of which the nymph threw herself
into the sea.

GALATIA, a high-lying Roman province in Asia Minor that had been invaded and taken possession
of by a horde of Gauls in the 3rd century B.C., whence the name.

GALATIANS, EPISTLE TO THE, an epistle of St. Paul to the churches in Galatia, which was an
especial favourite with Luther, as, with its doctrine of spiritual freedom in Christ, it might
well be, for it corroborated the great revelation first made to him by a neighbour monk; "man
is not saved by singing masses, but by the grace of God"; it is a didactic epistle, in assertion,
on the one hand, of freedom from the law, and, on the other, of the power of the spirit.

GALATZ or GALACZ (59), the great river-port of Roumania, on the Danube, 8 m. above the Sulina
mouth of the river and 166 m. NE. of Bucharest; the new town is well laid out, and contains
some fine buildings; its harbour is one of the finest on the Danube; a great export trade is
carried on in cereals, while textiles and metals are the chief imports.

GALAXY, the Milky Way, a band of light seen after sunset across the heavens, consisting of
an innumerable multitude of stars, or suns rather, stretching away into the depths of space.

GALBA, a Roman emperor from June 68 to January 69, elected at the age of 70 by the Gallic legions
to succeed Nero, but for his severity and avarice was slain by the Prætorian guard, who proclaimed
Otho emperor in his stead.

GALE, THEOPHILUS, a Nonconformist divine; author of the "Court of the Gentiles," in which he
attempts to prove that the theology and philosophy of the Gentiles was borrowed from the Scriptures
(1628-1678).

GALE, THOMAS, dean of York; edited classics, wrote on early English history (1636-1702).

GALEN, or CLAUDIUS GALENUS, a famous Greek physician, born at Pergamus, in Illyria, where,
after studying in various cities, he settled in 158; subsequently he went to Rome, and eventually
became physician to the emperors M. Aurelius, L. Verus, and Severus; of his voluminous writings
83 treatises are still extant, and these treat on a varied array of subjects, philosophical
as well as professional; for centuries after his death his works were accepted as authoritative
in the matter of medicine (131-201).

GALE`RIUS, VALERIUS MAXIMUS, Roman emperor, born in Dacia, of lowly parentage; rose from a
common soldier to be the son-in-law of the Emperor Diocletian, who in 292 raised him to the
dignity of a Cæsar; in 305, on the death of Diocletian, he became head of the Eastern Empire,
which he continued to be till his death in 311; his name is associated with a cruel persecution
of the Christians under Diocletian.

GALGACUS, a Caledonian chief defeated by Agricola at the battle of the Grampians in 85, after
a desperate resistance.

GALIA`NI, FERDINANDO, an Italian political economist, man of letters, and a wit; held with
honour several important offices under the Neapolitan Government; was attaché to the embassy
at Paris, and the associate of Grimm and Diderot (1728-1787).

GALICIA, 1, an old province (1,919) of Spain, formerly a kingdom in the NW. corner of it, fronting
the Bay of Biscay and the Atlantic; now divided into the four minor provinces, Coruña, Lugo,
Orense, Pontevedra; the county is hilly, well watered, fertile, and favoured with a fine climate,
but cultivated only very partially; some mining is carried on. 2, A crownland (6,607) in the
NE. of Austria, between Russia and the Carpathians; the inhabitants are mainly Slavs, but there
is a goodly number of Jews, Germans, Poles, &c.; the land is fertile, consists chiefly of extensive
plains, well watered by the Dneister and other large rivers, and yields abundance of cereals,
while one-fourth is covered with forest; timber is largely exported, and salt; many of the
useful metals are found, and productive petroleum wells; it has an independent Diet, but an
Austrian governor; Austria annexed it in 1772.

GALILÆANS, a fanatical sect, followers of one Judas of Galilee, who fiercely resented the taxation
of the Romans, and whose violence contributed to induce the latter to vow the extermination
of the whole race.

GALILEE, the northern division of Palestine, divided into Upper, hilly, Lower, level, about
60 m. long and 30 broad.

GALILEE, SEA OF, an expansion of the Jordan, 12½ m. long, and at the most 8 m. broad, enclosed
by steep mountains, except on NW.

GALILEO, an illustrious Italian mathematician, physicist, and astronomer, born at Pisa, demonstrated
the isochronism of the pendulum, invented the thermometer and the hydrostatic balance, propounded
the law of falling bodies, constructed the first astronomical telescope, and by means of it
satisfied himself of, and proved, the truth of the Copernican doctrine, that the sun and not
the earth is the centre of the planetary system, and that the earth revolves round it like
the other planets which reflect its light; his insistence on this truth provoked the hostility
of the Church, and an ecclesiastical decree which pronounced the Copernican theory heresy;
for the profession of it he was brought to the bar of the Inquisition, where he was compelled
to forswear it by oath, concluding his recantation, it is said, with the exclamation, "still,
it moves"; before his end he became blind, and died in Florence at 78, the year Newton was
born (1564-1642).

GALITZIN, the name of a Russian family distinguished for their ability and success in both
war and peace from the 16th century onwards.

GALL, FRANZ JOSEPH, the founder of phrenology, born at Tiefenbronn, on the borders of Baden
and Würtemberg; in 1785 he established himself as a physician in Vienna, where for many years
he carried on a series of elaborate investigations on the nature of the brain and its relation
to the outer cranium, visiting with that view lunatic asylums, &c.; in 1796 he gave publicity
to his views in a series of lectures in Vienna, which were, however, condemned as subversive
of morality and religion; being joined by Spurzheim, who adopted his theories, he undertook
a lecturing tour through a large part of Europe, and eventually settled at Paris, where he
published his phrenological work "Fonctions du Cerveau"; it is a curious fact that on his death
his skull was found to be twice the usual thickness, and that there was a tumour in the cerebellum
(1758-1828).

GALL, ST., an Irish monk who, about 585, accompanied St. Columban to France in his missionary
labours, banished from which he went to Switzerland, and founded a monastery on the Lake of
Constance, which bore his name; d. about 646.

GALLAND, ANTOINE, French Orientalist, born in Picardy, professor of Arabic in the College of
France; was the first to translate the "Arabian Nights" into any European tongue (1646-1715).

GALLAS, an Ethiopian race occupying the S. and E. of Abyssinia, energetic, intelligent, and
warlike; follow mostly pastoral occupations; number over four millions, and are mostly heathens.

GALLE or POINT DE GALLE (33), fortified seaport town, prettily situated on a rocky promontory
in the SW. of Ceylon; there is a good harbour, but the shipping, which at one time was extensive,
has declined since the rise of Colombo.

GALLICAN CHURCH, the Catholic Church in France which, while sincerely devoted to the Catholic
faith and the Holy See, resolutely refused to concede certain rights and privileges which belonged
to it from the earliest times; it steadfastly contended that infallibility was vested not in
the Pope alone, but in the entire episcopal body under him as its head; maintained the supreme
authority of general councils and that of the holy canons in the government of the Church,
and insisted that there was a distinction between the temporal and the spiritual power; contentions
summed up in a declaration of the French clergy in 1682, the body of whom opposed to which
are known by the name of "Ultramontanists."

GALLICANISM, the name given to the contention of the GALLICAN CHURCH (q. v.).

GALLIENUS, PUBLIUS LICINIUS, Roman Emperor from 260 to 268, and for seven years (253-260) associated
in the government with his father, the Emperor Valerian; under his lax rule the empire was
subjected to hostile inroads on all sides, while in the provinces a succession of usurpers,
known as the Thirty Tyrants, sprang up, disowning allegiance, and aspiring to the title of
Cæsar; in his later years he roused himself to vigorous resistance, but in 268 was murdered
by his own soldiers whilst pressing the rebel Aureolus at the siege of Milan.

GALLIGANTUA, the wizard giant slain by Jack the Giant-killer.

GALLIO, the Roman proconsul of Achaia in the days of St. Paul, before whom the Jews of Corinth
brought an appeal against the latter, but which he treated with careless indifference as no
affair of his, in consequence of which his name has become the synonym of an easy-going ruler
or prince.

GALLIPOLI, 1, a fortified seaport town (8) in Southern Italy, 59 m. S. of Brindisi; stands
on a rocky islet in the Gulf of Taranto, close to the mainland, with which it is connected
by a bridge of 12 arches; a fine cathedral and huge tanks hewn out of the solid rock for the
storage of olive-oil are objects of interest. 2, A seaport (15) of Turkey in Europe, stands
on a peninsula of the same name at the western end of the Sea of Marmora, at the mouth of the
Dardanelles, 90 m. S. of Adrianople; it was the first city captured by the Turks in Europe
(1356), and is now the naval arsenal of Turkey and head-quarters of the Turkish navy.

GALLOWAY, a district in the SW. of Scotland, co-extensive with Wigtown and Kirkcudbright, though
formerly of considerably greater extent; the lack of mineral wealth has retarded its development,
and the industry of the population is limited chiefly to agriculture, the rearing of sheep
and cattle, and fishing, and it is still noted for a small but hardy breed of horses called
Galloways; the province derives its name from Gall-Gael, or foreign Gaels, as the early inhabitants
were called, who up to the time of the Reformation maintained the characteristics, language,
&c., of a distinct people; in 1455 Galloway ceased to exist as a separate lordship; in the
extreme S. of Wigtown is the bold and rocky promontory, the MULL OF GALLOWAY, the extremity
of the peninsula called the Rhinns of Galloway; the Mull, which is the most southerly point
in Scotland, rises to a height of 210 ft., and is crowned by a powerful lighthouse.

GALSWINTHE, the sister of Brunhilda and the second wife of Chilpéric I.; was strangled to death
in 568.

GALT, JOHN, Scotch novelist, born at Irvine; educated at Greenock, where he held a post in
the Custom-house for a time; essayed literature, wrote "The Ayrshire Legatees," "The Annals
of the Parish," "Sir Andrew Wylie," "The Entail," and "The Provost"; died of paralysis at Greenock;
Carlyle, who met him in London in 1832, says, "He had the air of a broad, gaucie, Greenock
burgher; mouth indicating sly humour and self-satisfaction; eyes, old and without lashes, gave
me a wae interest for him; says little, but that little peaceable, clear, and gutmüthig" (1779-1839).

GALVANISED IRON, plate-iron coated with zinc, which renders it less liable to be affected by
moisture and subject to corrosion.

GALVANISM, the mere contact with two dissimilar metals, the science of what is now called Voltaic
or current electricity, produced, as in the above instance, from the contact of dissimilar
metals, especially that of acids on metals.

GALVANI, LUIGI, an Italian physician, born at Bologna; celebrated for his discoveries in animal
magnetism called after him Galvanism, due to an observation he made of the convulsive motion
produced in the leg of a recently-killed frog (1737-1798).

GALVESTON (38), the chief seaport of Texas, situated on a low island of the same name at the
entrance of Galveston Bay into the Gulf of Mexico; it has a splendid harbour, and is an important
centre of the cotton trade, ranking as the third cotton port of the world; the city is well
laid out, and is the see of a Roman Catholic bishop; it has a medical college and several foundries.

GALWAY (215), a maritime county in the W. of Ireland, in the province of Connaught; Lough Corrib
(25 m. long) and Lough Mask (12 m. long), stretching N. and S., divide the county into East
and West districts; the former is boggy, yet arable; the latter, including the picturesque
district known as CONNEMARA, is wild and hilly, and chiefly consists of bleak morass and bogland;
its rocky and indented coast affords excellent harbourage in many places; the Suck, Shannon,
and Corrib are the chief rivers; the Slieve Boughta Mountains in the S. and in the W. the Twelve
Pins (2395 ft.) are the principal mountains; fishing, some agriculture, and cattle-rearing
are the chief employments; it contains many interesting cromlechs and ruins.

GALWAY (14), the capital of Connaught and of the county of that name; is situated on the N.
side of Galway Bay, at the mouth of the Corrib River, 50 m. NW. of Limerick; it is divided
into the old and new town, and contains several interesting ecclesiastical buildings, e. g.
the cruciform church of St. Nicholas (1320), and is the seat of a Queen's College; fishing
is an important industry, while wool and black marble are exported.

GAMA, VASCO DA, a famous Portuguese navigator, the discoverer of the route to India round the
Cape of Good Hope, born at Sines, in Portugal, of good family; he seems to have won the favour
of King Emmanuel at an early age, and already an experienced mariner, was in 1497 despatched
on his celebrated voyage, in which he rounded the Cape; on that occasion he made his way to
Calicut, in India, where he had to contend with the enmity of the natives, stirred against
him by jealous Arabian merchants; in 1499 he returned to Lisbon, was received with great honour,
and had conferred on him an array of high-sounding titles; three years later he was appointed
to the command of an expedition to Calicut to avenge the massacre of a small Portuguese settlement
founded there a year previous by Cabrat; in connection with this expedition he founded the
colonies of Mozambique and Sofala, and after inflicting a cruel punishment upon the natives
of Calicut, he returned to Lisbon in 1503; the following 20 years of his life were spent in
retirement at Evora, but in 1524 he was appointed viceroy of Portuguese India, a position he
held only for a short time, but sufficiently long to re-establish Portuguese power in India;
he died at Cochin; the incidents of his famous first voyage round the Cape are celebrated in
Camoëns' memorable poem "The Lusiad" (1469-1525).

GAMALIEL, a Jewish rabbi, the instructor of St. Paul in the knowledge of the law, and distinguished
for his tolerant spirit and forbearance in dealing with the Apostles in their seeming departure
from the Jewish faith.

GAMBETTA, LÉON MICHEL, a French republican leader, born at Cahors, of Italian descent; intended
for the Church, to which he evinced no proclivity; he early showed a penchant for politics
and adopted the profession of law, in the prosecution of which he delivered a speech which
marked him out as the coming man of the French republic, from the spirit of hostility it manifested
against the Empire; at the fall of the Empire he stood high in public regard, assumed the direction
of affairs, and made desperate attempts to repel the invading Germans; though he failed in
this, he never ceased to feel the shame of the loss of Alsace and Lorraine, and strove hard
to recover them, but all his efforts proved ineffectual, and he died in Dec. 31, to the grief
of the nation (1838-1882).

GAMBIA, 1, a river of W. Africa, that flows through Senegambia and discharges itself into the
Atlantic at Bathurst after a course of more than 1400 m. into a splendid estuary which, in
some parts, has a breadth of 27 m. but contracts to 2 m. at the seaward end; light craft can
ascend as far as Barraconda, 400 m. from the mouth. 2. A British settlement (15) lying along
the banks of the Gambia as far as Georgetown, with a protectorate to Barraconda (pop. 50);
it enjoys a separate government under a British administrator, and produces hides, cotton,
rice, &c.

GAMBIER, JAMES, LORD, British admiral, born in the Bahamas; at 22 he was created a post-captain;
in 1781 distinguished himself in an engagement against the French at Jersey; and again under
Lord Howe in 1794 he rendered material service in repulsing the French off Ushant; in the following
year he was made rear-admiral, and in 1799 vice-admiral; for his gallant conduct as commander
of the English fleet at the bombardment of Copenhagen he was made a baron; a dispute with Lord
Cochrane at the battle of Aix Roads against the French led to his being court-martialled, but
he was honourably acquitted; on the accession of William IV. he was made admiral of the fleet
(1756-1833).

GAMP, SARAH, a nurse in "Martin Chuzzlewit," famous for her bulky umbrella, and for confirming
her opinions of things by a constant reference to the authority of an imaginary Mrs. Harris.

GANDO (5,000), a native State traversed by the Niger in Western Soudan, lying upon the NW.
border of Sokoto, of which it is a dependency; like Sokoto it has been brought within the sphere
of influence of the British Royal Niger Company; the inhabitants belong to the Fulah race,
and profess the Mohammedan religion; Gando is also the name of the capital, an active centre
of the cotton trade.

GANEGA, the Hindu god with an elephant's head and four arms; the inspirer of cunning devices
and good counsel, afterwards the patron of letters and learned men.

GANELON, a count of Mayence, one of Charlemagne's paladins; trusted by him but faithless, and
a traitor to his cause; is placed by Dante in the lowest hell.

GANGES, the great sacred river of India, which, though somewhat shorter than the Indus, drains
a larger area and traverses a more fertile basin; it has its source in an ice-cave on the southern
side of the Himalayas, 8 m. above Gangotri, at an elevation of 13,800 ft. above the sea-level;
at this its first stage it is known as the Bhagirathi, and not until 133 m. from its source
does it assume the name of Ganges, having already received two tributaries; issuing from the
Himalayas at Sukhi, it flows in a more or less southerly course to Allahabad, where it receives
the Jumna, and thence makes its way by the plains of Behar and past Benares to Goalanda, where
it is joined by the Brahmaputra; the united stream, lessened by innumerable offshoots, pursues
a SE. course till joined by the Meghna, and under that name enters the Bay of Bengal; its most
noted offshoot is the HOOGHLY (q. v.), which pursues a course to the S. of the Meghna; between
these lies the Great Delta, which begins to take shape 220 m. inland from the Bay of Bengal;
the Ganges is 1557 m. in length, and offers for the greater part an excellent waterway; it
is held in great reverence as a sacred stream whose waters have power to cleanse from all sin,
while burial on its banks is believed to ensure eternal happiness.

GANGES CANAL, constructed mainly for the purpose of irrigating the arid land stretching between
the Ganges and the Jumna Rivers, originally extended from Hardwár to Cawnpore and Etawah, but
has since been greatly enlarged, and at present (including branches) has a total extent of
3700 m., of which 500 m. are navigable; it has contributed to mitigate suffering caused by
famines by affording a means of distributing ready relief.

GANGRENE, the first stage of mortification in any part of a living body.

GANGWAY, a passage in the House of Commons, running across the house, which separates the independent
members from the supporters of the Government and the Opposition.

GANYMEDES, a beautiful youth, whom Zeus, attracted by his beauty, carried off, disguised as
an eagle, to heaven, conferred immortality on, and made cup-bearer of the gods instead of Hebe.

GAO, KARVEH or KARVAH, a Persian blacksmith, whose sons had been slain to feed the serpents
of the reigning tyrant, raised his leather apron on a spear, and with that for a standard excited
a revolt; the revolt proved successful, and the apron became the standard of the new dynasty,
which it continued to be till supplanted by the crescent.

GARAY, JÁNOS, Hungarian poet, born at Szegszard; his life was spent chiefly in Pesth, where
he held a post in the university library; he published a number of dramas which show traces
of German influence, and was also the author of a book of lyrics as well as tales (1812-1853).

GARCIA, MANUEL, a noted singer and composer, born at Seville; in 1808 he went to Paris with
a reputation already gained at Madrid and Cadiz; till 1824 he was of high repute in London
and Paris as an operatic tenor; and in the following year visited the United States; when on
the road between Mexico and Vera Cruz he was robbed of all his money; he spent his closing
years in Paris as a teacher of singing, his voice being greatly impaired by age as well as
fatigue; his eldest daughter was the celebrated Madame Malibran (1775-1832).

GARCIAS, DON PEDRO, a mythical don mentioned in the preface to "Gil Blas" as buried with a
small bag of doubloons, and the epitaph, "Here lies interred the soul of licentiate Pedro Garcia."

GARCILASO, called the INCA, as descended from the royal family of Peru; lived at Cordova; wrote
"History of Peru," as well as a "History of Florida" (1530-1568).

GARCILASO DE LA VEGA, a Spanish poet, born in Toledo, a soldier by profession; accompanied
Charles V. on his expeditions; died fighting bravely in battle; his poems consist of sonnets,
elegies, &c., and reveal an unexpected tenderness (1503-1536).

GARCIN DE TASSY, Indian Orientalist, born at Marseilles (1794-1878).

GARD (419), a dep. in the S. of France, between the Cévennes and the Rhône; slopes to the Rhône
and the sea, with a marshy coast; produces wine and olives, and is noted for its silkculture
and breed of horses.

GARDA, LAGO DI, the largest of the Italian lakes; stretches, amidst beautiful Alpine scenery,
between Lombardy and Venetia. It is 35 m. long, and from 2 to 10 broad. Its water is remarkably
clear, and has a depth of 967 ft. It is studded with many picturesque islands, and is traversed
by steamers.

GARDE NATIONALE, of France, a body of armed citizens organised in Paris in 1789 for the defence
of the citizen interest, and soon by extensions throughout the country became a force of great
national importance; the colours they adopted were the famous tricolor of red, white, and blue,
and their first commandant was Lafayette. In 1795 they helped to repress the Paris mob, and
under Napoleon were retained in service. They played a prominent part in the Revolutions of
1830 and 1848, supporting the revolutionists; but in 1852 their powers were curtailed, and
in 1871 they were dissolved by the National Assembly.

GARDES SUISSES, a celebrated corps of the French army, formed in 1616 for defence of royalty,
and numbering 2000. During the great Revolution they gallantly defended the Louvre, but were
overawed and overpowered almost to annihilation by the infuriated Paris mob. "Their work to
die, and they did it," at that moment. The corps was finally disbanded in 1830.

GARDINER, COLONEL JAMES, soldier, captain of dragoons, noted for his bravery and piety; served
under Marlborough; fell at Prestonpans; his Life was written by Dr. Doddridge, and is much
prized by religious people (1688-1745).

GAIRDNER, JAMES, historian, born in Edinburgh, Assistant-Keeper Record Office, London; edited
a series of historical documents, and wrote among other historical works the "Life and Reign
of Richard III."; b. 1828.

GARDINER, SAMUEL RAWSON, English historian, born at Ropley, Hants; his chief historical works
include "History of England" in the reign of James I. and Charles I.; "History of the Civil
War," in four vols., and the "History of the Protectorate," on which he is still engaged; a
most impartial and accurate historian; b. 1829.

GARDINER, STEPHEN, bishop of Winchester, born at Bury St. Edmunds; was secretary to Wolsey;
promoted the divorce of Queen Catharine, and made bishop; imprisoned in the Tower under Edward
VI.; restored to his see, and made Chancellor under Mary (1483-1555).

GARFIELD, JAMES ABRAM, President of the United States, born in Orange, Ohio; reared amid lowly
surroundings; at the age of ten began to help his widowed mother by working as a farmservant;
an invincible passion for learning prompted him to devote the long winters to study, till he
was able as a student to enter Hiram College, and subsequently to William's College, Massachusetts,
where, in 1856, he graduated; in the following year he became President of Hiram College, and
devoting his attention to the study of law, in 1859 became a member of the State Senate; he
took an active part on the side of the Federalists in the Civil War, and distinguished himself
in several engagements, rising to be major-general; in his thirty-third year he entered Congress,
and soon came to the front, acting latterly as leader of the Republican party; in 1880 he became
a member of the Senate, and in the same year was elected to the Presidency; he signalised his
tenure of the presidential office by endeavouring to purify and reform the civil service, but
this attempt drew on him the odium of a section of his party, and on the 2nd July 1881 he was
shot down by Charles Guiteau, a disappointed place-hunter; after a prolonged struggle with
death he succumbed on the 19th of September (1831-1881).

GARGANTUA, a gigantic personage, in Rabelais, of preternally lusty appetite and guzzling and
gourmandising power; lived several centuries, and begat Pantagruel.

GARIBALDI, Italian patriot, began life as a sailor, associated himself enthusiastically with
Mazzini for the liberation of his country, but being convicted of conspiracy fled to South
America, where, both as a privateer and a soldier, he gave his services to the young republics
struggling there for life; returned to Europe, and took part in the defence of Rome against
France, but being defeated fled to New York, to return to the Isle of Caprera, biding his time;
joined the Piedmontese against Austria, and in 1860 set himself to assist in the overthrow
of the kingdom of Naples and the union of Italy under Victor Emmanuel, landing in Calabria
and entering Naples, driving the royal forces before him without striking a blow, after which
he returned to his retreat at Caprera, ready still to draw sword, and occasionally offering
it again, in the cause of republicanism (1807-1882).

GARMENT OF GOD, LIVING, Living Nature, so called by Goethe, nature being viewed by him as the
garment, or vesture, with which God invests Himself so as to reveal and impart Himself to man.

GARNET, a well-known precious stone of a vitreous lustre, and usually of a dark-red colour,
resembling a ruby, but also found in various other shades, e. g. black, green, and yellow.
The finest specimens are brought from Ceylon, Pegu, and Greenland. The species of garnet crystal
known as Pyrope, when cut in the shape of a tallow drop, is called a carbuncle.

GARNET, HENRY, a noted Jesuit, son of a Nottingham schoolmaster, implicated in the Gunpowder
Plot; bred in the Protestant faith, he early turned Catholic and went abroad and joined the
Jesuit order; in 1588 he returned to England as Superior of the English Jesuits, and engaged
in various intrigues; on the discovery of the Gunpowder Plot he was arrested, found guilty
of cognisance of the Plot, and executed (1555-1606).

GARNETT, RICHARD, philologist, born at Otley, Yorkshire, Keeper of the Printed Books in the
British Museum, and one of the founders of the Philological Society, and contributor to its
Proceedings (1789-1850).

GARNETT, RICHARD, an acute critic, born in Lichfield, son of preceding; long associated with
the book department of the British Museum; an admirer of Shelley, and biographer of Carlyle
and Emerson; b. 1835.

GARONNE, an important river of SW. France, which rises in the Val d'Aran in the Spanish Pyrenees;
26 m. from its source it enters France near Pont du Roi, and after it passes Toulouse flows
in a north-westerly direction; joined by the Dordogne, 20 m. below Toulouse, it gradually widens
into the Gironde estuary, which opens on the Bay of Biscay; it has a length of 346 m., and
is freely navigable as far as Toulouse.

GARRICK, DAVID, a famous English actor and dramatist, born at Hereford; was educated at Lichfield,
the home of his mother, and was for some months in his nineteenth year a pupil of Samuel Johnson;
in 1737 he accompanied Johnson to London, with the intention of entering the legal profession,
but soon abandoned the purpose, and started in the wine business with his brother; in 1741
he commenced his career as an actor, making his first appearance at Ipswich; in the autumn
of the same year he returned to London, and as Richard III. achieved instant success; with
the exception of a sojourn upon the Continent for two years, his life was spent mainly in the
metropolis in the active pursuit of his profession; in 1747 he became patentee, along with
James Lacy, of Drury Lane Theatre, which he continued to direct until his retirement from the
stage in 1776; three years later he died, and was buried in Westminster Abbey; he was the author
of many comedies and farces, which, however, are of no great merit, but his abiding fame rests
upon his powers as an actor, his remarkable versatility enabling him to act with equal ease
and success in farce, comedy, and tragedy; his admirable naturalness did much to redeem the
stage from the stiff conventionalism under which it then laboured; his wife, Eva Maria Violette,
a celebrated dancer of Viennese birth, whom he married in 1740, survived him till 1822, dying
at the advanced age of 98 (1717-1779).

GARRISON, WILLIAM LLOYD, American journalist and abolitionist, born at Newburyport, Mass.;
in his native town he rose to be editor of the Herald at 19, and five years later became joint-editor
of the Genius of Universal Emancipation; his vigorous denunciation of slavery involved him
in a charge of libel and brought about his imprisonment, from which he was liberated by a friend
paying his fine; at Boston, in 1831, he founded his celebrated Liberator, a paper in which
he unweariedly, and in the face of violent threats, advocated his anti-slavery opinions till
1865, when the cause was won; he visited England on several occasions in support of emancipation,
and in 1868 his great labours in the cause were recognised by a gift of 30,000 dollars from
his friends (1804-1879).

GARTER, THE MOST NOBLE ORDER OF THE, a celebrated order of knighthood instituted in 1344 by
King Edward III.; the original number of the knights was 26, of whom the sovereign was head;
but this number has been increased by extending the honour to descendants of George I., II.,
and III., and also to distinguished foreigners; it is the highest order of knighthood, and
is designated K.G.; the insignia of the order includes surcoat, mantle, star, &c., but the
knights are chiefly distinguished by a garter of blue velvet worn on the left leg below the
knee, and bearing the inscription in gold letters Honi soit qui mal y pense, "Evil be to him
that evil thinks"; election to the order lies with the sovereign.

GARTH, SIR SAMUEL, a distinguished physician, born in co. Durham; had an extensive practice;
author of a mock-heroic poem entitled "The Dispensary" (1661-1718).

GASCOIGNE, SIR WILLIAM, English judge, born at Gawthorpe, Yorkshire; during Richard II.'s reign
he practised in the law courts, and in 1397 became king's serjeant; three years later he was
raised to the Lord Chief-Justiceship; his single-eyed devotion to justice was strikingly exemplified
in his refusal to pass sentence of death on Archbishop Scrope; the story of his committing
Prince Henry to prison, immortalised by Shakespeare, is unauthenticated (1350-1419).

GASCONY, an ancient province of SW. France, lying between the Atlantic, the Pyrenees, and the
Garonne; it included several of the present departments; the province was of Basque origin,
but ultimately became united with Aquitaine, and was added to the territory of the French crown
in 1453; the Gascons still retain their traditional characteristics; they are of dark complexion
and small in stature, vivacious and boastful, but have a high reputation for integrity.

GASKELL, MRS., née STEVENSON, novelist and biographer, born at Cheyne Row, Chelsea; authoress
of "Mary Barton," "Ruth," "Silvia's Lovers," &c., and the "Life of Charlotte Brontë," her friend
(1810-1865).

GASSENDI, PIERRE, a French mathematician and philosopher, born in Provence; declared against
scholastic methods out of deference to the empirical; controverted the metaphysics of Descartes;
became the head of a school opposed to him; adopted the philosophy of Epicurus and contributed
to the science of astronomy, and was the friend of Kepler, Galileo, and Hobbes; was a great
admirer of Bayle, the head of his school, a school of Pyrrhonists, tending to materialism (1592-1655).

GASSNER, JOHANN JOSEPH, a noted "exorcist," born at Bludenz, in the Tyrol; while a Catholic
priest at Klösterle he gained a wide celebrity by professing to "cast out devils" and to work
cures on the sick by means simply of prayer; he was deposed as an impostor, but the bishop
of Ratisbon, who believed in his honesty, bestowed upon him the cure of Bendorf (1727-1779).

GATAKER, THOMAS, an English divine, member of the Westminster Assembly; disapproved of the
introduction of the Covenant, declared for Episcopacy, and opposed the trial of Charles I.
(1574-1654).

GATE OF TEARS, the strait of Bab-el-Mandeb, so called from the shipwrecks frequent in it.

GATES, HORATIO, an American general, born at Maldon, Essex, in England; served as an English
officer in America till the peace of 1763, and then retired to Virginia; in the War of Independence
he fought on the side of America, and, as commander of the northern army, defeated the English
at Saratoga in 1777; so great was his popularity in consequence of this victory that ill-advised
efforts were made to place him over Washington, but in 1780 he suffered a crushing defeat at
the hands of the British at Camden, and was court-martialled; acquitted in 1782, he again retired
to Virginia, and subsequently in 1800 removed to New York, having first emancipated and provided
for his slaves (1728-1806).

GATESHEAD (86), an English town, situated on the Tyne, on N. border of Durham; it is united
to Newcastle by three bridges spanning the river; it contains some handsome and interesting
buildings, besides extensive iron-works, foundries, soap, glass, and chemical manufactories;
it was here Defoe lived when he wrote "Robinson Crusoe."

GATH, Goliath's town, a city of the Philistines, on a cliff 12 m. NE. of Ashdod.

GATLING, RICHARD JORDAN, the inventor of the Gatling gun, born in Hertford County, N. Carolina,
U.S.; he was bred to and graduated in medicine, but in 1849 settled in Indianapolis and engaged
in land and railway speculation; his famous machine-gun, capable of firing 1200 shots a minute,
was brought out in 1861; another invention of his is a steam-plough; b. 1818.

GATTY, MRS., writer of tales for young people, "Parables from Nature," and editor of Aunt Judy's
Magazine; daughter of the chaplain of the Victory, Nelson's ship at Trafalgar, in whose arms
Nelson breathed his last (1809-1873).

GAUCHOS, a name bestowed upon the natives of the pampas of S. America; they are of Indo-Spanish
descent, and are chiefly engaged in pastoral pursuits, herding cattle, &c.; they are dexterous
horsemen, and are courteous and hospitable; the wide-brimmed sombrero and loose poncho are
characteristic articles of their dress.

GAUDEN, JOHN, bishop of Worcester; protested against the trial of Charles I., and after his
execution published "EIKON BASILIKË" (q. v.), or the "Portraiture of his Sacred Majesty in
his Solitude and Sufferings," which he declared was written by him (1605-1669).

GAUL, the name the ancients gave to two distinct regions, the one CISALPINE GAUL, on the Roman
side of the Alps, embracing the N. of Italy, as long inhabited by Gallic tribes; and the other
TRANSALPINE GAUL, beyond the Alps from Rome, and extending from the Alps to the Pyrenees, from
the ocean to the Rhine, inhabited by different races; subdued by Julius Cæsar 58-50 B.C., and
divided by Augustus into four provinces.

GAUNT, JOHN OF, Duke of Lancaster, third son of Edward III., born at Ghent, who in 1362 succeeded
to the estates of his father-in-law, the Duke of Lancaster; having in 1372 married, as his
second wife, the daughter of the king of Castile, he made an unsuccessful attempt to seize
the Castilian throne; in the later years of Edward III.'s reign he took an active part in public
affairs, and by his opposition to the national party and overbearing conduct towards the Commons
made himself obnoxious to the people; for selfish motives he for a time supported Wycliffe,
but in 1381 the Peasant Revolt drove him into Scotland; in 1386 he made another ineffectual
attempt to gain the crown of Castile; in his later years he was engaged in various embassies
in France (1339-1399).

GAUR or LAKHNAUTI, the ancient capital of Bengal, now in ruins, but with Hindu remains of exceptional
interest, is situated 4 m. S. of Malda, between the rivers Ganges and Mahananda; the city is
believed to have been founded in the 11th century; it fell into decay after the Mogul conquest
in 1575, but pestilence and the deflection of the Ganges into a new channel accelerated its fate.

GAUSS, KARL FRIEDRICH, a celebrated German mathematician and astronomer, born at Brunswick;
was director of the observatory at Göttingen for 40 years; was equally great on theory of numbers
and practice of calculation; he made important discoveries in magnetism, and was pronounced
by Laplace the greatest mathematician in Europe (1775-1855).

GAUTAMA, the name of the family Buddha belonged to, a Rajput clan which at the time of his
birth was settled on the banks on the Rohini, a small affluent of the Gogra, about 137 m. N.
of Benares.

GAUTIER, THÉOPHILE, a distinguished French poet, novelist, and critic, born at Tarbes; began
life as a painter, but turning to literature soon attracted the attention of Sainte-Beuve by
some studies in the old French authors; by-and-by he came under the influence of Victor Hugo,
and in 1830 started his career as a poet by the publication of "Albertus," five years after
which appeared his famous novel "Mademoiselle de Maupin"; for many years he was engaged in
the work of art criticism for the Paris newspapers, and those of his critiques dealing with
the drama have been republished, and fill six vols.; both as poet and novelist his works have
been numerous, and several delightful books of travel in Spain, Turkey, Algeria, &c., have
come from his pen; as a literary artist Gautier has few equals to-day in France, but his work
is marred by a lax and paradoxical philosophy of life, which has, by his more enthusiastic
admirers, been elevated into a "cult" (1811-1872).

GAUTIER AND GARGUILLE, all the world and his wife.

GAVARNI, PAUL, the nom de plume of Sulpice Guillaume Chevalier, caricaturist, born in Paris;
began life as an engineer's draughtsman, but soon turned his attention to his proper vocation
as a cartoonist; most of his best work appeared in Le Charivari, but some of his bitterest
and most earnest pictures, the fruit of a visit to London, appeared in L'Illustration; he also
illustrated Balzac's novels, and Sue's "Wandering Jew" (1801-1866).

GAVAZZI, ALESSANDRO, an Italian anti-papal agitator, born at Bologna; admitted into the order
of Barnabite monks; he became professor of Rhetoric at Naples; one of the most energetic supporters
of Pius IX. in his liberal policy, he afterwards withdrew his allegiance; joined the Revolution
of 1848, and ultimately fled to England on the occupation of Rome by the French; as an anti-papal
lecturer he showed considerable oratorical powers; delivered addresses in Italian in England
and Scotland against the papacy, which were received with enthusiasm, although in Canada they
led to riots; he was taken by some for an Italian Knox; "God help them," exclaimed Carlyle,
who regarded him as a mere wind-bag (1809-1889).

GAVELKIND, descent of property to all the sons alike, the oldest to have the horse and arms
and the youngest the homestead.

GAWAIN, SIR, one of the Knights of the Round Table, King Arthur's nephew; celebrated for his
courtesy and physical strength.

GAY, JOHN, an English poet, born at Barnstaple the same year as Pope, a friend of his, to whom
he dedicated his "Rural Sports"; was the author of a series of "Fables" and the "Beggar's Opera,"
a piece which was received with great enthusiasm, and had a run of 63 nights, but which gave
offence at Court, though it brought him the patronage of the Duke and Duchess of Queensberry,
with whom he went to reside, and tinder whose roof he died; was buried in Westminster (1688-1732).

GAYA (80), chief town of a district of the same name in Bengal, on the Phalgu, 57 m. S. of
Patna; it is a great centre of pilgrimage for Hindus, and has associations with Buddha; 100,000
pilgrims visit it annually.

GAY-LUSSAC, LOUIS JOSEPH, French chemist and physicist, born at St. Leonard, Haute-Vienne;
at the Polytechnic School, Paris, his abilities attracted the attention of BERTHOLLET (q. v.),
who appointed him his assistant in the government chemical works at Arcueil; here he assiduously
employed himself in chemical and physical research, in connection with which he made two balloon
ascents; in 1809 he became professor of Chemistry at the Paris Polytechnic School; in 1832
was elected to a similar chair at the Jardin des Plantes; seven years later was created a peer
of France, while in 1829 he became chief assayer to the Mint; his name is associated with many
notable discoveries in chemistry and physics, e. g. the law of volumes, isolation of cyanogen,
&c. (1778-1850).

GAZA, a Philistine town, the gates of which Samson carried off by night; situated on a mound
at the edge of the desert, 5 m. from the sea, a considerable place to this day.

GAZETTE THE, an official newspaper in which government and legal notices are published, issued
on Tuesdays and Fridays; originally a Venetian newspaper, the first of the kind so called as
issued for a farthing.

GEBIR or GEBER, the name under which several works on alchemy and chemistry were written by
Jabir ihn Haijan, an Arabic alchemist of the 8th century; his birthplace is unknown, but he
is said to have lived at Damascus and Kufa.

GED, WILLIAM, the inventor of stereotyping, born in Edinburgh, where he carried on business
as a goldsmith; he endeavoured to push his new process of printing in London by joining in
partnership with a capitalist, but, disappointed in his workmen and his partner, he returned
despondent to Edinburgh; an edition of Sallust and two prayer-books (for Cambridge) were stereotyped
by him (1699-1749).

GEDDES, ALEXANDER, biblical scholar, born at Arradowl, Banffshire; was trained for the Catholic
Church, and after prosecuting his studies at Paris was appointed to the charge of a Catholic
congregation at Auchinhalrig; ten years later he was deposed for heresy, and removing to London
took to literary work; his most notable performance is his unfinished translation of the Scriptures,
and the notes appended, in which he reveals a very pronounced rationalistic conception of holy
writ; this work, which anticipated the views of such men as Eichhorn and Paulus, lost him his
status as a priest, although to the end he professed a sincere belief in Christianity; he was
the author of volumes of poems, &c. (1737-1802).

GEDDES, JENNY, an Edinburgh worthy who on 23rd July 1637 immortalised herself by throwing her
stool at the head of Laud's bishop as he proceeded from the desk of St. Giles's in the city
to read the Collect for the day, exclaiming as she did so, "Deil colic the wame o' thee, fause
loon, would you say Mass at my lug," which was followed by great uproar, and a shout, "A Pape,
a Pape; stane him"; "a daring feat, and a great," thinks Carlyle, "the first act of an audacity
which ended with the beheading of the king."

GEEFS, GUILLAUME, Belgian sculptor, born at Antwerp; executed a colossal work at Brussels,
"Victims of the Revolution," and numerous statues and busts as well as imaginative productions;
had two brothers distinguished also as sculptors (1806-1860).

GEELONG (24), a prettily laid out city of Victoria, on Corio Bay, 45 m. SW. of Melbourne. The
gold discoveries of 1851 gave a stimulus to the town, which is now a busy centre of the wool
trade, and has tanneries and paper works, &c. The harbourage is excellent, and in summer the
town is a favourite resort as a watering-place.

GEFLE (25), a seaport, and the third commercial town in Sweden; capital of the län of Gefleborg;
is situated on an inlet of the Gulf of Bothnia, midway between Fahlun and Upsala; has an interesting
old castle, a school of navigation, and, since a destructive fire in 1869, has been largely
rebuilt.

GEHENNA, the valley of Hinnom, on the S. of Jerusalem, with TOPHET (q. v.) at its eastern end;
became the symbol of hell from the fires kept burning in it night and day to consume the poisonous
gases of the offal accumulated in it.

GEHENNA BAILIFFS, ministers of hell's justice, whose function is to see to and enforce the
rights of hell.

GEIBEL, EMANUEL VON, a celebrated German poet, born at Lübeck; was professor of Æsthetics at
Münich; the tender, sentimental passion that breathed in his poetry procured for him a wide-spread
popularity, especially among women (1815-1884).

GEIGER, ABRAHAM, an eminent Hebrew scholar and Rabbi, born at Frankfort-on-the-Main, and editor
of the Zeitschrift für jüdische Theologie; strove hard to break down the barrier of Jewish
exclusiveness (1810-1874).

GEIJER, ERIK GUSTAV, great Swedish historian, born in Vermland; held a post in the Record Office,
Stockholm; was a poet as well as a historian, his principal work being "History of the Swedish
People" (1783-1847).

GEIKIE, SIR ARCHIBALD, geologist, born at Edinburgh; at the age of 20 he joined the Geological
Survey of Scotland, and in 1867 became director; in 1870 he became Murchison professor of Geology
at Edinburgh, and in 1881 was appointed chief director of the Geological Survey of Great Britain;
in 1801 he was knighted, and from 1892 to 1893 was President of the British Association; he
is the author of various works on geology, written with great lucidity, as well as essays much
appreciated; b. 1835.

GEIKIE, JAMES, geologist, brother of the preceding, born at Edinburgh; in 1882, after serving
21 years in the Geological Survey of Scotland, he succeeded his brother in the chair of Geology
at Edinburgh; his principal work as a scientist is "The Great Ice Age"; his literary sympathies
appear in his admirable volume of translations of, "Songs and Lyrics of Heine"; b. 1839.

GEÏLER VON KAISERBERG, JOHANN, a famous German pulpit orator, born at Schaffhausen; Strasburg
was the principal scene of his labours; his writings, though numerous, are rare, among them
the "Narrenschiff, or Ship of Fools" (1453-1510).

GELASIUS I., ST., Pope from 492 to 496; a vigorous man and strong assertor of the supremacy
of the chair of St. Peter; G. II., also Pope from 1118 to 1119.

GELL, SIR WILLIAM, archæologist, born at Hopton, Derbyshire; after graduating at Cambridge
was elected to a Fellowship at Emmanuel College; his passion for classical antiquities led
him latterly to settle in Italy, which bore fruit in various valuable works on the topography
and antiquities of Troy, Pompeii, Rome, Attica, &c.; he had for some time previously been chamberlain
to Queen Caroline, and appeared as a witness at her trial (1777-1836).

GELLERT or KILLHART, a famous dog which figures in Welsh tradition of the 13th century, and
whose devotion and sad death are celebrated in a fine ballad written by the Hon. William Robert
Spencer (1796-1834). The story is as follows: Prince Llewellyn on returning one day from the
chase discovered the cradle of his child overturned and blood-stains on the floor. Immediately
concluding that Gellert, whom he had left in charge of the child, had been the culprit, he
plunged his sword into the breast of the dog and laid it dead. Too late he found his child
safe hidden in the blankets, and by its side the dead body of an enormous wolf. Gellert's tomb
is still pointed out in the village of Beddgelert on the S. of Snowdon. A story similar even
to details is current in the traditionary lore of many other lands.

GELLERT, CHRISTIAN, a German poet, fabulist, and moralist, born in Saxony; professor of Philosophy
at Leipzig; distinguished for the influence of his character and writings on the literature
of the period in Germany, in the effect of it culminating in the literature of Schiller and
Goethe; Frederick the Great, who had an interview with him, pronounced him the most rational
of German professors (1715-1769).

GELLUS, AULUS, a Latin grammarian, born at Rome; author of "Noctes Atticæ," a miscellany professing
to have been composed in a country house near Athens during winter nights, and ranging confusedly
over topics of all kinds, interesting as abounding in extracts from ancient writings no longer
extant.

GELON, tyrant of Syracuse from 484 to 478 B.C.; rose from the ranks, gained a victory in 480
B.C. on the day of the battle of Salamis over a large host of Carthaginians who had invaded
Sicily; d. 478 B.C., leaving behind him an honoured memory.

GEMARA, the second part of the Talmud, being a body of notes, comments, &c. on the Mishna or text.

GEMINI, the Twins, two stars in the southern hemisphere named Castor and Pollux; also the name
of a sign of the zodiac.

GENDARMES (i. e. men-at-arms), a military police in France organised since the Revolution,
and charged with maintaining the public safety. The gendarmerie is considered a part of the
regular army, and is divided into legions and companies; but the pay is better than that of
an ordinary soldier. In the 14th and 15th centuries the name was applied to the heavy French
cavalry, and later to the royal bodyguard of the Bourbons.

GENESIS, the first book in the Bible, so called in the Septuagint, as containing an account
of the origin of the world, of the human family, and of the Jewish race; a book of the oldest
date possessing any human interest.

GENEVA: 1. The smallest canton (106) of Switzerland, situated at the western extremity of the
lake of the name; the surface is hilly, but not mountainous, and is watered by the Rhône and
Arve; the soil is unfertile, but the patient industry of the inhabitants has made it fruitful;
the cultivation of the vine, fruit-growing, and the manufacture of watches, &c., are the chief
industries; 85 per cent, of the people speak French. 2. Capital (78) of the canton, occupies
a splendid geographical position at the south-western end of the lake, at the exit of the Rhône;
the town existed in Cæsar's time, and after being subject in turn to Rome and Burgundy, ere
long won its independence in conjunction with Bern and Freiburg. In Calvin's time it became
a centre of Protestantism, and its history, down to the time of its annexation by Napoleon
in 1798, is mainly occupied with the struggles between the oligarchical and democratic factions.
On the overthrow of Napoleon it joined the Swiss Confederation. Since 1847 the town has been
largely rebuilt, and handsomely laid out. Among many fine buildings are the Transition Cathedral
of St. Peter (1124), the Academy founded by Calvin and others. The Rhône flows through it,
and compasses an island which forms part of the city. It has many literary and historical associations,
and was the birthplace of Rousseau.

GENEVA, LAKE OF, or LAKE LEMAN, stretches in crescent shape between Switzerland and France,
curving round the northern border of the French department of Haute-Savoie; length, 45 m.;
greatest breadth, 9 m.; maximum depth, 1022 ft. On the French side precipitous rocks descend
to the water's edge, and contrast with the wooded slopes of the north. The water is of a deep-blue
colour; many streams flow into it, notably the Rhône, which flows out at Geneva.

GENEVIÈVE, the patron saint of Paris, born at Nanterre; by her prayer the city, then called
LUTETIA (q. v.) was saved from the ravages of Attila (422-512) and his Huns.

GENGHIS KHAN (i. e. Very Mighty Ruler), a celebrated Mongol conqueror, born near Lake Baikal,
the son of a Mongol chief; his career as a soldier began at the age of 13, an age at which
he boldly assumed the reins of government in succession to his father; by his military skill
and daring example he gradually raised his people to a position of supremacy in Asia, and established
by means of them a kingdom which, at his death, stretched from the Volga to the Pacific, and
from Siberia to the Persian Gulf; he regarded himself as commissioned by Heaven to conquer
the world, a destiny which he almost fulfilled (1162-1227).

GENLIS, STEPHANIE FÉLICITÉ, COMTESSE DE, a celebrated French novelist, born at Champceri, near
Autun, Burgundy; at the age of 16 she was married to the Comte de Genlis, who eventually fell
a victim to the fury of the Revolution; in 1770 she was a lady-in-waiting to the Duchesse de
Chartres, and 12 years later became governess to the children of the Duc d'Orléans, amongst
whom was the future king of the French, Louis-Philippe; the Revolution drove her to Switzerland,
but on the elevation of Napoleon she returned to Paris, and received from him a pension, which
continued to be paid her even under the restored Bourbon dynasty: she was a voluminous writer
of moral tales, comedies, &c., and her works amount to about 90 vols., among them the celebrated
"Mémoirs" of her life and times; she was ill-natured, and in her "Memoirs" inaccurate, as well
as prejudiced (1746-1830).

GEN`OA (138), a city and chief commercial seaport of Italy, built at the foot of the Apennines
as they slope down to the gulf of the name. The encircling hills behind, which are strongly
fortified, form a fine background to the picturesquely laid-out city. There is excellent harbourage
for the extensive shipping, and an active export and import trade is carried on. In the city
are iron-works, cotton and cloth mills, match factories, &c.; the streets are narrow and irregular,
but many of the buildings, especially the ducal palaces and the cathedral, are of great historical
and architectural interest; there is an excellent university, a public library, and an Academy
of Fine Arts; Columbus was born here.

GENRE PAINTING, name given to paintings embracing figures as they appear in ordinary life and
in ordinary situations.

GENS, the name among the Romans for what we understand by the word clan as consisting of families.

GENS BRACCATA, the Gauls, from wearing braccæ or breeches.

GENS TOGATA, the Roman, from wearing the TOGA (q. v.) as their distinguishing dress.

GEN`SERIC, king of the Vandals, son of Godigiselus, founder of the Vandal kingdom in Spain,
and bastard brother of Gunderic, whom he succeeded in A.D. 429; from Spain he crossed to Africa,
and in conjunction with the Moors added to his kingdom the land lying W. of Carthage, ultimately
gaining possession of Carthage itself; he next set himself to organise a naval force, with
which he systematically from year to year pillaged Spain, Italy, Greece, and the opposite lands
of Asia Minor, sacking Rome in 455; until his death in 477 he continued master of the seas,
despite strenuous efforts of the Roman emperors to crush his power.

GENTILLY, a southern suburb of Paris, once a village beyond the fortifications.

GENTLE SHEPHERD, a famous pastoral by Allan Ramsay, with some happy descriptive scenes and
a pleasant delineation of manners, published in 1723.

GENTLE SHEPHERD, a nickname George Grenville bore from a retort of the elder Pitt one day in
Parliament.

GENTLEMEN-AT-ARMS, next to the yeomen of the guard the oldest corps in the British army, is
the bodyguard of the sovereign; was formed by Henry VIII. in 1509; now consists of a captain,
lieutenant, standard-bearer, adjutant, and 40 members, whose duties are limited to attendance
at State ceremonies.

GENTZ, FRIEDRICH VON, German politician and author, born at Breslau; while in the Prussian
civil service he warmly sympathised with the French Revolution, but his zeal was greatly modified
by perusal of Burke's "Reflections," a treatise he subsequently translated, and in 1802 entered
the Austrian public service; in the capacity of a political writer he bitterly opposed Napoleon,
but for other purposes his pen and support were at the service of the highest bidder; he was
secretary at the Congress of Vienna, and held a similar post in many of the subsequent congresses
(1764-1832).

GEOFFREY OF MONMOUTH, a celebrated chronicler and ecclesiastic of the 12th century, born in
Monmouth, where he was educated in a Benedictine monastery; in 1152 he was made bishop of St.
Asaph; his Latin "Chronicon sive Historia Britonum" contains a circumstantial account of British
history compiled from Gildas, Nennius, and other early chroniclers, interwoven with current
legends and pieced together with additions from his own fertile imagination, the whole professing
to be a translation of a chronicle found in Brittany; this remarkable history is the source
of the stories of King Lear, Cymbeline, Merlin, and of Arthur and his knights as they have
since taken shape in English literature; d. about 1154.

GEOFFREY SAINT-HILAIRE, ÉTIENNE, zoologist and biologist, born at Étampes; he was educated
for the Church, but while studying theology at Paris his love for natural science was awakened,
and the study of it henceforth became the ruling passion of his life; was made professor of
Zoology in the Museum of Natural History in Paris; accompanied Napoleon to Egypt as a member
of the scientific commission, and returned with rich collections, while his labours were rewarded
by his election to the Academy of Sciences; a scientific mission to Portugal in 1808 next engaged
him, and a year later he was nominated to the chair of Zoology in the Faculty of Sciences at
Paris; the main object of his scientific writing was to establish, in opposition to the theories
of his friend Cuvier, his conception of a grand unity of plan pervading the whole organic kingdom
(1772-1844).

GEOFFRIN, MARIE THÉRÈSE, a French patroness of letters, born at Paris, the daughter of a valet-de-chambre;
in her fifteenth year she married a wealthy merchant, whose immense fortune she inherited;
her love of letters--which she cherished, though but poorly educated herself--and her liberality
soon made her salon the most celebrated in Paris; the encyclopédists, Diderot, D'Alembert,
and Marmontel, received from her a liberal encouragement in their great undertaking; Walpole,
Hume, and Gibbon were among her friends; and Stanislas Poniatowsky, who became king of Poland,
acknowledged her generosity to him by styling himself her son and welcoming her royally to
his kingdom (1699-1777).

GEORGE I., king of Great Britain from 1714 to 1727, and first of the Hanoverian line; son of
Ernest Augustus, Elector of Hanover, and of Sophia, granddaughter of James I. of England; born
in Hanover; in 1682 he married his cousin, the Princess Sophia Dorothea of Zell, and in 1698
became Elector of Hanover; he co-operated actively with Marlborough in opposing the schemes
of Louis XIV., and commanded the Imperial forces; in accordance with the Act of Settlement,
he succeeded to the English throne on the death of Queen Anne; his ignorance of English prevented
him taking part in Cabinet councils, a circumstance which had important results in the growth
of constitutional government, and the management of public affairs during his reign devolved
chiefly upon Sir Robert Walpole; the abortive Jacobite rising of 1715, the South Sea Bubble
(1720), and the institution of Septennial Parliaments (1716), are among the main events of
his reign; in 1694 he divorced his wife on account of an amour with Count Königsmark, and kept
her imprisoned abroad till her death in 1724, while he himself during these years lived in
open profligacy with his mistresses (1660-1727).

GEORGE II., king of Great Britain from 1727 to 1760, and Elector of Hanover, born in Hanover,
son of preceding; in 1705 he married Caroline of Anspach, and in 1714 was declared Prince of
Wales; he joined his father in the struggle with Louis XIV., and distinguished himself on the
side of the Allies at the battle of Oudenarde; the period of his reign is one of considerable
importance in English history; Walpole and subsequently Pitt were the great ministers of the
age; war was waged against Spain and France; the last Jacobite rising was crushed at Culloden
(1746); English power was established in Canada by the brilliant victory of Wolfe at Quebec
(1759); an empire was won in India by Clive; the victory of Minden (1759) was gained in the
Seven Years' War; Methodism sprang up under Wesley and Whitfield; while a great development
in literature and art took place; against these, however, must be set the doubling of the National
Debt, mainly due to the Seven Years' War, and a defeat by the French at Fontenoy (1745) (1683-1760).

GEORGE III., king of Great Britain from 1760 to 1820, and king of Hanover (Elector from 1760
to 1815), eldest son of Frederick Lewis, Prince of Wales, and grandson of preceding, born in
London; in 1761 he married Princess Charlotte Sophia of Mecklenburg-Strelitz, by whom he had
fifteen children; more English in sentiment and education than his two predecessors, George's
main interest was centred in his English kingdom, and never during his long life did he once
set foot in his Hanoverian possessions; the purity of his domestic life, his devotion to England,
and the pathos attaching to his frequent fits of insanity, won him the affections of his people,
an affection, however, sorely tried by his obstinate blundering; the 60 years of his reign
present a succession of domestic episodes, far-reaching in their consequences to England and
to the civilised world; the conclusion of the Seven Years' War left England predominant in
North America, and with increased colonial possessions in the West Indies, &c., but under the
ill-guided and obstinate policy of Lord North she suffered the loss of her American colonies,
an event which also involved her in war with France and Spain; in 1787 the famous trial of
WARREN HASTINGS (q. v.) began, and two years later came the French Revolution; the great struggle
with Napoleon followed, and gave occasion for the brilliant achievements of Nelson and Wellington;
during these long years of war the commercial prosperity of England never slackened, but through
the inventions of Hargreaves, Arkwright, and Compton increased by leaps and bounds; freedom
of the press was won by Wilkes; and in 1802 the union with Ireland took place; the majestic
figure of Pitt stands out amidst a company of brilliant politicians that included Burke and
Fox and Sheridan; literature is represented by a line of brilliant writers that stretches from
Johnson to Keats, and includes the names of Burns, Cowper, Shelley, and Byron (1738-1820).

GEORGE IV., king of Great Britain and of Hanover from 1820 to 1830, eldest son of the preceding,
born in London; in consequence of his father's insanity he became Regent in 1810; a tendency
to profligacy early displayed itself in an intrigue with Mrs. Robinson, an actress; and two
years afterwards in defiance of the Royal Marriage Act he secretly married MRS. FITZHERBERT
(q. v.), a Roman Catholic; in 1795 he publicly espoused Princess Caroline of Brunswick, whom
later he endeavoured to divorce; a Burmese War (1823), the victory of Admiral Codrington at
Navarino (1827), the Repeal of the Test and Corporation Acts (1828), and the passing of the
Catholic Emancipation Bill (1829), were occurrences of some importance in an uneventful reign
(1762-1830).

GEORGE I., king of Greece, son of King Christian of Denmark, and brother of the Princess of
Wales; became king of Greece in 1864; b. 1845.

GEORGE, HENRY, an American writer on social and economic questions, born in Philadelphia; he
first tried life on the sea, but in 1858 settled in California as a printer, and there married;
in course of time he took to journalism, became an editor, and zealously addressed himself
to the discussion of public affairs; his peculiar views on the question of land reform were
set forth in "Our Land and Land Policy," published in 1870, and nine years later appeared his
more famous and widely popular work "Progress and Poverty," in which he promulgated the theory
that to the increase in economic rent and land values is due the lack of increase in wages
and interest which the increased productive power of modern times should have ensured; he proposed
the levying of a tax on land so as to appropriate economic rent to public uses, and the abolition
of all taxes falling upon industry and thrift; he lectured in Great Britain and Ireland, Australia,
&c.; in 1887 founded the Standard paper in New York; he died during his candidature for the
mayoralty of Greater New York (1839-1897).

GEORGE, ST., the patron saint of chivalry and of England; adopted as such in the reign of Edward
III.; believed to have been born in Armorica, and to have suffered martyrdom under Diocletian
in A.D. 303; he is represented as mounted on horseback and slaying a DRAGON (q. v.), conceived
as an incarnation of the evil one.

GEORGETOWN: 1 (53), capital of British Guiana, at the mouth of the Demerara River; is the see
of an Anglican bishop; is neatly laid out, and has some handsome buildings, but is considered
unhealthy; the staple industries are sugar and coffee. 2 (14), a port of entry in the District
of Columbia, on the Potomac, 2 m. NW. of Washington; is a terminus of the Chesapeake and Ohio
Canal.

GEORGIA: 1 (1,837), one of the 13 original States of the American Union, lies to the S., fronting
the Atlantic between Florida and S. Carolina; is divided into 136 counties, Atlanta being the
capital and Savannah the chief port; it is well watered with rivers; is low and swampy for
some miles inland, but it rises into plateaux in the interior, and the Appalachians and Blue
Mountains intersect it in the NW.; excellent crops of wheat and fruit are grown among the hills,
rice in the lowlands, while immense quantities of cotton are raised on the islands skirting
the coast; the vast forests of pitch-pine supply an increasing lumber trade; the mountain lands
are rich in minerals; the State was named after George II. in 1733 by the founder, James Oglethorpe.
2, The former name of an independent kingdom, which extended along the southern slopes of the
Caucasus, and which, since the beginning of the century, has belonged to Russia under the name
of Gruzia, and now forms the central portion of Russian Transcaucasia; the Georgians number
at present about a million; they are a people of splendid physique, whose history reaches back
to the time of Alexander the Great, and who attained their zenith in the 12th century; subsequently
they suffered from Persian and Turkish invasion, and eventually, as we have said, fell into
the hands of Russia; at present there is a Georgian literature growing, especially in Tiflis,
if that is any sign of advance.

GERA (30), a thriving city on the White Elster, 35 m. SW. of Leipzig; has broad streets and
fine buildings, with a castle; chief manufactures woollen.

GERAINT, SIR, one of the Knights of the Round Table, the husband of Enid, whose fidelity he
for a time distrusted, but who proved herself a true wife by the care with which she nursed
him when he was wounded.

GÉRARD, ÉTIENNE MAURICE, COMTE, marshal of France, born at Damvillers, Lorraine; in 1791 he
entered the army and fought under Bernadotte in various campaigns; at Austerlitz he won his
brigade, and subsequently fought at Jena, Erfurt, and Wagram; he joined Napoleon after his
flight from Elba, and was wounded at Wavre; on the downfall of the Emperor he quitted France,
but returned in 1817; in 1822 he was elected to the Chamber of Deputies, and in 1831 assisted
in driving the Dutch out of Flanders; he was War Minister under Louis Philippe (1773-1855).

GÉRARD, FRANÇOIS PASCAL SIMON, BARON, painter, born at Rome, of French and Italian parentage;
came to Paris when a youth, where he studied painting under David; in 1795 his "Blind Belisarius"
brought him to the front, whilst subsequent work as a portrait-painter raised him above all
his contemporaries; his masterpiece, "Entry of Henri IV. into Paris," brought him a barony
at the hands of Louis XVIII.; his historical paintings, characterised by minute accuracy of
detail, include "Napoleon in his Coronation Robes," "Battle of Austerlitz," &c. (1770-1837).

GERHARDT, KARL FRIEDRICH, chemist, born at Strasburg; after a training at Carlsruhe and Leipzig,
worked in Liebig's laboratory at Giessen; in 1838 he began lecturing in Paris, and made experiments
along with Cahours on essential oils, which bore fruit in an important treatise; in 1844 he
received the chair of Chemistry at Montpellier, but returned to Paris four years later; there
he matured and published his theories of types, homologous series, &c., which have greatly
influenced the science of chemistry; in 1855 he became professor of Chemistry in Strasburg
(1816-1856).

GERHARDT, PAUL, a celebrated German hymn-writer of the Lutheran Church, born at Gräfenhainichen,
in Saxony; in 1657 he became dean of St. Nicholas in Berlin, an appointment he held till 1666,
when he was deposed for his embittered opposition to the union of the Lutheran and Reformed
Churches; he was subsequently pastor at Lübben; his hymns, 123 in number, rank amongst the
finest of their class (1607-1676).

GERIZZIM, a mountain of 2848 ft. in height in the S. of the valley of Shechem, opposite EBAL
(q. v.), and from the slopes of which the blessings were responded to by half the tribes of
Israel on their arrival in Canaan (Josh. viii. 30-35); the Samaritans erected a temple on this
mountain, ruins of which still remain.

GERM THEORY, the doctrine that certain diseases are due to fermentation caused by the presence
of germs in the system in the form of minute organisms called bacteria.

GERMAN CATHOLICS, a sect formed in 1844 by secession from the Catholic Church of Germany, under
the leadership of Johann Ronge, on account of the mummery under papal patronage connected with
the exhibition of the Holy Coat of Trèves and the superstitious influence ascribed to it.

GERMAN VOLTAIRE, name given sometimes to Wieland and sometimes, but less appropriately, to Goethe.

GERMANICUS, CÆSAR, Roman general, son of Nero Claudius Drusus and Antonia, daughter of Mark
Antony; he served with distinction under his uncle Tiberius in Dalmatia and Pannonia; was awarded
a triumph, and in A.D. 12 was elected consul; his success and popularity as leader of the army
on the Rhine provoked the jealousy of Tiberius, who transferred him to the East, where he subsequently
died; his son Caligula succeeded Tiberius on the imperial throne (15 B.C.-A.D. 19).

GERMANY (49,428), constituted an empire in 1871, occupies a commanding position in Central
Europe, and stretches from Switzerland in the S. to the German Ocean and Baltic Sea on the
N.; Austria lies to the SE., Russia to the NE., while France, Belgium, and the Netherlands
flank the W.; is made up of 26 States of widely varying size and importance, comprising four
kingdoms (of which Prussia is by far the largest and most influential), six grand-duchies,
five duchies, seven principalities, three free towns (Lübeck, Bremen, Hamburg), and one imperial
province, Alsace-Lorraine; the main physical divisions are (1) the great lowland plain stretching
from the centre to the Baltic and North Sea, well watered by the Ems, Weser, Elbe, Oder, Vistula,
and their tributaries, in which, bating large sandy tracts, agriculture employs a large class,
and cereals, tobacco, and beetroot are raised; (2) the mountainous district, in the interior
of which the Fichtelgebirge is the central knot, in which vast forests abound, and rich deposits
of coal, fire-clays, iron, and other metals are worked, giving rise to iron-works and potteries;
(3) the basin of the Rhine, on the W., where the vine is largely cultivated, and extensive
manufactures of silks, cottons, and hardware are carried on; fine porcelain comes from Saxony
and vast quantities of beer from Bavaria; Westphalia is the centre of the steel and iron works;
throughout Germany there are 26,000 m. of railway line (chiefly State railways), 57,000 m.
of telegraph line, while excellent roads, canals, and navigable rivers facilitate communication;
65 per cent. of the people are Protestants; education is compulsory and more highly developed
than in any other European country; the energies of the increasing population have in recent
years found scope for their action in their growing colonial possessions; the military system
imposes upon every German a term of seven years' service, three in active service, and the
remainder in the reserve, and till his forty-sixth year he is liable to be called out on any
great emergency; under the emperor the government is carried on by a Federal Council, the members
of which are appointed by the governments of the various estates, and the Reichstag, elected
by universal suffrage and ballot for three years.

GÉRÔME, LÉON, a celebrated French painter, born at Vésoul; he studied at Paris under Paul Delaroche,
with whom he subsequently travelled in Italy; he travelled in the East and familiarised himself
with Eastern scenes; in 1863 he was appointed professor of Painting in the Paris School of
Fine Arts; among his most famous pictures, all characterised by vivid colouring and strong
dramatic effect, are "The Age of Augustus and the Birth of Christ," "Roman Gladiators in the
Amphitheatre," "Cleopatra and Cæsar," &c.; b. 1824.

GERRY, ELBRIDGE, American statesman, born in Marblehead, Mass.; in 1773, eight years after
graduating at Harvard, he was elected to the Massachusetts Assembly, and in 1789 to the first
National Congress; as envoy to France in 1797 he assisted in establishing diplomatic relations
with that country, and after his recall in 1810 was chosen governor of his native State; during
his tenancy of this office, by an unfair redistribution of the electoral districts in the State
he gave undue advantage to his own political party, a proceeding which led to the coining of
the word "gerrymandering"; subsequently he held office as Vice-President of the Republic (1744-1814).

GERSON, JOHN CHARLIER DE, an eminent ecclesiastical scholar, born at Gerson, in the diocese
of Rheims; in 1395 he became chancellor of his old university at Paris, and earned in that
office a high reputation for learning, becoming known as Doctor Christianissimus; he was a
prominent member of the councils of Pisa and Constance, advocating, as a remedy for the Western
Schism, the resignation of the rival Popes; in consequence of his denunciation of the Duke
of Burgundy for the murder of the Duke of Orleans he was forced to become a refugee in Germany
for some time, but finally retired into the monastery of Lyons; his various works reveal an
intellect of keen intelligence, but somewhat tinged with a cloudy mysticism (1363-1429).

GERSTÄCKER, FRIEDRICH, German author and traveller, born in Hamburg; when 21 he emigrated to
New York, and for six years led a wandering life in different parts of America, working the
while now at one occupation now at another, a narrative of which he published on his return
to Germany; in 1849 he undertook a journey round the world which occupied him three years;
in 1860-61 he crossed S. America; in 1862 he was in Africa with Duke Ernst of Gotha, and in
1863 in Central America; his many writings, descriptive of these countries, exhibit a fresh
and graphic style, and have had a wide popularity; he is the author also of several thrilling
stories (1816-1872).

GERVASE OF TILBURY, a mediæval historical writer, born at Tilbury, in Essex; said to have been
a nephew of King Henry II.; he held a lectureship in Canon Law at Bologna, and through the
influence of Emperor Otto IV. was made marshal of the kingdom of Arles; he was the author of
"Otia Imperiala," a historical and geographical work; d. about 1235.

GERVINUS, GEORG GOTTFRIED, German historian and Shakespearian critic, born at Darmstadt; he
was elected to the chair of History at Göttingen in 1836, an appointment which was cancelled
the following year by his signing the protest against the abolition of the Hanoverian constitution;
in 1844 he was appointed honorary professor at Heidelberg, and subsequently contributed greatly
to the establishment of constitutional liberty in Germany by means of his writings and by founding
the Deutsche Zeitung there; in 1848 he became a member of the National Assembly, but shortly
afterwards withdrew, disgusted with the course things were taking; he now engaged in literary
studies, the fruit of which appeared in his celebrated volumes of Shakespearian criticism (1805-1871).

GERYON, a king of Erytheia (i. e. red island), on the western borders of the world, with three
bodies and three heads, who had a herd of oxen guarded by a giant shepherd and his dog, the
two-throated Orthros, which were carried off by Hercules at the behest of his fate.

GESENIUS, an eminent German Hebraist and Biblical scholar, born in Prussian Saxony, whose labours
form an epoch in the study of the Hebrew Scriptures; was 30 years professor of the language
in Halle; produced a Hebrew Grammar and Lexicon, and commentary on Isaiah on rationalistic
lines (1785-1842).

GESNER, KONRAD VON, Swiss scholar and naturalist, born at Zurich; hampered by ill-health and
poverty in his youth, he yet contrived by unremitting diligence to obtain an excellent education
at Strasburg, Bourges, and Paris; in his twenty-first year he obtained an appointment in Zurich
University, and in 1537 became professor of Greek at Lausanne; abandoning the idea he entertained
of entering the Church, he determined to adopt the medical profession instead, graduated at
Basel in 1540, and a year later went to Zurich to occupy the chair of Natural History and to
practise as a doctor; his chief works are the "Bibliotheca Universalis" (a catalogue and summary
of all Hebrew, Greek, and Latin works then known to exist), and the "Historia Animalium"; these
monuments of learning have won him the cognomen of the German Pliny (1516-1565).

GESSLER, ALBRECHT, a governor of the forest cantons of Switzerland, who figures in Swiss legend
as an oppressor who was shot as related in the tradition of Tell.

GESSNER, SALOMON, Swiss poet and artist, born at Zurich; served an apprenticeship to a bookseller
in Berlin, and after a sojourn in Hamburg returned to Zurich, where the rest of his life was
spent; he published several volumes of poetry, chiefly pastoral and of no great value; his
"Death of Abel" is his most notable performance; his paintings are mainly landscapes of a conventional
type, several of which he engraved, revealing better abilities as an engraver than as an artist
(1730-1788).

GESTA ROMANORUM (the exploits of the Romans), a collection of short didactic stories, not however
solely Roman, written in the Latin tongue, probably towards the close of the 13th century,
the authorship of which is uncertain, though it is generally recognised as of English origin;
the stories are characterised by naïve simplicity, and have served as materials for many notable
literary productions; thus Shakespeare owes to this work the plot of Pericles and the incidents
of the caskets and the pound of flesh in the "Merchant of Venice," Parnell his "Hermit," Byron
his "Three Black Crows," and Longfellow his "King Robert of Sicily."

GETHSEMANE, somewhere on the E. of Kedron, half a mile from Jerusalem, at the foot of Mount
Olivet, the scene of the Agony of Christ.

GETTYSBURG (3), a town in Pennsylvania, built on a group of hills 50 m. SW. of Harrisburg;
during the Civil War it was the scene of General Meade's famous victory over the Confederates
under General Lee on July 3, 1863.

GEYSER, fountains which from time to time, under the expansion of steam, eject columns of steam
and hot water, and which are met with in Iceland, North America, and New Zealand, of which
the most remarkable is the Great Geyser, 70 m. N. of Reikiavik, in Iceland, which ejects a
column of water to 60 ft. in height, accompanied with rumblings underground; these eruptions
will continue some 15 minutes, and they recur every few hours.

GFRÖRER, AUGUST FRIEDRICH, a learned German historian, born in the Black Forest; educated for
the Protestant ministry; in 1828, after residence at Geneva and Rome, started as a tutor of
theology, and two years later became librarian at Stuttgart; published a number of historical
works, including a "Life of Gustavus Adolphus," "Pope Gregory VII.," a "History of Primitive
Christianity," "Church History to the Fourteenth Century"; in this last work he showed a strong
leaning to Catholicism; was appointed to the chair of History in the university of Freiburg;
was elected to the Frankfort parliament, and finally openly professed the Catholic faith (1803-1861).

GHÂTS, or GHAUTS, EASTERN AND WESTERN, two mountain ranges running parallel with the E. and
W. coasts of S. India, the latter skirting the Malabar coast between 30 and 40 m. from the
sea, rising to nearly 5000 ft., and exhibiting fine mountain and forest scenery, and the former
skirting the E. of the Deccan, of which tableland it here forms the buttress, and has a much
lower mean level; the two ranges converge into one a short distance from Cape Comorin.

GHAZALI, ABU MOHAMMED AL-, Arabian philosopher, born at Tûs, Persia; in 1091 he was appointed
professor of Philosophy in Bagdad; four years later he went to Mecca, and subsequently taught
at Damascus, Jerusalem, and Alexandria; finally, he returned to his native town and there founded
a Sufic college; of his numerous philosophic and religious works the most famous is the "Destruction
of the Philosophers," in which he combats the theories and conclusions of the current Arabian
scholasticism (1058-1111).

GHAZIPUR (45), a city of India, on the Ganges, 44 m. NE. of Benares, capital of the district
of that name (1,077), in the North-West Provinces; is the head-quarters of the Government Opium
Department, and trades in rose-water, sugar, tobacco, &c.; contains the ruins of the Palace
of Forty Pillars.

GHAZNI (10), a fortified city of Afghanistan, 7726 ft. above the sea, 85 m. SW. of Cabul; it
is the chief strategical point on the military route between Kandahar and Cabul; in the 11th
and 12th centuries it was the capital of the KINGDOM OF GHAZNEVIDS, which stretched from the
plains of Delhi to the Black Sea, and which came to an end in 1186.

GHEEL (12), a town in Belgium, situated on a fertile spot in the midst of the sandy plain called
the Campine, 26 m. SE. of Antwerp; it has been for centuries celebrated as an asylum for the
insane, who (about 1300) are now boarded out among the peasants; these cottage asylums are
under government control, and the board of the patients in most cases is guaranteed.

GHENT (150), a city of Belgium, capital of East Flanders, situated at the junction of the Scheldt
and the Lys, 34 m. NW. of Brussels; rivers and canals divide it into 26 quarters, connected
by 270 bridges; in the older part are many quaint and interesting buildings, notably the cathedral
of St. Bavon (13th century); it is the first industrial city of Belgium, and is a great emporium
of the cotton, woollen, and linen trades; the floriculture is famed, and the flower-shows have
won it the name of the "City of Flowers."

GHETTO, an Italian word applied to the quarters set apart in Italian cities for the Jews, and
to which in former times they were restricted; the term is now applied to the Jews' quarters
in any city.

GHIBELLINES, a political party in Italy who, from the 11th to the 14th centuries, maintained
the supremacy of the German emperors over the Italian States in opposition to the GUELPHS (q. v.).

GHIBERTI, LORENZO, an Italian sculptor and designer, born at Florence; his first notable work
was a grand fresco in the palace of Malatesta at Rimini in 1400, but his most famous achievement,
which immortalised his name, was the execution of two doorways, with bas-relief designs, in
the baptistery at Florence; he spent 50 years at this work, and so noble were the designs and
so perfect the execution that Michael Angelo declared them fit to be the gates of Paradise
(about 1378-1455).

GHIKA, HELENA. See DORA D'ISTRIA.

GHILAN (200), a province of NW. Persia, between the SW. border of the Caspian Sea and the Elburz
Mountains; is low-lying, swampy, and unhealthy towards the Caspian, but the rising ground to
the S. is more salubrious; wild animals are numerous in the vast forests; the soil, where cleared,
is fertile and well cultivated; the Caspian fisheries are valuable; the people are of Iranian
descent, and speak a Persian dialect.

GHIRLANDAJO (i. e. Garland-maker), nickname of Domenico Curradi, an Italian painter, born at
Florence; acquired celebrity first as a designer in gold; he at 24 turned to painting, and
devoted himself to fresco and mosaic work, in which he won wide-spread fame; amongst his many
great frescoes it is enough to mention here "The Massacre of the Innocents," at Florence, and
"Christ calling Peter and Andrew," at Rome; Michael Angelo was for a time his pupil (1449-1494).

GHUZNI. See GHAZNI.

GIANTS, in the Greek mythology often confounded with, but distinct from, the TITANS (q. v.),
being a mere earthly brood of great stature and strength, who thought by their violence to
dethrone Zeus, and were with the assistance of Hercules overpowered and buried under Etna and
other volcanoes, doomed to continue their impotent grumbling there.

GIANT'S CAUSEWAY, a remarkable headland of columnar basaltic rock in North Ireland, projecting
into the North Channel from the Antrim coast at Bengore Head, 7 m. NE. of Portrush; is an unequal
surface 300 yds. long and 30 ft. wide, formed by the tops of the 40,000 closely packed, vertical
columns which rise to a height of 400 ft. The legend goes that it was the beginning of a roadway
laid down by a giant.

GIAOUR, the Turkish name for an unbeliever in the Mohammedan faith, and especially for a Christian
in that regard. (1737-1794).

GIBBONS, GRINLING, a celebrated wood-carver, born at Rotterdam, but brought up in England;
through the influence of Evelyn he obtained a post in the Board of Works, and his marvellous
skill as a wood-carver won him the patronage of Charles II., who employed him to furnish ornamental
carving for the Chapel of Windsor; much of his best work was done for the nobility, and in
many of their mansions his carving is yet extant in all its grace and finish, the ceiling of
a room at Petworth being considered his masterpiece; he also did some notable work in bronze
and marble (1648-1721).

GIBBONS, ORLANDO, an eminent English musician, composer of many exquisite anthems, madrigals,
&c., born at Cambridge; in 1604 he obtained the post of organist in the Chapel Royal, London,
and two years later received the degree of Mus. Bac. of Cambridge, while Oxford recognised
his rare merits in 1622 by creating him a Mus. Doc.; in the following year he became organist
of Westminster Abbey, and in 1625 was in official attendance at Canterbury on the occasion
of Charles I.'s marriage, but he did not live to celebrate the ceremony, for which he wrote
the music; he is considered the last and greatest of the old Church musicians of England (1583-1625).

GIBEON, a place on the northern slopes of a hill 6 or 7 m. S. of Bethel, and the spot over
which Joshua bade the sun stand still; its inhabitants, for a trick they played on the invading
Israelites, wore condemned to serve them as "hewers of wood and drawers of water."

GIBRALTAR, a promontory of rock, in the S. of Spain, about 2 m. square and over 1400 ft. in
height, connected with the mainland by a spit of sand, forming a strong fortress, with a town
(25) of the name at the foot of it on the W. side, and with the Strait of Gibraltar on the
S., which at its narrowest is 15 m. broad; the rock above the town is a network of batteries,
mounted with heavy cannon, and the town itself is a trade entrepôt for N. Africa; the rock
has been held as a stronghold by the British since 1704.

GIBSON, JOHN, sculptor, born at Gyffin, near Conway, Wales, of humble parentage; after serving
an apprenticeship to a cabinet-maker in Liverpool, he took to carving in wood and stone, and
supported by Roscoe became a pupil of Canova and afterwards of Thorwaldsen in Rome; here he
made his home and did his best work; mention may be made of "Theseus and the Robber," "Amazon
thrown from her horse," statues of George Stephenson, Peel, and Queen Victoria; in 1836 he
was elected a member of the Royal Academy (1790-1866).

GIBSON, THOMAS MILNER, politician, born at Trinidad; graduated at Cambridge; entered Parliament
in the Conservative interest, but becoming a convert to Free-Trade principles, he went over
to the Liberal ranks, and became an active and eloquent supporter of the Manchester policy;
returned for Manchester in 1841 and 1846, was made a Privy Councillor and Vice-President of
the Board of Trade; his earnest advocacy of peace at the Crimean crisis lost him his seat in
Manchester, but Ashton-under-Lyne returned him the same year; under Palmerston he was for seven
years (1859-66) President of the Board of Trade; his name is honourably associated with the
repeal of the Advertisement, Newspaper Stamp, and Paper Duties; in 1868 he retired from public
life (1806-1884).

GIDEON, one of the most eminent of the Judges of Israel, famous for his defeat of the Midianites
at Gilboa, and the peace of 40 years' duration which it ensured to the people under his rule.

GIESEBRECHT, WILHELM VON, historian, born at Berlin; was professor of History at Königsberg
and at Münich; his chief work is "Geschichte der Deutschen Kaiserzeit" (1814-1889).

GIESELER, JOHANN KARL LUDWIG, a learned Church historian, born near Minden; after quitting
Halle University adopted teaching as a profession, but in 1813 served in the war against France;
on the conclusion of the war he held educational appointments at Minden; was nominated in 1819
to the chair of Theology at Bonn, and in 1831 was appointed to a like professorship in Göttingen;
his great work is a "History of the Church" in 6 vols. (1793-1854).

GIESSEN (21), the chief town of Hesse-Darmstadt, situated at the confluence of the Wieseck
and the Lahn, 40 m. N. of Frankfort-on-the-Main; has a flourishing university, and various
manufactories.

GIFFORD, ADAM, LORD, a Scottish judge, born in Edinburgh; had a large practice as a barrister,
and realised a considerable fortune, which he bequeathed towards the endowment of four lectureships
on Natural Theology in connection with each of the four universities in Scotland; was a man
of a philosophical turn of mind, and a student of Spinoza; held office as a judge from 1870
to 1881 (1820-1887).

GIFFORD, WILLIAM, an English man of letters, born in Ashburton, Devonshire; left friendless
and penniless at an early age by the death of his parents, he first served as a cabin-boy,
and subsequently for four years worked as a cobbler's apprentice; through the generosity of
a local doctor, and afterwards of Earl Grosvenor, he obtained a university training at Oxford,
where in 1792 he graduated; a period of travel on the Continent was followed in 1794 by his
celebrated satire the "Baviad," and in two years later by the "Mæviad"; his editorship of the
Anti-Jacobin (1797-1798) procured him favour and office at the hands of the Tories; the work
of translation, and the editing of Elizabethan poets, occupied him till 1809, when he became
the first editor of the Quarterly Review; his writing is vigorous, and marked by strong partisanship,
but his bitter attacks on the new literature inaugurated by Wordsworth, Shelley, Keats, and
others reveal a prejudiced and narrow view of literature (1757-1826).

GIGMAN, Carlyle's name for a man who prides himself on, and pays all respect to, respectability;
derived from a definition once given in a court of justice by a witness who, having described
a person as respectable, was asked by the judge in the case what he meant by the word; "one
that keeps a gig," was the answer.

GIL BLAS, a romance by Le Sage, from the name of the hero, a character described by Scott as
honestly disposed, but being constitutionally timid, unable to resist temptation, though capable
of brave actions, and intelligent, but apt to be deceived through vanity, with sufficient virtue
to make us love him, but indifferent to our respect.

GILBERT, SIR HUMPHREY, navigator, born in Devonshire, half-brother of Sir Walter Raleigh; in
1583 established a settlement in Newfoundland.

GILBERT, SIR JOHN, English artist, President of the Royal Society of Water-Colour Painters;
was for long an illustrator of books, among the number an edition of Shakespeare; he was a
Chevalier of the Legion of Honour (1817-1897).

GILBERT, WILLIAM SCHWENCK, barrister, notable as a play-writer and as the author of the librettos
of a series of well-known popular comic operas set to music by Sir Arthur Sullivan; b. 1836.

GILBERT ISLANDS, or KINGSMILL GROUP (37), a group of islands in the Pacific, of coral formation,
lying on the equator between 172° and 177° E. long; they are 16 in number, were discovered
in 1788, and annexed by Britain in 1892.

GILBOA, MOUNT, a range of hills on the SE. of the Plain of Esdraëlon, in Palestine, attaining
a height of 1698 ft.

GILCHRIST, ALEXANDER, biographer of WILLIAM BLAKE (q. v.), born at Newington Green, son of
a Unitarian minister; although called to the bar, literary and art criticism became his main
pursuit; settled at Guildford in 1853, where he wrote his Life of the artist Etty; became in
1856 a next-door neighbour of Carlyle at Chelsea, and had all but finished his Life of Blake
when he died (1828-1861).--His wife, Anne Gilchrist, née Burrows, was during her life an active
contributor to magazines; she completed her husband's Life of Blake, and in 1883 published
a Life of Mary Lamb (1828-1885).

GILDAS, a monkish historian of Britain, who wrote in the 6th century a Latin work entitled
"De Excidio Britanniæ," which afterwards appeared in two parts, a History and an Epistle.

GILEAD, a tableland extending along the E. of the Jordan, at a general level of 2000 ft. above
the sea, the highest point near Ramoth-Gilead being 3597 ft.

GILES, ST., the patron saint of cripples, beggars, and lepers; was himself a cripple, due to
his refusal to be cured of a wound that he might learn to mortify the flesh; was fed by the
milk of a hind that visited him daily; had once at his monastery a long interview with St.
Louis, without either of them speaking a word to the other.

GILFILLAN, GEORGE, a critic and essayist, born at Comrie, minister of a Dissenting congregation
in Dundee from 1836 to his death; a writer with a perfervid style; author of "Gallery of Literary
Portraits," "Bards of the Bible," etc., and editor of Nichol's "British Poets," which extended
to 48 vols. (1817-1878).

GILLESPIE, GEORGE, a celebrated Scotch divine, born at Kirkcaldy; trained at St. Andrews, and
ordained to a charge at Wemyss; in 1642 he was called to Edinburgh, and in the following year
appointed one of a deputation of four to represent Scotland at the Westminster Assembly; his
chief work is "Aaron's Rod Blossoming," a vigorous statement and vindication of his Presbyterianism;
in 1648 he was Moderator of the General Assembly (1613-1648).

GILPIN, JOHN, a London citizen, on an adventure of whose life Cowper has written a humorous poem.

GILPIN, WILLIAM, OF BOLDRE, an English author, who by his series of "Picturesque Tours" exercised
an influence on English literature similar to that of White's "Selborne," at the same time
(1724-1804).

GILRAY, JAMES, English caricaturist, born in Chelsea; distinguished for his broad humour and
keen satire; his works were numerous and highly popular; died insane (1757-1815).

GIOBERTI, VINCENZO, an Italian philosophical and political writer, born at Turin; in 1825 he
was appointed to the chair of Theology in his native city, and in 1831 chaplain to the Court
of Charles Albert of Sardinia; two years later was exiled on a charge of complicity in the
plots of the Young Italy party, and till 1847 remained abroad, chiefly in Brussels, busy with
his pen on literary, philosophical, and political subjects; in 1848 he was welcomed back to
Italy, and shortly afterwards rose to be Prime Minister of a short-lived government; his later
years were spent in diplomatic work at Paris; in philosophy he reveals Platonic tendencies,
while his political ideal was a confederated Italy, with the Pope at the head and the king
of Sardinia as military guardian (1801-1852).

GIORDANO, LUCA, Italian painter, born at Naples; studied under various celebrated masters at
Naples, Rome, Lombardy, and other places, finally returning to Naples; in 1692 he received
a commission from Charles II. of Spain to adorn the Escurial, and in the execution of this
work remained at Madrid till 1700, when he again settled in his native city; he was famous
in his day for marvellous rapidity of workmanship, but this fluency combined with a too slavish
adherence to the methods of the great masters has somewhat robbed his work of individuality;
his frescoes in the Escurial at Madrid and others in Florence and Rome are esteemed his finest
work (1632-1705).

GIORGIONE (i. e. Great George), the sobriquet given to Giorgio Barbarella, one of the early
masters of the Venetian school, born near Castelfranco, in the NE. of Italy; at Venice he studied
under Giovanni Bellini, and had Titian as a fellow-pupil; his portraits are among the finest
of the Italian school, and exhibit a freshness of colour and conception and a firmness of touch
unsurpassed in his day; his works deal chiefly with scriptural and pastoral scenes, and include
a "Holy Family" in the Louvre, "Virgin and Child" in Venice, and "Moses Rescued" (1447-1511).

GIOTTO, a great Italian painter, born at a village near Florence; was a shepherd's boy, and
at 10 years of age, while tending his flock and drawing pictures of them, was discovered by
Cimabue, who took him home and made a pupil of him; "never," says Ruskin, "checked the boy
from the first day he found him, showed him all he knew, talked with him of many things he
himself felt unable to paint; made him a workman and a gentleman, above all, a Christian, yet
left him a shepherd.... His special character among the great painters of Italy was that he
was a practical person; what others dreamt of he did; he could work in mosaic, could work in
marble, and paint; could build ... built the Campanile of the Duomo, because he was then the
best master of sculpture, painting, and architecture in Florence, and supposed in such business
to be without a superior in the world.... Dante was his friend and Titian copied him.... His
rules in art were: You shall see things as they are; and the least with the greatest, because
God made them; and the greatest with the least, because God made you, and gave you eyes and
a heart; he threw aside all glitter and conventionality, and the most significant thing in
all his work is his choice of moments." Cimabue still painted the Holy Family in the old conventional
style, "but Giotto came into the field, and saw with his simple eyes a lowlier worth; and he
painted the Madonna, St. Joseph, and the Christ,--yes, by all means if you choose to call them
so, but essentially--Mamma, Papa, and the Baby; and all Italy threw up its cap" (1276-1336).
See Ruskin's "Mornings in Florence."

GIOTTO'S O, a perfectly round O, such as Giotto is said to have sent the Pope in evidence of
his ability to do some decorative work for his Holiness.

GIRALDUS CAMBRENSIS (i. e. Giraldus of Cambria), ecclesiastic and author, born in Pembrokeshire,
of Norman descent; studied with distinction in Paris; was a zealous churchman; obtained ecclesiastical
preferment in England; was twice elected bishop of St. David's, but both times set aside; travelled
in Ireland as well as Wales, and left record of his impressions, which give an entertaining
picture and a valuable account of the times, though disfigured by credulity and personal vanity
(1147-1223).

GIRARD, STEPHEN, a philanthropist, born at Bordeaux; in early life followed the career of a
seaman and rose to be captain of an American coast-trader; in 1769 set up as a trader in Philadelphia,
and in course of time establishing a bank, accumulated an immense fortune; during his lifetime
he exhibited a strange mixture of niggardliness, scepticism, public charitableness, and a philanthropy
which moved him during a yellow-fever epidemic to labour as a nurse in the hospital; at his
death he bequeathed $2,000,000 to found an orphanage for boys, attaching to the bequest the
remarkable condition, that no clergyman should ever be on the board or ever be permitted to
enter the building (1750-1831).

GIRARDIN, ÉMILE DE, journalist and politician, born in Switzerland, the natural son of General
Alexandre de Girardin; took to stockbroking, but quitting it for journalism he soon established
a reputation as a ready, vivacious writer, and in 1836 started La Presse, the first French
penny paper; his rapid change of front in politics earned for him the nickname of "The Weathercock";
latterly he adhered to the Republican cause, and founded La France in its interest; he published
many political brochures and a few plays, and was for some years editor of La Liberté (1806-1881).--His
wife, DELPHINE GAY, enjoyed a wide celebrity both as a beauty and authoress; her poems, plays,
and novels fill six vols. (1806-1881).

GIRARDIN, FRANÇOIS SAINT-MARC, a French professor and littérateur, born at Paris; in 1827 was
professor in the College Louis-le-Grand, and in 1834 was nominated to the chair of Literature
in the Sorbonne; as leader-writer in the Journal des Débats he vigorously opposed the Democrats,
and sat in the Senate from 1834 to 1848; in 1869, as Saint-Beuve's successor, he took up the
editorship of the Journal des Savants, and in 1871 became a member of the National Assembly;
he published his collected essays and also his popular literary lectures (1801-1873).

GIRONDE (794), a maritime department in SW. France, facing the Bay of Biscay on the W. and
lying N. and S. between Charente-Inférieure and Landes; the Garonne and the Dordogne flowing
through it form the Gironde estuary, and with their tributaries sufficiently water the undulating
land; agriculture and some manufactories flourish, but wine is the chief product. The leaders
of it were from the Gironde district, whence their name, were in succession members of the
Legislative Body and of the Convention, on the right in the former, on the left in the latter,
and numbered among them such names as Condorcet, Brissot, Roland, Carnot, and others; they
opposed the court and the clerical party, and voted for the death of the king, but sought to
rescue him by a proposal of appeal to the people; overpowered by the Jacobins in June 1793,
with whom they came to open rupture, they sought in vain to provoke a rising in their favour;
on October 24 they were arraigned before the Revolutionary tribunal, and on the 31st twenty-one
of them were brought to the guillotine, singing the "Marseillaise" as they went and on the
scaffold, while the rest, all to a few, perished later on either the same way or by their own
hands.

GIRTIN, THOMAS, a landscape-painter, born in London; painted in water-colour views of scenes
near Paris and London; was a friend of Turner (1773-1802).

GIRTON COLLEGE, a celebrated college for women, founded in 1869 at Hitchin, but since 1873
located at Girton, near Cambridge; the ordinary course extends to three years, and degree certificates
of the standard of the Cambridge B.A. are granted; the staff consists of a "head" and five
resident lecturers, all women, but there is a large accession of lecturers from Cambridge;
the students number upwards of 100, the fee for board and education £35 per term.

GIZEH or GHIZEH (11), a town in Egypt, on the Nile, opposite Old Cairo, to which it is joined
by a suspension bridge spanning the river; in the neighbourhood are the Great Pyramids.

GLACIER, a more or less snow-white mass of ice occupying an Alpine valley and moving slowly
down its bed like a viscous substance, being fed by semi-melted snow at the top called nevé
and forming streams at the bottom; it has been defined by Prof. J. D. FORBES (q. v.) as "a
viscous body which is urged down slopes of a certain inclination by the mutual pressure of
its parts"; in the Alps alone they number over 1000, have an utmost depth of 1500 ft., and
an utmost length of 12 m.

GLADIATOR, one who fought in the arena at Rome with men or beasts for the amusement of the
people, originally in connection with funeral games, under the belief, it is said, that the
spirits of the dead were appeased at the sight of blood; exhibitions of the kind were common
under the emperors, and held on high occasions; if the gladiator was wounded in the contest,
the spectators decided whether he was to live or die by, in the former case, turning their
thumbs downwards, and in the latter turning them upwards.

GLADSTONE, WILLIAM EWART, statesman, orator, and scholar, born at Liverpool, son of a Liverpool
merchant, sometime of Leith, and of Ann, daughter of Andrew Robertson, Stornoway; educated
at Eton and Oxford; entered Parliament in 1832 as member for Newark in the Tory interest; delivered
his maiden speech on slavery emancipation on May 17, 1833; accepted office under Sir Robert
Peel in 1834, and again in 1841 and 1846; and as member for Oxford, separating from the Tory
party, took office under Lord Aberdeen, and in 1859, under Lord Palmerston, became Chancellor
of the Exchequer; elected member for South Lancashire, 1865, he became leader of the Commons
under Lord John Russell; elected for Greenwich, he became Premier for the first time in 1869,
holding office till 1875; after a brilliant campaign in Midlothian he was returned for that
county in 1880, and became Premier for the second time; became Premier a third time in 1886,
and a fourth time in 1892. During his tenure of office he introduced and carried a great number
of important measures, but failed from desertion in the Liberal ranks to carry his pet measure
of Home Rule for Ireland, so he retired from office into private life in 1895; his last days
he spent chiefly in literary work, the fruit of which, added to earlier works, gives evidence
of the breadth of his sympathies and the extent of his scholarly attainments; but being seized
by a fatal malady, his strong constitution gradually sank under it, and he died at Hawarden,
May 19, 1898; he was buried in Westminster Abbey at the expense of the nation and amid expressions
of sorrow on the part of the whole community; he was a man of high moral character, transcendent
ability, and strong will, and from the day he took the lead the acknowledged chief of the Liberal
party in the country (1809-1898).

GLAISHER, JAMES, meteorologist and founder of the Royal Meteorological Society, born in London;
his first observations in meteorology were done as an officer of the Irish Ordnance Survey;
in 1836, after service in the Cambridge Observatory, he went to Greenwich, and from 1840 to
1874 he superintended the meteorological department of the Royal Observatory; in connection
with atmospheric investigations he made a series of 28 balloon ascents, rising on one occasion
to a height of 7 m., the greatest elevation yet attained: b. 1809.

GLAMORGANSHIRE (687), a maritime county in S. Wales, fronting the Bristol Channel, between
Monmouth and Carmarthen; amid the hilly country of the N. lie the rich coal-fields and iron-stone
quarries which have made it by far the most populous and wealthiest county of Wales; the S.
country--the garden of Wales--is a succession of fertile valleys and wooded slopes; dairy-farming
is extensively engaged in, but agriculture is somewhat backward; the large towns are actively
engaged in the coal-trade and in the smelting of iron, copper, lead, and tin; some interesting
Roman remains exist in the county.

GLANVILL, JOSEPH, born at Plymouth, graduated at Oxford; was at first an Aristotelian and Puritan
in his opinions, but after the Restoration entered the Church, and obtained preferment in various
sees; his fame rests upon his eloquent appeal for freedom of thought in "The Vanity of Dogmatising"
(1661) and upon his two works in defence of a belief in witches; he was one of the first Fellows
of the Royal Society; he seems to have made Sir Thomas Browne his model, though he is not equal
to him in the vigour of his thinking or the harmony of his style (1636-1680).

GLANVILL, RANULF DE, Chief-Justiciary of England in the reign of Henry II., born at Stratford,
in Suffolk; is the author of the earliest treatise on the laws of England, a work in 14 books;
was deposed by Richard I., and, joining the Crusaders, fell before Acre; d. 1190.

GLASGOW (815, including suburbs), the second city of the empire and the chief centre of industry
in Scotland, is situated on the Clyde, in Lanarkshire, 45 m. W. from Edinburgh and 405 from
London; it is conjectured that the origin of the name is found in Cleschu ("beloved green spot"),
the name of a Celtic village which occupied the site previously, near which St. Mungo, or Kentigern,
erected his church about A.D. 560; although a royal burgh in 1636, it was not till after the
stimulus to trade occasioned by the Union (1707) that it began to display its now characteristic
mercantile activity; since then it has gone forward by leaps and bounds, owing not a little
of its success to its exceptionally favourable situation; besides the advantages of waterway
derived from the Clyde, it is in the heart of a rich coal and iron district; spinning and weaving,
shipbuilding, foundries, chemical and iron works, and all manner of industries, flourish; the
city is spaciously and handsomely laid out; the cathedral (1197) is the chief building of historical
and architectural interest; there is a university (1451) and a variety of other colleges, besides
several public libraries and art schools; Glasgow returns seven members of Parliament.

GLASSE, MRS., authoress, real or fictitious, of a cookery book, once in wide-spread repute;
credited with the sage prescription, "First catch your hare."

GLASSITES, a Christian sect founded in Scotland about 1730 by John Glas (1695-1773), a minister
of the Church of Scotland, who in 1730 was deposed for denouncing all national establishments
of religion as "inconsistent with the true nature of the Church of Christ," and maintaining
that a Church and its office-bearers owed allegiance to none other than Christ; the sect, which
developed peculiarities of doctrine and worship in conformity with those of the primitive Church,
spread to England and America, where they became known as Sandemanians, after Robert Sandeman
(1718-1771), son-in-law to Glas, and his zealous supporter.

GLASTONBURY (4), an ancient town in Somersetshire, 36 m. S. of Bristol, on the Brue; it is
associated with many interesting legends and historical traditions that point to its existence
in very early times; thus it was the Avalon of Arthurian legend, and the place where Joseph
of Arimathea, when he brought the Holy Grail, is said to have founded the first Christian Church;
ruins are still extant of the old abbey founded by Henry II., which itself succeeded the ancient
abbey of St. Dunstan (946); there is trade in gloves, mats, rugs, &c.

GLEIN, LUDWIG, German lyric poet, known as Father Glein for the encouragement he gave to young
German authors; composed war songs for the Prussian army (1719-1803).

GLENCOE, a wild and desolate glen in the N. of Argyllshire, running eastward from Ballachulish
10 m.; shut in by two lofty and rugged mountain ranges; the Coe flows through the valley and
enhances its lonely grandeur. See following.

GLENCOE, MASSACRE OF, a treacherous slaughter of the Macdonalds of that glen on the morning
of 13th February 1691, to the number of 38, in consequence of the belated submission of MacIan,
the chief, to William and Mary after the Revolution; the perpetrators of the deed were a body
of soldiers led by Captain Campbell, who came among the people as friends, and stayed as friends
among them for 12 days.

GLENDOWER, OWEN, a Welsh chief and patriot, a descendant of the old Welsh princes who stirred
up a rebellion against the English under Henry IV., which, with the help of the Percies of
Northumberland and Charles VI. of France, he conducted with varied success for years, but eventual
failure (1349-1415). See Shakespeare's "Henry IV."

GLENLIVET, a valley in Banffshire, through which the Livet Water runs, about 20 m. SW. of Huntly;
famed for its whisky.

GLENROY, a narrow glen 14 m. long, in Inverness-shire, in the Lochaber district; Fort William
lies 13 m. NE. of its SW. extremity; the Roy flows through the valley; the steep sides are
remarkable for three regular and distinctly-formed shelves or terraces running parallel almost
the entire distance of the glen, the heights on either side exactly corresponding; these are
now regarded as the margins of a former loch which gradually sank as the barrier of glacial
ice which dammed the waters up slowly melted.

GLOGAU (20), a town with a strong fortress in Silesia, on the Oder, 35 m. NW. of Liegnitz;
is a place of manufacture; was brilliantly taken by Frederick the Great in the Silesian War
on the 9th March 1741 by scalade, in one hour, at the very break of day.

GLOMMEN or STOR-ELV (i. e. Great River), the largest river in Norway; has its source in Lake
Aursund, and, after a southward course of 350 m., broken by many falls, and for the most part
unnavigable, discharges into the Skager Rack at Frederikstad.

GLORIANA, Queen Elizabeth, represented in her capacity as sovereign in Spenser's "Faërie Queen."

GLOUCESTER: 1 (39), the capital of Gloucestershire, on the Severn, 38 m. NE. of Bristol; a
handsomely laid out town, the main lines of its ground-plan testifying to its Roman origin;
conspicuous among several fine buildings is the cathedral, begun in 1088 (restored in 1853)
and exhibiting features of Perpendicular and Norman architecture; the river, here tidal, is
spanned by two stone bridges, and a flourishing commerce is favoured by fine docks and a canal;
chemicals, soap, &c., are manufactured. 2 (25), a seaport of Massachusetts, U.S., 30 m. NE.
of Boston; is a favourite summer resort, an important fishing-station, and has an excellent
harbour; granite is hewn in large quantities in the neighbouring quarries.

GLOUCESTER, ROBERT OF, English chronicler; was a monk of Gloucester Abbey, and lived in the
13th century; his chronicle, which is in verse, traces the history of England from the siege
of Troy to 1271, the year before the accession of Edward I.

GLOUCESTERSHIRE (600), a west midland county of England, which touches Warwick in the centre
of the country, and extends SW. to the estuary of the Severn; it presents three natural and
well-defined districts known as the Hill, formed by the Cotswold Hills in the E.; the Vale,
through which the Severn runs, in the centre; the Forest of Dean (the largest in England) in
the W.; coal is wrought in two large fields, but agricultural and dairy-farming are the main
industries; antiquities abound; the principal rivers are the Wye, Severn, Lower and Upper Avon,
and Thames; BRISTOL (q. v.) is the largest town.

GLÜCK, CHRISTOPH VON, a German musical composer and reformer of the opera; made his first appearance
in Vienna; studied afterwards for some years under San-Martini of Milan, and brought out his
first opera "Artaxerxes," followed by seven others in the Italian style; invited to London,
he studied Händel, attained a loftier ideal, and returned to the Continent, where, especially
at Vienna and Paris, he achieved his triumphs, becoming founder of a new era in operatic music;
in Paris he had a rival in Piccini, and the public opinion was for a time divided, but the
production by him of "Iphigénie en Aulide" established his superiority, and he carried off
the palm (1714-1787).

GNOMES, a set of imaginary beings misshapen in form and of diminutive size, viewed as inhabiting
the interior of the earth and presiding over its secret treasures.

GNOSTICS, heretics, consisting of various sects that arose in the Apostolic age of Christianity,
and that sought, agreeably to the philosophic opinions which they had severally embraced, to
extract an esoteric meaning out of the letter of Scripture and the facts especially of the
Gospel history, such as only those of superior speculative insight could appreciate; they set
a higher value on Knowledge (gnosis, whence their name) than Faith; thus their understanding
of Christianity was speculative, not spiritual, and their knowledge of it the result of thinking,
not of life; like the Jews they denied the possibility of the Word becoming flesh and of a
realisation of the infinite in the finite; indeed, Gnosticism was at once a speculative and
a practical denial that Christ was God manifest in the flesh, and that participation in Christianity
was, as He presented it (John vi. 53), participation in His flesh. See CHRISTIANITY.

GOA (495), a Portuguese possession in W. India, lying between the Western Ghâts and the sea-coast,
250 m. SE. of Bombay; large quantities of rice are raised in it; is hilly on the E. and covered
with forests; it was captured in 1510 by Albuquerque. Old Goa, the former capital, has fallen
from a populous and wealthy city into utter decay, its place being taken by Nova Goa or Panjim
(8), on the Mandavi, 3 m. from the coast.

GOBELINS, GILLES AND JEAN, brothers, celebrated dyers, who in the 15th century introduced into
France the art of dyeing in scarlet, subsequently adding on tapestry-weaving to their establishment;
their works in Paris were taken over by government in Louis XIV.'s reign, and the tapestry,
of gorgeous design, then put forth became known as Gobelins; Le Brun, the famous artist, was
for a time chief designer, and the tapestries turned out in his time have a world-wide celebrity;
the works are still in operation, and a second establishment, supported by government, for
the manufacture of Gobelins exists at Beauvais.

GODAV`ARI, an important river of India, rises on the E. side of W. Ghâts, traverses in a SE.
direction the entire Deccan, and forming a large delta, falls into the Bay of Bengal by seven
mouths after a course of 900 m.; its mighty volume of water supplies irrigating and navigable
canals for the whole Deccan; it is one of the 12 sacred rivers of India, and once in 12 years
a bathing festival is celebrated on its banks.

GODET, FREDERICK, Swiss theologian, born at Neuchâtel; became professor of Theology there;
author of commentaries on St. John's and Luke's Gospels and on the Epistles to the Romans and
the Corinthians, along with other works; b. 1812.

GODFREY OF BOUILLON, a renowned Crusader, eldest son of Eustace II., Count of Boulogne; he
served with distinction under the Emperor Henry II., being present at the storming of Rome
in 1084; his main title to fame rests on the gallantry and devotion he displayed in the first
Crusade, of which he was a principal leader; a series of victories led up to the capture of
Jerusalem in 1099, and he was proclaimed "Defender and Baron of the Holy Sepulchre," but declined
to wear a king's crown in the city where his Saviour had borne a crown of thorns; his defeat
of the sultan of Egypt at Ascalon in the same year confirmed him in the possession of Palestine
(1061-1100).

GODIVA, LADY, wife of Leofric, Earl of Mercia and Lord of Coventry, who pled in vain with her
husband on behalf of the inhabitants of the place for relief from heavy exactions he had laid
upon them, till one day he relented and consented he would grant her prayer if she would ride
through Coventry on horseback naked, which, with his leave, she at once undertook to do, and
did, not one soul of the place peering through to look at her save Peeping Tom, who paid for
his curiosity by being smitten thereafter with blindness.

GODOLPHIN, SYDNEY GODOLPHIN, EARL OF, a celebrated English statesman and financier, born at
Godolphin Hall, near Helston, Cornwall; at 19 was a royal page in the Court of Charles II.,
and in 1678 engaged on a political mission in Holland; in the following year entered Parliament
and was appointed to a post in the Treasury, of which, five years later, he became First Commissioner,
being at the same time raised to the peerage; under James II, was again at the head of the
Treasury, and at the Revolution supported James, till the abdication, when he voted in favour
of a regency; on the elevation of William to the throne was immediately reinstated at the Treasury,
where he continued eight years, till the Whig ascendency brought about his dismissal; for six
months in 1700 he once more assumed his former post, and under Anne fulfilled the duties of
Lord High-Treasurer from 1702 to 1710, administering the finances with sagacity and integrity
during the great campaigns of his friend Marlborough, and in 1706 he was created an Earl (1645-1712).

GODOY, MANUEL DE, minister of Charles IV. of Spain, born at Badajoz; played a conspicuous part
in the affairs of Spain during the French Revolution and the Empire; received the title of
Prince of Peace for an offensive and defensive treaty he concluded with France in 1796, in
opposition to the general wish of the nation; lost all and died in Paris (1767-1851).

GODWIN, Earl of the West Saxons, a powerful English noble of the 11th century and father of
Harold II.; first comes into prominence in the reign of Cnut; was created an earl previous
to 1018, and shortly afterwards became related to the king by marriage; he was a zealous supporter
of Harthacnut in the struggle which followed the demise of Cnut; subsequently was instrumental
in raising Edward the Confessor to the throne, to whom he gave his daughter Edith in marriage;
continued for some years virtual ruler of the kingdom, but in 1051 his opposition to the growing
Norman influence brought about his banishment and the confiscation of his estates; in 1052
he returned to England and was received with so great popular acclaim that the king was forced
to restore to him his estates and offices; d. 1054.

GODWIN, MARY WOLLSTONECRAFT, an English authoress, and first to publicly assert the Rights
of Women, born at Hoxton, of humble Irish parentage; at 19 she began to support herself by
teaching, and continued to do so till 1788, when she established herself in London to push
her way as a writer, having already published "Thoughts on the Education of Daughters"; in
1791 she replied to Burke's "Reflections," and in the following year appeared her famous "Vindication
of the Rights of Women"; while in Paris in 1793 she formed a liaison with an American, Captain
Imlay, whose cruel desertion of her two years later induced her to attempt suicide by drowning;
in 1796 she became attached to William Godwin, a friend of five years' standing, and with him
lived for some months, although, in accord with their own pronounced opinions, no marriage
ceremony had been performed; in deference to the opinions of others, however, they departed
from this position, and a marriage was duly celebrated five months before the birth of their
daughter Mary (Shelley's second wife); contemporary opinion shows her to have been generous
and gentle of nature, and animated throughout by a noble zeal for the welfare of humanity (1759-1797).

GODWIN, WILLIAM, a political writer and novelist, the son of a Presbyterian minister, born
at Wisbeach, Somersetshire; was educated for the Church, and was for five years in the ministry;
during this period his opinions on politics and religion underwent a radical change, and when
in 1787 he threw up his holy office to engage in literature, he had become a republican in
the one and a free-thinker in the other; various works had come from his pen, including three
novels, before his celebrated "Political Justice" appeared in 1793, "Caleb Williams," a novel,
and his best-known work, being published in the following year; in 1797 he married Mary Wollstonecraft
(See preceding), who died the same year, and four years later he married a widow, Mrs. Clement;
to the close of his long life he was a prolific writer on literary, historical, and political
subjects, but his carelessness and lack of business habits left him little profit from all
his literary activity; his writings are clear and vigorous in the expression, if visionary
and impracticable in theory (1756-1836).

GOETHE, JOHANN WOLFGANG VON, a great poet and wise man, the greatest, it is alleged, the world
has seen since Shakespeare left it, and who, being born in Frankfort-on-the-Main 10 years before
Robert Burns, died in the small duchy of Weimar the same year as Sir Walter Scott; was the
son of an imperial chancellor, a formal man and his pedagogue in boyhood, and of Elizabeth
Textor, daughter of the chief magistrate of the city, a woman of bright intelligence, who was
only eighteen at the time of his birth. Spiritually and bodily he was the most perfectly formed,
symetrically proportioned, justly balanced, and completely cultivated man perhaps that ever
lived, whose priceless value to the world lies in this, that in his philosophy and life there
is found the union in one of what to smaller people appears entirely and absolutely antagonistic,
of utmost scientific scepticism and highest spiritual faith and worth. "He was filled full
with the scepticism, bitterness, hollowness, and thousandfold contradictions of his time, till
his heart was like to break; yet he subdued all this, rose victorious over this, and manifoldly,
by word and act, showed others that came after how to do the like." "He was," says he, "king
of himself and his world;... his faculties and feelings were not fettered or prostrated under
the iron sway of Passion, but led and guided in kindly union under the mild sway of Reason;
as the fierce primeval elements of chaos were stilled at the coming of Light, and bound together,
under its soft vesture, into a glorious and beneficent Creation." His life lies latent in his
successive works, above all in "Goetz," in "Werter," in "Faust," and in "Meister"; but as these
have not been duly read it has not yet been duly written, though an attempt is being made to
do so in the said connection. Of the last of the four works named, Carlyle, who has done more
than any one else yet to bring Goethe near us, once said, "There are some ten pages of that
book that, if ambition had been my object, I would rather have written than all the literature
of my time." "One counsel," says Carlyle, "he has to give, the secret of his whole poetic alchemy,
'Think of living! Thy life is no idle dream, but a solemn reality. It is thy own, it is all
thou hast to front eternity with.'" "Never thought on thinking," he has said, Nie ans Denken
gedacht. "What a thrift," exclaims Carlyle, "of faculty here!" Some think he had one weakness:
he lived for culture, believed in culture, irrespective of the fact and the need of individual
regeneration. And Emerson, who afterwards in his "Representative Men" did Goethe full justice,
in introducing him as, if not a world-wise man, at all events as a world-related, once complained
that "he showed us the actual rather than the ideal." To which Carlyle answered, "That is true;
but it is not the whole truth. The actual well seen is the ideal. The actual, what really is
and exists; the past, the present, and the future do all lie there" (1749-1832).

GOETZ VON BERLICHINGEN (of the Iron Hand), a German knight of the 16th century; was involved
in turbulent movements, and lost his right hand at the siege of Landshut, which he replaced
by one of his own invention made of steel; spent his life in feuds, and left an autobiography
which interested Goethe, who dramatised his story, "to save," as he said, "the memory of a
brave man from darkness," a drama that had the honour of being translated by Sir Walter Scott.

GOG AND MAGOG, names that occur in the Bible of foes of Israel, and designative in the Apocalypse
of enemies of the kingdom of God, as also of a Scythian tribe N. of the Caucasus. The names
are applied likewise to two giants, survivors of a race found in Britain by Brute of Troy,
effigies of whom stood at the Guildhall Gate, symbolic defenders of the city.

GOGOL, NICOLAI VASILIEVITCH, a popular Russian novelist, born in Poltava; in 1829 he started
as a writer in St. Petersburg, but met with little success till the appearance of his "Evenings
in a Farm near Dikanka"; the success of the included sketches of provincial life induced him
to produce a second series in 1834, which are characterised by the same freshness and fidelity
to nature; in 1837 appeared his masterpiece "Dead Souls," in which all his powers of pathos,
humour, and satire are seen at their best; for some time he tried public teaching, being professor
of History at St. Petersburg, and from 1836 to 1846 lived chiefly at Rome; many of his works,
which rank beside those of Puschkin and Turgenieff, are translated into English (1809-1852).

GOLCONDA, a fortified town in the Nizam's dominions, 7 m. W. of Hyderabad; famous for its diamonds,
found in the neighbourhood; beside it are the ruins of the ancient city, the former capital
of the old kingdom; the fort is garrisoned, and is the treasury of the Nizam; it is also a
State prison.

GOLD COAST (1,475, of whom 150 are Europeans), a British crown colony on the Gulf of Guinea,
West Africa, with a coast-line of 350 m.; from the low and marshy foreshore the country slopes
upward and inward to Ashanti; the climate is very unhealthy; palm-oil, india-rubber, gold dust,
&c., are exported; Cape Coast Castle is the capital.

GOLDEN AGE, the age of happy innocence under the reign of Cronos or Saturn, in which, as fabled,
the earth yielded all fulness without toil, and every creature lived at peace with every other;
the term is applied to the most flourishing period in the history of a nation. See AGES.

GOLDEN ASS, a romance of APULEIUS (q. v.).

GOLDEN BULL, an Imperial edict, issued by the Emperor Charles IV., which determined the law
in the matter of the Imperial elections, and that only one member of each electoral house should
have a vote; so called from the gold case enclosing the Imperial seal attached.

GOLDEN FLEECE, the fleece of a ram which PHRYXOS (q. v.), after he had sacrificed him to Zeus,
gave to Æëtes, king of Colchis, who hung it on a sacred oak, and had it guarded by a monstrous
dragon, and which it was the object of the Argonautic expedition under Jason to recover and
bring back to Greece, an object which they achieved. See ARGONAUTS.

GOLDEN FLEECE, ORDER OF THE, an order of knighthood founded by Philip III., Duke of Burgundy
and the Netherlands in 1429, and instituted for the protection of the Church.

GOLDEN HORN, the inlet on which Constantinople is situated.

GOLDEN LEGEND, a collection of lives of saints and other tales, such as that of the "Seven
Sleepers" and "St. George and the Dragon," made in the 13th century by Jacques de Voragine,
a Dominican monk, to the glory especially of his brotherhood.

GOLDEN ROSE, a cluster of roses on a thorny stem, all of gold; perfumed, and blessed by the
Pope on the fourth Sunday in Lent, and sent to a prince who has during the year shown most
zeal for the Church.

GOLDONI, CARLO, the founder of Italian comedy, born at Venice; in his youth he studied medicine
and subsequently law, but in 1732 appeared as a dramatist with his tragedy "Belisario"; moving
from place to place as a strolling-player, he in 1736 returned to Venice, and finding his true
vocation in comedy-writing, turned out a rapid succession of sparkling character plays after
the manner of Molière; in 1761 he went to Paris as a playwright to the Italian theatre; became
Italian master to Louis XV.'s daughters, and subsequently was pensioned; his comedies displaced
the burlesques and farces till then in vogue on the stage in Italy (1707-1793).

GOLDSCHMIDT, MADAME. See LIND, JENNY.

GOLDSMITH, OLIVER, English man of letters, born at Pallas or Pallasmore, co. Longford, Ireland,
and celebrated in English literature as the author of the "Vicar of Wakefield"; a born genius,
but of careless ways, and could not be trained to any profession, either in the Church, in
law, or in medicine, though more or less booked for all three in succession; set out on travel
on the Continent without a penny, and supported himself by his flute and other unknown means;
came to London, tried teaching, then literature, doing hack-work, his first work in that department
being "An Inquiry into the Present State of Polite Learning in Europe," which was succeeded
by his "Citizen of the World"; became a member of the "Literary Club," and associated with
Johnson, Reynolds, Burke, and others; produced poems, "The Traveller" and the "Deserted Village,"
besides comedies, such as "She Stoops to Conquer"; lived extravagantly, and died in debt; wrote
histories of Greece and Rome, and "Animated Nature"; was a charming writer (1728-1774).

GOLF, a game played with a bent club and a small ball on commons with short grass, in which
the player who drives the ball into a succession of small holes in the ground, usually 18,
with the fewest strokes, or who reckons up the most holes in the round by taking them with
the fewest strokes, is the winner; an old popular Scotch game, and first introduced into English
on Blackheath by James I., which has of late years been revived, and in connection with which
clubs have established themselves far and wide over the globe, even at Bagdad.

GOLIATH, a Philistine giant of Gath slain by David with pebbles from a brook by a sling (1
Sam. xvii.).

GOMARISTS, a sect of Calvinists in Holland, so called from their leader Gomarus (1563-1641),
a bitter enemy of ARMINIUS (q. v.).

GONCOURT, EDMOND AND JULES DE, French novelists, born, the former at Nancy, the latter at Paris;
a habit of elaborate note-taking whilst on sketching tours first drew the brothers towards
literature, and inoculated them with the habit of minute and accurate observation which gave
value to their subsequent writings; their first real venture was a series of historical studies,
designed to reproduce with every elaboration of detail French society in the later half of
the 18th century, including a "History of French Society during the Revolution"; later they
found their true province in the novel, and a series of striking works of fiction became the
product of their joint labours, works which have influenced subsequent novelists not a little;
"Les Hommes de Lettres" (1860) was the first of these, and "Madame Gervaisais" (1869) is perhaps
their best; their collaboration was broken in 1870 by the death of Jules; but Edmond still
continued to write, and produced amongst other novels "La Fille Élisa"; the "Journal" of the
brothers appeared in 1888 in six vols. (Edmond, 1822-1888; Jules, 1830-1870).

GONDAR (4), a once populous city and the capital of AMHARA (q. v.), situated on a basaltic
ridge in the Wogra Mountains, 23 m. N. of Lake Tzana; there are ruins of an old castle, churches
and mosques, and establishments for the training of Abyssinian priests.

GONERAL, an unnatural daughter of King Lear.

GONSALEZ, a Spanish hero of the 10th century, celebrated for his adventures, and whose life
was twice saved by his wife.

GONZAGA, the name of a princely family from Germany, settled in Mantua, from which the dukes
were descended who ruled the territory from 1328 to 1708.

GONZALVO DI CORDOVA (the popular name of Gonzalo Hernandez y Aguilar), a renowned Spanish soldier,
born at Montilla, near Cordova; he first became prominent in the wars with the Moors of Granada
and with Portugal, and was rewarded with an estate and pensioned; in 1498 he so distinguished
himself in assisting the king of Naples (Ferdinand II.) to drive out the French that he became
known henceforth as El Gran Capitan, and was created Duke of San Angelo; subsequent heroic
achievements in Naples, which won the kingdom for Spain (1503), roused a feeling of jealousy
in the Spanish king, so that Gonzalvo was recalled and ill-requited for his great services
(1453-1515).

GOOD FRIDAY, the Friday before Easter, held sacred from early times by the Church in commemoration
of the crucifixion of Christ, observed originally with fasting and prayer.

GOOD REGENT, the REGENT MURRAY (q. v.).

GOOD TEMPLARS, a total abstinence fraternity organised in New York in 1851, which has lodges,
subordinate, district, and grand, now all over the world; they exact a pledge of lifelong abstinence,
and advocate the suppression of the vice by statute; there is a juvenile section pledged to
abstinence from tobacco, gambling, and bad language, as well as drink.

GOODFELLOW, ROBIN, a merry domestic spirit, full of tricks and practical jokes, and a constant
attendant upon the English fairy court.

GOODMAN OF BALLENGEICH, a name assumed by James V. of Scotland in his disguised perambulations
about Edinburgh o' nights.

GOODSIR, JOHN, eminent Scotch anatomist, born at Anstruther; was trained at St. Andrews and
Edinburgh, in which latter city he served an apprenticeship in dentistry; he settled in Anstruther
and there wrote his noted essay on "Teeth"; in 1840 he became keeper of the museum of the Royal
College of Surgeons in Edinburgh, and lecturer on Diseases of the Bone in 1842; four years
later he succeeded Dr. Monro in the chair of Anatomy in Edinburgh University, which he adorned,
having for some time previously acted as assistant (1814-1867).

GOODWIN SANDS, a famous sandbank stretching 10 m. along the E. coast of Kent, about 5½ m. from
the shore; with the flowing of the tidal current the hidden sands are apt to shift and change
their outline, and when storms of great violence sweep over them, despite their being well
marked by four lightships and nine buoys, they have often been the occasion of a long series
of melancholy shipwrecks; the shoal forms a splendid breakwater for the Downs, an excellent
anchorage, stretching between the Goodwins and the shore; they are supposed popularly to be
the remnants of an estate which belonged to the great EARL OF GODWIN (q. v.), but this supposition
is a mere fable.

GOODY TWO SHOES, a character in a nursery story published in 1765, and supposed to have been
written by Goldsmith when in straits.

GOODYEAR, CHARLES, the inventor of vulcanised rubber, born at New Haven, Connecticut; his career
was a troubled one; he failed as an iron-founder, and when, after 10 years labour, amidst every
disadvantage of poverty and privation, he in 1844 produced his new method of hardening rubber
by means of sulphur, he became involved in a fresh series of troubles, as well as poverty,
consequent on the infringement of his inventions; his patents latterly amounted to 60, and
medals and honours, were awarded him both in London and Paris (1800-1860).

GOORKHAS or GURKHAS, a brave and powerful native race in Nepal claiming Hindu descent; in 1814
they were subdued by the British, and have since rendered valuable service to Britain in the
Mutiny, in the Afghan and in the Sikh Wars; there are now ten regiments of Goorkhas.

GORDIAN KNOT, a knot by which the yoke was fastened to the beam of the chariot of Gordius (q.
v.), and which no one could untie except the man who was destined to be the conqueror of Asia;
Alexander the Great being ambitious to achieve this feat, tried hard to undo it, but failing,
cut it with his sword and marched on to conquest.

GORDIANUS, the name of three Roman Emperors, father, son, and grandson. MARCUS ANTONIUS GORDIANUS,
surnamed Africanus, rose to be an ædile, consul twice, and subsequently became proconsul of
Africa; on the deposition of the Emperor Maximinus in 238, he, then in his eightieth year,
was proclaimed emperor, his son (b. A.D. 192) being associated with him in the imperial office;
grief at the death of his son, killed in battle, caused him to commit suicide a month after
he had assumed the purple; he was a man of refined and generous nature. MARCUS ANTONIUS GORDIANUS,
grandson of preceding, was early raised to the dignity of Cæsar, and in 238 rose to the rank
of Augustus; his most important achievement was his driving back of the Persians beyond the
Euphrates and his relief of Antioch; he was assassinated in 244 by his own soldiers while preparing
to cross the Euphrates.

GORDIUS, a boor, the father of Midas (q. v.), who was proclaimed king of Phrygia because he
happened, in response to the decree of an oracle, to be the first to ride into Gordium during
a particular assembly of the people; he rode into the city on a waggon, to which the yoke was
attached by the Gordian knot, and which he dedicated to Zeus.

GORDON, GENERAL CHARLES GEORGE, born at Woolwich, son of an artillery officer; entered the
Royal Engineers; served in the Crimea as an officer in that department, and was, after the
war, employed in defining the boundaries of Asiatic Turkey and Russia; being employed in 1860
on a mission to square up matters with the Chinese, on the settlement of the quarrel lent himself
to the Emperor in the interest of good order, and it was through him that the Taiping Rebellion
in 1863-64 was extinguished, whereby he earned the title of "Chinese" Gordon; he returned to
England in 1865, and was for the next six years engaged in completing the defences of the Thames
at Gravesend; he was Vice-Consul of the delta of the Danube during 1871-73, at the end of which
term he conducted an expedition into Africa under the Khedive of Egypt, and was in 1877 appointed
governor of the Soudan, in which capacity, by the confidence his character inspired, he succeeded
in settling no end of troubles and allaying lifelong feuds; he relinquished this post in 1880,
and in 1884, the English Government having resolved to evacuate the Soudan, he was commissioned
to superintend the operation; he started off at once, and arrived at Khartoum in February of
that year, where, by the end of April, all communication between him and Cairo was cut off;
an expedition was fitted out for his relief, but was too late in arriving, the place was stormed
by the Arabs, and he with his comrades fell dead under a volley of Arab musketry, January 28;
from the commencement to the close of his career he distinguished himself as a genuine Christian
and a brave man (1833-1885).

GORDON, LORD GEORGE, Anti-Papal agitator, born in London, son of the Duke of Gordon; he adopted
the navy as a profession, and rose to be lieutenant; entered Parliament, and soon made himself
conspicuous by his indiscriminate attacks on both Whigs and Tories; gave a passionate support
to the London Protestant Association formed for the purpose of bringing about the repeal of
the Catholic Emancipation Bill of 1778; in 1780, as President of the Association, took the
leading part in the famous No Popery riots in London; was tried but acquitted, mainly through
the eloquent defence of Erskine; subsequently he was excommunicated for contempt of court,
and eventually, after endeavouring to escape prosecution for two treasonable pamphlets, was
apprehended, and died in Newgate (1751-1793).

GORDON, SIR JOHN WATSON, a portrait-painter, born in Edinburgh; was a pupil of Raeburn's, and
his successor as a painter of portraits; executed portraits of most of the eminent Scotchmen
of his time, and among the number Sir Walter Scott, the Duke of Buccleuch, Lord Cockburn, Dr.
Chalmers, and Professor Wilson (1788-1864).

GORE, CHARLES, canon of Westminster, a Fellow of Trinity College, Oxford, is an exponent of
High Church tenets; the editor of Lux Mundi, and the author of the Bampton Lecture for 1891,
on "The Incarnation of the Son of God"; b. 1853.

GÖRGEI, ARTHUR, a Hungarian patriot; at the age of 27 entered the army, and designed to devote
himself to the study of chemistry and the administration of his estate; but on the outbreak
of the Revolution in 1848 he joined the revolutionists; crushed the Croatians at Ozora; at
the head of a patriot army faced the Austrians under Windischgrätz on the western frontier,
and despite a temporary repulse, succeeded in asserting the supremacy of the Hungarian cause
in a series of victories; Russian assistance accorded to Austria, however, changed the fortune
of war; Kossuth resigned, and Görgei became dictator; but hopeless of success, he immediately
negotiated a peace with the Russians; in 1851 he published a vindication of his policy and
surrender, and in 1885 was exonerated by his compatriots from the charges of treachery brought
against him by Kossuth; b. 1818.

GORGIAS, a celebrated Greek sophist, born at Syracuse, in Sicily; settled in Athens, a swashbuckler
of a man, who attached himself to the ELEATICS (q. v.), and especially Zeno, in order that
by their dialectic "he might demonstrate that nothing exists, or if something exists, that
it cannot be known, or if it can be known, that it cannot be communicated"; his work bore characteristically
enough the title "Of the Non-Existent, or of Nature"!

GORGONS, three sisters, Medusa, Euryale, and Stheino, with hissing serpents on their heads
instead of hair, of whom Medusa, the only one that was mortal, had the power of turning into
stone any one who looked on her. See PERSEUS.

GORHAM, GEORGE CORNELIUS, an English ecclesiastic; being presented to the vicarage of Bramford
Speke, N. Devon, was refused institution by Dr. Philpotts, the bishop of Exeter, because he
was unsound in the matter of baptismal regeneration, upon which he appealed to the Court of
Arches, which confirmed the bishop's decision, but the sentence of the court was reversed by
the Privy Council, and institution granted (1787-1857).

GÖRLITZ (62), a fortified town in Prussian Silesia, 52 m. W. of Liegnitz, on the Meuse, where
JACOB BOEHME (q. v.) lived and died.

GORTSCHAKOFF, MICHAEL, Russian general, brother of the succeeding; served in the war between
Russia and Turkey in 1828-1829; commanded in the Danubian Principalities in 1853; distinguished
himself in the defence of Sebastopol (1795-1861).

GORTSCHAKOFF, PRINCE, an eminent Russian general; was engaged in Finland in 1809, in the Turkish
War in 1810, in the French War 1812-14, and the Crimean War (1789-1866).

GOSCHEN, GEORGE JOACHIM, English statesman, born in London; entered Parliament in the Liberal
interest in 1863; served in office under Lord John Russell and Mr. Gladstone; was opposed to
Home Rule, joined the Liberal-Unionist party and holds office under Lord Salisbury as First
Lord of the Admiralty; b. 1831.

GOSHEN, a fertile district along a branch of the Nile, in the eastern part of the delta of
Lower Egypt; assigned by Pharaoh to the children of Israel when they came to sojourn in the land.

GOSPELS, the name by which the four accounts in the New Testament of the character, life, and
teaching of Christ are designated; have been known since as early as the 3rd century, of which
the first three are called "Synoptic," because they are summaries of the chief events, and
go over the same ground in the history, while the author of the fourth gospel follows lines
of his own; the former aim mainly at mere narrative, while the object of the latter is dogmatic,
as well as probably to supply deficiencies in the former; moreover, the interest of John's
account centres in the person of Christ and that of the others in His gospel; the writers were
severally represented as attended, Matthew by a man, Mark by a lion, Luke by an ox, and John
by an eagle.

GOSPORT (25), a fortified port and market-town in Hants, on the W. side of Portsmouth harbour,
opposite Portsmouth, with which it is connected by a floating bridge; its industries embrace
flourishing iron-works, barracks, the Royal Clarence Victualling Yard, and Haslar shipyard
for the repair of gunboats.

GOSSE, EDMUND, poet, essayist, and critic, born in London, the son of the succeeding; author
of "History of Eighteenth Century Literature," a collection of lyrics, and a series of monographs,
in particular "Life of Gray"; b. 1849.

GOSSE, PHILIP HENRY, naturalist, horn at Worcester, in business in Newfoundland, Canada, and
the United States; spent his leisure hours in the study of natural history, chiefly insects;
after a visit of two years to Jamaica wrote an account of its birds; compiled several works
introductory to the study of animal life, and latterly devoted himself to the study of marine
animals (1810-1888).

GOTHA (30), northern capital of the duchy of Saxe-Coburg-Gotha and seat of the reigning prince,
the present Duke of Edinburgh, situated on the Leine Canal, 6 m. from the northern border of
the Thuringian Forest; is picturesquely laid out, and has considerable manufactures, the famous
Perthes' geographical publishing-house; Friedenstein Castle, the ducal residence, built in
1643, has a library of 200,000 vols. and 6000 MSS.

GOTHAM, a village of N. Nottinghamshire, the natives of which were made a laughing-stock of
for their foolish sayings and doings, an instance of the latter being their alleged joining
hand in hand round a bush to hedge in a cuckoo.

GOTHAMITES, American cockneys, New York being called Gotham.

GOTHARD, ST., the central mountain mass (9850 ft. high) of the Middle Alps and core of the
whole Alpine system; it forms a watershed for rivers flowing in four different directions,
including the Rhône and the Rhine; the famous pass (6936 ft.) from Lake Lucerne to Lake Maggiore
forms an excellent carriage-way, has two hotels and a hospice at its summit; on the lower slopes
is the St. Gothard railway (opened 1882), with its celebrated tunnel (9¼ m.), the longest in
the world.

GOTHENBURG (109), the second town of Sweden, at the mouth of the Gotha, 284 m. SW. of Stockholm,
is a clean and modernly built town, intersected by several canals; it has a splendid harbour,
and one of the finest botanical gardens in Europe; its industries include shipbuilding, iron-works,
sugar-refining, and fisheries; its licensing system has become famous; all shops for the sale
of liquor are in the hands of a company licensed by government; profits beyond a five per cent.
dividend to the shareholders are handed over to the municipality.

GOTHIC ARCHITECTURE, a varied style of architecture distinguished by its high and sharply-pointed
arches, clustered columns, which had its origin in the Middle Ages, and prevailed from the
12th to the 15th centuries, though the term Gothic was originally applied to it as indicating
a barbarous degeneracy from the classic, which it superseded.

GOTHLAND: 1 (2,595), the southernmost of the three old provinces of Sweden; chiefly mountainous,
but with many fertile spaces; forest and lake scenery give a charm to the landscape; Gothenburg
is the chief town. 2 (51), a Swedish island in the Baltic, 44 m. E. of the mainland, area 1217
sq. m.; forms, with other islands, the province of Gothland or Wisby; agriculture, fishing,
and shipping are the main industries; Wisby is the chief town (also called Gottland).

GOTHS, a tribe of Teutons who in formidable numbers invaded the Roman empire from the east
and north-east from as early as the third century, and though they were beaten back at the
battle of Châlons, eventually broke it up.

GOTTFRIED VON STRASBURG, a medieval German poet and one of the famous minnesingers; flourished
in Strasburg at the close of the 12th century and beginning of the 13th; his great poem "Tristan
und Isolde," completed in 1210, extends to 19,552 lines, and has a grace and freshness suggestive
of Chaucer.

GÖTTINGEN (24), an ancient Hanoverian town, prettily situated in the valley of the Leine, 50
m. S. of Hanover; is chiefly noteworthy on account of its university (1734), with its library
of 500,000 vols. and 5000 MSS.; the students exceed 800, and are instructed by 120 professors;
there is a flourishing book-trade.

GOTTSCHED, JOHANN CHRISTOPH, a German literary notability, born near Königsberg, professor
of philosophy and belles-lettres at Leipzig; was throughout his life the literary dictator
of Germany; did much to vindicate the rights and protect the purity of the German tongue, as
well as to improve the drama, but he wrote and patronised a style of writing that was cold,
stiff, and soulless (1700-1766).

GOUGH, HUGH, VISCOUNT, a distinguished English general, born at Woodstown, in Limerick; he
first saw service at the Cape and in the West Indies; afterwards fought with distinction in
the Peninsular war; subsequently, as major-general, he took part in the Indian campaign of
1827, and in 1840 commanded the forces in China; during seven years (1843-50) he was commander-in-chief
of the Indian army, and carried through successfully the Sikh Wars, which added the Punjab
to the British dominions; in 1849 he was created a viscount, and a field-marshal in 1862 (1779-1869).

GOUGH, J. B., temperance orator, born in Kent; bred a bookbinder; early a victim to intemperance;
took the pledge in 1842, and became an eloquent and powerful advocate of the temperance cause
both in England and America (1817-1886).

GOUJON, JEAN, a celebrated French sculptor and architect, born at Paris; he did the reliefs
on the Fountain of the Innocents and the façade of the old Louvre; was a Huguenot, but died
before the massacre of St. Bartholomew in 1572.

GOULD, JOHN, eminent ornithologist, born at Lyme Regis, Devonshire; his works are entitled
"A Century of Birds from the Himalaya Mountains," "The Birds of Europe," "The Birds of Australia,"
"The Birds of Asia," "The Birds of Great Britain," and "Humming-Birds," of which last he had
an almost complete collection, only one wanting; the volumes in which these works were published
were large folios and very expensive, with coloured illustrations of the birds described, the
whole done under Mr. Gould's own eye, and in many cases by his own hand (1804-1881).

GOUNOD, CHARLES FRANÇOIS, an eminent French composer, born at Paris; a prize gained at the
Paris Conservatoire followed by a government pension enabled him to continue his studies at
Rome, where he gave himself chiefly to the study of religious music; the "Messe Solenelle"
was published on his return to Paris; turning his attention to opera he produced "Sappho" in
1851, a popular comic opera "Le Médecin malgré lui" in 1858, and a year later his famous setting
of "Faust," which placed him in the front rank of composers; other operas followed, with various
masses, anthems, hymns, &c.; his oratorio "Redemption," perhaps his masterpiece, appeared in
1882 (1818-1893).

GOVAN (63), a town in Lanarkshire, Scotland, on S. bank of the Clyde, virtually a western suburb
of Glasgow; the staple industry is shipbuilding.

GOW, NATHANIEL, youngest son of Neil, won celebrity as a composer of songs and other pieces;
his 200 compositions include the popular "Caller Herrin'" (1766-1831).

GOW, NEIL, a famous Scotch fiddler, born at Inver, near Dunkeld, of lowly origin; during his
long life he enjoyed a wide popularity amongst the Scotch nobility, his especial patron being
the Duke of Atholl; Raeburn painted his portrait on several occasions; he composed over a hundred
strathspeys, laments, &c., giving a fresh impulse and character to Scotch music, but his fame
rests mainly on his violin playing (1727-1807).

GOWER, JOHN, an English poet, contemporary and friend of Chaucer, but of an older school; was
the author of three works: "Speculum Meditantis," the "Thinker's Mirror," written in French,
lost for long, but recovered lately; "Vox Clamantis," the "Voice of One Crying," written in
Latin, an allegorising, moralising poem, "cataloguing the vice of the time," and suggested
by the Wat Tyler insurrection, 1381; and "Confessio Amantis," "Confession of a Lover," written
in English, treating of the course of love, the morals and metaphysics of it, illustrated by
a profusion of apposite tales; was appropriately called by Chaucer the "moral Grower"; his
tomb is in St. Mary's, Southwark (1325-1408).

GOWKTHRAPPLE, a "pulpit-drumming" Covenanter preacher in "Waverley," described by Scott as
in his own regard a "chosen vessel."

GOWRIE CONSPIRACY, a remarkable and much disputed episode in the reign of James VI. of Scotland;
the story goes that Alexander Ruthven and his brother, the Earl of Gowrie, enticed the king
to come to Gowrie House in Perth on the 5th August 1600 for the purpose of murdering or kidnapping
him, and that in the scuffle Ruthven and Gowrie perished. Historians have failed to trace any
motive incriminating the brothers, while several good reasons have been brought to light why
the king might have wished to get rid of them.

GOZO (17), an island in the Mediterranean which, together with Malta and Comino, forms a British
crown colony; lies 4 m. NW. of Malta. Babato is the chief town.

GOZZI, COUNT CARLO, Italian dramatist, born at Venice; was 39 when his first dramatic piece,
"Three Oranges," brought him prominently before the public; he followed up this success with
a series of dramas designed to uphold the old methods of Italian dramatic art, and to resist
the efforts of Goldoni and Chiari to introduce French models; these plays dealing with wonderful
adventures and enchantments in the manner of Eastern tales ("dramatic fairy tales," he called
them), enjoyed a wide popularity, and spread to Germany and France. Schiller translated "Turandot"
(1722-1806).--His elder brother, COUNT GASPARO GOZZI, was an active littérateur; the author
of various translations, essays on literature, besides editor of a couple of journals; was
press censor in Venice for a time, and was in his later days engaged in school and university
work (1713-1786).

GRACCHUS, TIBERIUS SEMPRONIUS, Roman tribune and reformer, eldest son of Cornelia, and brought
up by her; proposed, among others, a measure for the more equal distribution of the public
land, which he had to battle for against heavy odds three successive times, but carried it
the third time; was killed with others of his followers afterwards in a riot, and his body
thrown into the Tiber and refused burial, 138 B.C., aged 40.

GRACE, the term in Scripture for that which is the free gift of God, unmerited by man and of
eternal benefit to him.

GRACE, DR. W. G., the celebrated cricketer, born near Bristol; distinguished as a batsman,
fielder, and bowler; earned the title of champion, which was spontaneously and by universal
consent conferred on him; has written on cricket; b. 1848.

GRACE CUP, a silver bowl with two handles passed round the table after grace at all banquets
in London City.

GRACES, THE, reckoned at one time two in number, but originally they appear to have been regarded
as being, what at bottom they are, one. At last they are spoken of as three, and called Aglaia,
Euphrosyne, and Thalia: Thalia, the blooming one, or life in full bloom; Euphrosyne, the cheerful
one, or life in the exuberance of joy and sympathy; and Aglaia, the shining one, or life in
its effulgence of sunny splendour and glory. But these three are one, involved each in the
other, and made perfect in one. There is not Thalia by herself, or Aglaia, but where one truly
is, there, in the same being also, the other two are. They are three sisters, as such always
inseparable, and in their inseparability alone are Graces. Their secret is not learned from
one, but from all three; and they give grace only with fulness, buoyancy, and radiancy of soul,
or life, united all in one. They are in essence the soul in its fulness of life and sympathy,
pouring itself rhythmically through every obstruction, before which the most solid becomes
fluid, transparent, and radiant of itself.

GRACIOSA, a princess in a fairy tale, persecuted by her stepmother, and protected by Prince
Percinet, her lover.

GRACIOSO, a fool in a Spanish comedy, who ever and anon appears on the stage during the performance
with his jokes and gibes.

GRADGRIND, a character in "Hard Times," who weighs and measures everything by a hard and fast
rule and makes no allowances.

GRAFTON, AUGUSTUS HENRY FITZROY, DUKE OF, English statesman in the reign of George III.; held
various offices of State under Rockingham, Chatham, and North; was bitterly assailed in the
famous "Junius Letters" (1735-1811).

GRAHAM, SIR JOHN, companion of Sir William Wallace, who fell at the battle of Falkirk.

GRAHAM, JOHN, VISCOUNT DUNDEE. See CLAVERHOUSE.

GRAHAM, THOMAS, celebrated Scottish chemist, born in Glasgow, where in 1830 he became professor
of Chemistry in the Andersonian University; seven years later he was appointed to a similar
chair in University College, London; in 1855 he resigned his professorship on succeeding Herschel
as Master of the Mint; his name is honourably associated with important researches relating
to the diffusion of gases and liquids, and with contributions to the atomic theory of matter
(1805-1869).

GRAHAME, JAMES, a Scottish poet, born in GLASGOW; bred a lawyer; took to the Church; author
of a poem on the "Sabbath," instinct with devout feeling, and containing good descriptive passages
(1765-1811).

GRAHAM'S DYKE, a Roman wall extending between the Firths of Forth and Clyde.

GRAHAMSTOWN (16), capital of the eastern province of Cape Colony, 25 m. from the sea and 106
m. NE. of Port Elizabeth; is beautifully situated 1728 ft. above sea-level at the base of the
Zuurberg Mountains; has an exceedingly salubrious climate; some fine buildings, and is the
seat both of a Catholic and a Protestant bishop.

GRAIÆ, three old women in the Greek mythology, born with grey hair, had only one tooth and
one eye among them, which they borrowed from each other as they wanted them; were personifications
of old age.

GRAIL, THE HOLY, the cup or vessel, said to have been made of an emerald stone, that was used
by Christ at the Last Supper, and in which Joseph of Arimathea caught up the blood that flowed
from His wounds on the Cross; it was brought to England by Joseph, it is alleged, but after
a term disappeared; to recover it formed an object of quest to the Knights of the Round Table,
in which Sir Galahad succeeded, when it was seen by certain other knights, but it has not been
seen since, for none is permitted to see it or can set eye on it but such as are of a pure heart.

GRAMONT or GRAMMONT, PHILIBERT, COMTE DE, a celebrated French courtier in the age of Louis
XIV.; he greatly distinguished himself in the army, as also at the court by his lively wit
and gallant bearing, and soon established himself in the king's favour, but an intrigue with
one of the royal mistresses brought about his exile from France; at the profligate court of
Charles II of England he found a warm welcome and congenial surroundings; left memoirs which
were mainly the work of his brother-in-law, Anthony Hamilton, and which give a marvellously
witty and brilliant picture of the licentiousness and intrigue of the 17th-century court life
(1621-1707).

GRAMPIANS, 1, a name somewhat loosely applied to the central and chief mountain system of Scotland,
which stretches E. and W. right across the country, with many important offshoots running N.
and S.; the principal heights are Ben Nevis (4406 ft), Ben Macdhui (4296 ft.), Cairntoul (4200
ft.). 2, A range of mountains in the W. of Victoria, Australia, highest elevation 5600 ft.

GRANADA, the last of the ancient Moorish kingdoms to be conquered (1492) in Spain, in the SE.
of Andalusia, fronting the Mediterranean, now divided into Granada, Almeria, and Malaga; the
modern province (484) has an area of 4928 sq. m.; Granada (72), the capital, is beautifully
situated at the foot of the Sierra Nevada, on an eminence 2245 ft. above sea-level, 140 m.
SE. of Seville; the Jenil flows past it; has a large university, a cathedral, and monastery;
was founded by the Moors in the 8th century, but has been largely rebuilt on modern principles.

GRANADA, NEW (9), a commercial town in Nicaragua, Central America, on the NW. shore of Lake
Nicaragua.

GRANBY, JOHN MANNERS, MARQUIS OF, an English general, eldest son of the third Duke of Rutland;
rose to be commander-in-chief of the British army in Germany during the Seven Years' War; distinguished
himself at Warburg; in 1763 he was master-general of the ordnance, and in 1766 commander-in-chief
of the army; was the victim of some of Junius's most scathing invectives (1721-1770).

GRAND ALLIANCE, an alliance signed at Vienna 1689 by England, Germany, and the States-General
to prevent the union of France and Spain.

GRAND JURY, a jury appointed to decide whether there are grounds for an accusation to warrant
a trial.

GRAND LAMAISM, a belief of the people of Thibet that Providence sends down always an incarnation
of Himself into every generation.

GRAND MONARQUE, THE, LOUIS XIV. (q. v.) of France, so called.

GRAND PENSIONARY, a state official in the Dutch Republic; in earlier times the Grand Pensionary
was Secretary and also Advocate-General of the province of Holland; later his duties embraced
the care of foreign affairs; held office for five years, but was generally re-elected; the
office was abolished in 1795.

GRANDISON, SIR CHARLES, the hero of one of Richardson's novels, a character representative
of an ideal Christian and gentleman.

GRANDVILLE, the pseudonym of JEAN IGNACE ISIDORE GÉRARD, a French caricaturist, born at Nancy;
his fame was first established by the "Metamorphoses du Jour," a series of satirical sketches
representing men with animal faces characteristic of them; his subsequent work embraced political
cartoons and illustrations for "Gulliver's Travels," "Don Quixote," "Robinson Crusoe," La Fontaine's
"Fables," &c. (1803-1847).

GRANGEMOUTH (6), a busy port in Stirlingshire, on the Forth, 3 m. NE. of Falkirk; exports iron-ware
and coal; has excellent docks, and does some shipbuilding.

GRANI`CUS, a river in Asia Minor, flowing from the slopes of Mount Ida and falling into the
Sea of Marmora, where Alexander gained, 334 B.C., the first of the three victories which ended
in the overthrow of the Persian empire.

GRANT, SIR ALEXANDER, of Dalvey, born at New York; graduated at Oxford, and became a Fellow
of Oriel College; in 1856 he succeeded to the baronetcy; was appointed Inspector of Schools
at Madras; two years later was appointed professor of History and Principal in Elphinstone
College there; at Bombay he became Vice-Chancellor of Elgin College, and in 1868 succeeded
Sir David Brewster as Principal of Edinburgh University; wrote "The Story of Edinburgh University,"
various essays, and edited Aristotle's Ethics; was married to a daughter of Professor Ferrier
of St. Andrews (1826-1884).

GRANT, MRS. ANNE, née M'VICAR, authoress, born in Glasgow; took to literature as a means of
livelihood after the death of her husband, and produced several volumes descriptive of the
Highlands of Scotland and the character of the people; "Letters from the Mountains" enjoyed
a wide popularity, and first gave to the public some adequate conception of the charm and character
of the Highlands (1755-1838).

GRANT, SIR FRANCIS, artist, born in Edinburgh; was educated for the Scottish bar, but took
to painting, and became celebrated for his hunting pictures, into which portraits of well-known
sportsmen were introduced; also executed portraits of the Queen and Prince Consort on horseback,
of Palmerston, Macaulay, and others, and became President of the Royal Academy (1803-1878).

GRANT, JAMES, novelist, born in Edinburgh; joined the army as an ensign at 17, but after a
few years resigned and adopted literature as his profession; "The Romance of War" (1846), his
first book, was followed by a series of stirring novels which are yet in repute, and have most
of them been translated into Danish, German, and French; he turned Catholic in 1875 (1822-1887).

GRANT, SIR JAMES HOPE, General, brother of Sir Francis Grant, born at Kilgraston, Perthshire;
first distinguished himself in the Sikh Wars, and took a leading part in the suppression of
the Indian Mutiny; in 1859 he commanded the British forces in China, and captured Pekin; was
created a G.C.B. in 1860 and a general in 1872; he published several works bearing upon the
wars in which he had been engaged (1808-1875).

GRANT, ULYSSES SIMPSON, General, born at Mount Pleasant, Ohio; bred to the military profession,
served in Mexico, and held several appointments in the army; retired to civic life in 1854,
but on the outbreak of the Civil War he entered the army and fought on the side of the North
with such success that in 1864 he was appointed general-in-chief; he was eventually raised
to the Presidency in 1868, and re-elected in 1872; on the expiry of this second term he made
a tour round the world, and was everywhere received with the distinction he deserved (1822-1885).

GRANTHAM (17), a market-town in Lincolnshire, on the Witham, 25 m. SW. of Lincoln, and has
a fine 13th-century church; in the grammar-school Newton was educated, and in 1643 Cromwell
won his first victory here; its industries embrace agricultural-implement making, malting,
&c.; a 30 m. canal connects it with the Trent.

GRANVILLE, GEORGE LEVESON-GOWER, second Earl, statesman; entered Parliament as a Liberal in
1836, and became a supporter of free trade; in 1846 succeeded to the peerage, and in 1851 became
Foreign Minister under Lord John Russell; four years later became leader of the Lords; figured
in every Liberal cabinet till 1886, usually as Colonial or Foreign Secretary; in 1859 he failed
to form a ministry of his own; was a staunch supporter of Mr. Gladstone's Home Rule policy
(1815-1891).

GRATIAN, a celebrated canonist of the 12th century, born at Chiusi, Tuscany; was a Benedictine
monk at Bologna, and compiled the "Decretum Gratiani" between 1139 and 1142.

GRATIANUS, AUGUSTUS, Roman emperor from 375 to 383, eldest son of Valentinian I., born in Pannonia;
at 16, in conjunction with his four-year-old brother, Valentinian II., became ruler over the
Western Empire, and three years later found himself, by the death of his uncle Valens, head
also of the Eastern Empire, a year after which he summoned Theodosius to be his colleague;
his reign is noted for the stern repression of the remains of the heathen worship; in 383,
while endeavouring to combat the usurper Maximus, he was captured at Lyons and there put to
death (359-383).

GRATTAN, HENRY, great Irish patriot and orator, born in Dublin, and by birth a Protestant;
studied at Trinity College, where he stood high in classics; was called to the Irish bar in
1772, and entered the Irish Parliament three years after, where he distinguished himself as
the champion of legislative freedom, by maintaining that the crown had no right to legislate
on matters affecting Irish interests, and particularly Irish commercial interests, without
consulting the Irish Parliament, and by securing thereby in a measure the legislative independence
of Ireland; on the question of Irish Parliamentary reform he quarrelled with his compatriots,
and he confined his own efforts to Catholic emancipation; in 1798 he retired from public life,
but came forth as an opponent of the Union in 1800, though, on its accomplishment, he represented
first Malton in Yorkshire, and then Dublin in the United Parliament, devoting the rest of his
life to the political emancipation of his Catholic fellow-subjects; before the rupture referred
to fell out, he received a grant of £50,000 from the Irish Parliament; in private as in public
life, he was a man of irreproachable character, while as an orator he ranks among the foremost
of his time (1746-1820).

GRATZ or GRÄTZ (112), capital of Styria, in Austria, picturesquely situated on the Mur, 141
m. SW. of Vienna; its many old and interesting buildings include a cathedral (1462), four monasteries,
and the Landhaus, an ancient ducal residence; there is a flourishing university, with upwards
of 1100 students; its industries embrace iron and steel works, sugar-refining, soap and candle
factories, &c.

GRAVELOTTE, a village in Lorraine, 7 m. W. of Metz; was the scene of a German victory over
the French in 1870.

GRAVESEND (35), a thriving river-port and watering-place in Kent, on the Thames, opposite Tilbury
Fort, 24 m. SE. of London; the new town rises amid picturesque surroundings above the old town;
it is the chief pilot station for the river; there is a busy trade in shipbuilding, iron-founding,
brewing, &c.

GRAY, ASA, a distinguished American botanist, born at Paris, Oneida County, New York; graduated
in medicine in 1842; became Fisher professor of Natural History at Harvard, and in 1874 succeeded
Agassiz as Regent of the Smithsonian Institution; his writings did much to promote the study
of botany in America on a sound scientific basis, and also to forward the theories of Darwin;
in conjunction with Dr. Torrey he wrote "The Flora of North America," and by himself various
manuals of botany and "Natural Science and Religion" (1810-1888).

GRAY, AULD ROBIN, the title of a ballad by Lady Anne Lindsay, from the name of its hero, a
good old man who married a young girl whose lover is thought to be dead, but who turns up to
claim her a month after.

GRAY, JOHN EDWARD, English naturalist, born at Walsall; studied medicine, and at 24 entered
the British Museum as an assistant in the Natural History department; in 1840 he became keeper
of the Zoological Collections, of which he made a complete catalogue, enriched with most valuable
notes; is the author of books and papers to the number of 500, and was an active promoter of
scientific societies in London (1800-1875).

GRAY, THOMAS, English poet, born in Cornhill, London, for whom Horace Walpole conceived a warm
attachment, which, after a brief rupture, lasted with life; gave himself up to the study of
Greek literature, and began to cultivate the muse of poetry; produced in 1747 "Ode on a Distant
Prospect of Eton College," and in 1750 his well-known "Elegy written in a Country Churchyard";
these were followed by the "Pindaric Odes," the "Progress of Poesy," and the "Bard," which
was finished in 1757; in 1760 he was presented by the Duke of Grafton with the professorship
of Modern History in Cambridge, a sinecure office with £400 a year. "All is clear light," says
Stopford Brooke, "in Gray's work. Out of the love of Greek he drew his fine lucidity.... He
moved with easy power over many forms of poetry, but there is naturalness and no rudeness in
the power. It was adorned by high ornament and finish.... The 'Elegy' will always remain one
of the beloved poems of Englishmen; it is not only a piece of exquisite work; it is steeped
in England" (1716-1771).

GREAT COMMONER, WILLIAM PITT, who became Earl Chatham (q. v.).

GREAT DUKE, DUKE OF WELLINGTON (q. v.).

GREAT EASTERN, the name of the largest ship ever built; was designed by Brunel and Scott Russell;
laid down at Milwall in 1854, and launched in 1858, having cost £732,000; it did not prove
a successful venture; was latterly used for laying the Atlantic cables; subsequently became
a coal-hulk at Gibraltar, and in the end was sold in 1888 for old iron.

GREAT ELECTOR, Frederick William, Elector of Brandenburg (1620-1683).

GREAT HARRY, a man-of-war built by Henry VII., the first of any size built in England.

GREAT MAGICIAN, Sir Walter Scott.

GREAT MORALIST, SAMUEL JOHNSON (q. v.), from the character of his writings.

GREAT SALT LAKE, in N. of Utah, U.S., stretches upwards of 80 m. along the western base of
the Wahsatch Mountains, about 4200 ft. above the sea-level; it is from 20 to 32 m. broad, and
very shallow; Antelope Island, 18 m. long, is the largest island; the coast is rugged and desolate;
its clear waters hold no fish, and the surplus inflow is carried off by evaporation only.

GREAT SLAVE LAKE, 300 m. long and 50 at its greatest breadth; lies within the Canadian NW.
Territory; the Mackenzie River carries its overflow to the Arctic Ocean.

GREAT UNKNOWN, THE, author of "Waverley" and Waverley novels.

GREAT UNWASHED, THE, the artisan class.

GREATHEART, in the "Pilgrim's Progress," the guide of Christiana and her family to the Celestial
City.

GREECE (2,187), a kingdom of S. Europe occupying the southern portion of a peninsula which
projects into the Mediterranean between the peninsula of Italy and the mainland of Turkey in
Asia; the N. is bounded by Turkey in Europe; it is made up of the N. and S. divisions connected
by the narrow and canalled isthmus of Corinth, the Ionian Islands in the W., and the Cyclades
and Sporades in the E.; it is a mountainous region, and many of the peaks are rich in classic
associations, e. g. Olympus, Parnassus, and Helicon; the rivers are of no great size, and the
lakes though numerous are inconsiderable; in the valleys the soil is fertile and agriculture
is actively engaged in, although the methods adopted are still somewhat primitive; but favoured
by a delightful climate the vine, olive, and other fruit-trees flourish; currants are the chief
article of export, and textiles and cereals the principal imports; milling, dyeing, distilling,
and tanning are important industries; various minerals are found, and the marble from Paros
is famed as the finest for statue carving; there is a considerable mercantile marine, and a
busy shipping trade of a small kind among the islands and along the deeply indented coast,
and also valuable coral and sponge fisheries; the government is a limited and hereditary monarchy,
and the legislative power is vested in an elected chamber of, at least, 150 paid representatives,
called the Boul[=e]; universal suffrage obtains, and the period of election is for four years;
the bulk of the people belong to the established Greek Church, but in Thessaly and Epirus there
are about 25,000 Mohammedans; education is free and compulsory, but is badly administered,
and a good deal of illiteracy exists; the glory of Greece lies in her past, in the imperishable
monuments of her ancient literature and art; by 146 B.C. she had fallen before the growing
power of the Romans and along with the rest of the Byzantine or Eastern empire was overrun
by the Turks in A.D. 1453; her renascence as a modern nation took place between 1821 and 1829,
when she threw off the Turkish yoke and reasserted her independence, which she had anew to
attempt by arms in 1897, this time with humiliation and defeat, till the other powers of Europe
came to the rescue, and put a check to the arrogance of the high-handed Turk.

GREEK or EASTERN CHURCH, that section of the Church which formerly separated from the Roman
or Western in 1054, which assumed an independent existence on account of the arrogant claims
of the latter, and which acknowledges the authority of only the first seven general councils;
they dissent from the FILIOQUE DOCTRINE (q. v.), administer the Eucharist in both kinds to
the laity, and are zealously conservative of the orthodoxy of the Church.

GREEK FIRE, a combustible of highly inflammable quality, but of uncertain composition, used
by the Greeks of the Byzantine Empire against the Saracens; a source of great terror to those
who were assailed by it, as it was difficult to extinguish, so difficult that it was said to
burn under water.

GREELEY, HORACE, American journalist and politician, born at Amherst, New Hampshire, the son
of a poor farmer; was bred a printer, and in 1831 settled in New York; in a few years he started
a literary paper the New Yorker, and shortly afterwards made a more successful venture in the
Log Cabin, a political paper, following that up by founding the New York Tribune in 1841, and
merging his former papers in the Weekly Tribune; till his death he advocated temperance, anti-slavery,
socialistic and protectionist principles in these papers; in 1848 he entered Congress and became
a prominent member of the Republican party; he visited Europe, and was chairman of one of the
juries of the Great Exhibition; in 1872 he unsuccessfully opposed Grant for the Presidency;
in religion he was a Universalist; his works include "The American Conflict," "Recollections,"
"Essays," &c. (1811-1872).

GREEN, JOHN RICHARD, historian, born at Oxford; took orders, and was for a time vicar of St.
Philip's, Stepney, contributing articles the while on historical subjects to the Saturday Review,
and pursuing his historical studies with a zeal that undermined his health; in 1874 he published
his "Short History of the English People," which was speedily adopted in schools, and was accepted
at large as one of the ablest summaries of the history of the country; the welcome with which
this small work was received induced the author to essay a larger, which he accordingly by-and-by
published in 4 volumes, and which he dedicated to "My Masters in the study of English History,
Bishop Stubbs and Professor Freeman"; this was followed by "The Making of England" and "The
Conquest of England," the latter being published after his decease (1837-1883).

GREEN, NATHANAEL, a celebrated American general, born at Warwick, Rhode Island; though the
son of a Quaker, he promptly took up arms on the outbreak of hostilities with the mother-country,
and in 1775, as brigadier-general, headed the force in Rhode Island; his gallant conduct at
the battles of Princeton and Brandywine won him promotion, and in 1780 he was advanced to the
command of the army of the south; after a temporary reverse from Cornwallis at Guildford Court,
he conducted his operations with so much success that, with the crowning victory at Eutaw Springs
(1781), he cleared the British from the States; his last days were spent on his estate in Georgia,
a gift from government in recognition of his services; next to Washington he was the great
hero of the war (1742-1788).

GREEN, THOMAS HILL, philosopher, born in Yorkshire; studied at Balliol College, Oxford; was
elected a Fellow and became eventually Whyte's professor of Moral Philosophy; his philosophy
had a Kantian root, developed to a certain extent on the lines of Hegel, which, however, he
applied less in speculative than a spiritual interest, though he was not slow, on the ground
of it, to assail the evolution theory of Herbert Spencer and G. H. Lewes; he was a great moral
force in Oxford, and that apart from his philosophical speculations, though there can be little
doubt that the philosophy which he had embraced was a potent element in his moral character
and his influence; his views on the purely spiritual nature and derivation of the Christian
religion have, since his death, attracted attention, and are regarded with some anxiety by
those whose faith requires a historical basis (1838-1882).

GREENBACKS, a name given to the inconvertible paper currency issued in the United States during
the Civil War, so called from the colour of the notes, bonds, &c.; the name has since been
popularly applied to the paper money of the States; the notes were made convertible in 1879.

GREENLAND (11), an extensive but imperfectly defined territory lying mostly within the Arctic
circle to the NE. of North America, from which it is separated by Davis Strait and Baffin Bay;
the area is variously estimated from 512,000 to 320,000 sq. m.; the land lies submerged beneath
a vast plain of ice, pierced here and there by mountain tops, but it is conjectured to consist
of one large island-continent engirt by groups of smaller islands; only on the S. coast, during
the meagre summer, is there any appearance of vegetation; there is a great variety of birds,
and the animals include the wolf, fox, bear, reindeer, musk ox, and Arctic hare, while whales,
seals, and many kinds of fish are found; the inhabitants are chiefly Esquimaux, but there are
some Danish settlements, begun in 1721, and the trade is a Danish monopoly; the country was
known in early times to the Scandinavians (of whose settlements there are interesting remains),
and was rediscovered by John Davis in 1585.

GREENOCK (63), a flourishing seaport of Renfrewshire, on the Firth of Clyde, 22 m. W. of Glasgow;
it stretches some 4 m. along the shore and climbs the hill slopes behind, whence it commands
a splendid view of the river and Highlands beyond; the west end is handsomely laid out, and
contains some fine buildings, including the Watt Institute, with library of 130,000 vols.;
the harbourage is excellent, and favours a large foreign shipping trade; the staple industries
are shipbuilding, engineering, spinning, sugar-refining, &c.; coal and iron are the chief exports,
and sugar and timber the largest imports.

GREENOUGH, HORATIO, an American sculptor, spent most of his life in Rome and Florence; executed
the colossal statue of Washington in front of the Capitol in Washington City, and a group of
figures entitled "The Rescue" (1803-1852).

GREENWICH (78), an important borough of Kent (officially within the county of London), on the
Thames, 5 m. SE. of London Bridge; its active industries embrace engineering, telegraph works,
chemical works, &c.; the Royal Observatory, founded by Charles II. in 1675, occupies a commanding
site within the Park; it is from this point that degrees of longitude with us are reckoned.

GREENWICH HOSPITAL, founded in 1694 by Queen Mary after designs by Christopher Wren, was from
1705 till 1869 an asylum for disabled sailors; since then the funds, amounting to £167,259
a year, have been distributed in pensions and also utilised for the upkeep of Greenwich Hospital
Schools (where 1000 children of seamen receive board and education); since 1873 this hospital
has served as the college for the Royal Navy.

GREENWOOD, FREDERICK, publicist and journalist; editor of Cornhill Magazine, author of Life
of Napoleon III., "Lover's Lexicon," and "Dreams"; b. 1830.

GREG, WILLIAM RATHBONE, literary and political essayist, born in Manchester; in 1856 became
a Commissioner of Customs, and from 1864 till his resignation in 1877 acted as Controller of
H.M. Stationery Office; his works embrace "The Creed of Christendom," "Enigmas of Life," "Political
Problems," &c., and are marked by vigorous thought couched in a lucid, incisive style; was
from his evil prognostications designated Cassandra Greg (1809-1881).

GRÉGOIRE, HENRI, bishop of Blois, born at Vého, near Lunéville, one of the clerical deputies
to the States-General of 1789; attached himself to the Tiers-état, was a member of the National
Convention, and a staunch advocate for civil and religious liberty, but refused resolutely
to follow "Goose Gobel," the archbishop of Paris, and renounce the Christian religion and deny
his Master (1750-1831). See CARLYLE'S "FRENCH REVOLUTION."

GREGORIAN CALENDAR, the regulation of the year according to the correction introduced by Gregory
XIII. in 1582 of the Julian calendar, which allowed the year 11 minutes and 10 seconds too much.

GREGORIAN YEAR, the civil year according to the correction of the Gregorian calendar.

GREGORY, the name of 16 popes: G. I., the Great, Pope from 590 to 604; G. II., st., pope from
715 to 731; G. III., Pope from 731 to 741; G. IV., pope from 827 to 844; G. V., Pope from 996
to 997; G. VI., pope from 1045 to 1046; G. VII., Pope from 1073 to 1085; G. VIII., pope in
1187; G. IX., Pope from 1227 to 1241; G. X., pope from 1271 to 1276; G. XI, Pope from 1370
to 1378; G. XII., pope from 1406 to 1415; G. XIII., Pope from 1572 to 1585; G. XIV., pope from
1590 to 1591; G. XV., Pope from 1621 to 1623; G. XVI., Pope from 1831 1846. Of these the following
are worthy of note:--

GREGORY I., THE GREAT, and ST., born in Rome, son of a senator; made prætor of Rome; relinquished
the office and became a monk; devoted himself to the regulation of church worship (instituting,
among other things, the liturgy of the Mass), to the reformation of the monks and clergy, and
to the propagation of the faith; saw some fair-haired British youths in the slave-market at
Rome one day; on being told they were Angles, he said they should be Angels, and resolved from
that day on the conversion of the nation they belonged to, and sent over seas for that purpose
a body of monks under Augustin.

GREGORY II., ST., born at Rome and bred a Benedictine; is celebrated for his zeal in promoting
the independence of the Church and the supremacy of the see of Rome, and for his defence of
the use of images in worship.

GREGORY III., born in Syria; was successor of Gregory II., and carried out the same policy
to the territorial aggrandisement of the Holy See at a time when it might have been overborne
by secular invasions.

GREGORY VII., HILDEBRAND, born in Tuscany; bred up as a monk in a life of severe austerity,
he became sensible of the formidable evils tending to the corruption of the clergy, due to
their dependence on the Emperor for investiture into their benefices, and he set himself with
all his might to denounce the usurpation and prohibit the practice, to the extent of one day
ex-communicating certain bishop who had submitted to the royal claim and those who had invested
them; his conduct roused the Emperor, Henry IV., who went the length of deposing him, upon
which the Pope retaliated with a threat of excommunication; it ended in the final submission
of Henry at CANOSSA (q. v.); the terms of submission imposed were intolerable, and Henry broke
them, elected a Pope of his own, entered Rome, was crowned by him, and besieged Gregory in
San Angelo, from which Guiscard delivered him to retire to Salerno, where he died, 1035; he
was a great man and a good Pope.

GREGORY IX., UGOLINO, born in Campania; had during his pontificate contests with the Emperor
Barbarossa, whom he twice over excommunicated; was the personal friend of St. Francis of Assisi,
whom he canonised; died at a very advanced age.

GREGORY XIII., born in Bologna; was skilled in canon law; distinguished himself in the Council
of Trent, and by his zeal against the Protestants; celebrated the Bartholomew Massacre by public
thanksgivings in Rome, and reformed the calendar.

GREGORY XVI., born at Belluno; occupied the Papal chair at a time of great civil commotion,
and had much to do to stem the revolutionary movements of the time; developed ultramontanist
notions, and paved the way for the hierarchical policy of his successor Pio Nono.

GREGORY NAZIANZEN, ST., bishop of Constantinople, born in Cappadocia; studied in Athens, where
he became the friend of St. Basil, and held discussions with Julian, afterwards emperor and
apostate, who was also studying there; had been bishop of Nazianzus before he was raised by
Theodosius to the bishopric of Constantinople, which he held only for a year, at the end of
which he retired into solitude; he was the champion of orthodoxy, a defender of the doctrine
of the Trinity, and famed for his invectives against Julian; he has left writings that have
made his name famous, besides letters, sermons, and poems (328-389). Festival, May 9.

GREGORY OF NYSSA, ST., one of the Fathers of the Greek Church, brother of St. Basil, and bishop
of Nyssa, in Cappadocia; he was distinguished for his zeal against the Arians, and was banished
from his diocese at the instance of the Emperor Valens, who belonged to that sect, but returned
to it after his death; he was an eminent theologian and a valiant defender of orthodoxy, on,
according to Harnack, something like Hegelian lines (332-400). Festival, March 9.

GREGORY OF TOURS, ST., bishop of Tours, French theologian and historian, born at Clermont;
was mixed up a good deal in the political strife of the time, and suffered not a little persecution;
was the author of a "History of the Franks," the earliest of French chronicles, entitling him
to be regarded as the "Father of Frankish History"; his history contains a great number of
valuable documents, though it is written in a barbarous style, and not unfrequently evinces
a lack of moral sensibility (540-594).

GREGORY THAUMATURGUS, ST., a theologian of the Greek Church, and a convert and disciple of
Origen; became bishop of Neo-Cæsarea in Pontus; was present at the Council of Antioch; numerous
conversions from paganism are ascribed to him, as well as numerous miracles; d. 270. Festival
November 12.

GREGORY, DAVID, nephew of succeeding, born at Aberdeen; became professor of Mathematics in
Edinburgh at the age of 23, and in 1691 was appointed Savilian professor of Astronomy at Oxford;
was one of the first to publicly teach the principles of Newton's philosophy (1661-1708).

GREGORY, JAMES (1), inventor of the reflecting telescope, born in Aberdeen; after a three years'
residence in Padua received the appointment of professor of Mathematics in St. Andrews, which
he held from 1669 to 1674, when he was elected to the corresponding chair in Edinburgh; author
of various mathematical treatises which display a fine originality; he was struck blind whilst
working at his telescope (1638-1675).

GREGORY, JAMES (2), son of succeeding, was his successor in the chair of Medicine at Edinburgh,
and wrote "Philosophical and Literary Essays"; compounded "Gregory's mixture" (1753-1821).

GREGORY, JOHN, grandson of James (1), born at Aberdeen, where he became professor of Medicine
in 1755, whence ten years later he was translated to fill the corresponding chair in Edinburgh;
his works include, among others, "A Comparative View of the State and Faculties of Man with
those of the Animal World" (1724-1773).

GREGORY, WILLIAM, son of James (2); held successively the chairs of Chemistry in Glasgow, Aberdeen,
and Edinburgh; he translated Liebig's "Agricultural Chemistry," and was the first to advance
and expound Liebig's theories (1803-1858).

GRENADA (54), one of the most picturesque of the Windward Islands, in the British West Indies,
of volcanic origin; lies about 60 m. N. of Venezuela; the harbour of St. George, the capital,
is the most sheltered anchorage in the Windward Islands; fruits, cocoa, and coffee are cultivated;
it was ceded by France in 1783.

GRENFELL, SIR FRANCIS WALLACE, Major-General, late Sirdar of the Egyptian army, born in London;
distinguished himself in Zulu, Transvaal, Egyptian, and Nile expeditions (1885-1892), and commanded
forces in Egypt (1897-98); was presented by the Khedive with a sword of honour on his retirement,
in souvenir of the victories of Giniss, Gamaizo, and Toski; b. 1841.

GRENOBLE (57), a strongly fortified city of France, capital of the dep. of Isère, on the river
Isère, 58 m. SE. of Lyons; there are several fine old cathedrals, and a university with a library
of 170,000 vols.; the manufacture of kid gloves is the staple industry.

GRENVILLE, GEORGE, statesman, younger brother of Earl Temple; was called to the bar in 1735,
and six years later entered Parliament; held various offices of State, and in 1763 succeeded
Bute as Prime Minister; his administration is noted for the prosecution of WILKES (q. v.),
and the passing of the American Stamp Act, a measure which precipitated the American Revolution
(1712-1770).

GRENVILLE, SIR RICHARD, a gallant seaman of Queen Elizabeth's time; already a knight, commanded
the first expedition sent by Raleigh to colonise Virginia; took part in the defeat of the Armada,
and in 1591, while commanding the Revenge in Lord Howard's squadron, engaged single-handed
the entire Spanish fleet off the Azores; after a desperate fight of about 18 hours, during
which time four of the Spanish vessels were sunk, and upwards of 2000 of their men slain or
drowned, he surrendered, was carried wounded on board a Spanish ship, in which he died; the
fight is celebrated in Tennyson's noble ballad "The Revenge."

GRENVILLE, WILLIAM WYNDHAM, LORD, statesman; entered Parliament in 1782; was not a man of brilliant
parts, but his integrity and capacity for work raised him to the highest offices of State;
in 1789 he was Speaker of the House of Commons, and a year later was raised to the peerage
and made Home Secretary under Pitt; in 1791 he was Foreign Secretary; supported Catholic Emancipation
and the Abolition of the Slave-trade; he was Premier from 1806 to 1807; later he supported
Canning and Earl Grey (1759-1834).

GRESHAM, SIR THOMAS, founder of the Royal Exchange, born in London; son of Sir Richard Gresham,
a wealthy mercer, who was knighted and made Lord Mayor in Henry VIII.'s reign; after studying
at Cambridge entered the Mercers' Company, and in 1552, as "King's agent" in Antwerp, negotiated
important loans with the Flemish merchants; under the Catholic régime of Mary he was dismissed,
but was shortly after restored, and in 1559 appointed ambassador in Antwerp; between 1566 and
1571 he carried through his project of erecting an Exchange, and his munificence was further
displayed in the founding of a college and eight almshouses; in 1569 he was instrumental in
bringing about the important fiscal arrangement of borrowing from home merchants instead of
as formerly from foreign merchants (1519-1579).

GRESHAM COLLEGE, college founded by Sir Thomas Gresham in 1575, and managed by the Mercer's
Company, London, where lectures are delivered, twelve each year, by successive lecturers on
physics, rhetoric, astronomy, law, geometry, music, and divinity, to form part of the teaching
of University College.

GRETCHEN, the German diminutive for Margaret, and the name of the guileless girl seduced by
Faust in Goethe's tragedy of the name.

GRETNA GREEN, a village in Dumfriesshire, over the border from England, famous from 1754 to
1856 for clandestine marriages, which used latterly to be celebrated in the blacksmith's shop.

GRÉTRY, a celebrated musical composer, born at Liège, composed 40 operas marked by feeling
and expression, the "Deux Avares," "Zemire et Azor," and "Richard Coeur de Lion" among them;
he bought Rousseau's hermitage at Montmorency, where he died (1741-1813).

GREUZE, JEAN BAPTISTE, a French painter, much esteemed for his portraits and exquisite genre
pieces; he died in poverty (1725-1805).

GRÈVE, PLACE DE, place of public execution in Paris at one time.

GREVILLE, CHARLES CAVENDISH FULKE, celebrated for his "Memoirs"; after quitting Oxford he acted
as private secretary to Earl Bathurst, and from 1821 to 1860 was Clerk of the Council in Ordinary;
it was during his tenure of this office that he enjoyed exceptional opportunities of meeting
the public men of his times, and of studying the changing phases of political and court-life
of which he gives so lively a picture in his "Memoirs" (1794-1865).

GREVILLE, FULKE, a minor English poet, born at Beauchamp Court, Warwickshire; was educated
at Cambridge and Oxford; travelled on the Continent; played a part in the court-life of Elizabeth's
time; was knighted in 1597, and in 1620 was created Lord Brooke; he was murdered in a scuffle
with his valet (1554-1628).

GRÉVILLE, HENRY, the pseudonym of Madame Alice Durand (née Fleury), novelist, born at Paris;
her works, which are numerous, contain lively pictures of life in Russia, in which country,
in St. Petersburg, she spent 15 years of her life (1857-72), and married Émile Durand, a French
professor of Law; since 1872 she has lived in France; b. 1842.

GRÉVY, FRANÇOIS, PAUL JULES, French President, born at Mont-sous-Vaudrey, Jura; became prominent
at the Paris bar, and after the '48 Revolution entered the Constituent Assembly, of which he
became Vice-President; his opposition to Louis Napoleon, and disapproval of his coup d'état,
obliged him to retire; but in 1869 he again entered the political arena, and was four times
chosen President of the National Assembly; in 1879 he was elected President of the Republic
for seven years, and in 1886 was confirmed in his position for a similar period, but ministerial
difficulties induced him to resign two years later (1807-1891).

GREY, CHARLES, FIRST EARL, soldier; as Sir Charles Grey of Howick he distinguished himself
in the wars with the American Colonies and the French Republic, and in 1804 was rewarded with
a Barony, and two years later was made Earl Grey (1728-1807).

GREY, CHARLES, 2ND EARL, party to the impeachment of Warren Hastings; tried to impeach Pitt;
denounced union with Ireland; became leader of the House of Commons in 1806; carried Act for
the Abolition of the African Slave-trade; succeeded to the earldom in 1807, and denounced the
Bill against Queen Caroline; becoming Prime Minister in 1830 he was defeated, and resigned
twice over the Reform Bill; returning to power in 1832, with permission to make as many peers
as might be needed, he succeeded at last in passing the Bill; he was head of a powerful party
in the reformed Parliament, and carried the bill abolishing slavery in the Colonies, but resigned
over Irish troubles in 1834 (1764-1845).

GREY, SIR GEORGE, colonial governor and statesman, born at Lisburn, Ireland; while a captain
in the army he, in 1837 and 1838, explored Central Australia and the Swan River district; in
1841, having retired from the army, he became Governor of South Australia; was made K.C.B.
for his services: in 1846 was Governor of New Zealand, and in 1854 Governor and Commander-in-Chief
of the Cape of Good Hope, where he conciliated the Kaffirs; in 1858 a difference with the home
government led him to resign, but he was soon re-established; from 1861 to 1867 he was at his
former post in New Zealand, where he pacified the Maories; in 1875 he was Superintendent of
Auckland, and in 1877-84 was Premier of New Zealand; he is the author of "Journals of Discovery
in Australia," "Polynesian Mythology," &c. (1812-1898).

GREY, LADY JANE, the ill-fated "nine days' queen," born at Bradgate, Leicestershire; was the
daughter of the Duke of Suffolk and the great-granddaughter of Henry VII.; her talents were
of a rare order, and sedulously cultivated; she attained to great proficiency in Greek, Latin,
and also in modern languages, while she was skilled in all the accomplishments of womanhood;
a plot entered into by Suffolk and the Duke of Northumberland, whose son Lady Jane had been
forced to espouse at 15, brought about her proclamation as Queen in 1553; the attempted usurpation
was crushed in ten days, and four months later Lady Jane and her husband were executed (1537-1554).

GREY FRIARS, the FRANCISCANS (q. v.), from their grey habit.

GRIEG, EDOARD, Norwegian composer, born at Bergen, of Scotch descent; received his first musical
lessons from his mother, and at 15 went to Leipzig; in 1863 was at Copenhagen and then established
himself as a teacher at Christiania, where he continued eight years and became intimate with
Ibsen; subsequently, after leading an unsettled life, he received a government pension, and
after that devoted himself to musical composition; his music, chiefly pianoforte pieces and
songs, achieved a wide popularity in England and Scotland; b. 1843.

GRIERSON, SIR ROBERT, OF LAG, a notorious persecutor of the Covenanters, whose memory is still
regarded with odium among the peasants of Galloway; was for some years Steward of Kirkcudbright;
was in 1685 made a Nova Scotia baronet, and awarded a pension (1655-1733).

GRIESBACH, JOHANN JACOB, German theologian and biblical critic, born in Hesse-Darmstadt; produced
a critical revision of the text of the New Testament, the chief labour of his life, for which
he visited and ransacked the various libraries of Europe (1745-1812).

GRIFFIN or GRIFFON, a chimerical fabulous animal with the body and legs of a lion in symbol
of strength, with the wings and beak of an eagle in symbol of swiftness, with the ears of a
horse in symbol of watchfulness, and instead of a mane the fin of a fish; figures among heraldic
symbols with the significance here indicated.

GRILLPARZER, FRANZ, popular Austrian dramatist, born at Vienna; studied law and then entered
the Civil Service, in which he remained from 1813 to 1856; his first notable drama was the
tragedy "Die Ahnfrau," the motif of which is an extreme fatalism; "Sappho," "Das goldene Vliess,"
and many others followed, all of which are marked by dramatic power and lyric grace; he stands
in the front rank of Austrian poets (1791-1872).

GRIMALDI, JOSEPH, a famous English clown, son of an Italian dancing-master, born in London;
was bred to the stage from his infancy, appearing on the boards when not yet two years old;
his Memoirs were edited by Dickens, who describes him as "the genuine droll, the grimacing,
filching, irresistible clown" (1779-1837).

GRIMM, BARON, a German littérateur and critic, born at Ratisbon; a man of versatile powers
and vast attainments; settled in Paris and became acquainted with Rousseau and the leading
Encyclopédists and Madame d'Epinay; on the breaking out of the Revolution he retired to the
court of Gotha and afterwards to that of Catharine II. of Russia, who made him her minister
at Hamburg; his correspondence is full of interest, and abounds in piquant literary criticism
(1723-1807).

GRIMM, JACOB LUDWIG, German philologist, born at Hanau; held office as librarian to Jerome
Bonaparte, king of Westphalia, and afterwards to Göttingen University, as well as a professorship
there, devoting himself the while chiefly to studies in early German lore, and afterwards with
his brother settled in Berlin; his principal works were, "Deutsche Grammatik," "Deutsche Mythologie,"
"Geschichte der Deutschen Sprache," and the "Kinder-und-Haus-Märchen" in collaboration with
his brother (1785-1863).

GRIMM, WILHELM KARL, philologist, younger brother of the preceding, born at Hanau; was associated
both in his appointments and work with his brother, the two being known as the Brothers Grimm;
edited several old German poems, his principal work "Die Deutsche Heldensage" (1786-1859).

GRIMM'S LAW, as enunciated by J. L. Grimm, is the law regulating the interchange of mute consonants
in languages of Aryan origin, aspirates, flats, and sharps in the classical languages corresponding
respectively to flats, sharps, and aspirates in Low German, and to sharps, aspirates, and flats
in High German tongues.

GRIMSBY or GREAT GRIMSBY (59), a seaport of Lincolnshire, on the S. shore of the Humber, opposite
Spurn Head, 20 m. SE. of Hull; was a port of importance in Edward III.'s time; is now noted
as the largest fishing-port in the kingdom; has extensive docks, shipbuilding, tanning, brewing,
and other industries.

GRINDAL, EDMUND, archbishop of Canterbury; was suspended for respecting his conscience more
than the Queen (Elizabeth), but restored; offered to resign, but the Queen would not accept
his resignation; became in the end blind from grief (1519-1583).

GRINDELWALD, a winter resort in Bernese Oberland, in Switzerland, in a beautiful valley 12½
m. long and 4 m. broad, and nearly 3500 ft. above sea-level.

GRINGO, a name of contempt in Mexico and South America for interlopers of English descent or
speech.

GRINGORE, a French poet; flourished in the reigns of Louis XII. and Francis I.; was received
with favour at court for political reasons, though he lashed its vices and those of the clergy;
wrote satirical farces, and one especially at the instance of Louis against Pope Julius II.,
entitled "Le Jeu du Prince des Sots" (1476-1544).

GRIQUALAND, WEST AND EAST, British territories in South Africa. The former (83, 30 whites)
lies to the N.E. of Cape Colony, between the Orange River on the S. and Bechuanaland on the
N.; the diamond industry, of which Kimberley is the centre, is the chief source of wealth,
and was begun in 1867; Kimberley is also the seat of government. The latter (153, 4 whites),
situated in No-Man's-Land, between the Kaffir country and S. Natal, is chiefly inhabited by
Griquas and Basutos. The first has been part of Cape Colony since 1881, and the second was
annexed to that colony in 1871, though it is controlled by a chief-magistrate. Griqua is a
name given to half-bloods of Dutch fathers and Hottentot mothers.

GRISELDA or GRISELDIS, a famous heroine of mediæval tradition; figures in Boccaccio, Petrarch,
and Chaucer, and in later dramatists of England, Germany, and Spain; the beautiful daughter
of a Piedmontese peasant, she was loved and married by the Marquis Walter of Saluzzo; his jealous
affection subjected her to several cruel tests of love, which she bore with "wyfly pacience,"
and in the end "love was aye between them twa."

GRISI, GIULIA, a celebrated singer, born in Milan; Paris and London were the chief scenes of
her triumphs; her greatest triumph was in playing the part of "Norma," in the opera of the
name; she was famous alike for the beauty of her person and the quality of her voice (1811-1869).

GRISNEZ, CAPE, a headland with a lighthouse on the French coast opposite Dover, and the nearest
point in France to England.

GRISONS (95), the largest of the Swiss cantons, lies in the SE. between Tyrol and Lombardy;
consists of high mountains and valleys, amongst which are some of the most noted Alpine glaciers;
the Engadine Valley, through which flows the Inn, is a celebrated health resort, as also the
Davos Valley in the E.; some cereals are raised, but pasture and forest land occupy a large
part of the canton, and supply the cattle and timber export trade; the population, which is
small for the extent of territory, is a mixture of German, Romanic, and Italian elements.

GROCYN, WILLIAM, classical scholar, born at Bristol; was the first to teach Greek at Oxford,
and the tutor in that department of Sir Thomas More and Erasmus (1442-1519).

GRODNO, a province and town of Russia; the latter (51) is on the Niemen, 148 m. NE. of Warsaw;
has a Polish palace and medical school. The former (1,556) is a wide, pine-covered, swampy,
yet fertile district, which produces good crops of cereals, and is a centre of the woollen
industry.

GROLIER, JEAN, a famous bibliophile, whose library was dispersed in 1675; the bindings of the
books being ornamented with geometric patterns, have given name to bindings in this style;
they bore the inscription, "Io. Grolieri et Amicorum" (the property of Jean Grolier and his
friends).

GRÖNINGEN (286), a low-lying province in the NE. of Holland, fronting the German Ocean on the
N., and having Hanover on its eastern border; its fertile soil favours extensive farming and
grazing; shipbuilding is an important industry. The capital (58) is situated on the Hunse,
94 m. NE. of Amsterdam; has several handsome buildings, a university (1614), botanic gardens,
shipbuilding yards, and tobacco and linen factories.

GRONOVIUS, the name of two Dutch scholars, father and son, professors successively of belles-lettres
at Leyden; John died 1671, and Jacob 1716.

GROS, ANTOINE JEAN, BARON, a French historical painter, born at Paris; his subjects were taken
from events in the history of France, and especially in the career of Napoleon; his first work,
received with unbounded enthusiasm, was "Pestiféré's de Jaffa," and his latest, a picture in
the cupola of the Church of Geneviève, in Paris (1771-1835).

GROSE, CAPTAIN FRANCIS, an English antiquary, born at Greenford, Middlesex; was educated for
an artist, and exhibited; proved a good draughtsman; became captain of Sussex militia; published
the "Antiquities of England and Wales" (1773-1787); came to Scotland in 1789 on an antiquarian
tour, and made the acquaintance of Burns, who celebrated him in his "Hear, Land o' Cakes and
Brither Scots," as "a chield's amang you takin' notes, and faith he'll prent it"; was an easy-going
man, with a corpulent figure, a smack of humour, and a hearty boon companion; lived to publish
his "Antiquities of Scotland and Ireland"; died at Dublin in an apoplectic fit (1731-1791).

GROSSMITH, GEORGE, actor, famous for leading parts in Gilbert and Sullivan's operas, and since
as giving single-handed dramatic sketches and songs, written by himself and set to music by
himself; b. 1847.

GROSSMITH, WEEDON, actor, artist, and contributor to Art Magazine and Punch; brother of preceding.

GROSSETESTE, ROBERT, a famous bishop of Lincoln, born at Stradbroke, Suffolk, of peasant parents;
a man of rare learning, he became a lecturer in the Franciscan school at Oxford, and rose through
various stages to be bishop of Lincoln in 1235; he was an active Parliamentarian, and gave
valuable assistance to his friend Simon de Montfort in the struggle with Henry III., and headed
the Church reform party against the nepotism of Innocent IV.; according to Stubbs, "he was
the most learned, the most acute, and most holy man of his time" (1175-1253).

GROTE, GEORGE, historian and politician, born at Clay Hill, near Beckenham, of German descent;
was a banker to business; spent his leisure time in the study of philosophy and history; contributed
to the Westminster Review, a philosophical Radical organ at that time; represented the City
of London in that interest from 1833 to 1841, when he retired to devote all his time to his
"History of Greece," of which the first volumes appeared In 1846 and the last in 1856, making
12 volumes in all; this work contributed to dispel many erroneous impressions, in regard particularly
to Athens and its political constitution; wrote on Plato and Aristotle, but his philosophical
creed made it impossible for him to do justice to the Greek metaphysics (1791-1871).

GROTEFEND, GEORG FRIEDRICH, antiquary and philologist, born at Minden, Hanover; was director
of the Lyceum, Hanover; was the first to decipher the cuneiform inscriptions, a discovery which
he gave to the world in 1802 (1775-1853).

GROTESQUE, THE, the combination in art of heterogeneous parts, suggested by some whimsically
designed paintings in the artificial grottoes of Roman houses.

GROTIUS, HUGO, or HUIG VAN GROOT, a celebrated Dutch jurist and theologian, born at Delft;
studied at Leyden under Scaliger, and displayed an extraordinary precocity in learning; won
the patronage of Henri IV. while on an embassy to France; practised at the bar in Leyden, and
in 1613 was appointed pensionary of Rotterdam; he became embroiled in a religious dispute,
and for supporting the Arminians was sentenced to imprisonment for life; escaped in a book
chest (a device of his wife), fled to Paris, and was pensioned by Louis XIII.; in 1625 he published
his famous work on international law, "De Jure Belli et Pacis"; from 1634 to 1645 he acted
as Swedish ambassador at Paris; his acute scholarship is manifested in various theological,
historical, and legal treatises; his work "De Veritate Religionis Christiana;" is well known
(1583-1645).

GROUCHY, EMMANUEL, MARQUIS DE, a French marshal, born at Paris; entered the army in 1780, and
later gave enthusiastic support to the Revolution, laying aside his title; took part in the
Vendéan campaign, the abortive attempt on Ireland, and, under Joubert, in the conquest of Italy;
was a gallant and daring commander in the Piedmontese, Austrian, and Russian campaigns of Napoleon,
and by skilful generalship covered the retreat of the French at Leipzig; he was among the first
to welcome Napoleon back from Elba, defeated Blücher at Ligny, but failed to be forward in
the field of Waterloo; led the remnants of the French army back to Paris afterwards, and then
retired to the United States; in 1819 he returned, and in 1831 was reinstated as marshal (1766-1847).

GROVE, SIR GEORGE, born at Clapham; trained as a civil engineer, and assisted Robert Stephenson
in constructing the Britannia tubular bridge; in 1849 he became secretary to the Society of
Arts, a position he held till 1852, when he became secretary and director of the Crystal Palace
Company; subsequently he was editor of Macmillan's Magazine, a contributor to Smith's "Dictionary
of the Bible," and is best known for the "Dictionary of Music and Musicians" which he edited
and partly wrote; was knighted in 1883; b. 1820.

GROVE. SIR WILLIAM ROBERT, lawyer and physicist, burn at Swansea; called to the bar; was made
a judge in 1871, and knighted a year later, and from 1875 to 1887 he was one of the judges
in the High Court of Justice; throughout his life he busied himself in optical and electrical
research; in 1839 invented the electric battery named after him, and from 1840 to 1847 lectured
on Natural Science in the London Institution; in 1866 he was President of the British Association;
his scientific publications are various, and are important contributions to their subjects
(1811-1896).

GRUB STREET, a street in London near Moorfields, formerly inhabited by a needy class of jobbing
literary men, and the birthplace of inferior literary productions.

GRUNDTVIG, NIKOLAI FREDERIK SEVERIN, Danish poet and theologian, born in Zealand; was early
smitten with a passion for the old Saga literature of the North, and published in 1808 "Northern
Mythology," which was followed by other works of a similar nature, patriotic songs, and a translation
of "Beowulf"; he entered the Church as a curate in 1811; engaged in ardent controversy with
the rationalists; became leader of a Church reform party, the Grundtvigians; was for seven
years suspended from preaching, and eventually rose to be a bishop in Copenhagen, but had no
see (1783-1872).

GRUNDY, MRS., an old lady referred to in Thomas Morgan's comedy of "Speed the Plough," personifying
the often affected extreme offence taken by people of the old school at what they consider
violations of propriety.

GRUYÈRE, a small town in FREIBURG (q. v.), where whole-milk cheese is made.

GUACHO, a native of the South American pampas.

GUADALQUIVIR, the most important river of Spain, rises in the Sierra de Cazorla, in the southern
province of Jaen, and flows in a SW. direction through Andalusia, passing Cordova and Seville,
to which town it is navigable for steamers; after a course of 374 m. it discharges into the
Gulf of Cadiz at San Lucar de Barrameda.

GUADELOUPE (168), a French island among the Lesser Antilles, in the W. Indies; is subject to
earthquakes; produces sugar and coffee; has belonged to France since 1816.

GUADIANA, an important river of Spain, has its source in the E. of the plateau of Mancha, and
for a short distance is known as the Zancara, flows in a westerly direction as far as Badajoz,
where it bends to the S., then forms the border between Portugal and Spain for a short distance,
bends into Alemtejo, and again, ere reaching the Gulf of Cadiz, divides the two countries;
it is 510 m. long, of which only 42 are navigable.

GUANAJUATO (1,007), a central province of Mexico; is rich in minerals, especially silver, and
mining is the chief occupation; but stock-raising is of some importance, and large cotton and
woollen factories have of recent years been introduced. The capital, Guanajuato (52), is built
on both sides of a deep ravine traversed by a dashing torrent; it is the centre of the mining
industry.

GUATEMALA (1,510), a republic of Central America, fronting the Pacific on the W., between Mexico
on the N., and San Salvador and Honduras on the S.; is for the most part mountainous, with
intervening valleys of rich fertility, little explored; minerals are abundant, and gold and
silver are worked, but the wealth of the country lies in its fertile soil, which produces abundance
of coffee, sugar, cotton, tobacco, and fruits of all kinds; there is some manufacture of textiles,
pottery, &c.; the want of good roads has hindered the development of the country; Roman Catholicism
prevails, and the government is vested in a President and Council; its independence was proclaimed
in 1839. The capital, Guatemala (85), stands on a plateau 72 m. NE. of its port, San José;
there is a cathedral and an archbishop's palace, also electric light, and tramway conveyance.

GUAYAQUIL (45), the principal port of Ecuador, stands at the entrance of the river Guayaquil
into the Gulf of Guayaquil; the foreign trade is centred here; there are sawmills and iron-works;
coffee is by far the largest export; the town is badly laid out, and yellow fever is common.

GUBERNATIS, ANGELO DE, a distinguished Italian scholar, born at Turin; in 1863 he was appointed
professor of Sanskrit at Florence; was for a time smitten with the anarchist ideas of Bakunin,
whose daughter he married, and resigned his chair, but soon returned to his professional labours;
in 1891 he became professor of Sanskrit at Rome; his numerous writings witness to his unceasing
industry and versatility, and deal with Orientalism, mythology, archæology, and general literature;
his work "Zoological Mythology," published in English by Mr. Trübner, is not unknown to scholars
among us; b. 1840.

GUDRUN, a heroine in an old German epic so called; betrothed to Herwig, king of Zealand, and
carried off by Hochmut, king of Norway, a rejected suitor; preferred out of respect to her
vow to serve as a menial in his mother's kitchen rather than be his wife; was rescued from
durance by her brother and her betrothed, and being married to Herwig, pardoned the suitor
that had stolen her from his embraces.

GUELDERLAND (523), a province of Holland, stretching from the Zuider Zee on the NW. to Prussia
on the SE.; agriculture is the staple industry; the Rhine crosses it in the S.

GUELPHS, a political party in Italy, who from the 11th to the 14th centuries maintained, against
the claims of the Emperors, the independence of Italy, and the supremacy of the Pope, in opposition
to the GHIBELLINES (q. v.).

GUERICKE, OTTO VON, a German physicist, born at Magdeburg; experimented on air, and invented
the air-pump (1602-1686).

GUERIN, MAURICE DE, a French poet, of noble birth; bred for the Church, but broke away from
it; of a genius of marked promise, whose days were cut short by an early death; his works included
a prose poem called the "Centaur" (1810-1838).

GUERIN, PIERRE, a French painter; treated classical subjects in the classical style (1774-1833)

GUERNSEY (35), the second in size of the CHANNEL ISLANDS (q. v.); fruit and vegetables are
largely exported, and it is noted for a fine breed of cows; St. Peter's Port is the only town,
and has an excellent harbour.

GUERRAZZI, FRANCESCO DOMENICO, an Italian patriot and author, born at Leghorn; was trained
to the law, but took to literature and produced a number of brilliant political novels; after
the flight of the Duke of Tuscany in 1849 he was proclaimed dictator of the duchy, although
little in sympathy with the republican government, and on the restoration of the duke was imprisoned
for three years and banished to Corsica; later he sat in the Turin Parliament from 1862 to
1865 (1804-1873).

GUESCLIN, BERTRAND DU. See DU GUESCLIN, BERTRAND.

GUEST, EDWIN, master of Caius College, Cambridge, antiquary; wrote only one book "History of
English Rhythms," a work of great learning, but contributed papers of great value on the early
history of England in learned journals (1800-1880).

GUEUX, "the Beggars," the name assumed by the nobles and others in the Low Countries in the
War of Independence against Philip II. of Spain; being called beggars in reproach by the court
party, they adopted the name as well as the dress, wore a fox's tail for a plume and a platter
for a brooch.

GUIANA, an extensive tract of country in the N. of S. America fronting the Atlantic, bordering
on Venezuela on the W., and for the rest hemmed in by Brazil; it is divided into British, Dutch,
and French Guiana, all fronting the sea; the physical characteristics of all three are practically
the same; a fertile alluvial foreshore, with upward-sloping savannahs and forests to the unexplored
highlands, dense with luxuriant primeval forest; rivers numerous, climate humid and hot, with
a plentiful rainfall; vegetation, fauna, &c., of the richest tropical nature; timber, balsams,
medicinal barks, fruits, cane-sugar, rice, cereals, &c., are the chief products; also some
gold. BRITISH GUIANA (278) is the most westerly, and borders on Venezuela; area, 88,650 sq.
m., divided into Berbice, Demerara, and Essequibo; GEORGETOWN (q. v.) is the capital. DUTCH
GUIANA or Surinam (73) occupies the central position; area, 46,058 sq. m.; capital PARAMARIBO
(q. v.). FRENCH GUIANA or Cayenne (30) lies to the E.; area, 31,000 sq. m; capital, CAYENNE
(q. v.).

GUICCIARDINI, an Italian statesman and historian, born in Florence; studied law; became professor
of Jurisprudence there; was a disciple of Macchiavelli; did service as a statesman in the Papal
territories; took a leading part in the political changes of Florence; secured the restoration
of the Medici to power, and on his retirement composed a "History of Italy during his Own Time,"
which he had all but completed when he died (1485-1540).

GUICHARD, KARL, a Prussian officer, born at Magdeburg; joined Frederick the Great at Breslau,
"a solid staid man, of a culture unusual for a soldier; brought with him his book, 'Memoirs
Militaires sur les Grecs et les Romans,' a solid account of the matter by the first man who
ever understood both war and Greek; very welcome to Frederick, whom he took to very warmly;
dubbed him Quintus Icilius, and had his name so entered as major on the army books; promoted
at length to colonel, a rank he held till the end of the war" (1721-1775). See Carlyle's "Frederick."

GUICOWAR, the hereditary title of the Mahratta princes who rule over BARODA (q. v.), in Gujarat,
East India.

GUIDO ARETINUS, a Benedictine monk who flourished at Arezzo, in Italy, during the 11th century,
the first to promote the theoretical study of music; he is credited, amongst other things,
with the invention of counterpoint, and was the first to designate notes by means of alphabetical
letters, and to establish the construction of the stave.

GUIDO RENI, Italian painter of the school of Bologna; best known by his masterpiece "Aurora
and the Hours" at Rome, painted on a ceiling, and his unfinished "Nativity" at Naples (1575-1642).

GUIENNE (a corruption of Aquitania), an ancient province of SW. France, now subdivided into
the departments of Gironde, Dordogne, Lot, Aveyron, and embraces parts of Lot-et-Garonne and
Tarn-et-Garonne.

GUIGNES, JOSEPH DE, an eminent French Orientalist, and Sinologist especially; was author of
"Histoire Générale des Huns, des Turcs, des Moguls, &c.," a work of vast research (1721-1800).

GUILDFORD (14), capital of Surrey, on the Wey, 30 m. SW. of London, a quaint old town with
several interesting buildings, and the ruins of a Norman castle; is noted for its "Surrey wheats"
and live-stock markets; and has corn, paper, and powder-mills, also iron-works.

GUILDHALL, a building in London and a hall for banquets of the City Corporation; destroyed
by the fire of 1666 and rebuilt in 1789.

GUILDHALL SCHOOL OF MUSIC, an institution established by the Corporation of London to provide
advanced and thorough instruction in music at a moderate rate, a fine building in connection
with which was erected in 1887; started with 62, and has now 3600 pupils. The Corporation have
expended £50,000 on it, besides an annual contribution of £2300.

GUILDS, associations of craftsmen or tradesmen in the Middle Ages to watch over and protect
the interests of their craft or trade, and to see that it is honourably as well as economically
conducted, each with a body of officials to superintend its affairs; they were associations
for mutual help, and of great benefit to the general community, religiously and morally, as
well as municipally.

GUILLOTINE, a beheading-machine invented by a Dr. Guillotin, and recommended by him to the
National Convention, which adopted it; "with my machine, Messieurs, I whisk off your head in
a twinkling, and you have no pain;" it was anticipated by the Maiden in Scotland.

GUINEA, a name somewhat loosely applied to an extensive tract of territory on the W. coast
of Africa, generally recognised as extending from the mouth of the Senegal in the N. to Cape
Negro in the S., and is further designated as Lower and Upper Guinea, the boundary line being
practically the Equator; the territory is occupied by various colonies of Britain, France,
Germany, Portugal, Belgium, and the Negro Republic of Liberia.

GUINEGATE, a village in Hainault, SW. of Belgium, where Henry VIII. defeated the French in
1513 in the Battle of the SPURS (q. v.).

GUINEVERE, the wife of King Arthur; the most beautiful of women, conceived a guilty passion
for Lancelot, one of Arthur's knights, and married Modred, her husband's nephew, in the latter's
absence on an expedition against the Romans, on hearing of which he returned, met Modred on
the field of battle, whom he slew, fell mortally wounded himself, while she escaped to a nunnery.
Tennyson gives a different version in his "Idylls."

GUISCARD, ROBERT, Duke of Apulia and Calabria, born at Coutances, in Normandy; along with his
brothers, sons of Tancred de Hauteville, he, the sixth of twelve, following others of the family,
invaded S. Italy; won renown by his great prowess, and in the end the dukedom of Apulia; he
engaged in war with the Emperor of the East, but returned to suppress a revolt in his own territory;
when Pope Gregory VII. was besieged in San Angelo by Henry IV. of Germany he came to the rescue
and the emperor made off (1015-1085).

GUISE, a celebrated French ducal family deriving its title from the town of Guise in Aisne.

GUISE, CHARLES, CARDINAL OF LORRAINE, DUKE OF, son of the succeeding, and considered the ablest
of the Guise family; was archbishop of Rheims in 1538, and cardinal of Lorraine in 1547; was
prominent at the Council of Trent, and in conjunction with his brother fiercely opposed Protestantism
(1527-1574).

GUISE, CLAUDE OF LORRAINE, first Duke of, fifth son of René II., Duke of Lorraine; distinguished
himself in the service of Francis I., who conferred on him the dukedom of Guise; was the grandfather
of Mary, Queen of Scots, through his daughter Marie, wife of James V. of Scotland (1496-1550).

GUISE, FRANCIS, second Duke of, and son of preceding; rose, to the highest eminence as a soldier,
winning, besides many others, the great victory of Metz (1552) over the Germans, and capturing
Calais from the English in 1558; along with his brother CHARLES (q. v.) he was virtual ruler
of France during the feeble rule of Francis II., and these two set themselves to crush the
rise of Protestantism; he was murdered by a Huguenot at the siege of Orleans (1519-1563).

GUISE, HENRY I., third Duke of, son of Francis; the murder of his father added fresh zeal to
his inborn hatred of the Protestants, and throughout his life he persecuted them with merciless
rigour; he was a party to the massacre of St. Bartholomew (1572); his ambitious designs on
the crown of France brought about his assassination (1550-1588).

GUISE, HENRY II., fifth Duke of, grandson of preceding; at 15 he became archbishop of Rheims,
but the death of his brother placed him in the dukedom (1640); he opposed Richelieu, was condemned
to death, but fled to Flanders; with Masaniello he made a fruitless attempt to seize the kingdom
of Naples, and eventually settled in Paris, becoming grand-chamberlain to Louis XIV. (1614-1664).

GUIZOT, FRANÇOIS PIERRE GUILLAUME, a celebrated French historian and statesman, born at Nîmes;
his boyhood was spent at Geneva, and in 1805 he came to Paris to study law, but he soon took
to writing, and in his twenty-fourth year had published several works and translated Gibbon's
great history; in 1812 he was appointed to the chair of History in the Sorbonne; on the second
restoration (1814) became Secretary-General of the Ministry of the Interior; the return of
Napoleon drove him from office, but on the downfall of the Corsican he received the post of
Secretary to the Ministry of Justice; in 1830 he threw in his lot with Louis Philippe, became
Minister of Public Instruction, Foreign Minister, and Prime Minister; his political career
practically closed with the downfall of Louis Philippe; his voluminous historical works, executed
between his terms of office and in his closing years, display wide learning and a great faculty
of generalisation; the best known are "The History of the English Revolution" and "The History
of Civilisation"; as a statesman he was honest, patriotic, but short-sighted (1787-1874).

GUJARAT (3,098), a N. maritime province of the Presidency of Bombay, lying between the Gulfs
of Cutch and Cambay; it is a rich alluvial country, and chiefly comprises the native States
of Kathiawar, Cutch, and Baroda.

GULF STREAM, the most important of the great ocean currents; it issues by the Strait of Florida
from the Gulf of Mexico (whence its name), a vast body of water 50 m. wide, with a temperature
of 84° and a speed of 5 m. an hour; flows along the coast of the U.S. as far as Newfoundland,
whence it spreads itself in a NE. direction across the Atlantic, throwing out a branch which
skirts the coasts of Spain and Africa, while the main body sweeps N. between the British Isles
and Iceland, its influence being perceptible as far as Spitzbergen; the climate of Britain
has been called "the gift of the Gulf Stream," and it is the genial influence of this great
current which gives to Great Britain and Norway their warm and humid atmosphere, and preserves
them from experiencing a climate like Labrador and Greenland, a climate which their latitude
would otherwise subject them to.

GULL, SIR WILLIAM WITHEY, physician, born at Thorpe-le-Soken; received his medical training
at London, and in 1843 became professor of Physiology at the Royal Institution; four years
later he was appointed clinical lecturer at Guy's Hospital; in 1871 his attendance on the Prince
of Wales brought him a baronetcy; published various lectures and papers on cholera, paralysis,
&c. (1816-1890).

GULLIVER, the hero of Swift's satirical romance entitled "Gulliver's Travels," which records
his adventures among the pigmies of Lilliput, the giants of Brobdingnag, the quacks of Laputa,
and the HOUYHNHNMS (q. v.).

GULLY, RIGHT HON. WILLIAM COURT, Speaker of the House of Commons since 1895; has represented
Carlisle since 1886, is son of Dr. Gully of water-cure celebrity; b. 1835.

GUN-COTTON, a powerful explosive formed by the action of nitric or sulphuric acid on cotton
or some similar vegetable fibre.

GUN-METAL, a tough, close-grained alloy of copper and tin.

GUNNINGS, two beautiful Irish girls, MARIA (1733-1760) and ELIZABETH (1734-1790), the elder
of whom became Countess of Cromarty, and the younger married first the Duke of Hamilton (1752)
and afterwards the first Duke of Argyll (1759).

GUNPOWDER PLOT, an attempt on the part of a conspiracy to blow up the Parliament of England
on Nov. 5, 1605, on the day of the opening, when it was expected the King, Lords, and Commons
would be all assembled; the conspirators were a small section of Roman Catholics dissatisfied
with King James's government, and were headed by Robert Catesby, the contriver of the plot;
the plot was discovered, and Guy Fawkes was arrested as he was proceeding to carry it into
execution, while the rest, who fled, were pursued, taken prisoners, and the chief of them put
to death.

GUNTER, EDMUND, mathematician, born in Hertfordshire; was educated at Oxford for the Church,
but his natural bent was towards mathematical science, and in 1619 he became professor of Astronomy
in Gresham College, London, a position he held till his death; his "Canon Triangulorum" (1620)
was the first table of logarithmic sines and tangents drawn up on Briggs's system; amongst
other of his inventions was the surveying chain, a quadrant, Gunter's scale, and he was the
first to observe the variations of the compass (1581-1626).

GUNTHER, king of Burgundy and brother of Chriemhild; his ambition was to wed BRUNHILDA (q.
v.), who could only be won by one who surpassed her in three trials of skill and strength;
by the help of Siegfried, who veiled himself in a cloak of darkness, he succeeded not only
in winning her hand, but in reducing her to wifely subjection after she was wed.

GUPPY, the name of a pert, conceited lawyer's clerk who figures in Dickens's "Bleak House."

GURNEY, JOSEPH JOHN, a Quaker philanthropist and writer, born at Earlham Hall, near Norwich;
in 1818 he became a Quaker minister; he energetically co-operated with his sister, Mrs. Elizabeth
Fry, in bringing about a reform of the prison system, and otherwise spent his life in philanthropic
work; his works include "Prison Discipline," 1819, "Religious Peculiarities of the Society
of Friends," 1824 (1788-1847).

GUSTAVUS (I.) VASA or GUSTAVUS ERICSSEN, king of Sweden from 1523 to 1560, born at Lindholm,
in Upland; having conceived the idea of freeing his country from the yoke of Denmark, under
which it had fallen in 1519, and his early efforts to infuse a spirit of patriotic rebellion
into the Swedes proving ineffectual, he was captured by the Danes; escaping from captivity,
he became a wanderer in his own land, working in mines and enduring great privations, but at
last, in 1520, the Swedes were goaded to rebellion, and under him eventually drove the Danes
from their land in 1523; during his long reign Gustavus gradually brought his at first disorganised
empire into a peaceful and united realm (1496-1560).

GUSTAVUS (II.) ADOLPHUS, king of Sweden from 1611 to 1632, born at Stockholm, grandson of preceding
and son of Charles IX.; successful territorial wars with Denmark and Russia occupied him during
the early years of his reign, and in 1629 he concluded an advantageous truce for six years
with Poland; next he espoused the Protestant cause in Germany against the Catholic League;
victory crowned his efforts at every step, but in the great battle of Lützen (near Leipzig),
whilst facing WALLENSTEIN (q. v.), his most powerful opponent, he fell in the act of rallying
his forces, and in the hour of success, not without suspicion of having been assassinated;
he ranks amongst the greatest of champions (1594-1632).

GUSTAVUS III., king of Sweden from 1771 to 1792; succeeded his father Adolphus Frederick; he
found himself early at conflict with his nobles, and in 1772, supported by popular feeling,
imposed a new constitution on the country greatly diminishing their power; Gustavus was an
enlightened ruler, but somewhat alienated his people from him by his extravagance and fondness
for French modes of life; in 1788 he became embroiled in a purposeless war with Russia; he
was assassinated when about to take up arms in behalf of the Bourbon cause against the French
Republicans (1746-1792).

GUSTAVUS IV., king of Sweden from 1792 to 1809, son of preceding; his incompetency and stubbornness
made him an ill ruler; territory was lost to the French, and Finland to Russia, while an attack
on Norway proved a failure; popular indignation rose to a height in 1809; he was deposed, and
the crown given to his uncle, Charles XIII.; after this he lived on the Continent (1778-1837).

GUTENBURG, JOHANNES or HENNE, also called GENSFLEISCH, claimed by the Germans to have been
the inventor of the art of printing with movable types, born at Mainz; for some time lived
in Strasburg as a polisher of precious stones, mirrors, &c.; he set up his first printing-press
at Mainz about 1450 (1400-1468).

GUTHRIE, THOMAS, a Scottish clergyman, distinguished as a pulpit orator and a philanthropist,
born in Brechin; was minister at Arbirlot, near Arbroath, and then in Edinburgh; left the Established
Church at the Disruption, and became minister of St. John's; traversed the country (1845-46)
to raise a fund to provide manses for the Disruption ministers, and realised £116,000 for the
object; came forward as an advocate for ragged schools, and founded one in Edinburgh; he was
a warm-hearted man as well as an eloquent, who could both move his audience to tears and rouse
it to enthusiasm (1803-1873).

GUTTA-PERCHA, the inspissated juice of a tree found in the Malay Archipelago.

GUY, THOMAS, founder of Guy's Hospital, London, born at Horsleydown, Southwark, London; he
started as a bookseller in 1668, and after the importation of English Bibles from Holland was
stopped he obtained the privilege of printing Bibles for Oxford University; lucky speculation
in South Sea stock, combined with his printing business, enabled him to amass an immense fortune,
which he devoted largely to charitable purposes; from 1695 to 1702 he sat in Parliament (1645-1724).

GUY OF WARWICK, a hero of English romance of the 13th century, who won the hand of the daughter
of the Earl of Warwick by a succession of astonishing feats of valour, but repented of the
slaughter he had made, and went a pilgrimage to the Holy Land; returned to his wife disguised
as a palmer; retired into a hermitage; when about to die sent a ring to her, upon which she
came and interred him; she died 15 days after him, and was buried by his side.

GUYON, SIR, a knight in Spenser's "Faërie Queene," the impersonation of temperance and self-control;
he subdued the sorceress Acrasia (i. e. intemperance), and was the destroyer of her "Bower
of Bliss."

GWALIOR (3,378), a native State of Central India, under British protection since 1803; governed
by the Maharajah Sindhia; area, 29,067 sq. m.; consists of scattered districts in the basins
of the Jumna and Nerbudda; opium is the chief export. Gwalior, the capital (1,041), is situated
65 m. S. of Agra; the citadel is very strongly posted on a steep rocky base 340 ft. high.

GWYNN, NELL, a "pretty, witty" actress of Drury Lane, who became mistress of Charles II., whose
son by her was created Duke of St. Albans; the king was very fond of her and took special thought
of her when he was dying (1640-1691).

GYGES, a young shepherd of Lydia, who, according to classic legend, possessed a magic ring
of gold by which he could render himself invisible; he repaired to the Court of Candaules,
whose first minister he became, whose chamber he entered invisibly, and whom he put to death
to reign in his stead.

GYMNOSOPHISTS, a set of contemplative philosophers among the Hindus who practised an extreme
asceticism and went about almost naked.

GYMNOTUS, an electric eel of South America, and found in the fresh waters of Brazil and Guiana.

GYPSIES, a race of people of wandering habits, presumed to be of Indian origin, found scattered
over Europe, Asia, and Africa, and even in America, who appear to have begun to migrate westward
from the valley of the Indus about A.D. 1000, and to have reached Europe in the 14th century,
and to owe their name gypsies to their supposed origin in Egypt. They in general adhere to
their unsettled habits wherever they go, show the same tastes, and follow the same pursuits,
such as tinkering, mat-making, basket-making, fortune-telling. On their first appearance they
were mere vagabonds and thieves.

H

HAAFIZ. See HÄFIZ.

HAARLEM (58), a handsome town in the province of N. Holland on the Spaarne, 4 m. from the sea,
and 12 m. W. of Amsterdam; has a fine 15th-century church with a famous organ (8000 pipes),
linen and other factories, &c., and is noted for its tulip-gardens and trade in flower-bulbs;
it is intersected by several canals as well as the rivers; there existed at one time a lagoon
of the Zuyder Zee called HAARLEM LAKE, which stretched southward as far as Leyden, between
Amsterdam and Haarlem; but destructive inundations, caused by the tidal advance in 1836, compelled
the Government to set about draining it, and this difficult engineering operation was successfully
carried through by an English company during 1839-52.

HABAKKUK, a book of the Old Testament by a Levite, whose name it bears, and who appears to
have flourished in the 7th century B.C., containing a prophecy which belongs, both in substance
and form, to the classic period of Hebrew literature, and is written in a style which has been
described as being "for grandeur and sublimity of conception, for gorgeousness of imagery,
and for melody of language, among the foremost productions of that literature." The spirit
of it is one: faith, namely, in the righteous ways of the Lord; but the burden is twofold;
to denounce the judgment of God on the land for the violence and wrong that prevailed in it,
as about to be executed on it by a power still more violent and unjust in its ways; and to
comfort the generation of the righteous with the assurance of a time when this very rod of
God's wrath shall in the pride of its power be broken in pieces, and the Lord be revealed as
seated in His Holy Temple.

HABBERTON, JOHN, author of "Helen's Babies," born in Brooklyn, New York; was first a clerk
and then a journalist; his other works include "Other People's Children," "The Worst Boy in
Town," &c.; b. 1842.

HABEAS CORPUS, an Act of Parliament passed in the reign of Charles II. to ensure the protection
of one accused of a crime prior to conviction in an open court of justice.

HABINGTON, THOMAS, a Worcester gentleman of fortune, involved at one time in a conspiracy to
release Mary, Queen of Scots, from prison, and convicted at another of concealing some of the
agents in the Gunpowder Plot (1560-1647).

HABINGTON, WILLIAM, poet and historian, son of the preceding; a devoted Catholic, "who did
not run with the times"; author of "Castara," a collection of exquisite lyrics in homage to
his wife, and in celebration of her charms and virtues (1605-1654).

HACHETTE, JEAN, French mathematician; one of the founders of the École Polytechnique (1769-1834).

HACHETTE, JEANNE, a French heroine, born in Beauvais, who took part in the defence of her native
town when besieged in 1472 by Charles the Bold.

HACKLÄNDER, German novelist and dramatist, born near Aix-la-Chapelle; his writings, which show
a genial humour, have been compared to those of Dickens (1816-1877).

HACKNEY (230), an important parish and borough of Middlesex, a suburb of London, 3 m. NE. of
St. Paul's; returns three members of Parliament.

HACO V., king of Norway from 1223 to 1263; was defeated by Alexander III. of Scotland at Largs,
and died at the Orkneys on his way home.

HADDINGTON (3), the county town, on the Tyne, 17 m. E. of Edinburgh; has interesting ruins
of an abbey church, called the "Lamp of Lothian," a cruciform pile with a central tower, a
corn exchange, &c.; was the birthplace of John Knox, Samuel Smiles, and Jane Welsh Carlyle.

HADDINGTONSHIRE or EAST LOTHIAN (37), a maritime county of Scotland, on the E. fronting the
Firth of Forth and the North Sea, N. of Berwickshire; on the southern border lie the Lammermuir
Hills; the Tyne is the only river; considerable quantities of coal and limestone are wrought,
but agriculture is the chief industry, 64 per cent, of the land being under cultivation.

HADEN, SIR FRANCIS SEYMOUR, an etcher and writer on etching, born in London; was bred to medicine,
and in 1857 became F.R.C.S.; in 1843 he took up etching as a pastime and has since pursued
it with enthusiasm and conspicuous success; he has won medals in France, America, and England
for the excellency of his workmanship, while his various writings have largely contributed
to revive interest in the art; he is President of the Society of Painters, and in 1894 a knighthood
was conferred upon him; b. 1818.

HADES (lit. the Unseen), the dark abode of the shades of the dead in the nether world, the
entrance into which, on the confines of the Western Ocean, is unvisited by a single ray of
the sun; originally the god of the nether world, and a synonym of PLUTO (q. v.).

HADITH, the Mohammedan Talmud, being a traditional account of Mahomet's sayings and doings.

HADJI, a Mohammedan who has made his Hadj or pilgrimage to Mecca, and kissed the Black Stone
of the CAABA (q. v.); the term is also applied to pilgrims to Jerusalem.

HADLEIGH (3), an interesting old market-town of Suffolk, on the Bret, 9½ m. W. of Ipswich;
its cloth trade dates back to 1331; Guthrum, the Danish king, died here in 889, and Dr. Rowland
Taylor suffered martyrdom in 1555. Also a small parish of Essex, near the N. shore of the Thames
estuary, 37 m. E. of London, where in 1892 the Salvation Army planted their farm-colony.

HADLEY, JAMES, an American Greek scholar, and one of the American committee on the revision
of the New Testament (1821-1872).

HADLEY, JOHN, natural philosopher; invented a 5 ft. reflecting telescope, and a quadrant which
bears his name, though the honour of the invention has been assigned to others, Newton included
(1682-1744).

HADRAMAUT (150), a dry and healthy plateau in Arabia, extending along the coast from Aden to
Cape Ras-al-Hadd, nominally a dependency of Turkey.

HADRIAN, Roman emperor, born in Rome; distinguished himself under Trajan, his kinsman; was
governor of Syria, and was proclaimed emperor by the army on Trajan's death in A.D. 117; had
troubles both at home and abroad on his accession, but these settled, he devoted the last 18
years of his reign chiefly to the administration of affairs throughout the empire; visited
Gaul in 120, whence he passed over to Britain, where he built the great wall from the Tyne
to the Solway; he was a Greek scholar, had a knowledge of Greek literature, encouraged industry,
literature, and the arts, as well as reformed the laws (76-138).

HAECKEL, ERNST HEINRICH, an eminent German biologist, born at Potsdam; carried through his
medical studies at Berlin and Vienna; early evinced an enthusiasm for zoology, and, after working
for some time at Naples and Messina, in 1865 became professor of Zoology at Jena; here he spent
a life of unceasing industry, varied only by expeditions to Arabia, India, Ceylon, and different
parts of Europe in the prosecution of his scientific theories; he was the first among German
scientists to embrace and apply the evolutionary theories of Darwin, and along these lines
he has produced several works of first-rate importance in biology; his great works on calcareous
sponges, on jelly-fishes, and corals are enriched by elaborate plates of outstanding value;
he made important contributions to the Challenger reports, and was among the first to outline
the genealogical tree of animal life; his name is associated with far-reaching speculations
on heredity, sexual selection, and various problems of embryology; "The Natural History of
Creation," "Treatise on Morphology," "The Evolution of Man," are amongst his more popular works;
b. 1834.

HÄFIZ, his real name Shems-Eddin-Mohammed, the great lyric poet of Persia, born in Shiraz,
where he spent his life; he has been called the Anacreon of Persia; his poetry is of a sensuous
character, though the images he employs are Interpreted by some in a supersensuous or mystical
sense; Goethe composed a series of lyrics in imitation; the name Häfiz denotes a Mohammedan
who knows the Korân and the Hadith by heart (1320-1391).

HAGAR, Sarah's maid, of Egyptian birth, who became by Abraham the mother of Ishmael and of
the Ishmaelites.

HAGEDORN, a German poet, born at Hamburg; was secretary to the English factory there; wrote
fables, tales, and moral poems (1708-1754).

HAGEN, king of Burgundy; the murderer of Siegfried in the "Nibelungen Lied," who is in turn
killed by Chriemhild, Siegfried's wife, with Siegfried's sword.

HAGENAU (15), a town of Alsace-Lorraine, situated in the Hagenau Forest, on the Moder, 21 m.
NE. of Strasburg; has two quaint old churches of the 12th and the 13th century respectively;
hops and wine are the chief articles of commerce; was ceded to Germany in 1871.

HAGENBACH, KARL, a German theologian, born at Basel, and professor there; was a disciple of
Schleiermacher; wrote a church history; is best known by his "Lehrbuch der Dogmengeschichte,"
or "History of Dogmas" (1801-1874).

HAGGADAH, a system of professedly traditional, mostly fanciful, amplifications of the historical
and didactic, as distinct from the legal, portions of Jewish scripture; is a reconstructing
and remodelling of both history and dogma; for the Jews seem to have thought, though they were
bound to the letter of the Law, that any amount of licence was allowed them in the treatment
of history and dogma.

HAGGAI, one of the Hebrew prophets of the Restoration (of Jerusalem and the Temple) after the
Captivity, and who, it would seem, had returned from Babylon with Zerubbabel and Joshua. Signs
of the divine displeasure having appeared on account of the laggard spirit in which the Restoration
was prosecuted by the people, this prophet was inspired to lift up his protest and rouse their
patriotism, with the result that his appeal took instant effect, for in four years the work
was finished and the Temple dedicated to the worship of Jehovah, as of old, in 516 B.C.; his
book is a record of the prophecies he delivered in that connection, and the style, though prosaic,
is pure and clear.

HAGGARD, RIDER, novelist, born in Norfolk; after service in a civic capacity in Natal, and
in partly civil and partly military service in the Transvaal, adopted the profession of literature;
first rose into popularity as author in 1885 by the publication of "King Solomon's Mines,"
the promise of which was sustained in a measure by a series of subsequent novels beginning
with "She" in 1887; b. 1856.

HAGGIS, a Scotch dish, "great chieftain o' the puddin' race," composed of the chopped lungs,
heart, and liver of a sheep, mixed with suet and oatmeal, seasoned with onions, pepper, salt,
&c., and boiled in a sheep's stomach.

HAGIOGRAPHA, the third division of the Jewish canon of scripture, which included the books
of Job, Psalms, Proverbs, Ecclesiastes, Canticles, Ruth, Lamentations, Esther, Daniel, Chronicles,
Ezra, and Nehemiah.

HAGUE, THE (166), the capital of the Netherlands, seat of the Court and of the Government,
15 m. NW. of Rotterdam and 2 m. from the North Sea; is handsomely laid out, in spacious squares
and broad streets, with stately buildings, statues, and winding canals, beautifully fringed
with lindens and spanned by many bridges; has a fine picture-gallery, a royal library (200,000
vols.), archives rich in historical documents of rare value, an ancient castle, palace, and
a Gothic church of the 14th century; industries embrace cannon-foundries, copper and lead smelting,
printing, &c.; it is connected by tramway with Scheveningen, a fashionable watering-place on
the coast.

HAHN-HAHN, IDA, a German authoress of aristocratic birth and prejudice, who, on the dissolution
of an unhappy marriage, sought consolation in travel, and literature of a rather sickly kind
(1805-1880).

HAHNEMANN, SAMUEL, a German physician, the founder of HOMOEOPATHY (q. v.), born at Meissen;
established himself in practice in Dresden on orthodox lines and enjoyed a high reputation,
but retired to revise the whole system of medicine in vogue, of which he had begun to entertain
misgivings, and by various researches and experiments came to the conclusion that the true
principle of the healing art was similia similibus curantur, "like things are cured by like,"
which he announced as such to the medical world in 1796, and on which he proceeded to practise
first in Leipzig and finally in Paris, where he died (1755-1843).

HAIDEE, a beautiful Greek girl in "Don Juan," who, falling in love with the hero and losing
him, came to a tragic end.

HAIDUK or HAJDUK (i. e. cowherd), a name bestowed on a body of irregular infantry in Hungary
who kept up a guerilla warfare in the 16th century against the Turks; in 1605 a stretch of
territory on the left bank of the Theiss was conferred upon them, together with a measure of
local government and certain other privileges; but in 1876 their territory was incorporated
in the county of Hajdu; the name was in later times applied to the Hungarian infantry and to
noblemen's retainers.

HAILES, LORD, SIR DAVID DALRYMPLE, Scottish judge and antiquary, born at Edinburgh; was called
to the Scotch bar in 1748, and raised to the bench in 1768; ten years later he became a justiciary
lord; he devoted his vacations to literary pursuits, and a series of valuable historical works
came from his pen, which include "Annals of Scotland from Malcolm III. to Robert I." and "Annals
of Scotland from Robert I. to the Accession of the House of Stuart," "A Discourse on the Gowrie
Conspiracy," &c. (1726-1792).

HAILEYBURY COLLEGE, lies 2 m. SE. of Hertford; was founded in 1809 by the East India Company
as a training institution for their cadets, and was in use till 1858, when the company ceased
to exist; in 1862 it was converted into a public school.

HAINAN (2,500), an island of China, in the extreme S., between the Gulf of Tongking and the
China Sea, 15 m. S. of the mainland; agriculture is the staple industry; the mountainous and
wooded interior is occupied by the aboriginal Les.

HAINAULT (1,082), a southern province of Belgium bordering on France, between W. Flanders and
Namur; the N. and W. is occupied by fertile plains; the Forest of Ardennes extends into the
S., where also are the richest coal-fields of Belgium; iron and lead are wrought also; the
chief rivers are the Scheldt, Sambre, Dender, and Haine; textiles, porcelain, and iron goods
are manufactured; Mons is the capital.

HAKIM or HAKEM, a Mohammedan name for a ruler, a physician, or a wise man.

HAKIM BEN ALLAH or BEN HASHEM, surnamed MOKANNA (i. e. the Veiled or the One-Eyed); the founder
of a religious sect in Khorassan, Persia, in the 8th century; he pretended to be God incarnate,
and wore over his face a veil to shroud, as his followers believed, the dazzling radiance of
his countenance, but in reality to hide the loss of an eye, incurred in earlier years when
he had served as a common soldier; the sect was after fierce fighting suppressed by the Caliph,
and Hakim is said to have flung himself into a vessel of powerfully corrosive acid in the hope
that, his body being destroyed, a belief in his translation to heaven might spread among his
followers; the story of Hakim is told in Moore's "Lalla Rookh."

HAKLUYT, RICHARD, English author; was educated at Oxford, and became chaplain to the English
embassy in Paris; wrote on historical subjects; his principal work, published in 1589, "Principal
Navigations, Voyages, and Discoveries of the English Nation by Land and Sea," a work which,
detailing as it does the great deeds of Englishmen, particularly on the sea, has borne very
considerable fruit in English life and literature since (1552-1616).

HAKODATE (66), one of the open ports of Yezo in Japan, with a large harbour and large export trade.

HAL (9), a town of Belgium, 9 m. SW. from Brussels; noted for its 14th-century church, which
contains a black wooden image of the Virgin credited with miraculous powers, and resorted to
by pilgrims.

HALACHA, the Jewish law as developed into validity by the decisions of the Scribes, on the
basis of inferential reasoning or established custom; it was of higher authority than the law
as written, though not held valid till sanctioned by a majority of the doctors.

HALBERSTADT (37), an interesting old town in Prussian Saxony, 30 m. SW. of Magdeburg; the 13th-century
cathedral is a fine specimen of Pointed Gothic, and the Church of Our Lady, a 12th-century
structure, is in the Byzantine style; its industries embrace gloves, cigars, machines, sugar, &c.

HALCYON DAYS, days of peace, happiness, and prosperity, properly the seven days before and
the seven after the winter Solstice, days of quiet, during which the halcyon, or kingfisher,
is fabled to be breeding.

HALDANE, ROBERT, born in London, and JAMES, born in Dundee, brothers; entered the English navy,
and after distinguishing themselves in it, left the service, and devoted their time and their
wealth to evangelistic labours and the building of "tabernacles," as they were called, for
religious worship in connection eventually with the Baptist body; they both contributed to
theological literature in the Calvinistic interest; Robert died in 1842, being born in 1764,
and James in 1851, being born in 1766.

HALE, SIR MATTHEW, Lord Chief-Justice of England, born at Alderley, Gloucestershire: in 1629
he entered Lincoln's Inn after some years of roving and dissipation, and eight years later
was called to the bar; as he held aloof from the strife between king and commons, his service
as advocate were in requisition by both parties, and in 1653 he was raised to the bench by
Cromwell; on the death of the Protector he declined to receive his commission anew from Richard
Cromwell, and favoured the return of Charles; after the Restoration he was made Chief Baron
of the Exchequer and knighted; in 1671 he was created Lord Chief-Justice; charges of "trimming"
have been made against him, but his integrity as a lawyer has never been impugned (1609-1676).

HALES, ALEXANDER OF, a scholastic philosopher, surnamed "Doctor Irrefragabilis," who flourished
in the 15th century; author of "Summa Theologiæ."

HALES, JOHN, the "Ever-memorable," canon of Windsor; a most scholarly man, liberal-minded and
highly cultured; was professor of Greek at Oxford; suffered great hardships under the Puritan
supremacy (1584-1656).

HALES, STEPHEN, scientist, born at Beckesbourn, Kent; became a Fellow of Cambridge in 1702;
took holy orders, and in 1710 settled down in the curacy of Teddington, Middlesex; science
was his ruling passion, and his "Vegetable Staticks" is the first work to broach a true morphology
of plants; his papers on Ventilation led to a wide-spread reform in prison ventilation, and
his method of collecting gases greatly furthered the work of subsequent chemists (1677-1761).

HALÉVY, JACQUES FRANÇOIS ELIAS, a French operatic composer, born at Paris; became a professor
at the Conservatoire; wrote a large number of operas, of which "La Juive" and "L'Éclair" were
the best, and enjoyed a European reputation (1799-1862).

HALÉVY, JOSEPH, French Orientalist and traveller, born at Adrianople; his most notable work
was done in Yemen, which he crossed during 1869-70 in search of Sabæan inscriptions, no European
having traversed that land since A.D. 24; the result was a most valuable collection of 800
inscriptions, &c.; his works are numerous, and deal with various branches of Oriental study;
b. 1827.

HALIBURTON, THOMAS CHANDLER, Nova Scotian judge and author, born at Windsor, Nova Scotia; was
called to the bar in 1820, and soon after was elected a member of the House of Assembly; in
1840 he became Judge of the Supreme Court, and two years later retired to England, where, in
1869, he entered Parliament; he wrote several books bearing on Nova Scotia and aspects of colonial
life, but is best known as the author of "Sam Slick," Yankee clockmaker, peripatetic philosopher,
wit, and dispenser of "soft sawder" (1796-1865).

HALICARNASSUS, a Greek city, and the chief of Caria, in Asia Minor, on the sea-coast opposite
the island of Cos, the birthplace of Herodotus; celebrated for the tomb of Mausolus, called
the MAUSOLEUM (q. v.).

HALIDON HILL, an eminence in Northumberland, on the Tweed, 2 m. from Berwick, the scene of
a bloody battle in 1333 between the English and Scots, to the defeat of the latter.

HALIFAX, 1, a prosperous manufacturing town (90), in the West Riding of Yorkshire, situated
amid surrounding hills on the Hebble, 43 m. SW. of York; the staple industries are carpet and
worsted manufacturing, the carpet works being the largest in the world; cotton, merinos, and
damasks are also woven and dyed. 2, capital (39), of Nova Scotia; the naval and military head-quarters
of the British in North America, and the chief port in East Canada; is situated near the head
of Chebucto Bay, which forms a magnificent harbour; a citadel and masked batteries defend the
town; it is an important railway and shipping terminus and coaling station; its gravingdock
is the largest in America; it is the seat of Dalhousie University.

HALIFAX, CHARLES MONTAGUE, EARL OF, a celebrated Whig statesman, born at Horton, Northamptonshire;
a clever skit on Dryden's "Hind and Panther," entitled "The Town and Country Mouse," written
in collaboration with Prior after he had left Cambridge, brought him some reputation as a wit;
in 1688 he entered the Convention Parliament, and attached himself to William's party, when
his remarkable financial ability soon brought him to the front; in 1692 he brought forward
his scheme for a National Debt, and two years later founded the Bank of England in accordance
with the scheme of William Paterson; in the same year he became Chancellor of the Exchequer,
and in 1697 Prime Minister; in conjunction with Sir Isaac Newton, Master of the Mint, he carried
through a re-coinage, and was the first to introduce Exchequer Bills; in 1699 he was created
a Baron, and subsequently was made the victim of a prolonged and embittered but unsuccessful
impeachment; with the accession of George I. he came back to power as Prime Minister, and received
an earldom (1661-1715).

HALIFAX, GEORGE SAVILLE, MARQUIS OF, a noted statesman who played a prominent part in the changing
politics of Charles II.'s and James II.'s reigns, and whose apparently vacillating conduct
won him the epithet of "Trimmer"; he was an orator of brilliant powers and imbued with patriotic
motives, and through his various changes may be seen a real desire to serve the cause of civil
and religious liberty, but he was never a reliable party man; on the abdication of James II.
he, as President of the Convention Parliament, proffered the crown to William of Orange; he
rose through successive titles to be a marquis in 1682; his writings, chief of which is "Character
of a Trimmer" (practically a defence of his own life), are marked by a pungent wit and graceful
persuasiveness (about 1630-1695).

HALL, BASIL, explorer and miscellaneous writer, born in Edinburgh, son of Sir James Hall of
Dunglass, a noted chemist and geologist; rose to be a post-captain in the navy, and in 1816
made a voyage of discovery on the coast of the Corea and the Great Loo Choo Islands, his account
of which forms a fascinating and highly popular book of travel; during 1820-22 he commanded
the Conway on the W. coast of South America, and his published journals covering that period
of Spain's struggle with her colonies are of considerable historical value; "Travels in North
America in 1827-28" is an entertaining record of travel; was also author of some tales, &c.;
he died insane (1788-1844).

HALL, CHARLES FRANCIS, Arctic explorer, born at Rochester, New Hampshire; the mystery surrounding
Franklin's fate awakened his interest in Arctic exploration, and during 1860-62 he headed a
search party, and again in 1864-69; during the latter time he lived amongst the Eskimo, and
returned with many interesting relics of Franklin's ill-fated expedition; in 1871 he made an
unsuccessful attempt to reach the North Pole, and died at Thank God Harbour in Greenland; he
published accounts of his expeditions (1821-1871).

HALL or HALLE, EDWARD, English lawyer and historian, born in London; studied law at Gray's
Inn; in 1540 he became one of the judges of the Sheriff's Court; his fame rests on his history
"The Union of the Two Noble Families of Lancaster and Yorke," a work which sheds a flood of
light on contemporary events, and is, moreover, a noble specimen of English prose (1499-1547).

HALL, JOSEPH, bishop first of Exeter and then of Norwich, born at Ashby-de-la-Zouch; was accused
of favouring Puritanism, and incurred the enmity of Laud; was sent to the Tower for joining
12 prelates who had protested against certain laws passed in Parliament during their enforced
absence from the House; being released on bail, be returned to Norwich, and was persecuted
by the Puritans, who plundered his house and spoiled the cathedral; was the author of a set
of political satires and of "Meditations," early instances in English literature of an interest
in biography (1574-1656).

HALL, ROBERT, an eminent Baptist minister and pulpit orator, born near Leicester; began his
ministry in Bristol, and ended it there after a pastorate in Cambridge; was an intimate friend
of Sir James Mackintosh (1764-1831).

HALL, SAMUEL CARTER, founder and editor of the Art Journal, born at Geneva Barracks, co. Waterford;
was for a time a gallery reporter; succeeded Campbell, the poet, as editor of the New Monthly
Magazine, and after other journalistic work started in 1839 the well-known periodical the Art
Journal, which he continued to edit for upwards of 40 years; in 1880 he received a civil-list
pension (1800-1889); his wife, ANNA MARIA FIELDING, was in her day a popular and voluminous
writer of novels and short tales (1800-1881).

HALLAM, ARTHUR HENRY, eldest son of the succeeding, the early friend of Tennyson, who died
suddenly at Vienna to the bitter grief of his father and of his friend, whose "In Memoriam"
is a long elegy over his loss (1811-1838). (1777-1859).

HALLE (101), a flourishing city in Prussian Saxony, on the Saale, 20 m. NW. of Leipzig; has
a splendid university attended by upwards of 1500 students, and a library of 220,000 vols.;
some fine old Gothic churches, medical institutes, hospitals, &c.; it is is an important railway
centre, and is famed for its salt-works.

HALLÉ, SIR CHARLES, an eminent pianist, born at Hagen, in Westphalia; in 1848 he came to England,
with a reputation already gained at Paris, and settled down in Manchester; his fine orchestra,
which from year to year visited the important cities of the kingdom, did a great work in popularising
classical music, and educating the public taste in its regard; in 1888 he was knighted (1819-1895).
His wife, née Wilhelmine Néruda, a violinist of rare talent, born at Brünn, in Moravia, appeared
first in Vienna when only seven years old; in 1864 she married Normann, a Swedish composer,
and in 1885 became the wife of Sir Charles; b. 1839.

HALLECK, HENRY WAGER, an American general; distinguished himself on the side of the North in
the Civil War, and was promoted to be commander-in-chief; was author of "Elements of Military
Art and Science" (1815-1873).

HALLEL, name given to Psalms cxiii.-cxviii. chanted by the Jews at their great annual festivals.

HALLER, ALBERT VON, a celebrated anatomist, physiologist, botanist, physician, and poet, born
at Bern; professor of Medicine at Göttingen; author of works in all these departments; took
a keen interest in all the movements and questions of the day, literary and political, as well
as scientific; was a voluminous author and writer (1708-1777).

HALLEY, EDMUND, astronomer and mathematician, born near London; determined the rotation of
the sun from the spots on its surface, and the position of 350 stars; discovered in 1680 the
great comet called after his name, which appeared again in 1825; was entrusted with the publication
of his "Principia" by Sir Isaac Newton; made researches on the orbits of comets, and was appointed
in 1719 astronomer-royal (1656-1742).

HALLIWELL-PHILLIPPS, JAMES ORCHARD, a celebrated Shakespearian scholar and antiquary, born
at Chelsea; studied at Cambridge; his love for literary antiquities manifested itself at an
early age, and his research in ballad literature and folk-lore, &c., had gained him election
as Fellow to the Royal and Antiquarian Societies at the early age of 19; devoting himself more
particularly to Shakespeare, he in 1848 published his famous "Outlines of the Life of Shakespeare,"
which has grown in fulness of detail with successive editions, and remains the most authoritative
account of Shakespeare's life we have; his "Dictionary of Archaic and Provincial Words" is
also a work of wide scholarship; having succeeded in 1872 to the property of his father-in-law,
Thomas Phillipps, he added Phillipps to his own surname (1820-1889).

HALL-MARK, an official mark or attestation of the genuineness of gold and silver articles.

HALLOWED FIRE, an expression of Carlyle's in definition of Christianity "at its rise and spread"
as sacred, and kindling what was sacred and divine in man's soul, and burning up all that was not.

HALLOWE'EN, the eve of All Saints' Day, 31st October, which it was customary, in Scotland particularly,
to observe with ceremonies of a superstitious character, presumed to have the power of eliciting
certain interesting secrets of fate from wizard spirits of the earth and air, allowed, as believed,
in that brief space, to rove about and be accessible to the influence of the charms employed.

HALOGENS (i. e., salt producers), name given to the elementary bodies, chlorine, bromine, iodine,
and fluorine as in composition with metals forming compounds similar to sea-salt.

HALS, FRANS, an eminent Dutch portrait-painter, born at Antwerp; is considered to be the founder
of the Dutch school of genre-painting; his portraits are full of life and vigour; Vandyck alone
among his contemporaries was considered his superior (1581-1666).

HALSBURY, HARDINGE STANLEY GIFFORD, LORD, Lord Chancellor of England, born in London; was called
to the bar in 1850; he was Solicitor-General in the last Disraeli Government; entered Parliament
in 1877, and in 1885 was raised to the peerage and made Lord-Chancellor, a position he has
held in successive Conservative Governments; b. 1825.

HALYBURTON, THOMAS, Scottish divine, known as "Holy Halyburton," born at Dupplin, near Perth;
was minister of Ceres, in Fife, and from 1710 professor of Divinity in St. Andrews; was the
author of several widely-read religious works (1674-1712).

HAM, a son of Noah, and the Biblical ancestor of the southern dark races of the world as known
to the ancients.

HAM, a town in the dep. of Somme, France, 70 m. NE. of Paris, with a fortress, used in recent
times as a State prison, in which Louis Napoleon was confined from 1840 to 1846.

HAMADAN (30), an ancient Persian town, at the foot of Mount Elwend, 160 m. SW. of Teheran,
is an important entrepôt of Persian trade, and has flourishing tanneries; it is believed to
stand on the site of ECBATANA (q. v.).

HAMADRYAD, a wood-nymph identified with a particular tree that was born with it and that died
with it.

HAMAH (45), the Hamath of the Bible, an ancient city of Syria, on the Orontes, 110 m. NE. of
Damascus; manufactures silk, cotton, and woollen fabrics; is one of the oldest cities of the
world; has some trade with the Bedouins in woollen stuffs; during the Macedonian dynasty it
was known as Epiphania; in 1812 Burckhardt discovered stones in it with Hittite inscriptions.

HAMAN, an enemy of the Jews in Persia, who persuaded the king to decree the destruction of
them against a particular day, but whose purpose was defeated by the reversal of the sentence
of doom.

HAMANN, JOHANN GEORG, a German thinker, born at Königsberg; a man of genius, whose ideas were
appreciated by such a man as Goethe, and whose writings deeply influenced the views of Herder
(1730-1788).

HAMBURG, a small German State (623) which includes the free city of Hamburg (323; suburbs,
245), Bergedorf, and Cuxhaven; the city, the chief emporium of German commerce, is situated
on the Elbe, 75 m. E. of the North Sea and 177 NW. of Berlin; was founded by Charlemagne in
808, and is to-day the fifth commercial city of the world; the old town is intersected by canals,
while the new portion, built since 1842, is spaciously laid out; the town library, a fine building,
contains 400,000 volumes; its principal manufactures embrace cigar-making, distilling, brewing,
sugar-refining, &c.

HAMELN (14), a quaint old Prussian town and fortress in the province of Hanover, situated at
the junction of the Hamel with the Weser, 25 m. SW. of Hanover city; associated with the legend
of the Pied Piper; a fine chain bridge spans the Weser; there are prosperous iron, paper, and
leather works, breweries, &c.

HÄMERKIN or HÄMMERLEIN, the paternal name of THOMAS À KEMPIS (q. v.).

HAMERLING, ROBERT, Austrian poet, born at Kirchberg in the Forest, Lower Austria; his health
gave way while teaching at Trieste, and while for upwards of 30 years an invalid in bed, he
devoted himself to poetical composition; his fame rests chiefly on his satirical epics and
lyric compositions, among the former "The King of Iron," "The Seven Deadly Sins," and "Cupid
and Psyche," and among the latter "Venus in Exile" (1830-1889).

HAMERTON, PHILIP GILBERT, English critic, particularly of art; edited the Portfolio, an art
magazine; author of a story of life in France entitled "Marmorne," and of a volume of essays
entitled "The Intellectual Life" (1834-1894).

HAMILCAR BARCA, a Carthaginian general and one of the greatest, the father of Hannibal, commanded
in Sicily, and held his ground there against the Romans for six years; concluded a peace with
them and ended the First Punic War; invaded Spain with a view to invade Italy by the Alps,
and after gaining a footing there fell in battle; had his son with him, a boy of nine, and
made him swear upon the altar before he died eternal enmity to Rome; d. 229 B.C.

HAMILTON (25), a town of Lanarkshire, on the Clyde, 10 m. SE. of Glasgow; mining is the chief
industry. Also a city (49) of Canada, on Burlington Bay, at the west end of Lake Ontario, 40
m. SW. of Toronto; is an important railway centre, and has manufactories of iron, cotton, and
woollen goods, &c.

HAMILTON, ALEXANDER, American soldier and statesman, born in West Indies; entered the American
army, fought in the War of Independence, became commander-in-chief, represented New York State
in Congress, contributed by his essays to the favourable reception of the federal constitution,
and under it did good service on behalf of his country; was mortally wounded in a duel (1757-1804).

HAMILTON, ELIZABETH, novelist and essayist, born, of Scottish parentage, in Belfast; is remembered
for her early advocacy of the higher education of women and for her faithful pictures of lowly
Scottish life; "Letters of a Hindoo Rajah" and "Modern Philosophers" were clever skits on the
prevailing scepticism and republicanism of the time; "The Cottagers of Glenburnie" is her best
novel (1758-1816).

HAMILTON, EMMA, LADY, née Amy Lyon or "Hart," born at Ness, Cheshire, a labourer's daughter;
appeared as the Lady in the charlatan Graham's "Temple of Health," London; became the mother
of two illegitimate children, and subsequently was the "geliebte" of the Hon. Charles Greville
and of his uncle Sir Wm. Hamilton, whose wife she became in 1791; her notorious and lawless
intimacy with Lord Nelson began in 1793, and in 1801 their daughter Horatia was born; although
left a widow with a goodly fortune, she fell into debt and died in poverty (1763-1815).

HAMILTON, PATRICK, a Scottish martyr, born at the close of the 15th century, probably in Glasgow;
returning from his continental studies at Paris and Louvain he came to St. Andrews University,
where his Lutheran sympathies involved him in trouble; he escaped to the Continent, visited
Wittenberg, the home of Luther, and then settled in Marburg, but returned to Scotland at the
close of the same year (1527) and married; the following year he was burned at the stake in
St. Andrews for heresy; his eager and winning nature and love of knowledge, together with his
early martyrdom, have served to invest him with a special interest.

HAMILTON, WILLIAM, a minor Scottish poet, born near Uphall, Linlithgowshire; was a contributor
to Ramsay's Tea-Table Miscellany; became involved in the second Jacobite rising and fled to
France; subsequently he was permitted to return and take possession of his father's estate
of Bangour, near Uphall; his collected poems include the beautiful and pathetic ballad, "The
Braes of Yarrow" (1704-1754).

HAMILTON, SIR WILLIAM, distinguished philosopher of the Scotch school, born in Glasgow; studied
there and in Oxford with distinction; bred for the bar, but hardly ever practised; contributed
to the Edinburgh Review, having previously published "Discussions in Philosophy"; in 1836 he
became professor of Logic and Metaphysics in Edinburgh University, in which capacity he exercised
a great influence in the domain of philosophic speculation; his lectures were published after
his death; his system was attacked by John Stuart Mill, and criticised in part by Dr. Hutchison
Stirling, who, while deducting materially from his repute as an original thinker, describes
his "writings as always brilliant, forcible, clear, and, where information is concerned, both
entertaining and instructive"; was "almost the only earnest man," Carlyle testifies, he found
in Edinburgh on his visit from Craigenputtock to the city in 1833 (1788-1856).

HAMILTON, SIR WILLIAM ROWAN, an eminent mathematician, born in Dublin; such was his precocity
that at 13 he was versed in thirteen languages, and by 17 was an acknowledged master in mathematical
science; while yet an undergraduate at Trinity College, Dublin, he was appointed in 1827 professor
of Astronomy in Dublin University, and Astronomer-Royal of Ireland; his mathematical works
and treatises, of the most original and a far-reaching character, brought him a European reputation,
and embraced his "Theory of Systems of Rays," "A General Method in Dynamics," and the invention
of "Quaternions"; he was knighted in 1835 (1805-1865).

HAMILTONIAN SYSTEM, a system of teaching languages by interlinear translation.

HAMMER, German Orientalist and historian, born at Grätz; author of a "History of the Ottoman
Empire" (1774-1856).

HAMMERFEST (2), the most northerly town in Europe; is situated on the barren island of Kvalö,
and is the port of the Norwegian province of Finmark; fishing is the staple industry; during
two months in summer the sun never sets.

HAMMERSMITH (97), a parliamentary borough of Middlesex, on the N. side of the Thames, forms
a part of W. London.

HAMMOND, HENRY, English divine, born at Chertsey; suffered as an adherent of the royal cause,
being chaplain to Charles I.; author of "Paraphrase and Annotations of the New Testament" (1605-1660).

HAMPDEN, JOHN, a famous English statesman and patriot, cousin to Oliver Cromwell, born in London;
passed through Oxford and studied law at the Inner Temple; subsequently he settled down on
his father's estate, and in 1621 entered Parliament, joining the opposition; he came first
into conflict with the king by refusing to contribute to a general loan levied by Charles,
and subsequently became famous by his resistance to the ship-money tax; he was a member of
the Short Parliament, and played a prominent part in the more eventful transactions of the
Long Parliament; an attempt on Charles's part to seize Hampden and four other members precipitated
the Civil War; he took an active part in organising the Parliamentary forces, and proved himself
a brave and skilful general in the field; he fell mortally wounded while opposing Prince Rupert
in a skirmish at Chalgrove Field; historians unite in extolling his nobility of character,
statesmanship, and single-minded patriotism (1594-1643).

HAMPDEN, RENN DICKSON, theologian and bishop, born in Barbadoes; became a Fellow of Oriel College,
Oxford, and in 1832 delivered his celebrated Bampton lectures on the "Scholastic Philosophy
considered in its Relation to Christian Theology," which drew upon him the charge of heresy
and produced an embittered controversy in the Church of England; he was successively Principal,
professor of Moral Philosophy, and of Divinity at St. Mary's Hall, and became bishop of Hereford
in 1847 (1793-1868).

HAMPOLE, RICHARD ROLLE, "the Hermit of Hampole," born at Thornton, Yorkshire; studied at Oxford,
and at the age of 19 turned hermit; was the author of "The Pricke of Conscience," a lengthy
poem of a religious character (1290-1349).

HAMPSHIRE, HANTS (690), a maritime county of S. England, fronting the English Channel between
Dorset on the W. and Sussex on the E.; in the NE. are the "rolling Downs," affording excellent
sheep pasturage, while the SW. is largely occupied by the New Forest; the Test, Itchen, and
Avon are principal rivers flowing to the S.; besides the usual cereals, hops are raised, while
Hampshire bacon and honey are celebrated; Southampton, Portsmouth, and Gosport are the chief
trading and manufacturing towns.

HAMPSTEAD (68), a Parliamentary borough of Middlesex, has a hilly and bright situation, 4 m.
NW. of London; is a popular place of resort with Londoners, and contains many fine suburban
residences; beyond the village is the celebrated Heath; many literary associations are connected
with the place; the famous Kit-Cat Club of Steele and Addison's time is now a private house
on the Heath; here lived Keats, Leigh Hunt, Coleridge, Hazlitt, &c.

HAMPTON (4), a village of Middlesex, on the Thames, 15 m. SW. of London; in the vicinity is
HAMPTON COURT PALACE, a royal residence down to George II.'s time, and which was built originally
by Wolsey, who presented it to Henry VIII.; in William III.'s time considerable alterations
were made under the guidance of Wren; there is a fine picture-gallery and gardens; it is now
occupied by persons of good family in reduced circumstances; the HAMPTON COURT CONFERENCE to
settle ecclesiastical differences took place here in 1604 under the presidency of James I.,
and the decisions at which proved unsatisfactory to the Puritan members of it; it was here
at the suggestion of Dr. Reynolds the authorised version of the Bible was undertaken.

HANAU (25), a Prussian town in Hesse-Nassau, at the junction of the Kinzig and the Main, 11
m. NE. of Frankfurt; is celebrated for its jewellery and gold and silver work, and is otherwise
a busy manufacturing town; it is the birthplace of the brothers Grimm.

HANCOCK, WINFIELD SCOTT, a noted American general, born near Philadelphia; he had already graduated
and served with distinction in the Mexican War, when, on the outbreak of the Civil War, he
received a commission as brigadier-general of volunteers; he led a heroic charge at Fredericksburg,
and in 1864 his gallant conduct in many a hard-fought battle was rewarded by promotion to a
major-generalship in the regular army; subsequently he held important commands in the departments
of Missouri, Dakota, &c., and in 1880 unsuccessfully opposed Garfield for the Presidency (1824-1886).

HÄNDEL, musical composer, born at Halle; distinguished for his musical ability from his earliest
years; was sent to Berlin to study when he was 14; began his musical career as a performer
at Hamburg in 1703; produced his first opera in 1704; spent six years in Italy, devoting himself
to his profession the while; came, on invitation, to England in 1710, where, being well received,
he resolved to remain, and where, year after year--as many as nearly fifty of them--he added
to his fame by his diligence as a composer; he produced a number of operas and oratorios; among
the latter may be noted his "Saul," his "Samson," and "Judas Maccabæus," and pre-eminently
the "Messiah," his masterpiece, and which fascinates with a charm that appeals to and is appreciated
by initiated and uninitiated alike (1684-1759).

HANG-CHOW (800), a Chinese town, a treaty-port since the recent war with Japan; is at the mouth
of the Tsien-tang at the entrance of the Imperial Canal, 110 m. SW. of Shanghai; it is an important
literary, religious, and commercial centre; has flourishing silk factories, and is noted for
its gold and silver ware.

HANGING GARDENS, THE, OF BABYLON, one of the seven wonders of the world, had an area of four
acres, formed a square, were a series of terraces supported by pillars sloping upwards like
a pyramid and seeming to hang in air; they are ascribed to Semiramis.

HANIF, name given to a Mohammedan or an Arab of rigidly monotheistic belief.

HANKOW (750), a Chinese river-port, at the confluence of the Han and Yangtsze Rivers; it is
properly an extension of the large towns Wu-chang and Han-yang; there is a considerable amount
of shipping; tea is the principal article of export, and a large trade is carried on with the
inland provinces.

HANLEY (85), a busy manufacturing town in the "Potteries," 18 m. N. of Stafford; coal and iron
are wrought in the neighbourhood.

HANMER, SIR THOMAS, Speaker of the House of Commons; elected in 1713, discharged the duties
of the office with conspicuous impartiality; published an edition of Shakespeare (1677-1746).

HANNAY, JAMES, a novelist and critic, born in Dumfries; spent his boyhood in the navy, on quitting
which he settled in London and took to letters; was for a time editor of the Edinburgh Courant,
a Tory paper, and subsequently consul at Barcelona, where he died; he knew English literature
and wrote English well (1827-1873).

HANNIBAL, the great Carthaginian general, son of HAMILCAR (q. v.); learned the art of war under
his father in Spain; subjugated all Spain south of the Ebro by the capture of the Roman allied
city of Saguntum, which led to the outbreak of the Second Punic War and his leading his army
through hostile territory over the Pyrenees and the Alps into Italy; defeated the Romans in
succession at the Ticinus, the Trebia, and Lake Trasimenus, to the extirpation of the army
sent against him; passed the Apennines and descended into Apulia, where, after being harassed
by the tantalising policy of Fabius Maximus, he met the Romans at Cannæ in 216 B.C. and inflicted
on them a crushing defeat, retiring after this into winter quarters at Capua, where his soldiers
became demoralised; he next season began to experience a succession of reverses, which ended
in the evacuation of Italy and the transfer of the seat of war to Africa, where Hannibal was
met by Scipio on the field of Zama in 201 B.C. and defeated; he afterwards joined Antiochus,
king of Syria, who was at war with Rome, to his defeat there also, upon which he fled to Prusias,
king of Bithynia, where, when his surrender was demanded, he ended his life by poisoning himself
(247-183 B.C.).

HANNINGTON, JAMES, first bishop of Eastern Equatorial Africa, born at Hurstpierpoint, Sussex;
was ordained in 1873 after passing through Oxford, and in 1882 undertook missionary work in
Uganda, under the auspices of the Church Missionary Society; his health breaking down when
he had gone as far as Victoria Nyanza, he returned home; but two years later as bishop he entered
upon his duties at Frere Town, near Mombasa; in the following year he was killed by natives
when making his way to the mission station at Rubaga, in Uganda (1847-1885).

HANNO, the name of several eminent Carthaginians, one of whom, surnamed the Great, was a persistent
opponent of the Barcine faction, headed by Hamilcar; and another was a navigator who made a
voyage round the western coast of Africa, of which he left an account in his "Periplus" or
"Circumnavigating Voyage."

HANOVER (2,278), a Prussian province since 1866, formerly an independent kingdom; stretches
N. from Westphalia to the German Ocean, between Holland on the W. and Saxony on the E.; the
district is well watered by the Elbe, Weser, and Ems; in the S. are the Harz Mountains; for
the rest the land is flat, and much of it is occupied by uncultivated moors; agriculture and
cattle-rearing are, however, the chief industries, while the minerals of the Harz are extensively
wrought; in 1714 George Ludwig, second Elector of Hanover, succeeded Anne on the English throne
as her nearest Protestant kinsman, and till 1837 the dual rule was maintained, Hanover meanwhile
in 1814 having been made a kingdom; in 1837 the Hanoverian crown passed to the Duke of Cumberland,
Queen Victoria, as a woman, being ineligible; in 1866 the kingdom was conquered and annexed
by Prussia.

HANOVER (164), the capital, is situated on the Leine, 78 m. SE. of Bremen; it consists of an
old and a new portion; presents a handsome appearance, and its many fine buildings include
the royal library (170,000 vols.), the Kestner Museum, several palaces and art-galleries, &c.;
it is the centre of the North German railway system, and its many industries embrace iron-works,
the manufacture of pianos, tobacco, linen, &c.

HANSARD, record of the proceedings and debates in the British Parliament, published by the
printers Hansard, the founder of the firm being Luke Hansard, a printer of Norwich, who came
to London in 1770 as a compositor, and succeeded as proprietor of the business in which he
was a workman; d. 1828.

HANSEATIC LEAGUE, a combination of towns in North-western Germany for the mutual protection
of their commerce against the pirates of the Baltic and the mutual defence of their liberties
against the encroachments of neighbouring princes; it dates from 1241, and flourished for several
centuries, to the extension of their commerce far and wide; numbered at one time 64 towns,
and possessed fleets and armies, an exchequer, and a government of their own; the League dwindled
down during the Thirty Years' War to six cities, and finally to three, Hamburg, Lübeck, and Bremen.

HANSTEEN, CHRISTOPH, a Norwegian astronomer and mathematician, born in Christiania, where he
became professor of Mathematics; is famous for his researches and discoveries in connection
with the magnetism of the earth, and the impetus he gave to the study of it; he prosecuted
his magnetic researches as far as the E. of Siberia, and published the results (1784-1873).

HANSWURST (i. e. Jack Pudding), a pantomimic character in comic performances on the German
stage; a great favourite at one time with the vulgar; distinguished for his awkwardness, his
gluttonous appetite, and his rotundity.

HANUMAN, the monkey-god of the Hindus, a friend of Râma, for whose benefit he reared a causeway
across seas to Ceylon.

HANWAY, JONAS, a traveller and philanthropist, born in Portsmouth; travelled through Russia
and Persia, and settled in London as one of the navy commissariat; devoted himself to the reclaiming
and befriending of unfortunates of all kinds; was a man of very eccentric ways (1712-1786).

HAPSBURG or HABSBURG, HOUSE OF, a famous royal house which has played a leading part in the
history of Continental Europe from its foundation in the 12th century by Albert, Count of Hapsburg,
and which is represented to-day by the Imperial family of Austria. Representatives of this
family wore the Imperial crown of the Holy Roman Empire for centuries. It takes its name from
the castle of Habsburg or Habichtaburg, on the Aar, built by Werner, bishop of Strasburg, in
the 11th century, a castle, however, which has long since ceased to be in the possession of
the family.

HARBOUR GRACE (7), a seaport and the second town of Newfoundland, lies on the W. side of Conception
Bay, 84 m. NW. of St. John's; its commodious harbour is somewhat exposed; it is the seat of
a Roman Catholic bishop, and has a cathedral and convent.

HARBURG (35), a prospering Prussian seaport in Lüneburg, on the Elbe, 5 m. S. of Hamburg; its
industries embrace gutta-percha goods, oil, chemicals, &c.; is a favourite watering-place.

HARCOURT, SIR WILLIAM VERNON, statesman, born, a clergyman's son, at Nuneham Park, Oxfordshire;
was highly distinguished at Cambridge, and in 1854 was called to the bar; was a Q.C. in 1866,
and professor of International Law at Cambridge (1869-87); he won considerable repute by his
articles in the Saturday Review and his "Historicus" letters to the Times, and in 1868 entered
Parliament, representing Oxford in the Liberal interest; in 1873 he became Solicitor-General,
and received a knighthood; he was a vigorous opponent of the Disraeli Government, and on the
return of the Liberals to power in 1880 became Home Secretary; under Mr. Gladstone in 1886,
and again in 1892, he held the office of Chancellor of the Exchequer; he staunchly supported
Mr. Gladstone in his Home Rule policy; became leader of the Opposition in the House of Commons
on Mr. Gladstone's retirement, a post which for party reasons he resigned in 1899; b. 1827.

HARDENBERG, FRIEDRICH VON. See NOVALIS.

HARDENBERG PRINCE VON, a Prussian statesman, born in Hanover; after service in Hanover and
Brunswick entered that of Prussia under William II., and became Chancellor of State under William
III.; distinguished himself by the reforms he introduced in military and civic matters to the
benefit of the country, though he was restrained a good deal by the reactionary proclivities
of the king (1750-1822).

HARDICANUTE, king of England and Denmark, the son of Canute and his successor on the Danish
throne; was king of England only in part till the death of his brother Harold, whom he survived
only two years, but long enough to alienate his subjects by the re-imposition of the Danegelt;
d. 1642.

HARDING, JOHN, or HARDYNG, an English rhyming chronicler in the reign of Edward IV.; had been
a soldier, and fought at Agincourt (1378-1465).

HARDING, STEPHEN, a Benedictine monk, born in Devonshire, of noble descent, a born ascetic,
who set himself to restore his order to its primitive austerity; retired with a few others
into a dismal secluded place at Citeaux, and became abbot; was joined there by the great St.
Bernard, his kindred, and followers, to the great aggrandisement of the order; d. 1134.

HARDINGE, HENRY, VISCOUNT, a distinguished soldier and Governor-General of India, born at Wrotham,
Kent; joined the army in 1798, and served through the Peninsular and Waterloo campaigns, but
wounded at Ligny he was unable to take part in the final struggle with Napoleon; he now turned
his attention to politics; was Secretary of War under Wellington, and subsequently twice Chief
Secretary for Ireland; in 1844 he was appointed Governor-General of India, and later distinguished
himself under Gough in the first Sikh War; a viscountship and pension followed in 1845, and
seven years later he succeeded Wellington as Commander-in-Chief of the British army (1785-1856).

HARDOUIN, JEAN, a French classical scholar, born at Quimper, Brittany; early entered the Jesuit
order; was from 1683 librarian of the College of Louis le Grand in Paris; he is chiefly remembered
for his wild assertion that the bulk of classical literature was spurious, and the work of
13th-century monks; Virgil's "Æneid" he declared to be an allegorical account of St. Peter's
journey to Rome, and the original language of the New Testament to be Latin; his edition of
Pliny, however, evinces real scholarship (1646-1729).

HARDWÁR, a town on the Ganges, 39 m. NE. of Saharunpur, North-West Provinces; famous for its
large annual influx of pilgrims seeking ablution in the sacred river; a sacred festival held
every twelfth year attracts some 300,000 persons.

HARDY, THOMAS, novelist, born in Dorsetshire, with whose scenery he has made his readers familiar;
bred an architect; first earned popularity in 1874 by his "Far from the Madding Crowd," which
was followed by, among others, "The Return of the Native," "The Woodlanders," and "Tess of
the D'Urbervilles," the last in 1892, books which require to be read in order to appreciate
the genius of the author; b. 1840.

HARDY, SIR THOMAS DUFFUS, an eminent palæographer, born in Jamaica; he acquired his skill in
MS. deciphering as a clerk in the Record Office in the Tower; in 1861 he was elected deputy-keeper
of the Public Records, and nine years later received a knighthood; his great learning is displayed
in his editions of various "Rolls" for the Record Commission, in his "Descriptive Catalogue
of MSS.," &c. (1804-1878).

HARDY, SIR THOMAS MASTERMAN, BART., a brave naval officer, whose name is associated with the
closing scene of Nelson's life, born at Portisham, in Dorsetshire; as a commander in the battle
of the Nile he greatly distinguished himself, and gained his post-commission to Nelson's flagship,
the Vanguard; at Trafalgar he commanded the Victory, and subsequently brought Nelson's body
to England; he received a baronetcy, and saw further service, eventually attaining to the rank
of vice-admiral (1769-1839).

HARE, JULIUS CHARLES, archdeacon of Lewes, born at Vicenza; took orders in the Church, and
in 1832 became, in succession to his uncle, rector of Hurstmonceaux, in Sussex, the advowson
of which was in his family, in which rectory he laboured till his death; he was of the school
of Maurice; wrote "The Mission of the Comforter," and with his brother Augustus "Guesses at
Truth"; had John Sterling as his curate for a short time, and edited his remains as well as
wrote his Life, the latter in so exclusively ecclesiastical a reference as to dissatisfy Carlyle,
his joint-trustee, and provoke him, as in duty bound, to write another which should exhibit
their common friend in the more interesting light of a man earnestly struggling with the great
burning problems of the time, calling for some wise solution by all of us, church and no church
(1795-1855).

HAREM, the apartment or suite of apartments in a Mohammedan's house for the female inmates
and their attendants, and the name given to the collective body of them.

HARFLEUR, a village in France with a strong fortress, 4 m. S. of Havre, taken by Henry V. in
1415, and retaken afterwards by both French and English, becoming finally French in 1450.

HARGRAVES, EDMUND, discoverer of the gold-field in Australia, born at Gosport, Devon; had been
to California, concluded that as the geological formation was the same in Australia where he
had come from, he would find gold there too and found it in New South Wales in 1851, for which
the Government gave him £10,000 (1818-1890).

HARGREAVES, JAMES, inventor of the spinning-jenny, born at Standhill, near Blackburn; was a
poor and illiterate weaver when in 1760 he, in conjunction with Robert Peel, brought out a
carding-machine; in 1766 he invented the spinning-jenny, a machine which has since revolutionised
the cotton-weaving industry, but which at the time evoked the angry resentment of the hand-weaver;
he was driven from his native town and settled in Nottingham, where he started a spinning-mill;
he failed to get his machine patented, and died in comparative poverty (1745-1778).

HARI-KARI, called also a "happy despatch," a form of suicide, now obsolete, permitted to offenders
of high rank to escape the indignity of a public execution; the nature of it may be gathered
from the name, "a gash in the belly."

HÄRING, WILHELM, German novelist, born at Breslau; bred for law, but abandoned it for literature;
wrote two romances, "Walladmor" and "Schloss Avalon," under the pseudonym of "Walter Scott,"
which imposed upon some; he afterwards assumed the name of Wilibald Alexis, a name by which
he was long honourably known (1797-1871).

HARINGTON, SIR JOHN, courtier and miscellaneous writer, translated by desire of Queen Elizabeth
Ariosto's "Orlando Furioso" (1561-1612).

HARIRI, Arabic philologist and poet of the 11th century, born at Bassorah; celebrated far and
wide as the author of "Makameat," a collection of tales in verse, the central figure in which
is one Abu Seid, a clever and amusing production, and evincing a unique mastery of Arabic.

HARLAW, BATTLE OF, a battle fought at Harlaw, 18 m. NW. of Aberdeen, on 24th July 1411, which
decided the supremacy of the Lowland Scots over the Highland.

HARLECH, an old Welsh town in Merionethshire, facing the sea, 10 m. N. of Barmouth; its grim
old castle by the shore was a Lancastrian fortress during the Wars of the Roses, and its capture
by the Yorkists in 1468 was the occasion of the well-known song, "The March of the Men of Harlech."

HARLEQUIN, a character in a Christmas pantomime, in love with Columbine, presumed to be invisible,
and deft at tricks to frustrate those of the clown, who is his rival lover.

HARLEY, ROBERT, EARL OF OXFORD, a celebrated English politician, born of good family; entered
Parliament shortly after the Revolution (1688) as a Whig, but after a period of vacillation
threw in his lot with Tories and in 1701 became Speaker of the House; in 1704 he was associated
with St. John (Bolingbroke) in the Cabinet as Secretary of State, and set about undermining
the influence of Godolphin and Marlborough; he became Chancellor of the Exchequer and head
of the Government; was created Earl of Oxford and Lord High Treasurer; from this point his
power began to wane; was displaced by Bolingbroke at last in 1715; was impeached for intriguing
with the Jacobites and sent to the Tower; two years later he was released, and the remainder
of his life was spent in the pursuit of letters and in the building up of his famous collection
of MSS., now deposited in the British Museum (1661-1724).

HARMATTAN, a hot withering wind blowing over the coast of Guinea to the Atlantic from the interior
of Africa, more or less from December to February.

HARMODIUS, an Athenian who in 514 B.C. conspired with Aristogeiton, his friend, against Hipparchus
and his brother Hippias, the tyrant, but being betrayed were put to death; they figured in
the traditions of Athens as political martyrs, and as such were honoured with statues.

HARNACK, ADOLF, a German theologian, born at Dorpat; professor successively at Giessen, Marburg,
and Berlin; has written on the history of dogma in the Christian Church, on Gnosticism, early
Christian literature, and the Apostles' Creed, on the latter offensively to the orthodox; B. 1851.

HAROLD I., king of England from 1035 to 1040, younger son of Cnut; the kingdom was practically
divided between him and his brother Harthacnut; but the latter remaining in Denmark to protect
his possessions there, England passed into Harold's hands.

HAROLD II., the last of the Saxon kings of England, held the crown for a few months in 1066,
was the second son of the great EARL GODWIN (q. v.); in 1053 he succeeded his father in the
earldom of the West Saxons, and during the later years of Edward's feeble rule was virtual
administrator of the kingdom; on his accession to the throne his title was immediately challenged
by his brother Tostig, and William, Duke of Normandy; having crushed his brother's invasion
at Stamford Bridge, he immediately hurried S. to meet the forces of William at Hastings. Norman
strategy won the day, and Harold fell in the battle pierced through the eye by an arrow; historians
unite in ascribing to him every kingly quality--a noble presence, sagacity, and a brave yet
gentle nature.

HAROLD I. OF NORWAY, surnamed Haarfager (fair-haired), by him the petty kingdoms of Norway
were all conquered and knit into one compact realm; the story goes that he undertook this work
to win the hand of his lady-love, and that he swore an oath neither to cut nor comb his hair
till his task was done; d. 930.

HAROUN-AL-RASCHID ("Aaron the Orthodox or Just"), the most renowned of the Abbaside caliphs;
succeeded to the caliphate in 786 on the death of his elder brother, El Hádi, and had for grand-vizier
the Barmacide Yâhyá, to whom with his four sons he committed the administration of affairs,
he the while making his court a centre of attraction to wise men, scholars, and artists, so
that under him Bagdad became the capital of the civilised world; his glory was tarnished by
one foul blot towards the end of his reign, and that was the massacre out of jealousy of the
Barmacide family, members of which had contributed so much to his fame, an act which he had
soon occasion to repent, for it was followed by an insurrection which cost him his life; the
halo that invests his memory otherwise was, however, more fabulous than real, and history shows
him at his best to have been avaricious, resentful, and cruel.

HARPIES, fabulous ravenous creatures, living in filth and defiling everything they touch, with
the head and breast of a woman, the wings and claws of a bird, and a face pale with hunger,
the personification of whirlwinds and storms, conceived of as merely ravening, wasting powers.

HARRINGTON, JAMES, political writer; author of a political romance entitled "The Commonwealth
of Oceana," in which he argued that all secure government must be based on property, and for
a democracy on this basis (1611-1677).

HARRIS, HOWEL, a noted Welsh Methodist, born at Trevecca, Brecon; embracing Calvinism, he at
the age of 21 became an itinerant preacher, confining himself chiefly to Wales; in 1752 he
took up his abode at Trevecca, where he erected a large house to accommodate those who sought
his ministrations (1714-1773).

HARRIS, JOEL CHANDLER, American writer, born in Georgia, U.S.; author of "Uncle Remus," his
chief work a study of negro folk-lore, followed by interesting sketches and stories; b. 1848.

HARRIS, LUKE, founder of the "Brotherhood of the New Life," born in Buckinghamshire, a spiritualistic
Socialist; his system founded on SWEDENBORGIANISM (q. v.) on the one hand and a form of communism
on the other, with a scriptural Christianity spiritualised as backbone; the destiny of man
he regards as angelhood, or a state of existence like that of God, in which the unity of sex,
or fatherhood and motherhood, meet in one; the late Laurence Oliphant and the late John Pulsford
were among his disciples; b. 1823.

HARRISBURG (50), capital of Pennsylvania, is beautifully situated on the Susquehanna, 106 m.
NW. of Philadelphia; the industries include extensive iron and steel works and a flourishing
lumber trade.

HARRISON, BENJAMIN. President of the United States and grandson of William Henry Harrison,
a former President, born at North Bend, Ohio; started as a lawyer in Indianapolis, became an
important functionary in the court of Indiana, and subsequently proved himself a brave and
efficient commander during the Civil War; engaging actively in politics, he in 1880 became
a United States Senator; as the nominee of the Protectionist and Republican party he won the
Presidency against Cleveland, but at the election of 1892 the positions were reversed; in 1893
he became a professor in San Francisco; b. 1833.

HARRISON, FREDERIC, barrister, born in London, professor of Jurisprudence in the Inns of Court;
author of articles contributed to Reviews and Essays, and of Lectures on a variety of current
questions, historical, social, and religious, from the standpoint of the positivism of Auguste
Comte, with his somewhat vague "Religion of Humanity" is the author of "Order and Progress,"
the "Choice of Books," &c.; b. 1831.

HARRISON, JOHN, a celebrated mechanician, born at Foulby, Yorkshire; was the first to invent
a chronometer which, by its ingenious apparatus for compensating the disturbing effects caused
by variations of climate, enabled mariners to determine longitude to within a distance of 18
m.; by this invention he won a prize of £20,000 offered by Government; amongst other things
he invented the compensating gridiron pendulum, still in use (1693-1776).

HARRISON, WILLIAM, a noted historical writer, born in London; graduated at Cambridge, and after
serving as chaplain to Lord Cobham, received the rectorship of Radwinter, in Essex; subsequently
he became canon of Windsor; his fame rests on two celebrated historical works, "Description
of England," an invaluable picture of social life and institutions in Elizabethan times, and
"Description of Britain," written for Holinshed's "Chronicle" (1534-1593).

HARROGATE or HARROWGATE (14), a popular watering-place, prettily situated amid forest and moorland,
in the West Riding of Yorkshire, 20 m. NW. of York; it enjoys a wide repute for its sulphurous,
saline, and chalybeate springs.

HARROW (6), a town of Middlesex, built on an eminence 200 ft. high, 12 m. from St. Paul's,
London; its church, St. Mary's, founded by Lanfranc, is a Gothic structure of great architectural
interest. Harrow School, a celebrated public school, was founded in 1571 for the free education
of 30 poor boys of the parish, but subsequently opened its doors to "foreigners," and now numbers
upwards of 500 pupils.

HARRY, BLIND, a famous Scottish minstrel who flourished in the 15th century; the few particulars
of his life which have come down to us represent him as a blind and vagrant poet, living by
reciting poems "before princes and peers"; to him is attributed the celebrated poem, "The Life
of that Noble Champion of Scotland, Sir William Wallace, Knight," completed about 1488, a spirited,
if partly apocryphal, account of Wallace, running to 11,861 lines in length.

HART, SOLOMON ALEXANDER, born at Plymouth; served as an engraver's apprentice in London; studied
at the Royal Academy, and excelled in miniature painting; he became celebrated as a painter
of historical scenes and characters, and in 1854 was appointed professor of Painting in the
Royal Academy, and subsequently librarian; his works include "Henry I. receiving intelligence
of the Death of his Son," "Milton visiting Galileo in Prison," "Wolsey and Buckingham," "Lady
Jane Grey in the Tower," &c. (1806-1881).

HARTE, BRET, American humourist, born at Albany, New York; went to California at 15; tried
various occupations, mining, school-mastering, printing, and literary sketching, when he got
on the staff of a newspaper, and became eventually first editor of the Overland Monthly, in
the columns of which he established his reputation as a humourist by the publication of the
"Heathen Chinee" and other humorous productions, such as "The Luck of Roaring Camp"; he wields
a prolific pen, and all he writes is of his own original coinage; b. 1839.

HARTFORD (80), the capital of Connecticut, U.S., on the Connecticut, 50 m. from its mouth and
112 m. NE. of New York; is handsomely laid out, and contains an imposing white marble capitol,
Episcopalian and Congregational colleges, hospitals, libraries, &c.; is an important depôt
for the manufacture of firearms, iron-ware, tobacco, &c., and is an important banking and insurance
centre.

HARTLEPOOL (65), a seaport of Durham, situated on a tongue of land which forms the Bay of Hartlepool,
4 m. N. of the Tees estuary; the chief industries are shipbuilding, cement works, and a shipping
trade, chiefly in coal and iron. WEST HARTLEPOOL (43), lies on the opposite and south side
of the bay, 1 m. distant, but practically forming one town with Hartlepool, and carries on
a similar trade, but on a somewhat larger scale; the extensive docks, stretching between the
two towns, cover an area of 300 acres.

HARTLEY, DAVID, an English philosopher and physician; wrote "Observations on Man, his Frame,
his Duty, and his Expectations"; ascribed sensation to vibration in the nerves, and applied
the doctrine of the association of ideas to mental phenomena (1705-1757).

HARTMANN, a German philosopher, born at Berlin; established his fame by a work entitled the
"Philosophy of the Unconscious," which rapidly passed through nine editions; he has since written
on pessimism, the moral and the religious consciousness, the philosophy of the beautiful, and
spiritualism; he is the founder of a new school of philosophy, which professes to be a synthesis
of that of Hegel and that of Schopenhauer, and to aim at the reconciliation of philosophic
results with scientific; b. 1842.

HARTMANN, MORITZ, a German poet; had a keen sympathy with the liberal political ideas that
prevailed in 1848, and which his poems contributed to foster, and on account of which he got
into trouble (1821-1872).

HARTZENBUSCH, JUAN EUGENIO, Spanish dramatist, born at Madrid, of German extraction; was educated
under the Jesuits, but abandoned his intention of joining the Church, took to literature, and
was given a post in the National Library at Madrid; his dramas are fresh and vigorous, and
enjoy a wide popularity; he rose to be Director of the National Library, and in 1852 was President
of the Theatrical Council (1806-1880).

HARUS`PICES, among the Romans, soothsayers who affected to foretell future events by the inspection
of the entrails of animals offered in sacrifice, as well as by study of abnormal phenomena.

HARVARD UNIVERSITY, the oldest and premier educational institution in the United States, is
located at Cambridge, Massachusetts, 3 m. W. of Boston; it is named after the Rev. John Harvard,
a graduate of Cambridge, who by the bequest of his library and small fortune helped to launch
the institution in 1638; it was originally intended for the training of youths for the Puritan
ministry, but it has during the present century been extended into a university of the first
rank, under emancipation from all sectarian control; it has a student roll of about 3000, is
splendidly equipped, and now richly endowed.

HARVEST-MOON, the full moon which in our latitude, at the autumnal equinox, rises for an evening
or two about the same time.

HARVEY, SIR GEORGE, a Scotch artist, born at St. Ninians, Stirling; was one of the original
associates of the Royal Scottish Academy, of which he at length became president; among his
paintings are the "Covenanters' Preaching," "The Curlers," and "John Bunyan in Jail" (1805-1880).

HARVEY, WILLIAM, a celebrated English physician, born at Folkestone, in Kent; graduated at
Cambridge, and in 1602 received his medical diploma at Padua; settling in London, he in a few
years became physician to St. Bartholomew's Hospital, and subsequently lecturer at the College
of Physicians; in 1628 he announced in a published treatise his discovery of the circulation
of the blood; for many years he was Court physician, and attended Charles I. at the battle
of Edgehill (1578-1657).

HARWICH (8), a seaport and market town of Essex; is situated on a headland on the S. side of
the conjoined estuaries of the Stour and the Orwell, 5 m. N. of the Naze and 65 m. NE. of London;
it is an important packet station for Holland, has a good harbour and docks, with an increasing
commerce.

HARZ MOUNTAINS, a mountain range of N. Germany, stretching for 57 m. between the Weser and
the Elbe to the S. of Brunswick; it forms a picturesque and diversified highland, is a favourite
resort of tourists, and rises to its greatest elevation in the far-famed BROCKEN (q. v.); the
scene of the Walpurgisnacht in "Faust"; silver, iron, and other metals are found in considerable
quantities, and, with the extensive forests, give rise to a prosperous mining and timber industry.

HASDRUBAL, the name of several distinguished Carthaginian generals, of whom the most noted
were (1), the son of HAMILCAR BARCA (q. v.) and brother of HANNIBAL (q. v.); he played a prominent
part in the Second Punic War, conquered Cn. Scipio in Spain (212 B.C.), and subsequently commanded
the Carthaginian army in Italy; he fell at the battle of the Metaurus in 207 B.C.: (2) the
brother-in-law of Hamilcar Barca, whom he succeeded in 228 B.C. as administrator of the new
empire in the Iberian peninsula; he pushed the western frontiers back to the Tagus, and by
his strong yet conciliatory government firmly established the Carthaginian power; he was assassinated
in 221 B.C.

HASE, KARL AUGUST, an eminent German theologian, born at Steinbach, Saxony, professor at Jena;
author of a "Text-book of Evangelical Dogma," a "Life of Christ," a "Church History," &c.,
was equally opposed to orthodoxy and rationalism, and sought to reconcile the creed of the
Church with the conclusions of science (1800-1890).

HASHISH, an intoxicant made from Indian hemp, having different effects on different individuals
according to the dose and to the constitution of the individual.

HASLINGDEN (18), a busy market-town of Lancashire, 19 m. NW. of Manchester; has flourishing
cotton, silk, and woollen factories, and in the vicinity are coal-mines, iron-works, &c.

HASSAN PASHA, a Turkish grand-vizier of African birth; twice reduced the beys of Egypt; commanded,
at the age of 85, the Turkish forces against Russia in 1788, but being defeated, was dismissed
and put to death in 1790.

HASSELT (13); a Belgian town, capital of the province of Limburg, 47 m. NE. of Brussels; distilling,
and the manufacture of lace, linen, and tobacco are the staple industries.

HASTINGS (61), a popular holiday and health resort in Sussex; occupies a fine situation on
the coast, with lofty cliffs behind, 33 m. E. of Brighton; has a splendid esplanade 3 m. long,
parks, public gardens, &c., and ruins of a castle.

HASTINGS, BATTLE OF, fought on 14th October 1066, on Senlac Hill, 6 m. NW. of Hastings (where
now stands the little town of Battle), between William, Duke of Normandy and Harold II., King
of England; victory rested with the Normans, and Harold was slain on the field.

HASTINGS, FRANCIS RAWDON-HASTINGS, MARQUIS OF, Governor-General of India; entering the army
in 1771, he saw active service in the American War and in Holland; succeeded his father in
the earldom of Moira; was in 1813 appointed to the Governor-Generalship of India; he was instrumental
in extending the Company's territories, and pacifying the warlike Goorkhas, for which, in 1816,
he was created Marquis of Hastings; latterly he held the Governorship of Malta (1754-1826).

HASTINGS, WARREN, first Governor-General of India, born at Churchill, Oxfordshire; early left
an orphan, he was maintained at Westminster School by his uncle, and at 17 received a clerkship
in the East India Company; for 14 years his life was occupied in mercantile and political work,
at the close of which time he returned to England; in 1769 he was back in India as a member
of the Madras Council; married the divorced wife of Baron Imhoff, and in 1772 was appointed
President of the Council in Bengal; under the new arrangement for the governing of the provinces,
Hastings was raised to the position of Governor-General in 1773; despite jealousies and misrepresentations
both among his colleagues in India and the home authorities, he steadily, and with untiring
energy, extended and brought into orderly government the British dominions; in 1785 he voluntarily
resigned, and on his return he was impeached before the House of Lords for oppression of the
natives, and for conniving at the plunder of the Begums or dowager-princesses of Oudh; the
trial brought forth the greatest orators of the day, Burke, Fox, and Sheridan leading the impeachment,
which, after dragging on for nearly eight years, resulted in the acquittal of Hastings on all
the charges; his fortune having been consumed by the enormous expenses of the trial, he was
awarded a handsome pension by the Company, and thereafter lived in honoured retirement (1732-1818).

HATCH, EDWIN, theologian, born at Derby; graduated at Oxford, and was for some years professor
of Classics in Trinity College, Toronto; in 1867 was appointed Vice-Principal of St. Mary Hall,
Oxford; Rector of Purleigh, Essex, in 1883; reader in Ecclesiastical History at Oxford; he
held the Grinfield, Bampton, and Hibbert lectureships at different times, and established a
reputation, both abroad and at home, for wide and accurate scholarship; HARNACK (q. v.) translated
his learned lectures on "The Organisation of the Early Christian Churches"; and "The Growth
of Church Institutions" displayed his rare gift of combining profound scholarship with popular
presentation (1835-1889).

HATFIELD, or BISHOP'S HATFIELD (4), a market-town of Hertfordshire, 18 m. NW. of London; its
parish church dates from the 13th century, and in the vicinity stands Hatfield House, a noble
architectural pile of James I.'s time, the seat of the Marquis of Salisbury.

HATHERLEY, BARON, barrister, elected to represent Oxford in Parliament; in 1847 was Solicitor-General,
in 1853 raised to the bench, and in 1868 made Lord Chancellor; retired in 1872 from failing
sight (1801-1881).

HATHRAS (39), an important commercial town in the NW. Provinces, India, 97 m. SE. of Delhi;
exports large quantities of sugar, grain, cotton, &c., and is famed for its beautiful carved
stone-and-wood-work.

HATS AND CAPS, the name of two political factions in Sweden in the middle of the 18th century,
the former favouring France and the latter Russia.

HATTERAS, CAPE, a low sandy headland of a small island separated from the mainland of N. Carolina,
U.S., by Pimlico Sound; it is a storm-swept and treacherous point, and is marked by a powerful
light, 190 ft. high.

HATTI-SHERIFF, a name given to an edict of the Sultan which is irrevocable, though many a one
of them has proved a dead letter.

HATTO, archbishop of Mainz, of whom tradition alleges that he was assailed in his palace by
an army of mice, to escape whose ravages he retired to a tower on the Rhine, whither the mice
followed him and ate him up, a judgment due, as is alleged, to his having, during a great famine
in 970, gathered the poor into a barn and burnt them to death, as "like mice, good only for
devouring corn," he said.

HAUBERK, a coat or tunic of mail made of interwoven steel rings and extending below the knees.

HAUCH, HANS CARSTEN, Danish poet and novelist, born at Frederikshald, in Norway; in 1846 he
became professor of Northern Literature at Kiel, and four years later of Æsthetics at Copenhagen;
his historical tragedies, lyrics, tales, and romances are instinct with true poetic feeling,
and are widely popular in Denmark (1790-1872).

HAUFF, WILHELM, a German prose writer, born in Stuttgart, who died young; wrote "Memoirs of
Satan" and "The Man in the Moon," and a number of charmingly told "Tales," which have made
his name famous among ourselves (1802-1827).

HAUG, a German Orientalist, professor of Sanskrit at Poona, and afterwards at Münich; devoted
himself to the exposition of the Zendavesta (1827-1876).

HAUSER, KASPAR, a young man of about 16 who mysteriously appeared in Nürnberg one day in 1828,
was found to be as helpless and ignorant as a baby, and held a letter in his hand giving an
account of his history. The mystery of his case interested Lord Stanhope, who charged himself
with the care of him, but he was enticed out of the house he was boarded in one day, returned
mortally wounded, and died soon after.

HAUSSA or HOUSSA, a subject people of Central Soudan, whose language has become the common
speech of some 15 millions of people between the Mediterranean and the Gulf of Guinea. The
language is allied to the Hamitic tongues, and is written in modified Arabic characters.

HAUSSMAN, GEORGE EUGÈNE, a celebrated Préfect of the Seine, who, while holding that position
(1853-70), carried through extensive architectural improvements in Paris, which transformed
it into one of the handsomest cities of Europe; the enormous cost entailed brought about his
dismissal, but not before he had received many distinctions, and been ennobled by Napoleon
III.; in 1881 he was elected to the Chamber of Deputies (1809-1891).

HAÜY, RENÉ JUST, known as the Abbé Haüy, a French mineralogist, born at St. Just; propounded
the theory of crystallisation founded on geometrical principles; absorbed in study, was caught
napping during the Revolution; got consequently into trouble, but was extricated out of it
by his friend and pupil, Geoffrey St.-Hilaire; was appointed professor of Mineralogy by Napoleon
(1743-1823).

HAVANA (200), fortified capital of the island of Cuba, in the West Indies; has a spacious and
securely sheltered harbour, an old Spanish cathedral, a university, botanical garden, and several
fine theatres; the town is ill laid out, badly drained, and subject to yellow fever; the staple
industries are the raising of tobacco and sugar, and the manufacture of cigars.

HAVEL, an important tributary of the Lower Elbe, which it joins a few miles from Wittenberg;
it rises in Mecklenburg, and takes a circuitous course past Potsdam of 180 m.

HAVELOCK, SIR HENRY, British general, born at Bishop Wearmouth; entered the army in 1815, and
embarked in the service for India in 1823; served in the Afghan and Sikh Wars, as also in Persia;
on the outbreak of the Mutiny he was in 1857 sent to the relief of Cawnpore and Lucknow, the
latter of which places he entered on 25th Sept., where, being beleagured, he entrenched himself
in the Residency, and held his own until November, when Sir Colin Campbell came to his relief,
but his health had been undermined from his anxieties, and he died on the 22nd of that month;
for his services on this occasion a baronetcy and a pension of £1000 was conferred on him,
but it was too late, and the honour with the pension was transferred to his son; he was a Christian
soldier, and a commander of the Puritan type (1795-1857).

HAVERFORDWEST (6), seaport and capital of Pembroke, Wales, prettily situated on the Cleddan,
10 m. NE. of Milford; has a 14th-century castle and a ruined priory; the chief industry is
paper-making.

HAVERGAL, FRANCES RIDLEY, a hymn-writer, born at Astley, where her father, known as a musical
composer, was rector; was authoress of "Ministry of Song," and collections which have been
highly popular (1830-1879).

HAVERSIAN CANALS, canals in the bones to convey the vessels that nourish them.

HAVRE, LE (116), the second commercial port in France, on the N. side of the Seine estuary,
143 m. NW. of Paris, in the dep. of Seine-Inférieure; has a fine harbour, docks, &c., but shipping
is incommoded by the shifting sandbanks of the estuary, and railway facilities are poor; it
is an important centre of emigration, and its industries embrace shipbuilding, iron-works,
flour-mills, &c.

HAWAIIAN ISLANDS (named by Cook the Sandwich Islands) (90), a group of volcanic islands, 12
in number, situated in the North Pacific; total area somewhat larger than Yorkshire. Of the
five inhabited islands Hawaii is the largest; it contains the famous volcano, Kilauea, whose
crater is one of the world's wonders, being 9 m. in circumference, and filled with a glowing
lake of molten lava which ebbs and flows like an ocean tide. The island of Maui has the largest
crater on the earth. The climate of the group is excellent, and vegetation (including forests)
is abundant; sugar and rice are the chief crops. Honolulu (on Oahu), with a splendid harbour,
is the capital. The islands are now under the jurisdiction of the United States.

HAWARDEN, a town 7 m. W. of Chester, near which is Hawarden Castle, where Mr. Gladstone resided
and died.

HAWEIS, HUGH REGINALD, English churchman, born at Egham, Surrey, incumbent of St. James's,
Marylebone; was present in Italy during the revolution there, and at several of the battles;
is popular as a preacher and lecturer, and has written a number of works on the times, on music,
Christ and Christianity, &c.; b. 1840.

HAWES, STEPHEN, an English poet; held a post In the household of Henry VII.; author of an allegorical
poem on the right education of a knight, entitled "The Pastime of Pleasure"; d. d. 1503.

HAWICK (19), a prosperous and ancient town of Roxburghshire, at the confluence of the Teviot
and Slitrig, 52 m. SE. of Edinburgh; is a flourishing centre of the tweed, yarn, and hosiery
trade, and has besides dye-works, tanneries, &c.

HAWK-EYE STATE, Iowa, U.S., so called from the name of an Indian chief once a terror in those
parts.

HAWKE, LORD, an English admiral, born in London; entered the navy at an early age in 1747;
defeated a French fleet off Finisterre and captured six ships of the line in 1759; defeated
Admiral Conflans off Belleisle; was made a peer in 1776; d. 1781.

HAWKER, ROBERT STEPHEN, a Cornish clergyman and poet; was vicar for 40 years of Morwenstow,
a parish on the N. Cornwall coast; author of "Cornish Ballads"; was a humane man, of eccentric
ways, and passionately fond of animals; was the author of several works besides his ballads,
in particular "Echoes from Old Cornwall" and "Footprints of Former Men in Far Cornwall" (1805-1875).

HAWKESWORTH, JOHN, a miscellaneous writer; wrote a book of "Voyages," an account of the first
voyage of Captain Cook; was a friend of Johnson's, and associated with him in literary work
(1715-1773).

HAWKINS, SIR JOHN, an English navigator and admiral, born at Plymouth; was rear-admiral of
the fleet sent against the Armada and contributed to its defeat; has the unenviable distinction
of having been the first Englishman to traffic in slaves, which he carried off from Africa
and imported into the West Indies (1530-1595).

HAWKINS, SIR JOHN, retired attorney, born in London; wrote a "History of Music," and edited
Walton's "Complete Angler" with notes (1719-1789).

HAWKWOOD, SIR JOHN, an English captain, born in Essex; embracing the profession of arms, served
with distinction at Crécy and Poitiers, and was in consequence knighted by Edward III.; afterwards
fought as free-lance with his White Company in the wars of Italy, and finally in the service
of Florence, where he spent his last days and died in 1393. For an account of his character,
military ability, and manner of warfare, see Ruskin's "Fors Clavigera."

HAWORTH (3), a village of Yorkshire, situated on a rising moorland in the W. Biding, 2 m. SW.
of Keighley, memorable as the lifelong home of the Brontës, and their final resting-place.

HAWTHORNE, NATHANIEL, American novelist, born at Salem, Massachusetts; his early ambition was
to be a literary man, and "Twice-told Tales" was the first production by which he won distinction,
after the publication of which he spent some months at BROOK FARM (q. v.), leaving which he
married and took up house at Concord; from 1848 to 1850 he held a State appointment, and in
his leisure hours wrote his "Scarlet Letter," which appeared in the latter year, and established
his fame as a master of literature; this was followed by "The House of the Seven Gables," "The
Snow Image," "The Blithedale Romance," and by-and-by "The Marble Faun," and "Our Old Home"
(1804-1864).

HAYDN, JOSEPH, German composer, born at Rohrau, in Austria, of poor parents; early evinced
a musical talent, and became at the age of eight a cathedral chorister; came into notice first
as a street musician; soon became a popular music-master in Vienna, and, under the patronage
of the Esterhazys, kapellmeister to Prince Nicolaus, a passionate lover of music; he produced
operas, symphonies, and oratorios, &c.; he is at his best in quartettes and symphonies, and
in "The Creation" and "The Seasons"; he was a man of a happy disposition, and his character
appears in his music; he was known at length as Father Haydn (1732-1809).

HAYDON, BENJAMIN ROBERT, an English historical painter, born at Plymouth; studied at the Royal
Academy, and in 1807 exhibited "Joseph and Mary resting on the Road to Egypt"; two years later
occurred his memorable split with the Royal Academy over a supposed slight to his picture,
"Dentatus"; "Christ's Entry into Jerusalem" brought him £1700 by exhibition, and his "Judgment
of Solomon," considered his finest work, sold for 700 guineas; despite large sums obtained
for "The Mock Election," "The Reform Banquet," &c., he was continually in debt, and his high-strung,
sensitive temperament, smarting under imaginary slights and weary of unrealised ambitions,
led him to commit suicide by shooting himself in his studio; he was an artist of great but
unequal genius; he was fascinated with the Elgin Marbles, and the admiration he expressed for
them contributed to persuade the Government to purchase them (1786-1846).

HAYES, ISAAC ISRAEL, Arctic explorer, born in Pennsylvania; after graduating in medicine, joined
the Kane expedition in search of Franklin in 1853, and subsequently made two other voyages
to the Arctic regions, accounts of which are given in his "An Arctic Boat-journey," "The Land
of Desolation," &c.; subsequently he served as a surgeon during the Civil War, and sat in the
New York Assembly (1832-1881).

HAYES, RUTHERFORD BIRCHARD, President of the United States, born at Delaware, Ohio; graduated
at Kenyon College, Ohio; studied law at Harvard, and started practice at Cincinnati; he served
with distinction through the Civil War, entered Congress in 1865, and was thrice governor of
Ohio; in 1876 he was elected President in the Republican interest after a protracted and bitterly
disputed election; he did much to pacify the South, reform the civil service, advance education,
and to bring about resumption of specie payments, measures which greatly restored the prosperity
of the country (1822-1893).

HAY-FEVER, a sort of catarrh, accompanied with paroxysms of sneezing, irritation in the eyes,
pains in the head, &c., most frequent in early summer.

HAYLEY, WILLIAM, poet, the friend and biographer of Cowper; wrote "Triumphs of Temper," a poem
(1745-1820).

HAYM, RUDOLF, professor of Philosophy at Halle; wrote biographies of Hegel, W. von Humboldt,
and Schopenhauer; b. 1821.

HAYNAU, JULIUS JAKOB, BARON VON, a notorious Austrian general, born at Cassel, Germany; entered
the army in 1801, and while holding a command during the Italian campaigns of 1848-49, crushed
the revolt at Brescia with such brutal ferocity as to gain him the name of the "Hyæna of Brescia";
he was for a time dictator of Hungary, but his murderous cruelty towards the subjugate people
became a European scandal and led to his removal; in London he was mobbed and narrowly escaped
with his life (1786-1853).

HAYTI (Hispaniola or Santo Domingo), next to Cuba the largest of the W. Indian Islands, in
the group of the Greater Antilles, lies midway between Cuba on the W. and Porto Rico on the
E.; its area, somewhat larger than Scotland, is apportioned between the negro Republic of Hayti
in the E. and the mulatto Dominican Republic in the W.; the island is mountainous, and forests
of valuable timber abound; a warm, moist climate favours rice, cotton, &c., and minerals are
plentiful; but during this century, under native government, the island has been retrogressive;
agriculture and mining are practically at a standstill, while the natives seem incapable of
self-government; the language spoken is a corrupt French; Port-au-Prince and San Domingo are
the chief towns; discovered in 1492 by Columbus, the island was soon denuded of its aboriginals,
then peopled by imported negroes, joined latterly by French buccaneers; in 1697 the island
was ceded to France, but in 1791, under TOUSSAINT L'OUVERTURE (q. v.), the blacks, after a
bloody revolution, swept the island clear of Europeans; population of island somewhat over
a million.

HAYWARD, ABRAHAM, English essayist; bred to law, but took to literature; executed a prose translation
of "Faust," Pt. I. (1802-1884).

HAZLITT, WILLIAM, critic and essayist, born in Maidstone, of Irish descent; began life as an
artist, but abandoned art for letters, and contributed to the reviews; wrote on the English
poets and dramatists, the "Characters of Shakespeare's Plays," "The Spirit of the Age," a "Life
of Napoleon," &c.; criticism was his forte, and he ranks among the foremost devoted to that
art; his life was not well regulated, his health gave way, and he died in poverty (1778-1830).

HEAD, SIR EDMUND WALKER, BART., writer on art, born near Maidstone, Kent, succeeded to the
baronetcy in 1838; became lieutenant-governor of New Brunswick in 1847, and governor-general
of Canada in 1854; wrote "Handbook of Spanish Painting," also "French Art," and some poems
(1805-1868).

HEAD, SIR FRANCIS BOND, soldier and author; governor of Upper Canada; suppressed an insurrection;
wrote a "Life of Bruce the African Traveller," "Bubbles from the Brunnen of Nassau," "A Faggot
of French Sticks," &c. (1793-1875).

HEAD-HUNTERS, name given to the Dyaks of Borneo, from their habit of preserving in the way
of trophy the heads of those whom they slay in battle, as the Red Indians did the scalps.

HEADRIGG, CUDDIE (i. e. Cuthbert), a ploughman in "Old Mortality."

HEALY, TIMOTHY MICHAEL, Irish Nationalist, born at Bantry, Cork; came into prominence during
the Land League agitation in 1880, and in the same year was returned to Parliament; was called
to the Irish bar in 1884, and has since been active in promoting the interests of the Home
Rule movement; in 1890 he was one of the leaders in the revolt against Parnell; b. 1855.

HEARNE, THOMAS, a noted English antiquary, born in White Waltham, Berks; graduated at Oxford
in 1699, and subsequently became second keeper of the Bodleian Library; his compilations and
editions of old English texts, e. g. Camden's "Annals," Robert of Gloucester's "Chronicle,"
display wide and ingenious scholarship; he figures in Pope's "Dunciad" (1678-1735).

HEART OF MIDLOTHIAN, the old Tolbooth or jail of Edinburgh, the capital of Midlothian, which
gives name to one of Scott's best novels.

HEATHFIELD, GEORGE AUGUSTUS ELIOTT, LORD, a gallant general, the defender of Gibraltar, son
of Sir Gilbert Eliott, born at Stobs, in Roxburghshire; saw service first in the war of the
Austrian Succession, fighting at Dettingen and Fontenoy; as a colonel he fought with English
troops in alliance with Frederick the Great against Austria; for his heroic defence of Gibraltar
(1779-1783) against the combined forces of France and Spain he was raised to the peerage as
Baron of Gibraltar (1717-1790).

HEAVEN, in Christian theology the place of the immediate Divine presence, where God manifests
Himself without veil, and His saints enjoy that presence and know as they are known. In Scripture
it denotes, (1) the atmosphere, (2) the starry region, (3) a state of bliss, (4) as defined,
the divine presence, and (5) God Himself.

HEAVE-OFFERING, among the Jews, an offering for the support of divine service, so called as,
when offered, lifted up in presence of the people.

HEBBEL, FRIEDRICH, lyrist and dramatist, born at Weselburen, Ditmarsh; settled in Vienna in
1846; "Die Nibelungen" is his best play, others are "Judith," "Maria Magdalena," &c.; his dramas
are vigorous and original, but ill-proportioned, and in the passions they depict abnormal;
his works are collected in 12 vols. (1813-1863).

HEBE, goddess of eternal youth, daughter of Zeus and Hera; was the cup-bearer of the gods;
was superseded by Ganymedes, and became the wife of Hercules after his admission among the
immortals.

HEBER, REGINALD, bishop of Calcutta, born in Cheshire, author of a prize poem entitled "Palestine"
and a volume of "Hymns," several of them famous; died at his post in Trichinopoly; left a narrative
of a "Journey through India" (1783-1826).

HÉBERT, JACQUES RENÉ, commonly called Per Duchesne as editor of a journal of that name, a violent
revolutionary organ; took part in the September Massacres; brutally insulted the queen at her
trial, to the disgust of Robespierre; was arrested by his colleagues, whom he dared to oppose,
and guillotined, his widow found weeping, following him to his doom (1756-1794).

HEBREW, a Semitic language, the ancient language of the Jews, and that in which the Old Testament
is written, the words of which, as indeed of others of the same stock, are derived from triliteral
roots, and the verb in which has no present tense, only a past and a future, convertible, moreover,
into one another.

HEBREW POETRY is of two kinds, either lyric or gnomic, i. e. subjectively emotional or sententiously
didactic, the former belonging to the active or stirring, and the latter to the reflective
or quiet, periods of Hebrew history, and whether expressed in lyric or gnome rises in the conscience
and terminates in action; for Hebrew thought needs to go no higher, since therein it finds
and affirms God; and it seeks to go no farther, for therein it compasses all being, and requires
no epic and no drama to work out its destiny. However individualistic in feature, as working
through the conscience, it yet relates itself to the whole moral world, and however it may
express itself, it beats in accord with the pulse of eternity. The lyric expression of the
Hebrew temper we find in the Psalms and the Lamentations of Jeremiah, and the gnomic in the
books of Proverbs and Ecclesiastes, while the book of Job, which is only dramatic in form,
is partly lyric and partly dramatic.

HEBREW PROPHECY had throughout regard for the Jews as a nation and to see that it fulfilled
its destiny as such in the world. This purpose we see carried out by five steps or stages.
It taught, first, by the NEBIIM (q. v.), that the nation must regard itself as one nation;
secondly, by Elijah, that it must have Jehovah alone for its God; thirdly, by Amos, that as
a nation it was not necessarily God's chosen; fourthly, by Isaiah, that it existed for the
preservation of a holy seed; and finally, that it ceased to exist when it was felt that religion
primarily concerned the individual and was wholly an affair of the conscience. Thus does Hebrew
prophecy terminate when it leads up to Christianity, the first requirement of which is a regeneration
of the heart (John iii. 3), and the great promise of which is the outpouring of a spirit that
"will guide into all truth" (John xvi. 13).

HEBREWS, EPISTLE TO THE, an epistle of the New Testament of uncertain authorship addressed
to Christians of Jewish descent, who were strongly tempted, by the persecution they were subjected
to at the hands of their Jewish brethren, to renounce the cross of Christ, which it was feared
they would too readily do, and so to their own ruin crucify the Son of God afresh, there being
only this alternative for them, either crucifixion with Christ or crucifixion of Christ, and
death of all their hopes founded on Him.

HEBRIDES, or WESTERN ISLANDS, a general name for the islands on the west coast of Scotland
(save the islands of the Firth of Clyde), about 500 in number, of which 100 are inhabited;
they belong to the counties of Ross, Inverness, and Argyll, and are divided by the Little Minch
and the Minch into the Outer Hebrides, of which the chief are Lewis, Harris, North and South
Uist, Benbecula, &c.; and the Inner Hebrides, including Skye, Rum, Mull, Iona, Staffa, &c.;
they have wild and rocky coasts, but are picturesque and verdurous, and are much frequented
by tourists; the climate is mild and moist; cattle and sheep rearing and fishing are the chief
industries.

HEBRON, an ancient town and city of refuge, originally called Kirjath-arba, i. e. four cities,
only 20 m. S. of Jerusalem; it is a poor place now, but still abounds in orchards and vineyards.

HECATÆUS OF MILETUS, styled the "logographer," who flourished about 500 B.C.; visited many
countries, and wrote two books, "The Tour of the World" and "Genealogies or Histories," the
former containing descriptions of the places he visited, and the latter an account of the poetical
fables and traditions of the Greeks.

HECATE, in the Greek mythology a mysterious divinity of the Titan brood and held in honour
by all the gods, identified with Phoebe in heaven, Artemis on earth, and Persephone in Hades,
as being invested with authority in all three regions; came to be regarded exclusively as an
infernal deity, having under her command and at her beck all manner of demons and phantom spirits.

HECKER, FRIEDRICH KARL FRANZ, a German revolutionary, born at Eichtersheim, Baden; practised
as an advocate in Mannheim, and in 1842 became an active democrat and Socialist; frustrated
in an attempt during the '48 Revolution to create a republican assembly, he headed a revolutionary
attack upon Baden, was defeated, and subsequently settled in the United States, where he took
to farming; took part in the Civil War at the head of a regiment of Germans, and became a commander
of a brigade (1811-1881).

HECKER, JUSTUS FRIEDRICH KARL, author of a great work on the "Epidemics of the Middle Ages";
was a professor of Medicine at Berlin (1795-1850).

HECKMONDWIKE (10), a market-town in Yorkshire, 8 m. NE. of Huddersfield; is the principal seat
of the carpet and blanket manufactures in the West Riding.

HECLA or HEKLA, the loftiest of 20 active volcanoes in Iceland (5102 ft.); is an isolated peak
with five craters, 68 m. E. of Reykjavik; its most violent outbreak in recent times continued
from 1845 to 1846; its last eruption was in March 1878.

HECTIC FEVER, a fever connected with consumption, and showing itself by a bright pink flush
on the cheeks.

HECTOR, the chief hero of Troy in the war with the Greeks, the son of Priam and Hecuba; fought
with the bravest of the enemy and finally slew Patroclus, the friend of ACHILLES (q. v.), which
roused the latter from his long lethargy to challenge him to fight; Achilles chased him three
times round the city, pierced him with his spear, and dragged his dead body after his chariot
round Ilium; his body was at the command of Zeus delivered up to Priam and buried with great
pomp within the city walls.

HECUBA, the wife of Priam, king of Troy; distinguished both as a wife and a mother; on the
fall of the city she fell into the hands of the Greeks, and, according to one tradition, was
made a slave, and, according to another, threw herself in despair into the sea.

HEDONISM, the doctrine of the Cyrenaics that pleasure is the end of life, and the measure of
virtue, or the summum bonum.

HEEM, JAN DAVIDSZ VAN, a famous Dutch painter, born at Utrecht; had a prosperous and uneventful
career in Antwerp, where in 1635 he became a member of the Guild of Painters; he is considered
the greatest of the "still life" painters; his pictures, masterpieces of colouring and chiaroscuro,
have a great monetary value, and are to be found in the famous galleries of Amsterdam, Vienna,
Berlin, St. Petersburg, &c. (1606-1684).

HEEREN, LUDWIG, a German historian; professor of History at Göttingen; wrote on ancient and
modern history, specially the ancient and its antiquities; eminent in both (1760-1842).

HEFELE, KARL JOSEPH VON, a Catholic Church historian, born at Unterkochen, in Würtemberg; in
1840 became professor of Church History and Christian Archæology in the Catholic Theological
Faculty in Tübingen University, and in 1869 Bishop of Rottenburg; was for some time zealously
opposed to the doctrine of the Papal infallibility, but subsequently acquiesced, putting, however,
his own construction on it; his best-known works are the "History of the Christian Councils"
and "Contributions to Church History" (1809-1893).

HEGEL, GEORG WILHELM FRIEDRICH, German philosopher, the greatest of all, born in Stuttgart;
studied first at Tübingen, with a view to theology; as a student attracted no particular attention,
was outstript by Schelling; did domestic tutoring for a time; qualified at Jena for an academic
career; adhered to and collaborated with Schelling in philosophy; first announced himself in
1807 by his work, "Phenomenology of the Spirit"; became rector of the Academy at Nürnberg,
where in 1812-16 he composed his "Logic"; was in 1816 appointed professor of Philosophy at
Heidelberg, whence he was removed to Berlin in 1818, where, his philosophy being now matured,
he began to apply it with intense earnestness to every subject of human interest; he was the
last of a line of thinkers beginning with Kant, with whom, however, he affiliated directly,
and in his idealism philosophy first reached the goal which it was till then with hesitating
steps only stretching forward to; his works fill 22 goodly sized volumes, and his system may
be grouped under three heads, the "Science of Logic," the "Philosophy of Nature," and the "Philosophy
of Spirit" (1770-1831).

HEGELIANISM, the philosophy of Hegel, which resolves being into thought, and thought into the
unity of the logical moments of simple apprehension, judgment, and reason, all purely spiritual
acts, whereby being in itself, or seyn, becomes other than itself, or daseyn, and returns into
itself, or für sich seyn, the universal being first by separating from itself particularised,
and then by return into itself individualised, the whole being what Hegel characterises as
Der Process des Geistes, "The Process of the Spirit." Something like this is what Dr. Stirling
calls "The Secret of Hegel," and an open secret it is, for he finds it pervading the whole
system; "open where you will in Hegel," he says, "you find him always engaged in saying pretty
well the same thing"; always identity by otherness passing into selfness, or making that for
itself which is at first in itself;--a philosophy which is anticipated by the doctrine of St.
Paul, which represents God as the One from whom are all things as Father, and through whom
are all things as Son, and to whom are all things as Spirit, the One who is thus All; it is
also involved in the doctrine of Christ when He says God is Spirit, or the Living One who lives,
and manifests Himself in life, for Himself, from Himself, and through Himself, who, so to say,
thus concretes Himself throughout the universe.

HEGE`SIAS, a Cyrenaic philosopher, who held that life was full of evils, that it was in vain
to seek after pleasure, and that all a wise man could do was to fortify himself as best he
could against pain.

HEGESIPPUS, a Church historian of the 2nd century, a convert from Judaism; only fragments of
his "Memoirs of Ecclesiastical Affairs" remain.

HEIDELBERG (35), a celebrated German city, in Baden, situated amid beautiful surroundings,
on the Neckar, 13 m. SE. of Mannheim; has many interesting buildings, including ruins of a
splendid 13th-century castle, but is chiefly celebrated for its flourishing university (student
roll, 800; professors, 100; library, 500,000), whose professoriate has included many of the
most distinguished German scholars; it was long the centre of Calvinism; its chief trade is
in books, tobacco, wine, and beer.

HEIJN, or HEYN, PETER PETERSEN, a famous Dutch admiral, born at Delftshaven; from being a cabin-boy
rose to be commander of the Dutch fleet; off the east coast of S. America he twice defeated
the Spanish fleet, securing an immense booty, and in 1628 captured a flotilla of Spanish galleons
with silver and jewels equal to 16,000,000 Dutch guilders; fell in an action off Dunkirk (1577-1629).

HEILBRONN (30), a quaint old town of Würtemberg, on the Neckar, 23 m. N. of Stuttgart; has
a fine 11th-century Gothic church, and the Thief's Tower (Diebsthurm); is associated with the
captivity of GOETZ VON BERLICHINGEN (q. v.); it is now a busy commercial centre, and manufactures
silverware, paper, beet-sugar, chemicals, &c.

HEILSBRONN, a Bavarian market-town, 16 m. SW. of Nüremberg; is celebrated for its Cistercian
monastery, now suppressed, but whose church still contains monuments and art relics of great
historic interest.

HEINE, HEINRICH, a German lyric poet, born at Düsseldorf, of Jewish parents; was bred to law,
but devoted himself to literature, and mingled with literary people, and associated in particular
with the Varnhagen von Ense circle; first became notable by the publication of his "Reisebilder"
and his "Buch der Lieder," the appearance of which created a wide-spread enthusiasm in Germany
in 1825 he abandoned the Jewish faith and professed the Christian, but the creed he adopted
was that of a sceptic, and he indulged in a cynicism that outraged all propriety, and even
common decency; in 1830 he quitted Germany and settled in Paris, and there a few years afterwards
married a rich lady, who alleviated the sufferings of his last years; an attack of paralysis
in 1847 left him only one eye, and in the following year he lost the other, but under these
privations and much bodily pain he bore up with a singular fortitude, and continued his literary
labours to the last; in his songs he was at his best, and by these alone it is believed he
will be chiefly remembered (1797-1856).

HEINECCIUS, JOHANN GOTTLIEB, a celebrated German jurist, born at Eisenberg; was successively
professor of Philosophy and subsequently of Law at several universities of Germany; he wrote
several learned works in law treated from a philosophical standpoint; mention may be made of
his "Historia Juris Civilis Romani" and "Elementa Juris Naturæ Gentium" (1681-1741).

HEINSIUS, ANTHONY, a noted Dutch statesman, born at Delft; became Grand Pensionary of Holland;
was the intimate friend and correspondent of William III. of England, who left the guidance
of Dutch affairs largely in his hands (1641-1720).

HEIR APPARENT, one whose right of succession is sure if he survive the present holder.

HEIR PRESUMPTIVE, one whose right of succession is sure if not barred by the birth of one nearer.

HEJAZ, EL, the holy land of the Moslems, a district of Arabia Felix, and so called by containing
the sacred cities of Mecca and Medina.

HEJIRA or HEJRA (Arabic, "going away"), a word applied to Mahomet's flight from Mecca to Medina
in A.D. 622; Calif Omar, 17 years later, adopted this date as the starting-point of a new Mohammedan
calendar.

HEL or HELA, in Scandinavian mythology an inexorable divinity, the death-goddess who presides
over the icy realm of the dead; her maw was insatiable and her heart pitiless.

HELDENBUCH, a collection of German heroic poems relating heroic deeds and events connected
with the inroads of the barbarians on the empire.

HELDER, THE (25), a strongly fortified and flourishing seaport in North Holland, on the Marsdiep,
at the N. end of the North Holland Canal, 51 m. NW. of Amsterdam; is an important naval centre,
and has an excellent harbour.

HELEN, the daughter of Zeus and Leda, and the wife of Menelaus, king of Sparta; the most beautiful
of women, who was carried off to Troy by Paris, to revenge whose abduction the princes of Greece,
who had pledged themselves to protect her, made war on Troy, a war which lasted ten years.

HELENA, ST., the mother of Constantine the Great; is said to have visited Jerusalem and discovered
the Holy Sepulchre and the cross on which Christ was crucified; d. 328, at the age of 80. Festival,
Aug. 18. There are several other saints of the same name.

HELENSBURGH (8), a pleasantly situated watering-place in Dumbarton, on the Firth of Clyde,
at the entrance of the Gareloch, 4 m. N. of Greenock.

HELENUS, a son of Priam and Hecuba, celebrated for his prophetic foresight; is said to have
deserted his countrymen and joined the Greeks.

HELIAND, an old Saxon poem of the 9th century, of great philological value, but of no great
literary merit; deals with the life and work of Christ; of the two extant MSS. one is in the
British Museum.

HELICON, a mountain in Boeotia, Greece, sacred to Apollo and the Muses; famous for the fountains
on its slopes dedicated to the latter.

HELIGOLAND (2, but rising to 14 in summer), an islet of the North Sea, 35 m. from the mouths
of the Elbe and the Weser; German since 1890; consists of the Oberland, a plateau, with some
400 houses, and the Unterland on the shore, 206 ft. beneath, with a group of 70 dwellings.
In the summer it is crowded with visitors, bathing being the chief attraction; fishing is the
staple industry of the native Frisians.

HELIODORUS, the most noted and earliest of the Greek romancists, born at Emesa, Syria; flourished
in the second half of the 3rd century A.D.; his romance "Æthiopica" is a love tale of great
beauty and told with naïve simplicity; has had considerable influence over subsequent romance
writers, e. g. Tasso.

HELIOGA`BALUS, a Roman emperor; invested, while yet a youth, with the Imperial purple by the
army in 218; ruled with a show of moderation at first, but soon gave way to every manner of
excess; was after four years put to death by the Prætorian Guard, and his body thrown into
the Tiber.

HELIOGRAPHY, a method of signalling from distant points by means of the sun's rays flashed
from mirrors; messages can in this manner be transmitted a distance of 190 m.; it has been
found of great practical value in military operations.

HELIOPOLIS (i. e. City of the Sun), in Egyptian On, one of the oldest and most sacred cities
of Egypt; was situated about 10 m. N. of Cairo, on the eastmost branch of the Nile; it was
the centre of Egyptian learning; Solon and Plato are said to have studied there, and Potiphar
was one of its chief priests; the famous obelisk PHARAOH'S NEEDLE stands near; and CLEOPATRA'S
NEEDLE, now on the Thames Embankment, was originally of this city. Also the name of Baalbec.

HELIOS, the god of the sun, mistakenly identified with Apollo, but of an older dynasty, was
the brother of SELENE (q. v.) and EOS (q. v.); a god of the brood of the TITANS (q. v.), and
the source of light to both gods and men; he rises from the bosom of OKEANOS (q. v.) in the
morning, and loses himself in his dark abyss every evening.

HELIOTROPE or BLOODSTONE, a variety of quartz (chalcedony or jasper) of a deep green colour,
with bright red spots. The finest specimens, which come from South Asia, are of fairly translucent
chalcedony; those of jasper are opaque; they are used as seals, ring-stones, &c.

HELL FIRE, the infinite terror to a true man, the infinite misery which he never fails to realise
must befall him if he come short in his loyalty to truth and duty.

HELL GATE or HURL GATE, a narrow pass in the East River, between the city of New York and Long
Island; at one time its hidden shoals and swift narrow current were dangerous to ships, but
extensive blasting operations, completed in 1885, have greatly widened and cleared the pass.

HELLAS, the name of the abode of the ancient Greeks, and of greater extent than Greece proper.

HELLE, a maiden who, with her brother Phrixus, fled on the golden-fleeced ram to escape from
the cruelty of her step-dame Ino, and fell into the strait called the Hellespont after her,
in which she was drowned. See GOLDEN FLEECE.

HELLENISTS, originally Jews who would fain have seen Jewish thought and life more or less transformed
in spirit as well as fashion after a Greek pattern; eventually those who by contact with Greek
civilisation became Grecianised, and were open to learn as much from the civilisation of the
Greeks as was consistent with the maintenance in their integrity of the principles of their
own religion.

HELLER, STEPHEN, a distinguished pianist and composer, born at Pesth; made his début at nine,
and by 17 had won a reputation throughout the great cities of Europe; in 1838 he settled in
Paris, and gave himself to teaching and composition; he ranks beside Chopin as a master of
technique; his works are almost entirely pianoforte pieces (1814-1888).

HELMHOLTZ, HERMANN VON, an eminent German scientist, born at Potsdam, Brandenburg; was first
an army doctor, and in 1849 became professor of Physiology in Königsberg, and subsequently
in Bonn and Heidelberg; in 1871 he became professor of Physics in Berlin; was ennobled, and
in 1887 nominated head of the Charlottenburg Institute; to physiology he made contributions
of great value on the various sense-organs, and to physics on the conservation of energy; but
his most original work was done in connection with acoustics in its relation to optics; his
published works include "Theory of Sound Sensations'" and "Sensations of Tone as a Physiological
Basis for the Theory of Music" (1821-1894).

HELMONT, JEAN BAPTIST VAN, a celebrated German chemist, the father of chemistry, born at Brussels;
his early years were divided between the study of medicine and the practice of a religious
mysticism; the works of Paracelsus stimulated his interest in chemistry and physics, and having
married a noble Brabant lady, he settled down on the family estate near Vilvorde, where he
devoted himself to scientific research; mixed up a good deal of mysticism and alchemy with
his scientific discoveries, and made a special study of gases; he was the first to prove the
indestructibility of matter in chemical changes by utilising the balance in analysis; he invented
the word gas, first used the melting-point of ice and the boiling-point of water as limits
of a thermometric scale, and his physiological speculations led him to regard the stomach as
the seat of the soul! (1577-1644).

HELOÏSE, niece of Canon Fulbert, born at Paris; celebrated for her amour with ABELARD (q. v.);
became prioress of the convent of Argenteuil and abbess of the Paraclete, where she founded
a new convent and lived a pious life (1101-1164).

HELOÏSE, NOUVELLE, a romance by Rousseau.

HELOTS, slaves who formed the lowest grade of the population of Sparta, were descendants of
the original inhabitants of Laconia, or prisoners of war; they were slaves belonging to the
State, from the State alone could they receive manumission; they were employed as tillers of
the ground, waited at meals, filled various menial offices for private individuals, and were
treated with the utmost harshness; were whipped annually to remind them of their servile position;
slaughtered when their numbers increased too much, and were forced to exhibit themselves under
intoxication as a warning to the Spartan youth.

HELPS, SIR ARTHUR, essayist and historian, born in Surrey; for a time held official posts in
connection with the government of the day, and finally that of Clerk to the Privy Council,
in which capacity he was brought into connection with the Queen, which led to his being appointed
editor of the "Principal Speeches and Addresses of the late Prince Consort" and Her Majesty's
"Leaves from a Journal of our Life in the Highlands"; he is the author of "Friends in Council,"
published one series in 1847 and a second in 1859, which dealt with a variety of subjects,
and was, along with "Companions of my Solitude," very popular; he did also plays and romances
as well as historical sketches (1817-1875).

HELSINGFORS (77), a strongly fortified seaport and capital of Finland, is in a commanding position
placed on a rocky peninsula in the Gulf of Finland, 191 m. W. of St. Petersburg; the numerous
islands and islets at the entrance of the harbour are strongly fortified; the town is handsomely
laid out, and has a flourishing university (student roll, 1703), and does a good Baltic trade.

HELST, BARTHOLOMÆUS VAN DER, one of the greatest of the Dutch portrait-painters, born at Haarlem,
but spent his life in Amsterdam; he enjoyed a great reputation in his day, and many of his
pictures are to be found in European galleries; his "Muster of the Burgher Guard" was considered
by Sir Joshua Reynolds to be "the first picture of portraits in the world" (1613-1670).

HELVELLYN, one of the Cumberland mountains, 3118 ft. high, rises at the side of Ulleswater,
midway between Keswick and Ambleside.

HELVETII, a Celtic people mentioned by Cæsar as occupying territory in Central Europe now embraced
in Switzerland; they suffered tremendous slaughter at the hands of Cæsar when endeavouring
to make their way to a wider territory in Southern Gaul.

HELVÉTIUS, a French philosophe, born in Paris, of Swiss origin; author of a book entitled "De
l'Esprit," which was condemned by the Parlement of Paris for views advocated in it that were
considered derogatory to the dignity of man, and which exposed him to much bitter hostility,
especially at the hands of the priests; man he reduced to a mere animal, made self-love the
only motive of his actions, and the satisfaction of our sensuous desires the principle of morals,
notwithstanding which he was a man of estimable character and of kindly disposition (1715-1771).

HEMANS, FELICIA DOROTHEA, née Browne, poetess, born in Liverpool; her marriage was an unhappy
one, and after the birth of five children ended in permanent separation; she was the authoress
of a number of works, a complete edition of which occupies 7 vols., the best of her productions
being lyrics; and she enjoyed the friendship of Wordsworth, Scott, and other literary celebrities
of the time (1791-1835).

HÉNAULT, French historian, born in Paris, president of the Parlement of Paris; was author of
"Abrégé Chronologique de l'Histoire de France" (1685-1770).

HEMEL HEMPSTEAD (10), a busy market-town in Herts, 23 m. NW. of London; noted for its straw-plaiting,
and has paper-mills, foundries, &c.

HEMS or HOMS (35), a noted Syrian city known to the Romans as Emesa, on the Orontes, 63 m.
NE. of Tripoli; here stood in ancient times a famous temple of the Sun, one of whose priests,
HELIOGABALUS (q. v.), became Roman emperor (218); the Crusaders captured it from the Saracens
in 1098; it does a good trade in oil, cotton, silk, &c.

HEMSTERHUIS, Dutch philologist, born at Gröningen; was professor of Greek at Leyden; one of
the greatest Grecians of his day; had for pupils Ruhnken and Valckenaer, and edited a number
of classical works (1685-1766).

HENDERSON, ALEXANDER, a celebrated Scotch divine; became professor of Rhetoric and Philosophy
in St. Andrews, and subsequently held the living of Leuchars, in Fife; he actively espoused
the cause of the Covenanters, and became a prominent leader in negotiations with the king;
in 1643 he drafted the "Solemn League and Covenant" which passed into force, and he was one
of Scotland's representatives to the Assembly of Divines at Westminster (1583-1646).

HENDERSON, THOMAS, astronomer, born at Dundee, astronomer first at the Cape and then Astronomer-royal
for Scotland, calculated the distance of the nearest fixed star [Greek: alpha] Centauri and
found it nearly 19 billions of miles from the sun.

HENGIST AND HORSA, two Saxon brothers who came over to assist Vortigern against the Picts,
and were rewarded by a gift of Thanet, though they were afterwards defeated by Vortigern and
the latter slain.

HENGSTENBERG, a German theologian, born in Westphalia; was editor of the Evangelische Kirchenzeitung,
and the valiant unwearied assailant of Rationalism in its treatment of the Scriptures and the
old orthodox faith; his principal works bear on Old Testament literature, such as its Christology
and the Psalms, as well as on the New, such as St. John's Gospel and the Apocalypse (1802-1869).

HENLEY, WILLIAM ERNEST, poet and critic, author of a "Book of Verses" and "Song of the Sword,"
in which he reveals superior powers as a poet, and of a volume entitled "Views and Reviews,"
in which he evinces discriminative criticism of the highest order; he has edited, along with
T. F. Henderson, in a workmanlike style, the "Centenary Edition of the Poetry of Burns," accompanied
it with a "Life of the Poet," and a characterisation somewhat damping to the prevailing enthusiasm
in connection with the poet; b. 1849.

HENLEY-ON-THAMES (5), a borough of Oxfordshire, on the Thames, near the Chiltern Hills, 36
m. W. of London; the river is spanned here by a fine five-arch bridge, and the annual amateur
regatta is a noted social event; malting and brewing are the chief industries.

HENOTHEISM, a polytheism which assigns to one god of the pantheon superiority over the rest.

HENRIETTA MARIA, wife of Charles I., born at the Louvre; daughter of Henry IV. of France and
of Marie de Medicis; a beautiful and able woman, much beloved, and deservedly so, by her husband,
but from her bigotry as a Roman Catholic disliked and distrusted by the nation, not without
good reason; by her imprudent conduct she embroiled matters more seriously than they were;
menaced with impeachment by the Commons, had to flee the country; returned, indeed, with a
supply of money and ammunition "purchased by crown jewels," but in 1644 was obliged to seek
refuge again in France; revisited the country for a short time after the Restoration, and died
near Paris at her retreat there (1609-1669).

HENRIETTA MARIA, daughter of Charles I., and wife of the Duke of Orleans, brother of Louis
XIV., born at Exeter; she had an itch for political intrigue like her mother, and was successful
in persuading her brother, Charles II., into league with France by signing the treaty of Dover;
on her return to France she died suddenly, by poison it is believed (1644-1670).

HENRIOT, a French revolutionary, born at Nanterre; was generalissimo of the National Guard
of Paris during the Reign of Terror; marched with his sansculotte following into the Convention
one day and escorted 29 of the Girondists to the guillotine; became the satellite of Robespierre,
whom he defended at the last, but could not deliver; arrested himself in a state of intoxication,
was dragged out of a drain, and despatched by the guillotine (1761-1794).

HENRY I., king of England from 1100 to 1135, youngest son of William the Conqueror, born at
Selby, in Yorkshire; usurped the crown from his elder but irresolute brother Robert, an act
which was confirmed by the Church and the mass of the people, Robert, after a weak resistance,
being pensioned off; the epithets Beauclerc and the Lion of Justice, which were bestowed on
him, so far accurately describe him as he appeared to his people; his attainments were scholarly
for his times, and his reign was distinguished by the strong and organised administration of
justice, although morally his life was a depraved one; after seizing Normandy from his brother
Robert, whom he imprisoned for life, he governed his kingdom with a firm hand; the turbulent
Norman nobles were subdued, while the administration of the law was greatly improved by the
institution of the Curia Regis (the King's Court) and of itinerant judges; trade took a start,
and the religious life of the nation was deepened through the advent of the Cistercian monks
and the influence of Anselm; he was married to Eadgyth (changed to Matilda), daughter of Malcolm
of Scotland (1068-1135).

HENRY II., king of England from 1154 to 1189, first of the Plantagenet line; was the son of
Matilda, daughter of Henry I., and her second husband Geoffrey Plantagenet, Count of Anjou,
born at Le Mans; when he came to the throne as Stephen's successor he was already in possession,
mainly through his marriage with Eleanor, the divorced wife of Louis VII., of more than half
of France; he set himself with all the vigour of his energetic nature to reform the abuses
which had become rampant under Stephen, and Thomas à Becket was his zealous Chancellor; the
Great Council was frequently summoned to deliberate on national affairs; the Curia Regis was
strengthened, the itinerant judgeships revived, while the oppression and immorality of the
nobles was sternly suppressed by the demolition of the "adulterine castles"; a blow was aimed
at the privileges and licentiousness of the clergy by the Constitutions of Clarendon, but their
enactment brought about a rupture between the king and Becket, now Archbishop of Canterbury,
which subsequently ended in the murder of Becket; in 1171 Ireland was invaded and annexed,
and three years later William the Lion of Scotland was forced to declare his kingdom a fief
to the English throne; some time previously the Welsh princes had done him homage; the last
years of his reign were embittered by quarrels and strife with his ungrateful sons; he was
a man of many kingly qualities, perhaps the best, taken all in all, that England ever had,
and his reign marks an epoch in the development of constitutional law and liberty (1133-1189).

HENRY III., king of England from 1216 to 1272, eldest son of King John; succeeded to the throne
at the age of nine; during his minority the kingdom was wisely and faithfully served by the
Earl of Pembroke and Hubert de Burgh; when he came to years he proved himself a weak ruler,
and, according to Stubbs, his administration was "one long series of impolitic and unprincipled
acts"; with the elevation of Peter des Roches, a native of Anjou, to the post of chief adviser,
French interlopers soon became predominant at the Court, and the recipients of large estates
and pensions, an injustice further stimulated by the king's marriage with Eleanor of Provence;
justice was prostituted, England humiliated under a feeble foreign policy, and the country
finally roused by infamous exactions; Simon de Montfort, the king's own brother-in-law, became
the leader of the people and the champion of constitutional rights; by the Provisions of Oxford,
forced upon the king by Parliament assembled at Oxford (1258), a wider and more frequent Parliamentary
representation was given to the people, and the king's power limited by a permanent council
of 15; as an issue of the Barons' War, which resulted in the defeat and capture of the king
at Lewes (1264), these provisions were still further strengthened by the Mise of Lewes, and
from this time may be dated the birth of representative government in England as it now exists;
in 1265 was summoned the first Parliament as at present constituted, of peers temporal and
spiritual, and representatives from counties, cities, and boroughs; internal dissensions ceased
with the victory of Prince Edward over the barons at Eastham (1265), the popular leader De
Montfort perished on the field (1206-1272).

HENRY IV., king of England from 1399 to 1418, first of the Lancastrian kings, son of John of
Gaunt, and grandchild of Edward III., born at Bolingbroke, in Lincolnshire; Richard II.'s misrule
and despotism had damped the loyalty of his people, and when Henry came to England to maintain
his ducal rights he had little difficulty in deposing Richard, and, with the consent of Parliament,
in assuming the crown; this act of usurpation--for Richard's true heir was Roger Mortimer,
a descendant of an older branch of the family--had two important results; it made Henry more
obsequious to the Parliamentary power which had placed him on the throne, and it was the occasion
of the bloody Wars of the Roses that were to devastate the kingdom during the reigns of Henry
VI. and Edward IV.; Henry's own reign was a troubled one; wars were successfully undertaken
against the Welsh under Owen Glendower and against the Scotch; while rebellion was raised by
the Percies in unsuccessful attempts to win the crown for Mortimer; the only law of importance
passed was the statute for burning heretics, the first passed in England for the suppression
of religious opinion (1366-1413).

HENRY V., king of England from 1413 to 1422, son of preceding, born at Monmouth; during the
wars of his father's reign he gave evidence of his abilities as a soldier, distinguishing himself
specially by his conquest of Wales; on his accession to the throne he renewed the claims put
forward by Edward III. to the French crown, and with the support of his people embarked on
his great struggle to win the kingdom of France; in 1415 he gained the glorious victory of
Agincourt, strengthened his position by confirmed military successes, and by marrying Catherine,
daughter of the French king, and by the treaty of Troyes got himself appointed regent of France
and successor to the throne; he was idolised by his people as the perfect pattern of a warrior
king, but he had neither the gifts of statesmanship nor the foresight of Edward I., to whom
he is compared, and the English dominion which he established in France was too unsubstantial
to endure (1388-1422).

HENRY VI., king of England from 1422 to 1461, son of preceding, born at Windsor; was a child
of nine months when his father died, and in the same year was acknowledged king over the N.
and E. of France; the Dukes of Bedford and Gloucester became regents respectively over the
English and French kingdoms; war was resumed with France, and for thirty years the weary struggle
continued, by the end of which time England, despite some early successes, had been stripped
of her French possessions, mainly owing to the enthusiasm awakened by the heroic and ill-fated
JEANNE D'ARC (q. v.); the growing discontent of the people is indicated by Jack Cade's rebellion
(1540), and five years later began the famous Wars of the Roses; six battles were fought between
the rival houses, and four times victory rested with the Yorkists; after the final victory
of the Yorkists at Towton (1461), Henry fled to Scotland and Edward was proclaimed king; Henry
was a man of weak intellect, gentle, and of studious nature, and was ill mated in his ambitious
and warlike queen, Margaret of Anjou; a futile struggle was made to win his kingdom back, but
the hopes of the Lancastrians perished at Tewkesbury; the king was captured and confined in
the Tower, where, there is little doubt, he was murdered (1421-1471).

HENRY VII., king of England from 1485 to 1509, son of Edmund Tudor, Earl of Richmond, first
of the Tudor monarchs, born at Pembroke Castle; after defeating and slaying Richard III. on
Bosworth Field he assumed the crown, and by his marriage with Elizabeth of York, daughter of
Edward IV., united the claims of the rival roses; his firm and prudent rule established quiet
and order in the country; the pretensions of the pretenders Lambert Simnel and Perkin Warbeck
were promptly crushed; a peaceful relationship was established with France, and the Scotch
were conciliated by the marriage of his daughter Margaret to their king, James IV.; increased
prosperity followed, maritime enterprise was encouraged, but the kingly power grew at the expense
of the constitutional authority of Parliament; resort was had to benevolences and other unconstitutional
methods of raising funds, and in his latter years the king's exactions became tyrannical; Henry
was not a man of fine kingly qualities, but he accomplished much for his country, and is best
described in Gardiner's words, "his contemporaries needed a chief-constable to keep order,
and he gave them what they needed" (1456-1509).

HENRY VIII., king of England from 1509 to 1547, son of preceding, born at Greenwich; was welcomed
to the throne with great enthusiasm, and still further established himself in public favour
by his gallant exploits at the Battle of Spurs and at the sieges of Tournay and Terouenne in
the war of the Holy Alliance against France; in his absence an invasion of James IV. of Scotland
was repulsed and the Scottish army crushed at Flodden (1513); during the first half of the
reign public affairs were mainly conducted by the king's favourite minister, Wolsey, whose
policy it was to hold the balance of power between Spain and France; but he fell into public
disfavour by the heavy burden of taxation which he little by little laid upon the people; Henry,
who in 1521 had been named "Defender of the Faith" by the Pope for his published defence of
the sacraments against the attacks of Luther, was now moving for a divorce from his first wife
Catherine of Arragon; a breach with the Pope ensued, Wolsey was deposed for his double-dealing
in the matter, and Henry, having defiantly married Anne Boleyn, put an end to the papal jurisdiction
in England to secure himself against appeals to the Papal Court, and got himself acknowledged
Supreme Head of the Church of England; the suppression of the monasteries soon followed, and
their estates were confiscated (1536-1540); in 1536 the movement of the Reformation was continued
by the drawing up of Ten Articles and by an authorised translation of the Bible; but the passing
of the Six Articles three years later, declaring in favour of the real presence of Christ in
the Eucharist, clerical celibacy, private masses, auricular confession, &c., was an attempt
to stay the rapid spread of Protestant doctrines; in 1541 Henry was declared King of Ireland,
and in the two following years successful wars were waged with Scotland and France; the importance
of the reign lies in the coincidence of it with the rise and culmination of the Reformation,
a movement brought about in the first instance by no higher motive than the king's desire for
a divorce as well as for absolute power; but for which a favourable reception had been prepared
beforehand by the spread of the new learning and that free spirit of inquiry that was beginning
to take possession of men's minds; historians for the greater part agree in representing Henry
as a man of versatile powers, considerable intellectual force, but headstrong, selfish, and
cruel in the gratification of his desires; he was six times married; Catherine and Anne of
Clèves were divorced, Anne Boleyn and Catherine Howard executed, Jane Seymour died in childbirth,
and Catherine Parr survived him; he left behind to succeed him on the throne Mary, daughter
of Catherine, Elizabeth, daughter of Anne Boleyn, and Edward, son of Jane Seymour (1491-1547).

HENRY III., an illustrious Emperor of the Holy Roman Empire, son of Conrad II.; in 1026 he
became king of the Germans, succeeded to the dukedoms of Bavaria and Suabia, and in 1039 assumed
the imperial crown; under his strong and wise government, dissensions, papal and otherwise,
were put down, the territory of the empire extended, and many churches and monastic schools
established (1017-1056).

HENRY IV., Emperor of the Holy Roman Empire, son of preceding; his reign is memorable as witnessing
the first open claim on the part of the Papal power to have dominion over the crowned heads
of Europe; Henry's attempt to depose Gregory VII. was boldly met by a declaration of excommunication;
Henry was forced to do penance and to receive his crown afresh from the Pope; but the struggle
broke out anew; Clement III. was put up in opposition, and the contest raged with varying success
till the deposition of Henry by his ungrateful son (1050-1106).

HENRY IV., king of France from 1594 till 1610, surnamed "The Great" and "The Good"; during
his reign the great struggle between the Huguenots and the Catholics continued with unabated
fury; Henry saved his life in the massacre of St. Bartholomew's Day by renouncing his early
Calvinism, but was imprisoned; four years later he was again at the head of the Huguenot army
and defeating the Bourbon claimant for the throne, was crowned king, but not before waiving
his Protestant principles to conciliate the people; in 1598 he issued the famous Edict of Nantes,
giving freedom of worship to the Huguenots; during his administration the nation was consolidated,
new roads and a growing trade knit the towns together; financial reforms of great importance
were carried out by his celebrated minister, DUC DE SULLY (q. v.); Henry was assassinated by
instigation of the Jesuits (1553-1610).

HENRY OF HUNTINGDON, a noted English chronicler of the 12th century, who became archdeacon
of Huntingdon, and wrote a Latin history of England down to the death of Stephen in 1154.

HENRY THE NAVIGATOR, son of John I., king of Portugal, born at Oporto; an able, enterprising
man, animated with a zeal for maritime discovery, and who at his own expense sent out voyagers
who discovered the Madeira Islands and explored the coast of Africa as far as Cape Blanco;
is said to have been the first to employ the compass for purposes of navigation; his mother
was daughter of John of Gaunt (1391-1460).

HENRY, MATTHEW, a Nonconformist divine; was minister at Hackney, London; was the author of
a commentary long in repute among pious evangelical people, and to some extent still, as a
practical and devotional guide in the study of the Scriptures (1662-1714).

HENRY, PATRICK, American statesman and orator, born in Virginia; having been in business he
took to law, and rose into fame by his eloquent pleadings in the cause of the people; played
a conspicuous part in the agitation for independence, especially by his oratory, which was
of a quality to move large audiences; he was a member of the first Congress in 1774 (1736-1799).

HENRYSON, ROBERT, an early Scottish poet, flourished in the 15th century; most of his life
was spent as a schoolmaster in Dunfermline; his chief works, which are full of pathos, humour,
and a fine descriptive power, include "Testament of Cresseid," a continuation of Chaucer's
tale, "Robene and Makyne," the earliest Scottish pastoral, a metrical version of some of "Æsop's
Fables," and the story of "Orpheus and Eurydice."

HEPHÆSTOS, called Vulcan by the Romans, the Greek god of fire, or of labour in the element
of fire, the son of Zeus and Hera, represented as ill-shapen, lame, and ungainly, so much so
as to be an object of ridicule to the rest of the pantheon, but he was indispensable to the
dynasty, and to none more than his father and mother, who were often unkind to him; he had
his smithy in Olympus in the vicinity of the gods, and the marvellous creations of his art
were shaped on an anvil, the hammer of which was plied by 20 bellows that worked at his bidding;
in later traditions he had his workshop elsewhere, and the Cyclops for his servants, employed
in manufacturing thunderbolts for Zeus; he was wedded to Aphrodité, whom he caught playing
false with Ares, and whom he trapped along with him in a net a spectacle to all the upper deities.

HEPTAD, a term in chemistry to denote an atom that is the equivalent of seven atoms of hydrogen,
from hepta, seven.

HEPTARCHY, ANGLO-SAXON, the seven kingdoms of Kent, Sussex, Wessex, Essex, Northumberland,
East Anglia, and Mercia, the chief of those established by the Saxons during the 6th century
in Great Britain.

HEPTATEUCH, a name given to the first seven books of the Bible.

HERA, called Juno by the Romans, daughter of Cronos and Rhea, and sister and wife of Zeus;
was the queen of heaven, and treated with the same reverence as her husband, but being inferior
in power was bound to obey him equally with the rest, or suffer if she did not; she was jealous
of Zeus in his amours with mortals, and persecuted all his children by mortal mothers, Hercules
among the chief.

HERACLES, i. e. the chosen of Hera, to be tried by her. See HERCULES.

HERACLI`DÆ, Spartans, presumed descendants of Hercules, who at one time invaded and took possession
of the Peloponnesus.

HERACLITUS, a Greek philosopher, born at Ephesus, who flourished about the year 480 B.C.; was
the first to note how everything throughout the universe is in constant flux, and nothing permanent
but in transition from being to nothing and from nothing to being, from life to death and from
death to life, that nothing is, that everything becomes, that the truth of being is becoming,
that no one, nothing, is exempt from this law, the law symbolised by the fable of the PHOENIX
IN THE FIRE (q. v.).

HERACLIUS, Emperor of the East from 610 to 642, born in Cappadocia; raised to the throne of
the East on account of the services he rendered the citizens of Constantinople in getting rid
of a tyrant; waged war against the hostile Persians, defeated Chosroës, and compelled a peace,
but was unable to withstand the arms of the Moslem invaders.

HERAT (50), the chief town of the province of Herat, in W. Afghanistan, on the Hari-Rud, 300
m. W. of Cabul; its central position has given it a great commercial and military importance;
it has manufactures of leather and wool, and as a place of great strategical value, since the
advance of Russia in Asia is strongly fortified by a British citadel and garrison.

HÉRAULT (462), a maritime dep. of S. France fronting the Gulf of Lyons; in the N. are the Cévennes
Mountains, but wide plains fringed on the sea border with large lagoons occupy the S.; the
climate, except on the marshy coast, is dry and healthy; its former importance as a wine-growing
district has greatly diminished, but olives and almonds are cultivated, sheep and silkworms
bred; coal is the most important mineral; salt is obtained in large quantities from the salt
marshes, and fishing is an important industry.

HERBART, German philosopher, born at Oldenburg; Kant's successor at Königsberg, professor also
at Göttingen twice over; founded his philosophy like Kant on the criticism of subjective experience,
but arrived at different results, and arrayed itself against the whole post-Kantian philosophy
of Germany; it is described by SCHWEGLER "as an extension of the monadology of Leibnitz, full
of ingenuity but devoid of inward fertility, or any germ of movement"; he failed to see, as
Dr. Stirling points out, that "Philosophy is possible only on the supposition of a single principle
that possesses within itself the capability of transition into all existent variety and varieties"
(1776-1841).

HERBERT, EDWARD, LORD, of Cherbury, diplomatist, soldier, and scholar, born at Montgomery Castle,
in Wales; served as a soldier under Maurice of Orange; was twice ambassador in France, but
chiefly devoted to philosophical speculation; was the first of the deistical writers of England,
though his deism was dogmatic not critical, positive not sceptical, as that of the subsequent
English deists is (1581-1648).

HERBERT, GEORGE, poet, brother of the preceding, born in Montgomery Castle; failing in preferment
at Court, took holy orders and became rector of Bemerton, Wiltshire, a post he lived only two
years to hold; was the author of a Christian poem entitled "The Temple"; held in high regard
by people of the devout and reverently contemplative spirit of the author; his memory is embalmed
in a Life of him by Izaak Walton (1593-1632).

HERBERT, SIDNEY (Lord Herbert of Lea), politician, born at Richmond; entered the House of Commons
in 1832 as a Tory, and was in turn Secretary to the Admiralty and War Secretary under Peel;
during the Aberdeen ministry he, as War Secretary, incurred much popular disfavour for the
mismanagement of the Crimean War, but under Palmerston he effected many beneficial reforms
while at the head of the War Office; he was elevated to the House of Lords in 1860 (1810-1861).

HERCULANEUM, a city of ancient Italy, overwhelmed in A.D. 79 along with Pompeii and Stabiæ
by an eruption of Vesuvius, at the north-western base of which it was situated, 5 m. E. of
Naples; so completely was it buried by the ashes and lava that its site was completely obliterated,
and in time two villages sprang up on the new surface, 40 to 100 ft. below which lay the buried
city; relics were discovered while deepening a well in 1706, and since then a considerable
portion of the town has been excavated, pictures, statues, &c., of the greatest value having
been brought to light.

HERCULES, the typical hero of the Greeks, son of Zeus and Alkmene, and the tried therefore
of Hera, who persecuted him from his cradle, sending two serpents to devour him as he lay there,
but which he strangled with his arms; grown into manhood, and distinguished for his stature
and strength, was doomed by the artifice of Hera to a series of perilous adventures before
he could claim his rights as a son of his father; these are known as the "Twelve Labours of
Hercules": the first the throttling of the Nemean lion; the second, the killing of the Lernean
hydra; the third, the hunt and capture of the hind of Diana, with its hoofs of brass; the fourth,
the taking alive of the boar of Erymanthus; the fifth, the cleansing of the stables of Augeas;
the sixth, the destruction of the Stymphalian birds; the seventh, the capture of the Cretan
bull; the eighth, the capture of the mares of Diomedes of Thrace; the ninth, the seizure of
the girdle of the queen of the Amazons; the tenth, the killing of Geryon and capture of his
oxen; the eleventh, fetching of the golden apples from the garden of the Hesperides; the twelfth,
dragging Cerberus to the light of day. These were the twelve, but in addition, he strangled
the giant Antæus, slew the robber Cacus, delivered Hesione, unchained Prometheus from the rocks
of Caucasus, and smote the centaur Nessus, the last proving the cause of his death. See NESSUS.

HERCULES, THE CHOICE OF, the choice of a life of virtue offered to him by Athene, in preference
to a life of pleasure offered by Aphrodité, in his youth.

HERCULES, THE PILLARS OF, two mountains on the opposite sides of the Strait of Gibraltar, originally
one, but fabled to have been separated by Hercules, Calpë on the Spanish coast and Abyla on
the African.

HERCYNIAN FOREST, a forest of Central Germany, extending at one time from the Rhine to the
Carpathian Mountains, described by Cæsar as nine days journey in breadth and sixty in length,
is now the district of the Harz Mountains.

HERDER, an eminent German thinker, born at Mohrungen, in East Prussia; studied philosophy under
Kant, but gave himself up chiefly to literature; became acquainted at Strasburg with Goethe,
who was five years his junior, and exercised a great influence over him in his youth; in after
years was invited by him to Weimar, where he became court preacher and consistorial councillor,
and where he died; wrote the "Spirit of Hebrew Poetry," "Ideas towards a Philosophy of the
History of Humanity," and "Poems" (1744-1803).

HEREFORD (20), the county town of Herefordshire, on the Wye, 144 m. NW. of London; has some
fine old buildings, including a noble cathedral begun in 1079, ruins of a castle, &c.; it was
made the seat of a bishopric in 676; it is noted for its roses and agricultural produce.

HEREFORDSHIRE (116), an inland county of West England, lying on the Welsh border between Shropshire
and Monmouthshire; it is a pretty agricultural county, through the centre of which runs the
Wye; in the E. are the Malvern Hills and in the SW. the Black Mountains (2631 ft); the rich
red soil produces fine wheat, hops, and apples; there is some trade in timber, some stone and
marble quarrying, and the cattle are noted; its history is associated with many stirring historical
events, and in various parts are antiquities of considerable interest.

HERENNIUS, a Samnite general, who defeated the Romans at the Caudine Forks, and made them pass
under the yoke, 321 B.C.

HEREWARD THE WAKE, a Saxon hero, a yeoman, who made a gallant effort to rally his countrymen
against the Norman Conqueror; he made his final stand on the Isle of Ely, Cambridgeshire (1070-71),
cut his way through the besieging army, and escaped to the Fens; subsequently it is supposed
he became reconciled to William and held estates.

HERFORD (16), a Prussian town in Westphalia, 59 m. SW. of Hanover; manufactures textiles, sugar,
&c.

HERGEST, THE RED BOOK OF, an important volume of Welsh writings in MS., preserved at Oxford;
it dates from the 14th century; was compiled at Hergest Court, and is the most valuable Welsh
MS. extant.

HERIOT, GEORGE, founder of Heriot's Hospital, a splendid educational establishment in his native
city, Edinburgh; was a prosperous goldsmith there; did work for Anne of Denmark, consort of
James VI. of Scotland; in 1603 removed with the court to London and combining banking with
his other business, he amassed a great fortune, and, dying childless, left his property to
found and endow the educational institution referred to, and which still bears his name; in
1837 the accumulated surplus funds were utilised in establishing 10 free schools in Edinburgh,
which, however, were closed in 1885, and the original Hospital reconstructed as a secondary
and technical school, while a portion of the funds was used in subsidising the Heriot-Watt
College and in founding bursaries (1563-1624).

HÉRISTAL (12), a town of Belgium, on the Meuse, practically a NE. suburb of Liège; the inhabitants
are largely employed in coal-mining and in flourishing iron-works; the ruins of a castle, the
birthplace of Pépin d'Héristal, still remains.

HERKOMER, HUBERT, artist, born at Waal, Bavaria; his father removing to England in 1857, young
Hubert became a distinguished student of the Southampton School of Art; he has been a prolific
artist, and many of his portraits have become celebrated; the "Last Muster" (1875) is reckoned
his finest work; he has been twice Slade professor at Oxford, and in 1890 was elected R.A.;
the School of Art at Bushey was founded by him, and he has displayed his versatility of talent
in carving, engraving, and writing, as well as in painting; b. 1849.

HERMANDAD, SANTA (i. e. Holy Brotherhood), an association of the principal cities of Spain
leagued together at first against the pillagings and robberies of the nobles, and eventually
against all forms of violence and lawlessness in the State.

HERMANN AND DOROTHEA, the title of an idyll by Goethe.

HERMANNSTADT (22), an old historic town of Hungary, formerly capital of Transylvania; overlooks
the Zibin; 60 m. SE. of Klausenburg; is the seat of a Greek archbishop and of a "Saxon" university.
Amongst its notable buildings is the Bruckenthal Palace, with valuable art, library, and antiquarian
collections; has various manufactures.

HERMAS, one of the Apostolic Fathers of the Church; wrote a work in Greek called the "Shepherd
of Hermas," extant in Latin, and treating of Christian duties.

HERMES, the Mercury of the Romans; in the Greek mythology the herald of the gods and the god
of eloquence and of all kinds of cunning and dexterity in word and action; invented the lyre,
the alphabet, numbers, astronomy, music, the cultivation of the olive, &c.; was the son of
Zeus and Maia; wore on embassy a winged cap, winged sandals, and carried a herald's wand as
symbol of his office.

HERMES TRISMEGISTUS, or the Thrice-greatest, an Egyptian or Egyptian god to whose teachings
or inspirations the Neo-Platonists ascribed the great body of their peculiar doctrines, and
whom they regarded as an incarnation or impersonation of the Logos.

HERMI`ONE, the beautiful daughter of Menelaus and Helen; married to Pyrrhus, son of Achilles,
but carried off by Orestes, her first love.

HERMODEUS, a son of Odin and messenger of the Norse gods.

HERNIA, the name given to the protrusion of an internal organ, specially a part of the intestines.

HERO, a priestess of Venus at Sestos, in Thrace, beloved by Leander of Abydos, on the opposite
shore, who swam the Hellespont every night to visit her, but was drowned one stormy evening,
whereupon at sight of his dead body on the beach she threw herself into the sea.

HERO, a mathematician, born at Alexandria in the first half of the 2nd century; celebrated
for his experiments on condensed air, and his anticipation of the pressure of steam.

HERO, a name given by the Greeks to human beings of such superhuman faculties as to be regarded
the offspring of some god, and applied in modern times to men of an intellect and force of
character of such transcendent nature as to inspire ordinary mortals with something like religious
regard.

HEROD, the name of a family of Idumæan origin but Jewish creed, who rose into power in Judea
shortly prior to the dissolution of the Jewish nationality; the chief members of which were
HEROD THE GREAT, king of the Jews by favour of the Romans, who made away with all his rivals,
caused his own children to be strangled on suspicion of their conspiring against him, and died
a painful death; who massacred the Innocents about Bethlehem, and whose death took place 4
B.C., the true date of the Nativity of Christ: and HEROD ANTIPAS, his son, tetrarch of Galilee,
who beheaded John the Baptist, and to whom Christ was remitted by Pilate for examination, and
who died in exile at Lyons.

HERODIANS, a party in Judea who from motives of self-interest supported the dynasty of the Herods.

HERODOTUS, the oldest historian of Greece, and the "Father of History," born at Halicarnassus,
in Caria, between 490 and 480 B.C.; travelled over Asia Minor, Egypt, and Syria as far as Babylon,
and in his old age recorded with due fidelity the fruits of his observations and inquiries,
the main object of his work being to relate the successive stages of the strife between the
free civilisation of Greece and the despotic barbarism of Persia for the sovereignty of the
world, an interest in which Alexander the Great drew sword in the century following (484-408 B.C.).

HEROPHILUS, a celebrated Greek physician who lived into the 3rd century B.C., born at Chalcedon,
and settled at Alexandria, where he devoted himself specially to anatomy and helped to found
the medical school in that city; his zeal is said to have led him to dissect criminals alive;
some of his writings are yet extant.

HERRERA, ANTONIO, Spanish historian, born at Cuellar; under Philip II. he became historiographer
of the Indies and Castile; he was a voluminous writer, and his "Description of the Indies,"
"History of the World in the Reign of Philip II.," from their fairness and accuracy are reckoned
authoritative works on Spanish history (1549-1625).

HERRERA, FERNANDO DE, Spanish poet, born at Seville, and took orders; in his lifetime his lyrics
enjoyed a wide popularity, and won for him the epithet "divine"; his "Battle of Lepanto" is
a spirited ode, and many of his other works, including a prose history of the "War in Cyprus,"
are still read (1534-1597).

HERRERA, FRANCISCO, a distinguished Spanish painter, founder of the Seville school, born at
Seville; his finest paintings include "The Last Judgment" and a "Holy Family," both in churches
at Seville; others are in the Louvre, Paris; they exhibit boldness of execution with faultless
technique (1576-1656). He is known as El viejo, "the elder," to distinguish him from FRANCISCO
HERRERA, his son, also a noted painter (1622-1685).

HERRICK, ROBERT, a Caroline poet, born in London, of good family; was incumbent of Dean Prior
in Devonshire; author of the "Hesperides," published in 1648, a collection of "gay and charming"
pieces, "in which," says Stopford Brooke, "Horace and Tibullus seem to mingle their peculiar
art, which never misses its aim nor fails in exquisite execution" (1591-1674).

HERRNHUT, a small Saxon town, 50 m. E. of Dresden; gave name to a colony of Moravian Brethren
who took refuge there in 1792, and were protected by Count Zinzendorf.

HERSCHEL, SIR JOHN, astronomer, only son of Sir William; prosecuted with great diligence and
success the same researches as his father; spent four years at the Cape, and added much to
our knowledge of the stars and meteorology; contributed a "Preliminary Discourse on the Study
of Natural Philosophy" to Lardner's "Cyclopædia," and an excellent "Treatise on Astronomy,"
afterwards extended (1790-1871).

HERSCHEL, LUCRETIA, sister of the succeeding; was his assistant, and made important observations
of her own, which were published; retired after her brother's death to Hanover, where she died
(1750-1848).

HERSCHEL, SIR WILLIAM, a distinguished astronomer, born at Hanover; son of a musician, and
bred to the profession; came to England at the end of the Seven Years' War, and obtained sundry
appointments as an organist; gave his leisure time to the study of astronomy and survey of
the heavens; discovered the planet Uranus in 1781, which he called Georgium sidus in honour
of George III., discovered also the two innermost belts of Saturn, as well as drew up a catalogue
of 5000 heavenly bodies or clusters of them (1738-1822).

HERTFORD (7), the county town of Hertfordshire, on the Lea, 26 m. N. of London; some few remains
of its famous 10th-century castle still exist, and there are several charity schools, a castle
built in James I.'s time, and a branch of Christ's Hospital (London); the chief trade is in
corn, malt, and flour; in the vicinity is HAILEYBURY COLLEGE (q. v.).

HERTFORDSHIRE or HERTS (220), an inland county of England, occupying a central position between
Buckingham and Bedford on the W. and Essex on the E.; the surface is undulating and much covered
with wood; the Lea and the Colne are the chief rivers; large crops of barley, wheat, and hay
are raised; straw-plaiting and the manufacture of paper, silk, and chemicals are carried on
extensively, while Ware is the centre of the English malting trade; ST. ALBANS (q. v.) is the
largest town.

HERTHA, the Scandinavian Cybele, and worshipped with kindred ceremonies.

HERTZ, HENRIK, Danish poet, born in Copenhagen of Jewish parents; graduated in law at Copenhagen,
and produced his first work, a comedy, in 1827; "Letters of a Ghost," a satire, followed three
years later, and had a wide vogue; his best-known work is "King René's Daughter," which has
been translated into English for the fourth time by Sir Theodore Martin; he is considered one
of the greatest of modern Danish lyrists and dramatists (1798-1870).

HERVEY, JAMES, clergyman and poet, born at Hardingstone, near Northampton; graduated at Oxford;
became curate and subsequently the zealous incumbent of two livings near Northampton; was the
author of "Meditations among the Tombs"; was held in great popular favour during his lifetime
(1714-1758).

HERWARTH VON BITTENFELD, KARL EBERHARD, a Prussian general; came to the front during the war
of liberation, and in 1864 as general captured the Isle of Alsen, and two years later operated
with great success at the head of the army in Saxony and Bohemia; during the Franco-German
War he became governor of the Rhine provinces and a field-marshal (1796-1884).

HERZ, HENRI, pianist and composer, born in Vienna, the son of a Jew; his compositions attained
a wide popularity in Europe, and as a pianist he was received with great favour in England
and America; he was decorated with the Legion of Honour, and from 1842 to 1874 was professor
at the Paris Conservatoire; b. 1806.

HERZEN, ALEXANDER, a Russian political writer and revolutionary, born at Moscow; expelled from
Russia in 1842; settled in England, and published works forbidden in Russia (1812-1870).

HESIOD, one of the earliest Greek poets, born in Boeotia, lived in the 8th century B.C., chiefly
at Orchomenos, probably of humble birth; of the works ascribed to him the principal were the
"Works and Days" the "Theogony," and the "Shield of Hercules"; his poems treat of the quiet
pursuits of ordinary life, the origin of the world, the gods and heroes, while those of Homer
are occupied with the restless and active enterprises of the heroic age.

HESPERIDES, maidens of high degree appointed to guard the golden apples presented to Hera by
Gaia on her marriage with Zeus, assisted in their office by the dragon Ladon; the apples were
stolen by Hercules, but were afterwards restored by Athene.

HESPERUS, the personification of the evening star and an object of worship.

HESSE or HESSE-DARMSTADT (993), a grand-duchy of the German empire, lies partly in, and partly
on the border of, SW. Prussia; consists of two large portions, divided by a strip of Hesse-Nassau,
and 11 enclaves; half the land is under cultivation, and the greater part of what remains is
covered with forest; its many rivers belong mostly to the Rhine system; corn is raised in large
quantities, iron and manganese are found, and there are flourishing manufactures of leather,
upholstery, tobacco, &c.; the legislative power is vested in two chambers; Mainz is the largest
town, and Darmstadt the capital.

HESSE-CASSEL (745), a government district in HESSE-NASSAU (q. v.); as an electorate it sided
with Austria in 1866, which brought about its incorporation with Prussia.

HESSE-NASSAU (1,664), a province in the SW. of Germany, between the Rhine on the W. and Bavaria
and Saxony on the E.; was formed in 1868 out of the electorate of Hesse-Cassel, duchy of Nassau,
&c.; the country is hilly, abounds in minerals, which are extensively worked, but agriculture
and cattle-rearing are the chief industries; the medicinal springs of Homburg, Wiesbaden, &c.,
are celebrated; Cassel is noted for its gold and silver ware; damasks and other textiles are
produced at Fulda, and at Hanau are flourishing iron-works; Marburg has a fine university.

HESTIA, called Vesta by the Romans, the Greek goddess of the hearth, or rather the fire that
burns in it, the guardian of domestic life, conceived of as a most sacred charge.

HESYCHASTS, a religious sect of the 14th century belonging to the Greek Church; consisted chiefly
of a community of monks who dwelt at Mount Athos; they professed a kind of QUIETISM (q. v.),
and were noted for their practice of sitting for hours daily with their eyes fixed upon the
navel (regarding the stomach as the seat of the soul); in this position they professed to see
a divine light beaming out upon them, and to enjoy therein a specially intimate communion with
God. See ATHOS, MOUNT.

HESYCHIUS, a Greek grammarian of the 5th century, born at Alexandria; produced a Greek lexicon
of great philological value.

HEUSCHRECKE, HOFRATH (i. e. State-Councillor Grasshopper), a loose, zigzag figure in "Sartor,"
a mend and blind admirer of Teufelsdröckh's, an incarnation of distraction distracted, and
all the counsellor the "editor" had to advise him and encourage him in his work; a victim to
"timidity" and preyed on by an uncomfortable sense of mere "physical cold," such as the majority
of the State counsellors of the day were.

HEXATEUCH, the name given to the first six books of the Bible.

HEXHAM (6), an interesting old town in Northumberland, prettily situated on the Tyne, 24 m.
W. of Newcastle; has a fine cruciform abbey church, portions of which belong to the 12th century,
and beautiful remains of a 7th-century monastery; the staple industries are glove and hat making;
the river is spanned by a stone bridge of nine arches.

HEYLIN, PETER, English divine, born at Burford; graduated at Oxford, and in 1629 became chaplain-in-ordinary
to Charles I.; was a zealous champion of the Church of England; forfeited his livings and property
during the Puritan ascendency, but was reinstated at the Restoration; he wrote a "Defence of
the Church of England," "Life of Bishop Laud," &c. (1600-1662).

HEYNE, CHRISTIAN GOTTLOB, a German classical scholar, born at Chemnitz, son of a poor weaver,
and reared all along almost on the verge of destitution; became eminent by his heroic devotion
to scholarship, both as a translator and editor of classical works, his edition of "Virgil"
the chief in the latter department; Carlyle almost ranks him among his heroes, and ascribes
superlative merit to his book on Virgil (1729-1812).

HEYSE, PAUL JOHANN, German poet and novelist, born at Berlin; in 1854 he settled at Münich,
where he enjoyed the patronage of King Max of Bavaria; he has been a voluminous writer of popular
novelettes, novels, dramas, and narrative poems, besides which he has executed translations
of Leopardi, Giusti, and other Italian authors; b. 1830.

HEYWOOD (23), a town of Lancashire, 9 m. N. of Manchester; owes its rapid growth to the neighbouring
coal-fields and the development of the cotton industry; has also flourishing iron and brass
foundries, woollen factories, &c.

HEYWOOD, JOHN, a dramatic poet, a favourite with Henry VIII. and his court; wrote farces, the
characters of which were drawn from real life, presumably not hard to identify at the time
(1479-1565).

HEZEKIAH, a king of Judah; reigned from 725 to 697 B.C.; distinguished for his zeal in the
celebration of the worship of Jehovah and for his weakness in making a parade of his wealth;
reigned in the golden age of Hebrew prophecy, Isaiah and Micah being his contemporaries.

HIAWATHA, the subject of a poem of Longfellow's; a personage reverenced by the North American
Indians as the founder among them of the arts of peace, as well as the clearer of the forests.

HIBBERT LECTURES, unsectarian lectures instituted by the trustees of Robert Hibbert, a West
India merchant, devoted to the discussion of unsolved problems in theology.

HIBERNIA, the classical name for Ireland, which to the ancient world was in the main a terra
incognita.

HICKS, ELIAS, an American preacher of the Quaker connection, who adopted Unitarian views and
caused a split in the body (1748-1830).

HICKS-BEACH, SIR MICHAEL EDWARD, Conservative politician, born in London; educated at Eton
and Oxford, and in 1864 entered Parliament; took office as Under-Secretary for Home Affairs
under Disraeli, and in 1874 became Secretary for Ireland; four years later he was Lord Carnarvon's
successor at the Colonial Office, Chancellor of the Exchequer and Leader of the House of Commons
in 1885, Secretary for Ireland in 1886, President of the Board of Trade in 1888, and in 1895,
on the formation of a Coalition Ministry, again became Chancellor of the Exchequer; b. 1837.

HIERAPOLIS, 1, an ancient city of Syria Cyrrhestica, now in ruins, situated between Antioch
and Mesopotamia, 14 m. W. of the Euphrates; had considerable commercial importance, and was
famous for its great temple of Astarte. 2, A city of ancient Phrygia, 5 m. N. of Laodicea;
the birthplace of Epictetus, and where Paul founded a church; was celebrated for its hot springs.

HIERO I., tyrant of Syracuse; broke the naval power of Etruria by victory over the Etruscan
fleet near Cannæ, 474 B.C.; was an enlightened patron of men of letters, many of whom he entertained
at his court, Æschylus, Pindar, and Simonides among the number; d. 467 B.C.

HIERO II., king of Syracuse, for near half a century the steadfast friend and ally of the Romans;
unlike his namesake he was averse to display, and was accustomed to appear in public in the
garb of a common citizen; he ruled his country well; d. 216 B.C. at the age of 92.

HIERONYMUS. See JEROME.

HIGDEN, RALPH, author of the "Polychronicon"; was a Benedictine monk, who spent his long life
in St. Werburgh's monastery, Chester; the work with which his name is associated is an account
of the world down to the end of Edward III.'s reign, but the chronicle of the last 50 years
is supposed to have been written by other hands; Caxton published a translation made by John
Trevisa; d. about 1307.

HIGGINS, MATTHEW JAMES, essayist, wrote under the nom de plume of "Jacob Omnium," born at Benown,
Ireland; was educated at Eton and Oxford, and spent many years in European travel; his numerous
papers, which appeared in the leading magazines and newspapers, were principally directed against
social abuses, and are characterised by a humour and pungent irony not unlike his friend Thackeray's
(1810-1868).

HIGGINSON, THOMAS WENTWORTH, an American author and abolitionist, born at Cambridge, Massachusetts;
graduated at Harvard, and took orders, but resigned in 1858 to devote himself to politics in
the anti-slavery interest; during the Civil War he commanded the first regiment of freed slaves;
subsequently he resumed literary work, and in 1880 became a member of the Massachusetts Legislature;
he wrote a "History of the United States," "Army Life in a Black Regiment," &c.; b. 1823.

HIGH CHURCH, that section of the Episcopal Church in England who attach supreme importance
to the administration of word and sacrament by clergy duly ordained, and regarded by them as
such, the sole divinely appointed media of divine grace.

HIGH PLACES, elevated spots on which altars were erected for worship in the rude belief that,
as they were nearer heaven than the plains and valleys, they were more favourable places for
prayer. The practice of worship on these spots, though from the first forbidden, became frequent
among the Jews, and was with difficulty abolished, though denounced time after time by the
prophets as an affront to Jehovah.

HIGH SEAS, as understood in international law means the entire sea or ocean area which lies
beyond a three-mile belt of coast water. This coastal strip is called the mare clausum, and
the rights of fishing, &c., in it are reserved to the country upon which it borders.

HIGHGATE, a noted suburb of London, 5 m. N. of the General Post-Office; the burial-place of
Coleridge, George Eliot, and Faraday. Dick Whittington's Stone is at the foot of Highgate Hill.

HILARION, ST., founder of monachism in Palestine; was a convert of St. Anthony, and of great
repute for sanctity (291-372). Festival, Oct. 21.

HILARY, ST., bishop of Poitiers, of which he was a native; distinguished himself by his zeal
against the Arians; his writings valuable in connection with that controversy; d. 367. Festival,
Jan. 13.

HILDEBRAND. See GREGORY VII.

HILDESHEIM (33), a town in Hanover, Prussia, on the Innerste, 24 m. SE. of Hanover; is a quaint
old town, and has several ancient churches, notably a noble cathedral of the 11th century,
with famous bronze gates; trades in corn, linen, &c.

HILL, REV. ROWLAND, a popular but eccentric preacher, born in Hawkeston, the son of a baronet,
came under the influence of Whitfield and the Methodist movement, and while yet an undergraduate
became an itinerant preacher; he took orders in 1774; but continued his open-air preaching
till 1783, when he established himself in London, starting an unlicensed place of worship,
although still remaining a communicant of the Church of England; he originated the first Sunday
School in London, and was the author of several religious works, including a volume of hymns
(1744-1833).

HILL, SIR ROWLAND, originator of the penny postage, born at Kidderminster; commenced life as
a teacher and educationist; interested himself in the colonisation of South Australia, and
held a post in connection with it; published in 1837 his pamphlet, "Post-Office Reforms," and
saw his scheme of uniform postage rate adopted three years after, though not till 1354 did
he become secretary to the Postmaster-General or have full power and opportunity to carry his
views out (1795-1879).

HILL, VISCOUNT, British general, born in Shropshire; entered the army at fifteen, served under
Sir John Moore, and under the Duke of Wellington in the Peninsula and at Waterloo, where he
commanded a division; succeeded Wellington in 1828 as commander-in-chief (1772-1842).

HILLEL, an eminent and influential Jewish Rabbi, born in Babylon about 112 B.C.; devoted his
life to the study of the Jewish law, formed a digest of it, and founded a school; was a good
and wise man and teacher; died at a great age, 120 years old it is said.

HIMALAYAS ("the abode of snow"), a stupendous mountain chain stretching 1500 m. along the northern
frontier of India, and dividing that country from Thibet; forty-five of its peaks attain a
greater height than those of any other mountain system in the world; Mount Everest, the loftiest,
reaches 29,002 ft.; the best-known pass is the Karakoram Pass (18,550 ft.), leading into Eastern
Turkestan; there are few lakes, but amid the snowy heights rise the rivers Ganges, Indus, Brahmaputra,
&c.; gold, iron, copper, and lead are wrought.

HINCKLEY (10), a nicely built town of Leicestershire, 13 m. W. of Leicester; has an interesting
old parish church of Edward III.'s time; does a good trade in hosiery, baskets, boots, &c.

HINC`MAR, a famous Frankish churchman; was appointed archbishop of Rheims, in which capacity
he maintained an independent attitude towards the Papal See, and distinguished himself as a
champion of ecclesiastical liberty (806-882).

HIND, JOHN RUSSELL, an eminent astronomer, born at Nottingham; at 17 he obtained a post in
the Greenwich Observatory; subsequently became observer in Mr. Bishop's private observatory,
Regent's Park, where his untiring assiduity was rewarded by the discovery of several new movable
stars and 10 minor planets; he received various honours from societies; was President of the
Royal Astronomical Society, and in 1852 was pensioned by Government; his works include "The
Comets," "The Solar System," &c. (1823-1895).

HINDLEY (19), a busy manufacturing town in Lancashire, 3 m. SE. of Wigan; the staple industry
is the manufacture of cotton; in the vicinity are large coal-mines.

HINDU KUSH, a lofty mountain range stretching 365 m. from the western extremity of the Himalayas,
from which it is cut off by the valley of the Indus into Afghanistan, which it divides from
Turkestan; it attains an elevation of 23,000 ft.; is crossed by several passes, and is rich
in minerals, especially iron; the tribes that inhabit it are chiefly Shins and Dards.

HINDUISM, the name given to certain forms of religion among the Hindus, the characteristics
of which are the worship of divinities exalted above the rest, and the highly concrete and
intensely personal conception of these, which comes out in sundry accounts respecting them
of a biographical nature which divinities are identified either with Çiva or Vishnu, and their
religions called Çivaite or Vishnuite, while their respective followers are styled Çaivas or
Vishnavas.

HINDUSTAN, a name sometimes loosely applied to the entire Indian peninsula, but which, strictly
speaking, embraces only the country of the upper valley of the Ganges, divided into NW. Provinces,
Oude, and Behar; the language spoken is Hindi, a pure Sanskritic tongue, on which Hindustani
is based, but with large Persian and Arabic admixtures.

HINDUSTANI, the official and common language of India.

HINTON, JAMES, aurist and metaphysician, born at Reading; after taking his degree was for some
time at sea and in Jamaica, but in 1850 established himself in London; specialising in ear-diseases
he rose to the top of his profession, becoming lecturer at Guy's Hospital; his leisure was
earnestly devoted to philosophy, and gave fruit in "Man and his Dwelling-Place," "The Mystery
of Pain," "Philosophy and Religion," &c. (1822-1875).

HIOUEN-THSANG, a Chinese Buddhist, who in the 7th century traversed India collecting books
bearing upon the creed and law of Buddhism, and spent his time after his return in translating
them.

HIPPARCHUS, ancient astronomer, born at Nicæa; flourished in the 2nd century B.C.; discovered
among other things the precession of the equinoxes, determined the place of the equinox, and
catalogued 1000 fixed stars.

HIPPIAS, tyrant of Athens, son of Pisistratus; expelled from Athens, applied to the Persians
to reinstate him, and kindled the first Persian War with Greece; fell at Marathon, 490 B.C.

HIPPOCRATES, the father of medicine, born at Cos, 460 B.C.; was a contemporary of Socrates
and Plato; was of wide-spread renown as a physician; settled in Thessaly and died at Larissa
advanced in years; no fewer than 60 writings are ascribed to him, but only a few are genuine.

HIPPOCRENE (lit. the fountain of the horse), a fountain on Mount Helicon, in Boeotia, sacred
to the Muses, and said to have been caused by PEGASUS (q. v.) striking the spot with his hoof.

HIPPODAMI`A, in the legendary lore of Greece, was the beautiful daughter of Oenomaus, king
of Pisa, in Elis, and the pleiad Sterope; the oracle had foretold death to Oenomaus on the
occasion of his daughter's marriage, to prevent which the king had made it a condition that
each suitor should run a chariot race with him, and that, if defeated, should be put to death;
many had perished in the attempt to beat the king, till Pelops, by bribing Oenomaus's charioteer,
won the race; the king in a frenzy killed himself, and the kingdom and the fair Hippodamia
passed to Pelops.

HIPPOLYTË, queen of the Amazons, slain by Hercules in order to obtain and carry off her magic
girdle.

HIPPOLYTUS, ST., bishop of Portus, near Rome; lived in the 3rd century B.C.; a lost work of
his, "A Refutation of all the Heresies," was discovered at Mount Athos in 1842, his authorship
of which Bunsen vindicated in "Hippolytus and his Age."

HISPANIA, the ancient name of Spain and Portugal among the Latins.

HISSAR, 1, a district (776) in the Punjab, India; for the most part sandy, yet in rainy years
produces good crops of rice, barley, &c., and is noted for its white cattle; the capital (14),
bearing the same name, is situated on the Western Jumna Canal, 102 m. W. of Delhi. 2, Also
a district in Central Asia, a dependency of the Khan of Bokhara lying N. of the Oxus River,
and separated from Bokhara by a branch of the Thian Shan Mountains; has a fertile soil, and
exports corn, sheep, &c., to Bokhara.

HISTOLOGY, the science of tissues, vegetable and animal.

HITCHCOCK, EDWARD, American geologist, born in Massachusetts; reported on the geology of his
native State, and on the agricultural schools of Europe; wrote "Elementary Geology" and the
"Religion of Geology" (1793-1864).

HITCHIN (9), a very old and still prosperous town of Hertfordshire, on the Hiz, 14 m. NW. of
Hertford; does a flourishing trade in corn, malt, and flour; brewing and straw-plaiting are
important industries, and it has long been noted for its lavender and lavender water.

HITOPADESA (i. e. good instruction), a celebrated Sanskrit collection of fables, which in the
substance of them have passed into all the civilised literatures of the world.

HITTITES, one of the original tribes of Canaan, and one of the most powerful, whose dominion
extended at one time as far as the border of Egypt on the one hand, and Mesopotamia on the
other, and northward beyond the Taurus Mountains, traces of which have been discovered over
all Asia Minor, while they were strong enough to engage in war with the Egyptians; they had
two capitals, Kadesh on the Orontes, and Carchemish on the Euphrates.

HITZIG, FERDINAND, a German Orientalist and biblical scholar, born in Baden; devoted himself
to Old Testament studies; was professor of Theology first at Zurich and then at Heidelberg;
his principal works bore on Old Testament exegesis (1807-1875).

HOADLY, BENJAMIN, an English prelate, born in Kent; was a keen controversialist; argued stoutly
in defence of civil and religious liberty, and was an opponent of the pretensions of the High
Church party (1676-1761).

HOANG-HO ("Yellow River"), one of the chief rivers of China, rises in the plain of Odontala,
south of the Kuen-lun Mountains, and sweeps with impetuous current in a more or less north-easterly
direction, discharging into the Gulf of Pechili after a course of 3000 m.; it is for the most
part quite unnavigable, and its frequent floods are a constant menace to the districts through
which it flows.

HOBART (25), capital of Tasmania, is situated on the estuary of the Derwent, at the base of
Mount Wellington; is handsomely laid out in the form of a square; is the seat of government,
and has many fine public buildings; has a splendid natural harbour; the manufacture of flour,
jam, leather, besides brewing, shipbuilding, and iron-founding, are its chief industries; it
has extensive suburbs, and is a favourite health resort.

HOBART PASHA, Turkish admiral; was a son of the Duke of Buckingham; distinguished himself in
the British navy before he entered the Turkish service; had during the Russo-Turkish war in
1877 to withdraw from the service of the Queen, and shortly afterwards died (1822-1886).

HOB`BEMA, MEINDERT, a famous Dutch landscape painter, born at Amsterdam; lived chiefly in his
native town, and died in poverty; his fine, subdued pictures of woodland life and scenery are
ranked amongst the masterpieces of Dutch landscape painting, and are the valued possessions
of the National Galleries in London, Berlin, Vienna, &c. (1638-1709).

HOBBES, THOMAS, an English philosopher, psychologist, and moralist, born at Malmesbury; was
educated at Oxford; connected all his days with the Cavendish family, with members of which
he travelled on the Continent, and was on friendly terms with Charles II., Bacon, Descartes,
&c.; translated Thucydides, wrote a number of works, "De Cive" among others, and the "Leviathan,"
all more or less leading up to the doctrine that the absolute sovereign power in all matters
of right and wrong is vested in the State as the achieved fact of the emancipation of the race
from savagery (1588-1679).

HOBHOUSE, JOHN CAM, English politician, a friend of Byron; represented Nottingham and Norwich
in Parliament in the Liberal interest, and held several ministerial appointments (1780-1869).

HO`BOKEN (59), a city of New Jersey, on the Hudson River, adjoining Jersey City and opposite
New York; is an important railway terminus and shipping-port; does a large trade in coal, lead-pencils,
iron-casting, &c.

HOBSON, a Cambridge stabler who let out horses on hire, the choice always limited to the one
next the door, the one that had been longest in, hence Hobson's Choice.

HOCCLEVE or OCCLEVE, THOMAS, an early English poet; had an appointment in the Exchequer Office
in Henry V.'s time; his chief work is the "Government of Princes," but his poems have more
linguistic than poetic interest; has left us an interesting portrait of his contemporary, Chaucer
(1368-1448).

HOCHE, LA, French general, born near Versailles; rose from the ranks to the command of the
army of the Moselle; drove the Austrians out of Alsace, and suppressed the rising in and pacified
La Vendée; while yet a sergeant bore a hand conspicuously at the overturn of the Bastille (17681797).

HOCHKIRCH, a village in Saxony where Frederick the Great was defeated by the Austrian Marshal
Daun in 1758.

HODGE. CHARLES, an American theologian, born at Philadelphia; graduated at Princeton, and in
1822 became professor in the Theological Seminary in Princeton, a post he held till the close
of his life; besides founding and editing the Princeton Review, was the author of various commentaries,
but is best known by his "Systematic Theology," which is still a standard text-book (1797-1878).

HODGKINSON, EATON, a distinguished engineer, born at Anderton, near Norwich; was professor
of Engineering in University College, London; became a leading authority on bridge construction,
and carried through elaborate experiments testing the strength of iron girders; co-operated
in planning the Britannia Tubular Bridge (1789-1861).

HODGSON, BRIAN HOUGHTON, Orientalist, born near Macclesfield; served in the East India Company,
and was Resident in Nepal for more than 20 years; was a voluminous writer on Eastern ethnology,
languages, and zoology, and his valuable collection of MSS. remains the chief source of our
knowledge of northern Buddhism (1800-1895).

HODSON, MAJOR WILLIAM, a noted leader during the Indian Mutiny; joined the Indian Army in 1845,
fought through the first Sikh War, and subsequently held a civil post in the Punjab; on the
outbreak of the Mutiny he became head of the Intelligence Department, and won celebrity as
the daring but wild leader of an irregular cavalry regiment known as Hodson's Horse; he took
part in the sieges of Delhi, and at Lucknow captured the Mogul Emperor; shot down with his
own hand the young princes, and a few months later fell himself while storming a palace in
the city (1821-1858).

HOF (25), a town of Bavaria, on the Saale, 40 m. NE. of Baireuth; has flourishing textile factories,
breweries, and iron-works; is associated with the early struggles of Jean Paul Richter.

HOFER, ANDREAS, Tyrolese patriot; was leader of the Tyrolese against the Bavarians and the
French, and the emancipator thrice over of his country, but was eventually betrayed by his
enemies into the hands of the French, condemned by court-martial at Mantua, and shot; his family
were indemnified afterwards by the Emperor of Austria, and his son ennobled (1767-1810).

HOFFMANN, AUGUST HEINRICH, poet and philologist, born at Fallersleben; studied literature and
philology under the influence of the Grimms, and in 1835 was appointed professor of the German
Language at Breslau, a post he forfeited seven years later by publishing "Lays" of somewhat
radical tendencies; he led an unsettled life till 1860, when he became librarian to the Duke
of Ratibor; his writings include "German Social Songs of the 16th and 17th Centuries," "German
Philology," an "Autobiography" in six vols., lyrics, &c. (1798-1874).

HOFFMANN, ERNST THEODORE WILHELM, a celebrated German writer, whose versatility displayed itself
in numerous tales, sketches, art-criticisms, &c., all bearing the impress of a strong, if wayward,
intellect; born at Königsberg, was trained to the law, and entered the State service; his position
at Warsaw was lost to him on the entry of the French troops in 1806, and for some years he
supported himself by musical criticism in Leipzig, and as Director of a Dresden Opera Company;
in 1816 he was again in government service at Berlin, where he continued till his death; his
writings are strongly characteristic of the romanticism of his time, while he himself was a
witty, restless leader of Bohemian life (1776-1822).

HOGARTH, WILLIAM, a famous English painter, caricaturist, and engraver, born in London; served
his time as a silversmith's apprentice; studied painting, and began to support himself by engraving
and etching; unsuccessful in his attempts at portrait-painting, he at length found his true
vocation in depicting the follies and vices of his age; "A Harlot's Progress," a series of
six pictures engraved by himself, appeared in 1731, and was soon followed by others of a like
nature, including "A Rake's Progress," "Strolling Actresses dressing in a Barn," "Marriage
à la Mode," "Idleness and Industry"; he also produced some indifferent historical paintings;
in 1757 he was appointed sergeant-painter to the king; in his own department Hogarth has never
been equalled, and in the opinion of Sir Joshua Reynolds, never will be; the deep moral purpose
of his best pictures, made known throughout the country by abundant prints, must have helped
not a little to reform the manners of his time (1697-1764).

HOGG, JAMES, a Scottish poet, born in Ettrick; had little or no schooling; was bred a shepherd;
took to rhyming; fell in with Sir Walter Scott, whom he assisted with his "Border Minstrelsy";
rented a farm, and first came into notice by the publication of his poem, the "Queen's Wake";
he wrote in prose as well as poetry, with humour as well as no little graphic power; "was,"
says Carlyle, "a little red-skinned stiff sack of a body, with two little blue or grey eyes
that sparkled, if not with thought, yet with animation; was a real product of nature" (1782-1835).

HOHENLINDEN, a village in Upper Bavaria, 20 m. E. of Münich; celebrated as the scene of a victory
by the French under Moreau over the Austrians under Archduke John on 3rd December 1800.

HOHENSTAUFFENS, THE, the third dynasty of the Romish kaisers, which held the imperial throne
from 1138 to 1254, commencing with Frederick I., or Barbarossa, and ending with Conrad IV.,
five in all; derived their name from a castle on the Hohenstauffen Berg, by the left bank of
the Danube, 30 m. below Stuttgart.

HOHENZOLLERNS, THE, the family which in 1415 became Electors of Brandenburg, kings of Prussia,
and are now at length emperors of Germany; derived their name from an old castle so called
near the springs of the Danube, a little way north from Constance and its lake.

HOLBACH, BARON VON, a French philosophe born in Heidelsheim, in the Palatinate, of wealthy
parents; lived from youth all his days in Paris, kept a good table, and entertained all the
"Encyclopédie" notabilities at his board; wrote "Système de la Nature," and was a materialist
in philosophy and an atheist in religion, but a kind-hearted man (1723-1789).

HOLBEIN, HANS, a German painter, born at Augsburg, trained by his father; attracted the attention
of Erasmus, who took a great interest in him, and persuaded him to go to England, and introduced
him to Sir Thomas More, who in turn introduced him to Henry VIII.; here under Henry's patronage
he remained, executing numerous portraits of his courtiers, till his death of the plague; his
"Last Supper" and "Dance of Death" are well known (1497-1554).

HOLBERG, LUDWIG, BARON, an eminent Danish author, born at Bergen, in Norway; graduated at Copenhagen,
where, after travel, he became professor of Metaphysics; subsequently he held in turn the chairs
of Eloquence and of History; he was an author of great versatility, excelling as a writer of
satires, comedies, and as historian of Church and State; his autobiography is an interesting
work, and many of his plays and other works are among the accepted classics of Danish literature
(1684-1754).

HOLCROFT, THOMAS, journalist and political novelist, born in London; began life as an actor;
wrote "Road to Ruin"; was charged with treason, but acquitted; left "Memoirs" (1744-1809).

HOLDEN, SIR ISAAC, inventor, born at Hurlet, Renfrewshire; worked in a cotton-mill in Paisley,
but betook himself to teaching, and in 1829, while a teacher of chemistry in Reading, discovered
the principle of the lucifer match; turning to wool-combing as a means of livelihood, he became
established near Paris, where he carried out elaborate experiments, which resulted in improvements
in wool-combing machinery that brought him fame and fortune; in 1859 he transferred his works
to the vicinity of Bradford; entered Parliament in 1865, and was created a baronet in 1893
(1807-1897).

HOLINSHED, RAPHAEL, English chronicler of the Elizabethan age; his "Chronicle," published in
two vols. in 1577, supplied Shakespeare with materials for some of his historical plays; d. 1580.

HOLL, FRANK, artist, born in Kentish Town; was highly distinguished as an art student, and
at 23 won the travelling studentship of the Academy; came into notice first as a genre-painter,
exhibiting pictures of a pathetic nature, such as "Want--the Pawnbroker's Shop," "Newgate--Committed
for Trial," "Ordered to the Front," &c.; subsequently he won a wide celebrity as a portrait-painter,
producing portraits of the Prince of Wales, Mr. Gladstone, and other distinguished personages
(1845-1888).

HOLLAND (4,795), officially known as the Netherlands, a small maritime country of Western Europe,
bordered on its N. and W. by the German Ocean, and having Prussia on its E. and Belgium to
the S.; its area, somewhat less than one-fourth the size of England and Wales, comprises, besides
the mainland, two island groups, one in the N. and one in the S.; its flat surface in great
part lies below the level of the sea, and where there are no natural sandhills is protected
from inundation by enormous dykes, 365 ft. thick, forming excellent carriage-ways along the
coast; much of the soil has been reclaimed by draining lakes and by pushing back the sea walls,
the size of the country having been increased by one-half since 1833; canals traverse the country
in all directions, and form with the shallow lakes and the great rivers a complete system of
waterways. The climate is for the most part similar to that of England, but greater extremes
of heat and cold are experienced. Farming is the staple industry, although a considerable portion
of the land is still unfit for cultivation; butter and cheese are the most valuable products,
and are largely exported; the fisheries, coast and deep sea, are also of much importance; manufactures
are retarded by the want of coal, but the wind is made to supply the motive power, by means
of windmills, to flourishing textile factories (cotton, woollen, and silk), gin distilleries,
pottery works, margarine and cocoa factories, &c. Holland no longer is the premier shipping
country of Europe, a position it held in the 17th century, but it still maintains a busy carrying
trade with all parts of the world, especially with its many rich colonies in the East and West
Indies, which comprise an area 64 times larger than Holland itself. The government is a limited
monarchy; the executive power is vested in the crown and the legislation in the States-General,
an assembly consisting of two chambers, the one elected (for four years) by direct suffrage,
the other (for nine years) by provincial councils. Primary education is free, but not compulsory.
Religion is not established, but about two-thirds of the people are Protestants, the remainder
Roman Catholics. The birth of Holland as an independent European power took place in the 16th
century, when, after an heroic and protracted struggle, it freed itself from the yoke of Spain,
then the most powerful nation in the world.

HOLLAND, HENRY RICHARD FOX VASSALL-HOLLAND, BARON, statesman, born in Wilts; succeeded to the
title in 1774; entered on a public career as a Whig under the patronage of his uncle Charles
James Fox; held office under Grenville, Grey, and Melbourne; was imbued with a fine humanitarian
spirit, and fought ably against the slave-trade and the corn-laws; his cultured literary taste
is revealed in his writings, which embrace Spanish translations, lives of Guillen de Castro
and Lope de Vega, Memoirs, &c. (1773-1840).

HOLLAND, SIR HENRY, physician and author, born at Knutsford, Cheshire; graduated at Edinburgh
in 1811; spent some years in Eastern Europe, and finally settled in London; he rose to be physician-in-ordinary
to the Prince Consort and the Queen, and in 1853 was created a baronet; wrote various essays
on various branches of medicine, physiology, psychology, besides "Recollections of Past Life"
(1758-1873).

HOLLAND, NORTH (819), one of the eleven provinces of Holland; comprises the peninsula lying
between the Zuider Zee and the German Ocean. SOUTH HOLLAND, also a province, faces the German
Ocean between Zealand and North Holland. These provinces form the most important part of the
Netherlands, raise the best farm produce and cattle, and in their great ports Amsterdam, and
Rotterdam, the bulk of the trade of Holland is carried on.

HOLLES, DENZIL, statesman, and one of the "five members," the son of the Earl of Clare, born
at Houghton, Northamptonshire; entering Parliament in 1624, he joined the opposition against
the king, and actively resisted the imposition of tonnage and poundage, for which he was heavily
fined and imprisoned; subsequently he was one of the five members whom Charles attempted to
arrest in 1642 on a charge of high-treason; his opposition to the maintenance of a standing
Puritan army involved him in trouble, and he fled the country; after Cromwell's death he returned,
was prominent in promoting the Restoration, received a peerage, and for some years was engaged
in public duties, still remaining a staunch upholder of the rights of Parliament (1559-1680).

HOLLOWAY (48), a northern district of London, in Islington parish.

HOLMES, OLIVER WENDELL, a celebrated American author, born the son of a Congregational minister,
at Cambridge, Massachusetts, and graduated in arts and medicine at Harvard; became professor
of Anatomy and Physiology at Dartmouth College, but resigned and settled in Boston as a general
practitioner; in 1847 he was elected to the chair of Anatomy in Harvard, a position he held
till his resignation in 1882; a successful professor, it is as an essayist, novelist, and poet
that he is remembered; the appearance of "The Autocrat at the Breakfast-Table," with its quaint
humour, fresh thought, and charming egotism took literary America by storm; the "Professor"
and the "Poet at the Breakfast-Table" followed in after years, and remain his most widely popular
works; "Elsie Venner," a novel dealing with the problem of heredity, "The Guardian Angel,"
"Songs of Many Seasons," "Memoirs of Motley and of Emerson," are some of his many works, all
of which have the impress of his bright, engaging personality (1809-1894).

HOLOFERNES, the Assyrian general whom the Jewish Judith, entering his camp as it invested her
native place, slew with her own hand, and bore his head as a trophy back to the town.

HOLSTEIN (560), which with Sleswick forms the Prussian province of SLESWICK-HOLSTEIN (q. v.),
was till 1866 a duchy of Denmark, but in that year was annexed by Prussia.

HOLT, FRANK, artist, born in London; was distinguished as an artist from his early youth; produced
a succession of works of eminent merit, and attained the highest excellence as a painter of
portraits, to which department he devoted the last years of his life (1815-1888).

HOLT, SIR JOHN, English lawyer, born at Thame, Oxfordshire; called to the bar in 1663; was
a prominent counsel in the State trials of his age, and rose to be Lord Chief-Justice of the
King's Bench under William III., an office whose duties he discharged with unflinching integrity
and fairness (1642-1710).

HOLTZMANN, ADOLF, an eminent German philologist, born at Carlsruhe; gave himself to the study
of theology and then of philology at various universities, and in 1852 became professor of
the German Language and Literature at Heidelberg; author of various learned treatises on philology
and kindred subjects (1810-1870).

HOLY ALLIANCE, an alliance of the sovereigns of Russia, Austria, and Prussia on the fall of
Napoleon, professedly for conservative ends, but really for the suppression of political liberty
and the maintenance of absolute power.

HOLY COAT OF TRÈVES, a seamless coat alleged to have been deposited there by the Empress Helena,
and to have been the one worn by Christ.

HOLY FAIR, a rural celebration of the Communion once common in Scotland, attended not only
by the people of the parish, but by large numbers of strangers from far and near; described
by Burns.

HOLY ISLAND or LINDISFARNE, an islet of Northumberland, 9½ m. SE. of Berwick; is separated
from the mainland by a stretch of sand bare at low water, and some 3 m. broad; has interesting
ruins of a Benedictine priory church where ST. CUTHBERT (q. v.) once ministered; there is a
small village and fine old castle.

HOLY OFFICE, name given to the INQUISITION (q. v.).

HOLY WARS, name given to the CRUSADES (q. v.).

HOLY WEEK, the week before Easter, so called as consecrated to the commemoration of the Passion
of Christ in view of His death on the Cross.

HOLYHEAD (9), an important little seaport of Anglesey, North Wales, on the N. side of an island
of the same name, 25 m. W. of Bangor; is the chief mail-packet station for Ireland, and has
excellent harbourage, &c.

HOLYHEAD ISLAND (9), a rocky islet forming a part of Anglesey, from which it is separated by
a narrow strait, dry at low water, and crossed by an arched causeway.

HOLYOAKE, GEORGE JACOB, an active propagandist of advanced social theories, born at Birmingham;
has lived a busy life as an agitator, lecturing and writing; he espoused the cause of Garibaldi,
edited the Reasoner; was the last man to be imprisoned in England on a charge of atheism (1841);
was a zealous supporter of co-operation and all movements making for the betterment of the
social condition of the working-classes; his numerous works embrace a valuable "History of
Co-operation in England," "The Limits of Atheism," "Sixty Years of an Agitator's Life," &c.;
b. 1817.

HOLYOKE (45), a city of Massachusetts, 8 m. N. of Springfield, on the Connecticut, whose rapid
current supplies the water-power for the many large paper-mills, cotton and woollen factories.

HOLYROOD, an abbey founded at Edinburgh in 1128 by David I., and dedicated in honour of the
Holy Cross, a casket of gold shaped like a cross brought to the country by St. Margaret in
1070; a palace was afterwards attached, which became the chief seat of the Scottish sovereigns
of the Stuart dynasty; the parks around were at one time a sanctuary for debtors.

HOLYWELL (3), a market-town of Flintshire, has an elevated situation, 15 m. NW. of Chester;
the principal industry is the smelting of lead, iron, copper, and zinc ores obtained from the
surrounding mines; the famous well of St. Winifred (whence the name of the town) is over-built
by a fine Perpendicular chapel.

HOMBURG (9), a fashionable watering-place in Hesse-Nassau, Prussia, beautifully situated at
the base of the Taunus Mountains, 8 m. NW. of Frankfort-on-the-Main; has fine chalybeate and
saline springs.

HOME, DANIEL DUNGLAS, a noted spiritualist, born near Edinburgh; became widely known as a "medium,"
was presented at Courts and to the Pope; was expelled from the Catholic Church for spiritualistic
practices, and latterly became involved in a lawsuit with a Mrs. Lyon, who had bestowed upon
him £60,000 and forced him to return it; he is supposed to have suggested to Browning his well-known
poem "Sludge--the Medium"; wrote several books (1833-1886).

HOME, JOHN, Scotch divine and dramatist, born at Leith; graduated at Edinburgh, and entered
the Church in 1745; became minister at Athelstaneford, near Haddington, where he wrote the
tragedies "Agis" and "Douglas"; the latter established his fame, but brought him into disgrace
with the Presbytery, and he withdrew to England, becoming secretary to the Earl of Bute; his
plays were produced by Garrick, and displaced the stiff and artificial tragedies of Addison,
Johnson, &c.; besides his dramatic works and poems he published a "History of the Rebellion
of 1745" (1722-1808).

HOME RULE, a form of local self-government, a name applied to an administration of the kind
projected by Mr. Gladstone for Ireland.

HOMER, the great epic poet of Greece, and the greatest of all time; author of the "Iliad" and
the "Odyssey," and for the honour of being the place of whose birth seven Greek cities contended;
is said, when old and blind, to have wandered from city to city rehearsing his verses, and
to have lived 900 years before Christ, some time after the reign of Solomon; it is only modern
criticism that has called in question his existence, and has ventured to argue that the poems
ascribed to him are a mere congeries of compositions of the early fabulous age of Greece, but
the unity of the plan and the simplicity of the style of the poems go to condemn this theory
in the regard of most Homeric scholars.

HOMILDON HILL, in Northumberland, 1 m. NE. of Wooler; the scene of Hotspur's famous victory
over the Scots under Earl Douglas, December 14, 1402.

HOMOEOPATHY, a method of treating diseases advocated by HAHNEMANN (q. v.) which professes to
cure a disease by administering in small quantities medicines that would produce it in a healthy
person.

HOMOIOUSIA, name given to the Semi-Arian doctrine that the Son is of like substance with the
Father, in opposition to the orthodox doctrine called Homoousia that He is of the same substance.

HOMOLOGOUMENA, name given to the books of the New Testament accepted as canonical.

HONDURAS (435), a maritime republic of Central America, whose northern seaboard fronts the
Gulf of Honduras in the Caribbean Sea, between Nicaragua on the S. and SE. and Guatemala on
the W., less than four-fifths the size of England; the coast lands are low and swampy, but
the interior consists chiefly of elevated tableland diversified by broad rich valleys; the
Cordilleras traverse the country in a NW. direction, and form the watershed of many streams;
fever prevails along the low, hot coast, but the highlands are cool and healthful; large numbers
of cattle are raised, and fruits, india-rubber, indigo, &c., are exported, but agriculture
is backward; its mineral wealth is very great; silver ore is abundant, and other minerals,
such as gold, iron, copper, but the enterprise is wanting to the carrying out of mining on
a proper scale; Honduras broke away from Spain in 1821, and became an independent State in
1839; the Government is vested in a President and six ministers, and the legislative power
in a Congress of 37 members; the population is, with the exception of a few thousands, composed
of blacks; Tegucigalpa (12) is the capital.

HONE, WILLIAM, miscellaneous writer and political satirist, born at Bath; threw up his position
as a law clerk in London and started a print and book shop; became a busy contributor to newspapers,
and involved himself in serious trouble by the freedom of his political parodies and satires;
of his many squibs, satires, &c., mention maybe made of "The Political House that Jack Built,"
"The Queen's Matrimonial Ladder," "The Political Showman," all illustrated by G. CRUIKSHANK
(q. v.) (1780-1842).

HONEYCOMB, WILL, a jaunty member of the "Spectator Club."

HONFLEUR (9), a seaport of France, situated on the estuary of the Seine, opposite Havre; has
a good harbour; exports dairy produce, cattle, &c.; has sugar refineries, tanworks, &c.

HONG-KONG (222), an island lying off the mouth of the Canton River, South China; was ceded
to Britain in 1842; is hilly and unproductive, but is well watered and tolerably healthy; it
owes its great importance as a commercial centre to its favourable position, its magnificent
harbour, and to its having been made a free port and the head-quarters of the European banks;
opium is the chief import, silk and tea the principal exports; Victoria, a handsome city on
the N. side, is the capital, seat of the British governor, &c.

HONITON (3), an ancient market-town of Devonshire, close to the Otter, 17 m. NE. of Exeter;
is famed for its pillow-lace, an industry introduced by some Flemish refugees in the 16th century.

HONOLULU (20), capital of the HAWAIIAN ISLANDS (q. v.), situated on an arid strip of land on
the S. side of Oahu; is nicely laid out after the manner of a European town; and has the only
good harbour in the archipelago.

HONORIUS, the name of four popes: H. I., the most famous, Pope from 626 to 638; H. II., pope
from 1124 to 1130; H. III., Pope from 1216 to 1227; and H. IV., Pope from 1286 to 1287.

HONORIUS, FLAVIUS, emperor of the West, born at Constantinople, son of Theodosius the Great,
a weak ruler, and only able to resist the invasion of the Goths so long as Stilicho, his minister,
lived, for after the murder of the latter by treachery matters with him went from bad to worse,
and he saw some of his finest provinces snatched from his grasp (384-423).

HONTHEIM, a German Catholic theologian, born at Trèves; distinguished for his bold assertion
and subsequent retractation of a doctrine called Febronianism, from the nom de plume Febronius
which he assumed, tending to the disparagement of the Papal authority in the Church (1701-1790).

HONTHORST, GERARD VAN, a Flemish painter, born at Utrecht, painted night and torchlight scenes;
"Christ before Pilate" his best-known work (1592-1666).

HONVED`, name given in Hungary to the landwehr, or originally to any distinguished national
patriot or party.

HOOD, SAMUEL, VISCOUNT, a distinguished admiral, born at Thorncombe; entered the navy in 1740,
and rising rapidly in his profession evinced high qualities as a leader; in 1782 he brilliantly
outmanoeuvred De Grasse in the West Indies, and under Rodney played a conspicuous part in the
destruction of the French fleet at the battle of Dominica, for which he was rewarded with an
Irish peerage; he defeated Fox in the celebrated Westminster election, became a Lord of the
Admiralty, and as commander of the Mediterranean fleet during the revolutionary wars, captured
the French fleet at Toulon and reduced Corsica; in 1796 he was created a viscount (1724-1816).

HOOD, THOMAS, poet and humourist, born in London; gave up business and engraving, to which
he first applied himself, for letters, and commencing as a journalist, immortalised himself
by the "Song of the Shirt" and his "Dream of Eugene Aram"; edited the "Comic Annual," and wrote
"Whims and Oddities," in all of which he displayed both wit and pathos (1798-1845).

HOOGHLY or HÛGLI, 1, the most important and most westerly of the several branches into which
the Ganges divides on approaching the sea, breaks away from the main channel near Santipur,
and flowing in a southerly direction past Calcutta, reaches the Bay of Bengal after a course
of 145 m.; navigation is rendered hazardous by the accumulating and shifting silt; the "bore"
rushes up with great rapidity, and attains a height of 7 ft. 2, A city (33) on the western
bank of the river, 25 m. N. of Calcutta; is capital of a district, and has a college for English
and Asiatic literature.

HOOK, THEODORE, comic dramatist, born in London; wrote a number of farces sparkling with wit
and highly popular; appointed to be Accountant-General of the Mauritius, came to grief for
peculation by a subordinate under his administration; solaced and supported himself after his
acquittal by writing novels (1788-1841).

HOOKE, ROBERT, natural philosopher, born at Freshwater, Isle of Wight; was associated with
Boyle in the construction of the air-pump, and in 1665 became professor of Geometry in Gresham
College, London; was a man of remarkable inventiveness, and quick to deduce natural laws from
meagre premises; thus he in some important points anticipated Newton's theory of gravitation,
and foresaw the application of steam to machinery; he discovered amongst other things the balance-spring
of watches, the anchor-escapement of clocks, the simplest theory of the arch, and made important
improvements on the telescope, microscope, and quadrant (1635-1703).

HOOKER, SIR WILLIAM, botanist, born at Norwich; was professor of Botany in Glasgow from 1820
to 1841, after which he held the post of Director of Kew Gardens; his writings in botany are
numerous (1785-1865).

HOOLEE, in India, the name of a saturnalian festival in honour of KRISHNA (q. v.).

HOOPER, JOHN, bred for the Church; was converted to Protestantism, and had to leave the country;
returned on the accession of Edward VI. and was made Bishop of Gloucester; was committed to
prison in the reign of Mary, condemned as a heretic, and burned at the stake in Gloucester
(1495-1555).

HOOSAC MOUNTAIN, in the Green Mountain Range in Massachusetts, is noted for its railway tunnel,
nearly 5 m. in length, and the longest in America.

HOPE, ANTONY, nom de plume of A. H. Hawkins, novelist, born in London, educated at Oxford;
called to the bar; author of "Men of Mark," "Prisoner of Zenda," &c.; b. 1863.

HOPE, THOMAS, traveller and virtuoso, author of "Anastasius, or the Memoirs of a Modern Greek,"
which Byron was proud to have fathered on him, and of a posthumous essay on the "Origin and
Prospects of Man," was famous as having suggested to Carlyle one of the most significant things
he ever wrote, while he pronounced it perhaps the absurdest book written in our century by
a thinking man. See Carlyle's Miscellaneous Essay "Characteristics."

HÔPITAL, MICHEL DE L', Chancellor of France; stoutly resisted the persecution of the Protestants,
and secured for them a measure of toleration, but his enemies were too strong for him; he was
driven from power in 1568, and went into retirement; was spared during the massacre of St.
Bartholomew, but it broke his heart, and he survived it only a few days (1505-1572).

HOPKINS, SAMUEL, an American divine, born at Waterbury, Connecticut; was pastor at Newport;
was a Calvinist in theology, but of a special type, as he denied imputation and insisted on
disinterested benevolence as the mark of a Christian; gave name to a party, Hopkinsians, as
they were called, who held the same views (1721-1803).

HORATII. See CURIATII

HORATIUS FLACCUS or HORACE, Roman poet, born at Venusium, in Apulia; was educated at Rome and
in Athens, and when there in his twenty-first year joined Marcus Brutus, became a military
tribune, and fought at Philippi, after which he submitted to the conqueror and returned to
Rome to find his estate forfeited; for a time afterwards he had to be content with a frugal
life, but by-and-by he attracted the notice of Virgil, and he introduced him to Mæcenas, who
took him into his friendship and bestowed on him a small farm, to which he retired and on which
he lived in comfort for the rest of his life; his works, all in verse, consist of odes, satires,
and epistles, and reveal an easy-going man of the world, of great practical sagacity and wise
remark; they abound in happy phrases and quotable passages (65-8 B.C.).

HORN, CAPE, the most southern point of America, is a lofty, precipitous, and barren promontory
of Hermit Island, in the Fuegian Archipelago.

HORN GATE, the gate of dreams which come true, as distinct from the Ivory Gate, through which
the visions seen are shadowy and unreal.

HORNBOOK, was a sheet of vellum or paper used in early times for teaching the rudiments of
education, on which were inscribed the alphabet in black or Roman letters, some monosyllables,
the Lord's Prayer, and the Roman numerals; this sheet was covered with a slice of transparent
horn, and was still in use in George II.'s reign.

HORROCKS, JEREMIAH, a celebrated astronomer, born at Toxteth, near Liverpool; passed through
Cambridge, took orders, and received the curacy of Hoole, Lancashire; was devoted to astronomy,
and was the first to observe the transit of Venus, of which he gave an account in his treatise
"Venus in Sole Visa" (1619-1641).

HORSE-POWER, the unit of work of a steam-engine, being the power to raise 33,000 lbs. one foot
in one minute.

HORSHAM (9), a market-town of Sussex, 26 m. NW. of Brighton; has a fine specimen of an Early
English church, and does a thriving trade in brewing, tanning, iron-founding, &c.

HORSLEY, SAMUEL, English prelate, born in London; celebrated as the champion of orthodoxy against
the attacks of PRIESTLEY (q. v.), in which he showed great learning but much bitterness, which,
however, brought him church preferment; was in succession bishop of St. Davids, Rochester,
and St. Asaph (1733-1806).

HOSEA, a Hebrew prophet, a native of the northern kingdom of Israel, and a contemporary of
Isaiah, the burden of whose prophecy is, Israel has by her idolatries and immoralities forsaken
the Lord, and the Lord has forsaken Israel, in whom alone her salvation is to be found.

HOSHANGABAD (17), capital of a district of the same name in the Central Provinces, India, situated
on the Nerbudda River, 40 m. SE. of Bhopal; is a military station, and has a considerable trade
in cotton, grain, &c.

HOSHIARPUR (22), a town in the Punjab, at the base of the Siwalik Hills, 90 m. E. of Lahore;
is capital of a district, and is the seat of an American mission.

HOSPITALLERS, the name given to several religious brotherhoods or orders of knights under vow
to provide and care for the sick and wounded, originally in connection with pilgrimages and
expeditions to Jerusalem.

HOSPODAR, a title once borne by the kings of Poland and the governors of Moldavia and Wallachia.

HOSTILIUS, TULLUS, the third king of Rome from 670 to 638 B.C.; showed more zeal for conquest
than for the worship of the gods, who in the end smote him and his whole house with fire.

HOTTENTOTS, a name somewhat indiscriminately applied to the first known inhabitants of Cape
Colony, who, however, comprised two main tribes, the Khoikhoi and the Bushmen, in many respects
dissimilar, but speaking languages characterised alike by harsh and clicking sounds, a circumstance
which induced the early Dutch settlers to call them Hottentots, which means practically "jabberers";
the great majority are semi-civilised now, and servile imitators of their conquerors.

HOUDON, JEAN-ANTOINE, an eminent French sculptor, born of humble parentage at Versailles; at
20 he won the prix de Rome, and for 10 years studied with enthusiasm the early masters at Rome,
where he produced his great statue of St. Bruno; he was elected in turn a member of the Academy
and of the Institute, Paris, and in 1805 became professor at the École des Beaux-Arts; he was
unrivalled in portraiture, and executed statues of Rousseau, Voltaire, Diderot, Mirabeau, Washington,
Napoleon, and others (1741-1828).

HOUGHTON, RICHARD MONCKTON MILNES, LORD, poet and patron of letters, born of good family at
Fryston Hall, Pontefract; graduated at Cambridge; entered Parliament as a Conservative, but
subsequently went over to the other side, and in 1863 was raised to the peerage by Palmerston;
was a man of varied interests, a traveller, leader of society, philanthropist, and above all
the friend and patron of authors; his works include various volumes of poetry, "Life of Keats,"
"Monographs, Personal and Social," &c. (1809-1885).

HOUNSLOW (13), a town of Middlesex, 10 m. SW. of London; railways have done away with its importance
as a posting town; in the vicinity are gunpowder mills, barracks, and the famous Hounslow Heath.

HOURI, a beautiful maiden who, according to the Mohammedan faith, awaits the advent of a pious
Moslem in Paradise.

HOUSTON, SAMUEL, President of the Texan Republic, born in Virginia; was adopted by a Cherokee
Indian, and rose from the rank of a common soldier to be governor of Tennessee in 1827; as
commander-in-chief in Texas he crushed the Mexicans, won the independence of Texas, and became
the first President of the new republic in 1836; subsequently represented Texas in the United
States Senate; was elected governor and deposed in 1861 for opposing secession (1793-1863).

HOUYHN`HNMS, an imaginary race of horses in "Gulliver's Travels" endowed with reason.

HOVEDEN, ROGER OF, chronicler, born at Howden, Yorkshire; held an appointment in Henry II.'s
household; was engaged in various missions to the monastic houses, and in 1189 became an itinerant
justice; his well-known Chronicle begins where Bede's ends, 732, and continues down to 1201.

HOWARD, CATHERINE, fifth wife of Henry VIII., granddaughter of the Duke of Norfolk; was married
to Henry in 1540 after his divorce from Anne of Clèves; two years later she was found guilty
of immoral conduct prior to her marriage, and was executed (1520-1542).

HOWARD, JOHN, a noted philanthropist, born at Hackney, Middlesex; was left in easy circumstances
at his father's death; a bitter experience as a French prisoner of war and observations made
whilst acting as sheriff of Bedfordshire roused him to attempt some reform of the abuses and
misery of prison life; he made a tour of the county jails of England, and the mass of information
which he laid before the House of Commons in 1774 brought about the first prison reforms; he
continued his visitations from year to year to every part of the United Kingdom and to every
quarter of the Continent; during 1785-87 he made a tour of inspection through the principal
lazarettos of Europe, visited plague-smitten cities, and voluntarily underwent the rigours
of the quarantine system; he died at the Crimea whilst on a journey to the East; he published
at various times accounts of his Journeys; his deep piety, cool sense, and single-hearted devotedness
to his one great object won him universal respect throughout Europe (1727-1790).

HOWE, JOHN, a Puritan divine, born at Loughborough; was educated at Oxford and Cambridge, took
orders, and became the outspoken and universally respected chaplain to Cromwell; after the
Restoration he was ejected from the Church by the Act of Uniformity; subsequently he was in
turn domestic chaplain to Lord Massarene in Ireland, and pastor of a Dissenting congregation
in London; for some years he settled in Utrecht, but in 1687 returned to England after the
Declaration for Liberty of Conscience, and became a leader of the Dissenters; he published
a number of works which display a powerful, philosophic, and earnest mind; his "The Good Man
the Living Temple of God" remains a masterpiece of Puritan theology; he was a man of exceptional
strength of character, and it was said that he could awe Cromwell into silence and Tillotson
into tears (1630-1706).

HOWE, RICHARD, EARL, admiral, born in London, son of an Irish viscount; first saw service under
Anson against the Spaniards; distinguished himself during the Seven Years' War; in 1783 became
First Lord of the Admiralty, and was created an earl; during the French War in 1793 he commanded
the Channel Fleet, and gained "the glorious first of June" victory off Ushant (1726-1799).

HOWELL, JAMES, an English writer, whose "Familiar Letters" have won a permanent place in English
literature, born in Abernant, Carmarthenshire; travelled for many years on the Continent in
a business capacity; entered Parliament in 1627; was for some years a Royalist spy, and suffered
imprisonment at the Fleet; at the Restoration he was created Historiographer-Royal; his works
are numerous, but his fame rests upon his entertaining "Instructions for Foreigne Travell"
and his graceful and witty "Familiar Letters" (1593-1666).

HOWELLS, WILLIAM DEAN, a popular American novelist, the son of a Swedenborgian journalist,
born at Martin's Ferry, Ohio; adopted journalism as a profession, produced a popular Life of
Lincoln, and from 1861 to 1865 was Consul at Venice; resuming journalism he became a contributor
to the best American papers and magazines, and was for a number of years editor of the Atlantic
Monthly; an excellent journalist, poet, and critic, it is yet as a novelist--witty, graceful,
and acute--that he is best known; "A Chance Acquaintance," "A Foregone Conclusion," "A Modern
Instance," "An Indian Summer" are among his more popular works; b. 1837.

HOWITT, WILLIAM, a miscellaneous writer, who, with his equally talented wife, MARY HOWITT (1799-1888)
(née Botham), did much to popularise the rural life of England, born, a Quaker's son, at Heanor,
Derbyshire; served his time as a carpenter, but soon drifted into literature, married in 1821,
and made many tours in England and other lands for literary purposes; was a voluminous writer,
pouring out histories, accounts of travel, tales, and poems; amongst these are "Rural Life
in England," "Visits to Remarkable Places," "Homes and Haunts of the Poets," &c. (1792-1879).
His wife, besides collaborating with him in such works as "Stories of English Life," "Ruined
Abbeys of Great Britain," wrote poems, tales, &c., and was the first to translate the fairy-tales
of Hans Andersen.

HOWRAH or HAURA (130), a flourishing manufacturing town on the Hooghly, opposite Calcutta,
with which it is connected by a floating bridge.

HOY, a steep, rocky islet in the Orkney group, about 1 m. SW. of Mainland or Pomona, remarkable
for its huge cliffs.

HOYLAKE (3), a rising watering-place in Cheshire, at the seaward end of Wirral Peninsula, 8
m. W. of Birkenhead; noted for its golf-links.

HOYLE, EDMOND, the inventor of whist, lived in London; wrote on games and taught whist; his
"Short Treatise on Whist" appeared in 1742 (1672-1769).

HROLF, ROLLO, DUKE OF NORMANDY (q. v.)

HUANCAVELI`CA (104), a dep. of Peru, lies within the region of the Cordilleras, has rich silver
and quicksilver mines; the capital (4), bearing the same name, is a mining town 150 m. SE. of Lima.

HUB OF THE UNIVERSE, a name humorously given by Wendell Holmes to Boston, or rather the State
House of the city.

HUBER, FRANCIS, naturalist, born at Geneva; made a special study of the habits of bees, and
recorded the results in his "Observations sur les Abeilles" (1750-1831).

HUBERT, ST., bishop of Liège and Maestricht, the patron-saint of huntsmen; was converted when
hunting on Good Friday by a milk-white stag appearing in the forest of Ardennes with a crucifix
between its horns; generally represented in art as a hunter kneeling to a crucifix borne by
a stag (656-728).

HUBERT DE BURGH, Earl of Kent, chief justiciary of England under King John and Henry III.;
had charge of Prince Arthur, but refused to put him to death; was present at Runnymede at the
signing of Magna Charta; d. 1234.

HUC, a French missionary, born at Toulouse; visited China and Thibet, and wrote an account
of his experiences on his return (1813-1860).

HUDDERSFIELD (96), a busy manufacturing town in the West Riding of Yorkshire, is favourably
situated in a coal district on the Colne, 26 m. NE. of Manchester; is substantially built,
and is the northern centre of the "fancy trade" and woollen goods; cotton, silk, and machine
factories and iron-founding are also carried on on a large scale.

HUDIBRAS, a satire by Samuel Butler on the Puritans, published in 1663, born of the reaction
that set in after the Restoration.

HUDSON, in New York State, one of the most picturesque of North American rivers, rises amid
the Adirondack Mountains, and from Glen's Fall flows S. to New York Bay, having a course of
350 m.; is navigable for steamboats as far as Albany, 145 m. from its mouth. It has valuable
fisheries.

HUDSON, GEORGE, the Railway King, originally a linen-draper in York, the great speculator in
the construction and extension of railways, in connection with which he made a huge fortune;
acquired civic honours, and was nearly having a statue raised to his honour, but certain frauds
being exposed he fell into disgrace and embarrassment, and died in London; he was elected thrice
over Lord Mayor of York, and represented Sunderland in Parliament from 1845 to 1859 (1800-1871).

HUDSON, HENRY, English navigator; made three unsuccessful efforts to discover a north-east
passage, then turned his course north-westward, and discovered in 1610 the river, strait, and
bay which bear his name; his sailors in his last expedition in 1611 mutinying, set him and
eight others adrift in an open boat, and though an expedition was sent in quest of him, he
was nowhere to be found.

HUDSON BAY, an inland sea in North America, 400 m. long and 100 m. wide, communicating with
the Atlantic; discovered by Hudson in 1610.

HUDSON BAY COMPANY, a joint-stock company founded in 1760 to obtain furs and skins from North
America, under charter granted by Charles II., the possessions of which were in 1869 incorporated
in the Dominion of Canada.

HUÉ (30), capital of the French protectorate Annam, on the Hué, 10 m. above its mouth, is strongly
fortified with walls and a citadel.

HUELVA (19), a thriving seaport in Spain, 68 m. SW. of Seville, between the mouths of the Odiel
and Tinto; fisheries and the exportation of copper, manganese, quicksilver, and wine are the
chief industries.

HUERTA, GARCIA DE LA, a Spanish poet, was royal librarian in Madrid; wrote tragedy of "Raguel,"
thought of very highly (1729-1797).

HUESCA (13), an interesting old Spanish town, 58 m. NE. of Saragossa; has picturesque old churches,
a university, and a palace; manufactures linen and leather.

HUET, PIERRE DANIEL, a learned French prelate, born at Caen; a pupil of Descartes; associated
with Bossuet as scholar, and editor of Origen (1630-1721).

HUG, LEONHARD, a Catholic theologian and biblical scholar, author of an "Introduction to the
New Testament" (1765-1846).

HUGH CAPET, the first of the Capetian dynasty of France, son of Hugh Capet, Count of Paris;
proclaimed king in 987; his reign was a troubled one by the revolt of the very party that had
raised him to the throne, and who refused to own his supremacy; Adelbert, a count of Périgueux,
had usurped the titles of Count of Poitiers and of Tours, and the king, sending a messenger
to ask "Who made you count?" got for answer the counter-challenge "Who made you king?" (946-996).

HUGHENDEN, a parish in Buckinghamshire, in the Chiltern district, 2 m. N. of High Wycombe;
is interesting as the seat of Hughenden Manor, for many years the residence of Benjamin Disraeli,
Earl of Beaconsfield.

HUGHES, THOMAS, author of "Tom Brown's School-days," born at Uffington, Berks; was at Rugby
in Dr. Arnold's time, graduated at Oxford, and was called to the bar in 1848; his famous story
of Rugby school life, "Tom Brown's School-days," was published in 1856, and was followed by
"Tom Brown at Oxford" and other stories and biographies; he entered Parliament in 1865, and
in 1882 became a County Court Judge; throughout his life he was keenly interested in social
questions and the betterment of the working-classes (1832-1896).

HUGO, VICTOR-MARIE, a famous French poet and novelist, born at Besançon; as a boy he accompanied
his father, a general in Joseph Bonaparte's army, through the campaigns in Italy and Spain;
at 14 he produced a tragedy, and six years later appeared his "Odes et Ballades"; in 1827 was
published his famous tragedy "Cromwell," which placed him at the head of the Romanticists,
and in "Hernani" (1830) the departure from the old classic novels was more emphatically asserted;
his superabundant genius continued to pour forth a quick succession of dramas, novels, essays,
and poems, in which he revealed himself one of the most potent masters of the French language;
he was admitted to the French Academy, and in 1845 was created a peer; he engaged in politics
first as a Royalist and next as a Democrat, fled to Brussels after the coup d'état; subsequently
he established himself in Jersey and then in Guernsey, where he wrote his great novels "Les
Misérables," "Les Travailleurs de la Mer," etc.; he returned to France in 1870, engaged in
politics again, became a senator, and continued to produce works with undiminished energy;
his writings were in the first instance a protest against the self-restraint and coldness of
the old classic models, but were as truly a faithful expression of his own intense and assertive
egoism, and are characteristic of his school in their exaggerated sentiment and pervading self-consciousness
(1802-1885).

HUGUENOTS, a name formerly given to the Protestants of France, presumed to be a corruption
of the German word eingenossen, i. e. sworn confederates, the history of whom and their struggles
and persecutions fills a large chapter in the history of France, a cause which was espoused
at the first by many of the nobles and the best families in the country, but all along in disfavour
at Court.

HULL, or KINGSTON-UPON-HULL (260), a flourishing river-port in the E. Riding of Yorkshire,
at the junction of the Hull with the Humber, 42 m. SE. of York; is an old town, and has many
interesting churches, statues, and public buildings; is the third port of the kingdom; has
immense docks, is the principal outlet for the woollen and cotton goods of the Midlands, and
does a great trade with the Baltic and Germany; has flourishing shipbuilding yards, rope and
canvas factories, sugar refineries, oil-mills, etc., and is an important centre of the east
coast fisheries.

HULLAH, JOHN, professor of music, born in Worcester; did much to popularise music in England
(1812-1884).

HULSEAN LECTURES, fruits of a lectureship tenable for one year, founded by Rev. John Hulse,
of St. John's College, in 1789; delivered annually to the number of four, bearing on revealed
religion.

HUMANIST, one who at the Revival of Letters upheld the claims of classical learning in opposition
to the supporters of the scholastic philosophy.

HUMANITARIANS, a name given to those who maintain the simple humanity of Christ to the denial
of his divinity; also to those who view human nature as sufficient for itself apart from all
supernatural guidance and aid.

HUMBERT I., king of Italy, son of Victor Emmanuel, whom he succeeded in 1878; took while crown
prince an active part in the movement for Italian unity, and distinguished himself by his bravery;
b. 1844.

HUMBOLDT, FRIEDRICH HEINRICH ALEX., BARON VON, great traveller and naturalist, born in Berlin;
devoted all his life to the study of nature in all its departments, travelling all over the
Continent, and in 1800, with AIMÉ BONPLAND (q. v.) for companion, visiting S. America, traversing
the Orinoco, and surveying and mapping out in the course of five years Venezuela, Columbia,
Ecuador, Peru, and Mexico, the results of which he published in his "Travels"; his chief work
is the "Kosmos," or an account of the visible universe, in 4 vols., originally delivered as
lectures in Paris in the winter of 1827-28; he was a friend of Goethe, who held him in the
highest esteem (1769-1859).

HUMBOLDT, KARL WILHELM VON, an eminent statesman and philologist, born at Potsdam, elder brother
of the preceding; represented Prussia at Rome and Vienna, but devoted himself chiefly to literary
and scientific pursuits; wrote on politics and æsthetics as well as philology, and corresponded
with nearly all the literary grandees of Germany (1767-1835).

HUME, DAVID, philosopher and historian, born in Edinburgh, the younger son of a Berwickshire
laird; after trial of law and mercantile life gave himself up to study and speculation; spent
much of his life in France, and fraternised with the sceptical philosophers and encyclopedists
there; his chief works, "Treatise on Human Nature" (1739), "Essays" (1741-42), "Principles
of Morals" (1751), and "History of England" (1754-61); his philosophy was sceptical to the
last degree, but from the excess of it provoked a reaction in Germany, headed by Kant, which
has yielded positive results; he found in life no connecting principle, no purpose, and had
come to regard it as a restless aimless, heaving up and down, swaying to and fro on a waste
ocean of blind sensations, without rational plot or counterplot, God or devil, and had arrived
at an absolutely non-possumus stage, which, however, as hinted, was followed by a speedy and
steady rebound, in speculation at all events; Hume's history has been characterised by Stopford
Brooke as clear in narrative and pure in style, but cold and out of sympathy with his subject,
as well as inaccurate; personally, he was a guileless and kindly man (1711-1776).

HUME, JOSEPH, a politician, born in Montrose; studied medicine, and served as a surgeon under
the East India Company in India, made his fortune, and came home; adopted the political principles
of Bentham and entered Parliament, of which he continued a prominent member till his death;
he was an ardent reformer, and lived to see many of the measures he advocated crowned with
success (1777-1855).

HUMOUR, distinct from wit, and defined as "a warm, tender, fellow-feeling with all that exists,"
as "the sport of sensibility and, as it were, the playful, teasing fondness of a mother for
a child" ... as "a sort of inverse sublimity exalting into our affections what is below us,...
warm and all-embracing as the sun."

HUNDRED DAYS, the name given to the period between Napoleon's return from Elba and his abdication,
from Mar. 10 to June 28, 1815, after Waterloo.

HUNDYADES JOHN CORVINUS, a Hungarian captain of the 14th century, a formidable foe of the Turks.

HUNGARY (18,556), the eastern part of Austro-Hungary, including Hungary proper, Transylvania,
Croatia, and Slavonia, and, except in military and diplomatic matters and customs dues, with
a considerable amount of self-government independent of Austria, differing from it, as it does,
in race, language, and many other respects, to such a degree as gives rise to much dissension,
and every now and then threatens disruption.

HUNS, THE, a horde of barbarians of Mongolian origin who invaded Europe from the shores of
the Caspian Sea in two wars, the first in the 4th century, which at length subsided, and the
second in the 5th century, ultimately under Atilla, which, in the main body of them at all
events, was driven back and even dispersed; they have been described as a race with broad shoulders,
flat noses, small black eyes buried in the head, and without beards.

HUNT, HOLMAN, painter, born in London; became a pupil of Rossetti, and "his greatest disciple,"
and joined the Pre-Raphaelite movement; he began with "worldly subjects," but soon quitted
these "virtually for ever" under Rossetti's influence, and "rose into the spiritual passion
which first expressed itself in his 'Light of the World,'" with this difference, as Ruskin
points out, between him and his "forerunner," that whereas Rossetti treated the story of the
New Testament as a mere thing of beauty, with Hunt, "when once his mind entirely fastened on
it, it became ... not merely a Reality, not merely the greatest of Realities, but the only
Reality"; in this religious realistic spirit, as Ruskin further remarks, all Hunt's great work
is done, and he notices how in all subjects which fall short of the religious element, "his
power also is shortened, and he does those things worst which are easiest to other men"; his
principal works in this spirit are "The Scape-Goat," "The Finding of Christ in the Temple,"
"The Shadow of Death," and the "Triumph of the Innocents," to which we may add "The Strayed
Sheep," remarkable as well for its vivid sunshine, "producing," says Ruskin, "the same impressions
on the mind as are caused by the light itself"; b. 1827.

HUNT, LEIGH, essayist and poet; was of the Cockney school, a friend of Keats and Shelley; edited
the Examiner, a Radical organ; was a busy man but a thriftless, and always in financial embarrassment,
though latterly he had a fair pension; lived near Carlyle, who at one time saw a good deal
of him, his household, and its disorderliness, an eyesore to Carlyle, a "poetical tinkerdom"
he called it, in which, however, he received his visitors "in the spirit of a king, apologising
for nothing"; Carlyle soon tired of him, though he was always ready to help him when in need
(1784-1859).

HUNTER, JOHN, anatomist and surgeon, born near East Kilbride, Lanarkshire; started practice
as a surgeon in London, became surgeon to St. George's Hospital, and at length surgeon to the
king; is distinguished for his operations in the cure of aneurism; he built a museum, in which
he collected an immense number of specimens illustrative of subjects of medical study, which,
after his death, was purchased by Government (1728-1793).

HUNTER, SIR WILLIAM, Indian statistician, in the Indian Civil Service, and at the head of the
Statistical Department; has written several statistical accounts, the "Gazetteer of India,"
and other elaborate works on India; with Lives of the Earl of Mayo and the Marquis of Dalhousie;
b. 1862.

HUNTINGDON (4), the county town of Huntingdonshire, stands on the left bank of the Ouse 59
m. N. of London; has breweries, brick-works, and nurseries, and was the birthplace of Oliver
Cromwell.

HUNTINGDON, COUNTESS OF, a leader among the Whitfield Methodists, and foundress of a college
for the "Connexion" at Cheshunt (1707-1791).

HUNTINGDONSHIRE (57), an undulating county NE. of the Fen district, laid out for most part
in pasture and dairy land; many Roman remains are to be found scattered about in it.

HURD, RICHARD, English bishop in succession of Lichfield and Worcester; was both a religious
writer and a critic; was the author of "Letters on Chivalry and Romance," "Dissertations on
Poetry," and "Commentaries on Horace's Ars Poetica," the last much admired by Gibbon (1720-1808).

HURON, a lake in N. America, 263 m. long and 70 m. broad, the second largest on the average
of the five on the Lawrence basin, interspersed with numerous islands.

HURONS, THE, a tribe of Red Indians of the Iroquois family.

HUSKISSON, WILLIAM, an English statesman and financier; distinguished for his services when
in office in the relaxation of restrictions on trade (1770-1830). (1373-1415).

HUTCHESON, FRANCIS, moral philosopher, born in Ulster, son of a Presbyterian minister; educated
in Glasgow; became professor in the university there and founder of the Scotch school of philosophy,
who, according to Dr. Stirling, has not received the honour in that regard which is his due
(1094-1747).

HUTCHINSON, ANNE, a religious fanatic, born in England, settled in New England, U.S.; expelled
from the colony for Antinomian heresy, took refuge in Rhode Island, and was with her family
butchered by the Indians (1590-1643).

HUTCHINSON, COLONEL, one of the Puritan leaders, and a prominent actor in the Puritan revolt,
to the extent of signing the death-warrant of the king, but broke partnership as a republican
with Cromwell when he assumed sovereign power, and sullenly refused to be reconciled to the
Protector, though he begged him towards his end beseechingly as his old comrade in arms (1616-1664).

HUTCHINSON, JOHN, a theological faddist, born in Yorkshire; in his "Thoughts concerning Religion,"
derived all religion and philosophy from the Bible, but directly, as he insisted, from the
original Hebrew, in which view he had a following of a few intelligent people (1674-1737).

HUTTEN, ULRICH VON, a zealous humanist and reformer, born in the castle of Steckelberg, in
Hesse, of an ancient and noble family; allied himself as a scholar with Erasmus, and then with
Luther as a man; entered heart and soul into the Reformation of the latter to a rupture with
the former, and by his writings, which included invectives against the clergy and appeals to
the nation, did much, amid many perils, to advance the cause of German emancipation from the
thraldom of the Church (1488-1523).

HUTTON, CHARLES, a mathematician, born in Newcastle; became professor at the Royal Military
Academy, Woolwich; wrote on mathematics and physics (1737-1825).

HUTTON, JAMES, celebrated geologist, born in Edinburgh; bred to medicine, but devoted himself
to agriculture and chemistry, which led on to geology; was the author of the Plutonic theory
of the earth, which ascribes the inequalities and other phenomena in the crust of it to the
agency of the heat at the centre (1726-1797).

HUXLEY, THOMAS HENRY, eminent scientist in the department of natural history, born at Ealing,
Middlesex; was professor of Natural History in the Royal School of Mines; distinguished by
his studies and discoveries in different sections of the animal kingdom, in morphology and
palæontology; was a zealous advocate of evolution, in particular the views of Darwin, and a
champion of science against the orthodoxy of the Church; he was a man of eminent literary ability
as well as scientific, and of the greatest in that regard among scientific men (1825-1895).

HUYGENS, CHRISTIAN, a Dutch geometrician, physicist, and astronomer, born at The Hague; published
the first scientific work on the calculation of probabilities, improved the telescope, broached
the undulatory theory of light, discovered the fourth satellite of Saturn, invented the pendulum
clock, and stands as a physicist midway between Galileo and Newton (1629-1093).

HYDASPES, the ancient name of the Jhelum, the northernmost tributary of the Indus.

HYDER ALI, a Mohammedan ruler of Mysore; raised himself to be commander-in-chief of the army;
organised it on the French model; unseated the rajah; conquered Calicut, Bednor, and Kananur;
waged war successfully against the English and the Mahrattas, and left his kingdom to his son
TIPPOO SAIB (q. v.) (1728-1782).

HYDERABAD (370), the capital of the Nizam's dominions in the Deccan, is 6 m. in circumference,
strongly protected all round by a belt of rocky desert, and a centre of Mohammedanism in India.
Also the capital of Sind (58), near the apex of the delta of the Indus; manufactures silks,
pottery, and lacquered ware, and is strongly fortified.

HYDRA, THE LERNEAN, a monstrous reptile inhabiting a marsh, with a number of heads, that grew
on again as often as they were chopped off, and the destruction of which was one of the twelve
labours of Hercules, an act which symbolises the toil expended in draining the fens of the
world for man's habitation.

HYGEIA, in the Greek mythology the Goddess of Health, and daughter of Æsculapius; is represented
as a virgin in a long robe, with a cup in her hand and a serpent drinking out of it.

HYMEN, in the Greek mythology the God of Marriage, son of Apollo, and one of the Muses, represented
as a boy with wings; originally a nuptial song sung at the departure of the bride from her
parental home.

HYMER, a frost Jötun, whose cows are icebergs; splits rocks with the glance of his eye.

HYMETTUS, a mountain in Attica, famous for its honey and marble.

HYPATIA, a far-famed lady teacher of Greek philosophy in Alexandria, distinguished for her
beauty and purity of life, who, one day in 415, on her return home from her lecture-room, was
massacred in the streets of the city, at the instance, of both Jews and Christians, as a propagator
of paganism.

HYPERBOREANS, a people blooming in youth and health, fabled by the Greeks to dwell in the extreme
northern parts of the world under favour of Apollo.

HYPERMNESTRA, the only one of the DANAIDES (q. v.) who spared the life of her husband in spite
of her father's orders.

HYPNOTISM, the process of inducing sleep by wearying out the optic nerve of the eyes, by making
the patient fix them upon a certain spot for a time, generally situated where it is a little
wearisome for the eyes to find it. The fatigue thus induced spreads from the ocular muscles
to the system, causing deep sleep.

HYRCANIA, an ancient province of Persia, on the E. and SE. of the Caspian Sea, celebrated for
the savage animals that inhabited its forests, as well as the savagery of its inhabitants.

HYRCANUS, JOHN, the son of Simon Maccabeus, king of Judea, as well as High-Priest of the Jews
from 135 to 105 B.C.; achieved the independence of his country from the Syrian yoke, extended
the borders of it, and compelled the Edomites to accept the Jewish faith at the point of the
sword; in the strife then rampant between the SADDUCEES (q. v.) and the PHARISEES (q. v.) he
sided with the former.

I

IACHIMO, an arch-villain in Shakespeare's "Cymbeline," who attempts to violate the chastity
of Imogen.

IACHUS, the son of Zeus and Demeter, and the solemn name of Bacchus in the Eleusinian Mysteries.

IAGO, a cool, selfish, malignant, subtle, evil-scheming knave in "Othello," his "ancient" or
ensign, who poisoned his mind against Desdemona.

IAMBLICHUS, a Neo-Platonic philosopher of the 4th century, in the time of Constantine, struggled,
as it proved, in vain for the revival of Greek philosophy, in the hope of thereby stemming
the advance of Christianity.

IAMBUS, a metrical foot, consisting of two syllables, of which the first is short and the second
long, or in which the stress is on the second.

IAPETOS, in the Greek mythology a Titan, father of Atlas, Prometheus, and Epimetheus, as the
Greeks fabled the ancestor of the human race.

IBERIA, the ancient and still poetic name of Spain; anciently also a territory inhabited by
an agricultural population between the Black Sea and the Caspian, now called Georgia.

IBIS, the Nile bird, regarded as an avatar of deity, and held sacred by the Egyptians; it did
not breed in Egypt, and was supposed to be of mystic origin; it arrives in Egypt when the Nile
begins to rise.

IBRAHIM BEY, chief of the Mamelukes of Egypt at the time of Bonaparte's expedition to Egypt
in 1798 (1789-1816).

IBRAHIM PASHA, viceroy of Egypt, son and successor of Mehemet-Ali; appointed generalissimo
of the Egyptian army, remodelled it after the French fashion; was leader of the Turks against
the Greeks; gained several victories over them in 1828, but was obliged to retire; overran
and conquered Syria from the Sultan, but was forced by the Powers to surrender his conquest
and restore it; he was Viceroy of Egypt only for a single year, and died at Cairo (1789-1848).

IBSEN, HENRIK, Norwegian dramatist and poet, born at Skein, in Norway; bred to medicine; is
author of a succession of plays of a new type, commencing with "Catalina," a poor attempt,
followed by "Doll's House," "Ghosts," "Pillars of Society," and "Brand," deemed his masterpiece,
besides others; his characters are vividly drawn as if from life; he is a psychologist, and
his productions have all more or less a social bearing; b. 1828.

IBYCUS, a Greek lyric poet, who was murdered by robbers, and who appealed to a flock of cranes
that flew past before he died to avenge his death, and that proved the means of the discovery
of the murderers.

ICARUS, son of DÆDALUS (q. v.), who, flying with his father from Crete on wax-fastened wings,
soared so high that the sun melted the wax and he dropped into the sea, giving name to that
part of it.

ICE BLINK, the name given to a white light seen on the horizon, due to reflection from a field
of ice immediately beyond.

ICELAND (71), a volcanic island larger by a third than Scotland, lying just S. of the polar
circle, between Greenland and Norway, distant 250 m. from the former and 500 from the latter;
consists of a plateau 2000 ft. high, sometimes sloping to the sea, sometimes ending in sheer
precipices, from which rise numerous snow-clad volcanoes, some, like Hecla, still active. The
interior comprises lava and sand tracts, and ice-fields, but outside these are river valleys
and lake districts affording pasturage, and arable land capable of producing root crops. The
climate is changeable, mild for the latitude, but somewhat colder than Scotland. There are
few trees, and these small; cranberries grow among the heather, and Iceland moss is a plentiful
article of food. The island exports sheep and ponies; the fisheries are important, including
cod, seals, and whales; sulphur and coal are found; the hot springs are famous, especially
the Great Geyser, near Hecla. Discovered by Irishmen and colonised by Norwegians in the 9th
century, Iceland passed over to the Danes in 1388, who granted it home rule in 1893. The religion
has been Protestant since 1550; its elementary education is excellent. Reykjavik (3) is the
capital; two towns have 500 inhabitants each; the rest of the population is scattered in isolated
farms; stock-raising and fishing are the principal industries, and the manufacture of homespun
for their own use.

ICH DIEN (I serve), the motto of the Black Prince, adopted from John of Bohemia, and since
then that of the English Prince of Wales.

ICHNEUMON, an animal of the weasel tribe, worshipped in Egypt from its destroying the eggs
of noxious reptiles, and of the crocodile in particular.

ICHOR, an ethereal fluid presumed to supply the place of blood in the veins of the Greek gods.

ICHTHYOSAURUS (lit. a fish-reptile), an extinct marine reptile in the shape of a fish, its
limbs paddles, and with a long lizard-like tail.

ICONIUM, the capital of Lycaonia, in Asia Minor, a flourishing city in St. Paul's time, who
planted a church there, and of importance in the time of the Crusades; is now named Konieh.

ICONOCLASTS (i. e. breakers of images), the name given to a sect who, in the 8th century, opposed
to the presence of images in churches and the worship paid to them, set about the demolition
of them as savouring of idolatry, and even in 730 obtained a papal decree or condemnation of
the practice; the enthusiasm died out in the next century, but the effect of it was felt in
a controversy, which led to the separation of the Church of the East from that of the West.

ICTINUS, great Greek architect of the 5th century B.C., a contemporary of Pericles, designer
of temples at Bussæ and Eleusis, and joint-designer with Callicrates of the world's one perfect
building, the Parthenon, at Athens (437 B.C.).

IDA, the name of two mountains in the East, one in Crete, on which Zeus was brought up in a
cave near it, and one in Asia Minor, near Troy, "Woody Ida," the scene of the rape of Ganymedes
and of the judgment of Paris, also a seat of Cybele worship.

IDAHO (88), one of the north-western States of the American Union, surrounded by Washington
and Oregon in the W., Nevada and Utah in the S., Wyoming in the E., and Montana, from which
it is separated by a branch of the Rocky Mountains, in the NE., the short northern boundary
touches Canada; the country is traversed by lofty mountain ranges cut up into deep river valleys
and cañons, is extremely rugged in its northern parts, and chiefly useful for cattle-raising;
there is a plateau in the centre, some arid prairie land in the S., and lake districts in the
N. and in the SE.; grain farming is restricted to fringes along the river banks; the Snake
River flows through the whole S.; silver, lead, gold, and copper mines are wrought successfully,
and coal is found; the State was admitted to the Union in 1890; a fifth of the population are
Mormons; there are still 4000 Indians. Boisé City (2) is the capital.

IDDESLEIGH, EARL OF, Sir Stafford Northcote, Conservative financier and statesman, born in
London of old Devonshire stock; educated at Oxford; became private secretary to Mr. Gladstone
in 1842, and five years later was called to the bar; entering Parliament in 1885, he sat in
succession for Dudley, for Stamford, and for North Devon; under Lord Derby he was Financial
Secretary to the Treasury in 1859, and President of the Board of Trade in 1866; under Disraeli
he was at the India Office in 1868, and Chancellor of the Exchequer in 1874; he succeeded Disraeli
in the leadership of the Commons, and was raised to the peerage in 1885; was successively First
Lord of the Treasury and Foreign Secretary under Lord Salisbury; in 1871 Mr. Gladstone appointed
him Commissioner in the settlement of the Alabama claim, and he was elected Lord Hector of
Edinburgh University in 1883; resigning from the Foreign Office in January 1887, he died suddenly
a few days later at the Prime Minister's residence (1818-1887).

IDEALISM, that view of the universe which, in opposition to MATERIALISM (q. v.), refers everything
to and derives everything from a spiritual root; is Subjective if traced no further back than
the ego, and Objective if traced back to the non-ego likewise, its counterpart, or other, in
the objective world. Idealism in art is art more or less at work in the region of the ideal
in comparative disregard of the actual.

IDELER, CHRISTIAN LUDWIG, a German astronomer, born in Prussia; an authority on chronology,
on which he wrote a handbook, as also a work on the reckoning of time among the Chinese (1766-1846).

IDENTICAL NOTE, a term in diplomacy to denote terms agreed upon by two Powers to coerce a third.

IDES, the name given in the Roman calendar to certain days that divide the month; in March,
May, July, and October they fall on the 15th, in the rest on the 13th.

IDOLATRY, worship paid to a mere symbol of the divine while the heart is dead to all sense
of that which it symbolises; a species of offence against the Most High, of which many are
flagrantly guilty who affect to regard with pity the worshipper of idols of wood or stone.
"Idolatry," says Buskin, apropos of Carlyle's well-known doctrine, "is summed up in the one
broad wickedness of refusing to worship Force and resolving to worship No-Force; denying the
Almighty, and bowing down to four-and-twopence with a stamp on it."

IDOMENEUS, king of Crete, grandson of Minos, and a hero of the Greeks in the war with Troy.

IDRIS, a giant, prince, and astronomer of Welsh tradition, whose rock-hewn chair on the summit
of Cader Idris was supposed to mete out to the bard who spent a night upon it death, madness,
or poetic inspiration.

IDUMÆA. See EDOM.

IDUNA, a Scandinavian goddess who kept a box of golden apples which the gods tasted when they
wished to renew their youth; she was carried off one day, but being sent for by the gods, came
back changed into a falcon.

IDYLL, a poem in celebration of everyday life or life in everyday costume amid natural, often
pastoral and even romantic, and at times tragic surroundings.

IF, an islet in the Gulf of Marseilles, with a castle built by Francis I., and afterwards used
as a State prison. At the foot of it, in the Death-Kingdom, sit the THREE NORNAS (q. v.) watering
its roots from the sacred Well."

IGNATIEFF, NICHOLAS, Russian general and diplomatist, born at St. Petersburg; was ambassador
at Pekin in 1859, and at Constantinople in 1864, and secured at both posts important concessions
to Russia; he is a zealous Panslavist and Anti-Semite, too much so to carry with him the support
of the country; b. 1832.

IGNATIUS, FATHER, the name by which the Rev. Joseph Lyne is known, born in London, educated
at St. Paul's School and Glenalmond; commenced a movement to introduce monasticism into the
Church of England, and built a monastery for monks and nuns near Llanthony Abbey, the members
of which follow the rule and wear the garb of the Order of St. Benedict; b. 1837.

IGNATIUS, ST., surnamed Theophoros, an Apostolic Father of the Church, Bishop of Antioch; died
a martyr at Rome about 115, by exposure to wild beasts, in the amphitheatre; is represented
in Christian art as accompanied by lions, or exposed to them chained; left epistles which,
if genuine as we have them, establish prelacy as the order of government in the primitive Church,
and lay especial stress on the twofold nature of Christ.

IGNATIUS LOYOLA. See LOYOLA.

IGNORANTINES, a Jesuit association in the Roman Catholic Church founded in 1724, who give instruction
to poor children gratis, with the object of winning them over to the Catholic faith.

IHRE, JOHAN, a learned Swedish philologist, born at Lund, of Scotch descent; was 40 years professor
of Rhetoric and Political Economy at Upsala, and was the founder of Swedish philology (1707-1780).

ILE DE FRANCE, the province of France of which Paris is the capital; was also formerly the
name of Mauritius.

ILE DU DIABLE, an island off the coast of French Guiana, where Captain Dreyfus was confined.

ILFRACOMBE, a popular watering-place on the coast of N. Devon, in the Bristol Channel; once
a considerable place.

ILIAD, the great epic poem of Homer, consisting of 24 books, the subject of which is the "wrath
of ACHILLES" (q. v.), and the events which followed during the last year of the ten years'
Trojan War, so called from ILION, one of the names of Troy. See ILIUM.

ILITHYIA, the Greek goddess who presided over the travail of woman at childbirth, promoting
or retarding the birth as the Fates might ordain.

ILIUM, TROY (q. v.), so called from Ilus, the son of Tros, who founded the city.

ILLINOIS (3,826), an American State as large as England and Wales; has the Mississippi for
its western, the Ohio for its southern boundary, with Wisconsin and Lake Michigan in the N.
and Indiana on the E.; fourth in population, seventeenth in area; "the Prairie State" is level,
well watered, and extremely fertile; has a climate subject to extremes, but, except in the
swamps, healthy. It produces enormous quantities of wheat, besides other cereals, of tobacco
and temperate fruits. Flour-milling, pork-packing, and distilling are the chief industries.
The most extensive coal-deposits in America are in this State; with navigable rivers on its
borders, and traversing it Lake Michigan, a great canal, and the largest railway system in
the Union, it is admirably situated for commercial development; originally acquired by Britain
from the French, who entered it from Canada; it was ceded to the Americans in 1783, and admitted
to the Union 1818; the State spends $12,000,000 annually on education, which is compulsory,
and has a large and wealthy scientific and agricultural university at Urbana. Springfield (25)
is the capital; but Chicago (1,100) is the largest city.

ILLUMINATED DOCTOR, a title bestowed on RAYMOND LULLY (q. v.).

ILLUMINATI, a class or fraternity of people who affect superior enlightenment, particularly
on religious and social matters, tending of late in the one to Deism, and in the other to Republicanism,
in France forming a body of materialists, and in Germany a body of idealists; the former to
the disparagement of ideas, and the latter to the disparagement of reason, and both hostile
to the Church.

ILLUMINATION, THE, the name given to the "advanced" thinking class who pride themselves in
their emancipation from all authority in spiritual matters, the assumption of which they regard
as an outrage not only against the right of private judgment, but the very constitution of
man, which, they argue, is violated when respect is not before all paid to individual conviction.
See AUFKLÄRUNG.

ILLYRIA, the name anciently given to a broad stretch of mountainous country of varying extent
lying E. of the Adriatic Sea. The Illyrians were the last Balkan people to be civilised; becoming
a Roman province 35 B.C., Illyria furnished several emperors, among them the notorious Diocletian.
Constantine extended the province to include all the country S. of the Danube; at the division
of the empire, Greece and Macedonia went to the East, the rest to the West; the name was revived
by Napoleon, but has since been dropped.

ILUS, a legendary king of Troy, the grandson of Dardanus, and the founder of Ilium.

IMAGE WORSHIP in the Christian Church is reverence, as distinct from the supreme adoration
of the Deity, paid to the crucifix and to pictures, images, or statues of saints and martyrs,
and understood really as offered through these to the personages whom they represent. The practice,
unknown in apostolic or sub-apostolic times, was prevalent in the 4th century, provoked by
its excesses a severe reaction in the 8th century, but carefully defined by the second Council
of Nice (787), has continued since both in the Greek and Roman communion; there is still controversy
as to its propriety in the Anglican Church; the Lutherans still use the crucifix freely, but
other Protestant Churches have entirely repudiated the practice. See ICONOCLASTS.

IMAGINARY CONVERSATIONS, a remarkable work by Landor, in 6 vols., much appreciated by many.

IMAGINATION, the name appropriate to the highest faculty of man, and defined by Ruskin as "mental
creation," in the exercise of which the human being discharges his highest function as a responsible
being, "the defect of which on common minds it is the main use," says Ruskin, "of works of
fiction, and of the drama, as far as possible, to supply."

IMÂM is the title of the officer who leads the devotions in Mohammedan mosques, and in Turkey
conducts marriage and funeral services, as well as performs the ceremonies connected with circumcision;
the office was filled and the title borne by Mahomet, hence it sometimes signifies head of
the faith, and is so applied to the Sultan of Turkey; good Mohammedans believe in the future
advent of an Imâm--the hidden Imâm--who shall be greater than the Prophet himself.

IMAUS, a name the ancients gave to any large mountain chain in Asia, more particularly one
bordering on India, or looking down upon it, as the home of the Aryans.

IMITATION OF CHRIST, a book of pious reflections, unique in its kind, and much esteemed by
piously thoughtful people; ascribed to THOMAS À KEMPIS (q. v.).

IMMACULATE CONCEPTION, the doctrine held by the Roman Catholic Church that the Virgin Mary
was conceived and born without taint of sin; first distinctly propounded in the 12th century,
at which time a festival was introduced in celebration of it, and which became matter of dispute
in the 14th century, and it was only in 1854 that it became by a bull an article of the Catholic
faith.

IMMANENCE, the idea that the creative intelligence which made, with the regulative intelligence
which governs, the universe, is inherent in it and pervades it.

IMMENSITIES, CENTRE OF, an expression of Carlyle's to signify that wherever any one is, he
is in touch with the whole universe of being, and is, if he knew it, as near the heart of it
there as anywhere else he can be.

IMMENSITY, THE TEMPLE OF, the universe as felt to be in every corner of it a temple consecrated
to worship in with wonder and awe.

IMMERMANN, KARL LEBERECHT, German novelist and dramatist, born at Magdeburg; fought at Waterloo;
entered the public service of Prussia and obtained an appointment at Düsseldorf, where he died;
his fame rests upon his miscellaneous tales and satirical novels, such as "Münchausen"; his
dramas consisted of both tragedies and comedies (1796-1840).

IMMORTALITY, the doctrine of the continued existence of the soul of each individual after death,
a doctrine the belief of which is, in one form or another, common to most religious systems;
even to those which contemplate absorption in the Deity as the final goal of existence, as
is evident from the prevalence in them of the doctrine of transmigration or reincarnation.

IMMORTALS, a regiment of 10,000 foot soldiers who formed the bodyguard of the ancient Persian
kings; the name given to the 40 members of the French Academy.

IMOGEN, the daughter of Cymbeline, in Shakespeare's play of the name, a perfect female character,
pronounced "the most tender and the most artless of all Shakespeare's women."

IMO`LA (12), a town in Italy, 10 m. N. of Faenza, with some fine palaces; manufactures leather,
glass, silk, &c.

IMPANATION, a name employed to denote the union of the body of Christ with the bread of the
Eucharist.

IMPENETRABILITY, the name given to that quality of matter whereby two bodies cannot occupy
the same space at the same time.

IMPERATIVE, THE CATEGORICAL. See CATEGORICAL.

IMPERIAL FEDERATION, name given to a scheme for uniting more closely together the several interests
of the British Empire.

IMPERIAL INSTITUTE, South Kensington, founded by the exertions of the Prince of Wales in 1887
to commemorate Queen Victoria's jubilee, was opened by her in 1893; was intended to include
a complete collection of the products of the British Empire, a grand commercial intelligence
bureau, and a school of modern Oriental languages; the government to be carried on by a chartered
body, whose form of constitution was granted by a royal warrant of date April 21, 1891; the
idea is for the present abandoned, and the premises appropriated as henceforth the seat of
the London University.

IMPERIALISM, the name given by English politicians to the policy which aims at the consolidation
into one empire of all the colonies and dependencies along with the mother-country.

IMPETIGO, a cutaneous eruption, generally in clusters, of yellow-scaled pustules, which grow
thicker and larger; common among children ill fed and ill cared for.

IMPEY, SIR ELIJAH, Indian judge, born at Hammersmith; educated at Cambridge, and called to
the bar in 1756; was sent out to Bengal as first Chief-Justice in 1774; he supported Warren
Hastings's administration, and presided over the court which sentenced Nuncomar to death for
forgery; in the quarrel over Hastings's alleged resignation he decided in favour of the governor;
was recalled and impeached for his conduct of the Nuncomar trial in 1783, but was honourably
acquitted; resigning in 1789, he sat in Parliament for New Romney till 1796 (1732-1809).

IMPONDERABLES, the name given to light, heat, and electricity when they were supposed to be
material substances, but without weight.

IMPRESSIONISM, a term in painting that denotes the principle of a new school originating in
France before 1870, and introduced into this country some 10 years later; it is a revolt against
traditionalism in art, and aims at reproducing on canvas not what the mind knows or by close
study observes is in nature, but the "impression" which eye and mind gather. The influence
of the movement has been strong, and promises to be lasting both here and in Germany, and not
the least interesting work of the kind has of late years issued from the "Glasgow School" and
the "London Impressionists."

IMPRESSMENT, legalised enforcement of service in the British navy, which has for years been
in abeyance, and is not likely to be ever again revived.

IMPROPRIATION, the transference of the revenues of a benefice to a layman or lay body to be
devoted to spiritual uses.

IMPUTATION, the theological dogma of the transference of guilt or merit from one to another
who is descended naturally or spiritually from the same stock as the former, as of Adam's guilt
to us by nature or Christ's righteousness to us by faith; although in Scripture the term generally,
if not always, denotes the reckoning to a man of the merit or the demerit involved in, not
another's doings, but his own, as in a single act of faith or a single act of unbelief, the
one viewed as allying him with all that is good, or as a proof of his essential goodness, and
the other as allying him with all that is evil, or as a proof of his essential wickedness.

IN CÆNA DOMINI (i. e. in the Supper of the Lord), a papal bull promulgated in the Middle Ages,
denouncing excommunication against all who dispute the claims of the Church, and the promulgation
of which was felt on all hands to be intolerable; the promulgation has been discontinued since
1773.

INACHOS, in Greek legend the first king of Argos, son of Oceanus and Tethys.

IN-AND-IN, a term applied to the breeding of animals from the same parentage.

INCA, a king or royal prince of the ancient original people of Peru.

INCANDESCENT LIGHT, or ELECTRIC LIGHT, a light produced by a thin strip of a non-conducting
body, such as carbon, in a vacuum raised to intense heat by an electric current.

INCARNATION, the humanisation of the Divine in the person of Christ, a doctrine vehemently
opposed in the early times of the Church by both Jews and Gnostics, by the former as inconsistent
with the greatness of God, and by the latter as inconsistent with the inbred depravity of man.

INCENSE, a fragrance which arises from the burning of certain gums and burnt in connection
with sundry religious observances, particularly in the Roman Catholic Church, as an expression
of praise presumably well pleasing to God; a practice which Protestants repudiate as without
warrant in Scripture.

INCHBALD, ELIZABETH, actress, dramatist, and novelist, daughter of John Simpson, a Suffolk
farmer; came to London at the age of 18, seeking a theatrical engagement; after some adventures
she met Joseph Inchbald, an actor of no note, to whom she was married in 1772; shortly afterwards
she made her début as Cordelia at Bristol; after seven years in the provinces and nine in London,
during which she failed to rise high in her profession, she turned to literature; she wrote
and adapted many plays, but the works by which she is remembered are two novels, "A Simple
Story" and "Nature and Art" (1753-1821).

INCHCOLM, an island in the Firth of Forth, near Aberdour, on the Fife coast, so called as the
residence of St. Columba when engaged in the conversion of the Northern Picts; has the remains
of an abbey founded by Alexander I.

INCHKEITH, an island in the Firth of Forth, in the county of Fife, 2½m. N. of Leith, and about
½ m. long, has a lighthouse with a revolving light, and fortifications to protect the Forth.

INCITATUS, the horse of CALIGULA (q. v.); had a house and a servant to itself, was fed from
vessels of gold, admitted to the priesthood, and created a consul of Rome.

INCLEDON, CHARLES BENJAMIN, a celebrated ballad-singer with a fine tenor voice, born in Cornwall
(1763-1826).

INCORRUPTIBLE, THE, ROBESPIERRE (q. v.), a man not to be seduced to betray his principles or party.

INCREMENT, UNEARNED, an expression denoting increase in the value of landed property due to
increased demand and without any expenditure on the part of the proprietor.

INDEPENDENCE, DECLARATION OF, a declaration made July 4, 1776, by the North American States
declaring their independence of Great Britain.

INDEPENDENCE, THE WAR OF, the name given to the struggle which the North American colonists
maintained against the mother country.

INDEPENDENCE DAY, a holiday observed throughout the United States annually on the 4th of July
in celebration of the Declaration of Independence in 1776 that day.

INDEPENDENTS or CONGREGATIONALISTS are a Protestant sect deriving both names from their principle
of government; repudiating both Episcopacy and Presbyterianism, they hold that every congregation
should manage its own affairs, and elect its own officers independent of all authority save
that of Christ; they profess to derive all rules of faith and practice from the Scriptures,
and are closely akin to Presbyterians in doctrine. Numerous as early as Queen Elizabeth's time,
they suffered persecution then; many fled or were banished to Holland, whence the Mayflower
conveyed the Pilgrim Fathers to New England in 1620. Regaining ascendency under Cromwell, they
again suffered at the Restoration; but political disabilities then imposed have gradually been
removed, and now they are the most vigorous Dissenting body in England. The congregations in
the English Union (a union for common purposes and mutual help) number 4700, those in the Scottish
Union 100.

INDEX EXPURGATORIUS, a list of books issued by the Church of Rome, which, as hostile to her
teaching, are placed under her ban, and are under penalties forbidden to be read. The first
list published was by Pope Paul IV. in 1557, and in 1562 the Council of Trent appointed a committee
whose special business it should be to draw up a complete list of obnoxious writings, a work
which it fell to Paul IV. to finish after the sittings of the Council came to a close in an
index issued in 1564.

INDIA (287,223), British dependency, consisting of the great peninsula in the S. of Asia, which
has the Bay of Bengal on the E. and the Arabian Sea on the W., and is separated from the mainland
by the Hindu-Kush and the Himalaya Mountains; politically the name includes besides the Punjab
in the N. and Burma in the E.; the centre of the peninsula is a great plateau called the Deccan,
between which and the snow-clad Himalaya stretch the great fertile basins of the Ganges, the
Thar Desert, and the arid wastes of the Indus Valley; great varieties of climate are of course
met with, but the temperature is prevailingly high, and the monsoons of the Indian Ocean determine
the regularity of the rainy season, which occurs from June to October; the country generally
is insalubrious; the vegetation is correspondingly varied, but largely tropical; rice, cereal
crops, sugar, and tobacco are generally grown; cotton in Bombay and the Central Provinces,
opium in the Ganges Valley, jute in Eastern Bengal, and indigo in Behar; coffee and tea are
raised by Europeans in the hill country on virgin soil; the chief mineral deposits are extensive
coal-fields between the Ganges and the Godavari, the most valuable salt deposits in the world
in the Punjab, and deposits of iron, the purest found anywhere, in many parts of the country,
which, however, are wrought only by native methods; native manufactures are being largely superseded
by European methods, and the young cotton-weaving industry flourishes well; the country is
well populated on the whole, with a relative scarcity of big towns; the people belong to many
different races, and speak languages representing four distinct stocks; the vast bulk of them
are Brahmanists or Hindus; there are many Mohammedans, Buddhists (in Burma), and Parsees (in
Bombay); 2¼ millions are Christians, and there are other religions; India has been subject
to many conquests; the Aryan, Greek, and Mussulman invasions swept from the NW.; the Portuguese
obtained a footing on the SW. coast in the 15th century; the victories of Plassey 1757, and
Seringapatam 1799, established British rule throughout the whole peninsula, and the principle
that native princes where they retained their thrones were vassals; Sind was won in 1843 and
the Punjab in 1849, and the powers of the East India Company transferred to the Queen in 1857,
who was proclaimed Empress in 1877; the government is vested in a governor-general aided by
an executive and a legislative council, under control, however, of a Secretary of State for
India and council at home; there are governors and lieutenant-governors of the presidencies
of Madras and Bombay, and of the various provinces; native States are all attached to and subject
to the supervision of the government of a province; there is a native army of 146,000 men,
and 74,000 European troops are maintained in the country; British rule has developed the resources
of the country, advanced its civilisation, and contributed to the welfare of the people; Indian
finance is not yet satisfactory; the currency is based on silver, the steady depreciation of
which metal has never ceased to hamper the national funds.

INDIA, (1) THE IMPERIAL ORDER OF THE CROWN OF, founded in 1878, includes the Queen and certain
royal princes, English and Indian, female relatives of the Viceroy, of the governors of Bombay
and Madras, and others in high places in India; (2) THE MOST EXALTED ORDER OF THE STAR OF,
founded in 1861 and since enlarged, with the sovereign for head and the viceroy as grand-master,
and three different grades of knights, designed severally G.C.S.I., K.C.S.I, and C.S.I., a
blue ribbon with white stripes being the badge; and (3) THE MOST EMINENT ORDER OF THE EMPIRE
OF, founded in 1878 and enlarged in 1887, with queen and empress at the head, and a knighthood
similar to the preceding, their motto, "Imperatricis auspiciis."

INDIAN CIVIL SERVICE, a service which, besides embracing the ordinary departments of civil
administration, includes judicial, medical, territorial, and even military staff appointments,
appointments dependent on the possession of regulated, more or less academic, qualifications.

INDIAN MUTINY, a wide-spread rebellion on the part chiefly of the Sepoys against British authority
in 1857, and which was suppressed by a strong force under Sir Colin Campbell in 1858.

INDIAN OCEAN is that stretch of sea between Africa on the W. and Australia, Java, and Sumatra
on the E., which separates in the N. into the Arabian Sea and the Bay of Bengal; the monsoons,
or trade-winds, blow here with great regularity; from April to October they are strong from
the SW., from October to April more gentle in the opposite direction; there are many islands
and reefs of coral formation, such as the Maldive group; St. Paul's and Mauritius are volcanic,
while Madagascar and Ceylon are typical continental islands.

INDIAN TERRITORY (186), a stretch of country in the basin of the Arkansas, Canadian, and Red
Rivers, with Kansas on the N., Arkansas on the E., Oklahoma Territory on the W., and separated
by the Red River from Texas on the S., set apart for the occupation of the Indian tribes of
the western prairies; formerly double its present size, it has been reduced by the purchase
in 1890 of Oklahoma.; in the centre and east are fertile plains and great forests of walnut
and maple, in which deer and bears abound; the west is a treeless prairie supporting vast herds
of cattle; mineral resources are probably rich, but are undeveloped; the principal tribes have
their own organisations and civilised institutions, churches, schools, banks, and newspapers;
the towns are small, Tahlequah, Lehigh, and M'Alister are the chief.

INDIANA (2,192), one of the smaller but most populous States of the American Union, lies between
Lake Michigan and the Ohio River, with Ohio on the E. and Illinois on the W.; the climate is
marked by extremes of heat and cold; the country is somewhat hilly in the S., is mostly level,
well watered, and very fertile; agriculture is the chief industry, cereals, potatoes, and tobacco
forming the chief crops; there is great mineral wealth, with extensive and varied industries,
embracing iron, glass, and textile manufactures, waggon-building, and furniture-making; petroleum
wells are abundant, and in one part of the territory natural gas is found in great quantities.
First occupied by the French, Indiana was acquired by Britain in 1763, ceded to America 1783,
and admitted to the Union in 1816; education in the State university and schools is free; besides
Indianapolis, the capital, the largest towns are Evansville (50), Fort Wayne (30), and Terre
Haute (30).

INDIANAPOLIS (169), capital of Indiana, on the White Ford River, in the centre of the State;
a fine city, with wide, tree-lined streets, large iron, brass, and textile manufactures, and
canned-meat industry; is a great railroad centre.

INDIANS, AMERICAN, the aborigines of America, and now gradually dying out; these aborigines
were called Indians by Columbus, because when he discovered America he thought it was India.
See AMERICAN INDIANS.

INDIA-RUBBER, CAOUTCHOUC, or GUM ELASTIC, is a product of the milky juices of several tropical
and sub-tropical plants found in the West Indies, Central and South America, West Africa, and
India; there is evidence that its properties were partially known to the Spaniards in the West
Indies early in the 17th century; but its first introduction to this country was about 1770,
when it was employed by artists for erasing black-lead pencil marks, hence its familiar name;
it is collected by making incisions in the tree trunk and gathering the slowly exuding juice,
which is first solidified by drying, then purified by boiling and washing; it is flexible and
elastic, insoluble in water, and impenetrable to gases and fluids, and these qualities give
it great commercial importance; the use of pure rubber has been greatly superseded by that
of "vulcanised" rubber; mixed with from 1/40 to ½ of its weight of sulphur and combined by
heat, the rubber acquires greater elasticity, is not hardened by cold or rendered viscid by
heat, and is insoluble in many of the solvents of pure rubber; its usefulness is thus largely
increased and greatly extended of late; the demand for rubber is in excess of the supply, but
no substitute has been found effective; in recent years care has been bestowed on its economical
collection and on its scientific culture.

INDICTION, a cycle of 15 years instituted by Constantine the Great, and which began on the
24th September 812, the day of his victory over Maxentius; to find the indiction of any year
add 1 and divide by 15.

INDIUM, a metallic elementary body of rare occurrence, and first discovered in zinc-blende in 1863.

INDIVIDUALISM, the name given to a social system which has respect to the rights of the individual
as sovereign, and is strictly opposed to Socialism.

INDO-CHINA, called also the Eastern Peninsula or Farther India, the name given to the large
peninsular territory which lies between the Bay of Bengal and the Chinese Sea, lying almost
wholly within the Torrid Zone, and embracing the empires of Burma and Annam and the kingdom
of Cambodia and Siam, as well as territories under Britain and France, all now mostly divided
between the latter two and Siam; it is sparsely peopled owing to its mountainous character
and the swampy lands, and the natives are mainly of the Mongolian type.

INDO-EUROPEAN, an epithet applied to a family of the human race with the languages of its several
members descended from the Aryans, and found dispersed over an area including the better part
of India and Europe.

INDO-GERMANIC, a term at one time employed especially among German writers, synonymous with Aryan.

INDORE, 1, a native principality (1,094), in Central India, somewhat larger than Wales, embraces
the Vindbya and Satpura Mountains, and is traversed by the Nerbudda River; there are great
forests on the mountains; the valley of the river is fertile; wheat, sugar, cotton, tobacco,
and large quantities of opium are raised; the climate is sultry, and at certain seasons unhealthy;
the natives are chiefly Mahratta Hindus; among the hills are Bhils and Gonds, the wildest tribes
of India; the State is governed by a Maharajah styled Holkar, under supervision of an agent
of the Governor-General; education is progressing. INDORE, 2, on the Kuthi River, the capital
(92), is a poor city of brick and mud; the palace and the British residency, however, are fine
buildings; it is connected by rail with Bombay, distant 400 m. SW., and with Ajmere; it was
the scene of a British massacre in 1857.

INDRA, the king of heaven and national god of the Aryans; gives victory to his people, and
is always ready to aid them; he is pre-eminently a warlike god, and as he stands on his war-chariot,
drawn by five fawn-coloured horses, he is in a sort the type of an Aryan chieftain; he is sometimes
assisted by other gods, but he more frequently fights alone; he is the dispenser, moreover,
of all good gifts, and the author and preserver of all living; his power extends over the heavens,
and he holds the earth in the hollow of his hand.

INDUCTION, the name given to the logical process by which from a study of particular instances
we arrive at a general principle or law. The term is also applied to an electric or magnetic
effect produced without direct contact and equal to the cause, being essentially its reproduction.

INDULGENCE, remission by Church authority of the guilt of a sin on the penitent confession
of the sinner to a priest, which, according to Roman Catholic theology, the Church is enabled
to dispense out of the inexhaustible treasury in reserve of the merits of Christ.

INDUS, a great river of India, 1800 m. long; rises in Thibet, on the N. of the Himalayas, flows
NW. through Cashmere, then SW. through the Punjab and Sind to the sea; its upper course is
through great gorges and very rapid, but after the entrance of the Kabul River its way lies
through arid plains, and it is navigable; after receiving the Panjnad its volume decreases
through evaporation and the sinking of some of the many streams into which it divides in the
sand; on one of the branches of the delta stands the thriving port of Kurrachee.

INERTIA, that property of bodies by which they remain in a state of rest or of motion in a
straight line till disturbed by a force moving them in the one case or arresting them in the other.

INEZ DE CASTRO. See CASTRO.

INFALLIBILITY, freedom from all error in the past and from all possibility of error in the
future as claimed by the Church of Rome. This claim extends to all matters of faith, morals,
and discipline in the Church, and is based on an interpretation of Matt. xvi. 18, xxviii. 19;
Eph. iv. 11-16, and other passages. It is held that the Church is incapable of embracing any
false doctrine from whatever quarter suggested, and that she is guided by the Divine Spirit
in actively opposing heresy, in teaching all necessary truth, and in deciding all relative
matters of controversy. Infallibility is not claimed in connection with matters of fact, science,
or general opinion. The seat of infallibility has been much disputed even in the Roman Catholic
Church itself, and the infallibility of the Pope was only decreed so recently as the Vatican
Council in 1870. It was always agreed that where the Pope and Bishops were unanimous they were
infallible, and their unanimity might be expressed either in a general council, or in a decree
of a local council tacitly accepted by the Pope and the rest of the Church, or even in a decree
of the Pope alone if the bishops either expressly or tacitly affirmed it. But the Vatican Council
decided "that when the Roman Pontiff speaks ex cathedrâ--that is, when he, using his office
as pastor and doctor of all Christians, in virtue of his apostolic office, defines a doctrine
of faith and morals to be held by the whole Church--he by the Divine assistance, promised to
him by the blessed Peter, possesses that infallibility with which the Divine Redeemer was pleased
to invest His Church in the definition of doctrine in faith or morals, and that therefore such
definitions of the Roman Pontiff are irreformable in their own nature and not because of the
consent of the Church." The Greek Church puts forward a moderate claim to inerrancy, holding
that as a matter of fact those councils which she regards as oecumenical have not erred in
their decrees affecting faith and morals.

INFANTE, INFANTA, the titles given respectively to the royal princes and princesses of Spain
and Portugal.

INFERI, the name given by the Latins to the nether world and the gods of it.

INFERNO, the hell of Dante, represented as included in nine circles, of which the first six,
constituting the uppermost hell, are occupied by those who cannot govern themselves yet have
no mind to harm any one else, of which the seventh, constituting the mid-hell, is occupied
by those who cannot govern their thoughts, and of which the eighth and ninth, constituting
the nether hell, are occupied by those who have wilfully done harm to other people, those in
the eighth in hot blood and those in the ninth or lowest in cold blood, the former in passion
and the latter without passion, far down below the freezing-point. See Ruskin's "Fors Clavigera,"
more fully, and by way of authority for this.

INFLECTION, the name given to the changes in the end of words to indicate relations, not so
common in English--being usually expressed among us by prepositions--as in Latin, Greek, and
other languages, but occurring in English as king's, mine, ours, to indicate possession; inflection
in nouns is called declension, and in verbs conjugation.

INFLUENZA, an epidemic disease, closely resembles, but is quite distinct from, cold in the
head. It is characterised by early and marked debility and depression; though usually of short
duration, attacks must not be disregarded; fatal results often ensue on carelessness. Convalescence
is slow, and complications may ensue. The cause of the malady is obscure; sporadic cases always
occur, but from time to time great epidemics of this disease have travelled westward over the
world. Their movement seems to depend on atmospheric conditions, but is independent of the
season of the year and often contrary to the direction of the wind. Visitations occurred in
Britain in 1837-38, 1847-48, and 1889-91.

INFRALAPSARIANS, those Calvinists who believe that election and predestination are subsequent
to the Fall, while the Supralapsarians believe that these ordinations are as old as eternity.

INFUSORIA, a name given to certain classes of animalculæ engendered in stagnant water infused
with decaying organic matter.

INGELOW, JEAN, poetess and novelist, born at Boston, Lincolnshire, died at Kensington; her
earliest work appeared anonymously, but a volume of verses under her name was successful in
1863; her poetry is chiefly religious and devotional; later she wrote for children; subsequently
she turned to novels, and produced besides several others "Off the Skelligs" in 1872; she will
be remembered for her ballad "High Tide on the Coast of Lincolnshire," and a song "Supper at
the Mill" (1820-1897).

INGEMANN, BERNHARD SEVERIN, a Danish poet and novelist; in the latter regard took Scott for
his model, his subjects being historical; was a man of varied literary ability (1789-1862).

INGLEBY, CLEMENT MANSFIELD, Shakespearian scholar, born near Birmingham, passed from Cambridge,
where he graduated in 1847, to practise as a solicitor, but abandoned law for literature in
1859; his early works were of a philosophical nature, but he is best known as the author of
a long series of works on Shakespearian subjects, of which "The Shakespeare Fabrications" was
the first and "Shakespeare: the Man and the Book" the chief; he was a Vice-President of the
Royal Society of Literature (1823-1886).

INGLESANT, JOHN, a celebrated romance by J. H. Shorthouse.

INGLIS, SIR JAMES, a Fifeshire gentleman, who in the reign of James IV. distinguished himself
against the English and was knighted; author of "Complaint of Scotland"; d. 1554.

INGLIS, SIR JOHN, English general; entered the army at 19, served in Canada in 1837; was sent
to India, and distinguished himself in the Punjab in 1848; at the outbreak of the Mutiny was
stationed at Lucknow, where he heroically defended the residency for 87 days till the relief
of the city by Havelock and Outram (1814-1862).

INGLIS, SIR ROBERT HARRY, Conservative statesman, opposed every Liberal measure of the period,
from that of Catholic Emancipation to the Abolition of the Corn Laws (1786-1855).

INGOLDSBY, THOMAS, the pseudonym of REV. RICHARD BARHAM (q. v.), author of "Ingoldsby Legends,"
a collection of humorous tales in verse.

INGOLSTADT (16), a Bavarian town and fortress on the Danube, 50 m. N. of Münich, has many ancient
associations; once the seat of a university; its manufactures now are beer, cannon, gunpowder;
salt is mined in the vicinity.

INGRAHAM, JOSEPH HOLT, author of "The Prince of the House of David," born at Portland, Maine;
after some years spent at sea, became a teacher of languages in Mississippi, and was ordained
Episcopal clergyman in 1855; prior to his ordination he wrote stories of adventure, "Captain
Kyd," &c., but subsequently confined himself to biblical subjects (1809-1860).

INGRES, JEAN DOMINIQUE AUGUSTE, a great French painter, born at Montauban; studied in Paris;
in 1806 went to Rome, and 14 years after to Florence, but became professor of Fine Arts at
the Academy in Paris in 1824; wounded by hostile criticisms he left Paris for Rome again in
1834, where he became Director of the French Academy in Rome; in 1841 he returned to Paris,
where he died; he followed his master David in his choice of classical subjects, but his work
met with varied reception, now favourable, now the reverse; the "Portrait of Cherubini," and
other pictures, however, won for him great admiration in his later days; he was made a Grand
Officer of the Legion of Honour (1781-1867).

INGULPH, abbot of Croyland, long credited with the authorship of a history of the monastery,
which has since been proved to be a fabrication of a later date, of probably the 13th or 14th
century; he was appointed abbot in 1080; d. 1109.

INKERMANN, a small Tartar village E. of Sebastopol harbour; the scene of a battle between the
Russians and allied forces, to the defeat of the former after a prolonged struggle on 5th November
1854.

INNER TEMPLE. See INNS OF COURT.

INNES, COSMO, lawyer and antiquary, born at Durris, of an old Scotch family; professor of History
in Edinburgh University; author of "Scotland in the Middle Ages," "Lectures on Scotch Legal
Antiquities," and "Sketches of Early Scotch History" (1798-1874).

INNES, THOMAS (FATHER INNES) Scotch historian, born in Aberdeenshire, educated at Paris; became
a priest in 1692; after three years' service in Banffshire he returned to Paris, where he held
a scholastic appointment till his death; in politics a Jacobite, in religious matters he had
leanings to the Jansenist heresy; a diligent student of Scottish history, he produced the earliest
scientific Scoto-historical works; his "Critical Essay on the Ancient Inhabitants of Scotland"
and "Civil and Ecclesiastical History of Scotland" (unfinished), display honesty and penetration
(1662-1744).

INNISFAIL, an ancient name of Ireland.

INNOCENT, the name of 13 popes: INNOCENT I., Pope from 402 to 417; INNOCENT II., pope from
1130 to 1143; INNOCENT III., Pope from 1198 to 1216; INNOCENT IV., Pope from 1243 to 1254;
INNOCENT V., Pope in 1276; INNOCENT VI., Pope from 1352 to 1362, resided at Avignon; INNOCENT
VII., Pope from 1404 to 1406; INNOCENT VIII., Pope from 1484 to 1492; INNOCENT IX., Pope in
1591; INNOCENT X., Pope from 1644 to 1655, condemned Jansenism; INNOCENT XI., Pope from 1676
to 1689; INNOCENT XII., Pope from 1691 to 1700; INNOCENT XIII., Pope from 1721 to 1724; of
these there were two of note.

INNOCENT III., the greatest of the name, born in Arragon; succeeded Celestine III.; extended
the territorial power of the Church, and made nearly all Christendom subject to its sway; essayed
the recovery of Palestine, and promoted a crusade against the Albigenses; excommunicated Otto
IV., emperor of Germany; put England under an interdict, and deposed King John; was zealous
for the purity as well as supremacy of the Church, and countenanced every movement that contributed
to enhance its influence and stereotype its beliefs as well as its forms of worship, transubstantiation
among the one and auricular confession among the other; though harsh, and even cruel, to those
whom he conceived to be the enemies of the faith, he was personally a man of blameless life,
and did much to reform the morals of the clergy.

INNOCENT XI., succeeded Clement X., is celebrated for his contest with Louis XIV., and as giving
occasion thereby to a protest of the Gallican clergy, and a declaration on their part of what
is known as the GALLICAN LIBERTIES (q. v.), and for a further contest he had with Louis in
regard to certain immunities claimed, to the scandal of the Church, by foreign ambassadors
residing in Rome, an interference which Louis resented on behalf of his representatives among
them, but, as it happened in vain.

INNOCENTS, THE HOLY, FEAST OF, a festival celebrated in the Western Church on the 28th December
and in the Eastern on the 29th, to commemorate the slaughter by Herod of the children at Bethlehem
from two years old and under, and who have from the earliest times been included among the
holy martyrs of the Church.

INNS OF COURT, are four voluntary societies--Lincoln's Inn, the Inner and the Middle Temple,
and Gray's Inn--with whom rests the exclusive right to call men to the English bar; they provide
lectures and hold examinations in law, and they have discretionary powers to refuse admission
to the bar or to expel and disqualify persons of unsuitable character from it; each Inn possesses
considerable property, a dining hall, library, and chapel, and is subject to the jurisdiction
of an irresponsible, self-elective body of Benchers, who are usually judges or senior counsel;
these societies originated in the 13th century, when the practice of law passed out of the
hands of the clergy.

INNSBRUCK (23), on the Inn, at the head of the Brenner Pass, 100 m. S. of Münich; is the capital
of the Austrian Tyrol, an ancient and beautiful town, rich in art treasures, with a university
and manufactures of woollen cloth, glass ware, and stained glass.

INO, the daughter of Cadmus and Harmonia, the wife of Athamas, king of Thebes, who was changed
into a sea-deity as she fled for refuge from her husband, who had gone raving mad and sought
her life.

INOCULATION is the introduction of disease germs into the system, usually by puncture of the
skin or hypodermic injection; many diseases so introduced assume a mild form, and render the
subject not liable to the severe form. Inoculation for smallpox, the virus being taken from
actual smallpox pustules, was practised by the ancient Brahmans and by the Chinese 600 years
before Christ, and its practice continued in the East. It was introduced to this country from
Turkey in 1717, and extensively practised until superseded by Jenner's discovery of vaccination
at the end of the century, and finally prohibited by law in 1840. Inoculation has been found
successful in the prevention of other diseases, notably anthrax, hydrophobia, and recently malaria.

INQUISITION, an ecclesiastical tribunal established in 1248 under Pope Innocent IV., and set
up successively in Italy, Spain, Germany, and the S. of France, for the trial and punishment
of heretics, of which that established in Spain achieved the greatest notoriety from the number
of victims it sacrificed, and the remorseless tortures to which they were subjected, both when
under examination to extort confession and after conviction. The rigour of its action began
to abate in the 17th century, but it was not till 1835, after frequent attempts to limit its
power and suppress it, that it was abolished in Spain. Napoleon suppressed it in France in
1808, and after an attempted revival from 1814 to 1820, its operations there came to an end.
ST. DOMINIC (q. v.) has the credit of having invented the institution by the zeal which animated
him for the orthodoxy of the Church.

INSANITY. See INSPIRATION.

INSPIRATION, an earnest, divinely-awakened, soul-subduing sense and perception of the presence
of the invisible in the visible, of the infinite in the finite, of the ideal in the real, of
the divine in the human, and, in ecstatic moments, of very God in man, accompanied with a burning
desire to impart to others the vision revealed; distinguished as "seraphic" from insanity as
"demonic" by this, that the inspired man sees an invisible which is there, and the insane an
invisible which is not there, states of mind so like otherwise that the one may be, and often
is, mistaken for the other, the inspired man taken for an insane, and the insane man for an
inspired.

INSPIRATION OF THE SCRIPTURES. According to one view the Scriptures are throughout verbally
inspired, and every word in them dictated by the Spirit of God; according to another, though
they are not verbally inspired, they contain a record of divine things written under divine
inspiration; according to a third, though not written under divine inspiration in any part,
they contain a faithful record of a divine revelation; and according to a fourth, they contain
a record merely of what a succession of God-fearing men in sympathy with each other and their
race saw and felt to be the clear purpose of God in His providence of the world.

INSPIRED IDIOT, Horace Walpole's name for Oliver Goldsmith.

INSTITUTE OF FRANCE was established by the Directory in 1795, to take the place of the four
academies suppressed by the Convention two years previously. In 1816 Louis XVIII. gave back
the old names to its four sections, viz. L'Académie Française, L'Académie des Inscriptions
et Belles-lettres, L'Académie des Sciences, and L'Académie des Beaux Arts. In 1832 was added
L'Académie des Sciences Morales et Politiques. Each academy has its own separate organisation
and work, and participates besides in the advantages of the common library, archives, and funds.
Election, which is in every case subject to government confirmation, is by ballot, and every
member receives an annual salary of at least 1500 francs. Government votes a sum of money annually
to the Institute. Members of the French Academy have special duties and privileges, and in
some cases special remuneration. They allot every year prizes for eloquence and poetry; a prize
"to the poor Frenchman who has done the most virtuous action throughout the year," and one
to the Frenchman "who has written and published the book most conducive to good morals." Membership
in the Académie Française is strictly limited to 40 Frenchmen. The others have, besides, from
40 to 70 members each, also Associate, foreign and corresponding, members. The Institute centralises
the pursuit of all branches of knowledge and art, and has been the model of similar national
institutes in Madrid, Lisbon, Stockholm, and St. Petersburg.

INSTITUTES OF THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION, a celebrated work of Calvin's, in exposition of the doctrines
of the French Protestants, hence called Calvinists in France. See CALVIN.

INTAGLIO, name given to a gem with a design incised in the surface.

INTELLECT, the faculty of clear and decisive intelligence, or of instant and sure perception.

INTERLAKEN (2), a small town, a pretty place, on the Aar, in Switzerland, "between the lakes"
Thun and Brienz; it is near to some of the finest Swiss scenery, and is a famous health resort,
and visited annually by 25,000 tourists.

INTERNATIONAL, THE, a secret socialistic organisation, the outcome of the teaching of Karl
Marx, which, though it has changed its name, has wide-spread ramifications throughout Europe,
the object of which appears to be the emancipation of labour, and the assertion everywhere
of the sovereign rights of the working-man, to the extinction of all merely national and class
interests.

INTUITION, a name given to immediate knowledge, as distinct from mediate or inferential knowledge,
and which is matter of consciousness or direct perception.

INTUS-SUSCEPTION, a displacement of the bowel, in which a higher portion becomes folded or
telescoped into a lower; is a frequent cause of obstruction, and a serious, though not always
fatal, condition; the term is also applied to the process by which nutriment is absorbed and
becomes part of the system.

INVALIDES, HÔTEL DES, an institution in Paris, founded by Louis XIV. in 1674, for retired court
servants and invalided soldiers; the church, the nave of which is adorned with military trophies,
is surmounted by a majestic dome, under which the remains of Napoleon were deposited in 1840.

INVERARAY, county town of Argyllshire, on the NW. shore of Loch Fyne, close to which is the
castle, the residence of the Duke of Argyll.

INVERNESS (21), county town of Inverness-shire and capital of the Northern Highlands, is situated
on the Ness, near the Moray Firth, amid picturesque surroundings, is rich in interesting memories;
has several public institutions, several manufactures, and a considerable trade; the inhabitants
are distinguished for the purity of their English.

INVERNESS-SHIRE (90), the largest county in Scotland, stretches from the Moray Firth to the
Atlantic, and includes many islands, Skye, the Outer Hebrides (except Lewis), and others; it
embraces a large part of the Highlands, is very mountainous, has many glens and lochs, but
little fertile land; there are large deer forests, grouse moors, and sheep runs; Ben Nevis,
the highest mountain in the British Isles (4406 ft.), is in this county.

INVISIBLE, THE, He who or that which cannot be seen, felt, handled, or even conceived of, and
yet who or which is, and alone is, as no one, as nothing else can be.

IO, in the Greek mythology a daughter of INACHOS (q. v.), beloved by Zeus, whom Hera out of
jealousy changed into a heifer and set the hundred-eyed Argus to watch, but when Zeus had by
Hermes slain the watcher, Hera sent a gadfly to goad over the world, over which she ranged
distractedly till she reached Egypt, where Osiris married her, and was in connection with him
worshipped as Isis.

IODINE, a non-metallic element originally obtained from kelp, but now found in South America
in combination with sodium, used largely both free and in combination in medicine and surgery,
in photography, and in making aniline dyes.

IODOFORM, a crystalline substance similar to chloroform in composition, only in it iodine takes
the place of chlorine; it is used in surgery as an antiseptic.

IOLCUS, a town in Thessaly, the port from which the Argonauts sailed in quest of the Golden Fleece.

ION, in the Greek mythology son of Apollo by Creusa, and exposed by her in the cave where she
bore him, but who was conveyed by the god to Delphi and educated by a priestess, and was afterwards
owned by his mother, and became the ancestor of the Ionians, her husband, Xuthus, being kept
throughout in the dark.

IONA, a fertile little island 1½ m. W. of Mull, where St. Columba landed from Ireland A.D.
563, and built a monastery which was for centuries the centre of ecclesiastical life and missionary
enterprise among the Scots of Scotland and Ireland and the Angles of the N. of England. It
is 3½ m. long and 1½ broad.

IONIA, ancient name of the western districts of Asia Minor between the Hermus and the Mæander,
with adjacent islands; was colonised by Greeks 1050 B.C., and its chief cities, including Miletus,
Ephesus, Samos, Chios, and later Smyrna, formed the Ionian League; the Ionians were noted for
wealth, art, and luxury; coming under Persian yoke in 557 B.C. they deserted to Greece 479
B.C., in the great war, and became again independent; from 387 B.C. they were again under Persia
till Alexander the Great took them and merged their history in that of the surrounding peoples.

IONIAN ISLANDS (250), a chain of forty mountainous islands lying off the W. coast of Greece,
the largest being Corfu (78), Santa Maura (25), Cephalonia (80), and Zante (44). The climate
is good, and there is much fertile soil in the valleys except in Cephalonia; corn, grapes,
and currants are grown; sulphur and coal are found in Corfu; their history has been very chequered;
after belonging at different times to Venice, France and Turkey, they were seized by Britain
and constituted a dependency in 1815; never satisfied with British rule, they were a source
of constant friction which Mr. Gladstone's mission in 1858 was insufficient to allay, and were
handed over to Greece in 1863.

IONIC ORDER, an order of Grecian architecture, characterised by the volute of its capital in
the form of a ram's horn, and in which the cornice is dentated, the shaft fluted, and the entablature
plain or embellished.

IONIC SCHOOL, the name of the earliest of the schools of philosophy in Greece, the prominent
members of which were natives of Ionia, one and all of whom traced the beginning or basis of
things back to the action of some physical agent, such as water, air, fire, &c., and among
whom are reckoned such men as Thales, Anaximander, Anaximenes, and Heraclitus.

IOWA (1,754), one of the United States, on the right bank of the Mississippi River, with Minnesota
to the N. and Missouri to the S., and the Missouri River on its western border; is well watered,
very fertile, and, though liable to extremes of temperature, very healthy; agriculture flourishes,
the country being an undulating plain and most of the soil being arable; cereals and root crops
are raised, cattle fed; there are poultry and dairy farms; coal, gypsum, and lead are mined;
manufactures include mill products, canned meats, and agricultural implements; general education
in the State is advanced, State policy in this respect being liberal; Iowa was admitted to
the Union, 1846; Des Moines (32) is the capital; Iowa (7) is the seat of the State University
and of some flour-mills and factories.

IPHICRATES, a famous Athenian general, the son of a shoemaker, celebrated throughout Greece
for his defeat of the Spartans in 392, as well as for other great military exploits, for which
he was rewarded by his countrymen with almost unprecedented honours; d. 348 B.C.

IPHIGENIA, the daughter of Agamemnon and Clytemnestra; her father having killed a favourite
deer belonging to Artemis in Aulis as he was setting out for Troy, the goddess was offended,
and CALCHAS (q. v.), when consulted, told him she could only be appeased by the sacrifice of
his daughter; this he proceeded to do, but as he was preparing to offer her up the goddess
descended in a cloud, carried her off to Tauris, and made her a priestess in her temple. The
story has been dramatised by Euripides, Racine, and Geothe.

IPSUS, a small town in Phrygia, the scene of a great contest between the generals of Alexander
for succession to the empire.

IPSWICH (57), a town in Suffolk, on the Orwell, 12 m. from the sea; is an old town, and has
a number of interesting, as well as some old-fashioned, buildings; is well provided with churches
and educational establishments, and was the birthplace of Cardinal Wolsey; manufactures agricultural
implements, and exports besides these leather, oil, coke and agricultural produce.

IQUIQUE (16), important seaport in the N. of Chili; exports nitrates, iodine, and silver.

IRAK-ARABI, ancient Babylonia watered by the Euphrates and the Tigris.

IRAN, the ancient name or plateau of Asia, extending N. and S. between the Hindu Kush and the
Persian Gulf, and E. and W. between the Indus and Kurdistan; inhabited by the Aryans; is the
official name for Persia.

IRANIANS, the inhabitants of Iran, a people constituting an important branch of the Indo-European
family, including the Persians, Medes, &c.

IRAWADI, a river, navigable throughout its whole course, formed by the union of two streams
from the mountains of Thibet; flows S. through Burma 700 miles, passing Mandalay, and falling
into the Bay of Bengal in a delta, on one branch of which stands Rangoon.

IRELAND (5,175), an island rather more than half the size of and lying to the west of England
and Wales, from which it is divided by the North Channel (13 m. wide), the Irish Sea (140 m.),
and the St. George's Channel (50 m.). It consists of a large undulating plain in the centre,
containing extensive bogs, several large loughs--Neagh, the Erne, Allen, Derg, drained by the
rivers Shannon, Barrow, Liffey, and Boyne, and surrounded on almost all sides by maritime highlands,
of which those on the SW., NW., and E. are the highest. The N. and W. coasts are rugged and
much indented. The climate is milder, more equable, and somewhat more rainy than that of England;
but the cereal and green crops are the same. Flax is grown in the N. The tendency is to revert
to pasturage however, agriculture being generally in a backward state. Unfavourable land-laws,
small holdings, and want of capital have told heavily against the Irish peasantry. Fisheries
are declining. The chief manufacture is linen in Belfast and other Ulster towns. Irish exports
consist of dairy produce, cattle, and linen, and are chiefly to Great Britain. Primary education
is largely supported by government grants; there are many excellent schools and colleges; the
chief universities are Dublin and the Royal (an examining body only). In Ulster the Protestants
slightly outnumber the Roman Catholics, in all other parts the Roman Catholics are in a vast
majority. Ireland was occupied by Iberian peoples in prehistoric times; these were conquered
and absorbed by Celtic tribes; many kingdoms were set up, and strife and confusion prevailed.
There was Christianity in the island before St. Patrick crossed from Strathclyde in the 5th
century. Invasions by Danes, 8th to 10th centuries, and conquest by Normans under Henry II.
1162-1172, fomented the national disquiet. Under Tudor and Stuart rule the history of the country
is a long story of faction and feud among the chiefs and nobles, of rebellions, expeditions,
massacres, and confiscations. Sympathy with the Stuarts brought on it the scourge of Cromwell
(1649) and the invasion by William III. Thereafter the penal laws excluded Roman Catholics
from Parliament. The union of the Irish with the British Parliament took place in 1801. Catholic
disabilities were removed 1829. An agitation for the repeal of the Union was begun in 1842
by Daniel O'Connell, and carried on by the Fenian movement of 1867 and the Home Rule movement
led by Charles Parnell. A Home Rule bill was lost in the Commons in 1886, and another in the
Lords in 1893. The Church of Ireland (Protestant Episcopal) was disestablished in 1871. Since
the Union the executive has been in the hands of a lord-lieutenant, secretary, and council
appointed by the Crown. Ireland is far behind Great Britain in wealth, and its population has
been steadily declining.

IRELAND, SAMUEL WILLIAM HENRY, a notorious forger of Shakespearian relics, born in London,
son of a dealer in old books and prints; imposed on his father and a number of lovers of the
antique, till he was exposed by Malone; he published a confession of his forgeries, and died
in obscurity and poverty (1777-1835).

IRENÆUS, one of the Fathers of the Church; was bishop of Lyons, and suffered martyrdom about
202; had been a disciple of Polycarp; wrote against the Gnostics in a work in Greek, which
all to a few fragments in Latin is lost.

IRE`NE, the daughter of Zeus and Themis, the Greek goddess of peace; she was an object of worship
both in Athens and Rome, is represented as holding in her left arm a cornucopia, and in her
right hand an olive branch.

IRENE, empress of Constantinople, born in Athens, a poor orphan girl, famous for her beauty,
her talents, and her crimes; was banished to Lesbos, where she maintained herself by spinning;
has been canonised by the Greek Church for her zeal in image worship (752-803).

IRETON, HENRY, born at Altenborough, Notts; graduated at Cambridge 1629, and studied law; on
outbreak of Civil War he joined the Parliamentarian party, and marrying Cromwell's daughter
acquired great influence; took a leading part in the prosecution of the king, was one of his
judges, and signed the warrant for his execution; kept by Cromwell in Ireland in 1650, he proved
a stern deputy, and died of the plague before Limerick; he was a man of great vigour of character,
whose zeal for justice made him almost cruel (1611-1651).

IRIDIUM, a metallic elementary body of rare occurrence, and found in the ores of platinum.

IRIS, the daughter of Thaumus (i. e. wonder) and of the ocean nymph Electra (i. e. splendour);
was the goddess of the rainbow, and as such the messenger of the gods, particularly of Zeus
and Hera, the appearance of the rainbow being regarded as a sign that communications of good
omen were passing between heaven and earth, as it was to Noah that they would continue to be
kept up; she is represented as dressed in a long wide tunic, over which hangs a light upper
garment, and with golden wings on her shoulders.

IRKUTSK (421), a central Siberian province, separated from China by the Sayan Mountains; it
has Lake Baikal on the E., Yenisei and Yakutsk on the W. and N.; a rich pastoral country, watered
by the navigable rivers Angara and the Lena, agriculture, cattle rearing are prosperous industries;
there are gold, iron, and salt mines; one-third of the population are forced colonists; the
capital, Irkutsk (45), is the seat of government for Eastern Siberia, an ecclesiastical centre,
and the chief emporium of commerce; it is the finest city in Siberia.

IRMIN, a Teutonic tribal deity; was honoured by wooden pillars with his image on the top, greatly
reverenced by the people; the constellation "The Plough" was known as "Irmin's Chariot."

IRON AGE, the last of the three stages, stone, bronze, iron, which mark the prehistoric development
of most now civilised peoples; these, of course, occurred at different periods, and were of
different duration in different cases; they are named from the material employed in making
cutting instruments and weapons; the forms of instruments are freer than in the bronze period,
and rectilineal gives places to free curvilineal decoration; this age is marked, too, by the
introduction of writing and the beginning of literary and historic records. See AGES.

IRON CITY, Pittsburg, Pennsylvania, from its numerous iron-works.

IRON CROWN, the crown of the ancient Lombard kings, a golden circlet studded with jewels, and
so called as enclosing a ring of iron said to have been one of the nails of the cross, beaten
out; Napoleon had it brought from Monza, and crowned himself with it as king of Italy. It is
now in Vienna.

IRON DUKE, Duke of Wellington, from his iron will, it is surmised.

IRON GATE, the name given to dangerous rapids in the Danube at Orsova, as it issues out of Hungary.

IRON HAND, GOETZ VON BERLICHINGEN (q. v.).

IRON MASK, MAN WITH THE, a prisoner who in the reign of Louis XIV. wore, when he was transferred
from prison to prison, what seemed an iron mask to prevent any one discovering and revealing
his identity, over which to this day there hangs an impenetrable veil; he is reported to have
been young and of noble form, and the conclusion is that he was a man of distinction.

IRONCLADS were originally wooden vessels protected by iron plates; they were used at the siege
of Gibraltar in 1782; the French had them in the Crimean War, and in 1858 built four iron-plated
line-of-battle ships; in 1860 England built the Warrior, an iron steam battleship with 4½-inch
plates; since then new types have succeeded each other very quickly; the modern ironclad is
built of steel and armed with steel plates sometimes 2 feet thick; the term is now loosely
applied to all armoured vessels, whether battleships, or cruisers, or gunboats, and whether
of iron or steel.

IRONSIDES, Cromwell's troopers, a thousand strong, and raised by him in the Eastern counties
of England, so called at first from the invincibility displayed by them at Marston Moor; were
selected by Cromwell "as men," he says, "that had the fear of God before them, and made conscience
of what they did.... They were never beaten," he adds, "and wherever they were engaged against
the enemy, they beat continually."

IRONY is a subtle figure of speech in which, while one thing is said, some indication serves
to show that quite the opposite is meant; thus apparent praise becomes severe condemnation
or ridicule; practical irony is evinced in ostensibly furthering some one's hopes and wishes
while really leading him to his overthrow. Life and history are full of irony in the contrast
between ambitions and their realisation.

IRONY, SOCRATIC, the name given to a practice of Socrates with pretentious people; "affecting
ignorance and pretending to solicit information, he was in the habit of turning round upon
the sciolist and confounding his presumption, both by the unlooked-for consequences he educed
by his incessant questions and by the glaring contradictions the other was in the end landed
by his admissions."

IROQUOIS, one of the most intelligent branches of the North American Indians, comprised a confederation
of five, afterwards six, tribes, among whom the leading place was taken by the Mohawks; their
territory lay inland in what is now New York State and the basin of the St. Lawrence. Numbering
some 25,000, they maintained their own against the hereditary foes by whom they were surrounded;
they took kindly to English and Dutch settlers, but were hostile to the French, and in the
wars of the 18th century were allies of England against the French; their descendants, about
12,000, in reservations in Canada and New York are a peaceful people, have accepted English
religion and culture, and have proved themselves skilful and industrious agriculturists.

IRREDUCIBLE CASE, name given to a cubic equation which cannot be solved by the rule of CARDAN
(q. v.).

IRTISH, an enormous river of Western Siberia and chief tributary of the Obi; its course from
the Altai Mountains runs NW. through the Siberian plains for 1200 m.; it is navigable almost
all the way in summer, and in winter it is a highway for sledge traffic; on its banks stand
Semipalatinsk, Omsk, and Tobolsk.

IRVING, EDWARD, a great pulpit orator, born in Annan, Dumfriesshire; bred for the Scotch Church,
became in 1819 assistant to Dr. Chalmers in Glasgow, and removed in 1822 to the Caledonian
Church, London, where he attracted to his preaching the world of fashion as well as intellect
in the city, who soon grew tired of him and left him, after which he took to extravagances
which did not draw them back, and drew around him instead a set of people more fanatical than
himself, and whose influence over him, to which he weakly yielded, infatuated him still more;
the result was that he was deposed from the ministry of the Church that sent him forth, and
became for a time the centre of an organisation which still exists, in a modified form, and
bears his name; he was the bosom friend in his early days of Thomas Carlyle, and no one mourned
more over his aberration than he, for he loved him to the end. Scotland sent him forth," he
says, "a herculean man, but our mad Babylon wore him and wasted him with all her engines, and
it took her 12 years"; he died in Glasgow, aged 42, "hoary as with extreme age," and lies buried
in a crypt of the cathedral there (1792-1834).

IRVING, SIR HENRY (John Henry Brodribb), born near Glastonbury; was at first a clerk in London,
appeared on the Sunderland stage in 1856, spent three years in Edinburgh, and gradually worked
his way at Glasgow and Manchester, till he was invited to London ten years afterwards; his
performance of Hamlet at the Lyceum in 1874 established his reputation as a tragedian; since
then he has remained at the head of his profession, and both in this country and in America
secured many triumphs in Macbeth, Shylock, and other Shakespearian characters, and in roles
like those of Matthias in "The Bells," "Mephistopheles in Faust," &c.; he has contributed to
the literature of Acting, and received knighthood in 1895: b. 1838.

IRVING, WASHINGTON, popular American essayist and historian, born of British parentage in New
York, was delicate in early life; his education suffered accordingly, and he travelled in Europe,
1804-6, visiting Italy, France, and England; returning to New York he was called to the bar,
put he devoted himself to a literary career, only interrupted by one period of commercial life,
and occasional short terms of diplomatic service; he first won fame by his "History of New
York, by Diedrich Knickerbocker," 1809, a good-natured satire on the Dutch settlers; the years
1815-32 he spent in Europe studying and writing; his "Sketch-Book," 1819-20, was very successful,
as were "Bracebridge Hall," "Tales of a Traveller," and other volumes which followed it; going
to Spain in 1826 he began his researches in Spanish history which resulted in "The Life of
Columbus," "The Conquest of Granada," and other works which introduced English readers to the
Spain of the 15th and 16th centuries; on his return to America he was treated with great respect
by his countrymen; declining the honours they would have given him had he turned aside to politics,
he continued to write; among his latest works were "Mahomet and his Successors" and a "Life
of Washington"; much courted in society, he was kind and generous in disposition; his writings
are marked by humour, observation, and descriptive power; these qualities with an excellent
style place him in the foremost rank of American authors; he died, unmarried, at Tarrytown,
New York (1783-1859).

IRVINGITES, the name given to the Catholic Apostolic Church as founded by Edward Irving, which
is repudiated by them, as disclaiming all earthly leadership; their ministry is after the Apostolic
order, includes prophets, evangelists, and pastors, and they employ material symbols in their
worship besides those of water in baptism and wine in communion, such as incense; the Eucharist
they regard as a sacrifice, and they believe in the permanency of the spiritual gifts of the
primitive Church.

ISAAC, a Hebrew patriarch, son of Abraham, born to him when he was old; a mild man with no
great force of character, and a contrast to Ishmael, his half-brother; lived to a great age.

ISSAC I., COMNENUS, Emperor of the East from 1057 to 1059; raised to the throne by the army;
ruled well, but falling ill and fearing he had not long to live. He retired and spent his two
remaining years in a monastery; he was a student and annotator of Homer.

ISSAC II., ANGELUS, Emperor of the East; a good man, but weak; became emperor in 1185, was
dethroned by his brother Alexis in 1195; reinstated by the Crusaders in 1203, but overthrown
six months after in 1204.

ISAC OF YORK, the father of Rebecca in "Ivanhoe."

ISABELLA, queen of Castile; her marriage with Ferdinand of Aragon led to the union under one
sceptre of the crowns of Aragon and Castile, which was followed 10 years after by their united
occupancy of the throne of all Spain; she was an able woman, and associated with her husband
in every affair of State (1451-1504). See FERDINAND V.

ISABELLA II., ex-queen of Spain, daughter of Ferdinand VII.; succeeded him in 1833; was forced
to leave the country in 1868; took refuge in France, and in 1870 abdicated in favour of her son.

ISABEY JEAN BAPTISTE, French portrait-painter, born at Nancy; painted many of the notabilities
of France in his day (1767-1855).

ISÆUS, an Attic orator, and the teacher of Demosthenes; wrote 64 orations, of which only 10
are extant, and these not on political issues but forensic, and particularly the law of inheritance.

ISAIAH, one of the great Hebrew prophets, the son of one Amoz; was a citizen of Jerusalem,
evidently of some standing, and who flourished between 750 and 700 B.C.; like AMOS (q. v.),
he foresaw the judgment that was coming on the nation for its unfaithfulness, but felt assured
that God would not altogether forsake His people, and that "a remnant," God's elect among them,
would be saved--that though the casket would be shattered in pieces, the jewel it contained
would be preserved. See HEBREW PROPHECY.

ISAIAH, THE ASCENSION OF, an apocryphal book giving an incoherent account of the martyrdom
of Isaiah, and a vision he had under the reign of Hezekiah, apparently the origin of the tradition
in Heb. xi. 37, about the prophet having been "sawn asunder."

ISAIAH, THE PROPHECIES OF, consist of two divisions, the first extending from chap. i. to chap.
xxxix., and the second from chap. xl. to the end; these two divisions were for long believed
to be throughout the work of Isaiah the son of Amoz, but modern criticism assigns them in the
main to different authors, the one living 150 years after the other; and the reasons for this
conclusion are that the author of the latter belonged to a different period of Jewish history
from that of the former, is not of the same temper, and has much deeper spiritual insight,
while his hopes and expectations are built on a more spiritual view of the method of salvation,
the Messiah of the former, for instance, being a conquering king, and that of the latter a
suffering Redeemer, who to save the nation has to bear the burden of its sins, and the brunt
of them, and so bearing, bear them away.

ISAMBERT, FRANÇOIS ANDRÉ, a noteworthy French lawyer, politician, and historian, born at Aunay;
began to practise in Paris at the age of twenty-six; becoming known in politics, he gained
considerable renown by certain works on French law and by his advocacy of the claims of the
liberated slaves in the French West Indies; entering the Chamber of Deputies after the Revolution
of July 1830, he set himself to oppose the Jesuits and to further freedom; "The Religious Conditions
of France and Europe" and a "History of Jerusalem" were among his later works; he died at Paris
(1792-1857).

ISANDULA, place 110 m. NW. of Durban, where a force of British troops was encamped in January
22, 1879, and was set upon and almost annihilated by a body of Zulus.

ISAURIA, in ancient times this name was given to the northern slopes of the Taurus in Asia
Minor, what is now Karamania; the Isaurians were a wild, savage people; from the 1st to the
4th centuries they were the terror of neighbouring States, and gave Rome herself considerable
trouble; but from the 5th century they disappear from history.

ISCHIA (22), a beautiful volcanic island 6 m. off the Bay of Naples; its scenery, climate,
and mineral springs make it a health resort; it produces excellent fruits and wines; it is
liable to severe earthquakes; in the last (1883), 4000 persons perished. The chief town (3)
bears the same name.

ISCHL, a town in Upper Austria, picturesquely situated on the river Traun, 33 m. SE. of Salzburg;
famous for its saline baths; has salt-works, where 8000 tons of salt are annually manufactured.

ISENGRIN, the wolf, typifying the feudal baron in the epic tale of Reynard the Fox, as the
fox does the Church. See REYNARD.

ISER, a German river, which rises in the Tyrol N. of Innsbruck, passes through Münich, and
falls into the Danube after a course of 180 m.

ISÈRE, a river in the SE. of France, which gives name to a dep. (572), and which, after a course
of 180 m. falls into the Rhône near Valence.

ISERLOHN (22), a town in Prussian Westphalia, 14 m. SE. of Dortmund; is picturesquely situated,
and is engaged in iron-ware manufacture.

ISHMAEL, the son of Abraham and the handmaid Hagar, cast out of Abraham's household at 15;
he became skilful with the bow, and founded a great nation, the Arabs; for the offering of
Isaac on Moriah the Arabs substitute the offering of Ishmael on Arafat, near Mecca; Mahomet
claimed descent from him; he gives name in modern life to a social outcast driven into antagonism
to social arrangements.

ISIDORE, ST., BISHOP OF SEVILLE, born at Carthagena, a distinguished man and ecclesiastic,
who exercised great influence on Latin Christianity, and on both civil and ecclesiastical matters
in Spain, and left a large number of writings of varied interest; he was animated at once by
a severe sense of duty and by an admirable Christian spirit (570-638). Festival, April 4.

ISINGLASS, a gelatine substance prepared from the sounds or air-bladders of certain fresh-water
fishes, the sturgeon in particular; it is imported from Russia, Brazil, and the Hudson Bay
Territory.

ISIS, an Egyptian divinity, the wife and sister of Osiris and mother of Horus, the three together
forming a trinity, which is characteristically Egyptian, and such as often repeats itself in
Egyptian mythology, and typifying the life of the sun, Osiris representing that luminary slain
at night and sorrowed over by his sister Isis, reviving in the morning in his son Horus, and
wedded anew to his sister Isis as his wife; passed into the mythology of the Greeks, Isis became
identified first with Demeter and then with the Moon, while in that of Rome she figures as
the Universe-mother.

ISLA, JOSÉ FRANCISCO DE, a Spanish Jesuit, celebrated as a preacher and a humorist and satirist
of the stamp of Cervantes; his principal work "Friar Gerund," a satire on the charlatanism
and bombast of the popular preaching friars of the day, as Don Quixote was on the false chivalry;
the friars he satirised were too strong for him, and he was expelled from Spain, retired to
Italy, and died at Bologna in extreme poverty (1703-1781). This is yet the highest wisdom that
Heaven has revealed to our earth." See "Heroes and Hero-Worship."

ISLAND OF SAINTS, a name given to Ireland in the Middle Ages.

ISLANDS OF THE BLESSED, fabled islands of the far west of the ocean, where the favoured of
the gods after death are conceived to dwell in everlasting blessedness.

ISLAY (7), a large mountainous Island 13 m. W. of Kintyre, Scotland; much of it is cultivated;
dairy produce, cattle, and sheep are exported; there are lead, copper, and manganese mines,
marble quarries, and salmon fisheries; the distilleries produce 400,000 gallons of whisky annually.

ISLINGTON (319), a district of London, 2½ m. N. of St. Paul's; contains the division of Holloway,
Highbury, Barnsbury, and part of Kingsland.

ISMAIL PASHA, khedive of Egypt from 1863, who was obliged by the Powers to abdicate in 1879.

ISMAILIA, a small town on Suez Canal; was the head-quarters of the work during the construction
of the Canal.

ISMAÎLIS, one of the Mohammedan sects which support the claim of the house of Ali, Mahomet's
cousin, to supremacy among the faithful; originating about A.D. 770, they rose to importance
in the 10th century under Abdallah, a Persian, who introduced Zoroastrian ideas into their
creed and prophesied the appearance of a Madhi or Messiah who should be greater than the Prophet
himself; becoming latterly extremely rationalistic the sect lost its influence in the 13th
century, and its representatives in Syria and Persia are now comparatively obscure; in Turkey
and Egypt, however, several Madhis have arisen, of whom the last, Mohammed Ahmed, b. 1843,
gained possession of the Soudan, defeated the Egyptian army in 1883, two years later captured
Khartoum, but died at Omdurman shortly afterwards.

ISMENË, the sister of Antigone, who requested, as her accomplice, to be promoted to be sharer
in her fate.

ISOCRATES, an Athenian rhetorician, of a school that was an offshoot of the SOPHISTS (q. v.),
and the whole merit of whose oratory depended upon style or literary finish and display; he
is said to have starved himself to death after the battle of Cheronea at the age of 98 because
he could not brook to outlive the humiliation of Greece by Philip of Macedon and the destruction
of its freedom (436-338 B.C.).

ISODORIAN DECRETALS, a body of ecclesiastical decretals imposed upon the Church under the name
of ISODORE OF SEVILLE (q. v.).

ISOLDE, the wife of King Mark of Cornwall, who, under the potency of some philter which she
had inadvertently taken, conceived an illicit passion for Sir Tristram, her husband's nephew,
the story of which is celebrated in mediæval romance.

ISPAHÂN (60), the ancient capital of Persia, 226 m. S. of Teheran, on the river Zenderud, which,
as its greatest glory, is spanned by a noble bridge of 34 arches; it stands in a fertile plain
abounding in groves and orchards, amid ruins of its former grandeur, and is a centre of Mohammedan
learning; the inhabitants are said to have at one time numbered a million; it produces rich
brocades and velvets, firearms, sword-blades, and much ornamental ware; there are many fine
buildings, and signs of returning prosperity.

ISRAEL, KINGDOM OF, the name given to the northern kingdom of the 10 tribes of the Israelites
which revolted from the kingdom of Judah after the death of Solomon.

ISRÄELS, JOSEF, a Dutch oil and water-colour artist and etcher, born in Gröningen; studied
in Amsterdam and Paris; devoting himself to genre subjects, he has depicted the pathetic side
of the life of the Dutch fisher-folks with great sympathy and power; he won a grand prix at
the Paris Exhibition of 1889; b. 1824.

ISRAFEEL, in the Mohammedan mythology an angel whose office it will be to sound the trumpet
on the resurrection morning.

ISSUS, a river in Cilicia, Asia Minor, where Alexander the Great defeated Darius, 333 B.C.

ISSY (12), a village ½ m. SW. of Paris, where Davout was defeated by Blücher on 3rd July 1815,
and which suffered severely during the siege of Paris by the Germans in 1870-71.

ISTAMBOUL, the Turkish name for Constantinople.

ISTHMIAN GAMES, one of the four Pan-Hellenic festivals; they were periodically celebrated in
honour of Poseidon or Neptune at the isthmus of Corinth, in Greece, whence the name.

ISTRIA (299), a mountainous territory of Austria, in the NE. corner of the Adriatic; yields
olive-oil, figs, and vines, though often swept by sirocco and bora winds.

ISUMBRAS, ST., a hero of mediæval romance, a proud man subdued by God's justice into a penitent
and a humble.

ITALIAN ARCHITECTURE. The style of architecture called Italian was first developed by Filippo
Bruneschelli, and flourished during the 15th, 16th, and 17th centuries; it was an adaptation
of classical circular-arch form to modern requirements. In Rome it conformed most to ancient
types; in Venice it assumed its most graceful form. It was more suitable to domestic than to
ecclesiastical work; but the dome is an impressive feature, and St. Peter's a noble church.

ITALIC SCHOOL, the name given to the school of PYTHAGORAS (q. v.) who taught philosophy in Italy.

ITALIC VERSION, THE, a version of the Scriptures into Latin on the basis of the Septuagint,
executed in N. Italy under episcopal authority from other versions in circulation; being of
mixed quality and far from satisfactory, JEROME (q. v.) undertook its revision with the view
of a new translation into Latin known as the Vulgate direct from the Hebrew and Greek originals.

ITALY (30,536), the central one of three peninsulas stretching into the Mediterranean Sea,
in the S. of Europe, has the Adriatic and Tyrrhenian Seas respectively on the E. and W., and
is separated from France, Switzerland, and Austria in the N. by the various ranges of the Alps.
Between the Alps and the Apennines lies the extensive, fertile plain of Lombardy, watered by
the river Po, and containing several large lakes, such as Garda, Como, and Maggiore. The Apennines
form a very picturesque chain of mountains 5000 ft. high down the centre of the country. The
climate varies in different districts, but is mostly warm. Malaria curses many parts in autumn.
Agriculture is extensive, but primitive in manner, and the peasantry are very poor. The most
important crops are cereals, including rice and maize, grapes, olives, and chestnuts, and in
the S. oranges and lemons. Italian wines are of indifferent quality. Coal and iron are scarce;
sulphur is produced in large quantities in Sicily. There are large quarries of marble and alabaster.
The most important industries are silk, glass, and porcelain. There is an extensive foreign
trade, chiefly with France and Great Britain; the exports consist of silk, sulphur, marble,
fruit, and wine; the imports of coal, iron, and textile goods. The religion is Roman Catholic;
education is now compulsory. The Gothic kingdom of Italy was founded on the ruins of the Roman
Empire, A.D. 489. In succession the country was conquered by the forces of the Byzantine Empire,
by the Lombards, and by the Franks. From the 11th century onwards its history has been one
of constant internal strife and confusion. The presence of the papal power in Rome, the rise
of such rich trading republics as the cities of Milan, Florence, Naples, Genoa, and Venice,
the pretensions of French kings and German emperors, and factions like those of the Guelphs
and Ghibellines, produced endless complications and ruinous wars. In the 16th century the influence
of the Austro-Spanish house of Charles V. became dominant; his son, Philip II., was king of
Milan and Naples. In more recent times the small states of Italy were continually involved
in the wars which devastated Europe, and passed in alliance or in subordination into the hands
of Austria, France, and Spain alternately. The last 50 years have seen the unification of the
kingdom. After the abortive movement of Mazzini came Cavour and Garibaldi, who, after severe
struggles against the Austrians in the North and the despots of Southern Italy, proclaimed
Victor Emmanuel king of Italy in 1861. By various steps the whole of the peninsula, with the
islands of Sardinia and Sicily, have been brought into the kingdom. The temporal power of the
Pope ceased in 1870. The Government is a constitutional monarchy. Franchise is exercised by
every citizen who can read and write. Conscription is in force for army and navy. These are
both strong, the navy one of the best in Europe. Finances are bad; the debt amounts to £520,000,000,
and taxation is ruinous.

ITHACA (10), one of the Ionian Islands, and one of the smallest, known now under the name Thiaki;
it was the home of Ulysses, and his domain as king when he set out for the Trojan War, and
which he did not see again till his return after twenty years. Also a town (11) in New York
State, U.S., seat of CORNELL UNIVERSITY (q. v.).

ITHURIEL, an angel whom Milton represents as sent by Gabriel to search for Satan in Paradise,
who had found entrance by eluding the vigilance of the guard; he was armed with a spear, the
touch of which could unmask any disguise, and by means of which he discovered Satan lurking
in the garden in the form of a toad.

ITINERARY, a name given among the Romans to an account or a map of the principal routes through
the empire and the stations along them.

ITURBIDE, AUGUSTINE DE, a Mexican general, emancipated Mexico from the yoke of Spain; seized
the crown and was proclaimed emperor in 1822, was obliged to abdicate next year and leave the
country, but returning, was immediately arrested, and shot (1783-1824).

IVAN (i. e. John), the name of two grand-dukes and four czars of Russia; the two grand-dukes
were Ivan I., grand-duke from 1328 to 1340, and Ivan II., his son, grand-duke from 1353 to 1359.

IVAN III., surnamed The Threatening, sought to free Russia from the yoke of the Tartars who
had held it tributary for two centuries; gained victories over the Tartars and the Poles, and
was the first to receive at Moscow ambassadors from other Powers of Europe; reigned from 1462
to 1505.

IVAN IV., surnamed The Terrible, grandson of the preceding, assumed the sovereignty at 14,
had himself crowned in 1545, and took the title of Czar; his first great ambition was to destroy
the Tartar power, which he did at Kasan and Astrakhan, receiving homage thereafter from almost
all the Tartar chiefs; on the death of his wife in 1563 he lost all self-restraint, and by
the ferocity of his wars provoked hostility which the Pope, who had been appealed to, interposed
to appease; in a fit of passion he killed his eldest son, whom he loved, remorse for which
embittered his last days and hastened his end (1530-1584).

IVANHOE, the hero of Sir Walter Scott's novel of the name, the disinherited son of Cedric of
Rotherwood, who falls in love with Rowena, a ward of his father, but by the exhibition of his
prowess as a knight is at the intercession of King Richard, reconciled to his father, with
the result that he marries Rowena.

IVANOVA (32), a Russian town in Vladimir, 210 m. NE. of Moscow, engaged in the manufacture
of cotton, and known as the "Manchester of Russia."

IVANOVITCH, IVAN, a lazy, good-natured impersonation of the typical Russian, as John Bull is
of the Englishman, and Brother Jonathan of the American.

IVES, ST., a town on the Ouse, in Huntingdonshire, 50 m. N. of London, where Oliver Cromwell
resided from 1631 to 1635; the chief industries are malting and brewing.

IVIZA (22), the most westerly of the Balearic Isles, is hilly and well wooded, with fertile
valleys and important fisheries.

IVORY COAST, a territory on the K. of the Gulf of Guinea, belonging partly to Liberia and partly
to France and Britain.

IVORY GATE, the gate spoken of in Virgil through which dreams pass that do not turn out true.
See HORN GATE.

IVRY, a village in the dep. of Eure, NE. of Dreux, famous for the victory of Henry of Navarre
over the Leaguers in 1590.

IXION, the king of the LAPITHÆ (q. v.), who being admitted to heaven attempted to do violence
to Hera, and whom Zeus deluded to embrace a phantom image of her instead, whereby he became
the father of the Centaurs, and whom Zeus thereafter punished by fastening him hands and feet
to an eternally revolving wheel in hell.

IZALIO, a volcano in the republic of San Salvador, which first announced its existence by a
fissure opening in 1798 on the plain that now surrounds it, from which there vomited lava and
cinders, accompanied with earthquake.

J

JABALPUR (84), a town, district, and one of the four divisions of the Central Provinces, India;
the town is an important commercial and railway centre, situated 228 m. SW. of Allahabad; cotton
and carpets are amongst its chief manufactures.

JACK, a familiar form of John, the most widely spread of Christian names, and said to be derived
from the French JACQUES or, as others maintain, from JANKIN, a distinctive form of JOHAN or
JOHN; JOHNKIN gives us JOCK and JOCKEY; from its extreme commonness it has acquired that slightly
contemptuous signification observable in such compounds as "every man JACK," "JACK-of-all-trades,"
"JACK-an-apes," and the name as applied to the knaves in playing-cards, and to the small white
ball used as a mark in the game of bowls is an example of its transferred sense.

JACKAROO, name given in Australia to a green-horn from England inexperienced in bush life.

JACKDAW OF RHEIMS, one of the INGOLDSBY LEGENDS (q. v.).

JACKSON, 1, a prosperous manufacturing city (21) in Michigan, U.S.A., on the Grand River, 70
m. W. of Detroit; has various mills, iron-works, breweries, &c., and bituminous coal-mines
on its outskirts. 2, A cotton market-town (10), capital of Madison County, Tennessee, on the
South Fork of the Forked Deer River, 107 m. SE. of Cairo, Illinois.

JACKSON, ANDREW, GENERAL, president of the United States, born at Waxhaw, N. Carolina, adopted
law as a profession, and in 1788 became public prosecutor at Nashville; took a prominent part
in establishing the State of Tennessee, of which he subsequently became a senator and a, judge;
during the war with Britain (1812-14) be came to the front and crowned a series of successes
by his great victory over Sir E. Pakenham at New Orleans; for a time he was governor of the
newly purchased State of Florida, but resigning, he again entered the U.S. Senate in 1823;
five years later he became President, and in 1832 was again elected; his Presidency is associated
with the readjustment of the tariff on a purely protective basis, which led to disputes with
S. Carolina, the sweeping away of the United States Bank, the wiping out of the national debt
in 1835, and the vigorous enforcement of claims against the French for damage done during the
Napoleonic wars; his imperious yet honest nature led him to make a more frequent use of the
President's veto than any of his predecessors (1767-1845).

JACKSON, THOMAS JONATHAN, known as Stonewall Jackson, an American general, born in Virginia;
bred for the army; distinguished himself in the Mexican War; retired from the army in 1853,
and became a professor in Mathematics and Military Science in Virginia; was appointed brigadier-general
in the Confederate army at the outbreak of the Civil War, and earned the nom de guerre of "Stonewall"
by his firmness at the battle of Bull Run, July 21, 1861; distinguished himself in subsequent
engagements; at Chancellorville was by mistake fired at in the dark and mortally wounded by
his own men on May 6, 1863; he was a man of the Cromwell stamp, and his death was not only
a blow to his own party, but matter of grief to the whole American nation (1824-1863).

JACKSONVILLE, 1, the chief seat of commerce (17) in Florida State, is situated on St. John's
River, some 20 m. from its mouth; is a busy railway centre, and has an active river trade in
lumber, cotton, fruits, &c., and is a health resort. 2, Capital (13) of Morgan County, Illinois,
is pleasantly situated on a fertile plain, 34 m. SW. of Springfield; is noted as an educational
centre, and for its many charity asylums; its manufactures embrace woollens, paper, &c.

JACOB, a Hebrew patriarch, younger son of Isaac and Rebecca, the favourite of his mother, and
had twelve sons, the fathers of the twelve tribes of Israel; his character and the story of
his life are naïvely delineated in the book of Genesis.

JACOB, JEAN CLAUDE, a serf from the Jura Mountains, 120 years old, who was brought from his
native place to figure as "dean of the human race" in Paris at the great federation festival
of June 1790.

JACOBI, FRIEDRICH HEINRICH, a German philosopher, born at Düsseldorf; bred for business, and
after engaging in it for a time threw it up for a revenue appointment; devoted all his by-hours
to philosophy and correspondence with eminent men, and was appointed President of the Academy
of Sciences at Münich in 1807; he formed no system and he founded no school; his thoughts present
themselves in a detached form, and are to be gathered from letters, dialogues, and imaginative
works; he contended for the dogma of "immediate cognition as the special organ of the supersensuous,"
and failed to see, as SCHWEGLER notes, that said cognition "has already described a series
of subjective intermediating movements, and can pretend to immediacy only in entire oblivion
of its own nature and origin" (1743-1819).

JACOBI, KARL GUSTAVO, a celebrated German mathematician, born at Potsdam, of Jewish birth;
was professor at Königsberg and Berlin, and one of the founders of the theory of determinants
(1801-1851).

JACOBINS, a political club, originally known as the Club Breton, which was founded in Paris
during the French Revolution; so called from its place of meeting in the Rue St. Honoré, which
had previously been a Jacobin friar convent; it exercised a great influence over the course
of the Revolution, and had affiliated societies all over the country, working along with it;
its members were men of extreme revolutionary views, procured the death of the king, exterminated
the Girondists, roused the lowest classes against the middle, and were the ruling spirits during
the Reign of Terror, of whom Robespierre was the chief, the fall of whom sealed their doom;
they were mobbed out of their place of meeting with execrations on Hallow-Eve 1794.

JACOBITES, a name given to certain partisans of Eutychean sect in the 17th century in the East,
from the name of their leader.

JACOBITES, the name given to the adherents of the Stuart dynasty in Great Britain after their
expulsion from the throne in 1688, and derived from that of James II., the last Stuart king;
they made two great attempts to restore the exiled dynasty, in 1715 and 1745, but both were
unsuccessful, after which the movement exhausted itself in an idle sentimentality, which also
is by this time as good as extinct.

JACOBS, a German Greek scholar, born at Gotha; editor of "Anthologia Græca" (1767-1847).

JACOBUS, a gold coin of the reign of James I., worth 25 shillings.

JACOBY, JOHAN, a Prussian politician, born in Königsberg; bred to medicine, but best known
as a politician in a liberal interest, which involved him in prosecutions; was imprisoned for
protesting against the annexation of Alsace and Lorraine; he was a man of fearless honesty,
and one day had the courage to say to the Emperor William I., "It is the misfortune of kings
that they will not listen to the truth" (1805-1877).

JACOTOT, JEAN JOSEPH, a celebrated educationalist, born at Dijon, France; after holding various
educational appointments, he in 1818 became professor of the French Language and Literature
at Louvain, and subsequently held the post of Director of the Military Normal School; he is
noted for his "Universal Method" of education, which is based on his assumption that men's
minds are of equal calibre (1770-1840).

JACQUARD LOOM, a loom with an apparatus for weaving figures in textiles, such as silks, muslins,
and carpets, which was the invention of an ingenious Frenchman, born in Lyons, of the name
of Joseph Marie Jacquard (1752-1834).

JACQUERIE, the name given to an insurrection of French peasants against the nobles in the ILE
OF FRANCE (q. v.), which broke out on May 21, 1358, during the absence of King John as a prisoner
in England; it was caused by the oppressive exactions of the nobles, and was accompanied with
much savagery and violence, but the nobles combined against the revolt, as they did not do
at the time of Revolution, preferring rather to leave the country in a pet, and it was extinguished
on the 9th June following.

JACQUES BONHOMME, a name given to a French peasant as tamely submissive to taxation.

JADE, is the common name of about 150 ornamental stones, but belongs properly only to nephrite,
a pale grey, yellowish, or white mineral found in New Zealand, Siberia, and chiefly in China,
where it is highly valued.

JAEL, the Jewish matron who slew Sisera the Canaanitish captain, smiting a nail into his temples
as he lay asleep in her tent, Judges iv. 18, 21.

JAEN (26), a picturesque cathedral city, capital of a province of the same name, in Andalusia,
Spain, on a tributary of the Guadalquivir, 50 m. NW. of Granada; the province (438) lies along
the valley of the Guadalquivir, and was once a Moorish kingdom.

JAGGANNATHA. See JUGGERNAUT.

JAGHIR, revenue from land or the produce of it, assigned in India by the Government to an individual
as a reward for some special service.

JAHN, FRED. L., a German patriot, born in Pomerania; did much to rouse his country into revolt
against the domination of France in 1813 (1778-1852).

JAHN, JOHAN, a Catholic theologian and Orientalist, born in Moravia; held professorships in
Olmütz and Vienna; was distinguished as a Biblical scholar, author of "Biblical Archæology,"
in five vols., as well as an Introduction to the Old Testament, with Grammar, Lexicons, &c.,
in connection with the Biblical languages (1750-1816).

JAHN, OTTO, philologist and archæologist, born at Kiel; after holding the post of lecturer
at Kiel and Greifswald he, in 1847, was appointed to the chair of Archæology in Leipzig; becoming
involved in the political troubles of 1848-49, he lost his professorial position, but subsequently
held similar appointments at Bonn and Berlin; his voluminous writings, which cover the field
of Greek and Roman art and literature, and include valuable contributions to the history of
music, are of first-rate importance (1813-1869).

JAIL FEVER, the popular name of a fever now known to be a severe form of typhus, such as happened
in 1579 at the "Black Assize," so called as so many of those in the conduct of it died infected
by the prisoners.

JAINAS, sects of Hindus scattered up and down India, allied to the Buddhists, though ecclesiastically
in open antagonism to them; they reject the Veda of the Brahmans, and oppose to it another
of their own, as also their caste and their sacerdotalism, though they observe the rules of
caste among themselves; like the Buddhists, they are divided into an ascetic class and a lay,
but monasticism is not developed to the same degree among them. There are two principal sects,
"the white-gowns" and "the air-clad," i. e. naked, though it is only at meals, which they eat
in common, that the latter strip naked; "Not only do they abstain from animal food, but they
drink only filtered water, breathe only through a veil, and go sweeping the ground before them
for fear of swallowing or crushing any smallest animalcule." In religion they are atheists,
and admit of no Creator or of any perfection of being at the beginning, only at the end. They
distinguish between soul and body, and regard the former as eternal; evil is not in mere existence,
but in life, and their Nirvâna is a blessedness without break or end. We know little or nothing
of the history of these sects; with them conduct is everything; their origin is of later date
than that of the Buddhists. See BARTH'S "RELIGIONS OF INDIA," translated by the Editor.

JALAPA (16), capital of the Mexican State of Vera Cruz, is prettily situated at the base of
the Cordilleras, 60 m. NW. of Vera Cruz city.

JALISCO (1,250), a maritime state in Mexico facing the Pacific; consists chiefly of elevated
plateau; enjoys a fine climate; has long-established mining industries, some agriculture, and
a growing trade in cotton and woollen goods, tobacco, &c.; capital, Guadalajara.

JAMAICA ("Land of Springs") (640, of which 15 are whites), a British crown colony, the largest
and most important of the British West India Islands; is one of the Greater Antilles group,
and lies some 90 m. S. of the eastern end of Cuba; its greatest length E. and W. 144 m.; is
traversed by the Blue Mountains (7400 ft.), whose slopes are clad with luxuriant forests of
mahogany, cedar, satin-wood, palm, and other trees; of the numerous rivers, only one, the Black
River, is navigable and that for only flat-bottomed boats and canoes; there are many harbours
(Kingston finest), while good roads intersect the island; the climate is oppressively warm
and somewhat unhealthy on the coast, but delightful in the interior highlands; for administrative
purposes the land area is divided into three counties, Surrey, Middlesex, and Cornwall; the
chief trade-products are dye-woods, fruit, sugar, rum, coffee, and spices; discovered in 1494
by Columbus, and since 1670 a possession of England.

JAMES, the name of three disciples of Christ; James, the elder son of Zebedee, by order of
the high-priest was put to death by Herod Agrippa; James, the younger son of Alphæus; and James,
the brother of the Lord, stoned to death.

JAMES I., king of Scotland from 1406 to 1437, son of Robert III., born at Dunfermline; in 1406,
while on a voyage to France, he was captured by the English and detained by Henry IV. for 18
years, during which time, however, he was carefully trained in letters and in all knightly
exercises; returning to Scotland in 1424 with his bride, Jane Beaufort, niece of the English
king, he took up the reins of government with a firm hand; he avenged himself on the nobles
by whose connivance he had been kept so long out of his throne, reduced the turbulent Highlanders
to order, and introduced a number of beneficial reforms (e. g. a wider parliamentary franchise,
a fixed standard for the coinage, a supreme court of civil jurisdiction, a renovated system
of weights and measures), and widened Scotland's commercial relations with the Continent; he
was a man of scholarly tastes, a patron of learning, and exhibits no mean poetic gift in his
well-known poem the "King's Quhair"; his vigorous and sometimes harsh and vindictive efforts
to lower the powers of the nobility procured him their inveterate hatred, and in 1437 he was
murdered in the Dominican monastery at Perth by a band of conspirators (1394-1437).

JAMES II., king of Scotland from 1437 to 1460, son of preceding; during his minority the country
was torn by rival factions amongst the nobility, the chief point of contest being the wardship
of the young king; an attempt on the part of the conspirators who had murdered James I. to
place their leader, the Earl of Athole, on the throne, was frustrated; in 1449 James assumed
the duties of his kingship, and in the same year married Mary, the daughter of the Duke of
Gueldres; an English war then being waged on the Borders was brought to a close, and the young
king entered vigorously upon administrative reforms; in these efforts he was hampered by the
opposition of the nobility, and his fiery temper led him to participate in the murder of the
chief obstructionist, the Earl of Douglas; protection given to the exiled Douglases by the
Yorkists led James to support the claims of Henry VI. in England; he was killed by the bursting
of a cannon at the siege of Roxburgh Castle (1430-1460).

JAMES III., king of Scotland from 1460 to 1488, son of James II.; was during his minority under
the care of his mother and Bishop Kennedy of St. Andrews, the Earl of Angus being lieutenant-general
of the kingdom; but the bishop and the earl died before he was 14, and the nobility fell into
faction and disorder again; the first to gain power was Lord Boyd (whose son married the king's
sister), but a charge of treason brought about his downfall and exile; the king married Princess
Margaret of Denmark in 1469, and gave himself up to a life of quiet ease surrounded by men
of art and culture, while his brothers Albany and Mar, by their military tastes and achievements,
won the affections of the nobles; James, becoming jealous, imprisoned them; Albany, who had
intrigued with Edward IV., fled to France, Mar died in Craigmillar Castle; while the king and
his army were marching to meet expected English action in 1482 the nobles, instigated by Archibald,
Bell-the-Cat, seized and hanged the royal favourites at Lauder, and committed the king to Edinburgh
Castle; a short reconciliation was effected, but was soon broken, and civil war ensued; the
defeat of the royalist forces at Sauchieburn took place in 1488; the king escaped from the
field, but was thrown from his horse, and taking refuge in a house at Beaton's Mill, was there
slain (1462-1488).

JAMES IV., king of Scotland from 1488 to 1513, participated in the rebellion which overthrew
his father, James III., and succeeded him; but in remorse for his unfilial conduct wore an
iron belt all his life; during his youth his supporters carried on the government in their
own interests, and despoiled the nobles who had been loyal to the late king; but when he came
of age he showed his independence in choosing good advisers, among them Sir Andrew Wood; his
reign was marked by resistance to the claims of the Roman pontiff, by the firm and wise administration
of law, the fostering of agriculture, of shipbuilding, and other industries; in 1503 James
married Margaret, daughter of Henry VII.; after that king's death relations between the two
countries became strained; two English men-of-war captured Andrew Barton's privateers; the
jewels which the queen inherited from her father were retained by Henry VIII., and James maintained
an alliance with Henry's enemy, France; at the solicitation of the French queen, against the
advice of his own queen and nobles, he invaded England in 1513, but the invasion ended in disaster
at Flodden, where he and the flower of his army perished; he was an able but a headstrong,
a pleasure-loving, and an extravagant man (1472-1513).

JAMES V., king of Scotland from 1513 to 1542, was only an infant when he succeeded to his father's
throne; his mother was regent till her marriage with young Angus, when the nobles called James
IV.'s cousin, Albany, from France to assume the regency; French and English factions sprang
up; Henry VIII. intrigued in the affairs of the country; anarchy and civil war ensued, and
Albany retired to France in 1524; in that year the queen-mother, aided by Henry, took the young
king from Sir David Lyndsay, to whom he had been entrusted, and assumed the government again
in his name; the Douglas family usurped his person and the government in 1525; but James asserted
himself three years later, and began to reign in person, displaying judgment and resolution,
banishing the Douglases, keeping order in the Highlands and on the Borders, establishing the
College of Justice, protecting the peasantry from the tyranny of the barons, and fostering
trade by a commercial treaty with the Netherlands; he married (1) Princess Magdalene of France
in 1537, and (2) Mary of Guise in 1538; Henry, aggrieved by James's failure to meet him in
conference on Church matters, and otherwise annoyed, sent 30,000 men into Scotland in 1542;
disaffection prevented the Scottish forces from acting energetically, and the rout of Solway
Moss took place; the king, vexed and shamed, sank into a fever and died at Falkland; in this
reign the Reformation began to make progress in Scotland, and would have advanced much farther
but that James had to support the clergy to play off their power against the nobles (1512-1542)

JAMES VI. OF SCOTLAND AND I. OF ENGLAND, son of Mary, Queen of Scots, and Darnley, born in
Edinburgh Castle; was proclaimed king of Scotland when only 13 months old, in 1567; entrusted
to the Earl of Mar, and educated by George Buchanan; Moray, Lennox, Mar, and Morton were successively
regents, till James assumed the government in 1581, executing Morton and choosing Arran and
Lennox for his advisers; plots and counter-plots, the Raid of Ruthven (1582), the siege of
Stirling by some of the nobles with 10,000 troops, mostly from England, the surrender of the
king and the fall of Arran in 1585, the insurrection of the Catholic nobles 1491-94, and the
Gowrie Conspiracy in 1600, betrayed the restlessness of the kingdom, and the weakness of the
king; James married Anne of Denmark 1589; on the death of Elizabeth, in 1603, he succeeded
to the throne of England as JAMES I.; was at first popular, but soon forfeited all confidence
by his favouritism; he governed through creatures like Carr, Earl of Somerset, and the infamous
Buckingham, whose indiscretion brought about a war with Spain in 1624; James died immediately
afterwards; he has been described by Sully as "the wisest fool in Christendom"; his conduct
was certainly much less creditable than his conversation; he held absurdly high views of the
royal prerogative; but he sold patents of nobility, and was careless of the misdeeds of his
ministers; he did not live to see revolution, but he saw its precursor in the loosening of
the bonds of sympathy between sovereign and people (1566-1625).

JAMES II. OF ENGLAND AND VII. OF SCOTLAND, the son of Charles I., reigned in succession to
Charles II. from 1685 to 1688; during the Commonwealth he was a soldier in France and Spain;
at the Restoration returned to England as Duke of York, and became Lord High Admiral; avowing
himself a Catholic in 1671, the Test Act of 1673 enforced his resignation, and thenceforward
repeated attempts were made to exclude him from the succession; on becoming king he promised
to maintain the Church and to respect the liberties of the people, but his government all the
same was arbitrary and tyrannical; he paraded his Catholicism, persecuted the Covenanters,
subordinated English interests to French, permitted the "Bloody Assize," suspended the Test
Act, violated the rights of the Universities, gave Church offices to Roman Catholics, and by
these and many other acts of despotism made his deposition necessary; leading statesmen invited
William of Orange to assume the throne, and James fled to France; an invasion of Ireland in
1689 ended in his defeat at Boyne Water; he retired again to France, and lived at St. Germains
till his death (1633-1701).

JAMES, EPISTLE OF, a Catholic epistle of the New Testament, presumed to have been written by
James, the brother of the Lord, addressed to Jewish Christians who, in accepting Christianity,
had not renounced Judaism, and the sphere in which it moves is that of Christian morality,
agreeably to the standard of ethics given in the Sermon on the Mount. The author looks upon
Judaism as the basis of Christianity, and as on the moral side leading up to it, in correspondence
with the attestation of Christ, that "salvation is of the Jews."

JAMES, G. P. R., historical novelist, born in London; wrote as many as a hundred novels, beginning
with "Richelieu" in 1829, which brought him popularity, profit, and honour; was burlesqued
by Thackeray (1801-1860).

JAMES, SIR HENRY, military engineer; superintended the geological survey of Ireland, and became
in 1854 director-general of the Ordnance Survey (1803-1877).

JAMES, HENRY, an American theological writer, a disciple of Swedenborg, and an exponent of
his system (1811-1882).

JAMES, HENRY, American novelist, born in New York: studied law at Harvard, but was eventually
drawn into literature, and after a spell of magazine work established his reputation as a novelist
in 1875 with "Roderick Hudson"; most of his life has been spent in Italy and England, and the
writing of fiction has been varied with several volumes of felicitous criticism, chiefly on
French life and literature; his novels are characterised by a charming style, by a delicate
discriminating analysis of rather uneventful lives, and by an almost complete absence of strong
dramatic situation; b. 1843.

JAMES, JOHN ANGELL, most influential Congregationalist of his time, born in Dorsetshire; was
pastor of Carr's Lane Chapel, Birmingham, from 1805 to 1859; won the esteem of all parties;
published the "Anxious Inquirer," and many other works (1785-1859).

JAMES, ST., James, the son of Zebedee, the patron saint of Spain; his attribute the sword,
by which he was decapitated.

JAMES RIVER, an important river of Virginia, U.S., formed by the junction of the Jackson and
the Cowpasture, and flows in a south-easterly direction across Virginia, falling into the Atlantic
at the S. end of Chesapeake Bay. It has a course of 450 m., and is navigable as far as City Point.

JAMESON, ANNA, née Murphy, English literary lady and art critic, born in Dublin; authoress
of "Sacred and Legendary Art," "Legends of the Monastic Orders," "Legends of the Madonna,"
&c.; left unfinished at her death a work on Our Lord and John the Baptist as represented in
art, which was completed afterwards by Lady Eastlake (1794-1860).

JAMESON, GEORGE, a Scotch portrait-painter, born in Aberdeen; many of his portraits are to
be met with in Scottish mansion-houses; his work has been unduly lauded, and himself extravagantly
designated the "Scottish Vandyck" (1586-1644).

JAMESON, DR. LEANDER STARR, leader of the raid upon Johannesburg, born at Edinburgh; studied
medicine in his native city and in London; established himself at Kimberley in 1878, and under
the patronage of Mr. Rhodes became the popular administrator for the South Africa Company at
Fort Salisbury in 1891; from Mafeking in December of 1896 he started, with a body of 500 troopers,
upon his ill-fated incursion into the Transvaal to assist the Uitlanders of Johannesburg; at
Krugersdorp the raiders, exhausted by a 24 hours' ride, were repelled by a superior force of
Boers, and compelled to surrender; having been handed over to the British authorities, "Dr.
Jim," as he was familiarly called, was tried in London, and condemned to 15 months' imprisonment,
but was liberated on account of ill-health after about five months' incarceration; b. 1853.

JAMESON, ROBERT, naturalist, born in Leith; appointed professor of Natural History in Edinburgh
University in 1804; wrote several works on mineralogy and geology (1773-1853).

JAMES'S PALACE, ST., a palace, a brick building adjoining St. James's Park, London, where drawing-rooms
were held, and gave name to the English Court in those days as St. Stephen's does of the Parliament.

JAMIESON, DR. JOHN, a Scotch antiquary, born in Glasgow; bred for the Church; was Dissenting
minister in Nicolson Street Church, Edinburgh; widely known as author of the "Etymological
Dictionary of the Scottish Language"; wrote other works of less note (1759-1838).

JAMYN, AMADIS, a French poet, a protégé of Ronsard's; was a good Greek scholar.

JAN MAYEN LAND, a volcanic island, 35 m. in length, situated in the Arctic Ocean between Iceland
and Spitzbergen; is the head-quarters of considerable seal and whale fisheries; discovered
in 1611 by a Dutch navigator.

JANE EYRE, a novel by Charlotte Brontë; published in 1847.

JANICULUM, one of the hills of Rome, on the right bank of the Tiber.

JANIN, JULES GABRIEL, critic and novelist, born at St. Étienne, France; took to journalism
early, and established a reputation by his lively dramatic criticisms in the Journal des Débats;
his gift of ready composition betrayed him into a too prolific output of work, and it is doubtful
if any of his many novels and articles will long survive his day and generation; they, however,
brought him wealth and celebrity in his own lifetime; he succeeded in 1870 to Sainte-Beuve's
chair in the French Academy (1804-1874).

JANIZARIES, a Turkish military force organised in 1330, and more perfectly in 1336; composed
originally of Christian youths taken prisoners in war or kidnapped, and trained as Mohammedans;
from being at first 10,000, and fostered by the privileges granted them, increased to 300,000
or 400,000 strong, till they became unruly and a danger to the State, when, after various unsuccessful
attempts to crush them, they were in 1826 overborne by the Sultan Mahmoud II. and dissolved.

JANNÆUS, ALEXANDER, the second of the Asmonæan kings of Judea; reigned in the beginning of
the century before Christ; insulted the Jews by profaning the rites of their religion, and
roused a hostility against him which was appeased only by his death, the news of which was
received with expressions of triumphant exultation.

JANNES AND JAMBRES, the two Egyptian magicians who thought to outrival Moses in the performance
of his miracles; supposed to be referred to in 2 Tim. iii. 8 as "withstanding" him.

JANSEN, CORNELIUS, a Dutch theologian and bishop of Ypres, born in Louvain; studied the works
of Augustine, and wrote a book entitled "Augustinus" in exposition of that great Father's doctrine
of grace, which was published after his death, and which gave occasion to a great controversy
between his followers, in France especially, and the Jesuits (1585-1638).

JANSENISTS, a party in the Roman Catholic Church, supporters of Jansen's views, who, in opposition
to the Jesuits, maintained the Augustinian principle of the sovereign and irresistible nature
of divine grace. The most celebrated members of the party were the PORT-ROYALISTS (q. v.) of
France, in particular Arnauld and Pascal, and they were opposed not only by the Jesuits, but
by both Louis XIV. and the Pope. Driven from France on the death of Louis, they took refuge
in Holland, and thither the Pope Clement XI. followed them, first in 1713, hurling a bull against
them, and then in 1719 by ex-communicating them and driving them for good from within the pale
of the Catholic Church.

JANUARIUS, ST., a Christian who suffered martyrdom under Diocletian, and whose head is preserved
in Naples with a phial containing his blood which, on certain occasions, liquefies when brought
into contact with the head. Recourse is had to it on the occasion of public calamities, not
without desired effects, and it is an object of worship. Festival, September 19.

JANUARY, the first month of the year, so called as sacred to JANUS (q. v.).

JANUARY, EDICT OF, edict of date January 17, 1562, on which Catherine de Médecis granted certain
concessions to the Protestants.

JANUS, a very ancient Italian deity who presided over the beginning of the several divisions
of time, as well as the beginning of all enterprises, in connection with which he was worshipped;
he had two heads, or faces, one of which looked behind into the past and the other before into
the future, and this power of penetrating into both it is said Saturn endowed him with as a
reward for receiving him on earth when he was driven out of heaven.

JAPAN (40,719), an island empire of the N. Pacific, lying along the E. coast of Asia, and separated
from Corea and Primorsk by the Sea of Japan, consists of Honshiu (31,000), Shikoku (3,000),
Kyushu (6,000), Yezo (314), and 4000 small islands; though not of volcanic origin, the islands
are the most mountainous in the world, have many volcanoes and sulphur springs, and are subject
to earthquakes; they are very picturesque, and have peaks from 8000 to 12,000 ft. high; the
rivers are too swift for navigation; the coast, not much indented, has yet some good harbours;
the valleys are well wooded, but the soil not very fertile; temperature and climate are various;
nowhere is the heat intense, but in some parts the winter is very cold; there is much rain,
but on the whole it is healthy; the chief industry is agriculture; farming is careful and intelligent;
rice, cereals, pulse, tea, cotton, and tobacco are raised, and many fruits; gold, silver, all
the useful metals, coal, granite, some decorative stones are found, but good building-stone
is scarce; the manufacture of porcelain, lacquer-work, and silk is extensive, and in some artistic
work the Japanese are unrivalled; the chief ports are Yokohama (143), on the E. of Honshiu,
which has grown up since 1854, when the country was opened to trade; and Hyogo (143), on the
S. coast of the same island, where are also shipbuilding yards; the chief exports are tea,
silk, and rice; imports cotton, woollen, iron goods, and chemicals; the Japanese, sprung from
an ancient union of Tartars with Ainos and with S. Malays, are a kindly, courteous, law-abiding
folk, with highly developed artistic tastes; education is compulsory, and well provided for;
religion is Shintoism and Buddhism, but Christianity is gaining rapid ground; the government
is in the hands of the Mikado, who rules now with the aid of ministers and two houses of parliament;
education, government, army, and navy--indeed the whole modern civilisation of the country--is
on Western lines, though until 1853 foreigners were excluded; a civil war in 1867-68 effected
the change from the old feudalism, and the amazing success of Japan in the war against China
in 1894 has proved that the new civilisation is no mere veneer; the capital is Tokyo (1,162).

JAPHETH, one of the three sons of Noah and the ancestor of the Gentiles, as distinct from the
descendants of Shem, or the Semites, and of Ham, or the Hamites. See IAPETOS.

JAQUES, or the "melancholy" a cynical moraliser in Shakespeare's "As You Like It."

JARNAC, a town on the Charente, celebrated as the scene of a victory which the Catholics, commanded
by the Duc d'Anjou, afterwards Henry III. obtained in 1569 over the Huguenots commanded by Condé.

JAROSLAV (79), on the Volga, 160 m. NE. of Moscow, is capital of the government of Jaroslav;
is an important river-port, a seat of theological and legal culture, and has cotton manufactures.

JARPNOONK, a mesmeric or hypnotic state produced by Hindu conjurers.

JARROW (34), in Durham, on the Tyne, 7 m. below Newcastle; is a coal-shipping port, and has
extensive shipbuilding and iron manufactures; in ancient times its monastery was made famous
by the Venerable Bede.

JARVIE, BAILIE NICOL, a Glasgow magistrate; an original character in Scott's "Rob Roy."

JASHER, BOOK OF, a Hebrew book twice quoted in the Old Testament, no longer extant; believed
to have been a collection of national ballads.

JASMIN, JACQUES, a Gascon barber and poet, who by his romances, burlesques, and odes, published
between 1835 and 1849, raised the patois of the S. of France to the status of a literary language,
and created a wholesome influence on French life and letters (1778-1864).

JASON, a mythological Greek hero, son of Æson, king of Iolcos; brought up by the centaur Chiron,
was supplanted on the throne by his half-brother Pelias; undertook the leadership of the Argonautic
expedition, assisted by Medea in this enterprise; he took her to wife, but cast her off for
Creusa, whom Medea to avenge herself killed, with her father and her two sons by Jason, she
herself escaping to Athens in a chariot drawn by winged dragons; Jason took refuge from her
fury in the sanctuary of Poseidon near Corinth, where the timber of the ship Argo deposited
there breaking up fell upon him and crushed him to death.

JASPER, an opaque quartz found in all colours, and spotted, striped, and clouded; is valued
in ornamental lapidary work because of the polish it takes.

JASSY (90), ancient capital of Moldavia, situated 89 m. NE. of Bucharest; is the seat of an
archbishop and a university, and has a large community of Jews; trades largely with Russia
in corn, spirits, and wine.

JÂTAKA, a Pâli collection of stories recounting 550 previous "births" of the Buddha, the earliest
collection of popular tales, and the ultimate source of many of Æsop's fables and Western folk-lore
legends.

JATS, are the principal race in the Punjab, where they number 4½ millions, and are engaged
in agriculture. There is much debate as to their origin and their racial relationship.

JAVA (23,868), the finest island of the Indian Archipelago, lying between Sumatra and Bali,
with the Indian Ocean on the S. and the Java Sea separating it from Borneo on the N., lies
E. and W., traversed by a mountain chain with a rich alluvial plain on the N.; there are many
volcanoes; the climate is hot, and on the coast unhealthy; the mountains are densely wooded,
and the teak forests are valuable; the plain is fertile; coffee, tea, sugar, indigo, and tobacco
are grown and exported; all kinds of manufactured goods, wine, spirits, and provisions are
imported; the natives are Malays, more civilised than on neighbouring islands; there are 240,000
Chinese, many Europeans and Arabs; the island is nearly as large as England, and belongs to
Holland; the chief towns are Batavia (105) and Samarang (70), both on the N.

JAY, JOHN, American statesman, born in New York, and called to the bar in 1768; took a part
in the struggle for independence second only to Washington's; represented his country subsequently
in Madrid and London; was first Chief-Justice of the United States, and from 1795 to 1801 governor
of New York (1745-1829).

JAY, WILLIAM, eminent Congregationalist minister, born in Wiltshire; was first a stone-mason,
but entered the ministry, and after a short term of service near Chippenham was pastor of Argyle
Chapel, Bath, for 62 years. He was an impressive preacher and a popular writer (1769-1853).

JAYADEVA, a Hindu poet, born near Burdwân, in Bengal, flourished in the 12th century, whose
great work, the "Gita Govinda," the "Song of the Shepherd Krishna," has been translated by
Sir Edwin Arnold as the "Indian Song of Songs," in celebration of the love of Krishna and his
wife Radha; it has often been compared with the "Song of Songs," in the Hebrew Scriptures.

JEAN D'ÉPEE (Jean, i. e. the Frenchman with the sword), a name given to Napoleon by his partisans
who conspired for his restoration in 1814.

JEAN JACQUES, Rousseau, from his Christian name.

JEAN PAUL, RICHTER (q. v.), from his Christian name.

JEANNE D'ALBRET. See D'ALBRET, JEANNE.

JEANNE D'ARC. See JOAN OF ARC.

JEBB, PROFESSOR, eminent Greek scholar, born in Dundee; elected in 1889 Regius Professor of
Greek in Cambridge; has represented Cambridge in Parliament since 1891; edited "Sophocles,"
"The Attic Orators," "Introduction to Homer," &c.; B. 1841.

JEDBURGH (3), county town of Roxburghshire, picturesquely situated on the Jed, 30 m. SW. of
Berwick, and 10 m. SW. of Kelso; is an ancient town of many historic memories; made a royal
burgh by David I.; contains the ruins of an abbey, and has some woollen manufactures.

JEDDAH (46), a town on the Red Sea, 65 m. W. of Mecca, of which it is the port, where the pilgrims
disembark for the holy city; is a place of trade, less considerable than it once was.

JEEJEEBHOY, SIR JAMSETJEE, Indian philanthropist, a Parsee by birth and creed, born in Bombay;
realised a fortune as a merchant, and employed it in releasing debtors from jail by paying
their debts, and in founding a hospital and schools; in 1857 was made a baronet (1783-1859).

JEFFERIES, JOHN RICHARD, writer on rural subjects, born near Swindon, Wilts, son of a gamekeeper;
was first a journalist and novelist, but attained success in "The Gamekeeper at Home," 1878;
other books display a very accurate faculty of observation and description, a reverence for
nature, for rural scenes and people; "The Story of my Heart," 1883, is an introspective and
somewhat morbid autobiography; he died after six years' illness at Goring, Sussex; Prof. Saintsbury
pronounces him "the greatest minute describer of English country life since White of Selborne"
(1848-1887).

JEFFERSON, JOSEPH, comedian, born in Philadelphia, of theatrical lineage; was on the stage
at the age of 3; made his first success in New York as Dr. Pangloss in 1857, and in London
in 1865 began to play his most famous rôle, Rip van Winkle, a most exquisite exhibition of
histrionic genius; B. 1829.

JEFFERSON, THOMAS, American statesman, born at Shadwell, Virginia; took a prominent part in
the Revolution, and claimed to have drawn up the Declaration of Independence; he secured the
decimal coinage for the States in 1783; was plenipotentiary in France in 1784, and subsequently
minister there; third President, 1801-1807, he saw the Louisiana purchase and the prohibition
of the slave-trade; after his retirement he devoted himself to furthering education till his
death at Monticello, Va.; he was a man of extremes, but honest and consistent in his policy
(1743-1826).

JEFFREY, FRANCIS, LORD, a celebrated critic and lawyer, born in Edinburgh; trained for and
called to the bar in 1794; with a fine cultivated literary taste devoted himself principally
to literary criticism, and being a Whig in politics was associated with the originators of
the EDINBURGH REVIEW (q. v.), and became its first editor in 1802, which he continued to be
till 1829, contributing to its pages all along articles of great brilliancy; he was distinguished
also at the bar in several famous trials; became Lord Advocate of Scotland in 1830, M.P. for
Edinburgh in 1832, and finally, in 1834, one of the judges in the Court of Session; lie was
a dark-eyed, nimble little man, of alert intelligence and quick in all his movements; died
at Craigcrook, near Edinburgh (1773-1850).

JEFFREYS, BARON, of infamous memory, born in Wales; became Chief-Justice of England in 1863;
was one of the advisers and promoters of the tyrannical proceedings of James II.'s reign, and
notorious for his cruel and vindictive judgments as a judge, to the indignation of the people;
tried to escape on the arrival of William; was discovered lurking in a public-house at Wapping,
and apprehended and committed to the Tower, where he died (1648-1689).

JEHOVAH, the name of God in the Hebrew Scriptures as self-existent, and the Creator and Lord
of all things, in the regard of the Jews too sacred to be pronounced, and which in the Authorised
Version is often rendered by the word LORD in small capital letters.

JEHOVIST, the presumed author of the Jehoistic portions of the Pentateuch. See ELOHIST.

JEKYLL, DR., AND MR. HYDE, the good nature and the bad struggling for the ascendency in the
same person, generally to the defeat of the former.

JELF, RICHARD WILLIAM, Principal of King's College, London; was educated at Oxford, became
Fellow of Oriel, canon of Christ's Church, and Principal of King's College; is remembered chiefly
for his rigid orthodoxy and for the part he played in depriving Maurice of his professorship
at King's College (1798-1871).

JEMAPPES (11), a manufacturing Belgian town, 3 m. W. of Mons, where Dumouriez in the name of
the French Republic defeated the Austrians in 1792.

JEMINDAR, a native officer in the Indian army of rank equal to that of lieutenant in the British.

JENA (13), in Saxe-Weimar, on the Saale, 14 m. SE. of Weimar, an old town with memories of
Luther, Goethe, and Schiller; has a university founded to be a centre of Reformation influence,
and since associated with Fichte, Schelling, Hegel, and the Schlegels, who were teachers there;
on the same day in October 14, 1806, two victories were won near the town by French troops
over the Prussians, the collective name for both being "the battle of Jena."

"JENKINS'S EAR," refers to an incident which provoked a war with Spain in 1739, viz., the conduct
of the officer of a Spanish guardship not far from Havana towards the captain of an English
trading ship of the name of Jenkins; the Spaniards boarded his ship, could find nothing contraband
on board, but treated him cruelly, cut off his left ear, which he brought home in wadding,
to the inflaming of the English people against Spain, with the above-named issue.

JENNER, EDWARD, an English physician, born in Berkeley, and practised there; was the discoverer
of inoculation with cowpox as a preventive of smallpox, or vaccination as it is called, a discovery
which has immortalised his name (1749-1822).

JENNER, SIR WILLIAM, an eminent physician, born at Chatham; held several professorships in
University College; was physician to the Queen and the Prince of Wales; discovered the symptoms
which differentiate typhus from typhoid fever (1815-1899).

JEPHTHAH, one of the Judges of Israel, famed for his rash vow in the event of victory to offer
in sacrifice the first object that came out of his house on his return, and which happened
to be his daughter and only child, and whom it would seem he sacrificed, after allowing her
two months to bewail her fate along with her maidens; it is not said her father sacrificed
her, and it is thought she was only doomed to perpetual virginity.

JEREMIAD, a lament over degeneracy in modern times.

JEREMIAH, a Hebrew prophet, born at Anathoth, a priestly city 3 m. N. of Jerusalem, where,
after his removal thither, he spent as a prophet the greater part of his life, viz., from 629
to 588 B.C.; his prophecy was a lifelong protest against the iniquity and folly of his countrymen,
and was conceived in bitter foreboding of the hopeless ruin they were bringing down upon their
heads; his faithfulness offended friend and foe alike, and more than one plot was laid against
his life, which was one of ever-deepening sadness and one long wail over the ruin of the country
he so loved; he lived to see the issue of his prediction in the captivity of the people, though
he did not go into captivity with them, the conqueror having allowed him to remain as he wished;
he appears to have died in Egypt; he was the author of "Lamentations," and it is thought of
sundry of the Psalms. See HEBREW PROPHECY.

JERICHO, an ancient city of Palestine, in the SW. of a plain of the same name that extends
W. of the Jordan and NW. of the Dead Sea; it was the first city taken by the Israelites when
they entered the Holy Land, the walls falling down before them after being compassed for seven
days by the priests blowing on rams' horns and followed by the people.

JEROME, JEROME KLAPTA, dramatist, journalist, &c., author of "Idle Thoughts of an Idle Fellow,"
"Three Men in a Boat," "Diary of a Pilgrimage," &c., as also of plays; editor of the Idler
and of a weekly magazine journal, To-Day; b. 1861.

JEROME, ST., a Father of the Church, born in N. Illyria, of rich parents, presumably Christian,
although he first became Christian himself of his own election after he was grown up; and from
the day of his baptism, "he left," as he says, "not only parents and kindred, but the accustomed
luxuries of delicate life"; his fame rests on a translation of the Scriptures into Latin, known
as the Vulgate, which he executed at Bethlehem at intervals from A.D. 385 to 404, with the
design of showing to the Latin world what was and what was not contained in the original documents
for the faith of the Church, and with the result, that in the long run the Old and the New
Testaments were for the first time presented to and received by the Church as both of equal,
or at least common authority, and as both sections of one book (331-420).

JEROME OF PRAGUE, born at Prague; studied there and at Oxford (where he came under Wycliffe's
influence), Paris, Heidelberg, and Cologne; acquired great learning, and displayed great energy
and oratorical power; attracted the notice of the Kings of Poland and Hungary; joined John
Huss in his agitation against the abuses of the Church; became involved in the movement against
Huss, and though he recanted, afterwards withdrew his recantation, and was burned at Constance
(about 1365-1416.)

JERROLD, DOUGLAS, dramatist and celebrated wit, born in London, son of a theatrical magistrate;
began life as a printer; composed "Black-eyed Susan"; contributed to Punch "Mrs. Caudle's Lectures"
among other pieces, and edited magazines; the keenness of his satire was the reflex of a feeling
heart (1803-1857).

JERSEY (55), the largest and richest of the Channel Islands, lies 15 m. off the French coast,
100 m. S. of Portland Bill, is oblong in shape, with great bays in the coast, and slopes from
the N. to the SW.; the soil is devoted chiefly to pasture and potato culture; the exports are
early potatoes for the London market and the famous Jersey cattle, the purity of whose breed
is carefully preserved; the island is self-governing, has a somewhat primitive land tenure,
is remarkably free from poverty and crime, has been under the English crown since 1066; the
capital is St. Helier (29), where there is a college, a public library, a harbour, and a good
market.

JERSEY CITY (206), the most populous city in New Jersey, is separated from New York, of which
it is practically a part, only by the Hudson River; has no pretension to beauty, but is a busy
railway centre; has very varied manufactures, including sugar, flour, machinery, and chemicals,
extensive shipping interests, and great trade in iron, coal, and agricultural produce.

JERUSALEM (41), the capital of Palestine, holy city of the Jews, belonged originally to the
Jebusites, but was captured by David and made his capital; a strong place, built on four hills
2000 ft. above the Mediterranean, enclosed within walls and protected nearly all round by deep
valleys and rising grounds beyond; it has been so often besieged, overthrown, and rebuilt that
the present city stands on rubbish heaps, the ruins of ancient structures.

JERUSALEM, KINGDOM OF, kingdom founded by Godfrey of Bouillon in 1099 and overthrown by Saladin
in 1187.

JERUSALEM DELIVERED, an epic poem in 20 cantos by Tasso and published in 1575, the appearance
of which constitutes one of the great epochs in the history of literature.

JERVIS, SIR JOHN, an English admiral, born in Staffordshire; entered the navy at 10, rose to
be Rear-Admiral of the White in 1790; his great feat his defeat of the Spanish fleet of 27
ships with one of 15 ships off St. Vincent in 1797, in consequence of which he was raised to
the peerage as Earl St. Vincent; was buried in St. Paul's, London (1734-1823).

JESSICA, Shylock's daughter, in the "Merchant of Venice".

JESUITISM, popularly regarded as an attempt to achieve holy ends by unholy means, but really
and radically the apotheosis of falsehood and unreality to the dethronement of faith in the
true, the genuine and the real, a deliberate shutting of the eyes to the truth, a belief in
a lie in the name of God, a belief in symbols and formulas as in themselves sacred, salutary,
and divine, fiction superseding fact, and fancy faith in God or the divine reality of things,
the embodiment of the genius of cant persuading itself to believe that that which is not is,
while atheism, on the other hand, tries to persuade itself to believe that that which is is not.

JESUITS, or SOCIETY OF JESUS, the religious order founded by Ignatius Loyola in 1534, and approved
of by bull of Paul III. in 1540, for the conversion of heretics and the propagation of the
Roman Catholic faith, and reputed, however self-denying at times, to be unscrupulous in the
means they employ to achieve their ends, which is, broadly speaking, re-establishing over Christendom
the tyranny of the Church; they established themselves in the several countries of Europe,
but their policy was found dangerous to political liberty as well as religious, and they are
now everywhere nearly stamped out; there are nevertheless still several communities of them
in the south of Europe, and even colleges in England, Ireland, and the United States, as well
as missions under them in heathen parts.

JESUS, THE SON OF SIRACH, the author of the book of ECCLESIASTICUS (q. v.).

JESUS CHRIST (i. e. the anointed Divine Saviour), the Son of God and the hope of Israel, Saviour
of mankind, born in Bethlehem of the Virgin Mary four years before the commencement of the
Christian era, and who suffered death on the cross for the salvation of His people in A.D.
33, after a life of sorrow over the sins of the world and an earnest pleading with men to turn
from sin unto God as revealed in Himself, in the life He led, the words He spoke, and the death
He died, and after leaving behind Him a Spirit which He promised would guide those who believed
in Him unto all truth, a Spirit which was and would prove to be the spirit of His manifestation
in the flesh from birth onwards to death, and through death to the very grave. See CHRISTIANITY.

JET, a hard, black, bituminous lignite, capable of an excellent polish and easily carved, hence
useful for trinkets and ornaments, which have been made of it from very early times; is found
in France, Spain, and Saxony, but the best supplies come from Whitby, Yorkshire.

JETSAM, part of the cargo of a ship thrown overboard to lighten her in a case of peril.

JEU DE PAUME, an oath which the deputies of the Third Estate took on June 13, 1789, not to
separate till they had given France a constitution.

JEUNESSE DORÉE (lit. gilded youth), name given to a body of young dandies who, after the fall
of Robespierre, strove to bring about a counter-revolution.

JEVONS, WILLIAM STANLEY, logician and political economist, born in Liverpool; in 1866 was professor
of Logic of Owens College, Manchester, and 10 years later professor of Political Economy in
University College, London; distinguished himself in the departments of both chairs both as
a lecturer and a writer; was drowned while bathing at Bexhill, near Hastings (1835-1882).

JEW, THE WANDERING, a Jew bearing the name of Ahasuérus, whom, according to an old legend,
Christ condemned to wander over the earth till He should return again to judgment, because
He drove Him brutally away as, weary with the cross He carried, He sat down to rest on a stone
before his door; in symbolic token, it is surmised, of the dispersion of the whole Jewish people
over the earth as homeless wanderers by way of judgment for their rejection of Christ.

JEWELL, JOHN, early English Protestant divine, born near Ilfracombe; educated at Oxford; became
Tutor of Corpus Christi; embraced the Reformed faith, and was secretary to Peter Martyr in
1547; he received the living of Sunningwell, Berks, in 1551, but on Mary's accession fled to
Strasburg; Elizabeth made him Bishop of Salisbury in 1559, and three years later he published
his "Apology for the English Church," in his defence of which he sought to base the faith of
the Church on the direct teaching of Christ apart from that of the Fathers and tradition (1522-1571).

JEWS, THE, a people of Semitic origin, descended from Abraham in the line of Jacob; conspicuous
for the profession of a religion that has issued from them, and affected to the core the rest
of the civilised world. Their religion was determined by a moral standard; through them more
than through any other race has the moral principle, or the law of conscience, been evolved
in humanity as the sovereign law of life, and this at length resolved itself into a faith in
one God, the sole ruler in heaven and on earth, the law of whose government is truth and righteousness,
only they stopped short with the assertion of this divine unity, and in their hard monotheism
stubbornly refused, as they do still, to accept the doctrine of trinity in unity which, spiritually
understood is, as it has been well defined, the central principle of the Christian faith, the
principle that to have a living morality one must have a faith in a Divine Father, a Divine
Son, and a Divine Spirit, all three equally Divine. But, indeed, it is to be noted that the
Jewish religion never was nor ever has been the religion of the Jewish people, but was from
first to last solely the religion of the law-givers and prophets sent to teach them, to whom
they never as a race paid any heed. There was never such antagonism of Yea to God and Nay to
Him in the history of any nation as among them; never such openness to whisperings, and such
callousness to the thunder of God's voice; on the one side, never such tenderness, and on the
other, never such hardness, of heart. Nor except by their religion, which they did not believe
at heart themselves, and of which they have but been the vehicles, have they as a race contributed
anything to the true wealth of the world, "being mere dealers in money, gold, jewels, or else
old clothes, material and spiritual." And it has been noted they have all along shown a want
of humour, a want of gentle sympathy with the under side, "a fatal defect, as without it no
man or people is good for anything." They were never good for much as a nation, and they are
still more powerless for good since it was broken up, numerous as they have been, and are in
their widely scattered state; for there are 4,500,000 in Russia, 1,600,000 in Austria-Hungary,
1,567,000 in Germany, 567,000 in Roumania, 300,000 in Turkey, 120,000 in Holland, 97,000 in
France, 72,000 in England, 101,000 in Italy, 50,000 in Switzerland, 4652 in Servia, and 15,792
in Greece, in all, 7,701,261 in Europe; throughout the globe altogether 11,000,000, while the
numbers in Palestine are increasing.

JEYPORE (2,832), a native state in Rajputana; has been under British protection since 1818,
and was loyal at the Mutiny; the soil is rocky and sandy, but there is much irrigation; copper,
iron, and cobalt are found; enamelled gold ware and salt are manufactured; education is well
provided for; at the capital, Jeypore (159), the handsomest town in India, there is a State
college and a school of art; its business is chiefly banking and exchange.

JEZEBEL, the wicked wife of Ahab, king of Israel, whose fate is recorded in 2 Kings ix. 30-37;
gives name to a bold, flaunting woman of loose morals.

JINA (lit. the "victorious" one as contrasted with Buddha the merely "awakened" one) is in
the religion of the JAINAS (q. v.) a sage who has achieved omniscience, and who came to re-establish
the law in its purity where it has become corrupted among men; one of a class, of which it
appears there have been 24 in number, who have appeared at intervals after long periods of
time, in shapes less imposing or awe-inspiring than at first, and after less and less intervals
as time goes on The Jainas claim that Buddha was a disciple of the Jina, their founder, who
had finished the faith to which the latter had only been awakened.

JINGO, a name, of uncertain derivation, given to a political party favourable to an aggressive,
menacing policy in foreign affairs, and first applied in 1877 to that political section in
Great Britain which provoked the Turco-Russian war.

JINN, in the Arabian mythology one of a class of genii born of fire, some of them good spirits
and some of them evil, with the power of assuming visible forms, hideous or bewitching, corresponding
to their character.

JOAB, the nephew and a general of David's; put to death by order of Solomon 1014 B.C.

JOACHIM, JOSEPH, a distinguished violinist, born near Presburg, in Hungary; famous as a youthful
prodigy; was encouraged by Mendelssohn; has visited London every year since 1844, and has been
principal leader in the Monday and Saturday Popular Concerts from the first, and became head
of the Academy of Music at Berlin in 1869; the fiftieth anniversary of his first appearance
was celebrated on March 17, 1889, when his admirers presented him with a magnificent violin;
b. 1831.

JOACHIM, ST., the husband of St. Anne, and the father of the Virgin Mary.

JOAN, POPE, a woman who, in the guise of a man with male accomplishments, is said for two years
five months and four days to have been Pope of Rome between Leo IV. and Benedict III. about
853-855, and whose sex was discovered by the premature birth of a child during some public
procession. She is said to have been of English parentage, and to have borne the name of Gilberte.
However, it is but fair to say that the story is of doubtful authenticity.

JOAN OF ARC, OR MAID OF ORLEANS, a French heroine, born at Domrémy, of poor parents, but nursed
in an atmosphere of religious enthusiasm, and subject, in consequence, to fits of religious
ecstasy, in one of which she seemed to hear voices calling to her from heaven to devote herself
to the deliverance of France, which was then being laid desolate by an English invasion, occupied
at the time in besieging Orleans; inspired with the passion thus awakened she sought access
to Charles VII., then Dauphin, and offered to raise the siege referred to, and thereafter conduct
him to Reims to be crowned; whereupon, permission being granted, she marched from Blois at
the head of 10,000 men, whom she had inspired with faith in her divine mission; drove the English
from their entrenchments, sent them careering to a distance, and thereafter conducted Charles
to Reims to be crowned, standing beside him till the coronation ceremony was ended; with this
act she considered her mission ended, but she was tempted afterwards to assist in raising the
siege of Compiègne, and on the occasion of a sally was taken prisoner by the besieging English,
and after an imprisonment of four months tried for sorcery, and condemned to be burned alive;
she met her fate in the market-place of Rouen with fortitude in the twenty-ninth year of her
age (1412-1431).

JOANNUS DAMASCENUS, theologian and hymn-writer, born at Damascus; was a zealous defender of
image-worship; was said to have had his right hand chopped off by the machinations of his foes,
which was afterwards restored to him by the Virgin; d. 754, at the age of 70. It is partly
didactic and partly biographic; that is to say, the object of the author is to solve a problem
in part speculatively, or in the intelligence, and in part spiritually, or in the life; the
speculative solution being, that sufferings are to prove and purify the righteous; and the
spiritual, consisting in accepting them not as of merely Divine appointment, but manifestations
of God Himself, which is accomplished in the experience of Job when he exclaims at last, "Now
mine eye seeth Thee." It is very idle to ask if the story is a real one, since its interest
and value do not depend on its historic, but its universal and eternal truth; nor is the question
of the authorship of any more consequence, even if there were any clue to it, which there is
not, as the book offers no difficulty to the interpreter which any knowledge of the author
would the least contribute to remove. In such a case the challenge of Goethe is apropos, "What
have I to do with names when it is a work of the spirit I am considering?" The book of Job
was for long believed to be one of the oldest books in the world, and to have had its origin
among a patriarchal people, such as the Arabs, but is now pretty confidently referred to a
period between that of David and the return from the captivity, the character of it bespeaking
a knowledge and experience peculiarly Jewish.

JOCASTE, the wife of Laius, king of Thebes, and mother of Oedipus; she afterwards married him
not knowing that he was her son, and on discovery of the crime put an end to herself, though
not till after she had become the mother of Etéocles, Polynices, Antigone, and Ismenë.

JODHPUR (2,522), largest Rajputana State, under British protection since 1818; is backward
in government, education, agriculture, and manufactures; tin, lead, and iron are found; salt
is made at Sambhar Lake. The state revolted at the Mutiny. JODHPUR (62), the capital, is 350
m. SW. of Delhi, and is connected by rail with Jeypore and Bombay.

JOE MILLER, an English actor, the author of a book of jests (1684-1738).

JOEL, a Hebrew prophet, author of a book of the Old Testament that bears his name, and which
is of uncertain date, but is written on the great broad lines of all Hebrew prophecy, and reads
us the same moral lesson, that from the judgments of God there is no outlet for the sinner
except in repentance, and that in repentance lies the pledge of deliverance from all evil and
of the enjoyment of all good.

JOHANNESBURG (40), the largest town in the Transvaal, 30 m. S. of Pretoria, and 800 m. NE.
of Cape Town; is the centre of Witwatersrand gold-mining fields. Until recently an ill-equipped
town, it has made rapid progress. Since 1892 railways connect it with Delagoa Bay, Durban,
Port Elizabeth, and Cape Town. Magnificent buildings and residential suburbs are springing
up. The water-supply is bad, and dust-storms are frequent, otherwise the climate is very healthy.
Johannesburg was the seat of the dissatisfaction among the Uitlanders in 1895, which led to
Dr. Jameson's raid.

JOHN, king of England from 1199 to 1216, was clever and vivacious, but the most vicious, profane,
false, short-sighted, tyrannical, and unscrupulous of English monarchs; the son of Henry II.,
he married Hawisa of Gloucester, and succeeded his brother Richard I., being Richard's nominee,
and the tacitly elect of the people; his nephew, Arthur, claimed the French dominions, and
was supported by the French king, Philip; in 1200 he divorced Hawisa, and married Isabel of
Angoulême, a child-heiress; this provoked the French barons; in the war that ensued Arthur
was captured, and subsequently murdered either by John himself or by his orders; Philip invaded
Normandy, and with the fall of the Château-Gaillard in 1204, most of the French possessions
were lost to the English crown; then followed John's quarrel with Pope Innocent III. over the
election of an archbishop of Canterbury; the Pope consecrated Stephen Langton; John refused
to receive him; in 1208 the kingdom was placed under an interdict, and next year the king was
excommunicated; John on his side confiscated Church property, exiled the bishops, exacted homage
of William of Scotland, and put down risings in Ireland and Wales; but a bull, deposing him
and absolving his vassals from allegiance, forced him to submit, and he resigned his crown
to the Pope's envoy in 1213; this exaction on Innocent's part initiated the opposition to Rome
which culminated in the English Reformation; the rest of the reign was a struggle between the
king, relying on his suzerain the Pope, and the people, barons, and clergy, for the first time
on one side; war broke out; the king was forced to sign Magna Charta at Runnymede in 1215,
but the Pope annulled the Charter; the barons appealed for help to the Dauphin, and were prosecuting
the war when John died at Newark (1167-1216).

JOHN, the name of no fewer than 23 popes. J. I., Pope from 523 to 526, was canonised; J. II.,
pope from 532 to 535; J. III., Pope from 560 to 578; J. IV., pope from 640 to 642; J. V., Pope
from 686 to 687; J. VI., pope from 701 to 705; J. VII., Pope from 705 to 707; J. VIII., pope
from 872 to 882; J. IX., Pope from 898 to 900; J. X., pope from 914 to 928; J. XI., Pope from
931 to 936; J. XII., Pope from 956 to 964--was only 18 when elected, led a licentious life;
J. XIII., pope from 965 to 972; J. XIV., Pope from 984 to 985; J. XV., pope in 985; J. XVI.,
Pope from 985 to 996; J. XVII., pope in 1003; J. XVIII., Pope from 1003 to 1009; J. XIX., pope
from 1024 to 1033; J. XX., Anti-Pope from 1043 to 1046; J. XXI., Pope from 1276 to 1277; J.
XXII., Pope from 1316 to 1334--a learned man, a steadfast, and a courageous; J. XXIII., Pope
in 1410, deposed in 1415--was an able man, but an unscrupulous.

JOHN, EPISTLES OF, three Epistles, presumed to have been written by the author of the Gospel,
from the correspondence between them both as regards thought and expression; the occasion of
writing them was the appearance of Antichrist within the bounds of the Church, in the denial
of Christ as God manifest in flesh, and the object of writing them was to emphasise the fact
that eternal life had appeared in Him.

JOHN, KNIGHTS OF ST., a religious order of knights, founded in 1048, and instituted properly
in 1110, for the defence of pilgrims to Jerusalem; established a church and a cloister there,
with a hospital for poor and sick pilgrims, and were hence called the Hospital Brothers of
St. John of Jerusalem; the knights consisted of three classes, knights of noble birth to bear
arms, priests to conduct worship, and serving brothers to tend the sick; on the fall of Jerusalem
they retired to Cyprus, conquered Rhodes, and called themselves Knights of Rhodes; driven from
which they settled in Malta and took the name of Knights of Malta, after which the knighthood
had various fortunes.

JOHN, PRESTER, a supposed king and priest of a mediæval kingdom in the interior of Asia; converted
to Christianity by the Nestorian missionaries; was defeated and killed in 1202 by Genghis Khan,
who had been tributary to him but had revolted; he was distinguished for piety and magnificence.

JOHN, ST., the Apostle, the son of Zebedee and Salome, the sister of the virgin Mary; originally
a fisherman on the Galilæan Lake; after being a disciple of John the Baptist became one of
the earliest disciples of Christ; much beloved and trusted by his Master; lived after His death
for a time in Jerusalem, and then at Ephesus as bishop, where he died at a great age; he lived
to see the rise of the Gnostic heresy, against which, as a denial that Christ had come in the
flesh, he protested with his last breath as an utter denial of Christ; he is represented in
Christian art as either writing his Gospel, or as bearing a chalice out of which a serpent
issues, or as in a caldron of boiling oil.

JOHN, THE GOSPEL ACCORDING TO, the fourth Gospel, of which tradition alleges St. John was the
author, and which is presumed to have been written by him at Ephesus about A.D. 78; its great
design is to bear witness to the Son of God as having come in the flesh, as being not an ideal,
therefore, but a real incarnation, and as in the reality of that being the light and life of
man; whereas the scene of the other Gospels is chiefly laid in Galilee, that of John's is mostly
in Judea, recording, as it does, no fewer than seven visits to the capital, and while it portrays
the person of Christ as the light of life, it represents him as again and again misunderstood,
even by those well disposed to Him, as if the text of his Gospel were "the light shineth in
darkness, and the darkness comprehendeth it not"; the authenticity of this Gospel has been
much debated, and its composition has by recent criticism been referred to somewhere between
A.D. 160 and 170.

JOHN OF GAUNT, Duke of Lancaster, third son of Edward III.; an ambitious man; vainly seized
the crown of Castile; supported the Wycliffites against the clergy; married Blanche of Lancaster,
and was made duke by Henry IV. (1340-1399).

JOHN O' GROAT'S HOUSE, on the Caithness coast, 1¾ m. W. of Duncansby Head, marks the northern
limit of the Scottish mainland; the house was said to be erected, eight-sided, with a door
at each side and an octagonal table within, to compromise the question of precedence among
eight branches of the descendants of a certain Dutchman, John o' Groot.

JOHN OF LEYDEN, originally a tailor; attained great power as an orator; joined the Anabaptists,
and in 1534 established at Münster, in Westphalia, a society based on communistic and polygamic
principles; but the bishop of Münster interfered, and next year John was put to death with
great cruelty (1509-1536).

JOHN OF SALISBUSY, bishop of Chartres, born at Salisbury, of Saxon lineage; was a pupil of
Abelard; was secretary first to Theobald and then to Thomas á Becket, archbishop of Canterbury;
was present at the assassination of the latter; afterwards he retired to France and was made
bishop; wrote the Lives of St. Thomas and St. Anselm, and other works of importance in connection
with the scholasticism of the time (1120-1180).

JOHN THE BAPTIST, the forerunner of Christ, who baptized with water unto, or on the confession
of, repentance, in anticipation of, and in preparation for, the appearance in the immediate
future of One who would baptize with the Spirit and with fire; his fate is well known, and
the motive of it.

JOHN THE GOOD, king of France from 1350 to 1364, succeeded his father Philip VI.; at the battle
of Poitiers he was captured and carried to England; four years later he was allowed to return
on leaving his son as hostage; the hostage made his escape; John chivalrously came back to
London, and died in captivity (1319-1364).

JOHN'S EVE, ST., a festival celebrated with fires on Midsummer Eve; very universally observed
and with similar rites throughout Europe, in the Middle Ages, and the celebration of it was
associated with many superstitious practices.

JOHNSON, ANDREW, American President, born at Raleigh, N. Carolina; was entirely self-educated,
and became a tailor; settling in Tennessee he entered the State legislature in 1839; he sat
in Congress from 1843 till 1853; was for four years Governor of Tennessee, and sat in the Senate
from 1857 to 1863; though in favour of slavery, he discountenanced secession and supported
Lincoln, whom he succeeded as President in 1865, and whose policy he continued; but he lost
the confidence of Congress, which indeed he treated somewhat cavalierly; his removal of Secretary
Stanton led to his impeachment for violation of the Tenure of Office Act; he was tried before
the Senate, but acquitted, and completed his term (1808-1875).

JOHNSTON, ALEXANDER KEITH, cartographer, born at Kirkhill, Midlothian; was an engraver by trade,
and devoted himself with singular success to the preparation of atlases; the "National Atlas"
was published in 1843, and the "Royal Atlas of Geography" (1861) was the finest till then produced;
he also executed atlases physical, geological, and astronomical, and constructed the first
physical globe; honours were showered upon him by home and foreign geographical societies;
he died at Ben Rhydding (1804-1871).

JOHNSTON, JAMES FINLAY WEIR, agricultural chemist, born at Paisley, educated at Glasgow; acquired
a fortune by his marriage in 1830, and devoted himself to studying chemistry; after some years
in Sweden he was chosen lecturer in Durham University, but he resided in Edinburgh, and wrote
his "Catechism of Agricultural Chemistry," since translated into most European languages, and
his "Chemistry of Common Life"; he died at Durham (1796-1855).

JOHNSTONE (10), a Renfrewshire manufacturing town, on the Black Cart, 3½ m. W. of Paisley;
has flax, cotton, paper, and iron industries.

JOHNSTOWN (22), a city of Pennsylvania, engaged in iron and steel manufactures; was overwhelmed
by the bursting of a reservoir, May 31, 1889.

JOHORE (200), a Mohammedan State in the S. of the Malayan Peninsula, 15 m. N. of Singapore;
half the population are Chinese; exports gambier, pepper, and coffee.

JOINVILLE, JEAN, SIRE DE, French chronicler, seneschal of Champagne, born in Châlons-sur-Marne;
author of the "Vie de St. Louis"; followed Louis IX. in the crusade of 1248, but refused to
join in that of 1270; he lived through six reigns, and his biography of his sovereign is one
of the most remarkable books of the Middle Ages; his "Vie de St. Louis" deals chiefly with
the Crusade, and is, says Prof. Saintsbury, "one of the most circumstantial records we have
of mediæval life and thought"; it is gossipy, and abounds in digressions (1224-1319).

JOKAI MAURICE or MORITZ, Hungarian novelist and voluminous author, born at Komorn; published
his first novel, "Working Days," in 1845; in 1848 took a prominent part in the Hungarian struggle,
but afterwards devoted himself to literature; wrote over 300 books, novels, romances, dramas,
essays, and poems, and edited several newspapers; his work resuscitated Hungarian literature;
was in his old age an able debater in the House of Representatives; b. 1825.

JONAH, a Hebrew prophet, who, born in Gathhepher, belonged to the northern kingdom of Israel;
prophesied in the reign of Jeroboam II., and whose special mission it was, at the bidding of
the Lord, to preach repentance to the people of Nineveh; his book, which records his mission
and the story of it, written apparently, as by God's dealings with the Ninevites he had himself
been, to admonish the Jews that the heathen nations whom they regarded as God's enemies were
as much the objects of His mercy as themselves.

JONATHAN, BROTHER, an impersonation of the American people, given to them from the name of
one Jonathan Trumbull, in whose judgment Washington had great confidence, and whom he said
he would have to consult at a crisis of his affairs.

JONES, EBENEZER, poet, born in Islington; author of "Studies in Sensation and Event," fraught
with genuine poetic feeling; published a pamphlet on "Land Monopoly," in which he advocated
the nationalisation of land, apparently as a disciple of Carlyle (1820-1860).

JONES, EDWARD BURNE. See BURNE-JONES.

JONES, ERNEST, Chartist leader and poet, born at Berlin, of English parentage, educated at
Göttingen; came to England in 1838, and six years later was called to the bar; in 1845 he threw
himself into the Chartist movement, and devoted the rest of his life to the amelioration and
elevation of the working-classes, suffering two years' (1848-1850) solitary imprisonment for
a speech made at Kensington; he wrote, besides pamphlets and papers in the Chartist cause,
several poems; "The Revolt of Hindostan" was written in prison, with his own blood, he said,
on the fly-leaves of a prayer-book; he never succeeded in getting into Parliament (1819-1869).

JONES, HENRY ARTHUR, dramatist, born at Grandborough, Bucks; author of the "Silver King," "Judah,"
the "Dancing Girl," and many other plays; b. 1831.

JONES, INIGO, architect, born in London, son of a cloth-worker; studied in Italy, and, returning
to England, obtained the patronage of James I., and became chief architect in the country;
the Royal Chapel at Whitehall is reckoned his masterpiece; Heriot's Hospital, Edinburgh, is
from his design; his style follows Palladio of Venice (1573-1652). (1747-1792).

JONES, SIR WILLIAM, English Orientalist, born in London; passed through Oxford to the English
bar in 1774, and was made a judge in Bengal in 1783; early devoted to Eastern languages and
literature, he published numerous translations and other works, concluding with "Sakuntala"
and "The Laws of Manu"; he founded the Asiatic Society at Calcutta, where he died (1746-1794).

JONGLEURS, were mediæval minstrels of Provence and Northern France, who sang and often composed
songs and tales, but whose jesting and buffoonery distinguished them from the knightly troubadours
and trouvères.

JONSON, BEN, dramatist, born at Westminster, posthumous son of a clergyman of Scottish descent;
was in his youth first a bricklayer, afterwards a soldier in the Netherlands, whence he returned
about 1592; married a shrew, and became connected with the stage; he was one of the most learned
men of his age, and for forty years the foremost, except Shakespeare, in the dramatic and literary
world; killing his challenger in a duel nearly cost him his life in 1598; he was branded on
the left thumb, imprisoned, and his goods confiscated; in prison he turned Catholic, but twelve
years later reverted to Protestantism; the opening of the century brought an unpleasant difference
with Dekker and Marston, and saw the famous Mermaid Club at its zenith; for nine years after
Shakespeare's death he produced no dramas; in 1619 he received a degree, M.A., from Oxford,
the laureateship, and a small pension from the king; now a widower, he founded with Herrick,
Suckling, Carew, and others the Apollo Club at the Devil Tavern; in the new reign he turned
again to dramatic work with sadly diminished power; he died in poverty, but was buried in Westminster
Abbey, his tombstone bearing the words "O rare Ben Jonson"; he wrote at least sixteen plays,
among them "Every Man is his Humour" (1598), in which Shakespeare acted, "The Poetaster" (1601),
which vexed Dekker, the tragedy of "Sejanus" (1603), "The Silent Woman" (1609), a farcical
comedy, Dryden's favourite play, and his most elaborate and masterly work, "The Alchemist"
(1610); he wrote also thirty-five masques of singular richness and grace, in the production
of which Inigo Jones provided the mechanism; but his best work was his lyrics, first of which
stands "Drink to me only with thine eyes," whose exquisite delicacy and beauty everybody knows
(1573-1637).

JOPPA, an ancient town and seaport, now Jaffa, on the coast of Palestine, 35 m. NW. from Jerusalem;
a place of note in sacred and mediæval history; here Jonah took ship to Tarshish.

JORDAENS, JAKOB, a Dutch painter and engraver, born at Antwerp; was a friend of Rubens, and
ranks next him among the Flemings (1615-1678).

JORDAN, a river of Palestine, which rises on the western side of Mount Hermon, and flows S.
below Cæsarea-Philippi within banks, after which it expands into lagoons that collect at length
into a mass in Lake Merom (Huleh), 2 m. below which it plunges into a gorge and rushes on for
9 m. in a torrent, till it collects again in the Sea of Galilee to lose itself finally in the
Dead Sea after winding along a distance of 65 m. as the crow flies; at its rise it is 1080
ft. above and at the Dead Sea 1300 ft. below the sea-level.

JORDAN, MRS. DOROTHEA, the stage name of Miss Bland, daughter of an actress, born at Waterford;
played first in Dublin, then in Yorkshire, and appeared at Drury Lane in "The Country Girl"
in 1785; her popularity was immense, and she maintained it for thirty years in the roles of
boys and romping girls, her wonderful laugh winning lasting fame; she attained considerable
wealth, and was from 1790 to 1811 the mistress of the Duke of Clarence, who, when William IV.,
ennobled her eldest son; she died, however, in humble circumstances in St. Cloud, near Paris
(1762-1816).

JORTIN, JOHN, English divine, born in London, of Huguenot descent; held various appointments,
was a prebend of St. Paul's, wrote on ecclesiastical history (1698-1770).

JORULLO, a volcano in Mexico, 150 m. SW. of Mexico city, rose one night from a high-lying plateau
on Sept. 8, 1759, the central crater at a height 4625 ft. above the sea-level.

JOSEPH, the name of four persons in scripture. 1, JOSEPH, the son of Jacob and Rachel, and
the story of whose life is given in Genesis. 2, JOSEPH, ST. the carpenter, the husband of the
Virgin Mary and the reputed father of Jesus. 3, JOSEPH OF ARAMATHEA, a member of the Jewish
Sanhedrin, who begged the body of Jesus to bury it in his own tomb. 4, JOSEPH, surnamed BARSABAS,
one of the disciples of Jesus, and deemed worthy to be nominated to fill the place vacated
by Judas.

JOSÉPHINE, the Empress of the French, born in Martinique; came to France at the age of 15;
was in 1779 married to Viscount Beauharnais, who was one of the victims of the Revolution,
and to whom she bore a daughter, Hortense, the mother of Napoleon III.; married in 1796 to
Napoleon Bonaparte, to whom she proved a devoted wife as well as a wise counsellor; she became
empress in 1804, but failing to bear him any children, was divorced in 1809, though she still
corresponded with Napoleon and retained the title of Empress to the last, living at Malmaison,
where she died (1763-1814).

JOSEPHUS, FLAVIUS, Jewish historian, born at Jerusalem, of royal and priestly lineage; was
a man of eminent ability and scholarly accomplishments, distinguished no less for his judgment
than his learning; gained favour at Rome; was present with Titus at the siege of Jerusalem,
and by his intercession saved the lives of several of the citizens; he accompanied Titus back
to Rome, and received the freedom of the city; devoting himself there to literary studies,
wrote the "History of the Jewish War" and "Jewish Antiquities"; he was of the Pharisaic party,
but his religious views were rationalistic; he discards the miraculous; takes no note of the
rise of Christianity or of the person of its Founder (37-98).

JOSHUA, a Jewish military leader, born of the tribe of Ephraim, the minister and successor
of Moses, under whose leadership the Jews obtained a footing in the Land of Canaan.

JOSHUA, THE BOOK OF, a book of the Bible, is closely connected with the Pentateuch, and now
regarded as the continuation and completion of it, constituting along with it what is called
the Hexateuch, or sixfold book; it covers a period of 25 years, and contains a history of Israel
under the guidance of Joshua, commencing with his appointment as leader and concluding with
his death.

JOSIAH, a king of Judah from 639 to 609 B.C.; was zealous for the restoration of the Jewish
worship according to the ritual of Moses, as recently come to light in the discovery by Hilkiah
the high-priest of the "Book of the Law"; he fell in battle before an invading Assyrian host.

JOSS, a Chinese god or his idol.

JÖTUNHEIM, the abode of the Jötuns in the Norse mythology, as Asenheim is that of the Norse
deities.

JÖTUNS, a race of giants in the Norse mythology, "huge, shaggy beings of a demonic character,
representing the dark hostile Powers of Nature, such as Frost, Fire, Sea-tempest, who dwelt
in Jötunheim, a distant, dark chaotic land ... in perpetual internecine feud with the gods,
or friendly powers, such as Summer-heat and the Sun, and who dwelt far apart."

JOUBERT, BARTHÉLEMI, French general; distinguished himself in the Rhine and Italian campaigns,
and fell mortally wounded at the battle of Novi; one of the most promising generals France
ever had (1769-1799).

JOUBERT, JOSEPH, author of "Pensées," born in Montignac, Périgord; educated in Toulouse, succeeded
to a small competency, came to Paris, got access to the best literary circles, and was the
most brilliant figure in the salon of Madame de Beaumont; his works were exclusively pensées
and maxims, and bear at once on ethics, politics, theology, and literature; "There is probably,"
Professor Saintsbury says, "no writer in any language who has said an equal number of remarkable
things on an equal variety of subjects in an equally small space and with an equally high and
unbroken excellence of style and expression;... all alike have the characteristic of intense
compression; he describes his literary aim in the phrase 'tormented by the ambition of putting
a book into a page, a page into a phrase, and a phrase into a word'" (1754-1824).

JOUFFROY D'ABBANS, CLAUDE, MARQUIS DE, is claimed by the French as the first inventor of the
steamboat; he made a paddle-steamer ply on the Rhône in 1783, but misfortunes due to the Revolution
hindered his progress, till he was forestalled by Fulton on the Seine in 1803 (1751-1832).

JOUGS, an iron collar hung by a chain in some public place, was fastened round a culprit's
neck, who was thus exposed in a sort of pillory; in use in Scotland from the 16th to the 18th
centuries.

JOULE, JAMES PRESCOTT, a celebrated physicist, born at Salford; was a pupil of Dalton's, and
devoted his time to physical and chemical research; made discoveries in connection with the
production of heat by voltaic electricity, demonstrated the equivalence of heat and energy,
and established on experimental grounds the doctrine of the conservation of energy (1818-1889).

JOURDAN, JEAN BAPTISTE, COMTE VON, marshal of France, born at Limoges; gained for the Republic
the victory of Fleurus in 1794, but was in 1795 defeated at Höchst, and subsequently by the
Archduke Charles of Austria; served under Napoleon, and became Governor of the Hôtel des Invalides
under Louis Philippe (1762-1833).

JOWETT, BENJAMIN, Master of Balliol College, Oxford, born at Camberwell; was a fellow and tutor
of his college till his election to the mastership in 1870; his name will always be associated
with Balliol College, where his influence was felt, and made the deepest impression; he wrote
an article "On the Interpretation of Scripture" in the "Essays and Reviews," and a commentary
on certain epistles of St. Paul, but he achieved his greatest literary successes by his translations
of Plato's "Dialogues," the "History" of Thucydides, and the "Politics" of Aristotle (1817-1893).

JUAN, DON, a poem of Byron's, a work which, as Stopford Brooke remarks, "was written in bold
revolt against all the conventionality of social morality, religion, and politics, and in which--escaped
from his morbid self, he ran into the opposite extreme--he claimed for himself and others absolute
freedom of individual act and thought in opposition to the force of society which tends to
make all men after one pattern."

JUAN FERNANDEZ, a mountainous island 3000 ft. high, off the Chilian coast, 420 m. W. of Valparaiso;
was the lonely residence of ALEXANDER SELKIRK (1704-1709) (q. v.); was used as a penal settlement
from 1819 to 1835, and is inhabited by a few seal and sea-lion hunters.

JUAREZ, BENITO, president of Mexico, born in Oaxaca, of Indian extraction; was elected to the
Presidency twice over, in 1861 and 1867 (1806-1872).

JUBA, a great river rising in the Abyssinian mountains and flowing S. into the Indian Ocean,
with a town of the same name at its mouth; marks the northern limit of British East Africa.

JUBILEE, a festival among the Jews every fiftieth year in celebration of their emancipation
from Egypt.

JUBILEE, YEAR OF, a year during which it was required that all land which had passed out of
the original owner's hands during the 50 years preceding should be restored, all who during
that time had been forced to sell their liberty should be released, and all debts contracted
in that period should be remitted, a requirement, however, which does not appear to have been
very rigorously or regularly observed.

JUDÆA, a southern district of Palestine extending in one direction between Samaria and the
desert of Arabia, and in the other between the Mediterranean and the Dead Sea.

JUDAH, KINGDOM OF, the kingdom in the S. of Palestine of the two tribes of Judah and Benjamin
that remained true to the house of David after the revolt of the other ten under Jeroboam,
who formed what was called the kingdom of Israel, a larger, but a weaker.

JUDAIZERS, a party, called also EBIONITES, in the primitive Church who sought to overlay the
simple ordinances of Christianity with Judaic observances and rites, "a yoke which neither
they nor their fathers were able to bear."

JUDAS, surnamed ISCARIOT, one of the twelve Apostles of Christ, who from some infatuation that
unaccountably possessed him, and to his everlasting infamy, betrayed his Master to His enemies
for 30 pieces of silver; was designated by Christ as the Son of Perdition.

JUDAS MACCABÆUS, a son of MATTATHIAS (q. v.), who succeeded his father in the leadership of
the Jews against the Syrians in the war of the Maccabees, and who gave name to the movement,
a man of chivalric temper, great energy, firm determination, dauntless courage, and powerful
physique; who, with the elect of his countrymen of kindred spirit encountered and overthrew
the Syrians in successive engagements, till before a great muster of the foe his little army
was overwhelmed and himself slain in 160 B.C. See MACCABEES.

JUDE, EPISTLE OF, an epistle in the New Testament, of which Judas, the brother of James, was
the author; written to some unknown community in the primitive Church, in which a spirit of
antinomian libertinism had arisen, and the members of which are denounced as denying the sovereign
authority of the Church's Head by the practical disobedience and scorn of the laws of His kingdom.
For the drift and modern uses of this epistle see Ruskin's "Fors Clavigera," chaps. lxvi. and
lxvii., where it is shown that the enemies of the faith in Jude's day are its real enemies in ours.

JUDGES, BOOK OF, a book of the Old Testament; gives an account of a series of deliverances
achieved on behalf of Israel by ministers of God of the nation so called, when, after their
occupation of the land, now this tribe and now that was threatened with extinction by the Canaanites;
these deliverers bore the character of heroes rather than judges, but they were rather tribal
heroes than national, there being as yet no king in Israel to unite them into one; of these
the names of twelve are given, of which only six attained special distinction, and their rule
covered a period of 300 years, which extended between the death of Joshua and the birth of
Samuel; the story throughout is one: apostasy and consequent judgment, but the return of the
Divine favour on repentance insured.

JUDGMENT, PRIVATE, assumption of judgment by individual reason on matters which are not amenable
to a lower tribunal than the universal reason of the race.

JUDITH, a wealthy, beautiful, and pious Jewish widow who, as recorded in one of the books of
the Apocrypha called after her, entered, with only a single maid as attendant, the camp of
the Assyrian army under Holofernes, that lay investing Bethulia, her native place; won the
confidence of the chief, persuaded him to drink while alone with him in his tent till he was
brutally intoxicated, cut off his head, and making good her escape, suspended it from the walls
of the place, with the issue of the utter rout of his army by a sally of the townsfolk.

JUDSON, ADONIRAM, Burmese missionary and scholar, born at Maiden, Mass.; sailed for Burma 1812,
and for 40 years laboured devotedly, translating the Bible into Burmese, and compiling a Burmese-English
dictionary; he died at sea on his way home (1788-1850).

JUGGERNAUT (22) or PURI, a town on the S. coast of Orissa, in Bengal; one of the holy places
of India, with a temple dedicated to Vishnu, and containing an idol of him called Jagannâtha
(or the Lord of the World), which, in festival times, attracts thousands of pilgrims to worship
at its shrine, on one of which occasions the idol is dragged forth in a ponderous car by the
pilgrims and back again, under the wheels of which, till prohibited, multitudes would throw
themselves to be crushed to death in the hope of thereby attaining a state of eternal beatitude.

JUGURTHA, king of Numidia; succeeded by violent measures to the throne, and maintained his
ground in defiance of the Romans, who took up arms against him and at last led him captive
to Rome to die of hunger in a dungeon.

JUKES, JOSEPH BEET, geologist, born near Birmingham; graduated at Cambridge; took part in several
expeditions, and finally became lecturer in the Royal College of Science, Dublin, where he
died; he published among other works a "Student's Manual of Geology" (1811-1869).

JULIA, daughter and only child of Augustus Cæsar; celebrated for her beauty and the dissoluteness
of her morals, and became the wife in succession of Marcellus, Agrippa, and Tiberius.

JULIAN THE APOSTATE, Roman emperor for 18 months, from 361 to 363; was born at Constantinople,
his father being a half-brother of Constantine the Great, on whose death most of Julian's family
were murdered; embittered by this event, Julian threw himself into philosophic studies, and
secretly renounced Christianity; as joint emperor with his cousin from 355 he showed himself
a capable soldier, a vigorous and wise administrator; on becoming sole emperor he proclaimed
his apostasy, and sought to restore paganism, but without persecuting the Church; though painted
in blackest colours by the Christian Fathers, he was a lover of truth, chaste, abstinent, just,
and affectionate, if somewhat vain and superstitious; he was killed in an expedition against
Persia; several writings of his are extant, but a work he wrote against the Christians is lost
(331-363).

JÜLICH, a duchy on the W. bank of the Rhine, its capital a place of the same name, 20 m. W.
of Köln.

JULIEN, STANISLAS AIGNAN, an eminent Sinalogue, born in Orleans, originally eminent in Greek;
turned his attention to Chinese, and in 12 months time translated a part of one of the classical
works in that language; originally professor of Greek, he became in 1827 professor of Chinese
in the College of France in succession to Rémusat; he was not less distinguished as a Sanskrit
and Pâli scholar (1797-1873).

JULIUS, the name of three popes: ST. J. I., Pope from 337 to 332; J. II., pope from 1502 to
1513; J. III., Pope from 1550 to 1555, of which only J. II. deserves notice. J. II., an Italian
by birth, was more of a soldier than a priest, and, during his pontificate, was almost wholly
occupied with wars against the Venetians for the recovery of Romagna, and against the French
to drive them out of Italy, in which attempt he called to his aid the spiritual artillery at
his command, by ex-communicating Louis XII. and putting his kingdom under an interdict in 1542;
he sanctioned the marriage of Henry VIII. with Catharine of Aragon, commenced to rebuild St.
Peter's at Rome, and was the patron of Michael Angelo and Raphael.

JULLIEN, LOUIS ANTOINE, a distinguished musical conductor, born in the Basses-Alpes; did much
to popularise music by large bands, but he was unfortunate in his speculations, and died insane
and in debt (1812-1860).

JULY, the seventh month of the year, so called in honour of Julius Cæsar, who reformed the
calendar, and was born in this month; it was famous as the month of the outbreak of the second
Revolution of France in Paris in 1830.

JUMNA, the chief affluent of the Ganges, which it joins at Allahabad, rises in the Punjab,
and flows through the North-West Provinces, having Delhi and Agra on its banks; its course
is 860 m., and it falls over 10,000 ft.; its waters are used for irrigation by means of canals,
being of little use for navigation.

JUMPERS, name of a certain religious sect in America, from the dancing associated with its
services.

JUNE, the sixth month of the year, so named from the Roman gens or clan Junius, or perhaps
from Juno.

JUNG STILLING, a German mystic, born in Nassau; first a tailor, then a schoolmaster; went to
Strasburg, became intimate with Goethe, studied medicine there, and afterwards practised in
Elberfeld; became professor of Political Economy at Marburg and in Heidelberg; is best known
by his autobiography: Kant and Lavater were friends of his (1740-1817).

JUNGFRAU (Maiden), a peak of the Bernese Alps, 13,671 ft. in height; was first ascended by
the brothers Meyer in 1811.

JUNIUS, LETTERS OF, seventy letters on public affairs which appeared under that signature in
the Public Advertiser 1769 to 1772, and were with others reprinted in book form; were, though
severe in tone, the prototype of the modern leading article. Their authorship has never been
discovered; but some hold that evidence points to Sir Philip Francis as responsible for them.

JUNK, a Chinese boat with a flat bottom, a square prow, a high stern, and a pole for mast.

JUNKER, a name given in Germany to the younger members of the aristocracy, or of the landed
gentry, as representing a reactionary party in modern politics.

JUNO, a Roman goddess, the wife of Jupiter, and the queen of heaven, corresponding to the HERA
(q. v.) of the Greeks; the impersonation of womanhood, and the special protectress of the rights
of women, especially married women, and bore the names of Virginalis and Matrona. She was the
patroness of household and even state economy. See ZEUS.

JUNOT, ANDOCHE, DUC D'ABRANTES, French general; was Napoleon's aide-de-camp in his first Campaign
in Italy; took part in the expedition to Egypt; distinguished himself in the invasion of Portugal,
but soon experienced reverse after reverse; in a fit of madness he threw himself one day out
of a window, and died from the effect (1771-1813).

JUNTO, the name given to a Whig faction in the reign of William III., that for 20 years exercised
a great influence in the affairs of the nation, of which Russell, Lord-Keeper Somers, and Charles
Montague were the leading members.

JUPITER. See ZEUS.

JUPITER, one of the exterior planets of the solar system, and the largest; revolves in an orbit
outside that of the asteroids, at a mean distance from the sun of 480 millions of miles, completing
its revolution round the sun in 4338 days, and taking 10 hours to revolve on its own axis;
it is surrounded by belts considered to be openings in the cloudy atmosphere which invests
it, and is accompanied by four moons, all nearly of the same size but at different distances,
and with different periods of revolution round it; it is in volume 1300 times larger than that
of the earth, while its weight is only 300 times that of the earth, is therefore less than
one-fourth of the density of the earth.

JUPITER CARLYLE, a sobriquet given to the REV. ALEXANDER CARLYLE (q. v.), from his resemblance
to the artist's conception of Jupiter, particularly in the head.

JUPITER SCAPIN, a nickname given by the Abbé de Pradt to Napoleon, after a valet of the name
of Scapin in a comedy of Molière's, noted for his knaveries.

JURA, an Argyllshire island NE. of Islay, mountainous (2500 ft.); the eastern slopes yield
some crops, but most of the island is deer forest and cattle-grazing land.

JURY, a body of citizens set to try a question of fact, or to assess damages; in England and
Ireland a jury numbers 12, and its verdict must be unanimous; in Scotland the verdict is by
majority, and the jury numbers 12 in civil and 15 in criminal cases.

JUSSIEU, ANTOINE LAURENT DE, celebrated French botanist, born at Lyons; his book, entitled
"Genera Plantarum," published in 1789, lays down the principle on which the modern classification
of plants is based; he was one of a family of botanists (1748-1836).

JUSTICE, 1, HIGH COURT OF, one of the two great sections of the English Supreme Courts; 2,
LORD CHIEF, the chief judge of the Queen's Bench division of it; 3, LORD JUSTICE-GENERAL, supreme
judge in Scotland, the Lord President of the Court of Session; 4, OF THE PEACE, the title of
a petty county or borough magistrate of multifarious duties and jurisdiction; 5, LORDS JUSTICES,
judges of the English Court of Appeal.

JUSTICE, BED OF, a formal session of Parliament of Paris under the presidency of the king,
for the compulsory registration of royal edicts.

JUSTICIARY COURT, the highest court for the trial of criminal cases in Scotland.

JUSTIN, surnamed the Martyr, an early Christian apologist, born in Sichem, Samaria; a heathen
by birth, who studied philosophy in the Stoic and Platonic schools, and was converted to Christianity
from observing the strength of the convictions with which it was embraced; was the author of
two "Apologies for the Christians," rather than for Christianity or its dogmas, and a "Dialogue
with Trypho the Jew," and suffered martyrdom in 168. Festival, June 12.

JUSTINIAN I., Roman emperor and jurist, born in Illyria; became co-emperor with Justin I. in
527; married the infamous Theodora, and for 38 years enjoyed a reign, the most brilliant of
the late Empire, but not without dangers from foes outside and factions within; his fame rests
on the codification and reform of the laws which he carried out; he improved the status of
slaves, revised the laws of divorce and of intestate succession; and in his "Digest," "Institutes,"
and other sections of the "Corpus Juris Civilis," first gave definiteness to Roman law and
laid the basis of the civil law of most modern nations (482-565).

JUSTINIAN PANDECTS, a code of Roman laws compiled under the direction of the Emperor Justinian,
with a digest of the commentaries of the jurists thereupon.

JUTLAND, at the mouth of the Baltic Sea, is the only European peninsula that stretches northward;
it comprises the continental portion of the kingdom of Denmark.

JUVENAL, a celebrated Latin poet and satirist, born at Aquinum; a friend of Martial and contemporary
of Statius and Quintilian; his satires, 16 in number, are written in indignant scorn of the
vices of the Romans under the Empire, and in the descriptions of which the historian finds
a portrait of the manners and morals of the time (42-120).

JUXON, WILLIAM, archbishop of Canterbury, born in Chichester; became in succession bishop of
Worcester and bishop of London, and attended Charles I. in prison and on the scaffold; lived
in privacy till the Restoration, four months after which he was made archbishop, and died about
two years after his elevation (1582-1663).

K

KAABA. See CAABA.

KABUL (70), on the Kabul River, at the foot of the Takht-i-Shah Hills, 650 m. NW. of Delhi,
is the capital of Afghanistan, an ancient, mud-built city, but progressing; noted for its fruit
and trading in carpets, camel-hair cloth, and skins; the town was taken by General Pollok 1842,
avenging the death of Burnes and Macnaughten, and by General Roberts in 1879, avenging the
murder of Cavagnari.

KABYLES, the name given to a division of the Berbers of N. Africa, who occupy the coast and
tablelands of Mauritania, and are indigenous to it.

KADIJAH, a rich widow, the wife of Mahomet, who had been her steward and factotum, and whom
he married when she was forty and himself only twenty-five, and with whom he lived till her
death, "loving her truly and her alone," himself now a man of fifty; he had begun his mission
as a prophet before she died, and one service she did him he never forgot as the greatest of
them all: she believed in him, when no one else did.

KADRIS, a set of Mohammedan dervishes who lacerate themselves with scourges, like the Flagellants.

KAFFIRS, including Kaffirs proper and Zulus, a division of the Bantu negroes, found all over
S. Africa, are a pastoral and latterly agricultural people of fine physique, naturally hospitable,
honest, and truthful, but now much contaminated by the white man; Kaffir wars broke out in
1834, 1846, 1850, and 1877; the name, which means infidel, was originally applied by the Mohammedans
to all pagans.

KAFIRISTAN (200), a lofty mountainous region in the E. of Afghanistan, S. of the Hindu-Kush,
with the Panjshir, Kabul, and Chitral Rivers on the W., S., and E.; the people are undersized,
pastoral, and devoted to their Aryan faith, which here has its last stronghold, not organised
politically, but united in their love of independence and hatred of Mohammedanism.

KAIRWAN` (5), the sacred city of Northern Africa, in Tunis, 80 m. S. of Tunis, a decayed town,
was the chief seat of the Mohammedans in N. Africa, and a sacred city; manufactures copper
vessels, carpets, and articles of leather.

KAISAR-I-HIND (i. e. Cæsar of India), a title applied to Queen Victoria as Empress of India
since 1876.

KAISER, the name, derived from the Latin Cæsar, given to the emperor of the old German Empire
or Reich, and resumed by the modern Emperor, William I., and his successors.

KAISER WILHELM'S LAND (116), the N. of the eastern half of New Guinea, belonging partly to
Britain, partly to Holland, and partly to Germany.

KAITHAL (15), in the Punjab, 90 m. NW. of Delhi, an ancient town, with saltpetre refineries;
has old associations with the Hindu monkey-god, HANUMAN (q. v.).

KÂLA, the Hindu Chronus, or god of time, who, as in the Greek mythology, at once produces and
devours all things.

KALAHARI DESERT, in S. Africa, stretches far northward from the Orange River between German
SW. Africa and the Transvaal, an elevated plateau, not really desert, but covered with scrub
and affording coarse pasturage for cattle.

KALAMAZOO` (18), a railway centre and flourishing town in the SW. of Michigan, 144 m. NE. of
Chicago; manufactures machinery, paper, and flour.

KALEIDOSCOPE, an optical instrument, invented by Sir David Brewster in 1817, consisting of
a cylinder with two mirrors set lengthwise inside, two plates of glass with bits of coloured
glass loose between at one end and an eye-hole at the other, presents varying patterns on rotation.

KALEVALE, a collection of popular songs current among the peasantry of Finland from earliest times.

KALI (i. e. the black one), one of the names of the wife of SIVA (q. v.), and of whom she is
the female counterpart, and has been identified with the GREEK HECATE (q. v.); she is represented
with a necklace of human heads.

KÁLIDÁSA, a great Indian dramatist and poet, probably of the 6th century A.D.; was author of
"The Lost Ring" and "The Hero and the Nymph," translated by Sir William Jones, much praised
by Goethe and Max Müller.

KALMAR (12), seaport in SE. of Sweden, on an island in Kalmar Sound; carries on a large timber
trade, and manufactures of tobacco and matches.

KALMUCKS, the name given to the Western Moguls, inhabiting Central Asia, and considerably intermingled
with their neighbours, the Russians, Persians, and Turks; they are Buddhists, nomadic, and
have herds of horses and cattle.

KALPA, a Braminical name for the immense period of time which separates one destruction of
the world from the next, a day and a night of Brahma.

KALPI (14), a decaying town in the NW. Provinces of India, on the Jumna, 50 m. SW. of Cawnpore;
was the scene of the defeat of 12,000 mutineers in 1858; manufactures paper, and exports grain
and cotton.

KÂMA, the Hindu Cupid, or god of love, a potent god of the Hindu pantheon, able to subdue nearly
all the rest of the gods except Siva, who once with a single glance of his Cyclop eye reduced
him to ashes for daring to bring trouble into his breast; he is one of the primitive gods of
the Hindu pantheon, like the EROS (q. v.) of the Greeks.

KAMCHATKA (7), a long narrow peninsula on the E. coast of Siberia, stretching southwards between
the Behring Sea and the Sea of Okhotsk, with a precipitous coast and a volcanic range of mountains
down the centre, has a cold, wet climate, grass and tree vegetation, and many hot springs;
the people live by fishing, hunting, and trading in furs; they are Russianised, the peninsula
having been Russian since the 17th century.

KAMES, HENRY HOME, LORD, Scottish judge and philosopher, born in Berwickshire; became an advocate
in 1723 and judge in 1752; wrote books on law, "Essays on Morality and Natural Religion," and
other philosophical works, in which he indulged in a wide and often fanciful range of speculation;
was noted for his sociality and public spirit, and died at Edinburgh (1696-1782).

KAMPEN (19), a reviving Dutch town on the Yssel, 3 m. from the Zuyder Zee, and 5½ m. W. of
Zwolle; has shipbuilding and fishing industries; the inhabitants are the proverbial fools of
Holland.

KAMPTULICON, a floorcloth composed of cork and india-rubber or similar substance.

KAMTHI (43), a town of recent origin in the Central Provinces of India, 9 m. NW. of Nagpur;
trades in cattle and grain, salt, and timber.

KANARA, a rainy district on the W. coast of India, between Goa and Malabar, mostly malarial
forest country, with the Ghat Mountains and many rivers. NORTH KANARA (446) is in Bombay Presidency.
SOUTH KANARA (1,056), capital Mangalore, is in Madras.

KANARIS, CONSTANTIN, an intrepid Greek sea-captain who distinguished himself by his exploits
in the Greek War of Independence, particularly in the destruction of the Turkish vessels by
means of fire-ships; he attained the rank of admiral in 1862, and took part in the revolution
which overthrew King Otho (1780-1877).

KANDAHAR, capital of Southern Afghanistan, near the Argandab River, 200 m. SW. of Kabul; a
well-watered, regularly built town in the middle of orchards and vineyards; is of great political
and commercial importance; a centre of trade with India, Persia, and Turkestan; it was held
by the British through the war of 1839-41, and again in 1880-81; population variously estimated
from 25,000 to 100,000.

KANDY (20), a town on a mountain lake in the middle of Ceylon, 75 m. NE. of Colombo; is a railway
centre; has the ruins of the palace of the old native kings, and a temple with the famous tooth
of Buddha.

KANE, ELISHA KENT, an American explorer, born in Philadelphia; bred to medicine; became a surgeon
in the navy; acquired a taste for adventure; from his experiences in such accompanied, in 1850,
the first Grinnell expedition to the Arctic seas, and commanded the second in 1853, after three
years returning with many discoveries; he wrote accounts of both expeditions (1820-1857).

KANE, SIR ROBERT, chemist, born in Dublin; originator of the Dublin Journal of Medical Science
in 1832, and of the Irish Museum of Industry in 1846; was President of Queen's College, Cork,
and President of the Royal Irish Academy in 1876; Published "Elements of Chemistry," and other
works (1810-1890).

KANSAS (1,427), the central State of the American Union; lies in the basin of the Kansas and
Arkansas Rivers, between Nebraska on the N. and Oklahoma on the S., with Colorado on the W.
and Missouri on the E. It is a rolling prairie, with a fine climate subject to occasional extremes,
and a rainfall, except in some districts, sufficient; raises crops of grain and sugar, and
affords excellent grazing ground. Pork and beef packing, flour-milling, and iron-founding industries
are carried on. The State University is at Lawrence, an agricultural college at Manhattan,
and good schools in every town. Previous to its admission to the Union in 1859 Kansas was the
scene of violent conflicts between pro- and anti-slavery parties for five years. In the Civil
War it joined the North. The capital is Topeka (31), and the largest other towns Kansas City
(38) and Wichita (23).

KANSAS CITY, two contiguous towns on the S. bank of the Missouri River, 280 m. W. of St. Louis,
are so called. The larger and more easterly one (164) is the second city of Missouri; an important
railway centre, and distributes the agricultural products of a large region; has pork-packing
industries and iron manufactures. The smaller, westerly city (51), is in Kansas, the largest
town of that State; has a remarkable elevated railway.

KANT, IMMANUEL, a celebrated German philosopher, born in Königsberg, the son of a saddler,
of Scotch descent, and fortunate in both his parents; entered the university in 1740 as a student
of theology; gave himself to the study of philosophy, mathematics, and physics; wrote an essay,
his first literary effort, on "Motive Force" in 1747; settled at the University as a private
lecturer on a variety of academic subjects in 1755; became professor of Logic and Metaphysics
in 1770, when he was 46, and continued till his retirement, in 1797, from the frailties of
age, spending the last 17 years of his life in a small house with a garden in a quiet quarter
of the town; his great work, the "Kritic of Pure Reason," was published in 1781, and it was
followed by the "Kritic of Practical Reason" in 1788, and the "Kritic of Judgment" in 1790;
his works inaugurate a new era in philosophic speculation, and by the adoption of a critical
method dealt a death-blow to speculative dogmatism on the one hand and scepticism on the other;
it was, he says, the scepticism of Hume that first broke his dogmatic slumber, so that had
Hume not been, he had not been, and the whole course of modern thought different; Kant by his
critical method did for philosophy what Copernicus did for astronomy; he centralised the intelligence
in the reason or soul, as the latter did the planetary system in the sun; Kant was a lean,
little man, of simple habits, and was never wedded (1724-1804).

KAOLIN, a fine white clay, a hydrous silicate of alumina, which does not colour when fired;
used in making porcelain; called also China clay.

KAPELLMEISTER, director of an orchestra or choir, more particularly of the band of a German prince.

KAPILA, the founder of the Sankhya system of HINDU PHILOSOPHY (q. v.); was regarded as an incarnation
of VISHNU (q. v.).

KARA, a gold-mining district in East Siberia, 300 m. from Chita, of which the mines are the
private property of the Czar, and are worked by convicts, who are often disgracefully treated,
many of them merely political offenders.

KARA SEA is a portion of the Arctic Sea, on the NE. corner of Russia, between Nova Zembla and
the Yalmal; receives the rivers Obi and Yenisei, and is navigable from July to September.

KARAITES, a Jewish sect which originated in the 8th century; adhered to the letter of Scripture
and repudiated all tradition; were strict Sabbatarians.

KARAKORUM, a range of the Himalayas, extending from the Hindu-Kush eastward into Thibet, and
a pass in the centre of it 18,000 ft. high. Also the name of the old capital of Mongolia.

KARAMSIN, a Russian historian; his first work was "Letters of a Russian Traveller," in 6 vols.,
published in 1797-1801, which gained him a high reputation, and it was followed by his "History
of Russia," in 12 vols., published in 1816-1829, for the materials of which he had access,
to the most authentic documents as imperial historiographer, an office to which he was appointed
in 1803, and the work is a work in the highest repute (1766-1826).

KARIKAL (93), a French possession in India, on the Coromandel coast, 150 m. S. of Madras; rears
and exports rice in large quantities.

KARLI, a famous temple-cave in Bombay Presidency, on the Bombay-Poona road; dates from the
1st century B.C. at latest.

KARMA, the unbroken sequence, according to the Theosophists, of cause and effect, in which
every effect is regarded the cause of the next.

KARMAN, the name given in the Brahminical philosophy and in Buddhism to that act of the soul
by which, as is conceived, it determines its own destiny, a truly serious conception, and in
itself soul affecting.

KARMATHIANS, originally a secret society of the Ismaîlis, developed into a religious and communistic
sect, and waged a great peasants' war under successive leaders between A.D. 900 and 950; Mecca
was captured 930; the movement of the Karmathians did much to overthrow the power of the Khalifate.

KARR, JEAN BAPTISTE ALPHONSE, French novelist, born at Paris; entered journalism, became editor
of the Figaro 1839, started Les Guepes the same year, retired to Nice 1855, and there died;
his chief novel is "Géneviève," and best known book, "Voyage autour de mon Jardin" (1808-1890).

KARROO, the name of a barren tract of tableland in South Africa with a clay soil, which, however,
bursts into grassy verdure and blossom after rain; the Great Karroo, which is 850 m. long and
about 80 m. broad, is 3000 ft. above the sea-level, while the Little Karroo is 1000 ft. lower;
large flocks of sheep are pastured on them, and the value of the land has immensely increased
within late years.

KARS (9), an almost impregnable fortress on the Russo-Turkish frontier in Asia, 100 m. E. of
the Caspian Sea; was successfully held by the Turks under General Williams in 1855, of which
Laurence Oliphant wrote an account, but captured by Russia in 1877, and ceded to her by the
Treaty of Berlin, 1878; it is a strong place, and a prize to any power that possesses it.

KARUN RIVER, rising in the Zarduh Koh Mountains W. of Ispahân; flows W. and S. past Shuster
into the Persian Gulf; is the sole navigable waterway of Persia, and was thrown open to trade 1888.

KASCHAU (29), a beautiful town in Northern Hungary, on the Hernad River, 140 m. NW. of Budapest;
has a royal tobacco factory, is noted for hams, has an agricultural school and a Jesuit university.

KASHGAR (120), political capital and second largest city of Chinese Turkestan, on the Kizil
River; has cotton, silk, carpet, and saddlery industries, and trades with Russia; it is the
centre of Mohammedanism in Eastern Turkestan, a pilgrim city; has been in Chinese hands since
1758, but is chiefly under Russian influence.

KASSALA (3), a fortified town in the Soudan, near the Abyssinian boundary, on the Chor-el-Gash,
a tributary of the Atbara, is 260 m. S. of Suakim; suffered severely from the Madhist rising
of 1883-1885.

KATAKAMA, the square style of writing of the Japanese.

KATER, HENRY, a physicist, born in Bristol; bred to the law, but entered the army, and went
out to India, where, to the injury of his constitution, he was for seven years engaged on the
trigonometrical survey of the country; devoted the rest of his life to scientific research;
he contributed to the Philosophical Transactions, determined the length of the seconds pendulum
at the latitude of London, and invented the floating collimator (1777-1835).

KATKOFF, MICHAEL NIKIFOROVITCH, Russian journalist and publicist, born at Moscow, educated
at Moscow, Königsberg, and Berlin; became professor of Philosophy in Moscow and in 1801 editor
of the Moscow Gazette; though at first an advocate of parliamentary government, he became a
violent reactionary, made his paper the most influential in Russia, and had great influence
in public affairs; he is said to have determined the reactionary policy of Alexander III. (1818-1887).

KATRINE, LOCH, a long narrow beautiful lake in the Trossachs, Scotland, about 30 m. N. of Glasgow,
to which it affords an abundant water supply, is 8 m. long and ¾ broad; the splendid scenery
of it is described in Scott's "Lady of the Lake."

KAUFFMANN, ANGELICA, painter, born in the Tyrol; gave early evidence of artistic talent; came
to London, and became one of the first members of the Royal Academy; produced pictures on classical
and mythological subjects, as well as portraits of the royal family among others; her story
forms the basis of a fiction by Miss Thackeray (1741-1807).

KAUFMANN, CONSTANTINO VON, Russian general, of German descent; did much to contribute to the
establishment of the Russian power in Central Asia (1818-1882).

KAULBACH, WILHELM VON, German painter, head of the new German school, born in Waldeck; was
a pupil of Cornelius, and associated with him in painting the frescoes in the Glyptothek in
Münich; among other works, which have made his name famous, he executed the splendid series
of compositions that adorn the vestibule of the Berlin Museum; he illustrated Goethe's "Faust"
and his "Reinecke Fuchs" (1805-1874).

KAUNITZ, PRINCE VON, Austrian statesman, born at Vienna; under Charles VI. and Maria Theresa
distinguished as a diplomatist at the Congress of Aix-la-Chapelle in 1748, and sided with France
in the Seven Years' War; was for nearly 40 years "the shining star and guide of Austrian politics,
and greatest of diplomatists in his day, supreme Jove in that extinct Olympus; regarded with
sublime pity, not unalloyed to contempt, all other diplomatic beings"; he shared with Colonne
the sobriquet of the "European coach-driver"; he was sold body and soul to the interests of
Austria (1711-1794).

KAVANAGH, JULIA, novelist, born in Tipperary, a very dainty little lady; wrote "Madeleine,"
"Woman in France," "Women of Letters," "Women of Christianity," &c.; spent most of her life
in France (1824-1877).

KAWI, the old language of Java found in old documents and inscriptions.

KAY, SIR, a rude and boastful Knight of the Round Table, foster-brother of King Arthur, who
from his braggart ways often made himself the butt of the whole court.

KAY, JOHN, a Scottish caricaturist, born near Dalkeith; began business in Edinburgh first as
a barber and then as a print-seller; author of sketches of local celebrities, now collected
in two volumes, and of much interest and value as a record of the Edinburgh of his time (1742-1826).

KAYE, SIR JOHN WILLIAM, historian of English India, an officer in the Bengal Artillery, retired
in 1841; in 1856 entered the East India Company's service in England, and was subsequently
a secretary in the Government India Office; he wrote "History of the Sepoy War 1857-58," and
"Essays of an Optimist" (1814-1876).

KEAN, CHARLES JOHN, actor, second son of the succeeding, born in Waterford; made his first
appearance in Drury Lane in 1827, which proved unsuccessful, but by assiduous study and his
marriage with Helen Tree, a popular actress who played along with him, he rose in the profession
and became lessee of the Princess's Theatre, London, where he distinguished himself by his
revivals of Shakespeare's plays, with auxiliary effects due to scenery and costume; he was
at his best in melodramas, such as "Louis XI." (1811-1868).

KEAN, EDMUND, distinguished English tragedian, born in London; trod the stage from his infancy;
his first success was Shylock in the "Merchant of Venice" in 1814, and the representation of
it was followed by equally famous representations of Richard III., Othello, and Sir Giles Overreach;
he led a very dissipated life, and under the effects of it his constitution gave way; he broke
down one evening beside his son as Iago, as he was playing the part of Othello, was carried
off the stage, and never appeared on the boards again (1787-1833).

KEARY, ANNIE, novelist, born in Yorkshire; began as a writer of children's books, "Castle Daly,"
an Irish novel, among her best; was a woman of a sympathetic nature, and was devoted to works
of benevolence (1825-1882).

KEATS, JOHN, was the son of a livery-stable proprietor, born at Finsbury, London; never went
to a university, but was apprenticed to a London surgeon, and subsequently practised medicine
himself in London; abandoning his profession in 1817, he devoted himself to literature, made
the acquaintance of Leigh Hunt, Hazlitt, Lamb, Wordsworth, and other literary men; left London
for Carisbrooke, moved next year to Teignmouth, but on a visit to Scotland contracted what
proved to be consumption; in 1819 he was betrothed to Miss Fanny Browne, and struggled against
ill-health and financial difficulties till his health completely gave way in the autumn of
1820; accompanied by the artist Joseph Severn he went to Naples and then to Rome, where, in
the spring following, he died; his works were three volumes of poetry, "Poems" 1817, "Endymion"
1818, "Lamia, Isabella and other Poems," including "Hyperion" and "The Eve of St. Agnes" 1820;
he never reached maturity in his art, but the dignity, tenderness, and imaginative power of
his work contained the highest promise; he was a man of noble character, sensitive, yet strong,
unselfish, and magnanimous, by some regarded as the most original of modern poets (1795-1821).

KEBLAH, the point of the compass to which people turn their faces when they worship, as the
Mohammedans do to Mecca when they pray.

KEBLE, JOHN, English clergyman, author of the "Christian Year," born in Fairford, Gloucestershire;
studied at Oxford, and became Fellow of Oriel College in 1811; in 1827 appeared the "Christian
Year," which he published anonymously; in 1831 was appointed professor of Poetry in Oxford,
and that same year issued an "Address to the Electors of the United Kingdom" against the Reform
Bill; he was one of four who originated the Tractarian movement at Oxford, and was the author
of several of the "Tracts for the Times"; in 1835 he was presented to the vicarage of Hursley,
which he held till his death; he was author of "Lyra Innocentium," and along with Newman and
others of "Lyra Apostolica"; the secession of Newman rather riveted than loosened his attachment
to the English Church (1792-1866).

KEDRON, a wady E. of Jerusalem, traversed by a brook in the rainy season, and which runs in
the direction of the Dead Sea.

KEELHAULING, a naval punishment of the 17th and 18th centuries; consisted in dropping the victim
into the sea from one yardarm, hauling him under the keel and up to the yardarm on the other
side; is now a term for a severe rebuke.

KEELING ISLANDS. See COCOS ISLANDS.

KEEWATIN, a district in Canada under the jurisdiction of the government of Manitoba, and N.
of it; the mineral wealth is great, and includes copper and silver.

KEHAMA, a Hindu rajah who obtains and sports with supernatural powers, whose adventures are
given in Southey's "Curse of Kehama."

KEIGHLEY (30), a Yorkshire town, on the Aire, 9 m. NW. of Bradford; manufactures woollen and
worsted fabrics and spinning-machinery.

KEIGHTLEY, THOMAS, man of letters, born in Dublin; wrote a number of school manuals, and "Fairy
Mythology" (1789-1872).

KEIM, THEODOR, a German theologian, born at Stuttgart, professor at Zurich and afterwards at
Giessen; his great work, to which others were preliminary, was his "History of Jesu of Nazara,"
in which he presents the person of Christ Himself as the one miracle in the story and that
eclipses every other in it, and makes them of no account comparatively (1823-1878).

KEITH, JAMES, known as Marshal Keith, born near Peterhead, of an old Scotch family, Earls Marischal
of Scotland; having had to leave the country for his share in the Jacobite rebellion, fled
first to Spain and then to Russia, doing military service in both, but quitted both in 1747
for service in Prussia under Frederick the Great, who soon recognised the worth of him, and
under whom he rose to be field-marshal; he distinguished himself in successive engagements,
and fell shot through the heart, when in the charge of the right wing at Hochkirch; as he opened
his way by his bayonet the enemy gathered round him after being twice repulsed (1696-1758).

KEITH, LORD, English admiral, born near Stirling; served in various parts of the world, and
distinguished himself in the American and French wars.

KELAT (14), capital of Beluchistan, in a lofty region 140 m. S. of Kandahar; is the residence
of a British agent since 1877, and was annexed as a British possession in 1888. It is a military
stronghold, and of great importance in a military point of view.

KELLER, FERDINAND, Swiss archæologist; his reputation rests on his investigations of lake-dwellings
in Switzerland in 1853-54 (1800-1881).

KELLER, GOTTFRIED, distinguished poet and novelist, born in Zurich; his greatest remance, and
the one by which he is best known, is "Der Grüne Heinrich"; wrote also a collection of excellent
tales entitled, "Die Leute von Seldwyla" (1819-1890).

KELLERMANN, FRANÇOIS CHRISTOPHE, Duke of Valmy, French general born in Alsace, son of a peasant;
entered the army at 17; served in the Seven Years' War; embraced the Revolution; defeated the
Duke of Brunswick at Valmy in 1792; served under Napoleon as commander of the reserves on the
Rhine, but supported the Bourbons at the Restoration (1735-1820).

KELLS (2), an ancient town in co. Meath, with many antiquities; gives its name to the "Book
of Kells," a beautiful 9th-century Keltic illuminated manuscript of the Gospels, now in the
library of Trinity College, Dublin.

KELP, an alkaline substance derived from the ashes of certain sea-weeds, yielding iodine, soda,
potass, and certain oils; kelp-burning was formerly a valuable industry in Orkney and the Hebrides.

KELPIE, an imaginary water-spirit which, it is said, appears generally in the form of a horse.

KELSO, a market-town in Roxburghshire, beautifully situated on the Tweed, where the Teviot
joins it, with the ruins of an abbey of the 12th or the early 13th century.

KELVIN, LORD. See THOMSON, WILLIAM.

KEMBLE, a family of three sons and one daughter, children of Roger Kemble, a provincial theatrical
manager, all actors, of whom the greatest was the eldest, Sarah, MRS. SIDDONS (q. v.).

KEMBLE, ADELAIDE, daughter of Charles, was noted as an operatic singer, but retired from the
stage on her marriage 1842 (1814-1879).

KEMBLE, CHARLES, son of Roger, born at Brecon; appeared first at Sheffield as Orlando, in 1792,
and two years later came to London, where he continued playing till 1840, when he was appointed
Examiner of Plays (1775-1854). Two daughters of Charles also won fame on the stage.

KEMBLE, FRANCES ANNE, daughter of Charles, born in London; made her début in 1829, and proved
a queen of tragedy; in 1832 went to America, where, in 1834, she married a planter, from whom
she was divorced in 1848; resuming her maiden name, Fanny Kemble, she gave Shakespearian readings
for 20 years (1809-1893).

KEMBLE, JOHN MITCHELL, Anglo-Saxon scholar, born in London, son of Charles Kemble; edited writings
belonging to the Anglo-Saxon period; his chief work "The Saxons in England" (1807-1857).

KEMBLE, JOHN PHILIP, eldest son of Roger, born at Prescot, Lancashire; began to study for the
Roman Catholic priesthood, but adopted the stage, and appeared first at Wolverhampton in 1776;
after touring in Yorkshire and Ireland he came to London in 1783, playing Hamlet at Drury Lane;
became manager of that theatre in 1788; in 1802 transferred himself to Covent Garden, where,
on the opening of the new house in 1809, the "Old Price" riots brought him ill-will; he retired
in 1817, and lived at Lausanne till his death (1757-1823).

KEMBLE, STEPHEN, son of Roger, was from 1792 till 1800 manager of Edinburgh Theatre (1758-1822).

KEMP, GEORGE MEIKLE, architect, born in Moorfoot, Peeblesshire; bred a millwright, became a
draughtsman, studied Gothic architecture, and designed the Scott Monument in Edinburgh; was
drowned one evening in the Union Canal before the work was finished (1796-1844).

KEMPEN, a Prussian town, 27 m. NW. of Düsseldorf; manufactures textile fabrics in silk, cotton,
linen, &c.; was the birthplace of Thomas à Kempis.

KEMPENFELT, RICHARD, British admiral, born at Westminster; distinguished himself in several
actions, was on board of the Royal George as his flagship when she went down at Spithead, carrying
him along with her and over a thousand others also on board at the time; he was a brave and
skilful officer, and his death was a great loss to the service (1718-1782).

KEMPIS, THOMAS À, born at Kempen, near Düsseldorf, son of a poor but honest and industrious
craftsman named Hämerkin; joined, while yet a youth, the "Brotherhood of Common Life" at Deventer,
in Holland, and at 20 entered the monastery of St. Agnes, near Zwolle, in Oberyssel, where
he chiefly resided for 70 long years, and of which he became sub-prior, where he spent his
time in acts of devotion and copying MSS., that of the Bible, among others, in the Vulgate
version of it, as well as in the production of works of his own, and in chief the "Imitation
of Christ," a work that in the regard of many ranks second to the Bible, and is thought likely
to survive in the literature of the world as long as the Bible itself; it has been translated
into all languages within, as well as others outside, the pale of Christendom, and as many
as six thousand editions, it is reckoned, have issued from the press; it is five centuries
and a half since it was first given to the world, and it has ever since continued to be a light
in it to thousands in the way of a holy and divine life; it draws its inspiration direct from
the fountain-head of Holy Scripture, and is breathing full of the same spirit that inspires
the sacred book (1380-1471).

KEN, THOMAS, English prelate, born at Little Berkhampstead; is famous as the author of hymns,
especially the morning one, "Awake, my Soul," and the evening one, "Glory to Thee, my God";
was committed to the Tower for refusing to read James II.'s "Declaration of Indulgence," and
deprived of his bishopric, that of Bath and Wells, for refusing to take the oath of allegiance
to William III. (1637-1711).

KENDAL (14), a Westmorland market-town on the Kent, 38 m. S. of Carlisle; manufactures heavy
woollen goods, paper, and snuff; it owes the introduction of its woollen manufacture to the
settlement in it of Flemings in the reign of Richard III.

KENIA, MOUNT, a mountain in British East Africa, 10° S. of the Equator, 18,000 ft. above the
sea-level, and one of the highest on the continent.

KENILWORTH (4), a Warwickshire market-town, 5 m. N. of Warwick; noted for its castle, where,
as described by Scott in his novel of the name, Leicester sumptuously entertained Elizabeth
in 1575; has some tanworks, tanning being the chief industry.

KENNAQUHAIR (i. e. know-not-where), an imaginary locality in Scott's "Monastery." See WEISSNICHTWO.

KENNEDY, BENJAMIN HALL, head-master of Shrewsbury, son of a schoolmaster, born at Birmingham;
after a brilliant career at Cambridge became, in 1828, Fellow of St. John's, in 1830 assistant-master
at Harrow, and in 1830 was appointed to Shrewsbury, where he proved one of the greatest of
schoolmasters (1804-1889).

KENNICOTT, BENJAMIN, English Hebraist, born at Totnes, Devonshire, educated at Oxford; became
Fellow of Exeter, Radcliffe librarian, and in 1770 canon of Christ Church; from 1753 he organised
and took part in an extensive collation of Hebrew texts, issuing in 1776-80 the "Hebrew Old
Testament, with Various Readings" (1718-1783).

KENSAL GREEN, a cemetery in the NW. of London; celebrated as the burial-place of many eminent
men, Thackeray in chief.

KENSINGTON (166), a West London parish, in which stand the Palace (Queen Victoria's birthplace),
the Albert Memorial and Hall, South Kensington Museum, the Royal College of Music, the Imperial
Institute, and many other institutions: contains also Holland House, and has long been the
place of residence of notably artistic and literary men.

KENT (1,142), English maritime county in the extreme SE.; lies between the Thames estuary and
the Strait of Dover, with Surrey and Sussex on the W.; it is hilly, with marshes in the SE.
and on the Thames shore; is watered by the Medway, Stour, and Darent; has beautiful scenery,
rich pasturage, and fine agricultural land, largely under hops and market-gardens; a large
part of London is in Kent; Maidstone (32) is the county town; Rochester (26) and Canterbury
(23) are cathedral cities; Woolwich (99), Gravesend (35), and Dover (33) are seaports, and
Margate and Ramsgate watering-places.

KENTIGERN, ST., or ST. MUNGO, the Apostle of Cumbria, born at Culross, the natural son of a
princess named Thenew; entered the monastery there, where he had been trained from a boy, and
founded a monastery near Glasgow and another in Wales; was distinguished for his missionary
labours; was buried at Glasgow Cathedral (518-603).

KENTISH FIRE, vehement and prolonged derisive cheering, so called from indulgence in it in
Kent at meetings to oppose the Catholic Emancipation Bill of 1829.

KENTUCKY (1,859), an American State in the S. of the Ohio basin, with the Virginias on its
E. and Tennessee on its S. border and the Mississippi River on the W.; is watered by the Licking
and Kentucky Rivers that cross the State from the Cumberland Mountains in the SE. to the Ohio,
and the Tennessee River traverses the western corner; the climate is mild and healthy; much
of the soil is extremely fertile, giving hemp and the largest tobacco crops in the Union; there
are dense forests of virgin ash, walnut, and oak over two-thirds of the State, and on its pasturage
the finest stock and horses are bred; coal is found in both the E. and the W., and iron is
plentiful; the chief industries are whisky distilling, iron smelting and working; admitted
to the Union in 1792, Kentucky was a slave-holding State, but did not secede in the Civil War;
the capital is Frankfort (8), the largest city Louisville (160); the State University is at
Lexington (29).

KEPLER, JOHN, illustrious astronomer, born at Weil der Stadt, Würtemberg, born in poverty;
studied at Tübingen chiefly mathematics and astronomy, became lecturer on these subjects at
Grätz; joined Tycho Brahé at Prague as assistant, who obtained a pension of £18 for him from
the Austrian government, which was never paid; removed to Lintz, where Sir Henry Wotton saw
him living in a camera obscura tent doing ingenious things, photographing the heavens, "inventing
toys, writing almanacs, and being ill off for cash ... an ingenious person, if there ever was
one among Adam's posterity ... busy discovering the system of the world--grandest conquest
ever made, or to be made," adds Carlyle, "by the sons of Adam"; he was long occupied in studying
the "'motions of the star' Mars, with calculations repeated seventy times, and with the discovery
of the planetary laws of the Universe"; these last are called from his discovery of them Kepler's
Laws; the first, that the planets move on elliptic orbits, the sun in one of the foci; the
second, that, in describing its orbit, the radius vector of a planet traverses equal areas
in equal times; and the third, that the square of the time of the revolution of a planet is
proportional to the cube of its mean distance from the sun; poverty pursued Kepler all his
days, and he died of fever at Ratisbon (1571-1630).

KEPLER'S LAWS. See KEPLER, JOHN.

KEPPEL, AUGUSTUS, VISCOUNT, son of the Earl of Albemarle; entered the navy, and was in several
engagements between 1757 and 1778; when encountering the French off Ushant he quarrelled with
his second-in-command and let them escape; was court-martialled, but acquitted; he was afterwards
First Lord of the Admiralty (1725-1786).

KER, DR. JOHN, minister and professor, was horn in Peeblesshire, brought up in Edinburgh; studied
there and in Halle, was chosen to fill the chair of Practical Training in the U.P. Theological
College in 1876; published some "Sermons," and "The Psalms in History and Biography" (1819-1886).

KERATIN, a substance forming the chief constituent in the hair, nails, and horn of animals.

KERGUELEN'S LAND, an island with rugged coasts, 85 m. long by 70 wide, of volcanic origin,
in the Antarctic Ocean; so called after its discoverer in 1772, changed to Desolation Island
in 1776 by Captain Cook; belongs to France.

KERMAN (300), an eastern province of Persia, the N. and the NE. of it a desolate salt waste,
and with a chief town (30) of the name in the middle of it, once a great emporium of trade;
manufactures carpets.

KERNER, ANDREAS, a lyric poet of the Swabian school, born in Würtemberg; studied and wrote
on animal magnetism and spiritualism (1786-1862).

KEROSENE, a refined petroleum used as oil for lamps.

KERRY (179), maritime county in the SW. of Ireland, between the Shannon and Kenmare Rivers,
with Limerick and Cork on the E.; has a rugged, indented coast, Dingle Bay running far inland;
is mountainous, having Mount Brandon, the Macgillicuddy, and Dunkerron ranges, and contains
the picturesque Lakes of Killarney; there is little industry or agriculture, but dairy-farming,
slate-quarrying, and fishing are prosecuted; iron, copper, and lead abound, but are not wrought;
the population is Roman Catholic; county town, Tralee (9).

KERTCH (30), a seaport of the Crimea, on the eastern shore; had a large export trade, which
suffered during the Crimea War, but has revived since.

KESWICK (4), a Cumberland market-town and tourist centre and capital of the Lake District,
on the Derwent, 20 m. SW. of Carlisle; manufactures woollens, hardware, and lead-pencils; is
the seat of an annual religious convention which gives its name to a phase of Evangelicalism.

KET, ROBERT, a tanner in Norfolk, leader of an insurrection in the country in 1549, was after
seizing Norwich driven out by the Earl of Warwick, captured, and hanged.

KETTERING (20), market-town in Northamptonshire; manufactures boots and shoes, stays, brushes, &c.

KEW (2), a village on the Thames, in Surrey, 6 m. W. of Hyde Park, where are the Royal Botanic
Gardens, a national institution since 1840, and an observatory.

KEY, FRANCIS SCOTT, author of "The Star-spangled Banner," born in Maryland, U.S.; wrote the
words that have immortalised him when he saw the national flag floating over the ramparts of
Baltimore in 1814 (1780-1857).

KEY WEST (10), a seaport, health resort, and naval station on a coral island 60 m. SW. of Caple
Sable, Florida; it has a good harbour and strong fort; was the basis of operations in the Spanish-American
War, 1898; exports salt, turtles, and fruit, and manufactures cigars.

KEYNE, ST., a pious virgin, lived in Cornwall about 490, and left her name to a church and
to a well whose waters are said to give the upper hand to whichever of a bridal pair first
drinks of them after the wedding.

KEYS, HOUSE OF, the third estate in the Isle of Man, consisting of 24 members chosen by themselves,
when a vacancy occurs, by presenting to the Governor "two of the oldest and worthiest men in
the isle" for his selection.

KEYS, POWER OF THE, power claimed, according to Matt. xvi. 19, by the authorities of the Church
to admit or exclude from church membership, a power the Roman Catholics allege conferred at
first on St. Peter and afterwards on his successors in office.

KHAMSIN (fifty), a hot sand wind which blows in Egypt from the desert for fifty days, chiefly
before and after the month of May.

KHAN, the title of a Tartar sovereign or prince; also an Eastern inn or caravansary.

KHANDESH, a district of Bombay in the valley of the Tapti; a great cotton-growing centre; Dhulia,
the capital.

KHARKOFF (194), important town in Little Russia, 350 m. NE. of Odessa; has immense horse and
wool fairs, and manufactures sugar, soap, felt, and iron; it is a Greek bishopric, a university
seat, and has various schools of learning.

KHARTOUM (60), a caravan depôt in the Soudan, just above the confluence of the Blue and White
Niles, 1100 m. S. of Cairo; was an active slave-trade centre, and commercially important; was
captured by the Mahdists in 1885, when General Gordon fell; retaken by Lord Kitchener in 1898;
lately has been superseded by Omdurman on the opposite bank of the Nile.

KHATMANDU (50), the capital of Nepal, India, at the confluence of the Baghmati and Vishnumati
Rivers, 60 m. N. of the British frontier; is the centre of a considerable trade.

KHEDIVE, the official title of the Viceroy of Egypt since 1867, the first to hold it being
Ismail, the son of IBRAHIM PASHA (q. v.), by grant of the Sultan, his suzerain.

KHERSON (62), on the Dnieper, 19 m. from the sea and 60 m. E. of Odessa; capital of the Russian
government of Kherson; has been surpassed in importance by Odessa; its trade is in timber,
and industries are soap-making, brewing, and wool-cleansing.

KHINGANS, THE, a range of volcanic mountains on the E. of the desert of Gobi.

KHIVA (500), a Turkestan province or khanate in Central Asia, S. of the Sea of Aral; is under
Russian protection since 1873; a sandy desert with many oases, and in some parts well irrigated
from the Oxus; it produces wheat, rice, cotton, and fruit; climate subject to extremes. KHIVA,
the capital (20), on a canal connected with the Amu, some distance from the left bank of the
Oxus, and 300 m. NW. of Merv, is a town of earth huts; it was at one time one of the chief
slave-markets in Asia till the traffic was put a stop to by Russia.

KHORASSAN, the largest province of Persia; is on the Afghan border, mountainous, and fertile
only in the N. among the valleys of the Elburz range; grain, tobacco, and medicinal plants
are grown; gold and silver, turquoises, and other gems found. The capital is Meshed (50), a
sacred Moslem city, with carpet, jewellery, and silk manufactures.

KHYBER PASS, a narrow defile 33 m. long, in one place only 10 ft. wide, through not lofty but
precipitous mountains; lies to the NW. of Peshawur, and is the chief route between the Punjab
and Afghanistan; was the scene of a British catastrophe in the war of 1839-42, but has been
repeatedly forced since, and since 1879 has been under British control.

KIAKHTA (9), a Russian town in Transbaikalia, Siberia, on the borders of China; an emporium
of trade between China and Russia.

KIAO-CHAU, a province of Shantung, China; occupied by Germany in 1897, and ceded to her on
a 99 years' lease by China in 1898; extends to about 160 m. along the coast, and about 20 m.
inland.

KIDD, WILLIAM, a noted pirate, born of Covenanting parents at Greenock; went to sea early,
and served in privateering expeditions with distinction; appointed to the command of a privateer
about 1696, and commissioned to suppress the pirates of the Indian Ocean, he went to Madagascar,
and there started piracy himself; entering Boston harbour in 1700 he was arrested, sent to
London, tried on a charge of piracy and murder, and executed in 1701.

KIDDERMINSTER (26), in the N. of Worcester, 18 m. SW. of Birmingham; has been since 1735 noted
for its carpets; manufactures also silk, paper, and leather; was the scene of Richard Baxter's
labours as vicar, and the birthplace of Sir Rowland Hill.

KIEFF (184), on the Dnieper, 300 m. N. of Odessa, is a holy city, the capital of the province
of Kieff, strongly fortified, and one of the oldest towns in Russia, where Christianity was
proclaimed the religion of the country in 988; has St. Vladimir's University, theological schools,
and Petchersk monastery; a pilgrim resort; industries unimportant, include tanning and candle-making;
trade chiefly in the hands of the Jews.

KIEL (69), on the Baltic, 60 m. N. of Hamburg, is the capital of Schleswig-Holstein, a German
naval station and important seaport, with shipments of coal, flour, and dairy produce; has
shipbuilding and brewing industries, a university and library, and is the eastern terminus
of the Baltic Ship Canal, opened 1895.

KIEPERT, HEINRICH, distinguished German cartographer, born at Berlin; was professor of Geography
there; his chief works an "Atlas of Asia Minor," and his "Atlas Antiquus"; b. 1818.

KIERKEGAARD, SÖREN AABY, philosophical and religious thinker, born at Copenhagen; lived a quiet,
industrious, literary life, and exerted a chief influence on 19th-century Dano-Norwegian literature;
his greatest works are "Either-Or," and "Stadia on Life's Way" (1813-1855).

KIESELGHUR, powder used for polishing and in the manufacture of dynamite, formed from shells
of microscopic organisms.

KILDA, ST., a lonely island in the Atlantic, 60 m. W. of Harris, 3 m. long by 2 broad, with
a precipitous coast and a few poor inhabitants, who live by fishing and fowling.

KILDARE (70), inland Irish county, in Leinster, in the upper basins of the Liffey and Barrow,
W. of Dublin and Wicklow; is level and fertile, with the great Bog of Allen in the N., and
in the centre the Curragh, a grassy plain; agriculture is carried on in the river basins; the
county town is Naas (4); other towns Maynooth, with the Roman Catholic theological college,
and Kildare.

KILIAN, ST., the first apostle of the Franks, an Irish monk; deputed by the Pope in 686.

KILIMA-NJARO, a volcanic mountain group, 19,000 ft. high, on the northern border of German
East Africa, 170 m. from the coast, with two peaks, Kibo and Kimawenzi; in 1894 an Austrian
communistic settlement was established on the slopes.

KILKENNY (87), inland Irish county in Leinster, surrounded by Waterford, Tipperary, Queen's
County, Carlow, and Wexford, watered by the Barrow, Suir, and Nore; extremely fertile in the
S. and E., producing fine corn, hay, and green crops; is moorland, and devoted to cattle-rearing
in the N., where also anthracite coal is abundant. Kilkenny (11), the county town, is noted
for a fine black marble quarried near it.

KILLARNEY (5), market-town and tourist centre, in co. Kerry, Ireland, on the shores of the
lake, 15 m. SE. of Tralee; has a Roman Catholic cathedral and some arbutus-carving industry.

KILLARNEY, THE LAKES OF, three beautiful lakes at the northern foot of the Macgillicuddy Reeks,
in the basin of the Leane, much resorted to by tourists.

KILLIECRANKIE, PASS OF, 15 m. NW. of Dunkeld, in Perthshire, where General Mackay was defeated
by Claverhouse, who fell, in 1689; is traversed by a road and a railway.

KILMAINHAM (5), a suburb of Dublin, with a royal hospital for disabled soldiers and a jail;
the treaty of Kilmainham was an agreement said to have been made in 1882 between Gladstone
and Parnell, who was then confined in Kilmainham jail, affecting Irish government and policy.

KILMARNOCK (28), on the Irvine, 20 m. SW. of Glasgow, largest town in Ayrshire; is an important
railway centre, has extensive engineer works, carpet factories, and breweries; is in the middle
of a rich coal and iron district, and has a great annual cheese and dairy produce show.

KIMBERLEY (29), 500 m. NE. of Cape Town; is capital of Griqualand West, and chief inland town
in South Africa, in a dry but healthy situation; exists in virtue of diamond mines in the vicinity,
the richest in the world. Also the name of a district in the N. of West Australia, a district
of rising prosperity.

KIMBERLEY, EARL OF, English Liberal statesman, son of Baron Wodehouse; succeeded to the title
1846; was twice over Under-Secretary for Foreign Affairs, and Lord-Lieutenant of Ireland 1864-66;
in 1866 created Earl of Kimberley, he was in succession Lord Privy Seal, Colonial Secretary,
Secretary for India, and Foreign Secretary; b. 1826.

KIMCHI, DAVID, a Jewish rabbi, born at Narbonne; wrote a Hebrew grammar and lexicon, which
forms the basis of all subsequent ones, also commentaries on most books of the Old Testament
(1160-1235).

KINCARDINESHIRE (35), east coast Scottish county, lying between Aberdeen and Forfar, faces
the North Sea, with precipitous cliffs; has much fertile soil under corn, green crops, and
small fruit, also pasture and grazing land where cattle are reared; the fishing is important,
and there are some coarse linen factories; chief towns, Stonehaven (5) and Bervie (1).

KINDERGARTEN, schools conducted according to Froebel's system for the development of the power
of observation and the memory of young children.

KINEMATICS, the science of pure motion under the categories of space and time, irrespective
of consideration of the forces determining it and the mass of the body moved.

KINEMATOGRAPH, a photographic apparatus by which an impression is taken of closely consecutive
stages in the development of a scene.

KINETICS, the science of the action of forces causing motion; both this law and the two preceding
are derived from a Greek word signifying "to move."

KING, WILLIAM RUFUS, American statesman and diplomatist, born in North Carolina; was a member
of Congress and the Senate, and Vice-President of the Republic, represented the United States
both at St. James's and in France (1755-1827).

KING NIBELUNG, king of the NIBELUNGEN (q. v.), who left his two sons an inexhaustible hoard
of wealth, so large that 12 waggons in 12 days at the rate of 3 journeys a day could not carry
it off.

KING OF THE ROMANS, a title assumed by the Emperor Henry II., and afterwards conferred on the
eldest son of the emperor of Germany.

KINGLAKE, ALEXANDER WILLIAM, historian, born near Taunton; bred for the bar, gave up the legal
profession, in which he had a lucrative practice, for literature; is the author of two works,
"Eothen" and the "History of the War in the Crimea," in 8 vols., the former a brilliantly written
book of travels in the East, published in 1844, the latter a minute record of the war, of which
the last vol. was published in 1890, pronounced by Prof. Saintsbury, in a literary point of
view, to be "an imposing failure" (1809-1891).

KINGMAKER, THE, a title popularly given to Richard Nevil, Earl of Warwick, who was instrumental
in raising Edward IV. to the throne of England by dethroning Henry VI., and afterwards in restoring
Henry by the defeat of Edward.

KINGS, THE BOOK OF, two books of the Old Testament, originally one, but divided in the Septuagint
into two, containing the history of the Jewish kingdom under the kings from its establishment
under David to its fall, and covering a period from 1015 B.C. to 560 B.C., during which time
the kingdom fell into two, that of Israel and that of Judah, the captivity of the former, occurring
130 years before that of the latter; the author, who is unknown, wrote the history at the time
of the captivity, and his object is didactic of the effect on the history of a nation of its
apostasy from faith in its God, not, however, without a promise of restoration in the case
of repentance.

KING'S COLLEGE, London, a Church of England institution, with faculties of Theology, Arts,
Science, and Medicine, Evening Class, Civil Service and Art departments, a preparatory School
and a Ladies' department; it grants the title of associate.

KING'S COUNSEL or QUEEN'S COUNSEL are those barristers in England and Ireland who, having been
successful in their profession have received the letters-patent conferring that title and right
of precedence in all courts; the appointment is honorary and for life, but in acting against
the Crown a Q.C. must obtain leave by special license, which is always granted.

KING'S COUNTY (66), an inland Irish county on the left bank of the Shannon, between Tipperary
and West Meath; is mostly flat, a quarter of it bogland and a quarter under crops; the chief
towns are Tullamore (5), the county town, on the Grand Canal, and Birr or Parsonstown (4),
where Lord Rosse's great telescope is.

KINGSLEY, CHARLES, canon of Westminster and chaplain to the Queen, born at Holne Vicarage,
near Dartmoor; studied at Cambridge; became rector of Eversley, in Hampshire, in 1844; was
the author in 1848 of a drama, entitled "The Saint's Tragedy," with St. Elizabeth of Hungary
for heroine, which was followed successively by "Alton Locke" (1849), and "Yeast" (1851), chiefly
in a Socialistic interest; "Hypatia," a brilliant book in the interest of early Christianity
in Alexandria and "Westward Ho!" a narrative of the rivalry of England with Spain in the days
of Elizabeth, and besides other works, including "Two Years Ago," "Water Babies," and "Hereward
the Wake," he was the author of the popular ballads of "The Three Fishers," "The Starlings,"
and "The Sands of Dee"; his writings had a great influence on his contemporaries, particularly
on young men; Professor Saintsbury writes an appreciative estimate of Kingsley (1819-1875).

KINGSLEY, HENRY, younger brother of the preceding; after a brief experience of life in Australia
he returned home to start on the career of letters in rivalry with his brother, and distinguished
himself by exhibitions of similar literary ability, as a novelist especially, as well as kindred
sympathies; his principal novels were "Geoffrey Hamlyn," one of the best novels on Australian
life; "Ravenshoe," his masterpiece, and "The Hillyars and the Burtons" (1830-1876).

KINGSTON, 1, capital (13) of Frontenac County, Ontario, on the NE. shore of the Lake, 150 m.
E. of Toronto, an important commercial town with shipbuilding and engineering works; is the
seat of Queen's University, military and medical colleges, and an observatory. 2, Capital (47)
of Jamaica, on a great bay on the S. coast, on the edge of a sugar-growing district; exports
sugar, tobacco, and dye-woods, and imports cotton, flour, and rice. 3, a town (21) on the Hudson,
N.Y., has great blue stone-flag quarries, and cement-works, breweries, and tanneries.

KINGSTON-UPON-THAMES (27), in Surrey, 10 m. SW. of London, has a fine church and other buildings,
and malting industry.

KINGSTON, W. H. G., popular boys' story-writer, born in London, spent his youth in Oporto,
was interested in philosophic schemes, and helped to arrange the Anglo-Portuguese commercial
treaty; he wrote 120 tales, of which the "Three Midshipmen" series is the best, and died at
Willesden (1814-1880).

KINGSTOWN, seaport of Dublin, 7 m. SE.; was till 1817 but a fishing village; has a harbour
designed by Rennie, which cost £525,000; was originally Dunleary, and changed into Kingstown
on George IV.'s visit in 1821.

KINKEL, JOHANN GOTTFRIED, German poet and writer on æsthetics, born near Bonn; studied for
the Church, but became lecturer on Art in Bonn, 1846; two years later he was imprisoned for
revolutionary proceedings; escaped in 1850 to England, and became professor at Zurich in 1866;
wrote "Otto der Schütz," an epic, and "Nimrod," a drama (1815-1882).

KINROSS (7), small Scottish county lying between Perth and Fife, round Loch Leven, is agricultural
and grazing, with some hills of no great height, and coal mines; the co. town, KINROSS (2),
is on the W. shore of Loch Leven; manufactures tartan.

KINSALE (5), a once important seaport in co. Cork, at the mouth of the Bandon, 13 m. S. of
Cork; has lost its trade, and is now a summer resort and fishing station; King James II. landed
here in 1689, and re-embarked in 1690.

KINTYRE, a long narrow isthmus on the W. coast of Scotland, between the Atlantic and the Firth
of Clyde, is chiefly hill and grass country; but at Campbeltown are great distilleries; at
Machrihanish Bay, on the W. coast, are fine golfing links.

KIPCHAKS, a nomadic Turkish race who settled on the south-eastern steppes of Russia about the
11th century, and whose descendants still occupy the district.

KIPLING, RUDYARD, story-teller and poet, born in Bombay, and educated in England; went out
to India as a journalist; his stories respect Anglo-Indian, and especially military, life in
India, and his "Soldiers Three," with the rest that followed, such as "Wee Willie Winkie,"
gained for him an immediate and wide reputation; as a poet, his most successful effort is his
"Barrack-Room Ballads," instinct with a martial spirit, in 1864; he is a writer of conspicuous
realistic power; he deems it the mission of civilisation to drill the savage races in humanity;
b. 1865.

KIRBY, WILLIAM, entomologist, born in Suffolk; distinguished as the author of "Monographia
Apium Angliæ," and "Introduction to Entomology"; was rector of Barham, Suffolk, for 68 years
(1759-1850).

KIRGHIZ, a nomadic Turkish people occupying the Kirghiz steppes, an immense tract E. of the
Ural River and the Caspian Sea, numbering 2½ millions, adventurous, witty, and free-spirited;
refuse to settle; retain ancient customs and characteristics, and are Moslems only in name.

KIRK SESSION, an ecclesiastical court in Scotland, composed of the minister and elders of a
parish, subject to the Presbytery of the district.

KIRKCALDY (27), a manufacturing and seaport town in Fifeshire, extending 4 m. along the north
shore of the Forth, known as the "lang toon." It was the birthplace of Adam Smith, and one
of the scenes of the schoolmastership period of Thomas Carlyle's life; manufactures textile
fabrics and floorcloth; is a busy town.

KIRKCUDBRIGHT (40), a Scottish county on the Solway shore between Wigtown and Dumfries, watered
by the rivers Nith, Dee, and Cree; has Mount Merrick on the NW. border, and Loch Dee in the
middle; one-third of its area cultivated, the rest chiefly hill pasturage. County town KIRKCUDBRIGHT
(3), on the Dee, 6 m. from the Solway; held St. Cuthbert's church.

KIRKDALE CAVE, a cave in the vale of Pickering, Yorkshire, discovered by Buckland to contain
the remains of a number of extinct species of mammals.

KIRKE'S LAMBS, the soldiers of Colonel Kirke, an officer of the English army in James the Second's
time, distinguished for their acts of cruelty inflicted on the Monmouth party.

KIRKINTILLOCH (10), a town on the Forth and Clyde Canal, 7 m. N. of Glasgow, manufactures chemicals,
has calico works, and mines of coal and iron.

KIRKWALL (4), capital of Orkney, in the E. of Mainland, 35 m. NE. of Thurso; has a fine cathedral
named St. Magnus, and some shipping trade; it was in mediæval times subject to Norway, and
was the residence of the jarls.

KIRRIEMUIR (4), a small Forfarshire town, 5 m. NW. of Forfar, native place of J. M. Barrie,
and the "Thrums" of his books; manufactures brown linens.

KIRSCHWASSER (cherry water), a liqueur formed from ripe cherries with the stones pounded in
it after fermentation and then distilled.

KISFALUDY, KAROLY, Hungarian dramatist, brother of the following, was founder of the national
drama, and with his brother ranks high in the literature of the country (1788-1830).

KISFALUDY, SANDOR, a Hungarian lyric poet, "Himfy's Loves" his chief work, was less distinguished
as a dramatist (1772-1844).

KISSINGEN (4), Bavarian watering-place on the Saale, 65 m. E. of Frankfort-on-the-Main, visited
for its saline springs by 14,000 people annually; its waters are used both internally and externally,
and are good for dyspepsia, gout, and skin-diseases.

KITCAT CLUB, founded in 1688 ostensibly to encourage literature and art, and named after Christopher
Catt, in whose premises it met; became ultimately a Whig society to promote the Hanoverian
succession; Marlborough, Walpole, Congreve, Addison, and Steele were among the thirty-nine members.

KITCHENER OF KHARTOUM, HORATIO HERBERT, LORD, son of Col. Kitchener; joined the Royal Engineers,
and was first engaged in survey work in Palestine and Cyprus; became a major of cavalry in
the Egyptian army 1882, served in the 1884 expedition, was governor of Suakim 1886, and after
leading the Egyptian troops at Handub 1888 was made aide-de-camp to the Queen, C.B., and adjutant-general
in the Egyptian army; he was appointed Sirdar, commander-in-chief of that army, in 1892, organised
and led the expedition of 1898 which overthrew the Khalifa at Omdurman, and for which he was
awarded a peerage and received many honours, the freedom of the cities of London and Edinburgh,
&c.; a gift of £30,000 was voted by the Government in 1899; b. 1850.

KIZIL (red river), the ancient Halys, the largest river in Asia Minor, which flows into the
Black Sea 40 m. E. of Sinope after a course of 450 m.

KLAPKA, a Hungarian patriot, distinguished in arms against the Austrians during the revolution,
and for his heroic defence of Komorn in the end (1820-1892).

KLAPROTH, JULIUS VON, Orientalist and philologist; was an accomplished Chinese scholar; explored
Siberia and Caucasia (1783-1835).

KLAUS, PETER, the German prototype of Rip Van Winkle, a goat-herd who slept for the same number
of years and at the end had similar experiences.

KLAUSTHAL (9), in Hanover, 25 m. NE. of Göttingen, is the chief mining town of the northern
Hartz Mountains, and the seat of the German mining administration, surrounded by silver, copper,
lead, and zinc mines.

KLÉBER, JEAN BAPTISTE, French general, born at Strasburg; originally an architect, served with
distinction in the Revolutionary army, accompanied Bonaparte to Egypt, and was left by him
in command, where, after a bold attempt to regain lost ground and while in the act of concluding
a treaty with the Turks, he was assassinated by an Arab fanatic (1753-1800).

KLEIST, HEINRICH VON, German dramatist and poet, born at Frankfort-on-the-Oder; entered the
army, but afterwards devoted himself to literature; slow recognition and other trials preyed
on his mind, and he shot himself near Potsdam (1777-1811).

KLONDIKE, a small section of Yukon, a territory in the extreme NW. of N. America, and a present-day
centre of pilgrimage by gold-seekers since the recent discovery of the gold-fields there.

KLOPSTOCK, FRIEDRICH GOTTLIEB, German poet, born at Quedlinburg; distinguished as the author
of an epic poem entitled the "Messiah," which is his chief work, his treatment of which invested
him with a certain sense of sanctity, and the publication of which did much to quicken and
elevate the literary life of Germany (1724-1803).

KNARESBOROUGH (5), Yorkshire market-town, 14 m. W. of York; manufactures woollen rugs, grinds
flour, and trades in corn.

KNELLER, SIR GODFREY, portrait-painter, born at Lübeck; studied under Rembrandt and at Italy,
came to England in 1674, and was appointed court painter to Charles II., James II., William
III., and George I.; practised his art till he was seventy, and made a large fortune (1646-1723).

KNICKERBOCKER, the imaginary author of the fictitious "History of New York," by Washington Irving.

KNIGHT, CHARLES, London publisher and editor, publisher for the Useful Knowledge Society, of
"Library of Entertaining Knowledge," of the "Penny Magazine," and the "Penny Cyclopædia," &c.,
as well as a "Pictorial Shakespeare," edited by himself (1791-1873).

KNIGHTHOOD, a distinction granted to commoners, ranking next to baronet, now bestowed by the
crown; formerly knighthood was a military order, any member of which might create new knights;
it was originally the highest rank of CHIVALRY (q. v.); it was an order of many subdivisions
developed during the crusades, and in full flower before the Norman conquest of England.

KNIGHTS OF LABOUR, an American labour organisation, founded in 1869, resembling a union of
all trades, male and female; in 1886 had 730,000 members, which have since disagreed and fallen
off.

KNIGHTS OF THE ROUND TABLE, King Arthur's knights, so called from the round table at which
they sat, so that when seated there might seem no precedency, numbered popularly at twelve,
though reckoned by some at forty.

KNIGHTS OF THE SHIRE, English gentry representing a middle class between the barons and the
peasants, acting as members of Parliament for the county they belonged to.

KNOWLES, SHERIDAN, dramatist, born at Cork; was connected with the stage first as actor and
then as an author of plays, which include "Virginius," "The Hunchback," and "The Wife"; latterly
he gave up the stage, and took to preaching in connection with the Baptist body (1784-1862).

KNOW-NOTHINGS, a party in the United States that sprung up in 1853 and restricted the right
of American citizenship to those who were born in America or of an American parentage, so called
because to those inquisitive about their secret organisation they uniformly answered "I know
nothing."

KNOX, JOHN, the great Scottish Reformer, born at Giffordgate, Haddington, in 1505; studied
at Glasgow University; took priest's orders; officiated as a priest, and did tutoring from
1530 to 1540; came under the influence of George Wishart, and avowed the Reformed faith; took
refuge from persecution in St. Andrews Castle in 1547; was there summoned to lead on the movement;
on the surrender of the castle was taken prisoner, and made a slave in a French galley for
19 months; liberated in 1549 at the intercession of Edward VI., came and assisted the Protestant
cause in England; was offered preferments in the Church, but declined them; fled in 1553 to
France, from the persecution of Bloody Mary; ministered at Frankfort and Geneva to the English
refugees; returned to Scotland in 1555, but having married, went back next year to Geneva;
was in absence, in 1557, condemned to be burned; published in 1558 his "First Blast against
the Monstrous Regiment of Women"; returned to Scotland for good in 1559, and became minister
in Edinburgh; saw in 1560 the jurisdiction of the Pope abolished in Scotland; had successive
interviews with Queen Mary after her arrival at Leith in 1561; was tried for high-treason before
the Privy Council, but acquitted in 1563; began his "History of the Reformation in Scotland"
in 1566; preached in 1567 at James VI.'s coronation in Stirling; was in 1571 struck by apoplexy;
died in Edinburgh on the 24th November 1572, aged 67, the Regent Morton pronouncing an éloge
at his grave, "There lies one who never feared the face of man."

KOBDO, a town in Mongolia, the entrepôt of Russian dealers in connection with the Altai mines.

KOCH, ROBERT, an eminent bacteriologist, born at Klansthal, in Hanover; famous for his researches
in bacteriology; discovered sundry bacilli, among others the cholera bacillus and the phthisis
bacillus, and a specific against it; b. 1843.

KOCK, CHARLES PAUL DE, popular French novelist and dramatist, born near Paris, and educated
for a mercantile career, but turned to writing and produced a series of works, not of first
merit, but illustrating contemporary French middle-class life (1794-1871).

KOHELETH (the preacher, originally gatherer), the Hebrew name for the book of Ecclesiastes,
and a personification of wisdom.

KOLA, a small town, the most northerly in Russia, on a peninsula of the same name, with a capacious
harbour.

KOLIN, a Bohemian town on the Elbe, 40 m. SE. of Prague, where Frederick the Great was defeated
by Marshal Daun in 1757.

KÖLLIKER, an eminent embryologist, born at Zurich; professor of Anatomy at Würzburg; b. 1817.

KÖLN, the German name for COLOGNE (q. v.).

KÖNIG, FRIEDRICH, German mechanician, born in Eisleben; bred a printer, and invented the steam-press,
or printing by machinery (1774-1833).

KÖNIGGRÄTZ (16), a Bohemian town 60 m. E. of Prague; was the scene of a terrible battle called
Sa'dowa, in Austria, where the Germans defeated the Austrians in 1866.

KÖNIGSBERG (161), the capital of E. Prussia, on the Pregel, with several manufactures and an
extensive trade; has a famous university, and is the birthplace of Kant, where also he lived
and died.

KORÂN (i. e. book to be read), the Bible of the Mohammedans, accepted among them as "the standard
of all law and all practice; thing to be gone upon in speculation and life; it is read through
in the mosques daily, and some of their doctors have read it 70,000 times, and hard reading
it is"; it contains the teaching of Mahomet, collected by his disciples after his death, and
arranged the longest chapters first and the shortest, which were the earliest, last; a confused
book.

KORDOFAN (280), an Egyptian Soudanese province on the W. bank of the Nile; an undulating dry
country, furnishing crops of millet, and exporting gums, hides, and ivory; was lost in the
Mahdist revolt of 1883, but recovered by Lord Kitchener's expedition in 1898; El Obeid (30),
the capital is 230 m. SW. of Khartoum.

KOREISH, the chief tribe among the Arabs in Mahomet's time, and to which his family belonged.

KÖRNER, KARL THEODOR, a German soldier poet, often called the German Tyrtæus, born in Dresden;
famous for his patriotic songs and their influence on German patriots; fell in a skirmish with
the French at Mecklenburg (1791-1813).

KOSCIUSKO, THADDEUS, Polish general and patriot, born in Lithuania, of noble parentage, bred
to arms; first saw service in the American War on the side of the colonists, and returning
to Poland, twice over did valiant service against Russia, but at length he was taken prisoner
at the battle of Maciejowice in 1794; he was subsequently set at liberty by the Emperor Paul,
when he removed to America, but soon returned to settle in Switzerland, where he died by a
fall of his horse over a precipice; he was buried at Cracow beside John Sobieski (1746-1817).

KOSSUTH, LOUIS, Hungarian patriot, born near Zemplen; studied for his father's profession,
the law, but giving that up for politics, became editor of several Liberal papers in succession;
elected member of the Diet at Pesth in 1847, he next year demanded autonomy for Hungary, and
set himself to drive out the Hapsburgs and establish a republic; he raised a large army and
large funds, but Russia aided Austria, and the struggle, though hopeful at first, proved in
vain, defeated at Temesvar and escaping to Turkey, he came to England in 1851, was enthusiastically
received, and lived there for many years; ultimately he resided in Turin, studied science,
and died there (1802 or 1806-1894).

KOTZEBUE, German dramatist, born at Weimar; went to St. Petersburg, obtained favour at court
and a government appointment; was banished to Siberia, but regained the favour of Paul, and
was recalled; on Paul's death he returned to Germany, but went back to Russia from fear of
Napoleon, whom he had violently attacked; he had a facile pen, and wrote no fewer than 200
dramatic pieces; his strictures on the German university students greatly exasperated them,
and one of them attacked him in his house at Mannheim and stabbed him to death (1761-1819).

KOUMISS, an intoxicating beverage among the Kalmucks, made by fermentation from mare's milk.

KOVALEVSKY, ALEXANDER, Russian embryologist, professor at St. Petersburg; studied and wrote
on the Ascidians; b. 1840.

KRAKATAO, a volcanic island in the narrow Strait of Sunda, between Java and Sumatra; was the
scene of a terrific eruption in 1883, causing a tidal wave that swept round the globe, and
raising quantities of dust that made the sunsets in Britain even more than usually red for
three years.

KRAKEN, a huge fabulous sea-monster, reported as at one time seen in the Norwegian seas; it
would rise to the surface, and as it plunged down drag ships and every floating or swimming
thing along with it.

KRAPOTKIN, PRINCE PETER, a Russian Nihilist, born in Moscow; became a member of the INTERNATIONAL
(q. v.); was arrested in Russia and imprisoned, but escaped, as also in France, but released,
and settled in England; has written extensively on Socialistic subjects; b. 1842.

KRAUSE, KARL CHRISTIAN FRIEDRICH, German philosopher, born at Eisenberg; studied under Fichte
and Schelling, and was himself lecturer successively in Jena, Dresden, Berlin, Göttingen, and
Münich, where he died; of the school of Kant, his work has suffered through the pedantry of
his style; he wrote "The Ideal of Humanity," and many philosophical treatises (1781-1832).

KREFELD (105), in Rhenish Prussia, 12 m. NW. of Düsseldorf; important manufacturing town; noted
for its silk and velvet factories founded by Protestant refugees; has also machinery and chemical
works.

KREMLIN, gigantic pile of buildings in Moscow of all styles of architecture;, including palaces,
cathedrals, museums, government offices; founded by Ivan III. in 1485.

KREUZER, a German coin, worth one-third or one-fifth of an English penny.

KRIEGSSPIEL, a military game played on large-scale maps with metal blocks for troops, and designed
to represent as fully as possible the conditions of warfare; was invented by a Prussian lieutenant
in 1824.

KRILOF, IVAN ANDREEVICH, the great Russian fabulist, born at Moscow, son of a soldier; began
his literary career writing dramas and editing magazines; was some time secretary to the governor
of Livonia, and for years lived an idle roving life; at 40 his fables in the Moscow Spectator
brought him fame in 1805; next year he was appointed to a Government post at St. Petersburg,
and in 1821 to a post in the Imperial Public Library; he was an eccentric, much-loved man,
and the humour and sympathy of his writings have won for him the title of the La Fontaine of
Russia (1768-1844).

KRISHNA (i. e. the swarthy one), the man-god, or god-man, viewed as the 8th and final incarnation
or avatar of VISHNU (q. v.), in whose manifestation the latter first reveals himself as supreme
divinity, being, as the Theosophist might say, his Mahatma. See THEOSOPHY.

KRÜDENER, MADAME DE, novelist, born at Riga; authoress of an autobiographical novel entitled
"Valérie"; lived partly at St. Petersburg and partly at Paris; was a mystic religious enthusiast
and political prophetess (1764-1824).

KRÜGER, S. J. PAUL, President of the Transvaal Republic, born at Rastenburg; became member
of the Executive Council in 1872; in 1882 was chosen President, and has been three times elected
to the same office since; a man of sturdy, stubborn principles, a champion of the rights of
the Boers, and a cunning diplomatist; b. 1825.

KRUMMACHER, FREDERICK, German theologian, author of "Elijah the Tisbite," a popular work; was
an opponent of the Rationalists (1796-1868).

KRUPP, ALFRED, metal and steel founder, born at Essen, where through his father he became the
proprietor of a small foundry which grew in his hands into such dimensions as to surpass every
other establishment of the kind in the world; the BESSEMER (q. v.) process was early introduced
here in the manufacture of steel, which Krupp was the first to employ in the manufacture of
guns; the works cover an immense area, and employ 20,000 people, and supply artillery to every
Government of Europe (1810-1887).

KUBERA or KUVERA, the Hindu Plutus, or god of riches, represented as deformed and mounted on
a car drawn by hobgoblins.

KUBLAI KHAN was a great Mongol emperor of the 13th century; built up an empire which included
all the continent of Asia (except India, Arabia, and Asia Minor) and Russia, the most extensive
that ever existed; he was an enlightened prince, adopted Chinese civilisation, promoted learning,
and established Buddhism throughout his domains.

KUENEN, ABRAHAM, a Dutch Biblical critic, born at Haarlem; studied at Leyden, and became professor
there; distinguished for his researches on the lines of the so-called higher criticism bearing
upon the literary history of the books of the Old Testament, beginning with that of the Pentateuch
(1828-1891).

KUEN-LUN, N. of Thibet, a great snow-clad mountain range, 18,000 to 25,000 ft. high; stretches
for 700 m., with a breadth of 100 m. It was explored by General Prjevalski, a Russian, 1876-88.

KULM, a Bohemian village on the left bank of the Elbe, 50 m. NW. of Prague, where the French
under Vandamme surrendered to the Russians and Prussians in 1813.

KUNERSDORF, a village near Frankfort-on-Oder, where Frederick the Great was defeated by Russians
and Austrians in 1759.

KURDISTAN (2,250), a stretch of plateau and mountain land in Turkish, Persian, and Russian
Trans-Caucasian territory, consisting of grassy plains and lofty ranges through which rivers
like the Zabs, Batman-su, and Euphrates force their way; is inhabited by a partly nomad, partly
agricultural people of ancient stock, who export wool, gum, and hides; the Kurds retain their
old customs and organisation, are subject to their own chiefs, impatient of the rule of the
Porte and the Shah; predatory by instinct, but brave and chivalrous; they are Moslems and Nestorians.

KURILE ISLANDS, a chain of 26 islands, being a continuation of the peninsula of Kamchatka,
enclosing the sea of Okhotsk; very sparsely inhabited.

KURRACHEE (105), the chief port of the Punjab; situated on the delta of the Indus, with an
extensive harbour and trade.

KURTZ, HEINRICH, German theologian, professor at Dorpat; author, among other works, of a "Handbook
of Church History"; b. 1809.

KURUMAN, in Bechuanaland, 140 m. NW. of Kimberley; is the place where Livingstone and Moffat
laboured.

KYD, THOMAS, Elizabethan dramatist, born in London, and trained a scrivener, but won fame as
a writer of tragedies, of which the best was "The Spanish Tragedy" (1557-1595).

KYOTO (298), from 784 to 1868 the capital of Japan, on the Kamo River, inland, 190 m. W. of
Yedo; is still the centre of Japanese Buddhism, and is noted for its pottery, bronze-work,
crapes, and velvets.

KYRIE ELEISON, means "Lord have mercy upon us," and with CHRISTE ELEISON, "Christ have mercy
upon us," occurs in all Greek liturgies, in the Roman Mass, and in the English Prayer Book,
where it forms the "lesser litany."

KYRLE, JOHN, philanthropist, born in Gloucestershire; celebrated by Pope as the "Man of Ross,"
from the name of the place in Herefordshire where he lived; was distinguished for his benefactions;
has given name to a society founded, among other things, for the betterment of the homes of
the people (1637-1724).

L

LAB`ARUM, the standard, surmounted by the monogram of Christ, which was borne before the Emperor
Constantine after his conversion to Christianity, and in symbol of the vision of the cross
in the sky which led to it. It was a lance with a cross-bar at its extremity and a crown on
top, and the monogram consisted of the Greek letter for Ch and R.

LABÉ, LOUISE, poetess, surnamed "La belle Cordière" as the wife of a rope-maker, born in Lyons;
wrote in prose "Dialogue d'Amour et de Folie," and elegies and sonnets, with "a singular approach
to the ring of Shakespeare's" (1526-1566).

LABICHE, EUGENE, a French dramatist, born at Paris; his dramas give evidence of a genius of
inexhaustible fertility of invention, wit, and humour; his best-known play "Le Voyage de M.
Perrichon," 1860 (1815-1888).

LABLACHE, a celebrated operatic deep bass singer, born in Naples, of French origin; he created
quite a furore wherever he went; was teacher of singing to Queen Victoria (1794-1858).

LABOULAYE, RENÉ DE, a French jurist, born in Paris; was a Moderate in politics; wrote on French
law, and was the author of some tales of a humorous turn, such as "Paris in America" (1811-1883).

LABOURDONNAIS, MARÉ DE, French naval officer, born at St. Malo, Governor of the Isle of France;
distinguished himself against the English in India; was accused of dishonourable conduct, and
committed to the Bastille, but after a time found guiltless and liberated (1699-1753).

LABRADOR (6), the great peninsula in the E. of Canada, washed by Hudson's Bay, the Greenland
Sea, and the Gulf of St. Lawrence; is a high tableland, with many lakes and rivers, and forests
of birch and fir. The climate is much too severe for agriculture. Summer is very short, and
plagued with mosquitoes. The rivers abound in salmon; the fox, marten, otter, and other animals
are trapped for their fur; iron and labradorite are plentiful. The population is largely Eskimo,
christianised by the Moravians. The name Labrador specially belongs to the region along the
eastern coast, between Capes St. Louis and Chudleigh, presenting a barren front to the sea,
precipitous, much indented, and fringed with rocky islands. This region is governed by Newfoundland;
its chief industry is cod and herring fishing.

LA BRUYÈRE, JEAN DE, a celebrated French moralist, born at Paris; was tutor to the Duke of
Bourbon, the grandson of the great Condé, and spent a great part of his life in Paris in connection
with the Condé family; his most celebrated work is "Les Caractères de Théophrastus" (1687),
which abounds in wise maxims and reflections on life, but gave offence to contemporaries by
the personal satires in it under disguised names; he ranks high as a writer no less than as
a moralist; his style is "a model of ease, grace, and fluency, without weakness in his characters;
a book," adds Professor Saintsbury, "most interesting to read, and especially to Englishmen"
(1645-1696).

LABUAN (6), a small island, distant 6 m. from the W. coast of North Borneo, ceded to Britain
in 1846, and administered by the British North Borneo Company; has rich coal-beds; its town,
Victoria, is a market for Borneo and the Sulu Archipelago, and exports sago, camphor, and pearls;
the population is chiefly Malay and Chinese.

LABYRINTH, a name given to sundry structures composed of winding passages so intricate as to
render it difficult to find the way out, and sometimes in. Of these structures the most remarkable
were those of Egypt and of Crete. The Egyptian to the E. of Lake Moeris, consisted of an endless
number of dark chambers, connected by a maze of passages into which it was difficult to find
entrance; and the Cretan, built by Dædalus, at the instance of Minos, to imprison the Minotaur,
out of which one who entered could not find his way out again unless by means of a skein of
thread. It was by means of this, provided him by ARIADNE, PERSEUS (q. v.) found his way out
after slaying the MINOTAUR (q. v.).

LAC, a term employed in India for a hundred thousand, a crore amounting to 100 lacs, usually
of money.

LACCADIVES, THE, or THE HUNDRED THOUSAND ISLES (14), a group of low-lying coral islands 200
m. W. of the Malabar coast of India, mostly barren, and yielding chiefly cocoa-nuts; the population
being Hindus professing Mohammedanism and poorly off.

LACÉPÈDE, COMTE DE, French naturalist, born at Agen; was entrusted by Buffon to complete his
Natural History on his death; wrote on his own account also the natural histories of reptiles,
of fishes, and of man (1756-1825).

LACHAISE, FRANÇOIS DE, a French Jesuit, an extremely politic member of the fraternity in the
reign of Louis XIV.; had a country house E. of Paris, the garden of which is now the cemetery
Père la Chaise (1624-1709).

LACHESIS, the one of the three Fates that spun the thread of life and apportioned the destinies
of man. See PARCÆ.

LACHMANN, KARL, a German philologist and classical scholar, born at Brunswick, professor at
Berlin; besides sundry of the Latin classics, in particular Lucretius, he edited the Nibelungen
Lied, and the Greek New Testament, as well as contributed important critical essays on the
composition of the "Iliad," which he regarded as a collection of lays from various independent
sources (1783-1851). See ILIAD.

LACHRYMA CHRISTI, a sweet wine of a red or amber colour, produced from grapes grown on Mount
Vesuvius.

LACONIA, ancient name for Sparta, the inhabitants of which were noted for the brevity of their
speech.

LACORDAIRE, JEAN BAPTISTE HENRY, a celebrated French preacher, and one of the most brilliant
orators of the century; bred for the bar; held sceptical opinions at first, but came under
the influence of religion; took orders as a priest and became associated with Montalembert
and Lamennais as joint-editor of the Avenir, a journal which advocated views at once Ultramontane
and radical, but which, being condemned by the Pope, was discontinued; after this he took to
preaching, and immense crowds gathered to hear his conferences, as they were called, in the
church of Notre Dame, where, to the astonishment of all, he appeared in the pulpit in guise
of a Dominican monk with the tonsure; he was afterwards elected member of the Constitutent
Assembly, where he sat in his monk's attire, but he soon retired; he ended his days as head
of the Military College of Sorrèze (1802-1861).

LACRATELLE, French historian, born at Metz; began life as a journalist; became professor of
History in Paris University; wrote a history of the 18th century and of the French Revolution,
showing very great accuracy of detail, if little historical insight (1766-1855).

LA CROSSE, the national game of Canada, of Indian derivation; is played twelve a side, each
armed with a long-handled racquet or crosse, the object of the game being to drive an india-rubber
ball through the opponents' goal.

LACTANTIUS, a Christian apologist of the early part of the 14th century, who, from his eloquent
advocacy of the Christian faith, was styled the Christian Cicero; he was a pagan born, and
by profession a rhetorician.

LADISLAUS, the name of seven kings of Hungary, of which the first (1077-1095) received canonisation
for his zeal on behalf of Christianity.

LADOGA, a lake as large as Wales and the largest in Europe, in the NW. of Russia, not far from
St. Petersburg; it is the centre of an extensive lake and river system, receiving the Volkhov,
Syas, and Svir, and drained into the Gulf of Finland by the Neva; but so dangerous is navigation,
owing to sunken rocks and shoals and to the storms that prevail during the open months, that
the extensive shipping is carried round the S. shores by the Ladoga and the canals.

LADRONES or MARIANA ISLANDS (10), a well-watered, thickly-wooded group in the North Pacific,
1400 m. E. of the Philippines and belonging to Spain; produce cotton, indigo, and sugar, but
the trade is of little worth; the only town is San Ignazio de Agaña, on the largest island, Guam.

LADY CHAPEL, a chapel dedicated to the Virgin Mary attached to a church.

LADY DAY, the festival of the annunciation of the Virgin Mary, March 25; a quarter-day in England
and Ireland.

LADY OF ENGLAND, title of Matilda, daughter of Henry I. and wife of Geoffrey Plantagenet, conferred
on her by a council held at Westminster, 1141.

LADY OF SHALOTT, a maiden of great beauty, the subject of a poem by Tennyson, in love with
Lancelot, who died because her love was not returned.

LADY OF THE LAKE, the name given to Vivien, the mistress of Merlin, who dwelt in an imaginary
lake, surrounded by a court of knights and damsels; also to Helen Douglas, a heroine of Scott's,
who lived with her father near Loch Katrine.

LA FAYETTE, MADAME DE, novelist, born in Paris; is credited with being the originator of the
class of fiction in which character and its analysis are held of chief account; she was the
daughter of the governor of Havre, and contracted a Platonic affection for La Rochefoucauld
in his old age, and was besides on intimate terms with Madame Sévigné and the most eminent
literary men of the time; her "Princess de Clèves" is a classic work, and the merit of it is
enhanced by the reflection that it preceded by nearly half a century the works both of Le Sage
and Defoe (1634-1693). (1757-1834).

LAFITTE, JACQUES, French banker and financier; played a conspicuous part in the Revolution
of 1830, and by his influence as a liberal politician with the French people secured the elevation
of Louis Philippe to the throne; in the calamities attendant on this Revolution his house became
insolvent, but he was found, after paying all demands, to be worth in francs nearly seven millions
(1767-1844).

LAFONTAINE, JEAN DE, celebrated French author, born at Château-Thierry, in Champagne; a man
of indolent, gay, and dissipated habits, but of resplendent genius, known to all the world
for his inimitable "Tales" and "Fables," and who was the peer of all the distinguished literary
notabilities of his time; the former, published in 1665, too often transgress the bounds of
morality, but are distinguished by exquisite grace of expression and sparkling wit; the latter,
published in 1668, have an irresistible charm which no reader can withstand; he was the author
also of the "Amours of Cupid and Psyche"; he was the friend of Boileau, Molière, and Racine,
and in his later years a confirmed Parisian (1621-1695).

LA FORCE, DUC DE, maréchal of France under Henry IV., and one of the most distinguished; escaped
when an infant the massacre of St. Bartholomew (1558-1652).

LAGOS (40), a large and thriving commercial town in a colony (100) of the name subject to Britain,
on the Guinea Coast of Africa.

LAGRANGE, JOSEPH LOUIS, COMTE, famous mathematician, born at Turin of French parentage; had
gained at the age of twenty a European reputation by his abstruse algebraical investigations;
appointed director of Berlin Academy in 1766, he pursued his researches there for twenty-one
years; in 1787 he removed to Paris, where be received a pension from the Court of 6000 francs,
and remained till his death; universally respected, he was unscathed by the Revolution; appointed
to several offices, he received the Grand Cross of the Legion of Honour from Napoleon, who
made him a count (1736-1813).

LA HARPE, JEAN FRANÇOIS DE, French littérateur and critic, born in Paris; wrote dramas and
éloges, but his best-known work is his "Cours de Littérature" in 12 vols., of little account
except for its criticism of French literature, in which he showed not a little pedantry and
ill-temper as well as acuteness; he was zealous for the Revolution at first, but drew back
when extreme measures were adopted and became a warm royalist, for which he was sentenced to
deportation, but left at liberty (1739-1803).

LA HOGUE, a cape with a roadstead on NE. of France, where a French fleet sent by Louis XIV.
to invade England on behalf of James II. was destroyed in 1692.

LAHORE (177), an ancient walled city on the Ravi, a tributary of the Indus, 1000 m. NW. of
Calcutta, is the capital of the Punjab, and an important railway centre; it has many fine buildings,
both English and native, including a university and a medical school, but the situation is
unhealthy; half the population are Mussulmans; the trade is inconsiderable; the district of
Lahore (1,075) one of the most important in the province, is well irrigated by the Bári Doab
Canal, and produces fine crops of cereals, pulse, and cotton.

LAIDLAW, WILLIAM, Sir Walter Scott's factor at Abbotsford, born in Selkirkshire; having failed
in farming, entered Scott's service in 1817 and remained his trusted and faithful friend, advising
him in his schemes of improvement and acting latterly as his amanuensis till his death in 1832;
thereafter he was factor in Ross-shire, where he died; he had some poetic gift of his own,
and contributed to the third volume of the "Minstrelsy" (1780-1845).

LAING, DAVID, a learned antiquary, profound in his knowledge of Scottish ecclesiastical and
literary history, born, the son of bookseller, at Edinburgh, followed for thirty years his
father's trade; was appointed to the charge of the Signet Library in 1837; was secretary to
the Bannatyne Club, and in 1864 received the degree of LL.D. from Edinburgh University; he
contributed many valuable papers to the Transactions of the Society of Antiquaries of Scotland,
collected and edited much of the ancient poetry of Scotland, and acquired a private library
of manuscripts and volumes of great value (1799-1878).

LAING, MALCOLM, Scottish historian, born in Orkney; passed through Edinburgh University to
the Scottish bar, to which he was called in 1785, but proved an unsuccessful advocate; turning
to literature, he edited "Ossian," and wrote a "History of Scotland from James VI. to Anne"
(1800), in a subsequent edition of which he inserted the well-known attack on Mary Stuart (1762-1818).

LAÏS, the name of two Greek courtesans celebrated for their beauty, the one a native of Corinth,
who lived at the time of the Peloponnesian War, and the other belonging to Sicily, and who,
having visited Thessaly, was stoned to death by the women of the country out of jealousy.

LAISSEZ-FAIRE (lit. let things alone and take their course), the name given to the let-alone
system of political economy, in opposition to State interference, or State regulation, in private
industrial enterprise.

LAKE DISTRICT, a district in Cumberland and Westmorland, 20 m. long by 25 m. broad, abounding
in lakes, environed with scenery of rare beauty, and much frequented by tourists.

LAKE DWELLINGS, primitive settlements, the remains of which have been found in many parts of
Europe, but chiefly in Switzerland, the N. of Italy, and in Scotland and Ireland. They were
constructed in various ways. In the Swiss lakes piles, consisting of unbarked tree trunks,
were driven in a short distance from the shore, and strengthened more or less by cross beams;
extensive platforms laid on these held small villages of rectangular wooden huts, thatched
with straw and reeds. These were sometimes approachable only in canoes, more often connected
with the shore by a narrow bridge, in which case cattle were kept in sheds on the platforms.
In Scotland and Ireland the erection was rather an artificial island laid down in 10 or 12
ft. of water with brushwood, logs, and stones, much smaller in size, and holding but one hut.
The Swiss dwellings, the chief of which are at Meilen, on Lake Zurich, date from very early
times, some say 2000 years before Christ, and contain remains of the Stone, Bronze, and Iron
Ages, weapons, instruments, pottery, linen cloth, and the like. The relic of latest date is
a Roman coin of A.D. 54. The British remains are much more recent, belonging entirely to the
Iron period and to historic times. The object sought in these structures is somewhat obscure--most
probably it was the security their insular nature afforded.

LAKE POETS, a school of English poets, the chief representatives of which were Wordsworth,
Southey, and Coleridge, who adorned the beginning of the 19th century, and were so designated
by the Edinburgh Review because their favourite haunt was the LAKE DISTRICT (q. v.) in the
N. of England, and the characteristic of whose poetry may be summed as a feeling of and a sympathy
with the pure spirit of nature.

LAKSHMI, in the Hindu mythology the wife of Vishnu and the goddess of beauty, pleasure, and
victory; she is a favourite subject of Hindu painting and poetry.

LALANDE, a French astronomer; was professor of Astronomy in the College of France, and produced
an excellent treatise on the subject in two vols. (1732-1807).

LALLA-ROOKH, the title of a poem by Moore, from the name of the heroine, the daughter of the
Mogul Emperor, Aurungzebe; betrothed to the young king of Bacharia, she goes forth to meet
him, but her heart having been smitten by a poet she meets on the way, as she enters the palace
of her bridegroom she swoons away, but reviving at the sound of a familiar voice she wakes
up with rapture to find that the poet of her affection was none other than the prince to whom
she was betrothed.

LALLY-TOLLENDAL, or BARON DE TOLLENDAL, a French general, born at Romans, in Dauphiné, of Irish
descent; saw service in Flanders; accompanied Prince Charles to Scotland in 1745, and was in
1756 appointed Governor-General of the French settlements in India, but being defeated by the
English he was accused of having betrayed the French interests, and executed after two years'
imprisonment in the Bastille (1702-1766).

LALLY-TOLLENDAL, MARQUIS DE, son of the preceding; successfully vindicated the conduct of his
father, and received back his paternal estates that had unjustly been forfeited; supported
LA FAYETTE (q. v.) at the time of the Revolution, and followed his example; was arrested in
1792, but escaped to England; returning to France, he supported the Bourbon dynasty at the
Restoration; wrote a "Defence of the French Emigrants," and a Life of the Earl of Strafford,
Charles I.'s minister (1751-1830).

LAMAISM, Buddhism as professed in Thibet and Mongolia, or the worship of Buddha and his DHARMA
(q. v.); conceived of as incarnated in the SANGHA (q. v.) or priesthood, and especially in
the Grand Lama or Dalai Lama, the chief priest; a kind of hero-worship, or at all events saint-worship;
long since sunk into mere IDOLATRY (q. v.).

LAMARCK, a French naturalist, born at Bazentin, Picardy; entered the army at the age of 17,
and after serving in it a short time retired and devoted himself to botany; in his "Flora Française"
published (1773) adopted a new method of classification of plants; in 1774 became keeper of
what ultimately became the Jardin des Plantes, and was professor of Zoology, devoting himself
to the study of particularly invertebrate animals, the fruits of which study appeared in his
"Histoire Naturelle des Animaux sans Vertèbres"; he held very advanced views on the matter
of biology, and it was not till the advent of Darwin they were appreciated (1744-1820).

LA MARMORA, MARQUIS DE, an eminent Italian general and statesman, born at Turin; fell under
the rebuke of Bismarck for an indiscretion as a diplomatist (1801-1878).

