One trip a pretty girl of sixteen spent her time in our pilot-house with her uncle and aunt,
every day and all day long.  I fell in love with her.  So did Mr. Thornburg's cub, Tom G----.
Tom and I had been bosom friends until this time; but now a coolness began to arise. I told
the girl a good many of my river adventures, and made myself out a good deal of a hero; Tom
tried to make himself appear to be a hero, too, and succeeded to some extent, but then he always
had a way of embroidering. However, virtue is its own reward, so I was a barely perceptible
trifle ahead in the contest. About this time something happened which promised handsomely for
me: the pilots decided to sound the crossing at the head of 21. This would occur about nine
or ten o'clock at night, when the passengers would be still up; it would be Mr. Thornburg's
watch, therefore my chief would have to do the sounding.  We had a perfect love of a sounding-boat--long,
trim, graceful, and as fleet as a greyhound; her thwarts were cushioned; she carried twelve
oarsmen; one of the mates was always sent in her to transmit orders to her crew, for ours was
a steamer where no end of 'style' was put on.

We tied up at the shore above 21, and got ready.  It was a foul night, and the river was so
wide, there, that a landsman's uneducated eyes could discern no opposite shore through such
a gloom. The passengers were alert and interested; everything was satisfactory. As I hurried
through the engine-room, picturesquely gotten up in storm toggery, I met Tom, and could not
forbear delivering myself of a mean speech--

'Ain't you glad YOU don't have to go out sounding?'

Tom was passing on, but he quickly turned, and said--

'Now just for that, you can go and get the sounding-pole yourself. I was going after it, but
I'd see you in Halifax, now, before I'd do it.'

'Who wants you to get it?  I don't. It's in the sounding-boat.'

'It ain't, either.  It's been new-painted; and it's been up on the ladies' cabin guards two
days, drying.'

I flew back, and shortly arrived among the crowd of watching and wondering ladies just in time
to hear the command:

'Give way, men!'

I looked over, and there was the gallant sounding-boat booming away, the unprincipled Tom presiding
at the tiller, and my chief sitting by him with the sounding-pole which I had been sent on
a fool's errand to fetch. Then that young girl said to me--

'Oh, how awful to have to go out in that little boat on such a night! Do you think there is
any danger?'

I would rather have been stabbed.  I went off, full of venom, to help in the pilot-house. By
and by the boat's lantern disappeared, and after an interval a wee spark glimmered upon the
face of the water a mile away. Mr. Thornburg blew the whistle, in acknowledgment, backed the
steamer out, and made for it.  We flew along for a while, then slackened steam and went cautiously
gliding toward the spark. Presently Mr. Thornburg exclaimed--

'Hello, the buoy-lantern's out!'

He stopped the engines.  A moment or two later he said--

'Why, there it is again!'

So he came ahead on the engines once more, and rang for the leads. Gradually the water shoaled
up, and then began to deepen again! Mr. Thornburg muttered--

'Well, I don't understand this.  I believe that buoy has drifted off the reef.  Seems to be
a little too far to the left. No matter, it is safest to run over it anyhow.'

So, in that solid world of darkness we went creeping down on the light. Just as our bows were
in the act of plowing over it, Mr. Thornburg seized the bell-ropes, rang a startling peal,
and exclaimed--

'My soul, it's the sounding-boat!'

A sudden chorus of wild alarms burst out far below--a pause--and then the sound of grinding
and crashing followed. Mr. Thornburg exclaimed--

'There! the paddle-wheel has ground the sounding-boat to lucifer matches!  Run!  See who is
killed!'

I was on the main deck in the twinkling of an eye.  My chief and the third mate and nearly
all the men were safe.  They had discovered their danger when it was too late to pull out of
the way; then, when the great guards overshadowed them a moment later, they were prepared and
knew what to do; at my chiefs order they sprang at the right instant, seized the guard, and
were hauled aboard.  The next moment the sounding-yawl swept aft to the wheel and was struck
and splintered to atoms.  Two of the men and the cub Tom, were missing--a fact which spread
like wildfire over the boat. The passengers came flocking to the forward gangway, ladies and
all, anxious-eyed, white-faced, and talked in awed voices of the dreadful thing. And often
and again I heard them say, 'Poor fellows! poor boy, poor boy!'

By this time the boat's yawl was manned and away, to search for the missing.  Now a faint call
was heard, off to the left. The yawl had disappeared in the other direction.  Half the people
rushed to one side to encourage the swimmer with their shouts; the other half rushed the other
way to shriek to the yawl to turn about. By the callings, the swimmer was approaching, but
some said the sound showed failing strength.  The crowd massed themselves against the boiler-deck
railings, leaning over and staring into the gloom; and every faint and fainter cry wrung from
them such words as, 'Ah, poor fellow, poor fellow! is there no way to save him?'

But still the cries held out, and drew nearer, and presently the voice said pluckily--

'I can make it!  Stand by with a rope!'

What a rousing cheer they gave him!  The chief mate took his stand in the glare of a torch-basket,
a coil of rope in his hand, and his men grouped about him.  The next moment the swimmer's face
appeared in the circle of light, and in another one the owner of it was hauled aboard, limp
and drenched, while cheer on cheer went up. It was that devil Tom.

The yawl crew searched everywhere, but found no sign of the two men. They probably failed to
catch the guard, tumbled back, and were struck by the wheel and killed.  Tom had never jumped
for the guard at all, but had plunged head-first into the river and dived under the wheel.
It was nothing; I could have done it easy enough, and I said so; but everybody went on just
the same, making a wonderful to do over that ass, as if he had done something great.  That
girl couldn't seem to have enough of that pitiful 'hero' the rest of the trip; but little I
cared; I loathed her, any way.

The way we came to mistake the sounding-boat's lantern for the buoy- light was this.  My chief
said that after laying the buoy he fell away and watched it till it seemed to be secure; then
he took up a position a hundred yards below it and a little to one side of the steamer's course,
headed the sounding-boat up-stream, and waited. Having to wait some time, he and the officer
got to talking; he looked up when he judged that the steamer was about on the reef; saw that
the buoy was gone, but supposed that the steamer had already run over it; he went on with his
talk; he noticed that the steamer was getting very close on him, but that was the correct thing;
it was her business to shave him closely, for convenience in taking him aboard; he was expecting
her to sheer off, until the last moment; then it flashed upon him that she was trying to run
him down, mistaking his lantern for the buoy-light; so he sang out, 'Stand by to spring for
the guard, men!' and the next instant the jump was made.

Chapter 13 A Pilot's Needs

BUT I am wandering from what I was intending to do, that is, make plainer than perhaps appears
in the previous chapters, some of the peculiar requirements of the science of piloting. First
of all, there is one faculty which a pilot must incessantly cultivate until he has brought
it to absolute perfection. Nothing short of perfection will do. That faculty is memory. He
cannot stop with merely thinking a thing is so and so; he must know it; for this is eminently
one of the 'exact' sciences. With what scorn a pilot was looked upon, in the old times, if
he ever ventured to deal in that feeble phrase 'I think,' instead of the vigorous one 'I know!'
One cannot easily realize what a tremendous thing it is to know every trivial detail of twelve
hundred miles of river and know it with absolute exactness. If you will take the longest street
in New York, and travel up and down it, conning its features patiently until you know every
house and window and door and lamp-post and big and little sign by heart, and know them so
accurately that you can instantly name the one you are abreast of when you are set down at
random in that street in the middle of an inky black night, you will then have a tolerable
notion of the amount and the exactness of a pilot's knowledge who carries the Mississippi River
in his head. And then if you will go on until you know every street crossing, the character,
size, and position of the crossing-stones, and the varying depth of mud in each of those numberless
places, you will have some idea of what the pilot must know in order to keep a Mississippi
steamer out of trouble.  Next, if you will take half of the signs in that long street, and
CHANGE THEIR PLACES once a month, and still manage to know their new positions accurately on
dark nights, and keep up with these repeated changes without making any mistakes, you will
understand what is required of a pilot's peerless memory by the fickle Mississippi.

I think a pilot's memory is about the most wonderful thing in the world. To know the Old and
New Testaments by heart, and be able to recite them glibly, forward or backward, or begin at
random anywhere in the book and recite both ways and never trip or make a mistake, is no extravagant
mass of knowledge, and no marvelous facility, compared to a pilot's massed knowledge of the
Mississippi and his marvelous facility in the handling of it.  I make this comparison deliberately,
and believe I am not expanding the truth when I do it. Many will think my figure too strong,
but pilots will not.

And how easily and comfortably the pilot's memory does its work; how placidly effortless is
its way; how UNCONSCIOUSLY it lays up its vast stores, hour by hour, day by day, and never
loses or mislays a single valuable package of them all!  Take an instance. The cry of 'quarter
twain' did not really take his mind from his talk, but his trained faculties instantly photographed
the bearings, noted the change of depth, and laid up the important details for future reference
without requiring any assistance from him in the matter. If you were walking and talking with
a friend, and another friend at your side kept up a monotonous repetition of the vowel sound
A, for a couple of blocks, and then in the midst interjected an R, thus, A, A, A, A, A, R,
A, A, A, etc., and gave the R no emphasis, you would not be able to state, two or three weeks
afterward, that the R had been put in, nor be able to tell what objects you were passing at
the moment it was done.  But you could if your memory had been patiently and laboriously trained
to do that sort of thing mechanically.

Give a man a tolerably fair memory to start with, and piloting will develop it into a very
colossus of capability. But ONLY IN THE MATTERS IT IS DAILY DRILLED IN. A time would come when
the man's faculties could not help noticing landmarks and soundings, and his memory could not
help holding on to them with the grip of a vise; but if you asked that same man at noon what
he had had for breakfast, it would be ten chances to one that he could not tell you. Astonishing
things can be done with the human memory if you will devote it faithfully to one particular
line of business.

At the time that wages soared so high on the Missouri River, my chief, Mr. Bixby, went up there
and learned more than a thousand miles of that stream with an ease and rapidity that were astonishing.
When he had seen each division once in the daytime and once at night, his education was so
nearly complete that he took out a 'daylight' license; a few trips later he took out a full
license, and went to piloting day and night-- and he ranked A 1, too.

Mr. Bixby placed me as steersman for a while under a pilot whose feats of memory were a constant
marvel to me.  However, his memory was born in him, I think, not built.  For instance, somebody
would mention a name. Instantly Mr. Brown would break in--

'Oh, I knew HIM.  Sallow-faced, red-headed fellow, with a little scar on the side of his throat,
like a splinter under the flesh.  He was only in the Southern trade six months. That was thirteen
years ago.  I made a trip with him. There was five feet in the upper river then; the "Henry
Blake" grounded at the foot of Tower Island drawing four and a half; the "George Elliott" unshipped
her rudder on the wreck of the "Sunflower"--'

'Why, the "Sunflower" didn't sink until--'

'I know when she sunk; it was three years before that, on the 2nd of December; Asa Hardy was
captain of her, and his brother John was first clerk; and it was his first trip in her, too;
Tom Jones told me these things a week afterward in New Orleans; he was first mate of the "Sunflower."
Captain Hardy stuck a nail in his foot the 6th of July of the next year, and died of the lockjaw
on the 15th.  His brother died two years after 3rd of March,--erysipelas.  I never saw either
of the Hardys,--they were Alleghany River men,--but people who knew them told me all these
things. And they said Captain Hardy wore yarn socks winter and summer just the same, and his
first wife's name was Jane Shook--she was from New England--and his second one died in a lunatic
asylum.  It was in the blood. She was from Lexington, Kentucky.  Name was Horton before she
was married.'

And so on, by the hour, the man's tongue would go. He could NOT forget any thing.  It was simply
impossible. The most trivial details remained as distinct and luminous in his head, after they
had lain there for years, as the most memorable events. His was not simply a pilot's memory;
its grasp was universal. If he were talking about a trifling letter he had received seven years
before, he was pretty sure to deliver you the entire screed from memory.  And then without
observing that he was departing from the true line of his talk, he was more than likely to
hurl in a long-drawn parenthetical biography of the writer of that letter; and you were lucky
indeed if he did not take up that writer's relatives, one by one, and give you their biographies,
too.

Such a memory as that is a great misfortune.  To it, all occurrences are of the same size.
Its possessor cannot distinguish an interesting circumstance from an uninteresting one.  As
a talker, he is bound to clog his narrative with tiresome details and make himself an insufferable
bore.  Moreover, he cannot stick to his subject. He picks up every little grain of memory he
discerns in his way, and so is led aside.  Mr. Brown would start out with the honest intention
of telling you a vastly funny anecdote about a dog. He would be 'so full of laugh' that he
could hardly begin; then his memory would start with the dog's breed and personal appearance;
drift into a history of his owner; of his owner's family, with descriptions of weddings and
burials that had occurred in it, together with recitals of congratulatory verses and obituary
poetry provoked by the same:  then this memory would recollect that one of these events occurred
during the celebrated 'hard winter' of such and such a year, and a minute description of that
winter would follow, along with the names of people who were frozen to death, and statistics
showing the high figures which pork and hay went up to. Pork and hay would suggest corn and
fodder; corn and fodder would suggest cows and horses; cows and horses would suggest the circus
and certain celebrated bare-back riders; the transition from the circus to the menagerie was
easy and natural; from the elephant to equatorial Africa was but a step; then of course the
heathen savages would suggest religion; and at the end of three or four hours' tedious jaw,
the watch would change, and Brown would go out of the pilot-house muttering extracts from sermons
he had heard years before about the efficacy of prayer as a means of grace. And the original
first mention would be all you had learned about that dog, after all this waiting and hungering.

A pilot must have a memory; but there are two higher qualities which he must also have.  He
must have good and quick judgment and decision, and a cool, calm courage that no peril can
shake. Give a man the merest trifle of pluck to start with, and by the time he has become a
pilot he cannot be unmanned by any danger a steamboat can get into; but one cannot quite say
the same for judgment. Judgment is a matter of brains, and a man must START with a good stock
of that article or he will never succeed as a pilot.

The growth of courage in the pilot-house is steady all the time, but it does not reach a high
and satisfactory condition until some time after the young pilot has been 'standing his own
watch,' alone and under the staggering weight of all the responsibilities connected with the
position.  When an apprentice has become pretty thoroughly acquainted with the river, he goes
clattering along so fearlessly with his steamboat, night or day, that he presently begins to
imagine that it is HIS courage that animates him; but the first time the pilot steps out and
leaves him to his own devices he finds out it was the other man's. He discovers that the article
has been left out of his own cargo altogether. The whole river is bristling with exigencies
in a moment; he is not prepared for them; he does not know how to meet them; all his knowledge
forsakes him; and within fifteen minutes he is as white as a sheet and scared almost to death.
Therefore pilots wisely train these cubs by various strategic tricks to look danger in the
face a little more calmly. A favorite way of theirs is to play a friendly swindle upon the
candidate.

Mr. Bixby served me in this fashion once, and for years afterward I used to blush even in my
sleep when I thought of it. I had become a good steersman; so good, indeed, that I had all
the work to do on our watch, night and day; Mr. Bixby seldom made a suggestion to me; all he
ever did was to take the wheel on particularly bad nights or in particularly bad crossings,
land the boat when she needed to be landed, play gentleman of leisure nine-tenths of the watch,
and collect the wages. The lower river was about bank-full, and if anybody had questioned my
ability to run any crossing between Cairo and New Orleans without help or instruction, I should
have felt irreparably hurt. The idea of being afraid of any crossing in the lot, in the DAY-TIME,
was a thing too preposterous for contemplation. Well, one matchless summer's day I was bowling
down the bend above island 66, brimful of self-conceit and carrying my nose as high as a giraffe's,
when Mr. Bixby said--

'I am going below a while.  I suppose you know the next crossing?'

This was almost an affront.  It was about the plainest and simplest crossing in the whole river.
One couldn't come to any harm, whether he ran it right or not; and as for depth, there never
had been any bottom there. I knew all this, perfectly well.

'Know how to RUN it?  Why, I can run it with my eyes shut.'

'How much water is there in it?'

'Well, that is an odd question.  I couldn't get bottom there with a church steeple.'

'You think so, do you?'

The very tone of the question shook my confidence. That was what Mr. Bixby was expecting. 
He left, without saying anything more.  I began to imagine all sorts of things. Mr. Bixby,
unknown to me, of course, sent somebody down to the forecastle with some mysterious instructions
to the leadsmen, another messenger was sent to whisper among the officers, and then Mr. Bixby
went into hiding behind a smoke-stack where he could observe results.  Presently the captain
stepped out on the hurricane deck; next the chief mate appeared; then a clerk. Every moment
or two a straggler was added to my audience; and before I got to the head of the island I had
fifteen or twenty people assembled down there under my nose. I began to wonder what the trouble
was.  As I started across, the captain glanced aloft at me and said, with a sham uneasiness
in his voice--

'Where is Mr. Bixby?'

'Gone below, sir.'

But that did the business for me.  My imagination began to construct dangers out of nothing,
and they multiplied faster than I could keep the run of them.  All at once I imagined I saw
shoal water ahead! The wave of coward agony that surged through me then came near dislocating
every joint in me.  All my confidence in that crossing vanished. I seized the bell-rope; dropped
it, ashamed; seized it again; dropped it once more; clutched it tremblingly one again, and
pulled it so feebly that I could hardly hear the stroke myself. Captain and mate sang out instantly,
and both together--

'Starboard lead there! and quick about it!'

This was another shock.  I began to climb the wheel like a squirrel; but I would hardly get
the boat started to port before I would see new dangers on that side, and away I would spin
to the other; only to find perils accumulating to starboard, and be crazy to get to port again.
Then came the leadsman's sepulchral cry--

'D-e-e-p four!'

Deep four in a bottomless crossing!  The terror of it took my breath away.

'M-a-r-k three!... M-a-r-k three... Quarter less three!... Half twain!'

This was frightful!  I seized the bell-ropes and stopped the engines.

'Quarter twain!  Quarter twain!  MARK twain!'

I was helpless.  I did not know what in the world to do. I was quaking from head to foot, and
I could have hung my hat on my eyes, they stuck out so far.

'Quarter LESS twain!  Nine and a HALF!'

We were DRAWING nine!  My hands were in a nerveless flutter. I could not ring a bell intelligibly
with them.  I flew to the speaking-tube and shouted to the engineer--

'Oh, Ben, if you love me, BACK her!  Quick, Ben!  Oh, back the immortal SOUL out of her!'

I heard the door close gently.  I looked around, and there stood Mr. Bixby, smiling a bland,
sweet smile.  Then the audience on the hurricane deck sent up a thundergust of humiliating
laughter. I saw it all, now, and I felt meaner than the meanest man in human history.  I laid
in the lead, set the boat in her marks, came ahead on the engines, and said--

'It was a fine trick to play on an orphan, WASN'T it? I suppose I'll never hear the last of
how I was ass enough to heave the lead at the head of 66.'

'Well, no, you won't, maybe.  In fact I hope you won't; for I want you to learn something by
that experience. Didn't you KNOW there was no bottom in that crossing?'

'Yes, sir, I did.'

'Very well, then.  You shouldn't have allowed me or anybody else to shake your confidence in
that knowledge.  Try to remember that. And another thing:  when you get into a dangerous place,
don't turn coward. That isn't going to help matters any.'

It was a good enough lesson, but pretty hardly learned. Yet about the hardest part of it was
that for months I so often had to hear a phrase which I had conceived a particular distaste
for. It was, 'Oh, Ben, if you love me, back her!'

Chapter 14 Rank and Dignity of Piloting

IN my preceding chapters I have tried, by going into the minutiae of the science of piloting,
to carry the reader step by step to a comprehension of what the science consists of; and at
the same time I have tried to show him that it is a very curious and wonderful science, too,
and very worthy of his attention. If I have seemed to love my subject, it is no surprising
thing, for I loved the profession far better than any I have followed since, and I took a measureless
pride in it.  The reason is plain: a pilot, in those days, was the only unfettered and entirely
independent human being that lived in the earth. Kings are but the hampered servants of parliament
and people; parliaments sit in chains forged by their constituency; the editor of a newspaper
cannot be independent, but must work with one hand tied behind him by party and patrons, and
be content to utter only half or two-thirds of his mind; no clergyman is a free man and may
speak the whole truth, regardless of his parish's opinions; writers of all kinds are manacled
servants of the public.  We write frankly and fearlessly, but then we 'modify' before we print.
In truth, every man and woman and child has a master, and worries and frets in servitude; but
in the day I write of, the Mississippi pilot had none. The captain could stand upon the hurricane
deck, in the pomp of a very brief authority, and give him five or six orders while the vessel
backed into the stream, and then that skipper's reign was over.  The moment that the boat was
under way in the river, she was under the sole and unquestioned control of the pilot. He could
do with her exactly as he pleased, run her when and whither he chose, and tie her up to the
bank whenever his judgment said that that course was best.  His movements were entirely free;
he consulted no one, he received commands from nobody, he promptly resented even the merest
suggestions.  Indeed, the law of the United States forbade him to listen to commands or suggestions,
rightly considering that the pilot necessarily knew better how to handle the boat than anybody
could tell him. So here was the novelty of a king without a keeper, an absolute monarch who
was absolute in sober truth and not by a fiction of words. I have seen a boy of eighteen taking
a great steamer serenely into what seemed almost certain destruction, and the aged captain
standing mutely by, filled with apprehension but powerless to interfere.  His interference,
in that particular instance, might have been an excellent thing, but to permit it would have
been to establish a most pernicious precedent.  It will easily be guessed, considering the
pilot's boundless authority, that he was a great personage in the old steamboating days. He
was treated with marked courtesy by the captain and with marked deference by all the officers
and servants; and this deferential spirit was quickly communicated to the passengers, too.
I think pilots were about the only people I ever knew who failed to show, in some degree, embarrassment
in the presence of traveling foreign princes.  But then, people in one's own grade of life
are not usually embarrassing objects.

By long habit, pilots came to put all their wishes in the form of commands. It 'gravels' me,
to this day, to put my will in the weak shape of a request, instead of launching it in the
crisp language of an order. In those old days, to load a steamboat at St. Louis, take her to
New Orleans and back, and discharge cargo, consumed about twenty-five days, on an average.
Seven or eight of these days the boat spent at the wharves of St. Louis and New Orleans, and
every soul on board was hard at work, except the two pilots; they did nothing but play gentleman
up town, and receive the same wages for it as if they had been on duty. The moment the boat
touched the wharf at either city, they were ashore; and they were not likely to be seen again
till the last bell was ringing and everything in readiness for another voyage.

When a captain got hold of a pilot of particularly high reputation, he took pains to keep him.
When wages were four hundred dollars a month on the Upper Mississippi, I have known a captain
to keep such a pilot in idleness, under full pay, three months at a time, while the river was
frozen up.  And one must remember that in those cheap times four hundred dollars was a salary
of almost inconceivable splendor.  Few men on shore got such pay as that, and when they did
they were mightily looked up to. When pilots from either end of the river wandered into our
small Missouri village, they were sought by the best and the fairest, and treated with exalted
respect.  Lying in port under wages was a thing which many pilots greatly enjoyed and appreciated;
especially if they belonged in the Missouri River in the heyday of that trade (Kansas times),
and got nine hundred dollars a trip, which was equivalent to about eighteen hundred dollars
a month. Here is a conversation of that day.  A chap out of the Illinois River, with a little
stern-wheel tub, accosts a couple of ornate and gilded Missouri River pilots--

'Gentlemen, I've got a pretty good trip for the upcountry, and shall want you about a month.
How much will it be?'

'Eighteen hundred dollars apiece.'

'Heavens and earth!  You take my boat, let me have your wages, and I'll divide!'

I will remark, in passing, that Mississippi steamboatmen were important in landsmen's eyes
(and in their own, too, in a degree) according to the dignity of the boat they were on. For
instance, it was a proud thing to be of the crew of such stately craft as the 'Aleck Scott'
or the 'Grand Turk.' Negro firemen, deck hands, and barbers belonging to those boats were distinguished
personages in their grade of life, and they were well aware of that fact too.  A stalwart darkey
once gave offense at a negro ball in New Orleans by putting on a good many airs. Finally one
of the managers bustled up to him and said--

'Who IS you, any way?  Who is you? dat's what I wants to know!'

The offender was not disconcerted in the least, but swelled himself up and threw that into
his voice which showed that he knew he was not putting on all those airs on a stinted capital.

'Who IS I?  Who IS I?  I let you know mighty quick who I is! I want you niggers to understan'
dat I fires de middle do'{footnote [Door]} on de "Aleck Scott!"'

That was sufficient.

The barber of the 'Grand Turk' was a spruce young negro, who aired his importance with balmy
complacency, and was greatly courted by the circle in which he moved. The young colored population
of New Orleans were much given to flirting, at twilight, on the banquettes of the back streets.
Somebody saw and heard something like the following, one evening, in one of those localities.
A middle-aged negro woman projected her head through a broken pane and shouted (very willing
that the neighbors should hear and envy), 'You Mary Ann, come in de house dis minute! Stannin'
out dah foolin' 'long wid dat low trash, an' heah's de barber offn de "Gran' Turk" wants to
conwerse wid you!'

My reference, a moment ago, to the fact that a pilot's peculiar official position placed him
out of the reach of criticism or command, brings Stephen W---- naturally to my mind.  He was
a gifted pilot, a good fellow, a tireless talker, and had both wit and humor in him. He had
a most irreverent independence, too, and was deliciously easy-going and comfortable in the
presence of age, official dignity, and even the most august wealth.  He always had work, he
never saved a penny, he was a most persuasive borrower, he was in debt to every pilot on the
river, and to the majority of the captains. He could throw a sort of splendor around a bit
of harum-scarum, devil-may-care piloting, that made it almost fascinating--but not to everybody.
He made a trip with good old Captain Y----once, and was 'relieved' from duty when the boat
got to New Orleans. Somebody expressed surprise at the discharge.  Captain Y---- shuddered
at the mere mention of Stephen.  Then his poor, thin old voice piped out something like this:--

'Why, bless me!  I wouldn't have such a wild creature on my boat for the world--not for the
whole world!  He swears, he sings, he whistles, he yells--I never saw such an Injun to yell.
All times of the night--it never made any difference to him. He would just yell that way, not
for anything in particular, but merely on account of a kind of devilish comfort he got out
of it. I never could get into a sound sleep but he would fetch me out of bed, all in a cold
sweat, with one of those dreadful war-whoops. A queer being--very queer being; no respect for
anything or anybody.  Sometimes he called me "Johnny." And he kept a fiddle, and a cat.  He
played execrably. This seemed to distress the cat, and so the cat would howl. Nobody could
sleep where that man--and his family--was. And reckless.  There never was anything like it.
Now you may believe it or not, but as sure as I am sitting here, he brought my boat a-tilting
down through those awful snags at Chicot under a rattling head of steam, and the wind a-blowing
like the very nation, at that!  My officers will tell you so. They saw it.  And, sir, while
he was a-tearing right down through those snags, and I a-shaking in my shoes and praying, I
wish I may never speak again if he didn't pucker up his mouth and go to WHISTLING!  Yes, sir;
whistling "Buffalo gals, can't you come out tonight, can't you come out to-night, can't you
come out to-night;" and doing it as calmly as if we were attending a funeral and weren't related
to the corpse. And when I remonstrated with him about it, he smiled down on me as if I was
his child, and told me to run in the house and try to be good, and not be meddling with my
superiors!'

Once a pretty mean captain caught Stephen in New Orleans out of work and as usual out of money.
He laid steady siege to Stephen, who was in a very 'close place,' and finally persuaded him
to hire with him at one hundred and twenty-five dollars per month, just half wages, the captain
agreeing not to divulge the secret and so bring down the contempt of all the guild upon the
poor fellow.  But the boat was not more than a day out of New Orleans before Stephen discovered
that the captain was boasting of his exploit, and that all the officers had been told. Stephen
winced, but said nothing.  About the middle of the afternoon the captain stepped out on the
hurricane deck, cast his eye around, and looked a good deal surprised.  He glanced inquiringly
aloft at Stephen, but Stephen was whistling placidly, and attending to business. The captain
stood around a while in evident discomfort, and once or twice seemed about to make a suggestion;
but the etiquette of the river taught him to avoid that sort of rashness, and so he managed
to hold his peace. He chafed and puzzled a few minutes longer, then retired to his apartments.
But soon he was out again, and apparently more perplexed than ever. Presently he ventured to
remark, with deference--

'Pretty good stage of the river now, ain't it, sir?'

'Well, I should say so!  Bank-full IS a pretty liberal stage.'

'Seems to be a good deal of current here.'

'Good deal don't describe it!  It's worse than a mill-race.'

'Isn't it easier in toward shore than it is out here in the middle?'

'Yes, I reckon it is; but a body can't be too careful with a steamboat. It's pretty safe out
here; can't strike any bottom here, you can depend on that.'

