I have gathered together what I remember in the form of lectures, which I offer to you. I have
been asked for examples; I shall give you examples. I will begin, however, by giving you a
little biographical sketch of my father, and by telling you how he happened to make his discovery.
He was the son of a country doctor, a man poor but original. My father was still a very little
boy when his father sent him and his younger brother to Paris. There they were apprenticed
to a jeweler and made bands of gold. Soon the little brother died, and my father was the only
one to follow him to the cemetery. On his way back, after the burial, he fell fainting on the
plain. When he regained consciousness he heard music in the distance, and, not knowing whence
it came, thought it was the music of the angels. Since then he dreamed of nothing but music;
he wanted to hear all he could; he longed to study it. One day he heard two little urchins
singing in the street. He asked them: "Do you know music?" The urchins replied: "Yes!" "Will
you teach it to me?" "Yes, certainly," and they sang a scale for him. "Is that all there is
of music?" "Why, yes."

Not long after, he made the acquaintance of an old musician, who became interested in him,
gave him a few lessons, and entered him at the Conservatoire. There he attended the elocution
classes, and a role was given to him to learn in which he had to say: "How do you do, Papa
Dugrand!" He had no success with this sentence. Each of his four professors told him a different
way of saying it, and he wondered: "How is this? Are there, then, no principles to go by?"
One day a cousin of his arrived unexpectedly from the country. "How do you do, my dear cousin!"
And immediately after this warm greeting he ran away from his cousin, crying, excitedly, "I
have it! I have it!" and did not stop until he got to his room and in front of a looking-glass.
What he had was the right attitude and way to say, "How do you do, Papa Dugrand!" and this
way was diametrically opposed to the instruction his professors had given him on the subject.

My father spent forty-five years in observing. He was the king of observers. What remains to
us is but one-quarter of all his observations. My father's method is comprehensive; it can
be applied to the arts, to the sciences. His pupils were orators, painters, sculptors, comedians,
lawyers, doctors, society amateurs.

My father had read in the first chapter of Genesis that God made man in His image. God is Trinity.
Trinity is the criterion of my father.

Raymond Brucker was an old friend of my father's. "What is this method of your friend Delsarte?"
was a question often put to him. "Delsarte's method," he would reply, "is an orthopedic machine
to straighten crippled intellects."

My father considered man as the principle of all arts. He used three terms to express man:
Life, mind and soul. He would compare man to a carriage occupied by a traveler. In front sits
a coachman, who drives the horse. The carriage is the body of man; the horse that makes it
move is life; the coachman who drives the horse is the mind; the occupant of the carriage,
who gives orders to the coachman, is the soul. Man feels, thinks and loves.

My father made use of three terms to express three states: Concentric, normal and excentric.
These he would combine with each other. I will show you, for example, the three concentric
attitudes of the hand: The concentro-concentric, expressing struggle; the concentro-normal,
meaning power; the concentro-excentric, showing convulsion. [Illustrates.] In the same way
we have the combinations of the eyes and eyebrows, and, again, those of the head. The head
is concentro-concentric when the eyes look in the same direction as that toward which the head
inclines; this expresses veneration. Notice how different the words, "I love him!" sound when
said first with the head inclined from and then inclined toward the object.

An interesting series of movements for the arms that my father used to give is the following:
"It is impossible;" "It is not so;" "It is improbable;" "Maybe;" "It is so;" "It is evident;"
"There is no doubt whatever about it." [Illustrates.] This series is equally applicable to
affirmation and to negation. For example, you can begin by, "It is impossible that it is not
true!" and continue with that meaning.

I have been requested to give the attitudes of the feet. I do not like to give them because
they are not feminine, and I abhor all that is not feminine. However, as I have been asked
for them, and as I wish to prove that my father had also given his attention to their study,
here they are: (1) The attitude of little children and of old men, expressing weakness; (2)
that of absolute repose; (3) vehemence; (4) prostration; (5) transitory attitude, preparatory
to (6) reverential walk; (7) vertigo, intoxication, which is an ignoble vertigo, or familiarity;
(8) the alternative between the positions of offensive and defensive; (9) defiance. [Applause.]
Oh! I beg of you! [Deprecatingly.] It is horribly ugly in me; but in a man it is all right.

I shall now speak of the interesting role that the shoulder plays in the expression of emotions.
My father called the shoulder "the thermometer of passion." Indeed, the shoulders rise with
every strong emotion. If I say, "Oh! how angry I am!" without raising the shoulders, it sounds
if not false at least weak; but listen, when I raise my shoulders: "Oh! how angry I am!" Again,
if I say, "How I love you!" the words are cold; but, with shoulders raised, listen, "How I
love you!" Thus we see actors every day who portray different passions, but whose shoulders
remain "cold;" they do not move us.

There is a very pretty observation to make about the elbow. My father called it the "thermometer
of pride and humility," and used to call our attention to the different ways the soldiers carry
their elbows. You know we have a great many soldiers in France and we have a good, chance to
observe them. A corporal--that is, nothing at all--carries his elbows like this [elbows turned
outward]. A sergeant, whose rank is a little higher than that of a corporal, carries them this
way [elbows slightly drawn in]. By the time he becomes lieutenant he is used to authority,
and does not have to show it off so much [elbows drawn in still more]. As for a general, one
whose rank is the highest in the army, he walks with his arms hanging naturally at his sides.

Now let me tell you about the thumb. My father being the son and the nephew of doctors, was
interested enough in the science to enter, at one time, the school of medicine. Here, while
dissecting, he noticed that the thumb of a dead man falls inward toward the palm. This led
him to study the attitude of the thumb in life. He would pass days in the garden of the Tuileries
watching the nurses and the mammas carrying their babes, noting how their thumbs spread out
to clasp the precious burden, and how the mothers' hands spread wider open than those of hired
servants; so he called the thumb "the thermometer of life."

My father always used to say to his pupils: "Be warm outwardly, cold inwardly." He wanted them
to pass suddenly from one great emotion to another. All great actors do so. He would point
to a portrait of Garrick, representing the great actor with one-half of his face laughing,
the other half weeping. He himself, in his lessons, after having given expression to some pathetic
sentiment, would become immediately his own kind self again. He insisted on self-possession.
Often when I was a little girl, and would slip into the room during his lessons, for I loved
to listen to them, and would find him portraying some terrible passion, he would stop suddenly,
seeing the expression of horror on my face, and would burst out laughing and catch me in his
arms, saying: "Poor little one, are you frightened?"

"The artist," said my father, "must move, interest and convince." Gesture is the agent of the
heart. Gesture must always precede speech. "Make me feel in advance," he used to say; "if it
is something frightful, let me read it on your face before you tell me of it." To illustrate
the practice of gesture before speech, I will now recite the fable of "The Cock, the Cat and
the Mouse." [Here followed the recitation of the fable.]

My father once held his whole audience under a spell, showing them, through the medium of a
little girl of eight, a hundred different ways of saying, "That dog is pretty." I will show
you one or two ways If I really think the dog is pretty, I will say it in this tone, "That
dog is pretty." If the dog's coat is soiled, I will say in a different tone, "That dog is pretty."
And if the dog has rubbed against my dress, there will be a vexed tone, "That dog is pretty!"

My father used to divide orators into "artists in words and artists in gesture." Those who
are simply artists in words are those who do not move you. Lamartine said of my father, "He
is art itself." Théophile Gautier said of him that he "took possession" of his public.

In 1848 the National Guard was appointed to guard the public monuments. My father, who was
a member of the Guard, had his station near an archbishopric. A poor fellow was arrested one
day who looked suspicious; he was searched and a chaplet was found on him. The cry arose immediately
that he should be drowned. The poor man was being hustled off when my father stopped them,
saying that he claimed his part of the punishment, and he drew from his own pocket a chaplet
and showed it to them. Oh! my father was kind. He was goodness itself. He was often asked to
give lectures at the court, but he would answer: "I do not sell my talent, I give it." He was
especially fond of his poor pupils, those who did not pay him; he would often invite them to
dine with him.

And now let me show you a series of lines which my father called the inflective medallion.
Imagine a circle [describing a circle in the air with her hand]. Within this circle a vertical
line, a horizontal line, and two oblique lines, all intersecting each other. At both ends of
the vertical and horizontal lines are small curved lines, the whole forming the medallion.
This medallion contains all necessary gestures. If the vertical line is made from on high downward
↓ , it means affirmation; if made from below upward ↑ , it means hope. The horizontal line
means negation. One oblique line means simple rejection ↙ ; the other ↗  means rejection with
scorn, as in a line from Lafontaine's fable, "The Lion's Court:" "The monarch, vexed, sent
him to Pluto." The little curve at the top of the vertical line ⌣  expresses ease, repose;
it has the form of a hammock. The opposite curve ⌢  means secrecy and mystery. This curve (
means amplitude. The other one, when made in this direction ⤶  expresses admiration for physical
beauty, and in the other direction ⤴ , admiration for moral beauty. The entire circle ○  expresses
glorification. These gestures can be made with the whole arm, with the forearm only, or simply
with the waving hand; the degree of expression varies accordingly.

Lastly, I will speak about the law of opposition. The arm and the head should move in inverse
directions [illustrating]; also the arm and the hand. The statue of the Gladiator is a beautiful
example of this law of opposition. He is what we French call "well based;" you cannot overthrow
him. In contrast to him, my father used to cite Punchinello, the children's toy, an object
of ridicule. Punchinello, when the string is pulled, raises his right arm and his right leg
at the same time.

Notice the different ways in which people scold. The schoolmaster moves his head from above
downward; the boy threatens back, tossing his head upward.

And now, ladies, I hope that what I have said will move you to take a deeper interest in my
father's work, and enable you to understand his methods better than heretofore. I shall then
feel, when I return to my country, that I have not crossed the Atlantic in vain.

The Course of Lessons Given in America By Mme. Géraldy

Mme. Géraldy prefaced her course of lessons with the following remarks:

God is Trinity. Man, created in the image of God, bears the seal of the Trinity. In these lessons
we shall analyze our whole person. We shall dwell upon three terms: Concentric, normal, excentric.
We find them everywhere.

1, excentric; 2, concentric; 3, normal.

    |--------------------------------|
    |          |          |          |
    |          |          |  2   2   |
    |          |          |          |
    |          |          |  c.  c.  |
    |          |          |          |
    |--------------------------------|
    |          |          |          |
    |          |  3   3   |          |
    |          |          |          |
    |          |  n.  n.  |          |
    |          |          |          |
    |--------------------------------|
    |          |          |          |
    |  1    1  |          |          |
    |          |          |          |
    | cx.  cx. |          |          |
    |          |          |          |
    |--------------------------------|

We will begin with the eye--it is the most difficult.

Lesson I.

The Eye and the Eyebrow.

              Concentric  Closed.
    The Eye.  Normal      Open, without expression.
              Excentric   Wide open.

                  Concentric  Lowered.
    The Eyebrow.  Normal      Without expression.
                  Excentric   Raised.

         Combinations of the Eye and Eyebrow.

       Eye.       Eyebrow.     Expression.
    Concentric  Concentric  In tenseness of thought.
    Concentric  Normal      Heaviness, or somnolency.
    Concentric  Excentric   Disdain.

    Normal      Concentric  Moroseness.
    Normal      Normal      Without expression.
    Normal      Excentric   Indifference.

    Excentric   Concentric  Firmness.
    Excentric   Normal      Stupor.
    Excentric   Excentric   Astonishment.

The expressions of stupor and of astonishment are greatly increased when preceded by a quivering
of the eyelid (blinking). This should be very rapid and very energetic. Delsarte always insisted
on this blinking.

Anxiety calls for a double movement of the eyebrows: First, contract them; secondly, raise them.

Vitality is expressed by raising the outer part of the eyebrows. This accomplishment is very
rare; but, then, it is not necessary.

Contraction of the lower eyelid expresses sensitiveness.

Lesson II.

The Head.

               Concentric    Bent forward.
    The Head.  Normal        Upright.
               Excentric     Bent backward.

                 Combinations of Head-movements.

    Concentro-concentric  Bent forward and inclined to one side (toward
                          the person): Veneration.

    Concentro-normal      Bent forward: Examination.

    Concentro-excentric   Bent forward and inclined to the other side
                          (from the person): Suspicion.

    Normo-concentric      Inclined toward the person: Tenderness.

    Normo-normal          Upright: Without expression.

    Normo-excentric       Inclined from the person: Sensuality.

    Excentro-concentric   Bent backward and inclined to one side (toward
                          the person): Abandon.

    Excentro-normal       Bent backward, straight: Exaltation, vehemence.

    Excentro-excentric    Bent backward and inclined to the other side
                          (from the person): Pride.

It is the position of the eye that determines the expression of the head, for it is the direction
of the eye that tells us on which side the object of veneration, suspicion, etc., is supposed
to be. The shoulders should be observed here. They are the thermometer of passion; the stronger
the emotion, the higher they should be raised.

Lesson III.

The Hand.

               Concentric.......... Closed.
    The Hand.  Normal.............. Open.
               Excentric .......... Wide open.

                        Combinations of Hand-Movements.

    Concentro-concentric  Fist closed tight, thumb pressing against the
                          knuckles: Struggle.

    Concentro-normal      Hand closed, thumb resting lightly against the
                          side of the index finger: Power, authority.

    Concentro-excentric   Hand open, fingers contracted: Convulsion.

    Normo-concentric      Limp, fingers turned slightly inward:
                          Prostration.[A]

    Normo-normal          Limp: Abandon.

    Normo-excentric       Open, fingers straight: Expansion.

    Excentro-concentric   Wide open, fingers stretched apart and
                          contracted: Execration.

    Excentro-normal       Fingers stretched apart and straight: Exaltation.

    Excentro-excentric    Fingers stretched wide apart and backward:
                          Exasperation.

Lesson IV.

The Arms.

Let the arms swing backward from their natural position, with the palm of the hands turned
toward the front; head raised. Say: "It is impossible!"

There is no doubt whatever about it.

Arms at the side in their natural position, palms toward the front; head straight, Say: "It
is not so."

Arms slightly forward; head very slightly bent. Say: "It is improbable."

Forearms slightly raised. Say: "Maybe."

Forearms still higher. Say: "It is probable."

Forearms at right angles with upper arms, palms always upward; head bent. Say: "It is so."

Forearms higher. Say: "It is certain."

Forearms still higher (upper arms follow); head bent forward. Say: "It is evident!"

Forearms still higher (by this time the upper arms are horizontal); head bent way forward.
Say: "There is no doubt whatever!"

As will be noticed, the head moves in the opposite direction from the arms. The face must express
what the words say. The movements of the arms alone, without the expression of the face, do
not mean anything.

Lesson V.

Inflections of the Hand.--Combinations of the Arm and Hand.

1. Acceptance. Put the arm out naturally, palm upward.

2. Caress. Raise the shoulder; bend the head, keep the elbow close to the side; raise the hand
as high as the face and, with palm outward, bring it slowly down again as if stroking an object,
at the same time raising the head.

3. Negation. Draw a horizontal line in the air, the movement finishing in an outward direction.

4. Self-control. Arm hanging at the side, hand in the concentro-normal condition, denoting
authority, power over one's self.

5. Authority. Extend the arm and raise it in front a little higher than the level of the shoulder;
then raise the hand, which should be in the concentro-normal state, from the wrist and let
it fall again with decision.

6. Menace. The arm is kept in the same position, the fist clenched (hand concentro-concentric).

7. Execration. Arm extended from the previous position sideward; hand excentro-concentric,
palm toward the back; head turned in opposite direction,

8. Horror. Arm outstretched in front; hand excentric, palm outward; head thrown back.

9. Desire. Arm in same position; hand assumes the normal condition and turns its palm upward;
head still thrown back.

These movements should blend one into the other, and should be executed without any affectation.
The law of opposition should be observed here; for example: In the ascending movement of the
arm the hand falls from the wrist; when the arm descends, the hand points upward.

Lesson VI.

Basic Attitudes.

1. Weakness. Feet close together, weight of body on both. This attitude is that of childhood
and old age.

2. Perfect calm and repose. Rest weight on one foot (settling at the hip), bend the knee of
the other leg and advance the foot.

3. Vehemence. Move the body forward so that the weight rests on the foot that is in front;
the heel of the foot that is behind is thus raised.

4. Prostration. Throw one foot far behind the other, with the knee bent and the weight of the
body upon it. This attitude, when properly taken, leads to the kneeling position.

5. Transitive position. In walking, stop midway between two steps and you have the 5th attitude
or transitive position. It is the one that leads to all kinds of walks, and especially to the
reverential or oblique walk.

6. Reverential walk. Let the foot which is behind take a step forward in this manner: With
the toe describe on the ground a semi-circle that bends inward toward you; this will cause
the heel to pass over the instep of the other foot. The other foot now takes a straight step
forward, and you pause in a respectful attitude before the personage of importance whom you
wish to salute. Several steps may be taken in succession before the final pause. The ceremonious
step is always taken with the foot you begin with (the one toward the person you salute); the
other foot always takes natural steps. This walk is only meant for men, and only on grand occasions.

7. Intoxication, vertigo. The feet are planted on the ground and apart. This attitude expresses
familiarity.

8. The alternative. One foot in a straight line behind the other, the weight of the body on
both. This attitude is offensive and defensive.

9. Defiance. The weight of the body on the foot that is behind, the other foot diagonally forward;
head thrown back.

Delsarte never classed the basic attitudes under the heads of concentric, normal or excentric,
any more than he so classed gestures. He simply gave them in the above sequence.

Lesson VII.

The Medallion of Inflection.

"The Key to all Gestures"

 ↓ Affirmation.
 ⇄ Negation.
 ↑ Hope.
 ↙ Rejection of things that harm us.
 ↗ Rejection of things that we despise.
 ⌣ Ease, comfort (resembles a hammock).
 ⌢ Silence, secrecy.
 () Plenitude, amplitude.
 )( Delicacy, grace.
 ⤶ Physical beauty.
 ⤴ Beauty of intellect.

 ↓ "You may believe
 → that no lord
  had as much glory or happiness."

Mme. Géraldy's Lessons On Lafontaine's Fables.

The Wolf and the Lamb.

Might makes right; we shall prove this presently.

A Lamb was quenching his thirst in a stream of pure water. A Wolf, in quest of adventures,
happened by, drawn to the spot by hunger.

"What makes thee so bold as to pollute the water I drink?" said he, angrily. "Thy impudence
deserves to be punished."

"Sire," answered the Lamb, "soften your wrath, and consider that I am drinking the water more
than twenty feet below your Majesty, and can, therefore, in no way pollute your Majesty's drink."

"You do pollute it!" replied the savage animal, "and I know that last year you slandered me."

"How could I when I was not born?" replied the Lamb. "I am still a suckling babe."

"If it was not you, then it was your brother."

"I have none."

"Then it was some member of your family, for you do not spare me--you, your shepherds and your
dogs. I have been told so. I must revenge myself."

Thereupon the Wolf carried him into the depths of the forest, and ate him without further trial.

Lesson Given By Mme. Géraldy.

In the narrative portions of a recitation, the eyes of the speaker should meet the eyes of
the audience. In this way he fixes their attention and engages their sympathy.

Looking straight at the audience: "Might makes right [deplore the fact]. We shall prove this
presently. A Lamb [by tone of voice and gesture show what a weak, gentle creature a lamb is]
was quenching his thirst in a stream of pure water. A Wolf [a strong, cruel animal], in quest
of adventures, happened by, drawn to the spot by hunger." 'I am still a suckling babe.'

"'If it was not you, then it was your brother' [gruff voice].

"'I have none.'

"'Then it was some member of your family, for--you do not spare me, you, your shepherds and
your dogs. [There is no pause after the conjunction and here, as it simply joins together words
in a list.] I have been told so [impatiently; the wolf is tired of parleying so long]. I must
revenge myself.'

"'Thereupon [lower the voice to fix the attention] the Wolf carried him into the depths of
the forest and--ate him [deplore the fact] without further trial'" [voice low].

The Cat, the Weasel and the Little Rabbit.

The palace of a young Rabbit was taken possession of, one fine morning, by Dame Weasel; she
is a sly one. The master being absent, it was an easy thing for her to do. She carried her
belongings there one day when he had gone to do homage to Aurora, amid the thyme and the dew.
After having nibbled, and trotted, and made all his rounds, Bunny Rabbit returned to his subterranean
dwelling. Mrs. Weasel was looking out of the window.

"Hospitable gods! what do I see!" exclaimed the animal, who had been shut out from his ancestors'
home. "Hello there, Madam Weasel, come out without delay, or I shall notify all the rats in
the country."

The lady with the pointed nose replied that land belonged to the first occupant; that a lodging
which he himself could enter only on his stomach was a fine subject for war. "And even if it
were a kingdom, I should like to know why," said she, "it should belong forever to John, son
or nephew of Peter or William, more than to Paul, more than to me?"

Bunny Rabbit alleged the rights of use and custom. "It is these laws," said he, "that have
made me lord and master of this dwelling; passing from father to son, it was transmitted from
Peter to Simon and then to me, John. Is the right of the first occupant a wiser law?"

"Oh! well, instead of disputing any more," said she, "let us have the matter settled by Raminagrobis
Grippeminaud."

The latter was a cat who lived as a devout hermit; a cat whose ways and words were smooth;
a pious cat, warmly clothed and fat and comfortable; an umpire, expert in all cases. Bunny
Rabbit accepted him as judge, and they both went before his furred Majesty.

Said Grippeminaud to them: "Come nearer, my children, come nearer; I am deaf; it is the result
of old age."

They both drew nearer, suspecting nothing. As soon as he saw the contestants within reach,
Grippeminaud, the sly fellow, throwing out his paws on both sides at once, caused the two suitors
to be of one mind by eating them both up.

Lesson Given By Mme. Géraldy.

[Begin slowly, making frequent pauses] "The palace--of a young Rabbit [a nice little animal]--was
taken possession of, one fine morning, by Dame Weasel [a personage with nose and manners sharp];
she is a sly one. The master being absent, it was an easy thing for her to do. She carried
her belongings there [without asking by your leave!] one day when he had gone to do homage
to Aurora, amid the thyme and the dew. 'And even if it were a kingdom [the weasel talks very
fast], I should like to know why,' said she, 'it should belong forever to John, son or nephew
of Peter or William [talk very fast, with a great many gesticulations], more than to Paul,
more than to me? '

"Bunny Rabbit alleged the rights of use and custom.

Delsarte's Daughter In America.

By Adèle M. Woodward.

Mme. Géraldy being asked, during her recent visit to this country, what she thought of the
system of gymnastics called "Delsarte," said (to translate literally the expressive French):
"It makes me jump! And yet you have my father's method," she continued, showing two of the
principal works on the subject published in this country.[9] "All that is correct (pointing
to some of the charts); what more do you want?"

The trouble lies here: Americans wanted more. They added, they devised, they evolved from the
few gestures given by the French master a whole system of movements which they called by his
name, and which has become very popular in young ladies' seminaries and young ladies' clubs.
The name of Delsarte has been so strongly associated with this system, that to most people
the word "Delsarte" without the word "gymnastics" would not mean anything.

Mme. Géraldy came to our country to tell us what the name of Delsarte means. Delsarte never
taught gymnastics. His whole life was devoted to the study of the laws that govern expression.
His pupils were men of all professions, ministerial and legal orators, actors, singers, etc.
"The first half of his lesson," said she, "was always devoted to theory, the second to practice."

Mme. Géraldy is a tall, dark-haired, middle-aged woman, with an interesting face and a charming
French manner. She wears mourning for her mother, who died in 1891.

"My mother," she said, "was a remarkable woman; she ought to be as well known as my father
is. I would rather my father were not known at all," she continued, "than to be known as he
is in your country, that is, as a professor of gymnastics."

She said she had heard of the American "Delsarte gymnastics" while in Paris (Americans passing
through the city had often come to her and asked questions), but she had no idea, until she
came here, that they were pushed so far. She was quite amused at having dumb-bells given her
at one of her lectures in a town in Pennsylvania. "In a gymnasium, as usual," she said, smiling.
Anybody who had ever been through the Delsarte gymnastics and afterward followed the course
of lessons that Mme. Géraldy gave to a class while in New York, would have been struck by the
beauty and simplicity of her father's method, and her clear and direct exposition of it. Here
was no affectation. "I abhor all that is affected," she said. There were no intricate convolutions,
no flourishes, and, above all, no "decomposing exercises."

An interesting fact to note is that Mme. Géraldy began by teaching her pupils the expressions
of the eyes, and when she gave them attitudes or gestures, she always called for the facial
expression to accompany them. A woman, well-known in her profession throughout the country,
is said to have made the remark that Mme. Géraldy was wrong in beginning with the eyes; she
should begin with the feet. Only after showing the possibilities of expression by face, head,
hands, arms and shoulders, did Mme. Géraldy give the basic attitudes. She was very patient
and painstaking with her pupils, and showed herself interested in every one. She would often
pause, while showing some expressive gestures, and say, smiling: "But you Americans do not
express yourselves in gestures. You do not 'move' as much as we do." And again, when insisting
on the expressiveness of the shoulders when raised ("the shoulders are the thermometer of passion,"
said Delsarte) she would conclude: "But all this is not American; you Americans do not shrug
your shoulders."

In giving the gesture of caress, she quoted her father as saying that the attitude of the hands
in prayer is a certain form of caress. In our desire to have the thing we pray for, we clasp
our hands together and press them to our bosom as if we already held it.[10]

She was sometimes amused at the numerous questions that were asked her during the lessons.
"What searching minds you Americans have!" she would remark, admiringly. "You must know the
why and the wherefore of everything. We French people are of much lighter mind and take things
more for granted."

During the lesson on basic attitudes, the following question was put: "In the attitude of repose
is the mind in a passive state, and in the attitude expressive of vehemence is the mind in
an active state?" The simple answer was: "It is the mind that governs the feet and not the
feet that govern the mind."

Mme. Géraldy always insisted on the law of opposition in movements, nature's and her father's
great law. She gave, for example, an interesting series of gestures, which might be called
the ascending scale from doubt to conviction, in which the head moves simultaneously with the
arms and in an inverse direction. The figure on page 547* represents the angles made by the
arms and shoulders and, at the same time, those made by the head and shoulders to express the
accompanying ideas.

Delsarte used to say: "When I am speaking, stop me in the moment of my greatest exaltation,
and I defy you to find me, from my head to my feet, in a position contrary to my method."

"Voice-culture for the speaking-voice is not an art that is cultivated in France," Mme. Géraldy
said, "What can you do to change your voice? It was given to you by nature; you cannot change
your vocal cords."

Mme. Géraldy returned to France, bearing with her the hope that her efforts have not been altogether
unsuccessful in making the great work of her father's life better known to Americans, better
understood and appreciated by them.

Part Seventh.

Addenda.

Trueness in Singing.

Notes of a Lecture by Delsarte, Taken by His Pupil A. Giraudet, of The National Academy of
Music, Paris.

By a most reasonable deduction derived from his admirable principles, Delsarte reckoned three
modes or degrees of correct singing:

1. Absolute trueness;

2. Temperate trueness;

3. Passional trueness.

Absolute trueness is that adopted by theorists, who divide the gamut into five notes and two
semi-notes; the note into nine commas, or shades of tone; the chromatic semi-tone into five,
and the diatonic semi-tone into four.

Thus from C to C# they count five shades of tone; whereas from C to Db they count but four.
Likewise, from D to Db they count five shades of tone, and from D to C# but four.

The difference of a comma between the D flat and the C sharp, seemingly a very slight difference,
is, nevertheless, most important in singing, as we shall see later on. But performers, to simplify
our musical system, have divided this comma into two, making synonymous notes of D flat and
C sharp; that is to say, notes having the same sound. The note is, therefore, practically divided
into two semitones of four commas and a half. This is what is known as moderation or temperate
trueness.

Temperate trueness is defective from many points of view. This is the universal opinion, but
we are forced to accept this method by the absolute impossibility of any improvement, especially
with the key-board instruments now in vogue; and it must be accepted until some new invention
shall revolutionize the piano by modulating its tones, a transformation which would give that
instrument not only the musical design, but also the color and warmth which it now lacks.

Let us pass to passional trueness, leaving science to enter the domain of art. "Passional trueness,"
said Delsarte, "consists in giving each semitone three, four, five, six, or even seven commas,
according to its tendency." As we see, the precept is daring, and an inattentive scholar would
only have to forget the last words of the definition to make people say that the great master
of lyric art taught his pupils to sing false.

Every rule has its reason and its consequences. St. Augustine, who knew the Beautiful, of which
art is only the expression, and who could explain it well, has given us a brief but admirable
definition of music: "Music is a succession of sounds each calling forth the other." Simple
yet profound words! The sounds call each other forth, desire and mutually attract each other,
and in every age this attraction has been so clearly evident, that the seventh note in the
scale, when it meets the others each of which has its particular name relating to its particular
function, tonic, dominant, etc., is simply called the sensitive note, from its tendency to
pass into the atonic.

Passional trueness is based upon this tendency of the notes to pass into those which succeed
them, and upon this reciprocal attraction of sounds. Thus, notes, which have a tendency toward
the acute or shrill, may be raised two commas or more above temperate trueness. Notes which
have a tendency toward the grave may be lowered in the same proportion. (Example, taken from
"The Prophet," by Meyerbeer.)

    Ex. No. 1.
    [Music]
    Ah! mon fils

    Ex. No. 2
    [Music]
    il re-nia ta me-re

Here, the B may be but two commas distant from the C; and in the second example given, the
A flat may also be but two commas removed from the G, and this change far from producing a
disagreeable effect upon the ear, will make a most striking impression and the accent will
be far more dramatic than before. Try the reverse, that is, divide the interval B sharp-C into
seven commas on the semitones A flat-G; it will be unendurable. Whence we may deduce the fact
that to sing false is to sing above or below a note in the inverse direction to its attraction.

Delsarte, in his definition, speaks only of the semitone, and we ourselves give examples of
that sort of attraction only; but it does not follow that the other intervals are not equally
subject to the same law. Their attraction may not be shown by the same effects.

The master added, in speaking of trueness in singing: "The triad is the breathing-place of
the tonality; the notes composing it should be absolutely true. They are the singer's invariable
and necessary law. They characterize repose. Their office is that of attraction, and they can
only be attracted mutually, with the exception of the tonic, which is the centre of attraction
not only for various notes, but for the phrase and the entire composition."

Delsarte was very severe in regard to those who sang false; but to sing true was not, to his
thinking, a good quality. He said, on this point, that no one would compliment an architect
because he had built a house in accordance with geometrical rules. Whence he concluded that
trueness is the least of good qualities, and the lack of it the greatest of vices, and he added
in regard to style: "The most important quality is expression, and a lack of expression is
the least of vices."

Let us add that the application of passional trueness depends upon a thousand conditions of
rhythm and harmony, to analyze which would lead us much too far. The artist must make use of
it according to his aptitudes and his tendencies, for he must preserve his individuality. He
must learn by observation and the study of his own faculties to apply theoretical rules founded
upon natural laws.

Practical trueness, while it allows us to depart from legitimate trueness, has strong analogies
with the tempo rubato. The tempo rubato, which Delsarte employed in a remarkable and striking
way in dramatic passages, actually permits the musician, in certain cases and in the desired
proportion, to change the value of the notes while respecting the principle of time, which
is invariable. But the application of these rules is subject to the emotional intensity; it
is, therefore, impossible to determine theoretically and absolutely its various bearings.

Delsarte.

[From the Atlantic Monthly for May, 1871, by permission of Houghton, Mifflin & Co.]

By Francis A. Durivage.

It was not until last summer, and then under peculiarly impressive circumstances, that I saw,
for the first time, a remarkable man whose name is indissolubly associated with French art--François
Delsarte, of Paris. My curiosity had been deeply excited by what I had heard of him. I was
told that, after long years of patient toil and profound thought, his genius had discovered
and developed a scientific basis for histrionic art, that he had substituted law for empiricism
in the domain of the most potential of the fine arts; and when the names of Rachel and Macready
were quoted in his list of pupils, I was eager to behold the master and to learn something
of the system which has yielded such fruits to the modern stage.

The kindness of a friend procured me the rare privilege of admission to the last session of
Delsarte's course, which closed in July. It was on one of those weary summer days when the
hush of expectation, following the fierce excitement caused by the declaration of war, had
eclipsed the gayety of Paris.

The notes of the Marseillaise had ceased to stir the blood like the sound of a trumpet. The
glare and glitter of French chivalry, which had masked the feebleness of the Imperial military
system, had vanished. The superb Cent Gardes, the brilliant lancers, the savage Turcos, and
the dashing Spahis had been replaced by the coarsely clad troops of the line. It was "grim-visaged
war" and not its pageantry that we beheld; heavy guns rumbling slowly across the Place de la
Concorde; dark masses of men moving like shadows on their funeral march to the perilous edge
of battle. It was a relief to exchange these sad scenes for that quiet interior of the Boulevard
de Courcelles, where a little group of persons devoted to æsthetic culture were gathered around
their teacher, perhaps for the last time.

The personal appearance of Delsarte is impressive. Years have not deprived his massive form
of its vigor, nor dimmed the fire of his eye. His head is cast in a Roman mould; indeed, the
fine medallion likeness executed by his daughter might well pass for an antique in the eyes
of a stranger. In his personal bearing there is nothing of that self-assertion, that posing,
which is a common defect of his distinguished countrymen.

The pupils whom I met were ladies, with the single exception of a young American, Mr. James
S. MacKaye, to whom, as his favorite disciple and one designated to succeed him in his profession,
Delsarte has imparted all the minutiae of his science. To this gentleman was assigned the honor
of opening the séance by a brief exposition of the system, and of closing it by reciting in
French a brilliant tragic monologue, the effect of which, in spite of the absence of appropriate
costume and scenic illusion, electrified the audience. In this scene, "Les Terreurs de Thoas,"
those rapidly changing expressions of the features, those statuesque attitudes melting into
each other, which we all remember in Rachel, indicated a common origin. It needed not the added
eloquence of words and the sombre music of the voice to tell the tragic story of the victim
of the Eumenides. After listening to the recitation, I was not surprised to learn that the
young student was to appear, under the auspices of his teacher, at the Théâtre Français, during
the approaching winter,--an honor never before conceded to any foreigner. The large American
colony in Paris was looking forward to this début with a natural pride, and Delsarte with the
calm assurance of his favorite's triumph. Alas! we all reckoned without taking King William,
the Crown Prince, the Fed Prince, von Moltke, and von Bismarck into our account. We never fancied,
on that bright July morning, that Krupp of Essen's cannon and the needle-gun were soon to give
laws to Paris. But inter arma silent artes as well as leges. Nearer and deadlier tragedies
than those of Corneille and Racine were soon to be enacted; and the poor players were summoned
to perform their parts upon no mimic stage. However, "what though the field be lost? all is
not lost." The venue, to borrow a legal phrase, has been changed, but the cause has not been
abandoned. Our young countryman has returned to his native land, bringing with him the fruits
of his long studies, to appeal to an American audience, and it is quite possible that his teacher
may be induced to transfer his school of art to the United States.

Although at this séance Delsarte appeared disposed to efface himself in favor of his brilliant
representative, he kindly consented to speak a few words (and what a charming French lesson
was his causerie!) and to present a specimen of his pantomimic powers. The latter exhibition
was really surprising. He depicted the various passions and emotions of the human soul, by
means of expression and gesture only, without uttering a single syllable; moving the spectators
to tears, exciting them to enthusiasm, or thrilling them with terror at his will; in a word,
completely magnetizing them. Not a discord in his diatonic scale. You were forced to admit
that every gesture, every movement of a facial muscle, had a true purpose, a raison d'être.
It was a triumphant demonstration.

The life of this great master and teacher, hereafter to be known as the founder of the Science
of Dramatic Art, crowded with strange vicissitudes and romantic episodes, forms a record full
of interest.

François Delsarte was born at Solesmes, Department of the North, France, in 1811. His father
was a physician, and his mother a woman of rare abilities, who taught herself to speak and
write several languages.

Shortly after the battle of Waterloo a detachment of the allied troops was passing through
Solesmes, in the midst of a dead and sullen silence, when the commandant's quick ear caught
the sound of a childish voice crying, "Vive l'Em-pe-weur! Vive Na-po-lé-on!" Every one smiled
at the juvenile speaker's audacity, except the stern officer whose name has, unfortunately,
escaped the infamous celebrity it deserved. By his orders, a platoon of soldiers sought out
the child's home and burned it to the ground; and thus little François Delsarte became the
innocent cause of the ruin of his family.

The atrocities committed during the White Terror, of which this incident is an example, though
passed over by history, are not forgotten by the survivors of that cruel period. The leaders
in the second terror could not plead the ignorance of Robespierre's followers in excuse of
their excesses, for they were nobles, magistrates, priests and officers of rank.

Delsarte's early years were passed in the midst of cruel privations and domestic troubles,
for even love forsook a home blighted by poverty. His father, naturally proud and imperious,
irritated by straitened circumstances, out of which there seemed no issue, crushed by the weight
of obligations to others, lost heart and hope, became morose, sceptical and bitter, and treated
his wife and family with such harshness and injustice, that Delsarte's mother was finally compelled
to abandon her husband. She fled with her two boys to Paris, hoping there to make her talents
available. All her efforts, however, were fruitless, and she found herself on the verge of
starvation.

One evening, as she sat with her two boys in her wretched room, tortured by their questions
after their father, she could not suppress her tears. François, the eldest, then nine years
of age, tried to console her. He told her that he was almost a man, able to earn his food and
to take care of her and his little brother. She listened to his prattle with a sad smile, kissed
him and embraced him.

During all of the sleepless night which followed, François was revolving his hidden projects
of independence, and at gray dawn, confiding his purpose only to his brother, and bidding him
tell his mother, when she awoke, that he would soon be back with money to buy bread for them,
the child stole forth to seek his fortune in the great dreary world of Paris.

He wandered about all day, and at night, hungry and weary, entered a jeweler's shop in the
Palais Royal, kept by an old woman, to whom he appealed for employment--vainly at first. Finally,
however, she consented to engage him as a drudge and errand boy, allowed him to sleep in an
armoire over the door, and gave him four pounds of bread a week in lieu of wages. Four pounds
of bread a week! The allowance appeared munificent, and he accepted the offer with gratitude.
A brief experience dispelled his illusions. He was always weary and always hungry. After a
few weeks' trial, he left his first benefactress and secured some kind of employment at five
sous a day, out of which he contrived to save two. In two weeks he had saved nearly a franc
and a half for his dear mother. One day, while executing a commission for his employer, he
found his little brother alone in the street crying bitterly.

"How is dear mamma?" was his first question.

"Dead, and carried away by ugly men."

The winter of 1821 was unusually severe for Paris. One night Delsarte and his brother fell
asleep in each other's arms in the wretched loft they occupied; but when the former opened
his eyes to the morning's light he was holding a corpse to his heart. The little boy had perished
of cold and starvation. Almost mad with terror and grief, the survivor rushed into the streets
to summon the neighbors.

The next day a little hatless boy, in rags and nearly barefooted, followed two men bearing
a small pine coffin which they deposited in the fosse commune of Pére la Chaise.

After seeing the grave covered, Delsarte left the cemetery and wandered wearily through the
snow, now utterly alone in the world, across the plain of St. Denis. Overcome by cold, hunger,
and grief, he sank to the ground, and then, before he lost consciousness, a strain of music,
real or imaginary, met his ear and charmed him to a forgetfulness of misery, bereavement, all
the evils that environed him. It was the first awakening of his artist soul, and to this day
Delsarte believes that it was no earthly music that he heard.

Rousing himself from a sort of stupor into which he had fallen, he saw a chiffonnier bending
over him. The man had for a moment mistaken the prostrate form for a bundle of rags; but taking
pity on the half-frozen lad, he placed him in his basket and carried him to his miserable home.
And so the future artist commenced his professional career as a Parisian rag-picker.

While wandering about the great city in the interest of his employer, his only solace was to
listen to the songs of itinerant vocalists and the occasional music of a military band. Music
became his passion. From some of the gamins he learned the seven notes of the scale, and, to
preserve the melodies that delighted him, he invented a system of musical notation. On a certain
holiday, when he was twelve years old, while listening to the delightful music in the garden
of the Tuileries, the little chiffonnier busied himself with drawing figures in the dust. An
old man of eccentric appearance, noticing his earnest diligence, accosted him.

"What are you doing there, boy?" he asked.

Terrified at first, but reassured by the kind manner of the stranger, Delsarte replied: "Writing
down the music, sir."

"Do you mean to say those marks have any significance? That you can read them?"

"Certainly, sir."

"Let me hear you."

Encouraged by the interest manifested in him, the lad sang in a sweet and pure but sad voice
the strains just played by the military band. The old man was amazed.

"Who taught you this process?"

"Nobody, sir; found it out myself."

Bambini--for it was the then distinguished, but now almost forgotten, professor--offered to
take the boy home with him; and he who had entered the garden of the Tuileries a rag-picker,
left it a recognized musician. In the dust of Paris were first written the elements of a system
destined to regenerate art. Bambini taught his protégé all he knew, but the pupil soon surpassed
the master and became his instructor in turn; for if the one had talent, the other possessed
genius.

Bambini predicted the future of Delsarte. One day when they were walking arm-in-arm in the
Avenue des Champs-Elysées, the former said: "Do you see all those people in carriages, with
their fine liveries and magnificent clothes? Well, the day will come when they will only be
too happy to listen to you, proud of your presence in their salons, envying your fame as a
great artist."

Bambini's death left Delsarte poor and friendless. At fourteen, however, he managed to get
admitted into the Conservatoire, where, though he labored hard, he met with harsh treatment
and discouragement. The professors disliked him for his reflective nature and persistent questionings
which brought to light the superficiality of their acquirements; his fellow-pupils, for his
exclusive devotion to study and his reserve, the result of diffidence rather than of hauteur.
His professors were dictators, who, while differing from each other as teachers, were yet united
in frowning upon any attempt on the part of their pupil to emancipate himself from the thraldom
of conventionalism and routine. Genius was a heresy for which they had no mercy.

Thrown upon his own resources, he soon developed, by careful observation of nature and a constant
study of cause and effect, a system and a style radically differing from those of the professors
and their servile imitators.

One day, after having sung in his own style at one of the public exhibitions--applauded, however,
only by a single auditor,--he was walking sadly and slowly in the court-yard of the Conservatoire,
when a lady and a gentleman approached him.

"Courage, my friend," said the lady. "Your singing has given me the highest pleasure. You will
be a great artist."

So spake Marie Malibran, the queen of song.

"My friend," said her companion, "It was I who applauded you just now. In my opinion, you are
a singer hors de ligne. When my children are ready to learn music, you, above all others, shall
be their professor."

These were the words of Adolphe Nourrit. The praises of Malibran and Nourrit gave Delsarte
courage, revived his hopes, and decided him to follow implicitly the promptings of his genius.
His extreme poverty compelled him at last to apply to the Conservatoire for a diploma which
would enable him to secure a situation at one of the lyric theatres. It was refused.

The autumn of 1829 found him a shabby, almost ragged applicant for employment at the stage-door
of the Opéra Comique. Repeated rebuffs failed to baffle his desperate pertinacity.

One day the director, hearing of the annoyance to which his subordinates were subjected by
Delsarte, determined to abate the nuisance by one of those cruel coups-de-main of which Frenchmen
are pre-eminently capable. The next night, during the performance, when Delsarte called, he
was, to his surprise and delight, shown into the great man's presence.

"Well, sir, what do you want?"

"Pardon, Monsieur, I came to seek a place at your theatre."

"There is but one vacant, and you don't seem capable of filling that. I want only a call-boy."

"Sir, I am prepared to fill the position of a premier sujet among your singers."

"Imbécile!"

"Monsieur, if my clothes are poor, my art is genuine."

"Well, sir, if you will sing for me, I will hear you shortly."

He left Delsarte alone, overjoyed at having secured the manager's ear. In a few moments a surly
fellow told him he was wanted below, and he soon found himself with the manager upon the stage
behind the green curtain.

"You are to sing here," said the director. "There is your piano. In one moment the curtain
will be rung up. I am tired of your importunities. I give you one chance to show the stuff
you're made of. If you discard this opportunity, the next time you show your face at my door
you shall be arrested and imprisoned as a vagrant."

The indignation excited in Delsarte by this cruel trick instantly gave way before the reflection
that success was a matter of life and death with him, and that perhaps his last chance lay
within his grasp. He forgot his rags; every nerve became iron; and when the curtain was rung
up, a beggar with the bearing of a prince advanced to the foot-lights, was received with derisive
laughter by some, with glances of surprise and indignation by others, and, with a sad and patient
smile on his countenance, gracefully saluted the brilliant audience. The courtliness of his
manner disarmed hostility; but when he sat down to the piano, ran his fingers over the keys,
and sang a few bars, the exquisite voice found its way to every heart. With every moment his
voice became more powerful. Each gradation of emotion was rendered with an ease, an art, an
expression, that made every heartstring vibrate. Then he suddenly stopped, bowed, and retired.
The house rang with bravos. The dress-circle forgot its reticence and joined in the tumult
of applause. He was recalled. This time he sang a grand lyric composition with the full volume
of his voice, aided in effect by those imperial gestures of which he had already discovered
the secret. The audience were electrified. They declared that Talma was resuscitated. But when
he was a second time recalled, his tragic mood had melted; there were "tears in his voice"
as well as on his cheeks.

After the fall of the curtain the director grasped his hand, loaded him with compliments, and
offered him an engagement for a year at a salary of ten thousand francs. He went home to occupy
his wretched attic for the last time, and falling on his knees poured forth his soul in prayer.

The next day Delsarte, neatly dressed, paid a visit to the directors of the Conservatoire.

"Gentlemen," said he, "you would not give me a recommendation as a chorister; the public have
accorded me this." And he displayed his commission as Comédien du Roi.

Delsarte remained upon the lyric stage until 1834, when the failure of his voice, which had
been strained at the Conservatoire, compelled him to retire. He continued, however, the study
of music, and his productions, particularly a "Dies Irae," placed him in the front rank of
composers. At this period of his life, meditation and study resulted in a firm religious faith,
which never wavered afterward.

He now applied himself to the task of establishing a scientific basis for lyric and dramatic
art, and after years of patient labor perfected a system on which probably his fame will ultimately
rest. His cours for instruction in the principles of art was first opened in 1839. From the
outset he was appreciated by the highly cultivated few, nor was it long before the circle extended
and the new master won a European reputation. Some of his pupils were destined for a professional
career; but many, men and women of rank and fortune, sought to learn from him the means of
rendering their brilliant salons yet more attractive. Members of most of the reigning families
of Europe were numbered among his pupils, and his apartments in Paris were filled, when I saw
them, with pictures, photographs, and other souvenirs of esteem and friendship, from the highest
dignitaries of Europe. When he consented, on one occasion, to appear at a soirée at the Tuileries,
Louis Philippe received him at the foot of the grand staircase, as if he had been his peer,
and bestowed on him during the evening the same attentions he would have accorded to a fellow-sovereign.
The citizen king recognized the royalty of art. And it may be noted that Delsarte would not
have appeared on this occasion, except on the condition that no remuneration should be offered
to him for the exercise of his talents.

Malibran, whose kind word in the courtyard of the Conservatoire had revived Delsarte's fainting
hopes, attended his early course of lectures. I have already mentioned Rachel and Macready
as his pupils. I now recall the names of Sontag, of the gifted Madeleine Brohan, of Carvalho,
Barbot, Pasca (who owed everything to Delsarte), and Pajol. He was the instructor in pulpit
oratory of Père Lacordaire, Père Hyacinthe, and the present abbé of Nôtre Dame.

Notwithstanding the labor exacted by his great specialty, he has done much good work in various
other directions. Among his mechanical inventions are a sonotype, a tuning instrument by means
of which any one can tune a piano accurately, an improved level, theodolite and sextant, a
scale for measuring the differences in the solidity of fluids, etc.

Of the conscientiousness with which he works, it may be mentioned that he devoted five years
to the study of anatomy and physiology, to obtain a perfect knowledge of all the muscles, their
uses and capabilities,--a knowledge of which he has utilized with remarkable success.

It is now time to give some idea of his system, which can be done most satisfactorily, perhaps,
through the medium of an article which appeared in the Gazette Musicale, from the authoritative
pen of A. Guéroult. After having analyzed the maestro's theory of vocal art, he says:

"The study of gesture and its agents has been subjected by M. Delsarte to an analysis no less
profound. Thus he recognizes in the human body three principal agents of expression, the head,
the torso and the limbs, which perform each a distinct part in the economy of a character.
Gesture, sometimes expressive, sometimes excentric, and sometimes compressive, assumes in each
case special forms, which have been classified and described by M. Delsarte with a care and
perspicuity which make his labors on this subject entirely new, and for which I know no equivalent
anywhere. Permit me to explain more fully the utility of this study, to cite an application,
for examples are always more eloquent than generalities. In the play of the physiognomy every
portion of the face performs a separate part. Thus, for instance, it is not useless to know
what function nature has assigned to the eye, the nose, the mouth, in the expression of certain
emotions of the soul. True passion, which never errs, has no need of recurring to such studies;
but they are indispensable to the feigned passion of the actor. How useful would it not be
to the actor who wishes to represent madness or wrath, to know that the eye never expresses
the sentiment experienced, but simply indicates the object of this sentiment! Cover the lower
part of your face with your hand, and impart to your look all the energy of which it is susceptible,
still it will be impossible for the most sagacious observer to discover whether your look expresses
anger or attention. On the other hand, uncover the lower part of the face, and if the nostrils
are dilated, if the contracted lips are drawn up, there is no doubt that anger is written on
your countenance. An observation which confirms the purely indicative part performed by the
eye is, that among raving madmen the lower part of the face is violently contracted, while
the vague and uncertain look shows clearly that their fury has no object. It is easy to conceive
what a wonderful interest the actor, painter, or sculptor must find in the study of the human
body thus analysed from head to foot in its innumerable ways of expression. Hence, the eloquent
secrets of pantomime, those imperceptible movements of great actors which produce such powerful
impressions, are decomposed and subjected to laws whose evidence and simplicity are a twofold
source of admiration.

"Finally, in what concerns articulate language M. Delsarte has assumed a yet more novel task.
We all know the power of certain inflections; we know that a phrase which accented in a certain
way is null, accented in another way produces irresistible effects upon the stage. It is the
property of great artists to discover this preëminent accentuation; but never, to my knowledge,
did anyone think of referring these happy inspirations of genius to positive laws. Yet, whence
comes it that a certain inflection, a certain word placed in relief, affects us? How shall
we explain this emotion, if not by a certain relation existing between the laws of our organization,
the laws of general grammar, and those of musical inflection? There is always, in a phrase
loudly enunciated, one word which sustains the passionate accent. But how shall we detach and
recognize it in the midst of the phrase? How distribute the forces of accentuation on all the
words of which it is composed? How classify and arrange them in relation to that sympathetic
inflection, without which the most energetic thought halts at our intelligence without reaching
our heart? M. Delsarte has had recourse to the same method which guided him in the study of
gesture. He did not study declamation on the stage, but in real life, where unpremeditated
inflections spring directly from feeling; then, fortified by innumerable observations, he rearranged
grammar and rhetoric from this special point of view, and has obtained results as simple in
their principles as they are fertile in their application.

"If I wished to classify the nature and value of M. Delsarte's labors in relation to what has
been spoken or written up to this time on the art of singing or acting, I should say that the
numerous precepts which have been formulated on dramatic art have had hardly any object other
than the manner in which each character ought to be conceived. Ingenious and multiplied observations
have been employed to bring forth the delicacies of the part and its unpcrceived features.
The intellectual strength of the actor or vocalist has been directed to the author's conception.
He has been told to be pathetic here, menacing there; here to assume a slight tinge of irony
transpiercing apparent politeness, or, again, to make his gesture a seeming contradiction of
his words. Such an analysis of the poet's work is certainly imperative, but how far from adequate!
And what an immense distance there is from the intelligence which comprehends to the gesture
which translates, from the song which moves to the inflection which interprets! It is with
the new purpose which M. Delsarte has embraced that, without neglecting an understanding of
the author, he says to the actor: 'This is what you must express. Now, how will you do it?
What will you do with your arms, with your head, with your voice? Do you know the laws of your
organization? Do you know how to go to work to be pathetic, dignified, comic, or familiar,
to represent the clemency of Augustus or the drunkenness of a coachman?' In a word, he teaches
the vocalist or actor the laws of this language, of this eloquence which nature places in our
eyes, in our gestures, in the suppressed or expansive tones of our voice, in the accent of
speech. He teaches the actor, or, to speak more properly, the man, to know himself, to manage
artistically that inimitable instrument which is man himself, all of whose parts contribute
to a harmonious unity. Hence, aware of the gravity of such an assertion, I do not hesitate
to proclaim here that I believe M. Delsarte's work will remain among the fundamental bases;
I believe that his labors are destined to give a solid foundation to theatric art, to elevate
and to ennoble it; I believe that there is no actor, no singer, however eminent, who cannot
derive from the acquirements and luminous studies of M. Delsarte, positive germs of development
and progress. I believe that whoever makes the external interpretation of the sentiments of
the human soul his business and profession, whether painter, sculptor, orator, or actor, that
all men of taste who support them will applaud this attempt to create the science of expressive
man; a science from which antiquity seems to have lifted the veil, and what appears willing
to revive in our days, in the hands of a man worthy by his patient and conscientious efforts
to discover some of its most precious secrets."

       *       *       *       *       *

Delsarte has sought neither fame nor wealth. He could easily have secured both by remaining
on the stage as an actor, after he had lost his power as a vocalist. He preferred to surrender
himself in comparative retirement to the study of science and art, and the instruction of those
who sought his aid in mastering the principles of the latter. To the needy this instruction
was imparted gratuitously, and more than one successful actress has been raised from penury
to fortune by the benevolence of her teacher.

It would be easy to cite many illustrations of the goodness and tenderness of this man. Religious
fervor has largely influenced his life and is the key-note of his character; but his faith
is not hampered by bigotry. Like all minds of high rank, he holds that science and art are
the handmaids of religion.

I have said that this remarkable man did not seek fame; it has come to him unsought. Pages
might be filled with voluntary tributes to his genius from the foremost minds of France,--Jules
Janin, Théophile Gautier, Mme. Emile de Girardin. Lamartine pronounced him "a sublime orator."
Fiorentino, the keen, delicate, and calm critic, spoke of him as "this master, whose feeling
is so true, whose style is so elevated, whose passion is so profound, that there is nothing
in art so beautiful and so perfect."

If we hazarded an intrusion into the domestic circle of Delsarte, we should find one of those
pure and happy family groups, fortunately for France by no means rare even in her capital;
one of those French homes the existence of which nearly all Englishmen and many Americans deny.
We should find a bond of sympathy and a community of talent uniting father and mother, two
fair daughters, and three brave sons. Or, rather, we should have found this happy gathering,
for the iron hand of war has broken the charmed ring. The dear old home on the Boulevard de
Courcelles is deserted. Father, mother, and daughters were compelled to seek refuge in the
North of France, the sons to march against the Prussians. Let us trust that long ere this they
have reached home unwounded, and that the grand old maestro has no further ills in store for
his declining years.

Delsarte's Method for Tuning Stringed Instruments Without the Aid of The Ear.[11]

By Hector Berlioz.

Do you hear, you pianists, guitarists, violinists, violoncellists, contra-bassists, harpists,
tuners, and you, too, conductors of orchestras--without the aid of the ear! What a vast, incomparable,
nay, priceless discovery, especially for the rest of us wretched listeners to pianos out of
tune, to violins and 'cellos out of tune, to harps out of tune, to whole orchestras out of
tune! Delsarte's invention will now make it your positive duty to cease torturing us, to cease
making us sweat with agony, to cease driving us to suicide.

Not only is the ear of no use in tuning instruments, but it is even dangerous to consult it;
it must by no possible chance be consulted. What an advantage for those who have no ear! Hitherto,
it has been just the opposite, and we forgave you the torments that you inflicted on us. But
in future, if your instruments be out of tune, you will have no excuse, and we shall hand you
over to public vengeance. Without the aid of the ear, mark you--aid so often useless and deceptive.

Delsarte's discovery holds good only for stringed instruments, but this is much; this is an
enormous gain. Hence, it follows that in orchestras directed and tuned without the aid of the
ear, there will be no more discords, save between the flutes, hautboys, clarionets, bassoons,
horns, cornets, trumpets, trombones, kettle-drums and bass drums. The triangle might, at a
pinch, be tuned by the new method; but it is generally acknowledged that this is not necessary,
just as with bells, a discord between the triangle and the other instruments is a good thing;
it is popular in all lyric theatres.

And the singers, whom you do not mention, someone may ask, will it be possible to make them
sing true, to put them in tune? Two or three of them are naturally in tune. Some few, by great
care and exactness, may be brought very nearly into tune. But all the others were not, are
not, and will not be in tune, either individually, or with each other, or with the instruments,
or with the leader of the orchestra, or with the rhythm, or with the harmony, or with the accent,
or with the expression, or with the pitch, or with the language, or with anything resembling
precision and good sense.

Delsarte has made it especially easy to tune the piano, by means of an instrument that he calls
the phonopticon, which it would take too long to describe here. Suffice it to say, that it
contains an index-hand that marks the exact instant when two or more strings are in perfect
unison. It may be added that the invariable result is so absolutely correct, no matter who
may try it or under what conditions, that the most practiced ear could not possibly attain
to similar perfection. Acousticians should not fail to examine this invention at once, the
use of which cannot be long in becoming universal.

Index.

A.

Abdominal centre, the, life,
Accent,
Accord of nine, the,
Actors, bad,
Adjective, the,
Adverb, the,
Æsthetic division, chart of,
Æsthetic fact of first rank,
Æsthetics,
  course of, applied,
  lay of,
Alto voice, the,
Anatomy,
Angelo, Michael,
Angels, the,
Anger,
Animals do not laugh,
Ankylosed limbs,
Apollo, the,
Appoggiatura,
Aquinas, St. Thomas,
Archimedean lever,
Architecture, application of the law to,
Aristocrats lie,
Aristotle,
Arms, movements of the,
  five million movements of the agents of the,
  division of,
  three centres in the,
Art,
  the true aim of,
  all, has the same principle,
  definition of,
  how Delsarte considered,
  religious sentiment in,
  the death of,
  elements of,
  the plastic,
  the grand,
  the supreme,
  dramatic, lyric and oratorical,
  best conditions for a work of,
  object of,
  sources of fine,
  not imitation of nature,
Article, the,
Articulate language, weakness of,
  origin and organic apparatus of,
  elements of,
Articulation, in the service of thought,
Articulations, the,
Artificial breath,
Artistic personages, classification of,
Artist, the proclivities necessary to an,
Art-writings of the Greeks,
Attraction,
Attractive centres,
Attribute, the,
Attributes of reason, the,
Audience, an, different from an individual--the greater the numbers the
  less the intelligence,

B.

Bacchus, the,
Balzac,
Bambini, Father,
Barbier,
Barbot, Mme.,
Bass voice, the,
Baudelaire, Charles,
Baxile, M.,
Beautiful, the,
Beauty exists only in fragments,
  moral and intellectual,
Belot, Adolphe,
Béranger,
Berlioz,
Bizet, George,
Blanchecotte, Mme.,
Blangini,
Body, the,
  divisions of the,
  retroactive movement of,
Boileau,
Bonnat,
Breathing
Brohan, Madeleine,
Brucker, Raymond,
Buccal (cheek) zone, the,
  machinery (articulate speech), the language of the mind,

C.

Calculation and artifice, if detected, quicksands to the orator,
Canova,
Captain Renard, fable of,
Captivating an audience, secret of,
Caress, the,
Carvalho, Mme.,
Charts classifying celestial spirits,
Charts list of,
Chastity, concave,
Chaudesaigues, Mlle.,
Chest, the,
  the three attitudes of,
  divisions of,
Chest, a passive agent
Chest-voice, the
  the expression of the sensitive life
  should be little used
  the eccentric voice
Chevé, M. and Mme.
Children, why are they graceful?
Chopin
Chorography
Chorre, Mother
Cicero
Circle, the, for exalting and caressing
Colin
Colors, symbolism of
  the primitive
  the three that symbolize the life, soul and mind
Color charts, the
Concentric state, the
Conjunction, the
  the soul of the discourse
Consonants, musical
  are gestures
  the initial
  variation in the value of
  beat time for the pronunciation of
  every first, is strong
  two things to be observed in
Contemplation and retroaction
Corneille
Costal breathing
Courier, Paul Louis
Cousin, Victor
Cries
Cros, Antoine
Czartoriska, Princess

D.

Dailly, Dr.
Darcier
Davout, Marshal
Death, the sign language of
De Bammeville, July
De Blocqueville, Mme.
De Chimay, Princess
Degrees, theory of
D'Haussonville, Countess
Déjazet
De Lamartine, Mme.
De la Madelène, Jules
Delaunay, Charles
Delivery, a hasty
De Leomenil, Mme. Laure
Delsarte, biographical sketch of
  criterion of
  method of
  took much time in educating a pupil
  was he a philosopher?
  lectures of
  teachings of
  the press on
  the discoverer of the law
  can never be reproduced
  birth, death, name, early history of
  how he learned music
  enters the conservatory
  theatre and school of
  becomes a teacher of singing and elocution
  history of the voice of
  dramatic career of
  recitations of
  sings at the Court
  marriage and family of
  religion of
  friends of
  the "Talma of music"
  anecdotes of
  scholars of
  "Stanzas to Eternity" of
  "dear and last pupil" of
  musical compositions of
  an instance of the singing of
  shapeless coat of
  imitating defects
  singing during lessons
  inventions of
  Berlioz's treatment of
  before the Philotechnic Association
  and the four professors
  last years of
  a concert of
  character and merit of
  "Episodes of a Revelator" of
  America's offer to
  return to Paris of
  last letter to the King of Hanover of
  struggles with his teachers
  visit to the dissecting room
  a pensioner of the conservatory
  mystical or religious musings of
  the way of making his discovery
  is grateful because he had not written
  his book not spontaneous
  on trueness in singing
Delsarte, Mme., maiden name of
  beauty and talent of
Delsarte, Gustave
De Meyendorf, Mme.
Demosthenes
De Musset, Alfred
De Riancey, Henry
Desbarolles
Descartes
Deshayes, M.
De Staël, Mme.
Jacotot
Jesus of Nazareth
Joncières
Joy, the greatest in sorrow
Joys, keen

K.

Kant
King of Hanover
  Delsarte's last letter to the
King Louis Philippe
Kreutzer

L.

Lablache
Laboring men, the ways of
Lachrymose tone disgusting
Lacordaire
La Fontaine
La Harpe
Lamaitre, Frederick
Lamartine
Lamentation
Language
Laocoon, the
Larynx, the
  coloring of
  lowering the
  the thermometer of the sensitive life
Larynxes, artificial
Latin prosody
Laugh, signification of the
  its composition
Law, definition of
  application of the, to various arts
Legouvé
Legs, the, and their attitudes
Leibnitz
Leroux, Pierre
Liars do not elevate their shoulders
Life, the sensitive state
  principal elements of
  the phenomena of
Light
Lind, Jenny
Literary remains of Delsarte
Literature, the law applied to
Littré's Dictionary
Logic often in default
Longus
Louvre, false pictures in the
Love gives more than it receives
Lovers, the gaze of
Loyson, Father
Lucht, Auguste
Lully
Lungs, the
Lyric art

M.

Malherbe
Malibran
Man
  the three phases of
  either painter, poet, scientist, or mystic
  three types in
  the object of art
  a triplicity of persons
  the agent of Æsthetics
  when a man shrinks
  unfamiliar to himself
Marcello
Marie, Franck
Mars
Martellato
Massenet
Materialism
Measure
  in oratorical diction
Medallion of inflection
Mediocrity
Medium voice, the expression of moral emotions
  the normal voice
Melody
Menace, the head and hand
Mengs
Mental or reflective state
Mercié
Mind, the intellectual state
Mode simpliste
Modest people turn out the elbow
Mohere
Monsabre, Father
Moral or affective state
Mother, the voice of the
Mother vowel, the
Motion, distinction and vulgarity of
Mouth, the
  no contraction of back part
  openings of, for various vowels
  a vital thermometer
Movements from various centres
  flexor, rotary, and abductory
  initial forms of
Mucous membrane, transmitter of sound
Muscular machinery (gesture), the language of emotion
Music, the seven notes of
  a succession of sounds
Musset

N.

Napoleon III
Nasal cavities, the
Naturalism
Ninefold accord, the
Normal state, the
Nose, a complex and important agent
  nine divisions of
Nose, a moral thermometer
Notes, high, for tender emotions
Nourrit, Adolph
Number

O.

Occipital zone, the life
Ontology
Opposition of agents
Orator, the, should be a man of worth
Oratorical sessions
Oratory, definition of
  the science of, not yet taught
  the essentials
  the fundamental laws of
  the criterion of
  the student of, should not be a servile copyist
  three important rules for the student of
  symbolism of colors applied to
  perseverance and work necessary to the student of
Order for leaving, an
Organic chart

P.

Painter, how a, examines his work
Painting, application of the law to
Palate, the
Pantomime, secrets of
Parietal zone, the soul
Particle, the
Pasca, Mme.
Passion
  of signs
Passive attitude, the type of energetic natures
Pasta, Mme.
People, vulgar and uncultured
Pergolesi
Phenomena, natural, contain lessons
Phidias
Philotechnic Association
Physiology
Plato
Poe, Edgar A.
Poets are born, orators are made
Poise
  lack of, in body
Powers, the
Praxiteles
Preacher, a, must not be an actor
Preposition, the
Pricette, Father
Principiants and principiates
Processional relations, theory of
  reversal of
Professors, Delsarte and the four
Progressions
Pronoun, the
Pronunciation
Proudhon
Pythagoras

Q.

Quintilian

R.

R, cure of the faulty
Rachel
Racine
Rainbow, the
  the colors of
Rameau
Random notes
Raphael's picture of Moses, a fault in
Ravignan
Reaction
Realism
Reason
  a blind faculty
  an act of faith
  the attributes of
Reber
Reboul
Recitative
Reiterated interrogation
Reiteration
Respect, a sort of weakness
Respiration
  suppressing the
  and silence
  three movements of
  multiplied
  to facilitate
  vocal, logical, passional
Respiratory acts, their signification
Retroaction
Reverence, the sign of
Reynaud, Jean
Rhythmus
Romagnesi
Rossini
Roulade
Routine
Royer, Mme., Clémence

S.

St. Augustine
St. Saens
St.-Simonism
St. Thomas
Salutation, the sign of
Sand, George
Schiller
Science, bases of the
  and art
Scientists, cause of the failure of
Sculptor, aims of the
Sculpture, application of the law to
Semeiotics
  of the shoulder
Senses, the
Sensibility, thermometer of
Sensitive nature betrayed by voice
Sensitive or vital state
Sensualism, convex
Sensuality
Sentiment
Shades and inflections
Shakespeare
Shoulder, the
  thermometer of love
    the sensitive life
  the sign of passion
  action of, in surprise
  thermometer of emotions
  semeiotics of
  in the aristocratic world
Sigh, the
Signs of passion
Silence, the father of speech
  the speech of God
  the rule of
Simplisme
Sincerity intolerable
Singing
Sob, the
Societies, meeting of the learned
Socrates
Sontag, Mme.
Soprano voice, the
Sorbonne, the
Soul, the moral state
Souhe, Frederic
Sound, the first language of man
  revelation of the sensitive life
  is painting
  should be homogeneous
  every sound is a song
  the sense of the life
  reflection of divine image
Souvestre, Emile
Speech
  the omnipotence of
  inferior to gesture
  anticipated by gesture
  the sense of the intelligence
  the three agents of
  oratorical value of
  soul of
  visible thought
Spontini
Standard, value of a
Subject, the
Subjectivity in Æsthetics
Substantive, the
Sue, Eugene
Sully-Prudhomme
Surprise and assurance
System

T.

Talma
Teachers, ignorance of the
Tears, accessory matters
  to be shed only at home
Temporal region, the mind
Tenderness
Tenor voice, the
Thanks, affectionate and ceremonious
Thermometers, the three
  the articular arm centres called
Thermometric system of the shoulder
Theresa
Thoracic centre, the mind
Threatening with the shoulder
Thumb, the thermometer of the will
  has much expression
  the sign of life
  the, in death
  living mimetics of
  the thermometer of life and death
Thyrcis
Tone, position of
Tones, the lowest, best understood
  prologation of
Torso, the,
  divisions of
  chart of
"Treatise on Reason"
Tremolo, the
Trinitarians, the
Trinity, the
  the holy, recovered in sound
True, the
Trueness in singing
Truth, men are divided in regard to
Types, the, in man
Typical arrangements
  phrases

U.

Uchard, Mario Ugly, the Uprightness, perpendicular Uvula, raising the

V.

Values, the law of
  resume of the degrees of
Verb, the
Verdi
Véron, Eugene
Vertebrae, three sorts of
Vice, hideousness of
Vicious arrangements
Violent emotion, in, the voice stifled
Virtues, the
Vision, three sorts of
Vital breath
Vocal cords, fatiguing the
Vocal music
Vocal organ, the
Vocal shades, law of
Vocal tube, the, must not vary for a loud tone
Voice, the charms of
  organic apparatus of
  a mysterious hand
  the kinds of
  the registers of
  meaning of the high and deep
  the language of the sensitive life
  the chest, the medium, the head
  the white
  dimensions and intensity of
  how to obtain a stronger
  three modes of developing
  method of diminishing
  the less the emotion, the stronger the
  how to gain resonance
  a tearful, a defect
  the tremulous, of the aged
  the rhythm of its tones
  must not be jerky
  inflections of
  great affinity between the arms and the
  exercises for
  the mixed
  tenuity and acuteness of
  shades of
  definition of the
  shading of the
  pathetic effects in the
  tearing of the
  two kinds of loud
Voltaire
Volubility, too much
Vowels correspond to the moral state
  length of the initial

W.

Wartel
Weight
"What I Propose"
Will, the
Winkelmann
Wisdom
Wolf and the lamb, the fable of the
Words, the value of, in phrases
  dwelling on the final
Worlds, three, presented
Wrist, the
  thermometer of the physical life
Writing, a dead letter

Z.

Zaccone, Pierre Zeuxis Zola, M.

Footnotes

[1] The sensitive is also called the vital, the mental, the reflective, and the moral the affective
state. The vital sustains, the mental guides, the moral impels.--TRANSLATOR.

[2] The registers here given undoubtedly refer to the singing voice, as the range of notes
in the speaking voice is very much more limited. Very frequently voices are found whose range
in singing is very much greater than that which the author has given here; however, on the
other hand, many are found with even a more limited range.--TRANSLATOR.

[3] The sounds here given are those of the French vowels.

    A has two sounds, heard in mat and far.
    E with the acute accent (é) is like a in fate,
    E with the grave accent (è) is like e in there.
    I has two sounds--the first like ee in reed, the second
      like ee in feel.
    O has a sound between that of o in rob and robe.
    O with the circumflex (ô) is sounded like o in no.
    The exact sound of u is not found in English.
    Ou is sounded like oo in cool.
    The nasal sound an is pronounced nearly like an in want.
    The nasal in is pronounced somewhat like an in crank.
    The nasal on is pronounced nearly like on in song.
    The nasal unis pronounced nearly like un in wrung.

Consult some work on French pronunciation, or, as is far preferable, learn these sounds from
the living voice of the teacher--Translator.

[4] From γἑνειου, the chin.

[5] Many of these papers were entrusted by the family to a former pupil of Delsarte, who took
them to America.

[6] Notes taken by his pupils, during the latter years of his lessons prove that the master
touched upon this question. I do not copy them because, being somewhat confused, they might
give rise to misunderstandings; neither do they in any way contradict anything that I have
said above; they confirm, on the contrary, what remains in my memory of the interpretation
of Delsarte, who never belied himself.

[7] The existence of the persons of the Trinity, the one in the other. These charts and diagrams
are given in Part Fifth.

[8] For a fuller report of this lecture, see "Delsarte System of Expression," by Genevieve
Stebbins, second edition, $2. Edgar S. Werner, Publisher, 48 University Place, New York.

[9] "Delsarte System of Oratory" and "Delsarte System of Expression."

[10] See page 549 for complete lesson.

[11] This extract shows that Delsarte was not unknown to Berlioz. Mme. Arnaud refers to the
coldness with which Berlioz treated Delsarte. The article given here has been translated so
as to preserve as nearly as possible the quaint, half sarcastic style of the author.--PUBLISHER.