"Did you post that letter for me this morning?" said Clara. "If Mrs. Roberts doesn't get it
she won't know where to meet me to-morrow."

It is a woman's privilege to wander from the point at issue. I told Clara somewhat shortly
that I had posted the letter, although naturally I did not remember doing so. A man who has
hundreds of petty details to deal with every day, as I have, develops an automatic memory--a
subconscious mechanism which never fails him.

I explained this to Clara. "Not once in five thousand times would it allow me to pass the pillar-box
with an unposted letter in my pocket. Perhaps it is the vivid red--"

"And perhaps your vivid imagination," said my wife. "Well, I am glad you posted the letter,
for Mrs. Roberts, as you know, never received the one you posted ten days ago."

"I took that matter up very firmly with the local postmaster," I said. "He explained to me
that letters are now almost entirely sorted and delivered by women, and he was afraid mistakes
sometimes happened. And just to satisfy you about this last one, which I put as usual in my
breast pocket at the back of my other papers--" I produced the contents of my pocket. As I
expected the letter was not there.

"Why do you carry so many papers in your pocket? What are they all about?"

"Candidly, my dear, I do not know. Without the element of surprise life would be unbearably
monotonous. That element I deliberately carry with me in my breast pocket. When a dull moment
comes I empty my pockets. It would surprise you--"

"Nothing you do surprises me," said Clara. "Now go upstairs, please, and make yourself tidy.
Have a dull moment--not more than one, for dinner is nearly ready--and get rid of those papers."

Although my wife has not a logical process of thought, at times she makes sensible remarks.
I took her advice. As I anticipated I had some surprises.

A few important business memoranda, a sugar form, two income tax demands, a number of private
letters and an unpaid coal account made up the collection. There was really nothing I could
part with. Luckily I found two duplicates of the coal account. These I could spare. As I opened
one of them Mrs. Roberts's letter fell out of it.

I had just time to catch the post. I managed to reach the front-door unobserved. My wife opened
the dining-room window to tell me that dinner was ready. I told her I had forgotten to post
a very important business letter.

"A most unusual occurrence," I said.

"Mary can post it for you. Dinner's on the table." Clara extended her hand for the letter.
I explained that it was so very important that I could not even trust Mary.

"Mary's sex is, of course, against her," said my wife, "but I'll tell her to hold the letter
out at arm's length. You can see her all the way from the window and watch her put it in the
pillar-box."

A little candour is sometimes necessary.

"Strangely enough," I said, "the five-thousandth chance has come off. It is true the letter
is important, but the business is yours, and the letter is addressed to Mrs. Roberts. I forgot
to post it this morning."

"I know you did," said Clara. "You left it behind, and I posted it myself."

Here I saw that I was going to score. "Then what is this?" I asked in triumph.

"This," said Clara, taking it from me, "is the letter you forgot to post ten days ago."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

TO "MARTIN ROSS."

(AFTER READING "IRISH MEMORIES.")

  Two Irish cousins greet us here
    From BUSHE "the silver-tongued" descended,
  Whose lives for close on thirty year
    Were indistinguishably blended;
  Scorning the rule that holds for cooks,
    They pooled their brains and joined their forces,
  And wrote a dozen gorgeous books
    On men and women, hounds and horses.

  They superseded Handley Cross;
    They glorified the "hunting fever;"
  They purged their pages of the dross,
    While bettering the fun, of LEVER;
  With many a priceless turn of phrase
    They stirred us to Homeric laughter,
  When painting Ireland in the days
    Before Sinn Fein bewitched and "strafed" her.

  With them we watched good Major Yeates
    Contending with litigious peasants,
  With "hidden hands" within his gates,
    With claims for foxes and for pheasants;
  We saw Leigh Kelway drop his chin--
    That precious English super-tripper--
  In shocked amazement drinking in
    The lurid narrative of Slipper.

  Philippa's piercing peacock squeals,
    Uttered in moments of expansion;
  The grime and splendour of the meals
    Of Mrs. Knox and of her mansion;
  The secrets of horse-coping lore,
    The loves of Sally and of Flurry--
  All these delights and hundreds more
    Are not forgotten in a hurry.

  Yet the same genial pens that freight
    Our memories with joyous magic
  Gave us the tale of Francie's fate--
    So vulgar, lovable and tragic;
  Just to the land that gave them birth
    They showed her smiling, sad and sullen,
  And turning from the paths of mirth
    Probed the dark soul of Charlotte Mullen.

  Alas! the tie, so close, so dear,
    Two years ago death rent asunder;
  Hushed is the voice so gay and clear
    Which moved us once to joy and wonder;
  Yet, though they chronicle a loss
    Whose pang no lapse of time assuages,
  The spirit of brave "MARTIN ROSS"
    Shines like a star throughout these pages.

  Here in her letters may one trace
    The generous scorn, the gentle pity,
  The easy unaffected grace,
    The wisdom that was always witty;
  Here, mirrored in a sister soul,
    One sees the comrade, strong yet tender,
  Who marched unfaltering to her goal
    Through sacrifice and self-surrender.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE FOOD OF THE FAMOUS.

The publication of Lord RHONDDA'S daily menu will, we hope, lead other prominent people who
are striving to follow his good example to divulge the details of their dietary. But in case
their natural modesty may prevent them from doing so, Mr. Punch ventures to supply a few unauthorised
particulars.

The source of Mr. LLOYD GEORGE'S boundless energy has long been a mystery. It is now known
to be derived from a raw leek eaten on rising, and a dinner of Welsh rabbit, made from a modicum
of Government cheese and half a slice of war bread.

With Mr. BONAR LAW all meals are oatmeals. A plate of porridge at daybreak, bannocks slightly
margarined, when possible, for lunch, and a stiff cup of gruel just after Question time keep
him alert and smiling.

Thanks to the Spartan habits formed during his connection with both services, belt-tightening
has no terrors for Mr. WINSTON CHURCHILL. A quid of Navy tobacco suffices for breakfast, and
his only other meal consists of a slice of bully beef with a hard biscuit served on an inverted
packing-case.

The wild rumours recently current as to the amount of nutriment required for the upkeep of
Mr. G.K. CHESTERTON have now been happily set at rest. The needful calories for twenty-four
hours of his strenuous existence are supplied by two cups of cocoa, a shred of dried toast,
a Brazil nut, a glass of sodawater and a grilled banana.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "In one case the good cows from one herd had an average
    production of 9,592 lbs. milk, and 406 lbs. of fat, while
    the poor cows had a production of only 3,098 lbs. of milk
    and 119 lbs. of tea."--Farming News.

Give us the poor cows every time.

       *       *       *       *       *

From a Church paper:--

    "'EARLY CHRISTIANS.' I am sorry you cannot get these from
    the Army and Navy Stores."

It sounds like the old tiger story.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "A certain company commander, looking out of his quarters, saw
    several Germans in possession of a dump not far away. Although
    still in his sleeping clothes, he seized his trench tick
    and rushed towards them. Why they did not fire upon him is
    one of those little mysteries which will probably never be
    explained."--Daily Paper.

Unless by the learned author of Minor Horrors of War, who knows all about the fauna of the
trenches.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PERFECT CUSTOMER.

It was a very ordinary country sale of work. The Countess of Bilberry declared it open in a
neat little speech, and then bought generously from every stall: her daughter, whose smile
nobody could resist, did a fine trade with raffle tickets for the record pumpkin produced by
the local allotments: Mrs. Dodd, the Rector's wife, presided over a pair of scales and a strictly
rationed tea, and all the rest of the village sold vegetables and socks and pincushions, and
tried to pretend that antimacassars and shaving tidies and woolwork waistbelts were the most
desirable things in the world when they were made by wounded men at the nearest Red Cross Hospital,
in whose aid the sale was held.

But there was one unique figure amongst all the folk who knew each other, and each other's
clothes, and each other's clothes' cost, so well. She arrived at the Village Hall in a pony-carriage,
drawn by the ugliest little pony that ever sniffed oats. She was very quietly and very tastefully
dressed, and, instead of concentrating on the well-laden stalls of garden produce or the orderly
stacks of knitted comforts, or the really useful baskets, she went straight to the stall which
even Mrs. Dodd, who had the kindest heart in the countryside, had been compelled to relegate
to a dark corner. There was woolwork run riot over cushions of incredible hardness; there were
candle-shades guaranteed to catch alight at the mere sight of a match; there were crochet dressing-table
mats, and there was a three-legged stool on which even a fairy could not have sat without danger
of a break-down.

The youngest Miss Dodd, a severely practical young lady of sixteen, who was presiding at this
stall, jumped up in surprise at the sight of a customer, and in doing so knocked over a glass
box bound with red and white and blue ribbon, with "Handkerchiefs" painted across the corner
in a design of forget-me-nots. There was very little glass box left when she picked it up,
and the splinters had made a good many little craters in the surface of a big bowl of clotted
cream, labelled "Positively the last appearance for the Duration of the War," which was at
the corner of the next stall.

The little stranger said that she would take the box and the damaged cream too; she bought
a whole family of crochet mats with centres of orange woollen loops; three pincushions made
of playing cards discharged as no longer fit for active service; a table-centre with pen-painting
of the Allied flags, and a letter-case with the badges of the Dominions worked in wool and
"Across the sea, A letter from thee," straggling wearily across one corner. Then there was
an antimacassar in purple and magenta sateen, with yellow daffodils making a brave attempt
to flourish in unlikely surroundings.

At the next stall she bought a photograph frame which had lost its prop in an unequal contest
with a tea-tray which had collapsed from the heartiness of the Rector's clapping at the conclusion
of the Countess's speech; and a Noah's Ark from which the star performer and his very best
beasts had somehow disappeared.

Then the little lady paused before the live-stock stall.

