No. 64.] SATURDAY, JANUARY 18, 1851. [Price, with Index to Vol. II., 9d. Stamped Edition, 10d.

       *       *       *       *       *

CONTENTS.

  NOTES:--                                                   Page
    Authorship of Henry VIII., by Samuel Hickson               33
    The Cavalier's Farewell, by F.H.                           34
    Gray's Elegy, by Henry H. Breen                            35
    The "Nineveh" Monuments and Milton's Nativity Ode
      illustrated from Lucian                                  35
    Minor Notes:--Gaudentia di Lucca--George Wither
      the Poet, a Printer--"Preached as a dying man to dying
      Men"--Authors of Anonymous Works--Umbrellas              36

  QUERIES:--
    Sonnet (query, by Milton) on the Library at Cambridge,
      by C. Howard Kenyon                                      37
    Burying in Church Walls                                    37
    Minor Queries:--Meaning of Venwell or Venville--
      Erasmus and Farel--Early Culture of the Imagination--
      Sir Thomas Bullen's Drinking Horn--Peter
      Sterry--"Words are Men's Daughters," &c.--Robert
      Henryson--Gawyn Douglas--Darby and Joan--
      William Chilcot--Benj. Wheeler's Theological Lectures--
      Sir Alexander Cumming--Cross between a
      Wolf and Hound--Landwade Church, and Moated
      Grange--Dr. Bolton, Archbishop of Cashel--Genealogy
      of the Talbots, &c. &c.                                  38

  REPLIES:--
    Dragons                                                    40
    Origin of the Family Name of Bacon, by ProBa ConScientia   41
    Replies to Minor Queries:--Cockade--Form of Prayer
      for King's Evil--"Aver," Hogs not Pigs--Pilgarlic
      --Collar of Esses--Filthy Gingram--The Life and
      Death of Clancie--"Rab. Surdam"--"Fronte Capillatâ"
      --Taylor's Holy Living--Portrait of Bishop
      Henchman--Lines attributed to Charles Yorke--
      Rodolph Gualter--"Annoy" used as a Noun--Culprit,
      Origin of the Word--Passage in Bishop Butler
      --Wat the Hare--The Letter Yogh--Did Elizabeth
      visit Bacon in Twickenham Park--Mock-Beggar--
      Cardinal Chalmers--Binsey, God help me!--Midwives
      Licensed--Dr. Timothy Thristcross--History
      of the Bohemian persecution--"Earth has no Rage"
      --Couplet in De Foe--Private Memoirs of Queen
      Elizabeth--Abbot's House at Bucksden--Bab in the
      Bowster--Sir Cloudesley Shovel--Noli me tangere
      --Cad                                                    42

  MISCELLANEOUS:--
    Notes on Books, Sales, Catalogues, &c.                     46
    Notices to Correspondents                                  46
    Advertisements                                             47

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES.

AUTHORSHIP OF HENRY VIII.

In my last communication on the subject of Henry VIII., I referred to certain characteristic
tricks of Fletcher's style of frequent occurrence in that play, and I now beg leave to furnish
you with a few instances. I wish it, however, to be understood, that I advance these merely
as illustrative specimens selected at random; as there is scarcely a line of the portions of
the play I assume to be Fletcher's but would furnish some evidence to a diligent student of
this writer's style: and that, although I think each separate instance as strongly characteristic
of Fletcher as it is unlike Shakspeare, it is only in their aggregate number that I insist
upon their importance.

The first instance to which I call attention is the use of the substantive "one" in a manner
which, though not very uncommon, is used by no writer so frequently as Fletcher. Take the following:--

  "So great ones."--Woman's Prize, II. 2.
  "And yet his songs are sad ones."--Two Noble Kinsmen, II. 4.

and the title of the play, The False One.

Compare with these from Henry VIII.:--

  "This night he make a supper, and a great one."--Act I. 3.
  "Shrewd ones."--"Lame ones."--"so great ones."--Ibid.
                  "I had my trial,
  And must needs say a noble one."--Act II. 1.
  "A wife--a true one."--Act III. 1.
  "They are a sweet society of fair ones."--Act I. 4.

Fletcher habitually uses "thousand" without the indefinite article, as in the following instances:

  "Carried before 'em thousand desolations."--False One, II. 9.
  "Offers herself in thousand safeties to you."--Rollo, II. 1.
  "This sword shall cut thee into thousand pieces."--Knight of Malta, IV.
      2.

In Henry VIII. we have in the prologue:

              "Of thousand friends."
  "Cast thousand beams upon me."--Act IV. 2.

The use of the word "else" is peculiar in its position in Fletcher:--

  "'Twere fit I were hang'd else."--Rule a Wife, II.
  "I were to blame else."--Ibid.
  "I've lost me end else."--Act IV.
  "I am wide else."--Pilgrim, IV. 1.

In Henry VIII., the word occurs in precisely the same position:--

  "Pray God he do! He'll never know himself, else."--Act II. 2.
  "I were malicious, else."--Act IV. 2.

{34} The peculiarly idiomatic expression "I take it" is of frequent occurrence in Fletcher,
as witness the following:--

  "This is no lining for a trench, I take it."--Rule a Wife, III.
  "And you have land i' th' Indies, as I take it."--Ibid. IV.
  "A fault without forgiveness, as I take it."--Pilgrim, IV. 1.
  "In noble emulation (so I take it)."--Ibid. IV. 2.

In one scene of Henry VIII., Act I. 3., the expression occurs twice: "One would take it;" "There,
I take it."

Of a peculiar manner of introducing a negative condition, one instance from Fletcher, and one
from Henry VIII. in reference to the same substantive, though used in different senses, will
suffice:

                  "All noble battles,
  Maintain'd in thirst of honour, not of blood."--Bonduca, V. 1.
                  "And those about her
  From her shall read the perfect ways of honour,
  And by those claim their greatness, not by blood."--Henry VIII., V. 4.

Of a kind of parenthetical asseveration, a single instance, also, from each will suffice:

  "My innocent life (I dare maintain it, Sir)."--Wife for a Month, IV. 1.
  "A woman (I dare say, without vain glory)
  Never yet branded with suspicion."--Henry VIII., III. 1.

"A great patience," in Henry VIII., may be paralleled by "a brave patience," in The Two Noble
Kinsmen: and the expression "aim at," occurring at the close of the verse (as, by the bye,
almost all Fletcher's peculiarities do) as seen in Act III. 1.,

  "Madam, you wander from the good we aim at,"

is so frequently to be met with in Fletcher, that, having noted four instances in the Pilgrim,
three in the Custom of the Country, and four in the Elder Brother, I thought I had found more
than enough.

Now, Sir, on reading Henry VIII., and meeting with each of these instances, I felt that I remembered
"the trick of that voice;" and, without having at present by me any means for reference, I
feel confident that of the commonest examples not so many can be found among all the rest of
the reputed plays of Shakspeare, as in Henry VIII. alone, or rather in those parts of Henry
VIII. which I reject as Shakspeare's; while of the more remarkable, I think I might challenge
the production of a single instance.

My original intention in the present paper was merely to call attention to a few such expressions
as the foregoing; but I cannot resist the impulse to quote one or two parallels of a different
character:--

  Henry VIII.:
  "The dews of heaven fall thick in blessings on her!"--Act IV. 2.

  Fletcher:
  "The dew of sleep fall gently on you, sweet one!"--Elder Brother, IV.
      3.
  "Blessings from heaven in thousand showers fall on ye!"--Rollo, II. 3.
  "And all the plagues they can inflict, I wish it,
  Fall thick upon me!"--Knight of Malta, III. 2.

  Henry VIII.:
                  "To-day he puts forth
  The tender leaves of hope, to-morrow blossoms."--Act III. 2.

  Fletcher:
  "My long-since-blasted hopes shoot out in blossoms."--Rollo, II. 3.

These instances, of course, prove nothing; yet they are worth the noting. If, however, I were
called upon to produce two passages from the whole of Fletcher's writings most strikingly characteristic
of his style, and not more in expression than in thought, I should fix upon the third scene
of the first act of Henry VIII., and the soliloquy of Wolsey, Beginning--

  "Farewell, a long farewell to all my greatness!"

In conclusion, allow me to remark, that I am quite content to have been anticipated by MR.
SPEDDING in this discovery (if discovery you and your readers will allow it to be), for the
satisfaction I am thereby assured of in the concurrence of so acute a critic as himself, and
of a poet so true as the poet-laureate.

SAMUEL HICKSON.

Dec. 10. 1850.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CAVALIER'S FAREWELL.

The following song is extracted from the MS. Diary of the Rev. John Adamson (afterwards Rector
of Burton Coggles, Lincolnshire) commencing in 1658. Can any of your readers point out who
was the author?--

  "THE CAVALIER'S FAREWELL TO HIS MISTRESS BEING CALLED TO THE WARRS."

                  1.

  "Ffair Ffidelia tempt no more,
  I may no more thy deity adore
  Nor offer to thy shrine,
  I serve one more divine
  And farr more great y{^n} you:
    I must goe,
    Lest the foe
  Gaine the cause and win the day.
  Let's march bravely on
  Charge ym in the Van
  Our Cause God's is,
  Though their odds is
    Ten to one.

  {35}

                  2.

  "Tempt no more, I may not yeeld
    Although thine eyes
    A Kingdome may surprize:
    Leave off thy wanton toiles
    The high borne Prince of Wales
  Is mounted in the field,
    Where the Royall Gentry flocke.
      Though alone
      Nobly borne
    Of a ne're decaying Stocke,
    Cavaleers be bold
    Bravely hold your hold,
    He that loyters
    Is by Traytors
      Bought and sold.

                  3.

  "One Kisse more and yn farewell
      Oh no, no more,
      I prethee giue me ore.
    Why cloudest thou thy beames,
    I see by these extreames,
  A Woman's Heaven or Hell.
    Pray the King may haue his owne,
      And the Queen
      May be seen
    With her babes on England's Throne.
    Rally up your Men,
    One shall vanquish ten,
    Victory we
    Come to try thee
      Once agen.

Query: Who was the author of the above?

F.H.

       *       *       *       *       *

GRAY'S ELEGY.

J.F.M. (Vol. i., p. 101.) remarks, "I would venture to throw out a hint, that an edition of
this Elegy, exhibiting all the known translations, arranged in double columns, might be made
a noble monument to the memory of Gray." It has been asserted that there is scarcely a thought
in this Elegy that Gray has not borrowed from some writer, ancient or modern and if this be
true, I would take the liberty of adding a hint to that of J.F.M., namely, that the proposed
edition should contain a third column, exhibiting all the known plagiarisms in this famous
Elegy. To begin with the first line--

  "The curfew tolls the knell of parting day."

And it is worthy of notice that this passage corresponds with the first line of Giannini's
translation of the Elegy, as quoted by J.F.M.:--

  "Piange la squilla 'l giorno, che si muore."

I must add, however, that long before Lord Byron thought of writing Don Juan, Mr. Cary, in
his excellent translation of the Italian poet, had noticed this plagiarism in Gray; and what
is more, had shown that the principal thought, the "giorno che si muore," was borrowed by Dante
from Statius's

  "Jam moriente die."

    [The preceding communication was accompanied by several others, and by
    the following gratifying letter, which we print as a fresh proof that
    our paper is fulfilling the object for which it was instituted, namely,
    that of promoting literary intercourse between men of letters
    throughout the world and that it is as favourably received by our
    fellow countrymen abroad, as it has been by those who are enabled to
    receive it wet from the press:--

    "Owing to the difficulty of procuring the early numbers of 'NOTES AND
    QUERIES,' especially at this distance from Britain, I have been
    compelled to wait for its publication in a collected form. I am now in
    possession of the first volume, and beg leave to offer you a few Notes
    which have occurred to me on perusing its contents. I am fully sensible
    of the disadvantage of corresponding with you from so remote a corner
    of the globe, and am prepared to find some of my remarks anticipated by
    other correspondents nearer home; but having deeply suffered from the
    literary isolation consequent upon a residence of twenty-one years in
    this country, I shall gladly submit to any disadvantage which shall not
    involve a total exclusion from the means of inter-communication so
    opportunely afforded by your excellent periodical.

    "HENRY H. BREEN."]

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NINEVEH MONUMENTS AND MILTON'S NATIVITY ODE ILLUSTRATED FROM LUCIAN.

Layard in his Nineveh, vol. ii., p. 471., in his description of "the sacred emblems carried
by the priests," says, they are principally the fruit or cone of the pine.

    "... and the square utensil which, as I have already remarked, appears
    to have been of embossed or engraved metal, or of metal carved to
    represent wicker work, or sometimes actually of wicker work."

He adds, that M. Lajard "has shown the connection between the cone of the cypress and the worship
of Venus in the religious systems of the East;" that it has been suggested that "the square
vessel held the holy water," that, "however this may be, it is evident from their constant
occurrence on Assyrian monuments, that they were very important objects in religious ceremonies.
Any attempt to explain their use and their typical {36} meaning, can at present be little better
than ingenious speculation."

There is a passage in Lucian De Dea Syria, § 13., which may serve to elucidate this feature
in the Nineveh marbles. He is referring to the temple of Hierapolis and a ceremony which Deucalion
was said to have introduced, as a memorial of the great flood and the escaping of the waters:

    [Greek: "Dis ekastou eteos ek thalassês ydôr es ton nêon apikneetai;
    pherousi de ouk irees mounon alla pasa Syriê kai Arabiê, kai perêthen
    tou Euphrêteô, polloi anthrôpoi es thalassan erchontai, kai pantes ydôr
    pherousai, ta, prôta men en tôi nêôi ekchrousi,"] &c.

"Twice every year water is brought from the sea to the temple. Not only the priests, but" all
Syria and Arabia, "and many from the country beyond the Euphrates come to the sea, and all
bring away water, which they first pour out in the temple," and then into a chasm which Lucian
had previously explained had suddenly opened and swallowed up the flood of waters which had
threatened to destroy the world. Tyndale, in his recent book on Sardinia, refers to this passage
in support of a similar utensil appearing in the Sarde paganism.

It may be interesting to refer to another passage in the Dea Syria, in which Lucian is describing
the splendour of the temple of Hierapolis; he says that the deities themselves are really present:--

    [Greek: "Kai Theoi de karta autoisi emphanees; idrôei gar dê ôn para
    sphisi ta xoata,"]

When the very images sweat, and he adds, are moved and utter oracles.

L.I.M.

       *       *       *       *       *

MINOR NOTES.

Gaudentio di Lucca.--Sir James Mackinstosh, in his Dissertation on the Progress of Ethical
Philosophy, adverts to the belief that Bishop Berkeley was the author of Gaudentio di Lucca,
but without adopting it.

    "A romance," he says, "of which a journey to an Utopia, in the centre
    of Africa, forms the chief part, called The Adventures of Signor
    Gaudentio di Lucca, has been commonly ascribed to him; probably on no
    other ground than its union of pleasing invention with benevolence and
    elegance."--Works, vol. i. p. 132. ed. 1846.

Sir J. Mackintosh, like most other modern writers who mention the book, seems not to have been
aware of the decisive denial of this report, by Bishop Berkeley's son, inserted in the third
volume of Kippis's Biographia Britannica.

L.

George Wither, the Poet, a Printer (Vol. ii., p. 390.).--In addition to DR. RIMBAULT'S extract
from Wither's Britain's Remembrancer, showing that he printed (or rather composed) every sheet
thereof with his own hand, I find, in a note to Mr. R.A. Willmott's volume of the Lives of
the English Sacred Poets, in that interesting one of George Wither, the following corroboration
of this singular labour of his: the poem, independent of the address to the King and the præmonition,
consisting of between nine and ten thousand lines, many of which, I doubt not, were the production
of his brain while he stood at the printing-case. A MS. note of Mr. Park's, in one of the many
volumes of Wither which I possess, confirms me in this opinion.

    "Ben Jonson, in Time Vindicated, has satirized the custom, then very
    prevalent among the pamphleteers of the day, of providing themselves
    with a portable press, which they moved from one hiding-place to
    another with great facility. He insinuates that Chronomastix, under
    whom he intended to represent Wither, employed one of these presses.
    Thus, upon the entrance of the Mutes,--

  "Fame. What are this pair?

  Eyes. The ragged rascals?

  Fame. Yes.

  Eyes. These rogues; you'd think them rogues,
      But they are friends;
      One is his printer in disguise, and keeps
      His press in a hollow tree."

From this extract it should seem that Wither not only composed the poem at case (the printer's
phrase), but worked it off at press with his own hands.

J.M.G.

Worcester.

"Preached as a dying Man to dying Men" (Vol. i., p. 415.; Vol. ii., p. 28.).--Some time ago
there appeared in this series (Vol. i., p. 415.) a question respecting a pulpit-phrase which
has occasionally been used by preachers, delivering their messages as "dying men to dying men."
This was rightly traced (Vol. ii., p. 28.) to a couplet of the celebrated Richard Baxter, who,
in one of his latest works, speaking of his ministerial exercises, says,--

  "I preach'd as never sure to preach again,
  And as a dying man to dying men."

The passage occurs in one of his "Poetical Fragments," entitled "Love breathing Thanks and Praise."

This small volume of devotional verse is further entitled, Heart Imployment with GOD and Itself;
the concordant Discord of a Broken-healed Heart; Sorrowing, Rejoicing, Fearing, Hoping, Dying,
Living: published for the Use of the Afflicted. The Introduction is dated "London: at the Door
of Eternity, Aug. 7. 1681."

He yet survived ten years, in the course of which he was twice imprisoned and fined under {37}
the profligate and persecuting reigns of Charles II. and James II. for his zeal and piety.

J.M.G.

Hallamshire.

Authors of Anonymous Works.--On the title-page of the first volume of my copy of The Monthly
Intelligencer for 1728 and 1729, which was published anonymously, is written in MS., "By the
Rev. Mr. Kimber."

This book belonged to, and is marked with the autograph of D. Hughes, 1730; but the MS. note
was written by another hand.

P.H.F.

Umbrellas (Vol. ii., pp. 491. 523., &c.).--I have talked with an old lady who remembered the
first umbrella used in Oxford, and with another who described the surprise elicited by the
first in Birmingham. An aunt of mine, born 1754, could not remember when the house was without
one, though in her youth they were little used. May not the word umbrella have been applied
to various sorts of impluvia?

          Tatler, No. 238. Oct. 17. 1710.

This might be applied to an oiled cape, but I think the passage quoted by MR. CORNEY (Vol.
ii., p. 523.) signifies something carried over the head.

H.B.C.

U.U. Club, Jan.

       *       *       *       *       *

QUERIES.

SONNET (QUERY, BY MILTON) ON THE LIBRARY AT CAMBRIDGE.

In a Collection of Recente and Witty Pieces by several eminente hands, London, printed by W.S.
for Simon Waterfou, 1628, p. 109., is the following sonnet, far the best thing in the book:--

  "ON THE LIBRARIE AT CAMBRIDGE.

  "In that great maze of books I sighed and said,--
    It is a grave-yard, and each tome a tombe;
    Shrouded in hempen rags, behold the dead,
    Coffined and ranged in crypts of dismal gloom,
    Food for the worm and redolent of mold,
    Traced with brief epitaph in tarnished gold--
    Ah, golden lettered hope!--ah, dolorous doom!
    Yet mid the common death, where all is cold,
    And mildewed pride in desolation dwells,
    A few great immortalities of old
    Stand brightly forth--not tombes but living shrines,
    Where from high sainte or martyr virtue wells,
    Which on the living yet work miracles,
  Spreading a relic wealth richer than golden mines.

  "J.M. 1627."

Attached to it, it will be seen, are the initials J.M. and the date 1627. Is it possible that
this may be an early and neglected sonnet of Milton? and yet, could Milton have seriously perpetrated
the pun in the second line?

C. HOWARD KENYON.

       *       *       *       *       *

BURYING IN CHURCH WALLS.

(Vol. ii., p. 513.)

MR. W. DURRANT COOPER has mentioned some instances of burials in the walls of churches; it
is not however clear whether in these the monument, or coffin lid, is in the inside or the
outside of the wall.

Stone coffin lids, with and without effigies, are very frequently found placed under low arches
hollowed in the wall in the interior of the church: tombs placed in the exterior of the wall
are much less common; and the singularity of their position, leads one to look for some peculiar
reason for it. Tradition often accounts for it by such stories as those mentioned by MR. COOPER.
Such is the case with a handsome canopied tomb (I think with an effigy) on the south side of
the choir of the cathedral of Lichfield, where we are told that the person interred died under
censure of the church. Other instances which I have noticed, are, at--

Little Casterton, Rutland.--Tomb, with an effigy, apparently of an ecclesiastic, but much decayed,
of the 13th century, in the south wall of the nave.

Warbleton, Sussex.--Circular arch over a sort of altar tomb, no effigy remains. Probably of
the earlier half of the 13th century. In the south wall of chancel.

Basildon, Berks.--A very elegant canopy. There was once an effigy, now destroyed, with the
tomb, and a door made under the canopy! About 1300. In the south wall of the chancel.

Bridewater, Somerset.--Two arches, with foliations, over effigies between them, a door leading,
down to a crypt. The effigies are too much decayed to enable a decided opinion to be formed
as to sex or station. In the north wall of north transept. Date probably between 1270 and 1300.

St. Stephen's, Vienna.--A fine tomb, with canopy and effigy, by the side of the south door
of the nave. Probably of the 14th century.

I have been disposed to think that the most {38} probable motive which may have led to tombs
and effigies, sometimes of an elaborate and costly character, being placed in such exposed
positions, was the desire of obtaining the prayers of the passers-by for the soul of the deceased.
It is worth notice, that the usage seems in England to have been very much limited to the 13th,
or early part of the 14th century. I should, however, be very glad if any one who may possess
information bearing on the subject would communicate it.

N.

       *       *       *       *       *

MINOR QUERIES.

Meaning of Venwell or Venville.--Will you allow me to make the following Query as to the custom
of "Venwell" or "Venville"? Risdon, in his Survey of Devon, states it to be a right enjoyed
by the tenants of land adjoining to Dartmoor of pasturage and cutting turf within the limits
of the forest. He calls it "Fenfield, antiently Fengfield," but makes no allusion to the etymology
of the word, or to the origin of the custom. Some of your correspondents can most probably
afford information on both these points.

R.E.G.

4. Lidlington Place, Harrington Square.

Erasmus and Farel.--In D'Aubigné's History of the Reformation, ii. 149. (White's Translation),
it is said that Erasmus "instead of Farellus would often write Fallicus, thus designating one
of the frankest men of his day with the epithets of cheat and deceiver."

But Mr. Dyer, in his late Life of Calvin, spells the word Phallicus, and supposes it to allude
to some amorous propensities of the reformer.

Which of these authorities are we to believe?

J.C.R.

Early Culture of the Imagination.--I have somewhere read, possibly in an article of the Quarterly
Review, the opinion very strikingly expressed, and attributed to Mr. Lockhart, that children's
imaginative faculty ought to be more prominently cultivated than their reason; and, on this
ground, the reading of Fairy Tales, The Arabian Nights, &c. was recommended for children. Will
any one kindly refer me to this passage? And, as it is wanted for an immediate purpose, an
early insertion and reply to this query will oblige me.

ALFRED GATTY.

Sir Thomas Bullen's Drinking Horn.--Does any one know whether the drinking horn which belonged
to Sir Thomas Bullen still exists? By the will it was directed to be kept as a heir-loom.

P.

Peter Sterry.--In the title-page and address to the reader of Peter Sterry's Appearance of
God to Man in the Gospel, &c., and other his posthumous discourses, 4to. 1710, mention is made
of certain miscellaneous tracts, letters, &c., taken from original MSS. left by him, whose
publication was made to depend on the success of the above work. Sterry was spoken of by Baxter
in complimentary terms, notwithstanding his peculiar sentiments and manner of writing; and
in a MS. note on the title-page of Sterry's Discourse of the Freedom of the Will, folio, 1675,
he is said to have been "chaplain first to Lord Brooke, afterwards to Oliver Cromwell." If
any of your readers can say whether the "miscellaneous tracts," &c., were ever published, and,
if not, where the MSS. are likely to be found, with any further information concerning him,
which is desired by many persons deeply interested in his history and writings, it will confer
a favour on me.

Lord Clarendon notices a work of Sir Harry Vane (who was an associate of Sterry's), entitled
Love to God, &c.[1] I should also be glad to know where that work may be found.

[Footnote 1:  [The title of Vane's work is, Of the Love of God, and Union with God, 4to. 1657.
It is not to be found in the Catalogues of the British Museum, Bodleian, Sion College, D. Williams'
library, or London Institution.]]

J.P.

"Words are Men's Daughters," &c.--

  "Words are men's daughters, but God's sons are things."

Where does this verse occur? Who was the author? Can any parallel passages be adduced?

T.J.

Robert Henryson--Gawyn Douglas.--Complete uniform editions of the poems of these celebrated
authors, accompanied with biographical notices and illustrative notes, being a desideratum
in Scottish literature, permit me to ask, through the medium of your entertaining and useful
"NOTES AND QUERIES," if such publications be in contemplation by any of the various literary
societies, or individual member thereof, in this kingdom; and if so, are they likely to appear
soon?

T.G.S.

Edinburgh, Dec. 31. 1850.

Darby and Joan.--Can any of your readers refer me to a copy of the ballad of Darby and Joan?
There is a tradition in the parish of Helaugh, near Tadcaster, that they were inhabitants of
that village, and that the ballad is the composition of some poet who was a constant visitor
to the Duke of Wharton, when living in the manor house.

H.

William Chilcot.--As I am about to reprint an excellent little work, entitled, Practical Treatise
concerning Evil Thoughts, by William Chilcot, can any of your readers give me any account of
his life? The work was originally, I believe, printed in Exeter, 1698, or thereabouts, as I
find it in a {39} catalogue of "Books printed for and sold by Philip Bishop, at the Golden
Bible over against the Guildhall in Exon, 1702." It was reprinted, "London, 1734," for "Edward
Score, over against the Guildhall in Exeter." And again (privately), a few years ago. Of the
first edition I have never seen a copy, although I am not aware that it is particularly scarce;
of the second, copies are not uncommon.

If any of your readers could communicate any information regarding the author, I should feel
much obliged.

RICHARD HOOPER.

University Club, Suffolk Street.

Benj. Wheeler's Theological Lectures.--In the year 1819 was published Vol. i. of the Theological
Lectures of Benjamin Wheeler, late Regius Professor of Divinity in Oxford. In the preface,
it is said--

    "The first of the three volumes, in which the Lectures will be
    comprised, is offered to the public as an experiment of its disposition
    towards the completion of the work; the favourable entertainment of
    which will determine the editor's purpose of sending the two remaining
    volumes after it with all convenient expedition."

Can any of your readers inform me whether the MSS. of the two unpublished volumes are preserved,
and where they are to be found?

W.A.

Sir Alexander Cumming.--A Nova Scotia baronet, living in 1730, of Coulter, called by some,
"King of the Cherokees." He married Elizabeth, one of the last coheiresses of the ancient family
of Dennis, of Pucclechurch, co. Gloucester. Where may be found any account of his connection
with the Cherokees; also any thing of his death or descendants?

S.S.

Cross between a Wolf and Hound.--May I call the attention of such of your correspondents as
are versed in natural history, to an account that I have lately received from a gentleman of
intelligence, education, and undoubted veracity. I am informed by him that he has lately seen,
in the south of France, a she-wolf that had been caught at a very early age, and brought up
on very friendly terms with a kennel of hounds. The animal had come to its maturity when my
friend observed it and its good understanding with its canine neighbours had never been interrupted.
So far from it, indeed, that the she-wolf has had and reared a litter of pups by one of the
dogs, and does duty in hunting as well as any dog of the pack. Buffon states that he had found
that an experiment continued for a considerable time, to bring about the like result between
the like animals, never showed the least appearance of success. The circumstances which he
mentions as to the capture and habits of the she-wolf are nearly the same as I have above described,
and from the failure of the experiments, Buffon doubted the possibility of any sexual conjunction
between these kinds of animals. Some of your correspondents may be able to say how far subsequent
observation confirms Buffon's conclusion.

T----N.

Athenæum.

Landwade Church, and Moated Grange.--About five miles from the town of Newmarket, the metropolis
of the racing world, and from Eening, a village in the county of Suffolk, there is a secluded
hamlet called "Landwade," which contains a "moated grange," and a church to all appearances
very ancient.

The church contains several antique tombs, together with curious monumental brasses, nearly
all, I believe I may say all, to the memory of the Cotton family; amongst whom, judging from
the inscriptions, were crusaders and knights of mighty emprize, and other worthies. There is
only one grave and gravestone in the churchyard, and that is to an old domestic servant of
the said Cotton family.

Can any of your readers or antiquaries give any information touching the church, the ancient
tombs and effigies, the Cotton family, the grange, &c.

When a boy I used to look upon the old house and the quaint little church with a deal of awe.

It is very distressing, but I cannot find any published account of this ancient and remarkable
place and its antiquities.

JONATHAN OLDBUCK, JUN.

Dr. Bolton, Archbishop of Cashel.--Any information respecting the family, the arms, or descent
of Doctor Theophilus Bolton, Archbishop of Cashel, in the early part of the last century, will
oblige.

X.X.

Dec. 31. 1850.

Genealogy of the Talbots.--In some of the printed genealogies of the Talbots, to whose ancestry
you have lately made several references, descent is claimed for that noble family from the
emperors of the East, through Anne, wife of Henry I., King of France, and daughter of Iaroslaf,
or Georges, King of Russia, whose father, the great Vladimir, married Anne, sister of Basilius,
Emperor of Byzantium.

Now that excellent authority, L'Art de Vérifier les Dates, gives the date of 988 for the conquest
of the Chersonese by Vladimir and his marriage with the emperor's sister, and that of 978 for
the birth of Iaroslaf, who must, therefore, be a son of one of the many concubines mentioned
in that work as preceding his wife Anne.

Can the rare honour of descent from the Eastern emperors be substantiated by the correspondents
who appear to take interest in the pedigree of this house?

I may add, that L'Art de Vérifier les Dates, though seldom incorrect, seems to err when it
asserts Enguerherde, wife of the above-named Iaroslaf, to be {40} the daughter of Olaus, or
Olaf, "King of Norway, and not of Sweden," as the Heims Kringla of Snorro Sturleson gives a
long account of the betrothal of Ingigerd or Enguerherde, daughter of Olaf Ericson, King of
Sweden, to St. Olaf, King of Norway, and of her subsequent marriage to Iaroslaf, or Jarislief,
King of Russia.

Can you say where the best pedigree of the early kings of Sweden is to be found?

E.H.Y.

Robertson of Muirtown (Vol. ii., p. 253.).--In thanking A.R.X. for his reference to a pedigree
of Robertson of Muirtown, I should be glad if he can explain to me the connection with that
branch of George Robertson, of St. Anne's, Soho, who lived in the middle of the last century,
and married Elizabeth Love, of Ormsby, co. Norfolk. He was uncle, I believe, to Mr. Robertson
Barclay (who assumed the last name), of Keavil, co. Fife, and nearly related, though I cannot
say in what degree, to William Robertson, of Richmond, whose daughter Isabella married David
Dundas, created a baronet by George III., and one of whose granddaughters was married to Sir
James Moncreiff, and another to Dr. Sumner, the present Archbishop of Canterbury. This William
Robertson, I believe sold the Muirtown property. Is he one of those mentioned in the work to
which A.R.X. has referred me? and was he the first cousin to Robertson the historian? Perhaps
A.R.X. can also say whether the arms properly borne by the Muirtown branch are those given
to them in Burke's Armory, viz. Gu. three crescents interlaced or, between as many wolves'
heads erased arg. armed and langued az., all within a bordure of the third, charged with eight
mullets of the first. The late Rev. Love Robertson, Prebendary of Hereford (son of the above
George Robertson), was accustomed to use: Gu. three wolves' heads erased arg., armed and langued
az., which are the arms of the original stock of Strowan. As I am entitled to quarter his coat,
I should be glad to know the correct blazonry.

C.R.M.

Booty's Case.--Where can an authentic report be found of "Booty's case," and before what judge
was it tried? The writer would also be obliged with an account of the result of the case, and
a note of the summing up, as far as it is to be ascertained. The case is said to be well known
in the navy.

DEMONOLOGIST.

    [We have seen it stated that this case was tried in the Court of King's
    Bench about the year 1687 or 1688.]

Did St. Paul's Clock ever strike Thirteen.--There is a very popular tradition that a soldier,
who was taxed with having fallen asleep at midnight, whilst on guard, managed to escape the
severe punishment annexed to so flagrant a dereliction of duty, by positively averring, as
evidence of his having been "wide awake," that he had heard the clock of St. Paul's Cathedral
strike thirteen at the very time at which he was charged with having indulged in forbidden
slumbers. The tradition of course adds, indeed this is its point, that, upon inquiry, it was
found that the famous horary monitor of London city had, "for that night only," actually treated
those whose ears were open, with the, till then, unheard of phenomenon of "thirteen to the
dozen." Can any of your readers state how this story originated, or whether it really has any
foundation in fact?

HENRY CAMPKIN.

Jan. 9. 1851.

       *       *       *       *       *

REPLIES.

DRAGONS.

(Vol. ii., p. 517.)

The subject on which R.S. jun. writes in No. 61. is one of so much interest in many points
of view, that I hope that a few notices relating to it may not be considered unworthy of insertion
in "NOTES AND QUERIES."

In Murray's Handbook of Northern Italy, mention is made, in the account of the church of St.
Maria delle Grazie, near Mantua, of a stuffed lizard, crocodile, or other reptile, which is
preserved suspended in the church. This is said to have been killed in the adjacent swamps,
about the year 1406. It is stated to be six or seven feet long.

Eight or ten years ago, I saw an animal of the same order, and about the same size, hanging
from the roof of the cathedral of Abbeville, in Picardy. I then took it for a small crocodile,
but I cannot say positively that it was one. I am not sure whether it still remains in the
cathedral. I do not know whether any legend exists respecting this specimen, or whether it
owed its distinguished post to its being deemed an appropriate ornament.

At the west door of the cathedral of Cracow are hanging some bones, said to have belonged to
the dragon which inhabited the cave at the foot of the rock (the Wawel) on which the cathedral
and the royal castle stand; and was destroyed by Krak, the founder of the city. I regret that
my want of osteological science prevented me from ascertaining to what animal these bones had
belonged. I thought them the bones of some small species of whale.

I hope that some competent observer may inform us of what animals these and the lindwurm at
Brünn are the remains.

It has struck me as possible that the real history of these crocodiles or alligators, if they
are such, may be, that they were brought home by crusaders as specimens of dragons, just as
Henry the Lion, Duke of Brunswick, brought from the Holy Land the antelope's horn which had
been palmed upon {41} him as a specimen of a griffin's claw, and which may still be seen in
the cathedral of that city. That they should afterwards be fitted with appropriate legends,
is not surprising.

Some years since, when walking down the valley of St. Nicholas, on the south side of the Valais,
my guide, a native of the valley, pointed out to me a wood on the mountain side, and told me
that therein dwelt great serpents, about 24 feet long, which carried off lambs from the pastures.
He had, however, never seen one of these monsters, but had only seen those who had, and I failed
in procuring any testimony of a more decisive character. My guide, however, affirmed that their
existence was generally believed in the valley.

N.

       *       *       *       *       *

ORIGIN OF THE FAMILY NAME OF BACON.

(Vol. ii., p. 247.)

The Query proposed by NOCAB evidently possesses some interest, having already elicited two
or three replies. I trust, therefore, I shall be excused for submitting yet another solution,
which appears to me more satisfactory, if not conclusive. The answers to such questions are
for the most part merely ingenious conjectures; but these to be of weight, should be supported
by antiquarian learning. They claim perhaps more regard when they seem to elucidate collateral
difficulties; but are of most value when authenticated by independent evidence, especially
the evidence of documents or of facts. Fortunately, in the case before us, all these desiderata
are supplied.

Old Richard Verstegan, famous for Saxon lore and archæological research, explains it thus:--

    "Bacon, of the Beechen tree, anciently called BUCON; and, whereas
    swinesflesh is now called by the name of BACON, it grew only at the
    first unto such as were fatted with BUCON or beechmast."--Chap. ix.
    p. 299.

There is one agreeable feature in this explanation, viz., that it professes somewhat naturally
to account for the mysterious relation between the flesh of the unclean animal, and the name
of a very ancient and honourable family. But its chief value is to be found in the singular
authentication of it which I accidentally discovered in Collins's Baronetage. In the very ample
and particular account there given of the pedigree of the Premier Baronet, it will be seen
that the first man who assumed the surname of Bacon, was one William (temp. Rich. I.), a great
grandson of the Grimbaldus, who came over with the Conqueror and settled in Norfolk. Of course
there was some reason for his taking that name; and though Collins makes no comment on it,
he does in fact unconsciously supply that reason (elucidated by Verstegan) by happily noting
of this sole individual, that he bore for his arms, "argent, a beech tree proper!" Thank you,
Mr. Collins! thank you kindly, Richard Verstegan! You are both excellent and honest men. You
cannot have been in collusion. You have not, until now, even reaped the merit of truthfulness
and accuracy, which you silently reflect upon each other. The family name, Bacon, then, undoubtedly
signifies "of the beechen tree," and is therefore of the same class with many others such as
ash, beech, &c., latinized in ancient records by De Fraxino, De Fago, &c.

The motto of the Somersetshire Bacons, noticed by NOCAB, when read as written, is supposed
to be in the ablative case; when transposed, the evident ellipse may be supplied ad libitum.
From Grimbaldus, downwards, it does not appear that these beechen men ever signalized themselves
by deeds of arms, the favourite boast of heralds and genealogists. Nor indeed could we expect
them to have "hearts of oak." But several have rendered the name illustrious by their contributions
to literature, science, and the fine arts. Its appropriateness, therefore, must be apology
for the motto; which, like most others, is by no means too modest and unassuming.

Duly blushing, I subscribe myself, yours,

PROBA CONSCIENTIA.

P.S. The pedigree of the Norfolk Bacons is one of the most perfect in the Herald's College.
Any of your readers fond of genealogy might find himself repaid in seeking further information
regarding the particular coat of arms above referred to, and might throw still more light on
the subject.

In Vol. ii., p. 247., your correspondent, NOCAB, quotes (without reference) the remark en passant
of a previous correspondent "that the word bacon had the obsolete signification of 'dried wood.'"
I have searched in vain for this allusion in your preceding Numbers.[2] The information is
too curious, however, to be lost sight of. The Saxon word bacon is, without doubt, simply and
purely beechen--pertaining to, or relating to the beech tree.

It is probable enough, therefore, that the word has borne the signification of "dried wood."
But it is very desirable to know on what authority the assertion rests. Will your correspondent
refer us to the book? Or can any of your learned readers say how, where, and when bacon has
signified "dried wood?"

The subject is well worth the bestowal of some pains upon its elucidation; for the meaning
and derivation of the word bacon, both as a substantive noun and as a proper name, have been
frequently discussed by etymologists and philologists for the last 300 years; and yet, apparently,
without any satisfactory determination of the question. The family is ancient, and has been
highly distinguished {42} in literature, and science and art. The pedigree is one of the most
perfect on record. But Lord Bacon himself, "who knew everything" else, knew nothing of his
own name.

[Footnote 2: See vol. ii., p. 138.]

SAMOHT NEHCEEB.

Meaning of Bacon (Vol. ii., pp. 138. 247.).--As, on reconsideration, I perceive there is some
doubt as to the meaning of the word bacons in Foulques Fitzwarin, I send you the passage in
which it occurs, that your readers may form their own opinion concerning it:--

    "Pus après, furent les portes de le chastel, qe treblées erent, ars e
    espris par feu que fust illumée de bacons e de grece."

I must in addition add, that I was mistaken as to the meaning of hosebaunde, which was possibly
only the French mode of writing husband.

B.W.

       *       *       *       *       *

REPLIES TO MINOR QUERIES.

Cockade (Vol. iii., p.7.).--The black cockade worn by the officers of the army and navy is
the relic of a custom which probably dated from the Hanoverian succession; the black cockade
being the Hanoverian badge, the white that of the Stuart. In Waverley, when the hero for the
first time meets the Baron Bradwardine, he is accosted by the latter thus:--

    "And so ye have mounted the cockade? Right, right; though I could have
    wished the colour different."

APODLIKTES.

Erechtheum Club.

Form of Prayer for King's Evil.--Mr. Lathbury, in his Convocation, p. 361., states that this
form appeared in Prayer-book of 1709. This was not, however, its earliest appearance, as it
is found in a quarto one bearing date 1707, printed by the Queen's printers, Charles Bill and
the Executrix of Thomas Newcomb. It occurs immediately before the Articles, and is simply entitled,
"At the healing."

N.E.R. (a Subscriber.)

    [Prayers at the Healing may be found in Sparrow's Collection of
    Articles, Injunctions, Canons, &c., p. 223. 4to. 1661. The Loyal Dales Volunteers were
surnamed "The Haver-cake Lads." Previously to seeing the Note of G.M., I
imagined the "aver" to be derived from "avena" (Lat.), "avoine" (Fr.). What
dictionary defines "aver" (French) as denoting the annual stock or
produce of a farm?

D.2.

E.M., in his Note on J. MN.'s remarks on hogs, mentions that the term aver, averium, is still
used in Guernsey. Is not this word closely connected with the Eber of the German Jägers?

E.H.K.

Pilgarlic (Vol. ii., p. 393.).--Sir John Denham spelt this word Peel-garlick--it may be found
in one of his Directions to a Painter--but the passage in which it appears is scarcely fit
for quotation. The George of the couplet referred to was Albemarle, who had been wounded during
the fight in the part of his person which Hudibras alludes to when he tells us that one wound there

                  "hurts honour more
  Than twenty wounds laid on before."

Denham seems to compare Albemarle's wounded buttocks to a peeled onion! The resemblance (to
Denham) would account for his use of the word in this instance; but it is pretty evident that
the word was not coined by him. We must, at least, give him credit for a witty application of it.

Carlisle.

Collar of Esses (Vol. ii., p. 393.).--With reference to the suggestion in No. 54., to give
examples of effigies bearing the collar, I beg to mention those at Northleigh Church, Oxon.
The following extract is from the Guide to Neighbourhood of Oxford:--

    "In Northleigh church, beneath an arch between the chancel and a
    chapel, is a fine perpendicular tomb, with two recumbent figures in
    alabaster,--a knight in armour, with the Collar of SS; the lady with a
    rich turban and reticulated head-dress, and also with the Collar of SS.
    The figures are Lord and Lady Wilmot; and attached to the monument are
    two small figures of angels holding shields of arms; on one is a spread
    eagle, on the other three cockle shells, with an engrailed band."

JASPER.

Filthy Gingram (Vol. ii., p. 467.).--The name "toad-flax" is evidently put by mistake, in Owen's
Dictionary, for "toad-stool," a fungus, the Agaricus virosus of Linnæus. The common name in
the North of England is "poisonous toad-stool." It is a virulent poison. See * 248. 407, 408.,
in Sowerby's English Fungi.

D.2.

Toad-flax, the yellow Antirrhinum, certainly does stink.

C.B.

The Life and Death of Clancie, by E.S. (Vol. ii., p. 375.).--There is a copy in the Bodleian
Library.

J.O.H.

"Rab. Surdam" (Vol. ii., p. 493.).--EDINENSIS. gives the above as the inscription on a tomb-stone,
and requests an explanation. It is very probable that the stone-cutter made a mistake, and
cut "Rab. Surdam" instead of "Rap. Surum," which would be a contraction for "Rapax Suorum,"
alluding to Death or the Grave. It seems {43} impossible to extract a meaning, from "Rab. Surdam"
by any stretch of Latinity.

G.F.G.

Edinburgh.

"Fronte Capillatâ," &c. (Vol. iii., p. 8.).--The hexameter cited vol. iii., p. 8., and rightly
interpreted by E.H.A., is taken (with the slight alteration of est for the original es) from
"Occasio: Drama, P. Joannis David, Soc. Jesu Sacerd. Antv. MDCV.," appended to that writer's
Occasio, Arrepta, Neglecta; in which the same implied moral is expressed, with this variation:

  "Fronte capillitium gerit, ast glabrum occiput illi."

L.

Taylor's Holy Living.--I should be obliged by any of your readers kindly informing me whether
there is any and what foundation for the statement in the Morning Chronicle of Dec. 27th last,
that that excellent work, Holy Living, which I have always understood to be Bishop Taylor's,
"is now known" (so says a constant reader) "not to be the production of that great prelate,
but to have been written by a Spanish friar. On this account it is not included in the works
of Bishop Taylor, lately printed at the Oxford University Press." I do not possess the Oxford
edition here mentioned, so cannot test the accuracy of the assertion in the last sentence but
if the first part of the above extract be correct, it is, to say the least, singular that Mr.
Bohn, in his recent edition of the work, should be entirely silent on the subject. I should
like to know who and what is this "Spanish friar?" has he not "a local habitation and a name?"

W.R.M.

    [A fraud was practised on the memory of Bishop Jeremy Taylor soon after
    his death, in ascribing to him a work entitled Contemplations of the
    State of Man in this Life, and in that which is to come, and which
    Archdeacon Churton, in A Letter to Joshua Watson, Esq., has shown,
    with great acuteness and learning, was in reality a compilation from a
    work written by a Spanish Jesuit, named John Eusebius Nieremberg. The
    treatise Holy Living and Dying is unquestionably Bishop Taylor's, and
    forms Vol. III. of his works, now in the course of publication under
    the editorship the Rev. Charles Page Eden.]

Portrait of Bishop Henchman (Vol. iii., p. 8.).--Your correspondent Y.Y. is informed, that
there is in the collection of the Earl of Clarendon, at the Grove, a full-length portrait of
Bishop Henchman, by Sir Peter Lely. This picture, doubtless, belonged to the Chancellor Clarendon.
Lord Clarendon, in his History of the Rebellion, b. xiii. (vol. vi. p. 540. ed. Oxford, 1826),
describes the share which Dr. Henchman, then a prebendary of Salisbury, had in facilitating
the escape of Charles II., after the battle of Worcester. Dr. Henchman conducted the king to
a place called Heale, near Salisbury, then belonging to Serjeant Hyde, afterwards made chief
justice of the King's Bench by his cousin the chancellor.

L.

Lines attributed to Charles Yorke (Vol. ii., p. 7.).--The editor of Bishop Warburton's Literary
Remains is informed, that the lines transcribed by him, "Stript to the naked soul," &c., have
been printed lately in a work entitled The Sussex Garland, published by James Taylor, formerly
an eminent bookseller at Brighton, but now removed to Newick, Sussex. The lines appear to have
been written on Mrs. Grace Butler, who died at Rowdel, in Sussex, in the 86th year of her age,
by Alexander Pope, but, according to Taylor, not inserted in any edition of Pope's works. The
lines will be found in the 9th and 10th Nos. of The Sussex Garland, p. 285., under "Warminghurst."

W.S.

Richmond, Surrey.

Rodolph Gualter (Vol. iii., p. 8.).--

    "Rodolph Gualter naquit à Zurich en 1519, et y mourut en 1586. Il fit
    ses études dans sa ville natale, à Lausanne, à Marbourg, et en
    Angleterre. Rodolph, son fils, mort en 1577, avait fait de très bonnes
    études à Genève, en Allemagne, et à l'université d'Oxford."

The above I have extracted from the account of him given in the Biographie Universelle, which
refers as authority to "J.B. Huldrici Gualtherus redivivus seu de vita et morte Rod. Gualtheri
oratio, 1723," in the Biblioth. Bremens., viii. p. 635. In this memoir I find it stated:

    "quod Gualtherus noster unà cum Nicolao Partrigio Anglo in Angliam iter
    suscepit. Quatuor illud mensibus et aliquot diebus finitum est,
    inciditque in annum seculi trigesimum."

But neither in this, nor in the account of his life by Melchior Adam, nor in that contained
in Rose's Biographical Dictionary, can I find any trace of the opinion that he was a Scotchman;
and as Huldricus was himself a professor in the Athenæum at Zurich, he would probably be correctly
informed on the subject.

TYRO.

Dublin.
          See Ellis' Specimens of Early English Poets, ii. p. 136.

{44}

  "And as they more esteeme that merth
    Than dread the night's annoy,
  So must we deeme our dayes on erth
    But hell to heauenly joye."
          Good morrowe; see Farr's Select Poetry, &c., p. 38.

  "High heaven, in mercy to your sad annoy,
  Still greets you with glad tidings of immortal joy."
          Christian year, "Christmas Day."

H.G.T.

Culprit, Origin of the Word (Vol. ii., p. 475.).--See Stephen's Commentaries on the Laws of
England, iv. 408. note (p).

C.H. COOPER.

Cambridge, Dec. 14. 1850.

Passage in Bishop Butler (Vol. ii., p. 464.).--The "peculiar term" referred to by Bishop Butler
is evidently the verb "to Blackguard." It is for this reason that he inserts the condition,
"when the person it respects is present." We may abuse, revile, vituperate an absent person;
but we can only "blackguard" a man when he is present. The word "blackguard" is not recognised
by Johnson. Richardson inserts it as a noun, but not as a verb.

L.

Wat the Hare (Vol. ii., p. 315.).--Your correspondent K. asks what other instances there are
of Wat as the name of a hare? I know of one. On the market-house at Watton the spandrils of
an Elizabethan doorway have been placed, taken from some old building in the town. This has
a hare on one side, a ton on the other,--a rebus of the town name Watton.

H.H.

The Letter Yogh (Vol. ii., p. 492.).--Yerl for Earl, and yirth for earth, &c., are, to this
day, quite common in Scottish orthoëpy among many of the lower classes.

G.F.G.

Did Elizabeth visit Bacon at Twickenham Park? (Vol. ii., pp. 408. 468.).--To this question
your correspondent J.I.D. replies with a quotation from Nicols (edition of 1823), who dates
her visit in 1592 or 1593. I had looked into Nichols's first edition (1788) without finding
the subject mentioned; and I am now inclined to think, as at first, that it is altogether a
misapprehension. Sir Francis Bacon, in His Apologie in Certaine Imputations concerning the
late Earl of Essex, written to the Right Hon. his very Good Lord the Earle of Devonshire, Lord-lieutenant
of Ireland. Lond. 1604, in 16mo. pp. 74., says, at p. 32.:--

    "A little before that time, being about the middle of Michaelmas terme,
    her Maiestie had a purpose to dine at my Lodge at Twickna[m] Parke, at
    which time I had (though I professe not to be a poet) prepared a
    Sonnet, directly tending and alluding to draw on her Maiesties
    reconciliation to my Lord," &c. &c.

This I conceive to have reference to an intention of Elizabeth, rather than to an accomplished
fact.

At p. 14. of this work, Bacon says he had sold Twickenham park some time ago to Reynold Nicholas.
I consider Lysons to have been the first author who mentions the subject and at Environs, vol.
iii. (1795), p. 565., there is a note: "From the information of the Earl of Orford." And I
therefore conclude it to have been some mistake of Lord Orford's.

YOUR FORMER CORRESPONDENT.

Dec. 27. 1850.

Mock-Beggar (Vol. ii., p. 478.).--The origin of this term was discussed in the Gentleman's
Magazine in 1840. Two localities so called were cited (vol. xiv. p. 114.), with the opinion
of Sir William Burrell, that some buildings so named at Brighton had been "a mendicant priory."
Another writer (p. 331.) suggested that the term was applied to country houses when deserted
or unoccupied; or to rocks, as one near Bakewell, where the semblance of a ham might attract
a wayfarer from the high road, only to deceive his expectations of relief.

J.G.N.

Cardinal Chalmers (Vol. ii., p. 493.).--The insignia mentioned by your correspondent S.P.,
in No. 60, are very common among Roman Catholic ecclesiastics on the Continent, and are frequently
to be seen on tombs. The hat and tassels are appropriated to Notaries Apostolic of the Holy
Roman See, as well as to Cardinals and the dignity having some privileges attached to it, it
is sought after by ecclesiastics of standing.

HYDE CLARKE.

Binsey, God help me! (Vol. i., p. 247.).--I remember the same words respecting the village
of Binsey, half-way between Oxford and Godstow. During the winter and spring months it was
nearly all under water, like Port Meadow, on the opposite side of the river: so if you asked
a Binseyite in winter where he came from, the answer was as above; if in summer, "Binsey, where
else?"

CHAS. PASLAM.

Midwives Licensed (Vol. ii., p. 408.).--On this subject I would refer S.P.H.T. to Burn's Ecclesiastical
Law, under the head of "Midwives," which is all nearly that can be ascertained at present on
that head. Among other things it says in the oath taken of them,--

    "You shall not in anywise use or exercise any manner of witchcraft,
    charm, or sorcery, invocation, or other prayers, than may stand with
    God's law and the king's."

M.C.R.

Dr. Timothy Thruscross (Vol. ii., p. 441.)--There are frequent notices of Dr. Thristcross,
or Thruscross, in Dr. Worthington's correspondence. (See Vol. i. of same, edited for the Chetham
Society. Index, voc. "Thristcross.") Dr. Worthington observes, p. 219., "I did love to talk
with worthy Mr. Thirstcross, who knew Mr. Ferrar and Little Gidding."

JAS. CROSSLEY.

{45}

History of Bohemian Persecution (Vol. ii., p. 358.).--See note to Worthington's Diary and Correspondence,
vol. i. p. 154., for a notice of this work of Comenius, and his other publications relating
to the Bohemian church.

JAS. CROSSLEY.

"Earth has no Rage"

These are the concluding lines of Act III. of Congreve's Mourning Bride.

JAS. CROSSLEY.

Manchester, 11. Jan. 1851.

Couplet in De Foe (vol. ii., p. 310.).

See collection of his writings, vol. i. p. 20., edit. 1703.

JAS. CROSSLEY.

Private memoirs of Queen Elizabeth (Vol. iii., p. 23.).--"The Secret History of the most renowned
Queen Elizabeth and the Earl of Essex. In two parts. By a person of Quality. Cologne: printed
for Will with the Wisp, at the Sign of the Moon in the Ecliptick. M.D.CLXXXI."--is the title
of a small volume in my possession, containing some curious hints corroborative of the first
part of Mr. Ives' MS. note mentioned in "NOTES AND QUERIES" (Vol. iii. p. 11.). If this be
the book to which your correspondent, J.E.C., refers in your last number, he is perfectly welcome
to the perusal of my copy.

WILLIAM J.D. ROPER.

Vane House, Hampstead, Jan. 18. 1851.

Abbot's House at Buckden (Vol. ii., p. 494.).--MR. C.H. COOPER asks, "will M.C.R. explain his
allusion to the Abbot's House at Buckden?" Being only an occasional visitor there, I can give
no other explanation than it is universally called so by the inhabitants of the place. The
house is very low-roomed, and only one story high; it has been compoed over, so that there
is nothing very ancient in the look of the brickwork, excepting the chimneys, which form a
cluster in the centre. The door I mentioned, evidently is an ancient one. A good deal of iron
about it, and in square compartments.

When I was there recently, I was informed of a discovery in a public-house formerly called
the Lion--now, the Lamb. A gentleman in the place came into possession of some pamphlets respecting
Buckden; in one of which it is said, that this house was originally the hostel where the visitors
and domestics used to go when the bishop had not room at the palace for them, and that it would
be found there was an "Agnus Dei" in the ceiling of one of the lower rooms. The consequence
was, search was made for it: and what seemed a plain boss, where two beams crossed each other,
on being cleansed and scraped, turned out to be as the book said, and which I saw only last
week. The clergyman has the pamphlet above alluded to. Whether this, and the abbot's house,
belonged to the palace I cannot say. The road now runs between them.

The "Agnus Dei" is seven or eight inches in diameter; the lamb, &c., in the centre, and the
words "Ecce Agnus Dei" in a circular border round it.

This is all the information I can now give.

M.C.R.

Bab in the Bowster (Vol. ii., p. 518.).--In your valuable periodical your correspondent "MAC."
makes an observation regarding "Bab in the Bowster," which is not correct so far as regards
this part of the country at least. He says "it is now danced with a handkerchief instead of
a cushion," whereas the fact is I have never seen it danced but with a pillow, as its name
"Bab in the Bowster (Anglice bolster)" would seem to denote.

To which the dancer replies:

  "Mother learn'd me to dance, me to dance, me to dance,
  Mother learn'd me to dance, Bab in the Bowster brawly."

He or she then lays down the pillow before one of the opposite sex, when they both kneel on
it and kiss; the person to whom the pillow has been presented going over the above again, &c,
till the company tires.

I may add that the above is a favourite dance here, particularly among young people, and at
children's parties in particular it is never omitted. If your correspondent wishes the air
to which it is danced, I shall be glad to send it to him.

GLENIFFER.

Paisley.

Sir Cloudesley Shovel (Vol. iii., p. 23.).--"H.J." will find a "Note" in Cunningham's Lives
of Eminent Englishmen (vol. iv. p. 47.), of the circumstances attendant upon Sir Cloudesley's
death, as preserved in the family of the Earl of Romney, detailing the fact of his murder,
and the mode of {46} its discovery. I shall be happy to supply your correspondent with an extract,
if he has not the above work at hand.

J.B. COLMAR.

Noli me tangere (Vol. ii., p. 153.).--In addition to the painters already enumerated as having
treated this subject, the artist Le Sueur, commonly called the Raphael of France, may be mentioned.
In his picture, the figures are somewhat above half nature.

W.J. MERCER.

Cad (Vol. i., p.250.).--Jamieson derives this word, or rather its Scotch diminutive, "cadie,"
from the French, cadet. I have heard it fancifully traced to the Latin "cauda."

W.J. MERCER.

       *       *       *       *       *

MISCELLANEOUS.

NOTES ON BOOKS, SALES, CATALOGUES, ETC.

Mr. Disraeli's work, entitled Commentaries on the Life and Reign of Charles the First, has
been pronounced by one of the great critical authorities of our own days, "the most important
work" on the subject that modern times have produced. Those who differ from Mr. Disraeli's
view of the character of the king and the part he played in the great drama of his age may,
in some degree, dissent from this eulogy. None will, however, deny that the work, looking to
its anecdotical character, and the great use made in it of sources of information hitherto
unemployed, is one of the most amusing as well as interesting histories of that eventful period.
While those who share with the editor, Mr. B. Disraeli, and many reflecting men, the opinion
that in the great questions which are now agitating the public mind, history is only repeating
itself; and that the "chapters on the Genius of the Papacy; on the Critical Position of our
earlier Protestant Sovereigns with regard to their Roman Catholic Subjects, from the consequences
of the oaths of Allegiance and Supremacy; on the Study of Polemical Divinity prevalent at the
commencement of the Seventeenth Century, and kindred themes, are, in fact, the history of the
events, the thoughts, the passions, and the perplexities of the present agitated epoch," will
agree that the republication of the work at this moment is at once opportune and acceptable.

We have received a copy of Dr. Rimbault's Musical Illustrations of Bishop Percy's Reliques
of Ancient English Poetry: a Collection of Old Ballad Tunes, chiefly from rare MSS. and Early
printed Books, deciphered from the obsolete Notation, and harmonized and arranged according
to Modern Usage. If any thing could add to the extensive popularity which Percy's work has
continued to enjoy ever since its first appearance, (for have we not Washbourne's handsome
reprint of it, published within this year or two?) it must be the quaint and racy melodies,
the "old antique strains," to which these fine old ballads were anciently sung. Dr. Rimbault,
who combines great musical acquirements with a rich store of antiquarian knowledge, in giving
us these, has produced a work as carefully executed as it is original in its character; one
which can only be exceeded in interest by the Musical Illustrations of Shakspeare's Plays,
which we are glad to see promised from the same competent authority.

We are at length enabled to announce that The Treatise on Equivocation, so often referred to
in our columns, is about to be published under the editorship of Mr. Jardine, whose attention
has long been directed to it from its connexion with the Gunpowder Conspiracy; and whose intimate
acquaintance with that subject, as shown in his Criminal Trials, is a sufficient pledge for
his ability to do justice to this curious and important historical document.

We regret to learn, from the Catalogue of the Museum of Mediæval Art, collected by the late
Mr. Cottingham, which has been very carefully drawn up, with a preface by Mr. Shaw, that, if
the Family are disappointed in disposing of the Museum to the Government, or by private contract,
it will be submitted to Public Sale in April next, and a Collection of the most ample and varied
examples of Mediæval Architecture ever brought together, which has been formed at a vast outlay
both of labour and cost, will be dispersed, and be thereby rendered inaccessible and valueless
to the architectural student.

The Rev. W.H. Kelke has published some Notices of Sepulchral Monuments in English Churches,
a work which is not intended for professed antiquaries, but for that large class of persons
who, although they have some taste for the subject of which it treats, have neither time nor
inclination to enter deeply into it, and as will, we have no doubt, be very acceptable to those
to whom it is immediately addressed.

We regret to announce the death of one of our earliest and most valued contributors, Professor
T.S. Davies of Woolwich. "Probably few men in England," says the Athenæum, "were better versed
in the methods of the old geometers, or possessed a more critical appreciation of their relative
merits." His death is a great loss to geometrical science, as well as to a large circle of friends.

We have received the following Catalogues:--Stacey and Co. (19. Southampton Street, Strand)
Catalogue of Books chiefly relating to History, Commerce, and Legislation; G. Bumstead's (205.
High Holborn) Catalogue of Interesting and Rare Books on the Occult Sciences, America, Asia, &c.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTICES TO CORRESPONDENTS.

To meet the wishes of many friends, and to avoid the inconvenience arising from the diversity
of prices in our Monthly Parts, we propose in future to publish a fifth, or Supplementary Number,
every Month in which there are only four Saturdays.

REPLIED RECEIVED.--It has been suggested to us that we should here acknowledge all communications
received by us. We would willingly do so, but that, from their number, such acknowledgment
would necessarily occupy far more space than our readers would like to see so employed. But
we propose in future to notice all replies that have reached us; by which means those who have
replied will be aware that their communications have come to hand, and those who are about
to {47} reply will be enabled to judge whether or not they have been anticipated. The following
have reached us between the publication of our Number on Saturday last and Wednesday. Our future
Lists will comprise those received in the week ending on the Wednesday previous to publication.

Lynch Law--Curse of Scotland--Butcher Willie--Midwives--Steam Navigation--Frozen Horn--Collar
of SS.--Holland Land--Umbrellas--Passage in Tennyson--Sword of the Conqueror--Couplet in Defoe--Thruscross--Earth
has no rage--Private Memoirs of Elizabeth--By-the-bye--Swearing by Swans--Sir Cloudesley Shovel--Chapel--Difformis--Grasson--Savez--Land
Holland--Peter Wilkins--Passage in St. Mark--Cockade and True Blue--Mocker--Mythology of the
Stars--Cauking--Ten Children at a Birth--Swans.

W.H.B. will find, on referring to Chappell's National English Airs, that the words of RULE
BRITANNIA were written by Thomson (in the Masque of Alfred), and the music composed by Dr. Arne.

TAPETIA.--Miss Linwood's Salvator Mundi, after Carlo Dolce, is, we believe, in one of her Majesty's
private apartments at Windsor Castle. We do not insert TAPETIA'S letter, because we by no means
agree with the writer in his views of the property of the Crown. The Queen behaved most kindly
and liberally on the occasion of the late Exhibition of Mediæval Art: but that is a very different
thing from calling for a transfer of the Holbein or Da Vinci drawings to some public museum.

R.W.E. will find the custom of "Going a Gooding," which appears to prevail on St. Thomas's
Day in many parts of the country, described in Brand's Popular Antiquities (ed. Ellis).

S.G. (C.C.C.C.) is thanked for his friendly Note. Had we been aware of the facts with which
he has now furnished us, of course, the communication to which he refers would not have been
inserted in its present shape.

VOLUME THE SECOND OF NOTES AND QUERIES.--We this day issue the INDEX to our Second Volume.
Copies of which Volume, strongly bound in cloth, may now be had price 9s. 6d.

We hope next week, by the publication of a Double Number, under our new arrangement, to clear
off a large accumulation of correspondence.

       *       *       *       *       *

MUSICAL ILLUSTRATIONS of PERCY'S RELIQUES of ANCIENT POETRY. A Collection of Old Ballad Tunes,
&c., chiefly from rare Manuscript and early printed Books, with some Account of the Ballads.
By EDWARD F. RIMBAULT, LL.D. In cloth, 12s.

London: CRAMER AND CO., 201. Regent Street.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO BOOKBUYERS.

This day is published, PART I., for January, of C. SKEET'S MONTHLY CATALOGUE of NEW and SECOND-HAND
BOOKS, marked at unusually low prices, for Cash. To be had gratis, and post free, upon application
at 21. King William Street, Charing Cross.

       *       *       *       *       *

Pocket Editions, neatly and uniformly printed, royal 32mo.

GEORGE HERBERT.--The Temple, Sacred Poems, and Private Ejaculations. Very neatly printed, 32mo.,
cloth, 2s. 6d.; morocco, 5s.; morocco extra, by HAYDAY, at various prices. Cloth 2s.; morocco,
4s. 6d.

JOHN SELDEN.--TABLE TALK, being the Discourses of JOHN SELDEN, or is Sense of various Matters
of Weight and High Consequence, relating especially to Religion and the State. Royal 32mo.
cloth, 2s.; morocco. 4s. 6d.; morocco extra, by Hayday, at various prices.

GEORGE BELL, 186. Fleet Street.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GENTLEMAN'S MAGAZINE for DECEMBER contains the following articles:--1. An Evening with
Voltaire, by Mr. R.N. Neville; 2. The New Cratylus; 3. Old Ballads from the Bright Collection;
4. The Abbé de Saint-Pierre; 5 Norman Crosses (with Engravings); 6. Duchess of Queensberry
and Gay; 7. Dryden and Flecknoe; 8. Legends of the Monastic Orders; 9. T. Lodge and his Works;
10. Birth of the Old Pretender; 11. History of Winchelsea (with Engravings); 12. Autobiography
of Mr. Britton; 13. The recent Papal Bull historically considered: with Notes of the Month. 6d.

"The Gentleman's Magazine has been revived with a degree of spirit and talent which promises
the best assurance of its former popularity."--Taunton Courier.

"The additional talent which the new year has brought to its assistance, will give an impetus
advantageous to the circulation of The Gentleman's, and, high as it previously stood, will
advance it still more in the estimation of those who are enabled to appreciate its worth."--Poole
Herald.

NICHOLS AND SON, 25.

{48}

MR. MURRAY'S LIST OF NEW BOOKS.

I.

THE QUARTERLY REVIEW, No. CLXXV. 8vo. 6s.

          CONTENTS:
  1. MR. GORDON CUMMING'S HUNTING IN AFRICA.
  2. SOCRATES.
  3. THE IGNATIAN EPISTLES.
  4. MYSTERIES OF CEYLON.
  5. CHEAP SUGAR AND SLAVE TRADE.
  6. BRITISH MUSEUM.
  7. GENERAL RADOWITZ ON GERMANY.
  8. LIFE OF SOUTHEY.
  9. THE MINISTRY AND THE POPE.
  10. SIR F. HEAD ON THE DEFENCELESS STATE OF GREAT BRITAIN.

*** The INDEX to Vols. 61. to 79. inclusive (forming Vol. 80.) is now ready.

II.

THE SCHOOLS OF PAINTING IN ITALY From the German of KUGLER. Edited by SIR CHARLES EASTLAKE,
P.R.A. A New and Revised Edition. Illustrated with 100 Woodcuts, from the Works of the Old
Masters. 2 vols. Post 8vo. 24s.

III.

WHAT OUGHT LANDLORDS AND FARMERS TO DO? By PH. PUSEY, Esq., M.P. Reprinted from the Royal Agricultural
Journal. With Map. 8vo. 1s.

IV.

PALACES OF NINIVEH AND PERSEPOLIS RESTORED. An Essay on Ancient Assyrian and Persian Architecture.
By JAMES FERGUSSON. With 45 Woodcuts. 8vo. 16s.

V.

MILITARY EVENTS IN ITALY, 1848-9. Translated from the German. By LORD ELLESMERE. Map. Post 8vo. 9s.

VI.

THE LEXINGTON PAPERS. Extracted from the Official and Private Correspondence of LORD LEXINGTON,
while Minister at Vienna, 1694-98. Edited by the Hon. H. MANNERS SUTTON. 8vo 14s.

VII.

"THE FORTY-FIVE." Being the Narrative of the Rebellion in Scotland of 1745, By LORD MAHON.
Post 8vo. 8s. (Extracted from his History of England)

VIII.

LAW AND PRACTICE OF NAVAL COURTS MARTIAL. By WILLIAM HICKMAN, R.N. 8vo 10s. 6d.

IX.

MANUAL OF ELEMENTARY GEOLOGY; or the ANCIENT CHANGES of the EARTH and its INHABITANTS. By SIR
CHARLES LYELL. Third Edition, revised. With 500 Woodcuts. 8vo. 12s.

X.

ENGLAND AS IT IS: POLITICAL, SOCIAL, and INDUSTRIAL, in the middle of the 19th CENTURY. By
WM. JOHNSTON. 2 vols. Post 8vo. 18s.

XI. By SIR J. EMERSON TENNENT. Woodcuts. 8vo. 14s.

XII.

PROGRESS OF THE NATION, in its various Social and Economical Relations. By G.R. Porter. Third
Edition, corrected. 8vo. 24s.

XIII.

BYRON'S WORKS. IN ONE VOLUME. Cheaper Edition. Portrait. Royal 8vo. 12s.

XIV.

BYRON'S LIFE. IN ONE VOLUME. Cheaper Edition. Portraits. Royal 8vo. 12s.

XV.

CRABBE'S LIFE AND POEMS. IN ONE VOLUME. Cheaper Edition. Portrait. Royal 8vo. 10s. 6d.

XVI.

CROKER'S BOSWELL'S JOHNSON. IN ONE VOLUME. Cheaper Edition. Portraits. Royal 8vo. 15s.

XVII.

SPECIMENS OF THE TABLE-TALK OF THE LATE S.T. COLERIDGE. Third Edition. Portrait. Fcap. 8vo. 6s.

XVIII.

CONSOLATIONS IN TRAVEL. BY SIR HUMPHRY DAVY, Fifth Edition. Woodcuts. Fcap. 8vo. 6s.

XIX.

SALMONIA: or, DAYS OF FLY-FISHING. By SIR HUMPHRY DAVY. Fourth Edition,. Woodcuts. Fcap. 8vo 6s.

[Next Week]

LAVENGRO: THE SCHOLAR,--GIPSY,--and PRIEST. BY GEORGE BORROW, Author of "THE BIBLE IN SPAIN."
With Portrait. 3 vols. Post 8vo.

XXI.

A VOYAGE TO THE MAURITIUS. By Author of "PADDIANA," Post 8vo.

XXII.

MURRAY'S MODERN COOKERY, based on the Work of MRS. RUNDELL; but entirely revised, and brought
down to the present time, by A LADY. Woodcuts. Post 8vo. 6s.

XXIII.

MEMOIRS OF SIR THOMAS FOWELL BUXTON, BART. With Selections from his Correspondence. BY HIS
SON. A New Library Edition. Portrait. 8vo. 16s. 1851.

