The first of these elements--that can with equal justice be called the parasitic or the middleman
class--consisted in itself of several sorts of people. The nucleus was a small, intellectually
honest set of men who believed, in the law per se, in the sacredness of formal institutions
in the constitution, and in the subservience of the individual to the institution. This was
temperamental. Behind them were many much larger groups of those needed either the interpretation
or the protection of the law for their private interests. These were of all sorts from honest
literal-minded dealers, through shady contractors and operators, down to grafters and the very
lowest type of strong-arm bullies. The tone and respectability came from the first, the practical
results from the second. The first class had a genuine intellectual contempt for men whose
minds could not see--or at least would not accept--the same subtleties that it did. Its members
were fond of such phrases as the "lawless mob," or the "subversion of time-honoured institutions."
This small, subjectively honest, conservative, specially trained element must not be forgotten
in the final estimate of what later came to be known as the "Law and Order" party.

On the other hand was first of all an equally small nucleus of thinking men whose respect for
the law, merely as law, was not so profound; men who were, reluctantly, willing to admit that
when law completely broke down in encompassing justice, individualism was justified in stepping
in. Behind them was a vast body of more or less unthinking men who recognized the indubitable
facts that the law had become a farce, that justice had degenerated to tricks, and who were,
therefore, instinctively against law, lawyers, and everybody who had anything to do with them.

Strangely enough this made for lawlessness on both sides. Those who believed in "law and order"
committed crime or misdemeanour or mere injustice, sure of escape through some technicality.
Those who distrusted courts administered justice illegally with their own hands! Nor was this
merely in theory. San Francisco at that time was undoubtedly the most corrupt and lawless city
in the world. Street shootings, duels, robberies, ballot-box stuffing, bribery, all the crimes
traceable to a supine police and venal or technical courts were actually so commonplace as
to command but two or three lines in the daily papers. Justice was completely smothered under
technicalities and delays.

The situation would have been intolerable to any people less busy than the people of that time.
For political corruption in a vigorous body politic is not, as pessimists would have us believer
an indication of incipient decay, but only an indication that a busy people are willing to
pay that price to be left alone, to be relieved of the administration of their public affairs,
When they get less busy, or the price in corruption becomes too high, then they refuse to pay.
The price Francisco was paying becoming very high, not only in money, but in other and spiritual
things. She could still afford to pay it; but at the least pressure she would no longer afford
it. Then she would act.

XXXIII

In the second year of his residence Keith had a minor adventure that shifted a portion of his
activities to other fields. He was in attendance at a council meeting, following the interests
of certain clients. The evening was warm, the proceedings dull. Opened windows let in the sounds
from the Plaza and a night air that occasionally flared the smoky lamps. The clerk's voice
was droning away at some routine when the outer door opened and a most extraordinary quartette
entered the chamber. Three of these were the ordinary, ragged, discouraged, emaciated, diseased
"bums," only too common in that city. In early California a man either succeeded or he failed
into a dark abyss of complete discouragement; the new civilization had little use for weaklings.
The fourth man can be no better described than in the words of a chronicler of the period.
Says the worthy diarist:

"He was a man of medium stature, slender but very graceful, with almost effeminate hands and
feet--the former scrupulously kept, the latter neatly shod--and with a certain air of fragility;
very soft blue eyes with sleepy lids; a classically correct nose; short upper lip; rosy, moist
lips. His clothes: a claret-coloured coat, neither dress nor frock, but mixed of both fashions,
with a velvet collar and brass buttons; a black vest, double breasted; iron-gray pantaloons;
fresh, well-starched, and very fine linen; plain black cravat, negligently tied; a cambric
handkerchief; and dark kid gloves. He wore gold spectacles, and carried a malacca cane."

Instead of slipping into the seats provided for spectators, this striking individual marched
boldly to the open space before the mayor's chair, followed, shamefaced and shambling, by the
three bums.

"Your honours and gentlemen," he cried in a clear, ringing voice, to the scandal of the interrupted
legislators, "we are very sick and hungry and helpless and wretched. If somebody does not do
something for us, we shall die; and that would be bad, considering how far we have come, and
how hard it was to get here, and how short a time we have been here, and that we have not had
a fair chance. All we ask is a fair chance, and we say again, upon our honour, gentlemen, if
somebody does not do something for us, we shall die, or we shall be setting fire to the town
first and cutting all our throats."

He stood leaning lightly against his malacca cane, surveying them through his sleepy blue eyes.
The first astonishment over, they took up a collection, after the customary careless, generous
fashion. The young man saluted with his cane, and herded his three exhibits out.

Keith, much struck, followed them, overtaking the quartette on the street.

"My name is Keith," he said, "I should like to make your acquaintance."

"Mine is Krafft," replied the unknown, "and I am delighted to accept your proffer."

He said nothing more until he had marshalled his charges, into a cheap eating-house, ordered
and paid for a supper, and divided the remainder of the amount collected. Then he dusted his
fingers daintily with a fine handkerchief, and sauntered out into the street, swinging his
malacca cane.

"Incidents of that sort restore one's faith in the generosity of our people," Keith remarked,
in order to say something.

"Nobody has been generous," denied Krafft categorically, "and no particular good has been accomplished.
Filled their bellies for this evening; given them a place to sleep for this night; that's all."

"That's something," ventured Keith. "It helps."

"The only way to help we have not undertaken. We have done nothing toward finding out why there
are such creatures--in a place like this. That's the only way to help them: find out why they
are, and then remove the why."

This commonplace of modern charity was then a brand-new thought. Keith had never heard it expressed,
and he was much interested.

"I suppose there are always the weak and the useless," he said vaguely.

"If those men were wholly weak and useless, how did they get out here?" countered Krafft. "To
compass such a journey takes a certain energy, a certain sum of money, a certain fund of hope.
The money goes, the energy drains, the hope fades. Why?"

They stopped at a corner.

"I live just near here," said Krafft. "If you will honour me."

He led the way down a narrow dark alley, along which they had fairly to grope their way. It
debouched, however, into the forgotten centre of the square. All the edges had been built close
with brick stores, warehouses, and office buildings. But in the very middle had been left a
waste piece of ground, occupied only by a garden and a low one-room abode, with a veranda and
a red-tiled roof. Under the moonlight and the black shadows from the modern buildings it slept
amid its bright flowers with the ancient air of another world. Krafft turned a key and lighted
a lamp. Keith found himself in a small, neat room, with heavy beams, fireplace, and deep embrasured
windows. An iron bed, two chairs, a table, a screen, a shelf of books, and a wardrobe were
its sole furnishings. In the fireplace had been laid, but not lighted, a fire of sagebrush roots.

Krafft touched a match to the roots, which instantly leaped into eager and aromatic flames.
From a shelf he took a new clay pipe which he handed to Keith.

"Tobacco is in that jar," he said.

He himself filled and lighted a big porcelain pipe with wexelwood stem.

"What would you do about it?" asked Keith, continuing the discussion.

"What would you most want, if you were those poor men?" retorted Krafft, blowing a huge cloud.

Keith laughed.

"Drink, food, clothes, bed," he stated succinctly.

"And work wherewith to get them," supplemented Krafft.

Keith laughed again.

"Not if I know their sort! Work is the one thing they don't want."

Krafft leaned forward, and tapped the table with one of his long forefingers,

"The lazy part of them, the earthen part of them, the dross of them--yes, perhaps. But let
us concede to them a spark that smoulders, way down deep within them--a spark of which they
think they are ashamed, which they do not themselves realize the existence of except occasionally.
What is the deep need of them? It is to feel that they are still of use, that they amount to
something, that they are men. That more than mere food and warmth. Is it not so?"

"I believe you're right," said Keith, impressed.

"Then," said Krafft triumphantly, "it is work they want, work that is useful and worth paying for."

"But there's plenty of work to be had," objected Keith, after a moment. "In fact, there's more
work in this town than there are men to do it."

"True, But it is the hard work these men have failed at. It is too hard. They try; they are
discouraged; they fall again, and perhaps they never get up. Such men must be led, must be
watched, must be stopped within their strength."

"Who's there to do that sort of dry nursing of bums?" demanded Keith with a half laugh.

"He who would help," said Krafft quietly.

They smoked for some time in silence; then Keith arose to go.

"It is a big idea; it requires thought," said he ruminativeiy. "You are a recent arrival, Mr.
Krafft? What is your line of activity?"

The slight, elegant little man smiled.

"I am one of the--what is it you called, them--bums of whom we talk. I try to do what is within
my power, within my strength-lest I, too, become discouraged, lest I, too, fall again--and
not get up."

"I have not seen you about anywhere," said Keith, puzzled by this speech.

"I do not go anywhere; I should be eaten. You do not understand me, and I am a poor host to
talk in riddles. I am a philosopher, not a man of action; egotist, not an egoist; one who cannot
swim in your strong waters. As I said, one of that same class whom your bounty helped this
evening."

"Good Lord, man!" cried Keith, looking about the little room. "You're not in want?"

Krafft laughed gently.

"In your sense, no. I have my meals. Enough of me. Go, and think of what I say."

Keith did so, and the result was the first organized charity in San Francisco. Since 1849 men
had always been exceptionally generous in responding to appeals for money. Huge sums could
easily be raised at any time. Hospitals and almshouses dated from the first. But having given,
these pioneers invariably forgot. The erection of the buildings cost more than they should,
and management being venal, conditions soon became disgraceful. Alms reached the professional
pauper. The miner or immigrant, diseased, discouraged, out of luck, more often died--either
actually or morally.

So much had this first interview caught his interest that Keith dropped in on his new acquaintance
quite often. It soon became evident that Krafft lived in what might be called decent poverty.
The one fine rig-out in which he made his public appearances was most carefully preserved.
Indoors he always promptly assumed a dressing-gown, a skull cap with a gold tassel, and his
great porcelain pipe. His meals he cooked for himself. Never did he leave his house until about
three o'clock. Then, spick and span, exquisitely appointed, he sauntered forth swinging his
malacca cane. After a promenade of several hours he returned again to his dressing-gown, his
porcelain pipe, and his books. Keith enjoyed hugely his detached, reflective, philosophical,
spectator-of-life conversation. They talked on many subjects besides sociology. At his fourth
visit Krafft made a suggestion.

"You shall come with me and see," said he.

He led the way to the water front under Telegraph Hill, the newest and the most squalid part
of town. The shallow water was in slow process of being filled in by sand from the grading
uptown and with all sorts of miscellaneous debris, Pending solidity, this sketchy real estate
swarmed with squatters. There were lots sunken below the street level, filled with stagnant
water, discarded garments, old boxes, ashes, and rubbish; houses huddled closely together with
stale water beneath; there were muddy alleys; murderous cheap saloons; cheaper gambling joints;
rickety, sagging tenements. The people corresponded to their habitations. All the low elements
lurked here, the thugs, strong-arm men, the hold-ups, the heelers, the weaklings, the bums,
the diseased. In ordinary times they here dwelt in a twilight existence; but at periods of
excitement--as when the city burned--they swarmed out like rats for plunder.

Krafft held his way steadily to the wharves. There he left the causeway and descended to the
level of the beach. Beneath the pilings, and above the high-water mark, was a little hut. It
was not over six feet square, constructed of all sorts of old pieces of boxes, scraps of tin,
or remnants of canvas. Overhead rumbled continuously the heavy drays, shaking down, through
the cracks the dust of the roadway. Against one outside wall of this crazy structure an old
man sat, chair tilted in the sun. Even the chair was a curiosity, miraculously held together
by wires. The man was very old, and very feeble, his knotted hands clasping a short, black
clay pipe. Inside the hut Keith, saw a rough bunk on which lay jumbled a quilt and a piece
of canvas.

"Well, John," greeted Krafft cheerfully, "I've brought a friend to see you."

The old man turned on Keith a twinkling blue eye.

"Glad to see you," he said briefly.

"Getting on?" pursued Krafft.

"Fine."

"Here's a new kind of tobacco I want you to try. I should value your opinion."

Keith's hand wandered toward his pocket, but stopped at a sharp look from Krafft. After a moment's
chat they withdrew.

"What a pathetic old figure! What utter misery!" cried Keith.

"No!" said Krafft positively. "There you are wrong. Old John is in no need of us. He has his
house and his bed, and he gets his food. How, I do not know, but he gets it. The spark is burning
clear and steady. He has not lost his grip. He gets his living with confidence. Let him alone."

"But he must be very miserable--especially when it rains," persisted Keith.

Krafft shrugged his shoulders.

"As to that, I know not," he returned indifferently. "That does not matter to the soul. I will
now show you another man."

They retraced their steps. On a corner of Montgomery Street Krafft stopped before a one-armed
beggar, the stump exposed, a placard around his neck.

"Now here's another John," said Krafft. "What he wants is work, and somebody to see that he
does it."

The one-armed beggar, who was fat, with a good-natured countenance, evidently considered this
a joke. He grinned cheerfully.

"Don't have to, guvenor," said he.

"How much did you take in yesterday, John?" asked Krafft; then, catching the beggar's look
of suspicion, he added, "This is a friend of mine; he's all right."

"Twenty-two dollars," replied the beggar proudly. "Pretty good day's wages!"

"I'm afraid the spark is about out with you, John," said Krafft thoughtfully. He walked on
a few steps, then turned back. "John," he asked, "what is your contribution to society?"

The beggar stared, uncertain of this new chaff.

"The true theory of business, John, is that traffic which does not result In reciprocal advantages
to buyer and seller is illegitimate, or at least abnormal."

They walked on, Keith laughing at the expression on the beggar's face.

"That was considerably over his head," he observed.

Nothing more was said for half a block.

"I wonder if it was over yours," then said Krafft, unexpectedly.

"Eh?" ejaculated Keith, bewildered.

These walks with Krafft finally resulted in the institution of a fund which Keith raised and
put into Krafft's hands for intelligent use. The effects were so interesting that Keith, thoroughly
fascinated, began to pester his friends for positions for some of his proteges. As he was well-liked
and in earnest, these efforts were taken good-humourediy.

"Here comes Milt Keith," said John Webb to Bert Taylor. "Bet you a beaver hat he's got a highly
educated college professor that he wants a job for."

"'A light job, not beyond his powers,'" quoted Taylor.

"Like cleaning genteel spittoons," supplemented Webb.

"The engine house is full of 'em polishing brass," complained Taylor.

"Well, he's a young felly, and I like him," concluded Webb heartily.

Of course many of the experiments failed, but fewer than might have been anticipated. Part
of Krafft's task was to keep in touch with the men. His detached, philosophical method of encouragement
and analysis of the situation seemed just the thing they needed.

XXXIV

These activities gave Keith just the required door out into a world other than his own. Were
it not for something of the sort he might, like many modern corporation lawyers, have confined
himself entirely to his own class. And this, of course, would eventually have meant narrowness.

But through Krafft, and especially through his desire to help Krafft's work, he came in contact
with all sorts of people; and, what was more important, he found that he liked a great many
of them. So it happened that when it seemed expedient to the ruling caste to put him in as
Assistant District Attorney, his inevitable election met with wider approval than such elections
usually enjoy.

For it must be understood that in the fifties any candidate selected by the ruling caste was
absolutely sure of election. The machinery was thoroughly in their hands. Diplomacy in party
caucuses, delicate manipulation at primaries, were backed by cruder methods if need be. Associations
were semi-publically formed for the sale of votes; gangs of men were driven from one precinct
to another, voting in all; intimidation, and, indeed, open violence, was freely used. Only
the most adventurous or the most determined thought it worth while even to try to vote in the
rough precincts. And if the first and second lines of defence failed, there was still the third
to fall back on when the booths were dosed and the ballots counted: the boxes could still be
"stuffed," the count could still be scientifically juggled to bring about any desired result.

This particular election was one of the worst in the history of the place. All day fighting
was kept up, and the rowdies swaggered everywhere. Whiskey was to be had for the asking; and
the roughs who surrounded the polls fired shots, and in some places started what might fairly
be called riots. Yankee Sullivan returned James Casey as elected supervisor, which was probably
a mistake, for Casey was not a candidate, his name was on none of the official ballots, and
nobody could be found who had voted for him. Everybody was surprised, Casey most of all! The
sixth ward count was delayed unconscionably, its returns being withheld until nearly morning.
It was more than hinted that this delay was prolonged until the returns had been received from
all other precincts, so that any deficiencies might be made up by the sixth. The "slate" went
through unbroken.

Of all the candidates, Keith received the most votes, for the simple reason that his total
included both the honest and dishonest ballots. Blanchford, Neil, Palmer, Adams, all the political
overlords of the city were satisfied, as well they might be, for they had issued the fiat that
he be chosen.

"He's one of us," said they.

But what was more unusual, the rank and file of decent, busy, hard-working citizens approved, too.

"Keith is not stuck up," they told each other. "He is the commonest man in that bunch. And
he's square."

The position carried some social as well as political significance. Society made another effort
to take him up. His rare appearances were rather in the nature of concessions. They served
to make him more regretted, for he had an easy, jolly way of moving from one group or one woman
to another, of paying flattering, monopolizing, brief attention to each in turn, and then disappearing,
very early! His bold rather florid countenance radiated energy and quizzical good humour; his
tight, closely curled hair crisped with virile alertness; he carried himself taut and eager--altogether
a figure to engage the curiosities of women or the interest of men.

Mrs. Sherwood alone was shrewd enough to penetrate to his true feelings. She had experienced
no difficulty in pushing to a social leadership shared --indolently and indifferently--with
Nan Keith. Already her past was growing dim in a tradition kept alive only by a few whisperers.
Her wealth, her natural tact and poise, her calm assumption of the right to rule, her great
personal charm, beauty, and taste were more than sufficient to get her what she wanted. The
game was almost too easy, when one held the cards.

"Yes, he's very charming," she told her husband, "but that manner of his does not impress me.
As a matter of fact, he doesn't care a snap of his finger about any of them. He does it too
well. It's a stencil. Only the outside of him does it. He's just as bad as you are; only he
doesn't hold up a corner of the doorway all the evening, and beam vaguely in general, like
a good-natured, dear old owl."

XXXV

A few clear-headed men--not the "chivalry," as the fire-eating professional politicians and
lawyers from the South were almost uniformly designated-- were able to see exactly the problem
that must eventually demand Keith's solution. Some of them talked it over while lounging and
smoking in the Fire Queen reading-room. There were present Talbot Ward and his huge satellite,
Munro; Coleman, quiet, grim, complacent, but looking, with his sweeping, inky moustache and
his florid, complexion, like a flashy "sport"; Hossfros, soon to become an historic character;
and the banker, James King of William.

The latter had recently come in for considerable public discussion. He had for some time conducted
a banking business, but becoming involved in difficulties, he had turned over all his assets,
all his personal fortune, even his dwelling-house, to another bank as trustee to take care
of his debts. Almost immediately after, that bank had failed. Opinion in the community divided
according to the interests involved. The majority considered that King had been almost quixotically
conscientious in stripping himself; but there did not lack those who accused him of sharp practice.
In the course of ensuing discussions and recriminations King was challenged to a duel. He declined
to fight, basing his refusal on principle. As may be imagined, such an action at such a time
was even more widely commented upon than even his refusal to take advantage of the bankruptcy
laws. It was, as far as known, the first time any one had had the moral courage to refuse a
duel. King had gone quietly about his business, taking an ordinary clerkship with Palmer, Cook
& Co. In the eyes of the discriminating few he had gained prestige, but most people thought
him down and out.

"What do you think of our new Assistant District Attorney?" Ward had begun the conversation.

"He's a lawyer," growled Hossfros.

"A pretty fairly honest one, I think," ventured King. "His training may be wrong, but his instincts
are right."

"Fat chance anything's got when it mixes up with legalities," supplemented Frank Munro.

"Nevertheless," remarked Coleman seriously, "I believe plain justice has more of a chance with
him in charge than with another."

"What sort of justice?" queried King. "Commercial?" He laughed in answer to his own question.
"Criminal? I'd like to think it, gentlemen, but I cannot. You know as well as I do that any
of us could this evening go into the streets, select our victim, and shoot him down secure
in the knowledge that inconvenience is all the punishment we need expect--if we have money
or friends. Am I not right, Coleman?"

Coleman smiled sardonically, lifting his blue-black moustache.

"Were Herod for the slaughter of the Innocents brought before a jury of this town, he would
be acquitted," he said half-seriously. "Judas Iscariot would pass unscathed so long as any
portion of his thirty pieces of silver remained with him."

They laughed at this remarkable pronouncement, but with an undernote of seriousness.

"No man, even exceptionally equipped as this young man seems to be," went on Coleman after
a moment, "can accomplish that"--he snapped his fingers --"against organized forces such as
those of 'Law and Order.'"

"We can't stand this sort of thing forever!" cried Hossfros hotly. "It's getting worse and worse!"

"We probably shall not stand it forever," agreed Coleman equably, "but we are powerless--at
present."

They looked toward him for explanation of this last.

"When the people at large find that they cannot stand it either, then we shall be no longer
powerless. A single man can do something then--a single child!"

"What will happen then?" asked Munro. "Vigilantes? '51 again?"

Coleman, the leader of the Vigilantes of '51, turned on him a grave eye.

"God forbid! We were then a frontier community. We are now an organized, civilized city. We
have rights and powers through the regular channels--at the ballot box for example."

Hossfros laughed skeptically.

"It must wait," continued Coleman; "it must wait on public opinion."

"Well," spoke up King, "it's all very well to wait, but public opinion left to itself is a
mighty slow growth. It should be fostered. The newspapers--"

"Don't let's lose our sense of humour," cut in Talbot Ward. "Can you see Charley Nugent or
Mike Rowlee crusading for the right?"

"But my point is good," insisted King. "An honest, fearless editor, not afraid to call a spade
a spade--"

"Would be shot," said Coleman briefly.

"The chances of war," replied King.

"They don't grow that kind around here," grinned Ward.

"Well," concluded Coleman, "this young Keith probably won't help any, but he's going to be
interesting to watch, just the same, to see what he'll do the first time they crack the whip
over him. That's the vital point as far as he is concerned."

XXXVI

Keith's activities did not immediately confront him with anything in the nature of a test,
however. His superiors confined him to the drawing of briefs and the carrying through of carefully
selected cases. It was considered well to "work him in" a little before putting responsibility
on him.

He enjoyed it, for now he had at his call all the civil and police resources of the city. This
gave him a pleasant feeling of power. He was at the centre of things. And through his office
he came into contact with ever-widening circles of people, all of whom were disposed, even
anxious, to treat him well, to get in his good graces. Possibly most of these were what we
would call the worst elements; and by that we would mean not only the roughnecks of the police
or sheriff's offices, but also the punctilious, smooth-mannered Southerners who practically
monopolized the political offices. These men would have been little considered in the South;
in fact, in many cases, they had left their native states under a cloud or even with prison
records; but their natural charm, their audacity, and their great punctilio as to "honour"
deeply impressed the ordinary citizen. As one chronicler of the times puts it, they had "fluency
in harangue, vigour in invective, ostentatious courage, absolute confidence about all matters
of morals, politics, and propriety"--which is an excellent thumbnail sketch. Many of these
ex-jailbirds rose to wealth and influence, so that to this day the sound of their names means
aristocracy and birth to those ignorant of local history. Their descendants may be seen to-day
ruffling it proudly on the strength of their "birth!"

They, and the classes they directly and indirectly encouraged, had at last brought the city
fairly on the financial rocks. There was no more revenue. Everything taxable had been taxed.
The poll tax was out of all reason; property paid 4 per cent. on an actual valuation; theatres,
bankers, brokers, freight, miners, merchants, hotel, keepers, incorporations, every form of
industry was levied upon heavily. Still that was not enough. Even labour was paid now in scrip
so depreciated that the cost of the simplest public works was terrible.

And to heap up the measure, the year of 1855 was one of financial stringency. The season of
'54-'55 had been one of drought. For lack of water most of the mining had ceased. The miners
wanted to be trusted for their daily needs; the country stores had to have credit because the
miners could not pay; and so on up to the wholesalers in the city. Goods were therefore sold
cheap at auction, and the gold went East to pay at the source. Money, actual physical money,
became scarce. The gold was gone, and there existed no institution legally entitled to issue
the paper money that might have taken its place. All the banking was done by private firms.
These took deposits, made loans, issued exchange, but could not issue banknotes.

Still, things had looked a bit squally many times before, but nothing had happened. Men had
the habit of optimism. No one stopped to analyze the situation, to realize that the very good
reason nothing had happened was that the city had always had behind it the strength of the
mines, and that now the mines had withdrawn.

Out of a clear sky came the announcement that Adams & Co. had failed!

At first nobody believed it. Adams & Co. had occupied in men's minds from the start much the
same position as the Bank of England. The confirmation of the news caused the wildest panic
and excitement. If Adams & Co. were vulnerable, nobody was secure. Small merchants began to
call in their credits. The city caught up eagerly every item of news. All the assets of the
bankrupt firm were turned over to Alfred Cohen as receiver. Some interested people did not
trust Cohen. They made enough of a fuss to get H. M. Naglee appointed in Cohen's place. Naglee,
demanding the assets, was told they had been deposited with Palmer, Cook & Co. The latter refused
to give them up, denying Naglee's jurisdiction in the matter. The case was brought into court.
Then suddenly it was found that Palmer, Cook & Co. had mysteriously lost their paramount interest
in the courts. They had counted on the case being brought before their own judges; but it was
cited before Judges Hazen and Park, both of whom, while ultra-technical, were honest. The truth
of the matter was that the rats suspected Palmer, Cook & Co. of sinking, too, and had deserted.
Judges Hazen and Park called upon the firm to turn over to Naglee the assets of Adams & Co.
They still refused. One of the partners, named Jones, and Cohen were imprisoned. Some where
$269,000 was missing. Nobody knew anything about it. The books having to do with the transaction
had mysteriously disappeared. Two days later an Irishman found them floating in the bay, and
brought them to the court. But the crucial pages were missing. And then suddenly, while both
Judge Hazen and Judge Park were out of town, application was made to the Supreme Court--of
which Judge Terry was head--for the release of Jones and Cohen. The application was granted.

So an immense sum of money disappeared; nobody was punished; it was all strictly legal; and
yet the dullest labourer could see that the whole transaction amounted to robbery under arms.
Failures resulted right and left. Wells Fargo & Co. closed their doors, but resumed within
a few days. A great many pocketbooks were hit. There was much talk and excitement.

XXXVII

On an evening in October, returning home at an early hour, Keith found Nan indignant and excited.
She held in her hand a tiny newspaper, not half the usual size, consisting only of a single
sheet folded.

"Have you seen this?" she burst out as Keith entered. "Isn't it outrageous!"

Keith was tired, and sank into an easy chair with a sigh of relaxation.

"No, what is it?" he asked, reaching his hand for the paper. "Oh, the new paper. I saw them
selling it on the street yesterday."

It was the Bulletin, Vol. 1, No. 2.

"Seems a piffling little sheet," he observed, "to be read in about eight seconds by any one
not interested in advertisements. What is it that agitates you, Nan?"

"Read that." She pointed to the editorial.

The article in question proved to be an attack on Palmer, Cook & Co. It said nothing whatever
about the Cohen-Naglee robbery. Its subject was the excessive rentals charged the public by
Palmer, Cook & Co. for postal boxes. But it mentioned names, recorded specific instances, avoided
generalities, and stated plainly that this was merely beginning at the beginning in an expose
of the methods of these "Uriah Heeps."

"Why do they permit such things?" cried Nan, scarcely waiting for Keith to finish his reading,
"What is Mr. Palmer going to do about it?"

"Survive, I guess," replied Keith, with a grin. "I take back my opinion of the paper. It certainly
has life." He turned to the head of the page. "Hullo!" he cried in surprise. "James King of
William running this, eh?" He whistled, then laughed. "That promises to be interesting, sure.
He was in business with that crowd for some time. He ought to have information from the inside!"

"Mrs. Palmer is simply furious," said Nan.

"I'll bet she is. Are we invited out this evening?"

"The Thurstons' musicale. I thought you'd be interested in that."

"Let me off, Nan, that's a good fellow," pleaded Keith, whose weariness had vanished. "I'd
be delighted to go at any other time. But this is too rich. I must see what the gang has to say."

"I suppose I could drop Ben Sansome a note," assented Nan doubtfully.

"Do! Send the Chink around with it," urged Keith, rising. "I'll get a bite downtown and not
bother you."

The gang--as indeed the whole city--took it as a great joke. Of those Keith met, only Jones,
the junior partner, failed to see the humour, and he passed the affair off in cavalier fashion.
That did not save him from the obligation of setting up the drinks.

"I'm going to fix this thing up in the morning," he stated confidently. "Between you and me,
there's evidently been a slip somewhere. Of course it ought never to have been allowed to go
so far. I'll see this man King first thing in the morning, and buy him off. Undoubtedly that's
about the only reason his paper exists. Wonder where he got the money to start it? He's busted.
It can't last long."

"If it keeps up the present gait, it'll last," said Judge Caldwell shrewdly. "Me--I'm going
to send in a subscription tomorrow. Wouldn't miss it for anything."

"It'll last as long as he does," growled Terry, "and that'll be about as long as a snowball
in hell. What you ought to do, Jones, is what any man of spirit ought to do--call him out!"

"He announces definitely that he won't fight duels," said Calhoun Bennett.

"Then treat him like the cowardly hound he is," flared the uncompromising Terry. "Take the
whip to him; and if that isn't effective, shoot him down as you would any other mad dog!"

"Surely, that's a little extreme, Judge," expostulated Caldwell. "He hasn't done anything worse
than stir up Jonesy a little."

"But he will, sir," insisted Terry, "you mark my words. If you give him line, he'll not only
hang himself, but he'll rope in a lot of bystanders as well."

"I'll bet he sells a lot of papers to-morrow, anyhow," predicted Keith.

"I hope so," bragged Jones. "There'll be the more to read his apology."

Evidently Jones fulfilled his promise, and quite as evidently Keith's prediction was verified.
Every man on the street had a copy of the next day's Bulletin within twenty minutes of issue.

A roar of delight went up. Jones's visit was reported simply as an item of news, faithfully,
sarcastically, and pompously. There was no comment. Even the most faithful partisans of Palmer,
Cook & Co. had to grin at the effectiveness of this new way of meeting the impact of such a visit,

"It's clever journalism," Terry admitted, "but it's blackguardly; and I blame Jones for passing
it over."

The fourth number--eagerly purchased--proved more interesting because of its hints of future
disclosures rather than for its actual information. Broderick was mentioned by name. Then followed
a list of personal bonds and sureties for which Palmer, Cook & Co. were standing voucher, amounting
to over two millions.

The expectations of disclosures, thus aroused, were not immediately gratified, except in the
case of Broderick. His swindles in the matters of the Jenny Lind Theatre and the City Hall
were traced out in detail. Every one knew these things were done, but nobody knew just how;
so these disclosures made interesting reading if only as food for natural curiosity. However,
the tension somewhat relaxed. It was generally considered that the coarse fibre of the ex-stone-cutter,
the old Tammany heeler, and the thick skins of his political adherents could stand this sort
of thing. Nobody with a sensitive honour to protect was assailed.

