THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

VOL. XIX. No. 541.]  SATURDAY, APRIL 7, 1832. [PRICE 2d.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE LOWTHER ARCADE.

In No. 514 of The Mirror we explained the situation of the Lowther Arcade. We may here observe
that this covered way or arcade intersects the insulated triangle of buildings lately completed
in the Strand, the principal façade of which is designated West Strand.

The Engraving represents the interior of the Arcade, similar in its use to the Burlington Arcade,
and, although wider and more lofty, including three stories in height, it is not so long. The
passage forms an acute angle with the Strand, running to the back of St. Martin's Church, and
is divided by large pilasters into a succession of compartments; the pilasters are joined by
an arch; and the compartments are domed over, and lighted in the centre by large domical lights,
which illuminate the whole passage in a perfect manner. "All the shop-fronts are decorated
in a similar manner, and the whole has been designed and executed with great care by the builder,
Mr. Herbert. The shops on the exterior are designed to have the appearance of one great whole.
The style of architecture is Grecian, and the order employed Corinthian: the angles are finished
in a novel manner, with double circular buildings, having the roof domed in brick, with an
ornament as a finish to the top of the dome. The effect of the whole would be agreeable if
it had the appearance of a solid basement to stand upon; but as tradesmen find it necessary
to have as much open space as possible to exhibit their goods, the mass of architecture above
must appear to be supported by the window-frames of the shops, although in reality they are
based upon small iron columns of four and six inches diameter, which are scarcely seen, and
which offer the slightest possible impediment to the exhibition of goods."

We may add that the Arcade at night is lit with gas within elegant vase-shaped shades of ground
glass, branching from each side. The ornaments of the domes, especially that of the Caduceus,
are introduced with good effect.

We take the introduction of this and similar passages in the British metropolis to have been
originally from the French capital. Thus, in Paris are the Passage des Panoramas; the Passage
Delorme; the Passage d'Artois; the Passage Feydeau; the Passage de Caire; and the Passage Montesquieu.
A more grandiloquent name applied by the French to some of their passages is galerie: we remember
the Galerie Vivienne as one of the most splendid specimens, with its marchands of artificial
luxuries. The Galerie Vero Dodat, (we think shorter than the Lowther Arcade,) is in the extreme
of shop-front magnificence: the floor is of alternate squares of black and white marble, and
the fronts are of plate-glass with highly-polished brass frames, and we doubt whether that
common material, wood, is to be seen in the doors. This Galerie is named after its proprietor,
M. Vero Dodat, an opulent charcutier, (a pork-butcher) in the neighbouring street; but we are
unable to inform the reader by how many horse power his sausage-chopping machine is worked.

       *       *       *       *       *

VIRGINIA WATER.

(To the Editor.)

In No. 533 of The Mirror is a Cut of the Cascade at Virginia Water (which by the way is a very
correct one, with the keeper's lodge in the distance) which you state was the late King's own
planing; but such was not the case, as it was built in the reign of George the Third; the late
king merely added improvements about it, one of which was the building of a rude bridge a little
below the cascade, of stones similar to the fall: this bridge connects a favourite drive down
to the nursery.

Brighton.        E.E.

       *       *       *       *       *

FISHING IN CANADA.

(To the Editor.)

It may be entertaining to many of your readers now that emigration occupies the thoughts of
so many, to sketch a short account of the method chiefly employed in Canada, in capturing fish,
which to very many settlers is an important adjunct to their domestic economy. Those living
on the borders of the numerous lakes and rivers of Canada, which are invariably stored with
fine fish, are provided with either a light boat, log, or what is by far the best, a bark canoe;
a barbed fishing spear, with light tapering shaft, about twelve or sixteen feet long, and an
iron basket for holding pine knots, and capable of being suspended at the head of the boat
when fired. In the calm evenings after dusk, many of these lights are seen stealing out from
the woody bays in the lakes, towards the best fishing grounds, and two or three canoes together,
with the reflection of the red light from the clear green water on the bronzed faces of either
the native Indian, or the almost as wild Backwoodsman, compose an extraordinary scene: the
silence of the night is undisturbed, save by the gurgling noise of the paddles, as guided by
the point of the spear; the canoe whirls on its axis with an almost dizzing velocity, or the
sudden dash of the spear, followed by the struggles of the transfixed fish, or perhaps the
characteristic "Eh," from the Indian steersman. In this manner, sometimes fifty or sixty fish
of three or four pounds are speared in the course of a night, consisting of black bass, white
fish, and sometimes a noble maskimongi. A little practice soon enables the young settler to
take an active part in this pursuit. The light seems to attract the fish, as round it they
thickly congregate. But few fish are caught in this country by the fly: at some seasons, however,
the black bass will rise to it. A CANADIAN.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ARBALEST, OR CROSS-BOW.

(To the Editor.)

No. 538, of The Mirror, contains a very interesting memoir on the subject of the Cross-bow,
but I do not find that the mode of bending the steel bow has been described; which from its
great strength it is evident could not be accomplished without the assistance of some mechanical
power. This in the more modern bows is attained by the application of a piece of steel, which
lies along the front of the stem, and is moved forward on a pivot until the string is caught
by a hook, and a lever is thus obtained, by means of which the bow is drawn to its proper extent.
It seems to me that this is the description of bow of which your correspondent has furnished
a drawing. Another mode, and which appears to have been applied to the ancient bows, was by
a sort of two-handed windlass, with ropes and pulleys, called a "moulinet," which was temporarily
attached to the butt-end of the Cross-bow; of this a drawing is given in the illustrations
of Froissart's Chronicles, particularly in that one descriptive of the Siege of Aubenton; in
which two bowmen are shown, one in the act of winding up the bow, and the other taking his
aim, the moulinet, &c. lying at his feet. Of this latter description, there are two specimens
preserved in the Tower of London, both of about the period of our Henry the Sixth.

C.P.C.

       *       *       *       *       *

LINES TO A LARK.

(For the Mirror.)

  Upon thy happy flight to heaven, again, sweet
    bird, thou art;
  The morning beam is on thy wings, its influence
    in thy heart;
  Like matin hymns blest spirits sing in yonder
    happy sky,
  Break on the ear, the small, sweet notes of thy
    wild melody.

  Cold winter winds are far away, the cruel snows
    have past;
  And spring's sweet skies, and blushing flowers
    shine o'er the world at last;
  Where the young corn springs fresh, and green,
    sweet flowerets gather'd he,
  And form around thy lowly nest a shelter sweet
    for thee.

  Is it not this which wakes thy song, with thoughts of
    summer hours,
  When warmer hues shall clothe the skies, and
    darker shades the bowers;
  Has nature to thy throbbing heart such glowing
    feelings given,
  That thou canst feel the beautiful, of this bright
    earth and heaven.

  If so, how blest must be thy lot, from azure
    skies to gaze,
  When the fresh morn is in the heavens, or
    mid-day splendours blaze;
  Or when the sunset's canopy of golden light is
    spread,
  And thou unseen, enshrin'd in light, art singing
    overhead.

  Oh then thy happy song comes down upon the
    glowing breast,
  Soft as rich sunlight, on the flowers, comes from
    the golden west:
  And fain the heart would soar with thee, enshrin'd
    in thought as sweet,
  As the rich tones, which from thy heart, thou
    dost in song repeat.

  Oh there is not on earth a breast, but turns
    with joy to thee.
  From the cold wither'd years of age, to smiling
    infancy.
  Thou claimest smiles from ev'ry lip, and praise
    from ev'ry tongue;
  Such sympathy each happy heart finds in thy
    joyous song.

Dorking.

SYLVA.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE COSMOPOLITE.

SUPERSTITIONS, FABLES, &C. RELATIVE TO ANIMALS.

(Continued from page 180.)

The following curious notice of the Acherontia Atropos, or Death's-head Moth, we extract from
"The Journal of a Naturalist:"--"The yellow and brown-tailed moths," he observes, "the death-watch,
our snails, and many other insects, have all been the subjects of man's fears, but the dread
excited in England by the appearance, noises, or increase of insects, are petty apprehensions
compared with the horror that the presence of this Acherontia occasions to some of the more
fanciful and superstitious natives of northern Europe, maintainers of the wildest conceptions.
A letter is now before me from a correspondent in German Poland, where this insect is a common
creature, and so abounded in 1824 that my informant collected fifty of them in a potato field
of his village, where they call them the 'death's-head phantom,' the 'wandering death-bird,'
&c. The markings on the back represent to their fertile imaginations the head of a perfect
skeleton, with the limb bones crossed beneath; its cry becomes the voice of anguish, the moaning
of a child, the signal of grief; it is regarded, not as the creation of a benevolent being,
but as the device of evil spirits--spirits, enemies to man, conceived and fabricated in the
dark; and the very shining of its eyes is supposed to represent the fiery element whence it
is thought to have proceeded. Flying into their apartments in an evening, it at times extinguishes
the light, foretelling war, pestilence, famine, and death to man and beast. * * * This insect
has been thought to be peculiarly gifted in having a voice and squeaking like a mouse when
handled or disturbed; but, in truth, no insect that we know of has the requisite organs to
produce a genuine voice; they emit sounds by other means, probably all external."

