    With us Cross people
    The closet of the side often is worth
    The whole little lamb.
    Ye poor sinners.
    But deep, but deep within,
    Yes deep, right deep within,
    And whoever will be blessed
    He wishes himself within
    Into the dear rendezvous
    Of all the darlings.
    Ravishing little lamb.
    I, poor little thing, I kiss the ring
    On thy little ringer,
    Thou wound of the spear
    Hold thy little mouth near,
    It must be kissed.
    Lamb, say nothing to me in there
    For this precious minute
    Thou art mine only.

On this curiosity compare the psychological explanations of Pfister. (Frommigkeit G. Ludw.
v. Zinzendorf.)

Returning to the previously mentioned “spiritual powers” I should mention that alchemy also
attempts to include in a short schema the inventory of powers available for the Great Work.
It uses different symbols for this purpose; one of the most frequent is the seven metals or
planets. Whether I say with the astrologers that the soul (not the celestial spirit, which
is derived from God) flowing in from the seven planets upon man, is therefore composed of their
seven influences, or if with the alchemists I speak of the seven metals, which come together
in the microcosm, it is of course quite the same, but expressed in another closely related
symbol. The metals are, as we know, incomplete and have to be “improved” or “made complete.”
That means we must sublimate our impulses.

“From the highest to the lowest everything rises by intermediate steps on the infinite ladder,
in such manner that those pictures and images, as outgrowths of the divine mind, through subordinate
divinities and demigods impart their gifts and emanations to men. The highest of these are:
Spirit of inquiry, power of ruling and mastering self, a brave heart, clearness of perception,
ardent affection, acuteness in the art of exposition, and fruitful creative power. The efficient
forces of all these God has above all and originally in himself. From him they have received
the seven spirits and divinities, which move and rule the seven planets, and are called angels,
so that each has received his own, distinct from the rest. They share them again among the
seven orders of demons subordinated to them, one under each. And these finally transmit them
to men.” (Adamah Booz. Sieb. Grunds., p. 9 ff.)

In this enumeration the fundamental powers, whose partition varies exceedingly, already show
a certain measure of intro-determination. If we wish to contrast their titanic with their anagogic
aspect, we get approximately the following scheme, to which I add the familiar astrological
characters of the seven planets.

Destroying (castration).      [Symbol: Saturn] Introversion.
Mastery.                      [Symbol: Jupiter] Mastery of
                              oneself.
Love of combat.               [Symbol: Mars] Warring against
                              oneself.
Libido.                       [Symbol: Sol] Sublimated
                              libido.
Sexual life, incest.          [Symbol: Venus] Regeneration.
Hypercriticism, fussing.      [Symbol: Mercury] Knowledge.
Joy in change; Improvement.   [Symbol: Luna] Changing
                              oneself.

[Freud is of the opinion that the original inquisitiveness about the sexual secret is abnormally
transformed into morbid over subtlety; and yet can still furnish an impulsive power for legitimate
thirst for knowledge.]

Beside the partition of the fundamental powers according to the favorite number seven, there
are to be sure in alchemy still other schemata with other symbols. We must furthermore continually
keep in mind that the symbols in alchemy are used in many senses.

In so far as the Constellations, as is often to be understood in the hermetic art, are fundamental
psychic powers, it sounds just like psychoanalysis when Paracelsus expresses the view that
in sleep the “sidereal” body is in unobstructed operation, soars up to its fathers and has
converse with the stars.

With regard to intro-determination I must refer to my observations in the following sections
on the extension of personality. It is an important fact that those external obstructions which
oppose the unrestrained unfolding of the titanic impulses are gradually taken up as constraints
into the psyche, which adopts those external laws, that would make life practicable. In so
far as deep conflicts do not hinder it, there arises by the operation of these laws a corresponding
influence upon the propensities. Habit, however, can learn to carry a heavy yoke with love,
even to make it the condition of life. I have just made the restriction: if conflicts do not
hinder it; now usually these exist, even for the mystics; and the “Work” is above all directed
toward their overcoming. For the annihilation of the opposition, the weapons aimed outward
in the “titanic” phase must be turned inward; there and not outside of us is the conflict.
[Here we see the actual intro-determination briefly mentioned above.]

B. Effects Of Introversion.

Introversion is no child’s play. It leads to abysses, by which we may be swallowed up past
recall. Whoever submits to introversion arrives at a point where two ways part; and there he
must come to a decision, than which a more difficult one cannot be conceived. The symbol of
the abyss, of the parting of the ways, both were clearly contained in our parable. The occurrence
of the similar motive in myths and fairy tales is familiar. The danger is obvious in that the
hero generally makes an apparently quite trivial mistake and then must make extraordinary efforts
to save himself from the effects of these few trivial errors. One more wrong step and all would
have been lost.

Introversion accordingly presents two possibilities, either to gain what the mystic work seeks,
or to lose oneself.

In introversion the libido sinks into “its own depths” (a figure that Nietzsche likes to use),
and finds there below in the shadows of the unconscious, the equivalent for the world above
which it has left, namely the world of phantasy and memories, of which the strongest and most
influential are the early infantile memory images. It is the child’s world, the paradise of
early childhood, from which a rigorous law has separated us. In this subterranean realm slumber
sweet domestic feelings and the infinite hopes of all “becoming.” Yet as Mephistopheles says,
“The peril is great.” This depth is seducing: it is the “mother” and—death. If the libido remains
suspended in the wonder realm of the inner world the man has become but a shadow for the world
above. He is as good as dead or mortally ill; if the libido succeeds however in tearing itself
loose again and of pressing on to the world above, then a miracle is revealed; this subterranean
journey has become a fountain of youth for it, and from its apparent death there arises a new
productiveness. This train of thought is very beautifully contained in an Indian myth: Once
on a time Vishnu absorbed in rapture (introversion) bore in this sleep Brahma, who enthroned
on a lotus flower, arose from Vishnu’s navel and was carrying the Vedas, eagerly reading them.
(Birth of creative thought from introversion.) Because of Vishnu’s rapture, however, a monstrous
flood overcame the world (swallowing up through introversion, symbolizing the danger of entering
into the mother of death). A demon profiting by the danger, stole the vedas from Brahma and
hid them in the deep. (Swallowing of the libido.) Brahma wakes Vishnu and he, changing into
a fish, dived into the flood, battled with the demon (dragon fight), conquered him and brought
the vedas up again. (Prize attained with difficulty.) (Cf. Jung, Psychology of the Unconscious.)

The marvel of the invigoration that can be attained in the successful issue of introversion
is comparable to the effect that Antæus felt on touching his mother, the earth. The mother
of men, to whom introversion carries us, is the spirit of the race, and from it flows gigantic
strength. “This occasional retiring into oneself, which means a return to an infantile relation
to the parent images, appears within certain limits to have a favorable effect upon the condition
of the individual.” Of this mine of power Stekel (Nerv. Angst., p. 375) writes: “When mankind
desires to create something big, it must reach down deep into the reservoir of its past.”

I wish now to quote a mystic philosopher. J. B. von Helmont (1577-1644) writes: “That magic
power of man which is operative outside of him lies, as it were, hidden in the inner life of
mankind. It sleeps and rules absolutely without being wakened, yet daily as if in a drunken
stupor within us.... Therefore we should pray to God, who can be honored only in the spirit,
that is, in the inmost soul of man. Hence I say the art of the Cabala requires of the soul
that magic yet natural power shall, as it were, after sleep has been driven away, be placed
in the keeping of the soul. This magic power has gone, to sleep in us through sin and has to
be awakened again. This happens either through the illumination of the Holy Ghost or a man
himself can by the art of the Cabala produce this power of awakening himself at will. Such
are called makers of gold  whose leader (rector) is, however, the spirit of God.... When God
created the soul of man he imparted to it fundamental and primal knowledge. The soul is the
mirror of the universe and is related to all Being. It is illumined by an inner light, but
the storm of the passions, the multiplicity of sensuous impressions, and other distractions
darken this light, whose beams are spread abroad only, if it burns alone and if all in us is
in harmony and peace. If we know how to separate ourselves from all external influences and
are willing to be led by this inner light, we shall find pure and true knowledge in us. In
this state of concentration the soul distinguishes all objects to which it directs its attention.
It can unite with them, penetrate their nature, and can itself reach God and in him know the
most important truths.” (Ennemoser, Gesch. d. Mag., pp. 906, 914.)

Staudenmaier, who has experimented on himself magically to a great extent and has set down
his experiences recently in the interesting book, “Die Magie als experimentelle Naturwissenschaft,”
thinks he has observed that through the exercise that he carries on, and which produces an
intense introversion, psychophysical energies are set free that make him capable of greater
efficiency. Specifically, an actual drawing upon the nerve centers unused in the conscious
function of the normal man of to-day would be available for intellectual work, etc. So, as
it were, a treasure can be gained (by practices having a significant introversion character),
a treasure which permits an increased thinking and feeling activity. If Staudenmaier, even
in the critical examination of his anomalous functions, can be influenced by them, it would
be a great mistake to put them aside simply as “pathological.”

Ennemoser says of the danger of introversion (l. c., p. 175): “Now where in men of impure heart,
through the destructive natural powers and evil spiritual relations, the deepest transcendental
powers are aroused, dark powers may very easily seize the roots of feeling and reveal moral
abysses, which the man fixed in the limits of time hardly suspects and from which human nature
recoils. Such an illicit ecstasy and evil inspiration is at least recognized in the religious
teachings of the Jews and Christians, and the seers of God describe it as an agreement with
hell (Isaiah XXVIII, 15).”

Whence comes the danger? It comes from the powerful attraction for us of that world which is
opened to us through introversion. We descend there to whet our arms for fresh battles, but
we lay them down; for we feel ourselves embraced by soft caressing arms that invite us to linger,
to dream enchanting dreams. This fact coincides in large part with the previously mentioned
tendency toward comfort, which is unwilling to forego childhood and a mother’s careful hands.
Introversion is an excellent road to lazy phantasying in the regressive direction.

Among psychopathologists Jung especially has of late strongly insisted upon the dangerous rôle
of indolence. According to him the libido possesses a monstrous laziness which is unwilling
to let go of any object of the past, but would prefer to retain it forever. Laziness is actually
a passion, as La Rochefoucauld brilliantly remarks: “Of all the passions the least understood
by us is laziness; it is the most indefatigable and the most malign of them all, although its
outrages are imperceptible.” “It is the perilous passion affecting the primitive man more than
all others, which appears behind the suspicious mask of the incest symbols, from which the
fear of incest has driven us away, and which above all is to be vanquished under the guise
of the ‘dreaded mother.’ [Vide, Note D. To avoid a wrong conception of this quotation it must
be noted that laziness is, of course, not to be regarded as the only foundation of incest symbolism.]
She is the mother of infinite evils, not the least of them being the neurotic maladies. For
especially from the vapor of remaining libido residues, those damaging evils of phantasy develop,
which so enshroud reality that adaptation becomes well nigh impossible.” (Jung, Psychology
of the Unconscious.)

That the indolent shrinking back from the difficulties of life is indicated so frequently in
psychology and in mythology by the symbol of the mother is not surprising, but I should yet
like to offer for a forceful illustration an episode from the war of Cyrus against Astyages
which I find recorded in Dulaure-Krauss-Reiskel (Zeugg., p. 85.) After Astyages had aroused
his troops, he hurled himself with fiery zeal at the army of the Persians, which was taken
unawares and retreated. Their mothers and their wives came to them and begged them to attack
again. On seeing them irresolute the women unclothed themselves before them, pointed to their
bosoms and asked them whether they would flee to the bosoms of their mothers or their wives.
This reproachful sight decided them to turn about and they remained victorious.

On the origin of the mythological and psychological symbol of the dreaded mother: “Still there
appears to reside in man a deep resentment, because a brutal law once separated him from an
impulsive indulgence and from the great beauty of the animal nature so harmonious with itself.
This separation is clearly shown in the prohibition of incest and its corollaries (marriage
laws). Hence pain and indignation are directed toward the mother as if she were to blame for
the domestication of the sons of men. In order not to be conscious of his desire for incest
(his regressive impulse toward animal nature) the son lays the entire blame on the mother,
whence results the image of the ‘dreaded mother.’ ‘Mother’ becomes a specter of anxiety to
him, a nightmare.” (Jung, Psychology of the Unconscious.)

The snake is to be regarded as a mythological symbol (frequent also in dream life) for the
libido that introverts itself and enters the perilous interdicted precinct of the incest wish
(or even only the life shirking tendency); and especially (though not always valid) is this
conception in place, if the snake appears as a terrifying animal (representative of the dreaded
mother). So also the dragon is equivalent to the snake, and it can, of course, be replaced
by other monsters. The phallic significance of the snake is, of course, familiar enough; the
snake as a poisonous terrible animal indicates, however, a special phallus, a libido burdened
with anxiety. Jung, who has copious material with which to treat this symbolism, calls the
snake really a “negative phallus,” the phallus forbidden with respect to the mother, etc. I
would recall that alchemy, too, has the symbol of the snake or the dragon, and used in a way
that reënforces the preceding conception. It is there connected with the symbols of introversion
and appears as “poisonous.” The anxiety serpent is the “guardian of the threshold” of the occultists;
it is the treasure guarding dragon of the myth. In mystic work the serpent must be overcome;
we must settle with the conflict which is the serpent’s soul.

Also the mystic yoga manuals of the Hindus know the symbol of the serpent, which the introverting
individual has to waken and to overcome, whereupon he comes into possession of valuable powers.
These serpents [kundalini] are considered by the Yogi mystics as an obstacle existing in the
human body that obstructs certain veins or nerves (the anatomy of the Hindu philosophers is
rather loose here), and by this means, if they are freed, the breath of life (prāna) sends
wondrous powers through the body. The main path in the body which must be freed for the increased
life-energies is generally described as the susumna (as far as I know, it is not yet cleared
up whether the aorta abdominalis or the spine has furnished the anatomical basis for the idea
of the central canal), and is the middle way between two other opposed canals of the breath,
which are called pingala, the right, and ida, the left. (Here, too, note by the way, appears
the comparison of opposites.) I quote now several passages on the kundalini and its significance
at the beginning of the mystical work.

“As Ananta, the Lord of Serpents, supports this whole universe with its mountains and its forests,
so kundalini is the main support of all the yoga practices. When kundalini is sleeping it is
aroused by the favor of the guru [spiritual teacher], then all of the lotuses [lotus here stands
for nerve center] and granthis [swallowings, nerve plexus?] are pierced. Then prana goes through
the royal road, susumna. Then the mind remains suspended and the yogi cheats death.... So the
yogi should carefully practice the various mudras [exercises] to rouse the great goddess [kundalini]
who sleeps closing the mouth of susumna.” (Hatha Yoga Prad., Ill, 1-5.) “As one forces open
a door [door symbolism] with a key [the ‘Diederich’ of the wanderer in the parable] so the
yogi should force open the door of moksa [deliverance] by the kundalini. The Paramesoari [great
goddess] sleeps, closing with her mouth the hole through which one should go to the brahmarandhra
[the opening or place in the head through which the divine spirit, the Brahma or the Atman,
gets into the body; the anatomical basis for this naïve idea may have been furnished by one
of the sutures of the skull, possibly the sutura frontalis; the brahmarandhra is probably the
goal of the breath that passes through the susumna that is becoming free.] where there is no
pain or misery. The kundalini sleeps above the kanda. [The kanda, for which we can hardly find
a corresponding organ, is to be found between the penis and the navel.] It gives mukti to the
yogis and bondage to the fools. [See later the results of introspection.] He who knows her,
knows yoga. The kundalini is described as being coiled like a serpent. He who causes that sakti
[probably, power] to move ... is freed without doubt. Between the Ganges and the Yamuna [two
rivers of India, which are frequently used symbolically, probably for the right and the left
stream of the breath of life, ingala and ida, cf. what follows] there sits the young widow
[an interesting characterization of the kundalini] inspiring pity. He should despoil her forcibly,
for it leads one to the supreme seat of Vishnu. Ida is the sacred Ganges and pingala the Yamuna.
Between ida and pingala sits the young widow kundalini. You should awake the sleeping serpent
[kundalini] by taking hold of its tail. That sakti, leaving off sleep, goes up forcibly.” (Hatha-Yoga,
Prad., III, 105-111.) Ram Prasad (“Nature’s Finer Forces,” p. 189) writes about the kundalini:
“This power sleeps in the developed organism. It is that power which draws in gross matter
from the mother organism through the umbilical cord and distributes it to the different places,
where the seminal prana gives it form. When the child separates from the mother the power goes
to sleep.” Here the kundalini sakti appears clearly in connection with the mother. Siva is
the god [father image] most peculiar to the yogis. The wife of Siva, however, is called Kundalini.

Mythologically expressed, introversion proceeds well if the hero defeats the dragon. If this
does not happen, an unsuccessful issue is the result; the man loses himself. In my opinion
this losing of self is possible in two ways, one active, the other passive. In all there would
then be three terminations of introversion. The good conclusion is the entrance into the true
mystical work, briefly, mysticism. The bad conclusions are the active way of magic and the
passive one of schizophrenia (introversion psychosis). In the first case there is consummated
an inner reunion, in the other two cases a losing of self; in magic one loses oneself in passions,
for which one wishes to create satisfaction magically, absolving oneself from the laws of nature;
in the case of mental malady the sinking develops into laziness, a spiritual death. The three
paths followed by the introverting individual correspond roughly to these three other possibilities
of life, work (morality), crime, suicide. These three possibilities are, of course, recognized
by the hermetic art; it recognizes three fundamental powers, which can give no other result
psychically. Two of these principles are mutually opposed (in the unpurified condition of the
material). We know them quite well as [Symbol: Fire] and [Symbol: Water], etc. The third principle
lies evenly between the other two, like the staff of Hermes between the two serpents. So the
symbol [Symbol: Mercurius], as Hermes’ staff with the serpents, precisely unites all three.
In this aspect the three qualities or constituents of matter (prakrti) may at once be substituted
for the three fundamental powers of alchemy according to the Hindu samkhya doctrine. Sattva,
Rajas, Tamas, are translated (by Schroeder) by “purity, passion, darkness.”

In the Bhagavad-Gita it is said of the happiness that these three grant:

    “Where one rests after earnest work and arrives at the end of
                toil,
    Fortune, which appears poison at first, finally is like nectar.
    Such a fate is truly good, procured through cheerfulness of
                spirit. [Sattva.]
    Fortune that first shows like nectar, and finally appears as
                poison,
    Chaining the senses to the world, belongs to the realm of passion.
                [Rajas.]
    Fortune that immediately and thereafter strikes the soul with
                delusion,
    In sleep, indolence, laziness, such Fortune belongs to darkness.”
                [Tamas.]

“Passion” and “darkness,” Rajas and Tamas, (in alchemy indicated by [Symbol: Fire] and [Symbol:
Water], also often by [Symbol: Mars] and [Symbol: Venus]) indicate the wrong way, the peril
in introversion. They lead to what Gorres (Christl. Myst.) describes as the “demoniac” mysticism
as opposed to the divine mysticism. All mystic manuals warn us of the wrong way and emphasize
often that we can easily lose the way even where there is good intention. The evil one knows
how, by illusions, to make the false way deceptively like the right one, so that the righteous
man, who is not on his guard, may get unsuspectingly into the worst entanglements. Careful
examination of himself, exact observation of the effect of the spiritual exercises, is to be
laid to heart by every one. Yet powers come into play that have their roots in the deepest
darkness of the soul (in the unconscious) and which are withdrawn from superficial view. [After
this had been written I read a short paper of Dr. Karl Furtmüller, entitled “Psychoanalyse
und Ethik,” and find there, p. 5, a passage which I reproduce here on account of its agreement
with my position. I must state at the outset that according to Furtmüller, psychoanalysis is
peculiarly qualified to arouse suspicion against the banal conscience, which leads self-examination
into the realm of the conscious only, with neglect of the unconscious impulses, which are quite
as important for the performance of actions. The passage of interest to us here reads: “There
is no lack of intimation that these fundamental facts which place the whole of life in a new
perspective, were recognized or suspected even in earlier times. If early Christianity believed
that demons could overpower the heart of man in the sense that they assumed the voice of God,
and the man believed that, while really doing the devil’s work he was doing the work of God,
then that sounds like a symbolic representation of the play of the forces that are described
above.” The play of these forces was indeed known to cultivated religious peoples of all times.
As for Christianity, what the author asserts of its beginnings can be accepted as true for
a much earlier time. We already know that one of the first works of mysticism consists in the
education of the conscience, in a most subtle purification of this judicial inner eye. The
claims of the psychoanalyst are there fulfilled to the uttermost.] Instead of many examples
I gladly quote a single one, but an instructive exposition by Walter Hitton, a great master
of the contemplative life, from his “Scala Perfectionis” as Beaumont (Tract. v. Gust. pub.
1721, pp. 188 ff.) renders it. Thus he writes: “From what I said we can to some extent perceive
that visions and revelations, or any kind of spirit in bodily appearance, or in the imagination
in sleep or waking, or any other sensation in the bodily senses that are, as it were, spiritually
performed, either through a sound in the ears or taste in the mouth or smell in the nose, or
any other perceptible heat of fiery quality that warms the breast or any other part of the
body, or any other thing that can be felt by a bodily sense, even if it is not so refreshing
and agreeable, all this is not contemplation or observation; but in respect of the spiritual
virtues, and those of celestial perception and love towards God, which accompany true contemplation,
only evil secondary matters, even if they appear to be laudable and good. All such kinds of
sensation may be good if produced by a good angel, but may, however, proceed in a deceptive
manner, from the impositions of a bad angel, if he disguises himself as an angel of light.
For the devil can imitate in bodily sensations exactly the same things that a good angel can
accomplish. Indeed, just as the good angels come with light, so can the devil do also. And
just as he can fabricate this in things that appear to the eyes, so he can bring it to pass
in the other senses. The man who has perceived both can best say which is good and which is
evil. But whoever knows neither or only one, can very easily be deceived.”

Externally, in the sense quality, they are all similar, but internally they are very different.
And therefore we should not too strongly desire them, nor lightly maintain that the soul can
distinguish between the good and evil by the spirit of difference, so that it may not be deceived.
As St. John says: “Believe not every spirit, but prove it first whether it be of God or not.”
And to know whether the perception of the bodily sense is good or evil, Hitton gives the following
rule:

“If ye see an unusual light or brilliance with your bodily eye, or in imagination, or if ye
hear any wonderful supernatural sound with your ears, or if ye perceive a sudden sweet taste
in your mouths or feel any warmth in your breasts, like fire, or any form of pleasure in any
part of your body, or if ye see a spirit in a bodily form, as if he were an angel to fortify
or instruct you, or if any such feeling that you know comes not from you or from a physical
creature, then observe yourselves with great care at such a time and consider the emotions
of your heart prudently. For if ye become aware by occasion of pleasure or satisfaction derived
from such perception, that your hearts are drawn away from the contemplation of Jesus Christ
and from spiritual exercises: as from prayer, and knowledge of yourselves and your failings,
and from the turning in towards virtue and spiritual knowledge and perception of God, with
result that your heart and your inclinations, your desire and your repose depend chiefly on
the above mentioned feeling or sight, in that ye therefore retain them, as if that were a part
of the celestial joy or angelic bliss, and therefore your thoughts become such that ye neither
pray nor can think of anything else, but must entirely give way to that, in order to keep it
and satisfy yourself with it, then this sensation is very much to be suspected of coming from
the Enemy; and therefore were it ever so wonderful and striking, still renounce it and do not
consent to accept it. For this is a snare of the Enemy, to lead the soul astray by such bodily
sensation or agreeableness of the senses, and to trap it in order to hurl it into spiritual
arrogance and false security, which happens if it flatters itself as if it enjoyed celestial
bliss and on account of the pleasure it feels were already half in paradise, while it is still
in fact at the gate of hell, and therefore through pride and presumptuousness may have fallen
into error, heresy, fanaticism and other bodily or spiritual disaster.

“In case, however, that these things do not result in leading away your heart from spiritual
exercises, but cause ye to become ever more devout and more ardent in prayer and more wise
to cultivate spiritual thoughts; if ye are at first astonished but nevertheless your heart
turns back and is awakened to greater longing for virtue and your love toward God and your
neighbor increases more and more, and makes you ever meeker in your own eyes; then you may
infer from this sign that it is of God and comes from the presence and action of a good angel,
and comes from the goodness of God, either for comfort to simple pious souls to increase their
trust in and longing for God, and because of such a strengthening to seek more thoroughly for
the knowledge and love of God. Or if they are perfect that perceive such a pleasure, it appears
to them somewhat like a foretaste and shadow of the transfiguration of the body which it may
expect in the celestial bliss.” However, I do not know whether such a man can be found on earth.

“He continues: Of this method of distinguishing between the works of the spirits, Saint John
(I John IV, 3) speaks in his epistle: ‘Every spirit that confesseth not that Jesus Christ is
come in the flesh is not of God’ (or as it is translated by Luther: ‘Who does not recognize
that Jesus Christ is come into the flesh’). This union and connection of Jesus with the human
soul is caused by a good will and a zealous striving toward him, which alone desires to possess
him and to view him spiritually in his blessedness. The greater this longing the more closely
is Jesus united with the soul, and the less the longing, the more loosely is he bound to him.
So every spirit or every sensation that diminishes this longing, and draws it away from the
steadfast contemplation of Jesus Christ and from sighing and longing like a child for him,
this spirit will release Jesus from the soul, and therefore it is not from God but the activity
of the Enemy. But if a spirit or a sensation increases this desire, fastens the bonds of love
and devotion closer to Jesus, raises the eyes of the soul to spiritual knowledge more and more,
and makes the heart ever meeker, this spirit is from God.”

In many of the modern theosophic introversion methods, borrowed from the Hindu yoga doctrines,
we find the exhortation to attach no importance to the marvels appearing beside the real prize,
indeed to regard them as a pernicious by-product. The Hindu doctrine calls them Siddhi. Walter
Hitton speaks of them as “inferior subordinate matters.” From the description of them it appears
that they are phantastic appearances, which partly flatter the wish for power, partly other
wishes. [See Note E at the end of this volume.] The Siddhi are qualified to captivate weak
minds with their jugglery. Erotic experiences are connected very easily with them because,
going over into the regressive phase, they show their “titanic” countenances. I have with some
daring, but not without right, just cited the Siddhi as the anagogic equivalent of autoerotism.
The regressive phase, however, appears as soon as one indulges in the gratification of the
Siddhi. It is not the Siddhi themselves that are the evil (I regard them indeed as anagogic),
but the losing of oneself in them. They can be both divine and diabolic. That depends on one’s
attitude towards them.

In the result of introversion, the diabolic mysticism is opposed, as we saw, to the divine.
The true mysticism is characterized by the extension of personality and the false by the shrinking
of personality. We can also say, by an extension or shrinking of the sphere of interest that
determines the socially valuable attitude. I say advisedly “sphere of interest,” for mysticism
in the end will not merely fulfill the social law without love, but it labors for the bringing
out of this very love. It is not satisfied with superficially tincturing the substance into
gold (i.e., among other meanings, to get man to do good externally); but it would change the
substance completely, make it gold through and through (i.e., to orient the entire impulse
power of man for good, so that he desires this good with the warmth of love and therefore finds
his good fortune in virtue). Only the good and not the good fortune is chosen as the leading
star, as I must note in order to avoid a misconception about the hermetic procedure. Happiness
arises only at a certain point, and seems to me like a fruit ripened in the meantime. The most
subtle representatives of this doctrine among the alchemists are not so far, after all, from
the Kantian ethics.

Alchemistic ethics presupposes that there is an education, an ennobling of the will. The person
that wills can learn to encompass infinitely much in his ego. [Cf. Furtmüller (Psychoanalyse
und Ethik, p. 15): “The individual can ... make the commands of others his own.” He quotes
Goethe (Die Geheimnisse):

    From the law which binds all being
    The man is freed who masters himself.

The poles of shrinking and extension are the following: The magician and the pathological introversionist
contract the sphere of their interest upon the narrowest egoism. The mystic expands it immensely,
in that he comprises the whole world in himself. The person egotistically entering into introversion
can preserve his happiness only by a firm self-enclosure before the ever threatening destruction;
the mystic is free. The mystic’s fortune consists in the union of his will with the world will
or as another formula expresses it, in the union with God. [On the freeing effect of the merging
of one’s own will into a stronger cf. my essays Jb. ps. F., III, pp. 637 ff., and IV, p. 629.]
This fortune is therefore also imperishable (gold). The reader must always bear in mind that
the mystic never works on anything but on the problem of mankind in general; only he does so
in a form of intensive life, and it may indeed be the case that the powers which introversion
furnish him, actually make possible a more dynamic activity and a greater result. For my part
I am strongly inclined to believe it.

On the extension of personality, some passages from the Discourses on Divinity in the Bhagavad-Gita:

    “Who sees himself in all being and all being in himself,
    Whoever exercises himself in devotion and looks at all
                impartially,
    Whoever sees me everywhere, and also sees everything in me,
    From him I can never vanish nor he from me.” VI, 29f.
    “Whoever discovers in all the modes of life the very exalted lord,
    Who does not fail when they fail—he who recognizes that, has
                learned well,
    For whosoever recognizes the same lord as the one who dwells in
                all,
    Wounds not the self through the self, and travels so the highest
                road.” XIII 27f.

These passages elucidate the progressive function of the idea of God in the “work.” Incidentally,
I believe that the devotional doctrines (Yoga) which are theoretically based on the Samkhya
philosophy that originated without a God, has for good practical reasons taken the idea of
isvara (God) into its system. Concentration requires an elevated impalpable object as an aim.
And this object must have the property of being above every reach of the power to grasp and
yet apparently to seem attainable. God has furthermore the functions of the bearer of conflicts
and hopes. At the beginning of the work indeed the obstructing conflicts still exist. A certain
unburdening is accomplished by leaving the conflict to the divinity, and frees the powers that
were at first crippled under the pressure of the conflicts. [Cf. Jung’s Psychology of the Unconscious,
Freud Kl. Schr., II, p. 131.]

    “Then throw on me all thy doings, thinking only on the highest
                spirit,
    Hoping and desiring nothing, so fight, free from all pain.” Bh. G.
                III 30.
    “Whose acts without any bias and dedicates all his activity to God
    Will not be stained with evil [is therefore free from conflicts]
                as the lotus leaf is not stained by the water.” V 10.

The idea of the education of the will has, of course, been familiar for a long time to ethical
writers, even if it has at times been lost sight of.

Aristotle is convinced that morality arises from custom and convention. “As we learn swimming
only in water, and music by practice on an instrument, so we become righteous by righteous
action and moderate and courageous by appropriate acts. From uniform actions enduring habits
are formed, and without a rational activity no one becomes good ... being good is an act. Good
is never by nature; we become good by a behavior corresponding to a norm. We possess morality
not by nature but against nature. We have the disposition to attain it ... we must completely
win it by habit. As Plato says, in agreement with this, the proper education consists in being
so led from youth upward, as to be glad and sorry about the things over which we should be
glad and sorry. But if by a course of action in accordance with custom, a definite direction
of the will has been secured, then pleasure and pain are added to the actions that result from
the will and, as it were, as signs, that here a new nature is established in man.” (Jodl. Gesch.
d. Eth., I, pp. 44 ff.) “The energy and the proud confidence in human power with which Aristotle
offers to man his will and character formation as his own work, the emphasis with which he
has opposed to the quietistic ‘velle non discitur’ (we cannot educate volition nor learn to
will, as later pessimistic opinions have expressed it axiomatically) with the real indispensability
and at the same time the possibility of the formation of the will; this contention is admirable
and quite characteristic of the methods of thought of ancient philosophy at its height.” (Jodl.,
l. c., p. 49.) [Velle non discitur has been popularized by Schopenhauer.]

In Philo and the related philosophers there appears quite clearly the thought that gained such
wide acceptance later among the Christian ascetics, that the highest development of moral strength
was attainable only through a long continued and gradually increasing exercise, an ethical
gymnastics. Philo, moreover, uses the word Askesis to describe what elsewhere had been described
as bodily exercise. The occidental spiritual exercise corresponds to the Hindu yoga.

In the domestication of man through countless generations, social instincts must have been
established, which appear as moral dispositions. I recall the moral feeling in Shaftesbury.
The social life of man, for instance, plays with Adam Smith a significant rôle, and yet even
with him the moral law is not something ready from the very beginning, not an innate imperative,
but the peculiar product of each individual. The development of conscience receives an interesting
treatment by Smith. There takes place in us a natural transposition of feelings, mediated through
sympathy, which arouse in each of us the qualities of the other, and we can say “that morality
in Smith’s sense, just as Feuerbach taught later, is only reflected self-interest, although
Smith himself was quite unwilling to look at sympathy as an egotistic principle. By means of
a process that we can almost call a kind of self-deception of the imagination, we must look
at ourselves with the eyes of others, a very sensible precaution of nature, which thus has
created a balance for impulses that otherwise must have operated detrimentally. [Bear in mind
what I have said above about intro-determination.] This transposition which sympathy effects
we cannot escape; it itself appears when we know that we are protected from the criticism of
another by the complete privacy of our own doings. It alone can keep us upright when all about
us misunderstand us and judge us falsely. For the actual judgments of another about us form,
so to speak, a first court whose findings are continually being corrected by that completely
unpartisan and well informed witness who grows up with us and reacts on all our doings.” (Jodl.,
l. c., I, pp. 372 ff.)

The derivation of the moral from selfish impulses by transposition does not resolve ethics
into egoism, as Helvetius would have us believe. It is “a caricature of the true state of things
to speak of self-interest, when we have in mind magnanimity and beneficence, and to maintain
that beneficence is nothing but disguised selfishness, because it produces joy or brings honor
to the person that practices it.” (L. c., p. 444.)

The ethical evolution which takes place as an extension of personality demands, the more actively
it is practiced, the removal of resistances which operate against the expansion of the ego.
It cannot be denied that hostile tendencies, which are linked with pusillanimous views, are
always on hand and create conflicts. If they were not, the moral task would be an easy one.
Now as man cannot serve two masters, so in the personal psychical household, the points of
view which have been dethroned, as far as they will not unite with the newly acquired ones,
must be killed, and ousted from their power. Most of all must this process be made effective
if the development is taken up intensively in the shape of introversion. It must appear also
in the symbolism.

Already in the lecanomantic experiments we are struck by the dying of the figure (old man)
that represents the old form of conscience that has been overcome. It is that part of Lea’s
psyche that resists the new, after the manner of old people (father type). In order that the
new may be suppressed, it must be immolated; at every step in his evolution man must give up
something; not without sacrifice, not without renunciation, is the better attained. The sacrifice
must come, of course, before the new reformed life begins. The hermetic representations do
not indeed always follow chronological order, yet the sacrifice is usually placed at the beginning,
as introversion. In the parable the wanderer kills the lion, well at the beginning. He sacrifices
something in so doing. He kills himself, i.e., a part of himself, in order to be able to rise
renewed (regenerated). This process is the first mystical death, also called by the alchemists,
putrefaction or the blacks. This death is often fused with the symbol of introversion, because
both can appear under the symbol of the entrance into the mother or earth. Only by closer examination
can it sometimes be seen which process is chiefly intended.

“And that shalt thou know my son, whoso does not know how to kill, and to bring about a rebirth,
to make the spirits revive, to purify, to make bright and clear ... he as yet knows nothing
and will accomplish nothing.” (Siebengestirn, p. 21.)

“These are the two serpents sent by Juno (which is the metallic nature) which the strong Hercules
(i.e., the wise man in his cradle) has to strangle, i.e., to overpower and kill, in order in
the beginning of his work to have them rot, be destroyed and to bear.” (Flamel, p. 54.)

Again and again the masters declare that one cannot attain to true progress except by means
of the blacks, death and putrefaction.

In the “Clavis philosophiae et alchymiae Fluddanae,” of the year 1633, we read: “Know then
that it is the duty of spiritual alchemy to mortify and to refine all obscuring prejudice as
corruptible and vain, and so break down the tents of darkness and ignorance, so that that imperishable
but still beclouded spirit may be free and grow and multiply in us through the help of the
fiery spirit, full of grace, which God so kindly moistened, so as to increase it from a grain
to a mountain. That is the true alchemy of which I am speaking, that which can multiply in
me that rectangular stone, which is the cornerstone of my life and my soul, so that the dead
in me shall be awakened anew, and arise from the old nature that had become corrupted in Adam,
as a new man who is new and living in Christ, and therefore in that rectangular stone....”

To the “sacrifice” of the person introverting, Jung devotes an entire chapter in his Psychology
of the Unconscious, Chapt. IV. A brief résumé of it would show that by the sacrifice is meant
the giving up of the mother, i.e., the disclaiming of all bonds and limitations that the soul
has carried over from childhood into adulthood. The victory over the dragon is equivalent to
the sacrificing of the regressive (incestuous) tendency. After we have sought the mother through
introversion we must escape from her, enriched by the treasure which we have gotten.

The sacrifice of a part of ourself (killing of the dragon, the father, etc.) is, as Jung points
out, represented also in mythology by the shooting with sharp arrows at the symbol of the libido.
The symbol of the libido is generally a sun symbol. Now it is particularly noteworthy that
the VIII key of the alchemist Basilius Valentinus (see figure 3, p. 199) shows arrows being
shot, which are aimed at the [Symbol: sun] (this libido symbol par excellence) that is aptly
used as a “target.” Death is clearly enough accentuated and correlated with the sinking of
the corns of wheat into the earth. The grave crosses have the form [Symbol: Fire] ([Symbol:
Sulphur]); they show that the interred one is a certain sulphur, the impure sulphur, willfulness.
The birds, from which we are to protect the grain, may in the end be the Siddhi; they are,
in the introversion form of the religious work, what would otherwise be merely “diversions”
or “dissipations.”

The mystical death is the death of egoism (in Hindu terminology ahamkāra). Jacob Boehme writes
in his book of the true atonement, I, 19: “... Although I am not worthy, [Jesus] take me yet
in thy death and let me only in thy death die my death; still strike thou me in my acknowledged
selfishness to the ground and kill my selfishness by thy death....” In the Mysterium Magnum,
XXXVI, 74, 75: “... We exalt not the outspoken word of the wisdom of God, but only the animal
will to selfishness and egoism which is departed from God, which honors itself as a false God
of its own and may not believe or trust God (as the Antichrist who has placed himself in God’s
stead); and we teach on the contrary that the man of the Antichrist’s image shall wholly die
so that he may be born in Christ of a new life and will, which new will has power in the perfect
word of nature with divine eyes to see all the miracles of God, both in nature and creature,
in the perfect wisdom. For as dies the Antichrist in the soul, so rises Christ from the dead.”

In the hermetic book, “Gloria Mundi,” it is related of Adam that he would have been able, if
he had not acted contrary to God, to live 2000 years in paradise and would then have been taken
up into heaven; but he had drawn on himself death, sickness and calamity. Only through the
grace of God was he given a partial knowledge of the powers of things, of herbs and remedies
against manifold infirmities. “When, however, he could no longer maintain himself by the medicinal
art [in paradise] he sent his son Seth forth to paradise for the tree of life, which he received,
not physically, but spiritually. Finally he desired the oil of compassion, whereupon by the
angels, at God’s command to give the oil, the promise was given and thereupon the seed of the
oil tree sent, which seed Seth planted on his return, after his father’s death and on his father’s
grave, from which grew the wood of the holy cross, on which our Lord Jesus Christ, through
his passion and death, freed us from death and all sins; which Lord Christ in his holiest humanity
has become the tree and the wood of life and has brought to us the fruit of the oil of compassion....”
Adam is the undomesticated man; this ideal must die to the moral aspirant.

The painful duty of killing a part of self is beautifully expressed in the Bhagavad-Gita, where
the hero, Aryuna, hesitates to fight against his “kindred,” to shoot at them—the bow falls
from his hand.

Dying relates to the old realms. The old laws expire to make room for the new. The new life
cancels the old deeds. (Cf. Paul, Rom. VII-VII.)

Vedanta doctrine: But as to the duty of the scripture canon and perception, both last as long
as Samsāra, i.e., until the awakening. If this is attained, perception is annulled, and if
you derive thence the objection that thereby the veda is annulled, it must be noted that according
to our own doctrine father is not father and the Veda is not the veda. (Deussen, Syst. d. Ved.,
p. 449.)

    Bhagavad-Gita, IV, 37:

    “Like fire when it flames and turns all the firewood to ashes.”
    So the fire of knowledge burns for you all deeds to ashes.

For several reasons the father image is peculiarly suited to represent what has to be resolved.
By the father, the old Adam (totality of inherited instincts) and the strongest imperatives
are implanted in the child. The father is also the type of tenacious adherence to the ancestors.
Again we meet the antithesis, old generation, new generation, in ourselves after the intro-determination.

The mystical death (sacrifice) is not to be accomplished by mere asceticism, as it were, mechanically;
the alchemists warn us carefully against severe remedies. The work is to take a natural course;
the work is also, although indeed a consummation of nature, yet not above nature.

    “Nature rejoices in nature
    Nature overcomes nature
    Nature rules nature.”

Thus the magician Osthanes is said to have taught. And the Bhagavad-Gita (VI, 5-7) says:

    “Let one raise himself by means of self, and not abase self,
    Self is his own friend, is also his own enemy.
    To him is his self his own friend, who through self conquers self,
    Yet if it battle with the external world, then self becomes enemy
                to self.”

In the “Clavis Philosophiae et Alchymiae Fluddanae” (p. 57) we read: “So it is impossible to
rise to the supramundane life, in so far as it does not happen by means of nature. From the
steps of nature Jacob’s ladder is reached and the chain to Jupiter’s throne begins on earth.”

The idea of self-sacrifice (with dismemberment) appears very prettily in an allegorical vision
of the old hermetic philosopher Zosimos, who seems to have copied it, as Reitzenstein notes,
from an Egyptian Nekyia. I quote from Hoefer (Hist. Chim., I, pp. 256-259):

“I slept and saw a priest standing before an altar shaped like a cup and with several steps
by which to climb to it. [First 15, later 7 steps are mentioned.] And I heard a voice crying
aloud, ‘I have finished climbing and descending these 15 steps, resplendent with light.’ After
listening to the priest officiating at the altar I asked him what this resounding voice was
whose sound had struck my ear. The priest answered me, saying: ‘I am he who is (εἰμὶ ὁ ὤν),
the priest of the sanctuary, and I am under the weight of the power that overwhelms me. For
at the break of day came a deputy who seized me, killed me with a sword, cut me in pieces;
and after flaying the skin from my head, he mixed the bones with the flesh and burned me in
the fire to teach me that the spirit is born with the body. That is the power that overwhelms
me.’ While the priest was saying that, his eyes became as blood, and he vomited all his flesh.
I saw him mutilate himself, rend himself with his teeth and fall on the ground. Seized with
terror I awoke, and I began to ponder and ask myself if this indeed was the nature and the
composition of the water. And I congratulated myself upon having reasoned well [namely in a
train of thought preceding the vision]. Soon I slept again and perceived the same altar, and
on this altar I saw water boiling with a noise and many men in it. Not finding any one in the
neighborhood to explain this phenomenon, I advanced to enjoy the spectacle at the altar. Then
I noticed a man with gray hair and thin, who said to me, ‘What are you looking at?’ ‘I am looking,’
I answered with surprise, ‘at the boiling of the water and the men who are boiling there still
alive.’ ‘The sight you see,’ replied he, ‘is the beginning, the end and the transmutation (μεταβολή).’
I asked him what the transmutation was. ‘It is,’ he said, ‘the place of the operation which
is called purification [in the original, topos askeseos], for the people who wish to become
virtuous come there and become spirits shunning the body.’ And I asked him, ‘Are you also a
spirit [pneuma]?’ ‘I am,’ said he, ‘a spirit and the guardian of spirits.’ During this conversation
and amid the noise of the boiling water and the cries of the people, I perceived a man of brass,
holding in his hand a book of lead, and I heard him tell me in a loud voice: ‘See, I command
all those who are subjected to punishments to learn from this book. I command every one to
take the book of lead and to write in it with his hand until his pharynx is developed, the
mouth is opened, and the eyes have taken their place again.’ The act followed the word, and
the master of the house, present at this ceremony, said to me, ‘Stretch your neck and see what
is done.’ ‘I see,’ said I. ‘The brazen man that you see,’ said he, ‘and who has left his own
flesh, is the priest before the altar. It is he who has been given the privilege of disposing
of this water.’ In going over all this in my imagination I awoke and said to myself, ‘What
is the cause of this occurrence? What indeed is it? Is it not the water white, yellow, boiling,
divine?’ I found that I had reasoned well.... Finally, to be brief, build, my friend a temple
of a single stone [monolith] ... a temple that has neither beginning nor end, and in the interior
of which there is found a spring of purest water, and bright as the sun. It is with the sword
in hand that one must search and penetrate into it, for the entrance is narrow. It is guarded
by a dragon, which has to be killed and flayed. By putting the flesh and the bones together
you make a pedestal up which you will climb to reach the temple, where you will find what you
are looking for. For the priest, who is the brazen man whom you saw sitting near the spring,
changes his nature and is transformed into a man of silver, who can, if you wish, change himself
into a man of gold.... Do not reveal anything of this to any one else and keep these things
for yourself, for silence teaches virtue. It is very fine to understand the transmutation of
the four metals, lead, copper, tin, silver, and to know how they change into perfect gold....”

Psychoanalysis, like comparative mythology, makes it probable that the killing or dismemberment
of the father figure is equivalent to castration. That has, according to intro-determination,
an anagogic, a wider sense, if we compare the organ of generation to the creative power, and
a narrower, if we compare it to sexuality. The wider conception does not require immediate
interpretation. With regard to the narrower, I observe that the mystical manuals show that
the most active power for spiritual education is the sexual libido, which for that reason is
partially or entirely withdrawn from its original use. (Rules of chastity.) “Vigor is obtained
on the confirmation of continence.” (Patanjali, Yoga-Sutra, II, 38.) These instruction books
have recognized the great transmutability of the sexual libido. (Cf. ability of sublimation
in the alchemistic, as well as in the Freudian terminology.) Naturally the reduction of sexuality
had to occur at the beginning of the work in order to furnish that power; hence the castration
at the commencement of the process. The killing of the phallic snake amounts, of course, to
the same thing. The snake with its tail in its mouth is the cycle of the libido, the always
rolling wheel of life, of procreation, which always procreates itself, and of the creation
of the world. The same cycle is represented by a god who holds his phallus in his mouth, and
so (in accordance with infantile and primitive theory) constantly impregnates himself. The
serpent is good and also evil. Whoever breaks through the ring frees himself from the wheel
of compulsion, raises himself above good and evil, in order to put in its place later a mystical
union [Hieros Gamos].

Regarded from the point of view of knowledge, the formation of types reveals itself as a symbolic
presentiment of an anagogic idea, not at first clearly conceivable. For the spirit, what cannot
yet be clearly seen (mythological level of knowledge) or can no longer be seen (going to sleep,
etc.) is pictured in symbolic form. [More details will be found in my essays, “Phantasie und
Mythos,” “Ueber die Symbolbildung,” and “Zur Symbolbildung” (Jb. ps. F., II, III, IV).] This
symbol form is the form of knowledge adapted to the spirit’s capacity as it then existed. Not
that any mysterious presentiment or prophetic gift of vision must be assumed. The circumstance
that man can get ever deeper meaning from his symbols gives them the appearance of being celestial
harbingers sent forth by the latest ideas that they express. In a certain sense, however, the
last meaning is implicated in the first appearance of the typical symbol. It has already been
explained by intro-determination how that was possible. The psyche, whose inventory of powers
is copied symbolically in the elementary types, knows, even if only darkly at first, the possible
unfolding of the powers. These unfoldings are originally not actual but potential. [See Note F.]

The more then that the psyche is so developed, that what was originally only a possible presentiment
of actuality and that hence tends to come nearer the merely potential, begins to become actual,
the more symbolism has the value of a “program.” According to Jung, Riklin, etc., the phantasy
(dream, myth-making) can be conceived not only as with Freud, “as a wish fulfillment, wherein
older and infantile material expresses the wish for something unsettled, unattained or suppressed,
but also as a mythological first step in the direction of conscious and adapted thinking and
acting, as a program.... Maeder has discussed the teleological functions of the dream and the
unconscious. In the course of an analytic treatment we discover the continuous transformations
of the libido symbol in the dream current, till a form is reached which serves as an attempt
to adapt oneself to actuality. There are epochs in the history of civilization which are particularly
characterized by a storing of the libido in the sense that from the reservoir of mythological
and religious thought forms, new adaptations to the real processes and data are made. A significant
example is the Renaissance, which a study of renaissance literature and a visit to the renaissance
cities, e.g., Florence, make evident in a high degree. The analysis of romanticism ... confirms
these processes of development.” (Zentralblatt f. Psa., III, p. 114.)

We have here the thought that the “program” is expressed in art, which therefore has prescience
in a certain degree of the coming event. Jung (Jb. ps. F., III, pp. 171 ff.) writes: “It is
a daily experience in my professional work (an experience whose certainty I must express with
all the caution that is required by the complexity of the material) that in certain cases of
chronic neuroses, a dream occurs at the time of the onset of the malady or a long time before,
frequently of visionary significance, which is indelibly imprinted on the memory and holds
a meaning, concealed from the patient, which anticipates the succeeding experiences, i.e.,
the psychological significance. Dreams appear to stay spontaneously in memory so long as they
suitably outline the psychological situation of the individual.”

The more the program is worked out the more the value of the symbolism (whose types can always
remain the same in spite of changes in their appearance) changes into that of the functional
symbolism in the narrower sense; for the functional symbolism in the restricted sense is that
which copies the actual play of forces in the psyche.

To the functional symbolism of actual forces belong, e.g., in large part the faces in my lecanomantic
experiments, although they also contain program material; further, in purest form, the previously
related autosymbolic vision of the mountains. The progress of a psychoanalytic treatment is,
apart from the program connections, generally copied in the dream in correspondence to the
momentary psychic status, and therefore actually and functionally. It is quite probable that
the progress of the mystical work is represented to the mystic in his phantasying (dreams,
visions, etc.) in a symbolic manner. But when one happens upon written phantasy products of
the mystics, of course only he who has mystical experiences of his own can venture to say whether
a program symbolism or an actually functional symbolism is exhibited. For example, I make no
judgment on the degree of actuality in the anagogic symbolism of the parable.

C. Regeneration.

In the favorable issue of introversion, i.e., when we conquer the dragon, we liberate a valuable
treasure, namely, an enormous psychic energy, or, according to the psychoanalytic view, libido,
which is applicable to the much desired new creation (as the titanic aspect of which we recognize
the “reforming”). The symbolic type, either openly or hiddenly expressed, of the setting free
of an active libido, is birth. A libido symbol with the characteristic of active life comes
out of a mother symbol. (The former is either explicitly a child or even a food, or it is phallic
or animal. Zbl. Psa., III, p. 115.) As the mystic is author of this, his birth, he has become
his own father.

Introversion (seeking for the uterus or the grave) is a necessary presupposition of regeneration
or resurrection, and this is a necessary presupposition of the mystical creation of the new
man. With the earliest alchemists the brazen man becomes silver, the silver man, gold, by being
dipped in the holy fountain.

A mythological representation of introversion with its danger and with regeneration was given
previously [see Vishnu’s adventure]. Detailed examples follow; first the Celtic myth of the
birth of Taliesin.

In olden times there was a man of noble parentage in Peelyn named Tegid Voel. His ancestral
country was in the center of the lake of Tegid. His wife was called Ceridwen. Of her he had
a son, Morvram ap Tegid, and a daughter, Creirwy, the fairest maiden in the world. These two
had another brother, the ugliest of all beings, named Avagddu. Ceridwen, the mother of this
ill favored son, well knew that he would have little success in society, although he was endowed
with many fine qualities. She determined to prepare a kettle [introversion] for her son, so
that on account of his skill in looking into the future [Siddhi] he should find entrance into
society. The kettle of water began to boil [cooking of the child in the uterus vessel] and
the cooking had to be continued without interruption till one could get three blessed drops
from the gifts of the Spirit [treasure]. She set Gwyon, the son of Gwreang of Llanveir, to
watch the preparation of the kettle, and appointed a blind man [mutilation or castration] named
Morda to keep alight the fire under the kettle, with the command that he should not permit
the interruption of the boiling for a year and a day. [Cf. the activity of the wanderer in
the parable, Sec. 14 ff.] Meanwhile Ceridwen occupied herself with the stars, watched daily
the movement of the planets, and gathered herbs of all varieties that possessed peculiar powers
[Siddhis]. Towards the end of the year, while she was still looking for herbs, it happened
that three drops of the powerful water flew out of the kettle and fell on Gwyon’s finger. They
scalded him and he stuck his finger in his mouth. As the precious drops touched his lips all
the events of the future were opened to his eyes, and he saw that he must be on his guard against
Ceridwen [dreaded mother]. He rushed home. The kettle split into two parts [motive of the tearing
apart of the uterus], for all the water in it except the three powerful drops were poisonous
[danger of introversion], so that it poisoned the chargers of Gwyddno Garantur, which were
drinking out of the gutter into which the kettle had emptied itself [the flood]. Now Ceridwen
came in and saw that her whole year’s work was lost. She took a pestle and struck the blind
man so hard on the head that one of his eyes fell out on his cheeks. “You have unjustly deformed
me,” cried Morda; “you see that I am guiltless. Your loss is not caused by my blunder.” “Verily,”
said Ceridwen, “Gwyon the Small it was that robbed me.” Immediately she pursued him, but Gwyon
saw her from a distance and turned into a hare and redoubled his speed, but she at once became
a hound, forced him to turn around and chased him towards a river. He jumped in and became
a fish, but his enemy pursued him quickly in the shape of an otter, so that he had to assume
the form of a bird and fly up into the air. But the element gave him no place of refuge, for
the woman became a falcon, came after him and would have caught him [forms of anxiety]. Trembling
for fear of death, he saw a heap of smooth wheat on a threshing floor, fell into the middle
of it and turned into a grain of wheat. But Ceridwen took the shape of a black hen, flew to
the wheat, scratched it asunder, recognized the grain and swallowed it [impregnation, incest].
She became pregnant from it and after being confined for nine months [regeneration] she found
so lovely a child [improvement] that she could no longer think of its death [immortality].
She put it in a boat, covered it with a skin [skin = lanugo of the fœtus, belongs to the birth
motive], and at the instigation of her husband cast the skiff into the sea on the 29th of April.
At this time the fish weir of Gwyddno stood between Dyvi and Aberystwyth, near his own stronghold.
It was usual in this weir every year on the 1st of May to catch fish worth 100 pounds. Gwyddno
had an only son, Elphin. He was very unfortunate in his undertakings, and so his father thought
him born in an evil hour. His counselors persuaded the father, however, to let his son draw
the weir basket this time, to try whether good luck would ever be his, and so that he might
yet gain something with which to go forth into the world. On the next day, the 1st of May,
Elphin examined the weir basket and found nothing, yet as he went away, he saw the boat covered
with the skin rest on the post of the weir. One of the fishermen said to him, “You have never
been so unlucky as you were to-night, but now you have destroyed the virtue of the weir basket,”
in which they always found a hundred pounds’ worth on the first of May. “How so?” asked Elphin.
“The boat may easily contain the worth of the hundred.” The skin was lifted and he that opened
it saw the forehead of a child and said to Elphin, “See the beaming forehead.” “Beaming forehead,
Taliesin, be his name,” replied the prince, who took the child in his arms and because of his
own misfortune, pitied it. He put it behind him on his charger. Immediately the child composed
a song for the consolation and praise of Elphin, and at the same time prophesied to him his
future fame. Elphin took the child into the stronghold and showed him to his father, who asked
the child whether he was a human being or a spirit. Whereupon he answered in the following
song: “I am Elphin’s first bard; my native country is the land of the cherubim. The heavenly
John called me Merddin [Merlin] and finally, every one, King: Taliesin. I was nine months in
the womb of my mother Ceridwen, before which I was the little Gwyon, now I am Taliesin. With
my Lord I was in the world above, and fell as Lucifer into the depths of hell. I carried the
banner before Alexander. I know the names of the stars from north to south. I was in the circle
of Gwdion [Gwydi on] in the Tetragrammaton. I accompanied the Hean into the valley of Hebron.
I was in Canaan when Abraham was killed. I was in the court of Dve before Gwdion was born,
a companion of Eli and Enoch. I was at the judgment that condemned the Son of God to the cross.
I was an overseer at Nimrod’s tower building. I was in the ark with Noah. I saw the destruction
of Sodom. I was in Africa before Rome was built. I came hither to the remains of Troy (i.e.,
to Britain, for the mystical progenitor of the Britons boasted a Trojan parentage). I was with
my Lord in the asses’ manger. I comforted Moses in the Jordan. I was in the firmament with
Mary Magdalene. I was endowed with spirit by the kettle of Ceridwen. I was a harper at Lleon
in Lochlyn. I suffered hunger for the son of the maiden. I was in the white mountains in the
court of Cynvelyn in chains and bondage, a year and a day. I dwelt in the kingdom of the Trinity
[Tri-unity]. It is not known whether my body is flesh or fish. I was a teacher of the whole
world and remain till the day of judgment on the face of the earth. [Briefly, Taliesin has
the ubiquity of [Symbol: Mercury].] I sat on the shaken chair at Caer Seden [Caer Seden is
probably the unceasingly recurrent cycle of animal life in the center of the universe.], which
continually rotates between the three elements. Is it not a marvel that it does reflect a single
beam?” Gwyddnaw, astonished at the evolution of the boy, requested another song and received
the answer: “Water has the property of bringing grace; it is profitable to devote one’s thoughts
aright to God; it is good warmly to pray to God, because the grace which goes out from him
cannot be thwarted. Thrice have I been born; I know how one has to meditate. It is sad that
men do not come to seek all the knowledge of the world, which is collected in my breast, for
I know everything that has been and everything that will be.” (Nork. Myth. d. Volkss., pp. 662 ff.)

The story of Taliesin closely harmonizes with that of Hermes in the Smaragdine tablet. Nork
makes some interesting observations, which besides the nature myth interpretation, contains
also an allusion to the idea of spiritual regeneration.

I have already mentioned that the uterus symbol is frequently the body cavity of a monster.
Just as in the previous myth the hero by introversion gets three marvelous drops, so in the
Finnish epic Kalevala, Wäinämöinen learns three magic words in the belly of a monster, his
dead ancestor Antero Wipunen. The gigantic size of the body of the being that here and in other
myths represents the mother, has an infantile root. The introverting person, as we know, becomes
a child. To the child the adults, and of course, the mother, are very large. For the adult,
who becomes a child and revives the corresponding images, the mother image may easily become
a giant.

Stekel tells (Spr. d. Tr., p. 429) of a patient whose dreams show uterus and regeneration phantasies
in concealed form, that he, advised of it by Stekel, mused upon it some minutes and then said,
“I must openly confess to you these conscious phantasies. I was 13 years old when I wished
to become acquainted with an enormously large giantess, in whose body I might take a walk,
and where I could inspect everything. I would then make myself quite comfortable and easy in
the red cavern. I also phantasied a swing that was hung 10 m. high in the body of this giantess.
There I wanted to swing up and down joyfully.” This patient had carried over the original proportion
of fœtus and mother to his present size. Now that he was grown up, the body in which he could
move had to be the body of a giantess.

We shall now not be surprised at the flesh mountain Krun of the mandæan Hibil-Ziwâ saga or
similar giant personalities. Hibil-Ziwâ descended into the world of darkness in order to get
the answer to a question (i.e., once more the treasure in the form of a marvelous word). He
applied in vain to different persons, but always had to go deeper and finally came to Krûn,
from whom he forced the magic word.

The treasure or wonder working name comes from the depths according to the hermetic cabbalistic
conception also. David is supposed to have found at the digging of the foundation of the temple,
the Eben stijjah, Stone of the Deeps, that unlocked the fountain of the great deep (I Mos.,
VII, 11, and VIII, 12) and on which the Sêm ha-mephorás, the outspoken name (of God) was inscribed.
This stone he brought into the holy of holies, and on it the ark of the covenant was set. Fearless
disciples of wisdom entered at times into the sanctuary and had learned from the stone the
name with its combinations of letters in order to work wonders therewith.

In cases where the uterus is represented by the body cavity of a monster the rebirth occurs
most frequently by a spitting forth. Also the breaking forth by means of tearing apart the
uterus occurs, and in every case it has the significance of a “powerfully tearing of oneself
away,” the burning of bridges behind one, the final victory over the mother. To the descent
into the underworld (introversion) corresponds, as characteristic of the subsequent rebirth,
the rising to the light with the released treasure (magic word as above, water of life, as
in Ishtar’s hell journey, etc.).

A frequently used symbol for the released libido is the light, the sun. Reborn sun figures,
in connection with a daily and yearly up and down, are also quite general. That the released
libido appears thus may have several reasons. External ones, like the life-imparting properties
of the sun, invite comparison. Then the parallel light = consciousness. [Also that higher or
other consciousness that is mediated by the mystic religious work; for which expressions like
illuminate, etc., are sufficiently significant. On this topic see my essay, Phant. u. Myth.
(Jb., II, p. 597).] and also inner reasons, i.e., such as rest upon the actual light and warmth
sensations, which occur, as literature and observations show, in persons who are devoted to
spiritual training. Here the occasion may be offered to the mystic to utilize for conscious
life and action, functions that hitherto had been unconscious. Of the appearance of light in
the state of introversion, the histories of saints and ecstatics, and the autobiographies of
this kind of men are full. An enormous number of instances might be given. I shall rest content
with recalling that Mechthildis von Magdeburg has entitled her revelations: “A flowing Light
of my Godhead” (“Ein vliessend Lieht miner Gotheit”), and with adding Jane Leade’s words: “If
any one asks what is the magic power [sought by the reborn] I answer, ‘It is to be compared
to a wonderfully powerful inspiration to the soul, to a blood, coloring and penetrating and
transmuting the inner life, a concentrating and essentially creative light and fire flame.’ ”

The Omphalopsychites or Hesychiasts, those monks who dwelt in the Middle Ages on Mount Athos,
were given the following instructions by their Abbot Simeon: “Sitting alone in private, note
and do what I say. Close thy doors and raise thy spirit from vain and temporal things. Then
rest thy beard on the breast and direct the gaze with all thy soul on the middle of the body
at the navel. [See Note G.] Contract the air passages so as not to breathe too easily. Endeavor
inwardly to find the location of the heart, where all psychic powers reside. At first thou
wilt find darkness and inflexible density. When, however, thou perseverest day and night, thou
wilt, wonderful to relate, enjoy inexpressible rapture. For then the spirit sees what it never
has recognized; it sees the air between the heart and itself radiantly beaming.” This light,
the hermits declare, is the light of God that was visible to the young men on Tabor.

Yoga-Sutra (Patanyali, I, 36) says: “Or that sorrowless condition of mind, full of light (would
conduce to samadhi).” And the commentator Manilal Nabubhai Dvivedi remarks upon this: “The
light here referred to is the light of pure sattva. When the mind is deeply absorbed in that
quality, then, indeed, does this condition of light which is free from all pain follow. Vachaspatimisra
remarks that in the heart there is a lotus-like form having eight petals and with its face
turned downward. One should raise this up by rechaka (exhalation of the breath) and then meditate
upon it, locating therein the four parts of the pranava, viz., a, u, m, and the point in their
several meanings. When the mind thus meditating falls in the way of the susumna, it sees a
perfect calm light like that of the moor of the sun, resembling the calm ocean of milk. This
is the jyotis, light, which is the sure sign of complete sattva. Some such practice is here
meant....” The similarity to the instruction of the Abbot Simeon is evident.

The light and sun symbolism in alchemistic writings is everywhere used; yet gold also = sun,
indeed the same sign [Symbol: Gold] serves for both. I should like to call attention incidentally
to a beautiful use of the sun symbol in “Amor Proximi,” which differs slightly from the more
restricted gold symbolism. On p. 32 ff. we read: “See Christ is not outside of us, but he is
intimately within us all, but locked up, and in order that he may unlock that which is locked
up in us, did he once become outwardly visible, as a man such as we are, the hard sin enclosure
excepted, and of this the [Symbol: Gold] in this world is the true copy, which quickly convinced
the heathens from the beginning of the world that God must become man even as the light of
nature has become a body in the [Symbol: Gold]. Now the [Symbol: Gold] is not alone in the
firmament outside of all other creatures, but it is much more in the center of all creatures
but shut up, but the external [Symbol: Gold] is as a figure of Christ, in that it unlocks in
us the enclosed [Symbol: Gold], as its image and substance, just as Christ does, through his
becoming man, also unlock in us the image of God. For were this not so, then the sphere of
the earth would approach in vain to the [Symbol: Gold] in order to derive its power from it,
and nothing at all would grow from the accursed [Symbol: earth]. [The symbol [Symbol: earth]
means earth.] So the [Symbol: earth] shows us that inasmuch as it approaches near to the [Symbol:
Gold] it is unlocked, so we, too, approaching Christ, shall attain again the image of God;
then at the end of time this [Symbol: earth] will be translated into the point of the sun [in
Solis punctum] [Cf. what has been said about the point in the [Symbol: Gold].];” and still
farther on: “Ye see that the [Symbol: earth] turns to the sun, but the reason ye know not;
if the earth had not in the creation gone out of the Solis punctum, it could not have turned
and yearned according to its magnetic manner, so this turning around shows us that the world
was once renewed, and in its beginning, as [Symbol: Gold] is punctum; it desires to return,
and its rest will be alone in that; therefore the soul of man is also similarly gone out of
the eternally divine sun, towards which it also yearns....”

Our parable, to which I should like now to revert, appears in a new light. It would be a waste
of time to lead the reader once more through all the adventures of the wanderer. He again,
without difficulty, will find all the aforesaid elements in the parable, and will readily recognize
the introversion and rebirth. I therefore pick out for further consideration only a few particular
motives of the parable or alchemy which seem to me to require special elucidation.

We should not forget the singular fact that after the introversion, at the beginning of the
work of rebirth, a deluge occurs. This flood takes place not merely in the alchemistic process
(when the bodies undergo putrefaction in the vessel and become black), but we see the mythic
deluges coming with unmistakable regularity at the same time, i.e., after the killing of the
original being (separation of the primal parents, etc.), and before the new creation of the
world by the son of God. Stucken (SAM., p. 123): “We see corroborated ... what I have already
emphasized, that on the appearance of the flood catastrophe the creation of the world is not
yet finished. Even before the catastrophe there was indeed an earth and life on it, but only
after the flood, begins the forming of the present Cosmos. Thus it is in the germanic Ymir-saga,
and in the Babylonian Tiamat-saga, in the Egyptian and likewise in the Iranian.” What may the
flood be in the psychological sense. Dreams and poetry tell us, in that they figure the passions
in the image of a storm-tossed sea. After the introversion, whose perils have already been
mentioned, there is always an outbreak of the passions. Not without consequences is the Stone
of the Deeps elevated, which locks the prison of the subterranean powers. (Cf. Book of Enoch,
X, 5, and passim.) The point is to seize the wildly rushing spirits and to get possession of
their powers without injury. The entire inundation must, in the philosophical vessel, be absorbed
by the bodies that have turned black, and then it works on them for the purpose of new creation,
fructifying them like the floods of water upon the earth. It does no damage to the materia
only then, when it is actually black (stage of victory). If this happens, it (the materia)
is in contrast to the waters raging over it, like an ocean which suffers no alteration by the
influx of waters. “Like an ocean that continually fills itself and yet does not overflow its
boundaries, even with the inflowing waters, so the man acquires calm, into whom all desires
flow in similar wise, and not he who wantonly indulges his desire.” (Bhag. Gita, II, 70. Latin:
translated by Schlegel: German [Schroeder].)

    “Wer wie das Meer in das die Wasser strömen
    Das sich anfüllet und doch ruhig dasteht
    Wer so in sich die Wünsche lässt verschwinden,
    Der findet Ruhe—nicht wer ihnen nachgibt.”

Above I have compared the lion of the parable to the Sphinx of Œdipus, and on the other hand,
it appears from later deliberation that it (the lion) must be the retrogressive element in
men, which is to be sacrificed in the work of purification. Now I find several remarks of Jung
(Psychology of the Unconscious) that mediate very well between both ideas. Even if I do not
care to go so far as to see in the animal only the sexual impelling powers, but prefer to regard
it rather as the titanic part of our impulses, I find the conception of the author very fortunate.
The Sphinx, that double being, symbolizes the double natured man, to whom his bestiality still
clings. Indeed it is to be taken exactly as a functional representation of the development
of reason out of the impulses (human head and shoulders growing out of an animal body).

The homunculus motive would likewise have to be regarded in a new light. I have said that the
mystic was his own father; he creates a new man (himself) out of himself with a merely symbolic
mother, therefore with peculiar self-mastery, without the coöperation of any parents. That
means the same thing as the artificial creation of a man. We recognize therefore the anagogic
significance of the homunculus, the idea of which we found closely interwoven with alchemy
in general. This connection also has not escaped Jung, though he takes it one-sidedly and draws
a too far-reaching conclusion. He points to the vision of Zosimos, where, in the hollow of
the altar he finds boiling water and men in it, and remarks that this vision reveals the original
sense of alchemy, an original impregnation magic, i.e., a way in which children could be made
without a mother. I must observe that the hermetic attempt to get back to Adam’s condition
has some of the homunculus phantasy in it. Adam was regarded as androgyne, a being at once
man and woman, but sufficient in himself alone for impregnation and procreation. Welling says
in his Opus mago-cabbalisticum, “This man Adam was created, as the scripture says, i.e., of
the male and female sex, not two different bodies but one in its essence and two in its potentiality,
for he was the earth Adamah, the red and white [Symbol: Sulfur] the spiritual [Symbol: Gold]
and [Symbol: Silver], the male and female seed, the dust of the Adamah from Schamajim, and
therefore had the power to multiply himself magically (just as he was celestial) which could
not indeed have been otherwise, unless the essential masculinity and femininity were dissociated.”
I am reminded in this connection that Mercury is also bisexual; the “materia” must be brought
into the androgynic state “rebis.” The idea of hermaphroditism plays a well known, important
part in mythology also.

                                * * * * *

We have explained why phantasy creations carry two meanings, the psychoanalytic and the anagogic,
apparently fundamentally different, even contradictory, and yet, on account of their completeness,
undeniable. We have found that the two meanings correspond to two aspects or two evolutionary
phases of a psychic inventory of powers, which are attached as a unity to symbolic types, because
an intro-determination can take place in connection with the sublimation of the impulses. When
we formulated the problem of the multiple interpretation, we were struck with the fact that
besides the two meanings that were nominally antipodal in ethical relations, there was a third
ethically indifferent, namely, the natural scientific. Apart from the fact that I have not
yet exhausted the anagogic contents of our material and so must add a number of things in the
following sections, I am confronted with the task of elucidating the position of the nature
myth portion. That will necessarily be done briefly.

In the case of alchemy the natural scientific content is chemistry (in some degree connected
with physics and cosmology), a fact hardly requiring proof. The alchemistic chemistry was not,
to be sure, scientific in the strict modern sense. In comparison with our modern attitudes
it had so much mythical blood in it that I could call it a mythologically apperceiving science,
wherein I go a little beyond the very clearly developed conception of Wilhelm Wundt (Volkerps.
Myth. u. Rel.) regarding mythological apperception, from a desire for a more rigid formulation,
but without losing the peculiar concept of the mythical or giving it the extension it has acquired
with G. F. Lipps. Alchemy’s myth-like point of view and manner of thinking is paralleled by
the fact that it was dominated by symbolic representation and the peculiarities that go with
it. [The concept of the symbol is here to be taken, of course, in the wider sense, as in my
papers on Symbolbildung (Jb. ps. F., II-IV).]

The choice of a symbol is strongly influenced by what strongly impresses the mind, what moves
the soul, whether joyful or painful, what is of vital interest, in short, whatever touches
us nearly, whether consciously or unconsciously. This influence is shown even in the commonplace
instances, where the professional or the amateur is betrayed by the manner of apperceiving
one and the same object. Thus the landscape painter sees in a lake a fine subject, the angler
an opportunity to fish, the business man a chance to establish a sanitarium or a steamboat
line, the yachtsman a place for his pleasure trips, the heat tormented person a chance for
a bath, and the suicide, death. In the symbolic conception of an object, moreover (which is
much more dependent on the unconscious or uncontrolled stimulation of the phantasy that shapes
the symbol), the choice from among the many possibilities can surely not fall upon such images
as are unsympathetic or uninteresting to the mind. Even if we consciously make comparisons
we think of an example mostly from a favorite and familiar sphere; when something “occurs”
to us there is already evidenced some part of an unconscious complex. This will become elaborated
in the degree that the phantasy is given free play.

The raw product then, of the symbol-choosing phantasy of the individual (“raw,” i.e., not covered
for publicity with a premeditated varnish) bears traces of the things that closely concern
the person in question. (“Out of the fulness of the heart the mouth speaketh”—even without
premeditation.) If we now start from a spiritual product which is expressed in symbols (mythologically
apperceived), and whose author we must take to be not an individual man but many generations
or simply mankind, then this product will, in the peculiarities of the selection of the symbol,
conceivably signify not individual propensities but rather those things that affect identically
the generality of mankind. In alchemy, which as a mythologically apperceiving science is completely
penetrated by symbols, we regard as remarkable in the selection of symbols, the juxtaposition
of such images as reflect what we have, through psychoanalysis, become acquainted with, as
the “titanic” impulses (Œdipus complex). No wonder! These very impulses are the ones that we
know from psychoanalytic investigations as those which stand above all individual idiosyncracies.
And if we had not known it, the very circumstances of alchemy would have taught us.

The familiar scheme of impulses with its “titanic” substratum, which is necessarily existent
in all men (although it may have been in any particular case extraordinarily sublimated) comes
clearly to view in individual creations of fancy. It must be found quite typically developed,
however, where a multitude of men (fable making mankind) were interested in the founding, forming,
polishing and elaborating of the symbolic structure. Such creations have transcended the merely
personal. An example of this kind is the “mythological” science of alchemy. That we are repelled
by the retrograde perspective of the types residing in its symbols (and which often appear
quite nakedly) comes from the fact that in the critic these primal impulse forms have experienced
a strong repression, and that their re-emergence meets a strong resistance (morality, taste, etc.).

The much discussed elementary types have therefore insinuated themselves into the body of the
alchemistic hieroglyphics, as mankind, confronted with the riddles of physico-chemical facts,
struggled to express a mastery of them by means of thought. The typical inventory of powers,
as an apperception mass, so to speak, helped to determine the selection of symbols. A procedure
of determination has taken place here similar to that we might have noticed in the coincidence
of material and functional symbolism in dreams. Here again appears the heuristic value which
the introduction of the concept of the functional categories had for our problem.

The possibility of deriving the “titanic” and the “anagogic” from the alchemistic (often by
their authors merely chemically intended) allegories is now easily explained. We can work it
out, because it was already put in there, even if neither in the extreme form of the “titanic”
(i.e., the retrograde aspect), nor in that of the “anagogic” (the progressive aspect), but
in an indeterminate middle stage of the intro-determination. What gave opportunity for this
play of symbolism was an effort of intelligence directed toward chemistry. The chemical content
in alchemy is, so to speak, what has been purposely striven for, while the rest came by accident,
yet none the less inevitably. So then natural philosophy appears to be the carrier, or the
stalk on which the titanic and the anagogic symbolism blossoms. Thus it becomes intelligible
how the alchemistic hieroglyphic aiming chiefly at chemistry, adapted itself through and through
to the hermetic anagogic educational goal, so that at times and by whole groups, alchemy was
used merely as a mystical guide without any reference to chemistry.

What we have found in alchemy we shall now apply to mythology where analogous relations have
been indicated. [The apperception theory here used should not be confused with the intellectual
theory (of Steinthal) which Wundt (V. Ps., IV2, pp. 50 ff.) criticised as the illusion theory.
I should be more inclined to follow closely the Wundtian conception of the “mythological apperception”
(ibid., pp. 64 ff.) with particular emphasis on the affective elements that are to work there.
With Wundt, the affects are really the “actual impulse mainsprings” and the most powerful stimuli
of the phantasy (ib., p. 60). “The affects of fear and hope, wish and desire, love and hate,
are the widely disseminated sources of the myth. They are, of course, continually linked with
images. But they are the ones that first breathe life into these images.” I differ from Wundt
in that I have more definite ideas of the origin of these affects, by which they are brought
into close connection with the frequently mentioned elementary motives.] Modern investigation
of myths has, in my opinion, sufficiently shown that we are here concerned with a nucleus of
natural philosophy (comprehension of astral and even of meteorological processes, etc.) around
which legendary and historical material can grow. As has been shown by two fairy tales and
as I could have abundantly shown from countless others, the psychoanalytic and the anagogic
interpretations are possible alongside of the scientific. [We can criticise Hitchcock for having
in his explanations of fairy tales considered them only in their most developed form, and not
bothered about their origin and archaic forms. And as a matter of fact the more developed forms
permit a very much richer anagogic interpretation than the archaic. But that is no proof against
the interpretation, but only establishes their orientation in the development of the human
spirit. The anagogic interpretation is indeed a prospective explanation in the sense of an
ethical advance. Now the evolution even of fairy tales shows quite clearly a progression towards
the ethical; and inasmuch as the ethical content of the tale grows by virtue of this evolution,
the anagogic explanation is in the nature of things able to place itself in higher developed
tales in correspondingly closer connection with mythical material.] I adduce here only one
example, namely the schema that Frobenius has derived from the comparison of numerous sun myths.
The hero is swallowed by a water monster in the west [the sun sets in the sea]. The animal
journeys with him to the east (night path of the sun apparently under the sea). He lights a
fire in the belly of the animal and cuts off a piece of the pendant heart when he feels hungry.
Soon after he notices that the fish is running aground. (The reillumined sun comes up to the
horizon from below.) He begins immediately to cut his way out of the animal, and then slips
out (sunrise). In the belly of the fish it has become so hot that all his hair has fallen out.
(Hair probably signifies rays.) Quite as clear as the nature myth purport, is the fact that
we have a representation of regeneration, which is quite as conceivable in psychoanalytic as
in anagogic explanation.

Now I cannot approve of the attempt of many psychoanalysts to treat as a negligible quantity
or to ignore altogether the scientific content (nature nucleus) of the myths which has been
so well substantiated by the newer research, even though it is not so well established in the
details. [I have uttered a similar warning in Jb. ps. F., IV (Princip. Anreg.) and previously,
in Jb. ps. F., II (Phant. u. Myth), have advocated the equality of the natural philosophical
and the psychological content. Now I observe with pleasure that very recently an author of
the psychoanalytic school is engaged on the very subject that I have recommended as so desirable.
Dr. Emil F. Lorenz, in the February number of Imago, 1913, treats the “Titan Motiv in der allgemeinen
Mythologie” in a manner that approaches my conception of it. In the consideration of human
primal motives as apperception mass, there is particularly revealed a common thought in the
primitive interpretation of natural phenomenon. Unfortunately the article appeared after this
book was finished. So even if I am not in a position to enter into this question, I will none
the less refer to it and at the same time express the hope that Lorenz will further elaborate
the interesting preliminary contribution, communicated in the form of aphorisms, as he terms
it.] The inadmissibility of these omissions arises from the vital importance and gripping effect
of the objects thus (i.e., mythologically) regarded by humanity (e.g., of the course of the
sun, so infinitely important for them in their dependence upon the moods of nature). If then,
on the one hand, it will not be possible for the psychoanalyst to force the nature mythologist
out of his position and somehow to prove that any symbol means not the sun but the father,
so on the other hand the nature mythologist who may understand his own interpretations so admirably,
must not attack the specifically psychological question: why in the apperception of an object,
this and not that symbolic image offers itself to consciousness. So, for instance, why the
sunset and sunrise is so readily conceived as a swallowing and eructation, or as a process
of regeneration. Yet Frobenius (Zeitalt. d. Sonneng., I, p. 30) finds the symbolism “negligible.”

It is also conceivable that the obtrusive occurrence of incest, castration of the father, etc.,
should make the mythologists ponder. It was bias on the part of many of them to be unwilling
to see the psychological value of these things. I must therefore acknowledge the justice of
Rank’s view when he (Inz-Mot., p. 278) says in reference to the Œdipus myth (rightly, in all
probability, interpreted by Goldziher as a sun myth): “Yet it is indubitable that these ideas
of incest with the mother and the murder of the father are derived from human life, and that
the myth in this human disguise could never be brought down from heaven without a corresponding
psychic idea, which may really have been an unconscious one even at the time of the formation
of the myth, just as it is with the mythologists of today.”

And in another passage (pp. 318 ff.): “While these investigators (astral and moon mythologists)
would consider incest and castration operative in an equal or even greater degree than we do,
as the chief motives in the formation of myths in the celestial examples only, we are forced
by psychoanalytical considerations to find in them universal primitive human purposes which
later, as a result of the need of psychological justification, have been projected into the
heavens from which our myth interpreters wish in turn to derive them. [Whether such a need
of justification has had a share in the formation of myths appears to me doubtful or at any
rate not demonstrable. At all events in so strongly emphasizing these unnecessary assumptions
and conceiving the projection upon heaven of the mundane psychological primal motives as an
act of release, we hide the more important cause for concerning ourselves with heaven, namely
the already mentioned vital importance of the things that are accomplished there. Now the fact
that the primal motives cooperate in the symbolical realization of these things, implies no
defense directed against them. A better defense would be to repress them in symbolism than,
as really happens, to utilize them in it.] These interpreters, for example, have believed that
they recognized in the motive of dismemberment (castration) a symbolic suggestion of the gradual
waning of the moon, while the reverse is for us undoubted, namely, that the offensive castration
has found a later symbolization in the moon phases. Yet it argues either against all logic
and psychology, or for our conception of the sexualization of the universe, that man should
have symbolized so harmless a phenomenon as the changes of the moon, by so offensive a one
as the dismemberment or castration of the nearest relative. So the nature mythologists also,
and Siecke in particular, have thought that primitive man has ‘immediately regarded’ the (to
him) incomprehensible waning of the moon as a dismemberment, while this is psychologically
quite unthinkable unless this image, which is taken from earthly life, should have likewise
originated in human life and thought (phantasy).”

It is indeed never conceivable that men would have chosen for the natural phenomenon exactly
these titanic symbols, if these had not had for them a special psychic value, and therefore
touched them closely. If any one should object that they would not have “chosen” them (because
they did not purposely invent allegories, as was formerly thought), I should raise the contrary
question: Who has chosen them? I will stick to the word “choose” for a choice has taken place.
But the powers that arranged this choice lived and still live in the soul of man.

The conception advocated by me gives their due to the nature mythologists just as much as to
the psychologists that oppose them. It reinstates, moreover, a third apparently out-worn tendency
[the so-called degeneration theory] that sees in the myth the veiling of ancient priestly wisdom.
This obsolete view had the distinction that it placed some value, which the modern interpreters
did not, on the anagogic content of the myths (even if in a wrong perspective). The necessity
of reckoning with an anagogic content of myths results from the fact that religions with their
ethical valuations, have developed from mythical beginnings. And account must be taken of these
relations. In the way in which the older interpretations of myths regarded the connection,
they pursued a phantom, but their point of view becomes serviceable as soon as it reverses
the order of evolution. It is not true that the religious content in myths was the priestly
wisdom of antiquity, but rather that it became such at the end of the development. My conception
shows further that the utmost significance for the recognition and comparison of the motives
(corresponding to the psychological types) attaches to the material so brilliantly reconstructed
by Stucken and other modern investigators, but not the convincing evidence which some think
they find there for the migration theory, as against the theory of elementary thoughts.

With regard to the possibly repellent impression derived from the notion of an unconscious
thought activity of the myth forming phantasy, I should like to close with these words of Karl
Otfried Müller: “It is possible that the concept of unconsciousness in the formation of myths
will appear obscure to many, even mysterious ... but is history not to acknowledge the strange
also, when unprejudiced investigation leads to it?”

                               Section II.

The Goal Of The Work.

In the preceding section the symbolism and the psychology of the progress of the mystic work
has been developed more or less, but certainly not to the end. Regeneration is evidently the
beginning of a new development, the nature of which we have not yet closely examined. Nothing
has yet been said definitely about the later phases of the work and about its goal. I am afraid
that this section, although it is devoted chiefly to the goal of the work, cannot elucidate
it with anything like the clearness that would be desirable. To be sure the final outcome of
the work can be summed up in the three words: Union with God. Yet we cannot possibly rest satisfied
with a statement that is for our psychological needs so vague; we must endeavor to comprehend
the intimate nature of the spiritual experiences that we have on the journey into the unsearchable;
although I must at the outset point out that at every step by which the symbolism of the mystics
leads us towards regeneration, we run the risk of wandering away from psychology, and that
in the following we shall all too soon experience these deviations. We shall have to transplant
ourselves uncritically at times, into the perceptual world of the hermetics, which is, of course,
a mere fiction, for in order to do it rightly we should have to have a mystical development
behind us [whatever this may be]; one would have to be himself a “twice born.” One thing can
be accepted as true, that a series of symbols that occur with striking agreement among all
mystics of all times and nations is related to a variety of experiences which evidently are
common to all mystics in different degrees of their development, but are foreign to the non-mystics
(or more exactly to all men, even mystics, who have not attained the given level).

With this premise I will take up the question of the goal of alchemy (mysticism). In this I
follow in general the train of thought of Hitchcock, without adhering closely to his exposition.
(I cite H. A. = Hitchcock, Remarks upon Alchemy.)

The alchemistic process is, as the hermetics themselves say, a cyclical work, and the end resides
to a certain degree in the beginning. Here lies one of the greatest mysteries of the whole
of alchemy, although the meaning of the language is to be understood more or less as follows.
If, for example, it is said that whoever wishes to make gold must have gold, we must suppose
that the seeker of truth must be true (H. A., p. 67); that whoever desires to live in harmony
with the conscience must be in harmony with it, and that whoever will go the way to God, must
already have God in himself. Now when the conscience, wherein the sense of right and justice
has existence, becomes active under the idea of God, it is endowed with supernatural force
and is then, as I understand it, the alchemists’ philosophical mercury and his valued salt
of mercury. It is no less his sovereign treacle, etc. (H. A., p. 53). The progress of the work
points to some kind of unity as the goal which, however, very few men attain except in words
(H. A., p. 157). The hermetic writers set up the claim to a complete agreement in their teachings,
but this agreement is restricted to some principles of vital significance in their doctrine,
which have reference almost exclusively to a definite practice; probably to a complete setting
to work of the consciousness of duty, which is what Kant claims to do with his categorical
imperative: “An unreasoning, though not unreasonable, obedience to an experienced, imperious
sense of duty, leaving the result to God; and this I am disposed to call the Way.”

        Do thy duty!
    Ask not after the result of thy doing!
    Without dependence thereon carry out that which is thy duty!
    Whoever acts without attachment to the world, that man attains the
                loftiest goal.

And the like in many places in the Bhagavad-Gita.

Now the end is perhaps the fruit of this obedience. It may be that the steady preservation
of the inward unity, which regards with composure all external vicissitudes, leads man finally
to some special experience, by which a seal of confirmation is set upon what was first a mere
trust in the ultimate blessing of rectitude (H. A., p. 128). The hermetic philosophers would
have the conscience known as the Way or as the base of the work, but with regard to the peculiar
wonder work of alchemy (transmutation) they place the chief value on love; it effects the transformation
of the subject into the object loved (H. A., p. 132).

Arabi: “It is a fundamental principle of love that thou becomest the real essence of the beloved
(God) in that thou givest up thy individuality and disappearest in him. Blessedness is the
abiding place of the divine and holy joy.” (Horten, Myst., I, p. 9.)

Similarly we find in the yoga primers that the spirit, by sinking into an object of perception,
becomes identical with the object. The object need not be the very highest, but a gradation
is possible. Arabi, too, recognizes a gradation of objects, as they correspond, as correlates
of sinking or surrender, to the different mystical states. [Colors, etc., of alchemy.] Two
passages of Arabi may be quoted: “My heart is eligible for every form [of the religious cult];
for it is said that the heart (root: kalaba = overturn, to alter oneself) is so called from
its continual changing.” It changes in accordance with the various (divine) influences that
it feels, according to the various states of the mystical illumination. This variation of experiences
is a result of the variation of the divine appearances, which occur in its inmost spirit. The
law of religion (theology) speaks of this phenomenon as the changing and metamorphizing in
the forms (of living and being). Gazelles are the objects of the mystic’s love. In one of his
poems he says: “And surrender yourselves to play in the manner of lovely maidens with buxom
breasts and enjoy the luxuriant willows in the manner of the female gazelles.” In his commentary
on this passage he says: “ ‘Play’ denotes the various states of the mystic, to which he is
advanced when he passes from one divine name to another.” (Horten, Myst., I, pp. 11, 13, ff.)

It is the ethical ideal of the mystic, more and more to put off the limited ego, and to take
on in its place the qualities of God, in order to become God.

When with Arabi the theme of an ode is “Through asceticism, fervent yearning after God and
patience in suffering, man becomes God or acquires divine nature” (Horten, Myst., I, p. 16),
then this goal is identical with that of the alchemistic transmutation; the base metal acquires
(after purification, refining, etc.) by virtue of the tincturing with the Philosopher’s Stone
the nature of gold, i.e., the divine nature.

But patient effort is requisite. Precipitancy is as great an evil as inactivity. It is, to
use the language of the alchemists, just as bad to scorch the tender blossoms by a forced and
hasty fire (that in spite of its intensity may be merely a straw fire), as to let go out the
fire which should be continuously kept alight, and to let grow cold the materia. The process
of distillation is to be accomplished slowly, so that the spirits may not escape. That which
rises as steam through the “heating” in the “receptacle” (i.e., in man) is the soul rising
into the higher regions. Distilling like rain drops [destillare = drop down], it brings each
time to the thirsting materia a divine gain. But this process is not to be overdone, for the
thirsting earth must be gently instilled with the heavenly moisture of the water of life: the
process of “imbibition.”

The metallic subject must be gently dissolved in its own natural water (conscience), not with
powerful media, not with corroding acids, which the foolish employ in order to reach the goal
in a hurry, for by such means he either spoils the materia or produces a merely superficial
action. Senseless asceticism and the like are just as objectionable as the impetuous enthusiasm
(which we called straw fire here). The ethical work of alchemy as of common life is a sublimation;
it is important that the materia takes up at any time only as much as it can sublimate. We
may also conceive it in this way. The materia is to be moistened only with the water that it
can utilize after the solution has taken place (i.e., keep in enduring form, absorb into their
nature). Compare in this connection the words of Count Bernhard von Trevis: “I tell you assuredly
that no water dissolves any metallic spices by a natural solution, save that which abides with
them in matter and form, and which the metals themselves, being dissolved, can recongeal.”
(H. A., pp. 189 ff.)

The passage “slowly and quite judiciously” of the Smaragdine tablet will now be fully appreciated.

The desired completion or oneness should be a state of the soul, a condition of being, not
of knowing. The means that lead to it presuppose in the neophyte something analogous to religious
faith, and because the conditions of the mastery appear to the neophyte to contradict nature
or each other, the mystical experiences that are derived from it are called “supernatural.”
The “supernatural” is, however, only an appearance, which results when we conceive nature too
narrowly, as when we see in her merely the totality of bodies. If we mean by nature the possibility
of life and activity, then that which appears supernatural must be counted as nature. The expressions
natural and supernatural are but means of the thinking judgment, they are preliminaries which
have a certain justification but only so long as they are an expression for a stage of knowledge.
The initially supernatural resolves itself in nature, or better, Nature is raised to divinity.
If the natural and the supernatural are symbolized, the one being described as sulphur and
the other as mercury, then the disciples of philosophy, under the obligation to think things
and not merely names, are finally brought, during the process of search, to a recognition of
the inseparableness of both in a third something which may be called sun; but as all three
are recognized as inseparably one, the termini can change places until finally an inner illumination
takes place. “Those that have never had this experience are apt to decry it as imaginary, but
those who enter into it know that they have entered into a higher life, or feel themselves
enabled to look upon things from a higher point of view. To use what may seem to be a misapplication
of language: it is a supernatural birth, naturally entered upon.” (H. A., p. 229.) When the
alchemists speak of philosophical mercury and philosophical gold, they mean something in man
and something in God that finally turns out to be the One. “By this symbolism the alchemists
escape the difficulty of treating the subject in ordinary language. The learner must always
return to nature and her possibilities for the sense of the derived symbols, and to it the
hermetic masters also continually direct him.” (H. A., pp. 232 ff.) If the true light has risen
in the hearts of the seekers, kindled from within (although apparently by a miracle from without)
“the sulphur and mercury become one, or are seen to be the same, differing only in a certain
relation; somewhat as the known and the unknown (and the conscious and the unconscious) are
but one, the unknown decreasing as the known increases, and vice versa.” (H. A., p. 235.)

One alchemist teaches: “Consider well what it is you desire to produce, and according to that
regulate your intention. Take the last thing in your intention as the first thing in your principles....
Attempt nothing out of its own nature [then follow parables that grapes are not gathered from
thistles, etc.]. If you know how to apply this doctrine in your operation as you ought, you
will find great benefit, and a door will hereby be opened to the discovery of greater mysteries.”
Actually there is a greater difference between one who seeks what he seeks as an end, and one
who seeks it as a means to an end. To seek knowledge for riches is a very different thing from
seeking riches (or independence) as an instrument of knowledge. In the study in question the
means and the end must coincide, i.e., the truth must be sought for itself only. (H. A., p.
238.) In the book, “De Manna Benedicto,” we read: “Whoever thou art that readest this tractate,
let me exhort thee that thou directest thy understanding and soul more toward God for the keeping
of his commandments, than toward love of this art [sc. its external portions], for although
it be the only, indeed the whole wisdom of the world, it is yet powerless in comparison with
the divine wisdom of the soul, which is the love towards God, in the keeping of his commandments....
Hast thou been covetous, profane one? Be thou meek and pious and serve in all lowliness the
glorious creator; if thou art not determined to do that, thou art employed in trying to wash
an Ethiop white.”

Desire is, as some ancient philosophers think, the root of all affects, which manifest themselves
in pairs. Joy corresponds to desire fulfilled, sorrow to the obstructed or imperiled fulfillment;
hope is the expectation of fulfillment, fear the opposite, etc. All the pairs of opposites
are in some degree superficial, something that comes and goes with time, while the essential
remains, itself invisible and without relation to time—a perpetual activity, an ever enduring
conation as it was formerly called. (It is the libido of the psychoanalysis. In its manifestations
it is subjected to bipolarity, as Stekel has named the inevitable pairs of opposites.)

The pairs of opposites have been noticed in the Hindu doctrine of salvation exactly as in alchemy.
Alchemistic hieroglyphics we know are rich in [ambiguous] expressions for a hostile Dyas (couple),
with whose removal a better condition first commences, although at the outset it is actually
requisite for the achievement of the work. In the Bhagavad-Gita the pairs of opposites play
a great part. The world is full of agony on account of the pairs of opposites, which are to
be found everywhere. Heat, cold; high, low; good, evil; joy, sorrow; poor, rich; young, old;
etc. The basis of the opposites is formed by the primal opposition Rajas-Tamas. To escape from
it in recognizing the true ego as superior to it and not participating in it, is the foremost
purpose of the effort toward salvation. So whoever has raised himself above the qualities of
substances is described as having escaped from opposites.

    “Contact of atoms is only cold and warm, brings pleasure and pain,
    They come and go without permanency—tolerate them O Bharata.
    The wise man, whom these do not affect, O mighty hero,
    Who bears pain and pleasure with equanimity he is ripening for
                immortality.” (II, 14 ff.)

The spirit, the true ego, is raised above the agitation of the qualities of nature:

    “Swords cut him not, fire burns him not,
    Water wets him not nor does the wind wither him.
    Not to be cut, not to burn, not to get wet, not to be withered,
    He is constant, above everything, continuous, eternal immovable.”
                [II 23 ff.]

This characterization sounds almost like the description of the mercury of the philosophers,
which is indestructible, a water that does not wet, a fire that does not consume.

Hermes on the human soul: “The accidents residing in the material substances have never sympathized
with each other, but on the contrary have always been in opposition and in mutual conflict.
Guard thyself O soul from them and turn away from them.... Thou O soul art of one nature, but
they are manifold; thou art but one with thyself; they are, however, in conflict with each
other. [Psychoanalytically regarded, to the soul is here assigned the property which is desired
but is not present, while that which is undesired but actually present in the soul (inclination
and disinclination) is projected into the external world.] ... How long O soul wilt thou yet
be needy, and flee from every sensation to its opposite, now from warmth to cold, now from
cold to warmth, now from hunger to satiety, now from satiety to hunger?” (Fleischer Herm. a.
d. Seele, pp. 14 ff.) “Be thou O soul regardful of the behavior in this world, yet not as a
child without understanding who when one gives him to eat and acts leniently towards him is
satisfied and cheerful, but when one treats him severely cries and is bad, indeed begins to
weep while laughing and when he is satisfied begins again to be bad. This is not worthy of
approbation but rather a mongrel and blameworthy behavior. The world O soul, is so organized
as to unify exactly these opposites; good and evil, weal and woe, distress and comfort, and
contains types of ideas that have the effect of waking the soul and making it aware of itself,
so that as a result it gains reason that illumines and consummates knowledge, i.e., wisdom
and knowledge of the true nature of things. For this purpose alone has the soul come into the
world, to learn and experience; but it is like a man that comes to a place to become acquainted
with it and know its conditions, but then gives up the learning, inquiring and collecting of
information, and diverts his spirit by reaching after luxury and the enjoyment of other things,
and in so doing forgets to acquire that which he was to strive for.” (L. c., pp. 8 ff.)

I return to the psychological point of view of our friend Hitchcock: “Desire and love are almost
synonymous terms, for we love and seek what we desire, and so also we desire and seek what
we love; yet neither love nor desire is by any necessary connection directed to one thing rather
than another, but either under conditions suitable to it may be directed to anything. From
which it follows that it is possible to make God as the Eternal, its object, or call it truth
and we may see that its enjoyment must partake of its own nature. Now we read that it is not
common for man to love and pursue the good and the true because it is the good and true; but
we call that good which we desire and there lies the great mistake of life. From all which
we may see that vast consequences follow from the choice of an object of desire, which as we
have said, may as easily be an eternal as a transient one. We should be on guard against a
too mechanical conception of these things. By so doing we should depart too greatly from the
point of view of the true alchemists. One author tells of the significant advance that he made
from the time when he discovered that nature works ‘magically.’ ” (H. A., Hitchcock’s Remarks
upon Alchemy, pp. 294 ff.)

Aversion and hate, the opposites of desire and love, are not independent affections but depend
upon the latter. There is only the one impulsion of demand that strives for what satisfies
it and repulses what conflicts with it. “If then desire is turned to one only eternal thing,
then, since the nature of man takes its character from his leading or chief desire, the whole
man is gradually converted to, or, as some think, transmuted into that one thing.” (H. A.,
pp. 295 ff.)

The doctrine naturally presupposes the possibility, already mentioned, of a schooling of the
will, yet it will still be necessary to fix it upon a definite object. The love of the transitory
finds itself deceived because the objects vanish, while the desire itself, the conation (or
in psychoanalytic language the libido), continues forever. For this everlasting desire only
an everlasting object is suitable. An object of that kind is not to be found in the external
world. We can only withdraw the outer object and offer ideals in exchange. The moment that
this withdrawal of external objects takes place the libido begins, as it were, to eject itself
as an object; in the ideal we give it a nucleus for this process, in order that it may form
the new object around it and water it with its own life. So in a “magic” way a new world is
formed whose laws are those of the ideal. The formation of the new world (new earth and new
heaven, new Jerusalem, etc.) occurs frequently in the symbolic language of mysticism.

The laws of the ideal and consequently of the new world are determined by the nature of the
ideal. Not every one is proved everlastingly suitable.

    “Those that dedicate themselves to the gods and fathers, pass over
                to the gods and fathers,
    Spirit worshipers to the spirits, whoever honors me, comes to me.”

says the Highest Being to Arjuna in the Bhagavad-Gita (IX, 25). The mystic is in the position
from the moment of regeneration, to create in himself a new world with laws that he may, to
a certain extent, himself select. Fortunate is he who makes a good selection. Every one is
the architect of his own fortune. This is most true when after introversion the power of self
determining one’s own destiny is directed toward the most intensive living. The formation and
cultivation of the new earth is a beginning that is rich with significant consequences. The
alchemists speak of a maidenly earth or a flaky white earth (i.e., crystalline) as a certain
stage in the work. This is probably the stage that we are examining now, the stage of the new,
still undeveloped earth that is now to be organized (according to the conceived ideal). The
soil is crystalline because the old earth was dissolved and has been freshly formed from the
solution. The crystallization corresponds to regeneration. The “white earth” probably corresponds
to the “white stone,” which is the first stage of completion after the blacks (first mystical
death, putrefaction, trituration, or contrition). In the white earth a seed is sown. We shall
hear of it later.

If the work is not to make men unserviceable and is not again to bring them into conflict with
the demands of life, so that all the effort would have been fruitless, the new world must be
organized in such a way that it is compatible with the demands of real life. In other words,
the ideal that regulates the new world must be an ethical one. The mystic who wishes to be
freed from contradictions will have to follow his conscience as a guide, and not the unexplored
but the explored conscience. He cannot escape it in the long run (the magicians that defy it
are, as the legend informs us, finally torn to pieces by the devil); it is better for him to
get upon its side and so turn the conflict in his favor. It appears that this manly attitude
would have a marvelous inner concord as a result and outwardly, a remarkable firmness of character.
It is not my object to decide what metaphysical significance the strengthening through mysticism
of the ideal (God in me) may have.

“Take, O soul, not the unworthy and common as a model, for such use and word will adhere to
thee finally as a nature opposed to thine own. By this means, however, the strong impulse itself
towards union with thy nature and to the return into thy home goes astray. Know that the exalted
and majestic Originator of things, is himself the noblest of all things. Take then the noble
things as a model, in order by that means to get nearer thy Creator on the path of elective
affinity. And know that the noble attaches itself to the noble and the vulgar to the common.”
(Fleischer, Herm. a. d. Seele, p. 18.)

What is to be sown in the new earth is generally called love. A crop of love is to arise; with
love will the new world be saturated; its laws will be the laws of love. By love a transmutation
of the subject is to take place. One alchemist (quoted in H. A., pp. 133 ff.) writes as follows:

“I find the nature of Divine Love to be a perfect unity and simplicity. There is nothing more
one, undivided, simple, pure, unmixed and uncompounded than Love....

“In the second place I find Love to be the most perfect and absolute liberty. Nothing can move
Love, but Love; nothing touch Love, but Love; nor nothing constrain Love, but Love. It is free
from all things; itself only gives laws to itself, and those laws are the laws of Liberty;
for nothing acts more freely than Love, because it always acts from itself, and is moved by
itself, by which prerogatives Love shows itself to be allied to the Divine Nature, yea, to
be God himself.

“Thirdly, Love is all strength and power. Make a diligent search through Heaven and Earth,
and you will find nothing so powerful as Love. What is stronger than Hell and Death? Yet Love
is the triumphant conqueror of both. What more formidable than the wrath of God? Yet Love overcomes
it, and dissolves and changes it into itself. In a word, nothing can withstand the prevailing
strength of Love: it is the strength of Mount Zion, which can never be moved. It is the Divine
Stone, the White Stone with the name written upon it, which no one knows but he that hath it.
[Cf. Rev. II, 17. The White Stone with the new name is also joined with the new earth. Because
of this it is important that the new Jerusalem is ‘prepared as a bride adorned for her husband.’]
In a word, it is the Divine Nature, it is God himself, whose essential property it is to assimilate
all things with himself; or [if you will have it in the scripture phrase] to reconcile all
things to himself, whether they be in Heaven or in Earth; and all by means of this Divine Elixir,
whose transforming power and efficacy nothing can withstand....” (H. A., pp. 133 ff.)

At the end of the work there ensues the union of sun and moon, typifying God and man. As in
the Vedanta the teaching of the holy books of India, the Upanishads, so in alchemy, the difference
between the one soul and the All Soul is of no importance. For every one who succeeds in overcoming
the fundamental error, in which we are all implicated, the difference vanishes, and the two
things previously separated coalesce. In reality there is only the one thing: God.

Irenæus writes: “... The fire of nature assimilates all that it nourishes to its own likeness,
and then our mercury or menstruum vanishes, that is, it is swallowed by the solar nature [The
soul of man dissolves and is taken up by the divine or All Soul] and all together make but
one universal mercury [All Soul] by intimate union. And this mercury is the material principle
of the Stone; for formerly, when it was compounded of three mercuries, [namely, when they thought
they had to distinguish spirit, soul and body, or some other division in it] then Soul, world
and God were, for example, to be thought of, or as they are called in Soeta-svatara-Upanishad
V, Enjoyer, Object of Enjoyment, and Inciter.

    As eternal cause contains that trinity.
    Whoever finds in it the Brahma as the kernel,
    Resolves himself in it as a goal, and is freed from birth.”

Cf. also Deussen, Syst. d. Ved., p. 232, and Sutr. d. Ved., pp. 541 ff.: “Frequently we are
told of the connection of the highest with the individual soul, and then again of a splitting
up [conditioned by them] inside the Brahma, by virtue of which their two parts are mutually
opposed and limited. Both of these things happen, however, only from the standpoint of the
distinctions [upadhi].... There were two which were superficial (in that they formed an unjustified
opposition) and the third essential to Sol and Luna only, not to the Stone; for nature would
produce these two out of it by artificial decoction.... [These distinctions depend on ignorance,
after throwing off which the individual is one with the highest. The connection of the individual
soul with Brahman is in truth its entering into its own self, and the division in Brahma is
as unreal as that between space in general and space within the body.] But when the two perfect
bodies are dissolved [prepared for the mystical work] they are transmuted with the mercury
that dissolved them, and then there is no more repugnancy in it; then there is no longer a
distinction between superficial and essential. And this is that one matter of the stone, that
one thing which is the subject of all wonders. When thou art come to this then shalt thou no
more discern a distinction between the Dissolver [God] and the dissolved [soul] ... and the
color of the ripe sulphur [the divine nature] inseparably united to it will tinge your water
[soul].” Irenæus says that the two bodies, Sol and Luna, are compared by the alchemists to
two mountains, first because they are found in mountains, and second by way of opposition:
“For where mountains are highest above ground, there they lie deepest underground,” and he
adds: “The name is not of so much consequence, take the body which is gold [i.e., here the
consummate man] and throw it into mercury, such a mercury as is bottomless [infinite], that
is, whose center it can never find but by discovering its own.” (H. A., 283 ff.)

In reference to these and similar expressions of the alchemists, Hitchcock rightly calls our
attention to Plotinus, who writes, for example (Enn., VI, 9, 10): “We must comprehend God with
our whole being, so that we no longer have in us a single part that is not dependent upon God.
Then we may see him and ourselves as it beseems us to see, in radiant beams, filled with spiritual
light, or rather as pure light itself [notice this fullness of light] without weight, imponderable,
become God or rather being God. Our life’s flame is then kindled; but if we sink down into
the world of sense, it is as if extinguished.... Whoever has thus seen himself will, then,
when he looks, see himself as one who has become unified, or rather he will be united to himself
as such a one and feel himself as such. Possibly one should not in this case speak of seeing.
But as regards the seen, if we can indeed distinguish the seeing and the seen, and not rather
have to describe both as one, which is, to be sure, a bold statement, then the seeing really
does not see in this condition, nor does he differentiate two things, nor has he the idea of
two things. He is, as it were, another; he ceases to be himself, he belongs no longer to himself;
arriving there, he has ascended unto God and has become one with him, as a center that coincides
with another center; the two coinciding things are here one, and only two when they are separated.
In this sense we speak of the soul’s being another than God.”

I recall also the passage in Amor Proximi where it is said that the earth will again be placed
in Solis punctum. The center of the sun [God] is to be seen in the symbol [Symbol: Gold]. We
now understand the mystical difference between the hieroglyphs [Symbol: Gold] and [Symbol:
Alum], between gold and alum. In order to express in the mercury symbol [Symbol: Mercury] the
accomplished union (represented by +) of [Symbol: Gold] and [Symbol: Silver], which takes place
through the newly discovered central point, the symbol [Symbol: Mercury] is also used.

I have mentioned the vedantic teachings, whose agreement with alchemy has also been noticed
by Hitchcock. It takes emphatically the point of view of the “non-existence of a second.” Multiplicity
is appearance; the difference between the individual soul and the All Soul depends upon an
error which we can overcome. The goal of salvation is the ascent into the universal spirit
Brahma (in the nirvana of the Buddhists there is the same thought). Whoever has entered into
the highest spirit, there is no longer any “other” for him. Brhadaranyaka-Upanishad, IV, 3:
(23) “If he does not then [The man in the deep sleep (susupti),] see, he is yet seeing although
he sees not, for there is no interruption of vision for the seeing, because he is imperishable;
but there is no second beside him, no other different from him that he could see. (24.) If
he does not smell, he is yet smelling although he smells not, for there is for the smelling
[person] no interruption of smelling because he is imperishable; but there is no second thing
beside him, no other thing different from him that he could smell.... (32.) He stands like
water [i.e., so pure] seer alone and without a second ... he whose world is Brahm. This is
his highest goal, this is his highest fortune, this is his highest world, this is his highest
joy; through a minute particle of only this joy the other creatures have their life.”

If I compare the hermetic teachings on the one hand with the vedanta, and on the other with
the Samkhya-Yoga, I do not lose sight of the fundamental antagonism of both—Vedanta is monistic,
Samkhya is dualistic—but in appreciation of the doctrine of salvation which is common to both.
That the mystic finds the same germ in both systems is shown by the Bhagavad-Gita. For him
the theoretical difference is trivial, whether the materia is dissolved as mere illusion, when
he has attained his mystic goal, or whether, as an eternal substance, it is as something overcome,
simply withdrawn, never more to be seen. According to the Samkhya doctrine, too, the saved
soul enters into its own being, and every connection with objects of knowledge ceases.

In Yogavasistha it is written: “So serene as would the light appear if all that is illumined,
i.e., space, earth, ether, did not exist, such is the isolated state of the seer, of the pure
self, when the threefold world, you and I, in brief, all that is visible, is gone. As the state
of a mirror is, in which no reflection falls, neither of statues nor of anything else—only
representing in itself the being [of the mirror]—such is the isolation of the seer, who remains
without seeing, after the jumble of phenomena, I, you, the world, etc., has vanished.” (Garbe,
Samkhya-Phil., p. 326.)

In the materia (prakri) of the Samkhya system reside the three qualities or constituents already
familiar to us, Rajas, Tamas, and Sattva. Whoever unmasks these as the play of qualities, raises
himself above the world impulses. For him, as he is freed from antagonisms, the play ceases.
When a soul is satiated with the activity of matter and turns away from it with disdain, then
matter ceases its activity for this soul with the thought, “I am discovered.” It has performed
what it was destined to perform, and withdraws from the soul that has attained the highest
goal, as a dancing girl stops dancing when she has performed her task and the spectators have
enough. But in one respect matter is unlike the dancing girl or actress; for while they repeat
their performance at request, matter “is tenderly disposed like a woman of good family,” who,
if she is seen by a man, modestly does not display herself again to his view. This last simile
is facilitated in the original texts by the fact that the Sanskrit for soul and man has the
same phonetic notation (pums, purusa). (Garbe, l. c., pp. 165 ff.)

In comparing the common mystic content of Vedanta and Samkhya-Yoga with alchemy, I avoid the
difficulty involved in establishing a detailed concordance of the hermetic philosophy with
one or another system. An inquiry into this topic would result differently according to which
hermetic authors we should particularly consider.

It is probably worthy of notice that the Yoga-Mystics, like the alchemists, are acquainted
with the idea of the union of the sun and the moon. Two breath or life currents are to be united,
one of which corresponds to the sun, the other to the moon. The expression Hathayoga (where
hatha = mighty effort. Cf. Garbe, Samkhya and Yoga, p. 43) will also be interpreted so that
Ha = sun, tha = moon, their union = the yoga leading to salvation. (Cf. Hatha-Yoga-Prad., p. 1.)

The union of two things, the sun with the moon, the soul with God, the seer with the seen,
etc., is also taught by the image of the connection of man and woman. That is the mystic marriage
(Hieros gamos), a universally widespread symbol of quite supreme importance. In alchemy the
last process, i.e., according to the viewpoint of representation, the tincturing or the unification,
is quite frequently represented in the guise of a marriage—sometimes of a king and a queen.
We cannot interchange this final process with the initial one of introversion, which (as a
seeking for the uterus for the purpose of a rebirth) is likewise readily conceived of as a
sexual union. If the symbol of coitus was conceivable there, so here, too, the same symbol
is appropriate for the representation of the definite union with the object longed for.

It is quite suggestive to associate the anagogic idea of the Unio mystica, precisely on account
of the erotic allegory, with the primal motive of sexual union (with the mother) instead of
with the wish to die, as I have done at another place. It may be that the primal erotic power
supplies something for the accomplishment of this last purpose; it may be that all powers must
coöperate. If I now still abide by my original exposition, this happens because it appears
to me that the symbolism emphasizes the going over of the one into the other more than the
attainment of the sexual goal; and even in the cases where the unio mystica is described as
a sexual union. We should not forget that the sexual gratification is to be regarded also as
a kind of annihilation. It is a condition of intoxication and of oblivion or perishing. It
is this side of the sexual procedure that the symbolism of the unio mystica particularly emphasizes.

Brhadaranyaka-Upanisad, IV, 3, 21: “... For even as one embraced by a beloved woman has no
consciousness of what is within or without, so the spirit, embraced by the most percipient
self (prajena almana, i.e., the Brahm), has no knowledge of that which is external or internal.
That is its form of existence, in which it is characterized by stilled desire, even its own
desire is without desire and separated from sorrow.” This passage treats of the deep sleep
(susupti) which is regarded as a passing union with the highest spirit, and so, as essentially
the same as the definitive unificatio. Sleep is the brother of death. Susupti is, furthermore,
conceived only as a preliminary; a German mystic would call it a foretaste of the definitive
ascent into Brahm.

In the parable the unio mystica appears twice represented, once in that the king and queen
are represented as the bridal couple, and the second time when the king, i.e., God, takes the
wanderer up into his kingdom.

The attainment of an inner harmony, of a serene peace, is what, as it seems to me, is most
clearly brought out as the characteristic of the final unificatio—not merely by the Hindus
or Neoplatonists, but also by the Christian mystics and by the alchemists. The Stone is an
absolutely imperishable Good; but if it should be lost it is surely not the right stone.

I have now to offer some conjectures regarding further interpretations of the two and the three
principles [Symbol: Gold] and [Symbol: Silver], namely [Symbol: Sulfur] [Symbol: Mercury] [Symbol:
Salt]. We are aware of a general difference. I add now first the remark of Hitchcock that the
“two” things are to be regarded as an antithesis: natura naturans and natura naturata. We might
intellectually conceive the [Symbol: Mercury] (mercury) given by many writers at the beginning
of the work as a double one, on the one hand as nature and on the other as our world picture.
We cause it to work on our [Symbol: Sulphur] (sulphur), i.e., on our affectivity by which the
[Symbol: Sulphur] is purified and dissolved, for it is compelled to adapt itself to the requirements
of the world laws. But by this means a new world picture is produced, for the former had been
influenced by the unclarified [Symbol: Sulphur]; our affective life limits our intellectual.
The new world picture or the newly gained [Symbol: Mercury] we combine with our [Symbol: Sulfur]
and so on, until finally after a gradual clarification nature and our world picture harmonize.
Then there are no longer two mercuries but only one; and the sulphur, our completed subject,
has become more or less a unity. Now we may advance to the unification of the two clarified
things, which in this stage are called [Symbol: Gold] and [Symbol: Silver]. Now subject and
object are bound together and man enters, as is so wonderfully expressed in Chandogya-Upanisad,
VIII, 13, as a being adapted into the unadapted (uncreated-primordial) world of Brahma. [Symbol:
Sol] and [Symbol: Luna] may, to be sure, be conceived also as the love of God towards man and
the love of man towards God. The different masters of the art are the same in different ways
in that the one sees more the intellectual, the other the emotional. They describe different
sides or aspects of the same process, for which we do not indeed possess appropriate concepts,
and whose best form of expression is through symbols. The sign [Symbol: Sol] is then neither
= subject nor love but just = [Symbol: Sol], i.e., a thing to which we may approximate nearest
by a form of integration of all partial meanings. In view of the fact that [Symbol: Sulfur]
and [Symbol: Mercury] are contrasted at the beginning of the process also as body and soul,
we can, by making [Symbol: Sulfur] = passions and [Symbol: Mercury] = knowledge (reason) conceive
the rest thus: [Symbol: Sulfur] is to be purified by an exalted [Symbol: Mercury] (in distinction
from the common [Symbol: Mercury], called also “our” [Symbol: Mercury]), and so to be purified
by a higher knowledge. From [Symbol: Sulfur] is developed (i.e., it unmasks itself to the initiated
as) [Symbol: Luna], i.e., Maya, the object, that in its difference from the subject is mere
illusion; and from [Symbol: Mercury] comes [Symbol: Sol], the Brahm or subject, and now the
unio mystica can take place. Another use of symbolism is the one by which we are able to concoct
gold out of sulphur; from the affects we derive, through purification, love (toward God). The
spirit [Symbol: Mercury] exalts [raises] the antithesis [Symbol: Sol] and [Symbol: Luna] (soul
and body) in such a way that finally it simply opposes itself as subject and object. (Cf. H.
A., pp. 143 ff.)

Sometimes the making of gold is described as an amalgamation; from the raw material, [Symbol:
Sol] is derived by an amalgamation with [Symbol: Mercury] [quicksilver]. That naturally signifies
the search for the Atman or highest spirit in man by means of contemplation, which belongs
to [Symbol: Mercury], the [act of] knowing.

With regard to the trinity [Symbol: Sol] [Symbol: Luna] [Symbol: Mercury]: The solar divinity
[creating, impregnating] in man is [Symbol: Sulfur] that by its triangle moreover marks the
fiery nature [Symbol: Sulfur]; that which is comprised in the bodily nature, the terrestrial
is [Symbol: Salt] salt, which is also represented as a cube, like the element earth. The two
can be called [Symbol: Sol], anima, and [Symbol: Luna], corpus. The celestial messenger who
appears as a mediator for the antithesis is the conscience [Symbol: Mercury], who has his constant
influx from God, the real [Symbol: Sol], and is therefore a divine spirit. We have then the
triad Spiritus, anima, corpus [[Symbol: Mercury] [Symbol: Sol] [Symbol: Luna]] or, because
[Symbol: Mercury] is to be regarded as a mediator, [Symbol: Sol] [Symbol: Mercury] [Symbol:
Luna]. The intervention of the [Symbol: Mercury] effects the previously mentioned exaltation
of [Symbol: Sol] and [Symbol: Luna] or of [Symbol: Sulfur] and [Symbol: Mercury] (crude state)
to [Symbol: Sol] and [Symbol: Luna].

In view of the difficulty of the mystic work that attempts to accomplish a sheerly superhuman
task, it is not surprising that it cannot be finished in one attempt but requires time. It
necessitates great persistence. In the life of the mystic the states of love and aspiration
for God alternate with those of spiritual helplessness and barrenness. (Horten, Myst., I, p. 9.)

Arabi sings in his ode on man’s becoming godlike: “[1] O thou ancient temple. A light has arisen
for thee (you) that gleams in our hearts. [2] To thee I lament the wilderness that I have traversed,
and in which I have poured forth an unlimited flood of tears. [3] Neither at dawn nor at dusk
do I get repose. From morning until evening I fare on my way without ceasing. [4] The camels
go forth on their journey at night; even if they have injured their feet, they still hasten.
[5] These (mighty) riding camels bore us to you (probably God) with passionate longing, although
they did not hope to attain the goal....” The riding camels signify the longing of the mystics
for God. “It seeks and strives ceaselessly, although its powers are drained by the difficulties
of the search.” (Horten, l. c., p. 16 ff.)

Many degrees or stations are to be gone over on the difficult way, yet zeal is to abide constant
in all circumstances. [The idea of the ladder set up to heaven, of steps, etc., is universal
in religions.] In general seven such steps are distinguished. In Khunrath, e.g., the citadel
of Pallas has seven steps. Paracelsus (De Natura Rerum, VIII), following a favorite custom,
gives seven operations of the work. “... It is now necessary to know the degrees and steps
to transmutation, and how many they are. These steps are then no more than seven. Although
some count still more, it should not be so. For the most important steps are seven. The further
ones, however, which might be reckoned as steps are comprised under the others, which are as
follows: calcination [sublimation], dissolution, putrefaction, distillation, coagulation, and
tincturing. Whoever passes over these seven steps and degrees comes to such a marvelous place,
where he sees much mystery and attains the transmutation of all natural things.” In the “Rosarium”
of Johannes Daustenius [Chap. XVII] the seven steps are represented as follows: “And then the
corpus [1] is a cause that the water is retained. The water [2] is the cause of preserving
the oil so that it is not ignited on the fire, and the oil [3] is the cause of retaining the
tincture, and the tincture [4] is a cause of the colors appearing, and the color [5] is a cause
of showing the white, and the white [6] is a cause of keeping every volatile thing [7] from
being no longer volatile.” It amounts to the same thing when Bonaventura describes septem gradus
contemplationis [seven steps of contemplation], and David of Augsburg [13th century] the “seven
steps of prayer.” Boehme recognizes 7 fountain spirits that constitute a certain gradation
and in the yoga we also find 7 steps, which are described in the “Yoga Vasistha” (cf. Hath.
Prad., pp. 2 ff). It may easily happen that the domination of the number 7 is to be derived
from the infusion of the scientific doctrines (7 planets, 7 metals, 7 tones in the diatonic
scale) and yet it may depend on an actual correspondence in the human psyche with nature—who
can tell? Most significant is the connection of the 7 steps of development with the infusion
of the nature myth in the alchemistic theories of “rotations.” For the perfection of the Stone,
rotations (i.e., cycles) are required by many authors, in which the materia (and so the soul)
pass through the spheres of all the planets. They have to be subjected successively to the
domination (the regimen) of all seven planets. This is related to the ideas of those neoplatonists
and gnostics according to which the soul must, on its way (anodos) to its heavenly home, i.e.,
to its celestial goal, pass through all the planetary spheres and through the animal cycle.
(Cf. Bousset, Hauptpr. d. G., pp. 11 and 321.) I observe, moreover, a thoroughly vivid representation
of this very theme in the good old Mosheim, Ketzergesch., p. 89 ff. Also in the life of the
world, if it is completely lived, man passes through, according to the ideas of the old mystery
teachings, the domination of the seven planets.

The anagogic meaning of rotation may be that of a collection of all available (seven in number)
powers, in order finally to rise as a whole, to God.

More important, or at any rate more easily comprehensible, appears to me the trichotomy necessarily
resulting from the course of the mystical work, a triplicate division that results in the three
main phases, black, white, and red. The black corresponds to introversion and to the first
[mystic] death, the white to the “new earth,” to freedom or innocence, red to love, which completes
the work. This general arrangement does not prevent the symbols from being often confused by
the alchemistic authors. There are gradations between the main colors, all kinds of color play;
in particular the so-called peacock’s tail appears, which comes before the stable white to
indicate the characteristic gayness of color of visionary experiences, and which marks the
stage of introversion.

If one put into the center of vision, as goal of the work, the recovery of the harmonious state
of the soul, one might express oneself about the three primary colors as follows: The paradisical
state demands absolute freedom from conflict. We can attain this only by completely withdrawing
from the external world whatever causes conflict in connection with the external world, so
that there comes to pass with regard to it, a thorough-going indifference. This indifference
is the black. The freedom from conflict (guiltlessness) in the now newly beginning life is
the white. Previously, at the disintegration (rotting) of the material, one constituent part
was removed and taken away. That is, the libido becomes free (love). It is gradually alloyed
with the white material, which is dry (thirsty without thirst); sown in the white ground. Life
is without conflict now drenched with love, red. This true red thus attained is permanent because
it is produced [in contrast to mere instruction] from the heart of hearts, the roots of innermost
feeling, which is subjected to no usury.

The mystical procedure can be realized in different degrees of intensity. The lowest degree
is as a program with the mere result of a stimulation; the highest degree is a final transmutation
of the psyche. If this goal is attained in life, we have acquired the terrestrial stone. In
contrast, the celestial stone belongs with the eschatological concepts and the celestial tincture
is the apokatastasis.

It is an interesting question whether the resolution of conflicts, with evasion of the process
in the outer world, cannot be accomplished subjectively, by battles with symbols (personifications)
and in symbols, thus amounting to an abbreviation of the process. Theoretically this is not
impossible, for the conflicts do not indeed lie in the external world, but in our emotional
disposition towards it; if we change this disposition by an inner development, the external
world has a different value for the libido.

“The projection into the cosmic is the primal privilege of the libido, for it naturally enters
into our perception through the gates of all the senses and apparently from without, and actually,
in the form of the pleasure and pain qualities of perception. These, as we all know, we attribute
without further deliberation to the object, and their cause, in spite of philosophical deliberation,
we are continually inclined to look for in the object, while the object is often hopelessly
innocent of it.” (Jung, in Jb. ps. F., III, p. 222; with which compare the Freudian transference
concept and Ferenczi’s essay on “Introjektion und Ubertragung,” in Jb. ps. F., I, p. 422.)
Jung calls attention to the frequently described immediate projection of the libido in love
poetry, as in the following example from the Edda (H. Gering):

    “In Gymer’s Courtyard I saw walking
    The maiden, dear to me;
    From the brightness of her arms glowed the heavens,
    And all the eternal sea.”

The mystic looks for the conflicts that he desires to do away with, in man, the place where
they really exist. With this theoretical presumption the possible objection against all mysticism
is averted, namely that it is valueless because it rests merely upon imagined experiences,
upon fanaticism. This objection, though not to be overlooked, does not apply to mysticism,
which accomplishes an actual ethical work of enduring value—but to the other path that issues
from introversion, namely magic (not to mention physical and spiritual suicide). This is nicely
expressed, too, in an allegorical way by saying that magically-made gold melts, as the story
goes, or turns into mud (i.e., the pretended value vanishes in the face of actuality) while
“our” alchemistic gold is an everlasting good. The yoga doctrine, too, describes Siddhi (those
imaginary wonders in which the visionary loses himself) as transitory, only salvation alone,
i.e., the mystical goal being imperishable.

As for the metaphysical import of the mystical doctrine, I might maintain that the psychoanalytic
unmasking of the impelling powers cannot prejudice its value. I do not venture at all upon
this valuation; but for the very purpose of bringing into prominence a separate philosophical
problem, I must emphatically declare that if psychoanalysis makes it conceivable that we men,
impelled by this and that “titanic” primal power, are necessitated to hit upon this or that
idea, then even if it is made clear what causes us to light upon it, still nothing is as yet
settled as to the value for knowledge of the thing discovered.

I am so far from wishing to derive a critique of the metaphysical import of the doctrine from
psychoanalytic grounds alone, that I felt called upon to make claim only to a synthesis for
the merely psychological understanding of mystic symbolism, a synthesis which I have attempted
to block out as well as I was able in the present Part III of my book.

                               Section III.

The Royal Art.

It has been mentioned that the work of perfecting mankind might be realized in different degrees
of intensity, which might extend from complete living realization to mere sympathy without
any clear comprehension. The psychic types in which the realization is achieved are, it may
be said, identical.

These typical groups of symbols that the mystic [I draw a certain distinction between the mystes
and the mystic. The latter is a mystes who makes a system of what he has realized.] produces
as a functional expression of his subjective transformation, can be thought of as an educational
method applied to arouse the same reactions in other men. In the group of symbols are contained
more or less clearly the already mentioned elementary types as they are common to all men;
they strike the same chords in all men. Symbolism is for this very reason the most universal
language that can be conceived. It is also the only language that is adapted to the various
degrees of intensity as well as to the different levels of the intro-determination of living
experience without requiring therefore a different means of expression; for what it contains
and works with are the elementary types themselves [or symbols which are as adequate as possible
to them] which, as we have seen, represent a permanent element in the stream of change. This
series of symbols is quite as useful to the neophyte as to the one who is near to perfection;
every one will find in the symbols something that touches him closely; and what must be particularly
emphasized is that the individual at every spiritual advance that he makes, will always find
something new in the symbols already familiar to him, and therefore something to learn. To
be sure, this new revelation is founded in himself; but there results for the uncritical mind
(mythological level) the illusion that the symbols (e.g., those of the holy scripture) are
endowed with a miraculous power which implies a divine revelation. [Cf. the concept of the
origin of the symbol in my essay, Phant. u. Myth.] Because of a similar illusion, e.g., Jamblichus
posits demons between gods and men, who make comprehensible to the latter the utterances of
the gods; the demons, he thinks, are servants of the gods and execute their will. They make
visible to men in works and words the invisible and inexpressible things of the gods; the formless
they reveal in forms and they reveal in concepts what transcends all concepts. From the gods
they receive all the good of which they are capable, partially or according to their nature,
and share it again with the races that stand below them.

I said above, every one will find something appropriate to himself in the symbols, and I emphasized
the great constancy of the types fast rooted in the unconscious, types which impart to them
a universal validity. The divine is revealed “only objectively different according to the disposition
of the vessel into which it falls, to one one way, another to another. To the rich poetical
genius it is revealed preeminently in the activity of his imagination; to the philosophical
understanding as the scheme of a harmonious system. It sinks into the depths of the soul of
the religious, and exalts the strong constructive will like a divine power. And so the divine
is honored differently by each one.” (Ennemoser, Gesch. d. M., p. 109.) “The spiritual element
of the inheritance handed down by our fathers works out vigorously in the once for all established
style.... On the dark background of the soul stand, as it were, the magic symbols in definite
types, and it requires but an inner or outer touch [E.g., by religious observances.] to make
them kindle and become active.” (Ib., p. 274.) “The unconscious is common to all mankind in
an infinitely greater degree than the content of the individual consciousness, for it is the
condensation of the historically average and oft-repeated.” (Jung, Jb. ps. F., III, pp. 169 ff.)

Whoever allows the educative symbols to work upon him, whether he sees only darkly the ethical
applications typified in them, or clearly perceives them, or completely realizes them in himself,
in any case he will be able to enjoy a satisfying sense of purification for his earnest endeavor
in an ethical direction. The just mentioned dim perception (probably the most frequent case),
does not exclude the existence of very clear ideas in consciousness; the person in question
generally considers his ideas, although they are only masks in front of the absolute ideal,
as the ultimate sense of the symbol, thus accepting one degree of significance for the complete
meaning. Every one approximates the ideal as he can; the absolute ideal through his ephemeral,
but attainable ideal. The highest being speaks in the inexhaustible Bhagavad-Gita:

    “More trouble have they who devote themselves to the invisible;
    By physical beings the invisible goal is attained only with
                difficulty.
    [XII, 5.]

    God is the all. Hard is it to find the noble man who recognizes
                this.
    Those whom greed robs of knowledge go to other gods,
    Cleave to many rulers—their own nature rules them,
    And whatsoever divinity one strives to honor in belief,
    I respect his belief and direct him to the right place.
    If he strives in firm belief towards his divinity’s favor and
                grace,
    Then shall he in part get what he wants, for I gladly put good in
                his way.
    Yet the result is but limited in the case of those of limited
                sensibility.
    He finds the gods who honors them. Who honors me, attains to me.”
    [VII, 19-23.]

If above I derived the instructive group of symbols from a mystic, that is not to say that
it must be precisely so. I brought out this case among possible cases only for the reason that
the mystic is the one who carries out most strenuously the ethical work of purification, and
under such conditions as are most favorable to a suggestive group of symbols, and in particular
those rich in characteristic types. Bear in mind the founders of religion. (They do not always
have to be individuals—schools, myths.) There are, however, others than the religiously inspired
natures, who are preëminently endowed to produce suggestive symbol groups with anagogic value;
the artists. I suspect that it would prove that the purifying (cathartic) action of a work
of art is the greater the more strongly the anagogic symbolism (the groups of types that carry
it) is developed, or in other words, the more they express a tendency to a broadening of the
personality. This tendency, to which belong the motives of the denial of the selfish will (father
figure) of the love that is connected with sacrifice (incest motive, regeneration) of the devotion
to an ideal (longing for death), etc., is manifested in the artist as also in the devout observer
of the work of art in his very devotion to it. Being lost in a work of art appears to me essentially
related both to introversion and to the unio mystica.

I have already spoken of the creations of the myth forming imagination and its anagogic import.
In alchemy, to which I wish now to return, the mythical and the individual images meet in the
most vivid way, without destroying each other.

In regard to the high ethical aspirations of alchemy, we understand that as a mystic art it
preserves those attributes of a royal art which it seems to have had at first merely as gold
making and magic. In fact what art may more justly be called royal than that of the perfection
of mankind, that art which turns the dependent into the independent, the slave into a master?
The freeing of the will in the mystic (and in every ethical) process has already, I believe,
been commented on enough to be comprehensible. And the power of rule that has been extolled
as a magical effect of the Philosopher’s Stone lies in the harmonizing of the individual will
with that of the world or with God’s will. In the new birth—so remarks Jane Leade casually—we
acquire a magic power; this occurs “through faith, that is, through the harmony of our will
with the divine will. For faith puts the world in our power, inasmuch as the harmony of our
will with the divine has the result of making everything ours or obedient to us. The will of
the soul, when it accords wholly with the divine, is no longer a naked will lacking its raiment,
power, but brings with it an invincible omnipotence.”

To-day, too, there is a royal art. Freemasonry bears this name. Not only the name but its ethical
ideal connects it with the spirit of the old alchemy. This statement will probably be contradicted
and meet the same denial as did once the ideas of Kernning [J. Krebs], although I think I am
on different ground from that of this poetic but, in my eyes, all too uncritical author. Keep
in mind the historical treatment mentioned in Part I, Section 4, and furthermore do not forget
the psychological basis of our present modes of viewing things.

[If I wished to compare the ethical aims of both in general terms, I should run the risk of
unduly expatiating on what is easily understood. Robert Fischer describes freemasonry as a
society of men who have set themselves the severe task of a wise life and labor as the most
difficult task, of self-knowledge, self-mastery and self-improvement,—tasks that are not finished
in this life but only through death prepare us for the stage where the true consummation begins.
These beautiful and straightforward words could just as well stand in an alchemistic discussion
on the terrestrial and celestial. But this will suffice.]

And now permit me to present the following portrayals by Jane Leade [English mystic of the
17th century. She belonged to the philadelphian society founded by Pordage.] which I reproduce
here with a few words of comment, and take them as an illustration of the beautiful spiritual
union of the serious hermetic with the new royal art. The reader can draw his own conclusions.
The passages are taken from Leade’s “Garten-Brunn” (L. G. B.). References to Wirth are to the
“Symbolisme Hermétique” (W. S. H.) of this modern author.

This mystic who is sunk in deep meditation on the noble Stone of divine Wisdom, has a vision
of Sophia (Wisdom) at which she is startled. “Soon came the voice and said: Behold I am God’s
everlasting handmaid of wisdom, whom thou hast sought. I am now here to unseal for thee the
treasures of the deepest wisdom of God, and to be to thee even that which Rebecca was to her
son Jacob, namely, a true, natural mother. For from my body and womb shalt thou be born, conceived
and reborn.” (L. G. B., I, p. 14.)

Leade is much rejoiced that the “morning star from on high” has sought her, and secludes herself
for the following days to await further developments. She has still more visions of the crowned
queen of heaven and was asked whether she had the desire to be taken up into the celestial
company. She proves herself of constantly devoted will and from this time wisdom speaks to
her as an inner illumination. (L. G. B., I, p. 15 ff.)

[Retirement is a precondition of introversion and of withdrawal into oneself. The uninitiated
who is to be admitted is, to use the language of alchemy, the subjectum, in whom the process
of purification is to be perfected. The alchemists put the subjectum into a narrow vessel so
as to be hermetically sealed from the outer world. There it is subjected to putrefaction as
in a grave. Introversion leads into the depths of one’s very heart. “Where were you formed?”
“In my heart [or inner man].” “Where after this?” “In the Way to the Lodge.” “What determined
you...?” “My own free and unconstrained will.” The uninitiated are recommended to take counsel
seriously with regard to their important resolution. “Why are you...?” “Because I was in darkness
and desired light.” The death symbol in the sch. K. is later to be considered. I can naturally
go into a few only of the analogies. The informed reader will largely increase the number of
parallels very easily.]

Jane Leade seeks in the spirit for the key that can open the entrance into the great secret
that lies deep hidden within her. Her effort to reach the holy city is great but at first ineffectual.
[One is not admitted without further effort.] She wanders around the city and finds no entrance.
[Way to the Lodge—“Why have they not led you the nearest way to the Lodge?” “In order to acquaint
me with the difficulties and troubles that one must first overcome before one finds the way
of virtue.”] She is apprehensive that she must, lacking the wonderful key, now grope all her
days in darkness ... never find the gate. “While I, now overpowered with fear and horror at
all this, was plunged [Symbols and processes in the sch. K. Roll of the terrible Br. It is
probably well founded psychologically, a fact that I should like to emphasize in opposition
to Fischer, Kat. Erl., I, on Question 7.] into a deep silence and stillness, the word of wisdom
itself was revealed to me and said: ‘O deeply searching spirit, be not surprised that you have
not realized your hopes for so long a time. So far you have been with many others caught in
a great error, yet as you know and are sorry for your error, I will apprize you what sort of
a key it must be.... And although this wonderful Key of Wisdom is a free gift, it will yet
come to be of high value to you, O searching spirit, when once you obtain it.’ ” Nevertheless
wisdom goes about and looks for those who deserve it, [Nothing being made of nothing, the point
of departure of the philosophic work is the finding and choice of the subject. The material
to work upon, say the alchemists, is quite common and is met with everywhere. It is necessary
only to know how to distinguish it, and that is where all the difficulty lies. We continually
experience it in masonry, for we often initiate the profane, whom we should have rejected had
we been sufficiently clear sighted. Not all material is good to make a mercury. The work can
succeed only if we succeed in finding a suitable subject; so masonry makes many inquiries before
admitting a candidate to the tests. (W. S. H., p. 87.)] She does this so as to write herself
on the inner walls of their hearts and in each and every one meet their thoughts which wait
upon her laws and counsel, [Obedience of apprentices. The laws of wisdom are meant.] and brings
a kingdom with it which will be well worth sacrificing everything for. [Laying aside of all
metal. The newly admitted brother is “through his unclothing” (which probably belongs here)
to represent mankind symbolically, as he comes from the hand of nature, and to remind us that
the freemason, in order to be continuously mindful of the fulfillment of his duty must be able
to rid himself of all fortuitous externalities. See Note H at end.] But the greatest and most
distinguished master work, says wisdom, consists alone in your keeping your spirit disciplined
and learned, and making it a skilled worker or artist, to give it knowledge of what material,
as well as in what number, weight and measure [Surveying, geometry.] to make this pure key,
which [material] is the bright pure divinity in the number three, the mighty in truth.... It
is distinguished as a surpassingly mighty glory and lordliness which sits in a circle of heaven
within the hearts of men. [The connection of circle (doubly significant) and heart is interesting.
As is well known the circle is placed on the bleeding left breast. In the old English ritual
the touching with the point of an instrument (sword or the like) is proved “Because the left
breast is nearest to the heart, so that it may be so much the more a prick in my conscience
as it then pricked my skin.”] It does with the plumbline of its power measure the temple and
inner court with those who worship there. [The line in connection with the temple: the “binding”
on a carpet; an image of the curtain string in the holy of holies in Solomon’s temple. “Just
as this ribbon holds and closes the curtain, so an indissoluble bond unites and holds together
all free and accepted Masonic brothers (also those who worship therein).” This is wisdom’s
key [Surveying, Geometry.] which will make our hands drop with sweet smelling myrrh upon the
handles of the lock (Solomon’s Song, V, 5). When now I opened your secret gate with this key,
my soul failed within me and I had no strength in me, the sun of reason and the moon of my
extended senses were confounded and vanished. I knew nothing by myself of the active properties
of nature and the creature. “What have you seen as ...?” “Nothing that reason can grasp.”]
The wheel of motion stood still and something else was moved by a central fire, so that I felt
myself turned into a bright flame. Whereupon this word came to me: This is nothing else than
the gate of my everlasting depths; can you stay in this fiery region, which is wisdom’s dwelling
and abode, in which it meets holy remote spirits and gives them a fiery principle? For if thou
canst take heed such that thou comest hither at its order; then no secret shall be kept from
thee. So far I have been permitted to approach the entrance to your house, where I must still
stay until I hear further from you what is to be done. (L. G. B., I, pp. 17-19.)

[As we hear it is therefore right to keep the spirit corrected and disciplined. “Why came ye
... to subdue my passions—to subject my will....” We see two triads. A divine three (3 great
lights), and then sun, moon and central fire, which second three can be called the lesser lights,
as the “M. v. St.” appears as a central fire. If we remember that the didactic voice proceeds,
according to this symbolism, from a fire or light (Wisdom), this light is identical with the
M. v. St. in the function, and it is determined by exactly that. The central fire is naturally
also the blazing star. This stands on the tapis between sun and moon and it is designed to
illuminate the innermost space of the temple. From alchemy we are well acquainted with [Symbol:
Sun], [Symbol: Moon] and an intermediate and mediating light, namely [Symbol: Mercury]. This
light can be also symbolized as [Symbol: Star of David]. To the alchemistic point of view correspond
quite closely the three great lights of the Freiburg Ritual, God, man and St. John’s light.
This (the [Symbol: mercury]) is the intelligence and the talent in men which creates all science
and shows us the truth. It is “the only authority that the freemason has to recognize unconditionally,
namely, the divine ordinance in his own heart, the celestial fire in his ego.”]

Several weeks later Leade hears again the voice of wisdom. It said to her: “Separate thyself
and withdraw from thy animal sensuous life, it is too coarse. I cannot appear till that is
completely lost and vanished.” [The alchemistic separation (separatio) and the masonic taking
off of parts of their clothing. I have already made the most necessary remarks about it. We
have to be freed from the things which, as in the eclectic ritual “much retard the soaring
of the spirit and chain man to the earth.” It has an expressly programmatical meaning (anticipating
a later phase) when, e.g., the system of the Grand Lodge goes back, for the deprivation from
the metal, to “the temple of Solomon that was built of fully prepared stones, just as they
were brought, etc.,” so that no metal work was needed.] A short time after Leade is again driven
to search after the secret being. Wisdom requires it to know itself apart from its creature
existence. “Whereupon I was surrounded by gently burning flames that consumed and burned all
thistles, thorns and accursed fluxes [the ‘superfluities’ of alchemy] which would put themselves
forward.... Therefore Wisdom let her voice be heard and said: ‘O thou troubled spirit, I am
now come to tell thee what was required of thee, as I have not refrained from saying to thee,
even at the beginning of my discourse with thee, what it would cost thee to attain this key.
[First programmatically shown. The actual process will then follow.] I say to thee, God requires
a sacrifice of thee. Understand me then, thou hast an earthly element that has spread and covered
[Like a garment.] thee, and consequently has got the upper hand and mastery of thee; these
thrones and powers [king or father figure] must, however, be overthrown and their place found
no more. Thou hast deeply mourned that thou hadst to do without the ever near communion or
union with God thy Creator, [Only the masters sit near the sun.] but be not surprised at that.
The cause lies here in complete extinction because you are not yet deceased and dead completely
in the mystical manner. [Complete extinction first results in the third degree.] This is the
first baptism that you must experience, but ah, how many have rushed into this too abruptly,
because they have not given their earthly selfishness a single mortal blow right to the heart.
[The circle or sword placed on the left breast alludes merely to the process of the clearing
of conscience. Here the whole ego is not yet annihilated.] So I recommend to thee my flaming
sword. Be courageous and let it achieve complete execution in the field of nature [The weed
in the field is exterminated where, as Jane Leade frequently says, ears of corn are to grow.]
or banish completely all young or old, and turn from life toward death whatever in you does
not bear my mark and name that is my image.’ ” [From this the psychological sense of the countersign
is recognized. In connection with the field we are reminded especially of Shibboleth (Judges
XIII, 6: The Ephraimites who could not speak it had to die). Leade often mentions the Ephraimites.
Directly pertinent to the above passage is, of course, Revelations, passim.] (L. G. B., I,
pp. 21 ff.) The earthly is, as it were, to be sacrificed to God as a burnt offering or melted
away in a fiery furnace, in a vessel of the purest metal. [Probably it will not be superfluous
to remark that in the Bible the first worker in all kinds of metal was Tubal Cain, whose name
is a password.] Jane Leade finds “the conditions or circumstances which thou [Wisdom] requirest
of me to be very hard; especially do I find myself still dwelling in the offspring of a mortal
shadow, where whole millions of spirits tempt me and employ all their ability and strength
to hinder and hold me back from the high and noble exaltation and aspiration, [The seductive
and restraining voices in the circuitous way or on the way to the Lodge according to the eclectic
ritual. The band corresponds to the mortal shadow.] while I, alone and seeing the receptacle
and fire before me, stood in thought about it and pondered the matter, and was willing, like
Isaac, to ask, But where is the lamb? [The apron is of lamb’s fleece.] She [Sophia = Wisdom]
answered my unspoken question with these words: You yourself must be the paschal lamb that
shall be slain. Thereupon I was instructed to say or to beg: Then give yet this life pulse
a stroke so that it may completely return. And as I stretched out my neck, so to speak, to
the love flaming sword, I felt that a separation or beheading had taken place. [Note the baring
of the neck, the guttural and its meaning given according to the content of the old form of
oath. The fate of the traitor befalls the man who is slain at this point; he has been a traitor
to the inner true man. It is here the place to bear in mind the descending scale of marks (guttural,
pectoral, stomachal). Man is to be transmuted on rectangular principles, or in the language
of alchemy, is to be tinctured with the divine tincture. This tincturing seizes first the most
spiritual and advances steadily until the whole man is transformed. The trichotomy corresponds
to the Platonic (and alchemistic) tripartite division of the powers of the soul. Plato distinguishes
the reasoning soul, which he places in the head, the intellectual in the breast, and the affective
in the abdomen. The entire soul, even the vegetative, is to be illuminated by the highest light.
If we assume that it is more than a pretty picture, Staudenmaier’s view becomes of interest,
namely that man may have an extraordinary spiritual perfection in bestowing consciousness through
practice upon the centers that ordinarily work vegetatively without consciousness. In this
way he gains power over a whole army of working powers that otherwise escape him. Staudenmaier’s
own experiences teach that all the dangers of introversion are connected with such a training,
and it may easily happen that we are defeated by the spirits that we invoke, instead of becoming
their masters. The absolute mastery of the rational ego is, however, evidently the foundation
of the ethical work of perfection. Kenning’s doctrine is related to the theories of Staudenmaier.]
Oh, how sweet and pleasant it is to perceive the life blood flowing into the fountain of the
same divinity from which it came.” Whereupon wisdom opened more of her secrets to her. (L.
G. B., I, p. 24.)

It may be that this is the most suitable place to mention another series of visions (apropos
of the building of the tabernacle, L. G. B., I, pp. 24 ff.): “It [the holy ark] is an impregnable
fortress and tower, so go thou not out [so says Wisdom], but bind thyself and ally thyself
here as a disciple, to hold out to the end, then thou wilt be learned in the lofty spiritual
art of the everlasting mystery, and be instructed how this incomparable composition or medicine
of the healing elixir and balsam of life is prepared. Above all thou must enter a bond of silence
and vow to reveal it to no one outside of your fellow learners, who are called together near
and with you, to work at this very art. [I hardly need to mention the duty under oath, but
will only call attention to the group of the three virtues of the newly entering: attentiveness,
silence, fidelity.] Further thou must completely bide the definite time and year of it, in
all fidelity and patience indefatigable, until thou succeedest in making this oil as well,
and preserve it in the beautiful snow-white alabaster box of consummate nature, and art as
fit and perfect as thy instructress.”

