Heroine (returning with her shoes on). For the love of Mike--I mean Losh keep's!--are you still
here?

Hero. That's so. I wanter put you wise about me. I ain't no boob, as you seemter think. You
can bet your rubbers on that. Maybe you're thinkin' that I'm but a puir laddie. Wal, let me
tell you you're guessin' wrong. I'm an author--I do writin' stunts. And if I don't swell around
in new pants all afternoon it's only because I have to keep all my cheques among the crumbs
in my tobacco pouch. I have to do it. All the best Scots writers do it. We call it Arcadian
Mixture.

Heroine. Guess that rollers out the course of true love some. But let me tell you there's another
feller after me--a puir feckless body of a villain. And, Losh preserve us, here he comes!

[The Villain enters. He looks rather like a revue-producer who has seen better nights. The
Hero, overcome by bashfulness at being discovered in conversation with a female, conceals himself
behind his accent.]

Villain. See here, gal, you just gotter marry me.

Heroine. Shucks! I should say, Dinna blether, ma mannie.

[The Hero creeps cautiously out of ambush.]

Villain (caressingly). I have always loved my little Mary.

Hero (subtly ironic). Imphm! Imphm! Ou ay, imphm!

Villain (surprised but finding a way). Oh, the dears! oh, the darlings!

Hero (bewildered). What's all that blatherskite, any old way?

Villain (privily drawing bludgeon). It was Sneeky Hobart who never went to kirk again after
they substituted tin plates for the usual cloth collecting-bags.

Hero (perplexed and off his guard). Guess you've gone bughouse, sonny. I mean, I'm no quick
in the uptak'----

Villain. Are ye no? (brandishing bludgeon). Well, I am! (He fells the Hero senseless to the
ground.) And noo, lassie, I can sorter concentrate on you.

Heroine (in the most ladylike way). Help! oh, help!

Villain. Say, you don't seemter freeze on to me, somehow. But you must and shall be mine! Come
awa', lassie.

[He seizes her and she resists. Meanwhile the Hero, who fell on to a clump of genuine thistles,
makes a superbly-rapid recovery from his unconsciousness.]

Villain (pausing to mop his brow). Say, you'll got my goat for sure if you kick up like this,
lassie.

Heroine. Gee! That's a great idea. If only Peter Pan's goat----

[The Hero, inspired, crawls away unnoticed.]

Villain (preparing to renew the struggle). Lassie, I'm quite sweered o' you. There's an awesome
look in your eye. And can ye no be more ladylike in your fechting? Remember whose heroine you are.

[He again strives to bear her off. The Hero, having broken off a couple of branches and affixed
them to his head--a little trick he learned from the Admirable Crichton--now returns disguised
as a goat. He rushes at Villain, who flees and scales the park railings. But his overcoat collar
catches in the spikes, and he hangs suspended and helpless. In that position he slowly starves,
and dies inconspicuously as the Hero and Heroine finish the play.]

Hero (extending his arms). Say, is it a deal? I mean, will ye ha'e us, lassie?

Heroine (with little wells of gladness in her eyes). It's a cinch. Guess you're Mr. Smart from
Smartville. Ay, I'm thinkin' I'll tak' you. But you men are fickle callants--that's what every
woman knows. Come awa' and let's find a little meenister at once.

Hero. Oh, joy! oh, rapture! oh, rosy rapture! [They embrace and exeunt.]

The Audience. Hoots!

Curtain.

       *       *       *       *       *

JOURNALISTIC ANTICIPATION.

"THE COMING GREAT SEA BATTLE.

EXCLUSIVE PICTURES."

"Sunday Herald" Poster.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE KAISER AND THE DECLINING MARK.

A now version has recently been discovered of the old Pickwickian inscription:--

         +
     B I L S T
       U M
     P S H I
      S. M.
      A R K

It runs as follows:--

    H I S M A
      R K S
      T U M
       P S
      B I L

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

AT THE FRONT.

The subtlety of the Military mind beats and will beat me to the end. Yesterday we lived in
a row of earthen dwellings in a depression in the ground, which anyone might be excused for
referring to, if not as trenches, at least as dugouts. Taking all these things into consideration
some Authority labelled them, once for all, "Billets."

Last night we moved into a commodious cellar of a house which still leans against the next.
It is only five minutes from town, and tramlines pass the door. Nay more, they stop abruptly
at the door--such are the improvements effected by R.E. Inside the cellar are three bits of
chairs, a table-top on boxes, and an inimitable ancestral smell that no deodorizer known to
modern warfare can cope with. And all this is called "Trenches!" Our servants do their best
to support the official illusion by neglecting to clean our boots and regarding with surprise
and some little sadness any tendency on our part to wash.

But you must not imagine that life here is all honey. Even here we do a bit for our eight-and-sixpence.
Every evening there comes down from the front line a report that our men there want more food.
A stricter or less beneficent C.O. than ours might at once institute a court of inquiry into
what has happened to all the food we gave them last night. But not so with us. "The boys want
food," he says to the Adjutant, "and, by Heaven, the boys shall have it."

No sooner said than handed on to someone else to do. The Adjutant works off a little bit of
his strong personal dislike for me in a note, couched, if you please, in the most friendly
terms, intimating that he has raised heaven and earth to get me off, but the C.O. insists that
I (as the only competent officer for the task) shall supervise the conduct of our rations to
the front, middle and back lines to-night. He adds that the Intelligence Corps report that
information received from deserters leads us to suppose that Fritz intends to strafe all roads
and communication trenches in our sector to-night.

The carrying party is supplied by a sister battalion, and makes the night thoroughly well acquainted
with its views about a unit that can't supply blanks to carry their blanked rations for their
blanked selves. Sometimes a second or a third trip may be necessary, and then the carriers'
patriotic fervour expresses itself in terms almost potent enough to do the carrying for them.
For some reason or other the R.E., who design material for our porterage, consider its end
and not its portability. Their special line of ready-made wire entanglements would entangle
a hippopotamus; and when it comes to carrying one a mile-and-a-half you find it has no wheels,
no handles, and simply won't fold up into the pocket. The usual procedure is for a man or two
to roll on one of these barbed-wire death-traps until they are well stuck on them and then
crawl to the point of delivery.

Sometimes, of course, we have accidents. Last night, for instance, two men were proceeding
(by the way the great point about being a soldier is that you never walk, run or otherwise
ambulate--you proceed, or proceed at the double, which of course is much nicer for you)--yes,
were proceeding, one at each end of an entanglement, along the top of a slope, when the leader
missed his footing altogether and rolled down to the morass below. The second, after a brief
struggle, followed with the entanglement. This movement involved not only the man behind, who
was bearing a footboard, but also the remainder of the section. The entire avalanche was precipitated
on to the leaders, and remained there struggling like the population of a fly-paper until a
squad arrived with wire-cutters. When the R.E. heard of it they wanted the episode published
in Corps Orders as a testimonial. But what the men wanted done about the R.E. I dare not tell you.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE TRUTH ABOUT CINEMALAND.

A DISTINGUISHED neutral observer, who has just returned from a visit to Cinemaland, has furnished
our representative with the following interesting account of his experiences and conclusions.

One of the first things (he says) that impressed me was that in the great cities of Cinemaland
there is, outwardly at least, little or no sign of scarcity. On the contrary, at the various
hotels and restaurants, as well as several private entertainments that came under my observation,
a note of almost wanton luxury appeared to be aimed at. Evening dress is worn whenever possible,
and the costumes of the ladies are invariably the last word in ultra-fashionable extravagance.
Food is as yet obviously plentiful; what is not consumed being frequently flung about, especially
by the humorous elements of the population, and wasted with reckless prodigality.

In spite however of this ostentation signs are not wanting that the true condition of the country
is increasingly precarious. Crime of all sorts is rampant. Judging even by what I myself witnessed
within a short period, the detectives of Cinemaland must all be working overtime. Quite recently
a gang, under the leadership of a ruffian who elected to be known as The Clutching Hand, made
large sums of money by working upon the terrors of its victims.

Another significant symptom is that respect for law and authority as such appears to be almost
non-existent. The police force of Cinemaland is a body of men who are most of them of conspicuously
full habit. I can vouch for it that the appearance of these officials is almost invariably
greeted with derision; and should they (as frequently happens) incur physical maltreatment
or other misfortune in the exercise of their duties popular sympathy is almost always on the
side of their opponents.

A notable exception to this feeling is found in the attitude of the populace towards their
chosen ruler, the Emperor, or Film-Lord, Charlemagne-Chaplin. It is only fair to record that
recent spectacular (and carefully stage-managed) appearances of the monarch have been greeted
with every demonstration of unswerving loyalty and affection.

More significant perhaps to an outside spectator is the undeniable fact that the Wild Western
portions of Cinemaland are to-day in a state of turbulence bordering upon anarchy. The Cowboys,
who are its chief denizens, would seem, so far as my experience goes, to spend their entire
time in exploits of murderous violence; though here (as elsewhere among this remarkable people)
the influence of sentiment is often unexpectedly potent. It can hardly be doubted that a populace
so emotional and ill-balanced as that of Cinemaland will have little power to withstand the
strain of disaster.

Despite my apparent freedom from restraint I am persuaded that I was kept under the observation
of a number of uniformed officials during the whole course of my stay in Cinemaland; and I
am bound to confess that my departure, which was made under cover of darkness, was not unattended
with a sense of personal relief.

       *       *       *       *       *

PARABLES FOR BOSCHES.

Once upon a time there was a Father who was devoted to his child. He fed it and nursed it and
watched it grow and gave it toys to play with--both soldiers and boats. Also he made it promises
that some day he would extend their house and garden until no house and garden were bigger.
Every year he took it to the top of a high precipice and showed it beautiful lands and water
which should some day be theirs.

The child had heard this promise so often that it used to ask, "When? when?" And always the
answer was, "Some day, some day."

And then at last the day came, and the Father took the child to the high precipice yet once
more, but behold it chanced that they both fell over and were smashed, the Father hopelessly
and the child very, very badly, so that it would for long years or perhaps for evermore be
a cripple.

       *       *       *       *       *

ONE OF OUR ALLIES.

Somewhere in France--no, let me be bold and say in Paris--there is a young French soldier named
Charles. Less than two years ago he was a plumber and whole; to-day he has but one arm, his
left; the other and a piece of his shoulder with it having gone in saving his country from the foe.

Charles is shy and very modest, and no bigger than so many French youths--he is only twenty-two--with
dark-brown hair and blue eyes with very black centres, and a moustache that never succeeds
in looking more than three weeks old. Being, however, brave, he does not let his maimed condition
unduly trouble him, but runs his errands (all that he can now do) and whistles as he runs,
and is glad to be alive at all, instead of dead, as so many of his comrades are and as his
Colonel is, as I shall tell.

At the Front Charles's duties were these. A despatch--a pli, as they call it--would be given
him either back of the lines to deliver in the trenches, or in the trenches to deliver back
of the lines, and in order to get there, if fighting was in progress, it was necessary for
him to crawl for perhaps one or two kilometres on his stomach. On a certain day of intense
activity, Charles in his trench was handed one of these critical missives for the commanding
officer, who was a kilometre or so behind, and this he placed in his satchel and then began
the hazardous journey.

No one ever knows when the supreme moment of his life is coming; nor did Charles, but it was then.

This being a terrific day--as a matter of fact it was during the famous battle for the Maison
du Passeur, when the French and Germans were losing and retaking trenches for hours--he had
to crawl all the way, only to come suddenly upon the body of the commanding officer himself
stretched dead in a carrot field.

To Charles's mind there was then but one thing to do, and that was, as he had been unable to
deliver the message, to take it back to the sender. He therefore started on the return journey,
and was only a few yards from his trench, and still un-hit, when he found a wounded officer
on the ground. Here was a new problem, but necessarily having to stand up and throw aside all
precautions, Charles got him as well as he could on his back and, still un-hit, half carried,
half supported, him to the trench, and was at once away again with his despatch. It was at
this moment that an exploding shell hurled the satchel from big hands and flung it on the open
ground between the French trenches and the enemy's, which were here separated only by a few
yards. At any cost the despatch must not fall into German hands, and Charles, who miraculously
had not been injured by the explosion, began instantly to climb out of the trench to recover
it, and this in spite of a sergeant, who called to him to keep under cover. But Charles, having
one idea and one only, and that was to save from the foe the despatch that had been entrusted
to him, succeeded in reaching it and securing it; and then came another shell that shattered
his arm.

That is all he remembers; but he must have rolled back to the bottom of the trench, where he
was found, two days later, still clutching the satchel. And after that, although he remembers
the coffee he was given to drink, all is a haze until he came fully to himself in hospital
and found that no longer had he a right arm.

Such is the story of Charles's effort for his country.

