Acting-Committee--JOHN BROWN, ELISHA TYSON, JAMES M'CANNON, ELIAS ELLICOTT, WILLIAM TRIMBLE,
GEORGE DENT.

September 8, 1789.

[22] Of the one hundred and eighty-nine incorporators of the Rhode Island Society, one hundred
and seventeen were from Rhode Island, sixty-eight from Massachusetts, three from Connecticut,
and one from Vermont. The Nation, Nov. 28, 1872.

[23] St. George Tucker, an eminent jurist, and Professor of Law at the College of William and
Mary, at Williamsburg, Virginia, January 24, 1795, addressed a letter to Dr. Jeremy Belknap,
of Boston, inquiring into the condition of the negroes in Massachusetts, and the circumstances
under which slavery had come to an end in that state. His object was to obtain facts which
he could use in removing prejudice against general emancipation in Virginia. "The introduction
of slavery into this country," he says, "is at this day considered among its greatest misfortunes.
I have cherished a hope that we may, from the example of our sister State, learn what methods
are most likely to succeed in removing the same evils from among ourselves. With this view,
I have taken the liberty to enclose a few queries, which, if your leisure will permit you to
answer, you will confer on me a favor which I shall always consider as an obligation." He propounded
eleven queries, to which Dr. Belknap replied at length. The correspondence is printed in the
Massachusetts Historical Society's selections, iv, pp. 191-211. The next year Judge Tucker
printed, at Philadelphia, his "Dissertation on Slavery, with a proposal for the gradual abolition
of it in Virginia." Dr. Belknap's replies to Judge Tucker's inquiries have much historical
interest. To the fifth query, "The mode by which slavery hath been abolished?" he says: "The
general answer is, that slavery hath been abolished here by public opinion, which began to
be established about thirty years ago. At the beginning of our controversy with Great Britain,
several persons, who before had entertained sentiments opposed to the slavery of the blacks,
did then take occasion publicly to remonstrate against the inconsistency of contending for
their own liberty, and, at the same time, depriving other people of theirs. Pamphlets and newspaper
essays appeared on the subject; it often entered into the conversation of reflecting people;
and many who had, without remorse, been the purchasers of slaves, condemned themselves, and
retracted their former opinion. The Quakers were zealous against slavery and the slave-trade;
and by their means the writings of Anthony Benezet of Philadelphia, John Woolman of New Jersey,
and others were spread through the country. Nathaniel Appleton and James Swan, merchants of
Boston, and Dr. Benjamin Rush, of Philadelphia, distinguished themselves as writers on the
side of liberty. Those on the other side generally concealed their names; but their arguments
were not suffered to rest long without an answer. The controversy began about the year 1766,
and was renewed at various times till 1773, when it was warmly agitated, and became a subject
of forensic disputation at the public commencement at Harvard College." p. 201.

[24] Vol. ii, p. 30.

[25] Lectures by Members of the Mass. Historical Society on the Early History of Massachusetts,
p. 216.

[26] Mr. George H. Moore, in his elaborate work, "Notes on the History of Slavery in Massachusetts,"
expresses a doubt whether slavery legally came to an end in Massachusetts at the period stated
above; and perhaps not before the adoption of the fourteenth amendment to the Constitution.
He says: "It would not be the least remarkable of the circumstances connected with this strange
and eventful history, that though virtually abolished before, the actual prohibition of slavery
in Massachusetts, as well as Kentucky, should be accomplished by the votes of South Carolina
and Georgia." p. 242.

[27] Dr. Belknap says the clause "all men are born free and equal" was inserted in the Declaration
of Rights of Massachusetts "not merely as a moral and political truth, but with a particular
view to establish the liberation of the negroes on a general principle, and so it was understood
by the people at large; but some doubted whether it was sufficient"--p. 203. That some persons
had this result in view is probable; but contemporaneous records and acts of the citizens do
not justify the statement that "so it was understood by the people at large." Dr. Belknap was
living in New Hampshire at the time, and did not come to Boston till 1786. The construction
put upon the clause, by the Supreme Court, was evidently a happy afterthought; and was inspired
by that public opinion to which Dr. Belknap himself, in his reply to Judge Tucker, ascribes
the extinction of slavery.

[28] The Pennsylvanian Society assumed all the expenses of the Convention, of entertaining
the delegates, and of printing the proceedings. The delegates of the Pennsylvanian Society
were William Rogers, Samuel P. Griffiths, Samuel Coats, William Rawle, Robert Patterson, and
Benjamin Rush. The printed proceedings of this convention, which is in the New York Historical
Society's library, I have not had access to. Joseph Bloomfield, of New Jersey, an officer of
the Revolution, attorney-general, governor of the state from 1801-12, and member of Congress
from 1817-21, was president of the Convention.

[29] The memorial was presented in both branches of Congress, January 28, 1794. Also, a memorial
of the Providence Society, for abolishing the slave-trade, to the same effect. Ordered, That
the said memorials be referred to Mr. Trumbull [of Connecticut], Mr. Ward [of Massachusetts],
Mr. Giles [of Virginia], Mr. Talbot [of New York], and Mr. Grove [of North Carolina]; that
they do examine the matter thereof, and report the same, with their opinion thereupon, to the
House." Annals of Congress, iv, p. 349.

A bill was reported in conformity to the wishes of the memorialists, passed its several stages
without debate, and was approved March 22, 1794. For the bill, see Id., p. 1426.

[31] Mr. Jackson opposed the reference of the memorial to a committee, and wished it to be
thrown aside. Mr. Burke, of South Carolina, said he saw the disposition of the House, and feared
the memorial would be referred.

The memorial was committed by a vote of 43 yeas to 14 nays. Of the Virginia delegation, 8 voted
yea and 2 nay; Maryland, 3 yea, 1 nay; Delaware and North Carolina, both delegations absent.
Mr. Vining, the member for Delaware, however, spoke and voted later with the friends of the
memorialists.

The committee reported on the 8th of March. The report was discussed in committee of the whole,
and amended to read as follows:

"First.

This was the first legislation on the subject of slavery in the new Congress, and was carried
by 29 votes to 25--North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia voting unanimously in the negative.
All the other States (except Rhode Island, from which no member was present) voted in the affirmative
or divided. New Hampshire voted 1 yea, 1 nay; Massachusetts, 6 yeas, 3 nays; Connecticut, 2
yeas, 2 nays; New York, 5 yeas, 2 nays; New Jersey, 3 yeas; Pennsylvania, 5 yeas; Virginia,
5 yeas, 6 nays; Maryland, 1 yea, 4 nays; Delaware, 1 yea.

[32] At this period, one hundred and fifteen American citizens, captured by piracy, were held
as slaves in Algiers, for whom large ransoms were demanded by the pirates.

[33] The convention, after discussing principles, appointed a "committee of detail," consisting
of Mr. Rutledge of South Carolina, Mr. Randolph of Virginia, Mr. Wilson of Pennsylvania, Mr.
Ellsworth of Connecticut, and Mr. Gorham of Massachusetts, to reduce to the form of a constitution
the resolutions agreed upon. This committee without instructions, or authority from the resolutions
adopted, introduced a clause forever prohibiting the abolition of the African slave-trade.
Mr. Randolph earnestly protested against this clause. He was opposed to any restriction on
the power of Congress to abolish it. Id., p. 1389. Id., p. 1427. Mr. Mason, of Virginia, pronounced
the traffic as "infernal." Id., p. 1390.

[34] Life of Benjamin Lundy, Phil. 1847, p. 218. The total membership of the 130 societies
was 6625, exclusive of twelve societies in Illinois from which no returns had been received.
These statistics were gathered by the American Anti-Slavery Convention, which was held at Philadelphia,
in 1827.

Addenda.

     Since the preceding pages were in type, I have seen, in the
     library of the New York Historical Society, the printed minutes
     of the first convention held by the Abolition Societies of the
     United States, which met at Philadelphia, January 1, 1794, and
     was several days in session, of which mention was made on page
     59. These minutes show that my statement of the societies
     represented needs correction. The Rhode Island Society appears to
     have had no delegates present. The Virginia Society appointed
     delegates; but, for reasons stated below, they were not admitted.
     Several societies, however, were represented, of which before I
     had seen no mention. As the convention met in the depth of
     winter, and as traveling was then expensive and difficult, it is
     evidence of a deep interest in the subject, that so many
     delegations attended.

     The convention met in the City Hall, at Philadelphia, and
     organized by choosing Joseph Bloomfield, of New Jersey,
     President; John McCrea, Secretary; and Joseph Fry, Door-keeper.

     The following societies were represented by the delegates named:

     Connecticut Society--Uriah Tracy.

     New York Society--Peter Jay Munroe, Moses Rogers, Thomas
     Franklin, Jr., William Dunlap.

     New Jersey Society--Joseph Bloomfield, William Coxe, Jr., John
     Wistar, Robert Pearson, Franklin Davenport.

     Pennsylvania Society--William Rogers, William Rawle, Samuel
     Powel Griffitts, Robert Patterson, Samuel Coates, Benjamin Rush.

     Washington (Pa.) Society--Absalom Baird.

     Delaware Society--Warren Mifflin, Isaiah Rowland, Joseph
     Hodgson, John Pemberton.

     Wilmington (Del.) Society--Joseph Warner, Isaac H. Starr,
     Robert Coram.

     Maryland Society--Samuel Sterett, James Winchester, Joseph
     Townsend, Adam Fonerdon, Jesse Hollingsworth.

     Chester-town (Md.) Society--Joseph Wilkinson, James Maslin,
     Abraham Ridgely.

     A letter, directed to the convention, from Robert Pleasants,
     chairman of the Committee of Correspondence of the Virginia
     Society, was presented and read. By this letter it appeared that
     Samuel Pleasants and Israel Pleasants, of Philadelphia, were
     appointed to represent that society in the convention; and in
     case of their declining, or being prevented from acting, the
     convention were at liberty to nominate two other persons as their
     representatives. In the letter was inclosed "an authentic account
     of several vessels lately fitted out in Virginia for the African
     slave-trade." The convention, after considering the proposition
     of the Virginia Society, adopted the following resolution:

     "Resolved, That as information, and an unreserved comparison of
     one another's sentiments, relative to the important cause in
     which we are severally engaged, are our principal objects; and as
     the persons appointed by the Virginia Society are not citizens of
     that State, nor members of that Society, to admit them, or,
     according to their proposals for us to elect others as their
     representatives, would be highly improper."

     The president was directed to acknowledge the receipt of the
     letter, to inform the Virginia Society of the above resolution,
     and to thank them for the important information contained in the
     letter.

     Benjamin Rush, William Dunlap, Samuel Sterett, William Rawle, and
     Warner Mifflin, were appointed a committee to report the objects
     proper for the consideration of the convention, and the best
     plan for carrying the same into execution. Under the direction of
     this committee, memorials were prepared to be sent to the
     legislatures of the several States which had not abolished
     slavery; a memorial to Congress asking for the enactment of a law
     making the use of vessels and men in the slave-trade a penal
     offense; and an address to the citizens of the United States,
     already printed in a note, pp. 60-63. It was also voted "to
     recommend to the different Abolition societies to appoint
     delegates to meet in convention, at Philadelphia, on the first
     Wednesday of January, 1795, and on the same day in every year
     afterward, until the great objects of their original association
     be accomplished."

     I was so fortunate as to find, also, in the New York Historical
     Society's library, the minutes of the conventions of 1795 and
     1797. The convention of 1795 met in the City Hall, at
     Philadelphia, January 7, and continued in session till the 14th
     of that month. The societies represented, and delegates, were as
     follows:

     Rhode Island Society--Theodore Foster. The credentials from the
     president of the society stated that George Benson was also
     appointed to represent the society; but he did not appear.

     Connecticut Society--Jonathan Edwards, Uriah Tracy, Zephaniah
     Swift.

     New York Society--John Murray, Jr., William Johnson, Lawrence
     Embree, William Dunlap, William Walton Woolsey.

     New Jersey Society--James Sloan, Franklin Davenport. Other
     delegates appointed, Joseph Bloomfield, William Coxe, Jr., and
     John Wistar, did not appear. It was explained to the convention
     that the absence of Mr. Bloomfield was occasioned by sickness.

     Pennsylvania Society--William Rawle, Robert Patterson, Benjamin
     Rush, Samuel Coates, Caspar Wistar, James Todd, Benjamin Say.

     Washington (Pa.) Society--Thomas Scott, Absalom Baird, Samuel
     Clark.

     Delaware Society--Richard Bassett, John Ralston, Allen McLane,
     Caleb Boyer.

     Wilmington (Del.) Society--Cyrus Newlin, James A. Bayard,
     Joseph Warner, William Poole.

     Maryland Society--Samuel Sterett, Adam Fonerdon, Joseph
     Townsend, Joseph Thornburgh, George Buchanan, John Bankson,
     Philip Moore.

     Chester-town (Md.) Society--Edward Scott, James Houston.

     Dr. Benjamin Rush was elected President; Walter Franklin,
     Secretary; and Joseph Fry, Door-keeper.

     Jonathan Edwards, William Dunlap, Caspar Wistar, Cyrus Newlin,
     Caleb Boyer, Philip Moore, and James Houston were appointed the
     committee on business. Memorials were prepared, and adopted by
     the convention, to be sent to the legislatures of South Carolina
     and Georgia, as both States still persisted in the importation of
     slaves.

     The fourth annual convention of the Abolition Societies of the
     United States was held in the Senate Chamber, at Philadelphia,
     May 3, 1797. The societies represented, and delegates, were as
     follows:

     New York Society--Willett Seaman, Thomas Eddy, Samuel L.
     Mitchell, William Dunlap, Elihu Hubbard Smith.

     New Jersey Society--Joseph Bloomfield, Richard Hartshorne,
     Joseph Sloan, William Coxe, Jr., William Carpenter.

     Pennsylvania Society--Benjamin Rush, William Rawle, Samuel P.
     Griffitts, Casper Wistar, Samuel Coates, Robert Patterson, James
     Todd.

     Maryland Society--Francis Johonnett, Jesse Tyson, Gerrard T.
     Hopkins.

     Choptank (Md.) Society--Seth Hill Evitts.

     Virginia Society (at Richmond)--Joseph Anthony.

     Alexandria (Va.) Society--George Drinker.

     Joseph Bloomfield was elected President; Thomas P. Cope,
     Secretary; and Jacob Meyer, Door-keeper.

     Communications from the New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania,
     Maryland, Choptank (Md.), Virginia, and Alexandria (Va.)
     Abolition Societies were read. The minutes of the convention of
     1797 are more elaborately compiled, and contain more statistics
     than the previous reports. Among other papers adopted by the
     convention, was an "Address to the Free Africans." Besides the
     seven societies, which sent delegates, the eight societies
     following, which sent none, were reported, viz: Rhode Island,
     Connecticut, Washington (Pa.), Delaware (at Dover), Wilmington
     (Del.), Chester-town (Md.), Winchester (Va.), and Kentucky
     Societies. Among the memorials presented to Congress, in 1791,
     was one from the Caroline County (Md.) Society. Besides the
     Maryland Society, at Baltimore, there appear to have been three
     local societies on the Eastern Shore of that State.

     The several societies reported their membership, in 1797, as
     follows: New York Society, two hundred and fifty; New Jersey
     Society, "compiled partially;" Pennsylvania Society, five hundred
     and ninety-one; Maryland Society, two hundred and thirty-one;
     Choptank (Md.) Society, twenty-five; Wilmington (Del.) Society,
     sixty; Virginia Society, one hundred and forty-seven; Alexandria
     (Va.) Society, sixty-two. From the other societies no reports of
     membership were received. The Choptank (Md.) Society, formed in
     1790, reported having liberated more than sixty slaves; the
     Wilmington (Del.) Society, reported having liberated eighty since
     1788; and the Alexandria (Va.) Society reported having made
     twenty-six complaints under the law against the importation of
     slaves. By votes of previous conventions, the Abolition Societies
     were required to sustain schools for the education of Africans.
     The minutes for 1797 contain interesting reports from the several
     societies of their success in this department of benevolence.

     Before the year 1782, it was illegal in Virginia for a master to
     liberate his slaves without sending them out of the State. The
     Assembly of Virginia then passed an act permitting the
     manumission of slaves. Judge Tucker of that State, in his
     "Dissertation on Slavery," estimated that, from 1782 to 1791, ten
     thousand slaves were liberated in Virginia by their masters.

     Of the anti-slavery literature of this period, which has not
     already been noticed, there is in the New York Historical
     Society's library, "An Oration spoken before the Connecticut
     Society for the Promotion of Freedom, and the Relief of Persons
     unlawfully held in Bondage, convened at Hartford the 8th of May,
     1794. By Theodore Dwight.[35] Hartford, 1794." 8vo, 24 pp. Also,
     a "Discourse delivered April 12, 1797, at the Request of the New
     York Society for the Promoting the Manumission of Slaves, and
     protecting such of them as have been or may be liberated. By
     Samuel Miller, A. M. New York, 1787." 8vo, 36 pp.

     In the Boston Athenæum library are the following tracts:

     "A Dissuasion to Great Britain and the Colonies from the Slave
     Trade to Africa. By James Swan. Revised and abridged. Boston,
     1773." 8vo, 40 pp. The original edition was printed in 1772.

