HAMLET

Contents

       CHARLES FROHMAN: AN APPRECIATION

    I. A CHILD AMID THE THEATER

   II. EARLY HARDSHIPS ON THE ROAD

  III. PICTURESQUE DAYS AS MINSTREL MANAGER

   IV. IN THE NEW YORK THEATRICAL WHIRLPOOL

    V. BOOKING-AGENT AND BROADWAY PRODUCER

   VI. "SHENANDOAH" AND THE FIRST STOCK COMPANY

  VII. JOHN DREW AND THE EMPIRE THEATER

 VIII. MAUDE ADAMS AS STAR

   IX. THE BIRTH OF THE SYNDICATE

    X. THE RISE OF ETHEL BARRYMORE

   XI. THE CONQUEST OF THE LONDON STAGE

  XII. BARRIE AND THE ENGLISH FRIENDSHIPS

 XIII. A GALAXY OF STARS

  XIV. STAR-MAKING AND AUDIENCES

   XV. PLAYS AND PLAYERS

  XVI. "C. F." AT REHEARSALS

 XVII. HUMOR AND ANECDOTE

XVIII. THE MAN FROHMAN

  XIX. "WHY FEAR DEATH?"

       APPENDIX A--THE LETTERS OF CHARLES

       APPENDIX B--COMPLETE CHRONOLOGICAL LIST OF THE FROHMAN
       PRODUCTIONS

Illustrations

CHARLES FROHMAN--Frontispiece

VIOLA ALLEN

WILLIAM GILLETTE

JOHN DREW

CLYDE FITCH

HENRY ARTHUR JONES

W. LESTOCQ

CHARLES DILLINGHAM

MAUDE ADAMS

MAUDE ADAMS

FRANCIS WILSON

WILLIAM COLLIER

MARGARET ANGLIN

ANNIE RUSSELL

WILLIAM FAVERSHAM

HENRY MILLER

WILLIAM H. CRANE

AUGUSTUS THOMAS

SIR ARTHUR WING PINERO

ETHEL BARRYMORE

JULIA MARLOWE

E. H. SOTHERN

ELSIE FERGUSON

EDNA MAY

BILLIE BURKE

PAULINE CHASE

JAMES M. BARRIE

PAUL POTTER

HADDON CHAMBERS

OTIS SKINNER

MARIE DORO

JULIA SANDERSON

ANN MURDOCK

CHARLES FROHMAN AND DAVID BELASCO

MARIE TEMPEST

MME. NAZIMOVA

CHARLES FROHMAN'S OFFICE IN THE EMPIRE THEATER

CHARLES FROHMAN ON BOARD SHIP

Charles Frohman: an Appreciation

By James M. Barrie

The man who never broke his word. There was a great deal more to him, but every one in any
land who has had dealings with Charles Frohman will sign that.

I would rather say a word of the qualities that to his friends were his great adornment than
about his colossal enterprises or the energy with which he heaved them into being; his energy
that was like a force of nature, so that if he had ever "retired" from the work he loved (a
thing incredible) companies might have been formed, in the land so skilful at turning energy
to practical account, for exploiting the vitality of this Niagara of a man. They could have
lit a city with it.

He loved his schemes. They were a succession of many-colored romances to him, and were issued
to the world not without the accompaniment of the drum, but you would never find him saying
anything of himself. He pushed them in front of him, always taking care that they were big
enough to hide him. When they were able to stand alone he stole out in the dark to have a look
at them, and then if unobserved his bosom swelled. I have never known any one more modest and
no one quite so shy. Many actors have played for him for years and never spoken to him, have
perhaps seen him dart up a side street because they were approaching. They may not have known
that it was sheer shyness, but it was. I have seen him ordered out of his own theater by subordinates
who did not know him, and he went cheerfully away. "Good men, these; they know their business,"
was all his comment. Afterward he was shy of going back lest they should apologize.

At one time he had several theaters here and was renting others, the while he had I know not
how many in America; he was not always sure how many himself. Latterly the great competition
at home left him no time to look after more than one in London. But only one anywhere seemed
a little absurd to him. He once contemplated having a few theaters in Paris, but on discovering
that French law forbids your having more than one he gave up the scheme in disgust.

A sense of humor sat with him through every vicissitude like a faithful consort.

"How is it going?" a French author cabled to him on the first night of a new play.

"It has gone," he genially cabled back.

Of a Scotch play of my own that he was about to produce in New York, I asked him what the Scotch
would be like.

"You wouldn't know it was Scotch," he replied, "but the American public will know."

He was very dogged. I had only one quarrel with him, but it lasted all the sixteen years I
knew him. He wanted me to be a playwright and I wanted to be a novelist. All those years I
fought him on that. He always won, but not because of his doggedness; only because he was so
lovable that one had to do as he wanted. He also threatened, if I stopped, to reproduce the
old plays and print my name in large electric letters over the entrance of the theater.

* * *

A very distinguished actress under his management wanted to produce a play of mine of which
he had no high opinion. He was in despair, as he had something much better for her. She was
obdurate. He came to me for help, said nothing could move her unless I could. Would not I tell
her what a bad play it was and how poor her part was and how much better the other parts were
and how absolutely it fell to pieces after the first act? Of course I did as I was bid, and
I argued with the woman for hours, and finally got her round, the while he sat cross-legged,
after his fashion, on a deep chair and implored me with his eyes to do my worst. It happened
long ago, and I was so obsessed with the desire to please him that the humor of the situation
strikes me only now.

For money he did not care at all; it was to him but pieces of paper with which he could make
practical the enterprises that teemed in his brain. They were all enterprises of the theater.
Having once seen a theater, he never afterward saw anything else except sites for theaters.
This passion began when he was a poor boy staring wistfully at portals out of which he was
kept by the want of a few pence. I think when he first saw a theater he clapped his hand to
his heart, and certainly he was true to his first love. Up to the end it was still the same
treat to him to go in; he still thrilled when the band struck up, as if that boy had hold of
his hand.

* * *

In a sense he had no illusions about the theater, knew its tawdriness as he knew the nails
on his stages (he is said to have known every one). He would watch the performance of a play
in some language of which he did not know a word and at the end tell you not only the whole
story, but what the characters had been saying to one another; indeed, he could usually tell
what was to happen in any act as soon as he saw the arrangement of the furniture. But this
did not make him blasé--a strange word, indeed, to apply to one who seemed to be born afresh
each morning. It was not so much that all the world was a stage to him as that his stage was
a world, a world of the "artistic temperament"--that is to say, a very childish world of which
he was occasionally the stern but usually indulgent father.

His innumerable companies were as children to him; he chided them as children, soothed them,
forgave them, and certainly loved them as children. He exulted in those who became great names
in that world and gave them beautiful toys to play with; but, great as was their devotion to
him, it is not they who will miss him most, but rather the far greater number who never "made
a hit," but set off like the rest to do it and fell by the way. He was of so sympathetic a
nature, he understood so well the dismalness to them of being "failures," that he saw them
as children with their knuckles to their eyes, and then he sat back cross-legged on his chair
with his knuckles, as it were, to his eyes, and life had lost its flavor for him until he invented
a scheme for giving them another chance.

* * *

Authors of to-day sometimes discuss with one another what great writer of the past they would
like most to spend an evening with if the shades were willing to respond, and I believe (and
hope) that the choice most often falls on Johnson or Charles Lamb. Lamb was fond of the theater,
and I think, of all those connected with it that I have known, Mr. Frohman is the one with
whom he would most have liked to spend an evening. Not because of Mr. Frohman's ability, though
he had the biggest brain I have met with on the stage, but because of his humor and charity
and gentle chivalry and his most romantic mind. One can conceive him as often, sitting at ease,
far back in his chair, cross-legged, occasionally ringing for another ice, for he was so partial
to sweets that he could never get them sweet enough, and sometimes he mixed two in the hope
that this would make them sweeter.

I hear him telling stories of the stage as only he could tell them, rising now and roaming
the floor as he shows how the lady of the play receives the declaration, and perhaps forgetting
that you are the author of the play and telling you the whole story of it with superb gesture
and gleaming eyes. Then back again cross-legged to the chair. What an essay Elia might have
made of that night, none of it about the stories told, all about the man in the chair, the
humorous, gentle, roughly educated, very fine American gentleman in the chair!

J. M. BARRIE.

LONDON, 1915.

Charles Frohman

I

A CHILD AMID THE THEATER

One evening, toward the close of the 'sixties, a plump, rosy-cheeked lad in his eighth year
stood enthralled in the gallery of the old Niblo's Garden down on lower Broadway in New York.
Far below him on the stage "The Black Crook"--the extravaganza that held all New York--unfolded
itself in fascinating glitter and feminine loveliness. Deaf to his brother's entreaties to
leave, and risking a parental scolding and worse, the boy remained transfixed until the final
curtain. When he reached home he was not in the least disturbed by the uproar his absence had
caused. Quite the contrary. His face beamed, his eyes shone. All he could say was:

"I have seen a play. It's wonderful!"

The boy was Charles Frohman, and such was his first actual experience in the theater--the institution
that he was to dominate in later years with far-flung authority.

* * *

To write of the beginnings of his life is to become almost immediately the historian of some
phase of amusement. He came from a family in whom the love of mimic art was as innate as the
desire for sustenance.

About his parents was the glamour of a romance as tender as any he disclosed to delighted audiences
in the world of make-believe. His father, Henry Frohman, was both idealist and dreamer. Born
on the pleasant countryside that encircles the town of Darmstadt in Germany, he grew up amid
an appreciation of the best in German literature. He was a buoyant and imaginative boy who
preferred reading plays to poring over tiresome school-books.

One day he went for a walk in the woods. He passed a young girl of rare and appealing beauty.
Their eyes met; they paused a moment, irresistibly drawn to each other. Then they went their
separate ways. He inquired her name and found that she was Barbara Strauss and lived not far
away. He sought an introduction, but before it could be brought about he left home to make
his fortune in the New World.

He was eighteen when he stepped down the gang-plank of a steamer in New York in 1845. He had
mastered no trade; he was practically without friends, so he took to the task which so many
of his co-religionists had found profitable. He invested his modest financial nest-egg in a
supply of dry goods and notions and, shouldering a pack, started up the Hudson Valley to peddle
his wares.

Henry Frohman had a magnetic and fascinating personality. A ready story was always on his lips;
a smile shone constantly on his face. It was said of him that he could hypnotize the most unresponsive
housewife into buying articles she never needed. Up and down the highways he trudged, unmindful
of wind, rain, or hardship.

New York was his headquarters. There was his home and there he replenished his stocks. He made
friends quickly. With them he often went to the German theater. On one of these occasions he
heard of a family named Strauss that had just arrived from Germany. They had been shipwrecked
near the Azores, had endured many trials, and had lost everything but their lives.

"Have they a daughter named Barbara?" asked Frohman.

"Yes," was the reply.

Henry Frohman's heart gave a leap. There came back to his mind the picture of that day in the
German woods.

"Where do they come from?" he continued, eagerly.

On being told that it was Darmstadt, he cried, "I must meet her."

He gave his friend no peace until that end had been brought about. He found her the same lovely
girl who had thrilled him at first sight; he wooed her with ardor and they were betrothed.

He now yearned for a stable business that would enable him to marry. Meanwhile his affairs
had grown. The peddler's pack expanded to the proportion of a wagon-load. Then, as always,
the great West held a lure for the youthful. In some indescribable way he got the idea that
Kentucky was the Promised Land of business. Telling his fiancée that he would send for her
as soon as he had settled somewhere, he set out.

But Kentucky did not prove to be the golden country. He was advised to go to Ohio, and it was
while driving across the country with his line of goods that he came upon Sandusky. The little
town on the shores of a smiling lake appealed to him strongly. It reminded him of the home
country, and he remained there.

He found himself at once in a congenial place. There was a considerable German population;
his ready wit and engaging manner made him welcome everywhere. The road lost its charm; he
turned about for an occupation that was permanent. Having picked up a knowledge of cigar-making,
he established a small factory which was successful from the start.

This fact assured, his next act was to send to New York for Miss Strauss, who joined him at
once, and they were married. These were the forebears of Charles Frohman--the exuberant, optimistic,
pleasure-loving father; the serene, gentle-eyed, and spacious-hearted woman who was to have
such a strong influence in the shaping of his character.

The Frohmans settled in a little frame house on Lawrence Street that stood apart from the dusty
road. It did not even have a porch. Unpretentious as it was, it became a center of artistic
life in Sandusky.

Henry Frohman had always aspired to be an actor. One of the first things he did after settling
in Sandusky was to organize an amateur theatrical company, composed entirely of people of German
birth or descent. The performances were given in the Turner Hall, in the German tongue, on
a makeshift stage with improvised scenery. Frohman became the directing force in the production
of Schiller's and other classic German plays, comic as well as tragic.

Nor was he half-hearted in his histrionic work. One night he died so realistically on the stage
that his eldest son, who sat in the audience, became so terrified that he screamed out in terror,
and would not be pacified until his parent appeared smilingly before the curtain and assured
him that he was still very much alive.

* * *

Frohman's business prospered. He began to build up trade in the adjoining country. With a load
of samples strapped behind his buggy, he traveled about. He usually took one of his older sons
along. While he drove, the boy often held a prompt-book and the father would rehearse his parts.
Out across those quiet Ohio fields would come the thrilling words of "The Robbers," "Ingomar,"
"Love and Intrigue," or any of the many plays that the amateur company performed in Sandusky.

He even mixed the drama with business. Frequently after selling a bill of goods he would be
requested by a customer, who knew of his ability, to recite or declaim a speech from one of
the well-known German plays.

It was on his return from one of these expeditions that Henry Frohman was greeted with the
tidings that a third son had come to bear his name. When he entered that little frame house
the infantile Charles had made his first entrance on the stage of life. It was June 17, 1860,
a time fateful in the history of the country, for already the storm-clouds of the Civil War
were brooding. It was pregnant with meaning for the American theater, too, because this lusty
baby was to become its Napoleon.

Almost before Charles was able to walk his wise and far-seeing mother, with a pride and responsibility
that maintained the best traditions of the mothers in Israel, began to realize the restrictions
and limitations of the Sandusky life.

"These boys of ours," she said to the husband, "have no future here. They must be educated
in New York. Their careers lie there."

Strong-willed and resolute, she sent the two older sons, one at a time, on to the great city
to be educated and make their way. The eldest, Daniel, went first, soon followed by Gustave.
In 1864, and largely due to her insistent urging, the remainder of the family, which included
the youthful Charles, packed up their belongings and, with the proceeds of the sale of the
cigar factory, started on their eventful journey to New York.

They first settled in one of the original tenement houses of New York, on Rivington Street,
subsequently moving to Eighth Street and Avenue D. Before long they moved over to Third Street,
while their fourth residence was almost within the shadow of some of the best-known city theaters.

Henry Frohman had, as was later developed in his son Charles, a peculiar disregard of money
values. Generous to a fault, his resources were constantly at the call of the needy. His first
business venture in New York--a small soap factory on East Broadway--failed. Later he became
part owner of a distillery near Hoboken, which was destroyed by fire. With the usual Frohman
financial heedlessness, he had failed to renew all his insurance policies, and the result was
that he was left with but a small surplus. Adversity, however, seemed to trickle from him like
water. Serene and smiling, he emerged from his misfortune.

The only business he knew was the cigar business. With the assistance of a few friends he was
able to start a retail cigar-store at what was then 708 Broadway. It was below Eighth Street
and, whether by accident or design, was located in the very heart of the famous theatrical
district which gave the American stage some of its greatest traditions.

To the north, and facing on Union Square, was the Rialto of the day, hedged in by the old Academy
of Music and the Union Square Theater. Down Broadway, and commencing at Thirteenth Street with
Wallack's Theater, was a succession of more or less historic playhouses. At Eighth Street was
the Old New York Theater; a few doors away was Lina Edwins's; almost flanking the cigar-store
and ranging toward the south were the Olympic, Niblo's Garden, and the San Francisco Minstrel
Hall. Farther down was the Broadway Theater, while over on the Bowery Tony Pastor held forth.

Thus the little store stood in an atmosphere that thought, breathed, and talked of the theater.
It became the rendezvous of the well-known theatrical figures of the period. The influence
of the playhouses extended even to the shop next door, which happened to be the original book-store
founded by August Brentano. It was the only clearing-house in New York for foreign theatrical
papers, and to it came Augustin Daly, William Winter, Nym Crinkle, and all the other important
managers and critics to get the news of the foreign stage.

It was amid an environment touching the theater at every point that Charles Frohman's boyhood
was spent. He was an impulsive, erratic, restless child. His mother had great difficulty in
keeping him at school. His whole instinct was for action.

Gustave, who had dabbled in the theatrical business almost before he was in his teens, naturally
became his mentor. To Charles, Gustave was invested with a rare fascination because he had
begun to sell books of the opera in the old Academy of Music on Fourteenth Street, the forerunner
of the gilded Metropolitan Opera House. Every night the chubby Charles saw him forge forth
with a mysterious bundle, and return with money jingling in his pocket. One night, just before
Gustave started out, the lad said to him:

"Gus, how can I make money like you?"

"I'll show you some night if you can slip away from mother," was the brother's reply.

Unrest immediately filled the heart of Charles. Gustave had no peace until he made good his
promise. A week later he stole away after supper with his little brother. They walked to the
Academy, where the old Italian opera, "The Masked Ball," was being sung. With wondering eyes
and beating heart Charles saw Gustave hawk his books in the lobby, and actually sell a few.
From the inside came the strains of music, and through the door a glimpse of a fashionable
audience. But it was a forbidden land that he could not enter.

Fearful of the maternal scolding that he knew was in store, Gustave hurried his brother home,
even indulging in the unwonted luxury of riding on the street-car, where he found a five-dollar
bill. The mother was up and awake, and immediately began to upbraid him for taking out his
baby brother at night, whereupon Gustave quieted the outburst by permitting Charles to hand
over the five-dollar bill as a peace offering.

From that hour life had a new meaning for Charles Frohman. He had seen his brother earn money
in the theater; he wanted to go and do likewise. The opportunity was denied, and he chafed
under the restraint.

In the afternoon, when he was through with the school that he hated, the boy went down to his
father's store and took his turn behind the counter. Irksome as was this work, it was not without
a thrilling compensation, because into the shop came many of the theatrical personages of the
time to buy their cigars. They included Tony Pastor, whose name was then a household word,
McKee Rankin, J. K. Mortimer, a popular Augustin Daly leading man, and the comedians and character
actors of the near-by theaters.

Here the magnetic personality of the boy asserted itself. His ready smile and his quick tongue
made him a favorite with the customers. More than one actor, on entering the shop, asked the
question: "Where is Charley? I want him to wait on me."

In those days much of the theatrical advertising was done by posters displayed in shop-windows.
To get these posters in the most conspicuous places passes were given to the shopkeepers, a
custom which still holds. The Frohman store had a large window, and it was constantly plastered
with play-bills, which meant that the family was abundantly supplied with free admission to
most of the theaters in the district. The whole family shared in this dispensation, none more
so than Henry Frohman himself, who could now gratify his desire for contact with the theater
and its people to an almost unlimited extent. His greatest delight was to distribute these
passes among his boys. They were offered as rewards for good conduct. Charles frequently accompanied
his father to matinées at Tony Pastor's and the other theaters. Pastor and the elder Frohman
were great pals. They called each other by their first names, and the famous old music-hall
proprietor was a frequent visitor at the shop.

But Charles became quite discriminating. Every Saturday night he went down to the old Théâtre
Comique, where Harrigan and Hart were serving their apprenticeship for the career which made
them the most famous Irish team of their time. The next morning at breakfast he kept the family
roaring with laughter with his imitations of what he had seen and heard. Curiously enough,
Tony Hart later became the first star to be presented by Charles Frohman.

All the while the boy's burning desire was to earn money in the theater. He nagged at Gustave
to give him a chance. One day Gustave saw some handsome souvenir books of "The Black Crook,"
which was then having its sensational run at Niblo's Garden. He found that he could buy them
for thirty-three cents by the half-dozen, so he made a small investment, hoping to sell them
for fifty cents in the lobby of the theater. That evening he showed his new purchases to Charles.

Immediately the boy's eyes sparkled. "Let me see if I can sell one of them!"

"All right," replied Gustave; "I will take you down to Niblo's to-night and give you a chance."

The boy could scarcely eat his supper, so eager was he to be off. Promptly at seven o'clock
the two lads (Charles was only eight) took their stand in the lobby, but despite their eager
cries each was able to sell only a single copy. Gustave consoled himself with the fact that
the price was too high, while Charles, with an optimism that never forsook him, answered, "Well,
we have each sold one, anyhow, and that is something."

Charles's profit on this venture was precisely seventeen cents, which may be regarded as the
first money he ever earned out of the theater.

But this night promised a sensation even greater. As the crowd in the lobby thinned, the strains
of the overture crashed out. Through the open door the little boy saw the curtain rise on a
scene that to him represented the glitter and the glory of fairyland. Beautiful ladies danced
and sang and the light flashed on brilliant costumes. With their unsold books in their hands,
the two boys gazed wistfully inside. Charles, always the aggressor, fixed the doorkeeper with
one of his winning smiles, and the doorkeeper succumbed. "You boys can slip in," he said, "but
you've got to go up in the balcony." Up they rushed, and there Charles stood delighted, his
eyes sparkling and his whole face transfigured.

During the middle of the second act Gustave tugged at his sleeve, saying: "We'll have to go
now. You follow me down."

With this he disappeared and hurried home. When he arrived he found the home in an uproar because
Charles had not come back. Gustave ran to the theater, but the play was over, the crowd had
dispersed, and the building was deserted. With beating heart and fearful of disaster to his
charge, he rushed back to see Charles, all animation and excitement, in the midst of the family
group, regaling them with the story of his first play. He had remained to the end.

That thrilling night at "The Black Crook," his daily contact with the actors who came into
the store, his frequent visits to the adjoining playhouses, fed the fire of his theatrical
interest. The theater got into his very blood.

