          "Miss Milton regrets that intended absence from
          home (or whatever may be the preventing cause)
          prevents her accepting Mrs. Blair's kind
          invitation for February 7."

INVITATION TO A LARGE PARTY.

The invitation to a large party is similar to that for a ball, only the words "at a ball" are
omitted, and the hour may be earlier. The notes of acceptance and regret are the same as for
a ball. If the party is a small one, it should be indicated by inserting the words, "to a small
evening party," so that there may be no misunderstanding. A large party calls for full evening
dress, and it would be embarrassing for a lady or gentleman to go to a house in full evening
dress, expecting to find a large party there in similar costumes, and meet only a few friends
and acquaintances plainly dressed. If there is any special feature which is to give character
to the evening, it is best to mention this fact in the note of invitation. Thus the words "musical
party," "to take part in dramatic readings," "amateur theatricals," will denote the character
of the evening's entertainment. If you have programmes, enclose one in the invitation.

INVITATION TO A PUBLIC ENTERTAINMENT.

An invitation from a gentleman to a lady to attend a concert, lecture, theatre, opera or other
amusement, may read as follows:

          "Mr. Hayden would be pleased to have Miss Morton's
          company to the Academy of Music, on Monday
          evening, November 8, when 'Richelieu' will be
          played by Edwin Booth's Company."

An invitation of this kind demands an immediate answer of acceptance or regrets. A previous
engagement may be a reason for rejection.

DINNER INVITATIONS.

These are written in the name of the husband and wife, and demand an immediate reply. This
form may be used:

          "Mr. and Mrs. Eugene Snow request the pleasure of
          Mr. and Mrs. Horace Allen's company at dinner, on
          Tuesday, the 13th of January, at 7 o'clock."

A note of acceptance may read as follows:

          "Mr. and Mrs. Horace Allen accept with pleasure
          Mr. and Mrs. Eugene Snow's kind invitation to dine
          with them on Tuesday, the 13th inst., at 7
          o'clock."

INVITATIONS TO TEA.

An invitation to a tea-drinking may be less formal and should partake more of the nature of
a private note; thus:

          "Dear Miss Brock: Some friends are coming to drink
          tea with me on Thursday, and I should be glad of
          the pleasure of your company also. Please do not
          disappoint me."

An invitation of this informal nature needs no reply, unless "R.S.V.P." is appended, in which
case the answer must be returned, if possible, by the messenger who brought it, or sent at
once, as your friend may depend upon having a certain number of people at her tea-drinking,
and if you cannot go, she will want to supply your place.

LESS FORMAL INVITATIONS.

Invitations of a less formal character are sent for charades, private theatricals, and for
archery, croquet, sailing and garden parties; but, however informal the invitation (except
only when a visiting card is used) on no account neglect to give immediate attention to it,
by sending an acceptance or a regret, for any want of courtesy in this respect is unpardonable.

PROMPTNESS IN ANSWERING.

All invitations requiring answers should be answered as soon as possible after receiving them.
The French have a saying, applicable to all notes of invitation, to the effect that it is as
important to reply as promptly to a note requiring an answer, as it is to a question in speaking.
All refined people who are accustomed to the best social forms, consider that it would be an
unpardonable negligence to omit for a single day replying to an invitation or a note requiring
a reply.

In accepting dinner invitations, repeat the hour and day named in your letter of acceptance,
in order that if any mistake has been made it may be corrected.

Promptly acknowledge all attentions you receive, such as receiving presents of books, flowers, etc.

EXPRESSIONS TO BE USED.

The expression "presents compliments" has become obsolete in the writing of invitations. The
expression "kind" or "very kind" invitation has taken the place of "polite," in notes of acceptance
or regret. Be particular to distinguish between "go" and "come," you go to a friend's house
and your friend comes to your house.

TIME TO SEND INVITATIONS.

Invitations for parties and entertainments of a formal nature, can be sent out for a week or
two weeks before the entertainment is to take place. A notice of not less than one week is
expected for such invitations. They should be printed or engraved on small note paper or large
cards, with the envelopes to match, with no colors in the monogram, if one is used.

INVITATIONS FOR SEVERAL MEMBERS OF A FAMILY.

It is not considered good form to have one card of invitation answer for several persons belonging
to the same family, or to address an invitation "Mrs. Blank and family," as it indicates a
scarcity of cards. One card or invitation may be sent to Mr. and Mrs. Blank, and one each to
the several members of the family who are to be invited.

THE LEAST FORMAL INVITATIONS.

The least formal, of formal invitations, is when a lady sends or leaves her own visiting card
with the invitation upon it. An invitation of this kind need not be answered unless an "R.S.V.P."
(Respondez s'il vous plait), is on the card. You go or not, as you please, but if you do not
go, you call, or leave a card as soon after as is convenient.

UNCIVIL ANSWERS.

Uncivil and curt, not to say rude, answers are sometimes returned to invitations, more frequently
the result of carelessness in their writers than of premeditated rudeness.

          "Mr. and Mrs. Adam Brown regret that they cannot
          accept Mrs. Smith's invitation for Wednesday
          evening,"

is a rude form of regret.

          "Mr. and Mrs. Adam Brown decline Mrs. Moses
          Smith's invitation for Friday evening,"

is a still ruder form.

A curt and thoughtless reply is:

          "Mr. and Mrs. Adam Brown's compliments and regrets
          for Friday evening."

REASONS FOR REGRETS.

"All regrets from persons who are not able to accept invitations, should contain a reason for
regretting," is a rule strictly observed in our best society, and is considered especially
binding in answering a first invitation. If persons are in mourning, they regret that a recent
bereavement prevents them from accepting. Those contemplating being absent from home, regret
that contemplated absence from home prevents them from accepting. "A previous engagement" is
made the excuse when there is an engagement either at home or away from it, and also when one
has no inclination to accept; which makes it quite necessary for those who really regret their
inability to accept, to mention what that engagement is.

THE FAMILY LETTER.

