There was an army waiting, as McGuire had warned, but it was waiting to give punishment and
not to take it. The vast expanse of the landing field was swarming with them, and the open
country beyond showed columns of marching troops.

They had learned, too, to take shelter; barricades had been hastily erected, and the men had
shields to protect them from the fire of small arms.

Their bodies were enclosed in their gas-tight uniforms whose ugly head-pieces served only to
conceal the greater ugliness beneath. They met the ships as they landed with a showering rain
of gas that was fired from huge projectors.

"Not so good!" Blake was speaking in the safety of his ship. "We have masks, but great heavens,
Mac!--there must be a million of those brutes. We can spray them with machine-gun fire, but
we haven't ammunition enough to make a dent in them. And we've got to get out and get to our
crashed ships."

He waited for McGuire's suggestions, but it was Althora who replied.

"Wait!" she said imperatively. She seemed to be listening to some distant word. Then:

"Djorn is coming," she exclaimed, and her eyes were brilliantly alight. "He says to you"--she
pointed to McGuire--"that you were right, that we must fight like hell sometimes to deserve
our heaven--oh, I told him what you said--and now he is coming with all his men!"

"What the devil?" asked Blake in amazement. "How does she know?"

"Telepathy," McGuire explained: "she is talking with her brother, the leader of the real inhabitants
of Venus."

He told the wondering man briefly of his experience and of the people themselves, the real
owners of this world.

"But what can they do?" Blake demanded.

And McGuire assured him: "Plenty!"

       *       *       *       *       *

He turned to Althora to ask, "How are they coming? How will they get here?"

"They are marching underground; they have been coming for two days. They knew of our being
captured, but the people have been slow in deciding to fight. Djorn dared not tell me of their
coming; he feared he might be too late.

"They will come out of that building," she said, and indicated the towering structure that
had been their prison. "It has the old connection with the underground world."

"Well, they'd better be good!" said Blake incredulously.

He was still less optimistic when the building before them showed the coming of a file of men.
They poured forth, in orderly fashion and ranged themselves in single file along the walls.

There must be a thousand, McGuire estimated, and he wondered if the women, too, were fighting
for their own. Then, remembering Althora's brave insistence, he knew his surmise was correct.

Each one was masked against the gas; their faces were concealed; and each one held before him
a tube of shining metal with a larger bulbous end that rested in their hands.

"Electronic projectors," the lieutenant whispered. "Keep your eye on the enemy, Blake; you
are going to learn something about war."

The thin line was advancing now and the gas billowed about them as they came. There were some
few who dropped, where masks were defective, but the line came on, and the slim tubes were
before them in glittering menace.

       *       *       *       *       *

At a distance of a hundred feet from the first of the entrenched enemy there was a movement
along the line, as if the holders of the tubes had each set a mechanism in operation. And before
the eyes of the Earth-men was a spectacle of horror like nothing in wars they had known.

The barricades were instantly a roaring furnace; the figures that leaped from behind them only
added to the flames. From the steady rank of the attackers poured an invisible something before
which the hosts of the enemy fell in huddles of flame. Those nearest were blasted from sight
in a holocaust of horror, and where they had been was a scattering of embers that smoked and
glowed; even the figures of distant ones stumbled and fell.

The myriad fighters of the army of the red ones, when the attackers shut off their invisible
rays, was a screaming mob that raced wildly over the open lands beyond.

Althora's hands were covering her eyes, but McGuire and Blake, and the crowding men about them,
stared in awe and utter astonishment at the devastation that was sweeping this world. An army
annihilated before their eyes! Scores of thousands, there must be, of the dead!

The voice of Blake was husky with horror. "What a choice little bit out of hell!" he exclaimed.
"Mac, did you say they were our friends? God help us if they're not!"

"They are," said McGuire grimly. "Those are Althora's people who had forgotten how to fight;
they are recapturing something that they lost some centuries ago. But can they ever destroy
the rest of that swarm? I don't think they have the heart to do it."

"They do not need." It was Althora speaking. "My people are sickened with the slaughter. But
the red ones will go back into the earth, and we will seal them in!--it is Djorn who tells
me--and the world will be ours forevermore."

       *       *       *       *       *

A matter of two short days, crammed to the uttermost with the realization of the astounding
turn of events--and McGuire and Althora stood with Blake and Djorn, the ruler, undisputed,
of the beautiful world of Venus. A fleet of great ships was roaring high in air. One only,
the flagship, was waiting where their little group stood.

The bodies of the fallen had been recovered; they were at rest now in the ships that waited
above. McGuire looked about in final wonder at the sparkling city bathed in a flood of gold.
A kindly city now--beautiful; the terrors it had held were fading from his mind. He turned
to Althora.

"We are going home," he said softly, "you and I."

"Home?" Althora's voice was vibrant with dismay.

"We need you here, friend Mack Guire," the voice of Djorn broke in, in protest. "You have something
that we lack--a force and vision--something we have lost."

"We will be back," the flyer assured him. "You befriended me: anything I can do in return--"
The grip of his hand completed the sentence.

"But there is a grave to be made on the summit of Mount Lawson," he added quietly. "I think
he would have preferred to lie there--at the end of his journey--and I must return to the service
where I have not yet been mustered out."

"But you said--you were going home," faltered Althora. "Will that always be home to you, Tommy?"

"Home, my dear," he whispered in words that reached her only, "is just where you are." His
arm went about her to draw her toward the waiting ship. "There or here--what matter? We will
be content."

Her eyes were misty as they smiled an answer. Within the ship that was lifting them, they turned
to watch a city of opal light grow faintly luminous in the distance ... an L-shaped continent
shrunk to tiny size ... and the nebulous vapors of the cloudland that enclosed this world folded
softly about.

"We will lead," the voice of Blake was saying to an aide: "same formation that we used coming
over. Give the necessary orders. But," he added slowly to himself, "the line will be shorter;
there are fewer of us now."

An astronomical officer laid a chart before the commander. "We are on the course, sir," he
reported.

"Full speed," Blake gave the order, and the thundering generator answered from the stern. The
Space Fleet of America was going home.

(The End)

A meeting Place for Readers of Astounding Stories

"Absurd" to "Superb"

     Dear Editor:

     Unfortunately, I missed the January number of your very
     excellent magazine, which I consider superior to any of its
     type. I brought seven copies--February to August--with me on
     my vacation, and have so far read the first three from cover
     to cover.

     The February and March numbers were almost above reproach,
     but the April number contained two stories so surprisingly
     poor that I can only conjecture the Editor was ill at that
     time. They were "The Man who was Dead," by Thomas H. Knight
     and "Monsters of Moyen," by Arthur J. Burks. For Mr. Knight
     there is no hope. To him I can only say "Stop trying to
     write and get a job." I am a rapid and omnivorous reader,
     but never have I read a story so utterly bad as his. He gets
     the booby prize.

     Arthur J. Burks, although a master artist in comparison to
     Knight, is pretty poor--terrible, in fact. His style is
     dull, repetitious, and stilted. His melodrama is exaggerated
     to the point of nauseating absurdity. His characters are
     lifeless and unnatural puppets. So much for the faults.

     Among the best Science Fiction stories I have read is "The
     Planet of Dread," by R. F. Starzl in the August number. I
     also very much enjoyed the "Dr. Bird" stories by Capt. Meek,
     and indeed all the others, barring the two I criticized in
     such a helpful, friendly spirit. Leinster and Cummings are
     old favorites of mine.

     I prefer your present cover but disagree with your attitude
     towards reprinting the older works of such authors as George
     Allen England, Serviss and Cummings, which are now
     unobtainable and would, I believe, be received with pleasure
     and applause.

     Congratulations--Joseph S. Stull, 291 Barrington St.,
     Rochester, N. Y.

     P.S. Since I wrote I have read the May and June
     numbers--both perfect. C. D. Willard is a superb
     storyteller.

Wrong Numbers Still!

     Dear Editor:

     I agree with the rest of your readers in the good things
     they say about your magazine in "The Readers' Corner." There
     is one story, however, "The Planet of Dread," in your August
     issue, that gives me a rather sickening feeling of disgust.
     The trouble was in the climax. After the hero has wandered
     over quite a portion of the planet Inra, he arrives at some
     mountains where, lo and behold! an unexpected space ship
     drops from the clouds to an unfrequented ledge of rock and
     makes a rescue. After this sensational climax comes an
     equally thrilling anti-climax--the hero is offered three
     years' salary for his story. To accuse the future world of
     doing such a thing is an open insult to our posterity. Ten
     per cent of my high school freshmen took just such an ending
     to their first themes.

     As that story took up about one-seventh of your space and
     your magazine cost twenty cents. I figure you owe your
     readers three cents on that issue. But, due to the fineness
     of the rest of your stories, I am willing to forget your
     debt as far as I am concerned.

     I am happy to see that you are beginning to print articles.
     I read with interest the one about Mechanical Voices for
     Telephone Numbers in your September issue. But can't
     something be done about wrong numbers? The article states
     that a person dialed the number 8561T. Two seconds later the
     loud-speaker spoke up, clearly, in an almost human voice,
     8651T. Wrong number! Must this evil be with us always!

     I am NOT in favor of reprints. You are printing stories
     every month just as good as any of those suggested to you. I
     have read most of those classic scientific stories referred
     to. The best stories along this line have not been written
     yet. Keep your space clear for them. Let us have young blood
     with new ideas. Let our authors eat. Good stories were never
     written on an empty stomach.

     I believe yours is the highest type of the few magazines
     that lay a greater stress on the brains of the hero than on
     his good looks. But, for the sake of one of your ardent
     readers, let that hero use his brains to get himself out of
     whatever he has gotten into. Don't let a space ship swoop
     down from above to rescue him. That type of story reminds me
     a lot of the one where Jonah was rescued from the deep by
     the timely arrival of the friendly whale. By the way,
     there's a suggestion for a reprint. I will admit that it
     would be just about as new to me as some of the others that
     have been suggested in this "Corner."--Richard Lewis, 448
     Marion St., Knoxville, Iowa.

Not So "Green" in Ireland

     Dear Editor:

     I suppose it's not often you get a letter from an Irish
     "Paddy," but here's one now. Here in Cork we don't get
     magazines like Astounding Stories regularly, but I got the
     May issue to-day and could not stop until I had devoured it
     from cover to cover. "The Atom Smasher" is a story which I
     have been hunting for for years. When I had finished it, I
     had to sit back and leave out all the breath which I was
     holding in in a prolonged "whew!" If ever I get the luck to
     find another Astounding Stories I'll burn up the pages
     looking for the name Victor Rousseau. Next in order I liked
     "Brigands of the Moon" and "The Jovian Jest." Thought the
     story "Into the Ocean's Depths" an awful fairy tale, but
     otherwise good reading. The painter of the cover design is a
     real artist and I wish to express my appreciation of his
     wonderful rendering of a difficult subject.--Fitz-Gerald
     Grattan, 11 Frankfield Terrace, Summerhill South, Cork,
     Irish Free State.

Worthy His Evening and Pipe

     Dear Editor:

     I have read my first copy of Astounding Stories, the
     September.

     The first paragraph in the first part of "A Problem in
     Communication" assured me that I had found a book worthy of
     my evening and pipe.

     Read that paragraph and you will find Dr. Miles Breuer is
     most brilliant in his philosophy and clever in the
     application of that philosophy in his masterpiece of the
     science of communication.--Don L. Schweitzer, 1402 Bancroft
     St., Omaha, Nebr.

"Taking a Claw Hold"

     Dear Editor:

     Was just reading the September issue of A. S. and find it
     ranging first among the Science Fiction magazines now
     printed. I'm certain your "Jetta of the Lowlands" is going
     to be a masterpiece of Ray Cummings. He is my favorite
     writer.

     I did not like "Earth, the Marauder." It was too much drawn
     out and very dry. "Brigands of the Moon" was excellent.

     I wish you would print my letter, as I'd like any one, male
     of female, interested in science to write to me. Would you
     kindly oblige me? Well, here is vote No.
     2. I intended to reply to all your arguments against
     reprint, but Mr. Gelman has done this very satisfactorily,
     indeed. I only wish to make a few additional comments.

     You say that only one out of a hundred haven't read reprints
     [?]. Fifty out of a hundred would be more correct. Five
     years ago there wasn't a single magazine devoted exclusively
     to Science Fiction. Now there are six of them, more or less.
     These magazines have converted thousands of readers into
     Science Fiction fans. These readers ought to be given a
     chance to read the old masterpieces. Even those who have
     read them would be glad to reread them.

     With the exception of the reprints you have pretty near
     carried out all the readers' wishes. You have put in a
     readers' department, increased Wesso's illustrations, given
     us many interplanetary stories, and given us the stories of
     the leading authors of the day. Surely you can give us
     reprints when the demand for them is so universal. The ones
     I want are those written by Cummings, Merritt, Rousseau and
     Serviss, and I am sure that the rest of the readers want
     them too. If you are still doubtful, the fairest thing to do
     is to conduct a vote among the readers. I hope that you
     will pardon me for being so persistent, but I am sure that
     you are working in the best interests of the readers and
     that you will accede to a great and growing popular demand.

     Now about the latest issue of Astounding Stories. "The
     Invisible Death" is the best novelette you have printed up
     to now. With the exception of Ray Cummings, the best author
     you have is Victor Rousseau. I am glad to see that there is
     another story by Rousseau scheduled for next month. Murray
     Leinster is a close third, and I hope to see more of his
     stories soon. The second part of "Jetta of the Lowlands" was
     better than the first. "Stolen Brains" was also excellent.
     Keep on printing the Dr. Bird stories. I like them very
     much.

     Although the stories were splendid, the cover illustration
     was poor. I believe that this is the worst cover that Wesso
     has ever drawn. The main fault with it is that there is no
     science in it. It would be more appropriate for one of those
     detective magazines. "The Invisible Death" has many other
     interesting scenes from which Wesso could have chosen a more
     fitting subject. However, Wesso is your best artist and you
     ought to keep him.--Michael Forgaris, 157 Fourth St.,
     Passale, N. J.

"Not Spoiled by ... Editor"

     Dear Editor:

     There is one advantage that Astounding Stories has over all
     of the other Science Fiction magazines. It does not
     overburden one with an exposition of scientific facts. Too
     often a story is ruined by a lot of dry textbook stuff that
     turns an exciting story into a lecture.

     In Astounding Stories we can soar away on the wings of
     imagination, escaping the humdrum everyday world to new and
     amazing adventures. The hours fly away like the speed of
     light, and upon finishing the book our only regret is that
     we have to wait a whole month before another issue takes us
     aloft again.

     Having unburdened myself thus far, I think it is most
     fitting to comment upon your latest (October) issue. To my
     mind, the stories in order of merit are: "The Invisible
     Death," "Stolen Brains," "Jetta of the Lowlands," "Prisoners
     on the Electron," and "An Extra Man."

     I certainly am glad to see Ray Cummings writing for your
     most excellent magazine. He is and A-1 author.

     It does not make a particle of difference to me about the
     size of the magazine, but I wish you would have smooth edges
     like those of your Five-Novels Monthly.

     Am glad to see that "The Readers' Corner" is enlarged. I
     always turn to this first, even before reading the stories.
     This is a most entertaining department, and I'm glad it is
     not spoiled by any perfunctory remarks from the editor.

     How about publishing Astounding Stories twice a month?--E.
     Anderson, 1765 Southern Blvd., New York City, New York.

Roses, Daisies and Violets

     Dear Editor:

     In appreciation of an enjoyable evening of reading--which
     extended, by the way, into the wee, sma' hours of early
     morning--I thought to drop you a few lines, speaking of the
     high regards your magazine. Astounding Stories, has won from
     me through merit alone. Your October number particularly
     fitted into my reading mood last night.

     After the daily grind of newspaper work, it might seem odd
     that relaxation is sought in "more reading"--but it has been
     my experience, and that of many of my co-workers. I find,
     that the relief from the high tension of our trade comes
     from the change in the character of what we read, rather
     than in "something else," such as physical recreation.
     Fiction relaxes where "news" has keyed up.

     And in the Science Fiction of your magazine's stories of
     super-science, I find the keenest periods of mental
     enjoyment through the admirable selection of Astounding
     Stories' mixed adventure, unique travel and prophetic
     science. In this I am not alone--a number of my
     acquaintances have reveled likewise in your magazine at my
     suggestion.

     I have not quite settled in my mind as to whether you have
     trained your writers to exploit this special field of
     magazine fiction, which you occupy so successfully, or, in
     your editorial capacity, have so well selected the stories
     that bear the hallmarks of this peculiar interest that
     appeals so strongly to my leisure hours.

     By whichever road your success has been reached is
     immaterial--Astounding Stories has registered with me in a
     degree which should be flattering to your editorial
     supervision, if I represent, as I think I do, that large
     class of magazine readers who prefer and seek a
     science-coated outlet from the humdrum of every day living
     in mental adventure and travel-thrill reading.

     Have I presented clearly why and how much I like your
     magazine of Astounding Stories!--E. P. Neill, 910 East Ave.,
     Red Wing, Minn.

"Much Easier to Turn"

     Dear Editor:

     Once more I am impelled to give a roar. The last few issues
     have been filled with letters from readers who are evidently
     not satisfied with a "different" magazine. If they do not
     like to read "our" magazine then let them quit, but don't
     let a heckling minority spoil a real treat. My particular
     growl this time is directed towards Robert Baldwin and
     others of his ilk, who squawk about the size (i. e. length
     and width) of the mag and the uneven pages. The size is
     perfect (and just because the craze for standardization has
     hit some of the other Science Fiction mags and they have
     gone ga-ga over being an awkward shape, that is no reason
     for your going ahead and spoiling this one) and the uneven
     pages are a relief when reading because it is much easier to
     turn over a leaf when they are of a slightly different
     width.

     However, to take some of the sting off, I must say some of
     the ideas of said Mr. Baldwin are O. K. Enlarge the mag--of
     course you will, as readers increase and sales go up.
     Larger, as he says, "It will be worth the other jitney." Put
     ads in the rear. Have full page illustrations when possible.
     But another thing he is absolutely wrong on. Please do not
     adopt the antique method of continuing a story on page
     umptyump.

     Some of the readers are still yowling for reprints. Well, it
     is true that some reprints would be very acceptable.
     However, as most of the really good old-time tales of
     Science Fiction can be procured in any good sized library,
     why bother to print them and thus decrease the space
     allotted to our new authors, some of whom are even better
     than Wells, Verne, etc., much as I like the old masters.

     By the way, my "enlarge" in the second paragraph means in
     thickness (amount of reading matter), not shape.

     Wesso has always been good, and he seems to be improving,
     though he and others might be still better if they would
     carefully read the descriptions of persons and animals of
     other planets before picturing them. I don't wish to make
     this blurb too long, so will not be specific, but you and
     others probably have seen the same as I, where the
     illustration has not been true to the description.

     It might interest you to know that I have been instrumental
     in getting several new readers for Astounding Stories. Long
     live "our" new mag.--Robert J Hyatt, 1353 Kenyon St., N. W.,
     Washington, D. C.

Ow! Ow! Ow!

     Dear Editor:

     I have just looked at "The Reader's Corner" in the October
     issue of Astounding Stories. It disgusted me. What you print
     there--only letters praising your magazine to the skies?--or
     do you occasionally print a brickbat?

     I've bought your magazine each time since it was first
     printed. And many times I've felt like quitting. Why? There
     are a number of reasons.

     First, you print stories that have nothing to do with
     science, such as "The Soul Master." Second, your
     illustrations are poor. They would look better if they were
     full page ones. Wesso is the best artist you have. Gould and
     Sabo are just plain cartoonists, and mighty poor ones at
     that. Third, you print stories that give a weak and
     implausible scientific basis. Diffin, Gee, Leinster and
     several others err in this respect. Fourth, rotten paper--it
     goes to pieces after being handled. Fifth, no editorial or
     science questionnaire.

     Your authors will not starve if you print reprints. Rousseau
     and a lot of others write for other magazines. And reprints
     would occupy such a measly space that they could hardly be
     called down for being printed.

     Your magazine has some good features: a good cover; good
     authors like Breuer, Vincent, Meek, Ernst and Starzl; clear
     type; and handy size.

     If anyone thinks I'm wrong--well my address is given. This
     challenge includes the editor. I sincerely hope you will
     improve your magazine--Edwin C. Magnuson, 1205 E. Ninth St.,
     Duluth, Minn.

Suggestions

     Dear Editor:

     I have read your excellent magazine ever since it came out,
     and though it needs a few corrections like the others, A. S.
     is nearly perfect. Why not have your pages evened up, and
     add a department of science on subjects such as Rocket
     Propulsion etc., so the readers could become familiar with
     the mystifying problems stated in the stories? Have the
     advertisements in the back, and don't change your artists as
     their work is satisfactory.

     Robert Baldwin of Illinois has an excellent list of
     suggestions. Why not have a page devoted to the pictures and
     biographies of your writers, and full page illustrations?
     Why not have a space for good reprints and charge a nickel
     more? I am sure it will be appreciated by readers.

       *       *       *       *       *