It was not long before the youth was the most famous physician in the whole world. "He had
only to look at the patient and he knew his condition at once, and if he would recover, or
must needs die." So they said of him, and from far and wide people came to him, sent for him
when they had any one ill, and gave him so much money that he soon became a rich man. Now it
so befell that the King became ill, and the physician was summoned, and was to say if recovery
were possible. But when he came to the bed, Death was standing by the feet of the sick man,
and the herb did not grow which could save him. "If I could but cheat Death for once," thought
the physician, "he is sure to take it ill if I do, but, as I am his godson, he will shut one
eye; I will risk it." He therefore took up the sick man, and laid him the other way, so that
now Death was standing by his head. Then he gave the King some of the herb, and he recovered
and grew healthy again. But Death came to the physician, looking very black and angry, threatened
him with his finger, and said, "Thou hast overreached me; this time I will pardon it, as thou
art my godson; but if thou venturest it again, it will cost thee thy neck, for I will take
thee thyself away with me."

Soon afterwards the King's daughter fell into a severe illness. She was his only child, and
he wept day and night, so that he began to lose the sight of his eyes, and he caused it to
be made known that whosoever rescued her from death should be her husband and inherit the crown.
When the physician came to the sick girl's bed, he saw Death by her feet. He ought to have
remembered the warning given by his godfather, but he was so infatuated by the great beauty
of the King's daughter, and the happiness of becoming her husband, that he flung all thought
to the winds. He did not see that Death was casting angry glances on him, that he was raising
his hand in the air, and threatening him with his withered fist. He raised up the sick girl,
and placed her head where her feet had lain. Then he gave her some of the herb, and instantly
her cheeks flushed red, and life stirred afresh in her.

When Death saw that for a second time he was defrauded of his own property, he walked up to
the physician with long strides, and said, "All is over with thee, and now the lot falls on
thee," and seized him so firmly with his ice-cold hand, that he could not resist, and led him
into a cave below the earth. There he saw how thousands and thousands of candles were burning
in countless rows, some large, others half-sized, others small. Every instant some were extinguished,
and others again burnt up, so that the flames seemed to leap hither and thither in perpetual
change. "See," said Death, "these are the lights of men's lives. The large ones belong to children,
the half-sized ones to married people in their prime, the little ones belong to old people;
but children and young folks likewise have often only a tiny candle." "Show me the light of
my life," said the physician, and he thought that it would be still very tall. Death pointed
to a little end which was just threatening to go out, and said, "Behold, it is there." "Ah,
dear godfather," said the horrified physician, "light a new one for me, do it for love of me,
that I may enjoy my life, be King, and the husband of the King's beautiful daughter." "I cannot,"
answered Death, "one must go out before a new one is lighted." "Then place the old one on a
new one, that will go on burning at once when the old one has come to an end," pleaded the
physician. Death behaved as if he were going to fulfill his wish, and took hold of a tall new
candle; but as he desired to revenge himself, he purposely made a mistake in fixing it, and
the little piece fell down and was extinguished. Immediately the physician fell on the ground,
and now he himself was in the hands of Death.

45 Thumbling as Journeyman

A certain tailor had a son, who happened to be small, and no bigger than a Thumb, and on this
account he was always called Thumbling. He had, however, some courage in him, and said to his
father, "Father, I must and will go out into the world." "That's right, my son," said the old
man, and took a long darning-needle and made a knob of sealing-wax on it at the candle, "and
there is a sword for thee to take with thee on the way." Then the little tailor wanted to have
one more meal with them, and hopped into the kitchen to see what his lady mother had cooked
for the last time. It was, however, just dished up, and the dish stood on the hearth. Then
he said, "Mother, what is there to eat to-day?"  "See for thyself," said his mother. So Thumbling
jumped on to the hearth, and peeped into the dish, but as he stretched his neck in too far
the steam from the food caught hold of him, and carried him up the chimney. He rode about in
the air on the steam for a while, until at length he sank down to the ground again. Now the
little tailor was outside in the wide world, and he travelled about, and went to a master in
his craft, but the food was not good enough for him.  "Mistress, if you give us no better food,"
said Thumbling, "I will go away, and early to-morrow morning I will write with chalk on the
door of your house, 'Too many potatoes, too little meat! Farewell, Mr. Potato-King.'" "What
wouldst thou have forsooth, grasshopper?" said the mistress, and grew angry, and seized a dishcloth,
and was just going to strike him; but my little tailor crept nimbly under a thimble, peeped
out from beneath it, and put his tongue out at the mistress. She took up the thimble, and wanted
to get hold of him, but little Thumbling hopped into the cloth, and while the mistress was
opening it out and looking for him, he got into a crevice in the table. "Ho, ho, lady mistress,"
cried he, and thrust his head out, and when she began to strike him he leapt down into the
drawer. At last, however, she caught him and drove him out of the house.

The little tailor journeyed on and came to a great forest, and there he fell in with a band
of robbers who had a design to steal the King's treasure. When they saw the little tailor,
they thought, "A little fellow like that can creep through a key-hole and serve as picklock
to us." "Hollo," cried one of them, "thou giant Goliath, wilt thou go to the treasure-chamber
with us? Thou canst slip thyself in and throw out the money." Thumbling reflected a while,
and at length he said, "yes," and went with them to the treasure-chamber. Then he looked at
the doors above and below, to see if there was any crack in them. It was not long before he
espied one which was broad enough to let him in. He was therefore about to get in at once,
but one of the two sentries who stood before the door, observed him, and said to the other,
"What an ugly spider is creeping there; I will kill it." "Let the poor creature alone," said
the other; "it has done thee no harm." Then Thumbling got safely through the crevice into the
treasure-chamber, opened the window beneath which the robbers were standing, and threw out
to them one thaler after another. When the little tailor was in the full swing of his work,
he heard the King coming to inspect his treasure-chamber, and crept hastily into a hiding-place.
The King noticed that several solid thalers were missing, but could not conceive who could
have stolen them, for locks and bolts were in good condition, and all seemed well guarded.
Then he went away again, and said to the sentries, "Be on the watch, some one is after the
money." When therefore Thumbling recommenced his labours, they heard the money moving, and
a sound of klink, klink, klink. They ran swiftly in to seize the thief, but the little tailor,
who heard them coming, was still swifter, and leapt into a corner and covered himself with
a thaler, so that nothing could be seen of him, and at the same time he mocked the sentries
and cried, "Here am I!" The sentries ran thither, but as they got there, he had already hopped
into another corner under a thaler, and was crying, "Ho, ho, here am I!" The watchmen sprang
there in haste, but Thumbling had long ago got into a third corner, and was crying, "Ho, ho,
here am I!" And thus he made fools of them, and drove them so long round about the treasure-chamber
that they were weary and went away. Then by degrees he threw all the thalers out, dispatching
the last with all his might, then hopped nimbly upon it, and flew down with it through the
window. The robbers paid him great compliments. "Thou art a valiant hero," said they; "wilt
thou be our captain?"

Thumbling, however, declined, and said he wanted to see the world first. They now divided the
booty, but the little tailor only asked for a kreuzer because he could not carry more.

Then he once more buckled on his sword, bade the robbers goodbye, and took to the road. First,
he went to work with some masters, but he had no liking for that, and at last he hired himself
as man-servant in an inn. The maids, however, could not endure him, for he saw all they did
secretly, without their seeing him, and he told their master and mistress what they had taken
off the plates, and carried away out of the cellar, for themselves. Then said they, "Wait,
and we will pay thee off!" and arranged with each other to play him a trick. Soon afterwards
when one of the maids was mowing in the garden, and saw Thumbling jumping about and creeping
up and down the plants, she mowed him up quickly with the grass, tied all in a great cloth,
and secretly threw it to the cows. Now amongst them there was a great black one, who swallowed
him down without hurting him.  Down below, however, it pleased him ill, for it was quite dark,
neither was any candle burning. When the cow was being milked he cried,

 "Strip, strap, strull,
 Will the pail soon be full?"

But the noise of the milking prevented his being understood. After this the master of the house
came into the cow-byre and said, "That cow shall be killed to-morrow." Then Thumbling was so
alarmed that he cried out in a clear voice, "Let me out first, for I am shut up inside her."
The master heard that quite well, but did not know from whence the voice came. "Where art thou?"
asked he. "In the black one," answered Thumbling, but the master did not understand what that
meant, and went out.

Next morning the cow was killed. Happily Thumbling did not meet with one blow at the cutting
up and chopping; he got among the sausage-meat. And when the butcher came in and began his
work, he cried out with all his might, "Don't chop too deep, don't chop too deep, I am amongst
it." No one heard this because of the noise of the chopping-knife. Now poor Thumbling was in
trouble, but trouble sharpens the wits, and he sprang out so adroitly between the blows that
none of them touched him, and he escaped with a whole skin. But still he could not get away,
there was nothing for it but to let himself be thrust into a black-pudding with the bits of
bacon. His quarters there were rather confined, and besides that he was hung up in the chimney
to be smoked, and there time did hang terribly heavy on his hands.

At length in winter he was taken down again, as the black-pudding had to be set before a guest.
When the hostess was cutting it in slices, he took care not to stretch out his head too far
lest a bit of it should be cut off; at last he saw his opportunity, cleared a passage for himself,
and jumped out.

The little tailor, however, would not stay any longer in a house where he fared so ill, so
at once set out on his journey again. But his liberty did not last long. In the open country
he met with a fox who snapped him up in a fit of absence. "Hollo, Mr. Fox," cried the little
tailor, "it is I who am sticking in your throat, set me at liberty again." "Thou art right,"
answered the fox. "Thou art next to nothing for me, but if thou wilt promise me the fowls in
thy father's yard I will let thee go." "With all my heart," replied Thumbling. "Thou shalt
have all the cocks and hens, that I promise thee." Then the fox let him go again, and himself
carried him home.  When the father once more saw his dear son, he willingly gave the fox all
the fowls which he had. "For this I likewise bring thee a handsome bit of money," said Thumbling,
and gave his father the kreuzer which he earned on his travels.

"But why did the fox get the poor chickens to eat?" "Oh, you goose, your father would surely
love his child far more than the fowls in the yard!"

46 Fitcher's Bird

There was once a wizard who used to take the form of a poor man, and went to houses and begged,
and caught pretty girls. No one knew whither he carried them, for they were never seen more.
One day he appeared before the door of a man who had three pretty daughters; he looked like
a poor weak beggar, and carried a basket on his back, as if he meant to collect charitable
gifts in it. He begged for a little food, and when the eldest daughter came out and was just
reaching him a piece of bread, he did but touch her, and she was forced to jump into his basket.
Thereupon he hurried away with long strides, and carried her away into a dark forest to his
house, which stood in the midst of it. Everything in the house was magnificent; he gave her
whatsoever she could possibly desire, and said, "My darling, thou wilt certainly be happy with
me, for thou hast everything thy heart can wish for." This lasted a few days, and then he said,
"I must journey forth, and leave thee alone for a short time; there are the keys of the house;
thou mayst go everywhere and look at everything except into one room, which this little key
here opens, and there I forbid thee to go on pain of death." He likewise gave her an egg and
said, "Preserve the egg carefully for me, and carry it continually about with thee, for a great
misfortune would arise from the loss of it."

She took the keys and the egg, and promised to obey him in everything. When he was gone, she
went all round the house from the bottom to the top, and examined everything. The rooms shone
with silver and gold, and she thought she had never seen such great splendour. At length she
came to the forbidden door; she wished to pass it by, but curiosity let her have no rest. She
examined the key, it looked just like any other; she put it in the keyhole and turned it a
little, and the door sprang open. But what did she see when she went in? A great bloody basin
stood in the middle of the room, and therein lay human beings, dead and hewn to pieces, and
hard by was a block of wood, and a gleaming axe lay upon it. She was so terribly alarmed that
the egg which she held in her hand fell into the basin. She got it out and washed the blood
off, but in vain, it appeared again in a moment. She washed and scrubbed, but she could not
get it out.

It was not long before the man came back from his journey, and the first things which he asked
for were the key and the egg. She gave them to him, but she trembled as she did so, and he
saw at once by the red spots that she had been in the bloody chamber. "Since thou hast gone
into the room against my will," said he, "thou shalt go back into it against thine own. Thy
life is ended." He threw her down, dragged her thither by her hair, cut her head off on the
block, and hewed her in pieces so that her blood ran on the ground. Then he threw her into
the basin with the rest.

"Now I will fetch myself the second," said the wizard, and again he went to the house in the
shape of a poor man, and begged. Then the second daughter brought him a piece of bread; he
caught her like the first, by simply touching her, and carried her away. She did not fare better
than her sister. She allowed herself to be led away by her curiosity, opened the door of the
bloody chamber, looked in, and had to atone for it with her life on the wizard's return. Then
he went and brought the third sister, but she was clever and crafty. When he had given her
the keys and the egg, and had left her, she first put the egg away with great care, and then
she examined the house, and at last went into the forbidden room. Alas, what did she behold!
Both her sisters lay there in the basin, cruelly murdered, and cut in pieces. But she began
to gather their limbs together and put them in order, head, body, arms and legs. And when nothing
further was wanting the limbs began to move and unite themselves together, and both the maidens
opened their eyes and were once more alive. Then they rejoiced and kissed and caressed each other.

On his arrival, the man at once demanded the keys and the egg, and as he could perceive no
trace of any blood on it, he said, "Thou hast stood the test, thou shalt be my bride." He now
had no longer any power over her, and was forced to do whatsoever she desired. "Oh, very well,"
said she, "thou shalt first take a basketful of gold to my father and mother, and carry it
thyself on thy back; in the meantime I will prepare for the wedding." Then she ran to her sisters,
whom she had hidden in a little chamber, and said, "The moment has come when I can save you.
The wretch shall himself carry you home again, but as soon as you are at home send help to
me." She put both of them in a basket and covered them quite over with gold, so that nothing
of them was to be seen, then she called in the wizard and said to him, "Now carry the basket
away, but I shall look through my little window and watch to see if thou stoppest on the way
to stand or to rest."

The wizard raised the basket on his back and went away with it, but it weighed him down so
heavily that the perspiration streamed from his face. Then he sat down and wanted to rest awhile,
but immediately one of the girls in the basket cried, "I am looking through my little window,
and I see that thou art resting. Wilt thou go on at once?" He thought it was his bride who
was calling that to him; and got up on his legs again. Once more he was going to sit down,
but instantly she cried, "I am looking through my little window, and I see that thou art resting.
Wilt thou go on directly?" And whenever he stood still, she cried this, and then he was forced
to go onwards, until at last, groaning and out of breath, he took the basket with the gold
and the two maidens into their parents' house. At home, however, the bride prepared the marriage-feast,
and sent invitations to the friends of the wizard. Then she took a skull with grinning teeth,
put some ornaments on it and a wreath of flowers, carried it upstairs to the garret-window,
and let it look out from thence. When all was ready, she got into a barrel of honey, and then
cut the feather-bed open and rolled herself in it, until she looked like a wondrous bird, and
no one could recognize her. Then she went out of the house, and on her way she met some of
the wedding-guests, who asked,

 "O, Fitcher's bird, how com'st thou here?"
 "I come from Fitcher's house quite near."
 "And what may the young bride be doing?"
 "From cellar to garret she's swept all clean,
 And now from the window she's peeping, I ween."

At last she met the bridegroom, who was coming slowly back.

