The young phoenix rises from the ashes of the old; so far we comprehend. This, metaphorically
understood, would infer that a new and stronger passion rose from the ashes of the old and
defunct one. But into the allegorical signification of Mrs Fuller's phoenix, we confess we
cannot penetrate. We have a dim conception that it would not be found to harmonise very well
with that other meaning conveyed to us in so dazzling a manner by the illuminated statue. Pity
the lady could not have found some other poet to take off her hands one of those images: we
are not so heartless as to suggest the expediency of the absolute sacrifice of either.

It is not to be supposed that this authoress is always so startling and original as in these
passages. She sometimes attains, and keeps for a while, the level of commonplace. But we do
not remember in the whole of her two volumes a single passage where she rises to an excellence
above this. If we did, we should be happy to quote it.

"Tales, by Edgar A. Poe," is the next book upon our list. No one can read these tales, then
close the volume, as he may with a thousand other tales, and straightway forget what manner
of book he has been reading. Commonplace is the last epithet that can be applied to them. They
are strange--powerful--more strange than pleasing, and powerful productions without rising
to the rank of genius. The author is a strong-headed man, which epithet by no means excludes
the possibility of being, at times, wrong-headed also. With little taste, and much analytic
power, one would rather employ such an artist on the anatomical model of the Moorish Venus,
than intrust to his hands any other sort of Venus. In fine, one is not sorry to have read these
tales; one has no desire to read them twice.

They are not framed according to the usual manner of stories. On each occasion, it is something
quite other than the mere story that the author has in view, and which has impelled him to
write. In one, he is desirous of illustrating La Place's doctrine of probabilities as applied
to human events. In another, he displays his acumen in unravelling or in constructing a tangled
chain of circumstantial evidence. In a third, ("The Black Cat") he appears at first to aim
at rivalling the fantastic horrors of Hoffman, but you soon observe that the wild and horrible
invention in which he deals, is strictly in the service of an abstract idea which it is there
to illustrate. His analytic observation has led him, he thinks, to detect in men's minds an
absolute spirit of "perversity," prompting them to do the very opposite of what reason and
mankind pronounce to be right, simply because they do pronounce it to be right. The punishment
of this sort of diabolic spirit of perversity, he brings about by a train of circumstances
as hideous, incongruous, and absurd, as the sentiment itself.

There is, in the usual sense of the word, no passion in these tales, neither is there any attempt
made at dramatic dialogue. The bent of Mr Poe's mind seems rather to have been towards reasoning
than sentiment. The style, too, has nothing peculiarly commendable; and when the embellishments
of metaphor and illustration are attempted, they are awkward, strained, infelicitous. But the
tales rivet the attention. There is a marvellous skill in putting together the close array
of facts and of details which make up the narrative, or the picture, for the effect of his
description, as of his story, depends never upon any bold display of the imagination, but on
the agglomeration of incidents, enumerated in the most veracious manner. In one of his papers
he describes the Mahlstrom or what he chooses to imagine the Mahlstrom may be, and by dint
of this careful and De Foe-like painting, the horrid whirlpool is so placed before the mind,
that we feel as if we had seen, and been down into it.

The "Gold Bug" is the first and the most striking of the series, owing to the extreme and startling
ingenuity with which the narrative is constructed. It would be impossible, however, to convey
an idea of this species of merit, without telling the whole story; nor would it be possible
to tell the story in shorter compass, with any effect, than it occupies here. The "Murders
of the Rue Morgue," and "The Mystery of Marie Roget," both turn on the interest excited by
the investigation of circumstantial evidence. But, unlike most stories of this description,
our sympathies are not called upon, either in the fate of the person assassinated, or in behalf
of some individual falsely accused of the crime; the interest is sustained solely by the nature
of the evidence, and the inferences to be adduced from it. The latter of these stories is,
in fact, a transfer to the city of Paris of a tragedy which had been really enacted in New
York. The incidents have been carefully preserved, the scene alone changed, and the object
of the author in thus re-narrating the facts seems to have been to investigate the evidence
again, and state his own conclusions as to the probable culprit. From these, also, it would
be quite as impossible to make an extract as it would be to quote a passage from an interesting
case as reported in one of our law-books. The last story in the volume has, however, the advantage
of being brief, and an outline of it may convey some idea of the peculiar manner of Mr Poe.
It is entitled "The Man of the Crowd."

The author describes himself as sitting on an autumnal evening at the bow-window of the D----
coffee-house in London. He has just recovered from an illness, and feels in that happy frame
of mind, the precise converse of ennui, where merely to breathe is enjoyment, and we feel a
fresh and inquisitive interest in all things around us.

The passing crowd entertains him with its motley variety of costume and character. He has watched
till the sun has gone down, and the streets have become indebted for their illumination solely
to the gas lamps. As the night deepened, the interest of the scene deepened also, for the character
of the crowd had insensibly but materially changed, and strange features and aspects of ill
omen begin to make their appearance.

With his brow to the glass of the window, our author was thus occupied in scrutinising the
passengers, when suddenly there came within his field of vision a countenance, (it was that
of a decrepid old man of some sixty-five or seventy years of age) which at once arrested and
absorbed all his attention. It bore an expression which might truly be called fiendish, for
it gave the idea of mental power, of cruelty, of malice, of intense--of supreme despair. It
passed on. There came a craving desire to see the face of that man again--to keep him in view--to
know more of him. Snatching up his hat, and hastily putting on an over-coat, our excited observer
ran into the street, pursued the direction the stranger had taken, and soon overtook him.

He noticed that the clothes of this man were filthy and ragged, but that his linen, however
neglected, was of finest texture. The strong light of a gas lamp also revealed to him a diamond
and a dagger. These observations it was easy for him to make, for the stranger never looked
behind, but with chin dropped upon his breast, his glaring eyes rolling a little to the right
and left in their sunken sockets, continued to urge his way along the populous thoroughfare.

By and by he passed into a cross street, where there were fewer persons. Here a change in his
demeanour became apparent. A second turn brought him to a square, brilliantly lighted and overflowing
with life. The previous manner of the stranger now re-appeared. With knit brows, and chin dropped
upon his breast, he took his way steadily through the throng. But his pursuer was surprised
to find that having made the circuit of this crowded promenade, he turned, retraced his steps,
and repeated the same walk several times.

It was now growing late, and it began to rain. The crowd within the square dispersed. With
a gesture of impatience, the stranger passed into a bye-street almost deserted. Along this
he rushed with a fearful rapidity which could never have been expected from so old a man. It
brought him to a large bazaar, with the localities of which he appeared perfectly acquainted,
and where his original demeanour again returned, as he forced his way to and fro, without aim,
amongst the host of buyers and sellers, looking at all objects with a wild and vacant stare.

All this excited still more the curiosity of his indefatigable observer, who became more and
more amazed at his behaviour, and felt an increased desire to solve the enigma. The bazaar
was now about to close; lamps were here and there extinguished, every body was preparing to
depart. Returning into the street, the old man looked anxiously around him for an instant,
and then with incredible swiftness, threaded a number of narrow and intricate lanes which led
him out in front of one of the principal theatres. The amusements were just concluded, and
the audience was streaming from the doors. The old man was seen to gasp as he threw himself
into the crowd, and then the intense agony of his countenance seemed in some measure to abate.
He took the course which was pursued by the greater number of the company. But these, as he
proceeded, branched of right and left to their several homes, and as the street became vacant,
his restlessness and vacillation re-appeared. Seized at length as with panic, he hurried on
with every mark of agitation, until he had plunged into one of the most noisome and pestilential
quarters, or rather suburbs of the town. Here a number of the most abandoned of the populace
were reeling to and fro. He is the man of the crowd. It will be in vain to follow, for I shall
learn no more of him, nor of his deeds.'"

In this description it would be difficult to recognise the topography of London, or the manners
of its inhabitants. That Square brilliantly illuminated and thronged with promenaders, the
oldest inhabitant would scarcely find. He closes his gin-palace at the hour when, we believe,
it would be about to re-open; and ejects his multitude from the bazaar and the theatre about
the same time. When he lays his scene at Paris there is the same disregard to accuracy. There
is no want of names of streets and passages, but no Parisian would find them, or find them
in the juxtaposition he has placed them. This is a matter hardly worth remarking; to his American
readers an ideal topography is as good as any other; we ourselves should be very little disturbed
by a novel which, laying its scene in New York, should misname half the streets of that city.
We are led to notice it chiefly from a feeling of surprise, that one so partial to detail should
not have more frequently profited by the help which a common guide-book, with its map, might
have given him.

Still less should we raise an objection on the manifest improbability of this vigilant observer,
a convalescent too, being able to keep upon his legs, running or walking, the whole of the
night and of the next day, (to say nothing of the pedestrian powers of the old man.) In a picture
of this kind, a moral idea is sought to be portrayed by imaginary incidents purposely exaggerated.
The mind passing immediately from these incidents to the idea they convey, regards them as
little more than a mode of expression of the moral truth. He who should insist, in a case of
this kind, on the improbability of the facts, would find himself in the same position as that
hapless critic who, standing before the bronze statue of Canning, then lately erected at Westminster,
remarked, that "Mr Canning was surely not so tall as he is there represented;" the proportions,
in fact, approaching to the colossal. "No, nor so green," said the wit to whom the observation
had been unhappily confided. When the artist made a bronze statue, eight feet high, of Mr Canning,
it was evidently not his stature nor his complexion that he had designed to represent.

Amongst the tales of Mr Poe are several papers which, we suppose, in the exigency of language,
we must denominate philosophical. They have at least the merit of boldness, whether in the
substratum of thought they contain, or the machinery employed for its exposition. We shall
not be expected to encounter Mr Poe's metaphysics; our notice must be here confined solely
to the narrative or inventive portion of these papers. In one of these, entitled "Mesmeric
Revelations," the reader may be a little startled to hear that he has adopted the mesmerised
patient as a vehicle of his ideas on the nature of the soul and of its immortal life; the entranced
subject having, in this case, an introspective power still more remarkable than that which
has hitherto revealed itself only in a profound knowledge of his anatomical structure. As we
are not yet convinced that a human being becomes supernaturally enlightened--in mesmerism more
than in fanaticism--by simply losing his senses; or that a man in a trance, however he got
there, is necessarily omniscient; we do not find that Mr Poe's conjectures on these mysterious
topics gather any weight whatever from the authority of the spokesman to whom he has intrusted
them. We are not quite persuaded that a cataleptic patient sees very clearly what is going
on at the other side of our own world; when this has been made evident to us, we shall be prepared
to give him credit for penetrating into the secrets of the next.

In another of these nondescript papers, "The Conversation of Eiros and Charmion," Mr Poe has
very boldly undertaken to figure forth the destruction of the world, and explain how that great
and final catastrophe will be accomplished. It is a remarkable instance of that species of
imaginary matter of fact description, to which we have ventured to think that the Americans
show something like a national tendency. The description here is very unlike that with which
Burnet closes his "Theory of the Earth;" it is confined to the natural history of the event;
but there is nothing whatever in Mr Poe's manner to diminish from the sacredness or the sublimity
of the topic. With some account of this singular and characteristic paper we shall dismiss
the volume of Mr Poe.

The world has been destroyed. Eiros, who was living at the time,
relates to Charmion, who had died some years before, the nature of the
last awful event. Meantime the ordinary affairs of men
    were discarded, and all interest absorbed in a growing discussion,
    instituted by philosophers in respect to the cometary nature."

That no material injury to the globe, or its inhabitants would result from contact (which was
now, however, certainly expected) with a body of such extreme tenuity as the comet, was the
opinion which gained ground every day. The arguments of the theologians coincided with those
of men of science in allaying the apprehensions of mankind. For as these were persuaded that
the end of all things was to be brought about by the agency of fire, and as it was proved that
the comets were not of a fiery nature, it followed that this dreaded stranger could not come
charged with any such mission as the destruction of the globe. Thus ended all."

"Mosses from an Old Manse," by Nathaniel Hawthorne, is the somewhat quaint title given to a
series of tales, and sketches, and miscellaneous papers, because they were written in an old
manse, some time tenanted by the author, a description of which forms the first paper in the
series. We, have already intimated our opinion of this writer. In many respects he is a strong
contrast to the one we have just left. For whereas Mr Poe is indebted to whatever good effect
he produces to a close detail and agglomeration of facts, Mr Hawthorne appears to have little
skill and little taste for dealing with matter of fact or substantial incident, but relies
for his favourable impression on the charm of style, and the play of thought and fancy.

The most serious defect in his stories is the frequent presence of some palpable improbability
which mars the effect of the whole--not improbability, like that we already remarked on, which
is intended and wilfully perpetrated by the author--not improbability of incident even, which
we are not disposed very rigidly to inquire after in a novelist--but improbability in the main
motive and state of mind which he has undertaken to describe, and which forms the turning-point
of the whole narrative. As long as the human being appears to act as a human being would, under
the circumstances depicted, it is surprising how easily the mind, carried on by its sympathies
with the feelings of the actor, forgets to inquire into the probability of these circumstances.
Unfortunately, in Mr Hawthorne's stories, it is the human being himself who is not probable,
nor possible.

It will be worth while to illustrate our meaning by an instance or two, to show that, far from
being hypercritical, our canon of criticism is extremely indulgent, and that we never take
the bluff and surly objection--it cannot be!--until the improbability has reached the core
of the matter. In the first story, "The Birth Mark," we raise no objection to the author, because
he invents a chemistry of his own, and supposes his hero in possession of marvellous secrets
which enable him to diffuse into the air an ether or perfume, the inhaling of which shall displace
a red mark from the cheek which a beautiful lady was born with; it were hard times indeed,
if a novelist might not do what he pleased in a chemist's laboratory, and produce what drugs,
what perfumes, what potable gold or charmed elixir, he may have need of. But we do object to
the preposterous motive which prompts the amateur of science to an operation of the most hazardous
kind, on a being he is represented as dearly loving. We are to believe that a good husband
is afflicted, and grievously and incessantly tormented by a slight red mark on the cheek of
a beautiful woman, which, as a lover, never gave him a moment's uneasiness, and which neither
to him nor to any one else abated one iota from her attractions. We are to suppose that he
braves the risk of the experiment--it succeeds for a moment, then proves fatal, and destroys
her--for what? Merely that she who was so very beautiful should attain to an ideal perfection.
"Had she been less beautiful," we are told, "it might have heightened his affection. Call you
this "pure and lofty love," when a woman is admired much as a connoisseur admires a picture,
who might indeed be supposed to fume and fret if there was one little blot or blemish in it.
Yet, even a connoisseur, who had an exquisite picture by all old master, with only one trifling
blemish on it, would hardly trust himself or another to repair and retouch, in order to render
it perfect. Can any one recognise in this elaborate nonsense about ideal perfection, any approximation
to the feeling which a man has for the wife he loves? If the novelist wished to describe this
egregious connoisseurship in female charms, he should have put the folly into the head of some
insane mortal, who, reversing the enthusiasm by which some men have loved a picture or a statue
as if it were a real woman, had learned to love his beautiful wife as if she were nothing else
than a picture or a statue.

Again, in the "Story of the Artist of the Beautiful," we breathe not a word about the impossibility
of framing out of springs and wheels so marvellous a butterfly, that the seeming creature shall
not only fly and move its antennæ, and fold and display its wings like the living insect, but
shall even surpass the living insect by showing a fine sense of human character, and refusing
to perch on the hand of those who had not a genuine sentiment of beauty. The novelist shall
put what springs and wheels he pleases into his mechanism, but the springs and wheels he places
in the mechanist himself, must be those of genuine humanity, or the whole fiction falls to
the ground. Now the mechanist, the hero of the story, the "Artist of the Beautiful," is described
throughout as animated with the feelings proper to the artist, not to the mechanician. He is
a young watchmaker, who, instead of plodding at the usual and lucrative routine of his trade,
devotes his time to the structure of a most delicate and ingenious toy. We all know that a
case like this is very possible. Few men, we should imagine, are more open to the impulse of
emulation, the desire to do that which had never been done before, than the ingenious mechanist;
and few men more completely under the dominion of their leading passion or project, because
every day brings some new contrivance, some new resource, and the hope that died at night is
revived in the morning. But Mr Hawthorne is not contented with the natural and very strong
impulse of the mechanician; he speaks throughout of his enthusiastic artisan as of some young
Raphael intent upon "creating the beautiful." Springs, and wheels, and chains, however fine
and complicate, are not "the beautiful." He might as well suppose the diligent anatomist, groping
amongst nerves and tissues, to be stimulated to his task by an especial passion for the beautiful.

The passion of the ingenious mechanist we all understand; the passion of the artist, sculptor,
or painter, is equally intelligible; but the confusion of the two in which Mr Hawthorne would
vainly interest us, is beyond all power of comprehension. These are the improbabilities against
which we contend. So never did any human mechanist who at length had succeeded in the dream
and toil of his life.

It is not, perhaps, to the stories we should be disposed to refer for the happier specimens
of Mr Hawthorne's writing, but rather to those papers which we cannot better describe than
as so many American Spectators of the year 1846--so much do they call to mind the style of
essay in the days of Steele and Addison.

We may observe here, that American writers frequently remind us of models of composition somewhat
antiquated with ourselves. While, on the one hand, there is a wild tendency to snatch at originality
at any cost--to coin new phrases--new probabilities--to "intensify" our language with strange
"impulsive" energy--to break loose, in short, from all those restraints which have been thought
to render style both perspicuous and agreeable; there is, on the other hand--produced partly
by a very intelligible reaction--an effort somewhat too apparent to be classical and correct.
It is a very laudable effort, and we should be justly accused of fastidiousness did we mention
it as in the least blameworthy. We would merely observe that an effect is sometimes produced
upon an English ear as if the writer belonged to a previous era of our literature, to an epoch
when to produce smooth and well modulated sentences was something rarer and more valued than
it is now. It will be a proof how little of censure we attach to the characteristic we are
noticing, when we point to the writings of Dr Channing for an illustration of our meaning.
They have to us an air of formality, a slight dash of pedantry. We seem to hear the echo, though
it has grown faint, of the Johnsonian rhythm. They are often not ineloquent, but the eloquence
seems to have passed under the hands of the composition-master. The clever classical romance,
called "The Letters from Palmyra," has the same studied air. It is here, indeed, more suited
to the subject, for every writer, when treating of a classical era, appears by a sort of intuitive
propriety to recognise the necessity of purifying to the utmost his own style.

In some of Mr Hawthorne's papers we are reminded, and by no means disagreeably, of the manner
of Steele and Addison. "The Intelligence Office" presents, in some parts, a very pleasing imitation
of this style. This central intelligence office is one open to all mankind to make and record
their various applications. The first person who enters inquires for "a place," and when questioned
what sort of place he is seeking, very naïvely answers, "I want my place!--my own place!--my
true place in the world!--my thing to do!" The application is entered, but very slender hope
is given that he who is running about the world in search of his place, will ever find it.

Mr Hawthorne is by no means an equal writer. He is perpetually giving his reader, who, being
pleased by parts, would willingly think well of the whole, some little awkward specimen of
dubious taste. We confess, even in the above short extract, to having passed over a sentence
or two, whose absence we have not thought it worth while to mark with asterisks, and which
would hardly bear out our Addisonian compliment.

    "But again the door is opened.

There is a nice bit of painting, as an artist might say, under the title of "The Old Apple-dealer."
We have seen the very man in England. We had marked it for quotation, but it is too long, and
we do not wish to mar its effect by mutilation.

In the "Celestial Railroad," we have a new Pilgrim's Progress performed by rail. Instead of
the slow, solitary, pensive pilgrimage which John Bunyan describes, we travel in fashionable
company, and in the most agreeable manner. A certain Mr Smooth-it-away has eclipsed the triumphs
of Brunel. He has thrown a viaduct over the Slough of Despond; he has tunnelled the hill Difficulty,
and raised an admirable causeway across the valley of Humiliation. As to the fiery Apollyon,
he was, as Mr Smooth-it-away observed, "The very man to manage the engine," and he has been
made chief stoker. The train stops for refreshment at Vanity Fair. Indeed, the whole arrangements
are admirable--up to a certain point. But it seems there are difficulties at the other terminus
which the directors have not hitherto been able to overcome. On the whole, we are left with
the persuasion that it is safer to go the old road, and in the old fashion, each one with his
own burden upon his shoulders.

The story of "Roger Malvin's burial" is well told, and is the best of his narrative pieces.
"The New Adam and Eve," and several others, might be mentioned for an agreeable vein of thought
and play of fancy. In one of his papers the author has attempted a more common species of humour,
and with some success. For variety's sake, we shall close our notice of him, and for the present,
of "The American Library," with an extract from "Mrs Bullfrog."

Mr Bullfrog is an elegant and fastidious linen-draper, of feminine sensibility, and only too
exquisite refinement. Such perfection of beauty and of delicacy did he require in the woman
he should honour with the name of wife, that there was an awful chance of his obtaining no
wife at all; when he happily fell in with the amiable and refined person, who in a very short
time became Mrs Bullfrog.

An unlucky accident, an upset of the carriage on their wedding trip,
giving rise to a strange display of masculine energy on the part of
Mrs B. and disarranging her glossy black ringlets and pearly teeth, so
as to occasion their disappearance and reappearance in a most
miraculous manner, has excited a strange disquietude in the else happy
bridegroom. Well, what a
    strange man you are!

FOOTNOTES:

[12] Views and Reviews of American Literature. By the author of
        The Yemassee, &c. &c.
     The Wigwam, and The Cabin. By the same.
     Papers on Literature and Art. By S. MARGARET FULLER.
     Tales. By EDGAR A. POE.
     Mosses from an old Manse. By NATHANIEL HAWTHORNE.

[13] For that strong nationality which ballads and other rude productions written in a rude
age exhibit, America comes, of course, too late. But we doubt not that an attentive examination
would already detect in the productions of the American mind as striking traits of national
character as are usually seen in the works of civilized epochs. A new species of wit is one
of the last things which a student of Joe Miller would have thought it possible to invent.
Yet this the Americans have achieved. Whatever may be the value attached to it, many a laugh
has been created by that monstrous exaggeration, so worded as to give a momentary and bewildering
sense of possibility to something most egregiously absurd, which as decidedly belongs to America
as the bull does to Ireland. "A man is so tall that he has to climb a ladder to shave himself."
Not only is the feat impossible, but no conception can be formed of its manner of execution,
yet the turn of the expression for an instant disguises, before it reveals, its most flagrant
nonsense. There is also a certain grave hoax, where some fabulous matter is most veraciously
reported, in which the Americans have shown great success and something of a national predilection.
Some time ago we were all mystified by what seemed a most authentic account of the sudden subsidence
of the falls of Niagara. The wall of rock over which the waters rush had been worn away, and,
contrary to the expectations of geologists, the bed of the river, immediately behind it, had
proved to be of a soft soil that could not resist the torrent. The river had therefore formed
for itself an inclined plane, and the great fall had been converted into a rapid of equally
astonishing character. If we do not mistake, the true and particular account of certain animals
which Herschel discovered in the moon at the time he moved his great telescope, we believe,
to the Cape of Good Hope, came to us from the same quarter. It is a pity that Gulliver's Travels
are already in existence. It is a book the Americans should have written; they have been unjustly
forestalled and defrauded by that work. No doubt, other peculiar and national traits, and of
a higher order, would suggest themselves to any one who made it a subject of examination.

[14] The following summing-up by a judge on a trial for murder gives us a singular specimen
(if it can be depended on) of the dignity of the ermine as sustained in South Carolina some
half century ago. A murder had been committed on one Major Spencer; the details, natural and
supernatural, we have no space for; suffice it to say, that the evidence against the accused
left no doubt of his guilt. The judge (an Irishman by birth,) "who it must be understood was
a real existence, and who had no small reputation in his day in the south," thus charged the
jury. "'Fore God," said the judge, "the prisoner may be a very innocent man, after all, as,
by my faith, I do think there have been many murderers before him; but he ought nevertheless
to be hung as an example to all other persons who suffer such strong proofs of guilt to follow
their innocent misdoings. Gentlemen of the jury, if this person Macleod, or Macnab, didn't
murder Major Spencer, either you or I did; and you must now decide which of us it is! I say,
gentlemen of the jury, either you, or I, or the prisoner at the bar, murdered this man; and
if you have any doubts which of us it was, it is but justice and mercy that you should give
the prisoner the benefit of your doubts; and so find your verdict. But, before God, should
you find him not guilty, Mr Attorney there can scarcely do any thing wiser than to put us all
upon trial for the deed." (P. 31.)

UNITS: TENS: HUNDREDS: THOUSANDS.

CHAPTER I.

The first long vacation of my career as a barrister was at hand: and as my professional gains
had already exceeded the sum of £5, 4s. 11d., I considered myself entitled to a few months'
recreation. Of my learned brethren there were numbers in similar circumstances with myself;
all of whom seemed convinced that the labours of the winter required some pleasing way of renewing
the elasticity of the mind. It was soon evident that "travel," was to be the order of the summer.
And as the days grew longer and the sun brighter, a change gradually came over the general
topics of conversation among us. There was less of the politics of the day, and the ordinary
chit-chat of bar appointments and doings: while on every side you heard of "the Rhine," "the
Danube," "the Pyramids," and even "the Falls of Niagara." Frequent mention was made also of
"the Land o' Cakes;" and some adventurous men, it was said, were even preparing kilts for their
excursion. The more confined imaginations of others reached no farther than Wales, or the Cumberland
Lakes. Ireland, however, was scarce ever named. It was the year derisively named "the Repeal
year:" and the alarming accounts of proceedings in it diverted the feet of "Saxon" travellers
to other lands. For my own part, I had made up my mind to follow the herd at large, and submit
to foreign extortion and uncleanness, when circumstances occurred to alter my plans. Unforeseen
family affairs rendered it imperative on me to go to Dublin, on business connected with a brother
who was quartered there; and who, in consequence of the prevailing alarms, was unable to procure
even one fortnight's leave of absence. Hitherto, among my companions, I had talked merely of
"the Geysers," "the Ural Mountains," or "the Caspian Sea:" but when I found how matters stood,
I determined to make the best of my position. Accordingly, a day or two after, when solicited
by some acquaintances to join a "Rhine party," I expressed my resolution of visiting Ireland.
It was with difficulty I could persuade them that I was not in jest: and when they did feel
convinced that I was really in earnest, numerous arguments were advanced to dissuade me from
so suicidal an act. Argument was followed by advice; and numerous were the cautions I received,
and the precautions I was recommended to take. Among those present, was a friend of mine named
Thomson, who was rather given to be cynical in his remarks, and was besides addicted to the
study of phrenology. He declared that for his part he was not so apprehensive concerning me
on account of the pikes of the Repealers as of the darts of Cupid.

"Beware," said he, "of the Irish ladies. Truly they are bewitching; but alas! they are seldom
helps-meet for the Briefless."

He then went on to say, that his hopes of my safety consisted principally in my deficiency
in "Constructiveness;" for that "Amativeness" was developed, while "Caution," was all but absent.

"Be sure," said my worthy aunt as I took leave of her,--"be sure not to venture out of Dublin,
else you will certainly be killed; and promise me that you will join me in a fortnight at Cheltenham."

I promised faithfully.

"Invariably wear a bullet-proof dress," said Thomson; "to be sure, it will reduce you to a
skeleton; but it is better (for the present) that the skeleton should have a soul than be without
one!"

CHAPTER II.

Edward Russell had been my school-fellow and college chum. Like myself, he had been destined
for the Lord Chancellorship, when the death of an elder brother freed him from the probable
burden of keeping her majesty's conscience. The same event also relieved him of certain obstacles
in the way of proposing for, and obtaining the hand of Fanny Felworth. Mrs Russell--at this
time about two years married--was the only daughter of Col. Felworth, who some years previous
had held a staff appointment in the south of England. Her brother, Russell, and I, had been
school-fellows some ten years before the time I speak of; and I may add, that the Emerald Isle,
fruitful as it is in such characters, never produced a more light-hearted youth than Frederick
Felworth. The days of school are quickly followed by the active business and the varied events
of life. Russell and I went to Cambridge; Felworth obtained a commission in a regiment then
in India. Soon after, Col. Felworth retired from the service, and went to reside on his property
in Ireland, accompanied by his daughter and a widowed sister, his wife having died several
years before.

In early youth, correspondence is seldom regularly persevered in for any length of time. Felworth
wrote twice or thrice from India, and then his letters ceased. Russell succeeded to his property
some time before his collegiate course was finished; and as soon as he took his degree, went
to Ireland. In his travels there, he visited the Felworths, (which I suspect was his principal
object,) and the natural consequences followed. Immediately on his marriage, Russell went to
the Continent, where he remained until a few weeks previous to the time of which I speak. Of
Frederick Felworth, I saw occasional mention in the Indian newspapers; such as his distinguishing
himself in tiger-shooting expeditions, riding horse-races, and the like. Latterly, however,
I had heard nothing of him.

On my way to Ireland, I diverged a few miles from the line of railway, for the purpose of spending
a day with the Russells. I found the "little Fanny" of former years now the staid matron, with
the apartment called the nursery not altogether untenanted. When Russell and I were alone,
we fell (as persons in such circumstances invariably do) into conversation about old times
and old friends. It is needless to say that I made special inquiry after Frederick Felworth.
I found that he had returned from India a short time before Russell's marriage: and that, when
about to rejoin his regiment after a few months' leave of absence, the Colonel feeling lonely
after the departure of his daughter, and finding infirmities growing upon him, compelled him
to sell out.

"You remember," said Russell, "the passion he had for horses when a boy; well, this madness
(for it can be called by no other name) has ever since continued on the increase;--and between
farming, magisterial duties, and his horses, he finds occupation and amusement sufficient.
The Colonel is daily feeling more and more the effects of age, so that all matters devolve
on Frederick. I was writing to him this morning, and I promised that you would pay him a visit
when in Ireland. The house is called Craigduff, about forty miles from Dublin."

"I will very gladly do so," I replied; "but my stay will be short, as I am under a positive
promise of speedy return."

"I am happy," added Russell, "to hear you will go. I have only to add that the country about
Craigduff is tranquil;--and (you are still single,) though there is no charmer in the house,
there is one not far off."

I did not see much of Mrs Russell during my stay, as some matters seemed to engage a good deal
of her attention. In a brief conversation, however, which I had with her in the evening, I
found that she, like my friend Thomson, was a believer in the science of Phrenology.

Having been always accustomed to treat the subject as a butt for the shafts of ridicule, I
fear I did not then speak of it with due respect. Conjecturing that "the baby" must have a
fine development, I ventured to ask what bumps were the most prominent.

She immediately replied, that "number" was as largely developed on his head as on his Uncle
Frederick's. "But there is little use," she said, "in talking to an unbeliever like you on
the subject:--but this I have to say, now that you are going to Craigduff, beware of Units!
(Edward, recollect you are not to explain.) Mark my words, Beware of Units! And now, good-night!
You are to go, you say, by the early train, so that I shall not see you in the morning; but
when you come to visit us on your return, I trust you will be able to tell me that you did
beware of Units."

After her departure, in every way, and with all legal ingenuity, did I tempt the allegiance
of her husband, but in vain. At last, when I felt sure, that my cross-examination had left
him no loophole for escape, he gravely replied--"That he was not yet long enough married to
disobey his wife; but he hoped for better times in the future."

CHAPTER III.

The life of officers in garrison, and the dinners at mess; the charms of the daughters of Erin,
and the splendid residence of viceroyalty; the Wellington testimonial, and the late Mr Daniel
O'Connell--have all been described by competent and incompetent hands. At the period of my
visit, the Government, prepared for any emergency, had fortified the barracks throughout the
country, and poured a large body of troops into every available position. There never was a
more agreeable time for those stationed at Dublin. The number of organised forces at the disposal
of the Government was so great, that no alarm of personal danger prevailed in the capital;
while the frightful state of the provinces (the northern parts excepted) not only drove a number
of families into it, but prevented many from leaving it who otherwise would have done so. These
circumstances served to render the town much gayer than it would otherwise have been at that
period of the year.

The business which took me to Ireland was not finished until the end of the allotted fortnight.
However, I determined to pay my promised visit at Craigduff. Accordingly I addressed a letter
to my respected relative, stating that three days more were all that were required for me to
remain in Ireland; and that on the fifth I hoped to be with her at Cheltenham. I need scarcely
say that I took care not to alarm the worthy lady, by telling her how I intended to spend the
intervening time.

The last evening of my stay in Dublin was spent at a Mr Flixton's, in one of the squares. This
gentleman had a son who was in the same regiment to which Felworth had belonged, and who, about
a month previous, had been on a visit to his former friend. This young man spoke of him in
the highest terms. He said he had talents for any subject to which he might turn his attention;
but that his horses altogether engrossed him; "and such a collection as he has!"

I had no further conversation with young Flixton at that time; but at a subsequent part of
the evening he came up to me with his partner, to whom he introduced me. The lady appeared
about eighteen years of age. Her expression was one of combined intelligence and sweetness,
while her figure was symmetry itself.

"I have just told Miss Vernon," said he, "that you are a friend of Frederick Felworth, and
that you are going to Craigduff in the morning; and she says that you will most effectually
show your friendship for him by shooting Units. In this I perfectly agree with Miss Vernon."

Ere I had time to make any reply the music commenced, and they moved off to take their places
in the dance, but not before I observed a semi-malicious smile pass over the countenance of
the lady, at the conclusion of her partner's remark. Presuming on the introduction my young
friend had given me, no sooner did I see her disengaged, than I requested the honour of her
hand in the next dance. She declined, however, saying that her mamma was just about to leave
the party, as they had a journey before them the next day. At a signal from an elderly lady,
she arose and left the room. I was now doubly anxious to unravel the mystery of "Units," whoever
or whatever he, she, or it might be; whom the one lady advised me to "beware of," for my own
sake--the other to "shoot," for my friend's sake. I resolved to ask young Flixton, but he was
nowhere to be found.

"What a nice girl Miss Vernon is!" said my brother on our way home; "and she has got twenty
thousand pounds, too."

"She is the most lovely girl that was in the room to-night," said I; "but tell me all you know
about her."

"I can do so in a few words. Her father was a West India merchant; her mother and she have
been in Dublin for a few weeks; they are going back to their residence to-morrow, which is
situated somewhere near Craigduff. I believe they are related to the Felworths. And now my
story is finished. But you had better retire to rest as soon as you can, for you have but a
few hours to sleep."

Though I lay in bed, sleep forsook my eyelids. This may, in some degree, have been owing to
the excitement of the party; but still my mind was strangely perplexed with the expression
"Units." I felt that Mrs Russell's expression, though uttered in jest, contained a good deal
of seriousness. "Shoot Units!" "Beware of Units!" What could be the meaning? There are times
certainly in which one is more given to superstitious feelings than he is at others, and such,
perhaps, was my case at that time; I could not banish the thought that my future fate in life
was somehow connected with the unknown "Units."

"After all," said I, throwing myself out of bed, "the nearest expression to Mrs Russell's that
I know of is, 'Take care of Number One.' It is an older precept, and most likely a wiser one;
and henceforward I will be doubly careful to observe it."

CHAPTER IV.

The day after (or, more correctly, the same day) I arrived at Craigduff, where I received a
hearty Irish welcome. The first evening with young Felworth was passed much in the same manner
as a previous one with Russell. After tea, three rubbers of long whist closed the evening.
Though I listened with close attention, I never heard the word "Units" mentioned.

The following morning, Frederick Felworth took me over the grounds and farm, where I saw much
to admire. Every thing was well arranged; and even in the minutest matters I could detect the
constant superintendence of a master.

"We will keep the stables for the last," said Felworth, "because they are the best; and I flatter
myself I can show you a stud unrivalled in numerous respects."

These words were spoken with an increased animation, giving clear evidence wherein his tastes lay.

"These two stables on this side of the yard each contain four horses. There is a harness-room,
you see, between them, and a loose-box at the lower end of the farthest. We may as well go
into the first one, although you will see nothing in it but two fat family carriage-horses
and two ponies. The first of these lesser quadrupeds is my Aunt's, which she drives in a small
car on her numerous charitable visits. The other is the Governor's, which he occasionally rides.
Now let us come to the next stable, which is mine solely and peculiarly; and if my stud does
not astonish and delight you, all I can say is I will be much disappointed."

With this preface we entered. The stable was well fitted up in every respect. There were three
horses in the stalls, and one in a loose-box, which opened into the stable. Felworth stood
for several minutes in a sort of admiring gaze, merely remarking that he had not seen his "pets"
that day before, while they showed every symptom of pleasure at his appearance. During this
time I took a preliminary look at the favourites individually. The first was an active-looking,
compact, black horse, with a fierce, unsettled expression of eye, and several blemishes on
his legs, while a chain attached from the wall to the post prevented the unwary stranger from
approaching too close. The second was a powerful bay mare, with many good points, but little
beauty. The third was a remarkably handsome bay horse, of high breeding. He was out of work,
however, one of his legs being bound up. The fourth was a thoroughbred gray horse, one of the
finest animals I ever beheld.

"Now," said Felworth, "I would much like to have an 'opinion' from you. Tell me candidly what
you think of my nags."

"I am no great critic," I replied; "but every one nowadays must be a judge of horse-flesh.
Whether or not the schoolmaster is abroad, there is no excuse for ignorance on that subject.
It strikes me that there is great variety in your stud."

"You are right there."

"I do not much like the bearing of the black horse. I fear he is rather eccentric."

"He is a little wayward."

"I cannot say that I admire the mare very much; she appears a homely, useful sort of animal."

"She is a real good one though; much better than she looks. She is famous in the shafts with
the black horse before her; but I hope you will have ocular demonstration of that to-morrow.
What think you of the bay?"

"He is a very nice horse; but he is in the stall of sickness, and therefore we will pass over
him; but the gray delights me. I would say he is a Ganymede, a regular cupbearer."

"Well," said Felworth, "since you have spoken so discreetly, I will tell you all about them;
and, first of all, their names. The black horse I call 'UNITS.'"

"Units! Units! Units!!!" exclaimed I.

"Yes, Units. The bay mare 'TENS;' the bay horse 'HUNDREDS;' and the gray 'THOUSANDS.' I must
give you the reasons of their nomenclature. The first cost me £5; the second £20. I bought
her from a tenant on the property who was emigrating to Canada; and, very unjockey-like, I
gave him just what he asked. I designed her for the farm; but her paces proved so good that
she was advanced to the exalted position in which you see her. The bay horse I purchased in
England, and gave 70 guineas for him. I call him 'Hundreds,' because he is worth hundreds.
He is a beautiful horse in appearance, and then he is an excellent roadster, and a well-trained
hunter. He met with an accident at the end of the season, but is in the fair way of recovery.
His temper is unequalled."

"I presume he resembles Units in that particular," said I.

"Indeed he is far from it; but here we are with my gallant gray. Ganymede you are, and Ganymede
I hope you will be! Win the county cup but once more, old fellow, and then it will be our own!
This horse was bred on the farm here; he is the produce of a gray mare that you may recollect
my father mounted on in our birch-rod days. He deserves the name of 'Thousands' undeniably;
for Lord Oxfence, who was in the regiment with me, offered a 'carte blanche' for him."

"No wonder," said I, "that your sister is so devout a believer in phrenology, when she sees
such effects of the development of 'number.' But you have said nothing as yet of Units. I have
heard of him before, and I confess I have a singular interest in him."

"Oh! never mind what Fanny says about him, for she entertains unfounded prejudices against him."

"Perhaps she does; but tell me what is that contrivance in the ceiling right above him? A pulley,
is it not?"

"It is a pulley," replied Felworth; "but, since you are desirous to hear, I had better begin
from the commencement, and tell you the entire history of this extraordinary animal, whose
fame has reached Westminster Hall. The man who owns the coach which passes this house attended
an auction in Dublin of cast horses from a dragoon regiment about a year and a half since,
and among them was exhibited the horse before you. Of course he had managed to get a private
opinion from the sergeant in charge; and the account he heard of my dark friend was, 'that
they had had him only three months, and that he was an untamable devil.' When a regiment could
not subdue him, who could? Notwithstanding, from his superior shape, the proprietor bid for
him, and purchased him for something under five pounds. When he took him to his stables, he
found that the horse would not suffer an article of harness to be put on him. This was bad
enough. However, some days after, by the assistance of all the men about the yard, they did
succeed. The horse was allowed to remain in that state all night, and was put in as near-side
wheeler in the coach which was to leave Dublin that morning. The proprietor himself undertook
to drive him--for he is a famous hand in that way, and many a vicious horse has he brought
to reason. By good luck I happened to be a passenger myself.--(Look, I beg of you, at the intelligence
of his expression! He knows we are talking of him.) Well, as I said, I was on the coach, and
beside the proprietor, while the regular coachman was immediately behind us. The horse started
pretty fairly. To be sure he made a plunge or two, but the traces were strong, and his companions
stout and steady. For several miles we came along as pleasantly as needs be, and never did
I see a horse do his business in better style. It was during this period that I heard the horse's
previous history; and further, I was told that, in the way of harnessing him, once the saddle
was on his back, (though it was no easy task to get it there,) the remainder of the business
had been easy. I hope you are not tired.--Well, as you wish me, I will finish my history. Just
at the third milestone I felt a shock on the soles of my feet as if I had been receiving the
bastinado. I need not say this was from the heels of Units on the under side of the board on
which my feet rested. In a moment after, the performance was repeated, with this difference,
that the blow was rather lower. But it was more serious; for on this occasion he struck the
front-boot with such force, that he was unable to withdraw his foot, which went right through
the board; and the consequence was, that he fell against the pole. Had the other wheel-horse
not been as steady as a rock, we would have gone right over. As it was, the driver pulled up
at once; and immediately the coachman and I were at the heads of the other horses. After several
terrific struggles, Units contrived to disengage himself. You see the marks of the transaction
still on his pastern; but do not go too near him, for he is too thoroughly Irish to endure
a Saxon. As soon as we had loosed him from the coach, the proprietor directed the coachman
to take him back to Dublin, and to bring another horse. 'And tell the fore-man' said he, 'to
have him shot before I return this evening. I shall lose only five pounds, and I will have
no person's blood on my head for that sum.' 'Stay,' said I, 'I will give you five pounds for
him, and take him with all his imperfections on his head, and on his heels too.' I must say
that the man was unwilling, but I carried my point."

"And what on earth did tempt you to buy such a brute?"

"The fact was, the hunting season was over, and I wanted some amusement, as I was rather in
delicate health. India is severe on the liver."

"Had you foreseen your circumstances, you might have brought a tiger home with you. But how
did you get the horse to Craigduff?"

"In the neatest and quickest possible way. I borrowed a rope from the guard, and having made
a temporary halter, I went to the back part of the coach, and led him the whole way. It is
forty miles, at seven miles an hour, and he did the journey with ease. I was sure then that
I was possessed of a trump. But I must cut the matter short; for it would keep you the whole
day if I told you how we succeeded in managing him. It was altogether by kindness, and a gradual
discovery of his little peculiarities. The pulley you inquired about, I look upon as the greatest
invention. It lets down the saddle upon his back, and then, as I told you, he is quiet. It
annually saves the life of a man or two."

"I told you," said I, taking advantage of a momentary pause, "that I had a great interest in
the horses: pray tell, me, can you make any use of him?"

"Any use of him! why he is the most useful animal in the world:--an excellent saddle-horse;
a first-rate jumper. He was not in my possession three weeks when I won the five pounds he
cost me. My neighbour, Sir Edward, rode over here one morning on his famous horse Thunderbolt,
and he thought proper to call my new purchase 'Beelzebub.' This rather provoked me; and I offered
to bet him the sum I spoke of that I would pound him in twenty minutes; and this I did, in
half the time, by jumping his own park wall, which is near six feet high. The horse must be
ridden in a snaffle, as young Flixton could tell you. He thought himself very wise, and insisted
on having a curb: the consequence was, that the very moment 'Units' felt it, he started off
right across the country, and his rider and he parted company in the river below, near Mrs
Vernon's house. Flixton was not the least hurt; but a muddier, wetter, or angrier man you never
saw. Alice Vernon and I happened to be witnesses of the whole affair; and she laughed,--how
she did laugh!" (I will not display my horsemanship before her, thought I.) "He is a pleasant
horse in single harness," continued Felworth; "and, if he did kick the market-cart to pieces,
it was owing to the carelessness of the servant in letting the reins fall down about his feet.
And if he did upset the gig and break my collar-bone, it was my own fault. I knew he could
not bear the sudden opening out of an umbrella; and I ought to have called out to the man,
or turned the horse's head away. He is an excellent leader in tandem, and very safe. He is
certainly playful in starting with the other horse behind him; but then we know his ways. But
you will have ocular demonstration of his performance in that way to-morrow, for I am obliged
to attend at sessions, in a village about seven miles off, and we shall drive over after breakfast.
Your curiosity about 'Units' is now, I am sure, more than satisfied."

CHAPTER V.

As we were entering the house, Felworth informed me that Mrs and Miss Vernon were to join their
family party at dinner that day; and that we would be obliged to walk home with them in the
evening. The time passed most agreeably, and the walk was delightful! I shall not attempt to
describe the younger lady, for no words of mine can do her justice. A great variety of the
fairest and loveliest of the sex have been depicted by writers of fiction from Sir Walter Scott
downwards: and few young gentlemen exist who have not at some time been "over head and ears"
in love. Now, it is a matter of fact, that the latter look upon their Lucys, or Amys, or Dianas
(for the time being) as considerably excelling any of those with whose verbal portraiture they
are familiar. Need I say that I formed any exception? On that moonlight night, as I parted
from her, I felt satisfied that there was no more lovely person in the world than Alice Vernon.

The first words spoken on our return were by Felworth. "Perhaps you are aware that Miss Vernon
has a large fortune?"

Rather surprised by the abruptness of the remark, I answered that I was so; but that I would
admire her just as much if she had not a farthing in the world.

"I have no doubt you would," was my companion's reply; "but that is not the matter in consideration
at present. I merely wish to tell you an anecdote of Lieutenant Flixton. He is very easily
roused, but soon calms again. On this hint I spoke; and in the evening of the day of the river
business, as he and I were sitting together, I delicately hinted to him the amusement he had
afforded to Miss Vernon in the morning. I wish you had seen him: his face grew red as scarlet,
and he exclaimed, "Put a side-saddle on 'Units,' and put 'tens of thousands' on it, and they
will be a well-matched pair!" I kept him in a state of fever the whole time he remained, by
threatening to tell the lady the compliment he paid her. You know the Vernons are connexions
of ours, and that is one reason why they are residing at Violet-Bank now. But I am sorry they
are soon going away: for when Richard Vernon returns from the West Indies, (and he is expected
in two months,) his mother and sister are going to live with him in London."

These remarks of Felworth served to remove some unpleasant matters from my mind. I saw that
I would experience no rivalry from him; and I thought myself a match for Flixton if I had but
a fair field.

I must confess that the next morning I did entertain serious apprehensions of the proposed
tandem expedition. And, had I been able to devise any feasible plan of carrying Mrs Russell's
advice into execution, I would eagerly have adopted it. My difficulties, however, seemed to
be removed, as I perceived that the gig was brought to the door with "Tens" alone in it but
vain was my expectation!

"You will please take your seat," said Felworth, "and make yourself comfortable, and I will
follow your example."

We did so. "Units" was now led forward to his place in front by one man, who held a cloth over
his eyes, while another arranged the reins, and gave them into Felworth's hand. The traces
were still unfastened.

"Now we go, Tens, Units! get along!"

At the signal given, the horse made a tremendous plunge forward, while Felworth, adroitly yielding
his hand for the moment, drew him in firmly but gently, while the two men, running alongside,
attached the traces.

"Strange way 'Units' has of leaving home!" quietly remarked Felworth; "but he is a peaceable
animal after all, for you remark he never kicks back. And can any thing be more steady than
'Tens?' You would not depreciate her now."

"Certainly not; a female Socrates is a good companion to that male Xantippe."

Felworth then went on to say, that the horse was perfectly safe as a leader; and that, if he
was not sure that he was so, he would not consider himself justified in risking the life of
any one. He added that there were only two things of which he had the least dread;--the one
was, the sudden opening of an umbrella; but there was no risk of that in weather such as we
were then enjoying; the other was, a shot fired near the horse; but then there was little danger
in that way either, for there was not a gun in the neighbourhood, nor any thing at which to
fire. When I expressed an opinion that he and I afforded pretty fair marks ourselves, and that
I had heard of such being selected, he burst out laughing, and asked me if I had made my will
before I left England; and did I believe the half of the stories I heard there about Ireland?
He then remarked that a whip would last for several generations if one always drove horses
like "Units" and "Tens." Before we arrived at our destination, he said he had directed his
servant to be in readiness to take home the gig from Violet-Bank, for that we could return
by another road, and call there.

"I like your arrangement much," said I, "as I wish to pay my respects to Mrs Vernon before
I leave."

"It is all very proper," said Felworth, "but there was no occasion to lay such emphasis on
the 'Mrs.'"

After strolling about the village for an hour, Felworth despatched his business, and we turned
homewards. He did not appear so much inclined for conversation as he had been in the morning;
and we both soon lapsed into comparative silence. The very act of driving has at any time a
tendency to produce a ruminating mood; and my thoughts naturally turned on Alice Vernon. It
was true, I had seen her only twice, and on the first occasion only for a few minutes; yet,
even now, I could not bear the thought of her becoming the wife of another. I knew I would
probably see her in London when her brother returned; but how many things might happen in the
mean time? I felt she could look on me only as a stranger. I wished much that I could have
remained longer at Craigduff; but for several reasons that was out of the question. It was
true I had been much pressed to prolong my stay, but I had said that my visit was a stolen
one. And now would I not look excessively foolish, when it appeared that "imperative circumstances"
were turned into moonshine by a moonlight walk? I was aroused from my reveries by an exclamation
from Felworth, "There is Alice Vernon, I am positive! You see her walking on the road before
us under the row of beech-trees. We will overtake her by the time she comes to the end of them,
by the quarry on the right." He proved himself accurate; for we were only a few yards behind
her, as she came into the bright sunshine. At this moment (as was natural for any lady to do)
she opened out her parasol in the direct view of Units. The consequence was that he made a
sudden stop, so that the mare came against him; this was followed by a quick bound to one side,
so as almost to pull "Tens" off her balance. Felworth, however, had the horses well in hand;
and even yet all matters might have gone right. But just at that moment an explosion took place
at the quarry beside us. I saw the infuriate beast make a jump at the fence on the left. I
fancy I heard a crash--but I have no recollection of any thing more.

CHAPTER VI.

"He lives!--thank God, he lives!--and it was all my fault!" were the first words I heard in
returning consciousness. I felt very faint and weak, but the tones sounded sweetly in my ears.
I then heard some directions to keep me "perfectly quiet."

But I need not detail the progress of my recovery. I was in Violet-Bank, near to which the
accident had occurred. My brother soon after came to see me; and even my worthy aunt, in her
anxiety, ventured into "that horrid country." Pleasant, indeed, were the hours I passed in
the period of my convalescence.

As soon as was permitted by the doctor, I had a visit from Felworth.

"Thank Providence," said he, "all is right with you now, but it was a very doubtful matter
for some hours. It was a bad business altogether. Units was killed, and you nearly so."

"But tell me exactly how you got off yourself: I perceive your forehead cut, and your arm in
a sling."

"You see the whole of the injuries I received; but the mare is much cut and bruised; both shafts
of the gig were broken. I have preserved, as a sad memorial of the day, the stone against which
your head came when you were pitched out. Fortunately, for me, I fell in a soft place; and
I was on my legs before the quarry-men gathered about you, and carried you into the house.
What presence of mind Alice had! She sent for the doctor without a moment's delay; but women
always act best in such circumstances."

"But Units, what of him?"

"Why, one trace broke in his attempt to leap into the field; and, fortunately for Tens, the
other soon gave way; and then he galloped home."

"I thought you said he was killed."

"And so he was, but not by fair play. My father, unfortunately, met the man who was leading
home the mare; and when he heard what had occurred, he brought down his own pistols, and had
the horse led out, and shot on the spot. It was not out of vengeance that he did so, for he
was not aware at the time of the dangerous state you were in; but he said that the horse would
be the cause of death to some one yet. It was from a kind motive he did so, but it was a sad
blow to me. I will never see the like of Units again."

It was arranged that Alice and I were to be married in the following September.

"You were a sad truant," said my aunt, "to go from Dublin after the cautions I gave you; but
I give my full pardon under the circumstances."

I had a silent but powerful, advocate near me.

Shortly after my recovery, I went to London, for the purpose of making necessary arrangements
for my marriage. When there, I called upon Thomson, and narrated to him the entire events.

"You are a very lucky fellow!" he said. "I look upon this horse 'Units' as having been your
guardian angel. I told you you were deficient in 'Constructiveness,' and your story proves
it. Had it not been that you got your head broken, or some other fortuitous event occurred,
you would have remained a bachelor to the end of your days."

RESEARCH AND ADVENTURE IN AUSTRALIA.[15]

The confident mariner, spreading his canvass to the fickle gale, and launching forth upon unknown
seas in search of uncertain shores, to combat the kraken and fish the pearl, scarcely exhibits
more daring, or braves greater perils, than the hardy landsman, who, on horse's back or dromedary's
hump, or his own mocassined feet, plunges into tangled jungle and pathless prairie, adventuring
himself, a solitary pioneer, thousands of miles from the abodes of civilisation. If shoal and
squall and treacherous reef, pirates and storms, and tropical calms scarce less terrible, when
parched lips blacken for thirst in the midst of boundless waters, await the seaman, dangers
equally imminent and inevitable, and more incessant beset the path of the wanderer in the desert.
The sailor has his days and weeks of safety and repose and rude luxury, whilst the stately
ship scuds merrily before favouring breezes over a summer sea, and the light routine of duty
is but sufficient to give zest to the junk ration, the grog kid, and the tobacco pipe. The
storm over, he swings easily in his hammock, recruiting strength for fresh exertion; and even
when the winds howl their worst, give him a tight ship and sea-room, and he holds himself safe
and laughs at the tempest. The explorer of trackless plain and aboriginal forest is in a very
different predicament. He is never safe; his toils and tribulations are unceasing; danger may
not exist, but he must ever guard against it, for he knows not where it may lurk. With him,
security is temerity and eventual destruction. The ambushed savage, the crouching beast of
prey, the silent and deadly reptile, the verdant swamp, flower-strewn and fathomless, wooing
to destruction, the rushing torrent and resistless hurricane, are but a few of the dangers
through which he threads his way. And when, at close of day, weary and hungry, foot-sore or
saddle-galled, he halts for refreshment and repose, it seems but the beginning of his labours.
Wood must be cut and collected, the fire lit, the meal prepared, often its very materials must
be sought in pool and thicket, before the wanderer can be at rest, and the cravings of appetite
appeased. The hardly-won repast concluded, the ground offers a comfortless couch to his stiffened
and jaded limbs, where to snatch such sleep as the necessity of strict guard, and the ominous
and mysterious noises of a night in the desert, allow to descend upon his eyelids.

With a thorough knowledge and appreciation of the many difficulties, dangers, and discomforts,
inseparable from such an expedition, Dr Ludwig Leichhardt, a German gentleman, remarkable for
enterprising spirit and scientific zeal, left Moreton Bay, upon the east coast of Australia,
in September 1844, to proceed overland in a north-westerly direction to Port Essington, on
the north coast, a distance of more than three thousand miles. The Doctor was no novice in
such wanderings; he had already devoted two years to exploring the district north of Moreton
Bay; undaunted by hardship, his thirst for knowledge unappeased, he had scarcely returned when
he was ready to start again. Many dissuaded him, pointing out the vast field of research afforded
within the limits of New South Wales, urging innumerable dangers--some imaginary, but more
real--taxing him with overstrained enthusiasm, and inordinate lust of fame; even blaming him
as a madman and a suicide. He was neither to be deterred nor cajoled from his expedition, but
made his preparations, limiting as much as possible the amount of provisions and stores, in
consideration of the difficulties of the route and encumbrance of baggage. He was also compelled,
in conformity with the plan he had formed, and with the smallness of his means, to restrict
the number of his companions, and reject the offers of many adventurous young men eager to
accompany him. His party, at first composed of six persons, had swelled to ten, when, upon
the 30th September, it left Jimba, the advanced post of the white man. The stores consisted
of sixteen head of cattle, twelve hundred pounds of flour, two hundred pounds of sugar, eighty
pounds of tea, and twenty of gelatine, eight bags of shot, and thirty pounds of powder. Each
man had two pairs of strong trousers, three shirts, and two pairs of shoes,--certainly no very
sumptuous equipment for a journey expected to last seven months, but which occupied fifteen.
Fortunately, as they advanced, game and wild animals, at first rare, became more plentiful;
and although the flour was expended at the end of the eighth month, they managed, with the
aid of kangaroos, emus, waterfowl, and other beasts and birds, to protract their beef till
their arrival at Port Essington. The party comprised (besides Dr Leichhardt) Messrs Calvert,
Roper, Hodgson and Gilbert, John Murphy, a lad of sixteen, a convict of the name of William
Phillips, Caleb, an American negro, and Messieurs Harry Brown and Charley, Australian aborigines,
mutinous but useful, of whose character and propensities we learn more than of those of any
other member of the party. The Doctor is, indeed, remarkably silent with respect to his fellow-labourers
in the vineyard of Tasmanian discovery. Eight men of the adventurous disposition implied by
their engaging in such an expedition, could hardly be thrown together for a year or more without
displaying flashes of character, and greater or less eccentricity, the result of their exceptional
position, of the many shifts and devices they had to resort to. Of characteristic traits, however,
we obtain few hints from Dr Leichhardt, the most amiable, but the most matter-of-fact of travellers.
His sympathies and attention are engrossed by the stocks and stones, the beasts, birds, trees
and flowers around him. In them he finds tongues and books, and with and of them he loves to
discourse. Although evidently a good comrade and considerate chief, his enthusiasm as a naturalist
and man of science preclude much heed of his companions' peculiarities--if such they had. Enough
that they are at hand, ready to aid him in catering for a meal, in chasing stray bullocks,
replacing fallen baggage, and in the many other toils and labours in which he manfully bears
his share. Nothing less than the departure of one, and the death of another, can elicit a passing
hint of their character and qualities. Mr Hodgson shot a kangaroo; Mr Roper brought in eight
cockatoos; Mr Phillips found a flesh-coloured drupaceous fruit; Mr Calvert shot a native companion--not
one of the aborigines, but a bird so called; and thus the book goes on, every thing put down
with the dry brevity of a seaman's log. Hence Dr Leichhardt's volume, though highly valuable
and interesting to naturalists and emigrants, will scarcely be appreciated by the general reader.
Learned and well written, the amusing element, which readers of the present day are apt to
make a condition for their favour, is but scantily scattered through its pages. But it is a
work of unquestionable merit and utility, and its author's name will justly stand high upon
the honourable list of able and enterprising men, whose courage, perseverance, and literary
abilities, have contributed so largely to our knowledge of the geography and productions of
our distant southern colonies.

The first start of the expedition could hardly be called a good one; at least, it was not such
as to encourage the faint-hearted, or falsify anticipations of extreme hardships and difficulties.
A light spring-cart, which the doctor had fondly hoped to take with him through the wilderness,
was broken the very first day. He was fortunate enough to exchange it for three bullocks, and
proceeded to break in five of those animals for the pack-saddle, finding he could not depend
upon his horses for carrying baggage. But the bullocks gave a deal of trouble, and were most
unsatisfactory beasts of burthen. The weight they could carry without injury and exhaustion,
was very small in comparison with their known strength,--not more than a hundred and fifty
pounds, Dr Leichhardt found, for a constancy--without the advantage of roads. Mules would have
been the proper carriers; and troublesome, kicking, contrary demons as they often are, under
a hot sun and with the aggravation of flies, they could hardly have been more refractory than
their bovine substitutes. Persons whose whole experience of bullocks, as beasts of draught
and burthen, consists in having seen a pair of them tugging, with painful docility and resignation,
at a heavy continental cart--a ponderous yoke across their necks, or their heads attached with
multitudinous thongs to the extremity of a massive pole--can form but a faint idea of the tribulations
of the Doctor and his friends, who had to lead the beasts, as best they might, with iron nose-rings,
and who, moreover, being wholly unused to cattle of that description, had at first a not unnatural
dislike of the horns. Then the pack-saddles did not fit, and the immediate result was sore
backs; the cargo would get loose and fall off, to the fracture and destruction of straps; or
the hornets, whose nests, suspended from the branches, were disturbed by the passage of the
caravan, would drive the unlucky oxen nearly mad, by a stinging assault upon their hind quarters.
Finally, both horses and bullocks had a singular propensity to stray back during the night
to the previous halting place, whence they had to be fetched in the morning, causing great
delay, and often postponing the start till mid-day. Here is a significant little entry in the
log, comprising the entire proceedings of one day, which gives an idea of the difficulty of
progress. Only one small plug of tobacco to all that peck of troubles! The nicotian flower
the sole object in the scene of disaster, on which the eye can rest with a sensation of relief.
Stray cattle, sore backs, broken saddles! The combination of calamities can only be appreciated
by those who have encountered it, in the desert, and when anxious to prosecute their march.
For some time, these pleasant incidents were of daily occurrence; added to which, the bullocks,
in forcing their way through tangled thickets, frequently tore the sacks, and wasted large
quantities of flour. And towards the latter part of the journey, when Dr Leichhardt, owing
to the death of three horses, unfortunately drowned in a creek, had been forced to abandon,
with tears in his eyes, a large portion of his valuable botanical collection, he had the intense
mortification of seeing a reckless ox, foot-sore and heated by a long day's march, plunge deliberately
into a deep pond, where the remainder of the dried plants, seeds, and the like, carefully packed
upon the animal's back, underwent a thorough and disastrous soaking. As some amends for the
trouble they gave, the bullocks proved useful in an unexpected capacity, namely, as guards.
They conceived an antipathy to the natives, whom they charged in warlike style, whenever they
had the chance. The aborigines held them in great respect, took them for large dogs (bull-dogs
of course), and had a wholesome fear of their bite. These notions the travellers did not deem
it advisable to dispel.

Opossums and flying squirrels, kangaroos, (some standing nine feet high,) and kangaroo rats,
emus, ducks, and bronze-winged pigeons, were the principal beasts and birds encountered during
the journey. Crocodiles were met with, and a few buffaloes. Fish of many kinds, now and then
turtles, were seen and caught in the pools, rivers, and lagoons. Sand-flies, mosquitoes, and
hornets, were very annoying, but the cool night-breeze usually swept them away. The melodious
note of the glucking-bird, so named from the sound resembling "gluck, gluck," the noisy call
of the "laughing jackass," the hoot of the barking owl, the howlings of native dogs, and the
screech of the opossum, were the principal sounds that broke the stillness of the bush. Kangaroos
were a great article of provender; the travellers chased them with dogs, so long as the dogs
lasted, but these perished, little by little, until at last only one remained,--Spring by name,--a
useful and valiant brute, covered with honourable scars. He was of the breed known as the kangaroo-dog,
was exceedingly stanch and valuable, and the means of obtaining a vast deal of game. Of course,
he was an immense favourite, and his masters had reckoned on his accompanying them to the end
of their journey. They carried a calabash of water for his private use, as they were frequently
very long without meeting with any, and this precaution more than once saved Spring's life.
At last, during the latter part of a toilsome day's march, poor Spring lagged in rear and was
forgotten. And Spring gave up the ghost, to the great comfort and relief of the emus and kangaroos,
and to the deep distress of the worthy Doctor and his biped companions.

The party had been out but one month, when the scarcity of game, far less abundant than had
been expected, and the rapid shrinking of the flour-sacks, rendered it necessary to diminish
its numbers, lest famine should be added to the many dangers of the journey. Mr Hodgson and
Caleb the negro accordingly returned to Moreton bay, the remaining eight persons continuing
their route. Two of these eight, as we have already mentioned, were Australian aborigines,
indebted to Christian god-fathers for the baptismal names of Charley and Harry. Early in the
expedition, these two gentlemen became exceedingly troublesome; not more so, however, than
might reasonably be expected from the very sullen and brutish expression of their uncomely
physiognomies. Dr Leichhardt favours us with a portrait of the pair, and notwithstanding the
embellishments of clean frocks, flowing neck-kerchiefs, and a comb, we have seldom set eyes
upon more unprepossessing countenances. Any more hirsute we certainly never beheld, and their
whole aspect gives the idea of men who, in the natural state, would deem a tender infant the
most delicious of luncheons, and look upon a deceased relative with the one absorbing idea
of a juicy roast. We may be doing injustice to the creatures, but appearances are not in their
favour, however British missionaries and mutton may have weaned them from aboriginal barbarity
and cannibal cravings. After they had been about four months out, they began to play truant,
to desert Dr Leichhardt when reconnoitring, taking the provisions with them, and to wander
away without permission in quest of honey and opossums. At first the Doctor overlooked their
transgressions, or let them pass with a reprimand; but he soon found occasion to regret his
leniency, and that he had not inflicted a severe and decided punishment. On the 19th February
the travellers, who had halted two days for the purpose of jerking the beef of a bullock, were
busy greasing their straps and saddles, an operation rendered very necessary by the dust and
scorching heat, when Master Charley, thirsting after honeycomb and greedy of opossum, left
the camp, and was absent several hours. On his return the Doctor reprimanded him, and threatened
to stop his rations, but was met with threats and abuse. In return for which brutal assault
we expected to find that the Doctor and his friends removed the surcingle and baggage-straps
from the jaw-breaker's horse, tied him to a tree with the latter, and with the former flogged
his black shoulders till he cried peccavi, and promised reform. Nothing of the sort appears
to have taken place, the good Doctor contenting himself, as sole revenge for the injury done
to his masticators, with expelling the delinquent, who was accompanied from the camp by his
countryman and ally, Harry Brown. They soon got tired, however, of going afoot and shifting
for themselves, returned submissive and sorry, and were allowed to rejoin the caravan. And
though they subsequently again gave cause of complaint, upon the whole they were tolerably
manageable during the rest of the expedition.

The travellers were out a long time before falling in with natives, although they saw signs
of their vicinity, and ascertained that they were objects of curious observation and some anxiety
to the timid Australians. They stumbled upon various native camps, recently vacated, and occasionally
took the liberty of helping themselves to kangaroo nets and cordage, leaving in exchange fish
hooks, handkerchiefs, and other European articles. The Doctor's coolness in recording his disasters
is quite provoking. If he exhibited the same laudable calm and resignation when he arose from
his bed of reeds on the banks of the finch-haunted water-hole, and found his cattle had gone
back a day's journey or more, as he does in writing down the fact, he is certainly the most
Job-like of travellers. We could sometimes quarrel with him for making so very light of heavy
inconveniences and positive misfortunes. It is necessary to pause and reflect in order to appreciate
what he endured. The hasty reader, skimming the page without allowing his imagination to dwell
on the Doctor's brief indications of the many sufferings, the wounds and sickness (the latter
often caused by unwholesome diet), the hunger and thirst, the daily and nightly exposure, for
fifteen months, to scorching suns and drenching rains, undergone by himself and his companions,
might complete the perusal with the impression on his mind that the whole affair was rather
pleasant than otherwise--a sort of prolonged pic-nic, varied by kangaroo hunts, fishing parties,
and shooting excursions. Bread stuffs, he would have to admit, were scarce in that cornless
land: but hard exercise and fresh air sharpen the appetite and strengthen the digestion; and
a keen woodsman will not heed bannocks when he can get beef, varied by such an exotic viand
as kangaroo venison, and by such delicate and fantastical volatiles as harlequin pigeons and
rose-breasted cockatoos. Nay, so easy is it to fight battles in one's back parlour, and to
endure hardships with one's feet on the fender, that this same imaginary and hastily-judging
reader, whose flippant conclusions we now quote, may think lightly of the necessity in which
our travellers found themselves of eating a horse, as recorded in the Leichhardtian journal,
p. 247. A horse broke its thigh, and it was resolved to make the best of the meat. It proved
tolerably palatable, especially the liver and kidneys, pronounced equal to those of a bullock.
When the flour was gone, the only relief from the monotony of a carnivorous diet was obtained
by experimentalising on seeds, fruits, and roots, of which many unknown species were met with.
How the party escaped death by poison is a wonder, for they were very venturesome in their
essays, and not unfrequently were punished for their boldness by severe vomitings and other
unpleasant symptoms. The jerked meat they carried with them often became musty and tainted,
having been imperfectly dried, or from the effects of rain. But their greatest difficulty was
the frequent scarcity of water, which sadly afflicted their horses, and prolonged their route,
compelling them to deviate from the direct course to encamp near pools or lagoons. These were
not always to be found; and they often remained for very many hours, even for days, without
other water than they could carry in their scanty kettles. Then the bullocks were allowed to
stray in search of drink, and it was sometimes necessary, in order to save the horses' lives,
to take them back to the previous night's camping place. The fatigues thus encountered might
well have exhausted the endurance and physical energies of the strongest man. It needed men
of iron frame to endure, without serious and frequent indisposition, such terrible privations
and sudden contrasts of temperature. Nevertheless, none of the party seem to have suffered
from illness produced by other causes than irregular and hazardous diet, except in the case
of the Doctor, who once or twice had a touch of lumbago. These violent transitions from heat
to cold were felt during only a portion of their journey. Towards the middle of the time, in
the month of June, they were greatly favoured by climate. All things are comparative; and to
the Doctor, whose sole canopy during the whole expedition was the vault of heaven, the canvass
covering enjoyed by his comrades evidently appeared a Sybaritical indulgence.

To return to the savages. The day after the retrograde movement of the cattle to Ruined Castle
Creek, and just as Dr Leichhardt was about to start on a reconnoissance, the Blackfellows came
down to where the horses were grazing, and speared one of them in the shoulder. This was the
first act of hostility. The Australian aborigines are very cowardly, and the aggressors hastily
retreated into the bush on the appearance of two or three white men. After this, in February,
some friendly and respectable barbarians were met with, and there was an interchange of courtesy
and presents. Generally the natives were shy, entertaining feelings of mingled fear, aversion,
and contempt for the pale-skinned intruders upon their forest domain. Mr Roper and Charley,
out in search of water, fell in with a Blackfellow and his gin or squaw. Like a brace of opossums,
they were up a gum-tree in no time, although the lady was in an advanced state of pregnancy.
The woman also kept her face averted." Meetings with the natives now became of common occurrence;
but as they showed much timidity, and, when ill disposed, confined their hostile demonstrations
to expectoration and grimaces, the travellers entertained little apprehension of attack. The
night watch, regularly kept at the commencement of the expedition, was now little more than
nominal, and although each man was supposed to take his turn of sentry, the guard was usually
a sleepy one, and a mere matter of form. They had reason to repent their negligence. Encamped
one evening in the dry bed of a lagoon, some in their tents, others platting palm-leaf hats,
the Doctor himself dozing near the fire, a shower of spears fell amongst them, and the savages
followed up the treacherous attack by a charge with their waddies or clubs. The Europeans were
so completely off their guard that they did not know where to find percussion caps for their
guns. When the Doctor had procured these, two or three shots sent the assailants to the right
about, with one of their number killed or wounded, for bloodstains were on their track, and
they were heard next morning wailing in the woods. But the little caravan had suffered heavy
loss. Gilbert was killed; Roper and Calvert were severely injured and disfigured by spear-wounds
and blows from the waddies. It was a melancholy and untoward event, but time could ill be spared
to mourn. The Doctor allows us to infer that the wounded would gladly have prolonged the halt,
but, although feeling for their suffering state, he had duties to perform to himself and his
other companions; and being of opinion that motion would not interfere with cure, he overruled
objections, and insisted on proceeding. The event proved he was right; the sick men, although
inconvenienced, were not injured by the march. Calvert was soon able to resume his share in
the labours of the camp and the hunting-field, and Roper, although longer disabled, also eventually
recovered.

The eighth chapter of Dr Leichhardt's journal will be esteemed by the general reader the most
interesting in the book, for in it he deviates somewhat from his usual track, is more sparing
than his wont of botanical and geographical details, and gives a few brief but interesting
particulars of the daily life and habits of his party. Towards eight o'clock the caravan usually
started, and after travelling about four hours, selected a spot for that night's camp, which
being pitched, the horses and bullocks unloaded, the fire lighted, and the dried beef put on
to stew for the late dinner, the remainder of the afternoon was devoted to washing and repairing
clothes, mending saddles, shooting, fishing, botanizing and writing up the log. The Doctor,
who was of course provided with sextant, chronometer, compass, and the other instruments necessary
to ascertain their whereabout in the wide desert, would take his observations, calculate the
latitude, ride out reconnoitring, and plan the next day's route. We would fain have heard something
more of this Phillips, whose love of solitude and flowers contrast with his quality of a convict,
and inspire interest and curiosity. Whatever his crime, his companions apparently did not repulse
him, but he himself voluntarily avoided their society, perhaps from a feeling of unworthiness
and humiliation. Dr Leichhardt casually mentions him here and there in his volume, and he seems
to have behaved steadily and well, for he was pardoned on returning to Sydney, and received
a portion of the thousand pounds appropriated from the crown revenue to reward the adventurous
party. Why he was originally selected to form part of it, when numbers of young men of enterprising
spirit and untainted reputation were refused the privilege, the Doctor does not think it necessary
to inform us.

To men far removed from the pleasures and luxuries of civilisation, isolated in a desert, and
leading a life of unceasing hardship and privation, small treats afford great enjoyment. The
pleasures of the palate, especially, acquire unusual importance, and the discovery of some
fragrant fruit or succulent vegetable, the addition to the daily stew of a bird or beast unusually
flavorous, causes amongst these grown children as much jubilation as a giant cake amongst a
horde of holiday urchins. Notwithstanding his anti-epicurean principles, the chief of the expedition
good-humouredly gave in to the fancies of his followers, who loved a feast now and then, and
were partial to celebrate notable days by such modest hors-d'oeuvres and supplementary condiments
as the niggard forest and their indifferently provided saddle-bags would afford. Homely indeed
were the additions thus made to their daily ration of charqui beef, horse-flesh or kangaroo.
Let us dwell a moment upon the magnificent preparation for a banquet on the natal day of her
Majesty Queen Victoria.

Assuredly no sumptuary laws were needed to restrain such revels as these. Horrible gluttony!
After they had been some months out, an extraordinary desire for fat diet took possession of
the wanderers. At first they felt disgust for it, and rejected it contemptuously, but suddenly
a total change occurred. When they caught an emu, their first and eager care was to pluck the
feathers and cut into the flesh, "to see how thick the fat was, and whether it was a rich yellow."
The Spartan Doctor himself was not proof against the greasy fascination. Hear his confession
of a frailty, and record of its quick-succeeding punishment. It needs no great stretch of fancy
to picture the Doctor, bereaved of his gizzard, sitting open-mouthed and aghast at the foot
of a gum-tree, his fingers still shining from the unctuous contact, the moisture of anticipation
oozing from his lips, his eyes watching the flight of the felon kite, whilst the 'possum on
the branch above grins at his mishap. The loss was the more serious, that game was not abundant
just then. They had got into a flat, sandy, uninteresting country; all box-trees and ant-hills,
as Australian Charley described it, with no cover, and nothing to shoot at. Bad enough for
the sportsman, but highly eligible squatting ground, where the settler would have few trees
to fell and abundant grass for his cattle. As for the game, it came in tracts and districts.
Sometimes they thought themselves fortunate could they secure a few pigeons, at others, they
revelled in pinguid plenty,--kangaroos roasted whole, fat ibis, flying foxes in scores, and
ducks by the dozen. A century of the web-footed for one day's consumption! And they were seven--no
more! Surely this was playing at ducks and drakes with their resources. Fourteen ducks, a leg,
a wing, and a bit of the breast, entombed, within twenty-four hours, in the stomach of each
of these seven men! The very feathers in their pillows (had they had any) would have cried
out against such voracity. Truly it is without a spark of compassion that we read of their
reduction, precisely one week afterwards, to short and less palatable commons. We avow total
unacquaintance with wallabies, their size and edible qualities, but, whatever their dimensions,
the fact of a five-months'-old hide having been stewed with them to ameliorate the broth, says
very little for their succulence. The sweetness, as well as the greenness of the "case to the
botanical collection," may fairly be doubted. We should have an ill opinion of the pottage
that needed an old portmanteau to improve its consistency, and strongly mistrust the nutritious
qualities of the meagre wallabi-broth, which followed so closely on the heels of the Feast
of Ducks.

It was very fortunate for Dr Leichhardt and his companions--who certainly had abundance of
difficulties to encounter--that the country they traversed was nearly free from ferocious beasts
and noxious reptiles. They had plenty to do without combating such formidable enemies. Throughout
the whole journal there is no mention of any dangerous animal, except crocodiles and alligators,--easily
avoided, and not much to be dreaded. Afterwards they not unfrequently fell in with them. Near
the banks of a magnificent salt-water river--named by Dr Leichhardt the "Robinson," in honour
of one of the promoters of the expedition--they came upon a native well. Of venomous snakes
and insects, we also find little or no account in the Doctor's diary. Once only there was a
suspicion of the kind. Upon leaving a camp on the river Lynd, the lad Murphy's pony was missing,
and Charley went back to look for it. Sand-flies and mosquitoes were very troublesome, large
yellow hornets savage in their attacks, and ants every where. Of these, the species called
the funnel-ant is worthy of notice for the peculiarity of its nest. The white ant is also met
with, and builds itself massive hills of enormous size. Within three days' journey of the gulf
of Carpentaria, the box-tree flat was studded with turreted ant-hills, either single sharp
cones, three to five feet high, or united in rows and forming piles of remarkable appearance.

Their arrival at the gulf of Carpentaria, which occurred on the 5th July, was a joyful event
to the wanderers. From the map accompanying Dr Leichhardt's journal, it appears they did not
take the most direct track from Moreton Bay to Port Essington, but inclined too much to the
right, reaching the gulf on its eastern instead of its southern shore, and having consequently,
as they were proceeding north-west, to strike off at right angles in a S.S.W. direction. For
this deviation from the direct line, there may have been good reason in the nature of the ground,
the forests, mountains, and other difficulties to be avoided, and in the necessity of preserving
the vicinity of water. Hitherto the progress of the expedition was most satisfactory, the only
important drawback being the death of poor Gilbert. A line of land communication between the
eastern and northern coasts of Australia had been discovered and carefully mapped; it was well
supplied with water, and the country was excellent--available almost throughout for pastoral
purposes. The Doctor had special reason to rejoice at having got so far on his expedition,
for the time occupied in reaching the gulf exceeded the period in which he had expected to
arrive at Port Essington, and his companions had begun to despond, and even to question his
abilities as a guide and leader. "We shall never come to Port Essington,"--the melancholy cry
that too often reached Leichhardt's ears,--was exchanged for a joyful hurra at sight of salt
water. Fatigues and privations were for the time forgotten as though the goal, instead of the
half-way-house, had been attained. The caravan had been nine months out; they had still nearly
six to pass before reaching their journey's end; and for various reasons, the latter portion
was the most painful and difficult. They got amongst the salt creeks and lagoons, and fresh
water was often very difficult to find. Then the little stock of comforts they had brought
from Moreton Bay, became gradually exhausted. The flour was gone before they reached the gulf;
the sugar was finished up, even to the boiling of the bags, that none of the saccharine particles
might be lost--and at length they came to their last pot of tea. This was a great deprivation,
for tea had been found most refreshing and restorative. Their diet now was dry beef and water.
They tried various substitutes for the latter, but with no very good result. The M'Kenzie bean
served as coffee, and although disagreeing at first, was finally relished. Mr Phillips, who
discovered and adopted it, subsequently tried a similar preparation of acacia seeds, whose
effects, however, were such as not to encourage consumers. To vary their edibles, they ate
vine-beans in porridge, and the young leaves of bullrushes--coming, in fact, as near to grazing
as human beings well can. A negligence deserving of the bastinado. The notion of any animal,
bearing the name of fox, being served up with the trail, is too full-flavoured to be agreeable,
and the dish might cause a revolt in the stomach of the least particular of Australian bush-rangers.
By this time, however, Dr Leichhardt and his party were inured to every sort of abomination
in the way of food, and were not difficult to please. Other troubles they had, more sensibly
felt than the coarse quality of the vivers. Their scanty wardrobe threatened to fail them;
and, already reduced to the produce of the forest for their daily food, it appeared by no means
improbable they would have to resort to the same primitive source for raiment to cover their
nakedness. Our trousers became equally patched, and the want of soap prevented us from washing
them clean." Worse than this, inflammation, boils, and prickly heat, tormented the travellers,
and their cattle showed symptoms of breaking down. At first, there were plenty of spare horses,
but these had perished from accidents and disease; those which remained became daily weaker
from over-work and want of water, and were sore-footed and tired from travelling over rocky
ranges, their shoes, useless in the grass-land, having been long since removed. Leichhardt,
who, on reaching the gulf, had sanguinely hoped the worst of the journey over, soon found his
mistake. Bad enough before, it was far worse now, and too much praise can hardly be accorded
to the cheerful courage with which the Doctor endured hardships, wrestled with difficulties,
sustained the spirits of his companions, and pressed on over all obstacles, to the termination
of his long and weary pilgrimage. It was now (at the beginning of December) not very distant.
The party were within a fortnight's march of Port Essington, where they arrived on the 17th
day of December, and received a kind welcome and needful supplies from Captain MacArthur, commandant
of the place. After a month's stay, they took ship, and reached Sydney at the end of March.

We have already referred to the strong feeling prevailing at Sydney against the practicability
of Dr Leichhardt's projected expedition, to the numerous efforts made to induce him to abandon
it, and to the confident predictions of its failure, and of the destruction of all engaged
in it. It will be remembered, also, that about a month after the departure of the adventurers
from Moreton Bay, it had been found necessary, in consequence of loss of stores and scarcity
of game, to send back some of the party, and that Mr Hodgson, suffering and disheartened, had
volunteered to return. His reappearance in the colony strengthened the doubts already entertained,
and little surprise was excited when, a month or two afterwards, news came through a party
of natives, that the adventurous band had been attacked, and its members murdered, by a tribe
to the northward. There could be small doubt of the catastrophe, which elicited from Mr Lynd
of Sydney, a bosom friend of Leichhardt, and to whom the Journal is inscribed, some very beautiful
stanzas. They were addressed to a party formed to proceed, under guidance of Mr Hodgson, in
the footsteps of Dr Leichhardt, and to ascertain his fate. By favour of a near relative of
Mr Lynd, resident in the environs of Edinburgh, we are enabled here to introduce them.

    Ye who prepare, with pilgrim feet,
      Your long and doubtful path to wend,
    If--whitening on the waste--ye meet
      The relies of my murdered friend,
    Collect them, and with reverence bear
      To where some mountain streamlet flows,
    There, by its mossy bank, prepare
      The pillow of his long repose.

    It shall be by a stream, whose tides
      Are drank by birds of every wing;
    Where every lovelier flower abides
      The earliest wakening touch of spring;
    O meet that he, who so caress'd
      All beauteous Nature's varied charms,
    That he--her martyred son--should rest
      Within his mother's fondest arms.

    When ye have made his narrow bed,
      And laid the good man's ashes there,
    Ye shall kneel down around the dead,
      And wait upon your God in prayer;
    What though no reverend man be near,
      No anthem pour its solemn breath,
    No holy walls invest his bier,
      With all the hallowed pomp of death,

    Yet humble minds shall find the grace,
      Devoutly bowed upon the sod,
    To call that blessing round the place,
      Which consecrates the soul to God:
    And ye,--the wilds and wastes,--shall tell
      How, faithful to the hopes of men,
    The Mighty Power he served so well,
      Shall breathe upon his bones again!

    When ye your gracious task have done,
      Heap not the rock upon his dust!
    The Angel of the Lord alone
      Shall guard the ashes of the just!
    But ye shall heed, with pious care,
      The memory of that spot to keep;
    And note the marks that guide me where
      My venturous friend is laid in sleep.

    For oh, bethink,--in other times,
      And be those happier times at hand,
    When science, like the smile of God,
      Comes bright'ning o'er that weary land,
    How will her pilgrims hail the power,
      Beneath the drooping miall's gloom,
    To sit at eve, and mourn an hour,
      And pluck a leaf on Leichhardt's tomb.

These charming verses were dated the 2d of July 1845. It was not till the close of the following
March, that the cloud suspended over the destiny of the expedition was suddenly dispelled by
the appearance of Leichhardt himself. As may be supposed, an enthusiastic welcome awaited the
pilgrim, whose bones were long since supposed to be bleaching in the wilderness. Subscriptions
were set on foot, and soon amounted to fifteen hundred pounds, which, with another thousand
pounds voted by the Legislative Council, were divided amongst the seven persons composing the
expedition. Dr Leichhardt, to whom the lion's share was with justice awarded, received it at
a meeting held in the School of Arts at Sydney, of which an account is given in the Sydney
Herald under the head of "The Leichhardt Testimonial," and where Dr Nicholson, speaker of the
Legislative Council, addressed the intrepid traveller, in a strain of high and well-merited
eulogium. A flattering letter from the Colonial Secretary at Sydney, announcing the government
grant, a gold medal from the Royal Geographical Society of London, and another from that of
Paris, have further rewarded Dr Leichhardt's meritorious labours. Unflinching in pursuit of
science, he again set forth, in December 1845, on an overland journey to Swan River, expected
to occupy two years and a half. This time he is better provided. His party consists of only
eight persons, but he has mules for the stores, fourteen horses, forty oxen, and two hundred
and seventy goats. And he further takes with him--light but pleasant baggage--the warm sympathy
and hearty good wishes of all to whom his amiable character and previous labours are known,
a class which the publication of the present Journal will doubtless tend largely to increase.
By Dr LUDWIG LEICHHARDT. London: Boone, 1847.

MAGUS MUIR.

The subject of the following ballad is the atrocious and dastardly assassination of James Sharp,
Archbishop of St Andrews and Primate of Scotland.

More than one attempt was made upon the life of that eminent prelate. On the 11th of July,
1668, a shot was fired into his carriage in the High Street of Edinburgh, by one James Mitchell,
a fanatical field preacher, and an associate of the infamous Major Weir. The primate escaped
unharmed, but his colleague Honyman, Bishop of Orkney, received a severe wound, from the effects
of which he died in the following year. The assassin Mitchell fled to Holland, but subsequently
returned, and was arrested in the midst of his preparations for another diabolical attempt.
This man, who afterwards suffered for his crimes, and who in consequence has obtained a place
in the book of "Covenanting Martyrology," described his motive "as an impulse of the Holy Spirit,
and justified it from Phinehas killing Cosbi and Zimri, and from that law in Deuteronomy commanding
to kill false prophets!" This is no matter of surprise, when it is recollected that the "principles
of assassination," as Mr C. K. Sharp observes, "were strongly recommended in Naphthali, Jus
Populi Vindicatum, and afterwards in The Hind let Loose, which books were in almost as much
esteem with the Presbyterians as their Bibles." Sir George Mackenzie states, "These irreligious
and heterodox books, called Naphthali and Jus Populi, had made the killing of all dissenters
from Presbytery seem not only lawful, but a duty among many of that profession: and in a postscript
to Jus Populi, it was told that the sending of the Archbishop of St Andrews' head to the king
would be the best present that could be made to Jesus Christ."[16]

These principles, at first received with doubt, were afterwards carried out to the utmost extent
by the more violent of the insurgent party. Murder and assault, frequently perpetrated upon
unoffending and defenceless persons, became so common, that the ordinary course of the law
was suspended, and its execution devolved upon the military. Scotland was indeed in a complete
state of terrorism. Gangs of armed fanatics, who had openly renounced their allegiance, perambulated
the country, committing every sort of atrocity, and directing their attacks promiscuously against
the clerical incumbents and the civil magistracy.

But the crowning act of guilt was the murder of the unfortunate Archbishop. On the 3d of May
1679, a party of the Fife non-conformists were prowling near the village of Ceres, on the outlook,
it is said, for Carmichael the Sheriff-substitute of the county, against whom they had sworn
vengeance if he should ever fall into their hands. This party consisted of twelve persons,
at the head of whom were John Balfour of Kinloch, better known by his soubriquet of Burley,
and his brother-in-law, David Hackstoun of Rathillet. Balfour, whose moral character had never
stood high, though his religious fanaticism was undoubted, had been at one time chamberlain
to the Archbishop, and had failed to account for a considerable portion of the rents, which
it was his official duty to levy. Hackstoun, whose earlier life had been in little accordance
with the ostensible tenets of his party, was also in debt to the Archbishop, and had been arrested
by the new chamberlain. "These two persons," says Mr Lawson, "had most substantial reasons
for their rancour and hatred towards the Archbishop, apart from their religious animosities."

It does not seem to be clearly ascertained, whether Carmichael was the real object of their
search, or whether their design from the first had been directed against the person of the
Primate. It would appear, however, from the depositions taken shortly after the murder, that
the deed had been long premeditated, and that three days previously some of the assassins had
met at a house in Ceres and concerted their plans. The incumbent of Ceres, the Rev. Alexander
Leslie, was also to have been made a victim if found in company with the Prelate.

Fortunately for himself, Carmichael eluded their search, but towards evening the carriage of
the Archbishop was seen approaching the waste ground near St Andrews, which is still known
by the name of Magus Muir. A hurried council was then held. Hackstoun, probably from some remnant
of compunction, declined to take the lead; but Balfour, whose bloodthirsty disposition was
noted even in those unhappy times, assumed the command, and called upon the others to follow
him. The consummation of the tragedy can best be told in the words of the historian already quoted.

"When the Primate's servants saw their master followed by a band of men on horseback, they
drove rapidly, but they were overtaken on the muir about three miles west of St Andrews; the
murderers having previously satisfied themselves, by asking a female domestic of the neighbouring
farmer, who refused to inform them himself, that it was really the Archbishop's coach.

"Russell first came up, and recognised the Primate sitting with his daughter. The Archbishop
looked out of the coach, and Russell cast his cloak from him, exclaiming,--'Judas, be taken!'
The Primate ordered the postilion to drive, at which Russell fired at the man, and called to
his associates to join him. With the exception of Hackstoun, they threw off their cloaks, and
continued firing at the coach for nearly half a mile. A domestic of the Archbishop presented
a carbine, but was seized by the neck, and it was pulled out of his hands. One of the assassins
outrun the coach, and struck one of the horses on the head with a sword. The postilion was
ordered to stop, and for refusing he was cut on the face and ankle. They soon rendered it impossible
to proceed further with the coach. Disregarding the screams, entreaties, and tears of his daughter,
a pistol was discharged at the Primate beneath his left arm, and the young lady was seen removing
the smoking combustibles from her father's black gown. Another shot was fired, and James Russell
seized a sword from one of his associates, dismounted, and at the coach-door called to the
Archbishop, whom he designated Judas, to come forth." Sir William Sharp's account of what now
occurred, which would be doubtless related to him by his sister, is as follows:--"They fired
several shots at the coach, and commanded my dearest father to come out, which he said he would.--When
he had come out, not being yet wounded, he said,--'Gentlemen, I beg my life!' 'No--bloody villain,
betrayer of the cause of Christ--no mercy!' Then said he,--'I ask none for myself, but have
mercy on my poor child!' and, holding up his hand to one of them to get his, that he would
spare his child, he cut him on the wrist. Then falling down upon his knees, and holding up
his hands, he prayed that God would forgive them; and begging mercy for his sins from his Saviour,
they murdered him by sixteen great wounds in his back, head, and one above his left eye, three
in his left hand when he was holding it up, with a shot above his left breast, which was found
to be powder. After this damnable deed they took the papers out of his pocket, robbed my sister
and their servants of all their papers, gold, and money, and one of these hellish rascals cut
my sister on the thumb, when she had him by the bridle begging her father's life."

So died with the calmness and intrepidity of a martyr this reverend and learned prelate, maligned
indeed by the fanatics of his own and succeeding ages, but reverenced and beloved by those
who best knew his innate worth, unostentatious charity, and pure piety of soul. In the words
of a worthy Presbyterian divine of last century,--"His inveterate enemies are agreed in ascribing
to him the high praise of a beneficent and humane disposition. He bestowed a considerable part
of his income in ministering to pressing indigence, and relieving the wants of private distress.
In the exercise of his charity, he had no contracted views. The widows and orphans of the Presbyterian
brethren richly shared his bounty without knowing whence it came. He died with the intrepidity
of a hero, and the piety of a Christian, praying for the assassins with his latest breath."

    Gently ye fall, ye summer showers,
      On blade, and leaf, and tree;
    Ye bring a blessing to the earth,
      But nane--O nane, to me!

    Ye cannot wash this red right hand
      Free from its deadly stain,
    Ye cannot cool the burning ban
      That lies within my brain.

    O be ye still, ye blithesome birds,
      Within the woodland spray,
    And keep your songs within your hearts
      Until another day:

    And cease to fill the blooming brae
      With warblings light and clear,
    For there's a sweeter song than yours
      That I maun never hear.

    It was upon the Magus Muir
      Within the lanesome glen,
    That in the gloaming hour I met
      Wi' Burley and his men.

    Our hearts were hard as was the steel
      We bore within the hand;
    But harder was the heart of him
      That led that bluidy band.

    Dark lay the clouds upon the west
      Like mountains huge and still:
    And fast the summer lightning leaped
      Behind the distant hill.

    It shone on grim Rathillet's brow
      With pale and ghastly glare:
    I caught the glimpse of his cold gray eye--
      There was MURDER glittering there!

       *       *       *       *       *

    Away, away! o'er bent and hill,
      Through moss and muir we sped:
    Around us roared the midnight storm,
      Behind us lay the dead.

    We spoke no word, we made no sign
      But blindly rade we on,
    For an angry voice was in our ears
      That bade us to begone,
    We were brothers all baptised in blood,
      Yet sought to be alone!

    Away, away! with headlong speed
      We rade through wind and rain,
    And never more upon the earth
      Did we all meet again.

    There's some have died upon the field,
      And some upon the tree,
    And some are bent and broken men
      Within a far countrie,
    But the heaviest curse hath lighted down
      On him that tempted me!

    O hame, hame, hame!--that holy place--
      There is nae hame for me!
    There's not a child that sees my face
      But runs to its mither's knee.

    There's not a man of woman born
      That dares to call me kin--
    O grave! wert thou but deep enough
      To hide me and my sin!

    I wander east, I wander west,
      I neither can stop nor stay,
    But I dread the night when all men rest
      Far more than the glint of day.

    O weary night, wi' all its stars
    Sae clear, and pure, and hie!
    Like the eyes of angels up in heaven
    That will not weep for me!

    O weary night, when the silence lies
      Around me, broad and deep,
    And dreams of earth, and dreams of heaven,
      That vex me in my sleep.

    For aye I see the murdered man,
      As on the muir he lay,
    With his pale white face, and reverend head,
      And his locks sae thin and gray;
    And my hand grows red with the holy blude
      I shed that bitter day!

    O were I but a water drop
      To melt into the sea--
    But never water yet came down
      Could wash that blude from me!

    And O! to dream of that dear heaven
      That I had hoped to win--
    And the heavy gates o' the burning gowd
      That will not let me in!

    I hear the psalm that's sung in heaven,
      When the morning breaks sae fair,
    And my soul is sick wi' the melodie
      Of the angels quiring there.

    I feel the breath of God's ain flowers
      From out that happy land,
    But the fairest flower o' Paradise
      Would wither in my hand.

    And aye before me gapes a pit
      Far deeper than the sea,
    And waefn' sounds rise up below,
      And deid men call on me.

    O that I never had been born,
      And ne'er the light had seen!
    Dear God--to look on yonder gates
      And this dark gulf between!

    O that a wee wee bird wad come
      Though 'twere but ance a-year!
    And bring but sae much mool and earth
      As its sma' feet could bear,

    And drap it in the ugsome hole
      That lies 'twixt heaven and me,
    I yet might hope, ere the warld were dune,
      My soul might saved be!

    W. E. A.

FOOTNOTE:

[16] LAWSON'S History of the Episcopal Church of Scotland.

A NOVEMBER MORNING'S REVERIE.

BY DELTA.

    Hast thou a chamber in the utter West,
    A cave of shelter from the glare of day,
    Oh radiant Star of Morning! whose pure eye,
    Like an archangel's, over the dim Earth,
    With such ineffable effulgence shines?
    Emblem of Sanctity and Peace art thou!
    Thou leavest man, what time to daily toil
    His steps are bent--what time the bustling world
    Usurps his thought; and, through the sunny hours,
    Unseen, forgot, art like the things that were;
    But Twilight weeps for joy at thy return,
    With brighter blaze the faggots on the hearth
    Sparkle, and home records its happiest hour!

    Hark! 'tis the Robin's shrill yet mellow pipe,
    That in the voiceless calm of the young morn,
    Commingles with my dreams:--lo! as I draw
    Aside the curtains of my couch, he sits,
    Deep over-bower'd by broad geranium leaves,
    (Leaves trembling 'neath the touch of sere decay,)
    Upon the dewy window-sill, and perks
    His restless black eye here and there, in search
    Of crumbs, or shelter from the icy breath
    Of wild winds rushing from the Polar sea:
    For now November, with a brumal robe,
    Mantles the moist and desolated earth;
    Dim sullen clouds hang o'er the cheerless sky,
    And yellow leaves bestrew the undergrove.

    'Tis earliest sunrise. Through the hazy mass
    Of vapours moving on like shadowy isles,
    Athwart the pale, gray, spectral cope of heaven,
    With what a feeble, inefficient glow
    Looks out the Day; all things are still and calm,
    Half wreathed in azure mist the skeleton woods,
    And as a picture silent. Little bird!
    Why with unnatural tameness comest thou thus,
    Offering in fealty thy sweet simple songs
    To the abode of man? Hath the rude wind
    Chilled thy sweet woodland home, now quite despoiled
    Of all its summer greenery, and swept
    The bright, close, sheltering bowers, where merrily
    Rang out thy notes--as of a haunting sprite,
    There domiciled--the long blue summer through?
    Moulders untenanted thy trim-built nest,
    And do the unpropitious fates deny
    Food for thy little wants, and Penury,
    With tiny grip, drive thee to dubious walls,--
    Though terrors flutter at thy panting heart,--
    To stay the pangs which must be satisfied?
    Alas! the dire sway of Necessity
    Oft makes the darkest, most repugnant things
    Familiar to us; links us to the feet
    Of all we feared, or hated, or despised;
    And, mingling poison with our daily food,
    Yet asks the willing heart and smiling cheek:
    Yea! to our subtlest and most tyrannous foes,
    May we be driven for shelter, and in such
    May our sole refuge lie, when all the joys,
    That, iris-like, wantoned around our paths
    Of prosperous fortune, one by one have died;
    When day shuts in upon our hopes, and night
    Ushers blank darkness only. Therefore we
    Should pity thee, and have compassion on
    Thy helpless state, poor bird, whose loveliness
    Is yet unscathed, and whose melodious notes,
    (Sweeter by melancholy rendered,) steal
    With a deep supplication to the heart,
    Telling that thou wert happy once--that now
    Thou art most destitute; and yet, and yet--
    Only were thy small pinching wants supplied
    By Charity--couldst be most happy still!--
    Is it not so?

          Out on unfeeling man!
    Will he who drives the beggar from his gates,
    And to the moan of fellow-man shuts up
    Each avenue of feeling--will he deign
    To think that such as Thou deserve his aid?
    No! when the gust raves, and the floods descend,
    Or the frost pinches, Thou may'st, at dim eve,
    With forced and fearful love approach his home,
    What time, 'mid western mists, the broad, red sun,
    Sinking, calls out from heaven the earliest star;
    And the crisp blazing of the dry Yule-log
    Flickers upon the pictured walls, and lights
    By fits the unshutter'd lattice; but, in vain,
    Thy chirp repeated earnestly; the flap,
    Against the obdurate pane, of thy small wing;--
    He hears thee not--he heeds not--but, at morn,
    The ice-enamoured schoolboy, early afoot,
    Finds thy small bulk beneath the alder stump,
    Thy bright eyes closed, and tiny talons clench'd,
    Stiff in the gripe of death.

          The floating plume
    Tells how the wind blows, with a certainty
    As great as doth the vessel's full-swoln sheets;
    So doth the winged seed; 'tis not alone
    In mighty things that we may truliest read
    The heart, but in its temper and its tone:--
    Thus true Benevolence we ever find
    Forgiving, gentle, tremblingly alive
    To pity, and unweariedly intent
    On all the little, thousand charities,
    Which day by day calls forth. Oh! as we hope
    Forgiveness of our earthly trespasses,--
    Of all our erring deeds and wayward thoughts,--
    When Time's dread reckoning comes,--oh! as we hope
    Mercy, who need it much, let us, away
    From kindness never turning, mould our hearts
    To sympathy, and from all withering blight
    Preserve them, and all deadening influences:--
    So 'twill be best for us. The All-seeing Eye,
    Which numbers each particular hair, and notes
    From heaven the sparrow's fall, shall pass not o'er
    Without approval deeds unmarked by man--
    Deeds, which the right hand from the left conceals--
    Nor overlook the well-timed clemency,
    That soothed and stilled the murmurs of distress.

    Enamour'd of all mysteries, in love
    With doubt itself, and fond to disbelieve,
    We ask not, "if realities be real?"
    With Plato, or with Berkeley; but we know
    Life comes not of itself, and what hath life,--
    However insignificant it seem
    To us, whose noblest standard is ourselves,--
    Hath been by the Almighty's finger touch'd,
    Or ne'er had been at all--it must be so.
    Therefore 'tis by comparison alone
    That things seem great or small; and noblest they
    Whose sympathies, with a capacious range,
    Would own no limit to their fond embrace.
    Yea, there, as in all else, doth Duty dwell
    With happiness: for far the happiest he,
    Who through the roughnesses of life preserves
    His boyish feelings, and who sees the world,
    Not as it is in cold reality,
    A motley scene of struggle and of strife,
    But tinted with the glow of bright romance:
    For him the morning has its star; the sun,
    Rising or setting, fires for him the clouds
    With glory; flowers for him have tales,
    Like those which, for a thousand nights and one,
    Enchained the East; each season as it rolls
    Strikes in his bosom its peculiar chord,
    Yet each alike harmonious, to a heart
    That vibrates ever in sweet unison:
    Each scene hath its own influence, nor less
    The frost that mimics each on pool or pane:
    Delight flows in alike from calm or storm:
    Delight flows in to him from nature's shows
    Of hill and dale, swift river, or still lake:
    To him the very winds are musical--
    Have harmony Æolian, wild and sweet;
    The stream sings to its banks, and the wild birds
    To Echo--viewless tell-tale of the rocks--
    Who in the wantonness of love responds.

    Gifts, in the eye of Heaven, not always bear
    The marketable value stamped by man
    Upon them,--else the poor were truly poor,
    The willing spirit destitute indeed.
    In other balance are our actions weighed
    By Him who sees the heart in all its thoughts;
    Both what it wills and cannot, what it tries
    And doth,--and with what motive, for what end.
    Clouds clothe them like realities, and shine
    Even so to human eyes; yet, not the less
    Are only mockeries of the things they seem,
    And melt as we survey them. Let us not
    The shadow for the substance take, the Jay
    For the true Bird of Paradise. A crust
    Dealt, by the poor man, from his daily loaf,
    To the wayfarer, poorer than himself--
    A cup of water, in the Saviour's name
    Proffered, with ready hand, to thirsting lips,--
    Seem trifles in themselves, yet weigh for wine,
    And gems, and gold, and frankincense. The mite,--
    The widow's offering, and her all, put in
    With grief, because she had no more to give,
    Yet given although her all,--was in the sight
    Of Heaven a sumless treasury bestowed,
    And reckoned such in her account above:--
    When Nineveh, through all her myriad streets,
    Lay blackened with idolatry and crime,
    God had preserved her--would have saved her whole--
    Had but the Prophet, as a leaven, found
    His righteous ten!

          Therefore, Oh never deem
    Thoughts, deeds, or feelings valueless, that bear
    The balance of the heart to Virtue's side!
    The coral worm seems nought, but coral worms
    Combined heave up a reef, where mightiest keels
    Are stranded, and the powers of man put down.
    The water-drop wears out the stone; and cares
    Trifling, if ceaseless, form an aggregate,
    Whose burden weighs the buoyant heart to earth.
    Think not the right path may be safely left,
    Though 'twere but for one moment, and one step;
    That one departure, slight howe'er it be,
    From Innocence is nought. The young peach-bloom,
    Rudely brushed off, can be restored no more,
    By all the cunning of the painter's art;
    Nor to the sered heart comes, in after life
    Again,--however longed for, or bewailed,--
    Youth's early dews, the pure and delicate!

VALEDICTORY VISITS AT ROME.

Andiamo a Napoli; and so we will, in accordance with the repeated suggestions we have received
during the last ten days from all the vetturini in Rome. Easter is gone by, the Girandola went
off last week, the English are going, and so is our bell, tinkle! tinkle! tinkle!--as if its
wire had a touch of vernal ague--while the old delf plate in the hall is filled and running
with cards, every pasteboard parallelogram among them with two P's and a C in the corner; for
we are becoming too polite, it seems, to take leave of each other in our own tongue. As the
English quit Rome, the swallows arrive, and may be seen in great muster flitting up and down
the streets, looking at the affiches of vacancies before fixing on a lodging. Unlike us, these
callow tourists--though many of them on their first visit to Rome--are no sooner within the
walls, than they find, without assistance, their way to the Forum, and proceed to build and
twitter in that very Temple of Concord where Juvenal's storks of old made their nidus and their
noise! Andiamo a Napoli; yes, but not yet; we are sure at this season to have an impatient
patient or two to visit in the Babuino, or at Serny's; who, labouring under incipient fever
which has not yet tamed them into submission, tell us they would--optative mood--be at Florence
in a week, and add--in the imperative--that they must be in London in three! Vedremmo! These
cases--may they end well--are sure, meanwhile, to be somewhat tedious in their progress; and
besides, were there none such, two motives have we for always lingering the last in Rome: the
one, to avoid the importunity of many indiscreet acquaintance, who would else be sure at this
season to plague us with some trifling commission, on purpose to open a sudden correspondence,
in the hope of learning all about the heat, the fever, the mosquitoes, the fare and the accommodation
of Castellamare and Sorrento, thinking themselves, meanwhile, perfect Talleyrands in diplomacy,
in employing a ruse which it is impossible not to see through; the other and more important,
to secure the necessary quiet while we linger about favourite haunts, and refresh our memory
with sites and scenes endeared by long and intimate acquaintance. To describe people or places
accurately, requires a long and attentive familiarity, but to do so feelingly and with effect,
we should trust principally to first and last impressions: either will be more likely to furnish
a lively representation, as far as it goes, than when too great intimacy with details leads
us to forget what is characteristic, and to dwell without emphasis, or with equal and tedious
emphasis, upon all alike. New scenes, owing, perhaps, part of their charm to that circumstance,
may occasionally betray us into exaggeration; but the records of a last coup-d'oeil, when we
dwell with sad complacency upon every feature, as upon those of a friend from whom we are about
to part, are characterised at once by an equal freshness, and by more truth, feeling, and discrimination.
We might proceed to exemplify this, from a long series of first and last views in Italy: with
some of them the reader may be familiar, for we have frequently met in Maga's pages; with others
he will--should it so please him--become acquainted, when, leaving the company of our present
agreeable associates, we stand forth an author of "Travels," and have more ample scope for
our egotism. We confine ourselves now to a few valedictory visits in and about Rome.

THE VILLA BORGHESE.

It was on 15th April, 1843, seven A. M., when we went to take farewell of the Borghese. In
passing up the Via Babuino on our way thither, our ears catch some of the well-known street
cries. These generally attract a momentary attention, even amidst all the bustle, activity,
and din of a great commercial city: how much more, then, in the comparative stillness of Rome,
particularly in the morning, when few people are stirring, and we are most alive to sounds?
Some of these cries are not unpleasing: the first to greet us, plaintive and melancholy in
its character, is that of "Aqua acetosa," which announces the water of a mineral spring in
the neighbourhood, brought in at sunrise for those who are too idle or too ill to drink it
at its source. Another kind of water--also very matutinal in its delivery,--the "Aqua vita,"
is intonated by the Aquavitario, in a sharp kestrel key,--hear him! Now, list to two men carrying
a large deep tub of honey between them, and bellowing in rapid alternation, "Miele, miele,"
and say if their accents are mellifluous! Next, comes a loud-tongued salesman, who out-brays
Lablache, but confines his singing to "Che vuole, che vuole!" and oranges and lemons are his
commodity. From an itinerant green-grocer, who passes with his panniered donkey, suddenly bursts
forth, "Cimaroli, cimaroli!" The last cry we hear is that of "Tutti vivi, tutti vivi!" from
the asparagaro, who is bringing frogs and wild asparagus into Rome. Now we are in the Piazza
del Popolo, and having glanced a moment at those buxom goddesses, at the foot of the Pincian
hill, who look right well this morning in their flowing robes, turn out of the Popolo Gate,
just as a large drove of lean turkeys, driven in from the Campagna, besiege the entrance on
their way to the bird-market, where they are to be presently slaughtered, drawn, and quartered;
their "disjecta membra" exposed to sale at so many baiocchi a pound; and their blood, which
is more esteemed than their flesh, hawked about the streets in cakes: of course we are too
humane to hint to them their coming destiny. In front of the elegant Borghese entrance, and
round the Park lodge, all strewn about in picturesque disarray, we behold one of those numerous
herds of goats, which come in every morning, to be milked at the different houseouse doors:
their udders at present are brimful, and almost touch the lintel of the gate where they are
standing--"gravido superant vix ubere limen;" and though they are emptied continually, soon
fill again,--

    "Et plus ta main avare épuise leurs mammelles
    Plus la douce ambroisie entre tes doigts ruisselle."

Some are lying down to lighten their load; and some, with an air of patient expectancy, turn
their heads towards an "osteria cacinante" opposite, knowing that so soon as their drover has
finished his own cold broccoli breakfast, he will come out to accompany them into Rome to disperse
theirs. And now we are within the enceinte of the Borghese grounds, have passed the good-humoured
custode at the gate, responded a hearty "da vero," to the "che bella qiornata" with which we
are greeted, tarried for an instant by the little pond to the left, and heard the Babylonian
willow susurrate the same salutation to the water under its boughs, and then make for, and
soon reach, the large ever-spouting fountain which is scattering its comminuted water-dust
far and near, and bathes our cheek refreshingly as we pass it: and now we are at the Borghese
dairy, and now by Raphael's little frescoed house, untenanted within, and with a solitary robin,
the custode of the porch; but at the back premises we come upon an artist in a blouse making
a sketch. He could not have chosen a more picturesque spot than this any where in the park:
for foreqround, a beautiful green sward, well dotted with recumbent and standing cows, and
interspersed with masses of acanthus-crowned ruin; and for the back, the graceful sweep of
the old gray Roman walls, with the Villa Medici and the Pincian hill peering just above. Fain
would we carry away some such souvenir; but as nature or our misfortune forbid this, our endeavour
shall be to supply its place, however inadequately, by dotting down a few words of description
of one or two of the principal trees, which here so greatly embellish the view.

The Ilex, interesting alike from its appearance and physiology, first engages our notice. Compact
and solid while yet a shrub, (for hers is indeed an old head upon young shoulders,) she grows
like a tree that is to count by centuries, and under no advantage of soil or situation does
her sober aspect change; no premature overgrowth was ever known to weaken her fibres, those
têtes mortées; the Lombardy poplars there, whose only merit is their height, may shoot up ever
so tauntingly, for aught she cares, at her elbow; her ambition is not like that of the stately
pines, to nurse a noisy aviary on high; nor does she seek to rival the fair sisterhood of the
Acacias in the youthful vanity of overdecking her person; one dark-coloured investment lasts
her, and remains unchanged the whole year through. But though she takes no improper "pride
in dress," even the rigid Dr Watts would hardly be disposed to object to the exceedingly charming
trimming of semi-transparent green flouncing, and the rich festoons of straw-yellow tassels,
with which--not to appear insensible to the festivities of spring--she has just now fringed
her winter apparel. Making less demands upon the earth than many of her neighbours, she turns
her supplies to better account; her acorns from early youth are firm and mature; excrescences,
the common result of excess, mar not the rough symmetry of her hardy frame--few insects feed
upon that uncompromising rind, which, opposing itself to most cryptogamic alliance, seldom
suffers moss or lichen to spread over its incised and tesselated surface,

    "Save here and there in spots aye dank and dark,
    When the green meshes fill the fissured bark."

Much does the Ilex gain by this prudent economy of her resources; for, long after the autumnal
rains have stripped her companions bare, while they are shivering and sighing in the blast,
she knows neither moult nor change. Immutably serene, she plants the dense screen of well-clothed
boughs across the road, and affords shelter to the careless wight who has forgotten his umbrella,
keeping him dry and warm under an impenetrable water-proof and winter-proof canopy. Of all
trees that bloom, (especially when as now in full feather,) few can rival the acacia in delicacy
of white, or in profusion of blossoming. Nodding their heavy plumes and parting their leafy
tresses in the breeze, they are the charm of every spot where they grow; whether as here, alternating
in beautiful relief by the lofty wall of the aqueduct, commingling their snowy bunches amidst
thousands of red and white Banksian roses; or else standing sentinel with a weeping willow
over some garden fountain. Whether alone or in company, there is not a more beautiful sylvan
blonde than the acacia; but it is too apparent that such loveliness will not last, that her
stature is fully beyond her strength. For example, there is a row of them; none counts her
twelfth birth-day, and yet all are grown up! Turn we, now, to the great stone pines: here they
stand in the morning sun, that has already cracked their fevered bark, and caused it to peel
off in red laminæ from the rugged trunk. See the ground at their base strewn with these thin
vegetable tiles; and large quantities of that most beautiful of funguses, the Clatharus Cancellatus,
chooses this situation to blush and stink. This group is a well-known land-mark for miles around
Rome; far off in the Campagna we recognise the clump; the dome of St Peter's itself meets not
sooner the inquiring eye of the arriving tourist. They are also the artists' trees; not a bough
of them but has been studied and depicted time after time for centuries; they have stood oftener
for their portraits than they have cones to count, and are as familiar to the young painter,
as the line-school that beset the Pincian hill. These are the principal trees which give character
to the garden; but there are hosts of others that help to make up the beauty of the scene;
Catalpas, Meleas, Brousenitias, &c. &c., all now in light green foliage. Some are still hung
with pods and berries of their last year's growth, producing an insieme of pictorial effect
rarely to be met with out of Italy, and in Italy only at this season of the year. Continuing
our walk, we pass under the rose-crowned aqueduct, and strike into the green avenue that darkens
beyond; listening to the distant water bubbling up from the deepest recesses, and to the fitful
whistle of blackbird and thrush, as they flit athwart the moss-grown gravel, and perch momentarily
on the heads of mutilated termini and statues; whilst the clipt trees vibrate under the wings
of others extricating themselves on a piratical cruise against a whole flotilla of butterflies,
which is rising and falling over the sunny parterres beyond. "The well-greaved grillus" bounds
twenty feet at a spring, and having thighs as thick as a lark's to double under him, makes
little use of his wings. Many a callow bee is buzzing helplessly in the path. The gray curculio
walks with snout erect, snuffing the morning air; and here we fall upon a party of apprentice
pill-beetles, learning to make up stercoraceous boluses, and forming nearly as long a line
as the shopmen who are similarly engaged behind Holloway's counter in the Strand. Near us,
hordes of "quick-eyed lizards,"--insect crocodiles, which much infest this region, start from
their holes in the wall, and, rustling along the box hedge, suddenly pounce upon a butterfly,
detach his wings--the whole walk is strewed with them--and having bolted his body, retire again
to their resting--no--they never rest--lurking-places. Notwithstanding, however, these constant
aggressions, from both birds and reptiles, the lepidopterous race is not, it seems, to be exterminated;
and there, in evidence, lies that very blue-zoned peacock-butterfly, with his wings extended,
and motionless as if pinned to the gravel, on the same sunny spot where we have been in the
habit of noticing him for these three successive Aprils past. The eye that follows butterflies
takes note also of the flowers on which they settle, but we must not indulge ourselves in pointing
them out to the reader, who, unless a botanist, or inclined that way, might turn as restive
as the young bride listening to her "preceptor husband."

    "He showed the flowers from stamina to root,
    Calyx and corol, pericarp and fruit;
    Of all the parts, the size, the use, the shape:
    While poor Augusta panted to escape:
    The various foliage various plants produce,
    Lunate and lyrate, runcinate, retuse,
    Latent and patent, papilous and plain;
    'Oh!' said the pupil, 'it will turn my brain!'"

And, therefore, though "flowers, fresh in hue and many in their class," absolutely "implore
the pausing step," we forbear, and will let him off this time with rehearsing only three or
four among them:--the Allium fragrans, he will join with us, if he has been in Italy, in the
wish that all onions there were like it! the Anchusa Italica, through whose long funnel the
proboscis of the ever-buzzing Bombylius finds its way to the sweet nectar prepared within;
the Scilla Lilio-hyacinthus--a Squill masquerading it as a Hyacinth; the leaves of the Cnicus
Syraicus, most beautiful of thistles, glistening here in abundance, and scarcely inferior in
attractions to the far-famed Acanthus. But the society of plants is as promiscuous as our own,
and accordingly we find here the jaundiced Chelidonium filled with bilious juices; the feculent-smelling
flowerets of the Smyrnum olusatrum, and the stinking Geranium robertianum, mingle with the
sweets of Calendula, Narcissus, and Jonquil; not to mention the Orchis tribe, which flourishes
in profusion. Traversing the green arena of the amphitheatre,--where annual festas are held,
and occasional cricket matches played--to the left, and leaving the Temple of Diana to the
right, we come upon a deep descent just in front of the villa, and enter it for a minute to
cast a hasty coup-d'oeil at the ample frescoes of the ceiling and the grim mosaics of the floor;
the subjects of the latter, however, not being congenial to an unbreakfasted stomach, we relinquish
them presently, for the beauties of the park.... By the time we think of retracing our steps,
the clock of Monte Citorio has struck ten; but the morning is still delightfully cool and exhilarating;
we have been overtaken and passed by three pedestrians, each carrying away from the grounds
something more than mere recollections; one, a semplicista of the Rotunda, with a collection
of Galenicals for his shop; another with a pocket full of Arum roots, which he has been grubbing
up for his wife, a lavatrice, to clear linen; and a third, whose handkerchief contains several
pounds weight of prugnoli--Agaricus prunulus--destined for his breakfast. These do not long
keep pace with our lingering footsteps; we are loth to quit hastily, and for the last time,
this scene of by-gone pleasures. Oh! Villa Borghese, well known to us from curly-pated boyhood,
before Waterloo was won, and often at intervals since, till now, when half our hair has become
gray, and the remainder has left our temples, while grown-up nephews and nieces declare to
us, what our contemporaries will not--the progress of time--how many happy hours of careless
childhood have we frolicked away among thine avenues and plantations--on which we cast a last
sad look--with urchins now as bald as ourselves! In early youth we have read our favourite
authors under thy trees; a little later, have botanised with friends who loved thee and nature
as dearly as we did; and thus have we learned to know thee, in every dress, in every phase
of light and shade, and in every month of the year. During our last sojourn, in particular,
this has been our favourite haunt; in winter, when walking required speed, and stalactites
of ice would glisten occasionally from the aqueduct; or when summer returned, and we could
bask under the tall spread pines, and watch the cawing rooks as they went and came over head,
or screened ourselves in some dark avenue from the fervency of the sun, from whence we could
see him blazing at both ends of it. A long and endearing familiarity has indeed been ours,
melancholy and unsating; and it has given rise to a host of trying associations, conjured up
by each new visit after a brief absence from Rome, and now adds poignancy of regret to what
we feel must be the last,--

    "While at each step, against our will
    Does memory, with pernicious skill,
    Our captive thoughts enchain,
    Recalls each joy that treach'rous smiled,
    And of green griefs and sorrows wild,
    Resuscitates the pain."

THE VILLA ALBANI.

An Italian villa is like any other Italian belle; we would rather pay either a morning visit
than summer and winter with them; both dress themselves out for strangers, and often at the
expense of their rightful owners. An Italian villa is very charming for a brief spring, malarious
in summer and autumn, and incommodiously furnished for every season. Comfort makes but slow
progress abroad, and has not yet found its way into Italy at all; neither into her dictionaries
as a name, nor into her dwellings as a thing. What should we, ease-loving English, think of
a house, which, lined with marbles and frescoes, carpeted with mosaics and adorned with statues,
offered nothing but niches and marble curule chairs to write on and to sit in? Yet such is
the general scheme and internal arrangement throughout most villas in Italy; for as to the
prime of the house, the piano nobile, that belongs as by prescriptive right to the Cæsars,
being indeed only fitted for impassive marble and bronze emperors:--while the over-hospitable
entertainer of these august guests is content to stow away himself and family in apartments
which are frequently little better than our offices for menials, in which his few articles
of rococo furniture, of all sorts and sizes, are crazy, cumbersome, undusted, and ill-matched;
in short, more like the promiscuous contents of some inferior broker's shop, than the elegant
ameublement we might have expected to correspond to the profusion of objects of vertu which
grace the principal show-rooms of the mansion. At home, we may differ in our notions about
comfort in the details, but there are certain conditions which are rightly held essential to
its possible existence; and if "the cold neat parlour, and the gay glazed bed," have their
admirers, it is because cleanliness and neatness are two of them: but in Italy we look in vain
for either, and there is nothing to compensate their absence. Few Englishmen could engage in
literary labour in the fireless, ill-furnished rooms which throughout Italy are a matter of
course; where carpets, curtains, or an easy chair, are unknown luxuries; and into which, entering
by various ill-placed and worse fitting windows and doors, confluent draughts catch you in
all directions, turning the sanctum of study into a perfect Temple of the Winds! Yet, to some
men, comfort seems as unnecessary as it is unattainable. The Italian antiquary, in particular,
had need be careless of his ease, and regardless of external temperature; as that degree of
it necessary for the conservation of nude marble figures, is by no means congenial to flesh
and blood. This reflection occurs to us to-day--not for the first time, certes--under the noble
portico of the villa Albani, with a volume of Winkelmann in our hand; for in this palace, and
in some such study as we have hinted at, must he have shivered over these recondite labours,
while meditating, composing, and consulting authorities, to constitute himself hereafter the
great oracle of the fine arts. Had Winkelmann been half as curious in his research after comfort
as vertù, verily the world would have lost many an able dissertation and ingenious conjecture;
and this villa in particular--to which we are now come to pay our respects--we fear our last
respects--had been deprived of this renowned commentary on her treasures. Let us hope parenthetically
that a recent perusal of the venerable antiquary, together with some slight acquaintance with
the objects themselves, will on such an occasion excite in us a spark of that enthusiasm which
animates all his descriptions. What a beautiful portico! we catch ourselves saying con amore
for the hundredth time--and who will gainsay us?--with its thirty columns of different coloured
granites and rare marbles, cipolino, porta santa, occhio di pavone (vide Corsi); its busts,
its ornamented tazzas, its statues, and many other et coeteras too numerous to catalogue. Among
the statues, our eye soon singles out the queenly figure of Agrippina seated in her marble
chair. Stateliness and high rank apparent in her features, grace and perfect self-possession
in her attitude, doubtless she is expecting a deputation of importance, or maybe a visit from
the emperor, and has prepared her well-tutored countenance to receive either with dignity.
Here are the busts of Nerva and of the first Cæsar, to whose characters, while history gives
the key, we are apt to fancy, as we stare at them, that to Lavater we owe the discovery. Those
ubiquitous emperors Hadrian, Trajan, Antoninus Pius, and Gordianus ditto, on whom as on other
boring acquaintance you are sure to stumble in every gallery at Rome till you almost yawn in
their faces, are here of course. Besides these, by way of novelty, we fall in with the grave,
much-bearded, long-faced bust, Epicurus underwritten on the pedestal. If it be that sage, then
has not his face any vestige of the jovial "live while you live" expression which we might
have expected, were he true to his own philosophy; but, on the contrary, a dignified Melancthon
sadness, as if, like Solomon, he had had enough of pleasure, and had found nothing but "vanity
and vexation of spirit" from them all. Opposite to him, we look with interest on the much less
apocryphal head of Scipio Africanus, not only exhibiting on his bald temple a large crucial
cicatrice, in token of a wound which we know him to have received, but presenting the singular
appearance of having been trefined, an operation of which there is certainly no record in his
life. Just before we ascend, we glance up at those beautiful Caryatides, who give their name
to one of the principal saloons, and, loitering for a few moments on the stair before a charming
little group of Niobe and her children, are presently in the gallery above. There--omitting
all minor objects of interest chronicled in the guide books, (which we have now no time to
re-examine,)--we devote ourselves chiefly to the reconsidering two or three favourite marbles
and bronzes. First among the former stands the Minerva, a specimen of Roman sublime, (vide
Winkelmann)--perfect, say all the guide books; but how a lady with an artificial nose, and
a right arm palpably modern, can be so considered, it would be difficult to explain. By the
side of his wise daughter is niched a noble statue of Jupiter, executed by some great artist
while the god was master of Olympus, and probably brought to Rome when he had ceased to reign,
and his effects were sold. In the effeminate Antinous, an alto-relievo of whitest marble, we
admire the prototype of that arrow-stricken youth, the comely St Sebastian. Nothing can exceed
the grace of the bronze Apollo; but, on looking from his form into his face, you are surprised
to find him literally stone-blind; a shocking case of double cataract, produced by adopting
for eyes two sardonyxes, whereof the second layer, representing the iris, is dark, while the
white centre of the orb, corresponding to the pupil, exhibits a hopeless opacity. We pause
in succession before those weird sisters, arranged stiffly à l'Etrusque, who are receiving
the infant Bacchus, not to give him milk, you may be sure, but to dry-nurse him upon Burgundy;
a perfectly intellectual head, planted upon misshapen shoulders, supposed to be Æsop, a beautiful
deformity; a Hercules, leaning against a column, and reposing after some of his many labours;
the large marble vase with Bacchante figures and attendant Fauns, carrying skins of wine to
keep up the festivities; all these are well worthy of a longer inspection than we have now
time to bestow. The mosaics on the floor, too, offer pleasing representations of different
objects of natural history; many birds, "goldfinch, bullfinch, greenfinch, chaffinch, and all
the finches of the grove;" cicadæ and dragonflies, fruits and flowers, the arbutus and the
ivy, commingling their various forms and colours, and all inimitably executed. Descending slowly,
we find ourselves once more at Agrippina's side in the Portico; not this time to look at the
statues, but out upon the prospect, sub dio, and amuse ourselves with tracking the broken and
often interrupted lines of converging aqueducts that cross and recross the plain. The clear
Italian atmosphere renders objects so distinct, that with a glass we can read the names of
the locanda at Frascati, nine miles off, and almost determine what provisions the man in the
white apron has in his hand. Tivoli and Frascati, not far distant from each other, stand high
upon the hills; and still higher up is Rocca di Papa on its lofty site; while between us and
them, in the dancing air, lies that malarious Campagna, which, though unfruitful in corn, wine,
or olives, yields notwithstanding a rich harvest of its own. From it, every year are gathered
bushels of imperial and consular coins; engraved stones, and other works of ancient art; and
from the same "marble wilderness" many of the busts and bas-reliefs, which adorn not only this
villa, but also most of the mansions in and about Rome. But we have to walk home; and we accordingly
look with natural alarm at the garden, with its broad shadeless walks blazing in the sun; the
sparrows can bear the heat no longer; a whole bevy, who for the last five minutes have been
jargoning their uneasiness over our head, have finally gone off to seek shelter in the bushes;--their
instinct having first prompted several expedients to relieve their distress, all of which failed
them; thus, when they found that sitting either in company or "alone upon the house top" would
not do, and that hopping on the tiles blistered their feet, they bethought them of the metal
pipes, and tried to effect an entrance, but quickly issued screaming, having made the discovery,
that they had only got out of the fire into a frying-pan. On issuing from the Portico, we pass
a large fountain, in which the gold fish keep studiously at the bottom of the water, while
the restless dragon-fly (who finds the glittering shell-work too hot to hold him) is as studiously
skimming backwards and forwards over the surface, to cool and refresh himself; and the frogs,
in a neighboring tank, while conjugal duties keep them also on the top, feebly croak as they
float with their wives among the green feculence, and make love behind the bulrushes. On leaving
the garden, we mount our green spectacles, hoist our umbrella, and resolutely set our face
homeward and Romeward. Half an hour's broiling walk brings us up under the friendly covert
of the city walls; following the giro of which, we arrive in about as much time as it has taken
us to reach them, at the Popolo Gate, and enter the Piazza, which no mortal wight would now
care to traverse, who could avoid it. The owls--how cruel to place owls upon an obelisk dedicated
to the sun--never blinked to a brighter flood of light in the streets of Thebes, than that
which here streams on every object to-day. The Tazza's fountain, at its base, is a perfect
cauldron, in which the glowing water bubbles up against, the sides, as if it were actually
about to boil over; the domes of the two churches, opposite the city gate, will soon warm their
capacious interiors, from the large, supply of caloric they are now rapidly absorbing; a stand
of bayonets before the Dogana, sparkles as if it were on fire; and when we have arrived at
the foot of the wide white Scalinata of the Trinita di Monti, the whole expanse from top to
bottom shines with unmitigated and unsupportable splendour. No importunate beggar can stand
and rattle his tin box on the summit, and if he could, there is no passenger to heed or hear
him; the Sabine model belle is not there to offer herself to the first artist who wants a madonna
or a saint, nor amateur bandits, nor faun-like children playing on the steps; even the patient
goats, long since milked, lie panting under the convent wall; not a dog is visible on the large
immondezaro in front of it; and had we not had already painful experience of the heat of the
day, the donkey who lives below, in the court of the Palazzo Mignanelli, exhibits it most strikingly;
there he stands, a fine subject for Pinelli, with a wo-begone countenance,--Sancho's ass not
more triste--ruminating over a heap of fresh vegetables, which he feebly snuffs, and wants
resolution to stoop his head and munch; whilst his adopted friend, the large house-dog, totally
regardless of his charge, sleeps heavily in the opposite corner of the court.

It required an early dinner, and a long siesta afterwards, in our darkened, water-sprinkled
rooms, to resuscitate us to any fresh exertion; but as the Ave Maria approached, we were sufficiently
refreshed to climb the Quirinal Mount, in order to witness one of our few remaining Roman sunsets
from its summit. We pass, to reach it, down the Via Felice, across the Piazza Barberini, and
up the steepest hill in Rome, by the Via Quatro Fontani; from its brow, we look momentarily
down on the Viminal side, to Santa Maria Maggiore, with all the other objects that present
themselves to view from this spot; and presently find ourselves at the end of that long street
of convents and churches, which issues at its other extremity in the Porta Pia, forming a straight
line of nearly a mile and a half in length; and here we are in that well-known Piazza, which
is bounded on one side by the Papal Palace and its gardens; on the opposite by the Colonna
and its ruin-scattered grounds; backed by the palaces Ruspigliosi and Guardi Nobile, and an
open view of the Campagna in front. No position could have been better chosen than this, for
the display of the two finest colossal statues in the world; they stand in the midst, with
the Theban Obelisk and the Roman Fountain between them, all blending into a matchless group.
As we look from this lofty vantage ground, high over the roofs of Rome, we see the sun preparing
to take farewell of us, behind the ridge of Monte Mario; but the convent walls on the height
where we stand enjoy his beams a few minutes longer, though they have ceased to strike upon
the city at its foot. Soon, however, he touches the horizon and begins to dip; the palace windows
behind us blaze away as if for an illumination; and when the last golden speck has disappeared
from the ridge, the whole landscape changes colour; the yellow tint is instantaneously transformed
into a rosy light, deepening, and becoming more and more beautiful every minute, till the short
southern twilight is over; the somewhat harsh outline of the obelisk is softened during this
brief point of time; a gentle air, (the breath of evening,) fans our cheek; fire-flies light
their lamps all around, and night suddenly overtakes us,--"ruit nox." Scarcely ten minutes
have elapsed since we stood here, and already the dilated nostril and meaning eye of the restive
coursers, then so strikingly exhibited, are scarcely any longer distinguishable; while the
dark curvilinear outline of their bodies, and the towering forms of "the great Twin Brethren"
at their heads, gain not only in stature, but in grandeur too, by this very indistinctness,--the
obscure being a well-known element of the sublime,--and the eye becomes more and more conscious
of their vast proportions the less it is enabled to enter minutely into details.

HIGHLAND DESTITUTION.

The appalling horrors with which the Irish famine of last season set in, seemed to exceed any
similar scene of national affliction that had been witnessed in modern times. It appeared as
if the worst tragedies that had been enacted in sieges and shipwrecks were to be realised in
the midst of comparative abundance, and within reach of friendly aid. It was right, however,
that the clamant demands for relief, uttered by her starving millions, should not stifle the
smaller voice of suffering that issued from our Scottish shores. Nor was this the case: the
Christian philanthropy of Britain did justice to the cause of patience and fortitude. The fountains
of private beneficence were opened, and Scotland was better protected from the miseries of
this visitation by individual exertion, than Ireland with all the aid and apparatus of government
interference.

Making every abatement for the natural exaggeration incident to such a calamity, no doubt can
be entertained as to the general condition of our Highlands and Islands in the early part of
the past year. Great distress was almost every where prevalent, and every day that passed was
tending to increase it. A large portion of the food of the people had failed, and the remnant
of the preceding year's corn crop was their only means of subsistence. That resource could
not long be relied on; and the great problem was, in what manner the destitute thousands of
our countrymen were to be fed till the returning harvest should visit them with its scanty
and precarious bounty. Too many of them were habitually on the verge of starvation, and the
crumbling away of the slender support on which alone they stood, brought them at once to the
low abyss of wretchedness in which they would have been left if public generosity had not interposed.

The task of those who undertook to distribute the large relief fund subscribed was attended
with great difficulty, and involved a solemn responsibility of the highest kind. They appear
to us, on a review of their arrangements, to have proceeded with judgment and good feeling;
anxious, on the one hand, to alleviate want, and on the other, to avert those moral mischiefs
that follow in the wake of gratuitous or indiscriminate liberality. Their object necessarily
was, to do as much good and as little harm as the emergency would permit.

Something has recently been said of the great extent to which the distress in those districts
was originally over-stated by the individuals who came forward to rouse the benevolence of
their countrymen on behalf of the Highlands. We are by no means prepared to join in this view.
It is impossible to describe the consequences of a coming famine with mathematical precision.
Besides, the destitution is not yet over. And it is at least clear, even as to the past, that
except for the exertions of the proprietors, which might or might not have been so largely
made, the destitution would have fully borne out the predictions which were uttered. It could
not with certainty be assumed that the smaller and less wealthy proprietors, in particular,
would have been able to make the great sacrifices which they have so generously submitted to,
and without which the people of Wester Ross and Skye, of Islay and Colonsay, and many other
places, would have laid on the relief fund a burden far heavier than it has had to bear.

This at least is certain, that the fund has not been dispensed upon any extravagant views of
the existence of destitution. The large surplus that remains on hand, demonstrates the caution
and economy with which the distribution has been conducted. The money has not been lavished
merely because it had been subscribed; and the difficult object has been accomplished, of keeping
in check those demands which were likely to become more clamorous and more unreasonable, in
proportion as the means existed of satisfying them.

It would serve little purpose to examine in detail the operations of the Relief Board, which
are already before the public in the reports which they have published from time to time. It
is, perhaps, sufficient to say, that they present, in a great degree, the features which might
have been looked for in the working of a scheme devised on the spur of an emergency, and destined
to be followed out in remote localities, and under influences partaking, in no ordinary degree,
of the taint of human frailty. In some parts of the country, the local committees have done
their duty conscientiously and respectably; in others we are afraid they are not entitled to
the same praise. Yet, on the whole, things have answered better than could have been expected;
and undoubtedly the greatest benefit was derived from the able superintendence of the two general
inspectors employed by the board, Captain Eliott and Dr Boyter, whose services to the public
in this important duty cannot be too highly commended.

It is quite clear, however, that the local machinery, which was necessarily or allowably resorted
to at the outset, ought no longer to be kept up, if further operations are required for the
relief of destitution. There must now be a more stringent examination of the claims which may
be preferred, and a more rigid enforcement of the proper regulations, than could well be insisted
for when the field was new and the urgency irresistible. A continuance of any past laxity would
now be inexcusable and eminently mischievous, by tending to perpetuate in the Highlands those
social evils and anomalies which the present calamity is naturally calculated to expose and
extirpate.

It is almost needless to ask the question, whether the operations of the Relief Board are still
necessary. Every one acquainted with the Highlands and Islands is aware that the results of
last year's failure of the potato are still at work, and must necessarily prolong the distress
for some time to come. The fund which has been subscribed for the relief of that distress must
necessarily, therefore, be employed in its legitimate and destined purpose, until that purpose
be accomplished or the fund exhausted. Independently of any blight in the present potato crop,
great distress will arise from the limited breadth of potatoes that has been planted, and from
the fact that the cottars, who, in other years, were allowed ground to plant potatoes for themselves,
have been deprived of that resource, from the necessity of retaining the whole arable farms
for the direct use of the tenants and crofters. It is believed, also, that the corn crops of
this year, though highly favourable in the lower parts of the country, have neither been so
early nor so productive in the Islands as was at one time expected.

It is, therefore, with perfect propriety and justice that the Board have determined to retain
the balance in their hands, in the mean time, as a sacred deposit for the relief of that continued
distress, which both the reports of their own inspectors, and the information of the government
officers, establish to be still prevalent. On this point the late report of Sir John F. Burgoyne
as to Ireland applies in a smaller degree to a very great part of the Highlands and Islands.

In continuing the system of relief, however, the board must keep in view more closely and constantly
than ever the leading principles which originally guided them, and which we believe to be founded
on the most solid grounds of humanity and social policy.

1. Nothing must be done to relieve of their legal obligations those who are bound by law to
support the infirm poor. Wherever a poor law is established, it must, we conceive, be fully
and fairly enforced against those liable in relief, to the extent of what is imposed upon them.
In no other way will selfish or thoughtless men be taught a due interest in the social condition
of their neighbours, and make the necessary exertion to raise or preserve them from a state
of pauperism, the effects of which they are themselves to feel in their only sensitive part.

2. It must be a rule, all but inflexible, that the able-bodied, receiving relief, shall give,
at the time, or engage to give afterwards, a corresponding amount of labour in return; and
that engagement must be strictly enforced. This rule is not necessary merely for the purpose
of economising the fund, and benefiting the public by useful employment. It is essential for
preserving the destitute both from the feeling, and from the reality, of that degradation which
attends on eating the bread of idleness. We believe that much mischief was done, in 1837, by
exonerating those who had obtained aid from the obligations of labour which they had undertaken,
and which we know, in some districts, broke down all the restraints of self-respect, and implanted
a spirit of dependence and mendicity, even in persons of a decent station. The evils of famine
itself are great,--its moral no less than its physical effects are fearfully destructive. But
the injury done is hardly less when the poor are deprived, by gratuitous and reckless largesses,
of those habits of industry, independence, and self-respect, which are their best possessions,
and their only means of rightly bearing their lot or raising themselves in the scale of existence.

3. A peculiar portion of the population, consisting chiefly of solitary females unfit for active
employment, and yet not sufficiently disabled to be objects of parochial aid, will require
a humane and indulgent consideration. The Committees hitherto seem to have advanced them little
stores of wool and flax, to enable them to give some return for their support; and a great
deal of meritorious exertion has in this way been fostered. We presume that at least to a certain
extent this humane system may be continued.

4. Another obvious and incalculable boon will be conferred on the country, if we can bridge
over the chasm that has hitherto divided the Highlands and Islands from the labour markets
of the south. It was indeed a strange anomaly, that strong men should be lying down to die
in the Isles, or even on the mainland of Scotland, and that within two or three hundred miles
of their homes, and on Scottish soil, there should be a want of labourers, and the easy means
of earning ample wages. This appears to us one of the great objects to be now consulted, and
to which the attention of the Board has already been anxiously directed: to remove the obstacles
that have existed to a free intercourse between different parts of the country, and more particularly
between the Saxon and Celtic districts. There are many causes that combine to fix a Highlander
to his home, even in the midst of misery. Among these are ignorance of better things, and that
strangeness and helplessness, produced by a change of scene, which half-civilised men are apt
to feel with almost the timidity of children. The diversity of the Highland and the Lowland
tongue is another impediment, but one which is daily disappearing, and is never so likely to
vanish as under the pressure of necessity. The very virtues of the Highland character contribute
to keep them where they are, and are assisted in doing so by some of those defects which are
akin to their good qualities. Their patient endurance of cold and privation cooperates with
the congenial tendency towards indolence, to fix them in a state of miserable inaction, rather
than submit to the active exertion that would increase their comforts. Every thing will now
combine to overcome these difficulties; the res angusta domi will now be vividly felt, if it
can ever be felt at all; while fortunately both the benevolence and the necessities, both the
wishes and the interests of their Lowland neighbours, concur in desiring that a new supply
should be obtained from that quarter, in aid of what the south itself affords. Not only railways
now forming, but also the great amount of draining operations contemplated, or already in progress
under recent enactments, must tend in an eminent degree to alleviate the sufferings of the
distressed districts, if a free current of labour can be established, so as to redress the
inequalities prevailing in different places. The labour market may not be so favourable this
year as it was last, but it will still, we hope, be sufficiently so for this purpose.

We have a strong impression that a change of this kind, if prudently brought about without
deranging local agriculture, will of itself do a great deal for the permanent relief of those
localities where distress now prevails. Labourers thus obtained may in some respects be inferior,
from want of skill, and even from want of strength. But our Highland countrymen have recommendations
in their sober and orderly habits, which are not to be found in some of their competitors in
the labour-market. Even railway contractors, though not likely to be swayed, except by economical
views, are beginning to tire of the scenes of disorder and disturbance too frequently exhibited
by workmen from other quarters. If the natives of the Scottish Highlands can be fairly roused
to exertion, at a distance from home, their characters will be improved, and their views enlarged.
They will begin to taste the benefits of better subsistence, and of some command of money;
and their frugal habits, as well as their kindly affections, will communicate the advantage
and spread the example among their suffering countrymen whom they have left behind.

This resource, then, must be pressed by the Board with the whole force of their influence,
upon all the able-bodied in the distressed districts who can with propriety be required to
leave their localities; and we should not quarrel with a very strict administration of wholesome
compulsion to effect so essential an object.

5. The most difficult and delicate duty which the Relief Board will have to discharge, regards
the selection of works to be undertaken or sanctioned by them, as affording employment for
those destitute persons whom they must relieve on the spot. It must here be kept in view, on
the one hand, that the permanent improvement of the Highlands is no proper or direct object
of the subscriptions received. On the other hand, it will clearly be necessary, after every
attempt to remove labourers to the south, that some work should be provided in each locality,
on which those persons may be employed who cannot be so removed, and who yet stand in need
of relief. It would be mischievous and wasteful to relieve such persons without exacting labour
from them, and just as reprehensible to employ them in digging holes and filling them up again,
or in any other occupation equally useless and unproductive. If their work is to be obtained,
it should be directed into some channel that will benefit themselves and the community. Public
roads, harbours, piers, breakwaters, and the like, appear an obvious outlet for the labour
thus placed at the command of the Board; and we are not even averse, within certain limits,
to admitting their exertions in the improvement of their own crofts, provided, at least, the
benefit thence arising be secured to the occupant by some reasonable tenure, and that no continuance
is thus effected of an improper system of occupation. It seems no objection to such operations
that proprietors will indirectly benefit by them. It is impossible to devise any local work
that is not open to the same objection, which would indeed be insuperable, if it were proposed
to expend the money on local improvements as a direct and substantive object. But where the
relief must be given, and the work is only to be taken to the extent of the relief, and as
a return for it, we think almost any employment better than none, as we know no evil that can
outweigh the moral mischief arising from gratuitous distribution. At the same time, the Board
must require the co-operation of proprietors where-ever they can, and must insist for such
terms as the circumstances of each case may recommend.

Guarded by some such principles of action, we anticipate that the relief operations in Scotland
will, on the whole, be attended with no small degree of moral as well as of physical benefit.

The subject of Emigration is too large and complicated to be now discussed. That remedy is
perhaps essential to the thorough cure of the social disorders prevailing in the Highlands.
But it must not be rashly resorted to; nor can it ever be safe or effectual without the cordial
co-operation of the government.

The operation and effects of the calamity with which so large a portion of Scotland has now
been visited, cannot be suffered to pass away without an effort to extract from them a moral
law and a moral lesson for our future guidance.

It is obvious that the suffering which has been felt, arises from the social system being in
so great a degree based upon the potato culture. The dependence of the great bulk of the destitute
population on a plant which, though more productive of mere sustenance than any other, yet
stands lowest in the scale of all our articles of food, is demonstrated by the distress that
has been occasioned by the failure of that crop, and is indeed implied in all the exertions
that have been made to give relief. This is obviously an unsound foundation for social life.
It places the labouring classes on the very border of starvation, and leaves no margin whatever
for any contingencies. On the failure of the potato, the ground can only be applied to the
cultivation of other produce, which on the same space would yield a far inferior quantity of
food, and thus a large portion of the year is left unprovided for.

It is impossible to exclude from consideration at this time the important question of the state
of the Scotch Poor Law. On this momentous subject we beg leave explicitly to decline at present
any announcement of opinion; and we confess that we do not think a season of calamity is at
all the proper period for legislating on a matter which involves so much feeling, and which
yet requires such grave consideration, and so much cautious arrangement. It cannot, however,
be denied, that the events which we have lately witnessed afford important elements and examples
which must influence any opinion that we may form, and which should be treasured up as materials
for ultimately arriving at a sound conclusion.

No one desirous of making up his mind on this point will fail to consult, on one side of this
question, the very able "Observations"[17] which have just appeared from the pen of Dr Alison,
and to which, without adopting all the writer's views, we have great pleasure in directing
attention, as to a most powerful and temperate argument in favour of an able-bodied Poor Law.
If talents of a very high order, if an enlarged and enlightened experience, and a long consideration
of the subject,--if a life passed, whether professionally or in private, in the exercise of
the most active and disinterested benevolence,--if these qualifications entitle a witness to
be heard in such a cause, Dr Alison may well claim for his opinions the greatest deference
and respect: and the logical precision, and clear and candid statement, which this essay exhibits,
will secure even from his opponents a ready and cordial approbation. Again we say, that we
do not wish to adopt his arguments as our own, but we willingly contribute to embody them in
a more permanent form, and to offer them to the attention of our readers, that they may prevail,
if they cannot be answered, or may receive an answer, if an answer can be given.

The general nature of Dr Alison's views will be understood by quoting his table of contents,
which contains a synopsis of his argument:

    "All questions regarding Poverty and Destitution are inseparably
    connected with the Theory of Population, i. e., the observation of
    the conditions by which Population is regulated;--the best system
    of Management of the Poor being that under which there is least
    redundancy of population.

    "The unequivocal tests of a population being redundant, are
    Pestilence and Famine; these taking effect on such a population
    much more than on any other; and the experience of both, within
    the last few years in this country, proves unequivocally, that it
    is in those portions of it where there is no effective legal
    provision for the poor--not in those where there is such
    provision--that the population is redundant.

    "The peculiar Fever of 1843, as well as ordinary Typhus, now
    prevail much more extensively among the destitute Irish, hitherto
    unprotected by law, than among any others--and the effect of all
    other predisposing causes, in favouring their diffusion, is
    trifling in comparison with Destitution, and its inseparable
    concomitant, crowding in ill-ventilated rooms.

    "The Famine of 1846-7, consequent on the failure of the Potato
    Crop, (i. e. of the cheapest and poorest food on which life can
    be supported,) clearly reveals the parts of the country where the
    population is redundant; and this is throughout Ireland, until
    very lately absolutely without provision, and in 106 districts of
    Scotland, where, without exception, there has been no assessment
    and a nearly illusory legal provision for the poor.

    "These facts not only prove incontestably that an effective Poor
    Law does not foster redundant population, but justify the belief,
    that the absence of a legal provision against Destitution is a
    great and general predisposing cause, with which others have no
    doubt concurred, in producing such redundancy; and that the
    presence of such a provision greatly favours the checks upon it.

    "This it may be distinctly observed to do in two ways--1. By
    keeping up the standard of comfort among the poor themselves; 2.
    By giving every proprietor of land a direct and obvious interest
    in constantly watching and habitually checking the growth of a
    parasite population, for whose labour there is no demand, on his
    property.

    "The statement that the English Poor Rate increases more rapidly
    than the wealth and population of the country, and threatens to
    absorb that wealth, is statistically proved to be erroneous.

    "The other accusation brought against an effective legal
    provision, that it injures the character of a people, and
    depresses the industry, and checks the improvement of a country,
    is equally opposed to statistical facts.

    "The lower orders of the Highlanders and Irish--whose resource
    when destitute is mendicity, are much more disposed to idleness
    than the English labouring men.

    "Yet this disposition among the Highlanders has been greatly
    exaggerated.

    "Where it is most offensive, it is amongst those who have been
    most impoverished and neglected.

    "The inquiries of the agents of the Relief Committees, as well as
    those of the Royal Commissioners on the Poor Laws, have
    proved,--

      "1. That there has been a great deficiency in the application of
      capital and skill to develop the resources of the Highlands and
      Islands.

      "2. That the skilful application, even of a moderate capital, to
      various undertakings requiring labour, opens a prospect of great
      improvement in the country. These resources existing, the
      inference is inevitable, that if the higher ranks in the Highlands
      are bound to support their poor, they can and will, in general,
      find "remunerative employment" for them rather than maintain them
      in idleness.

    "And the observations of the agents of the Committees, dispensing
    a voluntary fund, but guarding it--as a well-regulated relief
    would be guarded,--by the 'Labour Test' therefore affording an
    earnest of what maybe expected from the habitual operation of such
    a Law,--have shewn that, under its influence, the 'aboriginal
    idleness' of the Highlanders rapidly disappears.

    "The principle that an effective legal provision against all kinds
    of destitution is useful to a country, as a wholesome stimulus
    both to capitalists and labourers, is clearly stated by Sir Robert
    Peel, and now recognised and acted on in reference to Ireland.

    "The evidence of the resources of Ireland, in the absence of that
    stimulus, having been very imperfectly developed,--from the Report
    of the Committee on the occupation of lands, and other
    sources,--is just similar to that in the Highlands.

    "And the effect of an incipient Poor-Rate in forcing on profitable
    improvements, as well as in equalising the burden imposed on the
    higher ranks by the destitution of the lower, begins to show
    itself in Ireland unequivocally.

    "There are probably some districts both in the Highlands and in
    Ireland, where 'profitable investments of labour' cannot be found,
    which can only be effectually relieved by emigration and
    colonisation.

    "To which purpose, in the case of the Highlands, the surplus funds
    in the hands of the Relief Committee, and even an additional
    subscription, may be very properly applied, provided that the
    districts requiring it are pointed out by their own agents, and
    that the wholesome stimulus of an effective Poor Law, embracing
    the case of destitution from want of employment, now existing in
    all other parts of her Majesty's dominions, be extended to
    Scotland."

We make no apology for the copiousness of the extracts which we are now to make, and which,
we think, will sufficiently explain themselves without much commentary from us.

Nothing can be fairer than the footing on which Dr Alison places his argument at the outset.

    "Very little reflection appears to be sufficient to show, that the
    best system of management of the poor (ceteris paribus) must be
    that which gives the least encouragement to redundancy of
    population. I have always regarded, therefore, the doctrine of
    Malthus--by which all such questions are held to be inseparably
    connected with the theory of population--to be the true basis of
    all speculative inquiry on this subject; and I cannot help saying
    again, that in consequence of some hasty expressions which he
    used, and of the great practical error, which, as I believe, and
    as he himself evidently suspected in the latter part of his life,
    he had committed in the application of his principle, justice has
    not yet been generally done to the truth and importance of that
    fundamental principle itself. In the present state of this
    country, and indeed of every civilised country, and with a view to
    the happiness of the human race upon earth, it seems hardly
    possible to exaggerate the importance of any inquiries which
    promise to indicate the conditions by which the relation of the
    population to the demand for labour, and the means of subsistence
    there existing, is determined, and may be regulated.

    "We cannot indeed expect, that so striking results can follow from
    this or any other principle in political science, as have already
    rewarded the labour of man in investigating the laws of the
    material world. The beautiful expressions of Cicero, in describing
    the power which man has acquired over Nature, are more applicable
    to the present age, than to any one that has preceded it. 'Nos
    campis, nos montibus fruimur; nostri sunt amnes, nostri lacus; nos
    fruges serimus, nos arbores; nos aquarum inductionibus terris
    fecunditatem damus; nos flumina arcemus, dirigimus, avertimus;
    nostris denique manibus in rerum naturâ quasi alteram naturam
    efficere conamur.' We can hardly anticipate, that science shall
    acquire a similar power of regulating the condition of human
    society or the progress of human affairs. In regard to the changes
    which these affairs undergo in the progress of time, we are all of
    us agents, rather than contrivers. 'L'homme avance dans
    l'exécution d'un plan qu'il n'a point conçu, qu'il ne connoit même
    pas; il est l'ouvrier intelligent et libre d'une oeuvre qui n'est
    pas la sienne; il ne la reconnoit, ne la comprend que plus tard,
    lorsqu'elle se manifeste au dehors et dans les realités, et même
    alors il ne la comprend que très incomplètement."--(GUIZOT.) Still
    we may observe, that in all applications of science, moral and
    political, as well as physical, to the good of mankind, the same
    principle holds true, 'Natura non vincitur nisi parendo;' and that
    even in those cases where man is the agent, he may likewise be the
    interpreter and the minister of Nature. It is only by acquiring a
    knowledge of the natural laws of motion, of heat, of chemical
    action, that we acquire that power, "quasi alteram naturam
    efficere," which Cicero describes; and those events which are due
    to the agency of free, and intelligent, and responsible human
    beings, although liable to the influence of a greater number of
    disturbing forces, and therefore requiring careful investigation,
    are still subject to laws, which are imposed on the constitution
    of the human race, and which may be ascertained by observations
    belonging to the department of statistical science.

    "That the natural tendency of the human race is to increase on any
    given portion, or on the whole of the earth's surface, in a much
    more rapid ratio than the means of subsistence can be made to
    increase, I apprehend to be an undeniable fact. I am aware of
    various objections which have been stated to this principle, but
    shall not enter on these objections farther than to state, that
    two considerations appear to me to have been overlooked by those
    who have advanced them. First, That the term 'means of
    subsistence,' is not to be restricted to the raising from the land
    of articles of food, but applies to the extraction from the
    earth's surface, and the preparation for the use of man, of all
    productions of Nature, which are either necessary to human
    existence or adapted for human comfort, and which have, therefore,
    an exchangeable value;--secondly, that the question regarding
    these, which concerns us in this inquiry, is not how much a given
    number of men may raise, but how much a given portion of the
    earth's surface can supply; and what relation this quantity bears
    to the power of reproduction granted to the human race. When these
    considerations are kept in view, it does not appear to me that the
    objections to the general principle laid down by Malthus are of
    any weight; and the truth of the principle appears to be strongly
    illustrated by the care taken by Nature to have a certain number
    of carnivorous genera, in every order of animals, and among the
    animated inhabitants of every portion of the earth's surface,
    whereby the tendency to excess in every class of animals is
    continually checked and repressed. And although it is certain that
    the causes of human suffering of all sorts, as of human diseases,
    are very generally complex, yet we may certainly assert, that this
    principle is essentially concerned, as a great and permanent
    predisposing cause, in all those sufferings which result from
    poverty, and must be carefully kept in view in all wise
    regulations for their relief.

    "Neither is it incumbent on those who acquiesce in this general
    principle, to assert that the natural checks on this tendency to
    excessive reproduction in the human race have been well named or
    fully expounded by Malthus. But the great distinction which he
    pointed out, of the positive and the preventive checks on
    population, is undoubtedly of extreme importance. And in regard to
    the positive checks, by which it is easy to see that the progress
    of the human race upon earth has been hitherto rendered so very
    different from what might have been expected from its powers of
    reproduction,--when we reflect on the effects of War, of Disease
    of all kinds, and especially of Pestilence, of Famine, of Vice, of
    Polygamy, of Tyranny, and misgovernment of all kinds,--while we
    can easily perceive that all these may be ultimately instruments
    of good in the hands of Him who can 'make even the wrath of man to
    praise Him,'--yet we must acknowledge that all, if not properly
    ranked together under the general name of Misery, are yet causes
    of human suffering,--so general, and so great, that the most
    meritorious of all exertions of the human mind are those, which
    are directed to the object of counteracting and limiting the
    action of these positive checks on population; and on this
    consideration it is wise for us to reflect deeply, because it is
    thus only that we can judge of the value of the great preventive
    check of Moral Restraint, by which alone the human race can be
    duly proportioned to the means of subsistence provided for it,
    without suffering the evils which are involved in the operation of
    the different positive checks above enumerated.

    "I consider, therefore, the general principles of Malthus as not
    only true, but so important, that the exposition and illustration
    of them is a real and lasting benefit to mankind. The real error
    of Malthus lay simply in his supposing, that moral restraint is
    necessarily or generally weakened by a legal provision against
    destitution; and this is no part of his general theory, but was,
    as I maintain, a hypothetical assumption, by which he thought that
    his theory was made applicable in practice. His argument against
    Poor Laws was this syllogism: Whatever weakens the moral restraint
    on population must ultimately injure a people; but a legal
    protection against destitution weakens that moral restraint;
    therefore Poor Laws, giving that legal protection, must ultimately
    injure any people among whom they are enforced. The answer, as I
    conceive, is simply 'Negatur minor.' How do you know that a legal
    protection against destitution must necessarily weaken moral
    restraint? The only answer that I have ever seen, amounts only to
    an assertion or conjecture, that more young persons will marry,
    when they know that they may claim from the law protection against
    death by cold and hunger, than when they have no such protection.
    But this is only an opinion, supported perhaps by reference to a
    few individual cases, but resting on no foundation of statistical
    facts. Where are the facts to prove that early marriages are more
    frequent, and that population becomes more redundant, among those
    who have a legal provision against destitution, than among those
    who have none? I have never seen any such facts, on such a scale
    as is obviously necessary to avoid the fallacies attending
    individual observations; and the facts to which I have now to
    advert, are on a scale, the extent of which we must all deplore,
    and all tending, like many others formerly stated, to prove that
    the greatest redundancy of population in her Majesty's dominions
    exists among those portions of her subjects who have hitherto
    enjoyed no legal protection, against destitution. As it is
    generally avowed that it is for the sake of the poor
    themselves,--with a view to their ultimate preservation from the
    evils of destitution,--that the law giving them protection in the
    meantime is opposed, these facts must be regarded as decisive of
    the question."

It will not generally be disputed that a correct view of the main cause of distress is contained
in what follows:--

    "The famine, consequent on the failure of the potato crop in 1846,
    considered independently of disease, presents a still more
    remarkable collection of facts, the proper view of which appears
    to me to be this. The potato is an article of diet throughout the
    whole of this country, particularly useful to the working classes,
    and its importance to them seems to be fully illustrated by the
    pretty frequent occurrence of scurvy in many places, where it had
    been unknown for more than a century, since the beginning of the
    winter 1846-7,--that is, since the use of the potato has been
    necessarily nearly abandoned.

    "But it is only in certain districts that the people have been
    absolutely dependent on the potato, and been reduced to absolute
    destitution by its failure; and the reason obviously is, that the
    potato, although much less desirable, as the chief article of
    diet, than many others, is that by which the greatest number of
    persons may be fed from a given quantity of land in this climate.
    When we find a population, therefore, living chiefly on potatoes,
    and reduced to absolute destitution, unable to purchase other
    food, when the potato crop fails,--we have at once disclosed to
    us the undeniable fact, that that population is redundant. It is
    greater than can be maintained in that district, otherwise than on
    the poorest diet by which life can be supported, and greater than
    the labour usually done in that district demands. Now I formerly
    stated, that such a redundant population, living, as a foreign
    author expresses it, 'en parasite,' on the working people of the
    country, exists most remarkably in Scotland, in districts where no
    poor-law is enforced; and I have now only to show how amply that
    statement is confirmed by the facts which the present famine in
    some parts of Scotland has brought to light."

Whatever be its merits, the argument for a comprehensive Poor Law is placed on its true basis
in the following passages:--

    "If it be still said, that there is a difficulty in perceiving how
    the natural increase of population should be restrained,--implying
    that marriages should in general be rendered later and less
    productive,--by laws which give protection against destitution, I
    can only repeat what I formerly stated, that in order to
    understand this, it is only necessary to suppose, what is quite in
    accordance with individual observation, that human conduct, and
    particularly the conduct of young persons, is more generally
    influenced by hope than by fear,--that more are deterred from
    early and imprudent marriages by the hope and prospect of
    maintaining and bettering their condition in life, than by the
    fear of absolute destitution. The examples of the Highlands and of
    Ireland are more than enough to show, that this last is not a
    motive on which the legislator can place reliance, as influencing
    the conduct of young persons in extreme poverty. No legislation
    can take from them the resource of mendicity, of one kind or
    another, as a safeguard, in ordinary circumstances, against death
    by famine; and experience shows that those who are brought up in
    habits of mendicity, or of continued association with mendicants,
    will trust to this resource, and marry and rear families, where no
    other prospect of their maintenance can be perceived; whereas
    those who have been brought up in habits of comparative comfort,
    and accustomed to artificial wants, will look to bettering their
    condition, and be influenced by the preventive check of moral
    restraint, to a degree, as Mr Farr--judging from the general
    results of the registration of marriages in England--expresses it,
    which 'will hardly be credited when stated in figures.'

    "I have repeatedly stated likewise, that I consider an efficient
    poor law, extending to all forms of destitution, as affording a
    salutary preventive check on early marriages and excessive
    population in another way, which is easily illustrated by
    statistical facts, viz. by making it obviously the interest of
    landed proprietors always to throw obstacles in the way of such
    marriages among persons who are likely to become burdensome on the
    poor rates, i. e. among all who have no clear prospect of
    profitable employment. The number of crofters, and still more of
    cotters, living en parasite on the occupiers of the soil in the
    Highlands, is the theme of continual lamentation; but the question
    seldom occurs to those who make this complaint,--would such a
    population be allowed to settle on the lands of an English
    proprietor, who is familiar with the operation of the poor-rate?"

The following remarks also are well deserving of attention:--

    "But, setting aside the argument of Malthus against effective Poor
    Laws, the chief resource of the opponents of such laws has of late
    years been the assertion, that a legal provision against
    destitution leads naturally to relaxation of industry; that
    idleness, if not improvidence, is thus fostered among the poor,
    and that in this manner, the improvement of a country, necessarily
    dependent on the industry of its lower orders, is retarded. I have
    always maintained, that this assertion likewise is distinctly
    refuted, and not only that it is refuted, but the very contrary
    established, by statistical facts; that it is indeed made in face
    of the demonstrable fact, that the nations most celebrated for
    industry have long enjoyed a legal protection against destitution;
    that the people of England, speaking generally, are probably, to
    use the words of Lord Abinger,--'the most trustworthy and
    effective labourers in the world,' and that the greatest degree of
    idleness to be seen on the face of the earth exists among people
    who have no such protection; whose only resource, therefore, when
    destitute, is mendicity."

Dr Alison endeavours to show that wherever the labour test is applied, an able-bodied Poor
Law is disarmed of its apparent dangers.

    "Where the bounty dispensed by Dr Boyter and Captain Eliott has
    been combined with 'strict attention to the rules laid down by the
    Central Relief Board,' (which are exactly similar to those which
    would be adopted by any experienced official Board dispensing
    legal relief to the able-bodied under the safeguard of the labour
    test,) its effects in stimulating the industry of the people, and
    improving the prospects of the country, appear to have been
    uniform and decided. And when it is remembered that,
    notwithstanding the failure of the potato crop, and consequent
    destitution of so large a population in the Highlands, the Relief
    Committees have been not only able to prevent any death by famine,
    but to open in so many places a fair prospect of improvement of
    the country, and of reformation of the manners of the people, at
    an expense in all not exceeding £100,000, it is surely not
    unreasonable to expect, that in ordinary seasons, and after some
    further assistance shall have been given them for the purpose of
    emigration, the proprietors of the Highlands and Islands will be
    perfectly able to bear a similar burden to that which the
    legislature has now imposed on Ireland.

    "I observe with the utmost satisfaction that the principle of a
    Poor Law, skilfully imposed and judiciously regulated, and
    extending to all kinds of destitution, being a useful stimulus,
    both to the industry of the people, and to the exertions of the
    landlords and other capitalists of a country, (and a reasonable
    security to others assisting them,) has now been fairly recognised
    and acted on, in reference to Ireland. It is distinctly avowed
    in the following extract from Sir Robert Peel's speech at
    Tamworth, 1st June 1847. 'We have experience of the evils of
    periodical returns of destitution in Ireland; we see periodically
    a million or a million and a half of people absolutely in a
    starving state,--in a state which is disgraceful, while it is
    dangerous to the security of life and property. I believe it is a
    great point to give security to those people that they shall not
    starve,--that they shall have a demand upon the land. I believe it
    is necessary to give a new stimulus to industry,--to impress
    upon the proprietors and the occupying tenants, that they must
    look on the cultivation of the land in a new light; and that the
    demands of poverty will not be so great when all persons do all
    that they can to lighten the pressure.'

We shall quote only a part of Dr Alison's observations on Ireland, but they contain information
of some interest.

    "In proof that the natural resources of Ireland, in the absence of
    this stimulus, have been equally neglected as those of the
    Highlands, I may quote a few sentences from the official Report of
    the Commission on the Occupation of Lands in Ireland. 'The general
    tenor of the evidence before the Commissioners goes to prove, that
    the agricultural practice throughout Ireland is defective in the
    highest degree, and furnishes the most encouraging proofs, that
    where judicious exertions have been made to improve the condition
    and texture of the soil, and introduce a better selection and
    rotation of crops, these exertions have been attended with the
    most striking success and profit.' 'The lands in almost every
    district require drainage; drainage and deep moving of the lands
    have proved most remunerative operations wherever they have been
    applied, but as yet they have been introduced only to a very
    limited extent; and the most valuable crops, and most profitable
    rotations, cannot be adopted in wet lands.' (See Report of that
    Commission in London newspapers, Sept. 3, 1847.)

    "The Commission above mentioned stated as their opinion, that the
    potato may perhaps be regarded as the main cause of that inertia
    of the Irish character, which prevents the development of the
    resources of the country; but with all deference to that opinion,
    I would observe, that in this case, as in the Highlands, the
    fundamental evil appears to be, the existence of a population,
    such as nothing but the potato can support, who 'cannot find
    employment,' as these commissioners themselves state, 'during
    several months of the year,' and therefore cannot afford to
    purchase any other food, and whose only resource, when they cannot
    find employment, is beggary; and that it is the absence of skill
    and capital to give them work, rather than the presence of the
    potato to keep them alive, which ought chiefly to fix the
    attention of those who wish to see the resources of the country
    developed. And without giving any opinion on the political
    question, how far it is just or expedient for Great Britain to
    give farther assistance by advances of money, to aid the
    improvement of Ireland, we may at least repeat here what was
    stated as to the Highlands, that when it becomes the clear and
    obvious interest of every proprietor in a country, to introduce
    capital into it, with the specific object of employing the poor,
    as well as improving his property, we may expect, either that such
    improvements as will prove 'profitable investments of labour,'
    will be prosecuted, or else, that the land will pass into other
    hands, more capable of 'developing its resources.'"

    "When we read and reflect on these statements, I think it must
    occur to every one, that whatever other auxiliary measures may be
    devised, the greatest boon that has been conferred on Ireland in
    our time, is the Law which has not only given a security, never
    known before, for the lives of the poor, but has made that motive
    to exertion, and to the application of capital to 'profitable
    investments of industry,' which is here distinctly avowed, equally
    operative on the proprietors of land in every Poor Law union in
    that country, and in all time coming; and I believe I may add, that
    the individual to whom Ireland is chiefly indebted for this
    inestimable boon, is one whose name we do not find connected with
    any of the questions of religion or of party politics, which have
    caused so much useless excitement; but who has distinctly perceived
    the root of the evil,--the absence of any security, either for the
    lives of the poor, or for the useful application of capital to the
    employment of labour, and has applied himself patiently and
    steadily to the legitimate remedy--viz. Mr Poulett Scrope.

    "It is true that we have many representations, from Poor Law
    unions in Ireland, of the utter inability of the proprietors and
    occupiers of the soil to bear the burden which the new Poor Law
    has imposed upon them; and I give no opinion on the questions,
    whether they have a claim in equity on further assistance from
    England, or whether the rate has been imposed in the most
    judicious way. But when it is said, that they are utterly unable
    to support the poor of Ireland by a rate, the question presents
    itself--How do they propose that those poor are to be supported
    without a rate? I apprehend it can only be by begging; and of whom
    are they to beg? It can only be from the occupiers of the soil,
    and other inhabitants of the country. Now, will the ability of
    those inhabitants to bear this burden be lessened by a law which
    will, in one way or other, compel the landlords (often absentees)
    to share it along with them?--and will, at the same time, make it
    the obvious interest of the landlords to introduce capital into
    the country, and expend it there in 'remunerative employment?'

    "On the present state of Ireland I can speak with some confidence,
    because I can give the opinion of a friend, the Count de
    Strzelicki, who is well entitled to judge, because he was
    previously thoroughly acquainted with agriculture, and because he
    nobly undertook the painful office of dispensing the bounty of the
    London Association in the very worst district of Ireland, during
    the worst period of the famine; and who expresses himself
    thus:--The real evil and curse of Ireland is neither religious nor
    political, but lies simply in so many of the landlords being
    bankrupts, and so many of those who are well off being absentees;
    others again, equally well off, resident, judicious, benevolent,
    and far-sighted, being unsupported in their efforts, and isolated
    in their action upon the masses, who, long since cast away by the
    proprietary, have been dragging their miserable existence in
    recklessness, distrust, and rancour. It is this dislocation--even
    antagonism--of social interests and relations, combined with the
    irresponsibility of the property for its poverty, that
    constitutes the 'circus viciosus,' the source of all the evils
    of this unfortunate and interesting country.

    "'But now, in consequence of the new Poor Law, and other new
    enactments of Parliament, those who have a real interest in the
    preservation of their property, will be forced to look, as they
    never did before, to the improvement of their tenantry. Those who
    are insolvent must part with the nominal tenure of land, and leave
    their estates to capitalists who can better discharge the duty of
    landlords; and lastly, the masses, who hitherto had been abandoned
    to themselves and to their brutal instinct for self-preservation,
    will find henceforth their interest linked with that of the
    landlord, and will find advice, help, encouragement, and, in
    extreme cases, a legal support.

    "'Every real friend of Ireland, and particularly those who, like
    myself, have had an insight into the many excellent intellectual
    and moral qualities of their character, while sympathising with
    the hardships which at first will be felt by many from the new
    system, cannot but acknowledge that it is only now that its
    society is being placed on its proper basis, and in a fair way to
    amelioration and prosperity.'

    "This opinion was given in a letter to a common friend, and
    without reference to any speculation of mine as to the management
    of the poor. In a subsequent letter to myself he adds, 'It is only
    since I came to Ireland that I have become conscious of the real
    value of a legal provision for the poor, and of the demoralising
    effect of private alms. Already we see some good symptoms of the
    action of the new Poor Law. It is by the provision made to employ
    men, and not by feeding them, that the operation of the law
    begins. The out-door relief will, I am sure, act not as a premium
    to idleness, but as a stimulus to landlords to supply labour,
    and thus prevent the people from falling on it.'"

On the absolute or eventual necessity of emigration, Dr Alison's views seem to be sound and
satisfactory.

    "That there are some parts of the Highlands which may be relieved
    more rapidly and effectually by aid of some form of emigration
    than in any other way, I have no doubt. In many such cases it is
    probably unnecessary to remove the people farther than to those
    parts of the low country, where, by a little well directed
    inquiry, employment may be found for them, as was done by the
    Glasgow 'Committee on Employment;' but in others it is quite
    certain that emigration to the colonies may be safely and
    beneficially managed. And the importance of this subject becomes
    much greater when we consider, that so large a surplus remains of
    the sum raised for the relief of distress there, the disposal of
    which is at this moment a question of difficulty. I am so much
    impressed with the truth of the last observation of Dr Boyter, as
    applicable to certain districts of the Highlands, that I should
    think it highly advisable to apply the greater part, or even the
    whole, of this surplus of £115,000 to this salutary drainage of
    the population. An equal sum might be advanced by Government, to
    be gradually repaid, just as in the case of assistance given to
    proprietors by the Drainage Act; and the whole sum might be
    expended in aiding emigration and such colonisation as Dr Boyter
    describes. Nay, I am persuaded that few of the subscribers to the
    Highland Destitution Fund would scruple to renew their
    subscriptions, provided they had any security that the Highland
    proprietors, thus relieved of a portion of their population, would
    really exert themselves to develop the resources now known to
    exist in their country, and so maintain the remainder without
    farther claims on the rest of the community. But I cannot think it
    reasonable or right, that while we have periodical returns of
    destitution in the Highlands, demanding aid from all parts of the
    country and from the colonies, to prevent many deaths by famine, a
    Highland proprietor should be enabled to advertise a property for
    sale, at the upset price of £48,000, and to state as an inducement
    to purchasers, that the whole public burdens are £40 a-year.
    (See advertisement of sale of lands in Skye, Edinburgh Courant,
    Sept. 16, 1847.) I should think it highly imprudent for the
    Committee intrusted with that money for the benefit of the poor in
    the Highlands, to part with it for any kind of emigration,
    excepting on two express conditions: 1. That agents appointed by
    the Committee, unprejudiced and disinterested, (and probably
    better judges on the point than Captain Eliott and Dr Boyter
    cannot be found,) shall report on the localities in which this
    remedy should be applied, in consequence of "profitable
    investments of industry" not existing at home; and, 2. That
    application be made to the Legislature for a measure, which should
    place the remaining portion of the Highlanders under the
    circumstances which are known by experience to be most
    favourable to the development of the resources of a country, and
    at the same time to the action of the preventive check on
    excessive population, i. e., under the operation of an effective
    and judicious Legal Provision for the Poor."

The following sentences form an impressive conclusion to this valuable, dissertation.

    "I have only to add, that being firmly convinced that a
    well-regulated Poor Law is really, as stated by Sir Robert Peel, a
    wholesome stimulus to enterprise and industry, and a check upon
    extravagance and improvidence, I have written this paper to
    prove,--by evidence on so large a scale, that it excludes all
    fallacies attending individual cases, and ought to command
    conviction,--that it is only in those parts of this country where
    this salutary precaution has been neglected, that such periodical
    returns of destitution and famine, as he describes, have been
    suffered or are to be apprehended. But, as it is obviously
    essential to this beneficial effect of a Poor Law, that it should
    secure relief to destitution from want of work, the practical
    result of all that has been stated is, to confirm the arguments
    which I formerly adduced in favour of the extension of a legal
    right to relief to the able-bodied in Scotland, when destitute
    from that cause;--guarded of course by the exaction of work in
    return for it when there are no means of applying, or when such
    exaction is thought better than applying, the workhouse test. And
    notwithstanding the strong feeling of distrust (or prejudice, as I
    believe it) which still exists among many respectable persons on
    this point, I confidently expect that this right--now granted to
    the inhabitants of every other part of her Majesty's European
    dominions, and soon to be accompanied, as I hope, in all parts,
    by an improved law of settlement i. e.