       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS

       *       *       *       *       *

The greater portion of the following Notes will, we are persuaded, be new to all but the bibliomaniacs
in theatrical lore. They occur in a paper of 45 pages in the last Edinburgh Review, in which
the writer attributes the Decline of the Drama to a variety of causes--as late hours, costly
representations, high salaries, and excessive taxation--some of which we have selected for
extract. In our affection for the Stage, we have paid some attention to its history, as well
as to its recent state, and readily do we subscribe to a few of the Reviewer's opinions of
the cause of its neglect. But to attribute this falling off to "taxes innumerable" is rather
too broad: perhaps the highly-taxed wax lights around the box circles suggested this new light.
We need not go so far to detect the rottenness of the dramatic state; still, as the question
involves controversy at every point, we had rather keep out of the fight, and leave our Reviewer
without further note or comment.

NOTES ON THE DRAMA.

(FROM THE EDINBURGH REVIEW, NO. 98.)

ORIGIN OF ADMISSION MONEY.

There were at Athens various funds, applicable to public purposes; one of which, and among
the most considerable, was appropriated for the expensed of sacrifices, processions, festivals,
spectacles, and of the theatres. The citizens were admitted to the theatres for some time gratis;
but in consequence of the disturbances caused by multitudes crowding to get seats, to introduce
order, and as the phrase is, to keep out improper persons, a small sum of money was afterwards
demanded for admission. That the poorer classes, however, might not be deprived of their favourite
gratification, they received from the treasury, out of this fund, the price of a seat--and
thus peace and regularity were secured, and the fund still applied to its original purpose.
The money that was taken at the doors, having served as a ticket, was expended, together with
that which had not been used in this manner, to maintain the edifice itself, and to pay the
manifold charges of the representation.

"DRAMATIC REPRESENTATIONS NATURAL TO MAN."

Travellers inform us, that savages, even in a very rude state, are found to divert themselves
by imitating some common event in life: but it is not necessary to leave our own quiet homes
to satisfy ourselves, that dramatic representations are natural to man. All children delight
in mimicking action; many of their amusements consist in such performances, and are in every
sense plays. It is curious, indeed, to observe at how early an age the young of the most imitative
animal, man, begin to copy the actions of others; how soon the infant displays its intimate
conviction of the great truth, that "all the world's a Stage." The baby does not imitate those
acts only, that are useful and necessary to be learned; but it instinctively mocks useless
and unimportant actions and unmeaning sounds, for its amusement, and for the mere pleasure
of imitation, and is evidently much delighted when it is successful. The diversions of children
are very commonly dramatic. When they are not occupied with their hoops, tops, and balls, or
engaged in some artificial game, they amuse themselves in playing at soldiers, in being at
school, or at church, in going to market, in receiving company; and they imitate the various
employments of life with so much fidelity, that the theatrical critic, who delights in chaste
acting, will often find less to censure in his own little servants in the nursery, than in
his majesty's servants in a theatre-royal. When they are somewhat older they dramatize the
stories they read; most boys have represented Robin Hood, or one of his merry-men, and every
one has enacted the part of Robinson Crusoe, and his man Friday. We have heard of many extraordinary
tastes and antipathies; but we never knew an instance of a young person, who was not delighted
the first time he visited a theatre. The true enjoyment of life consists in action; and happiness,
according to the peripatetic definition, is to be found in energy; it accords, therefore, with
the nature and etymology of the drama, which is, in truth, not less natural than agreeable.
Its grand divisions correspond, moreover, with those of time; the contemplation of the present
is Comedy--mirth for the most part being connected with the present only--and the past and
the future are the dominions of the Tragic muse.

GRECIAN THEATRES.

The climate of Athens being one of the finest and most agreeable in the world, the Athenians
passed the greatest part of their time in the open air; and their theatres, like those in the
rest of Greece and in ancient Rome, had no other covering than the sky. Their structure accordingly
differed greatly from that of a modern playhouse, and the representation in many respects was
executed in a different manner. But we will mention those peculiarities only which are necessary
to render our observations intelligible.

The ancient theatres, in the first place, were on a much larger scale than any that have been
constructed in later days. It would have been impossible, by reason of the magnitude of the
edifice, and consequently of the stage, to have changed the scenes in the same manner as in
our smaller buildings. The scene, as it was called, was a permanent structure, and resembled
the front of Somerset House, of the Horse Guards, or the Tuileries, and was in the same style
of architecture as the rest of the spacious edifice. There were three large gateways, through
each of which a view of streets, or of woods, or of whatever was suitable to the action represented,
was displayed; this painting was fixed upon a triangular frame, that turned on an axis, like
a swivel seal, or ring, so that any one of the three sides might be presented to the spectators,
and perhaps the two that were turned away might be covered with other subjects, if it were
necessary. If parts of Regent Street, or of Whitehall, or the Mansion House, and the Bank of
England, were shown through the openings in the fixed scene, it would be plain that the fable
was intended to be referred to London; and it would be removed to Edinburgh, or Paris, if the
more striking portions of those cities were thus exhibited. The front of the scene was broken
by columns, by bays and promontories in the line of the building, which gave beauty and variety
to the façade, and aided the deception produced by the paintings that were seen through the
three openings. In the Roman Theatres there were commonly two considerable projections, like
large bow-windows, or bastions, in the spaces between the apertures; this very uneven line
afforded assistance to the plot, in enabling different parties to be on the stage at the same
time, without seeing one another. The whole front of the stage was called the scene, or covered
building, to distinguish it from the rest of the theatre, which was open to the air, except
that a covered portico frequently ran round the semicircular part of the edifice at the back
of the highest row of seats, which answered to our galleries, and was occupied, like them,
by the gods, who stood in crowds upon the level floor of their celestial abodes.

Immediately in front of the stage, as with us, was the orchestra; but it was of much larger
dimensions, not only positively, but in proportion to the theatre. In our playhouses it is
exclusively inhabited by fiddles and their fiddlers; the ancients appropriated it to more dignified
purposes; for there stood the high altar of Bacchus, richly ornamented and elevated, and around
it moved the sacred Chorus to solemn measures, in stately array and in magnificent vestments,
with crowns and incense, chanting at intervals their songs, and occupied in their various rites,
as we have before mentioned. It is one of the many instances of uninterrupted traditions, that
this part of our theatres is still devoted to receive musicians, although, in comparison with
their predecessors, they are of an ignoble and degenerate race.

The use of masks was another remarkable peculiarity of the ancient acting. It has been conjectured,
that the tragic mask was invented to conceal the face of the actor, which, in a small city
like Athens, must have been known to the greater part of the audience, as vulgar in expression,
and it sometimes would have brought to mind most unseasonably the remembrance of a life and
of habits, that would have repelled all sympathy with the character which he was to personate.
It would not have been endured, that a player should perform the part of a monarch in his ordinary
dress, nor that of a hero with his own mean physiognomy. It is probable, also, that the likeness
of every hero of tragedy was handed down in statues, medals, and paintings, or even in a series
of masks; and that the countenance of Theseus, or of Ajax, was as well known to the spectators
as the face of any of their contemporaries. Whenever a living character was introduced by name,
as Cleon or Socrates, in the old comedy, we may suppose that the mask was a striking, although
not a flattering portrait. We cannot doubt, that these masks were made with great care, and
were skilfully painted, and finished with the nicest accuracy; for every art was brought to
a focus in the Greek theatres. We must not imagine, like schoolboys, that the tragedies of
Sophocles were performed at Athens in such rude masks as are exhibited in our music shops.
We have some representations of them in antique sculptures and paintings, with features somewhat
distorted, but of exquisite and inimitable beauty.

THE ROMAN STAGE.

The Drama of ancient Rome possesses little of originality or interest. The word Histrio is
said to be of Etruscan origin; the Tuscans, therefore, had their theatres; but little information
can now be gleaned respecting them. It was long before theatres were firmly and permanently
established in Rome; but the love of these diversions gradually became too powerful for the
censors, and the Romans grew, at last, nearly as fond of them as the Greeks. The latter, as
St. Augustine informs us, did not consider the profession of a player as dishonourable: "Ipsos
scenicos non turpes judicaverunt, sed dignos etiam præclaris honoribus habuerunt."--De Civ.
Dei. The more prudish Romans, however, were less tolerant; and we find in the Code various
constitutions levelled against actors, and one law especially, which would not suit our senate,
forbidding senators to marry actresses; but this was afterwards relaxed by Justinian, who had
broken it himself. He permitted such marriages to take place on obtaining the consent of the
emperor, and afterwards without, so that the lady quitted the stage, and changed her manner
of life. The Romans, however, had at least enough of kindly feeling towards a Comedian to pray
for the safety, or refection, of his soul after death; this is proved by a pleasant epitaph
on a player, which is published in the collection of Gori:--

  Pro jocis, quibus cunctos
      oblectabat,
  Si quid oblectamenti apud
      vos est
  Manes, insontem reficite
      Animulam."

COSTUME.

It is probable that the imagination of the spectator could without difficulty dispense with
scenes, particularly if the surrounding objects were somewhat removed from the ordinary aspect
of every-day things; if the performance were to take place, for example, in the hall of a college,
or in a church.

