Improvement in Positives.--I have great pleasure in communicating to you an improvement in
the process of taking positives, which may not be uninteresting to some of your readers, and
which ensures by far the most beautiful tints I have yet seen. I take three ounces of the hyposulphite
of soda, and dissolve it in one pint of distilled or rain water; and to this I add about one
or one and a half grains of pyrogallic acid, and seventy grains {534} of chloride of silver;
which must be squeezed up between the finders facilitate its solution and separate the lumps,
which, in their dry state, are tough, and not easily pulverised. The whole is then to be set
aside for a week or two in a warm place. The solution, at first colourless, becomes brown,
and ultimately quite opaque; in this state it is fit for use, and the longer kept the better
it becomes. I generally use French paper for this process, and, according to the time of immersion,
obtain fine sepia or black tints; the latter requiring long over-exposure to the light, and
proportionately long exposure to the action of the liquid; which however will be found, particularly
when old, to have a more rapid action than most other setting liquids, and has the merit of
always affording fine tints, whatever the paper used. I imagine the pyrogallic acid to possess
a reducing influence on the salts of silver employed; but this effect is only produced by its
combination with the hyposulphite of soda and chloride of silver. I may add, that in any case
the pictures should be much overdone before immersion, as the liquid exerts a rapid bleaching
action on them; and when the liquid becomes saturated, a few crystals of fresh hyposulphite
will renew its action.

F. MAXWELL LYTE.

Florian, Torquay.

P. S.--In answer to a COUNTRY PRACTITIONER, he will find great assistance in choosing his lens
by laying it on a sheet of blue wove post paper, when he will immediately perceive the slightest
yellow tinge in the glass, this being the fault which frequently affects many well-ground and
well-made lenses. Of course, for sharpness of outline he must be guided entirely by experiment
in the camera; but where weakness of action exists, it most frequently arises from this yellow
colouration, and which the manufacturers say is very difficult to avoid.

    [MR. LYTE having sent with his communication a positive prepared in the
    manner described, we are enabled to corroborate all he says as to the
    richness and beauty of its tints.]

Cheap Portable Tent.--M. F. M. inquires for a cheap and portable tent for working collodion
out of doors. I have been using one lately constructed on the principle of Francis's camera
stand. It has a good size table, made like the rolling patent shutters; and it is not necessary
to stoop, or sit down at your work, which is a great consideration on a hot day: you may get
them of any respectable dealer in photographic apparatus; it is called Francis's Collodion Tent.

H. D. FRANCIS.

Rev. Mr. Sisson's New Developing Fluid (Vol. vii., p. 462.).--The REV. MR. SISSON's developing
fluid for collodion positives, the formula for which was published in the last Number of "N.
& Q.," is merely a weak solution of the protonitrate and protosulphate of iron. It does not,
as he seems to think, contain any lead; for the whole of the latter is precipitated as sulphate,
which the acetic acid does not dissolve even to the smallest extent: and MR. SISSON will find
that an equivalent proportion of the nitrate of baryta will answer equally as well as the nitrate
of lead.

I have myself for a long time been in the habit of using a weak solution of the protonitrate
of iron in conjunction with acetic acid for positive pictures; for, although I do not consider
it so good a developer as that made according to the formula of DR. DIAMOND, it produces very
good pictures; occupies very little time in preparing, and will moreover keep good for a much
longer time than a more concentrated solution would.

Vanes (Vol. v., p. 490.).--Taking up by accident the other day your fifth volume, I saw what
I believe is a still unanswered Query respecting the earliest notice of vanes as indicators
of the wind; and turning to my notes I found the following extract from Beckman's Inventions, &c.:

    "In Ughelli Italia Sacra, Romæ 1652, fol. iv., p 735., we find the
    following inscription on a weathercock then existing at Brixen;
    'Dominus Rampertus Episc. gallum hunc fieri præcepit an. 820.'"

L. A. M.

Loselerius Villerius (Vol. vii., p. 454.).--I beg to inform S. A. S. that his copy of the New
Testament, which wants the title-page, was printed by Henry Stephens the second, at Geneva,
in the year 1580. As to it being "valuable," I should not consider him unfortunate if he could
exchange it for a shilling.

Loselerius Villerius was Pierre l'Oyseleur de Villiers, a professor of Genevan divinity, who
came over to London, and there published Beza's Latin version of the New Testament, in 1574.
He was not, however, as your correspondent supposed him to be, the editor of the decapitated
volume in question; but Beza transferred his notes to an impression completed by himself.

S. A. S. has, in the next place, inquired for any satisfactory "list of editions of the Bible."
It appears that, so far as he is concerned, Le Long, Boerner, Masch, and Cotton have lived
and laboured in vain.

The folio Bible lastly described by your correspondent is not "so great a curiosity" as family
tradition maintained. The annotations "placed in due order" are merely the Genevan notes.--See
{535} the Archdeacon of Cashel's very accurate and excellent work, Editions of the Bible, and
Parts thereof, in English, p. 75.: Oxford, 1852.

R. G.

Westminster Parishes (Vol. vii., p. 454.).--In 1630 the City and Liberties of Westminster contained
the churches of St. Margaret, St. Martin-in-the-Fields, St. Clement Danes, and St. John Baptist
Savoy.

The registers of burials, marriages, and christenings, of St. Margaret's Church, began January
1, 1538.

The Fire of London did not destroy any church in Westminster.

MACKENZIE WALCOTT, M.A.

Hevristic (Vol. vii., p. 237.).--The term hevristisch, in the first edition of the translation
of Kant's Critik, is not given in the vocabulary appended to the translation; but under the
word ostensiv it is stated that in its meaning it stands opposed to the word euristic (hevristisch
in German). But in the second edition, published in 1818, it is remarked, under the words evristic,
euristic, hevristisch, that the term should, in Sir Wm. Hamilton's opinion, be euretic or heuretic;
the word hevristisch being an error of long standing in German philosophy. The derivation of
euretic would be from [Greek: heuretikos].

In Tissot's translation, hevristisch is rendered by heuristique; in Mantovani's, by evristico;
in Born's, by heuristicus. In Krug's Lexicon, hevristik is given as derived from [Greek: heuriskô,
heurein]. The hevristic method, Krug remarks, is also called the analytical. It may be added,
that in the first edition of the Critik (Riga, 1781), the word is hevristisch. In the fourth
edition (Riga, 1794), published also in Kant's lifetime, it is hevristisch. In Rosenkranz's
edition (Leipzig, 1838), the word is changed into heuristisch; and also, in another edition
of the same year, published also at Leipzig, it is written heuristisch, and not hevristisch.

In respect to the Leipzig edition of 1818, which is that now before me, the term hevristisch,
in speaking of hevristich principles, is particularly alluded to. (See page 512. line 10.)
I do not find, after a hasty inspection, this word changed, in any of the editions I possess,
to empirisch.

FRANCIS HAYWOOD.

Liverpool.

Creole (Vol. vii., p. 381.).--The word appears to be a French form of the Spanish criollo,
which in the dictionary of Nuñez de Taboada is defined, "El hijo de padres Europeos nacido
en America;" whilst in the old dictionary of Stevens (1726) it is translated, "Son of a Spaniard
and a West India woman." In Brande's Dictionary of Science, &c. Creole is said to mean the
descendants of whites born in Mexico, South America, or the West Indies, the blood remaining
unmixed with that of other races, &c.

Von Tschudi says, that in South America the Spaniards apply the term Creole not only to the
human race, but also to horses, bullocks, and even to poultry.

A. C. M.

Exeter.

General Monk and the University of Cambridge (Vol. vii., pp. 427. 486.).--LEICESTRIENSIS begs
to thank MR. C. H. COOPER and MR. J. P. ORD for their replies to his Query on this subject.
He avails himself of this, the earliest opportunity, of assuring MR. ORD of his readiness to
afford him what slight information is in his power respecting the MS. in question (which only
came into his possession within the last two or three months), if he will communicate with
him as below.

WILLIAM KELLY.

Town Hall, Leicester.

Ecclesia Anglicana (Vol. ii., pp. 12. 440.).--I am much obliged to your correspondent W. FRASER
for his answer to my Query, and the references with which he supplies me. I shall be glad to
ask a still more extensive question, which will probably explain the object of the former more
limited one. Is it usual, in any of the unreformed branches of the church on the continent,
to find a similar appellation (implying distinct nationality) employed in authoritative documents,
e.g. would it be possible to find in the title-pages of any Missal, &c., such words as "in
usum Ecclesiæ Hispanicæ, Lusitanæ, Gallicanæ?" If not now, was it more customary in mediæval
times, and when did it cease?

Should we be justified in saying, that at every period of her existence, with rare exceptions,
the Anglican church, consciously or unconsciously, maintained the theory of her nationality
with greater distinctness than any of the continental churches? I fancy I have heard, though
I cannot state on what authority, that this assertion might be made most truly of the Portuguese
church, and should be very glad to have any light thrown on the subject by your able correspondent.
Certain it is, that amongst the various complaints made against Cardinal Wiseman and the Papal
aggressors, it has never been laid to their charge, that they arrogated to themselves the title
of members of the Anglican church.

G. R. M.

Gibbon's Library (Vol. vii., p. 485.).--In 1838 I purchased some of Gibbon's books at Lausanne,
out of a basketful on sale at a small shop, the depôt of the Religious Tract Society! Edward
Gibbon, printed on a small slip of paper, was pasted in them.

A. HOLT WHITE.

Golden Bees (Vol. vii., p. 478.).--When the tomb of Childeric, father of Clovis, was opened
in 1653, there were found, besides the skeletons of his horse and page, his arms, crystal orb,
&c., {536} "more than three hundred little bees of the purest gold, their wings being inlaid
with a red stone like cornelian."

CERIDWEN.

Passage in Orosius (Vol. vii., p. 399.).--May not the "twam tyncenum," between which Cyrus
the Great's officer attempted to cross a river, be the inflated skins which the Arabs still
use, as the ancient inhabitants of Assyria did, for crossing the Tigris and Euphrates, and
of which the Nimroud sculptures give so many illustrations?

CERIDWEN.

Names first given to Parishes (Vol. iv., p. 153.).--I wish to repeat this Query in another
form, and particularly in reference to the termination -by. I suspect that wherever a cluster
of villages, like that given by F. B., occurs with this Danish suffix, it is a proof that the
district was originally a colony of Danes. The one in which I reside (the hundreds of Flegg),
from its situation is particularly likely to have been so. Its original form was evidently
that of a large island in the estuary of the Yare, which formed numerous inlets in its shores;
and this was flanked on each aisle by a Roman garrison, one the celebrated fortress of Garianonum,
now Burgh Castle, and the other Caistor-next-Yarmouth, in which a camp, burying-ground, &c.,
besides its name, sufficiently attest its Roman origin. The two hundreds of Flegg, (or Fleyg,
as appears on its common seal) comprise twenty villages, thirteen of which terminate in -by.
These are Ormesby, Hemesby, Filby, Mauteby, Stokesby, Herringby, Thrigby, Billockby, Ashby
or Askeby, Clippesby, Rollesby, Oby, and Scratby or Scroteby.

Professor WORSAAE, I believe, considers Ormesby to have been originally Gormsby, i.e. Gorm's
or Guthrum's village, but I have not his work at hand to refer to. Thrigby, or Trigby as it
is vernacularly pronounced, and Rollesby, may take their names from Trigge or Tricga, and Rollo,
names occurring in Scandinavian history. I should feel obliged if Professors WORSAAE and STEPHENS,
or other Scandinavian antiquaries and scholars, would kindly inform me if my surmises are correct,
and if the rest of the names may be similarly derived. I should add that Stokesby fully hears
out the suggestion of C. (Vol. v., p. 161.), as there is even now a ferry over the Bure at
that point. The district is entirely surrounded by rivers and extensive tracts of marshes,
and intersected by large inland lakes, locally termed "Broads," which undoubtedly were all
comprised in the estuary, and which would form safe anchorages for the long galleys of the
Northmen.

E. S. TAYLOR.

Ormesby, St. Margaret, Norfolk.

Grafts and the Parent Tree (Vol. vii., p. 436.).--In order to insure the success of grafts,
it is material that they be inserted on congenial stocks: delicate-growing fruits require dwarf-growing
stocks; and free luxuriant-growing trees require strong stocks. To graft scions of delicate
wooded trees on strong stocks, occasions an over-supply of sap to the grafts; and though at
first they seem to flourish, yet they do not endure. A few examples of this sort may lead to
an opinion, that "grafts, after some fifteen years, wear themselves out;" but the opinion is
not (generally speaking) well founded. I have for many years grafted the old Golden Pippin
on the Paradise or Doucin stock, and found it to answer very well, and produce excellent fruit.
Taunton has long been famous for its Nonpareils, which are there produced in great excellence
and abundance. The Cornish Gilliflower, one of our very best apples, was well known in the
time of King Charles I.; and, as yet, shows no symptoms of decay: that fruit requires a strong
stock.

The ancient Ribston Pippin was a seedling:

    "It has been doubted by some, whether the tree at Ribston Hall was an
    original from the seed: the fact of its not being a grafted tree has
    been satisfactorily ascertained by Sir Henry Goodricke, the present
    proprietor, by causing suckers from its root to be planted out--which
    have set the matter at rest that it was not a grafted tree. One of
    these suckers has produced fruit in the Horticultural Garden at
    Chiswick."--Lindley's Guide to the Orchard and Kitchen Garden, 1831,
    p. 81.

J. G.

Exon.

Lord Cliff and Howell's Letters (Vol. vii., p. 455.).--The Lord Cliff, as to whom your correspondent
inquires, and to whom James Howell addresses some of his letters, is intended for Henry Lord
Clifford, and afterwards, on the decease of his father, fifth and last Earl of Cumberland.
He died in December, 1643. Amongst the many republications of modern times, I regret that we
have no new edition, with illustrative notes, of Howell's Letters. It is the more necessary,
as one at least of the later editions of this most entertaining book is very much abridged
and mutilated.

JAMES CROSSLEY.

Y. S. M. asks "Who was Lord Cliff?" He might as well have added, "Who was Lord Viscount Col,
Sir Thomas Sa, or End. Por?" who also figure in Epistolæ Ho-Elianiæ. Had he looked over that
entertaining book more attentively, Y. S. M. would have seen that all these were mere contractions
of Howell's correspondents, Lord Clifford, Lord Colchester, Sir Thomas Savage, and Endymion Porter.

J. O.

The Bouillon Bible (Vol. vii., p. 296.).--H. W., who was good enough to answer my Query respecting
Philip D'Auvergne, has probably seen that the Bible of which he inquires has turned up. {537}
It seems to have been pawned (if I rightly understand the report in the newspapers) to a Mr.
Broughton of the Foreign Office, who had advanced money to the prince to enable him to prosecute
his claim to the dukedom. It has now been ordered by Vice-Chancellor Sir W. P. Wood to be offered
for sale as part of Mr. Broughton's estate, for the benefit of that gentleman's creditors.
It was stated in court, that on a former occasion, when the late Archbishop of Canterbury wished
to purchase it, 1500l. was asked for it. I was much obliged to H. W. for the information he
gave me, as I took some little interest in Philip D'Auvergne from having heard that he was
a friend of my grandfather. They were, I find, both of them officers in the Racehorse during
Lord Mulgrave's discovery voyage to the North Pole.

E. H. A.

Rhymes on Places (Vol. vii., p. 143.).--Northamptonshire:

 "Armston on the hill,
    Polebrook in the hole,
  Ashton turns the mill,
    Oundle burns the coal."

Repeated to me by poor old drunken Jem White the sexton, many years since, when on the "battlements"
of Oundle Church; Oundle being the market town for the three villages in the rhymes quoted.

BRICK.

Serpents' Tongues (Vol. vi., p. 340.; Vol. vii., p. 316.).--May I be allowed to inform MR.
PINKERTON that the sharks' teeth (fossils), now so frequently found imbedded in this tufa rock,
and cheaply sold, are not known as "the tongues of vipers," but, on the contrary, from time
immemorial, as the "tongues of St. Paul." In proof of this, I would refer MR. PINKERTON to
the following extract, which I have taken from an Italian letter now in the Maltese Library;
which was published on August 28, 1668, by Dr. Francis Buonamico, a native of this island,
and addressed to Agostino Scilla of Messina. Page 5., the writer remarks:

    "Che avanti de partire da questa isolde dovesse farle una raccolta di
    glossopietre, O lingue come que le chiamiamo di S. Paolo."

W. W.

Malta.

Consecrated Roses, &c. (Vol. vii., pp. 407. 480.).--An instance of the Golden Rose being conferred
on an English baron, will be found related in Davidson's History of Newenham Abbey in the County
of Devon, p. 208.

J. D. S.

       *       *       *       *       *

Miscellaneous.

NOTES ON BOOKS, ETC.

That well-worn quotation, "who shall decide when doctors disagree," must, we should think,
invariably suggest itself to the reader of every new book upon the subject of Shakspeare's
text. A few months since MR. COLLIER gave to the world a volume of Notes and Emendations from
Early Manuscript Corrections in a Copy of the Folio 1632[1], which was hailed by many, ourselves
among the number, as a most valuable contribution to Shakspearian literature. No one can put
forth higher claims to speak with authority on any points connected with Shakspeare than MR.
SINGER, who has devoted a life to the study of his writings; and none can rise from a perusal
of his book without recognising in it evidence of MR. SINGER'S fitness for editing the works
of our great dramatist, and feeling anxious for his revised edition of them. But we think many
will regret that, while pointing out the Notes and Emendations from which he dissents, MR.
SINGER should not have noticed those which he regards with favour; and that, in his anxiety
to vindicate the purity of Shakspeare's text from the anonymous emendator, he should have embodied
that vindication in language, which, though we are quite sure it is unintentional on his part,
gives his book almost a personal character, instead of one purely critical.

BOOKS RECEIVED.--Records of the Roman Inquisition, Case of a Minorite Friar who was sentenced
by S. Charles Borromeo to be walled up, and who, having escaped, was burned in effigy: edited,
with an English Translation, Notes, &c., by Rev. Richard Gibbings. III. The third volume of
this new and cheaper edition of Lord Mahon's valuable history comprehends the period from 1740
to 1748.--English Forests and Forest Trees; Historical, Legendary, and Descriptive, with numerous
Illustrations. This volume, one of the Illustrated London Library, is a pleasant chatty compilation
on a subject which will interest many of our readers and correspondents by furnishing them
with a series of notices of old forests, remarkable trees, &c., which have never before been
gathered together.--The Shakspeare Repository, edited by J. H. Fennell, No. II. The second
part of this periodical, the only one exclusively devoted to the Elizabethan writers, contains,
among other interesting articles, a long one on the medical practice of Shakspeare's son-in-law,
Dr. John Hall.

[Footnote 1: Since this was written we have heard that MR. COLLIER has traced back the history
of his Folio 1632 for upwards of a century.--ED.]

{538}

       *       *       *       *       *

BOOKS AND ODD VOLUMES WANTED TO PURCHASE.

We are compelled to omit several interesting papers respecting Shakspeare which are in type,
among which we may mention a notice of some drawings which are great interest.

W. T. WATTS (St. Ives), who inquires respecting the literary history of Baron Munchausen, is
referred to our 2nd Vol., p. 519., and our 3rd Vol., pp. 117. 305. 453.

G. P. (Offenburg) Potatoes were most probably introduced into England by Sir W. Raleigh. Gerarde
mentions them in his Herbal, published in 1597.

ANTIQUARIAN had better send a rubbing from the oak cover in question. His copy cannot be deciphered.

S. S. S.'s Query on the passage in St. James in our next.

BROOKTHORPE will find, in the Notices to Correspondents, in No. 179. (2nd April), a reply to
his former Query respecting the Epitaph:

 "If Heaven be pleased."

URSULA. We shall be glad of the "succinct refutation" proposed.

J. W. There is a folio edition of Godwin De Præsulibus, Canterbury, 1743, in which the original
work is continued by Richardson.

J. R. (Sunderland) is referred to Brockett's Glossary, where he will find the etymology of
stang, from the Danish stang, a pole or bar--or the Saxon steng; and a full description of
the ceremonies connected with Riding the stang.

FLORENCE is thanked for her hint.

J. B. will find full particulars of Sir T. Herbert's Threnodia Carolina in our 3rd Vol., p.
259. Other references in our 2nd Vol., pp. 140. 220. 476.

       *       *       *       *       *

PREPARING FOR THE PRESS, IN OCTAVO,

A SUPPLEMENT

TO

MR. HALLIWELL'S OCTAVO LIFE OF SHAKSPEARE;

Consisting of Observations on Modern Shakspearian Forgeries.

JOHN RUSSELL SMITH, 36.

       *       *       *       *       *

PUBLISHED EVERY SATURDAY, Price 6d.

