10. THE HOT SITZ-BATH.--This bath is one of the most desirable and healthful baths for pregnant
women. It will relieve pain or acute inflammation, and will be a general tonic in keeping the
system in a good condition. This may be taken in the middle of the forenoon or just before
retiring, and if taken just before retiring will produce invigorating sleep, will quiet the
nerves, cure headache, weariness, etc. It is a good plan to take this bath every night before
retiring in case of any disorders. A woman who keeps this tip during the period of gestation
will have a very easy labor and a strong, vigorous babe.

11. HOT FOMENTATIONS.--Applying flannel cloths wrung out of simple or medicated hot water is
a great relief for acute suffering, such as neuralgia, rheumatic pain, biliousness, constipation,
torpid liver, colic, flatulency, etc.

12. THE HOT WATER-BAG.--The hot water-bag serves the same purpose as hot fomentations, and
is much more convenient. No one should go through the period of gestation without a hot water-bag.

13. THE COLD COMPRESS.--This is a very desirable and effectual domestic remedy. Take a towel
wrung from cold water and apply it to the affected parts; then cover well with several thicknesses
of flannel. This is excellent in cases of sore throat, hoarseness, bronchitis, inflammation
of the lungs, croup, etc. It is also excellent for indigestion, constipation or distress of
the bowels accompanied by heat.

14. DIET.--The pregnant woman should eat nutritious, but not stimulating or heating food, and
eat at the regular time. Avoid drinking much while eating.

15. AVOID salt, pepper and sweets as much as possible.

16. EAT all kinds of grains, vegetables and fruits, and avoid salted meat, but eat chicken,
steak, fish, oysters, etc.

17. THE WOMAN WHO EATS INDISCRIMINATELY anything and everything the same as any other person,
will have a very painful labor and suffer many ills that could easily be avoided by more attention
being paid to the diet. With a little study and observation a woman will soon learn what to
eat and what to avoid.

18. The above cuts are given on page 113; we repeat them here for the benefit of expectant
mothers who may be ignorant of the evil effects of the corset.

Displacement of the womb, interior irritation and inflammation, miscarriage and sterility,
are some of the many injuries of tight lacing. There are many others, in fact their name is
legion, and every woman who has habitually worn a corset and continues to wear it during the
early period of gestation must suffer severely during childbirth.

19. THIS IS WHAT DR. STOCKHAM says: "If women had common sense, instead of fashion sense, the
corset would not exist. There are not words in the English language to express my convictions
upon this subject. The corset more than any other one thing is responsible for woman's being
the victim of disease and doctors....

"What is the effect upon the child? One-half of the children born in this country die before
they are five years of age. Who can tell how much this state of things is due to the enervation
of maternal life forces by the one instrument of torture?

"I am a temperance woman. No one can realize more than I the devastation and ruin alcohol in
its many tempting forms has brought to the human family. Still I solemnly believe that in weakness
and deterioration of health, the corset has more to answer for than intoxicating drinks." When
asked how far advanced a woman should be in pregnancy before she laid aside her corset, Dr.
Stockham said with emphasis: "The corset should not be worn for two hundred years before pregnancy
takes place. Ladies, it will take that time at least to overcome the ill-effect of tight garments
which you think so essential."

20. PAINLESS PREGNANCY AND CHILD-BIRTH.--"Some excellent popular volumes," says Dr. Haff, "have
been largely devoted to directions how to secure a comfortable period of pregnancy and painless
delivery. After much conning of these worthy efforts to impress a little common sense upon
the sisterhood, we are convinced that all may be summed up under the simple heads of: (1) An
unconfined and lightly burdened waist; (2) Moderate but persistent outdoor exercise, of which
walking is the best form; (3) A plain unstimulating, chiefly fruit and vegetable diet; (4)
Little or no intercourse during the time.

"These are hygienic rules of benefit under any ordinary conditions; yet they are violated by
almost every pregnant lady. If they are followed, biliousness, indigestion, constipation, swollen
limbs, morning sickness and nausea--all will absent themselves or be much lessened. In pregnancy
more than at any other time, corsets are injurious. The waist and abdomen must be allowed to
expand freely with the growth of the child. The great process of evolution must have room."

21. IN ADDITION, we can do no better than quote the following recapitulation by Dr. Stockham
in her famous Tokology: "To give a woman the greatest immunity from suffering during pregnancy,
prepare her for a safe and comparatively easy delivery, and insure a speedy recovery, all hygienic
conditions must be observed.

"The dress must give:

"1. Freedom of movement;

"2. No pressure upon any part of the body;

"3. No more weight than is essential for warmth, and both weight and warmth evenly distributed.

"These requirements necessitate looseness, lightness and warmth, which can be obtained from
the union underclothes, a princess skirt and dress, with a shoe that allows full development
and use of the foot. While decoration and elegance are desirable, they should not sacrifice
comfort and convenience.

22. "LET THE DIET BE LIGHT, plain and nutritious. Avoid fats and sweets, relying mainly upon
fruits and grain that contain little of the mineral salts. By this diet bilious and inflammatory
conditions are overcome, the development of bone in the foetus lessened, and muscles necessary
in labor nourished and strengthened.

23. "EXERCISE should be sufficient and of such a character as will bring into action gently
every muscle of the body; but must particularly develop the muscles of the trunk, abdomen and
groin, that are specially called into action in labor. Exercise, taken faithfully and systematically,
more than any other means assists assimilative processes and stimulates the organs of excretion
to healthy action.

24. "BATHING MUST BE FREQUENT and regular. Unless in special conditions the best results are
obtained from tepid or cold bathing, which invigorates the system and overcomes nervousness.
The sitz-bath is the best therapeutic and hygienic measure within the reach of the pregnant woman.

"Therefore, to establish conditions which will overcome many previous infractions of law, dress
naturally and physiologically; live much of the time out of doors; have abundance of fresh
air in the house; let exercise be sufficient and systematic; pursue a diet of fruit, rice and
vegetables; regular rest must be faithfully taken; abstain from the sexual relation. To those
who will commit themselves to this course of life, patiently and persistently carrying it out
through the period of gestation, the possibilities of attaining a healthy, natural, painless
parturition will be remarkably increased.

25. "IF THE FIRST EXPERIMENT should not result in a painless labor, it without doubt will prove
the beginning of sound health. Persisted in through years of married life, the ultimate result
will be more and more closely approximated, while there will be less danger of diseases after
childbirth and better and more vigorous children will be produced.

"Then pregnancy by every true woman will be desired, and instead of being a period of disease,
suffering and direful forebodings, will become a period of health, exalted pleasure and holiest
anticipations. Motherhood will be deemed the choicest of earth's blessings; women will rejoice
in a glad maternity and for any self-denial will be compensated by healthy, happy, buoyant,
grateful children."

       *       *       *       *       *

SOLEMN LESSONS FOR PARENTS.

1.

2. Hysteria in the mother may develop insanity in the child, while drunkenness in the father
may impel epilepsy, or mania, in the son.

3. The influence of predominant passion may be transmitted from the parent to the child, just
as surely a similarity of looks. It has been truly said that "the faculties which predominate
in power and activity in the parents, when the organic existence of the child commences, determine
its future mental disposition." A bad mental condition of the mother may produce serious defects
upon her unborn child.

4. The singular effects produced on the unborn child by the sudden mental emotions of the mother
are remarkable examples of a kind of electrotyping on the sensitive surfaces of living forms.
It is doubtless true that the mind's action in such cases may increase or diminish the molecular
deposits in the several portions of the system. The precise place which each separate particle
assumes in the new organic structure may be determined by the influence of thought or feeling.
Perfect love and perfect harmony should exist between wife and husband during this vital period.

5. AN ILLUSTRATION.--If a sudden and powerful emotion of a woman's mind exerts such an influence
upon her stomach as to excite vomiting, and upon her heart as almost to arrest its motion and
induce fainting, can we believe that it will have no effect upon her womb and the fragile being
contained within it? Facts and reason then, alike demonstrate the reality of the influence,
and much practical advantage would result to both parent and child, were the conditions and
extent of its operations better understood.

6. Pregnant women should not be exposed to causes likely to distress or otherwise strongly
impress their minds. A consistent life with worthy objects constantly kept in mind should be
the aim and purpose of every expectant mother.

       *       *       *       *       *

TEN HEALTH RULES FOR BABIES CUT DEATH RATE IN TWO.

Ninety-four babies out of every thousand born in New York died last year. Only thirty-eight
babies died in Montclair, N.J., out of every thousand born during the same period. Much credit
for this low rate of infant mortality in the latter city is given the Montclair Day Nursery
which prescribes the following decade of baby health rules:

1. Give a baby pure milk and watch its feeding very closely.

2. Keep everything connected with a baby absolutely clean. Cleanliness in the house accounts
for a baby's health. Untidy babies are usually sick babies.

3. Never let a baby get chilled. Keep its hands and feet warm.

4. Regulate a baby's day by the clock. Everything about its wants should be attended to on
schedule time.

5. Diminish a baby's food the minute signs of illness appear. Most babies are overfed anyway.

6. Weigh a baby every week until it is a year old. Its weight is an index of its health.

7. Every mother should get daily out-door exercise. It means better health for her babies.

8. Every baby should be "mothered" more and mauled less. Babies thrive on cuddling but they
can get along on a lot less kissing.

9. Don't amuse or play with your baby too much. Its regular daily routine is all the stimulation
its little brain needs at first.

10. Don't let too many different people take care of the baby. Even members of the same family
make a baby nervous if they fuss around him too much.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CARE OF NEW-BORN INFANTS.

1. The first thing to be done ordinarily is to give the little stranger a bath by using soap
and warm water. To remove the white material that usually covers the child use olive oil, goose
oil or lard, and apply it with a soft piece of worn flannel, and when the child is entirely
clean rub all off with a fresh piece of flannel.

2. Many physicians in the United States recommend a thorough oiling of the child with pure
lard or olive oil, and then rub dry as above stated. By these means water is avoided, and with
it much risk of taking cold.

3. The application of brandy or liquor is entirely unnecessary, and generally does more injury
than good.

4. If an infant should breathe feebly, or exhibit other signs of great feebleness, it should
not be washed at once, but allowed to remain quiet and undisturbed, warmly wrapped up until
the vital actions have acquired a fair degree of activity.

5. DRESSING THE NAVEL.--There is nothing better for dressing the navel than absorbent antiseptic
cotton. There needs be no grease or oil upon the cotton. After the separation of the cord the
navel should be dressed with a little cosmoline, still using the absorbent cotton. The navel
string usually separates in a week's time; it may be delayed for twice this length of time,
this will make no material difference, and the rule is to allow it to drop off of its own accord.

6. THE CLOTHING OF THE INFANT.--The clothing of the infant should be light, soft and perfectly
loose. A soft flannel band is necessary only until the navel is healed. Afterwards discard
bands entirely if you wish your babe to be happy and well. Make the dresses "Mother Hubbard"
Put on first a soft woolen shirt, then prepare the flannel skirts to hang from the neck like
a slip. Make one kind with sleeves and one just like it without sleeves, then white muslin
skirts (if they are desired), all the same way. Then baby is ready for any weather. In intense
heat simply put on the one flannel slip with sleeves, leaving off the shirt. In Spring and
Fall the shirt and skirt with no sleeves. In Cold weather shirt and both skirts. These garments
can be all put on at once, thus making the process of dressing very quick and easy. These are
the most approved modern styles for dressing infants, and with long cashmere stockings pinned
to the diapers the little feet are free to kick with no old-fashioned pinning blanket to torture
the naturally active, healthy child, and retard its development. If tight bands are an injury
to grown people, then in the name of pity emancipate the poor little infant from their torture!

7. THE DIAPER.--Diapers should be of soft linen, and great care should be exercised not to
pin them too tightly. Never dry them, but always wash them thoroughly before being used again.

8. The band need not be worn after the navel has healed so that it requires no dressing, as
it serves no purpose save to keep in place the dressing of the navel. The child's body should
be kept thoroughly warm around the chest, bowels and feet. Give the heart and lungs plenty
of room to heave.

9. The proper time for shortening the clothes is about three months in Summer and six months
in Winter.

10. INFANT BATHING.--The first week of a child's life it should not be entirely stripped and
washed. It is too exhausting. After a child is over a week old it should be bathed every day;
after a child is three weeks old it may be put in the water and supported with one hand while
it is being washed with the other. Never, however, allow it to remain too long in the water.
From ten to twenty minutes is the limit. Use Pears' soap or castile soap, and with a sponge
wipe quickly, or use a soft towel.

       *       *       *       *       *

NURSING.

1. The new-born infant requires only the mother's milk. The true mother will nurse her child
if it is a possibility. The infant will thrive better and have many more chances for life.

2. The mother's milk is the natural food, and nothing can fully take its place. It needs no
feeding for the first few days as it was commonly deemed necessary a few years ago. The secretions
in the mother's breast are sufficient.

3. Artificial Food. Tokology says: "The best artificial food is cream reduced and sweetened
with sugar of mill. Analysis shows that human milk contains more cream and sugar and less casein
than the milk of animals."

4. Milk should form the basis of all preparations of food. If the milk is too strong, indigestion
will follow, and the child will lose instead of gaining strength.

WEANING.--The weaning of the child depends much upon the strength and condition of the mother.
If it does not occur in hot weather, from nine to twelve months is as long as any child should
be nursed.

FOOD IN WEANING.--Infants cry a great deal during weaning, but a few days of patient perseverance
will overcome all difficulties. Give the child purely a milk diet, Graham bread, milk crackers
and milk, or a little milk thickened with boiled rice, a little jelly, apple sauce, etc., may
be safely used. Cracked wheat, oatmeal, wheat germ, or anything of that kind thoroughly cooked
and served with a little cream and sugar, is an excellent food.

MILK DRAWN FROM THE BREASTS.--If the mother suffers considerably from the milk gathering in
the breast after weaning the child, withdraw it by taking a bottle that holds about a pint
or a quart, putting a piece of cloth wrung out in warm water around the bottle, then fill it
with boiling water, pour the water out and apply the bottle to the breast, and the bottle cooling
will form a vacuum and will withdraw the milk into the bottle. This is one of the best methods
now in use.

RETURN OF THE MENSES.--If the menses return while the mother is nursing, the child should at
once be weaned, for the mother's milk no longer contains sufficient nourishment. In case the
mother should become pregnant while the child is nursing it should at once be weaned, or serious
results will follow to the health of the child. A mother's milk is no longer sufficiently rich
to nourish the child or keep it in good health.

CARE OF THE BOTTLE.--If the child is fed on the bottle great care should be taken in keeping
it absolutely clean. Never use white rubber nipples. A plain form of bottle with a black rubber
nipple is preferable.

CHILDREN should not be permitted to come to the table until two years of age.

CHAFING.--One of the best remedies is powdered lycopodium; apply it every time the babe is
cleaned; but first wash with pure castile soap; Pears' soap is also good. A preparation of
oxide of zinc is also highly recommended. Chafing sometimes results from an acid condition
of the stomach; in that case give a few doses of castoria.

COLIC.--If an infant is seriously troubled with colic, there is nothing better than camomile
or catnip tea. Procure the leaves and make tea and give it as warm as the babe can bear.

       *       *       *       *       *

FEEDING INFANTS.

1. The best food for infants is mother's milk; next best is cow's milk. Cow's milk contains
about three times as much curd and one-half as much sugar, and it should be reduced with two
parts of water.

2. In feeding cow's milk there is too little cream and too little sugar, and there is no doubt
no better preparation than Mellin's food to mix it with (according to directions).

3. Children being fed on food lacking fat generally have their teeth come late; their muscles
will be flabby and bones soft. Children will be too fat when their food contains too much sugar.
Sugar always makes their flesh soft and flabby.

4. During the first two months the baby should be fed every two hours during the day, and two
or three times during the night, but no more. Ten or eleven feedings for twenty-four hours
are all a child will bear and remain healthy. At three months the child may be fed every three
hours instead of every two.

5. Children can be taught regular habits by being fed and put to sleep at the same time every
day and evening. Nervous diseases are caused by irregular hours of sleep and diet, and the
use of soothing medicines.

6. A child five or six months old should not be fed during the night from nine in the evening
until six or seven in the morning, as overfeeding causes most of the wakefulness and nervousness
of children during the night.

7. If a child vomits soon after taking the bottle, and there is an appearance of undigested
food in the stool, it is a sign of overfeeding. If a large part of the bottle has been vomited,
avoid the next bottle at regular time and pass over one bottle. If the child is nursing the
same principles apply.

8. If a child empties its bottle and sucks vigorously its fingers after the bottle is emptied,
it is very evident that the child is not fed enough, and should have its food gradually increased.

9. Give the baby a little cold water several times a day.

       *       *       *       *       *

INFANTILE CONVULSIONS.

DEFINITION.--An infantile convulsion corresponds to a chill in an adult, and is the most common
brain affection among children.

CAUSES.--Anything that irritates the nervous system may cause convulsions in the child, as
teething, indigestible food, worms, dropsy of the brain, hereditary constitution, or they may
be the accompanying symptom in nearly all the acute diseases of children, or when the eruption
is suppressed in eruptive diseases.

SYMPTOMS.--In case of convulsions of a child parents usually become frightened, and very rarely
do the things that should be done in order to afford relief. The child, previous to the fit,
is usually irritable, and the twitching of the muscles of the face may be noticed, or it may
come on suddenly without warning. The child becomes insensible, clenches its hands tightly,
lips turn blue, and the eyes become fixed, usually frothing from the mouth with head turned
back. The convulsion generally lasts two or three minutes; sometimes, however, as long as ten
or fifteen minutes, but rarely.

REMEDY.--Give the child a warm bath and rub gently. Clothes wrung out of cold water and applied
to the lower and back part of the head and plenty of fresh air will usually relieve the convulsion.
Be sure and loosen the clothing around the child's neck. After the convulsion is over, give
the child a few doses of potassic bromide, and an injection of castor oil if the abdomen is
swollen. Potassic bromide should be kept in the house, to use in case of necessity.

       *       *       *       *       *

PAINS AND ILLS IN NURSING.

1. SORE NIPPLES.--If a lady, during the latter few months of her pregnancy, where to adopt
"means to harden the nipples," sore nipples during the period of suckling would not be so prevalent
as they are.

2. CAUSE.--A sore nipple is frequently produced by the injudicious custom of allowing the child
to have the nipple almost constantly in his mouth. Another frequent cause of a sore nipple
is from the babe having the canker. Another cause of a sore nipple is from the mother, after
the babe has been sucking, putting up the nipple wet. She, therefore, ought always to dry the
nipple, not by rubbing, but by dabbing it with a soft cambric or lawn handkerchief, or with
a piece of soft linen rag one or the other of which ought always to be at hand every time directly
after the child has done sucking, and just before applying any of the following powders or
lotions to the nipple.

3. REMEDIES.--One of the best remedies for a sore nipple is the following powder:

  Take of Borax, one drachm;
  Powdered Starch, seven drachms.

Mix. A pinch of the powder to be frequently applied to the nipple.

If the above does not cure, try Glycerine by applying it each time after nursing.

4. GATHERED BREAST.--A healthy woman with a well-developed breast and a good nipple, scarcely,
if ever, has a gathered bosom; it is the delicate, the ill-developed breasted and worse-developed
nippled lady who usually suffers from this painful complaint. And why? The evil can generally
be traced to girlhood. If she be brought up luxuriously, her health and her breasts are sure
to be weakened, and thus to suffer, more especially if the development of the bosoms and nipples
has been arrested and interfered with by tight stays and corsets. Why, the nipple is by them
drawn in, and retained on the level with the breast countersunk as though it were of no consequence
to her future well-being, as though it were a thing of nought.

5. TIGHT LACERS.--Tight lacers will have to pay the penalties of which they little dream. Oh,
the monstrous folly of such proceedings! When will mothers awake from their lethargy? It is
high time that they did so! From the mother having "no nipple," the effects of tight lacing,
many a home has been made childless, the babe not being able to procure its proper nourishment,
and dying in consequence! It is a frightful state of things! But fashion, unfortunately, blinds
the eyes and deafens the ears of its votaries!

6. BAD BREAST.--A gathered bosom, or "bad breast," as it is sometimes called, is more likely
to occur after a first confinement and during the first month. Great care, therefore, ought
to be taken to avoid such a misfortune. A gathered breast is frequently owing to the carelessness
of a mother in not covering her bosoms during the time she is suckling. Too much attention
cannot be paid to keeping the breasts comfortably warm. This, during the act of nursing, should
be done by throwing either a shawl or a square of flannel over the neck, shoulders, and bosoms.

7. ANOTHER CAUSE.--Another cause of gathered breasts arises from a mother sitting up in bed
to suckle her babe. He ought to be accustomed to take the bosom while she is lying down; if
this habit is not at first instituted, it will be difficult to adopt it afterwards. Good habits
may be taught a child from earliest babyhood.

8. FAINTNESS.--When a nursing mother feels faint, she ought immediately to lie down and take
a little nourishment; a cup of tea with the yolk of an egg beaten up in it, or a cup of warm
milk, or some beef-tea, any of which will answer the purpose extremely well. Brandy, or any
other spirit we would not recommend, as it would only cause, as soon as the immediate effects
of the stimulant had gone off, a greater depression to ensue; not only so, but the frequent
taking of brandy might become a habit a necessity which would be a calamity deeply to be deplored!

9. STRONG PURGATIVES.--Strong purgatives during this period are highly improper, as they are
apt to give pain to the infant, as well as to injure the mother. If it be absolutely necessary
to give physic, the mildest, such as a dose of castor oil, should be chosen.

10. HABITUALLY COSTIVE.--When a lady who is nursing is habitually costive, she ought to eat
brown instead of white bread. This will, in the majority of cases, enable her to do without
an aperient. The brown bread may be made with flour finely ground all one way; or by mixing
one part of bran and three parts of fine wheaten flour together, and then making it in the
usual way into bread. Treacle instead of butter, on the brown bread increases its efficacy
as an aperient; and raw should be substituted for lump sugar in her tea.

11. TO PREVENT CONSTIPATION.--Stewed prunes, or stewed French plums, or stewed Normandy pippins,
are excellent remedies to prevent constipation. The patient ought to eat, every morning, a
dozen or fifteen of them. The best way to stew either prunes or French plums, is the following:
Put a pound of either prunes or French plums, and two tablespoonfuls of raw sugar, into a brown
jar; cover them with water; put them into a slow oven, and stew them for three or four hours.
Both stewed rhubarb and stewed pears often act as mild and gentle aperients. Muscatel raisins,
eaten at dessert, will oftentimes without medicine relieve the bowels.

12. COLD WATER--A tumblerful of cold water, taken early every morning, sometimes effectually
relieves the bowels; indeed, few people know the value of cold water as an aperient it is one
of the best we possess, and, unlike drug aperients, can never by any possibility do any harm.
An injection of warm water is one of the best ways to relieve the bowels.

13. WELL-COOKED VEGETABLES.--Although a nursing mother ought, more especially if she be costive,
to take a variety of well-cooked vegetables, such as potatoes, asparagus, cauliflower, French
beans, spinach, stewed celery and turnips; she should avoid eating greens, cabbages, and pickles,
as they would be likely to affect the babe, and might cause him to suffer from gripings, from
pain, and "looseness" of the bowels.

14. SUPERSEDE THE NECESSITY OF TAKING PHYSIC.--Let me again--for it cannot be too urgently
insisted upon--strongly advise a nursing mother to use every means in the way of diet, etc.,
to supersede the necessity of taking physic (opening medicine), as the repetition of aperients
injures, and that severely, both herself and child. Moreover, the more opening medicine she
swallows, the more she requires; so that if she once gets into the habit of regularly taking
physic, the bowels will not act without them. What a miserable existence to be always swallowing
physic!

       *       *       *       *       *

HOME LESSONS IN NURSING SICK CHILDREN.

1. MISMANAGEMENT.--Every doctor knows that a large share of the ills to which infancy is subject
are directly traceable to mismanagement. Troubles of the digestive system are, for the most
part due to errors, either in the selection of the food or in the preparation of it.

2. RESPIRATORY DISEASES.--Respiratory diseases or the diseases of the throat and lungs have
their origin, as a rule, in want of care and judgment in matters of clothing, bathing and exposure
to cold and drafts. A child should always be dressed to suit the existing temperature of the
weather.

3. NERVOUS DISEASES.--Nervous diseases are often aggravated if not caused by over-stimulation
of the brain, by irregular hours of sleep, or by the use of "soothing" medicines, or eating
indigestible food.

4. SKIN AFFECTIONS.--Skin affections are generally due to want of proper care of the skin,
to improper clothing or feeding, or to indiscriminate association with nurses and Children,
who are the carriers of contagious diseases.

5. PERMANENT INJURY.--Permanent injury is often caused by lifting the child by one hand, allowing
it to fall, permitting it to play with sharp instruments, etc.

6. RULES AND PRINCIPLES.--Every mother should understand the rules and principles of home nursing.
Children are very tender plants and the want of proper knowledge is often very disastrous if
not fatal. Study carefully and follow the principles and rules which are laid down in the different
parts of this work on nursing and cooking for the sick.

7. WHAT A MOTHER SHOULD KNOW:

  I. INFANT FEEDING.--The care of milk, milk sterilization, care of
  bottles, preparation of commonly employed infant foods, the general
  principles of infant feeding, with rules as to quality and
  frequency.

  II. BATHING.--The daily bath; the use of hot, cold and mustard
  baths.

  III. HYGIENE OF THE SKIN. Care of the mouth, eyes and ears.
  Ventilation, temperature, cleanliness, care of napkins, etc.

  IV. TRAINING OF CHILDREN in proper bodily habits. Simple means of
  treatment in sickness, etc.

8. THE CRY OF THE SICK CHILD.--The cry of the child is a language by which the character of
its suffering to some extent may be ascertained. The manner in which the cry is uttered, or
the pitch and tone is generally a symptom of a certain kind of disease.

9. STOMACHACHE.--The cry of the child in suffering with pain of the stomach is loud, excitable
and spasmodic. The legs are drawn up and as the pain ceases, they are relaxed and the child
sobs itself to sleep, and rests until awakened again by pain.

10. LUNG TROUBLE.--When a child is suffering with an affection of the lungs or throat, it never
cries loudly or continuously. A distress in breathing causes a sort of subdued cry and low
moaning. If there is a slight cough it is generally a sign that there is some complication
with the lungs.

11. DISEASE OF THE BRAIN.--In disease of the brain the cry is always sharp, short and piercing.
Drowsiness generally follows each spasm of pain.

12. FEVERS.--Children rarely cry when suffering with fever unless they are disturbed. They
should be handled very gently and spoken to in a very quiet and tender tone of voice.

13. THE CHAMBER OF THE SICK ROOM.--The room of the sick child should be kept scrupulously clean.
No noise should disturb the quiet and rest of the child. If the weather is mild, plenty of
fresh air should be admitted; the temperature should be kept at about 70 degrees. A thermometer
should be kept in the room, and the air should be changed several times during the day. This
may be done with safety to the child by covering it up with woolen blankets to protect it from
draft, while the windows and doors are opened. Fresh air often does more to restore the sick
child than the doctor's medicine. Take the best room in the house. If necessary take the parlor,
always make the room pleasant for the sick.

14. VISITORS.--Carefully avoid the conversation of visitors or the loud and boisterous playing
of children in the house. If there is much noise about the house that cannot be avoided, it
is a good plan to put cotton in the ears of the patient.

15. LIGHT IN THE ROOM.--Light has a tendency to produce nervous irritability, consequently
it is best to exclude as much daylight as possible and keep the room in a sort of twilight
until the child begins to improve. Be careful to avoid any odor coming from a burning lamp
in the night. When the child begins to recover, give it plenty of sunlight. After the child
begins to get better let in all the sunlight the windows will admit. Take a south room for
the sick bed.

16. SICKNESS IN SUMMER.--If the weather is very hot it is a good plan to dampen the floors
with cold water, or set several dishes of water in the room, but be careful to keep the patient
out of the draft, and avoid any sudden change of temperature.

17. BATHING.--Bathe every sick child in warm water once a day unless prohibited by the doctor.
If the child has a spasm or any attack of a serious nervous character in absence of the doctor,
place him in a hot bath at once. Hot water is one of the finest agencies for the cure of nervous
diseases.

18. SCARLET FEVER AND MEASLES.--Bathe the child in warm water to bring out the rash, and put
in about a dessertspoonsful of mustard into each bath.

19. DRINKS.--If a child is suffering with fevers, let it have all the water it wants. Toast-water
will be found nourishing. When the stomach of the child is in an irritable condition, nourishments
containing milk or any other fluid should be given very sparingly. Barley-water and rice-water
are very soothing to an irritable stomach.

20. FOOD.--Mellin's Food and milk is very nourishing if the child will take it. Oatmeal gruel,
white of eggs, etc. are excellent and nourishing articles. See "How to cook for the Sick."

21. EATING FRUIT.--Let children who are recovering from sickness eat moderately of good fresh
fruit. Never let a child, whether well or sick, eat the skins of any kind of fruit. The outer
covering of fruit was not made to eat, and often has poisonous matter very injurious to health
upon its surface. Contagious and infectious diseases are often communicated in that way.

22. SUDDEN STARTINGS with the thumbs drawn into the palms, portend trouble with the brain,
and often end in convulsions, which are far more serious in infants than in children. Convulsions
in children often result from a suppression of urine. If you have occasion to believe that
such is the case, get the patient to sweating as soon as possible. Give it a hot bath, after
which cover it up in bed and put bags of hot salt over the lower part of the abdomen.

23. SYMPTOMS OF INDIGESTION.--If the baby shows symptoms of indigestion, do not begin giving
it medicine. It is wiser to decrease the quantity and quality of the food and let the little
one omit one meal entirely, that his stomach may rest. Avoid all starchy foods, as the organs
of digestion are not sufficiently developed to receive them.

A TABLE FOR FEEDING A BABY ON MODIFIED MILK.

2d week: Top Milk 1-1/2 oz. Milk Sugar 4 teaspoons Barley Gruel 10 oz. Cream 2-3/4 oz. Lime
Water 2 oz. 1-1/2 oz. at feeding 10 times a day

3d week: Top Milk 6 oz. Milk Sugar 5-1/2 teaspoons Barley Gruel 18 oz. Lime Water 4 oz. 2 oz.
at feeding 10 times a day

4th to 8th week: Top Milk 9 oz. Milk Sugar 8 teaspoons Barley Gruel to make a quart Lime Water
4 oz. 3 oz. at feeding 8 times a day

9th to 12th week: Top Milk 11 oz. 4 to 5 oz. at feeding 6 times a day

7th to 9th month: Top Milk 17 oz. 6 to 7 oz. at feeding 6 times a day

Top Milk--Let your quart of milk stand until the cream has risen, then pour off number of ounces
required.

Sugar of Milk may be purchased at your local druggist's.

Gruel is prepared by cooking one level tablespoon of any good barley flour in a pint of water
with a pinch of salt. When partly cooled add to the milk.

NURSING.

Period: 1st and 2d day Nursing in 24 hours: 4 Interval by day: 6 hrs. Night nursings 10 p.m.
to 6 a.m.: 1

Period: 3 days to 4 weeks Nursing in 24 hours: 10 Interval by day: 2 hrs.

1. The mother's milk is the natural food, and nothing can fully take its place.

2. The infant's stomach does not readily accommodate itself to changes in diet; therefore,
regularity in quality, quantity and temperature is extremely necessary.

3. Not until a child is a year old should it be allowed any food except that of milk, and possibly
a little cracker or bread, thoroughly soaked and softened.

4. Meat should never be given to very young children. The best artificial food is cream, reduced
and sweetened with sugar and milk. No rule can be given for its reduction. Observation and
experience must teach that, because every child's stomach is governed by a rule of its own.

5. A child can be safely weaned at one year of age, and sometimes less. It depends entirely
upon the season, and upon the health of the child.

6. A child should never be weaned during the warm weather, in June, July or August.

7. When a child is weaned it may be given, in connection with the milk diet, some such nourishment
as broth, gruel, egg, or some prepared food.

8. A child should never be allowed to come to the table until two years of age.

9. A child should never eat much starchy food until four years old.

10. A child should have all the water it desires to drink, but it is decidedly the best to
boil the water first, and allow it to cool. All the impurities and disease germs are thereby
destroyed. This one thing alone will add greatly to the health and vigor of the child.

11. Where there is a tendency to bowel disorder, a little gum arabic, rice, or barley may be
boiled with the drinking water.

12. If the child uses a bottle it should be kept absolutely clean. It is best to have two or
three bottles, so that one will always be perfectly clean and fresh.

13. The nipple should be of black or pure rubber, and not of the white or vulcanized rubber;
it should fit over the top of the bottle. No tubes should ever be used; it is impossible to
keep them clean.

14. When the rubber becomes coated, a little coarse salt will clean it.

15. Babies should be fed at regular times. They should also be put to sleep at regular hours.
Regularity is one of the best safeguards to health.

16. Milk for babies and children should be from healthy cows. Milk from different cows varies,
and it is always better for a child to have milk from the same cow. A farrow cow's milk is
preferable, especially if the child is not very strong.

17. Many of the prepared foods advertised for children are of little benefit. A few may be
good, but what is good for one child may not be for another. So it must be simply a matter
of experiment if any of the advertised foods are used.

18. It is a physiological fact that an infant is always healthier and better to sleep alone.
It gets better air and is not liable to suffocation.

19. A healthy child should never be fed in less than two hours from the last time they finished
before, gradually lengthening the time as it grows older. At 4 months 3-1/2 or 4 hours; at
5 months a healthy child will be better if given nothing in the night except, perhaps, a little
water.

20. Give an infant a little water several times a day.

21. A delicate child the first year should be oiled after each bath. The oiling may often take
the place of the bath, in case of a cold.

22. In oiling a babe, use pure olive oil, and wipe off thoroughly after each application. For
nourishing a weak child use also olive oil.

23. For colds, coughs, croup, etc., use goose oil externally and give a teaspoonful at bed-time.

       *       *       *       *       *

HOW TO PRESERVE THE HEALTH AND LIFE OF YOUR INFANT DURING HOT WEATHER.

BATHING.

1. Bathe infants daily in tepid water and even twice a day in hot weather.

If delicate they should be sponged instead of immersing them in water, but cleanliness is absolutely
necessary for the health of infants.

CLOTHING.

2. Put no bands in their clothing, but make all garments to hang loosely from the shoulders,
and have all their clothing scrupulously clean; even the diaper should not be re-used without
rinsing.

SLEEP ALONE.

3. The child should in all cases sleep by itself on a cot or in a crib and retire at a regular
hour. A child always early taught to go to sleep without rocking or nursing is the healthier
and happier for it. Begin at birth and this will be easily accomplished.

CORDIALS AND SOOTHING SYRUPS.

4. Never give cordials, soothing syrups, sleeping drops etc., without the advice of a physician.
A child that frets and does not sleep is either hungry or ill. If ill it needs a physician.
Never give candy or cake to quiet a small child, they are sure to produce disorders of the
stomach, diarrhoea or some other trouble.

FRESH AIR.

5. Children should have plenty of fresh air summer as well as winter. Avoid the severe hot
sun and the heated kitchen for infants in summer. Heat is the great destroyer of infants.

CLEAN HOUSES.

6. Keep your house clean and cool and well aired night and day. Your cellars cleared of all
rubbish and white-washed every spring, your drains cleaned with strong solution of copperas
or chloride of lime, poured down them once a week. Keep your gutters and yards clean and insist
upon your neighbors doing the same.

EVACUATIONS OF A CHILD.

The healthy motion varies from light orange yellow to greenish yellow, in number, two to four
times daily. Smell should never be offensive. Slimy mucous-like jelly passages indicate worms.
Pale green, offensive, acrid motions indicate disordered stomach. Dark green indicate acid
secretions and a more serious trouble.

Fetid dark brown stools are present in chronic diarrhoea Putty-like pasty passages are due
to aridity curdling the milk or to torpid liver.

BREAST MILK.

7. Breast milk is the only proper food for infants until after the second summer. If the supply
is small keep what you have and feed the child in connection with it, for if the babe is ill
this breast milk may be all that will save its life.

STERILIZED MILK.

8. Milk is the best food. Goat's milk best, cows milk next. If the child thrives on this nothing
else should be given during the hot weather, until the front teeth are cut. Get fresh cow's
milk twice a day if the child requires food in the night, pour it into a glass fruit jar with
one-third pure water for a child under three months old, afterwards the proportion of water
may be less and less, also a trifle of sugar may be added.

Then place the jar in a kettle or pan of cold water, like the bottom of an oatmeal kettle.
Leave the cover of the jar loose. Place it on the stove and let the water come to a boil and
boil ten minutes, screw down the cover tight and boil ten minutes more, then remove from the
fire, and allow it to cool in the water slowly so as not to break the jar. When partly cool
put on the ice or in a cool place, and keep tightly covered except when the milk is poured
out for use. The glass jar must be kept perfectly clean and washed and scalded carefully before
use. A tablespoonful of lime water to a bottle of milk will aid indigestion. Discard the bottle
as soon as possible and use a cup which you know is clean, whereas a bottle must be kept in
water constantly when not in use, or the sour milk will make the child sick. Use no tube for
it is exceedingly hard to keep it clean, and if pure milk cannot be had, condensed milk is
admirable and does not need to be sterilized as the above.

DIET.

9. Never give babies under two years old such food if grown persons eat. Their chief diet should
be milk, wheat bread and milk, oatmeal, possibly a little rare boiled egg, but always and chiefly
milk. Germ wheat is also excellent.

EXERCISE.

10. Children should have exercise in the house as well as outdoors, but should not be jolted
and jumped and jarred in rough play, not rudely rocked in the cradle, nor carelessly trundled
over bumps in their carriages. They should not be held too much in the arms, but allowed to
crawl and kick upon the floor and develop their limbs and muscles. A child should not be lifted
by its arms nor dragged along by one hand after it learns to take a few feeble steps, but when
they do learn to walk steadily it is the best of all exercise, especially in the open air.

Let the children as they grow older romp and play in the open air all they wish, girls as well
as boys. Give the girls an even chance for health, while they are young at least, and don't
mind about their complexion.

       *       *       *       *       *

INFANT TEETHING.

1. REMARKABLE INSTANCES.--There are instances where babies have been born with teeth, and,
on the other hand, there are cases of persons who have never had any teeth at all; and others
that had double teeth all around in both upper and lower jaws, but these are rare instances,
and may be termed as a sort of freaks of nature.

2. INFANT TEETHING.--The first teeth generally make their appearance after the third month,
and during the period of teething the child is fretful and restless, causing sometimes constitutional
disturbances, such as diarrhoea, indigestion, etc. Usually, however, no serious results follow,
and no unnecessary anxiety need be felt, unless the weather is extremely warm, then there is
some danger of summer complaint setting in and seriously complicating matters.

3. THE NUMBER OF TEETH.--Teeth are generally cut in pairs and make their appearance first in
the front and going backwards until all are complete. It generally takes about two years for
a temporary set of children's teeth. A child two or three years old should have twenty teeth.
After the age of seven they generally begin to loosen and fall out and permanent teeth take
their place.

4. LANCING THE GUMS.--This is very rarely necessary. There are extreme cases when the condition
of the mouth and health of the child demand a physician's lance, but this should not he resorted
to, unless it is absolutely necessary. When the gums are very much swollen and the tooth is
nearly through, the pains may be relieved by the mother taking a thimble and pressing it down
upon the tooth, the sharp edges of the tooth will cut through the swollen flesh, and instant
relief will follow. A child in a few hours or a day will be perfectly happy after a very severe
and trying time of sickness.

5. PERMANENT TEETH.--The teeth are firmly inserted in sockets of the upper and lower jaw. The
permanent teeth which follow the temporary teeth, when complete, are sixteen in each jaw, or
thirty-two in all.

6.

       *       *       *       *       *

HOME TREATMENT FOR THE DISEASES OF INFANTS AND CHILDREN.

1. Out of every 1000 persons that died during the year of 1912, 175 did not reach one year
of age, and 244 died under five years of age.

What a fearful responsibility therefore rests upon the parents who permit these hundreds of
thousands of children to die annually. This terrible mortality among children is undoubtedly
largely the result of ignorance as regarding to the proper care and treatment of sick children.

2. For very small children it is always best to use homoeopathic remedies.

COLIC.

1. Babies often suffer severely with colic. It is not considered dangerous, but causes considerable
suffering.

2. Severe colic is usually the result of derangement of the liver in the mother, or of her
insufficient or improper nourishment, and it occurs more frequently when the child is from
two to five months old. 3. Let the mother eat chiefly barley, wheat and bread, rolled wheat,
graham bread, fish, milk, eggs and fruit. The latter may be freely eaten, avoiding that which
is very sour.

4. A rubber bag or bottle filled with hot water put into a crib, will keep the child, once
quieted, asleep for hours. If a child is suffering from colic, it should be thoroughly warmed
and kept warm.

5. Avoid giving opiates of any kind, such as cordials, Mrs. Winslow's Soothing Syrup, "Mother's
Friend," and various other patent medicines. They injure the stomach and health of the child,
instead of benefiting it.

6. REMEDIES.--A few tablespoonfuls of hot water will often allay a severe attack of the colic.
Catnip tea is also a good remedy.

A drop of essence of peppermint in 6 or 7 teaspoonfuls of hot water will give relief.

If the stools are green and the child is very restless, give chamomilla.

If the child is suffering from constipation, and undigested curds of milk appear in its faeces,
and the child starts suddenly in its sleep, give nux vomica.

An injection of a few spoonfuls of hot water into the rectum with a little asafoetida is an
effective remedy, and will be good for an adult.

CONSTIPATION.

1. This is a very frequent ailment of infants. The first thing necessary is for the mother
to regulate her diet.

2. If the child is nursed regularly and held out at the same time of each day, it will seldom
be troubled with this complaint. Give plenty of water. Regularity of habit is the remedy. If
this method fails, use a soap suppository. Make it by paring a piece of white castile soap
round. It should be made about the size of a lead pencil, pointed at the end.

3. Avoid giving a baby drugs. Let the physician administer them if necessary.

DIARRHOEA.

Great care should be exercised by parents in checking the diarrhoea of children. Many times
serious diseases are brought on by parents being too hasty in checking this disorder of the
bowels. It is an infant's first method of removing obstructions and overcoming derangements
of the system.

SUMMER COMPLAINT.

1. Summer complaint is an irritation and inflammation of the lining membranes of the intestines.
This may often be caused by teething, eating indigestible food, etc.

2. If the discharges are only frequent and yellow and not accompanied with pain, there is no
cause for anxiety; but if the discharges are green, soon becoming gray, brown and sometimes
frothy, having a mixture of phlegm, and sometimes containing food undigested, a physician had
better be summoned.

3. For mild attacks the following treatment may be given:

1) Keep the child perfectly quiet and keep the room well aired.

2) Put a drop of tincture of camphor on a teaspoonful of sugar, mix thoroughly; then add 6
teaspoonfuls of hot water and give a teaspoonful of the mixture every ten minutes. This is
indicated where the discharges are watery, and where there is vomiting and coldness of the
feet and hands. Chamomilla is also an excellent remedy. Ipecac and nux vomica may also be given.

In giving homoeopathic remedies, give 5 or 6 pellets every 2 or 3 hours.

3) The diet should be wholesome and nourishing.

FOR TEETHING.

If a child is suffering with swollen gums, is feverish, restless, and starts in its sleep,
give nux vomica.

WORMS.

PIN WORMS.

Pin worms and round worms are the most common in children. They are generally found in the
lower bowels.

SYMPTOMS.--Restlessness, itching about the anus in the fore part of the evening, and worms
in the faeces.

TREATMENT.--Give with a syringe an injection of a tablespoonful of linseed oil. Cleanliness
is also very necessary.

ROUND WORMS.

A round worm is from six to sixteen inches in length, resembling the common earth worm. It
inhabits generally the small intestines, but it sometimes enters the stomach and is thrown
up by vomiting.

SYMPTOMS.--Distress, indigestion, swelling of the abdomen, grinding of the teeth, restlessness,
and sometimes convulsions.

TREATMENT.--One teaspoonful of powdered wormseed mixed with a sufficient quantity of molasses,
or spread on bread and butter.

Or, one grain of santonine every four hours for two or three days, followed by a brisk cathartic.
Wormwood tea is also highly recommended.

  SWAIM'S VERMIFUGE.
  2 ounces wormseed,
  1-1/2 ounces valerian,
  1-1/2 ounces rhubarb,
  1-1/2 ounces pink-root,
  1-1/2 ounces white agaric. Dose, 1 teaspoonful at night.

ANOTHER EXCELLENT VERMIFUGE.

  Oil of wormseed, 1 ounce,
  Oil of anise, 1 ounce,
  Castor oil, 1 ounce,
  Tinct. of myrrh, 2 drops,
  Oil of turpentine, 10 drops.

Mix thoroughly.

Always shake well before using.

Give 10 to 15 drops in cold coffee, once or twice a day.

HOW TO TREAT CROUP

SPASMODIC AND TRUE.

SPASMODIC CROUP.

DEFINITION.--A spasmodic closure of the glottis which interferes with respiration. Comes on
suddenly and usually at night, without much warning. It is a purely nervous disease and may
be caused by reflex nervous irritation from undigested food in the stomach or bowels, irritation
of the gums in dentition, or from brain disorders.

SYMPTOMS.--Child awakens suddenly at night with suspended respiration or very difficult breathing.
After a few respirations it cries out and then falls asleep quietly, or the attack may last
an hour or so, when the face will become pale, veins in the neck become turgid and feet and
hands contract spasmodically. In mild cases the attacks will only occur once during the night,
but may recur on the following night.

HOME TREATMENT.--During the paroxysm dashing cold water in the face is a common remedy. To
terminate the spasm and prevent its return give teaspoonful doses of powdered alum. The syrup
of squills is an old and tried remedy; give in 15 to 30 drop doses and repeat every 10 minutes
till vomiting occurs. Seek out the cause if possible and remove it. It commonly lies in some
derangement of the digestive organs.

TRUE CROUP.

DEFINITION.--This disease consists of an inflammation of the mucous membrane of the upper air
passages, particularly of the larynx with the formation of a false membrane that obstructs
the breathing. The disease is most common in children between the ages of two and seven years,
but it may occur at any age.

SYMPTOMS.--Usually there are symptoms of a cold for three or four days previous to the attack.
Marked hoarseness is observed in the evening with a ringing metallic cough and some difficulty
in breathing, which increases and becomes somewhat paroxysmal till the face which was at first
flushed becomes pallid and ashy in hue. The efforts at breathing become very great, and unless
the child gets speedy relief it will die of suffocation.

HOME TREATMENT.--Patient should be kept in a moist warm atmosphere, and cold water applied
to the neck early in the attack. As soon as the breathing seems difficult give a half to one
teaspoonful of powdered alum in honey to produce vomiting and apply the remedies suggested
in the treatment of diphtheria, as the two diseases are thought by many to be identical. When
the breathing becomes labored and face becomes pallid, the condition is very serious and a
physician should be called without delay.

SCARLET FEVER.

DEFINITION.--An eruptive contagious disease, brought about by direct exposure to those having
the disease, or by contact with clothing, dishes, or other articles, used about the sick room.

The clothing may be disinfected by heating to a temperature of 230 [degrees] Fahrenheit or
by dipping in boiling water before washing.

Dogs and cats will also carry the disease and should be kept from the house, and particularly
from the sick room.

SYMPTOMS.--Chilly sensations or a decided chill, fever, headache, furred tongue, vomiting,
sore throat, rapid pulse, hot dry skin and more or less stupor. In from 6 to 18 hours a fine
red rash appears about the ears, neck and shoulders, which rapidly spreads to the entire surface
of the body. After a few days, a scurf or branny scales will begin to form on the skin. These
scales are the principal source of contagion.

HOME TREATMENT.

1. Isolate the patient from other members of the family to prevent the spread of the disease.

2. Keep the patient in bed and give a fluid diet of milk gruel, beef tea, etc., with plenty
of cold water to drink.

3. Control the fever by sponging the body with tepid water, and relieve the pain in the throat
by cold compresses, applied externally.

4. As soon as the skin shows a tendency to become scaly, apply goose grease or clean lard with
a little boracic acid powder dusted in it, or better, perhaps, carbolized vaseline to relieve
the itching and prevent the scales from being scattered about, and subjecting others to the
contagion.

REGULAR TREATMENT.--A few drops of aconite every three hours to regulate the pulse, and if
the skin be pale and circulation feeble, with tardy eruption, administer one to ten drops of
tincture of belladonna, according to the age of the patient. At the end of third week, if eyes
look puffy and feet swell, there is danger of Acute Bright's disease, and a physician should
be consulted. If the case does not progress well under the home remedies suggested, a physician
should be called at once.

WHOOPING COUGH.

DEFINITION.--This is a contagious disease which is known by a peculiar whooping sound in the
cough. Considerable mucus is thrown off after each attack of spasmodic coughing.

SYMPTOMS.--It usually commences with the symptoms of a common cold in the head, some chilliness,
feverishness, restlessness, headache, a feeling of tightness across the chest, violent paroxysms
of coughing, sometimes almost threatening suffocation, and accompanied with vomiting.

HOME TREATMENT.--Patient should eat plain food and avoid cold drafts and damp air, but keep
in the open air as much as possible. A strong tea made of the tops of red clover is highly
recommended. A strong tea made of chestnut leaves, sweetened with sugar, is also very good.

  1 teaspoonful of powdered alum,
  1 teaspoonful of syrup.

Mix in a tumbler of water, and give the child one teaspoonful every two or three hours. A kerosene
lamp kept burning in the bed chamber at night is said to lessen the cough and shorten the course
of the disease.

MUMPS.

DEFINITION.--This is a contagious disease causing the inflammation of the salivary glands,
and is generally a disease of childhood and youth.

SYMPTOMS.--A slight fever, stiffness of the neck and lower jaw, swelling and soreness of the
gland. It usually develops in four or five days and then begins to disappear.

HOME TREATMENT.--Apply to the swelling a hot poultice of cornmeal and bread and milk. A hop
poultice is also excellent. Take a good dose of physic and rest carefully. A warm general bath,
or mustard foot bath, is very good. Avoid exposure or cold drafts. If a bad cold is taken,
serious results may follow.

MEASLES.

DEFINITION.--It is an eruptive, contagious disease, preceded by cough and other catarrhal symptoms
for about four or five days. The eruption comes rapidly in small red spots, which are slightly
raised.

SYMPTOMS.--A feeling of weakness, loss of appetite, some fever, cold in the head, frequent
sneezing, watery eyes, dry cough and a hot skin. The disease takes effect nine or ten days
after exposure.

HOME TREATMENT.--Measles is not a dangerous disease in the child, but in an adult it is often
very serious. In childhood very little medicine is necessary, but exposure must be carefully
avoided, and the patient kept in bed, in a moderately warm room. The diet should be light and
nourishing. Keep the room dark. If the eruption does not come out promptly, apply hot baths.

COMMON TREATMENT.--Two teaspoonfuls of spirits of nitre, one teaspoonful paregoric, one wineglassful
of camphor water. Mix thoroughly, and give a teaspoonful in half a teacupful of water every
two hours. To relieve the cough, if troublesome, flax seed tea, or infusion of slippery-elm
bark, with a little lemon juice to render more palatable, will be of benefit.

CHICKEN POX.

DEFINITION.--This is a contagious, eruptive disease, which resembles to some extent small-pox.
The pointed vesicles or pimples have a depression in the center in chicken-pox, and in small
pox they do not.

SYMPTOMS.--Nine to seventeen days elapse after the exposure, before symptoms appear. Slight
fever, a sense of sickness, the appearance of scattered pimples, some itching and heat. The
pimples rapidly change into little blisters, filled with a watery fluid. After five or six
days they disappear.

HOME TREATMENT.--Milk diet, and avoid all kinds of meat. Keep the bowels open, and avoid all
exposure to cold. Large vesicles on the face should be punctured early and irritation by rubbing
should be avoided.

HOME TREATMENT OF DIPHTHERIA.

DEFINITION.--Acute, specific, constitutional disease, with local manifestations in the throat,
mouth, nose, larynx, wind-pipe, and glands of the neck. The disease is infectious but not very
contagious under the proper precautions. It is a disease of childhood, though adults sometimes
contract it. Many of the best physicians of the day consider true or membranous croup to be
due to this diphtheritic membranous disease thus located in the larynx or trachea.

SYMPTOMS.--Symptoms vary according to the severity of the attack. Chills, fever, headache,
languor, loss of appetite, stiffness of neck, with tenderness about the angles of the jaw,
soreness of the throat, pain in the ear, aching of the limbs, loss of strength, coated tongue,
swelling of the neck, and offensive breath; lymphatic glands on side of neck enlarged and tender.
The throat is first to be seen red and swollen, then covered with grayish white patches, which
spread, and a false membrane is found on the mucous membrane. If the nose is attacked, there
will be an offensive discharge, and the child will breathe through the mouth. If the larynx
or throat are involved, the voice will become hoarse, and a croupy cough, with difficult breathing,
shows that the air passage to the lungs is being obstructed by the false membrane.

HOME TREATMENT.--Isolate the patient, to prevent the spread of the disease. Diet should be
of the most nutritious character, as milk, eggs, broths, and oysters. Give at intervals of
every two or three hours. If patient refuses to swallow, from the pain caused by the effort,
a nutrition injection must be resorted to. Inhalations of steam and hot water, and allowing
the patient to suck pellets of ice, will give relief. Sponges dipped in hot water, and applied
to the angles of the jaw, are beneficial. Inhalations of lime, made by slaking freshly burnt
lime in a vessel, and directing the vapor to the child's mouth, by means of a newspaper, or
similar contrivance. Flour of sulphur, blown into the back of the mouth and throat by means
of a goose quill, has been highly recommended. Frequent gargling of the throat and mouth, with
a solution of lactic acid, strong enough to taste sour, will help to keep the parts clean,
and correct the foul breath. If there is great prostration, with the nasal passage affected,
or hoarseness and difficult breathing, a physician should be called at once.

       *       *       *       *       *

DISEASES OF WOMEN.

DISORDERS OF THE MENSES.

1. SUPPRESSION OF, OR SCANTY MENSES.

HOME TREATMENT.--Attention to the diet, and exercise in the open air to promote the general
health. Some bitter tonic, taken with fifteen grains of dialyzed iron, well diluted, after
meals, if patient is pale and debilitated. A hot foot bath is often all that is necessary.

2. PROFUSE MENSTRUATION.

HOME TREATMENT.--Avoid highly seasoned food, and the use of spirituous liquors; also excessive
fatigue, either physical or mental. To check the flow, patient should be kept quiet, and allowed
to sip cinnamon tea during the period.

3. PAINFUL MENSTRUATION.

HOME TREATMENT.--Often brought on by colds. Treat by warm hip baths, hot drinks (avoiding spirituous
liquors), and heat applied to the back and extremities. A teaspoonful of the fluid extract
of viburnum will sometimes act like a charm.

HOW TO CURE SWELLED AND SORE BREASTS.

Take and boil a quantity of chamomile, and apply the hot fomentations. This dissolves the knot,
and reduces the swelling and soreness.

LEUCORRHEA OR WHITES.

HOME TREATMENT.--This disorder, if not arising from some abnormal condition of the pelvic organs,
can easily be cured by patient taking the proper amount of exercise and good nutritious food,
avoiding tea and coffee. An injection every evening of one teaspoonful of Pond's Extract in
a cup of hot water, after first cleansing the vagina well with a quart of warm water, is a
simple but effective remedy.

INFLAMMATION OF THE WOMB.

HOME TREATMENT.--When in the acute form this disease is ushered in by a chill, followed by
fever, and pain in the region of the womb. Patient should be placed in bed, and a brisk purgative
given, hot poultices applied to the abdomen, and the feet and hands kept warm. If the symptoms
do not subside, a physician should be consulted.

HYSTERIA.

DEFINITION.--A functional disorder of the nervous system of which it is impossible to speak
definitely; characterized by disturbance of the reason, will, imagination, and emotions, with
sometimes convulsive attacks that resemble epilepsy.

SYMPTOMS.--Fits of laughter, and tears without apparent cause; emotions easily excited; mind
often melancholy and depressed; tenderness along the spine; disturbances, of digestion, with
hysterical convulsions, and other nervous phenomena.

HOME TREATMENT.--Some healthy and pleasant employment should be urged upon women afflicted
with this disease. Men are also subject to it, though not so frequently. Avoid excessive fatigue
and mental worry; also stimulants and opiates. Plenty of good food and fresh air will do more
good than drugs.

       *       *       *       *       *

FALLING OF THE WOMB.

CAUSES.--The displacement of the womb usually is the result of too much childbearing, miscarriages,
abortions, or the taking of strong medicines to bring about menstruation. It may also be the
result in getting up too quickly from the childbed. There are, however, other causes, such
as a general breaking down of the health.

SYMPTOMS.--If the womb has fallen forward it presses against the bladder, causing the patient
to urinate frequently. If the womb has fallen back, it presses against the rectum, and constipation
is the result with often severe pain at stool. If the womb descends into the vagina there is
a feeling of heaviness. All forms of displacement produce pain in the back, with an irregular
and scanty menstrual flow and a dull and exhausted feeling.

HOME TREATMENT.--Improve the general health. Take some preparation of cod-liver oil, hot injections
(of a teaspoonful of powdered alum with a pint of water), a daily sitz-bath, and a regular
morning bath three times a week will be found very beneficial. There, however, can be no remedy
unless the womb is first replaced to the proper position. This must be done by a competent
physician who should frequently be consulted.

       *       *       *       *       *

MENSTRUATION.

1. ITS IMPORTANCE.--Menstruation plays a momentous part in the female economy; indeed, unless
it be in every way properly and duly performed, it is neither possible that a lady can be well,
nor is it at all probable that she will conceive. The large number of barren, of delicate,
and of hysterical women there are in America arises mainly from menstruation not being duly
and properly performed.

2. THE BOUNDARY-LINE.--Menstruation--"the periods"--the appearance of the catamenia or the
menses--is then one of the most important epochs in a girl's life. It is the boundary-line,
the landmark between childhood and womanhood; it is the threshold, so to speak, of a woman's
life. Her body now develops and expands, and her mental capacity enlarges and improves.

3. THE COMMENCEMENT OF MENSTRUATION.--A good beginning at this time is peculiarly necessary,
or a girl's health is sure to suffer and different organs of the body--her lungs, for instance,
may become imperiled. A healthy continuation, at regular periods, is also much needed, or conception,
when she is married, may not occur. Great attention and skillful management is required to
ward off many formidable diseases, which at the close of menstruation--at "the change of life"--are
more likely than at any time to be developed. If she marry when very young, marriage weakens
her system, and prevents a full development of her body. Moreover, such an one is, during the
progress of her labor, prone to convulsions--which is a very serious childbed complication.

4. EARLY MARRIAGES.--Statistics prove that twenty per cent--20 in every 100--of females who
marry are under age, and that such early marriages are often followed by serious, and sometimes
even by fatal consequences to mother, to progeny, or to both. Parents ought, therefore, to
persuade their daughters not to marry until they are of age--twenty-one; they should point
out to them the risk and danger likely to ensue if their advice be not followed; they should
Impress upon their minds the old adage:

  "Early wed,
  Early dead."

5. TIME TO MARRY.--Parents who have the real interest and happiness of their daughters at heart,
ought, in consonance with the laws of physiology, to discountenance marriage before twenty;
and the nearer the girls arrive at the age of twenty-five before the consummation of this important
rite, the greater the probability that, physically and morally, they will be protected against
those risks which precocious marriages bring in their train.

6. FEEBLE PARENTS.--Feeble parents have generally feeble children; diseased parents, diseased
children; nervous parents, nervous children;--"like begets like." It is sad to reflect, that
the innocent have to suffer, not only for the guilty, but for the thoughtless and inconsiderate.
Disease and debility are thus propagated from one generation to another and the American race
becomes woefully deteriorated.

7. TIME.--Menstruation in this country usually commences at the ages of from thirteen to sixteen,
sometimes earlier; occasionally as early as eleven or twelve; at other times later, and not
until a girl be seventeen or eighteen years of age. Menstruation in large towns is supposed
to commence at an earlier period than in the country, and earlier in luxurious than in simple life.

8. CHARACTER.--The menstrual fluid is not exactly blood, although, both in appearance and properties,
it much resembles it; yet it never in the healthy state clots as blood does. It is a secretion
of the womb, and, when healthy, ought to be of a bright red color in appearance very much like
the blood from a recently cut finger. The menstrual fluid ought not, as before observed, clot.
If it does, a lady, during "her periods," suffers intense pain; moreover, she seldom conceives
until the clotting has ceased.

9. MENSTRUATION DURING NURSING.--Some ladies, though comparatively few, menstruate during nursing;
when they do, it may be considered not as the rule, but as the exception. It is said in such
instances, that they are more likely to conceive; and no doubt they are, as menstruation is
an indication of a proneness to conception. Many persons have an idea that when a woman, during
lactation, menstruates, her milk is both sweeter and purer. Such is an error. Menstruation
during nursing is more likely to weaken the mother, and consequently to deteriorate her milk,
and thus make it less sweet and less pure.

10. VIOLENT EXERCISE.--During "the monthly periods" violent exercise is injurious; iced drinks
and acid beverages are improper; and bathing in the sea, and bathing the feet in cold water,
and cold baths are dangerous; indeed, at such times as these, no risks should be run, and no
experiments should, for the moment, be permitted, otherwise serious consequences will, in all
probability, ensue.

11. THE PALE, COLORLESS-COMPLEXIONED.--The pale, colorless-complexioned, helpless, listless,
and almost lifeless young ladies who are so constantly seen in society, usually owe their miserable
state of health to absent, to deficient, or to profuse menstruation. Their breathing is short--they
are soon "out of breath," if they attempt to take exercise--to walk, for instance, either up
stairs or up a hill, or even for half a mile on level ground, their breath is nearly exhausted--they
pant as though they had been running quickly. They are ready, after the slightest exertion
or fatigue, and after the least worry or excitement, to feel faint, and sometimes even to actually
swoon away. Now such cases may, if judiciously treated, be generally soon cured. It therefore
behooves mothers to seek medical aid early for their girls, and that before irreparable mischief
has been done to the constitution.

12. POVERTY OF BLOOD.--In a pale, delicate girl or wife, who is laboring under what is popularly
called poverty of blood, the menstrual fluid is sometimes very scant, at others very copious,
but is, in either case, usually very pale--almost as colorless as water, the patient being
very nervous and even hysterical. Now, these are signs of great debility; but, fortunately
for such an one, a medical man is, in the majority of cases, in possession of remedies that
will soon make her all right again.

13. NO RIGHT TO MARRY.--A delicate girl has no right until she be made strong, to marry. If
she should marry, she will frequently, when in labor, not have strength, unless she has help,
to bring a child into the world; which, provided she be healthy and well-formed, ought not
to be. How graphically the Bible tells of delicate women not having strength to bring children
into the world: "For the children are come to the birth, and there is not strength to bring
forth."--2 Kings XIX, 3.

14. TOO SPARING.--Menstruation at another time is too sparing; this is a frequent cause of
sterility. Medical aid, in the majority of cases, will be able to remedy the defect, and, by
doing so, will probably be the means of bringing the womb into a healthy state, and thus predispose
to conception.

       *       *       *       *       *

CELEBRATED PRESCRIPTIONS FOR ALL DISEASES AND HOW TO USE THEM.

VINEGAR FOR HIVES.

After trying many remedies in a severe case of hives, Mr. Swain found vinegar lotion gave instant
relief, and subsequent trials in other cases have been equally successful. One part of water
to two parts of vinegar is the strength most suitable.

THROAT TROUBLE.

A teaspoonful of salt, in a cup of hot water makes a safe and excellent gargle in most throat
troubles.

FOR SWEATING FEET, WITH BAD ODOR.

Wash the feet in warm water with borax, and if this don't cure, use a solution of permanganate
to destroy the fetor; about five grains to each ounce of water.

AMENORRHOEA.

The following is recommended as a reliable emmenagogue in many cases of functional amenorrhoea:

  Bichloride of mercury,
  Arsenite of sodium, aa gr. iij.
  Sulphate of strychnine, gr. iss.
  Carbonate of potassium,
  Sulphate of iron, aa gr. xlv.

Mix and divide into sixty pills. Sig. One pill after each meal.

SICK HEADACHE.

Take a spoonful of finely powdered charcoal in a small glass of warm water to relieve a sick
headache.

It absorbs the gasses produced by the fermentation of undigested food.

AN EXCELLENT EYE WASH.

  Acetate of zinc, 20 grains.
  Acetate of morphia, 5 grains.
  Rose water, 4 ounces.    Mix.

FOR FILMS AND CATARACTS OF THE EYES.

  Blood Root Pulverized, 1 ounce.
  Hog's lard, 3 ounces.

Mix, simmer for 20 minutes, then strain; when cold put a little in the eyes twice or three
times a day.

FOR BURNS AND SORES.

  Pitch Burgundy, 2 pounds.
  Bees' Wax, 1 pound.
  Hog's lard, one pound.

Mix all together and simmer over a slow fire until the whole are well mixed together; then
stir it until cold. Apply on muslin to the parts affected.

FOR CHAPPED HANDS.

  Olive oil, 6 ounces.
  Camphor beat fine, 1/2 ounce.

Mix, dissolve by gentle heat over slow fire and when cold apply to the hand freely.

INTOXICATION.

A man who is helplessly intoxicated may almost immediately restore the faculties and powers
of locomotion by taking half a teaspoonful of chloride of ammonium in a goblet of water. A
wineglassful of strong vinegar will have the same effect and is frequently resorted to by drunken
soldiers.

NERVOUS DISABILITY, HEADACHE, NEURALGIA, NERVOUSNESS.

  Fluid extract of scullcap, 1 ounce.
  Fluid extract American valerian, 1 ounce.
  Fluid extract catnip, 1 ounce.

Mix all. Dose, from 15 to 30 drops every two hours, in water; most valuable.

A valuable tonic in all conditions of debility and want of appetite.

Comp. tincture of cinchona in teaspoonful doses in a little water, half hour before meals.

ANOTHER EXCELLENT TONIC

  Tincture of gentian, 1 ounce.
  Tincture of Columba, 1 ounce.
  Tincture of Collinsonia, 1 ounce.

Mix all. Dose, one tablespoonful in one tablespoonful of water before meals.

REMEDY FOR CHAPPED HANDS.

