Stories by American Authors.

VI.

   THE VILLAGE CONVICT. By C.H. WHITE.

   THE DENVER EXPRESS. By A.A. HAYES.

   THE MISFORTUNES OF BRO' THOMAS WHEATLEY. By LINA REDWOOD FAIRFAX.

   THE HEARTBREAK CAMEO. By L.W. CHAMPNEY.

   MISS EUNICE'S GLOVE. By ALBERT WEBSTER.

   BROTHER SEBASTIAN'S FRIENDSHIP. By HAROLD FREDERIC.

1891

THE VILLAGE CONVICT.

BY C.H. WHITE.

"Hallo, Eph!"

"Hallo." No, I didn't know, but--" I didn't s'pose you had any very good oysters in your bed,
Ephraim. "I didn't say right, did I, when I said that? 'Tain't the fust time I've known all
hands to laugh all to onct, when I didn't see nothin'."

Susan helped him again, and secured another brief respite.

"Ephraim," said he, after awhile, "you ain't skilled to cook oysters like this, I don' believe.
You ought to get married!

An hour later the doctor drove up, stopped, and walked toward the kitchen door. As he passed
the window, he looked in.

Eph was lying on his face, upon the settle, as he had first seen him there, his arms beneath
his head.

"I will not disturb him now," said the doctor.

       *       *       *       *       *

One breezy afternoon, in the following summer, Captain Seth laid aside his easy every-day clothes,
and transformed himself into a stiff broadcloth image, with a small silk hat and creaking boots.
So attired, he set out in a high open buggy, with his wife, also in black, but with gold spectacles,
to the funeral of an aunt. As they pursued their jog-trot journey along the Salt Hay Road,
and came to Ephraim Morse's cottage, they saw Susan sitting in a shady little porch, at the
front door, shelling peas, and looking down the bay.

"How is everything, Susan?" called out Captain Seth; "'bout time for Eph to be gitt'n' in?"

"Yes," she answered, nodding and smiling, and pointing with a pea-pod; "that's our boat, just
coming up to the wharf, with her peak down."

He is our office-boy and messenger, and, my senior tells me, has been employed by the firm
in this capacity for about thirty years. He is a negro, about sixty years old, rather short
and stout, with a mincing, noiseless gait, broad African features, beautiful teeth, and small,
round, twinkling eyes, the movements of which are accompanied by little abrupt, sidewise turns
of the head, like a bird. His manner is a curious mixture of deference and self-importance,
his voice a soft, sibilant whisper, and as he was born and bred in Alexandria, Virginia, it
seems almost superfluous to add that he and the letter "r" are not on speaking terms.

He has a prominent characteristic, which always attracts attention at first sight. This is
the shape of his head, which is immensely large in proportion, very bald, and so abundant in
various queer, knobby excrescences about the forehead and sides, and so unnaturally long and
level on top, that for some time after I made his acquaintance I could never see him without
finding myself forming absurd conjectures as to whether his cranium and the hydrostatic press
could ever have become acquainted at some early period of his life; and so strong is this association
of ideas that, even now, his sudden appearance invariably suggests to me the study of natural
philosophy. Poor fellow! his chagrin was great when this peculiar conformation of his skull
was first brought to his notice. He had been telling me for some time past of the "splendid
piccha" he had had "took," and I had been promised a sight of it just as soon as it arrived
from the photographer's. I confess I had not been sanguine as to the result, although I knew
a handsome portrait was confidently expected by the sitter. One morning he deposited the photograph
before me.

"Hello!" I cried, taking it in my hand; "here you are, hit off to the life."

"Do' say that, Mist' Dunkin, do' say hit, seh," he replied, in a tone of deep mortification.
Then, catching a glimpse of the picture, his ire broke forth: "Nevvah wuz like me in de wueld,"
he cried, in an elevated key; "nevvah wuz ha'f so ugly ez that. I'm--I'm a bettah-lookin' man,
Mist' Dunkin. Why, look at de color of de thing," contemptuously. "Cain' tell de face f'om
de coat I nevvah set up to be what you'd call faih-cumplectid, but disha things iss same is
that thaih ink; jess iss same. My hade do' look that a way, neitha. Naw, seh, 'taint s' bad
's that."

"Why, Thomas," said I, "I think it a very good likeness--the complexion is a little dark to
be sure, but do you know I particularly admire the head. Look at that forehead; any one can
see that you are a man of intellect. I tell you it isn't every one who can boast of such a
forehead."

"The--the 'mahk you make 'bout me, has been made 'fo'; I may say, has been made quite frequent--quite
frequent; on'y lass Tuesd'y fohtni't, Sistah Ma'y Ann Jinkins--a promnunt membeh of ouh class
(that is, Asba'y class, meets on Gay Street), Sistah Ma'y Ann Jinkins, she ups an' sez, befo'
de whole class, dat she'd puppose de motion, dat Bro' Thomas Wheatley wuz 'p'inted fus' speakah
in de nex' 'Jug-breakin' an' Jaymiah's Hamma,' by de i-nanemous vote of de class. I'm clah
to say I wuz 'stonished; but ahta class wuz ovvva, Bro' Moss tole me de 'p'intment wuz made
jes' f'on de 'peahunce of my hade, ''Cause,' he sez, 'no man cain't be a po' speakah with sich
a fine intellec' which we see expressed in de hade of Bro' Thomas Wheatley--but, same time,
I knowed all time de fus' motion come f'om Sistah Ma'y Ann Jinkins--she's a ve'y good friend
o' mine, Sistah Ma'y Ann Jinkins--thinks a sight o' me; I 'scohts heh to class ev'y Tuesd'y--ev'y
Tuesd'y, sine die."

"You do? What does your wife have to say to that?" I asked, maliciously.

He stared at me an instant, then replied:

"My wife!--oh--oh, Law bless yoh soul, seh, she do' keeh. Bro' 'Dolphus Beam, he sees ahta
heh: you see, seh, she's I-o-n-g way 'moved f'om Asba'y class; 'twont admit none but fus'-class
'speience-givvahs in Asba'y, an' my wife she wa'n't nevvah no han' to talk; haint got de gif'
of de tongue which Saul, suhname Paul, speaks of in de Scripcheh--don't possess hit, seh."

"She must be a very nice person to live with," I remarked.

"Well, y-e-es, seh," replied Thomas, after reflecting awhile. "I hain't got nuth'n' 'g'in'
Ailse; she's quite, an' ohdaly, a good cook, an' laundriss, an' she's a lady,[1] an' all that,
but sh' ain't not to say what you'd call a giftid 'oman."

"Like Sister Mary Ann Jinkins, eh?"

"Egg-zac'ly, seh. Mist' Dunkin, you put hit kehrec', seh. Ailse hain't possessed with none
of the high talence, cain't exhoht, naw sing with fehveh, naw yit lead in praieh; heh talence
is mos'ly boun' up in napkins--as Scripcheh say--mos'ly boun' up in napkins; foh I do' deny
she kin do up all kines o' table-linen, she kin indeed. Naw, seh, I cain't say I got nuth'n'
'g'in' Ailse."

He was, I think, the worst manager of finances that I have ever known. He cleaned all the offices
in our building, and earned, as near as I could estimate, about thirty-five dollars a month.
Three of his four children were self-supporting, and his wife was honest and industrious, taking
in washing, and getting well paid for her work. Yet, he was perpetually in debt, and his wages
were always overdrawn. Whenever I came into the office after my two-o'clock lunch, and found
him seated on his wooden chair, in the corner, gazing absently out at the dingy chimneys opposite--apparently
too abstracted to observe my entrance, I knew I had only to go to my desk to find, placed in
a conspicuous position thereon, a very small, dirty bit of paper, with these words laboriously
inscribed upon it: "Mr. Dunkin Sir cen you oblidge me with the sum of three dolers an a half
[or whatever the sum might be] an deduc thee same from mi salry i em in grate kneed of thee
same yours mos respecfull thomas wheatley."

The form was always the same, my name in imposing capitals and the remainder in the very smallest
letters which he could coax his stiff old fingers to make, and all written on the tiniest scrap
of writing-paper. I think his object was to impress me with his humiliation, impecuniosity,
and general low condition, because as soon as he received the money--which he always did, I
vowing to myself each time that this advance should be the last, and as regularly breaking
my vow--he would tip-toe carefully to the mantel-piece, get down his pen and ink, borrow my
sand-bottle, and proceed to indite me a letter of acknowledgment. This written, he would present
it with a sweeping bow, and then retire precipitately to his corner, chuckling, and perspiring
profusely. He usually preferred foolscap for these documents, and the capitals were numerous
and imposing. Like the others, however, they were invariably word for word the same, and were
couched in the following terms:

   "MR. DUNKIN
    "SIR I have Recieved thee Sum of Three Dolers an a half
   from Your hans an I Recieve thee same with Joy an Grattetude.
                              "Yours respecfull
                                     "THOMAS WHEATLEY."

I said his applications for money were always granted. I must, however, make an exception,
which, after all, will only go to prove the rule. One bright morning he met me at the office-door,
his face as beaming as the weather. He hardly waited for me to doff my overcoat and hat, when
he announced that he had bought a second-hand parlor organ the evening before, on credit, for
seventy-five dollars, to be paid in instalments of twelve dollars and a half each. He had been
very hard up for a month past, as I had abundant occasion to know, and it was therefore with
a feeling rather stronger than surprise, that I received the announcement of this purchase.

"But you haven't fifty cents toward paying for it. And what on earth can you possibly want
with a parlor organ? Can you play?--can any of your family play?"

"Well, naw, seh," scratching his head reflectively. "I cain't s'ay they kin not to say play"--as
if they were all taking lessons, and expected to become proficient at some not far distant
day. "In fac', seh, none on um knows a wued o' music. I didn't mean, seh, I didn't 'tend the--the
instrument fu' househol' puhpasses--I--I 'tended hit as a off'in' to ouh Sabbath-school. We--we
has no instrument at present, an'--"

I am afraid I uttered a very bad word at this juncture. Thomas started, and retired in great
discomfiture, and I thought I had made an end of the matter, but that afternoon I found the
small scrap of paper on my desk--really, I think, with a little practice, Thomas might hope
to rival the man who goes about writing the Lord's Prayer in the space of half a dollar. My
name was in larger capitals, the rest in smaller letters, than usual, and I was requested "to
oblidge him with the sum of twelve dolers an' a half." I knew then that the first organ-instalment
was due, but I think it needless to add, his application was refused. About a week afterward,
I learned that the Sabbath-school was again without a musical instrument, the organ having
been pawned for twenty dollars, Thomas paying ten per cent a month on the money. It was so
with everything he undertook. Once he gave me elaborate warning that I must furnish myself
with another messenger at once, as he was going to make a fortune peddling oranges and apples.
Accordingly, he bought a barrel (!) of each kind of fruit, sold half at reasonable rates, and
then, the remainder beginning to decay on his hands, he came to me, offering really fine Havana
oranges at a cent apiece.

"I'm driffin' 'em off et coss--driffin' 'em off et coss," he whispered, speaking rapidly, and
waving his hands about, oriental fashion, the palms turned outward and the fingers twirling;
this peculiar gesture seemed intended to indicate the cheapness of his wares. "Dey coss me
mo'n that; heap mo', but I'm faih to lose um all now, en I'm driffin' 'em off, sine die."

After that, some dozen or more of the large wholesale houses engaged him to furnish their counting-rooms
with lunch, and he began with brilliant prospects. He brought his basket around to me for first
choice. Everything was very nice; a clean new basket, covered with a white cloth, wherein lay
piles of neatly arranged packages done up in letter-paper, with a strange-looking character
inscribed upon each.

"What do these letters mean?" I asked, taking up one of the packages, and trying in vain to
decipher the cabalistic sign upon it.

Thomas chuckled.

"Oh, that's to show de kine of san'wich dey is, Mist' Dunkin. You see, seh, I got th'ee kines--so
I put 'B' on de beef, 'H' on de hahm, an' I stahtid to put 'H' on de hystehs too, but den I
foun' I couldn't tell de hystehs f'om de hahm, so den I put 'H I' on de hystehs."

"Oh, I see," said I, opening one of the "hysteh" packages. It was very good; an excellent French
roll, well spread with choice butter, and two large, nicely fried oysters between. I ate it
speedily, took another, and, that disposed of, asked the price.

"Ten cents, seh."

"For two!"

"Yes, seh; fi' cents 'piece."

"Why, Thomas," I exclaimed, "you mustn't begin by asking five cents apiece; you'll ruin yourself.
These things are worth at least twice as much money. Why, I pay ten cents for a sandwich at
an eating-house, and it doesn't begin to have as good materials in it as yours. You ought to
ask more."

"Naw, seh; naw, seh; Mist' Dunkin; as' less, an' sell mo'--that's my motteh. I have all dese
yeah clean sole out 'fo' two 'clock--clean sole out 'fo' two 'clock."

I interrupted him, asking the cost of each article, and then proving to him by calculation
that he lost money on each sandwich he sold at five cents. But I could not convince him--he
received the twenty-five cents which I insisted on paying him with many expressions of gratitude,
but he left me reiterating his belief in "quick sales and small profits." "Be back yeah clean
sole out by two 'clock, sine die," he exclaimed, brightly, as he departed.

This venture brought him six dollars in debt at the expiration of a fortnight, and after that,
by my advice, he abandoned peddling, condemning it as a "low-life trade," and agreeing to stick
to legitimate business for the future.

One of his famous expressions, the most formidable rival of sine die (which, as the reader
has doubtless discovered, he intended as an elegant synonym for without fail), was entirely
original--this was "Granny to Mash" (I spell phonetically), used as an exclamation, and only
employed when laboring under great mental excitement.

As I was proceeding homeward one evening, I spied him standing on a street corner, holding
forth to a select assemblage of his own color, who were listening to him with an appearance
of the profoundest respect. His back was toward me, and I stopped and caught his words without
attracting observation. He had assumed a very pompous, hortatory manner, and I could well believe
he held a prominent position in Asbury class. "Yes, gentlemun; yes," he was saying, "ez Brotheh
Jones 'mahks, I do live in a ve'y su-peeiaw at-mos-pheeh--suh-roundid by people of leahnin',
with books, pens, blottehs, letteh-pess, en what not, ez common ez these yeah bricks which
I see befo' me. But thaih hain't no trueh wued then ev'y station has its hawdships, gentlemun,
en mine ah not exemp', mine ah not exemp'.

"Fus'ly, thaih's the 'sponsebility. W'y, this yeah ve'y mawnin' I banked nigh on to a thousan'
dollehs fu' de young boss. En w'en I tell you mo'n two hundred stamps is passed my mouth this
yeah blessid evenin', 't will give you some slight idee of the magnitude of the duties I has
to puffawn. W'y, gentlemun, I is drank wateh, an' I is drank beeh, but my mouth hain't got
back hits right moistuh yit."

The day of the 20th of July, 1877, was very quiet We had heard, of course, of the "strikes"
all over the country, and the morning papers brought tidings of the trouble with the Baltimore
and Ohio railroad employés at Martinsburg, but no serious difficulty was apprehended in Baltimore.

That afternoon I was detained very late at the office. I intended beginning a three weeks'
holiday next morning, and was trying to get beforehand with my work. My senior was out of town,
and Thomas and I had been very busy since three o'clock--I writing, he copying the letters.
After five, we had the building pretty much to ourselves, and a little after half past five,
the fire alarm sounded. The City Hall bell was very distinctly heard, and Thomas--who had finished
his work and was waiting to take some papers to the office of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad
for me--took down a list of the different stations, to ascertain the whereabouts of the fire.

"1--5," he counted, as the strokes fell; "that makes fifteen, and that is," passing his finger
slowly down the card, "that is Eastun Po-lice station, cawneh--naw, on Bank Street. On Bank
Street, seh."

I listened an instant.

"1--5--1," I said, "151; it isn't fifteen."

Another five minutes elapsed, while he searched for "151" I busily writing the while.

"Hit's--w'y, Lawd-a-massy! Mist' Dunkin, hit's fu' de milinte'y."

"Let me see," said I. "Yes, so it is; but they only want them to go to Cumberland. There's
a strike there, and the strikers are getting troublesome."

He made no reply, and as the bells ceased ringing soon afterward, I resumed my work, which
kept me busy until seven o'clock. I then placed the papers in an envelope, and took up the letters.

"Be sure you see the Vice-President himself, Thomas," I said. "You know him, don't you?"

Receiving no reply, and turning to ascertain the cause of his silence, I saw he was leaning
out at the open window, gazing earnestly northward toward Baltimore Street.

"Thomas! Thomas!" I shouted.

He heard me at last, and withdrawing his head, apologized for his inattention.

"I thought--I heehed sup'n nutha like a hollehin' kine of a noise, an'--some guns, aw sup'n,
an' I wuz look'n' to see, but thaih don't 'peah to be nuthin' goin' on."

"They're mending the railroad on Baltimore Street," I said. "I suppose that is what you heard."
And I gave the papers into his hand repeating my directions: "If the gentleman is not there,
don't leave them on any account. I'll wait here until you get back--but go first to the post-office
and mail these."

He wrapped the papers carefully in his handkerchief, placed them in his vest-pocket, and started
off.

After he left, I leaned my elbow on the dusty window-sill and lounged there awhile, watching
him as he trotted busily down the deserted street; then, rousing myself, I stretched my weary
limbs and set about arranging my desk, closing the safe, etc. At last everything was put in
order, and I seated myself in an arm-chair, rubbing my cramped fingers and wrist, and afterward
consulting my watch, more for something to do than to ascertain the time, which the clock on
the mantel-piece would have told me.

Only quarter past seven, and he might be detained until, half-past eight. I leaned back and
closed my eyes. How still and hot it was! I believe I was the only human being in that whole
long block of big buildings on that July evening. Everything was as quiet as the typical country
churchyard. I had a lethargic sense now and then of the far-off tinkle of a car-bell. I could
catch a distant rumble from a passing vehicle a block or two away. And, yes, I did observe
the presence of a dull, continuous drone, which proceeded from the direction of Baltimore Street,
but just as I sat up to hearken, some one passing whistled, "Silver Threads among the Gold,"
the melody tracing itself upon the stillness like phosphoric letters in a dark room. I listened
with vivid interest, but the tune presently grew fainter, faded, and was dissolved into the
dusk, leaving me lonelier than before, and too sleepy to give my attention to the strange hum,
of which I again became dully conscious. It is tiresome work waiting here with nothing to do,
was my last drowsy thought, as I folded my arms on the desk, and rested my head upon them,
to be aroused by a knocking at my door.

"Come in," I called.

The door creaked on its hinges, and somebody entered. I waited an instant, when an adolescent
voice of the colored persuasion asked:

"Do somebody name Mist' Dunkin live here?"

"Yes. I'm here; what do you want?"

"Dey wan's you down-y street."

I stretched myself, reached mechanically for a match, and lighted the gas, which disclosed
a small yellow boy, standing in the doorway, some fright and a good deal of excitement in his
aspect. I then detected that he had something important to tell, and that his errand was a
source of gratification to him.

"Well, what is it?" I asked, after we had stared at one another.

"Ain't yer yeared nuth'n' 'tall?" a shade of contempt in his tone.

"No, what is there to hear?" I asked, rather irascibly.

"Dey's a big fight down-town; de folks dey done tore de Six Reggimen' all ter pieces, an' dey's
wuk'n 'long on de Fif now."

"Whereabouts?"

I started up, and got on my hat in an instant.

"Dey's et Camd' Street depot, now. Ole colored gentlemun he's been hurtid, an' sent me atter you."

It did not take half a minute to lock the door and we proceeded down-stairs together.

"He's down yere on Eutaw Street," continued my informant. "Dey's fightin' all 'long dere--I
come nigh gittin' hit myself--he gimme ten cents to come tell yer--maybe he's done dade now,"
he added, cheerfully, as we gained the street, and began to walk.

"Dey fet all 'long yere," was his next breathless remark, made some time later. We were now
proceeding rapidly up Baltimore Street, as rapidly, at least, as people can who are pushing
against a steady stream of agitated humanity. "Dey fawr'd a bullet clean through de Sun-paper
room," pursued the boy, "an' dey bust up dem dere winder-glassis--"

Pausing involuntarily to look, I caught stray scraps of additional information.

"Twenty-five people killed."

"As many as that?"

"Oh, yes; fully, I should say. The Sixth fired right into the crowd, all along from Gay to
Eutaw Street."

"Well, I hear the Sixth are pretty well cleaned out by this time, so it's tit for tat."

Then--

"The Fifth must be there now--"

"The Fifth?--what are they--two hundred men against two thousand?--Lord knows how it will end.
I hope this old town won't be burnt, that's all." The boy, listening, turned fearfully around,
looking with distended eyes into mine. "Come on," I responded, and we spoke no more until we
reached Liberty Street. Then, all at once, above the street noises--the rumbling of fugitive
vehicles, the jingle of street-cars, and the hum of excited voices--rose a deep, hollow roar;
a horrible sound of human menace in it, which was distinguishable even at that distance. The
boy pressed closer, clutching timidly at my hand.

"Is yer--is yer gwine ter keep on?" he faltered.

"De ole gentlemun, he 'lowed puticler you wa'n't to run no resk 'count o' him."

"Where is he?" I asked. "In the thick of it?"

"No, sir; he's lay'n' down in a little alley--clean off d' street."

"Come on, then; you'll have to show me where it is. I won't let you get hurt."

