The Uses of Diversity (METHUEN) is the title of a little volume in which Mr. G. K. CHESTERTON
has reprinted a selection of his shorter essays, fugitive pieces of journalism, over which
indeed the casual reader may experience some natural bewilderment at finding, what is inevitable
in such work, the trivialities of the day before yesterday treated with the respect of contemporary
regard. Many of the papers are inspired by the appearance of a particular book or play. I can
best illustrate what I have said above by a quotation from one of them, in which the author
wrote (à propos of the silver goblets in Henry VIII. at His Majesty's) that he supposed such
realism might be extended to include "a real Jew to act Shylock." For those who recall a recent
triumph, this flight of imagination will now have an oddly archaic effect. It is by no means
the only passage to remind us sharply that much canvas has gone over the stage rollers since
these appreciations were written. Unquestionably Mr. CHESTERTON, with the unstaled entertainment
of his verbal acrobatics, stands the ordeal of such revival better than most. Even when he
is upon a theme so outworn as the "Pageants that have adorned England of late," he can always
astonish with some grave paradox. But for all that I still doubt whether journalism so much
of the moment as this had not more fitly been left for the pleasure of casual rediscovery in
its original home than served up with the slightly overweighting dignity of even so small a volume.

       *       *       *       *       *

In A Tale That Is Told (COLLINS), Mr. FREDERICK NIVEN throws himself into the personality of
Harold Grey, who is the youngest son of an "eminent Scottish divine," and constitutes himself
the annalist of the family, its private affairs and its professional business in the commerce
of literature and art. The right of the family to its annals, notwithstanding that its members
are little involved in furious adventures or thrilling romance, is established at once by the
very remarkable character of the Reverend Thomas Grey. The duty upon you to read them depends,
as the prologue hints, upon whether you are greatly interested in life and not exclusively
intent on fiction. When I realised that I must expect no more than an account, without climax,
of years spent as a tale that is told, I accepted the conditions subject to certain terms of
my own. The family must be an interesting one and not too ordinary; the sons, Thomas (whose
creed was "Give yourself," and whose application of it was such that it usually wrecked the
person to whom the gift was made), Dick the artist, and John the novelist, must be very much
alive; if the big adventures were missing the little problems must be faced; the question of
sex must not be overlooked; and of humour none of the characters must be devoid, and the historian
himself must be full. Mr. NIVEN failed me in no particular.

       *       *       *       *       *

