PUNCH,

OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL. 103.

July 30, 1892.

IAGO IN BIRMINGHAM.

(SHAKSPEARE ONCE MORE ON THE SITUATION.)

  Iago          MR. J-S-PH CH-MB-RL-N.
  Roderigo      MR. J-SSE C-LL-NS.

Roderigo. And who was he?
    Forsooth, a great Arithmetician.
       *       *       *       *       *
    That never set a squadron in the field,
    Nor the division of a battle knows
    More than a spinster; unless the bookish theorick,
    Wherein the toged Consul can propose
    As masterly as he; mere prattle, without practice,
    Is all his soldiership.
        But, Sir, he had the Election!

       *       *       *       *       *

A RESULT OF BEING HOSPITABLE.

    SCENE--Small, but Fashionable Club in West-End.

Algy. Waiter! bring me a brandy-and-soda. Don't feel up to the average to-day.

Hughie. Late last night?

Algy. Yes. Went to Mrs. CRAMMERLY's Dance, Prince's Gate. Goodness knows why I went! I don't
think they'll get me there again in a hurry.

Charlie (waking up from arm-chair). Were you a victim too? I didn't see you there!

Algy. No. Because I probably left before you arrived. I had had enough of it in an hour, and
came on here to supper; not before I had nearly poisoned myself with a concoction that old
CRAMMERLY was asserting loudly, was an "'80 wine."

Charlie (laughing). Ah! my dear friend, I had been there before, and knew the ropes. Took pretty
good care to steer clear of the wine, and got a chap to give me a whiskey-and-soda.

Uninvited Member. May I ask where was this charming Party?

Algy. At the CRAMMERLY's, Prince's Gate. Colonel CRAMMERLY.

Uninvited M. Colonel CRAMMERLY! Let's see, was he an old Crimea man?

Algy. No!--He was Colonel in the Bounders Green Volunteers. (Roars of laughter.) You know "CRAMMERLY's
Starch"--made a fortune out of it.

Charlie. He must have spent a bit of it last night. They say the flowers alone cost over a
thousand pounds.

    Enter Captain O.

Captain O. Talking about the Colonel CRAMMERLY Party, eh? (To Uninvited M.) Were you there?

Uninvited M. (very satirically). Oh, dear no! I fear I'm not smart enough to warrant my admittance
into that charmed and select circle. [Roars of laughter.

Capt. O. By Jove, you were well out of it. (Addressing the Club generally.) Did--you ever see
such--eh?

Charlie. I want to know where the deuce they get their men from.

Algy. I fancy they discover them in the City.

Jack. I never met--such shocking people before.

Capt. O. Too dreadful for words. I could only conclude they must have been relations. [Roars
of laughter.

Jack. By the way, did you notice that there was a "bounder" who was reversing?

Uninvited M. (with great indignation). No!!!

Jack. I tell you it's a positive fact--I know it to my cost; for I was dancing with that youngest
daughter, you know--the one who has the fluffy fringe over her forehead--and the brute bounced
against us, and sent us flying. Never even apologised. If I could have got him outside, I declare
I would have given him a deuced good hiding. A man like that ought to be kicked.

Uninvited M. Were the women any better?

Algy. Well, if you call Mrs. DASH any better!

Uninvited M. (with tragic intensity). You don't mean to say she was there!

Algy. I do.

Uninvited M. But do you mean to say that Mrs. CRAMMERLY has heard--

Jack. No. She's deaf. [Laughter.

Uninvited M. Well, you do surprise me! (After a long pause.) Any other shining lights of London
Society?

Jack. No--except that fearful Mrs. JUSSOPH and her daughters, who honoured me with an invitation
to their afternoon party at their suburban residence at West Kensington. I don't know whether
you regard them as an illumination. [Roars of laughter.

Uninvited M. (triumphantly.) Good gracious! Then there was positively no one there that one knows.

Algy (thinking he has said something original). No one, that one wants to know.

Uninvited M. I suppose the whole thing was done for an advertisement--?

Algy. Possibly. Anyhow, once bitten, twice shy. They won't get me inside their stuccoed palace
again.

Chorus of Those who were at the Party. Same here! [Pause.

Capt. O. (lighting cigar by candle). By the way, JACK, did old CRAM. ask you to Scotland for
the 12th?

Jack. Yes.

Capt. O. So he did me. Shall you go?

Jack. It depends--I think so--if I don't get anything better. I'm told it's a wonderful shoot.
They pulled down over a thousand birds the first day, last year.

Capt. O. Does old CRAMMERLY shoot?

Jack. Oh dear no! He's as blind as a bat. He only rents it for his friends.

Capt. O. (greatly relieved). That's good news, for he's a terrible bore. He'd be a shocking
nuisance on the Moors. I must say, I can't stand him at any price.

Jack. No, nor any of the family, for the matter of that. Well, ta, ta! Perhaps we shall meet
there. I'm off to the Empire, to join some friends who've got a box.

    [Exit to enjoy further hospitality.

       *       *       *       *       *

"PERFIDIOUS ALBION" AGAIN.--Lieutenant MIZON, with his grievances against the British Niger
Company, was fêted last week in Paris. To inform Frenchmen that the British Company in question
is not so niger as it has been painted would be useless at the present moment, when Frenchmen
are still loud in their applause of the speech made by the Prefect of the Seine in such a Mizon-scène.
[N.B.--Jeu de mot forwarded by our own "Prefect of the In-Seine."]

       *       *       *       *       *

FROM NEWCASTLE.--Mr. HAMOND, M.P. for Newcastle, charged Mr. JOHN MORLEY with having made a
certain statement. Mr. MORLEY denied it, and asked Mr. HAMOND to substantiate the charge. Mr.
HAMOND could not do this, nor did he apologise. Is this the "'Amond honorable"?

       *       *       *       *       *

  Brave Sir CARLOS EUAN-SMITHEZ! basely have they borne thee down;
  Thousands, thirty, would they tip thee as a churl they'd tip a
          crown?
  Thou at home hadst shown that Sultan with emphatic toe the door;
  In Morocco thou didst coolly turn thy back upon the Moor.

  Long in fiery Fez he lingered, subtle SMITHEZ, being bound
  To contract Commercial Treaty with the minions of MAHOUND.
  Full eight weeks' negociations smoothed that Treaty's parlous way;
  On the fifth July the Sultan swore it should be signed next day.

  But the false Frank's furtive whisper at the Sultan's ear was heard.
  (When the Frank may foil the Saxon won't he do so? Like a bird!)
  And the treacherous Moorish Monarch, to his people's interest blind,
  Sold the sham he dubbed his honour, changed the thing he deemed
          his mind.

  "Christian Knight," began the Monarch ("knight" was diplomat for
          "dog"),
  "There is something in your Treaty, that I relish--like roast hog.
  Know Morocco is no home for Factories and Colossal Stores;
  And the omnipresent Bagman is a bugbear to my Moors!

  "All my Cadis, all my ladies, wish at--Hades Western Trade.
  You must make large alterations in the Treaty we've half made;
  Shape it not in Christian interests, Christian Knight, but in
          MAHOUND's,
  And--incline thine ear!--I'll give thee, Christian, Thirty
          Thousand Pounds!!!"

  Enter black slave bearing Treasure! Rangèd bags of glittering gold!
  Then upspake brave EUAN-SMITHEZ. "Hold, base Sultan; minion, hold!
  Dost thou think to bribe and buy a Christian Knight? A Paynim plan!
  If I take it, thou mayst sell me to a Moorish dog's-meat man!"

  Then his steed obeyed his master, and he whinnied loud and free,
  Turned his back upon the tempter, caracoled with coltish glee;
  Struck out with his heels behind him, smote that slave upon the
          nose,
  Kicked the bags until the bullion in a Danaë shower arose.

  Never DON FERNANDO's charger, Bavieca, gave such spring,
  In the sawdust-sprinkled circus of AL-WIDDICOMB, the King!
  Never did DON GOMERSALEZ fill the Moslem with more fear,
  When he smote him o'er the mazzard with his streak-o'-lightning
          spear!

  And the scattered gold flew widely, urged by that prodigious kick,
  Smote the Frank behind the throne, although he dodged amazing quick;
  Spattered that insulting Sultan, like a splash of London mud,
  Blackening his dexter eye, and from his "boko" drawing blood.

  Then Sir CARLOS EUAN-SMITHEZ gave that Moorish Sultan beans,
  Holding it foul scorn--as did the pluckiest of Christian Queens--
  a Christian Knight should take an insult from a turban'd Moor,
  Without landing him a hot 'un, without giving him what-for!

  Speed thee, speed thee, noble charger! Speed thee faster than the
          wind!
  Stout Sir CARLOS EUAN-SMITHEZ leaves that Moorish Fez behind;
  Shakes its sand from off his shoes, and, having wiped the Sultan's
          eye,
  Turns his back, and takes his hook, without e'en wishing him
          "Good-bye!"

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

OPERATIC NOTES.

Last Nights of the Season.--Monday.--"By General Desire," the Second and Third Acts of DE LARA-Boom-de-ay's
Opera, called La Luce dell' Asia, followed by Cavalleria Rusticana. Was "by general desire"
applied to the entire programme, or only to its first part? Well, we may take for granted that
everyone wanted to hear and see again--but especially to hear--the Cavalleria. So the "special
desire" must apply to La Luce solely and only. If so, then from this wording we gather that
the general and uncontrollable desire to hear the Second and Third Acts of DE LA-RA-Boom's
Opera did not extend to its Prologue, First Act, Fourth Act (if any), and Epilogue. But is
it complimentary to a Composer to express a general wish to hear only certain portions of his
work, implying thereby that the generally un-expressed desire is rather against than for re-hearing
the other portions? All the same Sir COVENT GARDENIUS exercises a sound discretion in thus
dealing with this particular Opera.

Tuesday.--BEMBERG's New Opera, Elaine.

  Chorus.--Why was Elaine
        Given again?
        O DRURIOLAN-
        US, please explain!

And he did so, by saying in the programme "[fist] In consequence of its Great Success and by
general desire." Ha! ha! look at the hand, with index-finger outstretched! By this sign, Sir
DRURIOLANUS would have us to understand that "this Opera was not one which ever went without
a hand." Moreover, Sir ORACLE tells us of its "Great Success;" note the capitals, and note
also, the expression itself, which was not found in the announcement of the repetition of the
Second and Third Acts of the Light Asian Opera on Monday. Isn't this an artful way of pitting
Admirable BEMBERG against our own accomplished DE-LARA-Boom? "We" were not there either Monday
or Tuesday, which, as far as the inimitable intermezzo of the "Rustic Chivalry" goes, was distinctly
"our" loss. But they were going to do without us, and they did so; but whether ill or well,
this deponent, meaning "We," knoweth not; and so, we're like Brer Rabbit, who lay low and said
nothin'. Brer Wolf sezzee were kinder sorry he was unable to go Satterday arternoon for to
hear Brer Fox's new Opera, Nydia, the Blind Girl.

Friday.--Don Giovanni.--Madame DOTTI, in taking the rôle of Donna Anna, "took the cake." Not
going "a bit dotty," but in excellent form.

       *       *       *       *       *

BE-LITTLER-ING MR. GLADSTONE'S MAJORITY.--Not that the G.O.M. is "coming of age in the olden
times,"--as somebody's picture has it,--but that he is coming in with a mixed Majority of atoms
difficult to be assimilated. This much exercises the wigorous brain of Mr. R.D.M. LITTLER,
Q.C. writing to the Times. Of course R.D.M. LITTLER, Q.C.--which initials, being interpreted,
may mean, "Railway Directors' Man"--is the Conservativest of Conservatives--"but that's another
Tory," as one may say, adapting RUDYARD KIPLING's phrase,--and, difficult as the G.O.M. may
find it to get on with the aid of a Little Majority, he couldn't get on any better with the
aid of a Littler.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTE.--The Guide to Wild West Kensington should announce the objects of interest in this Buffalo
Bill Show, not as "classified," but "Codyfied."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE TRAVELLER.

(MODERN VERSION BY A GRATEFUL COOK'S TOURIST.)

    [Mr. THOMAS COOK, originator of the great "Personally
    Conducted"
  Nay, gentle GOLDSMITH, it is thus no more,
  None now need fear "the rude Carinthian boor,"
  The bandit Greek, the Swiss of avid grin,
  Or e'en the predatory Bedouin.
  Where'er we roam, whatever realms to see,
  Our thoughts, great Agent, must revert to thee.
  From Parthenon or Pyramid, we look
  In travelled ease, and bless the name of COOK!
  Eternal blessings crown the wanderer's friend!
  At Ludgate Hill may all the world attend.
  Blest be that spot where the great world instructor
  Assumed the rôle of Personal Conductor!
  Blest be those "parties," with safe-conduct crowned,
  Who do in marshalled hosts the Regular Round;
  Gregarious gaze at Pyramid or Dome,
  The heights of Athens, or the walls of Rome,
  Then like flock-folded sheep, are shepherded safe home.

  "Let observation, with extensive view,
  Survey mankind from China to Peru."
  By all means, yes, or even further fare,
  And Afric's forest huge and poisonous Pigmies dare.
  But, to avoid the lonely traveller's pain,
  From Ludgate Circus drag the well-linked chain;
  As Amurath to Amurath succeeds,
  So COOK to COOK! THOMAS's grandiose deeds
  What Tourist may forget? The great one's gone,
  But his vast enterprise shall still march on.
  What THOMAS started, is pursued by JOHN.
  Peace to the dust of the Great Pioneer,
  "Great COOK is dead, long live Great COOK!" we cheer.

       *       *       *       *       *

DARK DOINGS.--Mrs. MARTHA RICKS, the emancipated black slave, who came all the way from Liberia
to pay Her Gracious MAJESTY a morning call, may be now known as "The QUEEN's Black Woman,"
or as a companion silhouette to "SALISBURY's Black Man." Of course she will go back laden with
valuable presents, quite a wealthy old lady, or "Ricks Pecuniarum."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE DUFFER IN POLITICS.

My country neighbours at Mount Duffer are not literary. So very remote from this condition
are they, that they regard men of letters as "awful men," in the Shakspearian sense of the
word. Consequently, since those papers began to appear, sometimes, in the pages of Mr. Punch,
I have risen in the general esteem. Even JOHN DUC MACNAB has been heard to admit, that though
the MAC DUFFER is "nae gude ava' with the rod or the rifle, he's a fell ane with the pen in
his hand. Nae man kens what he means, he's that deep." In consequence of the spread of this
flattering belief, I have been approached by various local Parties, to sound my fathomless
depths as a possible Candidate.

First came a deputation of Jacobites. They were all ladies, of different ages, young and old;
all wore ornaments in which the locks of Queen MARY, CHARLES THE FIRST, Prince CHARLIE, and
other Saints and Martyrs, were conspicuously displayed. Would I stand as a Jacobite? they asked,
and generally in the interests of Romance and Royalism. I said that I would be delighted; but
inquired as to whether we had not better wait for Female Suffrage. That seemed our best chance,
I said. They replied, that FLORA MACDONALD had no vote, and what was good enough for her was
good enough for them. I then hinted that it would be well to know for which King, or Queen,
I was to unfurl the banner at Glenfinnon. I also suggested that the modern Crofters did not
seem likely to rally round us. The first question provoked a split, or rather several splits
in our Party. It appeared that some five or six Pretenders of both sexes, and of intricate
genealogies, had their advocates. An unpleasant scene followed, and things were said which
could never be forgiven. The deputation, which had been expected to stay to luncheon, retired
in tears, exclaiming for a variety of monarchs all "over the water."

The local Gladstonians came next. I had never declared myself, they said. Was I for Home Rule?
I said we must first review Mr. GLADSTONE's numerous writings about HOMER, and then come to
Home Rule. "HOMER stops the way!" Were Mr. GLADSTONES Homeric theories compatible with a rational
frame of mind? Here I felt very strong, and animated with a keen desire to impart information.
The deputation said all this was ancient history. As to Home Rule itself, they said it really
did not matter. What they wanted was, free poaching, free private whiskey-stills, free land,
and a large head of game, to be kept up by the proprietor, for the benefit of the glen, as
in old times. I said that these seemed to me to be Utopian demands. If you all fish, and shoot,
and drown the keepers in the linn, I urged, there will soon be no game left for any of you.
No Game-laws, I observed, and you will obviously have no poaching. There will be nothing to
poach, and no fun in doing it. They said that they would pay keepers to hold the Southern bodies
off, out of the rates, and the rates would be paid by the Laird--meaning me. I said I knew
that several Lairds were standing on this platform, but that, personally, if my land and rents
were to be taken away, I did not see how the rates were to be got out of my empty sporran.
This was a new idea to them, but I cheered them up by saying I was in favour of Compulsory
Access to Mountains, with no Personal Option in the matter. This was what the people needed,
I said--they needed to be made to climb mountains, beginning with Box Hill. On Bank Holidays,
I remarked, they never go to the top. They stay where the beer is. I would have a staff of
Inspectors, to see that they went. The general limbs and lungs would be greatly improved, and
the sale of whiskey, from private stills, would be increased.

This unlucky remark divided my Party. The Free Kirk Minister wore a blue ribbon, and was a
Temperance-at-any-price politician. Two of "The Men," however,--a kind of inspired Highland
prophets--had a still of their own, and they and the Minister nearly came to blows. The Party
then withdrew, giving three cheers for Mr. GLADSTONE, but not pledging themselves to vote for me.

The Eight Hours' people were at me next. I said I saw that the Bill would provide employment
for a number of people, but I added, that I did not see who was to pay the wages, nor who was
to buy the goods. For, I remarked, you certainly cannot compete with foreign countries at this
rate, and at home the Classes will be competing with you, being obliged to have recourse to
manual labour. They said that was just what they wanted, everybody to labour with his hands.
I answered that many of the Classes, a poor lot at best (cheers), would come on the Parish.
Who was to pay the rates when everybody was working, and nobody was buying what was made? If
there were no markets, where were you to sell your produce? They said they would live on the
land. I answered that the land would not support the population: you would need to import bread-stuffs,
with what were you going to pay for them? I added that my heart was with them, but that they
could only attain their ends by massacring or starving three-fourths of the population, and
who knew how he himself might fare, with a three-to-one chance against his survival? Suppose
it did not come to that, I urged, suppose the Bill gave all the world employment; suppose that,
somehow, it also paid their wages, or supported them, in a very short time you would need a
Four Hours' Bill (cheers), a Two Hours' Bill, a One Hour's Bill, of course with no fall in
wages. The constitution of things would not run to it.

They said that I had clearly not fought out the economic aspect of the question. I said that
was how my hair was blanched, with trying to fight it out, but that, somehow, it always baffled
me. I added remarks about squaring the circle, but they said it was a good deal easier to square
Mr. GLADSTONE. The friends of Total Prohibition of Vaccination and of Beer were waiting, also
a deputation, who wanted subscriptions for a SHELLEY Memorial, Russian Jews, Maxim guns for
Missionaries, and other benevolent objects. I declined to see them, however, and was left to
solitude, and to the reflection that I am unfitted for the sphere of active politics. In this
belief the neighbours are now pretty generally agreed, which, as I have no keen ambition to
shine in Parliament, is a very fortunate circumstance.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

LADY GAY'S SELECTIONS.

Mount Street, Grosvenor Square.

DEAR MR. PUNCH,

The Race for the Eclipse Stakes at Sandown was productive of tremendous excitement, and everybody
turned pale as the two gallant horses came up the straight, locked together, but the key to
the situation--Parliamentary phrase, due to the prevalence of Elections--was held by the champion
Orme, who managed to get home, "all out" by a neck!--at least, Lord ARTHUR said he was "all
out," though how he could be "home" at the same time I don't quite understand--but he may have
been alluding to the backers of Orvieto. I was told that St. Damien "made up a lot of ground
at the finish;" but I can't say I noticed it myself, as the course looked to me exactly as
it did before the race! Dear me! how pleased my friends the Duke and Duchess of WESTMINSTER
did look! and with good reason, too--it was a wonderful task for Orme to accomplish, with only
six weeks' training!--it must have been a special train all the time; in fact, the one he was
brought to Sandown in, I suppose.

Being unable to go to Leicester, I took advantage of a military escort, offered me by--(no--let
the gallant officer's name remain a secret--he little thought he was escorting a Press-lady)--to
pay a visit to the New Wimbledon--and being nothing if not loyal, I chose the day when the
shooting for the "Queen's" commenced. My escort informed me with an inane smile, that the Camp
had experienced "Bisley weather;" the feebleness of which joke so annoyed me, that I am half
inclined to put his name in the pillory of public print--(what a glorious expression for our
own Midlothian Mouther)--but I refrain, for reasons connected with Lord ARTHUR.

I must say that I think Bisley has a more business-like look than Wimbledon ever had, though
perhaps this is scarcely to the taste of the average feminine visitor, who used to enjoy pic-nicing
to the accompaniment of whizzing bullets, and does not appreciate the latter without the former.
The shooting was very uncertain in the first stage of the Queen's, as the wind was in a variable
mood--(is the wind feminine, I wonder?)--going sometimes at eighteen and sometimes at thirty
miles an hour, which was disconcerting and inconsiderate behaviour (it must be feminine!)--calculated
to annoy any right-minded Volunteer! Indeed, one notoriously good shot, Private CHICKEN, although
a good plucked one--having made six misses in ten shots--declined to be roasted by his friends,
and retired into his casserole--which is French for tent, I believe--while several other marksmen
(why marksmen?) found themselves carefully placing their bullets on other people's targets.

However, I was much struck with the equanimity with which reverses were accepted by the members
of our gallant Amateur Army, and intend composing an ode in their honour, to be sung in camp
to the accompaniment of bullets, bagpipes, and brass bands! (more alliteration for the Midlothian
Maltese Marriage Merchant), the refrain of which will run thus:--

            The Volunteer! The Volunteer!!
            No matter how the wind may veer!
  Will have no fear! and will not sweer! so do not jeer!!! the
          Volunteer!!!"

--appropriate patriotic music to which will be written by Signor CLEMENTI SCHIOTTI!

There is no racing of any importance this week, there being only a small Meeting under Pic
Nic Rules, at a place called Goodwood--(I write of it in this contemptuous way, as I am not
going myself)--somewhere on the coast of the Solent--to which I need not allude at any length;
I will, therefore, only mention one race having been so successful lately, that I can afford
to rest on my oars--(rather an insecure position by the way, for anyone who can't swim!) and
remain as usual

Yours devotedly, LADY GAY.

CHESTERFIELD CUP SELECTION.

  To win such a race as the Chesterfield Cup,
    Is a task wanting speed and endurance;
  And the duty of all, ere the ghost giving up,
    Is to quickly effect an Insurance."

P.S.--I don't see any sense in this, but the rhyme is good!

L.G.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

WILLIAM THE WHEELMAN.

Enthusiastic Cyclist loquitur:--

  I have noticed with unfeigned and real pleasure,
    The rapid growth of Cycling. (How it jumps!)
  To those who have the energy and leisure
    It affords--(Confound this saddle! it so bumps!)
  What otherwise would be quite unattainable,
    A healthy, and a pleasurable form
  Of exercise. (Yes, health is hereby gainable;
    But I am most uncomfortably warm!)

  It gives them the advantages of travel,
    (By Jingo! I was nearly over then!
  A tumble and the "gravel-rash" would gravel
    The nimblest of extremely Grand Old Men)
  Which, previous to the Cycle's happy advent,
    Were out of almost everybody's reach.
  (And to the "spirits" of the cycling-cad vent.
    'Arry on Wheels the law must manners teach.)

  It's really very much more profitable
    Than is the long luxurious rail way journey.
  (If in the saddle I feel not more stable,
    I'll be "unhorsed," like tilter in a tourney!)
  Monotonous the journey from the City,
    Along a fixed unalterable route.
  (This is an old "bone-shaker." 'Tis a pity!
    For over the front wheel one's apt to shoot.)

  The traveller's whirled from station unto station,
    (I wish there were more stations on this road,)
  With hardly half a chance for observation.
    (If I know where I am, may I be blowed!),
  Without an opportunity to examine
    The district. (Wish that I could spot a pub!
  For I am overdone with thirst and famine,
    And see no chance of tipple or of grub!)

  (I must travel many miles o'er clay or cobble,
    I fear, before I'll have a real rest,
  The big wheel and the little shift and wobble,
    I think the low pneumatic Cycle's best.
  Eh? "Dangerous to Cyclists!" That's a notice,
    I fancy, that suggests a spin down-hill.
  How stiff I feel! How very parched my throat is!
    Hold up! By Jove, but that was near a spill!)

  I emphasise the fact that I consider
    That, physically--(Pheugh! that little wheel
  Is dangerous as poor old WELLER's  "widder,")
    Yes, morally, and socially, I feel
  The benefits of Cycling are unbounded,
    Almost--(Almost I fear a nasty fall!
  I wish, with big and little wheel confounded,
    That I were on a Safety, after all!)

       *       *       *       *       *

WHISPER BY AN ILL WIND.--If Alderman KNILL cannot conscientiously attend the Established Church
service, whereat it is not essential for a Lord Mayor to be present, the Court of Aldermen
ought to be proud of him, and elect him "Willy-Knilly" to be Lord Mayor all the same. Whatever
may be the result, of Alderman KNILL nothing but good can be said. "Nil nisi bonum."

       *       *       *       *       *

BLACK GAME.--"Bother Morocco!" says a Sportsman. "What's the news from the Moors?"

       *       *       *       *       *

A PROSPECT OF THE TWELFTH.

(BY AN IMPRESSIONIST.)

Certainly, I can foresee my adventures. I can tell of my march over the heather, of my delight
as the breezy air sweeps over the moors, and helps to bronze my already sunburnt face!

I can fancy the chatter of the keeper as he holds my second gun, and pays me that attention
which can only be wiped off by tips! I can hear the sound of the first shot, and decipher the
meaning of the initial puff of smoke!

I can see the shadows disappearing as lunchtime comes to hand. I can recognise the cart with
its goodly contents, and the girls who will sit beside us as we discuss our modest pies (hot
and savoury,) and quaff our '84. And then I can hear the retreating footsteps as the darlings
trip away, leaving us to resume our chase after the birds.

And then the shadows will grow longer, and the sun will set behind the hills in a mass of purple,
red, and gold; and it will be time for us to turn our faces towards the shooting-box that will
shelter us through the long watches of the summer's night.

And lastly I can see the final halt at the poulterer's, as we purchase the grouse to fill our
bags before the journeying home.

       *       *       *       *       *

A GEOGRAPHICAL THEORY.--"Where is Liberia?" inquired one cultured person of another, à propos
of Mrs. RICKS's interview with the QUEEN. "I'm sure I don't know," was the answer, "but--judging
by the name--I should think it was exactly opposite to Siberia."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

MINOR MISERIES.

NO. I.--TO A LADY ON WHOSE TABLE-CLOTH HE HAD UPSET THE MUSTARD-POT.

  Dear Lady, in your dining-room
    I sat, a melancholy slave.
  Your smiles could hardly chase my gloom;
    While others jested, I was grave.
  And still you saw me sit and sit--
    "Enough of this," you said, "come, come,
  Be cheerful." While I merely bit
    A foolish, irresponsive thumb,
  And found no comfort in the act,
    And cursed myself, the clumsy Goth,
  As void of fingers as of tact,
    Who spilt the mustard on the cloth!

  That was the cause of all my woe--
    Good lack, I blame my thumbs in vain;
  Still on the cloth's expanded snow
    I seem to see that yellow stain.
  And still you sit and speak me fair,
    And still your Butler grimly smiles,
  The while I paint in mustard there
    A sketch-map of the British Isles.
  I think it had repaid my guilt
    Had you flashed fire like Ashtaroth,
  And scorched the clumsy wretch who spilt
    That flood of mustard on your cloth.

  Beef, pudding, cherry-tart, and cream,
    What more could mortal man desire?
  I munched them idly in a dream,
    My head sang like a village choir.
  I fumbled with the silver pot
    From which that tawny torrent ran;
  I heard you say it mattered not,
    To cheer a miserable man.
  So here I thank you; may I be
    Extinct as is the Behemoth
  Rather than spill by Fate's decree
    Once more the mustard on your cloth.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NEXT AFRICAN MISSION.

(TELEGRAPHIC PRÉCIS OF THE NEGOCIATIONS.)

First Day.--Arrived safely at the Sultan's capital. Everything in proper order. Draft Treaty
in my trunk with my diplomatic uniform. Escort in marching order. Ammunition in waggon. Quite
ready to commence negociations. Only waiting for the conjuring paraphernalia of Herr VON KLEVERMANN
to come up with us. Thought that that special morning performance before the King and Queen
of the Cannibal Islands would delay matters.

Second Day.--Herr VON KLEVERMANN and his traps have arrived in camp. Looked over the conjuring
tricks. Sorry to find that one of the best (the Inexhaustible Bottle) has been stolen by the
Queen of the Cannibal Islands. As time is an object, unable to send back to recover it. Might
have to fight for it, too, which would possibly lessen the numbers of our escort. Experts declare
that the Inexhaustible Bottle could only be secured at the point of the bayonet. Have arranged
for a meeting with the Sultan to-morrow.

Third Day.--Sultan's toothache better. His Majesty having sent word that he would be glad to
see me, I, accompanied by the Interpreter, the Commander of the Escort, and last, but certainly
not least, Herr VON KLEVERMANN, arrived at the Palace. Found that the Lord High Chamberlain
had been removed yesterday. The Lord High Executioner was acting in his stead. In fact, this
overworked official seemed to be the solitary survivor of the Imperial Household. The Lord
High Executioner told us that His Majesty had been very irritable yesterday. The Sultan, he
said, was now in a good temper, and was quite harmless. I found His Majesty most gracious.
However, he said that he was not quite prepared to sign a Commercial Treaty. He offered, in
lieu of signature, to give me twelve sacks of emeralds (uncut), and the wives of six of his
Field-Marshals. Explained that no representative of England could entertain such a suggestion.
The Sultan, upon this, terminated the interview.

Fourth Day.--The Sultan having learned that Herr VON KLEVERMANN was a member of my suite, expressed
a wish for a second meeting. I consequently attended at the Palace. Herr VON KLEVERMANN, having
produced a number of artificial-flowers, a birdcage, and a rabbit, from an Opera-hat, His Majesty
asked the price. I immediately replied, a Treaty of Commerce. I am to sail again to-morrow.

Fifth Day.--Had another interview with His Majesty. The Sultan wanted to know the terms of
the proposed Treaty. I replied, free access to the interior for British merchandise, and the
abolition of slavery. His Majesty replied, he did not mind the abolition of slavery so much,
on the understanding that the regulation did not apply to him. Herr VON KLEVERMANN then produced
his Magic hat, and brought out from it a cup of coffee, half-a-dozen recently-washed handkerchiefs,
and a white mouse. The last item caused us to be hurriedly expelled from the Palace. It appears
that the Sultan greatly objects to mice. The Interpreter should have informed me of this peculiarity.

Sixth Day.--Received a message from His Majesty to the effect that he would be glad to see
me and Herr VON KLEVERMANN again, on the condition that nothing objectionable should be produced
from the Magic hat. Herr VON KLEVERMANN once more gave a séance. The eminent entertainer extracted
from the Gibus a portmanteau, a soup-tureen, and a lady's watch. His Majesty greatly delighted.
He signed the Treaty, and possessed himself of the hat.

Seventh Day.--Knowing that it was as well to leave the country as soon as possible, started
early. Herr VON KLEVERMANN had expressed his doubts whether His Majesty would be satisfied.
It appears that the Magic hat requires a good deal of preparation to be effective. The Herr's
forebodings of evil were speedily verified. The Mission had not gone a mile before we were
followed by the entire army. We made a demonstration with the machine-gun, which had the effect
of destroying six or seven brigades of the enemy. The Sultan in person, declared that he considered
the Treaty null. Nothing to do but retire as best we could.

Eighth Day.--Deeply regret failure of the Mission. However, find that the King and Queen of
the Cannibal Islands are anxious for annexation to England. They seem impressed with the notion
that the British Government have power to cause a flow of spirits from the Inexhaustible Bottle
which, since the departure of Herr VON KLEVERMANN, has ceased to yield alcoholic drinks. Of
course, shall do nothing in this new matter until I receive further instructions.

Ninth Day.--Embarked on my return home.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

ADVICE TO THE G.O.M.

(FROM A MATHEMATICAL TORY.)

  Take forty-two, and carry eight
  (Eight hours, I mean), then mind your eye;
  Bring all your items up to date,
  And do your best to multiply
  Your sheep by next subtracting votes
  From over-suffraged Tory goats.
  By Registration Law perplexed,
  Take "qualifying periods" next,
  And at one swoop reduce with glee
  Twelve months, or more, to only three.
  Add labour to your motley crew,
  Subtract (from life) a church or two.
  Produce, with geometric skill,
  The lines of many a promised bill.
  But state--the Unionists to vex--
  That Home Rule always equals x.
  Raise, in a rash, disastrous hour,
  Campaigning Ireland to a power.
  And thus, to prayers and protests deaf,
  Bisect the Empire.  Q.E.F.

       *       *       *       *       *

PRETENCE VERSUS DEFENCE.

    SCENE--Whitehall. Time--The Present. Enter Universal
    Inspector-General, accompanied by Mr. Admiralty Official.

Universal Inspector-General. So you are going to have Naval Manoeuvres after all, Mr. Admiralty
Official?

Mr. Adm. Official. Yes, General, we are.

Un. Ins.-Gen. And are you going to do anything new this time?

Mr. Ad. Off. Nothing more than the usual meaningless cruising.

Un. Ins.-Gen. I read something about the landing of the wounded?

Mr. Ad. Off. Ah--that is new! We are going to "assume" a number of wounded. To quote from the
Regulations--"Before the ships leave for the ports, officers in command of fleets and squadrons
are to communicate to each Commander-in-Chief, by telegraph, the aggregate number of assumed
wounded that may be expected to reach his port."

Un. Ins.-Gen. Tell me what do we want with these pointless Manoeuvres? Wouldn't it have answered
everyone's purpose if there had been a lecture in lieu of them at the Royal United Service
Institution?

Mr. Ad. Off. I should not be surprised.

Un. Ins.-Gen. Then why run into this unnecessary expense?

Mr. Ad. Off. You really must ask my successor!

    [Exeunt severally.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE OTHER SIDE OF THE CANVASS.

(A PURELY IMAGINARY SKETCH.)

    SCENE--A Portico in Portman Square. Mr. BENJAMIN GULCHER
    (an ardent Radical Artisan, canvassing the district on behalf
    of a "pal" of his, who is putting up as a Labour Candidate),
    discovered on the doorstep.

Mr. Gulcher (to himself--after knocking). Some might think it was on'y waste of time me callin'
at a swell 'ouse o' this sort--but them as lives in the 'ighest style is orfen the biggest
demmycrats. Yer never know! Or p'raps this Sir NORMAN NASEBY ain't made his mind up yet, and
I can tork him over to our way o' thinking. (The doors are suddenly flung open by two young
men in a very plain and sombre livery.) Two o' the young 'uns, I s'pose. (Aloud.) 'Ow are yer?
Father in, d'yer know?

First Footman (loftily). I don't know anything about your father, I'm sure. Better go down
the airey-steps and inquire there.

Mr. G. (annoyed with himself.) It's my mistake. I didn't see yer were on'y flunkeys at first.
It's yer Guv'nor I want--the ole man!

First Footman (with cold dignity). If you are illewding to Sir NORMAN, he is not at home.

