The squire was absent attending a business meeting in the neighbouring town, and nothing had
yet been said to Walter on the subject of his brother's departure.  That afternoon Amos set
off for Collingford, and Walter and his sister on their shooting and sketching expedition,
which proved a miserable failure, so far as any pleasure to Julia was concerned.

Collingford was nearly a day's journey from Flixworth Manor, so it was not till dark that Amos
arrived at the town.  He sought out at once the Scripture reader, and obtained full information
as to the state of the poor sufferer.  Could he obtain lodgings in the house where the sick
man was?  Mr Harris shook his head.

"I am not afraid either of poor accommodation or of infection," said Amos.  "I am come to do
a work, and am safe in the Lord's hands till it is done.  He has sent me, and he will keep me."

The Scripture reader grasped him warmly by the hand.  "You shall lodge in my house," he said,
"if you can be satisfied with humble fare and my plain ways.  I am not a married man, but I
have a good old woman who looks after me, and she will look after you too, and you can come
and go just as you please."

"I will take you at your word, my friend," said the other, "and will gladly pay for bed and board."

"All right, all right," cried Mr Harris: "and for my part I am not going to pry into your reasons
for coming.  You are one of the Lord's servants on an errand of mercy and self-denying love--I
can see that; and you are welcome to my services and my silence."

Amos thanked him warmly, and his moderate luggage was soon deposited in the Scripture reader's
dwelling.

The next morning, after an early breakfast, the two friends--for true friends they at once
became in the bonds of the gospel, loving Christ's image in each other--set out for Orlando
Vivian's lodging.

"You must be prepared for something very miserable," said the Scripture reader.

"I am prepared for anything," said the other calmly.  But truly Amos was staggered when he
entered the room where sat, in the midst of gloom and filth, the man who had been the cause
of so much distress to him and his.  The atmosphere was oppressive with the concentrated foulness
of numberless evil odours.  A bed there was in the darkest corner of the room on the floor.
It looked as though composed of the refuse raked from a pig-sty, and thrust into a sack which
had been used for the conveyance of dust and bones.  Bolster or pillow it had none, but against
the wall, where the bed's head was supposed to be, were three or four logs of rough wood piled
together, over which was laid a faded cloak crumpled into a heap.  Such was the only couch
which the unhappy sufferer had to lay him down upon at night, or when weary of sitting in the
high-backed, creaking armchair.  Uncleanness met the eye on every side--in the one greasy plate,
on which lay a lump of repulsive-looking food; in the broken-mouthed jug, which reeked with
the smell of stale beer; in the window, whose bemired and cobwebbed panes kept out more light
than they admitted; in the ceiling, between whose smoke-grimed rafters large rents allowed
many an abomination to drop down from the crowded room above; in the three-legged table, which,
being loose in all its decaying joints, reeled to and fro at every touch; in the spiders, beetles,
and other self-invited specimens of the insect tribe, which had long found a congenial home
in these dismal quarters.  And there--worn, haggard, hungry, suffering, helpless--in the midst
of all this desolation, sat the broken-down, shattered stroller, coughing every now and then
as though the spasm would rend him in pieces.

