He hardly expected any reply but the astonished "Caw!" of the crow, who sat upon a fence watching
him with gloomy interest, and when a cheerful "Hullo, there!" sounded from the lane, he was
so grateful that tears of joy rolled down his fat cheeks.

"Come on! I'm in the ma'sh. Lend a hand and get me out!" bawled Sam, anxiously waiting for
his deliverer to appear, for he could only see a hat bobbing along behind the hazel-bushes
that fringed the lane.

Steps crashed through the bushes, and then over the wall came an active figure, at the sight
of which Sam was almost ready to dive out of sight, for, of all possible boys, who should it
be but Ben, the last person in the world whom he would like to have see him in his present
pitiful plight.

"Is it you, Sam? Well, you are in a nice fix!" and Ben's eyes began to twinkle with mischievous
merriment, as well they might, for Sam certainly was a spectacle to convulse the soberest person.
Perched unsteadily on the gnarled stump, with his muddy legs drawn up, his dismal face splashed
with mud, and the whole lower half of his body as black as if he had been dipped in an inkstand,
he presented such a comically doleful object that Ben danced about, laughing like a naughty
will-o'-the-wisp who, having led a traveler astray, then fell to jeering at him.

"Stop that or I'll knock your head off," roared Sam, in a rage.

"Come on and do it, I give you leave," answered Ben, sparring away derisively as the other
tottered on his perch and was forced to hold tight lest he should tumble off.

"Don't laugh, there's a good chap, but fish me out somehow or I shall get my death sitting
here all wet and cold," whined Sam, changing his tone, and feeling bitterly that Ben had the
upper hand now.

Ben felt it also, and though a very good natured boy, could not resist the temptation to enjoy
this advantage for a moment at least.

"I wont laugh if I can help it, only you do look so like a fat, speckled frog I may not be
able to hold in. I'll pull you out pretty soon, but first I'm going to talk to you, Sam," said
Ben, sobering down as he took a seat on the little point of land nearest the stranded Samuel.

"Hurry up, then; I'm as stiff as a board now, and it's no fun sitting here on this knotty old
thing," growled Sam, with a discontented squirm.

"Dare say not, but 'it is good for you,' as you say when you rap me over the head. Look here,
I've got you in a tight place, and I don't mean to help you a bit till you promise to let me
alone. Now then!" and Ben's face grew stern with his remembered wrongs as he grimly eyed his
discomfited foe.

"I'll promise fast enough if you wont tell any one about this," answered Sam, surveying himself
and his surroundings with great disgust.

"I shall do as I like about that."

"Then I wont promise a thing! I'm not going to have the whole school laughing at me," protested
Sam, who hated to be ridiculed even more than Ben did.

"Very well; good-night!" and Ben walked off with his hands in his pockets as coolly as if the
bog was Sam's favorite retreat.

"Hold on, don't be in such a hurry!" shouted Sam, seeing little hope of rescue if he let this
chance go.

"All right!" and back came Ben ready for further negotiations.

"I'll promise not to plague you if you'll promise not to tell on me. Is that what you want?"

"Now I come to think of it, there is one thing more. I like to make a good bargain when I begin,"
said Ben, with a shrewd air. "You must promise to keep Mose quiet, too. He follows your lead,
and if you tell him to stop it he will. If I was big enough I'd make you hold your tongues.
I aint, so we'll try this way."

"Yes, yes, I'll see to Mose. Now, bring on a rail, there's a good fellow. I've got a horrid
cramp in my legs," began Sam, thinking he had bought help dearly, yet admiring Ben's cleverness
in making the most of his chance.

