The boyhood and youth of the Advertising Barrister will have been passed in comparative obscurity.
The merchant who relieved the monotony of a large and profitable wholesale business by treating
him as a son, impressed upon him at an early age the necessity of making the family history
illustrious by soaring beyond commerce to professional distinction and a fixed income. In furtherance
of this scheme the son was sent to pick up a precarious education at a neighbouring day-school,
where he astonished his companions by his ease in mastering the polite literature of the ancients
and the vulgar fractions of Mr. BARNARD SMITH, and delighted his masters by the zeal with which
he generally took his stand on the side of authority. Having, however, in the course of a school
examination been detected in the illicit use of a volume of Bohn's Library, he was called upon
for an explanation, and, after failing to satisfy his examiners that he meant only to reflect
credit upon the school by the accuracy of his translations, he was advised to leave at the
end of the term. After a short interval spent in the society of a coach, he entered a fast
College at one of our ancient Universities, and, being possessed of a fairly comfortable allowance,
soon distinguished himself by the calculating ardour with which he affected the acquaintance
of young men of rank, and shared in the fashionable pleasures of the place. Recognising that
amidst the careless and easy-going generosity of undergraduate society, he who has a cool and
scheming head is usually able to tip the balance of good luck in his own favour, he lost no
opportunity of ingratiating himself with those who might be of service to him. He cultivated
a fluent style of platitudes and claptrap at his college debating society, and at the Union,
to the committee of which he was elected after prolonged and assiduous canvassing. Having managed
to be proctorised in company with the eldest son of a peer, whom he delighted by the studied
impertinence of his answers to the Proctor, he eventually went down with a pass degree and
a mixed reputation, and, after the orthodox number of dinners, and the regulation examination,
had the satisfaction of seeing his name published in the list of those who, having acquired
a smattering of Roman and English law, were entitled, for a consideration, to aid litigants
with their counsel.

For the next few years little was heard of him. He read in chambers, drew pleadings and indictments,
and gathered many useful tricks from the criminal advocate to whom he attached himself like
a leech. During this period he also made the acquaintance of a Solicitor who had retired from
the noon-day glare of professional rectitude to the congenial atmosphere of shady cases. He
also struck up a friendship with two or three struggling journalists, who were occupied in
hanging on to the paragraphic fringe of their profession, and who might be trusted afterwards
to lend a hand to an intimate engaged in a similar, but not identical line of business. Helped
by a shrewd, and not over-scrupulous clerk, he gradually picked up a practice, a thing mainly
of shreds and patches, but still a practice of a sort. At the Middlesex Sessions, and at the
Central Criminal Court, his name began to be mentioned; and in a certain money-lending case
it was acknowledged that his astuteness had prevented the exposure of his client from being
as crushing and complete as the rate of per-centage had seemed to warrant.

