The aqueduct is approached on the south side by an embankment 1500 feet in length, extending
from the level of the water-way in the canal until its perpendicular height at the "tip" is
97 feet; thence it is carried to the opposite side of the valley, over the river Dee, upon
piers supporting nineteen arches, extending to the length of 1007 feet.  The height of the
piers above low water in the river is 121 feet.  The lower part of each was built solid for
70 feet, all above being hollow, for the purpose of saving masonry as well as ensuring good
workmanship.  The outer walls of the hollow portion are only two feet thick, with cross inner
walls.  As each stone was exposed to inspection, and as both Telford and his confidential foreman,
Matthew Davidson,*[5] kept a vigilant eye upon the work, scamping was rendered impossible,
and a first-rate piece of masonry was the result.

[Image] Pont-Cyslltau Aqueduct

Upon the top of the masonry was set the cast iron trough for the canal, with its towing-path
and side-rails, all accurately fitted and bolted together, forming a completely water-tight
canal, with a water-way of 11 feet 10 inches, of which the towing-path, standing upon iron
pillars rising from the bed of the canal, occupied 4 feet 8 inches, leaving a space of 7 feet
2 inches for the boat.*[6] The whole cost of this part of the canal was 47,018L., which was
considered by Telford a moderate sum compared with what it must have cost if executed after
the ordinary manner.  The aqueduct was formally opened for traffic in 1805.  "And thus," said
Telford, "has been added a striking feature to the beautiful vale of Llangollen, where formerly
was the fastness of Owen Glendower, but which, now cleared of its entangled woods, contains
a useful line of intercourse between England and Ireland; and the water drawn from the once
sacred Devon furnishes the means of distributing prosperity over the adjacent land of the Saxons."

[Image] Section of Top of Pont-Cyslltau Aqueduct.

It is scarcely necessary to refer to the other works upon this canal, some of which were of
considerable magnitude, though they may now seem dwarfed by comparison with the works of recent
engineers, Thus, there were two difficult tunnels cut through hard rock, under the rugged ground
which separates the valleys of the Dee and the Ceriog.  One of these is 500 and the other 200
yards in length.  To ensure a supply of water for the summit of the canal, the lake called
Bala Pool was dammed up by a regulating weir, and by its means the water was drawn off at Llandisilio
when required for the purposes of the navigation; the navigable feeder being six miles long,
carried along the bank of the Llangollen valley. All these works were skilfully executed; and
when the undertaking was finished, Mr. Telford may be said to have fairly established his reputation
as an engineer of first rate ability.

We now return to Telford's personal history during this important period of his career.  He
had long promised himself a visit to his dear Eskdale, and the many friends he had left there;
but more especially to see his infirm mother, who had descended far into the vale of years,
and longed to see her son once more before she died. He had taken constant care that she should
want for nothing. She formed the burden of many of his letters to Andrew Little. "Your kindness
in visiting and paying so much attention to her," said he, "is doing me the greatest favour
which you could possibly confer upon me."  He sent his friend frequent sums of money, which
he requested him to lay out in providing sundry little comforts for his mother, who seems to
have carried her spirit of independence so far as to have expressed reluctance to accept money
even from her own son.  "I must request," said he, "that you will purchase and send up what
things may be likely to be wanted, either for her or the person who may be with her, as her
habits of economy will prevent her from getting plenty of everything, especially as she thinks
that I have to pay for it, which really hurts me more than anything else."*[7]  Though anxious
to pay his intended visit, he was so occupied with one urgent matter of business and another
that he feared it would be November before he could set out.  He had to prepare a general statement
as to the navigation affairs for a meeting of the committee; he must attend the approaching
Salop quarter sessions, and after that a general meeting of the Canal Company; so that his
visit must be postponed for yet another month. "Indeed," said he, "I am rather distressed at
the thoughts of running down to see a kind parent in the last stage of decay, on whom I can
only bestow an affectionate look, and then leave her: her mind will not be much consoled by
this parting, and the impression left upon mine will be more lasting; than pleasant."*[8]

He did, however, contrive to run down to Eskdale in the following November.  His mother was
alive, but that was all.  After doing what he could for her comfort, and providing that all
her little wants were properly attended to, he hastened back to his responsible duties in connection
with the Ellesmere Canal.  When at Langholm, he called upon his former friends to recount with
them the incidents of their youth.  He was declared to be the same "canty" fellow as ever,
and, though he had risen greatly in the world, he was "not a bit set up."  He found one of
his old fellow workmen, Frank Beattie, become the principal innkeeper of the place.  "What
have you made of your mell and chisels?" asked Telford.  "Oh!" replied Beattie, "they are all
dispersed--perhaps lost."  "I have taken better care of mine," said Telford; "I have them all
locked up in a room at Shrewsbury, as well as my old working clothes and leather apron: you
know one can never tell what may happen."

He was surprised, as most people are who visit the scenes of their youth after a long absence,
to see into what small dimensions Langholm had shrunk.  That High Street, which before had
seemed so big, and that frowning gaol and court-house in the Market Place, were now comparatively
paltry to eyes that had been familiar with Shrewsbury, Portsmouth, and London.

On his return southward, he was again delighted by the sight of old Gilnockie Castle and the
surrounding scenery.  As he afterwards wrote to his friend Little, "Broomholm was in all his
glory." Probably one of the results of this visit was the revision of the poem of 'Eskdale,'
which he undertook in the course of the following spring, putting in some fresh touches and
adding many new lines, whereby the effect of the whole was considerably improved. He had the
poem printed privately, merely for distribution amongst friends; being careful," as he said,
that "no copies should be smuggled and sold."

Later in the year we find him, on his way to London on business, sparing a day or two for the
purpose of visiting the Duke of Buckingham's palace and treasures of art at Stowe; afterwards
writing out an eight-page description of it for the perusal of his friends at Langholm.  At
another time, when engaged upon the viaduct at Pont-Cysylltau, he snatched a few day's leisure
to run through North Wales, of which he afterwards gave a glowing account to his correspondent.
He passed by Cader Idris, Snowdon, and Penmaen Mawr. "Parts of the country we passed through,"
he says, "very much resemble the lofty green hills and woody vales of Eskdale.  In other parts
the magnificent boldness of the mountains, the torrents, lakes, and waterfalls, give a special
character to the scenery, unlike everything of the kind I had before seen.  The vale of Llanrwst
is peculiarly beautiful and fertile.  In this vale is the celebrated bridge of Inigo Jones;
but what is a much more delightful circumstance, the inhabitants of the vale are the most beautiful
race of people I have ever beheld; and I am much astonished that this never seems to have struck
the Welsh tourists. The vale of Llangollen is very fine, and not the least interesting object
in it, I can assure you, is Davidson's famous aqueduct [Pont-Cysylltau], which is already reckoned
among the wonders of Wales.  Your old acquaintance thinks nothing of having three or four carriages
at his door at a time."*[9]  It seems that, besides attending to the construction of the works,
Telford had to organise the conduct of the navigation at those points at which the canal was
open for traffic.  By the middle of 1797 he states that twenty miles were in working condition,
along which coal and lime were conveyed in considerable quantifies, to the profit of the Company
and the benefit of the public; the price of these articles having already in some places been
reduced twenty-five, and in others as much as fifty, per cent.  "The canal affairs," he says
in one of his letters, "have required a good deal of exertion, though we are on the whole doing
well.  But, besides carrying on the works, it is now necessary to bestow considerable attention
on the creating and guiding of a trade upon those portions which are executed.  This involves
various considerations, and many contending and sometimes clashing interests.  In short, it
is the working of a great machine: in the first place, to draw money out of the pockets of
a numerous proprietary to make an expensive canal, and then to make the money return into their
pockets by the creation of a business upon that canal."  But, as if all this business were
not enough, he was occupied at the same time in writing a book upon the subject of Mills. 
In the year 1796 he had undertaken to draw up a paper on this topic for the Board of Agriculture,
and by degrees it had grown into a large quarto volume, illustrated by upwards of thirty plates.
He was also reading extensively in his few leisure moments; and among the solid works which
he perused we find him mentioning Robertson's 'Disquisitions on Ancient India,' Stewart's 'Philosophy
of the Human Mind,' and Alison's 'Principles of Taste.'  As a relief from these graver studies,
he seems, above all things, to have taken peculiar pleasure" In occasionally throwing off a
bit of poetry.  Thus, when laid up at an hotel in Chester by a blow on his leg, which disabled
him for some weeks, he employed part of his time in writing his 'Verses on hearing of the Death
of Robert Burns.' On another occasion, when on his way to London, and detained for a night
at Stratford-on-Avon, he occupied the evening at his inn in composing some stanzas, entitled
'An Address to the River Avon.' And when on his way back to Shrewsbury, while resting for the
night at Bridgenorth, he amused himself with revising and copying out the verses for the perusal
of Andrew Little. "There are worse employments," he said,"when one has an hour to spare from
business;" and he asked his friend's opinion of the composition.  It seems to have been no
more favourable than the verses deserved; for, in his next letter, Telford says, "I think your
observation respecting the verses to the Avon are correct. It is but seldom I have time to
versify; but it is to me something like what a fiddle is to others, I apply to it in order
to relieve my mind, after being much fatigued with close attention to business."

It is very pleasant to see the engineer relaxing himself in this way, and submitting cheerfully
to unfavourable criticism, which is so trying to even the best of tempers.  The time, however,
thus taken from his regular work was not loss, but gain.  Taking the character of his occupation
into account, it was probably the best kind of relaxation he could have indulged in.  With
his head full of bridges and viaducts, he thus kept his heart open to the influences of beauty
in life and nature; and, at all events, the writing of verses, indifferent though they might
have been, proved of this value to him--that it cultivated in him the art of writing better prose.

Footnotes for Chapter VI.

*[1] The Ellesmere Canal now pays about 4 per cent. dividend.

*[2] 'A General History of Inland Navigation, Foreign and Domestic,' &c. By J. Phillips.  Fourth
edition.  London, 1803.

*[3] [Image] Section of Pier

Telford himself thus modestly describes the merit of this original contrivance: "Previously
to this time such canal aqueducts had been uniformly made to retain the water necessary for
navigation by means of puddled earth retained by masonry; and in order to obtain sufficient
breadth for this superstructure, the masonry of the piers, abutments, and arches was of massive
strength; and after all this expense, and every imaginable precaution, the frosts, by swelling
the moist puddle, frequently created fissures, which burst the masonry, and suffered the water
to escape--nay, sometimes actually threw down the aqueducts; instances of this kind having
occurred even in the works of the justly celebrated Brindley. It was evident that the increased
pressure of the puddled earth was the chief cause of such failures: I therefore had recourse
to the following scheme in order to a void using it.  The spandrels of the stone arches were
constructed with longitudinal walls, instead of being filled in with earth (as at Kirkcudbright
Bridge), and across these the canal bottom was formed by cast iron plates at each side, infixed
in square stone masonry.  These bottom plates had flanches on their edges, and were secured
by nuts and screws at every juncture.   The sides of the canal were made water-proof by ashlar
masonry, backed with hard burnt bricks laid in Parker's cement, on the outside of which was
rubble stone work, like the rest of the aqueduct.  The towing path had a thin bed of clay under
the gravel, and its outer edge was protected by an iron railing.  The width of the water-way
is 11 feet; of the masonry on each side, 5 feet 6 inches; and the depth of the water in the
canal, 5 feet.  By this mode of construction the quantity of masonry is much diminished, and
the iron bottom plate forms a continuous tie, preventing the side-walls from separation by
lateral pressure of the contained water."--'Life of Telford,' p. 40.

*[4] Letter to Mr. Andrew Little, Langholm, dated Shrewsbury, 13th March, 1795.

*[5] Matthew Davidson had been Telford's fellow workman at Langholm, and was reckoned an excellent
mason.  He died at Inverness, where he had a situation on the Caledonian Canal.

*[6] Mr. Hughes, C.E., in his 'Memoir of William Jessop,' published in 'Weale's Quarterly Papers
on Engineering,' points out the bold and original idea here adopted, of constructing a water-tight
trough of cast iron, in which the water of the canal was to be carried over the valleys, instead
of an immense puddled trough, in accordance with the practice until that time in use; and he
adds, "the immense importance of this improvement on the old practice is apt to be lost sight
of at the present day by those who overlook the enormous size and strength of masonry which
would have been required to support a puddled channel at the height of 120 feet." Mr. Hughes,
however, claims for Mr. Jessop the merit of having suggested the employment of iron, though,
in our opinion, without sufficient reason.

Mr. Jessop was, no doubt, consulted by Mr. Telford on the subject; but the whole details of
the design, as well as the suggestion of the use of iron (as admitted by Mr. Hughes himself),
and the execution of the entire works, rested with the acting engineer. This is borne out by
the report published by the Company immediately after the formal opening of the Canal in 1805,
in which they state: "Having now detailed the particulars relative to the Canal, and the circumstances
of the concern, the committee, in concluding their report, think it but justice due to Mr.
Telford to state that the works have been planned with great skill and science, and executed
with much economy and stability, doing him, as well as those employed by him, infinite credit.
(Signed) Bridgewater."

*[7] Letter to Mr. Andrew Little, Langholm, dated Shrewsbury, 16th Sept., 1794.

*[8] lbid.

*[9] Letter to Mr. Andrew Little, Langholm, dated Salop, 20th Aug., 1797.

CHAPTER VII.

IRON AND AND OTHER BRIDGES.

Shrewsbury being situated in the immediate neighbourhood of the Black Country, of which coal
and iron are the principal products, Telford's attention was naturally directed, at a very
early period, to the employment of cast iron in bridge-building.  The strength as well as lightness
of a bridge of this material, compared with one of stone and lime, is of great moment where
headway is ofimportance, or the difficulties of defective foundations have to be encountered.
The metal can be moulded in such precise forms and so accurately fitted together as to give
to the arching the greatest possible rigidity; while it defies the destructive influences of
time and atmospheric corrosion with nearly as much certainty as stone itself.

The Italians and French, who took the lead in engineering down almost to the end of last century,
early detected the value of this material, and made several attempts to introduce it in bridge-building;
but their efforts proved unsuccessful, chiefly because of the inability of the early founders
to cast large masses of iron, and also because the metal was then more expensive than either
stone or timber.  The first actual attempt to build a cast iron bridge was made at Lyons in
1755, and it proceeded so far that one of the arches was put together in the builder's yard;
but the project was abandoned as too costly, and timber was eventually used.

It was reserved for English manufacturers to triumph over the difficulties which had baffled
the foreign iron-founders.  Shortly after the above ineffectual attempt had been made, the
construction of a bridge over the Severn near Broseley formed the subject of discussion among
the adjoining owners.  There had been a great increase in the coal, iron, brick, and pottery
trades of the neighbourhood; and the old ferry between the opposite banks of the river was
found altogether inadequate for the accommodation of the traffic.  The necessity for a bridge
had long been felt, and the project of constructing one was actively taken up in 1776 by Mr.
Abraham Darby, the principal owner of the extensive iron works at Coalbrookdale.  Mr. Pritchard,
a Shrewsbury architect, prepared the design of a stone bridge of one arch, in which he proposed
to introduce a key-stone of cast iron, occupying only a few feet at the crown of the arch.
This plan was, however, given up as unsuitable; and another, with the entire arch of cast iron,
was designed under the superintendence of Mr. Darby.  The castings were made in the works at
Coalbrookdale, and the bridge was erected at a point where the banks were of considerable height
on both sides of the river.  It was opened for traffic in 1779, and continues a most serviceable
structure to this day, giving the name to the town of Ironbridge, which has sprung up in its
immediate vicinity.  The bridge consists of one semicircular arch, of 100 feet span, each of
the great ribs consisting of two pieces only.

It is a curious circumstance that the next projector of an iron bridge--and that of a very
bold design--was the celebrated, or rather the notorious, Tom Paine, whose political writings
Telford had so much admired.  The son of a decent Quaker of Thetford, who trained him to his
own trade of a staymaker, Paine seems early to have contracted a dislike for the sect to which
his father belonged.  Arrived at manhood, he gave up staymaking to embrace the wild life of
a privateersman, and served in two successive adventures.  Leaving the sea, he became an exciseman,
but retained his commission for only a year.  Then he became an usher in a school, during which
he studied mechanics and mathematics.  Again appointed an exciseman, he was stationed at Lewes
in Sussex, where he wrote poetry and acquired some local celebrity as a writer. He was accordingly
selected by his brother excisemen to prepare their petition to Government for an increase of
pay, *[2] -- the document which he drew up procuring him introductions to Goldsmith and Franklin,
and dismissal from his post.  Franklin persuaded him to go to America; and there the quondam
staymaker, privateersman, usher, poet, an a exciseman, took an active part in the revolutionary
discussions of the time, besides holding the important office of Secretary to the Committee
for Foreign Affairs.  Paine afterwards settled for a time at Philadelphia, where he occupied
himself with the study of mechanical philosophy, electricity, mineralogy, and the use of iron
in bridge-building.  In 1787, when a bridge over the Schnylkill was proposed, without any river
piers, as the stream was apt to be choked with ice in the spring freshets, Paine boldly offered
to build an iron bridge with a single arch of 400 feet span.  In the course of the same year,
he submitted his design of the proposed bridge to the Academy of Sciences at Paris; he also
sent a copy of his plan to Sir Joseph Banks for submission to the Royal Society; and, encouraged
by the favourable opinions of scientific men, he proceeded to Rotherham, in Yorkshire, to have
his bridge cast.*[3]  An American gentleman, named Whiteside, having advanced money to Paine
on security of his property in the States, to enable the bridge to be completed, the castings
were duly made, and shipped off to London, where they were put together and exhibited to the
public on a bowling-green at Paddington. The bridge was there visited by a large number of
persons, and was considered to be a highly creditable work. Suddenly Paine's attention was
withdrawn from its further prosecution by the publication of Mr. Burke's celebrated 'Thoughts
on the French Revolution,' which he undertook to answer.  Whiteside having in the meantime
become bankrupt, Paine was arrested by his assignees, but was liberated by the assistance of
two other Americans, who became bound for him. Paine, however, was by this time carried away
by the fervour of the French Revolution, having become a member of the National Convention,
as representative for Calais.  The "Friends of Man," whose cause he had espoused, treated him
scurvily, imprisoning him in the Luxembourg, where he lay for eleven months.  Escaped to America,
we find him in 1803 presenting to the American Congress a memoir on the construction of Iron
Bridges, accompanied by several models.  It does not appear, however, that Paine ever succeeded
in erecting an iron bridge.  He was a restless, speculative, unhappy being; and it would have
been well for his memory if, instead of penning shallow infidelity, he had devoted himself
to his original idea of improving the communications of his adopted country. In the meantime,
however, the bridge exhibited at Paddington had produced important results. The manufacturers
agreed to take it back as part of their debt, and the materials were afterwards used in the
construction of the noble bridge over the Wear at Sunderland, which was erected in 1796.

