There is another process accomplished by exercise, which more immediately concerns the nervous
system. "Many people," says Mr. Abernethy, "who are extremely irritable and hypochondriacal,
and are constantly obliged to take medicines to regulate their bowels while they live an inactive
life, no longer suffer from nervous irritation, or require aperient medicines when they use
exercise to a degree that would be excessive in ordinary constitutions." This leads us to infer
that the superfluous energy of the nerves is exhausted by the exercise of the body, and that
as the abstraction of blood mitigates inflammations, in like manner does the abstraction of
nervous irritability restore tranquillity to the system. This of course applies only to a state
of high nervous irritation; but exercise is equally beneficial when the constitution is much
weakened, by producing throughout the whole frame that energetic action which has been already
explained.

A debilitated frame ought never to take so much exercise as to cause fatigue, neither ought
exercise to be taken immediately before nor immediately after a full meal. Mr. Abernethy's
prescription is a very good one--to rise early and use active exercise in the open air, till
a slight degree of fatigue be felt; then to rest one hour, and breakfast. After this rest three
hours, "in order that the energies of the constitution may be concentrated in the work of digestion;"
then take active exercise again for two hours, rest one, and then dine. After dinner rest for
three hours; and afterwards, in summer, take a gentle stroll, which, with an hour's rest before
supper, will constitute the plan of exercise for the day. In wet or inclement weather, the
exercise may be taken in the house, the windows being opened, "by walking actively backwards
and forwards, as sailors do on ship-board."

We now come to the consideration of air. Pure air is as necessary to existence as good and
wholesome food; perhaps more so; for our food has to undergo a very elaborate change before
it is introduced into the mass of circulating blood, while the air is received at once into
the lungs, and comes into immediate contact with the blood in that important organ. The effect
of the air upon the blood is this: by thrusting out as it were, all the noxious properties
which it has collected in its passage through the body, it endues it with the peculiar property
of vitality, that is, it enables it to build up, repair, and excite the different functions
and organs of the body. If therefore this air, which we inhale every instant, be not pure,
the whole mass of blood is very soon contaminated, and the frame, in some part or other speedily
experiences the bad effects. This will explain to us the almost miraculous benefits which are
obtained by change of air, as well as the decided advantages of a free and copious ventilation.
The prejudices against a free circulation of air, especially in the sick chamber, are productive
of great evil. The rule as regards this is plain and simple: admit as much fresh air as you
can; provided it does not blow in upon you in a stream, and provided you are not in a state
of profuse perspiration at the time; for in accordance with the Spanish proverb--

  "If the wind blows on you through a hole
  Make your will, and take care of your soul."

but if the whole of the body be exposed at once to a cold atmosphere, no bad consequences need
be anticipated.

