To set the trap, dig a hole in the soil to a depth of fifteen inches, (27) circular in shape,
with a circumference at the top exactly corresponding to the crown and narrowing towards the
bottom. For the rope and wooden clog likewise remove sufficient earth to let them both be lightly
buried. That done, place the foot-gin deep enough to be just even with the surface of the soil,
(28) and round the circle of the crown the cord-noose. The cord itself and wooden clog must
now be lowered into their respective places. Which done, place on the crown some rods of spindle-tree,
(29) but not so as to stick out beyond the outer rim; and above these again light leaves, such
as the season may provide. After this put a final coating of earth upon the leaves; in the
first place the surface soil from the holes just dug, and atop of that some unbroken solid
earth from a distance, so that the lie of the trap may be as much as possible unnoticed by
the deer. Any earth left over should be carried to a distance from the gin. The mere smell
of the newly-turned-up soil will suffice to make the animal suspicious; (30) and smell it readily
she will.

 (27) Or, "remove a mass of soil to the depth of five palms so as to
    form a circular hole corresponding in size with the rim above-
    named."

 (28) Or, "like a door over the cavity, somewhat below the surface,
    flatwise"; i.e. "in a horizontal position."

 (29) So literally, but really Carthamus creticus, a thistle-like plant
    used for making spindles (Sprengel ap. L. & S.), the Euonymous
    europaeus being our spindle-tree. Aristot. "H. A." ix. 40, 49;
    Theocr. iv. 52.

 (30) Lit. "if she once sniffs the new-turned soil the deer grows shy,
    and that she will quickly do." See Plat. "Laws," 933 A; "Phaedr."
    242 C; "Mem." II. i. 4.

The hunter should take his hounds and inspect the traps upon the mountains, early in the morning
if possible, though he should do so also during the day at other times. Those set on cultivated
land must always be inspected early, before the sun is up in fact, (31) and for this reason:
on the hills, so desert is the region, (32) the creatures may be caught not only at night but
at any time of day; while, on the cultivated lands, owing to their chronic apprehension of
mankind in daytime, night is the only time. (33)

 (31) "Before the sun is up."

 (32) Or, "thanks to the lonesomeness of the region."

 (33) "It is night or never, owing to the dread of man which haunts the
    creature's mind during daytime."

As soon as the huntsman finds a gin uprooted he will let slip his hounds and with cheery encouragement
(34) follow along the wake of the wooden clog, with a keen eye to the direction of its march.
That for the most part will be plain enough, since stones will be displaced, and the furrow
which the clog makes as it trails along will be conspicuous on tilled ground; or if the deer
should strike across rough ground, the rocks will show pieces of bark torn from the clog, and
the chase will consequently be all the easier. (35)

 (34) See vi. 20; "with view-halloo."

 (35) Or, "along that track will not be difficult."

Should the deer have been caught by one of its fore-feet it will soon be taken, because in
the act of running it will beat and batter its own face and body; if by the hind-leg, the clog
comes trailing along and must needs impede the action of every limb. Sometimes, too, as it
is whirled along it will come in contact with the forked branches of some tree, and then unless
the animal can snap the rope in twain, she is fairly caught; there ends the chase. But even
so, if caught in this way or overdone with fatigue, it were well not to come too close the
quarry, should it chance to be a stag, or he will lunge out with his antlers and his feet;
better therefore let fly your javelins from a distance.

These animals may also be captured without aid of gin or caltrop, by sheer coursing in hot
summer time; they get so tired, they will stand still to be shot down. If hard pressed they
will plunge into the sea or take to water of any sort in their perplexity, and at times will
drop down from sheer want of breath. (36)

 (36) "From mere shortness of breath."

X

To cope with the wild boar the huntsman needs to have a variety of dogs, Indian, Cretan, Locrian,
and Laconian, (1) along with a stock of nets, javelins, boar-spears, and foot-traps.

 (1) For these breeds see Pollux, v. 37: for the Laconian, Pind. "Fr."
    73; Soph. "Aj." 8; cf. Shakesp. "Mids. N. D." iv. 1. 119, 129
    foll.

To begin with, the hounds must be no ordinary specimens of the species named, (2) in order
to do battle with the beast in question.

 (2) Or, "these hounds of the breed named must not be any ordinary
    specimens"; but what does Xenophon mean by {ek toutou tou genous}?

The nets should be made of the same flaxen cord (3) as those for hares above described. They
should be forty-five threaded in three strands, each strand consisting of fifteen threads.
The height from the upper rim (4) (i.e. from top to bottom) should be ten meshes, and the depth
of the nooses or pockets one elbow-length (say fifteen inches). (5) The ropes running round
the net should be half as thick again as the cords of the net; and at the extremities (6) they
should be fitted with rings, and should be inserted (in and out) under the nooses, with the
end passing out through the rings. Fifteen nets will be sufficient. (7)

 (3) i.e. "of Phasian or Cathaginian fine flax."

 (4) {tou koruphaiou}.

 (5) {pugon}. The distance from the elbow to the first joint of the
    finger = 20 {daktuloi} = 5 {palaistai} = 1 1/4 ft. + (L. & S.)

 (6) {ep akrois}. Cf. {akreleniois}.

 (7) Reading {ikanai}, vid. Lenz ad loc. and ii. 4.

The javelins should be of all sorts, (8) having blades of a good breadth and razor-sharpness,
and stout shafts.

 (8) Al. "of various material." See Pollux, v. 20 ap. Schneid.

The boar-spears should in the first place have blades fifteen inches long, and in the middle
of the socket two solid projecting teeth of wrought metal, (9) and shafts of cornel-wood a
spear-shaft's thickness.

 (9) Wrought of copper (or bronze).

The foot-traps should resemble those used for deer.

These hunts should be conducted not singly, (10) but in parties, since the wild boar can be
captured only by the collective energy of several men, and that not easily.

 (10) Lit. "There should be a band of huntsmen"; or, "It will take the
    united energies of several to capture this game." See Hom. "Il."
    ix. 543, of the Calydonian boar:

{ton d' uios Oineos apekteinen Meleagros, polleon ek polion theretoras andras ageiras kai kunas.
ou men gar k' edame pauroisi brotoisin tossos een, pollous de pures epebes' alegeines.}

    "But him slew Meleagros the son of Oineus, having gathered
    together from many cities huntsmen and hounds; for not of few men
    could the boar be slain, so mighty was he; and many an one brought
    he to the grievous pyre" (W. Leaf).

I will now explain how each part of the gear is to be used in hunting.

The company being come to some place where a boar is thought to lie, the first step is to bring
up the pack, (11) which done, they will loose a single Laconian bitch, and keeping the rest
in leash, beat about with this one hound. (12) As soon as she has got on the boar's track,
let them follow in order, one after another, close on the tracking hound, who gives the lead
to the whole company. (13) Even to the huntsmen themselves many a mark of the creature will
be plain, such as his footprints on soft portions of the ground, and in the thick undergrowth
of forests broken twigs; and, where there are single trees, the scars made by his tusks. (14)
As she follows up the trail the hound will, as a general rule, finally arrive at some well-wooded
spot; since, as a general rule, the boar lies ensconced in places of the sort, that are warm
in winter and cool in summer.

 (11) {kunegesion}, "a hunting establishment, huntsmen and hounds, a
    pack of hounds," L. & S. cf. Herod. i. 36; Pollux. v. 17. In
    Aristot. "H. A." viii. 5. 2, of wolves in a pack; v. {monopeirai}.
    {upagein}--"stealthily?"

 (12) Or, "go on a voyage of discovery."

 (13) Reading {te ikhneuouse}, or if vulg. {ikhneusei}, transl. "set
    her to follow the trail, at the head of the whole train."

 (14) Schneid. cf. Aristot. "H. A." vi. 18; Plin. viii. 52; Virg.
    "Georg." iii. 255, "ipse ruit, dentesque Sabellicus exacuit sus";
    Hom. "Il." xi. 416, xiii. 475; Hes. "Shield," 389; Eur. "Phoen."
    1389; Ovid, "Met." viii. 369.

As soon as she has reached his lair she will give tongue; but the boar will not get up, not
he, in nine cases out of ten. The huntsman will thereupon recover the hound, and tie her up
also with the rest at a good distance from the lair. (15) He will then launch his toils into
the wild boar's harbourage, (16) placing the nooses upon any forked branches of wood to hand.
Out of the net itself he must construct a deep forward-jutting gulf or bosom, posting young
shoots on this side and that within, as stays or beams, (17) so that the rays of light may
penetrate as freely as possible through the nooses into the bosom, (18) and the interior be
as fully lit up as possible when the creature makes his charge. The string round the top of
the net must be attached to some stout tree, and not to any mere shrub or thorn-bush, since
these light-bending branches will give way to strain on open ground. (19) All about each net
it will be well to stop with timber even places (20) "where harbrough nis to see," so that
the hulking brute may drive a straight course (21) into the toils without tacking.

 (15) Lit. "accordingly recover the dog, and tie her up also with the
    rest," etc.

 (16) {ormous}. Lit. "moorings," i.e. "favourite haunts." Cf. {dusorma}
    below. Al. "stelle die Fallnetze auf die Wechsel," Lenz.

 (17) {anteridas}. See a note in the "Class. Rev." X. i. p. 7, by G. S.
    Sale: "It can only mean long sticks used as stretchers or
    spreaders to hold up the net between and beyond the props." Cf.
    Thuc. vii. 36, 2.

 (18) Or, "within the bay of network."

 (19) {sunekhontai en tois psilois ai e}. "Denn diese werden an
    unbestandenen Orten durch die Leine niedergezogen," Lenz;
    {sunelkontai} conj. Schn.; {sunerkhontai} al., "concurrunt," vid.
    Sturz.

 (20) {ta dusorma}, met. from "bad harbourage." Cf. Arsch. "Pers." 448;
    "Ag." 194. Cf. Lat. "importunus," also of "rough ground."

 (21) Or, "make his rush."

As soon as the nets are fixed, the party will come back and let the hounds slip one and all;
then each will snatch up his javelin (22) and boar-spear, and advance. Some one man, the most
practised hand, will cheer on the hounds, and the rest will follow in good order at some considerable
distance from one another, so as to leave the animal a free passage; since if he falls into
the thick of them as he makes off, there is a fair chance of being wounded, for he will certainly
vent his fury on the first creature he falls foul of.

 (22) Lit. "then they will take their javelins and boar-spears and
    advance."

As soon as the hounds are near his lair, they will make their onslaught. The boar, bewildered
by the uproar, will rise up and toss the first hound that ventures to attack him in front.
He will then run and fall into the toils; or if not, then after him full cry. (23) Even if
the ground on which the toils environ him be sloping, he will recover himself promptly; (24)
but if level, he will at once plant himself firm as a rock, as if deliberating with himself.
(25) At that conjuncture the hounds will press hard upon him, while their masters had best
keep a narrow eye upon the boar and let fly their javelins and a pelt of stones, being planted
in a ring behind him and a good way off, until the instant when with a forward heave of his
body he stretches the net tight and strains the skirting-rope. Thereupon he who is most skilful
of the company and of the stoutest nerve will advance from the front and deliver a home thrust
with his hunting-spear.

 (23) Or, "a pretty chase must follow."

 (24) Or, "if within the prison of the net the ground be sloping, it
    will not take long to make him spring up; he will be up again on
    his legs in no time."

 (25) Or, "being concerned about himself."

Should the animal for all that rain of javelins and stones refuse to stretch the skirting-rope,
should he rather relax (26) in that direction and make a right-about-face turn bearing down
on his assailant, there is nothing for it, under these circumstances, but to seize a boar-spear,
and advance; firmly clutching it with the left hand forward and with the right behind; the
left is to steady it, and the right to give it impulse; and so the feet, (27) the left advanced
in correspondence with the left arm, and right with right. As he advances, he will make a lunge
forward with the boar-spear, (27) planting his legs apart not much wider than in wrestling,
(28) and keeping his left side turned towards his left hand; and then, with his eye fixed steadily
on the beast's eye, he will note every turn and movement of the creature's head. As he brings
down the boar-spear to the thrust, he must take good heed the animal does not knock it out
of his hands by a side movement of the head; (29) for if so he will follow up the impetus of
that rude knock. In case of that misfortune, the huntsman must throw himself upon his face
and clutch tight hold of the brushwood under him, since if the wild boar should attack him
in that posture, owing to the upward curve of its tusks, it cannot get under him; (30) whereas
if caught erect, he must be wounded. What will happen then is, that the beast will try to raise
him up, and failing that will stand upon and trample him.

 (26) {epanieis}. See Sturz, s.v.

 (27) Lit. "forwards the left foot will follow the left arm and the
    right foot the other."

 (28) "Statum venatoris aprum venabulo excipientis pinxit
    Philostratus," "Imag." i. 28, Schn.

 (29) Or, "he will step forward and take one stride not much longer
    than that of a wrestler, and thrust forward his boar-spear."

 (30) Cf. Hes. "Shield," 387; Hom. "Il." xii. (A. Lang).

From this extremity there is but one means of escape, and one alone, for the luckless prisoner.
One of his fellow-huntsmen must approach with boar-spear and provoke the boar, making as though
he would let fly at him; but let fly he must not, for fear of hitting the man under him. The
boar, on seeing this, will leave the fallen man, and in rage and fury turn to grapple his assailant.
The other will seize the instant to spring to his feet, and not forget to clutch his boar-spear
as he rises to his legs again; since rescue cannot be nobly purchased save by victory. (31)
Let him again bring the weapon to bear in the same fashion, and make a lunge at a point within
the shoulder-blade, where lies the throat; (32) and planting his body firmly press with all
his force. (33) The boar, by dint of his might and battle rage, will still push on, and were
it not that the teeth of the lance-blade hindered, (34) would push his way up to the holder
of the boar-spear even though the shaft run right through him. (35)

 (31) "Safety can only be won with honour by some master-stroke of
    victory."

 (32) {sphage}. Aristot. "H. A." i. 14. 2. "Straight at the jugular."

 (33) Or, "throwing his whole weight on the thrust, press home with all
    his force."

 (34) Or, "but for the intervention of the two projecting teeth of the
    lance-blade." See the account of the passage of arms between Col.
    Pollock and a boar in his "Incidents of Foreign Sport and Travel."
    There the man was mounted, but alone.

 (35) Lit. "force his heavy bulk along the shaft right up to the holder
    of the boar-spear."

Nay, so tremendous is the animal's power, that a property which no one ever would suspect belongs
to him. Lay a few hairs upon the tusk of a boar just dead, and they will shrivel up instantly,
(36) so hot are they, these tusks. Nay, while the creature is living, under fierce excitement
they will be all aglow; or else how comes it that though he fail to gore the dogs, yet at the
blow the fine hairs of their coats are singed in flecks and patches? (37)

 (36) {euthus}, i.e. "for a few seconds after death."

 (37) The belief is still current, I am told, in parts of India.

So much and even greater trouble may be loked for from the wild boar before capture; I speak
of the male animal. If it should be a sow that falls into the toils, the huntsman should run
up and prod her, taking care not to be pushed off his legs and fall, in which case he cannot
escape being trampled on and bitten. Ergo, he will not voluntarily get under those feet; but
if involuntarily he should come to such a pass, the same means (38) of helping each the other
to get up again will serve, as in the case of the male animal; and when he has regained his
legs, he must ply the boar-spear vigorously till she too has died the death.

 (38) {dianastaseis}, "the same methods of mutual recovery."

Wild pigs may be captured further in the following fashion: The nets are fixed for them at
the entrances of woody glens, (39) in coppices and hollows, and on screes, where there are
outlets into rank meadow-lands, marshes, and clear pools. (40) The appointed person mounts
guard at the nets with his boar-spear, while the others work the dogs, exploring the best and
likeliest spots. As soon as the quarry is found the chase commences. If then an animal falls
into the net, the net-keeper will grip his boar-spear and (41) advance, when he will ply it
as I have described; if he escape the net, then after him full cry. In hot, sultry weather
the boar may be run down by the hounds and captured. Though a monster in strength, the creature
becomes short of breath and will give in from sheer exhaustion.

 (39) Al. "at the passages from woodland lakes into oak-coppices."

 (40) {udata}, "waters," lakes, pools, rivers, etc.

 (41) Or, "and proceed to tackle him."

It is a form of sport which costs the lives of many hounds and endangers those of the huntsmen
themselves. Supposing that the animal has given in from exhaustion at some moment in the chase,
and they are forced to come to close quarters; (42) whether he has taken to the water, or stands
at bay against some craggy bank, or does not choose to come out from some thicket (since neither
net nor anything else hinders him from bearing down like a tornado on whoever approaches);
still, even so, advance they must, come what come may, to the attack. And now for a display
of that hardihood which first induced them to indulge a passion not fit for carpet knights
(43)--in other words, they must ply their boar-spears and assume that poise of body (44) already
described, since if one must meet misfortune, let it not be for want of observing the best
rules. (45)

 (42) Reading {prosienai}  ({ta probolia}).  (The last two words are
    probably a gloss, and should be omitted, since {prosienai} (from
    {prosiemi}) {ta probolia} = "ply," or "apply their boar-spears,"
    is hardly Greek.) See Schneid. "Add. et Corr." and L. Dind. ad
    loc.

 (43) {ekponein}, "to exercise this passion to the full."

