"I suppose he's such a Schlemihl no father would ever look at him!" said a father, with a bunch
of black-eyed daughters.

"Oh, but he was married in Russia," said another; "but just as he sent his wife the money to
come over, she died."

"And yet you call him a Schlemihl!" cried Moshelé, the cynic.

"Ah, but her family stuck to the money!" retorted the narrator, and captured the laugh.

It was true. After three years of terrible struggle and privation, Aaron had prepared an English
home for his Yenta, but she slept instead in a Russian grave. Perhaps if his friends had known
how he had thrown away the chance of sending for her earlier, they would have been still more
convinced that he was a born Schlemihl. For within eighteen months of his landing in London
docks, Aaron, through his rapid mastery of English and ciphering at the evening classes for
Hebrew adults, had found a post as book-keeper to a clothes-store in Ratcliff Highway. But
he soon discovered that he was expected to fake the invoices, especially when drunken sailors
came to rig themselves up in mufti.

"Well, we'll throw the scarf in," the genial salesman would concede cheerily. "And the waistcoat?
One-and-three--a good waistcoat, as clean as new, and dirt cheap, so 'elp me."

But when Aaron made out the bill he was nudged to put the one-and-three in the column for pounds
and shillings respectively, and even, if the buyer were sufficiently in funds and liquor, to
set down the date of the month in the same pecuniary partitions, and to add it up glibly with
the rest, calendar and coin together. But Aaron, although he was not averse from honestly misrepresenting
the value of goods, drew the line at trickery, and so he was kicked out. It took him a year
of nondescript occupations to amass a little stock of mock jewellery wherewith to peddle, and
Manchester he found a more profitable centre than the metropolis. Yenta dead, profit and holy
learning divided his thoughts, and few of his fellows achieved less of the former or more of
the latter than our itinerant idealist.

Such was one of the thousands of souls swarming that afternoon in the synagogue, such was one
despised unit of a congregation itself accounted by the world a pitiable mass of superstitious
poverty, and now tossing with emotion in the dim spaces of the sacred building.

The Oriental imagination of the hearers magnified the simple soldierly sentences of the orator,
touched them with color and haloed them with mystery, till, as the deep gasps and sobs of the
audience struck back like blows on the speaker's chest, the contagion of their passion thrilled
him to responsive emotion. And, seen through tears, arose for him and them a picture of Israel
again enthroned in Palestine, the land flowing once more with milk and honey, rustling with
corn and vines planted by their own hands, and Zion--at peace with all the world--the recognized
arbitrator of the nations, making true the word of the Prophet: "For from Zion shall go forth
the Law, and the word of God from Jerusalem."

To Aaron the vision came like a divine intoxication. He stamped his feet, clapped, cried, shouted.
He felt tears streaming down his cheeks like the rivers that watered Paradise. What! This hope
that had haunted him from boyhood, wafting from the pages of the holy books, was not then a
shadowy splendor on the horizon's rim. It was a solidity, within sight, almost within touch.
He himself might hope to sit in peace under his own fig-tree, no more the butt of the street
boys. And the vague vision, though in becoming definite it had been transformed to earthliness,
was none the less grand for that. He had always dimly expected Messianic miracles, but in that
magic afternoon the plain words of the soldier unsealed his eyes, and suddenly he saw clearly
that just as, in Israel, every man was his own priest, needing no mediator, so every man was
his own Messiah.

And as he squeezed out of the synagogue, unconscious of the chattering, jostling crowd, he
saw himself in Zion, worshipping at the Holy Temple, that rose spacious and splendid as the
Manchester Exchange. Yes; the Jews must return to Palestine, there must be a great voluntary
stream--great, if gradual. Slowly but surely the Jews must win back their country; they must
cease trafficking with the heathen and return to the soil, sowing and reaping, so that the
Feast of the Ingathering might become a reality instead of a prayer-service. Then should the
atonement of Israel be accomplished, and the morning stars sing together as at the first day.

As he walked home along the squalid steeps of Fernie Street and Verdon Street, and gazed in
at the uncurtained windows of the one-story houses, a new sense of their sordidness, as contrasted
with that bright vision, was borne in upon him. Instead of large families in one ragged room,
encumbered with steamy washing, he saw great farms and broad acres; and all that beauty of
the face of earth, to which he had been half blind, began to appeal to him now that it was
mixed up with religion. In this wise did Aaron become a politician and a modern.

Passing through the poulterer's on his way to his room--the poulterer and he divided the house
between them, renting a room each--he paused to talk with the group of women who were plucking
the fowls, and told them glad tidings of great fowl-rearing farms in Palestine. He sat down
on the bed, which occupied half the tiny shop, and became almost eloquent upon the great colonization
movement and the "Society of Lovers of Zion," which had begun to ramify throughout the world.

"Yes; but if all Israel has farms, who will buy my fowls?" said the poulterer's wife.

"You will not need to sell fowls," Aaron tried to explain.

The poulterer shook his head. "The whole congregation is gone mad," he said. "For my part I
believe that when the Holy One, blessed be He, brings us back to Palestine, it will be without
any trouble of our own. As it is written, I will bear thee upon eagles' wings."

Aaron disputed this notion--which he had hitherto accepted as axiomatic--with all the ardor
of the convert. It was galling to find, as he discussed the thing during the next few weeks,
that many even of those present at the speech read miracle into the designs of Providence and
the millionaire. But Aaron was able to get together a little band of brother souls bent on
emigrating together to Palestine, there to sow the seeds of the Kingdom, literally as well
as metaphorically. This enthusiasm, however, did not wear well. Gradually, as the memory of
the magnetic meeting faded, the pilgrim brotherhood disintegrated, till at last only its nucleus--Aaron--was
left in solitary determination.

"You have only yourself," pleaded the backsliders. "We have wife and children."

"I have more than myself," retorted Aaron bitterly. "I have faith."

And, indeed, his faith in the vision was unshakable. Every man being his own Messiah, he, at
least, would not draw back from the prospective plough to which he had put his hand. He had
been saving up for the great voyage and a little surplus wherewith to support him in Palestine
while looking about him. Once established in the Holy Land, how forcibly he would preach by
epistle to the men of little faith! They would come out and join him. He--the despised Aaron--the
least of the House of Israel--would have played a part in the restoration of his people.

"You will come back," said the poulterer sceptically, when his fellow-tenant bade him good-bye;
and parodying the sacred aspiration--"Next year in Manchester," he cried, in genial mockery.
The fowl-plucking females laughed heartily, agitating the feathery fluff in the air.

"Not so," said Aaron. "I cannot come back. I have sold the goodwill of my round to Joseph Petowski,
and have transferred to him all my customers."

Some of the recreant brotherhood, remorsefully admiring, cheered him up by appearing on the
platform of the station to wish him God-speed.

"Next year in Jerusalem!" he prophesied for them, too, recouping himself for the poulterer's
profane scepticism.

He went overland to Marseilles, thence by ship to Asia Minor. It was a terrible journey. Piety
forebade him to eat or drink with the heathen, or from their vessels. His portmanteau held
a little store of provisions and crockery, and dry bread was all he bought on the route.

Fleeced and bullied by touts and cabmen, he found himself at last on board a cheap Mediterranean
steamer which pitched and rolled through a persistent spell of stormy weather. His berth was
a snatched corner of the bare deck, where heaps of earth's failures, of all races and creeds
and colors, grimily picturesque, slept in their clothes upon such bedding as they had brought
with them. There was a spawn of babies, a litter of animals and fowls in coops, a swarm of
human bundles, scarcely distinguishable from bales except for a protruding hand or foot. There
were Bedouins, Armenians, Spaniards, a Turk with several wives in an improvised tent, some
Greek women, a party of Syrians from Mount Lebanon. There were also several Jews of both sexes.
But Aaron did not scrape acquaintance with these at first--they lay yards away, and he was
half dead with sea-sickness and want of food. He had counted on making tea in his own cup with
his own little kettle, but the cook would not trouble to supply him with hot water. Only the
great vision drawing hourly nearer and nearer sustained him.

It was the attempt of a half-crazy Egyptian Jewess to leap overboard with her new-born child
that brought him into relation with the other Jewish passengers. He learnt her story: the everyday
story of a woman divorced in New York, after the fashion of its Ghetto, and sent back with
scarcely a penny to her native Cairo, while still lightheaded after childbirth. He heard also
the story of the buxom, kind-hearted Jewess who now shadowed her protectingly; the no less
everyday story of the good-looking girl inveigled by a rascally Jew to a situation in Marseilles.
They contributed with the men, a Russian Jew from Chicago, and a German from Brindisi, to give
Aaron of Manchester a new objective sense of the tragedy of wandering Israel, interminably
tossed betwixt persecution and poverty, perpetually tempted by both to be false to themselves:
the tragedy that was now--thank God!--to have its end. Egyptians, Americans, Galicians, Englishmen,
Russians, Dutchmen, they had only one last migration before them--that which he, Aaron, was
now accomplishing. To his joy one of his new acquaintances--the Russian--shared the dream of
a Palestine flowing once more with milk and honey and holy doctrine, was a member of a "Lovers
of Zion" society. He was a pasty-faced young man with gray eyes and eyebrows and a reddish
beard. He wore frowsy clothes, with an old billy-cock and a dingy cotton shirt, but he combined
all the lore of the old-fashioned, hard-shell Jew with a living realization of what his formulæ
meant, and so the close of Aaron's voyage--till the Russian landed at Alexandria--was softened
and shortened by sitting worshipfully at this idealist's feet, drinking in quotations from
Bachja's Duties of the Heart or Saadja Gaon's Book of the Faith. There was not wanting some
one to play Sancho Panza, for the German Jew, while binding his arm piously with phylacteries
in the publicity of the swarming deck, loved to pose as a man of common sense, free from superstition.

"The only reason men go to Palestine," he maintained, "is because they think, as the psalm
says, the land forgives sin. And they believe, too, that those bodies which are not burned
in Palestine, when the Messiah's last trump sounds, will have to roll under lands and seas
to get to Jerusalem. So they go to die there, so as to escape the underground route. Besides,
Maimonides says the Messianic period will only last forty years. So perhaps they are afraid
all the fun will be over and the Leviathan eaten up before they arrive."

"Fools there are always in the world," replied the Russian, "and their piety cannot give them
brains. These literal folk are the sort who imagine that the Temple expanded miraculously,
because the Talmud says howsoever great a multitude flocked to worship therein, there was always
room for them. Do you not see what a fine metaphor that is! Even so the Third Temple will be
of the Spirit, not of Fire, as these literal materialists translate the prophecy. As the prophet
Joel says, 'I will pour out my Spirit. But through our own souls. No Messiah will ever come
from a split heaven. If a Christian does anything wrong, it is the individual; if a Jew, it
is the nation. Why? Because we have no country, and hence are set apart in all countries. But
a country we must and shall have. The fact that we still dream of our land shows that it is
to be ours again. Without a country we are dead. Without us the land is dead. It has been waiting
for us. Why has no other nation possessed it and cultivated it?"

"Why? Why do the ducks go barefoot?" The German quoted the Yiddish proverb with a sneer.

"The land waits for us," replied the young Russian fervidly, "so that we may complete our mission.
Jerusalem--whose very name means the heritage of double Peace--must be the watch-tower of Peace
on earth. The nations shall be taught to compete neither with steel weapons nor with gold,
but with truth and purity. Every man shall be taught that he exists for another man, else were
men as the beasts. And thus at last 'the knowledge of God shall cover the earth as the waters
cover the sea.'"

"If they would only remain covering the sea!" said the German irreverently, as the spray of
a wave swept over his mattress.

"Those who have lost this faith are no longer Jews," curtly replied the Russian. "Without this
hope the preservation of the Jewish race is a superstition. Let the Jews be swallowed up in
the nations--and me in the sea. If I thought that Israel's hope was a lie I should jump overboard."

The German shrugged his shoulders good-humoredly. "You and the Egyptian woman are a pair."

At Alexandria, where some of the cargo and his Jewish fellow-passengers were to be landed,
Aaron was tantalized for days by the quarantine, so that he must needs fret amid the musty
odors long after he had thought to tread the sacred streets of Jerusalem. But at last he found
himself making straight for the Holy Land; and one magic day, the pilgrim, pallid and emaciated,
gazed in pious joy upon the gray line of rocks that changed gradually into terraces of red
sloping roofs overbrooded by a palm-tree. Jaffa! But a cruel, white sea still rolled and roared
betwixt him and these holy shores, guarded by the rock of Andromeda and tumbling and leaping
billows; and the ship lay to outside the ancient harbor, while heavy boats rowed by stalwart
Arabs and Syrians, in red fez and girdle, clamored for the passengers. Aaron was thrown unceremoniously
over the ship's side at the favorable moment when the boat leapt up to meet him; he fell into
it, soused with spray, but glowing at heart. As his boat pitched and tossed along, a delicious
smell of orange-blossom wafted from the orange-groves, and seemed to the worn pilgrim a symbol
of the marriage betwixt him and Zion. The land of his fathers--there it lay at last, and in
a transport of happiness the wanderer had, for the first time in his life, a sense of the restful
dignity of an ancestral home. But as the boat labored without apparent progress towards the
channel betwixt the black rocks, over which the spray flew skywards, a foreboding tortured
him that some ironic destiny would drown him in sight of his goal. He prayed silently with
shut eyes and his petition changed to praise as the boat bumped the landing-stage and he opened
them on a motley Eastern crowd and the heaped barrels of a wharf. Shouldering his portmenteau,
which, despite his debilitated condition, felt as light as the feathers at the poulterer's,
he scrambled ecstatically up some slippery steps on to the stone platform, and had one foot
on the soil of the Holy Land, when a Turkish official in a shabby black uniform stopped him.

"Your passport," he said, in Arabic. Aaron could not understand. Somebody interpreted.

"I have no passport," he answered, with a premonitory pang.

"Where are you going?"

"To live in Palestine."

"Where do you come from?"

"England," he replied triumphantly, feeling this was a mighty password throughout the world.

"You are not an Englishman?"

"No-o," he faltered. "I have lived in England some--many years."

"Naturalized?"

"No," said Aaron, when he understood.

"What countryman are you?"

"Russian."

"And a Jew, of course?"

"Yes."

"No Russian Jews may enter Palestine."

Aaron was hustled back into the boat and restored safely to the steamer.

THE CONCILIATOR OF CHRISTENDOM

I

The Red Beadle shook his head. "There is nothing but Nature," he said obstinately, as his hot
iron polished the boot between his knees. He was called the Red Beadle because, though his
irreligious opinions had long since lost him his synagogue appointment and driven him back
to his old work of bootmaking, his beard was still ruddy.

"Yes, but who made Nature?" retorted his new employer, his strange, scholarly face aglow with
argument, and the flame of the lamp suspended over his bench by strings from the ceiling. The
other clickers and riveters of the Spitalfields workshop, in their shocked interest in the
problem of the origin of Nature, ceased for an instant breathing in the odors of burnt grease,
cobbler's wax, and a coke fire replenished with scraps of leather.

"Nature makes herself," answered the Red Beadle. It was his declaration of faith--or of war.
Possibly it was the familiarity with divine things which synagogue beadledom involves that
had bred his contempt for them. At any rate, he was not now to be coerced by Zussmann Herz,
even though he was fully alive to the fact that Zussmann's unique book-lined workshop was the
only one that had opened to him, when the more pious shoemakers of the Ghetto had professed
to be "full up." He was, indeed, surprised to find Zussmann a believer in the Supernatural,
having heard whispers that the man was as great an "Epicurean" as himself. Had not Zussmann--ay,
and his wigless wife, Hulda, too--been seen emerging from the mighty Church that stood in frowsy
majesty amid its tall, neglected box-like tombs, and was to the Ghetto merely a topographical
point and the chronometric standard? And yet, here was Zussmann an assiduous attendant at the
synagogue of the first floor--nay, a scholar so conversant with Hebrew, not to mention European,
lore, that the Red Beadle felt himself a Man-of-the-Earth, only retaining his superiority by
remembering that learning did not always mean logic.

"Nature make herself!" Zussmann now retorted, with a tolerant smile. "As well say this boot
made itself! The theory of Evolution only puts the mystery further back, and already in the
Talmud we find--"

"Nature made the boot," interrupted the Red Beadle. "Nature made you, and you made the boot.
But nobody made Nature."

"But what is Nature?" cried Zussmann. "The garment of God, as Goethe says. Call Him Noumenon
with Kant or Thought and Extension with Spinoza--I care not."

The Red Beadle was awed into temporary silence by these unknown names and ideas, expressed,
moreover, in German words foreign to his limited vocabulary of Yiddish.

The room in which Zussmann thought and worked was one of two that he rented from the Christian
corn-factor who owned the tall house--a stout Cockney who spent his life book-keeping in a
little office on wheels, but whom the specimens of oats and dog-biscuits in his window invested
with an air of roseate rurality. This personage drew a little income from the population of
his house, whose staircases exhibited strata of children of different social developments,
and to which the synagogue on the first floor added a large floating population. Zussmann's
attendance thereat was not the only thing in him that astonished the Red Beadle. There was
also a gentle deference of manner not usual with masters, or with pious persons. His consideration
for his employés amounted, in the Beadle's eyes, to maladministration, and the grave loss he
sustained through one of his hands selling off a crate of finished goods and flying to America
was deservedly due to confidence in another pious person.

II

Despite the Red Beadle's Rationalism, which, basing itself on the facts of life, was not to
be crushed by high-flown German words, the master-shoemaker showed him marked favor and often
invited him to stay on to supper. Although the Beadle felt this was but the due recognition
of one intellect by another, if an inferior intellect, he was at times irrationally grateful
for the privilege of a place to spend his evenings in. For the Ghetto had cut him--there could
be no doubt of that. The worshippers in his old synagogue whom he had once dominated as Beadle
now passed him by with sour looks--"a dog one does not treat thus," the Beadle told himself,
tugging miserably at his red beard.

"It is not as if I were a Meshummad--a convert to Christianity." Some hereditary instinct admitted
that as a just excuse for execration. "I can't make friends with the Christians, and so I am
cut off from both."

When after a thunderstorm two of the hands resigned their places at Zussmann's benches on the
avowed ground that atheism attracts lightning, Zussmann's loyalty to the freethinker converted
the Beadle's gratitude from fitfulness into a steady glow.

And, other considerations apart, those were enjoyable suppers after the toil and grime of the
day. The Beadle especially admired Zussmann's hands when the black grease had been washed off
them, the fingers were so long and tapering. Why had his own fingers been made so stumpy and
square-tipped? Since Nature made herself, why was she so uneven a worker? Nay, why could she
not have given him white teeth like Zussmann's wife? Not that these were ostentatious--you
thought more of the sweetness of the smile of which they were part. Still, as Nature's irregularity
was particularly manifest in his own teeth, he could not help the reflection.

If the Red Beadle had not been a widower, the unfeigned success of the Herz union might have
turned his own thoughts to that happy state. As it was, the sight of their happiness occasionally
shot through his breast renewed pangs of vain longing for his Leah, whose death from cancer
had completed his conception of Nature. Lucky Zussmann, to have found so sympathetic a partner
in a pretty female! For Hulda shared Zussmann's dreams, and was even copying out his great
work for the press, for business was brisk and he would soon have saved up enough money to
print it. The great work, in the secret of which the Red Beadle came to participate, was written
in Hebrew, and the elegant curves and strokes would have done honor to a Scribe. The Beadle
himself could not understand it, knowing only the formal alphabet such as appears in books
and scrolls, but the first peep at it which the proud Zussmann permitted him removed his last
disrespect for the intellect of his master, without, however, removing the mystery of that
intellect's aberrations.

"But you dream with the eyes open," he said, when the theme of the work was explained to him.

"How so?" asked Hulda gently, with that wonderful smile of hers.

"Reconcile the Jews and the Christians! Meshuggas--madness." He laughed bitterly. "Do you forget
what we went through in Poland? And even here in free England, can you walk in the street without
every little shegetz calling after you and asking, 'Who killed Christ?'"

"Yes, but herein my husband explains that it was not the Jews who killed Christ, but Herod
and Pilate."

"As it says in Corinthians," broke in Zussmann eagerly: "'We speak the wisdom of God in a mystery,
which none of the princes of this world knew; for had they known it, they would not have crucified
the Lord of Glory.'"

"So," said the Red Beadle, visibly impressed.

"Assuredly," affirmed Hulda. "But, as Zussmann explains here, they threw the guilt upon the
Jews, who were too afraid of the Romans to deny it."

The Beadle pondered.

"Once the Christians understand that," said Zussmann, pursuing his advantage, "they will stretch
out the hand to us."

The Beadle had a flash. "But how will the Christians read you? No Christian understands Hebrew."

Zussmann was taken momentarily aback. "But it is not so much for the Christians," he explained.
"It is for the Jews--that they should stretch out the hand to the Christians."

The Red Beadle stared at him in shocked silent amaze. "Still greater madness!" he gasped at
length. "They will treat you worse than they treat me."

"Not when they read my book."

"Just when they read your book."

Hulda was smiling serenely. "They can do nothing to my husband; he is his own master, God be
thanked; no one can turn him away."

"They can insult him."

Zussmann shook his head gently. "No one can insult me!" he said simply. "When a dog barks at
me I pity it that it does not know I love it. Now draw to the table. The pickled herring smells
well."

But the Red Beadle was unconvinced. "Besides, what should we make it up with the Christians
for--the stupid people?" he asked, as he received his steaming coffee cup from Frau Herz.

"It is a question of the Future of the World," said Zussmann gravely, as he shared out the
herring, which had already been cut into many thin slices by the vendor and pickler. "This
antagonism is a perversion of the principles of both religions. Shall we allow it to continue
for ever?"

"It will continue till they both understand that Nature makes herself," said the Red Beadle.

"It will continue till they both understand my husband's book," corrected Hulda.

"Not while Jews live among Christians. Even here they say we take the bread out of the mouths
of the Christian shoemakers. If we had our own country now--"

"Hush!" said Zussmann. "Do you share that materialistic dream? Our realm is spiritual. Nationality--the
world stinks with it! Germany for the Germans, Russia for the Russians. Foreigners to the devil--pah!
Egomania posing as patriotism. Human brotherhood is what we stand for. Have you forgotten how
the Midrash explains the verse in the Song of Solomon: 'I charge you, O ye daughters of Jerusalem,
by the roes, and by the hinds of the field, that ye stir not up, nor awake my love till he
please'?"

The Red Beadle, who had never read a line of the Midrash, did not deny that he had forgotten
the explanation, but persisted: "And even if we didn't kill Christ, what good will it do to
tell the Jews so? It will only make them angry."

"Why so?" said Zussmann, puzzled.

"They will be annoyed to have been punished for nothing."

"But they have not been punished for nothing!" cried Zussmann, setting down his fork in excitement.
"They have denied their greatest son. For, as He said in Matthew, 'I come to fulfil the Law
of Moses,' Did not all the Prophets, His predecessors, cry out likewise against mere form and
sacrifice? Did not the teachers in Israel who followed Him likewise insist on a pure heart
and a sinless soul? Jesus must be restored to His true place in the glorious chain of Hebrew
Prophets. As I explain in my chapter on the Philosophy of Religion, which I have founded on
Immanuel Kant, the ground-work of Reason is--"

But here the Red Beadle, whose coffee had with difficulty got itself sucked into the right
channel, gasped--"You have put that into your book?"

The wife touched the manuscript with reverent pride. "It all stands here," she said.

"What! Quotations from the New Testament?"

"From our Jewish Apostles!" said Zussmann. "Naturally! On every page!"

"Then God help you!" said the Red Beadle.

III

The Brotherhood of the Peoples was published. Though the bill was far heavier than the Hebrew
printer's estimate--there being all sorts of mysterious charges for corrections, which took
away the last Groschen of their savings, Hulda and her husband were happy. They had sown the
seed, and waited in serene faith the ingathering, the reconciliation of Israel with the Gentiles.

The book, which was in paper covers, was published at a shilling; five hundred copies had been
struck off for the edition. After six months the account stood thus: Sales, eighty-four copies;
press notices, two in the jargon papers (printed in the same office as his book and thus amenable
to backstairs influence). The Jewish papers written in English, which loomed before Zussmann's
vision as world-shaking, did not even mention its appearance; perhaps it had been better if
the jargon papers had been equally silent, for, though less than one hundred copies of The
Brotherhood of the Peoples were in circulation, the book was in everybody's mouth--like a piece
of pork to be spat out again shudderingly. The Red Beadle's instinct had been only too sound.
The Ghetto, accustomed by this time to insidious attacks on its spiritual citadel, feared writers
even bringing Hebrew. Despite the Oriental sandal which the cunning shoemaker had fashioned,
his fellow-Jews saw the cloven hoof. They were not to be deceived by the specious sanctity
which Darwin and Schopenhauer--probably Bishops of the Established Church--borrowed from their
Hebrew lettering. Why, that was the very trick of the Satans who sprinkled the sacred tongue
freely about handbills inviting souls that sought for light to come and find it in the Whitechapel
Road between three and seven. It had been abandoned as hopeless even by the thin-nosed gentlewomen
who had begun by painting a Hebrew designation over their bureau of beneficence. But the fact
that the Ghetto was perspicacious did not mitigate the author's treachery to his race and faith.
Zussmann was given violently to understand that his presence in the little synagogue would
lead to disturbances in the service. "The Jew needs no house of prayer," he said; "his life
is a prayer, his workshop a temple."

His workmen deserted him one by one as vacancies occurred elsewhere.

"We will get Christians," he said.

But the work itself began to fail. He was dependent upon a large firm whose head was Parnass
of a North London congregation, and when one of Zussmann's workers, anxious to set up for himself,
went to him with the tale, the contract was transferred to him, and Zussmann's security-deposit
returned. But far heavier than all these blows was Hulda's sudden illness, and though the returned
trust-money came in handy to defray the expense of doctors, the outlook was not cheerful. But
"I will become a hand myself," said Zussmann cheerfully. "The annoyance of my brethren will
pass away when they really understand my Idea; meantime it is working in them, for even to
hate an Idea is to meditate upon it."

The Red Beadle grunted angrily. He could hear Hulda coughing in the next room, and that hurt
his chest.

But it was summer now, and quite a considerable strip of blue sky could be seen from the window,
and the mote-laden sun-rays that streamed in encouraged Hulda to grow better. She was soon
up and about again, but the doctor said her system was thoroughly upset and she aught to have
sea air. But that, of course, was impossible now. Hulda herself declared there was much better
air to be got higher up, in the garret, which was fortunately "to let." It is true there was
only one room there. Still, it was much cheaper. The Red Beadle's heart was heavier than the
furniture he helped to carry upstairs. But the unsympathetic couple did not share his gloom.
They jested and laughed, as light of heart as the excited children on the staircases who assisted
at the function. "My Idea has raised me nearer heaven," said Zussmann. That night, after the
Red Beadle had screwed up the four-poster, he allowed himself to be persuaded to stay to supper.
He had given up the habit as soon as Zussmann's finances began to fail.

By way of house-warming, Hulda had ordered in baked potatoes and liver from the cook-shop,
and there were also three tepid slices of plum-pudding.

"Plum-pudding!" cried Zussmann in delight, as his nostrils scented the dainty. "What a good
omen for the Idea!"

"How an omen?" inquired the Red Beadle.

"Is not plum-pudding associated with Christmas, with peace on earth?"

Hulda's eyes flashed. "Yes, it is a sign--the Brotherhood of the Peoples! The Jew will be the
peace-messenger of the world." The Red Beadle ate on sceptically. He had studied The Brotherhood
of the Peoples to the great improvement of his Hebrew but with little edification. He had even
studied it in Hulda's original manuscript, which he had borrowed and never intended to return.
But still he could not share his friends' belief in the perfectibility of mankind. Perhaps
if they had known how he had tippled away his savings after his wife's death, they might have
thought less well of humanity and its potentialities of perfection. After all, Huldas were
too rare to make the world sober, much less fraternal. And, charming as they were, honesty
demanded one should not curry favor with them by fostering their delusions.

"What put such an idea into your head, Zussmann!" he cried unsympathetically. Zussmann answered
naïvely, as if to a question--

"I have had the idea from a boy. I remember sitting stocking-footed on the floor of the synagogue
in Poland on the Fast of Ab, wondering why we should weep so over the destruction of Jerusalem,
which scattered us among the nations as fertilizing seeds. How else should the mission of Israel
be fulfilled? I remember"--and here he smiled pensively--"I was awakened from my day-dream
by a Patsch (smack) in the face from my poor old father, who was angry because I wasn't saying
the prayers."

"There will be always somebody to give you that Patsch," said the Red Beadle gloomily. "But
in what way is Israel dispersed? It seems to me our life is everywhere as hidden from the nations
as if we were all together in Palestine."

"You touch a great truth! Oh, if I could only write in English! But though I read it almost
as easily as the German, I can write it as little. You know how one has to learn German in
Poland--by stealth--the Christians jealous on one hand, the Jews suspicious on the other. I
could not risk the Christians laughing at my bad German--that would hurt my Idea. And English
is a language like the Vale of Siddim--full of pits."

"We ought to have it translated," said Hulda. "Not only for the Christians, but for the rich
Jews, who are more liberal-minded than those who live in our quarter."

"But we cannot afford to pay for the translating now," said Zussmann.

"Nonsense; one has always a jewel left," said Hulda.

Zussmann's eyes grew wet. "Yes," he said, drawing her to his breast, "one has always a jewel left."

"More meshuggas!" cried the Red Beadle huskily. "Much the English Jews care about ideas! Did
they even acknowledge your book in their journals? But probably they couldn't read it," he
added with a laugh. "A fat lot of Hebrew little Sampson knows! You know little Sampson--he
came to report the boot-strike for The Flag of Judah. I got into conversation with him--a rank
pork-gorger. He believes with me that Nature makes herself."

But Zussmann was scarcely eating, much less listening.

"You have given me a new scheme, Hulda," he said, with exaltation. "I will send my book to
the leading English Jews--yes, especially to the ministers. They will see my Idea, they will
spread it abroad, they will convert first the Jews and then the Christians."

"Yes, but they will give it as their own Idea," said Hulda.

"And what then? He who has faith in an Idea, his Idea it is. How great for me to have had the
Idea first! Is not that enough to thank God for? If only my Idea gets spread in English! English!
Have you ever thought what that means, Hulda? The language of the future! Already the language
of the greatest nations, and the most on the lips of men everywhere--in a century it will cover
the world." He murmured in Hebrew, uplifting his eyes to the rain-streaked sloping ceiling.
"And in that day God shall be One and His name One."

"Your supper is getting cold," said Hulda gently.

He began to wield his knife and fork as hypnotized by her suggestion, but his vision was inwards.

IV

Fifty copies of The Brotherhood of the Peoples went off by post the next day to the clergy
and gentry of the larger Jewry. In the course of the next fortnight seventeen of the recipients
acknowledged the receipt with formal thanks, four sent the shilling mentioned on the cover,
and one sent five shillings. This last depressed Zussmann more than all the others. "Does he
take me for a Schnorrer?" he said, almost angrily, as he returned the postal order.

He did not forsee the day when, a Schnorrer indeed, he would have taken five shillings from
anybody who could afford it: had no prophetic intuition of that long, slow progression of penurious
days which was to break down his spirit. For though he managed for a time to secure enough
work to keep himself and the Red Beadle going, his ruin was only delayed. Little by little
his apparatus was sold off, his benches and polishing-irons vanished from the garret, only
one indispensable set remaining, and master and man must needs quest each for himself for work
elsewhere. The Red Beadle dropped out of the ménage, and was reduced to semi-starvation. Zussmann
and Hulda, by the gradual disposition of their bits of jewellery and their Sabbath garments,
held out a little longer, and Hulda also got some sewing of children's under-garments. But
with the return of winter, Hulda's illness returned, and then the beloved books began to leave
bare the nakedness of the plastered walls. At first, Hulda, refusing to be visited by doctors
who charged, struggled out bravely through rain and fog to a free dispensary, where she was
jostled by a crowd of head-shawled Polish crones, and where a harassed Christian physician,
tired of jargon-speaking Jewesses, bawled and bullied. But at last Hulda grew too ill to stir
out, and Zussmann, still out of employment, was driven to look about him for help. Charities
enough there were in the Ghetto, but to charity, as to work, one requires an apprenticeship.
He knew vaguely that there were persons who had the luck to be ill and to get broths and jellies.
To others, also, a board of guardian angels doled out payments, though some one had once told
him you had scant chance unless you were a Dutchman. But the inexperienced in begging are naturally
not so successful as those always at it. 'Twas vain for Zussmann to kick his heels among the
dismal crowd in the corridor, the whisper of his misdeeds had been before him, borne by some
competitor in the fierce struggle for assistance. What! help a hypocrite to sit on the twin
stools of Christendom and Judaism, fed by the bounty of both! In this dark hour he was approached
by the thin-nosed gentlewomen, who had got wind of his book and who scented souls. Zussmann
wavered. Why, indeed, should he refuse their assistance? He knew their self-sacrificing days,
their genuine joy in salvation. On their generosities he was far better posted than on Jewish--the
lurid legend of these Mephistophelian matrons included blankets, clothes, port wine, and all
the delicacies of the season. He admitted that Hulda had indeed been brought low, and permitted
them to call. Then he went home to cut dry bread for the bedridden, emaciated creature who
had once been beautiful, and to comfort her--for it was Friday evening--by reading the Sabbath
prayers; winding up, "A virtuous woman who can find? For her price is far above rubies."

On the forenoon of the next day arrived a basket, scenting the air with delicious odors of
exquisite edibles.

Zussmann received it with delight from the boy who bore it. "God bless them!" he said. "A chicken--grapes--wine.
Look, Hulda!"

Hulda raised herself in bed; her eyes sparkled, a flush of color returned to the wan cheeks.

"Where do these come from?" she asked.

Zussmann hesitated. Then he told her they were the harbingers of a visit from the good sisters.

The flush in her cheek deepened to scarlet.

"My poor Zussmann!" she cried reproachfully. "Give them back--give them back at once! Call
after the boy."

"Why?" stammered Zussmann.

"Call after the boy!" she repeated imperatively. "Good God! If the ladies were to be seen coming
up here, it would be all over with your Idea. And on the Sabbath, too! People already look
upon you as a tool of the missionaries. Quick! quick!"

His heart aching with mingled love and pain, he took up the basket and hurried after the boy.
Hulda sank back on her pillow with a sigh of relief.

"Dear heart!" she thought, as she took advantage of his absence to cough freely. "For me he
does what he would starve rather than do for himself. A nice thing to imperil his Idea--the
dream of his life! When the Jews see he makes no profit by it, they will begin to consider
it. If he did not have the burden of me he would not be tempted. He could go out more and find
work farther afield. This must end--I must die or be on my feet again soon."

Zussmann came back, empty-handed and heavy-hearted.

"Kiss me, my own life!" she cried. "I shall be better soon."

He bent down and touched her hot, dry lips. "Now I see," she whispered, "why God did not send
us children. We thought it was an affliction, but lo! it is that your Idea shall not be hindered."

"The English Rabbis have not yet drawn attention to it," said Zussmann huskily.

"All the better," replied Hulda. "One day it will be translated into English--I know it, I
feel it here." She touched her chest, and the action made her cough.

Going out later for a little fresh air, at Hulda's insistence, he was stopped in the broad
hall on which the stairs debouched by Cohen, the ground-floor tenant, a black-bearded Russian
Jew, pompous in Sabbath broadcloth.

"What's the matter with my milk?" abruptly asked Cohen, who supplied the local trade besides
selling retail. "You might have complained, instead of taking your custom out of the house.
Believe me, I don't make a treasure heap out of it. One has to be up at Euston to meet the
trains in the middle of the night, and the competition is so cut-throat that one has to sell
at eighteen pence a barn gallon. And on Sabbath one earns nothing at all. And then the analyst
comes poking his nose into the milk."

"You see--my wife--my wife--is ill," stammered Zussmann. "So she doesn't drink it."

"Hum!" said Cohen. "Well, you might oblige me then. I have so much left over every day, it
makes my reputation turn quite sour. Do, do me a favor and let me send you up a can of the
leavings every night. For nothing, of course; would I talk business on the Sabbath? I don't
like to be seen pouring it away. It would pay me to pay you a penny a pint," he wound up emphatically.

Zussmann accepted unsuspiciously, grateful to Providence for enabling him to benefit at once
himself and his neighbor. He bore a can upstairs now and explained the situation to the shrewder
Hulda, who, however, said nothing but, "You see the Idea commences to work. When the book first
came out, didn't he--though he sells secretly to the trade on Sabbath mornings--call you an
Epicurean?"

"Worse," said Zussmann joyously, with a flash of recollection.

He went out again, lightened and exalted. "Yes, the Idea works," he said, as he came out into
the gray street. "The Brotherhood of the Peoples will come, not in my time, but it will come."
And he murmured again the Hebrew aspiration: "In that day shall God be One and His name One."

"Whoa, where's your ---- eyes?"

Awakened by the oath, he just got out of the way of a huge Flemish dray-horse dragging a brewer's
cart. Three ragged Irish urchins, who had been buffeting each other with whirling hats knotted
into the ends of dingy handkerchiefs, relaxed their enmities in a common rush for the projecting
ladder behind the dray and collided with Zussmann on the way. A one-legged, misery-eyed hunchback
offered him penny diaries. He shook his head in impotent pity, and passed on, pondering.

"In time God will make the crooked straight," he thought.

Jews with tall black hats and badly made frock-coats slouched along, their shoulders bent.
Wives stood at the open doors of the old houses, some in Sabbath finery, some flaunting irreligiously
their every-day shabbiness, without troubling even to arrange their one dress differently,
as a pious Rabbi recommended. They looked used-up and haggard, all these mothers in Israel.
But there were dark-eyed damsels still gay and fresh, with artistic bodices of violet and green
picked out with gold arabesque.

He turned a corner and came into a narrow street that throbbed with the joyous melody of a
piano-organ. His heart leapt up. The roadway bubbled with Jewish children, mainly girls, footing
it gleefully in the graying light, inventing complex steps with a grace and an abandon that
lit their eyes with sparkles and painted deeper flushes on their olive cheeks. A bounding little
bow-legged girl seemed unconscious of her deformity; her toes met each other as though in merry
dexterity.

Zussmann's eyes were full of tears. "Dance on, dance on," he murmured. "God shall indeed make
the crooked straight."

Fixed to one side of the piano-organ on the level of the handle he saw a little box, in which
lay, as in a cradle, what looked like a monkey, then like a doll, but on closer inspection
turned into a tiny live child, flaxen-haired, staring with wide gray eyes from under a blue
cap, and sucking at a milk-bottle with preternatural placidity, regardless of the music throbbing
through its resting-place.

"Even so shall humanity live," thought Zussmann, "peaceful as a babe, cradled in music. God
hath sent me a sign."

He returned home, comforted, and told Hulda of the sign.

"Was it an Italian child?" she asked.

"An English child," he answered. "Fair-eyed and fair-haired."

"Then it is a sign that through the English tongue shall the Idea move the world. Your book
will be translated into English--I shall live to see it."

V

A few afternoons later the Red Beadle, his patched garments pathetically spruced up, came to
see his friends, goaded by the news of Hulda's illness. There was no ruddiness in his face,
the lips of which were pressed together in defiance of a cruel and credulous world. That Nature
in making herself should have produced creatures who attributed their creation elsewhere, and
who refused to allow her one acknowledger to make boots, was indeed a proof, albeit vexatious,
of her blind workings.

When he saw what she had done to Hulda and to Zussmann, his lips were pressed tighter, but
as much to keep back a sob as to express extra resentment.

But on parting he could not help saying to Zussmann, who accompanied him to the dark spider-webbed
landing, "Your God has forgotten you."

"Do you mean that men have forgotten Him?" replied Zussmann. "If I am come to poverty, my suffering
is in the scheme of things. Do you not remember what the Almighty says to Eleazar ben Pedos,
in the Talmud, when the Rabbi complains of poverty? 'Wilt thou be satisfied if I overthrow
the universe, so that perhaps thou mayest be created again in a time of plenty?' No, no, my
friend, we must trust the scheme."

"But the fools enjoy prosperity," said the Red Beadle.

"It is only a fool who would enjoy prosperity," replied Zussmann. "If the righteous sometimes
suffer and the wicked sometimes flourish, that is just the very condition of virtue. What!
would you have righteousness always pay and wickedness always fail! Where then would be the
virtue in virtue? It would be a mere branch of commerce. Do you forget what the Chassid said
of the man who foreknew in his lifetime that for him there was to be no heaven? 'What a unique
and enviable chance that man had of doing right without fear of reward!'"

The Red Beadle, as usual, acquiesced in the idea that he had forgotten these quotations from
the Hebrew, but to acquiesce in their teachings was another matter. "A man who had no hope
of heaven would be a fool not to enjoy himself," he said doggedly, and went downstairs, his
heart almost bursting. He went straight to his old synagogue, where he knew a Hesped or funeral
service on a famous Maggid (preacher) was to be held. He could scarcely get in, so dense was
the throng. Not a few eyes, wet with tears, were turned angrily on him as on a mocker come
to gloat, but he hastened to weep too, which was easy when he thought of Hulda coughing in
her bed in the garret. So violently did he weep that the Gabbai or treasurer--one of the most
pious master-bootmakers--gave him the "Peace" salutation after the service.

"I did not expect to see you weeping," said he.

"Alas!" answered the Red Beadle. "It is not only the fallen Prince in Israel that I weep; it
is my own transgressions that are brought home to me by his sudden end. How often have I heard
him thunder and lighten from this very pulpit!" He heaved a deep sigh at his own hypocrisy,
and the Gabbai sighed in response. "Even from the grave the Tsaddik (saint) works good," said
the pious master-bootmaker. "May my latter end be like his!"

"Mine, too!" suspired the Red Beadle. "How blessed am I not to have been cut off in my sin,
denying the Maker of Nature!" They walked along the street together.

The next morning, at the luncheon-hour, a breathless Beadle, with a red beard and a very red
face, knocked joyously at the door of the Herz garret.

"I am in work again," he explained.

"Mazzeltov!" Zussmann gave him the Hebrew congratulation, but softly, with finger on lip, to
indicate Hulda was asleep. "With whom?"

"Harris the Gabbai."

"Harris! What, despite your opinions?"

The Red Beadle looked away.

"So it seems!"

"Thank God!" said Hulda. "The Idea works."

Both men turned to the bed, startled to see her sitting up with a rapt smile.

"How so?" said the Red Beadle uneasily. "I am not a Goy (Christian) befriended by a Gabbai."

"No, but it is the brotherhood of humanity."

"Bother the brotherhood of humanity, Frau Herz!" said the Red Beadle gruffly. He glanced round
the denuded room. "The important thing is that you will now be able to have a few delicacies."

"I?" Hulda opened her eyes wide.

"Who else? What I earn is for all of us."

"God bless you!" said Zussmann; "but you have enough to do to keep yourself."

"Indeed he has!" said Hulda. "We couldn't dream of taking a farthing!" But her eyes were wet.

"I insist!" said the Red Beadle.

She thanked him sweetly, but held firm.

"I will advance the money on loan till Zussmann gets work."

Zussmann wavered, his eyes beseeching her, but she was inflexible.

The Red Beadle lost his temper. "And this is what you call the brotherhood of humanity!"

"He is right, Hulda. Why should we not take from one another? Pride perverts brotherhood."

"Dear husband," said Hulda, "it is not pride to refuse to rob the poor. Besides, what delicacies
do I need? Is not this a land flowing with milk?"

"You take Cohen's milk and refuse my honey!" shouted the Red Beadle unappeased.

"Give me of the honey of your tongue and I shall not refuse it," said Hulda, with that wonderful
smile of hers which showed the white teeth Nature had made; the smile which, as always, melted
the Beadle's mood. That smile could repair all the ravages of disease and give back her memoried
face.

After the Beadle had been at work a day or two in the Gabbai's workshop, he broached the matter
of a fellow-penitent, one Zussmann Herz, with no work and a bedridden wife.

"That Meshummad!" (apostate) cried the Gabbai." He deserves all that God has sent him."

Undaunted, the Red Beadle demonstrated that the man could not be of the missionary camp, else
had he not been left to starve, one converted Jew being worth a thousand pounds of fresh subscriptions.
Moreover he, the Red Beadle, had now convinced the man of his spiritual errors, and The Brotherhood
of the Peoples was no longer on sale. Also, being unable to leave his wife's bedside, Zussmann
would do the work at home below the Union rates prevalent in public. So, trade being brisk,
the Gabbai relented and bargained, and the Red Beadle sped to his friend's abode and flew up
the four flights of stairs.

"Good news!" he cried. "The Gabbai wants another hand, and he is ready to take you."

"Me?" Zussmann was paralyzed with joy and surprise.

"Now will you deny that the Idea works?" cried Hulda, her face flushed and her eyes glittering.
And she fell a-coughing.

"You are right, Hulda; you are always right," cried Zussmann, in responsive radiance. "Thank
God! Thank God!"

"God forgive me," muttered the Red Beadle.

"Go at once, Zussmann," said Hulda. "I shall do very well here--this has given me strength.
I shall be up in a day or two."

"No, no, Zussmann," said the Beadle hurriedly. "There is no need to leave your wife. I have
arranged it all. The Gabbai does not want you to come there or to speak to him, because, though
the Idea works in him, the other 'hands' are not yet so large-minded: I am to bring you the
orders, and I shall come here to fetch them."

The set of tools to which Zussmann clung in desperate hope made the plan both feasible and
pleasant.

And so the Red Beadle's visits resumed their ancient frequency even as his Sabbath clothes
resumed their ancient gloss, and every week's-end he paid over Zussmann's wages to him--full
Union rate.

But Hulda, although she now accepted illogically the Red Beadle's honey in various shapes,
did not appear to progress as much as the Idea, or as the new book which she stimulated Zussmann
to start for its further propagation.

VI

One Friday evening of December, when miry snow underfoot and grayish fog all around combined
to make Spitalfields a malarious marsh, the Red Beadle, coming in with the week's wages, found
to his horror a doctor hovering over Hulda's bed like the shadow of death.

From the look that Zussmann gave him he saw a sudden change for the worse had set in. The cold
of the weather seemed to strike right to his heart. He took the sufferer's limp chill hand.

"How goes it?" he said cheerily.

"A trifle weak. But I shall be better soon."

He turned away. Zussmann whispered to him that the doctor who had been called in that morning
had found the crisis so threatening that he was come again in the evening.

The Red Beadle, grown very white, accompanied the doctor downstairs, and learned that with
care the patient might pull through.

The Beadle felt like tearing out his red beard. "And to think that I have not yet arranged
the matter!" he thought distractedly.

He ran through the gray bleak night to the office of The Flag of Judah; but as he was crossing
the threshold he remembered that it was the eve of the Sabbath, and that neither little Sampson
nor anybody else would be there. But little Sampson was there, working busily.

"Hullo! Come in," he said, astonished.

The Red Beadle had already struck up a drinking acquaintanceship with the little journalist,
in view of the great negotiation he was plotting. Not in vain did the proverbial wisdom of
the Ghetto bid one beware of the red-haired.

"I won't keep you five minutes," apologized little Sampson. "But, you see, Christmas comes
next week, and the compositors won't work. So I have to invent the news in advance."

Presently little Sampson, lighting an unhallowed cigarette by way of Sabbath lamp, and slinging
on his shabby cloak, repaired with the Red Beadle to a restaurant, where he ordered "forbidden"
food for himself and drinks for both.

The Red Beadle felt his way so cautiously and cunningly that the negotiation was unduly prolonged.
After an hour or two, however, all was settled. For five pounds, paid in five monthly instalments,
little Sampson would translate The Brotherhood of the Peoples into English, provided the Beadle
would tell him what the Hebrew meant. This the Beadle, from his loving study of Hulda's manuscript,
was now prepared for. Little Sampson also promised to run the translation through The Flag
of Judah, and thus the Beadle could buy the plates cheap for book purposes, with only the extra
cost of printing such passages, if any, as were too dangerous for The Flag of Judah. This unexpected
generosity, coupled with the new audience it offered the Idea, enchanted the Red Beadle. He
did not see that the journalist was getting gratuitous "copy," he saw only the bliss of Hulda
and Zussmann, and in some strange exaltation, compact of whisky and affection, he shared in
their vision of the miraculous spread of the Idea, once it had got into the dominant language
of the world.

In his gratitude to little Sampson he plied him with fresh whisky; in his excitement he drew
the paper-covered book from his pocket, and insisted that the journalist must translate the
first page then and there, as a hansel. By the time it was done it was near eleven o'clock.
Vaguely the Red Beadle felt that it was too late to return to Zussmann's to-night. Besides,
he was liking little Sampson very much. They did not separate till the restaurant closed at
midnight.

Quite drunk, the Red Beadle staggered towards Zussmann's house. He held the page of the translation
tightly in his hand. The Hebrew original he had forgotten on the restaurant table, but he knew
in some troubled nightmare way that Zussmann and Hulda must see that paper at once, that he
had been charged to deliver it safely, and must die sooner than disobey.

The fog had lifted, but the heaps of snow were a terrible hindrance to his erratic progression.
The cold air and the shock of a fall lessened his inebriety, but the imperative impulse of
his imaginary mission still hypnotized him. It was past one before he reached the tall house.
He did not think it at all curious that the great outer portals should be open; nor, though
he saw the milk-cart at the door, and noted Cohen's uncomfortable look, did he remember that
he had discovered the milk-purveyor nocturnally infringing the Sabbath. He stumbled up the
stairs and knocked at the garret door, through the chinks of which light streamed. The thought
of Hulda smote him almost sober. Zussmann's face, when the door opened, restored him completely
to his senses. It was years older.

"She is not dead?" the visitor whispered hoarsely.

"She is dying, I fear--she cannot rouse herself." Zussmann's voice broke in a sob.

"But she must not die--I bring great news--The Flag of Judah has read your book--it will translate
it into English--it will print it in its own paper--and then it will make a book of it for
you. See, here is the beginning!"

"Into English!" breathed Zussmann, taking the little journalist's scrawl. His whole face grew
crimson, his eye shone as with madness. "Hulda! Hulda!" he cried, "the Idea works! God be thanked!
English! Through the world! Hulda! Hulda!" He was bending over her, raising her head.

She opened her eyes.

"Hulda! the Idea wins. The book is coming out in English. The great English paper will print
it. In that day God shall be One and His name One. Do you understand?" Her lips twitched faintly,
but only her eyes spoke with the light of love and joy. His own look met hers, and for a moment
husband and wife were one in a spiritual ecstasy.

Then the light in Hulda's eyes went out, and the two men were left in darkness.

The Red Beadle turned away and left Zussmann to his dead, and, with scalding tears running
down his cheek, pulled up the cotton window blind and gazed out unseeing into the night.

Presently his vision cleared: he found himself watching the milk-cart drive off, and, following
it towards the frowsy avenue of Brick Lane, he beheld what seemed to be a drunken fight in
progress. He saw a policeman, gesticulating females, the nondescript nocturnal crowd of the
sleepless city. The old dull hopelessness came over him. "Nature makes herself," he murmured
in despairing resignation.

Suddenly he became aware that Zussmann was beside him, looking up at the stars.

THE JOYOUS COMRADE

"Well, what are you gaping at? Why the devil don't you say something?" And all the impatience
of the rapt artist at being interrupted by anything but praise was in the outburst.

"Holy Moses!" I gasped. "Give a man a chance to get his breath. I fall through a dark antechamber
over a bicycle, stumble round a screen, and--smack! a glare of Oriental sunlight from a gigantic
canvas, the vibration and glow of a group of joyous figures, reeking with life and sweat! You
the Idealist, the seeker after Nature's beautiful moods and Art's beautiful patterns!"

"Beautiful moods!" he echoed angrily. "And why isn't this a beautiful mood? And what more beautiful
pattern than this--look! this line, this sweep, this group here, this clinging of the children
round this mass--all in a glow--balanced by this mass of cool shadow. The meaning doesn't interfere
with the pattern, you chump!"

"Oh, so there is a meaning! You've become an anecdotal painter."

"Adjectives be hanged! I can't talk theory in the precious daylight. If you can't see--!"

"I can see that you are painting something you haven't seen. You haven't been in the East,
have you?"

"If I had, I haven't got time to jaw about it now. Come and have an absinthe at the Café Victor--in
memory of old Paris days--Sixth Avenue--any of the boys will tell you. Let me see, daylight
till six--half-past six. Au 'voir, au 'voir."

As I went down the steep, dark stairs, "Same old Dan," I thought. "Who would imagine I was
a stranger in New York looking up an old fellow-struggler on his native heath? If I didn't
know better, I might fancy his tremendous success had given him the same opinion of himself
that America has of him. But no, nothing will change him; the same furious devotion to his
canvas once he has quietly planned his picture, the same obstinate conviction that he is seeing
something in the only right way. And yet something has changed him. Why has his brush suddenly
gone East? Why this new kind of composition crowded with figures--ancient Jews, too? Has he
been taken with piety, and is he going henceforward ostentatiously to proclaim his race? And
who is the cheerful central figure with the fine, open face? I don't recollect any such scene
in Jewish history, or anything so joyous. Perhaps it's a study of modern Jerusalem Jews, to
show their life is not all Wailing Wall and Jeremiah. Or perhaps it's only decorative. America
is great on decoration just now. No; he said the picture had a meaning. Well, I shall know
all about it to-night. Anyhow, it's a beautiful thing."

"Same old Dan!" I thought even more decisively as, when I opened the door of the little café,
a burly, black-bearded figure with audacious eyes came at me with a grip and a slap and a roar
of welcome, and dragged me to the quiet corner behind the billiard tables.

"I've just been opalizing your absinthe for you," he laughed, as we sat down. "But what's the
matter? You look kind o' scared."

"It's your Inferno of a city. As I turned the corner of Sixth Avenue, an elevated train came
shrieking and rumbling, and a swirl of wind swept screeching round and round, enveloping me
in a whirlpool of smoke and steam, until, dazed and choked in what seemed the scalding effervescence
of a collision, I had given up all hope of ever learning what your confounded picture meant."

"Aha!" He took a complacent sip. "It stayed with you, did it?" And the light of triumph, flushing
for an instant his rugged features, showed when it waned how pale and drawn they were by the
feverish tension of his long day's work.

"Yes it did, old fellow," I said affectionately. "The joy and the glow of it, and yet also
some strange antique simplicity and restfulness you have got into it, I know not how, have
been with me all day, comforting me in the midst of the tearing, grinding life of this closing
nineteenth century after Christ."

A curious smile flitted across Dan's face. He tilted his chair back, and rested his head against
the wall.

"There's nothing that takes me so much out of the nineteenth century after Christ," he said
dreamily, "as this little French café. It wafts me back to my early student days, that lie
somewhere amid the enchanted mists of the youth of the world; to the zestful toil of the studios,
to the careless trips in quaint, gray Holland or flaming, devil-may-care Spain. Ah! what scenes
shift and shuffle in the twinkle of the gas-jet in this opalescent liquid; the hot shimmer
of the arena at the Seville bull-fight, with its swirl of color and movement; the torchlight
procession of pilgrims round the church at Lourdes, with the one black nun praying by herself
in a shadowy corner; the lovely valley of the Tauba, where the tinkle of the sheep-bells mingles
with the Lutheran hymn blown to the four winds from the old church tower; wines that were red--sunshine
that was warm--mandolines--!" His voice died away as in exquisite reverie.

"And the East?" I said slily.

A good-natured smile dissipated his delicious dream.

"Ah, yes," he said. "My East was the Tyrol."

"The Tyrol? How do you mean?"

"I see you won't let me out of that story."

"Oh, there's a story, is there?"

"Oh, well, perhaps not what you literary chaps would call a story! No love-making in it, you know."

"Then it can wait. Tell me about your picture."

"But that's mixed up with the story."

"Didn't I say you had become an anecdotal artist?"

"It's no laughing matter," he said gravely. "You remember when we parted at Munich, a year
ago last spring, you to go on to Vienna and I to go back to America. Well, I had a sudden fancy
to take one last European trip all by myself, and started south through the Tyrol, with a pack
on my back. The third day out I fell and bruised my thigh severely, and could not make my little
mountain town till moonlight. And I tell you I was mighty glad when I limped across the bridge
over the rushing river and dropped on the hotel sofa. Next morning I was stiff as a poker,
but I struggled up the four rickety flights to the local physician, and being assured I only
wanted rest, I resolved to take it with book and pipe and mug in a shady beer-garden on the
river. I had been reading for about an hour when five or six Tyrolese, old men and young, in
their gray and green costumes and their little hats, trooped in and occupied the large table
near the inn-door. Presently I was startled by the sound of the zither; they began to sing
songs; the pretty daughter of the house came and joined in the singing. I put down my book.

"The old lady who served me with my Maass of beer, seeing my interest, came over and chatted
about her guests. Oh no, they were not villagers; they came from four hours away. The slim
one was a school-teacher, and the dicker was a tenor, and sang in the chorus of the Passion-Spiel;
the good-looking young man was to be the St. John. Passion play! I pricked up my ears. When?
Where? In their own village, three days hence; only given once every ten years--for hundreds
and hundreds of years. Could strangers see it? What should strangers want to see it for? But
could they see it? Gewiss. This was indeed a stroke of luck. I had always rather wanted to
see the Passion play, but the thought of the fashionable Ober-Ammergau made me sick. Would
I like to be vorgestellt? Rather! It was not ten minutes after this introduction before I had
settled to stay with St. John, and clouds of good American tobacco were rising from six Tyrolese
pipes, and many an "Auf Ihr Wohl" was busying the pretty Kellnerin. They trotted out all their
repertory of quaint local songs for my benefit. It sounded bully, I tell you, out there with
the sunlight, and the green leaves, and the rush of the river; and in this aroma of beer and
brotherhood I blessed my damaged thigh. Three days hence! Just time for it to heal. A providential
world, after all.

"And it was indeed with a buoyant step and a gay heart that I set out over the hills at sunrise
on that memorable morning. The play was to begin at ten, and I should just be on time. What
a walk! Imagine it! Clear coolness of dawn, fresh green, sparkling dew, the road winding up
and down, round hills, up cliffs, along valleys, through woods, where the green branches swayed
in the morning wind and dappled the grass fantastically with dancing sunlight. And as fresh
as the morning, was, I felt, the artistic sensation awaiting me. I swung round the last hill-shoulder;
saw the quaint gables of the first house peeping through the trees, and the church spire rising
beyond, then groups of Tyrolese converging from all the roads; dipped down the valley, past
the quiet lake, up the hills beyond; found myself caught in a stream of peasants, and, presto!
was sucked from the radiant day into the deep gloom of the barn-like theatre.

"I don't know how it is done in Ober-Ammergau, but this Tyrolese thing was a strange jumble
of art and naïveté, of talent and stupidity. There was a full-fledged stage and footlights,
and the scenery, some one said, was painted by a man from Munich. But the players were badly
made up; the costumes, if correct, were ill-fitting; the stage was badly lighted, and the flats
didn't 'jine.' Some of the actors had gleams of artistic perception. St. Mark was beautiful
to look on, Caiaphas had a sense of elocution, the Virgin was tender and sweet, and Judas rose
powerfully to his great twenty minutes' soliloquy. But the bulk of the players, though all
were earnest and fervent, were clumsy or self-conscious. The crowds were stiff and awkward,
painfully symmetrical, like school children at drill. A chorus of ten or twelve ushered in
each episode with song, and a man further explained it in bald narrative. The acts of the play
proper were interrupted by tableaux vivants of Old Testament scenes, from Adam and Eve onwards.
There was much, you see, that was puerile, even ridiculous; and every now and then some one
would open the door of the dusky auditorium, and a shaft of sunshine would fly in from the
outside world to remind me further how unreal was all this gloomy make-believe. Nay, during
the entr'acte I went out, like everybody else, and lunched off sausages and beer.

"And yet, beneath all this critical consciousness, beneath even the artistic consciousness
that could not resist jotting down a face or a scene in my sketch-book, something curious was
happening in the depths of my being. The play exercised from the very first a strange magnetic
effect on me; despite all the primitive humors of the players, the simple, sublime tragedy
that disengaged itself from their uncouth but earnest goings-on, began to move and even oppress
my soul. Christ had been to me merely a theme for artists; my studies and travels had familiarized
me with every possible conception of the Man of Sorrows. I had seen myriads of Madonnas nursing
Him, miles of Magdalens bewailing Him. Yet the sorrows I had never felt. Perhaps it was my
Jewish training, perhaps it was that none of the Christians I lived with had ever believed
in Him. At any rate, here for the first time the Christ story came home to me as a real, living
fact--something that had actually happened. I saw this simple son of the people--made more
simple by my knowledge that His representative was a baker--moving amid the ancient peasant
and fisher life of Galilee; I saw Him draw men and women, saints and sinners, by the magic
of His love, the simple sweetness of His inner sunshine; I saw the sunshine change to lightning
as He drove the money-changers from the Temple; I watched the clouds deepen as the tragedy
drew on; I saw Him bid farewell to His mother; I heard suppressed sobs all around me. Then
the heavens were overcast, and it seemed as if earth held its breath waiting for the supreme
moment. They dragged Him before Pilate; they clothed Him in scarlet robe, and plaited His crown
of thorns, and spat on Him; they gave Him vinegar to drink mixed with gall; and He so divinely
sweet and forgiving through all. A horrible oppression hung over the world. I felt choking;
my ribs pressed inwards, my heart seemed contracted. He was dying for the sins of the world,
He summed up the whole world's woe and pitifulness--the two ideas throbbed and fused in my
troubled soul. And I, a Jew, had hitherto ignored Him. What would they say, these simple peasants
sobbing all around, if they knew that I was of that hated race? Then something broke in me,
and I sobbed too--sobbed with bitter tears that soon turned sweet in strange relief and glad
sympathy with my rough brothers and sisters." He paused a moment, and sipped silently at his
absinthe. I did not break the silence. I was moved and interested, though what all this had
to do with his glowing, joyous picture I could only dimly surmise. He went on--

"When it was all over, and I went out into the open air, I did not see the sunlight. I carried
the dusk of the theatre with me, and the gloom of Golgotha brooded over the sunny afternoon.
I heard the nails driven in; I saw the blood spurting from the wounds--there was realism in
the thing, I tell you. The peasants, accustomed to the painful story, had quickly recovered
their gaiety, and were pouring boisterously down the hill-side, like a glad, turbulent mountain
stream, unloosed from the dead hand of frost. But I was still ice-bound and fog-wrapped. Outside
the Gasthaus where I went to dine, gay groups assembled, an organ played, some strolling Italian
girls danced gracefully, and my artistic self was aware of a warmth and a rush. But the inmost
Me was neck-deep in gloom, with which the terribly pounded steak they gave me, fraudulently
overlaid with two showy fried eggs, seemed only in keeping. St. John came in, and Christ and
the schoolmaster--who had conducted the choir--and the thick tenor and some supers, and I congratulated
them one and all with a gloomy sense of dishonesty. When, as evening fell, I walked home with
St. John, I was gloomily glad to find the valley shrouded in mist and a starless heaven sagging
over a blank earth. It seemed an endless uphill drag to my lodging, and though my bedroom was
unexpectedly dainty, and a dear old woman--St. John's mother--metaphorically tucked me in,
I slept ill that night. Formless dreams tortured me with impalpable tragedies and apprehensions
of horror. In the morning--after a cold sponging--the oppression lifted a little from my spirit,
though the weather still seemed rather gray. St. John had already gone off to his field-work,
his mother told me. She was so lovely, and the room in which I ate breakfast so neat and demure
with its whitewashed walls--pure and stainless like country snow--that I managed to swallow
everything but the coffee. O that coffee! I had to nibble at a bit of chocolate I carried to
get the taste of it out of my mouth. I tried hard not to let the blues get the upper hand again.
I filled my pipe and pulled out my sketch-book. My notes of yesterday seemed so faint, and
the morning to be growing so dark, that I could scarcely see them. I thought I would go and
sit on the little bench outside. As I was sauntering through the doorway, my head bending broodingly
over the sketch-book, I caught sight out of the corner of my eye of a little white match-stand
fixed up on the wall. Mechanically I put out my left hand to take a light for my pipe. A queer,
cold wetness in my fingers and a little splash woke me to the sense of some odd mistake, and
in another instant I realized with horror that I had dipped my fingers into holy water and
splashed it over that neat, demure, spotless, whitewashed wall."

I could not help smiling. "Ah, I know; one of those porcelain things with a crucified Saviour
over a little font. Fancy taking heaven for brimstone!"

"It didn't seem the least bit funny at the time. I just felt awful. What would the dear old
woman say to this profanation? Why the dickens did people have whitewashed walls on which sacrilegious
stains were luridly visible? I looked up and down the hall like Moses when he slew that Egyptian,
trembling lest the old woman should come in. How could I make her understand I was so ignorant
of Christian custom as to mistake a font for a matchbox? And if I said I was a Jew, good heavens!
she might think I had done it of fell design. What a wound to the gentle old creature who had
been so sweet to me! I could not stay in sight of that accusing streak, I must walk off my
uneasiness. I threw open the outer door; then I stood still, paralyzed. Monstrous evil-looking
gray mists were clumped at the very threshold. Sinister formless vapors blotted out the mountain;
everywhere vague, drifting hulks of malarious mist. I sought to pierce them, to find the landscape,
the cheerful village, the warm human life nesting under God's heaven, but saw only--way below--as
through a tunnel cut betwixt mist and mountain, a dead, inverted world of houses and trees
in a chill, gray lake. I shuddered. An indefinable apprehension possessed me, something like
the vague discomfort of my dreams; then, almost instantly, it crystallized into the blood-curdling
suggestion: What if this were divine chastisement? what if all the outer and inner dreariness
that had so steadily enveloped me since I had witnessed the tragedy were punishment for my
disbelief? what if this water were really holy, and my sacrilege had brought some grisly Nemesis?"

"You believed that?"

"Not really, of course. But you, as an artist, must understand how one dallies with an idea,
plays with a mood, works oneself up imaginatively into a dramatic situation. I let it grow
upon me till, like a man alone in the dark, afraid of the ghosts he doesn't believe in, I grew
horribly nervous."

"I daresay you hadn't wholly recovered from your fall, and your nerves were unstrung by the
blood and the nails, and that steak had disagreed with you, and you had had a bad night, and
you were morbidly uneasy about annoying the old woman, and all those chunks of mist got into
your spirits. You are a child of the sun!"

"Of course I knew all that, down in the cellars of my being, but upstairs, all the same, I
had this sense of guilt and expiation, this anxious doubt that perhaps all that great, gloomy,
mediæval business of saints and nuns, and bones, and relics, and miracles, and icons, and calvaries,
and cells, and celibacy, and horsehair shirts, and blood, and dirt, and tears, was true after
all! What if the world of beauty I had been content to live in was a Satanic show, and the
real thing was that dead, topsy-turvy world down there in the cold, gray lake under the reeking
mists? I sneaked back into the house to see if the streak hadn't dried yet; but no! it loomed
in tell-tale ghastliness, a sort of writing on the wall announcing the wrath and visitation
of heaven. I went outside again and smoked miserably on the little bench. Gradually I began
to feel warmer, the mists seemed clearing. I rose and stretched myself with an ache of luxurious
languor. Encouraged, I stole within again to peep at the streak. It was dry--a virgin wall,
innocently white, met my delighted gaze. I opened the window; the draggling vapors were still
rising, rising, the bleakness was merging in a mild warmth. I refilled my pipe, and plunged
down the yet gray hill. I strode past the old saw-mill, skirted the swampy border of the lake,
came out on the firm green, when bing! zim! br-r-r! a heavenly bolt of sunshine smashed through
the raw mists, scattering them like a bomb to the horizon's rim; then with sovereign calm the
sun came out full, flooding hill and dale with luminous joy; the lake shimmered and flashed
into radiant life, and gave back a great white cloud-island on a stretch of glorious blue,
and all that golden warmth stole into my veins like wine. A little goat came skipping along
with tinkling bell, a horse at grass threw up its heels in ecstasy, an ox lowed, a dog barked.
Tears of exquisite emotion came into my eyes; the beautiful soft warm light that lay over all
the happy valley seemed to get into them and melt something. How unlike those tears of yesterday,
wrung out of me as by some serpent coiled round my ribs! Now my ribs seemed expanding--to hold
my heart--and all the divine joy of existence thrilled me to a religious rapture. And with
the lifting of the mists all that ghastly mediæval nightmare was lifted from my soul; in that
sacred moment all the lurid tragedy of the crucified Christ vanished, and only Christ was left,
the simple fellowship with man and beast and nature, the love of life, the love of love, the
love of God. And in that yearning ecstasy my picture came to me--The Joyous Comrade. Christ--not
the tortured God, but the joyous comrade, the friend of all simple souls; the joyous comrade,
with the children clinging to him, and peasants and fishers listening to his chat; not the
theologian spinning barren subtleties, but the man of genius protesting against all forms and
dogmas that would replace the direct vision and the living ecstasy; not the man of sorrows
loving the blankness of underground cells and scourged backs and sexless skeletons, but the
lover of warm life, and warm sunlight, and all that is fresh and simple and pure and beautiful."

"Every man makes his God in his own image," I thought, too touched to jar him by saying it aloud.

"And so--ever since--off and on--I have worked at this human picture of him--The Joyous Comrade--to
restore the true Christ to the world."

"Which you hope to convert?"

"My business is with work, not with results. 'Whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, do with all
thy might.' What can any single hand, even the mightiest, do in this great weltering world?
Yet, without the hope and the dream, who would work at all? And so, not without hope, yet with
no expectation of a miracle, I give the Jews a Christ they can now accept, the Christians a
Christ they have forgotten. I rebuild for my beloved America a type of simple manhood, unfretted
by the feverish lust for wealth or power, a simple lover of the quiet moment, a sweet human
soul never dispossessed of itself, always at one with the essence of existence. Who knows but
I may suggest the great question: What shall it profit a nation to gain the whole world and
lose its own soul?"

His voice died away solemnly, and I heard only the click of the billiard-balls and the rumble
and roar of New York.

CHAD GADYA

    "And it shall be when thy son asketh thee in time to come,
    saying: What is this? that thou shalt say unto him, By strength
    of hand the Lord brought us out from Egypt, from the house of
    bondage. And ... the Lord slew all the first-born in the land of
    Egypt, ... but all the first-born of my children I
    redeem."--EXODUS xiii. 14, 15.

Chad Gadya! Chad Gadya! One only kid of the goat.

At last the Passover family service was drawing to an end. His father had started on the curious
Chaldaic recitative that wound it up:

One only kid, one only kid, which my father bought for two zuzim. Chad Gadya! Chad Gadya!

The young man smiled faintly at the quaintness of an old gentleman in a frock-coat, a director
of the steamboat company in modern Venice, talking Chaldaic, wholly unconscious of the incongruity,
rolling out the sonorous syllables with unction, propped up on the prescribed pillows.

He wondered vaguely what his father would say to him when the service was over. He had only
come in during the second part, arriving from Vienna with his usual unquestioned unexpectedness,
and was quite startled to find it was Passover night, and that the immemorial service was going
on just as when he was a boy. The rarity of his visits to the old folks made it a strange coincidence
to have stumbled upon them at this juncture, and, as he took his seat silently in the family
circle without interrupting the prayers by greetings, he had a vivid artistic perception of
the possibilities of existence--the witty French novel that had so amused him in the train,
making him feel that, in providing raw matter for esprit, human life had its joyous justification;
the red-gold sunset over the mountains; the floating homewards down the Grand Canal in the
moonlight, the well-known palaces as dreamful and mysterious to him as if he had not been born
in the city of the sea; the gay reminiscences of Goldmark's new opera last night at the Operntheater
that had haunted his ear as he ascended the great staircase; and then this abrupt transition
to the East, and the dead centuries, and Jehovah bringing out His chosen people from Egypt,
and bidding them celebrate with unleavened bread throughout the generations their hurried journey
to the desert.

Probably his father was distressed at this glaring instance of his son's indifference to the
traditions he himself held so dear; though indeed the old man had realized long ago the bitter
truth that his ways were not his son's ways, nor his son's thoughts his thoughts. He had long
since known that his first-born was a sinner in Israel, an "Epikouros," a scoffer, a selfish
sensualist, a lover of bachelor quarters and the feverish life of the European capitals, a
scorner of the dietary laws and tabus, an adept in the forbidden. The son thought of himself
through his father's spectacles, and the faint smile playing about the sensitive lips became
bitterer. His long white fingers worked nervously.

And yet he thought kindly enough of his father; admired the perseverance that had brought him
wealth, the generosity with which he expended it, the fidelity that resisted its temptations
and made this Seder service, this family reunion, as homely and as piously simple as in the
past when the Ghetto Vecchio, and not this palace on the Grand Canal, had meant home. The beaker
of wine for the prophet Elijah stood as naïvely expectant as ever. His mother's face, too,
shone with love and goodwill. Brothers and sisters--shafts from a full quiver--sat around the
table variously happy and content with existence. An atmosphere of peace and restfulness and
faith and piety pervaded the table.

And suddenly the contrast of all these quietudes with his own restless life overwhelmed him
in a great flood of hopelessness. His eyes filled with salt tears. He would never sit at the
head of his own table, carrying on the chain of piety that linked the generations each to each;
never would his soul be lapped in this atmosphere of faith and trust; no woman's love would
ever be his; no children would rest their little hands in his; he would pass through existence
like a wraith, gazing in at the warm firesides with hopeless eyes, and sweeping on--the wandering
Jew of the world of soul. How he had suffered--he, modern of moderns, dreamer of dreams, and
ponderer of problems! Vanitas Vanitatum! Omnia Vanitas! Modern of the moderns? But it was an
ancient Jew who had said that, and another who had said "Better is the day of a man's death
than the day of a man's birth." Verily an ironical proof of the Preacher's own maxim that there
is nothing new under the sun. And he recalled the great sentences:

    "Vanity of vanities, saith the Preacher, vanity of vanities; all
    is vanity.

    "One generation passeth away and another generation cometh: but
    the earth abideth for ever.

    "The thing that hath been, it is that which shall be; and that
    which is done is that which shall be done: and there is no new
    thing under the sun.

    "That which is crooked cannot be made straight; and that which
    is wanting cannot be numbered.

    "For in much wisdom is much grief; and he that increaseth
    knowledge increaseth sorrow."

Yes, it was all true, all true. How the Jewish genius had gone to the heart of things, so that
the races that hated it found comfort in its Psalms. No sense of form, the end of Ecclesiastes
a confusion and a weak repetition like the last disordered spasms of a prophetic seizure. No
care for art, only for reality. And yet he had once thought he loved the Greeks better, had
from childhood yearned after forbidden gods, thrilled by that solitary marble figure of a girl
that looked in on the Ghetto alley from a boundary wall. Yes; he had worshipped at the shrine
of the Beautiful; he had prated of the Renaissance. He had written--with the multiform adaptiveness
of his race--French poems with Hellenic inspiration, and erotic lyrics--half felt, half feigned,
delicately chiselled. He saw now with a sudden intuition that he had never really expressed
himself in art, save perhaps in that one brutal Italian novel written under the influence of
Zola, which had been so denounced by a world with no perception of the love and the tears that
prompted the relentless unmasking of life.

Yes, he was a Jew at heart. The childhood in the Ghetto, the long heredity, had bound him in
emotions and impulses as with phylacteries. Chad Gadya! Chad Gadya! The very melody awakened
associations innumerable. He saw in a swift panorama the intense inner life of a curly-headed
child roaming in the narrow cincture of the Ghetto, amid the picturesque high houses. A reflex
of the child's old joy in the Festivals glowed in his soul. How charming this quaint sequence
of Passover and Pentecost, New Year and Tabernacles; this survival of the ancient Orient in
modern Europe, this living in the souls of one's ancestors, even as on Tabernacles one lived
in their booths. A sudden craving seized him to sing with his father, to wrap himself in a
fringed shawl, to sway with the rhythmic passion of prayer, to prostrate himself in the synagogue.
Why had his brethren ever sought to emerge from the joyous slavery of the Ghetto? His imagination
conjured it up as it was ere he was born: the one campo, bordered with a colonnade of shops,
the black-bearded Hebrew merchants in their long robes, the iron gates barred at midnight,
the keepers rowing round and round the open canal-sides in their barca. The yellow cap? The
yellow O on their breasts? Badges of honor; since to be persecuted is nobler than to persecute.
Why had they wished for emancipation? Their life was self-centred, self-complete. But no; they
were restless, doomed to wander. He saw the earliest streams pouring into Venice at the commencement
of the thirteenth century, German merchants, then Levantines, helping to build up the commercial
capital of the fifteenth century. He saw the later accession of Peninsular refugees from the
Inquisition, their shelter beneath the lion's wing negotiated through their fellow-Jew, Daniel
Rodrigues, Consul of the Republic in Dalmatia. His mind halted a moment on this Daniel Rodrigues,
an important skeleton. He thought of the endless shifts of the Jews to evade the harsher prescriptions,
their subtle, passive refusal to live at Mestre, their final relegation to the Ghetto. What
well-springs of energy, seething in those paradoxical progenitors of his, who united the calm
of the East with the fever of the West; those idealists dealing always with the practical,
those lovers of ideas, those princes of combination, mastering their environment because they
never dealt in ideas except as embodied in real concrete things. Reality! Reality!

That was the note of Jewish genius, which had this affinity at least with the Greek. And he,
though to him his father's real world was a shadow, had yet this instinctive hatred of the
cloud-spinners, the word-jugglers, his idealisms needed solid substance to play around. Perhaps
if he had been persecuted, or even poor, if his father had not smoothed his passage to a not
unprosperous career in letters, he might have escaped this haunting sense of the emptiness
and futility of existence. He, too, would have found a joy in outwitting the Christian persecutor,
in piling ducat on ducat. Ay, even now he chuckled to think how these strazzaroli--these forced
vendors of second-hand wares--had lived to purchase the faded purple wrappings of Venetian glory.

He remembered reading in the results of an ancient census: Men, women, children, monks, nuns--and
Jews! Well, the Doges were done with, Venice was a melancholy ruin, and the Jew--the Jew lived
sumptuously in the palaces of her proud nobles. He looked round the magnificent long-stretching
dining-room, with its rugs, oil-paintings, frescoed ceiling, palms; remembered the ancient
scutcheon over the stone portal--a lion rampant with an angel volant--and thought of the old
Latin statute forbidding the Jews to keep schools of any kind in Venice, or to teach anything
in the city, under penalty of fifty ducats' fine and six months' imprisonment. Well, the Jews
had taught the Venetians something after all--that the only abiding wealth is human energy.
All other nations had had their flowering time and had faded out. But Israel went on with unabated
strength and courage. It was very wonderful. Nay, was it not miraculous? Perhaps there was,
indeed, "a mission of Israel," perhaps they were indeed God's "chosen people." The Venetians
had built and painted marvellous things and died out and left them for tourists to gaze at.
The Jews had created nothing for ages, save a few poems and a few yearning synagogue melodies;
yet here they were, strong and solid, a creation in flesh and blood more miraculous and enduring
than anything in stone and bronze. And what was the secret of this persistence and strength?
What but a spiritual? What but their inner certainty of God, their unquestioning trust in Him,
that He would send His Messiah to rebuild the Temple, to raise them to the sovereignty of the
peoples? How typical his own father--thus serenely singing Chaldaic--a modern of moderns without,
a student and saint at home! Ah, would that he, too, could lay hold on this solid faith! Yes,
his soul was in sympathy with the brooding immovable East; even with the mysticisms of the
Cabalists, with the trance of the ascetic, nay, with the fantastic frenzy-begotten ecstasy
of the Dervishes he had seen dancing in Turkish mosques,--that intoxicating sense of a satisfying
meaning in things, of a unity with the essence of existence, which men had doubtless sought
in the ancient Eleusinian mysteries, which the Mahatmas of India had perhaps found, the tradition
of which ran down through the ages, misconceived by the Western races, and for lack of which
he could often have battered his head against a wall, as in literal beating against the baffling
mystery of existence. Ah! there was the hell of it! His soul was of the Orient, but his brain
was of the Occident. His intellect had been nourished at the breast of Science, that classified
everything and explained nothing. But explanation! The very word was futile! Things were. To
explain things was to state A in terms of B, and B in terms of A. Who should explain the explanation?
Perhaps only by ecstasy could one understand what lay behind the phenomena. But even so the
essence had to be judged by its manifestations, and the manifestations were often absurd, unrighteous,
and meaningless. No, he could not believe. His intellect was remorseless. What if Israel was
preserved? Why should the empire of Venice be destroyed?

He thought of the energy that had gone to build this wonderful city; the deep sea-soaked wooden
piles hidden beneath; the exhaustless art treasures--churches, pictures, sculptures--no less
built on obscure human labor, though a few of the innumerable dead hands had signed names.
What measureless energy petrified in these palaces! Carpaccio's pictures floated before him,
and Tintoretto's--record of dead generations; and then, by the link of size, those even vaster
paintings--in gouache--of Vermayen in Vienna: old land-fights with crossbow, spear, and arquebus,
old sea-fights with inter-grappling galleys. He thought of galley-slaves chained to their oar--the
sweat, the blood that had stained history. And then he thought of a modern picture with a beautiful
nude female figure that had cost the happiness of a family; the artist now dead and immortal,
the woman, once rich and fashionable, on the streets. The futility of things--love, fame, immortality!
All roads lead nowhere! What profit shall a man have from all his labor which he hath done
under the sun?

No; it was all a flux--there was nothing but flux. Παντα ῥει. The wisest had always seen that.
The cat which devoured the kid, and the dog which bit the cat, and the staff which smote the
dog, and the fire which burnt the staff, and so on endlessly. Did not the commentators say
that that was the meaning of this very parable--the passing of the ancient empires, Egypt,
Assyria, Persia, Greece, Rome? Commentators! what curious people! What a making of books to
which there was no end! What a wilderness of waste logic the Jewish intellect had wandered
in for ages! The endless volumes of the Talmud and its parasites! The countless codes, now
obsolescent, over which dead eyes had grown dim! As great a patience and industry as had gone
to build Venetian art, and with less result. The chosen people, indeed! And were they so strong
and sane? A fine thought in his brain, forsooth!

He, worn out by the great stress of the centuries, such long in-breeding, so many ages of persecution,
so many manners and languages adopted, so many nationalities taken on! His soul must be like
a palimpsest with the record of nation on nation. It was uncanny, this clinging to life; a
race should be content to die out. And in him it had perhaps grown thus content. He foreshadowed
its despair. He stood for latter-day Israel, the race that always ran to extremes, which, having
been first in faith, was also first in scepticism, keenest to pierce to the empty heart of
things; like an orphan wind, homeless, wailing about the lost places of the universe. To know
all to be illusion, cheat--itself the most cheated of races; lured on to a career of sacrifice
and contempt. If he could only keep the hope that had hallowed its sufferings. But now it was
a viper--not a divine hope--it had nourished in its bosom. He felt so lonely; a great stretch
of blackness, a barren mere, a gaunt cliff on a frozen sea, a pine on a mountain. To be done
with it all--the sighs and the sobs and the tears, the heart-sinking, the dull dragging days
of wretchedness and the nights of pain. How often he had turned his face to the wall, willing
to die.

Perhaps it was this dead city of stones and the sea that wrought so on his spirit. Tourgénieff
was right; only the young should come here, not those who had seen with Virgil the tears of things.

And then he thought again of Virgil, and called up a Tuscan landscape that expressed him, and
lines of cypresses that moved on majestic like hexameters. He saw the terrace of an ancient
palace, and the grotesque animals carven on the balustrade; the green flicker of lizards on
the drowsy garden-wall; the old-world sun-dial and the grotto and the marble fountain, and
the cool green gloom of the cypress-grove with its delicious dapple of shadows. An invisible
blackbird fluted overhead. He walked along the great walk under the stone eyes of sculptured
gods, and looked out upon the hot landscape taking its siesta under the ardent blue sky--the
green sunlit hills, the white nestling villas, the gray olive-trees. Who had paced these cloistral
terraces? Mediæval princesses, passionate and scornful, treading delicately, with trailing
silks and faint perfumes. He would make a poem of it. Oh, the loveliness of life! What was
it a local singer had carolled in that dear soft Venetian dialect?

    "Belissimo xe el mondo
    perchè l' è molto vario.
    nè omo ghe xe profondo
    che dir possa el contrario."

Yes, the world was indeed most beautiful and most varied. Terence was right: the comedy and
pathos of things was enough. We are a sufficient spectacle to one another. A glow came over
him; for a moment he grasped hold on life, and the infinite tentacles of things threw themselves
out to entwine him.

But the glow faded, and he drew back sad and hopeless. For he knew now what he wanted. Paganism
would not suffice. He wanted--he hungered after--God. The God of his fathers. The three thousand
years of belief could not be shaken off. It was atavism that gave him those sudden strange
intuitions of God at the scent of a rose, the sound of a child's laughter, the sight of a sleeping
city; that sent a warmth to his heart and tears to his eyes, and a sense of the infinite beauty
and sacredness of life. But he could not have the God of his fathers. And his own God was distant
and dubious, and nothing that modern science had taught him was yet registered in his organism.
Could he even transmit it to descendants? What was it Weismann said about acquired characteristics?
No, certain races put forth certain beliefs, and till you killed off the races, you could never
kill off the beliefs. Oh, it was a cruel tragedy, this Western culture grafted on an Eastern
stock, untuning the chords of life, setting heart and brain asunder. But then Nature was cruel.
He thought of last year's grape-harvest ruined by a thunderstorm, the frightful poverty of
the peasants under the thumb of the padrones. And then the vision came up of a captured cuttle-fish
he had seen gasping, almost with a human cough, on the sands of the Lido. It had spoilt the
sublimity of that barren stretch of sand and sea, and the curious charm of the white sails
that seemed to glide along the very stones of the great breakwater. His soul demanded justice
for the uncouth cuttle-fish. He did not understand how people could live in a self-centred
spiritual world that shut out the larger part of creation. If suffering purified, what purification
did overdriven horses undergo, or starved cats? The miracle of creation--why was it wrought
for puppies doomed to drown? No; man had imposed morality on a non-moral universe, anthropomorphizing
everything, transferring into the great remorseless mechanism the ethical ideals that governed
the conduct of man to man. Religion, like art, focussed the universe round man, an unimportant
by-product: it was bad science turned into good art. And it was his own race that had started
the delusion! "And Abraham said unto God: 'Shall not the Judge of all the earth do right?'"
Formerly the gods had meant might, but man's soul had come to crave for right. From the welter
of human existence man had abstracted the idea of goodness and made a god of it, and then foolishly
turned round and asked why it permitted the bad without which the idea of it could never have
been formed. And because God was goodness, therefore He was oneness--he remembered the acute
analysis of Kuenen. No, the moral law was no more the central secret of the universe than color
or music. Religion was made for man, not man for religion. Even justice was a meaningless concept
in the last analysis: What was, was. The artist's view of life was the only true one: the artist
who believes in everything and in nothing.

The religions unconsciously distorted everything. Life itself was simple enough: a biological
phenomenon that had its growth, its maturity, its decay. Death was no mystery, pain no punishment,
nor sin anything but the survival of lower attributes from a prior phase of evolution, or not
infrequently the legitimate protest of the natural self against artificial social ethics. It
was the creeds that tortured things out of their elemental simplicity. But for him the old
craving persisted. That alone would do. God, God--he was God-intoxicated, without Spinoza's
calm or Spinoza's certainty. Justice, Pity, Love--something that understood. He knew it was
sheer blind heredity that spoilt his life for him--oh, the irony of it--and that, if he could
forget his sense of futility, he could live beautifully unto himself. The wheels of chance
had ground well for him. But his soul rejected all the solutions and self-equations of his
friends--the all-sufficiency of science, of art, of pleasure, of the human spectacle; saw with
inexorable insight through the phantasmal optimisms, refused to blind itself with Platonisms
and Hegelisms, refused the positions of æsthetes and artists and self-satisfied German savants,
equally with the positions of conventional preachers, demanded justice for the individual down
to the sparrow, two of which were sold in the market-place for a farthing, and a significance
and a purpose in the secular sweep of destiny; yet knew all the while that Purpose was as anthropomorphic
a conception of the essence of things as justice or goodness. But the world without God was
a beautiful, heartless woman--cold, irresponsive. He needed the flash of soul. He had experimented
in Nature--as color, form, mystery--what had he not experimented in? But there was a want,
a void. He had loved Nature, had come very near finding peace in the earth-passion, in the
intoxicating smell of grass and flowers, in the scent and sound of the sea, in the rapture
of striking through the cold, salt waves, tossing green and white-flecked; ill exchanged for
any heaven. But the passion always faded and the old hunger for God came back.

He had found temporary peace with Spinoza's God: the eternal infinite-sided Being, of whom
all the starry infinities were but one poor expression, and to love whom did not imply being
loved in return. 'Twas magnificent to be lifted up in worship of that supernal splendor. But
the splendor froze, not scorched. He wanted the eternal Being to be conscious of his existence;
nay, to send him a whisper that He was not a metaphysical figment. Otherwise he found himself
saying what Voltaire has made Spinoza say: "Je crois, entre nous, que vous n'existez pas."
Obedience? Worship? He could have prostrated himself for hours on the flags, worn out his knees
in prayer. O Luther, O Galileo, enemies of the human race! How wise of the Church to burn infidels,
who would burn down the spirit's home--the home warm with the love and treasures of the generations--and
leave the poor human soul naked and shivering amid the cold countless worlds. O Napoleon, arch-fiend,
who, opening the Ghettos, where the Jews crouched in narrow joy over the Sabbath fire, let
in upon them the weight of the universe.

In Vienna, whence he had come, an Israelite, on whom the modern universe pressed, yet dreamed
the old dream of a Jewish State--a modern State, incarnation of all the great principles won
by the travail of the ages. The chameleon of races should show a specific color: a Jewish art,
a Jewish architecture would be born, who knew? But he, who had worked for Mazzini, who had
seen his hero achieve that greatest of all defeats, victory, he knew. He knew what would come
of it, even if it came. He understood the fate of Christ and of all idealists, doomed to see
themselves worshipped and their ideas rejected in a religion or a State founded like a national
monument to perpetuate their defeat. But the Jewish State would not even come. He had met his
Viennese brethren but yesterday; in the Leopoldstadt, frowsy with the gaberdines and side-curls
of Galicia; in the Prater, arrogantly radiant in gleaming carriages with spick-and-span footmen--that
strange race that could build up cities for others but never for itself; that professed to
be both a religion and a nationality, and was often neither. The grotesquerie of history! Moses,
Sinai, Palestine, Isaiah, Ezra, the Temple, Christ, the Exile, the Ghettos, the Martyrdoms--all
this to give the Austrian comic papers jokes about stockbrokers with noses big enough to support
unheld opera--glasses. And even supposing another miraculous link came to add itself to that
wonderful chain, the happier Jews of the new State would be born into it as children to an
enriched man, unconscious of the struggles, accepting the luxuries, growing big-bellied and
narrow-souled. The Temple would be rebuilt. Et après? The architect would send in the bill.
People would dine and dig one another in the ribs and tell the old smoking-room stories. There
would be fashionable dressmakers. The synagogue would persecute those who were larger than
it, the professional priests would prate of spiritualities to an applausive animal world, the
press would be run in the interests of capitalists and politicians, the little writers would
grow spiteful against those who did not call them great, the managers of the national theatre
would advance their mistresses to leading parts. Yes, the ox would come and drink the water,
and Jeshurun would wax fat and kick. "For that which is crooked cannot be made straight." Menander's
comedies were fresh from the mint, the Book of Proverbs as new as the morning paper. No, he
could not dream. Let the younger races dream; the oldest of races knew better. The race that
was first to dream the beautiful dream of a Millennium was the first to discard it. Nay, was
it even a beautiful dream? Every man under his own fig-tree, forsooth, obese and somnolent,
the spirit disintegrated! Omnia Vanitas, this too was vanity.

Chad Gadya! Chad Gadya! He had never thought of the meaning of the words, always connected
them with the finish of the ceremony. "All over! All over!" they seemed to wail, and in the
quaint music there seemed a sense of infinite disillusion, of infinite rest; a winding-up,
a conclusion, things over and done with, a fever subsided, a toil completed, a clamor abated,
a farewell knell, a little folding of the hands to sleep.

Chad Gadya! Chad Gadya! It was a wail over the struggle for existence, the purposeless procession
of the ages, the passing of the ancient empires--as the commentators had pointed out--and of
the modern empires that would pass on to join them, till the earth itself--as the scientists
had pointed out--passed away in cold and darkness. Flux and reflux, the fire and the water,
the water and the fire! He thought of the imperturbable skeletons that still awaited exhumation
in Pompeii, the swaddled mummies of the Pharaohs, the undiminished ashes of forgotten lovers
in old Etruscan tombs. He had a flashing sense of the great pageant of the Mediæval--popes,
kings, crusaders, friars, beggars, peasants, flagellants, schoolmen; of the vast modern life
in Paris, Vienna, Rome, London, Berlin, New York, Chicago; the brilliant life of the fashionable
quarters, the babble of the Bohemias, the poor in their slums, the sick on their beds of pain,
the soldiers, the prostitutes, the slaveys in lodging-houses, the criminals, the lunatics;
the vast hordes of Russia, the life pullulating in the swarming boats on Chinese rivers, the
merry butterfly life of Japan, the unknown savages of mid-Africa with their fetishes and war-dances,
the tribes of the East sleeping in tents or turning uneasily on the hot terraces of their houses,
the negro races growing into such a terrible problem in the United States, and each of all
these peoples, nay, each unit of any people, thinking itself the centre of the universe, and
of its love and care; the destiny of the races no clearer than the destiny of the individuals
and no diviner than the life of insects, and all the vast sweep of history nothing but a spasm
in the life of one of the meanest of an obscure group of worlds, in an infinity of vaster constellations.
Oh, it was too great! He could not look on the face of his own God and live. Without the stereoscopic
illusions which made his father's life solid, he could not continue to exist. His point of
view was hopelessly cosmic. All was equally great and mysterious? Yes; but all was equally
small and commonplace. Kant's Starry Infinite Without? Bah! Mere lumps of mud going round in
a tee-totum dance, and getting hot over it; no more than the spinning of specks in a drop of
dirty water. Size was nothing in itself. There were mountains and seas in a morsel of wet mud,
picturesque enough for microscopic tourists. A billion billion morsels of wet mud were no more
imposing than one. Geology, chemistry, astronomy--they were all in the splashes of mud from
a passing carriage. Everywhere one law and one futility. The human race? Strange marine monsters
crawling about in the bed of an air-ocean, unable to swim upwards, oddly tricked out in the
stolen skins of other creatures. As absurd, impartially considered, as the strange creatures
quaintly adapted to curious environments one saw in aquaria. Kant's Moral Law Within! Dissoluble
by a cholera germ, a curious blue network under the microscope, not unlike a map of Venice.
Yes, the cosmic and the comic were one. Why be bullied into the Spinozistic awe? Perhaps Heine--that
other Jew--saw more truly, and man's last word on the universe into which he had been projected
unasked, might be a mockery of that which had mocked him, a laugh with tears in it.

And he, he foreshadowed the future of all races, as well as of his own. They would all go on
struggling, till they became self-conscious; then, like children grown to men, the scales falling
from their eyes, they would suddenly ask themselves what it was all about, and, realizing that
they were being driven along by blind forces to labor and struggle and strive, they too would
pass away; the gross childish races would sweep them up, Nature pouring out new energies from
her inexhaustible fount. For strength was in the unconscious, and when a nation paused to ask
of itself its right to Empire, its Empire was already over. The old Palestine Hebrew, sacrificing
his sheep to Yahweh, what a granite figure compared with himself, infinitely subtle and mobile!
For a century or two the modern world would take pleasure in seeing itself reflected in literature
and art by its most decadent spirits, in vibrating to the pathos and picturesqueness of all
the periods of man's mysterious existence on this queer little planet; while the old geocentric
ethics, oddly clinging on to the changed cosmogony, would keep life clean. But all that would
pall--and then the deluge!

There was a waft of merry music from without. He rose and went noiselessly to the window and
looked out into the night. A full moon hung in the heavens, perpendicularly and low, so that
it seemed a terrestrial object in comparison with the stars scattered above, glory beyond glory,
and in that lucent Italian atmosphere making him feel himself of their shining company, whirling
through the infinite void on one of the innumerable spheres. A broad silver green patch of
moonlight lay on the dark water, dwindling into a string of dancing gold pieces. Adown the
canal the black gondolas clustered round a barca lighted by gaily colored lanterns, whence
the music came. Funiculi, Funicula--it seemed to dance with the very spirit of joyousness.
He saw a young couple holding hands. He knew they were English, that strange, happy, solid,
conquering race. Something vibrated in him. He thought of bridegrooms, youth, strength; but
it was as the hollow echo of a far-off regret, some vague sunrise of gold over hills of dream.
Then a beautiful tenor voice began to sing Schubert's Serenade. It was as the very voice of
hopeless passion; the desire of the moth for the star, of man for God. Death, death, at any
cost, death to end this long ghastly creeping about the purlieus of life. Life even for a single
instant longer, life without God, seemed intolerable. He would find peace in the bosom of that
black water. He would glide downstairs now, speaking no word.

When they should find him accidentally drowned, for how could the world understand, the world
which yet had never been backward to judge him, that a man with youth, health, wealth, and
a measure of fame should take his own life; his people would think, perhaps, that it was a
ghost that had sat at the Seder table so silent and noiseless. And, indeed, what but a ghost?
One need not die to hover outside the warm circle of life, stretching vain arms. A ghost? He
had always been a ghost. From childhood those strange solid people had come and talked and
walked with him, and he had glided among them, an unreal spirit, to which they gave flesh-and-blood
motives like their own. As a child death had seemed horrible to him; red worms crawling over
white flesh. Now his thoughts always stopped at the glad moment of giving up the ghost. More
lives beyond the grave? Why, the world was not large enough for one life. It had to repeat
itself incessantly. Books, newspapers, what tedium! A few ideas deftly re-combined. For there
was nothing new under the sun. Shakespeare had found the supreme expression for it as for everything
in it.

He stole out softly through the half-open door, went through the vast antechamber, full of
tapestry and figures of old Venetians in armor, down the wide staircase, into the great courtyard
that looked strange and sepulchral when he struck a match to find the water-portal, and saw
his shadow curving monstrous along the ribbed roof, and leering at the spacious gloom. He opened
the great doors gently, and came out into the soft spring night air. All was silent now. The
narrow side-canal had a glimmer of moonlight, the opposite palace was black, with one spot
of light where a window shone: overhead in the narrow rift of dark-blue sky a flock of stars
flew like bright birds through the soft velvet gloom. The water lapped mournfully against the
marble steps, and a gondola lay moored to the posts, gently nodding to its black shadow in
the water.

He walked to where the water-alley met the deeper Grand Canal, and let himself slide down with
a soft, subdued splash. He found himself struggling, but he conquered the instinctive will to live.

But as he sank for the last time, the mystery of the night and the stars and death mingled
with a strange whirl of childish memories instinct with the wonder of life, and the immemorial
Hebrew words of the dying Jew beat outwards to his gurgling throat: "Hear, O Israel, the Lord
our God, the Lord is One."

EPILOGUE

A MODERN SCRIBE IN JERUSALEM

I

Outside the walls of Jerusalem, on the bleak roadless way to the Mount of Olives, within sight
of the domes and minarets of the sacred city, and looking towards the mosque of Omar--arrogantly
a-glitter on the site of Solomon's Temple--there perches among black, barren rocks a colony
of Arabian Jews from Yemen.

These all but cave-dwellers, grimy caftaned figures, with swarthy faces, coal-black ringlets,
and hungry eyes, have for sole public treasure a synagogue, consisting of a small room, furnished
only with an Ark, and bare even of seats.

In this room a Scribe of to-day, humblest in Israel, yet with the gift of vision, stood turning
over the few old books that lay about, strange flotsam and jetsam of the great world-currents
that have drifted Israel to and fro. And to him bending over a copy of the mystic Zohar,--that
thirteenth century Cabalistic classic, forged in Chaldaic by a Jew of Spain, which paved the
way for the Turkish Messiah--was brought a little child.

A little boy in his father's arms, his image in miniature, with a miniature grimy caftan and
miniature coal-black ringlets beneath his little black skull-cap. A human curiosity brought
to interest the stranger and increase his bakhshísh.

For lo! the little boy had six fingers on his right hand! The child held it shyly clenched,
but the father forcibly parted the fingers to exhibit them.

And the child lifted up his voice and wept bitterly.

And so, often in after days when the Scribe thought of Jerusalem, it was not of what he had
been told he would think; not of Prophets and Angels and Crusaders--only of the crying of that
little six-fingered Jewish child, washed by the great tides of human history on to the black
rocks near the foot of the Mount of Olives.

II

Jerusalem--centre of pilgrimage to three great religions--unholiest city under the sun!

"For from Zion the Law shall go forth and the Word of God from Jerusalem." Gone forth of a
sooth, thought the Scribe, leaving in Jerusalem itself only the swarming of sects about the
corpse of Religion.

No prophetic centre, this Zion, even for Israel; only the stagnant, stereotyped activity of
excommunicating Rabbis, and the capricious distribution of the paralyzing Chalukah, leaving
an appalling multitudinous poverty agonizing in the steep refuse-laden alleys. The faint stirrings
of new life, the dim desires of young Israel to regenerate at once itself and the soil of Palestine,
the lofty patriotism of immigrant Dreamers as yet unable to overcome the long lethargy of holy
study and of prayers for rain. A city where men go to die, but not to live.

An accursèd city, priest-ridden and pauperized, with cripples dragging about its shrines and
lepers burrowing at the Zion gate; but a city infinitely pathetic, infinitely romantic withal,
a centre through which pass all the great threads of history, ancient and mediæval, and now
at last quivering with the telegraphic thread of the modern, yet only the more charged with
the pathos of the past and the tears of things; symbol not only of the tragedy of the Christ,
but of the tragedy of his people, nay of the great world-tragedy.

III

On the Eve of the Passover and Easter, the Scribe arrived at the outer fringe of the rainbow-robed,
fur-capped throng that shook in passionate lamentation before that Titanic fragment of Temple
Wall, which is the sole relic of Israel's national glories. Roaring billows of hysterical prayer
beat against the monstrous, symmetric blocks, quarried by King Solomon's servants and smoothed
by the kisses of the generations. A Fatherland lost eighteen hundred years ago, and still this
strange indomitable race hoped on!

"Hasten, hasten, O Redeemer of Zion."

And from amid the mourners, one tall, stately figure, robed in purple velvet, turned his face
to the Scribe, saying, with out-stretched hand and in a voice of ineffable love--

"Shalom Aleichem."

And the Scribe was shaken, for lo! it was the face of the Christ.

IV

Did he haunt the Wailing Wall, then, sharing the woe of his brethren? For in the Church of
the Holy Sepulchre the Scribe found him not.

V

The Scribe had slipt in half disguised: no Jew being allowed even in the courtyard or the precincts
of the sacred place. His first open attempt had been frustrated by the Turkish soldiers who
kept the narrow approach to the courtyard. "Rüh! Emshi!" they had shouted fiercely, and the
Scribe recklessly refusing to turn back had been expelled by violence. A blessing in disguise,
his friends had told him, for should the Greek-Church fanatics have become aware of him, he
might have perished in a miniature Holy War. And as he fought his way through the crowd to
gain the shelter of a balcony, he felt indeed that one ugly rush would suffice to crush him.

VI

In the sepulchral incense-laden dusk of the uncouth Church, in the religious gloom punctuated
by the pervasive twinkle of a thousand hanging lamps of silver, was wedged and blent a suffocating
mass of palm-bearing humanity of all nations and races, the sumptuously clothed and the ragged,
the hale and the unsightly; the rainbow colors of the East relieved by the white of the shrouded
females, toned down by the sombre shabbiness of the Russian moujiks and peasant-women, and
pierced by a vivid circular line of red fezzes on the unbared, unreverential heads of the Turkish
regiment keeping order among the jostling jealousies of Christendom, whose rival churches swarm
around the strange, glittering, candle-illumined Rotunda that covers the tomb of Christ. Not
an inch of free space anywhere under this shadow of Golgotha: a perpetual sway to and fro of
the human tides, seething with sobs and quarrels; flowing into the planless maze of chapels
and churches of all ages and architectures, that, perched on rocks or hewn into their mouldy
darkness, magnificent with untold church-treasure--Armenian, Syrian, Coptic, Latin, Greek,
Abyssinian--add the resonance of their special sanctities and the oppression of their individual
glories of vestment and ceremonial to the surcharged atmosphere palpitant with exaltation and
prayer and mystic bell-tinklings; overspreading the thirty-seven sacred spots, and oozing into
the holy of holies itself, towards that impassive marble stone, goal of the world's desire
in the blaze of the ever burning lamps; and overflowing into the screaming courtyard, amid
the flagstone stalls of chaplets and crosses and carven-shells, and the rapacious rabble of
cripples and vendors.

And amid the frenzied squeezing and squabbling, way was miraculously made for a dazzling procession
of the Only Orthodox Church, moving statelily round and round, to the melting strains of unseen
singing boys and preceded by an upborne olive-tree; seventy priests in flowering damask, carrying
palms or swinging censers, boys in green, uplifting silken banners richly broidered with sacred
scenes, archimandrites attended by deacons, and bearing symbolic trinitarian candlesticks,
bishops with mitres, and last and most gorgeous of all, the sceptred Patriarch bowing to the
tiny Coptic Church in the corner, as his priests wheel and swing their censers towards it--all
the elaborately jewelled ritual evolved by alien races from the simple life and teaching of
Jesus of Nazareth.

"O Jesus, brother in Israel, perhaps only those excluded from this sanctuary of thine can understand
thee!"

VII

So thought the Scribe, as from the comparative safety of an upper monastery where no Jewish
foot had ever trod, he looked down upon the glowing, heaving mass. The right emotion did not
come to him. He was irritated; the thought of entering so historic and so Jewish a shrine only
at peril of his life, recalled the long intolerance of mediæval Christendom, the Dark Ages
of the Ghettos. His imagination conjured up an ironic vision of himself as the sport of that
seething mob, saw himself seeking a last refuge in the Sepulchre, and falling dead across the
holy tomb. And then the close air charged with all those breaths and candles and censers, the
jewelled pageantry flaunted in that city of squalor and starvation, the military line of contemptuous
Mussulmen complicating the mutual contempt of the Christian sects, and reminding him of the
obligation on a new Jewish State, if it ever came, to safeguard these divine curios; the grotesque
incongruity of all this around the tomb of the Prince of Peace, the tomb itself of very dubious
authenticity, to say nothing of the thirty-six parasitical sanctities!...

He thought of the even more tumultuous scene about to be enacted here on the day of the Greek
fire: when in the awful darkness of extinguished lamps, through a rift in the Holy Sepulchre
within which the Patriarch prayed in solitude and darkness, a tongue of heavenly flame would
shoot, God's annual witness to the exclusive rightness of the Greek Church, and the poor foot-sore
pilgrims, mad with ecstasy, would leap over one another to kindle their candles and torches
at it, while a vessel now riding at anchor would haste with its freight of sacred flame to
kindle the church-lamps of Holy Russia.

And then the long historic tragi-comedy of warring sects swept before him, the Greek Church
regarding the Roman as astray in the sacraments of Baptism and the Lord's Supper; at one with
the Protestant only in not praying to the Virgin; every new misreading of human texts sufficing
to start a new heresy.

VIII

He hated Palestine: the Jordan, the Mount of Olives, the holy bazaars, the geographical sanctity
of shrines and soils, the long torture of prophetic texts and apocalyptic interpretations,
all the devotional maunderings of the fool and the Philistine. He would have had the Bible
prohibited for a century or two, till mankind should be able to read it with fresh vision and
true profit. He wished that Christ had crucified the Jews and defeated the plan for the world's
salvation. O happy Christ, to have died without foresight of the Crusades or the Inquisition!

IX

Irritation passed into an immense pity for humanity, crucified upon the cross whose limbs are
Time and Space. Those poor Russian pilgrims faring foot-sore across the great frozen plains,
lured on by this mirage of blessedness, sleeping by the wayside, and sometimes never waking
again! Poor humanity, like a blind Oriental beggar on the deserted roadway crying Bakhshísh
to vain skies, from whose hollow and futile spaces floats the lone word, Mâfísh--"there is
nothing." At least let it be ours to cover the poorest life with that human love and pity which
is God's vicegerent on earth, and to pass it gently into the unknown.

X

But since Christianity already covered these poor lives with love and pity, let them live in
the beautiful illusion, so long as the ugly facts did not break through! What mattered if these
sites were true or false--the believing soul had made them true. All these stones were holy,
if only with the tears of the generations. The Greek fire might be a shameless fraud, but the
true heavenly flame was the faith in it. The Christ story might be false, but it had idealized
the basal things--love, pity, self-sacrifice, purity, motherhood. And if any divine force worked
through history, then must the great common illusions of mankind also be divine. And in a world--itself
an illusion--what truths could there be save working truths, established by natural selection
in the spiritual world, varying for different races, and maintaining themselves by correspondence
with the changing needs of the spirit?

XI

Absolute religious truth? How could there be such a thing? As well say German was truer than
French, or that Greek was more final than Arabic. Its religion like its speech was the way
the deepest instincts of a race found expression, and like a language a religion was dead when
it ceased to change. Each religion gave the human soul something great to love, to live by,
and to die for. And whosoever lived in joyous surrender to some greatness outside himself had
religion, even though the world called him atheist. The finest souls too easily abandoned the
best words to the stupidest people.

The time had come for a new religious expression, a new language for the old everlasting emotions,
in terms of the modern cosmos; a religion that should contradict no fact and check no inquiry;
so that children should grow up again with no distracting divorce from their parents and their
past, with no break in the sweet sanctities of childhood, which carry on to old age something
of the freshness of early sensation, and are a fount of tears in the desert of life.

The ever-living, darkly-laboring Hebraic spirit of love and righteous aspiration, the Holy
Ghost that had inspired Judaism and Christianity, and moved equally in Mohammedanism and Protestantism,
must now quicken and inform the new learning, which still lay dead and foreign, outside humanity.

XII

If Evolution was a truth, what mystic force working in life! From the devil-fish skulking towards
his prey to the Christian laying down his life for his fellow, refusing the reward of the stronger;
from the palpitating sac--all stomach--of embryonic life to the poet, the musician, the great
thinker. The animality of average humanity made for hope rather than for despair, when one
remembered from what it had developed. It was for man in this laboring cosmos to unite himself
with the stream that made for goodness and beauty.

XIII

A song came to him of the true God, whose name is one with Past, Present, and Future.

YAHWEH

    I sing the uplift and the upwelling,
    I sing the yearning towards the sun,
    And the blind sea that lifts white hands of prayer.
    I sing the wild battle-cry of warriors and the sweet whispers
      of lovers,
    The dear word of the hearth and the altar,
    Aspiration, Inspiration, Compensation,
                                        God!

    The hint of beauty behind the turbid cities,
    The eternal laws that cleanse and cancel,
    The pity through the savagery of nature,
    The love atoning for the brothels,
    The Master-Artist behind his tragedies,
    Creator, Destroyer, Purifier, Avenger,
                                        God!

    Come into the circle of Love and Justice,
    Come into the brotherhood of Pity,
    Of Holiness and Health!
    Strike out glad limbs upon the sunny waters,
    Or be dragged down amid the rotting weeds,
    The festering bodies.
    Save thy soul from sandy barrenness,
    Let it blossom with roses and gleam with the living waters.

    Blame not, nor reason of, your Past,
    Nor explain to Him your congenital weakness,
    But come, for He is remorseless,
    Call Him unjust, but come,
    Do not mock or defy Him, for he will prevail.
    He regardeth not you, He hath swallowed the worlds and the nations,
    He hath humor, too: disease and death for the smugly prosperous.

    For such is the Law, stern, unchangeable, shining;
    Making dung from souls and souls from dung;
    Thrilling the dust to holy, beautiful spirit,
    And returning the spirit to dust.
    Come and ye shall know Peace and Joy.
    Let what ye desire of the Universe penetrate you,
    Let Loving-kindness and Mercy pass through you,
    And Truth be the Law of your mouth.
    For so ye are channels of the divine sea,
    Which may not flood the earth but only steal in
    Through rifts in your souls.

THE END

R.D. BLACKMORE'S NOVELS.

PERLYCROSS. A Novel. 12mo, Cloth, Ornamental, $1 75.

    Told with delicate and delightful art. Its pictures of rural
    English scenes and characters will woo and solace the reader....
    It is charming company in charming surroundings. Its pathos, its
    humor, and its array of natural incidents are all satisfying.
    One must feel thankful for so finished and exquisite a story....
    Not often do we find a more impressive piece of work.--N.Y.
    Sun.

    A new novel from the pen of R.D. Blackmore is as great a treat
    to the fastidious and discriminating novel-reader as a new and
    rare dish is to an epicure.... A story to be lingered over with
    delight.--Boston Beacon.

  SPRINGHAVEN. Illustrated, 12mo, Cloth, $1 50; 4to, Paper, 25 cents.
  LORNA DOONE. Illustrated. 12mo, Cloth, $1 00; 8vo, Paper, 40 cents.
  KIT AND KITTY. 12mo, Cloth, $1 25; Paper, 35 cents.
  CHRISTOWELL. 4to, Paper, 20 cents.
  CRADOCK NOWELL. 8vo, Paper, 60 cents.
  EREMA; OR, MY FATHER'S SIN. 8vo, Paper, 50 cents.
  MARY ANERLEY. 16mo, Cloth, $1 00; 4to, Paper, 15 cents.
  TOMMY UPMORE. 16mo, Cloth, 50 cents; Paper, 35 cents; 4to, Paper,
    20 cents.

    His descriptions are wonderfully vivid and natural. His pages
    are brightened everywhere with great humor; the quaint, dry
    turns of thought remind you occasionally of Fielding.--London
    Times.

    His tales, all of them, are pre-eminently meritorious. They are
    remarkable for their careful elaboration, the conscientious
    finish of their workmanship, their affluence of striking
    dramatic and narrative incident, their close observation and
    general interpretation of nature, their profusion of picturesque
    description, and their quiet and sustained humor.--Christian
    Intelligencer, N.Y.

PUBLISHED BY HARPER & BROTHERS, NEW YORK.

WILLIAM BLACK'S NOVELS.

    A DAUGHTER OF HETH.
    A PRINCESS OF THULE.
    DONALD ROSS OF HEIMRA.
    GREEN PASTURES AND PICCADILLY.
    IN FAR LOCHABER.
    IN SILK ATTIRE.
    JUDITH SHAKESPEARE. Illustrated by ABBEY.
    KILMENY.
    MACLEOD OF DARE. Illustrated.
    MADCAP VIOLET.
    PRINCE FORTUNATUS. Ill'd.
    SABINA ZEMBRA.
    SHANDON BELLS. Illustrated.
    STAND FAST, CRAIG-ROYSTON! Illustrated.
    SUNRISE.
    THAT BEAUTIFUL WRETCH. Illustrated.
    THE MAGIC INK, AND OTHER STORIES. Illustrated.
    THE STRANGE ADVENTURES OF A HOUSE-BOAT. Ill'd.
    THE STRANGE ADVENTURES OF A PHAETON.
    THREE FEATHERS.
    WHITE HEATHER.
    WHITE WINGS. Illustrated.
    YOLANDE. Illustrated.

    12mo, Cloth, $1 25 per volume.

    WOLFENBERG.--THE HANDSOME HUMES.
    Illustrated. 12mo, Cloth, $1 50 each.

    BRISEIS.--HIGHLAND COUSINS.
    Illustrated. 12mo, Cloth, Ornamental, $1 75 each.
    Complete Sets, 27 Volumes, Cloth, $31 50; Half Calf, $60 00.

EDITIONS IN PAPER COVERS:

    Donald Ross of Heimra. 8vo, 50 cents.--Sabina Zembra. 4to,
    20 cents.--Judith Shakespeare. 4to, 20 cents.--That Beautiful
    Wretch. Illustrated. 4to, 20 cents.--Sunrise. 4to, 20
    cents.--Macleod of Dare. Illustrated. 8vo, 60 cents.
    Illustrated. 4to, 15 cents.--Green Pastures and Piccadilly.
    8vo, 50 cents.--Madcap Violet. 8vo, 50 cents.--A Daughter of
    Heth.--8vo, 35 cents.--An Adventure in Thule. 4to, 10
    cents.--In Silk Attire. 8vo, 35 cents.--Kilmeny. 8vo, 35
    cents.--The Strange Adventures of a Phaeton. 8vo, 50
    cents.--The Maid of Killeena, the Marriage of Moira Fergus, and
    Other Stories. 8vo, 40 cents.--The Monarch of Mincing-Lane.
    Illustrated. 8vo, 50 cents.--The Strange Adventures of a
    House-Boat. Illustrated. 8vo, 50 cents.--In Far Lochâber.
    8vo, 40 cents.--Prince Fortunatus. Illustrated. 8vo, 50
    cents.-Stand Fast, Craig-Royston! 8vo, 50 cents.

PUBLISHED BY HARPER & BROTHERS, NEW YORK.

The above works are for sale by all booksellers, or will be sent by the publishers, postage
prepaid, on receipt of the price.

BY THOMAS HARDY

    Hardy has an exquisite vein of humor. His style is so lucid that
    the outlines of a character in one of his books are unmistakable
    from first to last. He has a reserve force, so to speak, of
    imagination, of invention, which keeps the interest undiminished
    always, though the personages in the drama may be few and their
    adventures unremarkable. But most of all he has shown the pity
    and the beauty of human life, most of all he has enlarged the
    boundaries of sympathy and charity. His has been no barren
    labor, for he makes his reader think less of himself and more of
    mankind, he teaches the glory of renunciation, the dignity of
    pain, and the transfiguring power of unblemished love.--N.Y.
    Tribune.

UNIFORM EDITION:

THE WELL-BELOVED.                           $1 50.
JUDE THE OBSCURE. Illustrated.              $1 50.
UNDER THE GREENWOOD-TREE.                   $1 50.
WESSEX TALES.                               $1 50.
DESPERATE REMEDIES.                         $1 50.
A LAODICEAN.                                $1 50.
THE HAND OF ETHELBERTA.                     $1 50.
THE WOODLANDERS.                            $1 50.
THE TRUMPET-MAJOR.                          $1 50.
FAR FROM THE MADDING CROWD.                 $1 50.
THE MAYOR OF CASTERBRIDGE.                  $1 50.
A PAIR OF BLUE EYES.                        $1 50.
TWO ON A TOWER.                             $1 50.
RETURN OF THE NATIVE.                       $1 50.
TESS OF THE D'URBERVILLES. Illustrated.     $1 50. Post 8vo, Cloth,
    Ornamental, $1 25.

  A GROUP OF NOBLE DAMES. Illustrated. 12mo, Cloth, Ornamental,
    $1 25; Post 8vo, Paper, 75 cents.

  THE WOODLANDERS. 16mo, Cloth, 75 cents.

  FELLOW-TOWNSMEN.

BY DAVID CHRISTIE MURRAY.

    Mr. Christie Murray is a kindly satirist who evidently delights
    in the analysis of character, and who deals shrewdly but gently
    with the frailties of our nature.... The pages are perpetually
    brightened by quaintly humorous touches. Often in describing
    some character or something that is commonplace enough, a droll
    fancy seems to strike the author, and forthwith he gives us the
    benefit of it. Consequently there is a spontaneity in his pen
    which is extremely fascinating.... We can only say generally
    that Mr. Murray's plot is sufficiently original and worked up
    with enough of skill to satisfy any but the most exacting
    readers. We found ourselves getting duly excited before the
    denouement.... Readers of Mr. Christie Murray's novels will
    know that he belongs to the school of Mr. Charles Reade. And it
    is no small praise to say that he has caught a fair share of the
    vigor and rapidity of that romancer. His characters, too, belong
    to the same category as those that figure in Mr. Reade's
    stories. They are drawn with a sufficient resemblance to nature
    to take a complete appearance of vitality so long as we are in
    the whirl of the plot, which is also what we feel about the
    characters of a good modern drama while we are watching its
    representation.... There is a certain alertness and vigor in the
    author's portraits which make them pleasant to meet
    with.--Saturday Review, London.

  THE MARTYRED FOOL. Post 8vo, Cloth, Ornamental, $1 25.
  IN DIREST PERIL. Post 8vo, Cloth, Ornamental, $1 25.
  TIME'S REVENGES. Post 8vo, Cloth, Ornamental, $1 25.
  A DANGEROUS CATSPAW. 8vo, Paper, 30 cents.
  A LIFE'S ATONEMENT. 4to, Paper, 20 cents.
  VAL STRANGE. 4to, Paper, 20 cents.
  A MODEL FATHER. 4to, Paper, 10 cents.
  HEARTS. 4to, Paper, 20 cents.
  A WASTED CRIME. 8vo, Paper, 50 cents.
  THE WEAKER VESSEL. 8vo, Paper, 50 cents.
  BY THE GATE OF THE SEA. 4to, Paper, 15 cents; 12mo, Paper, 20 cents.
  THE WAY OF THE WORLD. 4to, Paper, 20 cents.
  CYNIC FORTUNE. 12mo, Paper, 25 cents.
  AUNT RACHEL. 12mo, Paper, 25 cents.
  RAINBOW GOLD. 4to, Paper, 20 cents.

PUBLISHED BY HARPER & BROTHERS, NEW YORK.

       *       *       *       *       *

    +-----------------------------------------------------------+
    | Typographical errors corrected in text:                   |
    |                                                           |
    | Page  72: Explusion replaced with Expulsion               |
    | Page 265: doctines replaced with doctrines                |
    | Page 267: 'How know we we are not' replaced with          |
    |           'How know we are not'                           |
    | Page 301: suprised replaced with surprised                |
    | Page 310: Christain replaced with Christian               |
    | Page 203: 'to the the ruling religion' replaced with      |
    |           'to the ruling religion'                        |
    |                                                           |
    | Unusual words:                                            |
    |                                                           |
    | Page 183: astonied is an obsolete word for bewildered,    |
    |           dazed, astounded.                               |
    | Page 195: certes means certainly; truly.                  |
    | Page 197: vrouw means housewife; woman.                   |
    | Page 229: versts is an obsolete Russian unit of length.   |
    | Page 400: the Richi is a mountain on the Lake of Lucerne. |
    |                                                           |
    +-----------------------------------------------------------+

       *       *       *       *       *