These remarks have reference to the slave-trade inaugurated in Manyuema by the Arabs.  Harassed
on the road between Zanzibar and Unyanyembe by minatory natives, who with bloody hands are
ready to avenge the slightest affront, the Arabs have refrained from kidnapping between the
Tanganika and the sea; but in Manyuema, where the natives are timid, irresolute, and divided
into small weak tribes, they recover their audacity, and exercise their kidnapping propensities
unchecked.

The accounts which the Doctor brings from that new region are most deplorable.  He was an unwilling
spectator of a horrible deed--a massacre committed on the inhabitants of a populous district
who had assembled in the market-place on the banks of the Lualaba, as they had been accustomed
to do for ages.  It seems that the Wamanyuema are very fond of marketing, believing it to be
the summum bonum of human enjoyment.  They find endless pleasure in chaffering with might and
main for the least mite of their currency-- the last bead; and when they gain the point to
which their peculiar talents are devoted, they feel intensely happy.  The women are excessively
fond of this marketing, and, as they are very beautiful, the market place must possess considerable
attractions for the male sex.  It was on such a day amidst such a scene, that Tagamoyo, a half-caste
Arab, with his armed slave escort, commenced an indiscriminate massacre by firing volley after
volley into the dense mass of human beings.  It is supposed that there were about 2,000 present,
and at the first sound of the firing these poor people all made a rush for their canoes.  In
the fearful hurry to avoid being shot, the canoes were paddled away by the first fortunate
few who got possession of them; those that were not so fortunate sprang into the deep waters
of the Lualaba, and though many of them became an easy prey to the voracious crocodiles which
swarmed to the scene, the majority received their deaths from the bullets of the merciless
Tagamoyo and his villanous band.  The Doctor believes, as do the Arabs themselves, that about
400 people, mostly women and children, lost their lives, while many more were made slaves.
This outrage is only one of many such he has unwillingly witnessed, and he is utterly unable
to describe the feelings of loathing he feels for the inhuman perpetrators.

Slaves from Manyuema command a higher price than those of any other country, because of their
fine forms and general docility. The women, the Doctor said repeatedly, are remarkably pretty
creatures, and have nothing, except the hair, in common with the negroes of the West Coast.
They are of very light colour, have fine noses, well-cut and not over-full lips, while the
prognathous jaw is uncommon.  These women are eagerly sought after as wives by the half-castes
of the East Coast, and even the pure Omani Arabs do not disdain to take them in marriage.

To the north of Manyuema, Livingstone came to the light- complexioned race, of the colour of
Portuguese, or our own Louisiana quadroons, who are very fine people, and singularly remarkable
for commercial "'cuteness" and sagacity.  The women are expert divers for oysters, which are
found in great abundance in the Lualaba.

Rua, at a place called Katanga, is rich in copper.  The copper-mines of this place have been
worked for ages.  In the bed of a stream, gold has been found, washed down in pencil-shaped
pieces or in particles as large as split peas.  Two Arabs have gone thither to prospect for
this metal; but, as they are ignorant of the art of gulch-mining, it is scarcely possible that
they will succeed. From these highly important and interesting discoveries, Dr. Livingstone
was turned back, when almost on the threshold of success, by the positive refusal of his men
to accompany him further. They were afraid to go on unless accompanied by a large force of
men; and, as these were not procurable in Manyuema, the Doctor reluctantly turned his face
towards Ujiji.

It was a long and weary road back.  The journey had now no interest for him.  He had travelled
the road before when going westward, full of high hopes and aspirations, impatient to reach
the goal which promised him rest from his labors--now, returning unsuccessful, baffled, and
thwarted, when almost in sight of the end, and having to travel the same path back on foot,
with disappointed expectations and defeated hopes preying on his mind, no wonder that the old
brave spirit almost succumbed, and the strong constitution almost went to wreck.

Livingstone arrived at Ujiji, October 16th, almost at death's door. On the way he had been
trying to cheer himself up, since he had found it impossible to contend against the obstinacy
of his men, with, "It won't take long; five or six months more; it matters not since it cannot
be helped.  I have got my goods in Ujiji, and can hire other people, and make a new start again."
These are the words and hopes by which he tried to delude himself into the idea that all would
be right yet; but imagine the shock he must have suffered, when he found that the man to whom
was entrusted his goods for safe keeping had sold every bale for ivory.

The evening of the day Livingstone had returned to Ujiji, Susi and Chuma, two of his most faithful
men, were seen crying bitterly. The Doctor asked of them what ailed them, and was then informed,
for the first time, of the evil tidings that awaited him.

Said they, "All our things are sold, sir; Sherif has sold everything for ivory."

Later in the evening, Sherif came to see him, and shamelessly offered his hand, but Livingstone
repulsed him, saying he could not shake hands with a thief.  As an excuse, Sherif said he had
divined on the Koran, and that this had told him the Hakim (Arabic for Doctor) was dead.

Livingstone was now destitute; he had just enough to keep him and his men alive for about a
month, when he would be forced to beg from the Arabs.

The Doctor further stated, that when Speke gives the altitude of the Tanganika at only 1,800
feet above the sea, Speke must have fallen into that error by a frequent writing of the Anne
Domini, a mere slip of the pen; for the altitude, as he makes it out, is 2,800 feet by boiling
point, and a little over 3,000 feet by barometer.

The Doctor's complaints were many because slaves were sent to him, in charge of goods, after
he had so often implored the people at Zanzibar to send him freemen.  A very little effort
on the part of those entrusted with the despatch of supplies to him might have enabled them
to procure good and faithful freemen; but if they contented themselves, upon the receipt of
a letter from Dr. Livingstone, with sending to Ludha Damji for men, it is no longer a matter
of wonder that dishonest and incapable slaves were sent forward.  It is no new fact that the
Doctor has discovered when he states that a negro freeman is a hundred times more capable and
trustworthy than a slave.  Centuries ago Eumaeus, the herdsman, said to Ulysses:

Jove fixed it certain, that whatever day Makes man a slave, takes half his worth away.

We passed several happy days at Ujiji, and it was time we were now preparing for our cruise
on the Tanganika.  Livingstone was improving every day under the different diet which my cook
furnished him.  I could give him no such suppers as that which Jupiter and Mercury received
at the cottage of Baucis and Philemon.  We had no berries of chaste Minerva, pickled cherries,
endive, radishes, dried figs, dates, fragrant apples, and grapes; but we had cheese, and butter
which I made myself, new-laid eggs, chickens, roast mutton, fish from the lake, rich curds
and cream, wine from the Guinea-palm, egg-plants, cucumbers, sweet potatoes, pea-nuts, and
beans, white honey from Ukaranga, luscious singwe--a plum-like fruit--from the forests of Ujiji,
and corn scones and dampers, in place of wheaten bread.

During the noontide heats we sat under our veranda discussing our various projects, and in
the early morning and evening we sought the shores of the lake--promenading up and down the
beach to breathe the cool breezes which ruffled the surface of the water, and rolled the unquiet
surf far up on the smooth and whitened shore.

It was the dry season, and we had most lovely weather; the temperature never was over 80 degrees
in the shade.

The market-place overlooking the broad silver water afforded us amusement and instruction.
Representatives of most of the tribes dwelling near the lake were daily found there.  There
were the agricultural and pastoral Wajiji, with their flocks and herds; there were the fishermen
from Ukaranga and Kaole, from beyond Bangwe, and even from Urundi, with their whitebait, which
they called dogara, the silurus, the perch, and other fish; there were the palm-oil merchants,
principally from Ujiji and Urundi, with great five-gallon pots full of reddish oil, of the
consistency of butter; there were the salt merchants from the salt-plains of Uvinza and Uhha;
there were the ivory merchants from Uvira and Usowa; there were the canoe-makers from Ugoma
and Urundi; there were the cheap-Jack pedlers from Zanzibar, selling flimsy prints, and brokers
exchanging blue mutunda beads for sami-sami, and sungomazzi, and sofi.  The sofi beads are
like pieces of thick clay-pipe stem about half an inch long, and are in great demand here.
Here were found Waguhha, Wamanyuema, Wagoma, Wavira, Wasige, Warundi, Wajiji, Waha, Wavinza,
Wasowa, Wangwana, Wakawendi, Arabs, and Wasawahili, engaged in noisy chaffer and barter. Bareheaded,
and almost barebodied, the youths made love to the dark-skinned and woolly-headed Phyllises,
who knew not how to blush at the ardent gaze of love, as their white sisters; old matrons gossiped,
as the old women do everywhere; the children played, and laughed, and struggled, as children
of our own lands; and the old men, leaning on their spears or bows, were just as garrulous
in the Place de Ujiji as aged elders in other climes.

CHAPTER XIII.  OUR CRUISE ON THE LAKE TANGANIKA--
               EXPLORATION OF THE NORTH-END OF THE LAKE--
               THE RUSIZI IS DISCOVERED TO ENTER INTO THE LAKE--
               RETURN TO UJIJI.

"I distinctly deny that `any misleading by my instructions from the Royal Geographical Society
as to the position of the White Nile' made me unconscious of the vast importance of ascertaining
the direction of the Rusizi River.  The fact is, we did our best to reach it, and we failed."--Burton's
Zanzibar.

"The universal testimony of the natives to the Rusizi River being an influent is the most conclusive
argument that it does run out of the lake."--Speke.

"I therefore claim for Lake Tanganika the honour of being the SOUTHERNMOST RESERVOIR OF THE
NILE, until some more positive evidence, by actual observation, shall otherwise determine it."--
Findlay, R.G.S.

Had Livingstone and myself, after making up our minds to visit the northern head of the Lake
Tanganika, been compelled by the absurd demands or fears of a crew of Wajiji to return to Unyanyembe
without having resolved the problem of the Rusizi River, we had surely deserved to be greeted
by everybody at home with a universal giggling and cackling.  But Capt. Burton's failure to
settle it, by engaging Wajiji, and that ridiculous savage chief Kannena, had warned us of the
negative assistance we could expect from such people for the solution of a geographical problem.
We had enough good sailors with us, who were entirely under our commands.  Could we but procure
the loan of a canoe, we thought all might be well.

Upon application to Sayd bin Majid, he at once generously permitted us to use his canoe for
any service for which we might require it.  After engaging two Wajiji guides at two doti each,
we prepared to sail from the port of Ujiji, in about a week or so after my entrance into Ujiji.

I have already stated how it was that the Doctor and I undertook the exploration of the northern
half of the Tanganika and the River Rusizi, about which so much had been said and written.

Before embarking on this enterprise, Dr. Livingstone had not definitely made up his mind which
course he should take, as his position was truly deplorable.  His servants consisted of Susi,
Chumah, Hamoydah, Gardner, and Halimah, the female cook and wife of Hamoydah; to these was
added Kaif-Halek, the man whom I compelled to follow me from Unyanyembe to deliver the Livingstone
letters to his master.

Whither could Dr. Livingstone march with these few men, and the few table-cloths and beads
that remained to him from the store squandered by the imbecile Sherif?  This was a puzzling
question. Had Dr. Livingstone been in good health, his usual hardihood and indomitable spirit
had answered it in a summary way.  He might have borrowed some cloth from Sayd bin Majid at
an exorbitant price, sufficient to bring him to Unyanyembe and the sea-coast. But how long
would he have been compelled to sit down at Ujiji, waiting and waiting for the goods that were
said to be at Unyanyembe, a prey to high expectations, hoping day after day that the war would
end--hoping week after week to hear that his goods were coming?  Who knows how long his weak
health had borne up against the several disappointments to which he would be subjected?

Though it was with all due deference to Dr. Livingstone's vast experience as a traveller, I
made bold to suggest the following courses to him, either of which he could adopt:

Ist. To go home, and take the rest he so well deserved and, as he appeared then, to be so much
in need of.

2nd. To proceed to Unyanyembe, receive his goods, and enlist pagazis sufficient to enable him
to travel anywhere, either to Manyuema or Rua, and settle the Nile problem, which he said he
was in a fair way of doing.

3rd. To proceed to Unyanyembe, receive his caravan, enlist men, and try to join Sir Samuel
Baker, either by going to Muanza, and sailing through Ukerewe or Victoria N'Yanza in my boats--which
I should put up--to Mtesa's palace at Uganda, thus passing by Mirambo and Swaruru of Usui,
who would rob him if he took the usual caravan road to Uganda; thence from Mtesa to Kamrasi,
King of Unyoro, where he would of course hear of the great white man who was said to be with
a large force of men at Gondokoro.

4th. To proceed to Unyanyembe, receive his caravan, enlist men, and return to Ujiji, and back
to Manyuema by way of Uguhha.

5th. To proceed by way of the Rusizi through Ruanda, and so on to Itara, Unyoro, and Baker.

For either course, whichever he thought most expedient, I and my men would assist him as escort
and carriers, to the best of our ability.  If he should elect to go home, I informed him I
should be proud to escort him, and consider myself subject to his commands--travelling only
when he desired, and camping only when he gave the word.

6th. The last course which I suggested to him, was to permit me to escort him to Unyanyembe,
where he could receive his own goods, and where I could deliver up to him a large supply of
first-class cloth and beads, guns and ammunition, cooking utensils, clothing, boats, tents,
&c., and where he could rest in a comfortable house, while I would hurry down to the coast,
organise a new expedition composed of fifty or sixty faithful men, well armed, by whom I could
send an additional supply of needful luxuries in the shape of creature comforts.

After long consideration, he resolved to adopt the last course, as it appeared to him to be
the most feasible one, and the best, though he did not hesitate to comment upon the unaccountable
apathy of his agent at Zanzibar, which had caused him so much trouble and vexation, and weary
marching of hundreds of miles.

Our ship--though nothing more than a cranky canoe hollowed out of a noble mvule tree of Ugoma--was
an African Argo bound on a nobler enterprise than its famous Grecian prototype.  We were bound
upon no mercenary errand, after no Golden Fleece, but perhaps to discover a highway for commerce
which should bring the ships of the Nile up to Ujiji, Usowa, and far Marungu.  We did not know
what we might discover on our voyage to the northern head of the Tanganika; we supposed that
we should find the Rusizi to be an effluent of the Tanganika, flowing down to the Albert or
the Victoria N'Yanza.  We were told by natives and Arabs that the Rusizi ran out of the lake.

Sayd bin Majid had stated that his canoe would carry twenty-five men, and 3,500 lbs. of ivory.
Acting upon this information, we embarked twenty-five men, several of whom had stored away
bags of salt for the purposes of trade with the natives; but upon pushing off from the shore
near Ujiji, we discovered the boat was too heavily laden, and was down to the gunwale.  Returning
in-shore, we disembarked six men, and unloaded the bags of salt, which left us with sixteen
rowers, Selim, Ferajji the cook, and the two Wajiji guides.

Having thus properly trimmed our boat we again pushed off, and steered her head for Bangwe
Island, which was distant four or five miles from the Bunder of Ujiji.  While passing this
island the guides informed us that the Arabs and Wajiji took shelter on it during an incursion
of the Watuta--which took place some years ago--when they came and invaded Ujiji, and massacred
several of the inhabitants.  Those who took refuge on the island were the only persons who
escaped the fire and sword with which the Watuta had visited Ujiji.

After passing the island and following the various bends and indentations of the shore, we
came in sight of the magnificent bay of Kigoma, which strikes one at once as being an excellent
harbor from the variable winds which blow over the Tanganika.  About 10 A.M. we drew in towards
the village of Kigoma, as the east wind was then rising, and threatened to drive us to sea.
With those travelling parties who are not in much hurry Kigoma is always the first port for
canoes bound north from Ujiji.  The next morning at dawn we struck tent, stowed baggage, cooked,
and drank coffee, and set off northward again.

The lake was quite calm; its waters, of a dark-green colour,
reflected the serene blue sky above.  The hippopotami came up
to breathe in alarmingly close proximity to our canoe, and then
plunged their heads again, as if they were playing hide-and-seek
with us.  Arriving opposite the high wooded hills of Bemba, and
being a mile from shore, we thought it a good opportunity to sound
the depth of the water, whose colour seemed to indicate great depth.
We found thirty-five fathoms at this place.  Nor were we disappointed.  The wooded hills with
a wealth of boscage of beautiful trees, many of which were in
bloom, and crowned with floral glory, exhaling an indescribably
sweet fragrance, lifting their heads in varied contour--one
pyramidal, another a truncated cone; one table-topped, another
ridgy, like the steep roof of a church; one a glorious heave with
an even outline, another jagged and savage-interested us
considerably; and the pretty pictures, exquisitely pretty, at
the head of the several bays, evoked many an exclamation of
 admiration.  It was the most natural thing in the world that
I should feel deepest admiration for these successive pictures
of quiet scenic beauty, but the Doctor had quite as much to say
about them as I had myself, though, as one might imagine, satiated
with pictures of this kind far more beautiful--far more wonderful--
he should long ago have expended all his powers of admiring scenes
in nature.

From Bagamoyo to Ujiji I had seen nothing to compare to them--none of these fishing settlements
under the shade of a grove of palms and plantains, banians and mimosa, with cassava gardens
to the right and left of palmy forests, and patches of luxuriant grain looking down upon a
quiet bay, whose calm waters at the early morn reflected the beauties of the hills which sheltered
them from the rough and boisterous tempests that so often blew without.

The fishermen evidently think themselves comfortably situated. The lake affords them all the
fish they require, more than enough to eat, and the industrious a great deal to sell.  The
steep slopes of the hills, cultivated by the housewives, contribute plenty of grain, such as
dourra and Indian corn, besides cassava, ground-nuts or peanuts, and sweet potatoes.  The palm
trees afford oil, and the plantains an abundance of delicious fruit.  The ravines and deep
gullies supply them with the tall shapely trees from which they cut out their canoes.  Nature
has supplied them bountifully with all that a man's heart or stomach can desire.  It is while
looking at what seems both externally and internally complete and perfect happiness that the
thought occurs--how must these people sigh, when driven across the dreary wilderness that intervenes
between the lake country and the sea-coast, for such homes as these!-- those unfortunates who,
bought by the Arabs for a couple of doti, are taken away to Zanzibar to pick cloves, or do
hamal work!

As we drew near Niasanga, our second camp, the comparison between the noble array of picturesque
hills and receding coves, with their pastoral and agricultural scenes, and the shores of old
Pontus, was very great.  A few minutes before we hauled our canoe ashore, two little incidents
occurred.  I shot an enormous dog-faced monkey, which measured from nose to end of tail 4 feet
9 inches; the face was 8 1/2 inches long, its body weighed about 100 lbs.  It had no mane or
tuft at end of tail, but the body was covered with long wiry hair.  Numbers of these specimens
were seen, as well as of the active cat-headed and long-tailed smaller ones.  The other was
the sight of a large lizard, about 2 ft. 6 in. long, which waddled into cover before we had
well noticed it.  The Doctor thought it to be the Monitor terrestris.

We encamped under a banian tree; our surroundings were the now light-grey waters of the Tanganika,
an amphitheatral range of hills, and the village of Niasanga, situated at the mouth of the
rivulet Niasanga, with its grove of palms, thicket of plantains, and plots of grain and cassava
fields.  Near our tent were about half-a-dozen canoes, large and small, belonging to the villagers.
Our tent door fronted the glorious expanse of fresh water, inviting the breeze, and the views
of distant Ugoma and Ukaramba, and the Island of Muzimu, whose ridges appeared of a deep-blue
colour.  At our feet were the clean and well-washed pebbles, borne upward into tiny lines and
heaps by the restless surf.  A search amongst these would reveal to us the material of the
mountain heaps which rose behind and on our right and left; there was schist, conglomerate
sandstone, a hard white clay, an ochreish clay containing much iron, polished quartz, &c. 
Looking out of our tent, we could see a line on each side of us of thick tall reeds, which
form something like a hedge between the beach and the cultivated area around Niasanga.  Among
birds seen here, the most noted were the merry wagtails, which are regarded as good omens and
messengers of peace by the natives, and any harm done unto them is quickly resented, and is
fineable.  Except to the mischievously inclined, they offer no inducement to commit violence.
On landing, they flew to meet us, balancing themselves in the air in front, within easy reach
of our hands.  The other birds were crows, turtle-doves, fish-hawks, kingfishers, ibis nigra
and ibis religiosa, flocks of whydah birds, geese, darters, paddy birds, kites, and eagles.

At this place the Doctor suffered from dysentery--it is his only weak point, he says; and,
as I afterwards found, it is a frequent complaint with him.  Whatever disturbed his mind, or
any irregularity in eating, was sure to end in an attack of dysentery, which had lately become
of a chronic character.

The third day of our journey on the Tanganika brought us to Zassi River and village, after
a four hours' pull.  Along the line of road the mountains rose 2,000 and 2,500 feet above the
waters of the lake.  I imagined the scenery getting more picturesque and animated at every
step, and thought it by far lovelier than anything seen near Lake George or on the Hudson.
The cosy nooks at the head of the many small bays constitute most admirable pictures, filled
in as they are with the ever-beautiful feathery palms and broad green plantain fronds.  These
nooks have all been taken possession of by fishermen, and their conically beehive- shaped huts
always peep from under the frondage.  The shores are thus extremely populous; every terrace,
small plateau, and bit of level ground is occupied.

Zassi is easily known by a group of conical hills which rise near by, and are called Kirassa.
Opposite to these, at the distance of about a mile from shore, we sounded, and obtained 35
fathoms, as on the previous day.  Getting out a mile further, I let go the whole length of
my line, 115 fathoms, and obtained no bottom.  In drawing it up again the line parted, and
I lost the lead, with three-fourths of the line.  The Doctor stated, apropos of this, that
he had sounded opposite the lofty Kabogo, south of Ujiji, and obtained the great depth of 300
fathoms.  He also lost his lead and 100 fathoms of his line, but he had nearly 900 fathoms
left, and this was in the canoes.  We hope to use this long sounding line in going across from
the eastern to the western shore.

On the fourth day we arrived at Nyabigma, a sandy island in Urundi.  We had passed the boundary
line between Ujiji and Urundi half-an-hour before arriving at Nyabigma.  The Mshala River is
considered by both nations to be the proper divisional line; though there are parties of Warundi
who have emigrated beyond the frontier into Ujiji; for instance, the Mutware and villagers
of populous Kagunga, distant an hour north from Zassi.  There are also several small parties
of Wajiji, who have taken advantage of the fine lands in the deltas of the Kasokwe, Namusinga,
and Luaba Rivers, the two first of which enter the Tanganika in this bay, near the head of
which Nyabigma is situated.

From Nyabigma, a pretty good view of the deep curve in the great mountain range which stretches
from Cape Kazinga and terminates at Cape Kasofu, may be obtained--a distance of twenty or twenty-five
miles.  It is a most imposing scene, this great humpy, ridgy, and irregular line of mountains.
Deep ravines and chasms afford outlets to the numerous streams and rivers which take their
rise in the background; the pale fleecy ether almost always shrouds its summit. From its base
extends a broad alluvial plain, rich beyond description, teeming with palms and plantains,
and umbrageous trees.  Villages are seen in clusters everywhere.  Into this alluvial plain
run the Luaba, or Ruaba River, on the north side of Cape Kitunda, and the Kasokwe, Namusinga,
and Mshala Rivers, on the south side of the cape. All the deltas of rivers emptying into the
Tanganika are hedged in on all sides with a thick growth of matete, a gigantic species of grass,
and papyrus.  In some deltas, as that of Luaba and Kasokwe, morasses have been formed, in which
the matete and papyrus jungle is impenetrable.  In the depths of them are quiet and deep pools,
frequented by various aquatic birds, such as geese, ducks, snipes, widgeons, kingfishers and
ibis, cranes and storks, and pelicans.  To reach their haunts is, however, a work of great
difficulty to the sportsman in quest of game; a work often attended with great danger, from
the treacherous nature of these morasses, as well as from the dreadful attacks of fever which,
in these regions, invariably follow wet feet and wet clothes.

At Nyabigma we prepared, by distributing ten rounds of ammunition to each of our men, for a
tussle with the Warundi of two stages ahead, should they invite it by a too forward exhibition
of their prejudice to strangers.

At dawn of the fifth day we quitted the haven of Nyabigma Island, and in less than an hour
had arrived off Cape Kitunda.  This cape is a low platform of conglomerate sandstone, extending
for about eight miles from the base of the great mountain curve which gives birth to the Luaba
and its sister streams.  Crossing the deep bay, at the head of which is the delta of the Luaba,
we came to Cape Kasofu.  Villages are numerous in this vicinity.  From hence we obtained a
view of a series of points or capes, Kigongo, Katunga, and Buguluka, all of which we passed
before coming to a halt at the pretty position of Mukungu.

At Mukungu, where we stopped on the fifth day, we were asked for honga, or tribute.  The cloth
and beads upon which we subsisted during our lake voyage were mine, but the Doctor, being the
elder of the two, more experienced, and the "big man" of the party, had the charge of satisfying
all such demands.  Many and many a time had I gone through the tedious and soul-wearying task
of settling the honga, and I was quite curious to see how the great traveller would perform
the work.

The Mateko (a man inferior to a Mutware) of Mukungu asked for two and a half doti.  This was
the extent of the demand, which he made known to us a little after dark.  The Doctor asked
if nothing had been brought to us.  He was answered, "No, it was too late to get anything now;
but, if we paid the honga, the Mateko would be ready to give us something when we came back."
Livingstone, upon hearing this, smiled, and the Mateko being then and there in front of him,
he said to him.  "Well, if you can't get us anything now, and intend to give something when
we return, we had better keep the honga until then."  The Mateko was rather taken aback at
this, and demurred to any such proposition.  Seeing that he was dissatisfied, we urged him
to bring one sheep--one little sheep-- for our stomachs were nearly empty, having been waiting
more than half a day for it.  The appeal was successful, for the old man hastened, and brought
us a lamb and a three-gallon pot of sweet but strong zogga, or palm toddy, and in return the
Doctor gave him two and a half doti of cloth.  The lamb was killed, and, our digestions being
good, its flesh agreed with us; but, alas, for the effects of zogga, or palm toddy!  Susi,
the invaluable adjunct of Dr. Livingstone, and Bombay, the headman of my caravan, were the
two charged with watching the canoe; but, having imbibed too freely of this intoxicating toddy,
they slept heavily, and in the morning the Doctor and I had to regret the loss of several valuable
and indispensable things; among which may be mentioned the Doctor's 900-fathom sounding-line,
500 rounds of pin, rim, and central-fire cartridges for my arms, and ninety musket bullets,
also belonging to me.  Besides these, which were indispensable in hostile Warundi, a large
bag of flour and the Doctor's entire stock of white sugar were stolen.  This was the third
time that my reliance in Bombay's trustworthiness resulted in a great loss to me, and for the
ninety-ninth time I had to regret bitterly having placed such entire confidence in Speke's
loud commendation of him.  It was only the natural cowardice of ignorant thieves that prevented
the savages from taking the boat and its entire contents, together with Bombay and Susi as
slaves. I can well imagine the joyful surprise which must have been called forth at the sight
and exquisite taste of the Doctor's sugar, and the wonder with which they must have regarded
the strange ammunition of the Wasungu.  It is to be sincerely hoped that they did not hurt
themselves with the explosive bullets and rim cartridges through any ignorance of the nature
of the deadly contents; in which ease the box and its contents would prove a very Pandora's casket.

Much grieved at our loss, we set off on the sixth day at the usual hour on our watery journey.
We coasted close to the several low headlands formed by the rivers Kigwena, Kikuma, and Kisunwe;
and when any bay promised to be interesting, steered the canoe according to its indentations.
While travelling on the water--each day brought forth similar scenes--on our right rose the
mountains of Urundi, now and then disclosing the ravines through which the several rivers and
streams issued into the great lake; at their base were the alluvial plains, where flourished
the oil-palm and grateful plantain, while scores of villages were grouped under their shade.
Now and then we passed long narrow strips of pebbly or sandy beach, whereon markets were improvised
for selling fish, and the staple products of the respective communities.  Then we passed broad
swampy morasses, formed by the numerous streams which the mountains discharged, where the matete
and papyrus flourished.  Now the mountains approached to the water, their sides descending
abruptly to the water's edge; then they receded into deep folds, at the base of which was sure
to be seen an alluvial plain from one to eight miles broad.  Almost constantly we observed
canoes being punted vigorously close to the surf, in fearless defiance of a catastrophe, such
as a capsize and gobbling-up by voracious crocodiles.  Sometimes we sighted a canoe a short
distance ahead of us; whereupon our men, with song and chorus, would exert themselves to the
utmost to overtake it. Upon observing our efforts, the natives would bend themselves to their
tasks, and paddling standing and stark naked, give us ample opportunities for studying at our
leisure comparative anatomy. Or we saw a group of fishermen lazily reclining in puris naturalibus
on the beach, regarding with curious eye the canoes as they passed their neighbourhood; then
we passed a flotilla of canoes, their owners sitting quietly in their huts, busily plying the
rod and hook, or casting their nets, or a couple of men arranging their long drag nets close
in shore for a haul; or children sporting fearlessly in the water, with their mothers looking
on approvingly from under the shade of a tree, from which I infer that there are not many crocodiles
in the lake, except in the neighbourhood of the large rivers.

After passing the low headland of Kisunwe, formed by the Kisunwe River, we came in view of
Murembwe Cape, distant about four or five miles: the intervening ground being low land, a sandy
and pebbly beach.  Close to the beach are scores of villages, while the crowded shore indicates
the populousness of the place beyond. About half way between Cape Kisunwe and Murembwe, is
a cluster of villages called Bikari, which has a mutware who is in the habit of taking honga.
As we were rendered unable to cope for any length of time with any mischievously inclined community,
all villages having a bad reputation with the Wajiji were avoided by us. But even the Wajiji
guides were sometimes mistaken, and led us more than once into dangerous places.  The guides
evidently had no objections to halt at Bikari, as it was the second camp from Mukungu; because
with them a halt in the cool shade of plaintains was infinitely preferable to sitting like
carved pieces of wood in a cranky canoe.  But before they stated their objections and preferences,
the Bikari people called to us in a loud voice to come ashore, threatening us with the vengeance
of the great Wami if we did not halt.  As the voices were anything but siren-like, we obstinately
refused to accede to the request.  Finding threats of no avail, they had recourse to stones,
and, accordingly, flung them at us in a most hearty manner.  As one came within a foot of my
arm, I suggested that a bullet be sent in return in close proximity to their feet; but Livingstone,
though he said nothing, yet showed plainly enough that he did not quite approve of this. As
these demonstrations of hostility were anything but welcome, and as we saw signs of it almost
every time we came opposite a village, we kept on our way until we came to Murembwe Point,
which, being a delta of a river of the same name, was well protected by a breadth of thorny
jungle, spiky cane, and a thick growth of reed and papyrus, from which the boldest Mrundi might
well shrink, especially if he called to mind that beyond this inhospitable swamp were the guns
of the strangers his like had so rudely challenged.  We drew our canoe ashore here, and, on
a limited area of clean sand, Ferajji, our rough-and-ready cook, lit his fire, and manufactured
for us a supply of most delicious Mocha coffee.  Despite the dangers which still beset us,
we were quite happy, and seasoned our meal with a little moral philosophy, which lifted us
unconsciously into infinitely superior beings to the pagans by whom we were surrounded--upon
whom we now looked down, under the influence of Mocha coffee and moral philosophy, with calm
contempt, not unmixed with a certain amount of compassion. The Doctor related some experiences
he had had among people of similar disposition, but did not fail to ascribe them, with the
wisdom of a man of ripe experiences, to the unwise conduct of the Arabs and half-castes; in
this opinion I unreservedly concur.

From Murembwe Point, having finished our coffee and ended our discourse on ethics, we proceeded
on our voyage, steering for Cape Sentakeyi, which, though it was eight or ten miles away, we
hoped to make before dark.  The Wangwana pulled with right good will, but ten hours went by,
and night was drawing near, and we were still far from Sentakeyi.  As it was a fine moonlight
night, and we were fully alive to the dangerous position in which we might find ourselves,
they consented to pull an hour or two more.  About 1 P.M., we pulled in shore for a deserted
spot--a clean shelf of sand, about thirty feet long by ten deep, from which a clay bank rose
about ten or twelve feet above, while on each side there were masses of disintegrated rock.
Here we thought, that by preserving some degree of silence, we might escape observation, and
consequent annoyance, for a few hours, when, being rested, we might continue our journey. 
Our kettle was boiling for tea, and the men had built a little fire for themselves, and had
filled their black earthen pot with water for porridge, when our look-outs perceived dark forms
creeping towards our bivouac.  Being hailed, they at once came forward, and saluted us with
the native "Wake."  Our guides explained that we were Wangwana, and intended to camp until
morning, when, if they had anything to sell, we should be glad to trade with them.  They said
they were rejoiced to hear this, and after they had exchanged a few words more--during which
time we observed that they were taking mental notes of the camp--they went away.  Upon leaving,
they promised to return in the morning with food, and make friends with us.  While drinking
our tea, the look-outs warned us of the approach of a second party, which went through the
same process of saluting and observing as the first had done.  These also went away, over-exuberant,
as I thought, and were shortly succeeded by a third party, who came and went as the others
had.  From all this we inferred that the news was spreading rapidly through the villages about,
and we had noticed two canoes passing backwards and forwards with rather more haste than we
deemed usual or necessary.  We had good cause to be suspicious; it is not customary for people
(at least, between Ujiji and Zanzibar) to be about visiting and saluting after dark, under
any pretence; it is not permitted to persons to prowl about camp after dark without being shot
at; and this going backward and forward, this ostentatious exuberance of joy at the arrival
of a small party of Wangwana, which in many parts of Urundi would be regarded as a very common
event, was altogether very suspicious.  While the Doctor and I were arriving at the conclusion
that these movements were preliminary to or significant of hostility, a fourth body, very boisterous
and loud, came and visited us.  Our supper had been by this time despatched, and we thought
it high time to act.  The fourth party having gone with extravagant manifestations of delight,
the men were hurried into the canoe, and, when all were seated, and the look-outs embarked,
we quietly pushed off, but not a moment too soon.  As the canoe was gliding from the darkened
light that surrounded us, I called the Doctor's attention to several dark forms; some of whom
were crouching behind the rocks on our right, and others scrambling over them to obtain good
or better positions; at the same time people were approaching from the left of our position,
in the same suspicious way; and directly a voice hailed us from the top of the clay bank overhanging
the sandy shelf where we had lately been resting.  "Neatly done," cried the Doctor, as we were
shooting through the water, leaving the discomfited would-be robbers behind us.  Here, again,
my hand was stayed from planting a couple of good shots, as a warning to them in future from
molesting strangers, by the more presence of the Doctor, who, as I thought, if it were actually
necessary, would not hesitate to give the word.

After pulling six hours more, during which we had rounded Cape Sentakeyi, we stopped at the
small fishing village of Mugeyo, where we were permitted to sleep unmolested.  At dawn we continued
our journey, and about 8 A.M. arrived at the village of the friendly Mutware of Magala.  We
had pulled for eighteen hours at a stretch, which, at the rate of two miles and a half per
hour, would make forty-five miles.  Taking bearings from our camp at Cape Magala, one of the
most prominent points in travelling north from Ujiji, we found that the large island of Muzimu,
which had been in sight ever since rounding Cape Bangwe, near Ujiji Bunder, bore about south-south-west,
and that the western shore had considerably approached to the eastern; the breadth of the lake
being at this point about eight or ten miles.  We had a good view of the western highlands,
which seemed to be of an average height, about 3,000 feet above the lake.  Luhanga Peak, rising
a little to the north of west from Magala, might be about 500 feet higher; and Sumburizi, a
little north of Luhanga, where lived Mruta, Sultan of Uvira, the country opposite to this part
of Urundi, about 300 feet higher than the neighbouring heights.  Northward from Magala Cape
the lake streamed away between two chains of mountains; both meeting in a point about thirty
miles north of us.

The Warundi of Magala were very civil, and profound starers.  They flocked around the tent
door, and most pertinaciously gazed on us, as if we were subjects of most intense interest,
but liable to sudden and eternal departure.  The Mutware came to see us late in the afternoon,
dressed with great pomp.  He turned out to be a boy whom I had noticed in the crowd of gazers
for his good looks and fine teeth, which he showed, being addicted to laughing continually.
There was no mistaking him, though he was now decorated with many ivory ornaments, with necklaces,
and with heavy brass bracelets and iron wire anklets.  Our admiration of him was reciprocated;
and, in return for our two doti of cloth and a fundo of samsam, he gave a fine fat and broad-tailed
sheep, and a pot of milk.  In our condition both were extremely acceptable.

At Magala we heard of a war raging between Mukamba, for whose country we were bound, and Warumashanya,
a Sultan of an adjoining district; and we were advised that, unless we intended to assist one
of these chiefs against the other, it would be better for us to return.  But, as we had started
to solve the problem of the Rusizi River, such considerations had no weight with us.

On the eighth morning from leaving Ujiji we bade farewell to the hospitable people of Magala,
and set off for Mukamba's country, which was in view.  Soon after passing the boundary between
Urundi proper, and what is known as Usige, a storm from the south-west arose; and the fearful
yawing of our canoe into the wave trough warned us from proceeding further; so we turned her
head for Kisuka village, about four miles north, where Mugere, in Usige, begins.

At Kisuka a Mgwana living with Mukamba came to see us, and gave us details of the war between
Mukamba and Warumashanya, from which it seemed that these two chiefs were continually at loggerheads.
It is a tame way of fighting, after all.  One chief makes a raid into the other's country,
and succeeds in making off with a herd of cattle, killing one or two men who have been surprised.
Weeks, or perhaps months elapse before the other retaliates, and effects a capture in a similar
way, and then a balance is struck in which neither is the gainer.  Seldom do they attack each
other with courage and hearty goodwill, the constitution of the African being decidedly against
any such energetic warfare.

This Mgwana, further, upon being questioned, gave us information far more interesting, viz.,
about the Rusizi.  He told us positively, with the air of a man who knew all about it, and
as if anybody who doubted him might well be set down as an egregious ass, that the Rusizi River
flowed out of the lake, away to Suna's (Mtesa's) country.  "Where else could it flow to?" he
asked.  The Doctor was inclined to believe it, or, perhaps he was more inclined to let it rest
as stated until our own eyes should confirm it.  I was more inclined to doubt, as I told the
Doctor; first, it was too good to be true; second, the fellow was too enthusiastic upon a subject
that could not possibly interest him.  His "Barikallahs" and "Inshallahs" were far too fervid;
his answers too much in accordance with our wishes.  The Doctor laid great stress on the report
of a Mgwana he met far south, who stated that the grandfather or father of Rumanika, present
King of Karagwah, had thought of excavating the bed of the Kitangule River, in order that his
canoes might go to Ujiji to open a trade.  From this, I imagine, coinciding as it did with
his often-expressed and present firm belief that the waters of the Tanganika had an outlet
somewhere, the Doctor was partial to the report of the Mgwana; but as we proceed we shall see
how all this will end.

On the ninth morning from Ujiji, about two hours after sunrise, we passed the broad delta of
the Mugere, a river which gives its name also to the district on the eastern shore ruled over
by Mukamba. We had come directly opposite the most southern of its three mouths, when we found
quite a difference in the colour of the water. An almost straight line, drawn east and west
from the mouth would serve well to mark off the difference that existed between the waters.
On the south side was pure water of a light green, on the north side it was muddy, and the
current could be distinctly seen flowing north. Soon after passing the first mouth we came
to a second, and then a third mouth, each only a few yards broad, but each discharging sufficient
water to permit our following the line of the currents several rods north beyond the respective
mouths.

Beyond the third mouth of the Mugere a bend disclosed itself, with groups of villages beyond
on its bank.  These were Mukamba's, and in one of them lived Mukamba, the chief.  The natives
had yet never seen a white man, and, of course, as soon as we landed we were surrounded by
a large concourse, all armed with long spears--the only weapon visible amongst them save a
club-stick, and here and there a hatchet.

We were shown into a hut, which the Doctor and I shared between us.  What followed on that
day I have but a dim recollection, having been struck down by fever--the first since leaving
Unyanyembe.  I dimly recollect trying to make out what age Mukamba might be, and noting that
he was good-looking withal, and kindly-disposed towards us.  And during the intervals of agony
and unconsciousness, I saw, or fancied I saw, Livingstone's form moving towards me, and felt,
or fancied I felt, Livingstone's hand tenderly feeling my hot head and limbs.  I had suffered
several fevers between Bagamoyo and Unyanyembe, without anything or anybody to relieve me of
the tedious racking headache and pain, or to illumine the dark and gloomy prospect which must
necessarily surround the bedside of the sick and solitary traveller.  But though this fever,
having enjoyed immunity from it for three months, was more severe than usual, I did not much
regret its occurrence, since I became the recipient of the very tender and fatherly kindness
of the good man whose companion I now found myself.

The next morning, having recovered slightly from the fever, when Mukamba came with a present
of an ox, a sheep, and a goat, I was able to attend to the answers which he gave to the questions
about the Rusizi River and the head of the lake.  The ever cheerful and enthusiastic Mgwana
was there also, and he was not a whit abashed, when, through him, the chief told us that the
Rusizi, joined by the Ruanda, or Luanda, at a distance of two days' journey by water, or one
day by land from the head of the lake, flowed INTO the lake.

Thus our hopes, excited somewhat by the positive and repeated assurances that the river flowed
out away towards Karagwah, collapsed as speedily as they were raised.

We paid Mukamba the honga, consisting of nine doti and nine fundo of samsam, lunghio, muzurio
n'zige.  The printed handkerchiefs, which I had in abundance at Unyanyembe, would have gone
well here. After receiving his present, the chief introduced his son, a tall youth of eighteen
or thereabouts, to the Doctor, as a would-be son of the Doctor; but, with a good-natured laugh,
the Doctor scouted all such relationship with him, as it was instituted only for the purpose
of drawing more cloth out of him.  Mukamba took it in good part, and did not insist on getting
more.

Our second evening at Mukamba's, Susi, the Doctor's servant, got gloriously drunk, through
the chief's liberal and profuse gifts of pombe.  Just at dawn neat morning I was awakened by
hearing several sharp, crack-like sounds.  I listened, and I found the noise was in our hut.
It was caused by the Doctor, who, towards midnight, had felt some one come and lie down by
his side on the same bed, and, thinking it was me, he had kindly made room, and laid down on
the edge of the bed.  But in the morning, feeling rather cold, he had been thoroughly awakened,
and, on rising on his elbow to see who his bed-fellow was, he discovered, to his great astonishment,
that it was no other than his black servant, Susi, who taking possession of his blankets, and
folding them about himself most selfishly, was occupying almost the whole bed.  The Doctor,
with that gentleness characteristic of him, instead of taking a rod, had contented himself
with slapping Susi on the back, saying, "Get up, Susi, will you?  You are in my bed.  How dare
you, sir, get drunk in this way, after I have told you so often not to. Get up.  You won't?
Take that, and that, and that."  Still Susi slept and grunted; so the slapping continued, until
even Susi's thick hide began to feel it, and he was thoroughly awakened to the sense of his
want of devotion and sympathy for his master in the usurping of even his master's bed.  Susi
looked very much crestfallen after this exposé of his infirmity before the "little master,"
as I was called.

The next day at dusk--Mukamba having come to bid us good-bye, and requested that as soon as
we reached his brother Ruhinga, whose country was at the head of the lake, we would send our
canoe back for him, and that in the meanwhile we should leave two of our men with him, with
their guns, to help defend him in case Warumashanya should attack him as soon as we were gone--we
embarked and pulled across.  In nine hours we had arrived at the head of the lake in Mugihewa,
the country of Ruhinga; Mukamba's elder brother.  In looking back to where we had come from
we perceived that we had made a diagonal cut across from south-east to north-west, instead
of having made a direct east and west course; or, in other words, from Mugere--which was at
least ten miles from the northernmost point of the eastern shore--we had come to Mugihewa,
situated at the northernmost point of the western shore.  Had we continued along the eastern
shore, and so round the northern side of the lake, we should have passed by Mukanigi, the country
of Warumashanya, and Usumbura of Simveh, his ally and friend.  But by making a diagonal course,
as just described, we had arrived at the extreme head of the lake without any difficulty.

The country in which we now found ourselves, Mugihewa, is situated in the delta of the Rusizi
River.  It is an extremely flat country, the highest part of which is not ten feet above the
lake, with numerous depressions in it overgrown with the rankest of matete-grass and the tallest
of papyrus, and pond-like hollows, filled with stagnant water, which emit malaria wholesale.
Large herds of cattle are reared on it; for where the ground is not covered with marshy plants
it produces rich, sweet grass.  The sheep and goats, especially the former, are always in good
condition; and though they are not to be compared with English or American sheep, they are
the finest I have seen in Africa.  Numerous villages are seen on this land because the intervening
spaces are not occupied with the rank and luxuriant jungle common in other parts of Africa.
Were it not for the Euphorbia kolquall of Abyssinia--which some chief has caused to be planted
as a defence round the villages-- one might see from one end of Mugihewa to the other.  The
waters along the head of the lake, from the western to the eastern shores, swarm with crocodiles.
From the banks, I counted ten heads of crocodiles, and the Rusizi, we were told, was full of them.

Ruhinga, who came to see us soon after we had taken up our quarters in his village, was a most
amiable man, who always contrived to see something that excited his risibility; though older
by five or six years perhaps--he said he was a hundred years old--than Mukamba, he was not
half so dignified, nor regarded with so much admiration by his people as his younger brother.
Ruhinga had a better knowledge, however, of the country than Mukamba, and an admirable memory,
and was able to impart his knowledge of the country intelligently.  After he had done the honours
as chief to us-- presented us with an ox and a sheep, milk and honey--we were not backward
in endeavouring to elicit as much information as possible out of him.

The summary of the information derived from Ruhinga may be stated as follows:

The country bordering the head of the lake from Urundi proper, on the eastern shore, to Uvira
on the western, is divided into the following districts: 1st. Mugere, governed by Mukamba,
through which issued into the lake the small rivers of Mugere and Mpanda. 2nd. Mukanigi, governed
by Warumashanya, which occupied the whole of the north-eastern head of the lake, through which
issued into the lake the small rivers of Karindwa and Mugera wa Kanigi. 3rd. On the eastern
half of the district, at the head of the lake, was Usumbura, governed by Simveh, ally and friend
of Warumashanya, extending to the eastern bank of the Rusizi. 4th. Commencing from the western
bank of the Rusizi, to the extreme north-western head of the lake, was Mugihewa--Ruhinga's
country. 5th. From Uvira on the west, running north past Mugihewa, and overlapping it on the
north side as far as the hills of Chamati, was Ruwenga, also a country governed by Mukamba.
Beyond Ruwenga, from the hills of Chamati to the Ruanda River, was the country of Chamati.
West of Ruwenga, comprising all the mountains for two days' journey in that direction, was
Uashi.  These are the smaller sub-divisions of what is commonly known as Ruwenga and Usige.
Ruwenga comprises the countries of Ruwenga and Mugihewa; Usige, the countries of Usumbura,
Mukanigi, and Mugere.  But all these countries are only part and parcel of Urundi, which comprises
all that country bordering the lake from Mshala River, on the eastern shore, to Uvira, on the
western, extending over ten days' journey direct north from the head of the lake, and one month
in a northeastern direction to Murukuko, the capital of Mwezi, Sultan of all Urundi.  Direct
north of Urundi is Ruanda; also a very large country.

The Rusizi River--according to Ruhinga--rose near a lake called Kivo, which he said is as long
as from Mugihawa to Mugere, and as broad as from Mugihewa to Warumashanya's country, or, say
eighteen miles in length by about eight in breadth.  The lake is surrounded by mountains on
the western and northern sides: on the south-western side of one of these mountains issues
the Rusizi--at first a small rapid stream; but as it proceeds towards the lake it receives
the rivers Kagunissi, Kaburan, Mohira, Nyamagana, Nyakagunda, Ruviro, Rofubu, Kavimvira, Myove,
Ruhuha, Mukindu, Sange, Rubirizi, Kiriba, and, lastly, the Ruanda River, which seems to be
the largest of them all.  Kivo Lake is so called from the country in which it is situated.
On one side is Mutumbi (probably the Utumbi of Speke and Baker), on the west is Ruanda; on
the east is Urundi.  The name of the chief of Kivo is Kwansibura.

After so many minute details about the River Rusizi, it only remained for us to see it.  On
the second morning of our arrival at Mugihewa we mustered ten strong paddlers, and set out
to explore the head of the lake and the mouth of the Rusizi.  We found that the northern head
of the lake was indented with seven broad bays, each from one and a half to three miles broad;
that long broad spits of sand, overgrown with matete, separated each bay from the other.  The
first, starting from west to east, at the broadest part, to the extreme southern point of Mugihewa,
was about three miles broad, and served as a line of demarcation between Mukamba's district
of Ruwenga and Mugihewa of Ruhinga; it was also two miles deep. The second bay was a mile from
the southern extremity of Mugihewa to Ruhinga's village at the head of the bay, and it was
a mile across to another spit of sand which was terminated by a small island.  The third bay
stretched for nearly a mile to a long spit, at the end of which was another island, one and
a quarter mile in length, and was the western side of the fourth bay, at the head of which
was the delta of the Rusizi.  This fourth bay, at its base, was about three miles in depth,
and penetrated half a mile further inland than any other.  Soundings indicated six feet deep,
and the same depth was kept to within a few hundred yards of the principal mouth of the Rusizi.
The current was very sluggish; not more than a mile an hour.  Though we constantly kept our
binocular searching for the river, we could not see the main channel until within 200 yards
of it, and then only by watching by what outlet the fishing; canoes came out.  The bay at this
point had narrowed from two miles to about 200 yards in breadth.  Inviting a canoe to show
us the way, a small flotilla of canoes preceded us, from the sheer curiosity of their owners.
We followed, and in a few minutes were ascending the stream, which was very rapid, though but
about ten yards wide, and very shallow; not more than two feet deep.  We ascended about half
a mile, the current being very strong, from six to eight miles an hour, and quite far enough
to observe the nature of the stream at its embouchure.  We could see that it widened and spread
out in a myriad of channels, rushing by isolated clumps of sedge and matete grass; and that
it had the appearance of a swamp.  We had ascended the central, or main channel.  The western
channel was about eight yards broad.  We observed, after we had returned to the bay, that the
easternmost channel was about six yards broad, and about ten feet deep, but very sluggish.
We had thus examined each of its three mouths, and settled all doubts as to the Rusizi being
an effluent or influent.  It was not necessary to ascend higher, there being nothing about
the river itself to repay exploration of it.

The question, "Was the Rusizi an effluent or an influent?" was answered for ever.  There was
now no doubt any more on that point. In size it was not to be compared with the Malagarazi
River, neither is it, or can it be, navigable for anything but the smallest canoes.  The only
thing remarkable about it is that it abounds in crocodiles, but not one hippopotamus was seen;
which may be taken as another evidence of its shallowness.  The bays to the east of the Rusizi
are of the same conformation as those on the west. Carefully judging from the width of the
several bays from point to point, and of the several spits which separate them, the breadth
of the lake may be said to be about twelve or fourteen miles.  Had we contented ourselves with
simply looking at the conformation, and the meeting of the eastern and western ranges, we should
have said that the lake ended in a point, as Captain Speke has sketched it on his map.  But
its exploration dissolved that idea.  Chamati Hill is the extreme northern termination of the
western range, and seems, upon a superficial examination, to abut against the Ramata mountains
of the eastern range, which are opposite Chamati; but a valley about a mile in breadth separates
the two ranges, and through this valley the Rusizi flows towards the lake.*  Though Chamati
terminates the western range, the eastern range continues for miles beyond, north-westerly.
After its issue from this broad gorge, the Rusizi runs seemingly in a broad and mighty stream,
through a wide alluvial plain, its own formation, in a hundred channels, until, approaching
the lake, it flows into it by three channels only, as above described.

*  After the patient investigation of the North end of the Lake, and satisfying ourselves by
personal observation that the Rusizi ran into the Lake, the native rumor which Sir Samuel Baker
brought home that the Tanganika and the Albert N'Yanza have a water connection still finds
many believers!

I should not omit to state here, that though the Doctor and I have had to contend against the
strong current of the Rusizi River, as it flowed swift and strong INTO the Tanganika, the Doctor
still adheres to the conviction that, whatever part the Rusizi plays, there must be an outlet
to the Tanganika somewhere, from the fact that all fresh-water lakes have outlets, The Doctor
is able to state his opinions and reasons far better than I can find for him; and, lest I misconstrue
the subject, I shall leave it until he has an opportunity to explain them himself; which his
great knowledge of Africa will enable him to do with advantage.

One thing is evident to me, and I believe to the Doctor, that Sir Samuel Baker will have to
curtail the Albert N'Yanza by one, if not two degrees of latitude.  That well-known traveller
has drawn his lake far into the territory of the Warundi, while Ruanda has been placed on the
eastern side; whereas a large portion of it, if not all, should be placed north of what he
has designated on his map as Usige.  The information of such an intelligent man as Ruhinga
is not to be despised; for, if Lake Albert came within a hundred miles of the Tanganika, he
would surely have heard of its existence, even if he had not seen it himself.  Originally he
came from Mutumbi, and he has travelled from that country into Mugihewa, the district he now
governs.  He has seen Mwezi, the great King of Urundi, and describes him as a man about forty
years old, and as a very good man.

Our work was now done; there was nothing more to detain us at Mugihewa.  Ruhinga had been exceedingly
kind, and given us one ox after another to butcher and eat.  Mukamba had done the same. Their
women had supplied us with an abundance of milk and butter, and we had now bounteous supplies
of both.

The Doctor had taken a series of observations for latitude and longitude; and Mugihewa was
made out to be in 3 degrees 19 minutes S. latitude.

On the 7th December, early in the morning, we left Mugihewa, and rowing past the southern extremity
of the Katangara Islands, we approached the highlands of Uashi near the boundary line between
Mukamba's country and Uvira.  The boundary line is supposed to be a wide ravine, in the depths
of which is a grove of tall, beautiful, and straight-stemmed trees, out of which the natives
make their canoes.

Passing Kanyamabengu River, which issues into the lake close to the market-ground of Kirabula,
the extreme point of Burton and Speke's explorations of the Tanganika, we steered south along
the western shore of the lake for half an hour longer to Kavimba, where we halted to cook breakfast.

The village where lived Mruta, the King of Uvira, was in sight of our encampment, and as we
observed parties of men ascending and descending the mountains much more often than we thought
augured good to ourselves, we determined to continue on our course south. Besides, there was
a party of disconsolate-looking Wajiji here, who had been plundered only a few days before
our arrival, for attempting, as the Wavira believed, to evade the honga payment. Such facts
as these, and our knowledge of the general state of insecurity in the country, resulting from
the many wars in which the districts of the Tanganika were engaged, determined us not to halt
at Kavimba.

We embarked quickly in our boat before the Wavira had collected themselves, and headed south
against a strong gale, which came driving down on us from the south-west.  After a hard pull
of about two hours in the teeth of the storm, which was rapidly rising, we pointed the head
of the boat into a little quiet cove, almost hidden in tall reeds, and disembarked for the night.

Cognizant of the dangers which surrounded us, knowing, that savage and implacable man was the
worst enemy we had to fear, we employed our utmost energies in the construction of a stout
fence of thorn bushes, and then sat down to supper after our work was done, and turned in to
sleep; but not before we had posted watchmen to guard our canoe, lest the daring thieves of
Uvira might abstract it, in which case we should have been in a pretty plight, and in most
unenviable distress.

At daybreak, leaving Kukumba Point after our humble breakfast of coffee, cheese, and dourra
cakes was despatched, we steered south once more.  Our fires had attracted the notice of the
sharp-eyed and suspicious fishermen of Kukumba; but our precautions and the vigilant watch
we had set before retiring, had proved an effectual safeguard against the Kivira thieves.

The western shores of the lake as we proceeded were loftier, and more bold than the wooded
heights of Urundi and bearded knolls of Ujiji.  A back ridge--the vanguard of the mountains
which rise beyond--disclosed itself between the serrated tops of the front line of mountains,
which rose to a height of from 2,500 to 3,000 feet above the lake.  Within the folds of the
front line of mountains rise isolated hills of considerable magnitude, precipitous and abrupt,
but scenically very picturesque.  The greater part of these hills have the rounded and smooth
top, or are tabularly summited.  The ridge enfolding these hills shoots out, at intervals,
promontorial projections of gradual sloping outlines, which on the map I have designated capes,
or points.  When rounding these points, up went our compasses for the taking of bearings, and
observing the directions of all prominent objects of interest.  Often these capes are formed
by the alluvial plains, through which we may be sure a river will be found flowing.  These
pretty alluvial plains, enfolded on the south, the west, and the north by a grand mountain
arc, present most luxurious and enchanting scenery.  The vegetation seems to be of spontaneous
growth.  Groups of the Elaeis Guineansis palm embowering some dun-brown village; an array of
majestic, superb growth of mvule trees; a broad extent covered with vivid green sorghum stalks;
parachute-like tops of mimosa; a line of white sand, on which native canoes are drawn far above
the reach of the plangent, uneasy surf; fishermen idly reclining in the shade of a tree;--these
are the scenes which reveal themselves to us as we voyage in our canoe on the Tanganika.  When
wearied with the romance of wild tropic scenes such as these, we have but to lift our eyes
to the great mountain tops looming darkly and grandly on our right; to watch the light pencilling
of the cirrus, brushing their summits, as it is drifted toward the north by the rising wind:
to watch the changing forms which the clouds assume, from the fleecy horizontal bars of the
cirrus, to the denser, gloomier cumulus, prognosticator of storm and rain, which soon settles
into a portentous group--Alps above Alps, one above another--and we know the storm which was
brewing is at hand, and that it is time to seek shelter.

Passing Muikamba, we saw several groves of the tall mvule tree. As far as Bemba the Wabembe
occupy the mountain summits, while the Wavira cultivate the alluvial plains along the base
and lower slopes of the mountain.  At Bemba we halted to take in pieces of pipe-clay, in accordance
with the superstition of the Wajiji, who thought us certain of safe passage and good fortune
if we complied with the ancient custom.

Passing Ngovi, we came to a deep bend, which curved off to Cape Kabogi at the distance of ten
miles.  About two-thirds of the way we arrived at a group of islets, three in number, all very
steep and rocky; the largest about 300 feet in length at the base, and about 200 feet in breadth.
Here we made preparations to halt for the night.  The inhabitants of the island were a gorgeously-feathered
old cock, which was kept as a propitiatory offering to the spirit of the island, a sickly yellow-looking
thrush, a hammer-headed stork, and two fish-hawks, who, finding we had taken possession of
what had been religiously reserved for them, took flight to the most western island, where
from their perches they continued to eye us most solemnly.  As these islands were with difficulty
pronounced by us as Kavunvweh, the Doctor, seeing that they were the only objects we were likely
to discover, named them the "'New York Herald' Islets;" and, in confirmation of the new designation
given them, shook hands with me upon it.  Careful dead-reckoning settled them to be in lat.
3 degrees 41 minutes S.

The summit of the largest island was well adapted to take bearings, and we improved the opportunity,
as most extensive views of the broad and lengthy lake and surrounding lines of imposing mountains
were attainable.  The Ramata Hills were clearly visible, and bore N.N.E. from it; Katanga Cape,
S.E. by S.; Sentakeyi, E.S.E.; Magala, E. by N.; south-western point of Muzimu bore S., northern
point of Muzimu island, S.S.E.

At dawn on the 9th December we prepared to resume our voyage. Once or twice in the night we
had been visited by fishermen, but our anxious watchfulness prevented any marauding.  It seemed
to me, however, that the people of the opposite shore, who were our visitors, were eagerly
watching an opportunity to pounce upon our canoe, or take us bodily for a prey; and our men
were considerably affected by these thoughts, if we may judge from the hearty good-will with
which they rowed away from our late encampment.

Arriving at Cape Kabogi, we came to the territory of the Wasansi. We knew we were abreast of
a different tribe by the greeting "Moholo," which a group of fishermen gave us; as that of
the Wavira was "Wake," like that of Urundi, Usige, and Uhha.

We soon sighted Cape Luvumba--a sloping projection of a mountain ridge which shot far into
the lake.  As a storm was brewing, we steered for a snug little cove that appeared before a
village; and, drawing our canoe from the water, began to set the tent, and make other preparations
for passing the night.

As the natives appeared quiet and civil enough, we saw no reason to suspect that they entertained
any hostility to Arabs and Wangwana.  Accordingly we had our breakfast cooked, and as usual
laid down for an afternoon nap.  I soon fell asleep, and was dreaming away in my tent, in happy
oblivion of the strife and contention that had risen since I had gone to sleep, when I heard
a voice hailing me with, "Master, master! get up, quick.  Here is a fight going to begin!"
I sprang up, and snatching my revolver belt from the gun-stand, walked outside.  Surely, there
appeared to be considerable animus between the several factions; between a noisy, vindictive-looking
set of natives of the one part, and our people of the other part.  Seven or eight of our people
had taken refuge behind the canoe, and had their loaded guns half pointing at the passionate
mob, which was momentarily increasing in numbers, but I could not see the Doctor anywhere.

"Where is the Doctor?" I asked.

"He has gone over that hill, sir, with his compass," said Selim.

"Anybody with him?"

"Susi and Chumah."

"You, Bombay, send two men off to warn the Doctor, and tell him to hurry up here."

But just at this period the Doctor and his two men appeared on the brow of the hill, looking
down in a most complacent manner upon the serio-comic scene that the little basin wherein we
were encamped presented.  For, indeed, despite the serious aspect of it, there was much that
was comical blended with it--in a naked young man who--perfectly drunk, barely able to stand
on his feet--was beating the ground with his only loin-cloth, screaming and storming away like
a madman; declaring by this, and by that, in his own choice language, that no Mgwana or Arab
should halt one moment on the sacred soil of Usansi.  His father, the Sultan, was as inebriated
as himself, though not quite so violent in his behaviour.  In the meantime the Doctor arrived
upon the scene, and Selim had slipped my Winchester rifle, with the magazine full of cartridges,
into my hand.  The Doctor calmly asked what was the matter, and was answered by the Wajiji
guides that the people wished us to leave, as they were on hostile terms with the Arabs, because
the eldest son of the Sultan of Muzimu, the large island nearly opposite, had been beaten to
death by a Baluch, named Khamis, at Ujiji, because the young fellow had dared look into his
harem, and ever since peace had been broken between the Wasansi and Arabs.

After consulting with the guides, the Doctor and I came to the conclusion that it were better
that we should endeavour to pacify the Sultan by a present, rather than take offence at a drunken
boy's extravagant freak.  In his insane fury he had attempted to slash at one of my men with
a billhook he carried.  This had been taken as a declaration of hostilities, and the soldiers
were ready enough to engage in war; but there was no necessity to commence fighting with a
drunken mob, who could have been cleared off the ground with our revolvers alone had we desired it.

The Doctor, baring his arm, said to them that he was not a Mgwana, or an Arab; but a white
man; that Arabs and Wangwana had no such colour as we had.  We were white men, different people
altogether from those whom they were accustomed to see: that no black men had ever suffered
injury from white men.  This seemed to produce great effect, for after a little gentle persuasion
the drunken youth, and his no less inebriate sire, were induced to sit down to talk quietly.
In their conversation with us, they frequently referred to Mombo, the son of Kisesa, Sultan
of Muzimu, who was brutally murdered.  "Yes, brutally murdered!" they exclaimed several times,
in their own tongue; illustrating, by a faithful pantomime, how the unfortunate youth had died.

Livingstone continued talking with them in a mild, paternal way, and their loud protestations
against Arab cruelty were about to subside, when the old Sultan suddenly rose up and began
to pace about in an excited manner, and in one of his perambulations deliberately slashed his
leg with the sharp blade of his spear, and then exclaimed that the Wangwana had wounded him!

At this cry one half of the mob hastily took to flight, but one old woman, who carried a strong
staff with a carved lizard's body on its top, commenced to abuse the chief with all the power
of her voluble tongue, charging him with a desire to have them all killed, and other women
joined in with her in advising him to be quiet, and accept the present we were willing to give.

But it is evident that there was little needed to cause all men present in that little hollow
to begin a most sanguinary strife. The gentle, patient bearing of the Doctor had more effect
than anything else in making all forbear bloodshed, while there was left the least chance of
an amicable settlement, and in the end it prevailed.  The Sultan and his son were both sent
on their way rejoicing.

While the Doctor conversed with them, and endeavoured to calm their fierce passions, I had
the tent struck, and the canoes launched, and the baggage stowed, and when the negotiations
had concluded amicably, I begged the Doctor to jump into the boat, as this apparent peace was
simply a lull before a storm; besides, said I, there are two or three cowardly creatures in
the boat, who, in case of another disturbance, would not scruple to leave both of us here.

From Cape Luvumba, about 4.30 P.M. we commenced pulling across; at 8 P.M. we were abreast of
Cape Panza, the northern extremity of the island of Muzimu; at 6 A.M. we were southward of
Bikari, and pulling for Mukungu, in Urundi, at which place we arrived at 10 A.M., having been
seventeen hours and a half in crossing the lake, which, computing at two miles an hour, may
be said to be thirty-five miles direct breadth, and a little more than forty-three miles from
Cape Luvumba.

On the 11th of December, after seven hours' pulling, we arrived at picturesque Zassi again;
on the 12th, at the pretty cove of Niasanga; and at 11 A.M. we had rounded past Bangwe, and
Ujiji was before us.

We entered the port very quietly, without the usual firing of guns, as we were short of powder
and ball.  As we landed, our soldiers and the Arab magnates came to the water's edge to greet us.

Mabruki had a rich budget to relate to us, of what had occurred during our absence.  This faithful
man, left behind in charge of Livingstone's house, had done most excellently.  Kalulu had scalded
himself, and had a frightful raw sore on his chest in consequence. Mabruki had locked up Marora
in chains for wounding one of the asses.  Bilali, the stuttering coward, a bully of women,
had caused a tumult in the market-place, and had been sharply belaboured with the stick by
Mabruki.  And, above all most welcome, was a letter I received from the American Consul at
Zanzibar, dated June 11th, containing telegrams from Paris as late as April 22nd of the same
year!  Poor Livingstone exclaimed, "And I have none.  What a pleasant thing it is to have a
real and good friend!"

Our voyage on the Tanganika had lasted twenty-eight days, during which time we had traversed
over 300 miles of water.

CHAPTER XIV.  OUR JOURNEY FROM UJIJI TO UNYANYEMBE.

We felt quite at home when we sat down on our black bear-skin, gay Persian carpet and clean
new mats, to rest with our backs to the wall, sipping our tea with the air of comfortable men,
and chat over the incidents of the "picnic," as Livingstone persisted in calling our journey
to the Rusizi.  It seemed as if old times, which we loved to recall, had come back again, though
our house was humble enough in its aspect, and our servants were only naked barbarians; but
it was near this house that I had met him-- Livingstone--after that eventful march from Unyanyembe;
it was on this same veranda that I listened to that wonderful story of his about those far,
enchanting regions west of the Lake Tanganika; it was in this same spot that I first became
acquainted with him; and ever since my admiration has been growing for him, and I feel elated
when he informs me that he must go to Unyanyembe under my escort, and at my expense.  The old
mud walls and the bare rafters, and the ancient thatched roof, and this queer-looking old veranda,
will have an historical interest for me while I live, and so, while I can, I have taken pains
and immortalized the humble old building by a sketch.

I have just said that my admiration for Livingstone has been growing.  This is true.  The man
that I was about to interview so calmly and complacently, as I would interview any prominent
man with the view of specially delineating his nature, or detailing his opinions, has conquered
me.  I had intended to interview him, report in detail what he said, picture his life and his
figure, then bow him my "au revoir," and march back.  That he was specially disagreeable and
brusque in his manner, which would make me quarrel with him immediately, was firmly fixed in
my mind.

But Livingstone--true, noble Christian, generous-hearted, frank man--acted like a hero, invited
me to his house, said he was glad to see me, and got well on purpose to prove the truth of
his statement, "You have brought new life unto me;" and when I fell sick with the remittent
fever, hovering between life and death, he attended me like a father, and we have now been
together for more than a month.

Can you wonder, then, that I like this man, whose face is the reflex of his nature, whose heart
is essentially all goodness, whose aims are so high, that I break out impetuously sometimes:
"But your family, Doctor, they would like to see you, oh! so much. Let me tempt you to come
home with me.  I promise to carry you every foot of the way to the coast.  You shall have the
finest donkey to ride that is in Unyanyembe.  Your wants--you have but to hint them, and they
shall be satisfied.  Let the sources of the Nile go--do you come home and rest; then, after
a year's rest, and restored health, you can return and finish what you have to do."

But ever the answer was, "No, I should like to see my family very much indeed.  My children's
letters affect me intensely; but I must not go home; I must finish my task.  It is only the
want of supplies that has detained me.  I should have finished the discovery of the Nile by
this, by tracing it to its connection with either Baker's Lake, or Petherick's branch of the
Nile.  If I had only gone one month further, I could have said, 'the work is done."'

Some of these men who had turned the Doctor back from his interesting discoveries were yet
in Ujiji, and had the Government Enfield rifles in their hands, which they intended to retain
until their wages had been paid to them; but as they had received $60 advance each at Zanzibar
from the English Consul, with the understanding entered into by contract that they should follow
their master wherever he required them to go; and as they had not only not gone where they
were required to proceed with him, but had baffled and thwarted him, it was preposterous that
a few men should triumph over the Doctor, by keeping the arms given to him by the Bombay Government.
I had listened to the Arab sheikhs, friends of the Doctor, advising them in mild tones to give
them up; I had witnessed the mutineer's stubbornness; and it was then, on the burzani of Sayd
bin Majid's house, that I took advantage to open my mind on the subject, not only for the benefit
of the stubborn slaves, but also for the benefit of the Arabs; and to tell them that it was
well that I had found Livingstone alive, for if they had but injured a hair of his head, I
should have gone back to the coast, to return with a party which would enable me to avenge
him.  I had been waiting to see Livingstone's guns returned to him every day, hoping that I
should not have to use force; but when a month or more had elapsed, and still the arms had
not been returned, I applied for permission to take them, which was granted.  Susi, the gallant
servant of Dr. Livingstone, was immediately despatched with about a dozen armed men to recover
them, and in a few minutes we had possession of them without further trouble.

The Doctor had resolved to accompany me to Unyanyembe, in order to meet his stores, which had
been forwarded from Zanzibar, November 1st, 1870.  As I had charge of the escort, it was my
duty to study well the several routes to Unyanyembe from Ujiji.  I was sufficiently aware of
the difficulties and the responsibilities attached to me while escorting such a man.  Besides,
my own personal feelings were involved in the case.  If Livingstone came to any harm through
any indiscretion of mine while he was with me, it would immediately be said, "Ah! had he not
accompanied Stanley, he would have been alive now."

I took out my chart--the one I had made myself--in which I had perfect faith, and I sketched
out a route which would enable us to reach Unyanyembe without paying a single cloth as tribute,
and without encountering any worse thing than a jungle, by which we could avoid all the Wavinza
and the plundering Wahha.  This peaceable, secure route led by water, south, along the coast
of Ukaranga and Ukawendi, to Cape Tongwe.  Arriving at Cape Tongwe, I should be opposite the
village of Itaga, Sultan Imrera, in the district of Rusawa of Ukawendi; after which we should
strike my old road, which I had traversed from Unyanyembe, when bound for Ujiji.  I explained
it to the Doctor, and he instantly recognised its feasibility and security; and if I struck
Imrera, as I proposed to do, it would demonstrate whether my chart was correct or not.

We arrived at Ujiji from our tour of discovery, north of the Tanganika, December 13th; and
from this date the Doctor commenced writing his letters to his numerous friends, and to copy
into his mammoth Letts's Diary, from his field books, the valuable information he had acquired
during his years of travel south and west of the Tanganika.  I sketched him while sitting in
his shirt-sleeves in the veranda, with his Letts's Diary on his knee; and the likeness on the
frontispiece is an admirable portrait of him, because the artist who has assisted me, has with
an intuitive eye, seen the defects in my own sketch; and by this I am enabled to restore him
to the reader's view exactly as I saw him--as he pondered on what he had witnessed during his
long marches.

Soon after my arrival at Ujiji, he had rushed to his paper, and indited a letter to James Gordon
Bennett, Esq., wherein he recorded his thanks; and after he had finished it, I asked him to
add the word "Junior" to it, as it was young Mr. Bennett to whom he was indebted.  I thought
the letter admirable, and requested the Doctor not to add another word to it.  The feelings
of his heart had found expression in the grateful words he had written; and if I judged Mr.
Bennett rightly, I knew he would be satisfied with it.  For it was not the geographical news
he cared so much about, as the grand fact of Livingstone's being alive or dead.

In this latter part of December he was writing letters to his children, to Sir Roderick Murchison,
and to Lord Granville. He had intended to have written to the Earl of Clarendon, but it was
my sad task to inform him of the death of that distinguished nobleman.

In the meantime I was preparing the Expedition for its return march to Unyanyembe, apportioning
the bales and luggage, the Doctor's large tin boxes, and my own among my own men; for I had
resolved upon permitting the Doctor's men to march as passengers, because they had so nobly
performed their duty to their master.

Sayd bin Majid had left, December 12, for Mirambo's country, to give the black Bonaparte battle
for the murder of his son Soud in the forests of Wilyankuru; and he had taken with him 300
stout fellows, armed with guns, from Ujiji.  The stout-hearted old chief was burning with rage
and resentment, and a fine warlike figure he made with his 7-foot gun.  Before we had departed
for the Rusizi, I had wished him bon voyage, and expressed a hope that he would rid the Central
African world of the tyrant Mirambo.

On the 20th of December the rainy season was ushered in with heavy rain, thunder, lightning,
and hail; the thermometer falling to 66 degrees Fahrenheit.  The evening of this day I was
attacked with urticaria, or "nettle rash," for the third time since arriving in Africa, and
I suffered a woeful sickness; and it was the forerunner of an attack of remittent fever, which
lasted four days.  This is the malignant type, which has proved fatal to so many African travellers
on the Zambezi, the White Nile, the Congo, and the Niger. The head throbs, the pulses bound,
the heart struggles painfully, while the sufferer's thoughts are in a strange world, such only
as a sick man's fancy can create.  This was the fourth attack of fever since the day I met
Livingstone.  The excitement of the march, and the high hope which my mind constantly nourished,
had kept my body almost invincible against an attack of fever while advancing towards Ujiji;
but two weeks after the great event had transpired my energies were relaxed, my mind was perfectly
tranquil, and I became a victim.

Christmas came, and the Doctor and I had resolved upon the blessed and time-honoured day being
kept as we keep it in Anglo-Saxon lands, with a feast such as Ujiji could furnish us.  The
fever had quite gone from me the night before, and on Christmas morning, though exceedingly
weak, I was up and dressed, and lecturing Ferajji, the cook, upon the importance of this day
to white men, and endeavouring to instil into the mind of the sleek and pampered animal some
cunning secrets of the culinary art.  Fat broad-tailed sheep, goats, zogga and pombe, eggs,
fresh milk, plantains, singwe, fine cornflour, fish, onions, sweet potatoes, &c., &c., were
procured in the Ujiji market, and from good old Moeni Kheri. But, alas! for my weakness.  Ferajji
spoiled the roast, and our custard was burned--the dinner was a failure.  That the fat-brained
rascal escaped a thrashing was due only to my inability to lift my hands for punishment; but
my looks were dreadful and alarming, and capable of annihilating any one except Ferajji.  The
stupid, hard-headed cook only chuckled, and I believe he had the subsequent gratification of
eating the pies, custards, and roast that his carelessness had spoiled for European palates.

Sayd bin Majid, previous to his departure, had left orders that we should be permitted to use
his canoe for our homeward trip, and Moeni Kheri kindly lent his huge vessel for the same purpose.
The Expedition, now augmented by the Doctor and his five servants, and their luggage, necessitated
the employment of another canoe. We had our flocks of milch-goats and provision of fat sheep
for the jungle of Ukawendi, the transit of which I was about to attempt. Good Halimah, Livingstone's
cook, had made ready a sackful of fine flour, such as she only could prepare in her fond devotion
for her master.  Hamoydah, her husband, also had freely given his assistance and attention
to this important article of food. I purchased a donkey for the Doctor, the only one available
in Ujiji, lest the Doctor might happen to suffer on the long march from his ancient enemy.
In short, we were luxuriously furnished with food, sheep, goats, cheese, cloth, donkeys, and
canoes, sufficient to convey us a long distance; we needed nothing more.

The 27th of December has arrived; it is the day of our departure from Ujiji.  I was probably
about to give an eternal farewell to the port whose name will for ever be sacred in my memory.
The canoes--great lumbering hollow trees--are laden with good things; the rowers are in their
places; the flag of England is hoisted at the stern of the Doctor's canoe; the flag of America
waves and rustles joyously above mine; and I cannot look at them without feeling a certain
pride that the two Anglo-Saxon nations are represented this day on this great inland sea, in
the face of wild nature and barbarism.

We are escorted to our boats by the great Arab merchants, by the admiring children of Unyamwezi,
by the freemen of Zanzibar, by wondering Waguhha and Wajiji, by fierce Warundi, who are on
this day quiet, even sorrowful, that the white men are going-"Whither?" they all ask.

At 8 A.M. we start, freely distributing our farewells as the Arabs and quidnuncs wave their
hands.  On the part of one or two of them there was an attempt to say something sentimental
and affecting, especially by the convicted sinner Mohammed bin Sali; but though outwardly I
manifested no disapprobation of his words, or of the emphatic way in which he shook my hand,
I was not sorry to see the last of him, after his treachery to Livingstone in 1869.  I was
earnestly requested to convey to Unyanyembe "Mengi salaams" to everybody, but had I done so,
as he evidently desired me to do, I would not have been surprised at being regarded by all
as hopelessly imbecile.

We pushed off from the clayey bank at the foot of the market-place, while the land party, unencumbered
with luggage, under the leadership of gigantic Asmani and Bombay, commenced their journey southward
along the shores of the lake.  We had arranged to meet them at the mouth of every river to
transport them across from bank to bank.

The Doctor being in Sayd bin Majid's boat, which was a third or so shorter than the one under
my command, took the lead, with the British flag, held aloft by a bamboo, streaming behind
like a crimson meteor.  My boat-manned by Wajiji sailors, whom we had engaged to take the canoes
back from Tongwe Cape to Ujiji Bunder-- came astern, and had a much taller flagstaff, on which
was hoisted the ever-beautiful Stars and Stripes.  Its extreme height drew from the Doctor--whose
patriotism and loyalty had been excited--the remark that he would cut down the tallest palmyra
for his flagstaff, as it was not fitting that the British flag should be so much lower than
that of the United States.

Our soldiers were not a whit behind us in lightheartedness at the thought of going to Unyanyembe.
They struck up the exhilarating song of the Zanzibar boatmen, with the ecstatic chorus--

Kinan de re re Kitunga,

rowing away like madmen, until they were compelled to rest from sheer exhaustion, while the
perspiration exuded from the pores of their bodies in streams.  When refreshed, they bent back
to their oars, raising the song of the Mrima--

O mama, re de mi Ky,

which soon impelled them to an extravagant effort again, It was by this series of ferocious
spurts, racing, shouting, singing, perspiring, laughing, groaning, and puffing, that our people
vented their joyous feelings, as the thought filled their minds that we were homeward bound,
and that by the route I had adopted between us and Unyanyembe there was not the least danger.

  We have given the Waha, the slip! ha, ha!
  The Wavinza will trouble us no more! ho! ho!
Mionvu can get no more cloth from us! hy,by!
And Kiala will see us no more---never more! he, he!

they shouted with wild bursts of laughter, seconded by tremendous and rapid strokes with their
oars, which caused the stiff old canoes to quiver from stem to stern.

Our party ashore seemed to partake of our excitement, and joined in the wild refrain of the
mad African song.  We watched them urging their steps forward to keep pace with us, as we rounded
the capes and points, and rowed across the bays whose margins were sedge, and rush, and reed;
the tiny and agile Kalulu, little Bilali, and Majwara were seen racing the herds of goats,
sheep, and donkeys which belonged to the caravan, and the animals even seemed to share the
general joy.

Nature, also--proud, wild nature-0-with the lofty azure dome upheaved into infinity--with her
breadth and depth of vivid greenness and enormous vastness on our left--with her immense sheet
of bright, glancing water--with her awful and intense serenity--she partook of and added to
our joy.

About 10 A.M. we arrived at Kirindo's, an old chief, noted for his singular kindness to Dr.
Livingstone, while he bore animosity to the Arabs.  To the Arabs this was unaccountable--to
the Doctor it was plain: he had but spoken kind and sincere words, while all the Arabs spoke
to him as if he were not even a man, least of all a chief.

Kirindo's place is at the mouth of the Liuche, which is very wide; the river oozes out through
a forest of eschinomenae (pith tree). This was a rendezvous agreed upon between shore and lake
parties, that the canoes might all cross to the other side, distant a mile and a half.  The
mouth of the Liuche forms the Bay of Ukaranga, so named because on the other side, whither
we were about to cross our party, was situated the village of Ukaranga, a few hundred yards
from the lake.  All the baggage was taken out of the largest canoe, and stowed snugly in the
smaller one, and a few select oarsmen having taken seats, pushed off with the Doctor on board,
who was to superintend pitching the encampment at Ukaranga; while I remained behind to bind
the fractious and ill-natured donkeys, and stow them away in the bottom of the large canoe,
that no danger of upsetting might be incurred, and a consequent gobbling-up by hungry crocodiles,
which were all about us waiting their opportunity. The flock of goats were then embarked, and
as many of our people as could be got in.  About thirty still remained behind with myself,
for whom my canoe was to return.

We all arrived safe at Ukaranga, though we got dangerously near a herd of hippopotami.  The
crossing of the wide mouth (the Liuche being then in flood) was effected in about four hours.

The next day, in the same order as on our departure from Ujiji, we pursued our way south, the
lake party keeping as closely as possible to the shore, yet, when feasible, wind and weather
permitting, we struck off boldly across the numerous small bays which indent the shores of
the Tanganika.  The shores were beautifully green, the effect of the late rains; the waters
of the lake were a faithful reflex of the blue firmament above. The hippopotami were plentiful.
Those noticed on this day were coloured with reddish rings round the base of their ears and
on the neck.  One monster, coming up rather late, was surprised by the canoe making full for
him, and in great fright took a tremendous dive which showed the whole length of his body.
Half way between the mouth of the Malagarazi and that of the Liuche we saw a camp on shore--that
of Mohammed bin Gharib, a Msawahili, who figured often in Livingstone's verbal narrative to
me of his adventures and travels as one of the kindest and best of the Moslems in Central Africa.
He appeared to me a kindly disposed man, with a face seldom seen, having the stamp of an unusual
characteristic on it--that of sincerity.

The vegetation of the shores as we proceeded was truly tropical, each curve revealed new beauties.
With the soft chalky stone, of which most of the cliffs and bluffs are made, seen as we neared
the mouth of the Malagarazi, the surf has played strange freaks.

We arrived at the mouth of the Malagarazi about P.M., having rowed eighteen miles from Ukaranga.
The shore party arrived, very much fatigued, about 5 P.M.

The next day was employed in crossing the caravan across the broad mouth of the Malagarazi
to our camp, a couple of miles north of the river.  This is a river which a civilised community
would find of immense advantage for shortening the distance between the Tanganika and the coast.
Nearly one hundred miles might be performed by this river, which is deep enough at all seasons
to allow navigation as far as Kiala, in Uvinza, whence a straight road might be easily made
to Unyanyembe.  Missionaries also might reap the same benefit from it for conversion-tours
to Uvinza, Uhha, and Ugala.  Pursuing our way on the 30th, and rounding the picturesque capes
of Kagongo, Mviga and Kivoe, we came, after about three hours' rowing, in sight of villages
at the mouth of the swift and turbid Rugufu.  Here we had again to transport the caravan ever
the crocodile-infested mouth of the river.

On the morning of the 31st we sent a canoe with men to search for food in the two or three
villages that were visible on the other side.  Four doti purchased just sufficient for four
days for our caravan of forty-eight persons.  We then got under weigh, having informed the
kirangozi that Urimba was our destination, and bidding him keep as closely as possible to the
lake shore, where it was practicable, but if not, to make the best he could of it.  From the
debouchement of the Rugufu, the headwaters of which we had crossed on our random route to Ujiji,
to Urimba, a distance of six days by water, there are no villages, and consequently no food.
The shore party, however, before leaving Ujiji, had eight days' rations, and on this morning
four days', distributed to each person, and therefore was in no danger of starvation should
the mountain headlands, now unfolding, abrupt and steep, one after another, prevent them from
communicating with us.  It must be understood that such a journey as this had never been attempted
before by any Arab or Msawahili, and every step taken was in sheer ignorance of where the road
would lead the men ashore.  Rounding Kivoe's steep promontory, whose bearded ridge and rugged
slope, wooded down to the water's edge, whose exquisite coves and quiet recesses, might well
have evoked a poetical effusion to one so inclined, we dared the chopping waves of Kivoe's
bay, and stood direct for the next cape, Mizohazy, behind which, owing to wind and wave, we
were compelled to halt for the night.

After Mizohazy is the bold cape of Kabogo--not the terrible Kabogo around whose name mystery
has been woven by the superstitious natives--not the Kabogo whose sullen thunder and awful
roar were heard when crossing the Rugufu on our flight from the Wahha---but a point in Ukaranga,
on whose hard and uninviting rocks many a canoe has been wrecked.  We passed close to its forbidding
walls, thankful for the calm of the Tanganika.  Near Kabogo are some very fine mvule trees,
well adapted for canoe building, and there are no loud-mouthed natives about to haggle for
the privilege of cutting them.

Along the water's edge, and about three feet above it, was observed very clearly on the smooth
face of the rocky slopes of Kabogo the high-water mark of the lake.  This went to show that
the Tanganika, during the rainy season, rises about three feet above its dry season level,
and that, during the latter season, evaporation reduces it to its normal level.  The number
of rivers which we passed on this journey enabled me to observe whether, as I was told, there
was any current setting north.  It was apparent to me that, while the south-west, south, or
south-east winds blew, the brown flood of the rivers swept north; but it happened that, while
passing, once or twice, the mouths of rivers, after a puff from the north-west and north, that
the muddied waters were seen southward of the mouths; from which I conclude that there is no
current in the Tanganika except such as is caused by the fickle wind.

Finding a snug nook of a bay at a place called Sigunga, we put in for lunch.  An island at
the mouth of the bay suggested to our minds that this was a beautiful spot for a mission station;
the grandly sloping hills in the background, with an undulating shelf of land well-wooded between
them and the bay, added to the attractions of such a spot.  The island, capable of containing
quite a large village, and perfectly defensible, might, for prudence' sake, contain the mission
and its congregation; the landlocked bay would protect their fishery and trade vessels; more
than sustain a hundred times the number of the population of the island.  Wood for building
their canoes and houses is close at hand; the neighbouring country would afford game in abundance;
and the docile and civil people of Ukaranga but wait religious shepherds.

From beautiful Sigunga, after a brief halt, we set off, and, after three hours, arrived at
the mouth of the River Uwelasia. Hippopotami and crocodiles being numerous; we amused ourselves
by shooting at them, having also a hope of attracting the attention of our shore party, the
sound of whose guns we had not heard since leaving the Rugufu.

On the 3rd of January we left Uwelasia, and, passing by Cape Herembe, were in the bay of Tongwe.
This bay is about twenty- five miles broad, and stretches from Cape Herembe to Cape Tongwe.
Finding themselves so near their destination, Urimba being but six miles from Herembe Point,
the men of both boats bent themselves to their oars, and, with shouts, songs, and laughter,
encouraged each other to do their utmost.  The flags of the two great Anglo-Saxon nations rippled
and played in the soft breeze, sometimes drawing near caressingly together, again bending away,
like two lovers coy to unite.  The tight little boat of the Doctor would keep ahead, and the
crimson and crossed flag of England would wave before me, and it seemed to say to the beautiful
laggard astern, "Come on, come on; England leads the way."  But was it not England's place
to be in the front here?  She won the right to it by discovering the Tanganika; America came
but second.

Urimba, though a large district of Kawendi, has a village of the same name peopled by refugees
from Yombeh, who found the delta of the Loajeri, though the unhealthiest of spots--equal to
that of the Rusizi--far preferable to the neighbourhood of Sultan Pumburu, of Southern Kawendi.
A good chase by the victors seems to have given a shock to their systems, for they are very
timid and distrustful of strangers, and would by no means permit us to enter their village,
of which, to say the truth, I was very glad, after a glance at the reeking corruption on which
they were encamped.  In the immediate neighbourhood--nay, for a couple of miles on either side--I
should suppose that to a white man it were death to sleep a single night.  Leading the way
south of the village, I found a fit camping-place at the extreme south-east corner of Tongwe
Bay, about a mile and a half due west of the lofty peak of Kivanga, or Kakungu.  By an observation
taken by the Doctor, we found ourselves to be in latitude 5 degrees 54 minutes south.

None of the natives had heard of our shore party, and, as the delta of the Loajeri and Mogambazi
extended for about fifteen miles, and withal was the most impassable of places, being perfectly
flat, overgrown with the tallest of matete, eschinomenae, and thorny bush, and flooded with
water, it was useless to fatigue our men searching for the shore party in such an inhospitable
country. No provisions were procurable, for the villages were in a state of semi-starvation,
the inhabitants living from hand to mouth on what reluctant Fortune threw into their nets.

The second day of our arrival at Urimba I struck off into the interior with my gun-bearer,
Kalulu, carrying the Doctor's splendid double-barreled rifle (a Reilly, No. 12), on the search
for venison.  After walking about a mile I came to a herd of zebras.  By creeping on all-fours
I managed to come within one hundred yards of them; but I was in a bad spot--low prickly shrubs;
and tsetse flies alighting on the rifle-sight, biting my nose, and dashing into my eyes, completely
disconcerted me; and, to add to my discontent, my efforts to disengage myself from the thorns,
alarmed the zebras, which all stood facing the suspicious object in the bush.  I fired at the
breast of one, but, as might be expected, missed.  The zebras galloped away to about three
hundred yards off, and I dashed into the open, and, hastily cocking the left-hand trigger,
aimed at a proud fellow trotting royally before his fellows, and by good chance sent a bullet
through his heart. A fortunate shot also brought down a huge goose, which had a sharp horny
spur on the fore part of each wing.  This supply of meat materially contributed towards the
provisioning of the party for the transit of the unknown land that lay between us and Mrera,
in Rusawa, Kawendi.

It was not until the third day of our arrival at our camp at Urimba that our shore party arrived.
They had perceived our immense flag hoisted on a twenty-feet long bamboo above the tallest
tree near our camp as they surmounted the sharp lofty ridge behind Nerembe, fifteen miles off,
and had at first taken it for a huge bird; but there were sharp eyes in the crowd, and, guided
by it, they came to camp, greeted as only lost and found men are greeted.

I suffered from another attack of fever at this camp, brought on by the neighbourhood of the
vile delta, the look of which sickened the very heart in me.

On the 7th of January we struck camp, and turned our faces eastward, and for me, home!  Yet
regretfully!  There had been enough happiness and pleasure, and pleasantest of social companionship
found on the shores of the lake for me.  I had seen enough lovely scenes which, siren-like,
invited one to quiet rest; gentle scenes, where there was neither jar nor tumult, neither strife
nor defeat, neither hope nor disappointment, but rest-a drowsy, indolent, yet pleasant rest.
And only a few drawbacks to these.  There was fever; there were no books, no newspapers, no
wife of my own race and blood, no theatres, no hotels, no restaurants, no East River oysters,
no mince-pies, neither buckwheat cakes, nor anything much that was good for a cultivated palate
to love.  So, in turning to say farewell to the then placid lake and the great blue mountains,
that grew bluer as they receded on either hand, I had the courage to utter that awful word
tearlessly, and without one sigh.

Our road led up through the valley of the Loajeri, after leaving its delta, a valley growing
ever narrower, until it narrowed into a ravine choked by the now roaring, bellowing river,
whose resistless rush seemed to affect the very air we breathed.  It was getting oppressive,
this narrowing ravine, and opportunely the road breasted a knoll, then a terrace, then a hill,
and lastly a mountain, where we halted to encamp.  As we prepared to select a camping-place,
the Doctor silently pointed forward, and suddenly a dead silence reigned everywhere.  The quinine
which I had taken in the morning seemed to affect me in every crevice of my brain; but a bitter
evil remained, and, though I trembled under the heavy weight of the Reilly rifle, I crept forward
to where the Doctor was pointing.  I found myself looking down a steep ravine, on the other
bank of which a fine buffalo cow was scrambling upward.  She had just reached the summit, and
was turning round to survey her enemy, when I succeeded in planting a shot just behind the
shoulder blade, and close to the spine, evoking from her a deep bellow of pain. "She is shot!
she is shot!" exclaimed the Doctor; "that is a sure sign you have hit her."  And the men even
raised a shout at the prospect of meat.  A second, planted in her spine, brought her to her
knees, and a third ended her.  We thus had another supply of provisions, which, cut up and
dried over a fire, as the Wangwana are accustomed to do, would carry them far over the unpeopled
wilderness before us.  For the Doctor and myself, we had the tongue, the hump, and a few choice
pieces salted down, and in a few days had prime corned beef.  It is not inapt to state that
the rifle had more commendations bestowed on it than the hunter by the Wangwana.

The next day we continued the march eastward, under the guidance of our kirangozi; but it was
evident, by the road he led us, that he knew nothing of the country, though, through his volubility,
he had led us to believe that he knew all about Ngondo, Yombeh, and Pumburu's districts.  When
recalled from the head of the caravan, we were about to descend into the rapid Loajeri, and
beyond it were three ranges of impassable mountains, which we were to cross in a north-easterly
direction; quite out of our road. After consulting with the Doctor, I put myself at the head
of the caravan, and following the spine of the ridge, struck off due east, regardless of how
the road ran.  At intervals a travelled road crossed our path, and, after following it a while,
we came to the ford of the Loajeri.  The Loajeri rises south and south-east of Kakungu Peak.
We made the best we could of the road after crossing the river, until we reached the main path
that runs from Karah to Ngondo and Pumburu, in Southern Kawendi.

On the 9th, soon after leaving camp, we left the travelled path, and made for a gap in the
are of hills before us, as Pumburu was at war with the people of Manya Msenge, a district of
northern Kawendi.  The country teemed with game, the buffaloes and zebras were plentiful. 
Among the conspicuous trees were the hyphene and borassus palm trees, and a tree bearing a
fruit about the size of a 600-pounder cannon-ball, called by some natives "mabyah,"* according
to the Doctor, the seeds of which are roasted and eaten. They are not to be recommended as
food to Europeans.

* In the Kisawahili tongue, "mabyah," "mbyah, "byah," mean bad, unpleasant.

On the 10th, putting myself at the head of my men, with my compass in hand, I led the way east
for three hours.  A beautiful park-land was revealed to us; but the grass was very tall, and
the rainy season, which had commenced in earnest, made my work excessively disagreeable.  Through
this tall grass, which was as high as my throat, I had to force my way, compass in hand, to
lead the Expedition, as there was not the least sign of a road, and we were now in an untravelled
country.  We made our camp on a beautiful little stream flowing north; one of the feeders of
the Rugufu River.

The 11th still saw me plunging through the grass, which showered drops of rain on me every
time I made a step forward.  In two hours we crossed a small stream, with slippery syenitic
rocks in its bed, showing the action of furious torrents.  Mushrooms were in abundance, and
very large.  In crossing, an old pagazi of Unyamwezi, weather-beaten, uttered, in a deplorable
tone, "My kibuyu is dead;" by which he meant that he had slipped, and in falling had broken
his gourd, which in Kisawahili is "kibuyu."

On the eastern bank we halted for lunch, and, after an hour and a half's march, arrived at
another stream, which I took to be the Mtambu, at first from the similarity of the land, though
my map informed me that it was impossible.  The scenery around was very similar, and to the
north we had cited a similar tabular hill to the "Magdala" Mount I had discovered north of
Imrera, while going to the Malagarazi.  Though we had only travelled three and a half hours
the Doctor was very tired as the country was exceedingly rough.

The next day, crossing several ranges, with glorious scenes of surpassing beauty everywhere
around us, we came in view of a mighty and swift torrent, whose bed was sunk deep between enormous
lofty walls of sandstone rock, where it roared and brawled with the noise of a little Niagara.

Having seen our camp prepared on a picturesque knoll, I thought I would endeavour to procure
some meat, which this interesting region seemed to promise.  I sallied out with my little Winchester
along the banks of the river eastward.  I travelled for an hour or two, the prospect getting
more picturesque and lovely, and then went up a ravine which looked very promising.  Unsuccessful,
I strode up the bank, and my astonishment may be conceived when I found myself directly in
front of an elephant, who had his large broad ears held out like studding sails--the colossal
monster, the incarnation of might of the African world.  Methought when I saw his trunk stretched
forward, like a warning finger, that I heard a voice say, "Siste, Venator!"  But whether it
did not proceed from my imagination or--No; I believe it proceeded from Kalulu, who must have
shouted, "Tembo, tembo! bana yango!" "Lo! an elephant! an elephant, my master!"

For the young rascal had fled as soon as he had witnessed the awful colossus in such close
vicinage.  Recovering from my astonishment, I thought it prudent to retire also--especially,
with a pea-shooter loaded with treacherous sawdust cartridges in my hand.  As I looked behind,
I saw him waving his trunk, which I understood to mean, "Good-bye, young fellow; it is lucky
for you you went in time, for I was going to pound you to a jelly."

As I was congratulating myself, a wasp darted fiercely at me and planted its sting in my neck,
and for that afternoon my anticipated pleasures were dispelled.  Arriving at camp I found the
men grumbling; their provisions were ended, and there was no prospect for three days, at least,
of procuring any.  With the improvidence usual with the gluttons, they had eaten their rations
of grain, all their store of zebra and dried buffalo meat, and were now crying out that they
were famished.

The tracks of animals were numerous, but it being the rainy season the game was scattered everywhere;
whereas, had we travelled during the dry season through these forests our larders might have
been supplied fresh each day.

Some time about 6 P.M., as the Doctor and I were taking our tea outside the tent, a herd of
elephants, twelve in number, passed about 800 yards off.  Our fundi, Asmani and Mabruki Kisesa,
were immediately despatched in pursuit.  I would have gone myself with the heavy Reilly rifle,
only I was too much fatigued.  We soon heard their guns firing, and hoped they were successful,
as a plentiful supply of meat might then have been procured, while we ourselves would have
secured one of the elephant's feet for a nice delicate roast; but within an hour they returned
unsuccessful, having only drawn blood, some of which they exhibited to us on a leaf.

It requires a very good rifle to kill an African elephant.  A No. 8 bore with a Frazer's shell,
planted in the temple, I believe, would drop an elephant each shot.  Faulkner makes some extraordinary
statements, about walking up in front of an elephant and planting a bullet in his forehead,
killing him instantly.  The tale, however, is so incredible that I would prefer not to believe
it; especially when he states that the imprint of the muzzle of his rifle was on the elephant's
trunk.  African travellers-- especially those with a taste for the chase--are too fond of relating
that which borders on the incredible for ordinary men to believe them.  Such stories must be
taken with a large grain of salt, for the sake of the amusement they afford to readers at home.
In future, whenever I hear a man state how he broke the back of an antelope at 600 yards, I
shall incline to believe a cipher had been added by a slip of the pen, or attribute it to a
typographical error, for this is almost an impossible feat in an African forest.  It may be
done once, but it could never be done twice running.  An antelope makes a very small target
at 600 yards distance; but, then, all these stories belong by right divine to the chasseur
who travels to Africa for the sake only of sport.

On the 13th we continued our march across several ridges; and the series of ascents and descents
revealed to us valleys and mountains never before explored streams; rushing northward, swollen
by the rains, and grand primeval forests, in whose twilight shade no white man ever walked before.

On the 14th the same scenes were witnessed--an unbroken series of longitudinal ridges, parallel
one with another and with Lake Tanganika.  Eastward the faces of these ridges present abrupt
scarps and terraces, rising from deep valleys, while the western declivities have gradual slopes.
These are the peculiar features of Ukawendi, the eastern watershed of the Tanganika.

In one of these valleys on this day we came across a colony of reddish-bearded monkeys, whose
howls, or bellowing, rang amongst the cliffs as they discovered the caravan.  I was not able
to approach them, for they scrambled up trees and barked their defiance at me, then bounded
to the ground as I still persisted in advancing; and they would have soon drawn me in pursuit
if I had not suddenly remembered that my absence was halting the Expedition.

About noon we sighted our Magdala--the grand towering mount whose upright frowning mass had
attracted our eyes, as it lifted itself from above the plain in all its grandeur, when we were
hurrying along the great ridge of Rusawa towards the "Crocodile" River. We recognised the old,
mystic beauty of the tree-clad plain around it.  Then it was bleached, and a filmy haze covered
it lovingly; now it was vivid greenness.  Every vegetable, plant, herb and tree, had sprung
into quick life--the effect of the rains.  Rivers that ran not in those hot summer days now
fumed and rushed impetuously between thick belts of mighty timber, brawling hoarsely in the
glades.  We crossed many of these streams, all of which are feeders of the Rugufu.

Beautiful, bewitching Ukawendi!  By what shall I gauge the loveliness of the wild, free, luxuriant,
spontaneous nature within its boundaries?  By anything in Europe?  No.  By anything in Asia?
Where?  India, perhaps.  Yes; or say Mingrelia and Imeritia.  For there we have foaming rivers;
we have picturesque hillocks; we have bold hills, ambitious mountains, and broad forests, with
lofty solemn rows of trees, with clean straight stems, through which you can see far, lengthy
vistas, as you see here.  Only in Ukawendi you can almost behold the growth of vegetation;
the earth is so generous, nature so kind and loving, that without entertaining any aspiration
for a residence, or a wish to breathe the baleful atmosphere longer than is absolutely necessary,
one feels insensibly drawn towards it, as the thought creeps into his mind, that though all
is foul beneath the captivating, glamorous beauty of the land, the foulness might be removed
by civilized people, and the whole region made as healthy as it is productive.  Even while
staggering under the pressure of the awful sickness, with mind getting more and more embittered,
brain sometimes reeling with the shock of the constantly recurring fevers--though I knew how
the malaria, rising out of that very fairness, was slowly undermining my constitution, and
insidiously sapping the powers of mind and body--I regarded the alluring face of the land with
a fatuous love, and felt a certain sadness steal over me as each day I was withdrawing myself
from it, and felt disposed to quarrel with the fate that seemed to eject me out of Ukawendi.

On the ninth day of our march from the shores of the Tanganika we again perceived our "Magdala
Mount," rising like a dark cloud to the north-east, by which I knew that we were approaching
Imrera, and that our Icarian attempt to cross the uninhabited jungle of Ukawendi would soon
be crowned with success.  Against the collective counsel of the guides, and hypothetical suggestions
of the tired and hungry souls of our Expedition, I persisted in being guided only by the compass
and my chart.  The guides strenuously strove to induce me to alter my course and strike in
a south-west direction, which, had I listened to them, would have undoubtedly taken me to South-western
Ukonongo, or North-eastern Ufipa. The veteran and experienced soldiers asked mournfully if
I were determined to kill them with famine, as the road I should have taken was north-east;
but I preferred putting my trust in the compass.  No sun shone upon us as we threaded our way
through the primeval forest, by clumps of jungle, across streams, up steep ridges, and down
into deep valleys.  A thick haze covered the forests; rain often pelted us; the firmament was
an unfathomable depth of grey vapour.  The Doctor had perfect confidence in me, and I held
on my way.

As soon as we arrived at our camp the men scattered themselves through the forest to search
for food.  A grove of singwe trees was found close by.  Mushrooms grew in abundance, and these
sufficed to appease the gnawing hunger from which the people suffered.  Had it not been such
rainy weather I should have been enabled to procure game for the camp; but the fatigue which
I suffered, and the fever which enervated me, utterly prevented me from moving out of the camp
after we once came to a halt.  The fear of lions, which were numerous in our vicinity, whose
terrible roaring was heard by day and by night, daunted the hunters so much, that though I
offered five doti of cloth for every animal brought to camp, none dared penetrate the gloomy
glades, or awesome belts of timber, outside the friendly defence of the camp.

The morning of the tenth day I assured the people that we were close to food; cheered the most
amiable of them with promise of abundant provender, and hushed the most truculent knaves with
a warning not to tempt my patience too much, lest we came to angry blows; and then struck away
east by north through the forest, with the almost exhausted Expedition dragging itself weakly
and painfully behind me.  It was a most desperate position certainly, and I pitied the poor
people far more than they pitied themselves; and though I fumed and stormed in their presence
when they were disposed to lie down and give up, never was a man further from doing them injury.
I was too proud of them; but under the circumstances it was dangerous--nay, suicidal--to appear
doubtful or dubious of the road.  The mere fact that I still held on my way according to the
Doctor's little pearly monitor (the compass) had a grand moral effect on them, and though they
demurred in plaintive terms and with pinched faces, they followed my footsteps with a trustfulness
which quite affected me.

For long miles we trudged over smooth sloping sward, with a vision of forest and park-land
beauty on our right and left, and in front of us such as is rarely seen.  At a pace that soon
left the main body of the Expedition far behind, I strode on with a few gallant fellows, who,
despite their heavy loads, kept pace with me.  After a couple of hours we were ascending the
easy slope of a ridge, which promised to decide in a few minutes the truth or the inaccuracy
of my chart.  Presently we arrived at the eastern edge of the ridge, and about five miles away,
and 1,000 feet below the high plateau on which we stood, we distinguished the valley of Imrera!

By noon we were in our old camp.  The natives gathered round, bringing supplies of food, and
to congratulate us upon having gone to Ujiji and returned.  But it was long before the last
member of the Expedition arrived.  The Doctor's feet were very sore, bleeding from the weary
march.  His shoes were in a very worn-out state, and he had so cut and slashed them with a
knife to ease his blistered feet, that any man of our force would have refused them as a gift,
no matter how ambitious he might be to encase his feet a la Wasungu.

Asmani, the guide, was very much taken aback when he discovered that the tiny compass knew
the way better than he did, and he declared it as his solemn opinion that it could not lie.
He suffered much in reputation from having contested the palm with the "little thing," and
ever afterwards his boasted knowledge of the country was considerably doubted.

After halting a day to recruit ourselves, we continued our journey on the 18th January, 1872,
towards Unyanyembe.  A few miles beyond Imrera, Asmani lost the road again, and I was obliged
to show it to him, by which I gained additional honour and credit as a leader and guide.  My
shoes were very bad, and it was difficult to decide whose were the worst in condition, the
Doctor's or mine.  A great change had come upon the face of the land since I had passed northward
en route to Ujiji.  The wild grapes now hung in clusters along the road; the corn ears were
advanced enough to pluck and roast for food; the various plants shed their flowers; and the
deep woods and grasses of the country were greener than ever.

On the 19th we arrived at Mpokwa's deserted village.  The Doctor's feet were very much chafed
and sore by the marching.  He had walked on foot all the way from Urimba, though he owned a
donkey; while I, considerably to my shame be it said, had ridden occasionally to husband my
strength,: that I might be enabled to hunt after arrival at camp.

Two huts were cleared for our use, but, just as we had made ourselves comfortable, our sharp-eyed
fellows had discovered several herds of game in the plain west of Mpokwa.  Hastily devouring
a morsel of corn-bread with coffee, I hastened away, with Bilali for a gunbearer, taking with
me the famous Reilly rifle of the Doctor and a supply of Fraser's shells.  After plunging through
a deep stream, and getting wet again, and pushing my way through a dense brake, I arrived at
a thin belt of forest, through which I was obliged to crawl, and, in half an hour, I had arrived
within one hundred and forty yards of a group of zebras, which were playfully biting each other
under the shade of a large tree.  Suddenly rising up, I attracted their attention; but the
true old rifle was at my shoulder, and "crack--crack" went both barrels, and two fine zebras,
a male and female, fell dead under the tree where they had stood.  In a few seconds their throats
were cut, and after giving the signal of my success, I was soon surrounded by a dozen of my
men, who gave utterance to their delight by fulsome compliments to the merits of the rifle,
though very few to me.  When I returned to camp with the meat I received the congratulations
of the Doctor, which I valued far higher, as he knew from long experience what shooting was.

When the eatable portions of the two zebras were hung to the scale, we found, according to
the Doctor's own figures, that we had 719 lbs. of good meat, which, divided among forty-four
men, gave a little over 16 lbs. to each person.  Bombay, especially, was very happy, as he
had dreamed a dream wherein I figured prominently as shooting animals down right and left;
and, when he had seen me depart with that wonderful Reilly rifle he had not entertained a doubt
of my success, and, accordingly, had commanded the men to be ready to go after me, as soon
as they should hear the reports of the gun.

The following is quoted from my Diary:

January  20th, 1872.--To-day was a halt.  On going out for a hunt I saw a herd of eleven giraffes.
After crossing Mpokwa stream I succeeded in getting within one hundred and fifty yards of one
of them, and fired at it; but, though it was wounded, I did not succeed in dropping it, though
I desired the skin of one of them very much.

In the afternoon I went out to the east of the village, and came to a herd of six giraffes.
I wounded one of them, but it got off, despite my efforts.

What remarkable creatures they are!  How beautiful their large limpid eyes!  I could have declared
on oath that both shots had been a success, but they sheered off with the stately movements
of a clipper about to tack.  When they ran they had an ungainly, dislocated motion, somewhat
like the contortions of an Indian nautch or a Theban danseuse--a dreamy, undulating movement,
which even the tail, with its long fringe of black hair, seemed to partake of.

The Doctor, who knew how to console an ardent but disappointed young hunter, attributed my
non-success to shooting with leaden balls, which were too soft to penetrate the thick hide
of the giraffes, and advised me to melt my zinc canteens with which to harden the lead.  It
was not the first time that I had cause to think the Doctor an admirable travelling companion;
none knew so well how to console one for bad luck none knew so well how to elevate one in his
own mind.  If I killed a zebra, did not his friend Oswell--the South African hunter--and himself
long ago come to the conclusion that zebra meat was the finest in Africa? If I shot a buffalo
cow, she was sure to be the best of her kind, and her horns were worth while carrying home
as specimens; and was she not fat?  If I returned without anything, the game was very wild,
or the people had made a noise, and the game had been frightened; and who could stalk animals
already alarmed?  Indeed, he was a most considerate companion, and, knowing him to be literally
truthful, I was proud of his praise when successful, and when I failed I was easily consoled.

Ibrahim, the old pagazi whose feelings had been so lacerated in Ukawendi, when his ancient
kibuyu broke, before leaving Ujiji invested his cloth in a slave from Manyuema, who bore the
name of "Ulimengo," which signifies the "World."  As we approached Mpokwa, Ulimengo absconded
with all his master's property, consisting of a few cloths and a bag of salt, which he had
thought of taking to Unyanyembe for trade.  Ibrahim was inconsolable, and he kept lamenting
his loss daily in such lugubrious tones that the people, instead of sympathizing, laughed at
him.  I asked him why he purchased such a slave, and, while he was with him, why he did not
feed him?  Replied he, tartly, "Was he not my slave?  Was not the cloth with which I bought
him mine?  If the cloth was my own, could I not purchase what I liked?  Why do you talk so?"

Ibrahim's heart was made glad this evening by the return of Ulimengo with the salt and the
cloth, and the one-eyed old man danced with his great joy, and came in all haste to impart
to me the glad news.  "Lo, the `World' has come back.  Sure.  My salt and my cloth are with
him also.  Sure."  To which I replied, that he had better feed him in future, as slaves required
food as well as their masters.

From 10 P.M. to midnight the Doctor was employed in taking observations from the star Canopus,
the result of which was that he ascertained Mpokwa, district of Utanda, Ukonongo, to be in
S. latitude 6 degrees 18 minutes 40 seconds.  On comparing it with its position as laid down
in my map by dead reckoning, I found we differed by three miles; I having !aid it down at 6
degrees 15 minutes south latitude.

The day following was a halt.  The Doctor's feet were so inflamed and sore that he could not
bear his shoes on.  My heels were also raw, and I viciously cut large circles out of my shoes
to enable me to move about.

Having converted my zinc canteens into bullets, and provided myself with a butcher and gun-bearer,
I set out for the lovely park-land and plain west of Mpokwa stream, with the laudable resolution
to obtain something; and seeing nothing in the plain, I crossed over a ridge, and came to a
broad basin covered with tall grass, with clumps here and there of hyphene palm, with a stray
mimosa or so scattered about.  Nibbling off the branches of the latter, I saw a group of giraffes,
and then began stalking them through the grass, taking advantage of the tall grass-grown ant-hills
that I might approach the wary beasts before their great eyes could discover me.  I contrived
to come within 175 yards, by means of one of these curious hummocks; but beyond it no man could
crawl without being observed--the grass was so thin and short.  I took a long breath, wiped
my perspiring brow, and sat down for a while; my black assistants also, like myself, were almost
breathless with the exertion, and the high expectations roused by the near presence of the
royal beasts.  I toyed lovingly with the heavy Reilly, saw to my cartridges, and then stood
up and turned, with my rifle ready; took one good, long, steady aim; then lowered it again
to arrange the sights, lifted it up once more--dropped it. A giraffe half turned his body;
for the last time I lifted it, took one quick sight at the region of the heart, and fired.
He staggered, reeled, then made a short gallop; but the blood was spouting from the wound in
a thick stream, and before he had gone 200 yards he came to a dead halt, with his ears drawn
back, and allowed me to come within twenty yards of him, when, receiving a zinc bullet through
the head, he fell dead.

"Allah ho, akhbar!" cried Khamisi, my butcher, fervently. "This is meat, master!"

I was rather saddened than otherwise at seeing the noble animal stretched before me.  If I
could have given him his life back I think I should have done so.  I thought it a great pity
that such splendid animals, so well adapted for the service of man in Africa, could not be
converted to some other use than that of food. Horses, mules, and donkeys died in these sickly
regions; but what a blessing for Africa would it be if we could tame the giraffes and zebras
for the use of explorers and traders!  Mounted on a zebra, a man would be enabled to reach
Ujiji in one month from Bagamoyo; whereas it took me over seven months to travel that distance!

The dead giraffe measured 16 feet 9 inches from his right fore-hoof to the top of his head,
and was one of the largest size, though some have been found to measure over 17 feet.  He was
spotted all over with large black, nearly round, patches.

I left Khamisi in charge of the dead beast, while I returned to camp to send off men to cut
it up, and convey the meat to our village.  But Khamisi climbed a tree for fear of the lions,
and the vultures settled on it, so that when the men arrived on the spot, the eyes, the tongue,
and a great part of the posteriors were eaten up.  What remained weighed as follows, when brought
in and hung to the scales:

1 hind leg .  .  .  .  134 lbs.

1  "       .  .  .  .  136  "

1 fore leg .  .  .  .  160  "

I   "      .  .  .  .  160  "

Ribs .  .  .  .  .  .  158  "

Neck .  .  .  .  .  .   74  "

Rump .  .  .  .  .  .   87  "

Breast  .  .  .  .  .    46  "

Liver   .  .  .  .  .    20  "

Lungs   .  .  .  .  .    12  "

Heart   .  .  .  .  .     6  "

Total weight of eatable portions .  .  993 lbs.

Skin and head, 181 lbs.

The three days following I suffered from a severe attack of fever, and was unable to stir from
bed.  I applied my usual remedies for it, which consisted of colocynth and quinine; but experience
has shown me that an excessive use of the same cathartic weakens its effect, and that it would
be well for travellers to take with them different medicines to cause proper action in the
liver, such as colocynth, calomel, resin of jalap, Epsom salts; and that no quinine should
be taken until such medicines shall have prepared the system for its reception.

The Doctor's prescription for fever consists of 3 grains of resin of jalap, and 2 grains of
calomel, with tincture of cardamoms put in just enough to prevent irritation of the stomach--made
into the form of a pill--which is to be taken as soon as one begins to feel the excessive languor
and weariness which is the sure forerunner of the African type of fever.  An hour or two later
a cup of coffee, unsugared and without milk, ought to be taken, to cause a quicker action.
The Doctor also thinks that quinine should be taken with the pill; but my experience--though
it weighs nothing against what he has endured-- has proved to me that quinine is useless until
after the medicine has taken effect.  My stomach could never bear quinine unless subsequent
to the cathartic.  A well-known missionary at Constantinople recommends travellers to take
3 grains of tartar-emetic for the ejection of the bilious matter in the stomach; but the reverend
doctor possibly forgets that much more of the system is disorganized than the stomach; and
though in one or two cases of a slight attack, this remedy may have proved successful, it is
altogether too violent for an enfeebled man in Africa.  I have treated myself faithfully after
this method three or four times; but I could not conscientiously recommend it. For cases of
urticaria, I could recommend taking 3 grains of tartar-emetic; but then a stomach-pump would
answer the purpose as well.

On the 27th we set out for Misonghi.  About half-way I saw the head of the Expedition on the
run, and the motive seemed to be communicated quickly, man after man, to those behind, until
my donkey commenced to kick, and lash behind with his heels.  In a second, I was made aware
of the cause of this excitement, by a cloud of wild bees buzzing about my head, three or four
of which settled on my face, and stung me frightfully.  We raced madly for about half a mile,
behaving in as wild a manner as the poor bestung animals.

As this was an unusually long march, I doubted if the Doctor could march it, because his feet
were so sore, so I determined to send four men back with the kitanda; but the stout old hero
refused to be carried, and walked all the way to camp after a march of eighteen miles.  He
had been stung dreadfully in the head and in the face; the bees had settled in handfuls in
his hair; but, after partaking of a cup of warm tea and some food, he was as cheerful as if
he had never travelled a mile.

At Mrera, Central Ukonongo, we halted a day to grind grain, and to prepare the provision we
should need during the transit of the wilderness between Mrera and Manyara.

On the 31st of January, at Mwaru, Sultan Ka-mirambo, we met a caravan under the leadership
of a slave of Sayd bin Habib, who came to visit us in our camp, which was hidden in a thick
clump of jungle.  After he was seated, and had taken his coffee, I asked,

"What is thy news, my friend, that thou bast brought from Unyanyembe?"

"My news is good, master."

"How goes the war?"

"Ah, Mirambo is where?  He eats the hides even.  He is famished.  Sayd bin Habib, my master,
hath possession of Kirira.  The Arabs are thundering at the gates of Wilyankuru. Sayd bin Majid,
who came from Ujiji to Usagozi in twenty days, hath taken and slain `Moto' (Fire), the King.
Simba of Kasera hath taken up arms for the defence of his father, Mkasiwa of Unyanyembe.  The
chief of Ugunda hath sent five hundred men to the field.  Ough--Mirambo is where?  In a month
he will be dead of hunger."

"Great and good news truly, my friend."

"Yes-in the name of God."

"And whither art thou bound with thy caravan?"

"Sayd, the son of Majid, who came from Ujiji, hath told us of the road that the white man took,
that he had arrived at Ujiji safely, and that he was on his way back to Unyanyembe.  So we
have thought that if the white man could go there, we could also. Lo, the Arabs come by the
hundred by the white man's road, to get the ivory from Ujiji.

"I am that white man."

"You?"

« Yes."

" Why it was reported that you were dead--that you fought with the Wazavira."

"Ah, my friend, these are the words of Njara, the son of Khamis. See" (pointing to Livingstone),
"this is the white man, my father *, whom I saw at Ujiji.  He is going with me to Unyanyembe
to get his cloth, after which he will return to the great waters."

** It is a courteous custom in Africa to address elderly people as " Baba," (Father.)

"Wonderful!--thou sayest truly."

"What has thou to tell me of the white man at Unyanyembe?"

"Which white man?"

"The white man I left in the house of Sayd, the son of Salim--my house--at Kwihara."

" He is dead."

" Dead!"

"True."

"You do not mean to say the white man is dead?"

"True--he is dead."

"How long ago?"

"Many months now."

"What did he die of?"

"Homa (fever)."

"Any more of my people dead?"

"I know not."

" Enough." I looked sympathetically at the Doctor, and he replied,

"I told you so.  When you described him to me as a drunken man, I knew he could not live. 
Men who have been habitual drunkards cannot live in this country, any more than men who have
become slaves to other vices.  I attribute the deaths that occurred in my expedition on the
Zambezi to much the same cause."

"Ah, Doctor, there are two of us gone.  I shall be the third, if this fever lasts much longer."

"Oh no, not at all.  If you would have died from fever, you would have died at Ujiji when you
had that severe attack of remittent. Don't think of it.  Your fever now is only the result
of exposure to wet.  I never travel during the wet season.  This time I have travelled because
I was anxious, and I did not wish to detain you at Ujiji."

"Well, there is nothing like a good friend at one's back in this country to encourage him,
and keep his spirits up.  Poor Shaw! I am sorry--very sorry for him.  How many times have I
not endeavoured to cheer him up!  But there was no life in him. And among the last words I
said to him, before parting, were, `Remember, if you return to Unyanyembe, you die!'"

We also obtained news from the chief of Sayd bin Habib's caravan that several packets of letters
and newspapers, and boxes, had arrived for me from Zanzibar by my messengers and Arabs; that
Selim, the son of Sheikh Hashid of Zanzibar, was amongst the latest arrivals in Unyanyembe.
The Doctor also reminded me with the utmost good-nature that, according to his accounts, he
had a stock of jellies and crackers, soups, fish, and potted ham, besides cheese, awaiting
him in Unyanyembe, and that he would be delighted to share his good things; whereupon I was
greatly cheered, and, during the repeated attacks of fever I suffered about this time, my imagination
loved to dwell upon the luxuries at Unyanyembe.  I pictured myself devouring the hams and crackers
and jellies like a madman.  I lived on my raving fancies.  My poor vexed brain rioted on such
homely things as wheaten bread and butter, hams, bacon, caviare, and I would have thought no
price too high to pay for them.  Though so far away and out of the pale of Europe and America,
it was a pleasure to me, during the athumia or despondency into which I was plunged by ever
recurring fevers, to dwell upon them.  I wondered that people who had access to such luxuries
should ever get sick, and become tired of life.  I thought that if a wheaten loaf with a nice
pat of fresh butter were presented to me, I would be able, though dying, to spring up and dance
a wild fandango.

Though we lacked the good things of this life above named, we possessed salted giraffe and
pickled zebra tongues; we had ugali made by Halimah herself; we had sweet potatoes, tea, coffee,
dampers, or slap jacks; but I was tired of them.  My enfeebled stomach, harrowed and irritated
with medicinal compounds, with ipecac, colocynth, tartar-emetic, quinine, and such things,
protested against the coarse food.  "Oh, for a wheaten loaf!" my soul cried in agony.  "Five
hundred dollars for one loaf of bread!"

The Doctor, somehow or another, despite the incessant rain, the dew, fog, and drizzle, the
marching, and sore feet, ate like a hero, and I manfully, sternly, resolved to imitate the
persevering attention he paid to the welfare of his gastric powers; but I miserably failed.

Dr. Livingstone possesses all the attainments of a traveller. His knowledge is great about
everything concerning Africa--the rocks, the trees, the fruits, and their virtues, are known
to him. He is also full of philosophic reflections upon ethnological matter.  With camp-craft,
with its cunning devices, he is au fait. His bed is luxurious as a spring mattress.  Each night
he has it made under his own supervision.  First, he has two straight poles cut, three or four
inches in diameter; which are laid parallel one with another, at the distance of two feet;
across these poles are laid short sticks, saplings, three feet long, and over them is laid
a thick pile of grass; then comes a piece of waterproof canvas and blankets--and thus a bed
has been improvised fit for a king.

It was at Livingstone's instigation I purchased milch goats, by which, since leaving Ujiji,
we have had a supply of fresh milk for our tea and coffee three times a day.  Apropos of this,
we are great drinkers of these welcome stimulants; we seldom halt drinking until we have each
had six or seven cups.  We have also been able to provide ourselves with music, which, though
harsh, is better than none.  I mean the musical screech of parrots from Manyuema.

Half-way between Mwaru--Kamirambo's village--and the deserted Tongoni of Ukamba, I carved the
Doctor's initials and my own on a large tree, with the date February 2nd.  I have been twice
guilty of this in Africa once when we were famishing in Southern Uvinza I inscribed the date,
my initials, and the word "Starving," in large letters on the trunk of a sycamore.

In passing through the forest of Ukamba, we saw the bleached skull of an unfortunate victim
to the privations of travel.  Referring to it, the Doctor remarked that he could never pass
through an African forest, with its solemn stillness and serenity, without wishing to be buried
quietly under the dead leaves, where he would be sure to rest undisturbed.  In England there
was no elbow-room, the graves were often desecrated; and ever since he had buried his wife
in the woods of Shupanga he had sighed for just such a spot, where his weary bones would receive
the eternal rest they coveted.

The same evening, when the tent door was down, and the interior was made cheerful by the light
of a paraffin candle, the Doctor related to me some incidents respecting the career and the
death of his eldest son, Robert.  Readers of Livingstone's first book, `South Africa,' without
which no boy should be, will probably recollect the dying Sebituane's regard for the little
boy "Robert."  Mrs. Livingstone and family were taken to the Cape of Good Hope, and thence
sent to England, where Robert was put in the charge of a tutor; but wearied of inactivity,
when he was about eighteen, he left Scotland and came to Natal, whence he endeavoured to reach
his father.  Unsuccessful in his attempt, he took ship and sailed for New York, and enlisted
in the Northern Army, in a New Hampshire regiment of Volunteers, discarding his own name of
Robert Moffatt Livingstone, and taking that of Rupert Vincent that his tutor, who seems to
have been ignorant of his duties to the youth, might not find him.  From one of the battles
before Richmond, he was conveyed to a North Carolina hospital, where he died from his wounds.

On the 7th of February we arrived at the Gombe, and camped near one of its largest lakes. 
This lake is probably several miles in length, and swarms with hippopotami and crocodiles.

From this camp I despatched Ferajji, the cook, and Chowpereh to Unyanyembe, to bring the letters
and medicines that were sent to me from Zanzibar, and meet us at Ugunda, while the next day
we moved to our old quarters on the Gombe, where we were first introduced to the real hunter's
paradise in Central Africa.  The rain had scattered the greater number of the herds, but there
was plenty of game in the vicinity.  Soon after breakfast I took Khamisi and Kalulu with me
for a hunt.  After a long walk we arrived near a thin jungle, where I discovered the tracks
of several animals--boar, antelope, elephant, rhinoceros, hippopotamus, and an unusual number
of imprints of the lion's paw.  Suddenly I heard Khamisi say, "Master, master!  here is a `simba!'
(lion);" and he came up to me trembling with excitement and fear--for the young fellow was
an arrant coward--to point out the head of a beast, which could be seen just above the tall
grass, looking steadily towards us. It immediately afterwards bounded from side to side, but
the grass was so high that it was impossible to tell exactly what it was. Taking advantage
of a tree in my front, I crept quietly onwards, intending to rest the heavy rifle against it,
as I was so weak from the effects of several fevers that I felt myself utterly incapable of
supporting my rifle for a steady aim.  But my surprise was great when I cautiously laid it
against the tree, and then directed its muzzle to the spot where I had seen him stand.  Looking
further away--to where the grass was thin and scant--I saw the animal bound along at a great
rate, and that it was a lion: the noble monarch of the forest was in full flight!  From that
moment I ceased to regard him as the "mightiest among the brutes;" or his roar as anything
more fearful in broad daylight than a sucking dove's.

The next day was also a halt, and unable to contain my longing for the chase, where there used
to be such a concourse of game of all kinds, soon after morning coffee, and after despatching
a couple of men with presents to my friend Ma-manyara, of ammonia-bottle memory, I sauntered
out once more for the park. Not five hundred yards from the camp, myself and men were suddenly
halted by hearing in our immediate vicinity, probably within fifty yards or so, a chorus of
roars, issuing from a triplet of lions.  Instinctively my fingers raised the two hammers, as
I expected a general onset on me; for though one lion might fly, it was hardly credible that
three should.  While looking keenly about I detected, within easy rifle-shot, a fine hartebeest,
trembling and cowering behind a tree, as if it expected the fangs of the lion in its neck.
Though it had its back turned to me, I thought a bullet might plough its way to a vital part,
and without a moment's hesitation I aimed and fired.  The animal gave a tremendous jump, as
if it intended to take a flying leap through the tree; but recovering itself it dashed through
the underbrush in a different direction from that in which I supposed the lions to be, and
I never saw it again, though I knew I had struck it from the bloody trail it left; neither
did I see nor hear anything more of the lions.  I searched far and wide over the park-land
for prey of some kind, but was compelled to return unsuccessful to camp.

Disgusted with my failure, we started a little after noon for Manyara, at which place we were
hospitably greeted by my friend, who had sent men to tell me that his white brother must not
halt in the woods but must come to his village.  "We received a present of honey and food from
the chief, which was most welcome to us in our condition.  Here was an instance of that friendly
disposition among Central African chiefs when they have not been spoiled by the Arabs, which
Dr. Livingstone found among the Babisa and Ba-ulungu, and in Manyuema.  I received the same
friendly recognition from all the chiefs, from Imrera, in Ukawendi, to Unyanyembe, as I did
from Ma-manyara.

On the 14th we arrived at Ugunda, and soon after we had established ourselves comfortably in
a hut which the chief lent us for our use, in came Ferajji and Chowpereh, bringing with them
Sarmean and Uledi Manwa Sera, who, it will be recollected, were the two soldiers sent to Zanzibar
with letters and who should Sarmean have in charge but the deserter Hamdallah, who decamped
at Manyara, as we were going to Ujiji.  This fellow, it seems, had halted at Kigandu, and had
informed the chief and the doctor of the village that he had been sent by the white man to
take back the cloth left there for the cure of Mabruk Saleem; and the simple chief had commanded
it to be given up to him upon his mere word, in consequence of which the sick man had died.

Upon Sarmean's arrival in Unyanyembe from Zanzibar, about fifty days after the Expedition had
departed for Ujiji the news he received was that the white man (Shaw) was dead; and that a
man called Hamdallah, who had engaged himself as one of my guides, but who had shortly after
returned, was at Unyanyembe.  He had left him unmolested until the appearance of Ferajji and
his companion, when they at once, in a body, made a descent on his hut and secured him.  With
the zeal which always distinguished him in my service, Sarmean had procured a forked pole,
between the prongs of which the neck of the absconder was placed; and a cross stick, firmly
lashed, effectually prevented him from relieving himself of the incumbrance attached to him
so deftly.

There were no less than seven packets of letters and newspapers from Zanzibar, which had been
collecting during my absence from Unyanyembe.  These had been intrusted at various times to
the chiefs of caravans, who had faithfully delivered them at my tembe, according to their promise
to the Consul.  There was one packet for me, which contained two or three letters for Dr. Livingstone,
to whom, of course, they were at once transferred, with my congratulations.  In the same packet
there was also a letter to me from the British Consul at Zanzibar requesting me to take charge
of Livingstone's goods and do the best I could to forward them on to him, dated 25th September,
1871, five days after I left Unyanyembe on my apparently hopeless task.

"Well, Doctor," said I to Livingstone, "the English Consul requests me to do all I can to push
forward your goods to you. I am sorry that I did not get the authority sooner, for I should
have attempted it; but in the absence of these instructions I have done the best I could by
pushing you towards the goods. The mountain has not been able to advance towards Mohammed,
but Mohammed has been compelled to advance towards the mountain."

But Dr. Livingstone was too deeply engrossed in his own letters from home, which were just
a year old.

I received good and bad news from New York, but the good news was subsequent, and wiped out
all feelings that might have been evoked had I received the bad only.  But the newspapers,
nearly a hundred of them, New York, Boston, and London journals, were full of most wonderful
news.  The Paris Commune was in arms against the National Assembly; the Tuileries, the Louvre,
and the ancient city Lutetia Parisiorum had been set in flames by the blackguards of Saint-Antoine!
French troops massacring and murdering men, women, and children; rampant diabolism, and incarnate
revenge were at work in the most beautiful city in the world!  Fair women converted into demons,
and dragged by ruffianly soldiery through the streets to universal execration and pitiless
death; children of tender age pinned to the earth and bayoneted; men innocent or not, shot,
cut, stabbed, slashed, destroyed--a whole city given up to the summa injuria of an infuriate,
reckless, and brutal army! Oh France!  Oh Frenchmen!  Such things are unknown even in the heart
of barbarous Central Africa.  We spurned the newspapers with our feet; and for relief to sickened
hearts gazed on the comic side of our world, as illustrated in the innocent pages of `Punch.'
Poor 'Punch!' good-hearted, kindly-natured `Punch!' a traveller's benison on thee!  Thy jokes
were as physic; thy innocent satire was provocative of hysteric mirth.

Our doors were crowded with curious natives, who looked with indescribable wonder at the enormous
sheets.  I heard them repeat the words, "Khabari Kisungu"--white man's news--often, and heard
them discussing the nature of such a quantity of news, and expressing their belief that the
"Wasungu" were "mbyah sana," and very  "mkali;" by which they meant to say that the white men
were very wicked, and very smart and clever though the term wicked is often employed to express
high admiration.

On the fourth day from Ugunda, or the 18th of February, and the fifty-third day from Ujiji,
we made our appearance with flags flying and guns firing in the valley of Kwihara, and when
the Doctor and myself passed through the portals of my old quarters I formally welcomed him
to Unyanyembe and to my house.

Since the day I had left the Arabs, sick and, weary almost with my life, but, nevertheless,
imbued with the high hope that my mission would succeed, 131 days had elapsed--with what vicissitudes
of fortune the reader well knows--during which time I had journeyed over 1,200 miles.

The myth after which I travelled through the wilderness proved to be a fact; and never was
the fact more apparent than when the Living Man walked with me arm in arm to my old room, and
I said to him, "Doctor, we are at last HOME!"

CHAPTER XV. HOMEWARD BOUND.--LIVINGSTONE'S LAST WORDS
            THE FINAL FAREWELL

Unyanyembe was now to me a terrestrial Paradise.  Livingstone was no less happy; he was in
comfortable quarters, which were a palace compared to his hut in Ujiji.  Our store-rooms were
full of the good things of this life, besides cloth, beads, wire, and the thousand and one
impedimenta and paraphernalia of travel with which I had loaded over one hundred and fifty
men at Bagamoyo.  I had seventy-four loads of miscellaneous things, the most valuable of which
were now to be turned over to Livingstone, for his march back to the sources of the Nile.

It was a great day with, us when, with hammer and chisel, I broke open the Doctor's boxes,
that we might feast our famished stomachs on the luxuries which were to redeem us from the
effect of the cacotrophic dourra and maize food we had been subjected to in the wilderness.
I conscientiously believed that a diet on potted ham, crackers, and jellies would make me as
invincible as Talus, and that I only required a stout flail to be able to drive the mighty
Wagogo into the regions of annihiliation, should they dare even to wink in a manner I disapproved.

The first box opened contained three tins of biscuits, six tins of potted hams--tiny things,
not much larger than thimbles, which, when opened, proved to be nothing more than a table-spoonful
of minced meat plentifully seasoned with pepper: the Doctor's stores fell five hundred degrees
below zero in my estimation.  Next were brought out five pots of jam, one of which was opened--this
was also a delusion.  The stone jars weighed a pound, and in each was found a little over a
tea-spoonful of jam.  Verily, we began to think our hopes and expectations had been raised
to too high a pitch.  Three bottles of curry were next produced--but who cares for curry? Another
box was opened, and out tumbled a fat dumpy Dutch cheese, hard as a brick, but sound and good;
though it is bad for the liver in Unyamwezi.  Then another cheese was seen, but this was all
eaten up--it was hollow and a fraud.  The third box contained nothing but two sugar loaves;
the fourth, candles; the fifth, bottles of salt, Harvey, Worcester, and Reading sauces, essence
of anchovies, pepper, and mustard.  Bless me! what food were these for the revivifying of a
moribund such as I was!  The sixth box contained four shirts, two pairs of stout shoes, some
stockings and shoe-strings, which delighted the Doctor so much when he tried them on that he
exclaimed, "Richard is himself again!"  "That man," said I, "whoever he is, is a friend, indeed."
"Yes, that is my friend Waller."

The five other boxes contained potted meat and soups;  but the twelfth, containing one dozen
bottles of medicinal brandy, was gone;and a strict cross-examination of Asmani, the head man
of Livingstone's caravan, elicited the fact, that not only was one case of brandy missing,
but also two bales of cloth and four bags of the most valuable beads in Africa--sami-sami--which
are as gold with the natives.

I was grievously disappointed after the stores had been examined; everything proved to be deceptions
in my jaundiced eyes.  Out of the tins of biscuits when opened, there was only one sound box;
the whole of which would not make one full meal.  The soups--who cared for meat soups in Africa?
Are there no bullocks, and sheep, and goats in the land, from which far better soup can be
made than any that was ever potted?  Peas, or any other kind of vegetable soup, would have
been a luxury; but chicken and game soups!--what nonsense!

I then overhauled my own stores.  I found some fine old brandy and one bottle of champagne
still left; though it was evident, in looking at the cloth bales, that dishonesty had been
at work; and some person happened to suggest Asmani--the head man sent by Dr. Kirk in charge
of Livingstone's goods--as the guilty party. Upon his treasures being examined, I found eight
or ten coloured cloths, with the mark of my own agent at Zanzibar on them.  As he was unable
to give a clear account of how they came in his box, they were at once confiscated, and distributed
among the most deserving of the Doctor's people.  Some of the watchmen also accused him of
having entered into my store-room, and of having abstracted two or three gorah of domestics
from my bales, and of having, some days afterwards, snatched the keys from the hands of one
of my men, and broken them, lest other people might enter, and find evidences of his guilt.
As Asmani was proved to be another of the "moral idiots," Livingstone discharged him on the
spot.  Had we not arrived so soon at Unyanyembe, it is probable that the entire stock sent
from Zanzibar had in time disappeared.

Unyanyembe being rich in fruits, grain, and cattle, we determined to have our Christmas dinner
over again in style, and, being fortunately in pretty good health, I was enabled to superintend
its preparation.  Never was such prodigality seen in a tembe of Unyamwezi as was seen in ours,
nor were ever such delicacies provided.

There were but few Arabs in Unyanyembe when we arrived, as they were investing the stronghold
of Mirambo.  About a week after our return, "the little mannikin," Sheikh Sayd bin Salim--El
Wali--who was the commander-in-chief of their forces, came to Kwihara from the front.  But
the little Sheikh was in no great hurry to greet the man he had wronged so much.  As soon as
we heard of his arrival we took the opportunity to send men immediately after the goods which
were forwarded to the Wali's care soon after Livingstone's departure for Mikindany Bay.  The
first time we sent men for them the governor declared himself too sick to attend to such matters,
but the second day they were surrendered, with a request that the Doctor would not be very
angry at their condition, as the white ants had destroyed everything.

The stores this man had detained at Unyanyembe were in a most sorry state.  The expenses were
prepaid for their carriage to Ujiji, but the goods had been purposely detained at this place
by Sayd bin Salim since 1867 that he might satisfy his appetite for liquor, and probably fall
heir to two valuable guns that were known to be with them.  The white ants had not only eaten
up bodily the box in which the guns were packed, but they had also eaten the gunstocks. The
barrels were corroded, and the locks were quite destroyed. The brandy bottles, most singular
to relate, had also fallen a prey to the voracious and irresistible destroyers the white ants--and,
by some unaccountable means, they had imbibed the potent Hennessy, and replaced the corks with
corn-cobs.  The medicines had also vanished, and the zinc pots in which they had been snugly
packed up were destroyed by corrosion.  Two bottles of brandy and one small zinc case of medicines
only were saved out of the otherwise utter wreck.

I also begged the Doctor to send to Sheikh Sayd, and ask him if he had received the two letters
despatched by him upon his first arrival at Ujiji for Dr. Kirk and Lord Clarendon; and if he
had forwarded them to the coast, as he was desired to do.  The reply to the messengers was
in the affirmative; and, subsequently, I obtained the same answer in the presence of the Doctor,

On the 222nd of February, the pouring rain, which had dogged us the entire distance from Ujiji,
ceased, and we had now beautiful weather; and while I prepared for the homeward march, the
Doctor was busy writing his letters, and entering his notes into his journal, which I was to
take to his family.  When not thus employed, we paid visits to the Arabs at Tabora, by whom
we were both received with that bounteous hospitality for which they are celebrated.

Among the goods turned over by me to Dr. Livingstone, while assorting such cloths as I wished
to retain for my homeward trip, were--

                                      Doti.   Yards.

First-class American sheeting .  .  .  285  =  1140

  "         Kaniki (blue stuff) .  .  .  16  =   64

Medium        "    (blue stuff) .  .  .  60  =  240

  "          Dabwani cloth   .  .  .  .  41  =   64

             Barsati cloths .  .  .  .   28  =  112

             Printed handkerchiefs .  .  70  =  280

Medium Rehani cloth   .  .  .  .  .     127  =  508

  "    Ismahili  "           .  .  .  .  20  =   80

  "    Sohari    "  .  .  .  .  .        20  =   80

4 pieces fine Kungura (red check)        22  =   88

4 gorah Rehani .  .  .  .  .  .  .        8  =   32

Total number of cloths .                697  =  2788

Besides:

Cloth, 2788 yards.

Assorted beads, 16 sacks, weight = 992 lbs.

Brass wire, Nos.  5 and 6; 10 fraslilah = 350 lbs.

1 canvas tent, waterproof.

1 air-bed.

1 boat (canvas}

1 bag of tools, carpenter's.

1 rip saw.

2 barrels of tar.

12 sheets of ship's copper = 60 lbs.

Clothes.

1 Jocelyn breech-loader (metallic cartridge).

1 Starr's       "           "         "

1 Henry  (16-shooter)       "         "

1 revolver.

200 rounds revolver ammunition.

2000  "      Jocelyn and Starrs ammunition.

1500  "      Henry rifle ammunition.

Cooking utensils, medicine chest, books, sextant, canvas bags, &c., &c., &c.

The above made a total of about forty loads.  Many things in the list would have brought fancy
prices in Unyanyembe, especially the carbines and ammunition, the saw, carpenter's tools the
beads, and wire.  Out of the thirty-three loads which were stored for him in my tembe--the
stock sent to Livingstone, Nov. 1,1870--but few of them would be available for his return trip
to Rua and Manyuema. The 696 doti of cloth which were left to him formed the only marketable
articles of value he possessed; and in Manyuema, where the natives manufactured their own cloth,
such an article would be considered a drug; while my beads and wire, with economy, would suffice
to keep him and his men over two years in those regions. His own cloth, and what I gave him,
made in the aggregate 1,393 doti, which, at 2 doti per day for food, were sufficient to keep
him and sixty men 696 days.  He had thus four years' supplies. The only articles he lacked
to make a new and completely fitted-up expedition were the following, a list of which he and
I drew up;--

A few tins of American wheat-flour.
    "   "     soda crackers.
    "   "     preserved fruits
A few tins of salmon,
10 lbs.  Hyson tea.
Some sewing thread and needles.
1 dozen official envelopes.
`Nautical Almanac' for 1872 and 1873.
1 blank journal.
1 chronometer, stopped.
1 chain for refractory people.

With the articles just named he would have a total of seventy loads, but without carriers they
were an incumbrance to him; for, with only the nine men which he now had, he could go nowhere
with such a splendid assortment of goods.  I was therefore commissioned to enlist,--as soon
as I reached Zanzibar,--fifty freemen, arm them with a gun and hatchet each man, besides accoutrements,
and to purchase two thousand bullets, one thousand flints, and ten kegs of gunpowder.  The
men were to act as carriers, to follow wherever Livingstone might desire to go.  For, without
men, he was simply tantalized with the aspirations roused in him by the knowledge that he had
abundance of means, which were irrealizable without carriers.  All the wealth of London and
New York piled before him were totally unavailable to him without the means of locomotion.
No Mnyamwezi engages himself as carrier during war-time.  You who have read the diary of my
'Life in Unyanyembe' know what stubborn Conservatives the Wanyamwezi are.  A duty lay yet before
me which I owed to my illustrious companion, and that was to hurry to the coast as if on a
matter of life and death--act for him in the matter of enlisting men as if he were there himself--to
work for him with the same zeal as I would for myself--not to halt or rest until his desires
should be gratified, And this I vowed to do; but it was a death-blow to my project of going
down the Nile, and getting news of Sir S. Baker.

The Doctor's task of writing his letters was ended.  He delivered into my hand twenty letters
for Great Britain, six for Bombay, two for New York, and one for Zanzibar.  The two letters
for New York were for James Gordon Bennett, junior, as he alone, not his father, was responsible
for the Expedition sent under my command. I beg the reader's pardon for republishing one of
these letters here, as its spirit and style indicate the man, the mere knowledge of whose life
or death was worth a costly Expedition.

Ujiji, on Tanganika, East Africa, November, 1871.

James Gordon Bennett, Jr., Esq.

My Dear Sir,--It is in general somewhat difficult to write to one we have never seen--it feels
so much like addressing an abstract idea--but the presence of your representative, Mr. H. M.
Stanley, in this distant region takes away the strangeness I should otherwise have felt, and
in writing to thank you for the extreme kindness that prompted you to send him, I feel quite
at home.

If I explain the forlorn condition in which he found me you will easily perceive that I have
good reason to use very strong expressions of gratitude.  I came to Ujiji off a tramp of between
four hundred and five hundred miles, beneath a blazing vertical sun, having been baffled, worried,
defeated and forced to return, when almost in sight of the end of the geographical part of
my mission, by a number of half-caste Moslem slaves sent to me from Zanzibar, instead of men.
The sore heart made still sorer by the woeful sights I had seen of man's inhumanity to man
racked and told on the bodily frame, and depressed it beyond measure.  I thought that I was
dying on my feet.  It is not too much to say that almost every step of the weary sultry way
was in pain, and I reached Ujiji a mere ruckle of bones.

There I found that some five hundred pounds' sterling worth of goods which I had ordered from
Zanzibar had unaccountably been entrusted to a drunken half-caste Moslem tailor, who, after
squandering them for sixteen months on the way to Ujiji; finished up by selling off all that
remained for slaves and ivory for himself. He had "divined" on the Koran and found that I was
dead.  He had also written to the Governor of Unyanyembe that he had sent slaves after me to
Manyuema, who returned and reported my decease, and begged permission to sell off the few goods
that his drunken appetite had spared.

He, however, knew perfectly well, from men who had seen me, that I was alive, and waiting for
the goods and men; but as for morality, he is evidently an idiot, and there being no law here
except that of the dagger or musket, I had to sit down in great weakness, destitute of everything
save a few barter cloths and beads, which I had taken the precaution to leave here in case
of extreme need.

The near prospect of beggary among Ujijians made me miserable.

I could not despair, because I laughed so much at a friend who, on reaching the mouth of the
Zambezi, said that he was tempted to despair on breaking the photograph of his wife.  We could
have no success after that.  Afterward the idea of despair had to me such a strong smack of
the ludicrous that it was out of the question.

Well, when I had got to about the lowest verge, vague rumors of an English visitor reached
me.  I thought of myself as the man who went down from Jerusalem to Jericho; but neither priest,
Levite, nor Samaritan could possibly pass my way.  Yet the good Samaritan was close at hand,
and one of my people rushed up at the top of his speed, and, in great excitement, gasped out,
"An Englishman coming!  I see him!" and off he darted to meet him.

An American flag, the first ever seen in these parts, at the head of a caravan, told me the
nationality of the stranger.

I am as cold and non-demonstrative as we islanders are usually reputed to be; but your kindness
made my frame thrill.  It was, indeed, overwhelming, and I said in my soul, "Let the richest
blessings descend from the Highest on you and yours!"

The news Mr. Stanley had to tell was thrilling.  The mighty political changes on the Continent;
the success of the Atlantic cables; the election of General Grant, and many other topics' riveted
my attention for days together, and had an immediate and beneficial effect on my health.  I
had been without news from home for years save what I could glean from a few 'Saturday Reviews'
and 'Punch' of 1868.  The appetite revived, and in a week I began to feel strong again.

Mr. Stanley brought a most kind and encouraging despatch from Lord Clarendon (whose loss I
sincerely deplore), the first I have received from the Foreign Office since 1866, and information
that the British Government had kindly sent a thousand pounds sterling to my aid.  Up to his
arrival I was not aware of any pecuniary aid.  I came unsalaried, but this want is now happily
repaired, and I am anxious that you and all my friends should know that, though uncheered by
letter, I have stuck to the task which my friend Sir Roderick Murchison set me with "John Bullish"
tenacity, believing that all would come right at last.

The watershed of South Central Africa is over seven hundred wiles in length.  The fountains
thereon are almost innumerable--that is, it would take a man's lifetime to count them.  From
the watershed they converge into four large rivers, and these again into two mighty streams
in the great Nile valley, which begins in ten degrees to twelve degrees south latitude.  It
was long ere light dawned on the ancient problem and gave me a clear idea of the drainage.
I had to feel my way, and every step of the way, and was, generally, groping in the dark--for
who cared where the rivers ran?  "We drank our fill and let the rest run by."

The Portuguese who visited Cazembe asked for slaves and ivory, and heard of nothing else. 
I asked about the waters, questioned and cross-questioned, until I was almost afraid of being
set down as afflicted with hydrocephalus.

My last work, in which I have been greatly hindered from want of suitable attendants, was following
the central line of drainage down through the country of the cannibals, called Manyuema, or,
shortly Manyema.  This line of drainage has four large lakes in it.  The fourth I was near
when obliged to turn.  It is from one to three miles broad, and never can be reached at any
point, or at any time of the year.  Two western drains, the Lufira, or Bartle Frere's River,
flow into it at Lake Kamolondo.  Then the great River Lomame flows through Lake Lincoln into
it too, and seems to form the western arm of the Nile, on which Petherick traded.

Now, I knew about six hundred miles of the watershed, and unfortunately the seventh hundred
is the most interesting of the whole; for in it, if I am not mistaken, four fountains arise
from an earthen mound, and the last of the four becomes, at no great distance off, a large river.

Two of these run north to Egypt, Lufira and Lomame, and two run south into inner Ethiopia,
as the Leambaye, or Upper Zambezi, and the Kaful.

Are not these the sources of the Nile mentioned by the Secretary of Minerva, in the city of
Sais, to Herodotus?

I have heard of them so often, and at great distances off, that I cannot doubt their existence,
and in spite of the sore longing for home that seizes me every time I think of my family, I
wish to finish up by their rediscovery.

Five hundred pounds sterling worth of goods have again unaccountably been entrusted to slaves,
and have been over a year on the way, instead of four months.  I must go where they lie at
your expense, ere I can put the natural completion to my work.

And if my disclosures regarding the terrible Ujijian slavery should lead to the suppression
of the East Coast slave trade, I shall regard that as a greater matter by far than the discovery
of all the Nile sources together.  Now that you have done with domestic slavery for ever, lend
us your powerful aid toward this great object.  This fine country is blighted, as with a curse
from above, in order that the slavery privileges of the petty Sultan of Zanzibar may not be
infringed, and the rights of the Crown of Portugal, which are mythical, should be kept in abeyance
till some future time when Africa will become another India to Portuguese slave-traders.

I conclude by again thanking you most cordially for your great generosity, and am,

Gratefully yours,

David Livingstone.

To the above letter I have nothing to add--it speaks for itself; but I then thought it was
the best evidence of my success.  For my own part, I cared not one jot or tittle about his
discoveries, except so far as it concerned the newspaper which commissioned me for the "search."
It is true I felt curious as to the result of his travels; but, since he confessed that he
had not completed what he had begun, I felt considerable delicacy to ask for more than he could
afford to give.  His discoveries were the fruits of of his own labours--to him they belonged--by
their publication he hoped to obtain his reward, which he desired to settle on his children.
Yet Livingstone had a higher and nobler ambition than the mere pecuniary sum he would receive:
he followed the dictates of duty.  Never was such a willing slave to that abstract virtue.

"A delirious and fatuous enterprise, a Quixotic scheme!" some will say.

The following items are extracted in their entirety from my Diary:

March 12th.--The Arabs have sent me as many as forty-five letters to carry to the coast.  I
am turned courier in my latter days; but the reason is that no regularly organized caravans
are permitted to leave Unyanyembe now, because of the war with Mirambo.  What if I had stayed
all this time at Unyanyembe waiting for the war to end! It is my opinion that, the Arabs will
not be able to conquer Mirambo under nine months yet.

To-night the natives have gathered themselves together to give me a farewell dance in front
of my house.  I find them to be the pagazis of Singiri, chief of Mtesa's caravan.  My men joined
in, and, captivated by the music despite myself, I also struck in, and performed the "light
fantastic," to the intense admiration of my braves, who were delighted to see their master
unbend a little from his usual stiffness.

It is a wild dance altogether.  The music is lively, and evoked from the sonorous sound of
four drums, which are arranged before the bodies of four men, who stand in the centre of the
weird circle.  Bombay, as ever comical, never so much at home as when in the dance of the Mrima,
has my water-bucket on his head; Chowpereh-- the sturdy, the nimble, sure-footed Chowpereh--has
an axe in his hand, and wears a goatskin on his head; Baraka has my bearskin, and handles a
spear; Mabruki, the "Bull-headed," has entered into the spirit of the thing, and steps up and
down like a solemn elephant; Ulimengo has a gun, and is a fierce Drawcansir, and you would
imagine he was about to do battle to a hundred thousand, so ferocious is he in appearance;
Khamisi and Kamna are before the drummers, back to back, kicking up ambitiously at the stars;
Asmani,--the embodiment of giant strength,--a towering Titan,-- has also a gun, with which
he is dealing blows in the air, as if he were Thor, slaying myriads with his hammer.  The scruples
and passions of us all are in abeyance; we are contending demons under the heavenly light of
the stars, enacting only the part of a weird drama, quickened into action and movement by the
appalling energy and thunder of the drums.

The warlike music is ended, and another is started.  The choragus has fallen on his knees,
and dips his head two or three times in an excavation in the ground, and a choir, also on their
knees, repeat in dolorous tones the last words of a slow and solemn refrain.  The words are
literally translated:--

Choragus.  Oh-oh-oh! the white man is going home!

Choir.     Oh-oh-oh! going home!
                     Going home, oh-oh-oh!

Choragus.  To the happy island on the sea,
           Where the beads are plenty, oh-oh-oh!

Choir.     Oh-oh-oh! where the beads are plenty,
                     Oh-oh-oh!

Choragus.  While Singiri has kept us, oh, very long
           From our homes very long, oh-oh-oh.!

Choir      From our homes, oh-oh-oh!
                      Oh-oh-oh!

Choragus.  And we have had no food for very long--
           We are half-starved, oh, for so long!
                      Bana Singiri!

Choir.     For so very long, oh-oh-oh!
                       Bana Singiri-Singiri!
                            Singiri! oh, Singiri

Choragus.  Mirambo has gone to war
           To fight against the Arabs;
           The Arabs and Wangwana
           Have gone to fight Mirambo!

Choir      Oh-oh-oh! to fight Mirambo!

                        Oh, Mirambo! Mirambo
                        Oh, to fight Mirambo!

Choragus.  But the white man will make us glad,
           He is going home!  For he is going home,
           And he will make us glad!  Sh-sh-sh!

Choir.     The white man will make us glad!  Sh-sh-sh
                        Sh-----sh-h-h-----sh-h-h-h-h-h!
                        Um-m--mu---um-m-m----sh!

This is the singular farewell which I received from the Wanyamwezi of Singiri, and for its
remarkable epic beauty(?), rhythmic excellence(?), and impassioned force(?), I have immortalised
it in the pages of this book, as one of the most wonderful productions of the chorus-loving
children of Unyamwezi.

March 13th.--The last day of my stay with Livingstone has come and gone, and the last night
we shall be together is present, and I cannot evade the morrow!  I feel as though I would rebel
against the fate which drives me away from him.  The minutes beat fast, and grow into hours.

Our door is closed, and we are both of us busy with our own thoughts.  What his thoughts are
I know not.  Mine are sad.

I cannot resist the sure advance of time, which flies this night as if it mocked me, and gloated
on the misery it created! Be it so!

How many times have I not suffered the pang of parting with friends!  I wished to linger longer,
but the inevitable would come--Fate sundered us.  This is the same regretful feeling, only
it is more poignant, and the farewell may be forever!  FOREVER? And "FOR EVER," echo the reverberations
of a woful whisper.

I have noted down all he has said to-night; but the reader shall not share it with me.  It is mine!

I am as jealous as he is himself of his Journal; and I have written in German text, and in
round hand, on either side of it, on the waterproof canvas cover, "POSITTVELY NOT TO BE OPENED;"
to which he has affixed his signature.  I have stenographed every word he has said to me respecting
the equable distribution of certain curiosities among his friends and children, and his last
wish about "his" dear old friend, Sir Roderick Murchison, because he has been getting anxious
about him ever since we received the newspapers at Ugunda, when we read that the old man was
suffering from a paralytic stroke.  I must be sure to send him the news, as soon as I get to
Aden; and I have promised that he will receive the message from me quicker than anything was
ever received in Central Africa.

"To-morrow night, Doctor, you will be alone!"

"Yes; the house will look as though a death had taken place. You had better stop until the
rains, which are now near, are over."

"I would to God I could, my dear Doctor; but every day I stop here, now that there is no necessity
for me to stay longer, keeps you from your work and home."

"I know; but consider your health--you are not fit to travel. What is it?  Only a few weeks
longer.  You will travel to the coast just as quickly when the rains are over as you will by
going now.  The plains will be inundated between here and the coast."

"You think so; but I will reach the coast in forty days; if not in forty, I will in fifty--certain.
The thought that I am doing you an important service will spur me on."

March 14th.--At dawn we were up, the bales and baggage were taken outside of the building,
and the men prepared themselves for the first march towards home.  At 8 o'clock I was not gone,
and I had thought to have been off at 5 A.M.

"Doctor," said I, "I will leave two men with you, who will stop to-day and to-morrow with you,
for it may be that you have forgotten something in the hurry of my departure.  I will halt
a day at Tura, on the frontier of Unyamwezi, for your last word, and your last wish; and now
we must part--there is no help for it. Good-bye."

"Oh, I am coming with you a little way.  I must see you off on the road."

"Thank you.  Now, my men, Home!  Kirangozi, lift the flag, and MARCH!"

The house looked desolate--it faded from our view.  Old times, and the memories of my aspirations
and kindling hopes, came strong on me.  The old hills round about, that I once thought tame
and uninteresting, had become invested with histories and reminiscences for me.  On that burzani
I have sat hour after hour, dreaming, and hoping, and sighing.  On that col I stood, watching
the battle and the destruction of Tabora.  Under that roof I have sickened and been delirious,
and cried out like a child at the fate that threatened my mission.  Under that banian tree
lay my dead comrade-- poor Shaw; I would have given a fortune to have had him by my side at
this time.  From that house I started on my journey to Ujiji; to it I returned as to a friend,
with a newer and dearer companion; and now I leave all.  Already it all appears like a strange
dream.

"The thing is, Doctor, so far as I can understand it, you do not intend to return home until
you have satisfied yourself about the `Sources of the Nile.' When you have satisfied yourself,
you will come home and satisfy others.  Is it not so?"

"That is it, exactly.  When your men come back, I shall immediately start for Ufipa; then,
crossing the Rungwa River, I shall strike south, and round the extremity of the Tanganika.
Then, a south-east course will take me to Chicumbi's, on the Luapula.  On crossing the Luapula,
I shall go direct west to the copper-mines of Katanga. Eight days south of Katanga, the natives
declare the fountains to be. When I have found them, I shall return by Katanga to the underground
houses of Rua.  From the caverns, ten days north-east will take me to Lake Kamolondo.  I shall
be able to travel from the lake, in your boat, up the River Lufira, to Lake Lincoln.  Then,
coming down again, I can proceed north, by the Lualaba, to the fourth lake-- which, I think,
will explain the whole problem; and I will probably find that it is either Chowambe (Baker's
lake), or Piaggia's lake.

"And how long do you think this little journey will take you?"

"A year and a half, at the furthest, from the day I leave Unyanyembe."

"Suppose you say two years; contingencies might arise, you know. It will be well for me to
hire these new men for two years; the day of their engagement to begin from their arrival at
Unyanyembe."

"Yes, that will do excellently well."

"Now, my dear Doctor, the best friends must part.  You have come far enough; let me beg of
you to turn back."

"Well, I will say this to you: you have done what few men could do--far better than some great
travellers I know.

We wrung each other's hands, and I had to tear myself away before I unmanned myself; but Susi,
and Chumah, and Hamoydah--the Doctor's faithful fellows--they must all shake and kiss my hands
before I could quite turn away.  I betrayed myself!

"Good-bye, Doctor--dear friend!"

"Good-bye!"

The FAREWELL between Livingstone and myself had been spoken.  We were parted, he to whatever
fate Destiny had yet in store for him, to battling against difficulties, to many, many days
of marching through wildernesses, with little or nothing much to sustain him save his own high
spirit, and enduring faith in God--"who would bring all things right at last;" and I to that
which Destiny may have in store for me.

But though I may live half a century longer, I shall never forget that parting scene in Central
Africa.  I shall never cease to think of the sad tones of that sorrowful word Farewell, how
they permeated through every core of my heart, how they clouded my eyes, and made me wish unutterable
things which could never be.

An audacious desire to steal one embrace from the dear old man came over me, and almost unmanned
me.  I felt tempted to stop with him and assist him, on his long return march to the fountain
region, but these things were not to be, any more than many other impulsive wishes, and despite
the intensified emotions which filled both of us, save by silent tears, and a tremulous parting
word, we did not betray our stoicism of manhood and race.

I assumed a gruff voice, and ordered the Expedition to march, and I resolutely turned my face
toward the eastern sky.  But ever and anon my eyes would seek that deserted figure of an old
man in grey clothes, who with bended head and slow steps was returning to his solitude, the
very picture of melancholy, and each time I saw him--as the plain was wide and clear of obstructions--I
felt my eyes stream, and my heart swell with a vague, indefinable feeling of foreboding and sorrow.

I thought of his lonely figure sitting day after day on the burzani of his house, by which
all caravans from the coast would have to pass, and of the many, many times he would ask the
new-comers whether they had passed any men coming along the road for him, and I thought as
each day passed, and his stores and letters had not arrived how be would grieve at the lengthening
delay.  I then felt strong again, as I felt that so long as I should be doing service for Livingstone,
I was not quite parted from him, and by doing the work effectively and speedily the bond of
friendship between us would be strengthened.  Such thoughts spurred me to the resolution to
march so quickly for the coast, that Arabs in after time should marvel at the speed with which
the white man's caravan travelled from Unyanyembe to Zanzibar.

I took one more look at him; he was standing near the gate of Kwikuru with his servants near
him.  I waved a handkerchief to him, as a final token of farewell, and he responded to it by
lifting his cap.  It was the last opportunity, for we soon surmounted the crest of a land-wave,
and began the descent into the depression on the other side, and I NEVER saw him more.

God grant, dear reader, that if ever you take to travelling in Central Africa, you find as
good and true a man, for your companion, as I found in noble David Livingstone.  For four months
and four days he and I occupied the same house, or, the same tent, and I never had one feeling
of resentment against him, nor did he show any against me, and the longer I lived with him
the more did my admiration and reverence for him increase.

What were Livingstone's thoughts during the time which elapsed between my departure for the
coast, and the arrival of his supplies, may be gathered from a letter which he wrote on the
2nd of July to Mr. John F. Webb, American Consul at Zanzibar.

  I have been waiting up here like Simeon Stylites on his pillar,
  and counting every day, and conjecturing each step taken by our
  friend towards the coast, wishing and praying that no sickness
  might lay him up, no accident befall him, and no unlooked-for
  combinations of circumstances render his kind intentions vain
  or fruitless.  Mr. Stanley had got over the tendency to the
  continued form of fever which is the most dangerous, and was
  troubled only with the intermittent form, which is comparatively
  safe, or I would not have allowed him, but would have accompanied
  him to Zanzibar.  I did not tell himself so; nor did I say what I
  thought, that he really did a very plucky thing in going through
  the Mirambo war in spite of the remonstrances of all the Arabs,
  and from Ujiji guiding me back to Unyanyembe.  The war, as it
  is called, is still going on.  The danger lay not so much in
  the actual fighting as in the universal lawlessness the war
  engendered.

I am not going to inflict on the reader a repetition of our march back, except to record certain
incidents which occurred to us as we journeyed to the coast.

March 17th.--We came to the Kwalah River.  The first rain of the Masika season fell on this
day; I shall be mildewed before I reach the coast.  Last year's Masika began at Bagamoyo, March
23rd, and ended 30th April.

The next day I halted the Expedition at Western Tura, on the Unyamwezi frontier, and on the
20th arrived at Eastern Tura; when, soon after, we heard a loud report of a gun, and Susi and
Hamoydah, the Doctor's servants, with Uredi, and another of my men, appeared with a letter
for "Sir Thomas MacLear, Observatory, Cape of Good Hope," and one for myself, which read as
follows:

Kwihara, March 15, 1872.

Dear Stanley,

If you can telegraph on your arrival in London, be particular, please, to say how Sir Roderick
is.  You put the matter exactly yesterday, when you said that I was "not yet satisfied about
the Sources; but as soon as I shall be satisfied, I shall return and give satisfactory reasons
fit for other people."  This is just as it stands.

I wish I could give you a better word than the Scotch one to "put a stout heart to a stey brae"--(a
steep ascent)--for you will do that; and I am thankful that, before going away, the fever had
changed into the intermittent, or safe form.  I would not have let you go, but with great concern,
had you still been troubled with the continued type.  I feel comfortable in commending you
to the guardianship of the good Lord and Father of all.

I am gratefully yours,

David Livingstone.

I have worked as hard as I could copying observations made in one line of march from Kabuire,
back again to Cazembe, and on to Lake Baugweolo, and am quite tired out.  My large figures
fill six sheets of foolscap, and many a day will elapse ere I take to copying again.  I did
my duty when ill at Ujiji in 1869, and am not to blame, though they grope a little in the dark
at home. Some Arab letters have come, and I forward them to you.

D. L.

March 16, 1872.

P.S.--I have written a note this morning to Mr. Murray, 50, Albemarle Street, the publisher,
to help you, if necessary, in sending the Journal by book post, or otherwise, to Agnes. If
you call on him you will find him a frank gentleman.  A pleasant journey to you.

David Livingstone.

To Henry M. Stanley, Esq., Wherever he may be found.

Several Wangwana arrived at Tura to join our returning Expedition, as they were afraid to pass
through Ugogo by themselves; others were reported coming; but as all were sufficiently warned
at Unyanyembe that the departure of the caravan would take place positively on the 14th, I
was not disposed to wait longer.

As we were leaving Tura, on the 21st, Susi and Hamoydah were sent back to the Doctor, with
last words from me, while we continued our march to Nghwhalah River.

Two days afterwards we arrived before the village of Ngaraisa, into which the head of the caravan
attempted to enter but the angry Wakimbu forcibly ejected them.

On the 24th, we encamped in the jungle, in what is called the "tongoni," or clearing.

This region was at one period in a most flourishing state; the soil is exceedingly fertile;
the timber is large, and would be valuable near the coast; and, what is highly appreciated
in Africa, there is an abundance of water.  We camped near a smooth, broad hump of syenite,
at one end of which rose, upright and grand, a massive square rock, which towered above several
small trees in the vicinity; at the other end stood up another singular rock, which was loosened
at the base.

The members of the Expedition made use of the great sheet of rock to grind their grain; a common
proceeding in these lands where villages are not near, or when the people are hostile.

On the 27th of March we entered Kiwyeh.  At dawn, when leaving Mdaburu River, the solemn warning
had been given that we were about entering Ugogo; and as we left Kaniyaga village, with trumpet-like
blasts of the guide's horn, we filed into the depths of an expanse of rustling Indian corn.
The ears were ripe enough for parching and roasting, and thus was one anxiety dispelled by
its appearance; for generally, in early March, caravans suffer from famine, which overtakes
both natives and strangers.

We soon entered the gum-tree districts, and we knew we were in Ugogo.  The forests of this
country are chiefly composed of the gum and thorn species--mimosa and tamarisk, with often
a variety of wild fruit trees.  The grapes were plentiful, though they were not quite ripe;
and there was also a round, reddish fruit with the sweetness of the Sultana grape, with leaves
like a gooseberry-bush. There was another about the size of an apricot, which was excessively
bitter.

Emerging from the entangled thorn jungle, the extensive settlements of Kiwyeh came into view;
and to the east of the chief's village we found a camping place under the shade of a group
of colossal baobab.

We had barely encamped when we heard the booming, bellowing war horns sounding everywhere,
and we espied messengers darting swiftly in every direction giving the alarm of war.  When
first informed that the horns were calling the people to arm themselves, and prepare for war,
I half suspected that an attack was about to be made on the Expedition; but the words "Urugu,
warugu" (thief! thieves!)--bandied about, declared the cause.  Mukondoku, the chief of the
populous district two days to the north-east, where we experienced some excitement when westward-bound,
was marching to attack the young Mtemi, Kiwyeh, and Kiwyeh's soldiers were called to the fight.
The men rushed to their villages, and in a short time we saw them arrayed in full fighting
costume.  Feathers of the ostrich and the eagle waved over their fronts, or the mane of the
zebra surrounded their heads; their knees and ankles were hung with little bells; joho robes
floated behind, from their necks; spears, assegais, knob-sticks, and bows were flourished over
their heads, or held in their right hands, as if ready for hurling.  On each flank of a large
body which issued from the principal village, and which came at a uniform swinging double-quick,
the ankle and knee bells all chiming in admirable unison, were a cloud of skirmishers, consisting
of the most enthusiastic, who exercised themselves in mimic war as they sped along.  Column
after column, companies, and groups from every village hurried on past our camp until, probably,
there were nearly a thousand soldiers gone to the war.  This scene gave me a better idea than
anything else of the weakness of even the largest caravans which travelled between Zanzibar
and Unyanyembe.

At night the warriors returned from the forest; the alarm proved to be without foundation.
At first it was generally reported that the invaders were Wahehe, or the Wadirigo, as that
tribe are scornfully called from their thieving propensities.  The Wahehe frequently make a
foray upon the fat cattle of Ugogo.  They travel from their own country in the south-east,
and advance through the jungle, and when about to approach the herds, stoop down, covering
their bodies with their shields of bull-hide.  Having arrived between the cattle and the herdsmen,
they suddenly rise up and begin to switch the cattle heartily, and, having started them off
into the jungle in the care of men already detailed for the work, they turn about, and plant
their shields before them, to fight the aroused shepherds.

On the 30th we arrived at Khonze, which is remarkable for the mighty globes of foliage which
the giant sycamores and baobabs put forth above the plain.  The chief of Khonze boasts of four
tembes, out of which he could muster in the aggregate fifty armed men; yet this fellow, instigated
by the Wanyamwezi residents, prepared to resist our advance, because I only sent him three
doti--twelve yards of cloth--as honga.

We were halted, waiting the return of a few friendly Wagogo travellers who had joined us, and
who were asked to assist Bombay in the negotiation of the tribute, when the Wagogo returned
to us at breathless speed, and shouted out to me, "Why do you halt here? Do you wish to die?
These pagans will not take the tribute, but they boast that they will eat up all your cloth."

The renegade Wanyamwezi who had married into Wagogo families were always our bane in this country.
As the chief of Khonze came up I ordered the men to load their guns, and I loaded my own ostentatiously
in his presence, and then strode up to him, and asked if he had come to take the cloth by force,
or if he were going to accept quietly what I would give him.  As the Mnyamwezi who caused this
show of hostilities was beginning to speak, I caught him by the throat, and threatened to make
his nose flatter if he attempted to speak again in my presence, and to shoot him first, if
we should be forced to fight.  The rascal was then pushed away into the rear.  The chief, who
was highly amused with this proceeding, laughed loudly at the discomfiture of the parasite,
and in a short time he and I had settled the tribute to our mutual satisfaction, and we parted
great friends.  The Expedition arrived at Sanza that night.

On the 31st we came to Kanyenyi, to the great Mtemi--Magomba's-- whose son and heir is Mtundu
M'gondeh.  As we passed by the tembe of the great Sultan, the msagira, or chief counsellor,
a pleasant grey-haired man, was at work making a thorn fence around a patch of young corn.
He greeted the caravan with a sonorous "Yambo," and, putting himself at its head, he led the
way to our camp. When introduced to me he was very cordial in his manner. He was offered a
kiti-stool and began to talk very affably. He remembered my predecessors, Burton, Speke, and
Grant, very well; declared me to be much younger than any of them; and, recollecting that one
of the white men used to drink asses' milk (Burton?), offered to procure me some.  The way
I drank it seemed to give him very great satisfaction.

His son, Unamapokera, was a tall man of thirty or thereabouts, and he conceived a great friendship
for me, and promised that the tribute should be very light, and that he would send a man to
show me the way to Myumi, which was a village on the frontier of Kanyenyi, by which I would
be enabled to avoid the rapacious Kisewah, who was in the habit of enforcing large tribute
from caravans.

With the aid of Unamapokera and his father, we contrived to be mulcted very lightly, for we
only paid ten doti, while Burton was compelled to pay sixty doti or two hundred and forty yards
of cloth.

On the 1st of April, rising early, we reached Myumi after a four hours' march; then plunged
into the jungle, and, about 2 P.M. arrived at a large ziwa, or pond, situate in the middle
of a jungle; and on the next day, at 10 A.M., reached the fields of Mapanga.  We were passing
the village of Mapanga to a resting-place beyond the village, where we might breakfast and
settle the honga, when a lad rushed forward to meet us, and asked us where we were going. 
Having received a reply that we were going to a camping-place, he hastened on ahead, and presently
we heard him talking to some men in a field on our right.

In the meantime, we had found a comfortable shady place, and had come to a halt; the men were
reclining on the ground, or standing up near their respective loads; Bombay was about opening
a bale, when we heard a great rush of men, and loud shouts, and, immediately after, out rushed
from the jungle near by a body of forty or fifty armed men, who held their spears above their
heads, or were about to draw their bows, with a chief at their head, all uttering such howls
of rage as only savages can, which sounded like a long-drawn "Hhaat-uh--Hhaat-uhh-uhh," which
meant, unmistakably, "You will, will you?  No, you will not!"--at once determined, defiant,
and menacing.

I had suspected that the voices I heard boded no good to us, and I had accordingly prepared
my weapons and cartridges.  Verily, what a fine chance for adventure this was!  One spear flung
at us, or one shot fired into this minatory mob of savages, and the opposing' bands had been
plunged into a fatal conflict!  There would have been no order of battle, no pomp of war, but
a murderous strife, a quick firing of breech-loaders, and volleys from flint-lock muskets,
mixed with the flying of spears and twanging of bows, the cowardly running away at once, pursued
by yelping savages; and who knows how it all would have terminated?  Forty spears against forty
guns--but how many guns would not have decamped?  Perhaps all, and I should have been left
with my boy gunbearers to have my jugular deliberately severed, or to be decapitated, leaving
my head to adorn a tall pole in the centre of a Kigogo village, like poor Monsieur Maizan's
at Dege la Mhora, in Uzaramo.  Happy end of an Expedition! And the Doctor's Journal lost for
ever--the fruits of six years' labor!

But in this land it will not do to fight unless driven to the very last extremity.  No belligerent
Mungo Park can be successful in Ugogo unless he has a sufficient force of men with him.  With
five hundred Europeans one could traverse Africa from north to south, by tact, and the moral
effect that such a force would inspire. Very little fighting would be required.

Without rising from the bale on which I was seated, I requested the kirangozi to demand an
explanation of their furious hubbub and threatening aspect; if they were come to rob us.

"No," said the chief; "we do not want to stop the road, or to rob you; but we want the tribute."

"But don't you see us halted, and the bale opened to send it to you?  We have come so far from
your village that after the tribute is settled we can proceed on our way, as the day is yet young."

The chief burst into a loud laugh, and was joined by ourselves. He evidently felt ashamed of
his conduct for he voluntarily offered the explanation, that as he and his men were cutting
wood to make a new fence for his village, a lad came up to him, and said that a caravan of
Wangwana were about passing through the country without stopping to explain who they were.
We were soon very good friends.  He begged of me to make rain for him, as his crops were suffering,
and no rain had fallen for months.  I told him that though white people were very great and
clever people, much superior to the Arabs, yet we could not make rain.  Though very much disappointed,
he did not doubt my statement, and after receiving his honga, which was very light, he permitted
us to go on our way, and even accompanied us some distance to show us the road.

At 3 P.M. we entered a thorny jungle; and by 5 P.M. we had arrived at Muhalata, a district
lorded over by the chief Nyamzaga. A Mgogo, of whom I made a friend, proved very staunch. 
He belonged to Mulowa, a country to the S.S.E., and south of Kulabi; and was active in promoting
my interests by settling the tribute, with the assistance of Bombay, for me.  When, on the
next day, we passed through Kulabi on our way to Mvumi, and the Wagogo were about to stop us
for the honga, he took upon himself the task of relieving us from further toll, by stating
we were from Ugogo or Kanyenyi. The chief simply nodded his head, and we passed on.  It seems
that the Wagogo do not exact blackmail of those caravans who intend only to trade in their
own country, or have no intention of passing beyond their own frontier.

Leaving Kulabi, we traversed a naked, red, loamy plain, over which the wind from the heights
of Usagara, now rising a bluish-black jumble of mountains in our front, howled most fearfully.
With clear, keen, incisive force, the terrible blasts seemed to penetrate through an through
our bodies, as though we were but filmy gauze.  Manfully battling against this mighty "peppo
"-- storm--we passed through Mukamwa's, and crossing a broad sandy bed of a stream, we entered
the territory of Mvumi, the last tribute-levying chief of Ugogo.

The 4th of April, after sending Bombay and my friendly Mgogo with eight doti, or thirty-two
yards of cloth, as a farewell tribute to the Sultan, we struck off through the jungle, and
in five hours we were on the borders of the wilderness of "Marenga Mkali"--the "hard," bitter
or brackish, water.

From our camp I despatched three men to Zanzibar with letters to the American Consul, and telegraphic
despatches for the `Herald,' with a request to the Consul that he would send the men back with
a small case or two containing such luxuries as hungry, worn-out, and mildewed men would appreciate.
The three messengers were charged not to halt for anything--rain or no rain, river or inundation--as
if they did not hurry up we should catch them before they reached the coast.  With a fervent
"Inshallah, bana," they departed.

On the 5th, with a loud, vigorous, cheery "Hurrah!" we plunged into the depths of the wilderness,
which, with its eternal silence and solitude, was far preferable to the jarring, inharmonious
discord of the villages of the Wagogo.  For nine hours we held on our way, starting with noisy
shouts the fierce rhinoceros, the timid quagga, and the herds of antelopes which crowd the
jungles of this broad salina.  On the 7th, amid a pelting rain, we entered Mpwapwa, where my
Scotch assistant, Farquhar, died.  We had performed the extraordinary march of 338 English
statute miles from the 14th of March to the 7th of April, or within twenty-four days, inclusive
of halts, which was a little over fourteen miles a day.

Leukole, the chief of Mpwapwa, with whom I left Farquhar, gave the following account of the
death of the latter:--

"The white man seemed to be improving after you left him, until the, fifth day, when, while
attempting to rise and walk out of his tent, he fell back; from that minute he got worse and
worse, and in the afternoon he died, like one going to sleep.  His legs and abdomen had swollen
considerably, and something, I think, broke within him when he fell, for he cried out like
a man who was very much hurt, and his servant said, `The master says he is dying.'

"We had him carried out under a large tree, and after covering him with leaves, there left
him.  His servant took possession of his things, his rifle, clothes, and blanket, and moved
off to the tembe of a Mnyamwezi, near Kisokweh, where he lived for three months, when he also
died.  Before he died he sold his master's rifle to an Arab going to Unyanyembe for ten doti
(forty yards of cloth). That is all I know about it."

He subsequently showed me the hollow into which the dead body of Farquhar was thrown, but I
could not find a vestige of his bones, though we looked sharply about that we might make a
decent grave for them.  Before we left Unyanyembe fifty men were employed two days carrying
rocks, with which I built up a solid enduring pile around Shaw's grave eight feet long and
five feet broad, which Dr. Livingstone said would last hundreds of years, as the grave of the
first white man who died in Unyamwezi. But though we could not discover any remains of the
unfortunate Farquhar, we collected a large quantity of stones, and managed to raise a mound
near the banks of the stream to commemorate the spot where his body was laid.

It was not until we had entered the valley of the Mukondokwa River that we experienced anything
like privation or hardship from the Masika.  Here the torrents thundered and roared; the river
was a mighty brown flood, sweeping downward with, an almost resistless flow.  The banks were
brimful, and broad nullahs were full of water, and the fields were inundated, and still the
rain came surging down in a shower, that warned us of what we might expect during our transit
of the sea-coast region.  Still we urged our steps onward like men to whom every moment was
precious--as if a deluge was overtaking us.  Three times we crossed this awful flood at the
fords by means of ropes tied to trees from bank to bank, and arrived at Kadetamare on the 11th,
a most miserable, most woe-begone set of human beings; and camped on a hill opposite Mount
Kibwe, which rose on the right of the river--one of the tallest peaks of the range.

On the 12th of April, after six hours of the weariest march I had ever undergone, we arrived
at the mouth of the Mukondokwa Pass, out of which the river debouches into the Plain of Makata.
We knew that it was an unusual season, for the condition of the country, though bad enough
the year before, was as nothing compared to this year.  Close to the edge of the foaming, angry
flood lay our route, dipping down frequently into deep ditches, wherein we found ourselves
sometimes up to the waist in water, and sometimes up to the throat.  Urgent necessity impelled
us onward, lest we might have to camp at one of these villages until the end of the monsoon
rains; so we kept on, over marshy bottoms, up to the knees in mire, under jungly tunnels dripping
with wet, then into sloughs arm-pit deep.  Every channel seemed filled to overflowing, yet
down the rain poured, beating the surface of the river into yellowish foam, pelting us until
we were almost breathless.  Half a day's battling against such difficulties brought us, after
crossing the river, once again to the dismal village of Mvumi.

We passed the night fighting swarms of black and voracious mosquitoes, and in heroic endeavours
to win repose in sleep, in which we were partly successful, owing to the utter weariness of
our bodies.

On the 13th we struck out of the village of Mvumi.  It had rained the whole night, and the
morning brought no cessation.  Mile after mile we traversed, over fields covered by the inundation,
until we came to a branch river-side once again, where the river was narrow, and too deep to
ford in the middle.  We proceeded to cut a tree down, and so contrived that it should fall
right across the stream. Over this fallen tree the men, bestriding it, cautiously moved before
them their bales and boxes; but one young fellow, Rojab--through over-zeal, or in sheer madness--took
up the Doctor's box which contained his letters and Journal of his discoveries on his head,
and started into the river.  I had been the first to arrive on the opposite bank, in order
to superintend the crossing; when I caught sight of this man walking in the river with the
most precious box of all on his head.  Suddenly he fell into a deep hole, and the man and box
went almost out of sight, while I was in an agony at the fate which threatened the despatches.
Fortunately, he recovered himself and stood up, while I shouted to him, with a loaded revolver
pointed at his head, "Look out!  Drop that bog, and I'll shoot you."

All the men halted in their work while they gazed at their comrade who was thus imperilled
by bullet and flood.  The man himself seemed to regard the pistol with the greatest awe, and
after a few desperate efforts succeeded in getting the box safely ashore.  As the articles
within were not damaged, Rojab escaped punishment, with a caution not to touch the bog again
on any account, and it was transferred to the keeping of the sure-footed and perfect pagazi,
Maganga.

From this stream, in about an hour, we came to the main river, but one look at its wild waters
was enough.  We worked hard to construct a raft, but after cutting down four trees and lashing
the green logs together, and pushing them into the whirling current, we saw them sink like
lead.  We then tied together all the strong rope in our possession, and made a line 180 feet
long, with one end of which tied round his body, Chowpereh was sent across to lash it to a
tree.  He was carried far down the stream; but being an excellent swimmer, he succeeded in
his attempt.  The bales were lashed around the middle, and, heaved into the stream, were dragged
through the river to the opposite bank, as well as the tent, and such things as could not be
injured much by the water. Several of the men, as well as myself, were also dragged through
the water; each of the boys being attended by the best swimmers; but when we came to the letter-boxes
and valuables, we could suggest no means to take them over.  Two camps were accordingly made,
one on each side of the stream; the one on the bank which I had just left occupying an ant-hill
of considerable height; while my party had to content itself with a flat, miry marsh.  An embankment
of soil, nearly a foot high, was thrown up in a circle thirty feet in diameter, in the centre
of which my tent was pitched, and around it booths were erected.

It was an extraordinary and novel position that we found ourselves in.  Within twenty feet
of our camp was a rising river, with flat, low banks; above us was a gloomy, weeping sky; surrounding
us on three sides was an immense forest, on whose branches we heard the constant, pattering
rain; beneath our feet was a great depth of mud, black and loathsome; add to these the thought
that the river might overflow, and sweep us to utter destruction.

In the morning the river was still rising, and an inevitable doom seemed to hang over us. 
There was yet time to act--to bring over the people, with the most valuable effects of the
Expedition--as I considered Dr. Livingstone's Journal and letters, and my own papers, of far
greater value than anything else.  While looking at the awful river an idea struck me that
I might possibly carry the boxes across, one at a time, by cutting two slender poles, and tying
cross sticks to them, making a kind of hand-barrow, on which a box might rest when lashed to
it.  Two men swimming across, at the same time holding on to the rope, with the ends of the
poles resting on the men's shoulders, I thought, would be enabled to convey over a 70 lb. box
with ease.  In a short time one of these was made, and six couples of the strongest swimmers
were prepared, and stimulated with a rousing glass of stiff grog each man, with a promise of
cloth to each also if they succeeded in getting everything ashore undamaged by the water. 
When I saw with what ease they dragged themselves across, the barrow on their shoulders, I
wondered that I had not thought of the plan before. Within an hour of the first couple had
gone over, the entire Expedition was safe on the eastern bank; and at once breaking camp, we
marched north through the swampy forest, which in some places was covered with four feet of
water.  Seven hours' constant splashing brought us to Rehenneko, after experiencing several
queer accidents.  We were now on the verge only of the inundated plain of the Makata, which,
even with the last year's rain, was too horrible to think of undertaking again in cold blood.

We were encamped ten days on a hill near Rehenneko, or until the 25th, when, the rain having
entirely ceased, we resolved to attempt the crossing of the Makata.  The bales of cloth had
all been distributed as presents to the men for their work, except a small quantity which I
retained for the food of my own mess.

But we should have waited a month longer, for the inundation had not abated four inches.  However,
after we once struggled up to our necks in water it was use less to turn back.  For two marches
of eight hours each we plunged through slush, mire, deep sloughs, water up to our necks, and
muddy cataclysms, swam across nullahs, waded across gullies, and near sunset of the second
day arrived on the banks of the Makata River.  My people are not likely to forget that night;
not one of them was able to sleep until it was long past midnight, because of the clouds of
mosquitoes, which threatened to eat us all up; and when the horn sounded for the march of another
day, there was not one dissentient amongst them.

It was 5 A.M. when we began the crossing of the Makata River, but beyond it for six miles stretched
one long lake, the waters of which flowed gently towards the Wami.  This was the confluence
of the streams: four rivers were here gathered into one.  The natives of Kigongo warned us
not to attempt it, as the water was over our heads; but I had only to give a hint to the men,
and we set on our way.  Even the water--we were getting quite amphibious--was better than the
horrible filth and piles of decaying vegetation which were swept against the boma of the village.

We were soon up to our armpits, then the water shallowed to the knee, then we stepped up to
the neck, and waded on tiptoe, supporting the children above the water; and the same experiences
occurred as those which we suffered the day before, until we were halted on the edge of the
Little Makata, which raced along at the rate of eight knots an hour; but it was only fifty
yards wide, and beyond it rose a high bank, and dry park-lands which extended as far as Simbo.
We had no other option than to swim it; but it was a slow operation, the current was so swift
and strong. Activity and zeal, high rewards, presents of money, backed by the lively feeling
that we were nearing home, worked wonders, and in a couple of hours we were beyond the Makata.

Cheery and hopeful, we sped along the dry, smooth path that now lay before us, with the ardor
and vivacity of heroes, and the ease and power of veterans, We rolled three ordinary marches
into one that day, and long before night arrived at Simbo.

On the 29th we crossed the Ungerengeri, and as we came to Simbamwenni-the "Lion City" of Useguhha--lo!
what a change! The flooded river had swept the entire front wall of the strongly-walled city
away, and about fifty houses had been destroyed by the torrent.  Villages of Waruguru, on the
slopes of the Uruguru Mountains--Mkambaku range--had also suffered disastrously.  If one-fourth
of the reports we heard were true, at least a hundred people must have perished.

The Sultana had fled, and the stronghold of Kimbengo was no more! A deep canal that he had
caused to be excavated when alive, to bring a branch of the Ungerengeri near his city--which
was his glory and boast--proved the ruin of Simbamwenni.  After the destruction of the place
the river had formed a new bed, about 300 yards from the city.  But what astonished us most
were the masses of debris which seemed to be piled everywhere, and the great numbers of trees
that were prostrate; and they all seemed to lie in the same direction, as if a strong wind
had come from the south-west.  The aspect of the Ungerengeri valley was completely changed--from
a Paradise it was converted into a howling waste.

We continued our march until we reached Ulagalla, and it was evident, as we advanced, that
an unusual storm had passed over the land, for the trees in some places seemed to lie in swathes.

A most fatiguing and long march brought us to Mussoudi, on the eastern bank of the Ungerengeri;
but long before we reached it we realized that a terrific destruction of human life and property
had occurred.  The extent and nature of the calamity may be imagined, when I state that nearly
ONE HUNDRED VILLAGES, according to Mussoudi's report, were swept away.

Mussoudi, the Diwan, says that the inhabitants had gone to rest as usual--as they had done
ever since he had settled in the valley, twenty-five years ago--when, in the middle of the
night, they heard a roar like many thunders, which woke them up to the fact that death was
at work in the shape of an enormous volume of water, that, like a wall, came down, tearing
the tallest trees with it, carrying away scores of villages at one fell, sure swoop into utter
destruction.  The scene six days after the event--when the river has subsided into its normal
breadth and depth during the monsoons--is simply awful.  Wherever we look, we find something
very suggestive of the devastation that has visited the country; fields of corn are covered
with many feet of sand and debris; the sandy bed the river has deserted is about a mile wide;
and there are but three villages standing of all that I noticed when en route to Unyanyembe.
When I asked Mussoudi where the people had gone to, he replied, "God has taken most of them,
but some have gone to Udoe."  The surest blow ever struck at the tribe of the Wakami was indeed
given by the hand of God; and, to use the words of the Diwan, "God's power is wonderful, and
who can resist Him!"

I again resort to my Diary, and extract the following:

April 30th.--Passing Msuwa, we travelled hurriedly through the jungle which saw such hard work
with us when going to Unyanyembe. What dreadful odors and indescribable loathing this jungle
produces!  It is so dense that a tiger could not crawl through it; it is so impenetrable that
an elephant could not force his way!  Were a bottleful of concentrated miasma, such as we inhale
herein, collected, what a deadly poison, instantaneous in its action, undiscoverable in its
properties, would it be!  I think it would act quicker than chloroform, be as fatal as prussic
acid.

Horrors upon horrors are in it.  Boas above our heads, snakes and scorpions under our feet.
Land-crabs, terrapins, and iguanas move about in our vicinity.  Malaria is in the air we breathe;
the road is infested with "hotwater" ants, which bite our legs until we dance and squirm about
like madmen. Yet, somehow, we are fortunate enough to escape annihilation, and many another
traveller might also.  Yet here, in verity, are the ten plagues of Egypt, through which a traveller
in these regions must run the gauntlet:

1.  Plague of boas.            |   7.  Suffocation from the 2.  Red ants, or "hot-water." 
|       density of the jungle. 3   Scorpions.                 |   8.  Stench. 4.  Thorns and
spear cacti.    |   9.  Thorns in the road. 5.  Numerous impediments.      |  10.  Miasma.
6   Black mud knee-deep.       |

May 1st. Kingaru Hera.--We heard news of a great storm having raged at Zanzibar, which has
destroyed every house and every ship,--so the story runs;--and the same destruction has visited
Bagamoyo and Whinde, they say.  But I am by this time pretty well acquainted with the exaggerative
tendency of the African. It is possible that serious loss has been sustained, from the evidences
of the effects of the storm in the interior.  I hear, also, that there are white men at Bagamoyo,
who are about starting into the country to look after me (?).  Who would look after me, I cannot
imagine.  I think they must have some confused idea of my Expedition; though, how they came
to know that I was looking for any man I cannot conceive, because I never told a soul until
I reached Unyanyembe.

May 2nd. Rosako.--I had barely arrived at the village before the three men I despatched from
Mvumi, Ugogo, entered, bringing with them from the generous American Consul a few bottles of
champagne, a few pots of jam, and two boxes of Boston crackers.  These were most welcome after
my terrible experiences in the Makata Valley. Inside one of these boxes, carefully put up by
the Consul, were four numbers of the 'Herald'; one of which contained my correspondence from
Unyanyembe, wherein were some curious typographical errors, especially in figures and African
names. I suppose my writing was wretched, owing to my weakness.  In another are several extracts
from various newspapers, in which I learn that many editors regard the Expedition into Africa
as a myth.  Alas! it has been a terrible, earnest fact with me; nothing but hard, conscientious
work, privation, sickness, and almost death.  Eighteen men have paid the forfeit of their lives
in the undertaking.  It certainly is not a myth--the death of my two white assistants; they,
poor fellows, found their fate in the inhospitable regions of the interior.

One of my letters received from Zanzibar by my messengers states that there is an expedition
at Bagamoyo called the "Livingstone Search and Relief Expedition."  What will the leaders of
it do now? Livingstone is found and relieved already.  Livingstone says he requires nothing
more.  It is a misfortune that they did not start earlier; then they might with propriety proceed,
and be welcomed.

May 4th.---Arrived at Kingwere's Ferry, but we were unable to attract the attention of the
canoe paddler.  Between our camp and Bagamoyo we have an inundated plain that is at least four
miles broad.  The ferrying of our Expedition across this broad watery waste will occupy considerable
time.

May 5th.--Kingwere, the canoe proprietor, came about 11 A.M. from his village at Gongoni, beyond
the watery plain.  By his movements I am fain to believe him to be a descendant of some dusky
King Log, for I have never seen in all this land the attributes and peculiarities of that royal
personage so faithfully illustrated as in Kingwere.  He brought two canoes with him, short,
cranky things, in which only twelve of us could embark at a time.  It was 3 o'clock in the
afternoon before we arrived at Gongoni village.

May 6th.--After impressing Kingwere with the urgent necessity of quick action on his part,
with a promise of an extra five-dollar gold piece, I had the satisfaction to behold the last
man reach my camp at 3.30 p.m.

An hour later, and we are en route, at a pace that I never saw equalled at any time by my caravan.
Every man's feelings are intensified, for there is an animated, nay, headlong, impetuosity
about their movements that indicates but too well what is going on in their minds.  Surely,
my own are a faithful index to their feelings; and I do not feel a whit too proud to acknowledge
the great joy that possesses me.  I feel proud to think that I have been successful; but, honestly,
I do not feel so elated at that as at the hope that to-morrow I shall sit before a table bounteous
with the good things of this life.  How I will glory in the hams, and potatoes, and good bread!
What a deplorable state of mind, is it not?  Ah, my friend, wait till you are reduced to a
skeleton by gaunt famine and coarse, loathsome food--until you have waded a Makata swamp, and
marched 525 miles in thirty-five days through such weather as we have had--then you will think
such pabula, food fit for gods!

Happy are we that,--after completing our mission, after the hurry and worry of the march, after
the anxiety and vexation suffered from fractious tribes, after tramping for the last fifteen
days through mire and Stygian marsh,--we near Beulah's peace and rest! Can we do otherwise
than express our happiness by firing away gunpowder until our horns are emptied--than shout
our "hurrahs" until we are hoarse--than, with the hearty, soul-inspiring "Yambos," greet every
mother's son fresh from the sea?  Not so, think the Wangwana soldiers; and I so sympathize
with them that I permit them to act their maddest without censure.

At sunset we enter the town of Bagamoyo.  "More pilgrims come to town," were the words heard
in Beulah.  "The white man has come to town," were the words we heard in Bagamoyo.  And we
shall cross the water tomorrow to Zanzibar, and shall enter the golden gate; we shall see nothing,
smell nothing, taste nothing that is offensive to the stomach any more!

The kirangozi blows his horn, and gives forth blasts potential as Astolpho's, as the natives
and Arabs throng around us.  And that bright flag, whose stars have waved over the waters of
the great lake in Central Africa, which promised relief to the harassed Livingstone when in
distress at Ujiji, returns to the sea once again--torn, it is true, but not dishonoured--tattered,
but not disgraced.

As we reached the middle of the town, I saw on the steps of a large white house a white man,
in flannels and helmet similar to that I wore.  I thought myself rather akin to white men in
general, and I walked up to him.  He advanced towards me, and we shook hands--did everything
but embrace.

"Won't you walk in?" said he.

"Thanks."

"What will you have to drink--beer, stout, brandy?  Eh, by George! I congratulate you on your
splendid success," said he, impetuously.

I knew him immediately.  He was an Englishman.  He was Lieut. William Henn, R.N., chief of
the Livingstone Search and Relief Expedition, about to be despatched by the Royal Geographical
Society to find and relieve Livingstone.  The former chief, as the Expedition was at first
organized, was Lieut. Llewellyn S. Dawson, who, as soon as he heard from my men that I had
found Livingstone, had crossed over to Zanzibar, and, after consultation with Dr. John Kirk,
had resigned.  He had now nothing further to do with it, the command having formally devolved
on Lieut. Henn. A Mr. Charles New, also, missionary from Mombasah, had joined the expedition,
but he had resigned too.  So now there were left but Lieut. Henn and Mr. Oswell Livingstone,
second son of the Doctor.

"Is Mr. Oswell Livingstone here?" I asked, with considerable surprise.

"Yes; he will be here directly."

"What are you going to do now?" I asked.

"I don't think it worth my while to go now.  You have taken the wind out of our sails completely.
If you have relieved him, I don't see the use of my going.  Do you?"

"Well, it depends.  You know your own orders best.  If you have come only to find and relieve
him, I can tell you truly he is found and relieved, and that he wants nothing more than a few
canned meats, and some other little things which I dare say you have not got.  I have his list
in his own handwriting with me. But his son must go anyhow, and I can get men easily enough
for him."

"Well, if he is relieved, it is of no use my going."

At this time in walked a slight, young, gentlemanly man, with light complexion, light hair,
dark, lustrous eyes, who was introduced to me as Mr. Oswell Livingstone.  The introduction
was hardly necessary, for in his features there was much of what were the specialities of his
father.  There was an air of quiet resolution about him, and in the greeting which he gave
me he exhibited rather a reticent character; but I attributed that to a receptive nature, which
augured well for the future.

"I was telling Lieut. Henn that, whether he goes or not, you must go to your father, Mr. Livingstone."

"Oh, I mean to go."

"Yes, that's right.  I will furnish you with men and what stores your father needs.  My men
will take you to Unyanyembe without any difficulty.  They know the road well, and that is a
great advantage.  They know how to deal with the negro chiefs, and you will have no need to
trouble your head about them, but march. The great thing that is required is speed.  Your father
will be waiting for the things."

"I will march them fast enough, if that is all."

"Oh, they will be going up light, and they can easily make long marches."

It was settled, then.  Henn made up his mind that, as the Doctor had been relieved, he was
not wanted; but, before formally resigning, he intended to consult with Dr. Kirk, and for that
purpose he would cross over to Zanzibar the next day with the `Herald' Expedition.

At 2 A.M. I retired to sleep on a comfortable bed.  There was a great smell of newness about
certain articles in the bedroom, such as haversacks, knapsacks, portmanteaus, leather gun-cases,
&c. Evidently the new Expedition had some crudities about it; but a journey into the interior
would soon have lessened the stock of superfluities, which all new men at first load themselves
with.

Ah! what a sigh of relief was that I gave, as I threw myself on my bed, at the thought that,
"Thank God! my marching was ended."

CHAPTER XVI.  VALEDICTORY.

At 5 P.M., on the 7th of May, 1872, the dhow which conveyed my Expedition back to Zanzibar
arrived in the harbor, and the men, delighted to find themselves once more so near their homes,
fired volley after volley, the American flag was hoisted up, and we soon saw the house-roofs
and wharves lined with spectators, many of whom were Europeans, with glasses levelled at us.

We drew ashore slowly; but a boat putting off to take us to land, we stepped into it, and I
was soon in presence of my friend the Consul, who heartily welcomed me back to Zanzibar; and
soon after was introduced to the Rev. Charles New, who was but a day or two previous to my
arrival an important member of the English Search Expedition--a small, slight man in appearance,
who, though he looked weakly, had a fund of energy or nervousness in him which was almost too
great for such a body.  He also heartily congratulated me.

After a bounteous dinner, to which I did justice in a manner that astonished my new friends,
Lieut. Dawson called to see me, and said:

"Mr. Stanley, let me congratulate you, sir."

Lieut. Dawson then went on to state how he envied me my success; how I had "taken the wind
out of his sails" (a nautical phrase similar to that used by Lieut. Henn); how, when he heard
from my men that Dr. Livingstone had been found, he at once crossed over from Bagamoyo to Zanzibar,
and, after a short talk with Dr. Kirk, at once resigned.

"But do you not think, Mr. Dawson, you have been rather too hasty in tendering your resignation,
from the more verbal report of my men?"

"Perhaps," said he; "but I heard that Mr. Webb had received a letter from you, and that you
and Livingstone had discovered that the Rusizi ran into the lake--that you had the Doctor's
letters and despatches with you."

"Yes; but you acquired all this information from my men; you have seen nothing yourself.  You
have therefore resigned before you had personal evidence of the fact."

"Well, Dr. Livingstone is relieved and found, as Mr. Henn tells me, is he not?"

"Yes, that is true enough.  He is well supplied; he only requires a few little luxuries, which
I am going to send him by an expedition of fifty freemen.  Dr. Livingstone is found and relieved,
most certainly; and I have all the letters and despatches which he could possibly send to his
friends."

"But don't you think I did perfectly right?"

"Hardly--though, perhaps, it would come to the same thing in the end.  Any more cloth and beads
than he has already would be an incumbrance.  Still, you have your orders from the Royal Geographical
Society.  I have not seen those yet, and I am not prepared to judge what your best course would
have been.  But I think you did wrong in resigning before you saw me; for then you would have
had, probably, a legitimate excuse for resigning. I should have held on to the Expedition until
I had consulted with those who sent me; though, in such an event as this, the order would be,
perhaps, to `Come home.'"

"As it has turned out, though, don't you think I did right?"

"Most certainly it would be useless for you to go to search for and relieve Livingstone now,
because he has already been sought, found, and relieved; but perhaps you had other orders."

"Only, if I went into the country, I was then to direct my attention to exploration; but the
primary object having been forestalled by you, I am compelled to return home.  The Admiralty
granted me leave of absence only for the search, and never said anything about exploration."

That evening I despatched a boy over to the English Consulate with letters from the great traveller
for Dr. Kirk and Mr. Oswell Livingstone.

I was greeted warmly by the American and German residents, who could not have shown warmer
feeling than if Dr. Livingstone had been a near and dear relation of their own.  Capt. H. A.
Fraser and Dr. James Christie were also loud in their praises.  It seems that both of these
gentlemen had attempted to despatch a private expedition to the relief of their countryman,
but through some means it had failed.  They had contributed the sum of $500 to effect this
laudable object; but the man to whom they had entrusted its command had been engaged by another
for a different purpose, at a higher sum.  But, instead of feeling annoyed that I had performed
what they had intended to do, they were among my most enthusiastic admirers.

The next day I received a call from Dr. Kirk, who warmly congratulated me upon my success.
Bishop Tozer also came, and thanked me for tie service I had rendered to Dr. Livingstone.

On this day I also discharged my men, and re-engaged twenty of them to return to the "Great
Master."  Bombay, though in the interior he had scorned the idea of money rewards, and though
he had systematically, in my greatest need, endeavoured to baffle me in every way, received,
besides his pay, a present of $50, and each man, according to his merits, from $20 to $50.
For this was a day to bury all animosities, and condone all offences.  They, poor people, had
only acted according to their nature, and I remembered that from Ujiji to the coast they had
all behaved admirably.

I saw I was terribly emaciated and changed when I presented myself before a full-length mirror.
All confirmed my opinion that I was much older in my appearance, and that my hair had become
grey. Capt. Fraser had said, when I hailed him, "You have the advantage of me, sir!" and until
I mentioned my name he did not know me. Even then he jocosely remarked that he believed that
it was another Tichborne affair.  I was so different that identity was almost lost, even during
the short period of thirteen months; that is, from March 23rd, 1871, to May  7th, 1872.

Lieut. Henn the morning after my arrival formally resigned, and the Expedition was from this
time in the hands of Mr. Oswell Livingstone, who made up his mind to sell the stores, retaining
such as would be useful to his father.

After disbanding my Expedition, I set about preparing another, according to Dr. Livingstone's
request.  What the English Expedition lacked I purchased out of the money advanced by Mr. Oswell
Livingstone.  The guns, fifty in number, were also furnished out of the stores of the English
Expedition by him; and so were the ammunition, the honga cloth, for the tribute to the Wagogo,
and the cloth for provisioning the force. Mr. Livingstone worked hard in the interests of his
father and assisted me to the utmost of his ability.  He delivered over to me, to be packed
up, `Nautical Almanacs' for 1872, 1873, 1874; also a chronometer, which formerly belonged to
Dr. Livingstone.  All these things, besides a journal, envelopes, note-books, writing-paper,
medicines, canned fruits and fish, a little wine, some tea, cutlery and table ware, newspapers,
and private letters and despatches, were packed up in air-tight tin boxes, as well as 100 lbs.
of fine American flour, and some boxes of soda biscuits.

Until the 19th of May it was understood that Mr. Oswell Livingstone would take charge of the
caravan to his father; but about this date he changed his mind, and surprised me with a note
stating he had decided not to go to Unyanyembe, for reasons he thought just and sufficient.

Under these circumstances, my duty was to follow out the instructions of Dr. Livingstone, in
procuring a good and efficient leader to take charge of the caravan as far as Unyanyembe.

In a few hours I succeeded in obtaining an Arab highly recommended from Sheikh Hashid, whom
I engaged at an advance of $100.  The young Arab, though not remarkably bright, seemed honest
and able, but I left his further employment after reaching Unyanyembe to Dr. Livingstone, who
would be able to decide then whether he was quite trustworthy.

The next day I collected the men of the new Livingstone Expedition together, and as it was
dangerous to allow them to wander about the city, I locked them up in a courtyard, and fed
them there, until every soul, fifty seven in number, answered to their names.

In the meantime, through the American Consul's assistance, I obtained the services of Johari,
the chief dragoman of the American Consulate, who was charged with the conduct of the party
across the inundated plain of the Kingani, and who was enjoined on no account to return until
the Expedition had started on its march from the western bank of the Kingani River.  Mr. Oswell
Livingstone generously paid him a douceur for the promise of doing his work thoroughly.

A dhow having been brought to anchor before the American Consulate, I then addressed my old
companions, saying, "You are now about to return to Unyanyembe, to the `Great Master'.  You
know him; you know he is a good man, and has a kind heart.  He is different from me; he will
not beat you, as I have done.  But you know I have rewarded you all--how I have made you all
rich in cloth and money. You know how, when you behaved yourselves well, I was your friend.
I gave you plenty to eat and plenty to wear.  When you were sick I looked after you.  If I
was so good to you, the `Great Master' will be much more so.  He has a pleasant voice, and
speaks kind. When did you ever see him lift his hand against an offender? When you were wicked,
he did not speak to you in anger--he spoke to you in tones of sorrow.  Now, will you promise
me that you will follow him--do what he tells you, obey him in all things, and not desert him?"

"We will, we will, my master!" they all cried, fervently.

"Then there is one thing more.  I want to shake hands with you all before you go--and we part
for ever;" and they all rushed up at once, and a vigorous shake was interchanged with each man.

"Now, let every man take up his load!"

In a short time I marched them out into the street, and to the beach; saw them all on board,
and the canvas hoisted, and the dhow speeding westward on her way to Bagamoyo.

I felt strange and lonely, somehow.  My dark friends, who had travelled over so many hundreds
of miles, and shared so many dangers with me, were gone, and I--was left behind.  How many
of their friendly faces shall I see again?

On the 29th, the steamer `Africa,' belonging to the German Consulate, was chartered by a party
of five of us, and we departed from Zanzibar to Seychelles, with the good wishes of almost
all the European residents on the island.

We arrived at Seychelles on the 9th of June, about twelve hours after the French mail had departed
for Aden.  As there is only monthly communication between Mahe (Seychelles) and Aden, we were
compelled to remain on the island of Mahe one month.

My life in Mahe is among the most agreeable things connected with my return from Africa.  I
found my companions estimable gentlemen, and true Christians.  Mr. Livingstone exhibited many
amiable traits of character, and proved himself to be a studious, thoughtful, earnest man.
When at last the French steamer came from Mauritius, there was not one of our party who did
not regret leaving the beautiful island, and the hospitable British officers who were stationed
there.  The Civil Commissioner, Mr. Hales Franklyn, and Dr. Brooks, did their utmost to welcome
the wanderer, and I take this opportunity to acknowledge the many civilities I personally received
from them.

At Aden, the passengers from the south were transferred on board the French mail steamer, the
`Mei-kong,' en route from China to Marseilles.  At the latter port I was received with open
arms by Dr. Hosmer and the representative of the `Daily Telegraph,' and was then told how men
regarded the results of the Expedition; but it was not until I arrived in England that I realised
it.

Mr. Bennett, who originated and sustained the enterprise, now crowned it by one of the most
generous acts that could be conceived.  I had promised Dr. Livingstone, that twenty-four hours
after I saw his letters to Mr. Bennett published in the London journals, I would post his letters
to his family and friends in England.  In order to permit me to keep my plighted word, and
in order that there might be no delay in the delivery of his family letters, Mr. Bennett's
agent telegraphed to New York the 'Herald' letters I had received from Dr. Livingstone at an
expense of nearly £2,000.

And now, dear reader, the time has come for you and I to part. Let us hope that it is not final.
A traveller finds himself compelled to repeat the regretful parting word often.  During the
career recorded in the foregoing book, I have bidden many farewells; to the Wagogo, with their
fierce effrontery; to Mionvu, whose blackmailing once so affected me; to the Wavinza, whose
noisy clatter promised to provoke dire hostilities; to the inhospitable Warundi; to the Arab
slave-traders and half-castes; to all fevers, remittent, and intermittent; to the sloughs and
swamps of Makata; to the brackish waters and howling wastes; to my own dusky friends and followers,
and to the hero-traveller and Christian gentleman, David Livingstone.  It is with kindliest
wishes to all who have followed my footsteps on these pages that I repeat once more--Farewell.

CONCLUDING CHAPTER.

The following correspondence, and especially the last letter, which was accompanied by a beautiful
and valuable gold snuff-box set with brilliants, will be treasured by me as among the pleasantest
results of my undertaking.

H. M. S.

Foreign Office, August 1.

Sir, I am directed by Earl Granville to acknowledge the receipt of a packet containing letters
and despatches from Dr. Livingstone, which you were good enough to deliver to her Majesty's
ambassador at Paris for transmission to this department; and I am to convey to you his Lordship's
thanks for taking charge of these interesting documents.

I am, Sir,

Your most obedient humble servant, ENFIELD.

Henry M. Stanley, Esq., `New York Herald Bureau,' 46, Fleet Street, London,

------ooo----

London, August 2.

Henry M. Stanley, Esq., has handed to me to-day the diary of Dr. Livingstone, my father, sealed
and signed by my father, with instructions written on the outside, signed by my father, for
the care of which, and for all his actions concerning and to my father, our very best thanks
are due.  We have not the slightest reason to doubt that this is my father's journal, and I
certify that the letters he has brought home are my father's letters, and no others.

Tom S. Livingstone

------------oooo-------

August 2, 1872.

Sir, I was not aware until you mentioned it that there was any doubt as to the authenticity
of Dr. Livingstone's despatches, which you delivered to Lord Lyons on the 31st of July.  But,
in consequence of what you said I have inquired into the matter, and I find that Mr. Hammond,
the Under-Secretary of the Foreign Office, and Mr. Wylde, the head of the Consular and Slave
Trade Department, have not the slightest doubt as to the genuineness of the papers which have
been received from Lord Lyons, and which are being printed.

I cannot omit this opportunity, of expressing to you my admiration of the qualities which have
enabled you to achieve the object of your mission, and to attain a result which has been hailed
with so much enthusiasm both in the United States and in this country.

I am, Sir,

Your obedient,

GRANVILLE.

Henry Stanley, Esq.

-------------oooo-------

Foreign Office, August 27.

SIR,

I have great satisfaction in conveying to you, by command of the Queen, her Majesty's high
appreciation of the prudence and zeal which you have displayed in opening a communication with
Dr. Livingstone, and relieving her Majesty from the anxiety which, in common with her subjects,
she had felt in regard to the fate of that distinguished traveller.

The Queen desires me to express her thanks for the service you have thus rendered, together
with her Majesty's congratulations on your having so successfully carried on the mission which
you fearlessly undertook.  Her Majesty also desires me to request your acceptance of the memorial
which accompanies this letter.

I am, Sir,

Your most obedient humble servant,

GRANVILLE

GLOSSARY.

Boma .  .  .  .  .  .  .   enclosure.

Bubu .  .  .  .  .  .  .   black beads.

Diwan   .  .  .  .  .  .   elder, chief, or magistrate.

Doti    .  .  .  .  .  .   four yards of cloth.

Dowa    .  .  .  .  .  .   medicine.

Fundo  .  .  .  .  .  .    ten necklaces, or ten khetes.

Ghulabio  .  .  .  .  .    a species of bead.

Hafde     .  .  .  .  .    a species of bead.

Hamal     .  .  .  .  .    carrier.

Honga     .  .  .  .  .    tribute.

Ismahili  .  .  .  .  .    a native name for a particular kind of cloth.

Kadunguru .  .  .  .  .    a brick-coloured species of bead.

Kaif-Halek   .  .  .  .    "How do you do?"

Kaniki       .  .  .  .    a blue cloth manufactured in India.

Knambi       .  .  .  .    camp.

Khete       .  .   .  .    one necklace, or a tenth of a fundo.

Kichuma-chuma  .   .  .    "Little Irons," a disease of the liver.

Kirangozi   .  .  .  .      guide.

Kitambi     .  .  .  .      a cloth.

Kiti    .   .  .  .  .      stool.

Lakhio   .  .  .  .  .      a pink-coloured species of bead.

Lunghio  .  .  .  .  .      blue beads.

Lunghio mbamba .  .  .      small blue beads.

Lunghio rega   .  .  .      large blue beads.

M        .  .  .  .  .      a prefix to denote a person of any
                            country as M-jiji, a native of Jiji.

Manyapara   .  .  .  .      elder, or sub-chief.

Matama   .  .  .  .  .      Holcus sorghum, or the Arabic dourra.

Mbembu   .  .  .  .  .      forest peach

Merikani .  .  .  .  .      unbleached domestics manufactured in
                            America.

Mganga   .  .  .  .  .      a medicine man, or magic doctor,

Miezi-Mungu .  .  .  .      a Kisawahili term for "God."

Mtemi       .  .  .  .      a term synonymous with king

Mtoni    .  .  .  .  .      nullah.

Muhongo  .  .  .  .  .      tribute.

Mulungu  .  .  .  .  .      a native term for "God."

Mukunguru   .  .  .  .      intermittent fever.

Mvuha    .  .  .  .  .      thunder.

Ngombe   .  .  .  .  .      a cow.

Pagazi   .  .  .  .  .      a porter, or carrier.

Posho    .  .  .  .  .      food.

Sami-Sami   .  .  .  .      the name of red beads

Shamba   .  .  .  .  .      a field.

Shasr    .  .  .  .  .      a muslin cloth.

Sheikh   .  .  .  .  .      a title of courtesy given to an elderly
                            man.

Shukka   .  .  .  .  .      two yards of cloth.

Sohari   .  .  .  .  .      a kind of coloured cloth.

Sungomazzi  .  .  .  .      large glass or china beads of the size
                            of marbles.

Toujiri  .  .  .  .  .      the name for a particular kind of cloth.

U        .  .  .  .  .      a prefix to denote the country: thus
                            U-jiji signifies the country of Jiji.

Uganga   .  .  .  .  .      medicine.

Wa-      .  .  .  .  .     a prefix to denote persons: thus Wa-jiji
                            would signify people of Jiji.

Washeni  .  .  .  .  .     a term of contempt applied to the natives.

Yambo    .  .  .  .  .     "How are you?"

Ziwa     .  .  .  .  .     a pool, or lake,

Ziwari   .  .  .  .  .     a pond.

APPENDIX.

List of Camps from Bagamoyo to Ujiji and back to the Sea.

THROUGH UKWERE, UKAMI, AND UDOE TO USEGUHHA.

From Bagamoyo to--     h.  m. Shamba Gonera .  .  .  1  30 Kikoka .  .  .   .  .   3  40 Rosako
.  .  .  .   .  5   0 Kingaru   .  .  .   .  6   0 Imbiki .  .  .  .   .  4  30 Msuwa  .  .
.  .   .  4  30

From Msuwa to--        h.  m. Kisemo  .  .  .  .  .  4  30 Mussoudi   .  .  .  .  4  20 Mikeseh
.  .  .  .  7   0 Muhalleh  .  .  .   .  6  45 Simbamwenni  .  .   .  3   0

TO UGOGO.

USEGUHA, Ungerengeri River to-- h.  m Simbo   .  .  .  .  .  2   0 Camp in plain .  .  .  4
10 Makata River  .  .  .  2  30

USAGARA. Camp west of Makata.   0   5 Camp in plain .  .  .  4  30 Camp  "   "   .  .  .  2
0 Rehenneko  .  .  .  .  3  15 Rehenneko to--         h.  m. Camp on mountain .  .  3  30 Kiora
.  .  .  .  .  3  40 Camp on river .  .  .  4  50 Madete  .  .  .  .  .  2  30 Lake Ugombo.
.  .  .  3   0 Matamombo .  .  .   .  6   0 Mpwapwa . .  .  .   .  7   0 Kisokweh  .  .  .
.  2   0 Chunyo .  .  .  .   .  1  30

FROM UGOGO TO UNYANYEMBE,

From Marenga Mkali to--h.  m.
Mvumi, Little Ugogo   12  30
Mvumi, Great Ugogo     4   0
Matamburu  "   "   .   4   0
Bihawana   "   "   .   4   0
Kididimo   "   "   .   2   0
Pembera Pereh  "   .  10   0
Mizanza    "   "   .   5  30
Mukondoku  "   "   .   6  30
Munieka    "   "   .   5   0
Mabunguru Mtoni  .
       Uyanzi          8   0
Kiti, Uyanzi .  .  .   6  30
Msalalo   .  .  .  .   6  30

From Msalalo to--      h.  m.
Welled Ngaraiso .  .   3  30
Kusuri .  .  .  .  .   3  15
Mgongo Tembo .  .  .   3  30
  "      "   Mtoni .   3  30
Nghwhalah Mtoni .  .   2  40
Madedita     .  .  .   2  30
Central Tura, Unyam-
   wezi   .  .  .  .   3   0
Kwala River  .  .  .   7   0
Rubuga    .  .  .  .   7  15
Kigwa     .  .  .  .   5   0
Shiza     .  .  .  .   7   0
Kwihara   .  .  .  .   3   0

UNYANYEMBE TO MRERA, UKONONG0.

UNYAMWEZI. From Kwihara to--      h.  m. Mkwenkwe    .  .  .    1  30 Inesuka     .  .  . 
2   0 Kasegera    .  .  .    3   0 Kigandu     .  .  .    2  45 Ugunda      .  .  .    7  
0 Benta       .  .  .    3  15 Kikuru      .  .  .    5   0 Ziwani      .  .  .    4   0 Manyara
.  .  .    6  30

UKONONG0. From Manyara to--      h.  m Gombe River .  .  .    4  15 Ziwani   .  .  .  .   
5  20 Tongoni  .  .  .  .    1  30 Camp     .  .  .  .    5  15 Marefu   .  .  .  .    3  
0 Utende   .  .  .  .    7  15 Mtoni    .  .  .  .    4   0 Mwaru    .  .  .  .    5  15 Mrera
.  .  .  .  .    5  13

FROM MRERA, UKONONGO TO UJIJI.

UKONONGO,              h.  m.

From Mrera to Mtoni .  4  30 Misonghi   .  .  .  .  4  30 Mtoni   .  .  .  .  .  6   0 Mpokwa
in Utanda .  .  4  45 Mtoni      .  .  .  .  3   0

UKAWENDI.              h.  m

Mtambu River .  .  .   4  30 Imrera    .  .  .  .   4  20 Rusawa Mts.  .  .  .   2  30 Mtoni
.  .  .  .   4   0 Mtoni     .  .  .  .   5   0 Camp in Forest .  .  . 6   0 Camp in Forest
.  .  . 5  30

UVINZA
Welled Nzogera .  .  . 2  30
Camp in Forest .  .  . 4  15
Siala [Kiala?] on the
   Malagarazi  .  .  . 2  45
Ihata Island in the
   Malagarazi  .  .  . 1  30
Katalambula    .  .  . 1  45

UHHA Kawanga in Uhha .  .   5  30 Lukomo    .  .  .  .   1   0 Kahirigi  .  .  .  .   4   0
Rusugi River .  .  .   5   0 Lake Musunya .  .  .   4   0 Rugufu River .  .  .   4  30 Sunuzzi
"   .  .  .   3   0 Niamtaga Ukaranga  .   9  30

UJIJI. Port of Ujiji   .  .   6   0

INDEX

Abdul Kader, tailor of the Expedition; retirement of,
Abdullah bin Nasib,
Acacia Horrida,
African bridges,
Ali bin Salim,
Ambari,
Amer bin Sultan, type of an old Arab Sheikh,
Amram bin Mussood,
Ant-hills, remarkable,
Ants, white, destructiveness of,
Arabs, antipathy to, as slave-traders, in Africa,
Aranselar, chief butler of the Expedition,
Asmani, giant statue of;
    his murderous deportment,

Baba (Father), term of courtesy in addressing elderly persons,
Bagamoyo, French Mission Station at; life at; climate of,
Bambarre, ivory depot,
Bana Mikuba, the "Big Master,'
Bangwe Island,
Bangweolo Lake,
Banyans, keen trading of;
  their influence on African trade,
Baobab, fruit of the,
Baruti, one of Speke's Faithfuls,
   death of,
Beads as currency in the Interior,
Bees, attack of, on the caravan,
Bemba, wooded hills of,
Bennet, Mr. James Gordon;
   generous act of, in respect
   to Dr. Livingstone's letters,
Benta forest,
Bihawana,
Bikari, cluster of villages,
"Bombay," or Mombay,
Bomboma's village,
Borassus flabelliformis, or Palmyra palm,
Brooks, Dr.,
Buffalo gnats,
----herd,
Bunder Salaam, cook of the Expedition,
Burial ceremonies,
Burton, Capt., experience of Bunyans,
Bustard,

Cazembe, King; his Queen and her Amazons, Chamati Hill, Chambezi, drainage of, Chambezi, Livingstone's
difficulty about the, "Charley's" lodging-house at Zanzibar, kindly spirit of its landlord,
Chowpereh, Mgwana soldier, , Christie, Dr., physician to Seyd Burghash Chufwa fly, Chuma, Dr.
Livingstone's servant, Cloth as currency in the interior, Comorines, Corn-grinding women of
Kisemo, Crocodile, narrow escape of author from,

`Daily Telegraph,' representative of, at Aden, Dawson, Lieut., visit from, conversation as
to his resigning command of the Search Expedition Dhows, Dilima Peaks, Dogara, or whitebait,
Donkeys, equipment of; fine breed of, in Ubanarama, "Dowa," medicine,

Earwigs, plague of, at Mpwapwa, Elephantiasis common in Zanzibar, Elephants, herd of; difficulty
of shooting, Emancipation Proclamation of Ahraham Lincoln, Esau, Jemadar,

Farquhar, W. L.;
   his death; account of,
Faulkner, Mr., incredible statements of,
Ferajji,
Fire-arms, what most suitable to the traveller
Fish-eagle,
Forest peach,
Forest scenery of Unyarnwezi,
Foreign Office, letters from,
Franklyn, Mr. Hales,
Fraser, Capt.,
Freiligrath's description of the lion's habitat,
French Mlissionaries, practical character of; Mission Station
   at Bagamoyo,

Giraffes, difficulty of killing,
Glossina mortisans, or tsetse fly
Goma Pass;
Granville, Lord, letter from, conveying the thanks of Queen
  Victoria and the announcement of the Royal present,
Goodhue, Mr., or "Bana Mkuba,"

Haematite, Half-castes, contemptible character Halimah, Dr. Livingstone's cook, Hassan, the
Mseguhha, Henn Lieut, his meeting with the author; resigns the leadership Herembe, Cape, Herodotus,
his account of the Nile sources, Hindis, Mohammedan, cheating character of, Hippopotami Honey-bird;
habits of, Honga, or tribute , Hosmer, Dr., Hunters Paradise, the, Hyaenas,

Ibrahim bin Rashid slain, Ihata Island, Imbiki, Itage village,

Jako, employe of the Expedition, Jesuit Mission at Pagamoyo, Jiweh la Singa district, Johari,
dragoman, Jumah, Jungle of Msuwa, its horrors,

Kabogi, Cape,
Kabogo Mountain, singular phenomenon of,
Kadetamare, or Misonghi, village, .
Kahirigi, boma of,
Kaif-Halek or "How-do-ye-do," the letter carrier,
Kalulu, the boy-slave,
Kamolondo Lake,
Kanengi River,
Kaniyaga village
Kanjee,
Kanyamabengu River,
Kanyenyi,
Kayeh, a myth,
Kasera ridge,
Katanga, copper mines of,
Katangara Islands,
Kavimba,
Khamis bin Abdullah; his death,
Khamisi, desertion of; his narrow escape; flogged for
        desertion; precis of character,
Khonze, remarkable globes of foliage at
Kiala, chief,
Kigoma Bay,
Kigonda, chief,
Kigwena River,
Kikoka village,
Kikuma River,
Kingari River,
----    Valley,
Kingaru village
Kingwere, the canoe paddler
Kiora village,; Peak
Kirindo, chief,
Kirurumo village,
Kisabengo, chief, a minor Theodore,
Kisemo village; belles of,
Kisuka village,
Kisunwe River,
Kitanda or bedstead,
Kitii defile,
Kitunda Cape,
Kiwyeh, Sultan of; village,
Kiwrima Valley,
Kolquall or candelabra tree,
Kudu,
Kukumba Point,
Kulabi,
Kusuri or Konsuli,
Kwala Mtoni,
Kwikuru,

Lares and Penates of the Wazavira,
Leukole's account of Farquhar's death,
Liemba, Lake,
Lincoln, Abraham, lake named after, by Livingstone,
Lion and leopard, home of the; Freiligrath's description of,
Liuche, valley of the,
Livingstone, Dr., the author's first interview with, at Ujiji;
     his anxiety for news; the low ebb of his resources;
     his early rising; took the author for an emissary of the
     French Government; his hard fare; his suffering and privations;
     revival of his enthusiasm; his guileless character;
     his physical appearance, ; absurd report of his marriage,
     his general character and careful observations; sensitiveness
     of criticism; amiable traits of his character, and his Spartan
     heroism; his high spirits, inexhaustible humour, and retentive
     memory; sincerity of his religion; ability to withstand the
     African climate, due to his temperate life; his determination
     to complete his task, spite of all difficulties, completeness
     of his discoveries; summary of his experiences; interview with
     King Cazembe; difficulty as to the Chambezi; discovery of Lake
     Liemba; investigation of the Luapula; intervention in behalf of
     Mahomed bin Sali repaid by base ingratitude; exploration of Uguhha;
     sufferings at Bambarre, discovery of the Lualaba, description of
     the beauties of Moero scenery; admiration of Abraham Lincoln;
     his belief that the Lualaba or Webb's River is the true Nile;
     his admission that the Nile sources have not been found;
     his opinion as to the account of Herodotus; thwarted by the
     cowardice of his men; return to Ujiji; dishonesty of Sherif;
     destitute condition of the Doctor, his complaint of the Zanzibar
     people not sending him freemen; improvement of his health from
     more generous diet, contemplated cruise on the Tanganika; start
     from Ujiji; liability to dysentery; manner of dealing with demands
     for honga; loss of stores, &c., from Bombay's intoxication
     his unwillingness to retaliate on the hostile natives, his
     tenderness in sickness, disturbed in bed by his servant Susi in
     a state of intoxication; his opinion that the Tanganika must have
     an outlet; names the Kavunvweh islands the "New York Herald
     Islets,"; his coolness at the hostility of the Wasansi, calms
     them down by his gentle bearing and conversation; his resolve
     to finish his task, ; complaint of Dr. Kirk's sending only slaves;
     resolves to accompany the author to Unyanyembe; his sufferings on
     the road; at Mpokwa's village, ; his value as a travelling companion;
     stung by wild bees; his qualifications as a traveller,
     peaceful recollections of his wife's grave, his relation of
     incidents of the life of his son Robert; arrival at Ugundo,
     letters from Dr. Kirk and home; welcome to Unyanyembe; in
     comfortable quarters and in possession of stores; wreck of the
     stores detained by Sayd bin Salim; in possession of four years'
     store of supplies; his letter to Mr. Bennett, jun.; probable
     results of his perseverance in African discovery; his last day
     with the author; his intentions as to the future; the parting
     farewell,
Livingstone, Mr. Oswell, introduction to; equipment of his proposed
    expedition; determines to resign,
Livingstone, Robert Moffatt, incidents of his life,
Lizard, large,
Loeki or Lomani River,
Lualaba or "Webb's River" of Livingstone; thought by him to be the
    true Nile,
Luapula River,
Lubilash River,
Ludha Damji,
Lufira River,
Luhanga Peak,
Lukomo village,
Luvumba Cape,

Mabruki, cruel treatment of;
Mabunguru Nullah,
Madedita,
Magala, Mutware of,
Maganga,
Magunda Mkali,
Mahommed bin Sali, his release by Livingstone and subsequent
      ingratitude,
Maizun, Mons.,
Makata Valley; River; Plain,
Makumbi, chief,
Malagash, Inlet,
Malagarazi River,
Manyuema country, people of; the El Dorado of the Arabs; sought
      as slaves,
Maganga,
Marefu,
Marenga Mkali,
Masangi,
Masika, or rainy season,
Matamombo,
Mazitu, marauding propensities of,
Mbawala, species of antelope,
Mbembu, or forest peach,
Mdaburu River,
Medicine for daubing warriors,
Mfuto, Eastern,
Mgongo Tembo, or "Elephant's Back,"
Mgwana,
Mikiseh,
Mionvu, Mutware of Kimenyi,
Mirambo; defeated at Mfuto,
Misonghi, deserted village,
Mizanza,
Mkuti River,
Mkuyu, gigantic sycamore,
Moero Lake; beauty of the scenery,
Mohammed bin Abdulla slain,
Mohammed bin Gharib,
Monkeys, troop of,
Morris, Hon. E. J.,
Mpokwa River,
Mponda, chief,
Mpwapwh, its fruitfulness;
      Mountains,
Mrera, chief,
---, warriors of,
Msuwa,
Mtemi, chief,
Mud-fish,
Mugere River,
Mugeyo village,
Mugihewa territory,
Mukamba, chief,
Mukondoku, chief,
Mukondokwa Range; Pass; River,
Mukungu,
Mukunguru, African intermittent fever,
Munieka,
Muniyi Usagara,
Murembwe Cape; Point,
Musa, chief of the Johanna men,
Muscat Arabs of Zanzibar,
Mussoudi, the Diwan's account of an extraordinary flood,
Musunya Lake,
Muzimu Island,
Mvumi village,
Mwaru,
Myombo tree,
Mussoud bin Abdhullah,
Mussoudi; beautiful prospect at,

"Nazi-Moya" at Zanzibar, Negroes of Zanzibar; character of, New, Rev. Charles, introduction
to, "New York Herald" Islets, Ngaraiso village, Nghwhalah River, Nguru Peak, Niamtaga, Niasanga
village, Niongo, Nondo, Spoke's runaway, Nyabigma Island, Nyambwa, Nzoe, antelope of Speke,

"Omar," Mr. Stanley's watchdog; death of,

Pallah buck, Pembera Pereh, Sultan, Perpusilla, the, Piaggia, the Italian traveller, Pisolitic
limestone, Pottery, native, of the Wazavira, Price, Simon, Dr. Livingstone's servant,

Queen Victoria, letter conveying the thanks of Her Majesty and the announcement of the Royal
present,

Rehenneko village, Rosako village, Rua country; people, Rubeho Slopes; Peak, Rubuga, Rudewa
River, Rugufu Lake, Ruhinga, chief, Rusizi River; problem of; delta of,

Said bin Majid,
Salim bin Rashid,
Sultana of Simbamwenni,
Sami-sami, red beads,
Sayf, son of Ali, slain,
Sayd bin Salim's house,
Selim, interpreter,
----, the Arab boy,
Seyd Burghash, Sultan of Zanzibar,
Sitting on pombe,
Sentakeyi, Cape,
Shaw, J. W.; leaves the expedition,
Shamba Gonera, or, "Gonera's Field," good disposition of the
        Indian widow towards the whites; appearance of the place,
        trade, &c.,
Sheikh Sayd bin Selim,
-----  Hamed,
-----  Hassid,
-----  Khamis bin Abdullah,
-----  bin Nasib,
-----  Sulton bin Ali,
-----  Thani,
Sherif, Dr. Livingstone's servant; dishonesty of,
Shiza,
Sigunga,
Simbamwenni; desolation of by flood,
----------, Sultana of,
Simba, ruler of Kasera,
Simbo,
Simbo, Khambi,
Singwe, a plum-like fruit,
Slave-gang, chained,
Sofi beads,
Somalis;
Soor Hadji Palloo,
Soud, the Arab,
----, son of Sayd bin Majid,
----, bin Sayd, his attack on Wilyankura; his death,
Speke, Capt., his "Faithfuls"; treatment of "Bombay" by;
       error of, as to altitude of Tanganika,
Stanley, Mr., start from Bombay; landing at Zanzibar; hospitable
      reception by Capt. Webb; impressions of the city;
      organization of the Expedition; visit to the Sultan; departure
      from Zanzibar; landing at Bagamoyo; troublesome experiences;
      visit to the "Livingstone caravan"; preparations for departure
      into the interior, difficulties with employes; chase after a
      thief, despatch of four caravans; departure of the fifth caravan,
      led by himself; members composing it and outfit; the start,
      first camp; Shamba Gonera; crossing the Kingani; hippopotami
      shooting; Kikoka village; halt at Rosako; "Omar" watchdog,
      missing; formidable number of insects, the tsetse-fly; game
      hunting; difficulty of penetrating an African jungle; camp at
      Kingaru; the grey Arab horse, and offence given by its interment;
      interview with the king of Kingaru; loss of the re maiming horse
      from cancer; desertion and sickness; appearance of Maganga's
      caravan march to Imbiki; reach Msuwa, perils of the jungle,
      astonishment of the chief; chained slave-gang; halt at
      Kisemo; belle of; narrow escape of Khamisi; flogged for
      desertion; reach Mussoudi; beautiful prospect; cross the
      Ungerengeri start for Mikeseh; Ulagalla and Muhalleh;
      overtake Maganga's caravan; meet with Selim bin Rashid,
      news of Livingstone; pass town of Simbamwenni; its
      fortifications; curiosity of the inhabitants; two
      days' halt and overhaul of the luggage, attack of ague;
      visit of ambassadors of the Sultana of Simbamwenni;
      wretched encampment on the Ungerengeri; difficulty of
      crossing the river; Makata Valley; loss of Bombay's
      equipage,; difficulties of the Makata Valley; escape
      and capture of Kingaru; emerge from the swamp Makata,
      attack of dysentery, halt at Reheneko; ascent of the
      Usagara Mountains; Mukondokwa Valley and River; Kiora;
      camp at, illness of Farquhar; ford of the Mukondokwa
      River; Madete, Lake of Ugombe; departure from Ugombo;
      camp at Matamombo, death of of the dog "Omar"; Sheikh
      Thani in clover at Mpwapwa, a good breakfast and
      dinner, Farquhar left to be nursed; twelve pagazis
      engaged, abundance of earwigs and white ants; Chunyo,
      badness of the water; Marenga Mkali waterless district;
      attack of fever; Ugogo; frantic conduct of the population;
      West Mvumi; the Sultan's exorbitant demand of honda;
      Matamburu, reasonableness of the Sultan of; Bihiwana;
      attack of intermittent fever; Kididimo, bleak aspect
      and bad water; Nyambwa, demonstrativeness of the people;
      Mizanza; benefit from quinine; visit from the Sultan;
      Little Mukondoku; Mukondoku Proper; commotion and
      cowardice; uproar in the camp; debate as to route;
      threatened mutiny; Munieka; Mabunguru Nullah;
      Unyambogi; Kiti, Msalalo; Ngaraiso, Kirurumo,
      greeting from the villagers; interview with Sultan
      bin Mahommed; halt at Kusuri, and Mgongo Tembo;
      Nghwhalah Mtoni, abundance of sweet, water;
      Madedita, tsete-fly troublesome; reach Unyamwezi
      territory at Eastern Tura, cultivated region;
      Nondo, Speke's runaway; Central Tura, attempted night
      robbery, a thief shot dead; pass  Western Tura; Kwala
      Mtoni, mud-fish; illness of the tailor, Abdul Kader,
      he wishes to give up his post; Rubuga, desolation of,
      since Burton's visit; meeting with Amer bin Sultan,
      Kigwa, wasted condition of; Shiza, pastoral aspect of,
      visit from the Sultan; rejoicings in camp on reaching
      Unyanyembe territory; life in Unyanyembe; breakfast and
      gossip with Sayd bin Salim; Kazeh, a myth; leave Kwikuru;
      in comfortable quarters; visit from the Tabora Arab magnates;
      Tabora, chief Arab settlement in central Africa; attend a
      council of war, feast at the close of the council; return
      to Kwihara; the Livingstone caravan's halt of 100 days;
      attack of fever; preparations for the march; warlike
      demonstration; Eastern Mfuto, illness of Shaw,
      personnel of the army; Umanda, medicine daubing;
      war harangue; Zimbizo, attack on the village; fate
      of Soud bin Sayd and his Arabs; retreat and stormy
      councils of war; further retreat of the Arabs to Tabora,
      serious position of the Expedition; intelligence
      of Livingstone; news of death of Farquhar; illness
      of Shaw, attack of Mirambo on Tabora; Khamis bin
      Abdullah, &c., slain; preparations for Mirambo's threatened
      attack on Kwihara; visit to Sheikh bin Nassib; retreat
      of Mirambo, determination to lead a flying caravan
      to Ujiji; apathy of Shaw, visit to Thani bin Abdullah,
      arrival of letters; death of Baruti, evil reports by
      the Arabs; present of a boy-slave; defeat of Mirambo at
      Mfuto; nursing experiences: farewell feast at Unyanyembe;
      march to Ujiji commenced by southern route; list of "braves"
      of the Expedition; Bombay's tender passion; the start;
      Shaw shows the white feather; Kinyamwezi village, attack
      of fever; arrest of runaways, threat of slave-chain;
      Inesuka, further desertions, punishment, withdrawal of
      Abdul Kader, the tailor; sickness in camp, adverse
      appearances; Kasegara, rejoicings at; Kigandu, Shaw's
      by-play; his withdrawal; beauty of Unyamwezi forest
      scenery; Ugunda; Benta; Kikuru, the mukunguru or fever;
      camp at Ziwani; gigantic sycamore; Manyara, cultivated
      region; difficulty of buying provisions; visit of Mtemi;
      his astonishment at the author's medicine-chest; Gombe
      River, its beautiful neighbourhood; narrow escape from a
      crocodile, suspicious-looking natives; a peaceful camp-scene;
      symptoms of revolt at starting onwards; murderous aspect of
      Asmani and Mabruki; the march- resumed; sketch of the principal
      men of the Expedition; Ziwani (pool), waterless condition of;
      Tongoni, abundance of honey-birds; Marefu, rumours of war in
      our front; march through a forest abounding with peach-trees;
      Utende village; Mwaru, supposed report of Livingstone, Mrera's
      district, wild elephants; Selim falls ill, start from Mrera
      north-westward; confidence restored in the camp, remarkable
      ant-hills; camp in the jungle; embassy from Simba; Uzavira,
      ruined neighbourhood of; Misonghi; Mpokwa River, deserted
      village near; Mtambu stream, its beauty; attack by a leopard;
      shot at a wild boar; proximity of lions; Itaga village,
      beginning of troubles, shortness of provisions, "Welled
      Nzogera's" village, abundant supplies; crossing a marsh;
      reach the Malagarazi; heavy exaction of the chief Kiala;
      island of Ihata, fresh demands for ferriage; donkey seized
      by crocodile; Uvinza, news of Livingstone, departure from
      the Malagarazi; country of Uhha; halt at Kawanga; halt on
      the Pombwe stream, interview with Mionvu; exorbitant demand
      of honga; cross the Kanengi River; more claims of honga;
      departure by stealth; Kanengi River; cross the Rusugi;
      Lake Musunya, Rugufu River, Kabogo Mountain, singular
      phenomenon of; Sunuzzi River; enter Ukaranga; beauty
      of the landscape; Mkute River, Niamtaga, alarm of the
      people; first view of the Tanganika,  Port of Ujiji in
      view; salute announcing the approach of the caravan; meeting
      with Susi, the servant of Dr. Livingstone; excitement of
      the inhabitants; appearance of the Doctor; the introduction;
      conversation; the over-due letter-bag, 365 days from Zanzibar;
      budget of news; intercourse with Livingstone; suggestions
      as to his future course; start with Livingstone for cruise
      on the Tanganika; pass Bangwe Island; wooded hills of Bemba;
      camp at Niasanga; Nyabigma Island; Mukungu; loss of valuables
      from Bombay's intoxication; hostile demonstrations of the Bikari
      people; bivouac on the shore disturbed by natives; round
      Cape Sentakeyi, and sleep at Mugeyo; Magala, hospitality of
      the people, visit of the Mutware of; rumours of wars;
      Kisiku, native report as to the Rusizi River; Mugere, delta
      of the; visit Mukamba, attacked by fever and experience
      Livingstone's tenderness; Susi's drunken fit; Mugihewa
      territory on the delta of the Rusizi; visit of the chief
      Ruhinga, his geographical information; exploration
      of the Rusizi debouchure: Kukubma Point, enchanting scenery
      near; halt at Bemba, superstition of the Wajiji; `New York
      Herald Islets,' so named by Livingstone; Cape Luvumba
      hostile aspect of the Wasansi, return to Ujiji, domestic
      and foreign news; at home with Livingstone; preparations
      for march to Unyanyembe; attack of fever; Christmas-day
      at Ujiji; the departure; meet with Mohammed bin Gharib;
      Sirgunga, beautiful aspect of; sport at Urimba; homeward bound;
      an elephant herd; Ukawendi, luxuriance of its vegetation;
      painful march to Imrera; a giraffe shot; severe attack of
      fever, the Doctor's prescription; the caravan attacked by
      bees; Mrera, meeting with caravan sent by Sayd bin Habid,
      exchange of news, encounter a lion; Ugunda, the deserter
      Hamdallah retaken; receipt of letters and newspapers;
      welcome to Unyanyembe; stores found tampered with;
      a second Christmas celebration, four years' stores of
     supplies turned over to the Doctor, commission to enlist
     at Zanzibar fifty freemen as his carriers; farewell dance
     of natives; choragic adieu of the Wanyamwezi; last night
     with Livingstone; the last walk in his company, the farewell;
     a letter from the Doctor; Ngaraiso, hostility of the Wakimbu,
     enter Ugogo; warlike demonstrations, march of warriors
     arrayed for the fight;  Khonze, its gigantic tree-foliage;
     determined mode of dealing with the chief successfull;
     Kanyenyi, cordial reception by the Msagira of; Mapanga,
     hostile demonstration; asked to act as rain-maker; Kulabi,
     suffer from a "peppo"; Marenga Mkali; Mpwapwa, death of
     Farquhar; Mukondokwa valley, experience of the Masika;
     Makata plain, battling with the floods; Mvumi village,
     fighting with mosquitoes; the Doctor's despatches in danger;
     a perilous ford; ten days' camp at Rehenneko, difficulties
     of the march to the Makata River; arrive at Simbo, cross the
     Unkerengere, and reach Simbamwenni, its desolated aspect;
     Ulagalla, extraordinary devastation by flood; Msuwa, horrors
     of its jungle; Kingaru Hera, news of the Zanzibar storm;
     Rosako, welcome consignment from the American Consul;
     ill-natured criticisms, information as to the "Livingstone
     Search and Relief Expedition"; Ringweare's ferry, a watery waste,
     four miles broad; welcome to Bagamoyo; meeting with Lieut. Henn;
     introduction to Mr. Oswell Livingstone; the march ended;
     welcome at Zanzibar, the American Consul and Rev. C. New;
     congratulation of Lieut. Dawson; discussion as to his resignation;
     visit from Dr. Kirk and Bishop Tozer, change in the  author's
     appearance on his return; preparations for Mr. O. Livingstone's
     Expedition, his resignation, selection of an Arab leader,
     farewell to old travelling companions; departure from
     Zanzibar in the `Africa'; reach Seychelles, a month's delay
     at Mahe, agreeable intercourse; reach England via Aden and
     Marseilles.
Sultan bin Mohammed,
Sultan of Zanzibar, Mr. Stanley's interview with,
Sunuzzi stream,
Susi, Dr. Livingstone's servant,
Swaruru, Sultan,
Sycamore, gigantic,

Tabora,
Tagamoyo, massacre of the Wamanyuema by,
Tanganika Lake, first visit to; cruise on, with Dr. Livingstone,
Tarya Topan, integrity of
Thani bin Abdullah, ,
Tongoni, deserted clearing,
Tozer, Bp., his residence at Zanzibar; his congratulations at
           the author's success,
Trade, mode of conducting, in Africa,
Tsetse fly,
Tura, Eastern; Central, ;
          Western or Tura Perro;

Udoe, cones of, "Uganga," or charm, Ugombo, Lake; Peak, Plain, Ugunda village, Uhha, king of,
Ujiji, port of, Ukaranga territory, its beautiful aspect, Ukawendi country, scenery of, Ulagalla
district, Ulimengo, absconding slave, Unamapokera, friendliness of, Ungerengeri River; Valley,
Urundi Mountains, Unyamwezi forest scenery, beauty of; territory, Unyambogi, Urimba, camp at,
Usagara Mountains, Utende village, Uwelasia River, Uyanzi, Magunda Mkali; or "Hot Field," Uyoweh,
Mirambo of, Uzavira, village in,

Waganga, or medicine men; filthy war-potion, concocted by,
Wagogo tribe, villages of,
Wagtails regarded as birds of good omen,
Waguhha tribe,
Wagunda tribe,
Wahumba tribe,
Wajiji tribe,
Wakimbu of Tura, rascality of,
------- tribe; villages of,
Wakonongo,
Wamanyuema, fondness of, for marketing,
Wangwana village,
------- tribe, gormandizing of the,
Wanyamwezi tribe, their superstitious aversion to antelope meat,
War, council of, at Tabora,
Warfare, tame mode of conducting,
Wa-Ruga-Ruga,
Wasawahili tribe,
Wasansi tribe,
Waseguhha tribe,
Washenshi tribe,
Wasungu tribe,
Wavinza tribe, greed of
Wavira tribe,
Webb, Capt. F. R., U.S. Consul, his hospitality and courtesy,
----, Mr. of Newstead Abbey, river named after him,
----, Mrs.,
Wagogo, cool impudence of the,
Wilderness, African, more favourable to the traveller than
      the populated country,
Wild-boar shooting,
Wilyankuru, attack on,
Wire, high valve of, in the interior,

Zanzibar city view of, from the bay, harbor
         "Charley's" lodging house, ; character of the street
         and population, trade, "M'nazi Moya"; house of Bishop
         Tozer, mart of the interior, mode of commerce unchanged
         for ages; population; filth and unhealthiness of;
         inertness induced by climate of; Palace of the Sultan,
----- Island; its aspect from the sea,
Zassi River and village,
Zebra,
Zimbizo, attack on the village,
Zimmerman on the benefit of an unencumbered mind,
Ziwo, or pond,
Ziwani (pool),
Zogga, palm toddy,