Throughout this volume I have endeavoured to show, that the known laws of variation, multiplication,
and heredity, resulting in a "struggle for existence" and the "survival of the fittest," have
probably sufficed to produce all the varieties of structure, all the wonderful adaptations,
all the beauty of form and of colour, that we see in the animal and vegetable kingdoms. To
the best of my ability I have answered the most obvious and the most often repeated objections
to this theory, and have, I hope, added to its general strength, by showing how colour--one
of the strongholds of the advocates of special creation--may be, in almost all its modifications,
accounted for by the combined influence of sexual selection and the need of protection. I have
also endeavoured to show, how the same power which has modified animals has acted on man; and
have, I believe, proved that, as soon as the human intellect became developed above a certain
low stage, man's body would cease to be materially affected by natural selection, because the
development of his mental faculties would render important modifications of its form and structure
unnecessary. It will, therefore, probably excite some surprise among my readers, to find that
I do not consider that all nature can be explained on the principles of which I am so ardent
an advocate; and that I am now myself going to state objections, and to place limits, to the
power of "natural selection." I believe, however, that there are such limits; and that just
as surely as we can trace the action of natural laws in the development of organic forms, and
can clearly conceive that fuller knowledge would enable us to follow step by step the whole
process of that development, so surely can we trace the action of some unknown higher law,
beyond and independent of all those laws of which we have any knowledge. We can trace this
action more or less distinctly in many phenomena, the two most important of which are--the
origin of sensation or consciousness, and the development of man from the lower animals. I
shall first consider the latter difficulty as more immediately connected with the subjects
discussed in this volume.

What Natural Selection can Not do.

In considering the question of the development of man by known natural laws, we must ever bear
in mind the first principle of "natural selection," no less than of the general theory of evolution,
that all changes of form or structure, all increase in the size of an organ or in its complexity,
all greater specialization or physiological division of labour, can only be brought about,
in as much as it is for the good of the being so modified. Mr. Darwin himself has taken care
to impress upon us, that "natural selection" has no power to produce absolute perfection but
only relative perfection, no power to advance any being much beyond his follow beings, but
only just so much beyond them as to enable it to survive them in the struggle for existence.
Still less has it any power to produce modifications which are in any degree injurious to its
possessor, and Mr. Darwin frequently uses the strong expression, that a single case of this
kind would be fatal to his theory. If, therefore, we find in man any characters, which all
the evidence we can obtain goes to show would have been actually injurious to him on their
first appearance, they could not possibly have been produced by natural selection. Neither
could any specially developed organ have been so produced if it had been merely useless to
him, or if its use were not proportionate to its degree of development. Such cases as these
would prove, that some other law, or some other power, than "natural selection" had been at
work. But if, further, we could see that these very modifications, though hurtful or useless
at the time when they first appeared, became in the highest degree useful at a much later period,
and are now essential to the full moral and intellectual development of human nature, we should
then infer the action of mind, foreseeing the future and preparing for it, just as surely as
we do, when we see the breeder set himself to work with the determination to produce a definite
improvement in some cultivated plant or domestic animal. I would further remark that this enquiry
is as thoroughly scientific and legitimate as that into the origin of species itself. It is
an attempt to solve the inverse problem, to deduce the existence of a new power of a definite
character, in order to account for facts which according to the theory of natural selection
ought not to happen. Such problems are well known to science, and the search after their solution
has often led to the most brilliant results. In the case of man, there are facts of the nature
above alluded to, and in calling attention to them, and in inferring a cause for them, I believe
that I am as strictly within the bounds of scientific investigation as I have been in any other
portion of my work. There seems to be no doubt that brains differ considerably in quality,
as indicated by greater or less complexity of the convolutions, quantity of grey matter, and
perhaps unknown peculiarities of organization; but this difference of quality seems merely
to increase or diminish the influence of quantity, not to neutralize it. Thus, all the most
eminent modern writers see an intimate connection between the diminished size of the brain
in the lower races of mankind, and their intellectual inferiority. The collections of Dr. J.
B. Davis and Dr. Morton give the following as the average internal capacity of the cranium
in the chief races:--Teutonic family, 94 cubic inches; Esquimaux, 91 cubic inches; Negroes,
85 cubic inches; Australians and Tasmanians, 82 cubic inches; Bushmen, 77 cubic inches. These
last numbers, however, are deduced from comparatively few specimens, and may be below the average,
just as a small number of Finns and Cossacks give 98 cubic inches, or considerably more than
that of the German races. It is evident, therefore, that the absolute bulk of the brain is
not necessarily much less in savage than in civilised man, for Esquimaux skulls are known with
a capacity of 113 inches, or hardly less than the largest among Europeans. But what is still
more extraordinary, the few remains yet known of pre-historic man do not indicate any material
diminution in the size of the brain case. A Swiss skull of the stone age, found in the lake
dwelling of Meilen, corresponded exactly to that of a Swiss youth of the present day. The celebrated
Neanderthal skull had a larger circumference than the average, and its capacity, indicating
actual mass of brain, is estimated to have been not less than 75 cubic inches, or nearly the
average of existing Australian crania. The Engis skull, perhaps the oldest known, and which,
according to Sir John Lubbock, "there seems no doubt was really contemporary with the mammoth
and the cave bear," is yet, according to Professor Huxley, "a fair average skull, which might
have belonged to a philosopher, or might have contained the thoughtless brains of a savage."
Of the cave men of Les Eyzies, who were undoubtedly contemporary with the reindeer in the South
of France, Professor Paul Broca says (in a paper read before the Congress of Pre-historic Archæology
in 1868)--"The great capacity of the brain, the development of the frontal region, the fine
elliptical form of the anterior part of the profile of the skull, are incontestible characteristics
of superiority, such as we are accustomed to meet with in civilised races;" yet the great breadth
of the face, the enormous development of the ascending ramus of the lower jaw, the extent and
roughness of the surfaces for the attachment of the muscles, especially of the masticators,
and the extraordinary development of the ridge of the femur, indicate enormous muscular power,
and the habits of a savage and brutal race.

These facts might almost make us doubt whether the size of the brain is in any direct way an
index of mental power, had we not the most conclusive evidence that it is so, in the fact that,
whenever an adult male European has a skull less than nineteen inches in circumference, or
has less than sixty-five cubic inches of brain, he is invariably idiotic. When we join with
this the equally undisputed fact, that great men--those who combine acute perception with great
reflective power, strong passions, and general energy of character, such as Napoleon, Cuvier,
and O'Connell, have always heads far above the average size, we must feel satisfied that volume
of brain is one, and perhaps the most important, measure of intellect; and this being the case,
we cannot fail to be struck with the apparent anomaly, that many of the lowest savages should
have as much brains as average Europeans. The idea is suggested of a surplusage of power; of
an instrument beyond the needs of its possessor.

Comparison of the Brains of Man and of Anthropoid Apes.--In order to discover if there is any
foundation for this notion, let us compare the brain of man with that of animals. The adult
male Orang-utan is quite as bulky as a small sized man, while the Gorilla is considerably above
the average size of man, as estimated by bulk and weight; yet the former has a brain of only
28 cubic inches, the latter, one of 30, or, in the largest specimen yet known, of 34½ cubic
inches. We have seen that the average cranial capacity of the lowest savages is probably not
less than five-sixths of that of the highest civilized races, while the brain of the anthropoid
apes scarcely amounts to one-third of that of man, in both cases taking the average; or the
proportions may be more clearly represented by the following figures--anthropoid apes, 10;
savages, 26; civilized man, 32. But do these figures at all approximately represent the relative
intellect of the three groups? Is the savage really no farther removed from the philosopher,
and so much removed from the ape, as these figures would indicate? In considering this question,
we must not forget that the heads of savages vary in size, almost as much as those of civilized
Europeans. Thus, while the largest Teutonic skull in Dr. Davis' collection is 112·4 cubic inches,
there is an Araucanian of 115·5, an Esquimaux of 113·1, a Marquesan of 11O·6, a Negro of 105·8,
and even an Australian of 104·5 cubic inches. We may, therefore, fairly compare the savage
with the highest European on the one side, and with the Orang, Chimpanzee, or Gorilla, on the
other, and see whether there is any relative proportion between brain and intellect.

Range of intellectual power in Man.--First, let us consider what this wonderful instrument,
the brain, is capable of in its higher developments. In Mr. Galton's interesting work on "Hereditary
Genius," he remarks on the enormous difference between the intellectual power and grasp of
the well-trained mathematician or man of science, and the average Englishman. The number of
marks obtained by high wranglers, is often more than thirty times as great as that of the men
at the bottom of the honour list, who are still of fair mathematical ability; and it is the
opinion of skilled examiners, that even this does not represent the full difference of intellectual
power. If, now, we descend to those savage tribes who only count to three or five, and who
find it impossible to comprehend the addition of two and three without having the objects actually
before them, we feel that the chasm between them and the good mathematician is so vast, that
a thousand to one will probably not fully express it. Yet we know that the mass of brain might
be nearly the same in both, or might not differ in a greater proportion than as 5 to 6; whence
we may fairly infer that the savage possesses a brain capable, if cultivated and developed,
of performing work of a kind and degree far beyond what he ever requires it to do.

Again, let us consider the power of the higher or even the average civilized man, of forming
abstract ideas, and carrying on more or less complex trains of reasoning. Our languages are
full of terms to express abstract conceptions. Our business and our pleasures involve the continual
foresight of many contingencies. Our law, our government, and our science, continually require
us to reason through a variety of complicated phenomena to the expected result. Even our games,
such as chess, compel us to exercise all these faculties in a remarkable degree. Compare this
with the savage languages, which contain no words for abstract conceptions; the utter want
of foresight of the savage man beyond his simplest necessities; his inability to combine, or
to compare, or to reason on any general subject that does not immediately appeal to his senses.
So, in his moral and æsthetic faculties, the savage has none of those wide sympathies with
all nature, those conceptions of the infinite, of the good, of the sublime and beautiful, which
are so largely developed in civilized man. Any considerable development of these would, in
fact, be useless or even hurtful to him, since they would to some extent interfere with the
supremacy of those perceptive and animal faculties on which his very existence often depends,
in the severe struggle he has to carry on against nature and his fellow-man. Yet the rudiments
of all these powers and feelings undoubtedly exist in him, since one or other of them frequently
manifest themselves in exceptional cases, or when some special circumstances call them forth.
Some tribes, such as the Santals, are remarkable for as pure a love of truth as the most moral
among civilized men. The Hindoo and the Polynesian have a high artistic feeling, the first
traces of which are clearly visible in the rude drawings of the palæolithic men who were the
contemporaries in France of the Reindeer and the Mammoth. Instances of unselfish love, of true
gratitude, and of deep religious feeling, sometimes occur among most savage races.

On the whole, then, we may conclude, that the general moral and intellectual development of
the savage, is not less removed from that of civilized man than has been shown to be the case
in the one department of mathematics; and from the fact that all the moral and intellectual
faculties do occasionally manifest themselves, we may fairly conclude that they are always
latent, and that the large brain of the savage man is much beyond his actual requirements in
the savage state.

Intellect of Savages and of Animals compared.--Let us now compare the intellectual wants of
the savage, and the actual amount of intellect he exhibits, with those of the higher animals.
Such races as the Andaman Islanders, the Australians, and the Tasmanians, the Digger Indians
of North America, or the natives of Fuegia, pass their lives so as to require the exercise
of few faculties not possessed in an equal degree by many animals. In the mode of capture of
game or fish, they by no means surpass the ingenuity or forethought of the jaguar, who drops
saliva into the water, and seizes the fish as they come to eat it; or of wolves and jackals,
who hunt in packs; or of the fox, who buries his surplus food till he requires it. The sentinels
placed by antelopes and by monkeys, and the various modes of building adopted by field mice
and beavers, as well as the sleeping place of the orang-utan, and the tree-shelter of some
of the African anthropoid apes, may well be compared with the amount of care and forethought
bestowed by many savages in similar circumstances. His possession of free and perfect hands,
not required for locomotion, enable man to form and use weapons and implements which are beyond
the physical powers of brutes; but having done this, he certainly does not exhibit more mind
in using them than do many lower animals. Yet he possesses, as we have seen, a brain vastly
superior to theirs in size and complexity; and this brain gives him, in an undeveloped state,
faculties which he never requires to use. And if this is true of existing savages, how much
more true must it have been of the men whose sole weapons were rudely chipped flints, and some
of whom, we may fairly conclude, were lower than any existing race; while the only evidence
yet in our possession shows them to have had brains fully as capacious as those of the average
of the lower savage races. A brain slightly larger than that of the gorilla would, according
to the evidence before us, fully have sufficed for the limited mental development of the savage;
and we must therefore admit, that the large brain he actually possesses could never have been
solely developed by any of those laws of evolution, whose essence is, that they lead to a degree
of organization exactly proportionate to the wants of each species, never beyond those wants--that
no preparation can be made for the future development of the race--that one part of the body
can never increase in size or complexity, except in strict co-ordination to the pressing wants
of the whole. The brain of pre-historic and of savage man seems to me to prove the existence
of some power, distinct from that which has guided the development of the lower animals through
their ever-varying forms of being.

The Use of the Hairy Covering of Mammalia.

Let us now consider another point in man's organization, the bearing of which has been almost
entirely overlooked by writers on both sides of this question. One of the most general external
characters of the terrestrial mammalia is the hairy covering of the body, which, whenever the
skin is flexible, soft, and sensitive, forms a natural protection against the severities of
climate, and particularly against rain. That this is its most important function, is well shown
by the manner in which the hairs are disposed so as to carry off the water, by being invariably
directed downwards from the most elevated parts of the body. Thus, on the under surface the
hair is always less plentiful, and, in many cases, the belly is almost bare. The hair lies
downwards, on the limbs of all walking mammals, from the shoulder to the toes, but in the orang-utan
it is directed from the shoulder to the elbow, and again from the wrist to the elbow, in a
reverse direction. This corresponds to the habits of the animal, which, when resting, holds
its long arms upwards over its head, or clasping a branch above it, so that the rain would
flow down both the arm and fore-arm to the long hair which meets at the elbow. In accordance
with this principle, the hair is always longer or more dense along the spine or middle of the
back from the nape to the tail, often rising into a crest of hair or bristles on the ridge
of the back. This character prevails through the entire series of the mammalia, from the marsupials
to the quadrumana, and by this long persistence it must have acquired such a powerful hereditary
tendency, that we should expect it to reappear continually even after it had been abolished
by ages of the most rigid selection; and we may feel sure that it never could have been completely
abolished under the law of natural selection, unless it had become so positively injurious
as to lead to the almost invariable extinction of individuals possessing it.

In man the hairy covering of the body has almost totally disappeared, and, what is very remarkable,
it has disappeared more completely from the back than from any other part of the body. Bearded
and beardless races alike have the back smooth, and even when a considerable quantity of hair
appears on the limbs and breast, the back, and especially the spinal region, is absolutely
free, thus completely reversing the characteristics of all other mammalia. The Ainos of the
Kurile Islands and Japan are said to be a hairy race; but Mr. Bickmore, who saw some of them,
and described them in a paper read before the Ethnological Society, gives no details as to
where the hair was most abundant, merely stating generally, that "their chief peculiarity is
their great abundance of hair, not only on the head and face, but over the whole body." This
might very well be said of any man who had hairy limbs and breast, unless it was specially
stated that his back was hairy, which is not done in this case. The hairy family in Birmah
have, indeed, hair on the back rather longer than on the breast, thus reproducing the true
mammalian character, but they have still longer hair on the face, forehead, and inside the
ears, which is quite abnormal; and the fact that their teeth are all very imperfect, shows
that this is a case of monstrosity rather than one of true reversion to the ancestral type
of man before he lost his hairy covering.

Savage Man feels the Want of this Hairy Covering.

We must now enquire if we have any evidence to show, or any reason to believe, that a hairy
covering to the back would be in any degree hurtful to savage man, or to man in any stage of
his progress from his lower animal form; and if it were merely useless, could it have been
so entirely and completely removed as not to be continually reappearing in mixed races? Let
us look to savage man for some light on these points. One of the most common habits of savages
is to use some covering for the back and shoulders, even when they have none on any other part
of the body. The early voyagers observed with surprise, that the Tasmanians, both men and women,
wore the kangaroo-skin, which was their only covering, not from any feeling of modesty, but
over the shoulders to keep the back dry and warm. A cloth over the shoulders was also the national
dress of the Maories. The Patagonians wear a cloak or mantle over the shoulders, and the Fuegians
often wear a small piece of skin on the back, laced on, and shifted from side to side as the
wind blows. The Hottentots also wore a somewhat similar skin over the back, which they never
removed, and in which they were buried. Even in the tropics most savages take precautions to
keep their backs dry. The natives of Timor use the leaf of a fan palm, carefully stitched up
and folded, which they always carry with them, and which, held over the back, forms an admirable
protection from the rain. Almost all the Malay races, as well as the Indians of South America,
make great palm-leaf hats, four feet or more across, which they use during their canoe voyages
to protect their bodies from heavy showers of rain; and they use smaller hats of the same kind
when travelling by land.

We find, then, that so far from there being any reason to believe that a hairy covering to
the back could have been hurtful or even useless to pre-historic man, the habits of modern
savages indicate exactly the opposite view, as they evidently feel the want of it, and are
obliged to provide substitutes of various kinds. The perfectly erect posture of man, may be
supposed to have something to do with the disappearance of the hair from his body, while it
remains on his head; but when walking, exposed to rain and wind, a man naturally stoops forwards,
and thus exposes his back; and the undoubted fact, that most savages feel the effects of cold
and wet most severely in that part of the body, sufficiently demonstrates that the hair could
not have ceased to grow there merely because it was useless, even if it were likely that a
character so long persistent in the entire order of mammalia, could have so completely disappeared,
under the influence of so weak a selective power as a diminished usefulness.

Man's Naked Skin could not have been produced by Natural Selection.

It seems to me, then, to be absolutely certain, that "Natural Selection" could not have produced
man's hairless body by the accumulation of variations from a hairy ancestor. The evidence all
goes to show that such variations could not have been useful, but must, on the contrary, have
been to some extent hurtful. If even, owing to an unknown correlation with other hurtful qualities,
it had been abolished in the ancestral tropical man, we cannot conceive that, as man spread
into colder climates, it should not have returned under the powerful influence of reversion
to such a long persistent ancestral type. But the very foundation of such a supposition as
this is untenable; for we cannot suppose that a character which, like hairiness, exists throughout
the whole of the mammalia, can have become, in one form only, so constantly correlated with
an injurious character, as to lead to its permanent suppression--a suppression so complete
and effectual that it never, or scarcely ever, reappears in mongrels of the most widely different
races of man.

Two characters could hardly be wider apart, than the size and development of man's brain, and
the distribution of hair upon the surface of his body; yet they both lead us to the same conclusion--that
some other power than Natural Selection has been engaged in his production.

There are a few other physical characteristics of man, that may just be mentioned as offering
similar difficulties, though I do not attach the same importance to them as to those I have
already dwelt on. The specialization and perfection of the hands and feet of man seems difficult
to account for. Throughout the whole of the quadrumana the foot is prehensile; and a very rigid
selection must therefore have been needed to bring about that arrangement of the bones and
muscles, which has converted the thumb into a great toe, so completely, that the power of opposability
is totally lost in every race, whatever some travellers may vaguely assert to the contrary.
It is difficult to see why the prehensile power should have been taken away. It must certainly
have been useful in climbing, and the case of the baboons shows that it is quite compatible
with terrestrial locomotion. It may not be compatible with perfectly easy erect locomotion;
but, then, how can we conceive that early man, as an animal, gained anything by purely erect
locomotion? Again, the hand of man contains latent capacities and powers which are unused by
savages, and must have been even less used by palæolithic man and his still ruder predecessors.
It has all the appearance of an organ prepared for the use of civilized man, and one which
was required to render civilization possible. Apes make little use of their separate fingers
and opposable thumbs. They grasp objects rudely and clumsily, and look as if a much less specialized
extremity would have served their purpose as well. I do not lay much stress on this, but, if
it be proved that some intelligent power has guided or determined the development of man, then
we may see indications of that power, in facts which, by themselves, would not serve to prove
its existence.

The voice of man.--The same remark will apply to another peculiarly human character, the wonderful
power, range, flexibility, and sweetness, of the musical sounds producible by the human larynx,
especially in the female sex. The habits of savages give no indication of how this faculty
could have been developed by natural selection; because it is never required or used by them.
The singing of savages is a more or less monotonous howling, and the females seldom sing at
all. Savages certainly never choose their wives for fine voices, but for rude health, and strength,
and physical beauty. Sexual selection could not therefore have developed this wonderful power,
which only comes into play among civilized people. It seems as if the organ had been prepared
in anticipation of the future progress of man, since it contains latent capacities which are
useless to him in his earlier condition.

Turning to the mind of man, we meet with many difficulties in attempting to understand, how
those mental faculties, which are especially human, could have been acquired by the preservation
of useful variations. At first sight, it would seem that such feelings as those of abstract
justice and benevolence could never have been so acquired, because they are incompatible with
the law of the strongest, which is the essence of natural selection. But this is, I think,
an erroneous view, because we must look, not to individuals but to societies; and justice and
benevolence, exercised towards members of the same tribe, would certainly tend to strengthen
that tribe, and give it a superiority over another in which the right of the strongest prevailed,
and where consequently the weak and the sickly were left to perish, and the few strong ruthlessly
destroyed the many who were weaker.

But there is another class of human faculties that do not regard our fellow men, and which
cannot, therefore, be thus accounted for. How were all or any of these faculties first developed,
when they could have been of no possible use to man in his early stages of barbarism? How could
"natural selection," or survival of the fittest in the struggle for existence, at all favour
the development of mental powers so entirely removed from the material necessities of savage
men, and which even now, with our comparatively high civilization, are, in their farthest developments,
in advance of the age, and appear to have relation rather to the future of the race than to
its actual status?

Difficulty as to the Origin of the Moral Sense.

Exactly the same difficulty arises, when we endeavour to account for the development of the
moral sense or conscience in savage man; for although the practice of benevolence, honesty,
or truth, may have been useful to the tribe possessing these virtues, that does not at all
account for the peculiar sanctity, attached to actions which each tribe considers right and
moral, as contrasted with the very different feelings with which they regard what is merely
useful. The utilitarian hypothesis (which is the theory of natural selection applied to the
mind) seems inadequate to account for the development of the moral sense. This subject has
been recently much discussed, and I will here only give one example to illustrate my argument.
The utilitarian sanction for truthfulness is by no means very powerful or universal. Few laws
enforce it. No very severe reprobation follows untruthfulness. In all ages and countries, falsehood
has been thought allowable in love, and laudable in war; while, at the present day, it is held
to be venial by the majority of mankind, in trade, commerce, and speculation. A certain amount
of untruthfulness is a necessary part of politeness in the east and west alike, while even
severe moralists have held a lie justifiable, to elude an enemy or prevent a crime. Such being
the difficulties with which this virtue has had to struggle, with so many exceptions to its
practice, with so many instances in which it brought ruin or death to its too ardent devotee,
how can we believe that considerations of utility could ever invest it with the mysterious
sanctity of the highest virtue,--could ever induce men to value truth for its own sake, and
practice it regardless of consequences?

Yet, it is a fact, that such a mystical sense of wrong does attach to untruthfulness, not only
among the higher classes of civilized people, but among whole tribes of utter savages. Sir
Walter Elliott tells us (in his paper "On the Characteristics of the Population of Central
and Southern India," published in the Journal of the Ethnological Society of London, vol. i.,
p. 107) that the Kurubars and Santals, barbarous hill-tribes of Central India, are noted for
veracity. It is a common saying that "a Kurubar always speaks the truth;" and Major Jervis
says, "the Santals are the most truthful men I ever met with." As a remarkable instance of
this quality the following fact is given. A number of prisoners, taken during the Santal insurrection,
were allowed to go free on parole, to work at a certain spot for wages. After some time cholera
attacked them and they were obliged to leave, but every man of them returned and gave up his
earnings to the guard. Two hundred savages with money in their girdles, walked thirty miles
back to prison rather than break their word! My own experience among savages has furnished
me with similar, although less severely tested, instances; and we cannot avoid asking, how
is it, that in these few cases "experiences of utility" have left such an overwhelming impression,
while in so many others they have left none? The experiences of savage men as regards the utility
of truth, must, in the long run, be pretty nearly equal. How is it, then, that in some cases
the result is a sanctity which overrides all considerations of personal advantage, while in
others there is hardly a rudiment of such a feeling?

The intuitional theory, which I am now advocating, explains this by the supposition, that there
is a feeling--a sense of right and wrong--in our nature, antecedent to and independent of experiences
of utility. Where free play is allowed to the relations between man and man, this feeling attaches
itself to those acts of universal utility or self-sacrifice, which are the products of our
affections and sympathies, and which we term moral; while it may be, and often is, perverted,
to give the same sanction to acts of narrow and conventional utility which are really immoral,--as
when the Hindoo will tell a lie, but will sooner starve than eat unclean food; and looks upon
the marriage of adult females as gross immorality.

The strength of the moral feeling will depend upon individual or racial constitution, and on
education and habit;--the acts to which its sanctions are applied, will depend upon how far
the simple feelings and affections of our nature, have been modified by custom, by law, or
by religion.

It is difficult to conceive that such an intense and mystical feeling of right and wrong, (so
intense as to overcome all ideas of personal advantage or utility), could have been developed
out of accumulated ancestral experiences of utility; and still more difficult to understand,
how feelings developed by one set of utilities, could be transferred to acts of which the utility
was partial, imaginary, or altogether absent. But if a moral sense is an essential part of
our nature, it is easy to see, that its sanction may often be given to acts which are useless
or immoral; just as the natural appetite for drink, is perverted by the drunkard into the means
of his destruction.

Briefly to resume my argument--I have shown that the brain of the lowest savages, and, as far
as we yet know, of the pre-historic races, is little inferior in size to that of the highest
types of man, and immensely superior to that of the higher animals; while it is universally
admitted that quantity of brain is one of the most important, and probably the most essential,
of the elements which determine mental power. Yet the mental requirements of savages, and the
faculties actually exercised by them, are very little above those of animals. The higher feelings
of pure morality and refined emotion, and the power of abstract reasoning and ideal conception,
are useless to them, are rarely if ever manifested, and have no important relations to their
habits, wants, desires, or well-being. They possess a mental organ beyond their needs. Natural
Selection could only have endowed savage man with a brain a little superior to that of an ape,
whereas he actually possesses one very little inferior to that of a philosopher.

The soft, naked, sensitive skin of man, entirely free from that hairy covering which is so
universal among other mammalia, cannot be explained on the theory of natural selection. The
habits of savages show that they feel the want of this covering, which is most completely absent
in man exactly where it is thickest in other animals. We have no reason whatever to believe,
that it could have been hurtful, or even useless to primitive man; and, under these circumstances,
its complete abolition, shown by its never reverting in mixed breeds, is a demonstration of
the agency of some other power than the law of the survival of the fittest, in the development
of man from the lower animals.

Other characters show difficulties of a similar kind, though not perhaps in an equal degree.
The structure of the human foot and hand seem unnecessarily perfect for the needs of savage
man, in whom they are as completely and as humanly developed as in the highest races. The structure
of the human larynx, giving the power of speech and of producing musical sounds, and especially
its extreme development in the female sex, are shown to be beyond the needs of savages, and
from their known habits, impossible to have been acquired either by sexual selection, or by
survival of the fittest.

The mind of man offers arguments in the same direction, hardly less strong than those derived
from his bodily structure. A number of his mental faculties have no relation to his fellow
men, or to his material progress. The power of conceiving eternity and infinity, and all those
purely abstract notions of form, number, and harmony, which play so large a part in the life
of civilised races, are entirely outside of the world of thought of the savage, and have no
influence on his individual existence or on that of his tribe. They could not, therefore, have
been developed by any preservation of useful forms of thought; yet we find occasional traces
of them amidst a low civilization, and at a time when they could have had no practical effect
on the success of the individual, the family, or the race; and the development of a moral sense
or conscience by similar means is equally inconceivable.

But, on the other hand, we find that every one of these characteristics is necessary for the
full development of human nature. The rapid progress of civilization under favourable conditions,
would not be possible, were not the organ of the mind of man prepared in advance, fully developed
as regards size, structure, and proportions, and only needing a few generations of use and
habit to co-ordinate its complex functions. The naked and sensitive skin, by necessitating
clothing and houses, would lead to the more rapid development of man's inventive and constructive
faculties; and, by leading to a more refined feeling of personal modesty, may have influenced,
to a considerable extent, his moral nature. The erect form of man, by freeing the hands from
all locomotive uses, has been necessary for his intellectual advancement; and the extreme perfection
of his hands, has alone rendered possible that excellence in all the arts of civilization which
raises him so far above the savage, and is perhaps but the forerunner of a higher intellectual
and moral advancement. The perfection of his vocal organs has first led to the formation of
articulate speech, and then to the development of those exquisitely toned sounds, which are
only appreciated by the higher races, and which are probably destined for more elevated uses
and more refined enjoyment, in a higher condition than we have yet attained to. So, those faculties
which enable us to transcend time and space, and to realize the wonderful conceptions of mathematics
and philosophy, or which give us an intense yearning for abstract truth, (all of which were
occasionally manifested at such an early period of human history as to be far in advance of
any of the few practical applications which have since grown out of them), are evidently essential
to the perfect development of man as a spiritual being, but are utterly inconceivable as having
been produced through the action of a law which looks only, and can look only, to the immediate
material welfare of the individual or the race. The laws of evolution alone would, perhaps,
never have produced a grain so well adapted to man's use as wheat and maize; such fruits as
the seedless banana and bread-fruit; or such animals as the Guernsey milch cow, or the London
dray-horse. Yet these so closely resemble the unaided productions of nature, that we may well
imagine a being who had mastered the laws of development of organic forms through past ages,
refusing to believe that any new power had been concerned in their production, and scornfully
rejecting the theory (as my theory will be rejected by many who agree with me on other points),
that in these few cases a controlling intelligence had directed the action of the laws of variation,
multiplication, and survival, for his own purposes. We know, however, that this has been done;
and we must therefore admit the possibility that, if we are not the highest intelligences in
the universe, some higher intelligence may have directed the process by which the human race
was developed, by means of more subtle agencies than we are acquainted with. At the same time
I must confess, that this theory has the disadvantage of requiring the intervention of some
distinct individual intelligence, to aid in the production of what we can hardly avoid considering
as the ultimate aim and outcome of all organized existence--intellectual, ever-advancing, spiritual
man. It therefore implies, that the great laws which govern the material universe were insufficient
for his production, unless we consider (as we may fairly do) that the controlling action of
such higher intelligences is a necessary part of those laws, just as the action of all surrounding
organisms is one of the agencies in organic development. But even if my particular view should
not be the true one, the difficulties I have put forward remain, and I think prove, that some
more general and more fundamental law underlies that of "natural selection." The law of "unconscious
intelligence" pervading all organic nature, put forth by Dr. Laycock and adopted by Mr. Murphy,
is such a law; but to my mind it has the double disadvantage of being both unintelligible and
incapable of any kind of proof. It is more probable, that the true law lies too deep for us
to discover it; but there seems to me, to be ample indications that such a law does exist,
and is probably connected with the absolute origin of life and organization. (Note A.)

The Origin of Consciousness.

The question of the origin of sensation and of thought can be but briefly discussed in this
place, since it is a subject wide enough to require a separate volume for its proper treatment.
No physiologist or philosopher has yet ventured to propound an intelligible theory, of how
sensation may possibly be a product of organization; while many have declared the passage from
matter to mind to be inconceivable. In his presidential address to the Physical Section of
the British Association at Norwich, in 1868, Professor Tyndall expressed himself as follows:--

"The passage from the physics of the brain to the corresponding facts of consciousness is unthinkable.
Granted that a definite thought, and a definite molecular action in the brain occur simultaneously,
we do not possess the intellectual organ, nor apparently any rudiment of the organ, which would
enable us to pass by a process of reasoning from the one phenomenon to the other. They appear
together, but we do not know why. Were our minds and senses so expanded, strengthened, and
illuminated as to enable us to see and feel the very molecules of the brain; were we capable
of following all their motions, all their groupings, all their electric discharges, if such
there be, and were we intimately acquainted with the corresponding states of thought and feeling,
we should be as far as ever from the solution of the problem, 'How are these physical processes
connected with the facts of consciousness?' The chasm between the two classes of phenomena
would still remain intellectually impassable."

In his latest work ("An Introduction to the Classification of Animals,") published in 1869,
Professor Huxley unhesitatingly adopts the "well founded doctrine, that life is the cause and
not the consequence of organization." In his celebrated article "On the Physical Basis of Life,"
however, he maintains, that life is a property of protoplasm, and that protoplasm owes its
properties to the nature and disposition of its molecules. Hence he terms it "the matter of
life," and believes that all the physical properties of organized beings are due to the physical
properties of protoplasm. So far we might, perhaps, follow him, but he does not stop here.
To do this, and in order further to develop my views, I shall have to give a brief sketch of
the most recent speculations and discoveries, as to the ultimate nature and constitution of matter.

The Nature of Matter.

It has been long seen by the best thinkers on the subject, that atoms,--considered as minute
solid bodies from which emanate the attractive and repulsive forces which give what we term
matter its properties,--could serve no purpose whatever; since it is universally admitted that
the supposed atoms never touch each other, and it cannot be conceived that these homogeneous,
indivisible, solid units, are themselves the ultimate cause of the forces that emanate from
their centres. As, therefore, none of the properties of matter can be due to the atoms themselves,
but only to the forces which emanate from the points in space indicated by the atomic centres,
it is logical continually to diminish their size till they vanish, leaving only localized centres
of force to represent them. Of the various attempts that have been made to show how the properties
of matter may be due to such modified atoms (considered as mere centres of force), the most
successful, because the simplest and the most logical, is that of Mr. Bayma, who, in his "Molecular
Mechanics," has demonstrated how, from the simple assumption of such centres having attractive
and repulsive forces (both varying according to the same law of the inverse squares as gravitation),
and by grouping them in symmetrical figures, consisting of a repulsive centre, an attractive
nucleus, and one or more repulsive envelopes, we may explain all the general properties of
matter; and, by more and more complex arrangements, even the special chemical, electrical,
and magnetic properties of special forms of matter.[I] Each chemical element will thus consist
of a molecule formed of simple atoms, (or as Mr. Bayma terms them to avoid confusion, "material
elements") in greater or less number and of more or less complex arrangement; which molecule
is in stable equilibrium, but liable to be changed in form by the attractive or repulsive influences
of differently constituted molecules, constituting the phenomena of chemical combination, and
resulting in new forms of molecule of greater complexity and more or less stability.

  +--------------------------------------------------------------+
  | [I] Mr. Bayma's work, entitled "The Elements of Molecular    |
  | Mechanics," was published in 1866, and has received less     |
  | attention than it deserves. It is characterised by great     |
  | lucidity, by logical arrangement, and by comparatively       |
  | simple geometrical and algebraical demonstrations, so that   |
  | it may be understood and appreciated with a very moderate    |
  | knowledge of mathematics. It consists of a series of         |
  | Propositions, deduced from the known properties of matter;   |
  | from these are derived a number of Theorems, by whose help   |
  | the more complicated Problems are solved. Nothing is taken   |
  | for granted throughout the work, and the only valid mode of  |
  | escaping from its conclusions is, by either disproving the   |
  | fundamental Propositions, or by detecting fallacies in the   |
  | subsequent reasoning.                                        |
  +--------------------------------------------------------------+

Those organic compounds of which organized beings are built up, consist, as is well known,
of matter of an extreme complexity. and great instability; whence result the changes of form
to which it is continually subject. This view enables us to comprehend the possibility, of
the phenomena of vegetative life being due to an almost infinite complexity of molecular combinations,
subject to definite changes under the stimuli of heat, moisture, light, electricity, and probably
some unknown forces. But this greater and greater complexity, even if carried to an infinite
extent, cannot, of itself, have the slightest tendency to originate consciousness in such molecules
or groups of molecules. If a material element, or a combination of a thousand material elements
in a molecule, are alike unconscious, it is impossible for us to believe, that the mere addition
of one, two, or a thousand other material elements to form a more complex molecule, could in
any way tend to produce a self-conscious existence. The things are radically distinct. To say
that mind is a product or function of protoplasm, or of its molecular changes, is to use words
to which we can attach no clear conception. You cannot have, in the whole, what does not exist
in any of the parts; and those who argue thus should put forth a definite conception of matter,
with clearly enunciated properties, and show, that the necessary result of a certain complex
arrangement of the elements or atoms of that matter, will be the production of self-consciousness.
There is no escape from this dilemma,--either all matter is conscious, or consciousness is
something distinct from matter, and in the latter case, its presence in material forms is a
proof of the existence of conscious beings, outside of, and independent of, what we term matter.
(Note B.)

Matter is Force.--The foregoing considerations lead us to the very important conclusion, that
matter is essentially force, and nothing but force; that matter, as popularly understood, does
not exist, and is, in fact, philosophically inconceivable. When we touch matter, we only really
experience sensations of resistance, implying repulsive force; and no other sense can give
us such apparently solid proofs of the reality of matter, as touch does. This conclusion, if
kept constantly present in the mind, will be found to have a most important bearing on almost
every high scientific and philosophical problem, and especially on such as relate to our own
conscious existence.

All Force is probably Will-Force.--If we are satisfied that force or forces are all that exist
in the material universe, we are next led to enquire what is force? We are acquainted with
two radically distinct or apparently distinct kinds of force--the first consists of the primary
forces of nature, such as gravitation, cohesion, repulsion, heat, electricity, &c.; the second
is our own will-force. Many persons will at once deny that the latter exists. It will be said,
that it is a mere transformation of the primary forces before alluded to; that the correlation
of forces includes those of animal life, and that will itself is but the result of molecular
change in the brain. I think, however, that it can be shown, that this latter assertion has
neither been proved, nor even been proved to be possible; and that in making it, a great leap
in the dark has been taken from the known to the unknown. It may be at once admitted that the
muscular force of animals and men, is merely the transformed energy derived from the primary
forces of nature. So much has been, if not rigidly proved, yet rendered highly probable, and
it is in perfect accordance with all our knowledge of natural forces and natural laws. But
it cannot be contended that the physiological balance-sheet has ever been so accurately struck,
that we are entitled to say, not one-thousandth part of a grain more of force has been exerted
by any organized body or in any part of it, than has been derived from the known primary forces
of the material world. If that were so, it would absolutely negative the existence of will;
for if will is anything, it is a power that directs the action of the forces stored up in the
body, and it is not conceivable that this direction can take place, without the exercise of
some force in some part of the organism. However delicately a machine may be constructed, with
the most exquisitely contrived detents to release a weight or spring by the exertion of the
smallest possible amount of force, some external force will always, be required; so, in the
animal machine, however minute may be the changes required in the cells or fibres of the brain,
to set in motion the nerve currents which loosen or excite the pent up forces of certain muscles,
some force must be required to effect those changes. If it is said, "those changes are automatic,
and are set in motion by external causes," then one essential part of our consciousness, a
certain amount of freedom in willing, is annihilated; and it is inconceivable how or why there
should have arisen any consciousness or any apparent will, in such purely automatic organisms.
If this were so, our apparent WILL would be a delusion, and Professor Huxley's belief--"that
our volition counts for something as a condition of the course of events," would be fallacious,
since our volition would then be but one link in the chain of events, counting for neither
more nor less than any other link whatever.

If, therefore, we have traced one force, however minute, to an origin in our own WILL, while
we have no knowledge of any other primary cause of force, it does not seem an improbable conclusion
that all force may be will-force; and thus, that the whole universe, is not merely dependent
on, but actually is, the WILL of higher intelligences or of one Supreme Intelligence. It has
been often said that the true poet is a seer; and in the noble verse of an American poetess,
we find expressed, what may prove to be the highest fact of science, the noblest truth of philosophy:

    God of the Granite and the Rose!
      Soul of the Sparrow and the Bee!
    The mighty tide of Being flows
      Through countless channels, Lord, from thee.
    It leaps to life in grass and flowers,
      Through every grade of being runs,
    While from Creation's radiant towers
      Its glory flames in Stars and Suns.

Conclusion.

These speculations are usually held to be far beyond the bounds of science; but they appear
to me to be more legitimate deductions from the facts of science, than those which consist
in reducing the whole universe, not merely to matter, but to matter conceived and defined so
as to be philosophically inconceivable. It is surely a great step in advance, to get rid of
the notion that matter is a thing of itself, which can exist per se, and must have been eternal,
since it is supposed to be indestructible and uncreated,--that force, or the forces of nature,
are another thing, given or added to matter, or else its necessary properties,--and that mind
is yet another thing, either a product of this matter and its supposed inherent forces, or
distinct from and co-existent with it;--and to be able to substitute for this complicated theory,
which leads to endless dilemmas and contradictions, the far simpler and more consistent belief,
that matter, as an entity distinct from force, does not exist; and that FORCE is a product
of MIND. Philosophy had long demonstrated our incapacity to prove the existence of matter,
as usually conceived; while it admitted the demonstration to each of us of our own self-conscious,
ideal existence. Science has now worked its way up to the same result, and this agreement between
them should give us some confidence in their combined teaching.

The view we have now arrived at seems to me more grand and sublime, as well as far simpler,
than any other. It exhibits the universe, as a universe of intelligence and will-power; and
by enabling us to rid ourselves of the impossibility of thinking of mind, but as connected
with our old notions of matter, opens up infinite possibilities of existence, connected with
infinitely varied manifestations of force, totally distinct from, yet as real as, what we term
matter.

The grand law of continuity which we see pervading our universe, would lead us to infer infinite
gradations of existence, and to people all space with intelligence and will-power; and, if
so, we have no difficulty in believing that for so noble a purpose as the progressive development
of higher and higher intelligences, those primal and general will-forces, which have sufficed
for the production of the lower animals, should have been guided into new channels and made
to converge in definite directions. And if, as seems to me probable, this has been done, I
cannot admit that it in any degree affects the truth or generality of Mr. Darwin's great discovery.
It merely shows, that the laws of organic development have been occasionally used for a special
end, just as man uses them for his special ends; and, I do not see that the law of "natural
selection" can be said to be disproved, if it can be shown that man does not owe his entire
physical and mental development to its unaided action, any more than it is disproved by the
existence of the poodle or the pouter pigeon, the production of which may have been equally
beyond its undirected power.

The objections which in this essay I have taken, to the view,--that the same law which appears
to have sufficed for the development of animals, has been alone the cause of man's superior
physical and mental nature,--will, I have no doubt, be over-ruled and explained away. But I
venture to think they will nevertheless maintain their ground, and that they can only be met
by the discovery of new facts or new laws, of a nature very different from any yet known to
us. I can only hope that my treatment of the subject, though necessarily very meagre, has been
clear and intelligible; and that it may prove suggestive, both to the opponents and to the
upholders of the theory of Natural Selection.

NOTES.

NOTE A. (Page 360.)

Some of my critics seem quite to have misunderstood my meaning in this part of the argument.
They have accused me of unnecessarily and unphilosophically appealing to "first causes" in
order to get over a difficulty--of believing that "our brains are made by God and our lungs
by natural selection;" and that, in point of fact, "man is God's domestic animal." An eminent
French critic, M. Claparède, makes me continually call in the aid of--"une Force supérieure,"
the capital F, meaning I imagine that this "higher Force" is the Deity. I can only explain
this misconception by the incapacity of the modern cultivated mind to realise the existence
of any higher intelligence between itself and Deity. Angels and archangels, spirits and demons,
have been so long banished from our belief as to have become actually unthinkable as actual
existences, and nothing in modern philosophy takes their place. Yet the grand law of "continuity,"
the last outcome of modern science, which seems absolute throughout the realms of matter, force,
and mind, so far as we can explore them, cannot surely fail to be true beyond the narrow sphere
of our vision, and leave an infinite chasm between man and the Great Mind of the universe.
Such a supposition seems to me in the highest degree improbable.

Now, in referring to the origin of man, and its possible determining causes, I have used the
words "some other power"--"some intelligent power"--"a superior intelligence"--"a controlling
intelligence," and only in reference to the origin of universal forces and laws have I spoken
of the will or power of "one Supreme Intelligence." These are the only expressions I have used
in alluding to the power which I believe has acted in the case of man, and they were purposely
chosen to show, that I reject the hypothesis of "first causes" for any and every special effect
in the universe, except in the same sense that the action of man or of any other intelligent
being is a first cause. In using such terms I wished to show plainly, that I contemplated the
possibility that the development of the essentially human portions of man's structure and intellect
may have been determined by the directing influence of some higher intelligent beings, acting
through natural and universal laws. A belief of this nature may or may not have a foundation,
but it is an intelligible theory, and is not, in its nature, incapable of proof; and it rests
on facts and arguments of an exactly similar kind to those, which would enable a sufficiently
powerful intellect to deduce, from the existence on the earth of cultivated plants and domestic
animals, the presence of some intelligent being of a higher nature than themselves.

NOTE B. (Page 365.)

A friend has suggested that I have not here explained myself sufficiently, and objects, that
life does not exist in matter any more than consciousness, and if the one can be produced by
the laws of matter, why may not the other? I reply, that there is a radical difference between
the two. Organic or vegetative life consists essentially in chemical transformations and molecular
motions, occurring under certain conditions and in a certain order. The matter, and the forces
which act upon it, are for the most part known; and if there are any forces engaged in the
manifestation of vegetative life yet undiscovered (which is a moot question), we can conceive
them as analogous to such forces as heat, electricity, or chemical affinity, with which we
are already acquainted. We can thus clearly conceive of the transition from dead matter to
living matter. A complex mass which suffers decomposition or decay is dead, but if this mass
has the power of attracting to itself, from the surrounding medium, matter like that of which
it is composed, we have the first rudiment of vegetative life. If the mass can do this for
a considerable time, and if its absorption of new matter more than replaces that lost by decomposition,
and if it is of such a nature as to resist the mechanical or chemical forces to which it is
usually exposed, and to retain a tolerably constant form, we term it a living organism. We
can conceive an organism to be so constituted, and we can further conceive that any fragments,
which may be accidentally broken from it, or which may fall away when its bulk has become too
great for the cohesion of all its parts, may begin to increase anew and run the same course
as the parent mass. This is growth and reproduction in their simplest forms; and from such
a simple beginning it is possible to conceive a series of slight modifications of composition,
and of internal and external forces, which should ultimately lead to the development of more
complex organisms. The LIFE of such an organism may, perhaps, be nothing added to it, but merely
the name we give to the result of a balance of internal and external forces in maintaining
the permanence of the form and structure of the individual. The simplest conceivable form of
such life would be the dewdrop, which owes its existence to the balance between the condensation
of aqueous vapour in the atmosphere and the evaporation of its substance. If either is in excess,
it soon ceases to maintain an individual existence. I do not maintain that vegetative life
is wholly due to such a complex balance of forces, but only that it is conceivable as such.

With CONSCIOUSNESS the case is very different. Its phenomena are not comparable with those
of any kind of matter subjected to any of the known or conceivable forces of nature; and we
cannot conceive a gradual transition from absolute unconsciousness to consciousness, from an
unsentient organism to a sentient being. The merest rudiment of sensation or self-consciousness
is infinitely removed from absolutely non-sentient or unconscious matter. We can conceive of
no physical addition to, or modification of, an unconscious mass which should create consciousness;
no step in the series of changes organised matter may undergo, which should bring in sensation
where there was no sensation or power of sensation at the preceding step. It is because the
things are utterly incomparable and incommensurable that we can only conceive of sensation
coming to matter from without, while life may be conceived as merely a specific combination
and co-ordination of the matter and the forces that compose the universe, and with which we
are separately acquainted. We may admit with Professor Huxley that protoplasm is the "matter
of life" and the cause of organisation, but we cannot admit or conceive that protoplasm is
the primary source of sensation and consciousness, or that it can ever of itself become conscious
in the same way as we may perhaps conceive that it may become alive.

INDEX.

  ABRAXAS grossulariata, 119.

  Acanthotritus dorsalis, 94.

  Accipiter pileatus, 107.

  ACRÆIDÆ, the subjects of mimicry, 85, 86.

  Acronycta psi, protective colouring of, 62.

  ADAPTATION brought about by general laws, 276;
    looks like design, 281.

  ÆGERIIDÆ mimic Hymenoptera, 90.

  AGASSIZ, or embryonic character of ancient animals, 301.

  Agnia fasciata, mimics another Longicorn, 95.

  Agriopis aprilina, protective colouring of, 62.

  ALCEDINIDÆ, sexual colouring and nidification of, 240.

  AMADINA, sexual colouring and nidification of, 243.

  AMPELIDÆ, sexual colouring and nidification of, 243.

  ANCYLOTHERIUM, 300.

  ANDRENIDÆ, 98.

  Angræcum sesquipedale, 272;
    its fertilization by a large moth, 275.

  ANIMALS, senses and faculties of, 127;
    intellect of, compared with that of savages, 341.

  ANISOCERINÆ, 92.

  ANOA, 196.

  ANOPLOTHERIUM, 299.

  ANTHRIBIDÆ, mimicry of, 94;
    dimorphism in, 155.

  Anthrocera filipendulæ, 120.

  ANTHROPOLOGISTS, wide difference of opinion among, as to origin of
      human races, 304;
    conflicting views of, harmonized, 321.

  ANTIQUITY of man, 303, 322.

  APATHUS, 98.

  APPARENT exceptions to law of colour and nidification, 253.

  AQUATIC BIRDS, why abundant, 32.

  Araschnia prorsa, 154.

  ARCHEGOSAURUS, 300.

  ARCHÆOPTERYX, 300.

  ARCHITECTURE of most nations derivative, 228;
    Grecian, false in principle, 226.

  ARCTIC animals, white colour of, 50, 51.

  ARGYLL, Duke of, on colours of Woodcock, 53;
    on mind in nature, 265;
    criticism on Darwin's works, 269;
    on humming birds 282;
    on creation by birth, 287.

  ASILUS, 97.

  ASPECTS of nature as influencing man's development, 317.

  BABIRUSA, 196.

  BALANCE in nature, 42.

  BARRINGTON, Hon. Daines, on song of birds, 220.

  BASILORNIS, 196.

  BATES, Mr., first adopted the word "mimicry," 75;
    his observations on Leptalis and Heliconidæ, 82;
    his paper explaining the theory of mimicry, 83;
    objections to his theory, 108;
    on variation, 165;
    on recent immigration of Amazonian Indians, 214.

  BAYMA, Mr., on "Molecular Mechanics," 363, 364.

  BEAUTY in nature, 282;
    not universal, 284;
    of flowers useful to them, 285;
    not given for its own sake, 285.

  BIRDS, possible rapid increase of, 29;
    numbers that die annually, 30;
    mimicry among, 103;
    dull colour of females, 114;
    nidification as affecting colour of females, 116;
    refusing the gooseberry caterpillar, 119;
    the highest in rank and organization, 137;
    dimorphism in, 155;
    why peculiar nest built by each species, 215-219;
    build more perfect nests as they grow older, 224, 227;
    alter and improve their nests, 226;
    sexual differences of colour in, 239.

  Bombus hortorum, 90.

  Bombycilla, garrula, colours and nidification of, 255.

  BOMBYLIUS, 98.

  BRAIN of the savage but slightly less than that of civilized man, 336;
    size of, an important element of mental power, 335;
    of savage races larger than their needs require, 338, 343;
    of man and of anthropoid apes compared, 338.

  BROCA, Professor Paul, on the fine crania of the cave men, 337.

  Bryophila glandifera and B. perla protectively coloured, 63.

  BUCEROTIDÆ, sexual colouring and nidification of, 241.

  BUCCONIDÆ, sexual colouring and nidification of, 241.

  BUFF-TIP moth, resembles a broken stick, 62.

  BUILDINGS of various races do not change, 213.

  BUPRESTIDÆ, resembling bird's dung, 57;
    similar colours in two sexes, 114.

  BUTTERFLIES, value of, in studying "natural selection," 131;
    varieties of, in Sardinia and Isle of Man, 178.

  CACIA anthriboides, 94.

  Callizona acesta, protective colouring of, 59.

  CALORNIS, 239.

  CAPITONIDÆ, sexual colouring and nidification of, 241.

  Capnolymma stygium, 94.

  CARABIDÆ, special protection among, 72;
    similar colouring of two sexes, 114.

  CASSIDÆ, resemble dew drops, 58.

  CATERPILLARS, mimicking a poisonous snake, 99;
    gaudy colours of, 117;
    various modes of protection of, 118;
    gooseberry caterpillar, 119;
    Mr. Jenner Weir's observations on, 119;
    Mr. A. G. Butler's observations on, 121.

  CELEBES, local modifications of form in, 170;
    probable cause of these, 176;
    remarkable zoological peculiarities of, 195-199.

  CENTROPUS, sexual colouring and nidification of, 242.

  Cephalodonta spinipes, 92.

  Ceroxylus laceratus, imitates a moss-covered stick, 64.

  CERTHIOLA, sexual colouring and nidification of, 244.

  Cethosia æole, 172;
    biblis, 172.

  CETONIADÆ, how protected, 73;
    similar colours of two sexes, 114.

  CEYCOPSIS, 196.

  Charis melipona, 96.

  CHEMATOBIA, wintry colours of this genus, 62.

  Chlamys pilula, resembles dung of caterpillars, 58.

  CHRYSIDIDÆ, how protected, 72.

  CHRYSOMELIDÆ, similar colouring of two sexes, 114.

  CICINDELA, adaptive colour of various species of, 57.

  Cilix compressa, resembles bird's dung, 63.

  CLADOBATES, mimicking squirrels, 107.

  CLASSIFICATION, form of true, 6;
    circular, inadmissible, 8;
    quinarian and circular, of Swainson, 46;
    argument from, against Mr. Darwin, 295.

  CLIMACTERIS, sexual colouring and nidification of, 243.

  COCCINELLIDÆ, how protected, 72;
    similar colouring of sexes, 114.

  COEXISTING varieties, 159.

  Collyrodes lacordairei, 95.

  COLOUR, in animals, popular theories of, 47;
    frequent variations of, in domesticated animals, 48;
    influenced by need of concealment, 49;
    in deserts, 49, 50;
    in Arctic regions, 50, 51;
    nocturnal, 51;
    tropical, 52;
    special modifications of, 52;
    different distribution of, in butterflies and moths, 58;
    of autumnal and winter moths, 62;
    white, generally dangerous and therefore eliminated, 66;
    why it exists so abundantly although often injurious, 69;
    influenced by need of protection, 113;
    of female birds, 114;
    in relation to nidification of birds, 116;
    gaudy colours of many caterpillars, 117;
    in nature, general causes of, 126;
    local variations of, 173;
    sexual differences of, in birds, 239;
    in female birds, how connected with their nidification, 240, 246;
    more variable than structure or habits, and therefore more easily
      modified, 249;
    of flowers, as explained by Mr. Darwin, 262;
    often correlated with disease, 316.

  COMPSOGNATHUS, 300.

  Condylodera tricondyloides, 97.

  CONSCIOUSNESS, origin of, 360;
    Professor Tyndall on, 361;
    not a product of complex organization, 365.

  CORRELATION of growth, 310.

  Corynomalus sp., 92.

  COTINGIDÆ, sexual colouring and nidification of, 244.

  CRATOSOMUS, a hard weevil, 94.

  CRICKETS mimicking sand wasps, 98.

  CRYPTODONTIA, 299.

  Cucullia verbasci, 120.

  CURCULIONIDÆ, often protected by hard covering, 71;
    similar colours of two sexes, 114.

  Cuviera squamata, 258.

  Cyclopeplus batesii, 92.

  CYNOPITHECUS, 196.

  Cynthia arsinoë, 172.

  DANAIDÆ, the subjects of mimicry, 85, 86.

  Danais erippus, 88;
    chysippus, 112;
    sobrina, 179;
    aglaia, 179;
    tytia, 180.

  DARWIN, Mr., his principle of utility, 47;
    on cause of colour in flowers, 127, 262;
    on colours of caterpillars, 118;
    on sexual colouration, 260;
    his metaphors liable to misconception, 269;
    criticism of, in North British Review, 291.

  DESERT animals, colours of, 49, 50.

  DIADEMA, species of, mimic Danaidæ, 86, 87;
    female with male colouration, 112.

  Diadema misippus, 112;
    D. anomala, 113.

  Diaphora mendica, 89.

  DICNYODONTIA, 299.

  DICROURUS, 253.

  Diloba coeruleocephala, 120.

  DIMORPHISM, 145;
    in beetles, 155;
    in birds, 155;
    illustrated, 157.

  DINOSAURIA, 298.

  DIPTERA mimicking wasps and bees, 97.

  Doliops curculionides, 94.

  DOMESTICATED animals, their essential difference from wild
      ones, 38-41.

  DOTTERELL, 251.

  DRUSILLA, mimicked by three genera, 181.

  Drusilla bioculata, 180.

  DYTISCUS, dimorphism in, 155.

  EGYPTIAN architecture, introduced, 225.

  Elaps fulvius, E. corallinus, E. lemniscatus, 101;
    E. mipartitus, E. lemniscatus, E. hemiprichii, 102.

  ENODES, 196.

  ENNOMUS, autumnal colours of this genus, 62.

  Eos fuscata, dimorphism of, 155.

  EQUUS, 299.

  Eronia tritæa, 172;
    valeria, 172.

  Eroschema poweri, 93.

  ERYCINIDÆ mimic Heliconidæ, 84.

  Erythroplatis corallifer, 92.

  ESTRELDA, sexual colouring and nidification of, 243.

  EUCNEMIDÆ, mimicking a Malacoderm, 93.

  Eudromias morinellus, 251.

  Euglossa dimidiata, 98.

  EUMORPHIDÆ, a protected group 72;
    imitated by Longicorns, 92.

  EUPLOEA, local modifications of colour in, 173.

  Euploea midamus, 87-113, 179;
    E. rhadamanthus, 87, 179.

  Eurhinia megalonice, 172;
    polynice, 172.

  EURYLÆMIDÆ, sexual colouring and nidification of, 243.

  EXTINCT animals, intermediate forms of, 298.

  EXTINCTION of lower races, 318.

  FEMALE birds, colours of, 114;
    sometimes connected with their mode of nidification, 240;
    more exposed to enemies than the males, 248.

  FEMALE butterflies generally dull-coloured, 259.

  FEMALE insects, mimicry by, 110, 259;
    colours of, 113.

  FEMALE sex, has no incapacity for as brilliant colouration as the
      male, 247;
    in some groups requires more protection than the male, 258.

  FISHES, protective colouring of, 55.

  FISSIROSTRAL birds, nests of, 238.

  FLOWERS, causes of colour in, 127.

  FLYCATCHERS, genera of, absent from Celebes, 177.

  FORBES, EDWARD, objections to his theory of Polarity, 17-23.

  FORCE is probably all Will-force, 366.

  GALAPAGOS, 10.

  GALTON, Mr., on range of intellectual power, 339.

  GANOCEPHALA, 298.

  Gastropacha querci, protective colour and form of, 62.

  GAUDRY, M., on fossil mammals of Greece, 299.

  GEOGRAPHICAL distribution, dependent on geologic changes, 1;
    its agreement with law of introduction of new species, 9;
    of allied species and groups, 12.

  GEOLOGICAL distribution analogous to geographical, 13.

  GEOLOGY, facts proved by, 2-5.

  GIRAFFE, how it acquired its long neck, 42.

  GLÆA, autumnal colours of this genus, 62.

  GOULD, Mr., on sexual plumage of Gray Phalarope, 115;
    on incubation by male Dotterell, 115.

  Grallina australis, 254.

  GREEN birds almost confined to the tropics, 52.

  Gymnocerus cratosomoides, 94.

  Gymnocerous capucinus, 96.

  Gymnocerous dulcissimus, 97.

  GUNTHER, Dr., on arboreal snakes, 55;
    on colouring of snakes, 102.

  Gynecia dirce, 59.

  HABITS, often persistent when use of them has ceased, 234;
    of children and savages analogous to those of animals, 235;
    if persistent and imitative may be termed hereditary, 235, 236.

  HAIRY covering of Mammalia, use of, 344;
    absence of, in man remarkable, 345;
    the want of it felt by savages, 346;
    could not have been abolished by natural selection, 348.

  Harpagus diodon, 107.

  HEILIPLUS, a hard genus of Curculionidæ, 94.

  HELICONIDÆ, the objects of mimicry, 77;
    their secretions, 88;
    not attacked by birds, 79;
    sometimes mimicked by other Heliconidæ, 85.

  HELLADOTHERIUM, 300.

  HEMIPTERA, protected by bad odour, 72.

  HERBERT, Rev. W., on song of birds, 221.

  HESPERIDÆ, probable means of protection of, 176.

  HESTHESIS, longicorns resembling ants, 96.

  Hestia leuconoë, 180.

  HEWITSON, Mr., 131.

  HIPPARION, 299.

  HIPPOTHERIUM, 299.

  HISPIDÆ, imitated by Longicorns, 92.

  HOLOTHURIDÆ, 258.

  Homalocranium semicinctum, 101.

  HOOKER, Dr., on the value of the "specific term," 165.

  HOUSES of American and Malay races contrasted, 213.

  HUXLEY, Professor, on "Physical Basis of Life," 362;
    on volition, 368.

  HYÆNICTIS, 300.

  HYBERNIA, wintry colours of this genus, 62.

  HYMENOPTERA, large number of, peculiar to Celebes, 196.

  ICTERIDÆ, sexual colouring and nidification of, 244.

  ICTHYOPTERYGIA, 298.

  Ideopsis daos, 180.

  IMITATION, the effects of, in man's works, 212.

  INDIANS, how they travel through trackless forests, 207.

  INSECTS, protective colouring of, 56;
    mimicking species of other orders, 97;
    senses of, perhaps different from ours, 202, 203.

  INSTINCT, how it may be best studied, 201;
    definition of, 203;
    in many cases assumed without proof, 205;
    if possessed by man, 206;
    supposed, of Indians, 207;
    supposed to be shown in the construction of birds' nests, 211.

  INTELLECT of savages compared with that of animals, 341.

  INTELLECTUAL power, range of, in man, 339.

  Iphias glaucippe, 172.

  ITHOMIA, mimicked by Leptalis, 83.

  Ithomia ilerdina, mimicked by four groups of Lepidoptera, 84.

  JAVA, relations of, to Sumatra and Borneo, 193.

  JAMAICA swift altering position of nest, 228.

  JERDON, Mr., on incubation by males in Turnix, 115.

  Kallima inachis and Kallima paralekta, wonderful resemblance of,
      to leaves, 59-61.

  LABYRINTHODONTIA, 298, 300.

  LAKES as cases of imperfect adaptation, 278.

  LANIADÆ, sexual colouring and nidification of, 245.

  LAMARCK'S hypothesis very different from the author's, 41.

  Larentia tripunctaria, 63.

  LAW which has regulated the introduction of new species, 5;
    confirmed by geographical distribution, 9;
    high organization of ancient animals consistent with, 14;
    of multiplication in geometrical progression, 265;
    of limited populations, 265;
    of heredity, 266;
    of variation, 266;
    of change of physical conditions, 266;
    of the equilibrium of nature, 266;
    as opposed to continual interference, 268.

  LAYCOCK, Dr., on law of "unconscious intelligence," 360.

  LEAF BUTTERFLY, appearance and habits of, 59-61.

  LEPIDOPTERA, especially subject to variation, 132.

  LEPTALIS, species of mimic Heliconidæ, 82;
    gain a protection thereby, 259.

  LESTER, Mr. J. M., on wood-dove and robin, 53.

  LEVAILLANT, on formation of a nest, 224.

  Limenitis archippus, 88.

  Limenitis limire, 172;
    procris, 172.

  LIZARDS refusing certain moths and caterpillars, 121;
    devouring bees, 121.

  LOCAL FORMS, 158.

  LOCAL variation of form, 169;
    of colour, 173;
    general remarks on, 174;
    in Celebesian butterflies, probable use of, 175.

  LOCUSTIDÆ, adaptive colouring of, 64.

  LUMINOUSNESS of some insects a protection, 71.

  LYCÆNIDÆ, probable means of protection of, 176.

  MAMMALS, mimicry among, 107.

  MAN, does he build by reason or imitation, 212;
    his works mainly imitative, 225;
    antiquity of, 303, 322;
    difference of opinion as to his origin, 304;
    unity or plurality of species, 305;
    persistence of type of, 306;
    importance of mental and moral characters, 312;
    his dignity and supremacy, 324;
    his influence on nature, 326;
    his future development, 326;
    range of intellectual power in, 339;
    rudiments of all the higher faculties in savage, 341;
    his feet and hands, difficulties on the theory of natural
      selection, 349;
    his voice, 350;
    his mental faculties, 351;
    difficulty as to the origin of the moral sense in, 352;
    development of, probably directed by a superior intelligence, 359.

  MANTIDÆ, adaptive colouring of, 64;
    mimicking white ants, 98.

  MALACODERMS, a protected group, 93.

  MALURIDÆ, 255.

  MATTER, the nature of, 363;
    Mr. Bayma on, 363;
    is force, 365.

  MECHANITIS and Methona, mimicked by Leptalis, 83.

  MECOCERUS, dimorphism of, 155.

  Mecocerus gazella, 94.

  MEGACEPHALON, 196.

  MEGAPODIDÆ, sexual colouring and nidification of, 246.

  MEROPOGON, 196.

  Midas dives, 97.

  MIMETA, mimicking Tropidorhynchus, 104.

  MIMICRY, meaning of the word, 74;
    theory of, 76;
    among Lepidoptera, 77;
    how it acts as a protection, 80, 81;
    of other insects by Lepidoptera, 89;
    among beetles, 91;
    of other insects by beetles, 95;
    of insects by species of other orders, 97;
    among the vertebrata, 99;
    among snakes, 101;
    among tree frogs, 103;
    among birds, 103;
    among mammals, 107;
    objections to the theory of, 108;
    by female insects, 110;
    among Papilionidæ, 179;
    never occurs in the male only, 260.

  MOMOTIDÆ, sexual colouring and nidification of, 241.

  MONTROUZIER, M., on butterflies of Woodlark Island, 152.

  MORAL sense, difficulty as to the origin of, 352.

  MORPHOS, how protected, 73.

  MURRAY, Mr. Andrew, objections to theory of mimicry, 108.

  MUSCICAPIDÆ, sexual colouring and nidification of, 245.

  MUSOPHAGIDÆ, sexual colouring and nidification of, 242.

  NAPEOGENES, all the species are mimickers, 85.

  NATURAL selection, the principle stated, 41-43;
    general acceptance of the theory of, 46;
    tabular demonstration of, 302;
    outline of theory of, 307;
    its effects on man and animals different, 311;
    hardly acts among civilized societies, 330;
    what it can not do, 333;
    cannot produce injurious or useless modifications, 334.

  NECTARINEIDÆ, 254.

  NECYDALIDÆ, mimic Hymenoptera, 96.

  Nemophas grayi, a Longicorn mimicked by a Longicorn, 95.

  NESTS of Birds, why different, 215;
    of young birds, how built, 219;
    construction of, described by Levaillant, 224;
    imperfections in, 229;
    influenced by changed conditions and persistent habits, 232;
    classification of, according to function, 237.

  NEW FORMS, how produced by variation and selection, 286.

  NEW GUINEA, relation of the several Papuan islands to, 194.

  NOCTURNAL animals, colours of, 51.

  NOMADA, 98.

  OBEREA, species resemble Tenthredinidæ, 96.

  Odontocera odyneroides, 96.

  ODONTOCHEILA, 97.

  Odyncrus sinuatus, 90.

  Onthophilus sulcatus, like a seed, 58.

  Onychocerus scorpio, resembles bark, 56.

  ORANGE-TIP butterfly, protective colouring of, 59.

  ORCHIS, structure of an, explained by natural selection, 271.

  Orgyia antiqua and O. gonostigma, autumnal colours of, 62.

  ORIOLIDÆ, 253.

  Ornithoptera priamus, 145, 173;
    O. helena, 173.

  Oxyrhopus petolarius, O. trigeminus, O. formosus, 102.

  OWEN, Professor, on more generalized structure of extinct
      animals, 298.

  Pachyotris fabricii, 96.

  PACHYRHYNCHI, weevils mimicked by Longicorns, 95.

  PALEOTHERIUM, 299.

  PALOPLOTHERIUM, 299.

  PAPILIO, black and red group imitated, 84.

  Papilio achates, 147;
    P. adamantius, 171;
    P. ænigma, 87;
    P. agamemnon, 141, 158, 170, 171;
    P. agestor, 180;
    P. alphenor, 148, 169;
    P. amanga, 151;
    P. androcles, 171;
    P. androgeus, 88, 147, 180, 183;
    P. antiphates, 141, 171;
    P. antiphus, 87, 150, 170, 180, 183;
    P. aristæus, 171;
    P. arjuna, 141;
    P. ascalaphus, 171;
    P. autolycus, 160;
    P. bathycles, 141;
    P. blumei, 171;
    P. brama, 171;
    P. caunus, 87, 179;
    P. codrus, 160, 171;
    P. cöon, 88, 146, 180, 182;
    P. deiphobus, 140;
    P. deiphontes, 171;
    P. delessertii, 180;
    P. demolion, 171;
    P. diphilus, 87, 170, 180, 183;
    P. doubledayi, 88, 180;
    P. elyros, 148;
    P. encelades, 171;
    P. erectheus, 151;
    P. euripilus, 160;
    P. evemon, 159;
    P. gigon, 171;
    P. glaucus, 152;
    P. hector, 87, 150, 180, 183;
    P. helenus, 160, 171;
    P. hospiton, 178;
    P. idæoides, 180;
    P. jason, 159, 171;
    P. ledebouria, 148;
    P. leucothoë, 171;
    P. leodamas, 170;
    P. liris, 87, 180, 184;
    P. macareus, 179;
    P. machaon, 178;
    P. melanides, 148, 150;
    P. memnon, 88, 140, 146, 147, 152, 180, 183;
    P. milon, 171;
    P. nephelus, 140;
    P. nicanor, 170;
    P. oenomaus, 88, 180, 184;
    P. onesimus, 151;
    P. ormenus, 150, 152, 182;
    P. pammon, 147, 152, 170, 180;
    P. pamphylus, 171;
    P. pandion, 152, 180;
    P. paradoxa, 87, 179;
    P. peranthus, 160, 171;
    P. pertinax, 145;
    P. philoxenus, 182;
    P. polydorus, 88, 170, 182;
    P. polytes, 147, 148;
    P. rhesus, 171;
    P. romulus, 87, 148, 150, 183;
    P. sarpedon, 141, 158, 171;
    P. sataspes, 171;
    P. severus, 140, 144;
    P. theseus, 87, 148, 150, 169, 170, 171, 180, 183;
    P. thule, 179;
    P. torquatus, 156;
    P. turnus, 152;
    P. ulysses, 140, 160, 173;
    P. varuna, 88.

  PAPILIONIDÆ, the question of their rank, 133;
    peculiar characters possessed by, 134;
    peculiarly diurnal, 136;
    compared with groups of mammalia, 138;
    distribution of, 140;
    large forms of Celebes and Moluccas, 168;
    large forms of Amboyna, 169;
    local variation of form, 169;
    arrangement of, 186;
    geographical distribution of, 189;
    of Indo-Malay and Austro-Malay regions, 192;
    of Java, Sumatra, and Borneo, 193.

  PARIDÆ, sexual colouring and nidification of, 243.

  PASSENGER pigeon, cause of its great numbers, 308.

  PATENT inventions, as illustrating classification, 295.

  Phacellocera batesii, mimics one of the Anthribidæ, 94.

  Phalaropus fulicarius, 115, 251.

  PHASMIDÆ, imitate sticks and twigs, 64;
    females resembling leaves, 112.

  PHYLLIUM, wonderful protective colour and form of, 64.

  PHYSALIA, 258.

  PIERIDÆ, local modification of form in, 172.

  PIERIS, females only imitating Heliconidæ, 112.

  Pieris coronis, 172;
    eperia, 172.

  Pieris pyrrha, 113.

  PICIDÆ, sexual colouring and nidification of, 242.

  PIPRIDÆ, sexual colouring and nidification of, 245.

  PITTIDÆ, 253.

  Pliocerus equalis, 101;
    P. elapoides, P. euryzonus, 102.

  Pæciloderma terminale, 93.

  POLARITY, Forbes' theory of, 17, 45.

  POLYMORPHISM, 145;
    illustration of, 157.

  POPULATION of species, law of, 28;
    does not permanently increase, 29;
    not determined by abundance of offspring, 29;
    checks to, 30;
    difference in the case of cats and rabbits explained, 32.

  PREVISION, a case of, 122.

  PRIONITURUS, 196.

  PROTECTION, various modes in which animals obtain it, 69-71, 258;
    greater need of, in female insects and birds, 113.

  PROTECTIVE colouring, theory of, 65.

  PSITTACI (Parrots), sexual colouring and nidification of, 242.

  PTEROSAURIA, 298.

  PTYCHODERES, 94.

  RACES, or subspecies, 160;
    of man, origin of, 319.

  REDBREAST and woodpigeon, protective colouring of, 53, 54.

  REPRESENTATIVE groups, 9;
    of Trogons, butterflies, &c., 12.

  REPTILES, protective colouring of, 54.

  RHAMPHASTIDÆ, sexual colouring and nidification of, 242.

  RHINOCEROS, 299.

  RIVER system, as illustrating self-adaptation, 276.

  ROSES, Mr. Baker on varieties of, 165.

  RUDIMENTARY organs, 23.

  SALVIN, Mr. Osbert, on a case of bird mimicry, 107.

  Saturnia pavonia-minor, protective colouring of larva of, 63.

  SATYRIDÆ, probable means of protection of, 176.

  SAUROPTERYGIA, 299.

  SAVAGES, why they become extinct, 319;
    undeveloped intellect of, 339, 341;
    intellect of, compared with that of animals, 341, 343;
    protect their backs from rain, 346.

  SCANSORIAL birds, nests of, 238.

  SCAPHURA, 98.

  SCISSIROSTRUM, 165.

  SCOPULIPEDES, brush-legged bees, 91.

  SCUDDER, Mr., on fossil insects, 301.

  SCUTELLERIDÆ, mimicked by Longicorns, 96.

  Sesia bombiliformis, 90.

  SESIIDÆ, mimic Hymenoptera, 90.

  SEXES, comparative importance of, in different classes of
      animals, 111;
    diverse habits of, 156.

  SEXUAL SELECTION, 156;
    its normal action to develop colour in both sexes, 247;
    among birds, 283.

  SIDGWICK, Mr. A., on protective colouring of moths, 62.

  SIMOCYONIDÆ, 300.

  SITTA, sexual colouring and nidification of, 243.

  SITTELLA, sexual colouring and nidification of, 243.

  SNAKES, mimicry among, 101.

  SONG of birds, instinctive or imitative, 220.

  SPECIES, law of population of, 28;
    abundance or rarity of, dependent on the adaptation to
      conditions, 33;
    definition of, 141, 161;
    the range and constancy of, 143;
    extreme variation in, 163, 164.

  SPEED of animals, limits of, 292.

  Sphecia craboniforme, 90.

  Sphecomorpha chalybea, 96.

  SPHEGIDÆ, mimicked by flies, 97.

  SPIDERS, which mimic ants, 98;
    and flower buds, 99.

  Spilosoma menthastri, 88.

  STAINTON, Mr., on moths rejected by turkeys, 78, 88.

  STALACHTIS, a genus of Erycinidæ, the object of mimicry, 84.

  STINGING insects generally conspicuously coloured, 72.

  STREPTOCITTA, 196.

  STURNIDÆ, sexual colouring and nidification of, 244.

  STURNOPASTOR, 239.

  ST. HELENA, 10.

  Streptolabis hispoides, 93.

  STRUGGLE for existence, 28, 33.

  SURVIVAL of the fittest, law of, stated, 33;
    its action in determining colour, 67.

  SWAINSON'S circular and quinarian theory, 45.

  SYLVIADÆ, sexual colouring and nidification of, 245.

  SYNAPTA, 258.

  TACHORNIS phoenicobea, 228.

  Tachyris hombronii, 172;
    ithome, 172;
    lycaste, 172;
    lyncida, 172;
    nephele, 172;
    nero, 172;
    zarinda, 172.

  TANAGRIDÆ, sexual colouring and nidification of, 245.

  TAPIR, 299.

  TELEPHORI, similar colouring of two sexes, 114.

  TEMPERATE and cold climates favourable to civilization, 318.

  THECODONTIA, 299.

  THERATES, mimicked by Heteromera, 95.

  Thyca descombesi, 172;
    hyparete, 172;
    rosenbergii, 172;
    zebuda, 172.

  TIGER, adaptive colouring of, 52.

  TIMES newspaper on Natural Selection, 296.

  TOOLS, importance of, to man, 314.

  TREE FROGS, probable mimicry by, 103.

  TRICONDYLA, 97.

  TRIMEN, Mr., on rank of the Papilionidæ, 136.

  TRISTRAM, Rev. H., on colours of desert animals, 50.

  Trochilium tipuliforme, 90.

  TROGONIDÆ, sexual colouring and nidification of, 241.

  TROPICAL birds often green, 52.

  TROPICS, most favourable to production of perfect adaptation among
      animals, 68;
    not favourable to growth of civilization, 318.

  TROPIDORHYNCHUS mimicked by orioles, 104.

  TRUTHFULNESS of some savages, 353;
    not to be explained on utilitarian hypothesis, 354.

  TURDIDÆ, sexual colouring and nidification of, 245.

  TURNIX, 115, 251.

  TYNDALL, Professor, on origin of consciousness, 361.

  UPUPIDÆ, sexual colouring and nidification of, 241.

  USEFUL and useless variations, 34.

  UTILITY, importance of the principle of, 47, 127.

  VARIABILITY, simple, 144.

  VARIATIONS, useful and useless, 34;
    laws of, 143, 266;
    as influenced by locality, 166;
    of size, 168;
    universality of, 287-291;
    are there limits to, 291;
    of domestic dogs, 293;
    of pigeons, 293.

  VARIETIES, instability of, supposed to prove the permanent
      distinctness of species, 26;
    if superior will extirpate original species, 36;
    its reversion then impossible, 37;
    of domesticated animals may partially revert, 38, 40;
    inconvenience of using the term, 161.

  VERTEBRATA, mimicry among, 99.

  VOICE of man, not explained by natural selection, 350.

  VOLUCELLA, species of mimic bees, 75, 98.

  WALSH, Mr., on dimorphism, of Papilio turnus, 153.

  WEAPONS and tools, how they affect man's progress, 314.

  WEEVILS often resemble small lumps of earth, 58.

  WEIR, Mr. Jenner, on a moth refused by birds, 89;
    on beetles refused by birds, 93;
    on caterpillars eaten and rejected by birds, 119.

  WESTWOOD, Professor, objections to theory of mimicry, 108.

  WHITE colour in domesticated and wild animals, 66.

  WILD and domesticated animals, essential differences of, 38-41.

  WILL really exerts force, 367;
    probably the primary source of force, 368.

  WOOD, Mr. T. W., on orange-tip butterfly, 59.

  WOODCOCKS and Snipes, protective colouring of, 53.

  WOODPECKERS, why scarce in England, 32.

  XANTHIA, autumnal colours of these moths, 62.

  ZEBRAS, 299.

  +--------------------------------------------------------------+
  | Transcriber's Notes & Errata                                 |
  |                                                              |
  | The following entries were added to the Table of Contents.                    |
  |                                                              |
  |                                                              |
  | Missing page number 94 supplied for the entry "Phacellocera |
  | batesii, mimics one of the Anthribidæ," in the index.       |
  |                                                              |
  | The following words were found in both hyphenated and        |
  | unhyphenated forms (incidence in parentheses).               |
  |                                                              |
  |   |Co-existing (2) |Coexisting (1) |                         |
  |   |Fly-catcher (1) |Flycatcher (2) |                         |
  |   |sea-weed (2)    |seaweed (1)    |                         |
  |   |bull-dog (1)    |bulldog (1)    |                         |
  |                                                              |
  | The following typographical errors have been corrected:      |
  |                                                              |
  |   |Error       |Correction   |                               |
  |   |            |             |                               |
  |   |sparrrow    |sparrow      |                               |
  |   |unwieldly   |unwieldy     |                               |
  |   |it          |its          |                               |
  |   |Perphaps    |Perhaps      |                               |
  |   |confimation |confirmation |                               |
  |   |Pharoahs    |Pharaohs     |                               |
  |   |receptable  |receptacle   |                               |
  |   |occured     |occurred     |                               |
  |   |that that   |than that    |                               |
  +--------------------------------------------------------------+