It is time that our "spiritual fathers" and other stepfathers began to give us a lead in spiritual
things. We are burdened with bishops who play to the gallery and the cheaper press, who would
rather take a confirmation service in a coal-pit than in a consecrated shrine of prayer, for
the simple reason that "Confirmation in a Coal-pit" gets a flaming advertisement in every paper.
Their vision is set on notoriety: the spiritual vision recedes. How can they have sympathy
with those who pierce the boundary line that separates this world from a higher plane?

Men who have spent their lives on office seeking can never be seers or priests. Parsons who
beat the political drum may rise to power political, never to the power spiritual. The vision
glorious is to those who face duty, self-sacrifice, and see in them the Divine Call, who believe
in the sacrifice of the Gospel rather than its comfort. The charlatan must not dominate the
Christian in our spiritual pastors, if it do, then such are not qualified to minister in spiritual
things.

VII

THE WHITE COMRADE

The story that angels fought on the side of the Allies in the battle of Mons must rest upon
evidence, coupled with experience. If we begin by assuming that there can be no intelligences
in the universe unless they are clothed in the regulated fashion, then no amount of evidence
will suffice. It is a worm's-eye view that regards man as the last word in mind.

Meanwhile France is pursuing the evidence for another story exclusively of French origin and
vouched for by men to whom the belief in spiritual beings is repugnant, viz., the apparition
of "Le Camarade Blanc," of whom at Nancy, in the Argonne, at Soissons and Ypres men talked
with hushed voices but with the quiet assurance of men who had seen. It must be something arresting
which changes an atheist into a mystic. Again and again the French wounded speak of a man in
white bending over them as they lay on the field helpless, and ministering relief. The mysterious
one whom our allies call the "Comrade in White" appears simultaneously on different parts of
the battlefield. His mission ever is one of mercy.

The Living Church reprints from Work and Life an article giving a full account of "The White
Comrade," furnished by a wounded soldier. All accounts agree in the main facts. He is generally
observed after "severe fighting," he appears where "death is busiest," he "ignores shot and
shell," he is ever "calm, collected," and brings with him an atmosphere of peace. Men of the
87th and 128th French Infantry who have been fighting in the Argonne, have seen him, and on
several occasions he has been seen in the trenches.

The soldier's account which appeared in The Living Church is worth reading. It is not conclusive
evidence, but the number of such experiences has value on the great subject of Spiritual Intervention.
Religion pledges itself to such a belief. This is the soldier's story, one of many similar stories:

"It was the next day.

An incident which left a great impression upon me occurred at a hospital in North West France
in September 1914 quite early in the war. I was visiting some wounded English and French soldiers.
One poor fellow, a Parisian, called me to his side. "Come close, monsieur, for I would talk
in a whisper. You are English--yes: and you English are common sense, practical--tell me--do
you believe in God and angels, such things as priests teach children and women?"

"My measure of experience in life has compelled my belief in angels or spiritual beings, and
common sense demands my belief in a Supreme Mind which I call God, the one Basic Fact," I replied.

"Monsieur I would talk with you. Do you believe that this God has priests to reveal such things
to us?"

