In the early hours of the morning they were awakened by a knocking at the door. Christophe
opened it. It was a neighbor, a joiner, who had come to warn Christophe that his presence in
the town had been denounced, and that he must go, if he did not wish to be arrested. Christophe
refused to fly: he would not leave his mother before he had taken her to her last resting-place.
But Olivier begged him to go, and promised that he would faithfully watch over her in his stead:
he induced him to leave the house: and, to make sure of his not going back on his decision,
went with him to the station. Christophe refused point-blank to go without having a sight of
the great river, by which he had spent his childhood, the mighty echo of which was preserved
for ever within his soul as in a sea-shell. Though it was dangerous for him to be seen in the
town, yet for his whim he disregarded it. They walked along the steep bank of the Rhine, which
was rushing along in its mighty peace, between its low banks, on to its mysterious death in
the sands of the North. A great iron bridge, looming in the mist, plunged its two arches, like
the halves of the wheels of a colossal chariot, into the gray waters. In the distance, fading
into the mist, were ships sailing through the meadows along the river's windings. It was like
a dream, and Christophe was lost in it. Olivier brought him back to his senses, and, taking
his arm, led him back to the station. Christophe submitted: he was like a man walking in his
sleep. Olivier put him into the train as it was just starting, and they arranged to meet next
day at the first French station, so that Christophe should not have to go back to Paris alone.

The train went, and Olivier returned to the house, where he found two policemen stationed at
the door, waiting for Christophe to come back. They took Olivier for him, and Olivier did not
hurry to explain a mistake so favorable to Christophe's chances of escape. On the other hand,
the police were not in the least discomfited by their blunder, and showed no great zest in
pursuing the fugitive, and Olivier had an inkling that at bottom they were not at all sorry
that Christophe had gone.

Olivier stayed until the next morning, when Louisa was buried. Christophe's brother, Rodolphe,
the business man, came by one train and left by the next. That important personage followed
the funeral very correctly, and went immediately it was over, without addressing a single word
to Olivier, either to ask him for news of his brother or to thank him for what he had done
for their mother. Olivier spent a few hours more in the town, where he did not know a soul,
though it was peopled for him with so many familiar shadows: the boy Christophe, those whom
he had loved, and those who had made him suffer;--and dear Antoinette.... What was there left
of all those human beings, who had lived in the town, the family of the Kraffts, that now had
ceased to be? Only the love for them that lived in the heart of a stranger.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the afternoon Olivier met Christophe at the frontier station as they had arranged. It was
a village nestling among wooded hills. Instead of waiting for the next train to Paris, they
decided to go part of the way on foot, as far as the nearest town. They wanted to be alone.
They set out through the silent woods, through which from a distance there resounded the dull
thud of an ax. They reached a clearing at the top of a hill. Below them, in a narrow valley,
in German territory, there lay the red roof of a forester's house, and a little meadow like
a green lake amid the trees. All around there stretched the dark-blue sea of the forest wrapped
in cloud. Mists hovered and drifted among the branches of the pines. A transparent veil softened
the lines and blurred the colors of the trees. All was still. Neither footsteps nor voices
were to be heard. A few drops of rain rang out on the golden copper leaves of the beeches,
which had turned to autumn tints. A little stream ran tinkling over the stones. Christophe
and Olivier stood still and did not stir. Each was dreaming of those whom he had lost. Olivier
was thinking:

"Antoinette, where are you?"

And Christophe:

"What is success to me, now that she is dead?"

But each heard the comforting words of the dead:

"Beloved, weep not for us. Think, not of us. Think of Him...."

They looked at each other, and each ceased to feel his own sorrow, and was conscious only of
that of his friend. They clasped their hands. In both there was sad serenity. Gently, while
no wind stirred, the misty veil was raised: the blue sky shone forth again. The melting sweetness
of the earth after rain.... So near to us, so tender!... The earth takes us in her arms, clasps
us to her bosom with a lovely loving smile, and says to us:

"Rest. All is well...."

The ache in Christophe's heart was gone. He was like a little child. For two days he had been
living wholly in the memory of his mother, the atmosphere of her soul: he had lived over again
her humble life, with its days one like unto another, solitary, all spent in the silence of
the childless house, in the thought of the children who had left her: the poor old woman, infirm
but valiant in her tranquil faith, her sweetness of temper, her smiling resignation, her complete
lack of selfishness.... And Christophe thought also of all the humble creatures he had known.
How near to them he felt in that moment! After all the years of exhausting struggle in the
burning heat of Paris, where ideas and men jostle in the whirl of confusion, after those tragic
days when there had passed over them the wind of the madness which hurls the nations, cozened
by their own hallucinations, murderously against each other, Christophe felt utterly weary
of the fevered, sterile world, the conflict between egoisms and ideas, the little groups of
human beings deeming themselves above humanity, the ambitious, the thinkers, the artists who
think themselves the brain of the world, and are no more than a haunting evil dream. And all
his love went out to those thousands of simple souls, of every nation, whose lives burn away
in silence, pure flames of kindness, faith, and sacrifice,--the heart of the world.

"Yes," he thought, "I know you; once more I have come to you; you are blood of my blood; you
are mine. Like the prodigal son, I left you to pursue the shadows that passed by the wayside.
But I have come back to you; give me welcome. We are one; one life is ours, both the living
and the dead; where I am there are you also. Now I bear you in my soul, O mother, who bore
me. You, too, Gottfried, and you Schulz, and Sabine, and Antoinette, you are all in me, part
of me, mine. You are my riches, my joy. We will take the road together. I will never more leave
you. I will be your voice. We will join forces: so we shall attain the goal."

A ray of sunlight shot through the dripping branches of the trees. From the little field down
below there came up the voices of children singing an Old German folk-song, frank and moving:
the singers were three little girls dancing round the house: and from afar the west wind brought
the chiming of the bells of France, like a perfume of roses....

"O peace, Divine harmony, serene music of the soul set free, wherein are mingled joy and sorrow,
death and life, the nations at war, and the nations in brotherhood. I love you, I long for
you, I shall win you...."

       *       *       *       *       *

"The night drew down her veil. Starting from his dream, Christophe saw the faithful face of
his friend by his side. He smiled at him and embraced him. Then they walked on through the
forest in silence: and Christophe showed Olivier the way.

  "Taciti, soli e senza compagnia,
  N'andavan I' un dinnanzi, e I' altro dopo,
  Come i frati minor vanno per via...."