  "From Bank, Change, Mansion-house, Guildhall,
    Throgmorton, and Threadneedle,
  From London-stone, and London wall,
    When City housewife's wheedle
  To Brunswick, Russell, Bedford Squares,
    And Portland-place, their spouses,
  Anxious to give themselves great airs
    Of fashion in great houses,
  Then Gog shall start, and Magog shall
  Tremble upon his pedestal."

  "When merchant, banker, broker, shake
    In Crockford's club their elbow,
  And for St. James's clock forsake
    The chiming of thy bell, Bow:
  When Batson's, Garraway's, and John's,
    At night show empty boxes,
  While cits are playing dice with dons,
    Or ogling opera doxies;
  Then Gog shall start, and Magog shall
  Tremble upon his pedestal."

  "When city dames give routs and reels,
    And ape high-titled prancers,
  When City misses dance quadrilles,
    Or waltz with whisker'd Lancers;
  When City gold is quickly spent
    In trinkets, feasts, and raiment,
  And none suspend their merriment
    Until they all stop payment,
  Then Gog shall start, and Magog shall
  Tremble upon his pedestal."

I was reflecting what dire calamities would fall upon the doomed City, since the era of luxury,
corruption, and desertion, thus denounced, had now manifestly arrived, and Gog and Magog were
actually starting and trembling upon their pedestals, when the hall-keeper, shaking me by the
shoulder, exclaimed--"Come, Sir, you musn't be sleeping here all night! Bundle out, if you
please, for I am just going to shut the great gates!"--New Monthly Mag.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GATHERER.

    A snapper up of unconsidered trifles.--SHAKSPEARE.

MODERN SALAMANDER.

An experiment to ascertain the degree of heat it is possible for a man to bear, was made a
few days ago at the New Tivoli, at Paris, in the presence of a company of about 200 persons.
The man on whom this experiment was made is a Spaniard of Andalusia, named Martenez, aged 43.
A cylindrical oven, constructed in the shape of a dome, had been heated for four hours, by
a very powerful fire. At ten minutes past eight, the Spaniard, having on large pantaloons of
red flannel, a thick cloak also of flannel, and a large felt, after the fashion of straw hats,
went into the oven, where he remained, seated on a foot-stool, during fourteen minutes, exposed
to a heat of from 45 to 50 degrees, of a metallic thermometer, the gradation of which did not
go higher than 50. He sang a Spanish song while a fowl was roasted by his side. At his coming
out of the oven, the physicians found that his pulse beat 134 pulsations a minute, though it
was but 72 at his going in, The oven being healed anew for a second experiment, the Spaniard
re-entered and seated himself in the same attitude; at three quarters past eight, ate the fowl,
and drank a bottle of wine to the health of the spectators. At coming out his pulse was 176,
and the thermometer indicated a heat of 110 degrees of Reaumur. Finally, for the third and
last experiment, which almost immediately followed the second, he was stretched on a plank,
surrounded with lighted candles, and thus put into the oven, the mouth of which was closed
this time. He was there nearly five minutes, when all the spectators cried out, "Enough, enough,"
and anxiously hastened to take him out. A noxious and suffocating vapour of tallow filled the
inside of the oven, and all the candles were extinguished and melted. The Spaniard, whose pulse
was 200 at coming out of this gulf of heat, immediately threw himself into a cold bath, and
in two or three minutes after was on his feet safe and sound.

WILL OF MR. WILLIAM HICKINGTON,

Proved in the Deanery Court of York, 1772.

  This is my last Will,
  I insist on it still,
  So sneer on and welcome
  And e'en laugh your fill.
  I, William Hickington,
  Poet of Pocklington,
  Do give and bequeathe,
  As free as I breathe,
  To thee, Mary Jaram,
  The queen of my haram,
  My cash and cattle,
  With every chattel,
  To have and to hold,
  Come heat or come cold,
  Sans hindrance or strife,
  (Tho' thou art not my wife,)
  As witness my hand,
  Just here as I stand,
  This 12th of July,
  In the year seventy ----

    Signed, &c. W. HICKINGTON.

J. W. F. B.

REGENT'S PUNCH.

The receipt for this "nectarious drink" is as follows:--Three bottles of champagne, a bottle
of hock, a bottle of curacoa, a quart of brandy, a pint of rum, two bottles of Madeira, two
bottles of seltzer water, four pounds of bloom raisins, Seville oranges, lemons, white sugarcandy,
and, instead of water, green tea. The whole to be highly iced.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Supplement, containing a fine Portrait of CAPTAIN CLAPPERTON, Memoir, &c. and a Title-Page,
Preface, and copious Index to Vol XI., is now published. It extends beyond the usual quantity,
the Memoir is of original interest, and the price is (in the present instance only) unavoidably
advanced to Fourpence.