"It may be so. We will try. But you see what she says in her letter to him. She writes as though
your authority were to be nothing in that matter of giving up. In all that she says to me there
is the same spirit. If she is firm, Duke, you must yield."

"Never! She shall never marry him with my sanction."

There was nothing more to be said, and Lady Cantrip went her way. But the Duke, though he could
say nothing more, continued to think of it hour after hour. He went down to the House of Lords
to listen to a debate in which it was intended to cover the ministers with heavy disgrace.
But the Duke could not listen even to his own friends. He could listen to nothing as he thought
of the condition of his children.

He had been asked whether he could bear to see his girl suffer, as though he were indifferent
to the sufferings of his child. Did he not know of himself that there was no father who would
do more for the welfare of his daughter? Was he not sure of the tenderness of his own heart?
In all that he was doing was he governed by anything but a sense of duty? Was it personal pride
or love of personal aggrandisement? He thought that he could assure himself that he was open
to no such charge. Would he not die for her,--or for them,--if he could so serve them? Surely
this woman had accused him most wrongfully when she had intimated that he could see his girl
suffer without caring for it. In his indignation he determined--for awhile--that he would remove
her from the custody of Lady Cantrip. But then, where should he place her? He was aware that
his own house would be like a grave to a girl just fit to come out into the world. In this
coming autumn she must go somewhere,--with someone. He himself, in his present frame of mind,
would be but a sorry travelling companion.

Lady Cantrip had said that the best hope of escape would lie in the prospect of another lover.
The prescription was disagreeable, but it had availed in the case of his own wife. Before he
had ever seen her as Lady Glencora McCloskie she had been desirous of giving herself and all
her wealth to one Burgo Fitzgerald, who had been altogether unworthy. The Duke could remember
well how a certain old Lady Midlothian had first hinted to him that Lady Glencora's property
was very large, and had then added that the young lady herself was very beautiful. And he could
remember how his uncle, the late Duke, who had seldom taken much trouble in merely human affairs,
had said a word or two--"I have heard a whisper about you and Lady Glencora McCloskie; nothing
could be better." The result had been undoubtedly good. His Cora and all her money had been
saved from a worthless spendthrift. He had found a wife who he now thought had made him happy.
And she had found at any rate a respectable husband. The idea when picked to pieces is not
a nice idea. "Let us look out for a husband for this girl, so that we may get her married,--out
of the way of her lover." It is not nice. But it had succeeded in one case, and why should
it not succeed in another?

But how was it to be done? Who should do it? Whom should he select to play the part which he
had undertaken in that other arrangement? No worse person could be found than himself for managing
such an affair. When the idea had first been raised he had thought that Lady Cantrip would
do it all; but now he was angry with Lady Cantrip.

How was it to be done? How should it be commenced? How had it been commenced in his own case?
He did not in the least know how he had been chosen. Was it possible that his uncle, who was
the proudest man in England, should have condescended to make a bargain with an old dowager
whom everybody had despised? And in what way had he been selected? No doubt he had been known
to be the heir-apparent to a dukedom and to ducal revenues. In his case old Lady Midlothian
had begun the matter with him. It occurred to him that in royal marriages such beginnings are
quite common.

But who should be the happy man? Then he began to count up the requisite attributes. He must
be of high rank, and an eldest son, and the possessor of, or the heir to, a good estate. He
did despise himself when he found that he put these things first,--as a matter of course. Nevertheless
he did put them first. He was ejecting this other man because he possessed none of these attributes.
He hurried himself on to add that the man must be of good character, and such as a young girl
might learn to love. But yet he was aware that he added these things for his conscience's sake.
Tregear's character was good, and certainly the girl loved him. But was it not clear to all
who knew anything of such matters that Mr. Francis Tregear should not have dared even to think
of marrying the daughter of the Duke of Omnium?

Who should be the happy man? There were so many who evidently were unfit. Young Lord Percival
was heir to a ruined estate and a beggared peerage. Lord Glasslough was odious to all men.
There were three or four others of whom he thought that he knew some fatal objection. But when
he remembered Lord Popplecourt there seemed to be no objection which need be fatal.

Lord Popplecourt was a young peer whose father had died two years since and whose estates were
large and unembarrassed. The late lord, who had been a Whig of the old fashion, had been the
Duke's friend. They had been at Oxford and in the House of Commons together, and Lord Popplecourt
had always been true to his party. As to the son, the Duke remembered to have heard lately
that he was not given to waste his money. He drove a coach about London a good deal, but had
as yet not done anything very foolish. He had taken his degree at Oxford, thereby showing himself
to be better than Silverbridge. He had also taken his seat in the House of Lords and had once
opened his mouth. He had not indeed appeared often again; but at Lord Popplecourt's age much
legislation is not to be expected from a young peer. Then he thought of the man's appearance.
Popplecourt was not specially attractive, whereas Tregear was a very handsome man. But so also
had been Burgo Fitzgerald,--almost abnormally beautiful, while he, Plantagenet Palliser, as
he was then, had been quite as insignificant in appearance as Lord Popplecourt.

Lord Popplecourt might possibly do. But then how should the matter be spoken of to the young
man? After all, would it not be best that he should trust Lady Cantrip?

CHAPTER XXV

A Family Breakfast-Table

Lord Silverbridge had paid all his Derby losses without any difficulty. They had not been very
heavy for a man in his position, and the money had come without remonstrance. When asking for
it he was half ashamed of himself, but could still find consolation by remembering how much
worse had befallen many young men whom he knew. He had never "plunged." In fact he had made
the most prudent book in the world; and had so managed affairs that even now the horse which
had been beaten was worth more than all he had lost and paid. "This is getting serious," he
had said to his partner when, on making out a rough account, he had brought the Major in a
debtor to him of more than a thousand pounds. The Major had remarked that as he was half-owner
of the horses his partner had good security for the money. Then something of an unwritten arrangement
was made. The "Prime Minister" was now one of the favourites for the Leger. If the horse won
that race there would be money enough for everything. If that race were lost, then there should
be a settlement by the transfer of the stud to the younger partner. "He's safe to pull it off,"
said the Major.

