  But how a world that notes his daily doings,
  The everlasting round of weary function,--
  The health-returnings, speeches, interviewings.
  Can grudge him some relief, without compunction,
  Seems quite to me "another pair of shoes!"
  Dyspeptic is that cry, "Le Prince s'amuse!"

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MODERN BRIGAND.

(FRAGMENT FROM THE ADVENTURES OF A RANSOMED PRISONER.)

I must confess I was agreeably surprised at the treatment to which I was subjected by my capturers.
Instead of being loaded with chains and confined in a cell beneath the castle's moat, I was
given perfect liberty, and had quite a pleasant suite of rooms. I should scarcely have known
that I was in durance had not one of the less refined of the brigands shown me a revolver,
and playfully informed me that its contents were intended for me if I attempted to escape.
The Chief was absolutely charming. He treated me in the most courteous manner, and ended his
first interview with me by requesting "the honour of my company at dinner."

"You need not dress!" he observed, "although I like to put on a tail-coat myself. But I know
that you have had some difficulty with my people about your luggage, and so I shall be only
too delighted to excuse grande tenue."

The "difficulty" to which my host referred was the seizing of my portmanteau by the gang of
thieves of which he was the acknowledged head. I suggested that I might possibly recover some
of its contents.

"I am afraid not," returned the Chieftain. "You see my people are very methodical, and by this
time I fear all the goods will have been sold. The motto of the Club is 'small profits and
quick returns.' We find no difficulty in trading. As we carry on business on the most economical
principles, we can quote prices even cheaper than the Stores."

And this I found to be the case. Although the brigands were very civil to me, I was unable
to trace any of my property. However, as my host in the kindest manner had allowed me to dispense
with ceremony, I ventured to appear at dinner-time in my ordinary tourist's dress.

"I am delighted to see you," said the Chief, speaking English for the first time, "as you are
now my guest, I must confess that we are fellow countrymen."

"Indeed!" I replied, considerably astonished. "If you are really of British nationality, how
is it that I find you a professional thief?"

"You are mistaken," returned the Chief. "I merely belong to a society for the redistribution
of capital. You know we are all balloted for, and I was myself afraid that I might get pilled."

"Indeed!" I exclaimed, in a tone of surprise. "Surely your accomplishments--for I noticed,
on my arrival, that you were a first-rate hand at lawn tennis, and played the flute--would
have secured your admission?"

"Well," he returned with a smile, "I fancy they helped me with the Committee. But unhappily
my antecedents were bad--I had made a fortune on the London Stock Exchange, and my books were
scarcely as satisfactory as our bandit auditors could have desired them to be. However they
took a kindly view of the case, and allowed me to pass through. But pardon me, I see your ransom
has arrived. I am afraid I must say good bye. A pleasant journey."

And shaking me warmly by the hand, he helped me into the conveyance that was to take me back
to home and freedom. I have never seen him since.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

A COY COLOSSUS.

PARIS, June 15.--It is stated here, on no authority whatever, that when the CZAR was recently
visiting the French Exhibition at Moscow, his Imperial Majesty was heard to remark, "This makes
me desire to see the Boulevards again." A visit of the ruler of Russia to Paris during the
Summer is therefore considered to be certain. An offensive and defensive Alliance between the
two countries is said to be on the point of signature.

A few evenings ago, in a low café in Belleville, M. NOKASHIKOFF, who left St. Petersburg lately
to escape his creditors, and who conceived the happy idea of raising a little money by walking
to Paris in a sack composed of the French and Russian national flags stitched together, was
entertained to supper by his Gallic admirers. The proceedings, especially towards midnight,
were very enthusiastic. Throughout the festivities, constant cries of "Vive l'Alliance Franco-Russe!"
were raised. This incident is said to have placed the immediate signature of the Treaty between
the CZAR and President CARNOT beyond a doubt.

Last evening a foreigner, who by appearance would have been taken for a Muscovite, was walking
along the asphalte, when he was surrounded by a crowd of persons crying "Vive la Russie!" The
foreigner seemed both surprised and annoyed by these attentions, and at length began to use
his fists and his boots liberally on the ringleaders of the mob. This treatment, however, seemed
only to increase their Russophil ardour, and the stranger was soon hoisted on to the shoulders
of some of his foremost admirers, struggling violently. On the arrival of a gendarme, he explained
that he was an English book-maker, and that "this bloomin' mob of boot-lickers had taken him
for a bloomin' Russian!" The crowd shortly afterwards dispersed. The completion of the formal
alliance between France and Russia is considered less certain than it was a few days ago.

The Frenchman, M. TÊTE-BOIS, who recently attempted to walk on his head from Paris to Moscow,
in order to show the sympathy felt in France for the Muscovite Empire, did not succeed in carrying
out his design. He was stopped shortly after crossing the Russian frontier, imprisoned, and
heavily ironed. After suffering in this way for a week, he was told that he must leave Russian
territory within twenty-four hours, or else continue his journey to Siberia. On being appealed
to, the CZAR graciously extended the time given for quitting Russia to forty-eight hours. Like
many other young men he has in interval lost his HART, and now known as Sir WILLIAM DYKE. Curious
thing, as SARK reminds me, how absorbent is the name of WILLIAM. Quite probable that before
Black-Eyed Susan's friend came prominently on the stage he had some other Christian name, sunk
when he was promoted to shadow of yard-arm. Certainly there is an equally eminent man sitting
opposite DYKE in House to-night, who like him is "Sir WILLIAM" to the present generation, and
was VERNON HARCOURT to an elder one.

DYKE, under whatever name, done excellently well to-night. Holding comparatively minor appointment
in Ministry, suddenly finds himself in charge of principal measure of Session. Handicapped,
moreover, with recollections of time when he has uncompromisingly declared himself against
the very principle he now embodies in Bill, and invites House to add to Statute Book.

That was first hedge for DYKE to take, and he went over in plucky style that threw the scorner
off his trail. Didn't live in close communication with DIZZY through six long years for nothing.
Not likely to forget what happened in very earliest days of Parliament of 1874, when DIZZY
for first time found himself not only in office but in power. During election campaign DIZZY,
speaking in the safety of Buckinghamshire, had made some wild statement about easing the chains
of Ireland. Simply designed to gain Irish vote; forgotten as soon as spoken. But ROBERT MONTAGU--where,
by the way, is ROBERT MONTAGU?--treasured these things up in his heart, and when DIZZY appeared
in the House, Leader of triumphant majority, asked him what he was going to do about it?

"It is sometime since the observations referred to were made," said DIZZY, "and--er--a good
deal has happened in the interval."

DYKE, recalling and admitting his former statements on Free Education, did not attempt to minimise
their import. "But." he said, button-holing House as it were, and treating it quite confidentially,
"the fact is we all change our minds." House laughed at this as it had laughed at DIZZY seventeen
years ago, and DYKE, absolved and encouraged, went forward with his speech.

Not a brilliant oration in any way; neither exordium nor peroration, and the middle occasionally
a little mixed. But a good sensible straightforward speech, and if DYKE had done no more than
show that an important Ministerial measure could be explained within limit of an hour, he would
not have lived in vain.

Business done.--Education Bill introduced.

Tuesday.--Nothing at first sight in personal appearance of HERBERT THOMAS KNATCHBULL-HUGESSEN
that suggests a swan. Fancy I have heard something of these birds being addicted to the habit
of breaking forth into song when convinced of approaching dissolution. That, I suppose, is
how the swan was suggested to the mind when just now, KNATCHBULL-HUGESSEN rose from behind
Ministers, and began to chant his threnody. Resolution on which Education Bill grafted brought
up for report stage; agreed to, and HART DYKE about to bring in his Bill. Then from the back
seat rose a sturdy yeoman figure, and a powerful voice was uplifted in denunciation of the
Bill and of a Ministry that had betrayed the trust of the Conservative Party. It was, so the
swan sang, a step on the road to Socialism. He feared it had come to pass that dangerous measures
are more likely to emanate from the Treasury Bench than from the Front Bench opposite.

Liberals roared with delighted laughter and cheers; the Conservatives sat glum and ill-at-ease.
OLD MORALITY's white teeth gleamed with a spasmodic smile. As for JOKIM he folded his arms,
and bit his lips and frowned.

"What antiquated nonsense this is!" he muttered, "of course Free Education is not a Conservative
principle. They all protested against it at the General Election. A year earlier I, who happened
at the time to be numbered in the Liberal ranks, put my back against the wall, and, picturing
the evils that would befall my country if its institutions were thus demoralised, I said I
would die before I would lend a hand to free the schools. But you see, TOBY, I haven't died,
and that changes the whole situation. Not only enables me to retain my place in Government
bringing in Free Education, but permits me, as CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER, actually to find
the means for carrying out the system. Can't understand a fellow like this KNATCHBULL-HUGESSEN
sticking to his principles when it becomes expedient to swallow them. He's a disgrace to a
family that counts BRABOURNE as its head."

"HUGESSEN's a good fellow," said ISAACSON; "wears well, but is politically a fossil. Now I'm
a progressive Conservative, which I think you'll find, TOBY, my boy, to be about the time of day."

Business done.--Assisted Education Bill; firmly led up to table by HART DYKE.

Wednesday.--Lively fight round Deceased Wife's Sister Bill. Ascot in vain held forth its attractions;
supporters of the Bill hoped opponents would go; opponents came down rather expecting HENEAGE's
virtue would have given way, and Ascot would have claimed him as its own. But everybody there--MAKINS's
men with long list of Amendments warranted to keep things going till half-past five, when progress
must be reported, and chance of Bill for present Session lost. MAKINS himself in high oratorical
feather. OSBORNE-AP-MORGAN, having made a proposition and subsequently withdrawn it, MAKINS,
putting on severest judicial aspect, observed, "It is all very well for the Right Hon. and
learned Gentleman to make a legal JONAH of himself and swallow his opinions."

"Bless us all!" cried ROWNTREE, looking on with blank amazement, "MAKINS evidently thinks that
JONAH swallowed the whale." Bill seemed to shatter friendships and dissever old alliances.
SQUIRE of MALWOOD naturally at home in the fray, but rather startling to find HOME SECRETARY
running amuck at CHAMBERLAIN. MATTHEWS in his most hoity-toity mood; quivered with indignation;
thumped the table; shook a forensic forefinger at the undesignedly offending JOSEPH, and, generally,
went on the rampage. As for HENEAGE, he filled up any little pause in uproar by diving in and
moving the Closure. Once, whilst GEDGE was opposing an Amendment hostile to Bill, HENEAGE dashed
in with his Closure motion. GEDGE's face a study; mingled surprise, indignation, and ineffable
regret mantled his mobile front.

"To think," he said afterwards, "that just when I was coming to HENEAGE's help with an argument
founded on profound study and pointed with legal lore, he should suddenly jump up, lower his
head, and, as it were, butt me in the stomach with the Closure. It is more than I can at the
moment comprehend."

GEDGE so flurried that when Members returned, after Division on Closure, he being, in accordance
with the rule, seated and wearing his hat, wanted to argue out the question with COURTNEY.

"I submit, Sir," he said, "that the Hon. Member, in moving the Closure, controverted Rule 186."

The Chairman: "I think the Hon. Member can scarcely have read the Rule."

Mr. GEDGE: "I have read the Rule, Sir. This is what it says--"

Chairman: "Order! Order!" and GEDGE subsided.

Then TOMLINSON fortuitously turning up on Treasury Bench, joined in conversation. But COURTNEY
turned upon him with such a thunderous cry of "Order! Order!" that TOMLINSON visibly shrivelled
up, and his sentence, like the unfinished window in ALLADIN's Tower, unfinished must remain.

Wrangling went on till a quarter past five, when TALBOT interposed, and with most funereal
manner moved to report progress. HENEAGE almost mechanically lowered his head and had started
to butt at TALBOT as he had upset GEDGE when he was providentially stopped and convinced that
further struggle with obstruction was hopeless. So, Clause I. agreed to, Bill talked out. MAKINS,
growing increasingly delightful, protested that a Bill that had been fifty years before the
country, was not to be rushed through the House on a Wednesday afternoon. Argal, the more familiar
the House is with the details of a measure, the more necessary is it to debate it.

Business done.--Marriage with a Deceased Wife's Sister. Banns again objected to.

Saturday, 1:25 A M.--Land Bill just through report stage. Nothing left now but Third Reading.
"Well, KNOX," said WINDBAG SEXTON, "that will be our last opportunity, and we must make the
most of it. In meantime I think we've done pretty well. I'm especially pleased with you. You're
a boy of great promise. If anything happened to me--a stray tack in the bench, or a pin maliciously
directed, and the wind-bag were to collapse--you'd do capitally, till I got it repaired."

WINDBAG JUNIOR blushed. As OLD MORALITY remarks, Ingenuous youth delights in the Approbation
of Seasoned Seniority.

Business done.--Land at last--I mean Land Purchase Bill through at last.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GENERAL OF THE FUTURE.

    SCENE--Tent in rear of a Battle-field. Political Officer in
    attendance upon Army, waiting for Military assistance.

Political Officer (impatiently). Now then, Orderly, have you not been able to secure a General
for me?

Orderly (saluting). Beg pardon, Sir, but it's so difficult, since they have passed that new
Royal Warrant, to know which is which.

Pol. Off. (more impatiently). Nonsense!--any General Officer will do. Ord. Very good, Sir.

    [Exit. Political Officer stamps his foot irritably, when
    enter First General Officer, hurriedly.

First Gen. Off. Well, Sir, how can I assist you?

