This probably came sooner than he expected. Some anti-slavery tracts, circulated by Garrison,
reached Western Reserve College and set the place in a ferment. Elizur Wright became the champion
of the anti-slavery movement, not only in the town of Hudson but throughout the State. What
Garrison was in New England he became in the West. In the spring of 1833 he resigned his professorship
and spent the next five months delivering lectures on the slavery question. In December of
the same year the first national anti-slavery convention met in Philadelphia, and Elizur Wright
was unanimously chosen secretary of it. After that he went to New York to edit a newspaper,
the Anti-Slavery Reporter, remaining until 1839. During the pro-slavery riot in New York he
was attacked on the sidewalk by two men with knives, but instantly rescued by some teamsters
who were passing. When he reached his home in Brooklyn he found a note from the Mayor advising
him to leave the city for some days; to which he replied advising the Mayor to stop the New
York ferry-boats. Meanwhile, as Mrs. Wright was too ill to be removed, he purchased an axe
and prepared to defend his house to the last extremity. The Mayor, however, adopted his advice,
and by this excellent stratagem Brooklyn was saved from the fury of the mob. In 1837 he moved
to Dorchester, Massachusetts, to prosecute a similar work in Boston.

Nothing is more remarkable in Mr. Wright's life than his perfect self- poise and peace of mind
during such a long period of external agitation. It is doubtful, in spite of his highly nervous
temperament, if he ever lost a night's sleep. When he was editing the Chronotype, and waiting
for the telegraphic news to arrive, he would sometimes lie down on a pile of newspapers and
go to sleep in less than half a minute. For mental relaxation he studied the higher mathematics
and wrote poetry-- much of it very good. His faith in Divine Providence was absolute. He had
the soul of a hero.

During his first years in Boston, Elizur Wright translated La Fontaine's Fables into English
verse,--one of the best metrical versions of a foreign poet,--and it is much to be regretted
that the book is out of print. It did not sell, of course, and Elizur Wright, determined that
neither he nor the publisher should lose money on it, undertook to sell it himself. In carrying
out this plan he met with some curious experiences. He called on Professor Ticknor, who received
him kindly, spoke well of his translation, offered to dispose of a number of copies, but--advised
him to keep clear of the slavery question.

He went to Washington with the twofold object of selling his book and talking emancipation
to our national legislators; and he succeeded in both attempts, for there were few men who
liked to argue with Elizur Wright. His brain was a store-house of facts and his analysis of
them equally keen and cutting. One Congressman, a very gentlemanly Virginian, said to him:
"Mr. Wright, I wish you could go across the Potomac and look over my district. I think you
will find that African slavery is not half as bad as it is represented." Elizur Wright went
and returned with the emphatic reply: "I find it much worse than I expected." Having disposed
of more than half of his edition in this manner, in the spring of 1842 he went to England,
and with the kind assistance of Browning and Pringle succeeded in placing the rest of his books
there to his satisfaction. Having a great admiration for Wordsworth's poetry, he made a long
journey to see that celebrated author, but only to be affronted by Wordsworth's saying that
America would be a good place if there were only a few gentlemen in it. With Carlyle he had,
as might have been expected, a furious argument on the slavery question, and "King Thomas,"
as Dr. Holmes calls him, encountered for once a head as hard as his own. The Brownings, Robert
and Elizabeth, received him with true English hospitality. More experienced than Wordsworth
in the great world, they recognized Elizur Wright to be what he was,--a man of intellect and
rare integrity. Mr. Wright always spoke of Browning as one of the most satisfactory men with
whom he had ever conversed.

In 1840, as is well known, the anti-slavery movement became divided into those who still believed
in the efficacy of "moral suasion" and those who considered that the time had come for introducing
the question into practical politics. The Texas question made the latter course inevitable,
and Elizur Wright concluded that moral suasion had done its work. As he expressed it, in a
letter to Mrs. Maria Chapman: "Garrison has already left his enemies thrice dead behind him."
He was a delegate to the convention of April 1, 1840, which nominated James G. Birney for the
Presidency, and took an active share in the Free-soil movement of 1844,-- a movement which
produced exactly the opposite effect from that which was intended; for the defeat of Henry
Clay opened the door for the Mexican war and the annexation of a much larger territory than
Texas. If Clay had been elected, the history of the United States must have been different
from what it has proved.

How Elizur Wright supported his family during this long period of philanthropy will always
be a mystery, but support them he did. He had no regular salary like Garrison, but, in an emergency,
he could turn his hand to almost anything, and earn money by odd jobs. Fortunately, he had
a wife who was not afraid of any kind of house-work. He purchased his clothes of a tailor named
Curtis, who kept a sailors' clothing store on North Street, and his mode of living otherwise
was not less economical.

That his children suffered by their father's philanthropy must be admitted, but it is a general
rule that the families of public benefactors also contribute largely to the general good. His
eldest daughters inherited their father's intellect, and as they grew up cheerfully assisted
him in various ways.

When the Mexican war began there was great indignation over it in New England, and Lowell wrote
his most spirited verses in opposition to it. Elizur Wright took advantage of the storm to
establish a newspaper, the Chronotype, in opposition to the Government policy. He began this
enterprise almost without help, but soon obtained assistance from leading Free-soilers like
John A. Andrew, Dr. S. G. Howe, and especially Frank W. Bird, the most disinterested of politicians,
who gave several thousand dollars in support of the Chronotype. The object of the paper, stated
in Mr. Wright's own words, was "To examine everything that is new and some things that are
old, without fear or favor; to promote good nature, good neighborhood, and good government;
to advocate a just distribution of the proper reward, whether material or immaterial, both
of honest labor and rascally violence, cunning and idleness; last, but not least, to get an
honest living." In 1848 he had a list of six thousand subscribers; and his incisive pen was
greatly feared. The Post, which was the Government organ in Boston, attacked him once, but
met with such a crushing rejoinder that its editor concluded not to try that game again. His
capacity for brain labor was wonderful. He could work fourteen hours a day, and did not seem
to need recreation at all.

In the campaign of 1844 Elizur Wright made a number of speeches for the Free-soil candidate
in various New England cities. One morning he was returning from a celebration at Nashua, when
at the Lowell station Daniel Webster entered the train with two or three friends, and turned
over the seat next to Mr. Wright. A newsboy followed Webster, and they all purchased papers.
Elizur Wright purchased a Whig paper, and seeing a statement in it concerning the Free-soil
candidate which he believed from internal evidence to be untrue, he said quite loud: "Well!
this is the finest roorback I have met with." Webster inquired what it was, and, after looking
at the statement, pronounced it genuine. A short argument ensued, which closed with Webster's
proposing to bet forty pounds that the allegation was true. "I am not a betting man," replied
Wright, "but since the honor of my candidate is at stake, I accept your wager." Webster then
gave him his card, and Wright returned it by writing his name on a piece of the newspaper.

Elizur Wright no sooner reached his office than he found letters and documents there disproving
the Whig statement in toto, and later in the day he carried them over to Mr. Webster, who had
an office in what was then Niles's Block. Mr. Webster looked carefully through them, congratulated
Mr. Wright on his good fortune, and handed him two hundred- dollar bills. Peter Harvey, who
was in Webster's office at the time, afterwards stopped Elizur Wright on the sidewalk and said
to him: "Mr. Wright, you could have afforded to lose that wager much better than Webster could."

It is remarkable how all the different interests in this man's life-- mathematics, philanthropy,
journalism, and the translation of La Fontaine--united together like so many different currents
to further the grand achievement of his life. While in England he had taken notice of the life-insurance
companies there, which were in a more advanced stage than those in America. They interested
him as a mathematical study, and also from the humanitarian point of view. He purchased "David
Jones on Annuities," and the best works on life insurance. These he read with the same ardor
with which young ladies devour an exciting novel, and without the least expectation that they
might ever bring dollars and cents to him; until one day in the spring of 1852 an insurance
solicitor placed an advertising booklet in his hand as he was entering the office of the Chronotype.

Elizur Wright looked it over and perceived quickly enough that no company could undertake to
do what this one pretended to and remain solvent. The booklet served him for an editorial,
and before one o'clock the next day agents from every life company in Boston were collected
in his office. They supposed at first that it was an attempt at blackmail, but soon discovered
that Elizur Wright knew more about the subject than any of them. Neither threats nor persuasions
had any effect on this uncompromising backwoodsman. Only on one condition would Mr. Wright
retract his statements,--that the companies should reform their circulars and place their affairs
in a more sound condition. The consequence of this was an invitation from the presidents of
several of the companies for Mr. Wright to call at their offices and discuss the subject with them.

The situation was this, and Mr. Wright saw it clearly: the presidents of the companies were
excellent men,--as honorable and trustworthy as the presidents of our best national banks,--and
they knew how to organize and conduct their companies in all business matters, but of life
insurance as a science they knew as little as they knew of Greek. In those days there was a
prejudice against college graduates which prevented their obtaining the highest mercantile
positions, and it is doubtful if there was any person connected with the life-insurance companies
who could solve a problem in the higher mathematics. The consequence of this was that it placed
the presidents quite at the mercy of their own accountants. Recent events have proved with
what facility the teller of a bank can abstract twenty or thirty thousand dollars without its
appearing in the accounts. Temptations and opportunities of this sort must have been much greater
in life-insurance companies, as they were formerly conducted, than it is now in banks. Money
may have been stolen without its having been discovered.

Besides this, the temptations of the companies to continually over-bid one another for public
favor was another evil which, sooner or later, would lead some of them into bankruptcy. This
danger could only be averted by placing their rates of insurance on a scientific basis, which
should be the same and unalterable for all companies.

The charters of the companies had been drafted in the interest of the management, without much
consideration for the rights or advantages of those who were insured. There were no laws on
the statute book which would practically prevent directors of life-insurance companies from
doing as they pleased with the immense trust properties in their possession. After two or three
interviews with Elizur Wright the presidents of the companies came to the conclusion that he
was exactly the man that they wanted, and they commissioned him to draw up a revised set of
tables and rates which could serve them for a uniform standard. This work occupied him and
two of his daughters for a full year, for which he was compensated with the paltry sum of two
thousand dollars. The time was fast approaching, however, when Elizur Wright would be in a
position to dictate his own terms to the insurance companies.

It was now that the Bird Club, the most distinguished political club of its time, became gradually
formed out of the leading elements of the Free-soil party. At one time this club counted among
its members two Senators, three Governors, and a number of Congressmen, and it was a power
in the land. Elizur Wright's services as editor of the Chronotype gave him an early entrance
to it; and having life insurance on the brain, as it were, other members of the club soon became
interested in the subject as a political question. In this way Mr. Wright was soon able to
effect legislation. Sumner, Wilson, Andrew, and Bird gave him an almost unqualified support.
In 1858 he was appointed Insurance Commissioner for Massachusetts, a position which he held
until 1866. As Commissioner he formulated the principal legislation on life insurance; and
his reports, which have been published in a volume, are the best treatise in English on the
practical application of life- insurance principles.

In 1852 he resigned the editorship of the Chronotype, and from that time till 1858 he was occupied
with life-insurance work, the editing of a paper called the Railroad Times, and making a number
of mechanical inventions, most important of which was a calculating machine, enough in itself
to give a man distinction.

This machine was simply a Gunther rule thirty feet in length wrapped on a cylinder and turned
by a crank. Gunther's rule is a measure on which logarithms are represented by spaces, so that
by adding and subtracting spaces on this cylinder Mr. Wright could perform the longest sums
in multiplication and division in two or three minutes of time.

Not only did the Massachusetts insurance companies come under Mr. Wright's surveillance, but
the New York Life, the Connecticut Mutual, and the Mutual Benefit of New Jersey, all large
and powerful companies, were obliged to conform to his regulations, for their Boston offices
were too lucrative to be surrendered. About this time Gladstone caused an overhauling of the
English life-insurance companies, and a number which proved to be unsound were obliged to surrender
their charters. Among these latter were two companies which held offices in Boston, and whose
character had already been exposed by Elizur Wright.

In 1850, when he became Commissioner, Mr. Wright sent to their agents for a statement of their
financial standing, and not receiving a reply requested them to leave the State. Finding that
the matter could not be evaded, they at length forwarded two reports signed by two actuaries,
both Fellows of the Royal Society, which were not of a satisfactory character, so that Mr.
Wright insisted on his previous order. The agents then applied for support to Prof. Benjamin
Pierce, the distinguished mathematician of Harvard University, and one of the most aggressively
pro-slavery men about Boston. He probably looked upon Elizur Wright as a vulgar fanatic, and
supposing that a Fellow of the Royal Society must necessarily be an honorable man, came forward
in support of Messrs. Neisen and Woolhouse without sufficiently investigating the question
at issue; and the result was a controversy between Elizur Wright and himself in which he was
finally beaten off the field.

The statements of both Neisen and Woolhouse was proved to be fraudulent, and the two English
companies were expelled from the State.

Mr. Wright's insurance reports brought him such celebrity that all the companies wished to
have his name connected with them. His son, Walter C. Wright, became actuary of the New England
Life, and his daughter, Miss Jane Wright, was made actuary of the Mutual Union Company. Mr.
Wright and his eldest son, John, set up a business for calculating the value of insurance policies,
in which the logarithm machine helped them to obtain a large income. With his first ten thousand
dollars Mr. Wright purchased a large house and a tract of land in Middlesex Fells, where his
family still resides.

In 1865 the office of Life Insurance Commissioner was filched from him by a trade politician
who knew as much of the subject as fresh college graduates do of the practical affairs of life.
Mr. Wright always regretted this, for he felt that his work was not yet complete; and it is
a fact that American life insurance, with its good and bad features, still remains almost exactly
as he left it.

It was only after Elizur Wright had ceased to be Commissioner that he discovered a serious
error in the calculation of the companies, which may be explained in the following manner:

In the beginning, nearly all the insurance policies were made payable at death, with annual
premiums; but the introduction of endowment policies, payable at a certain age, effected a
peculiar change in their affairs, of which the managers of the companies were not sensible.
Elizur Wright perceived that there were two distinct elements in the endowment policies which
placed them at a disadvantage with ordinary life policies, and he called this combination "savings-bank
life insurance." An endowment policy, being payable at a fixed date, required a larger premium
than one which ran on indefinitely and by customary usage, and the agent who negotiated the
policy received the same percentage for commission that he would on an ordinary-life policy;
that is, he received a much larger commission in proportion. This evil was increased in cases
where endowment policies were paid for, as often happened, in five or ten instalments; and
where they were paid for in a single instalment the agent received four or five times what
he was properly entitled to.

The same principle was observed by the companies in the distribution of their surplus, so that
the holders of endowment policies were practically mulcted at both ends of the line.

