Mrs. Openshaw's Christian-name was Alice, and her first husband had been her own cousin.  She
was the orphan niece of a sea-captain in Liverpool: a quiet, grave little creature, of great
personal attraction when she was fifteen or sixteen, with regular features and a blooming complexion.
But she was very shy, and believed herself to be very stupid and awkward; and was frequently
scolded by her aunt, her own uncle's second wife.  So when her cousin, Frank Wilson, came home
from a long absence at sea, and first was kind and protective to her; secondly, attentive and
thirdly, desperately in love with her, she hardly knew how to be grateful enough to him.  It
is true she would have preferred his remaining in the first or second stages of behaviour;
for his violent love puzzled and frightened her.  Her uncle neither helped nor hindered the
love affair though it was going on under his own eyes.  Frank's step-mother had such a variable
temper, that there was no knowing whether what she liked one day she would like the next, or
not.  At length she went to such extremes of crossness, that Alice was only too glad to shut
her eyes and rush blindly at the chance of escape from domestic tyranny offered her by a marriage
with her cousin; and, liking him better than any one in the world except her uncle (who was
at this time at sea) she went off one morning and was married to him; her only bridesmaid being
the housemaid at her aunt's.  The consequence was, that Frank and his wife went into lodgings,
and Mrs. Wilson refused to see them, and turned away Norah, the warm-hearted housemaid; whom
they accordingly took into their service. When Captain Wilson returned from his voyage, he
was very cordial with the young couple, and spent many an evening at their lodgings; smoking
his pipe, and sipping his grog; but he told them that, for quietness' sake, he could not ask
them to his own house; for his wife was bitter against them.  They were not very unhappy about
this.

The seed of future unhappiness lay rather in Frank's vehement, passionate disposition; which
led him to resent his wife's shyness and want of demonstration as failures in conjugal duty.
He was already tormenting himself, and her too, in a slighter degree, by apprehensions and
imaginations of what might befall her during his approaching absence at sea.  At last he went
to his father and urged him to insist upon Alice's being once more received under his roof;
the more especially as there was now a prospect of her confinement while her husband was away
on his voyage.  Captain Wilson was, as he himself expressed it, "breaking up," and unwilling
to undergo the excitement of a scene; yet he felt that what his son said was true.  So he went
to his wife.  And before Frank went to sea, he had the comfort of seeing his wife installed
in her old little garret in his father's house.  To have placed her in the one best spare room
was a step beyond Mrs. Wilson's powers of submission or generosity. The worst part about it,
however, was that the faithful Norah had to be dismissed.  Her place as housemaid had been
filled up; and, even had it not, she had forfeited Mrs. Wilson's good opinion for ever.  She
comforted her young master and mistress by pleasant prophecies of the time when they would
have a household of their own; of which, in whatever service she might be in the meantime,
she should be sure to form part. Almost the last action Frank Wilson did, before setting sail,
was going with Alice to see Norah once more at her mother's house.  And then he went away.

Alice's father-in-law grew more and more feeble as winter advanced.  She was of great use to
her step-mother in nursing and amusing him; and, although there was anxiety enough in the household,
there was perhaps more of peace than there had been for years; for Mrs. Wilson had not a bad
heart, and was softened by the visible approach of death to one whom she loved, and touched
by the lonely condition of the young creature, expecting her first confinement in her husband's
absence.  To this relenting mood Norah owed the permission to come and nurse Alice when her
baby was born, and to remain to attend on Captain Wilson.

Before one letter had been received from Frank (who had sailed for the East Indies and China),
his father died.  Alice was always glad to remember that he had held her baby in his arms,
and kissed and blessed it before his death.  After that, and the consequent examination into
the state of his affairs, it was found that he had left far less property than people had been
led by his style of living to imagine; and, what money there was, was all settled upon his
wife, and at her disposal after her death.  This did not signify much to Alice, as Frank was
now first mate of his ship, and, in another voyage or two, would be captain. Meanwhile he had
left her some hundreds (all his savings) in the bank.

It became time for Alice to hear from her husband.  One letter from the Cape she had already
received.  The next was to announce his arrival in India.  As week after week passed over,
and no intelligence of the ship's arrival reached the office of the owners, and the Captain's
wife was in the same state of ignorant suspense as Alice herself, her fears grew most oppressive.
At length the day came when, in reply to her inquiry at the Shipping Office, they told her
that the owners had given up Hope of ever hearing more of the Betsy-Jane, and had sent in their
claim upon the underwriters.  Now that he was gone for ever, she first felt a yearning, longing
love for the kind cousin, the dear friend, the sympathising protector, whom she should never
see again,--first felt a passionate desire to show him his child, whom she had hitherto rather
craved to have all to herself--her own sole possession.  Her grief was, however, noiseless,
and quiet--rather to the scandal of Mrs. Wilson; who bewailed her step-son as if he and she
had always lived together in perfect harmony, and who evidently thought it her duty to burst
into fresh tears at every strange face she saw; dwelling on his poor young widow's desolate
state, and the helplessness of the fatherless child, with an unction, as if she liked the excitement
of the sorrowful story.

So passed away the first days of Alice's widowhood.  Bye-and-bye things subsided into their
natural and tranquil course.  But, as if this young creature was always to be in some heavy
trouble, her ewe-lamb began to be ailing, pining and sickly.  The child's mysterious illness
turned out to be some affection of the spine likely to affect health; but not to shorten life--at
least so the doctors said.  But the long dreary suffering of one whom a mother loves as Alice
loved her only child, is hard to look forward to.  Only Norah guessed what Alice suffered;
no one but God knew.

And so it fell out, that when Mrs. Wilson, the elder, came to her one day in violent distress,
occasioned by a very material diminution in the value the property that her husband had left
her,--a diminution which made her income barely enough to support herself, much less Alice--the
latter could hardly understand how anything which did not touch health or life could cause
such grief; and she received the intelligence with irritating composure.  But when, that afternoon,
the little sick child was brought in, and the grandmother--who after all loved it well--began
a fresh moan over her losses to its unconscious ears--saying how she had planned to consult
this or that doctor, and to give it this or that comfort or luxury in after yearn but that
now all chance of this had passed away--Alice's heart was touched, and she drew near to Mrs.
Wilson with unwonted caresses, and, in a spirit not unlike to that of, Ruth, entreated, that
come what would, they might remain together.  After much discussion in succeeding days, it
was arranged that Mrs. Wilson should take a house in Manchester, furnishing it partly with
what furniture she had, and providing the rest with Alice's remaining two hundred pounds. Mrs.
Wilson was herself a Manchester woman, and naturally longed to return to her native town. 
Some connections of her own at that time required lodgings, for which they were willing to
pay pretty handsomely. Alice undertook the active superintendence and superior work of the
household.  Norah, willing faithful Norah, offered to cook, scour, do anything in short, so
that, she might but remain with them.

The plan succeeded.  For some years their first lodgers remained with them, and all went smoothly,--with
the one sad exception of the little girl's increasing deformity.  How that mother loved that
child, is not for words to tell!

Then came a break of misfortune.  Their lodgers left, and no one succeeded to them.  After
some months they had to remove to a smaller house; and Alice's tender conscience was torn by
the idea that she ought not to be a burden to her mother-in-law, but ought to go out and seek
her own maintenance.  And leave her child!  The thought came like the sweeping boom of a funeral
bell over her heart.

Bye-and-bye, Mr. Openshaw came to lodge with them.  He had started in life as the errand-boy
and sweeper-out of a warehouse; had struggled up through all the grades of employment in the
place, fighting his way through the hard striving Manchester life with strong pushing energy
of character.  Every spare moment of time had been sternly given up to self- teaching.  He
was a capital accountant, a good French and German scholar, a keen, far-seeing tradesman; understanding
markets, and the bearing of events, both near and distant, on trade: and yet, with such vivid
attention to present details, that I do not think he ever saw a group of flowers in the fields
without thinking whether their colours would, or would not, form harmonious contrasts in the
coming spring muslins and prints.  He went to debating societies, and threw himself with all
his heart and soul into politics; esteeming, it must be owned, every man a fool or a knave
who differed from him, and overthrowing his opponents rather by the loud strength of his language
than the calm strength if his logic.  There was something of the Yankee in all this.  Indeed
his theory ran parallel to the famous Yankee motto--"England flogs creation, and Manchester
flogs England."  Such a man, as may be fancied, had had no time for falling in love, or any
such nonsense.  At the age when most young men go through their courting and matrimony, he
had not the means of keeping a wife, and was far too practical to think of having one.  And
now that he was in easy circumstances, a rising man, he considered women almost as incumbrances
to the world, with whom a man had better have as little to do as possible.  His first impression
of Alice was indistinct, and he did not care enough about her to make it distinct.  "A pretty
yea- nay kind of woman," would have been his description of her, if he had been pushed into
a corner.  He was rather afraid, in the beginning, that her quiet ways arose from a listlessness
and laziness of character which would have been exceedingly discordant to his active energetic
nature. But, when he found out the punctuality with which his wishes were attended to, and
her work was done; when he was called in the morning at the very stroke of the clock, his shaving-water
scalding hot, his fire bright, his coffee made exactly as his peculiar fancy dictated, (for
he was a man who had his theory about everything, based upon what he knew of science, and often
perfectly original)--then he began to think: not that Alice had any peculiar merit; but that
he had got into remarkably good lodgings: his restlessness wore away, and he began to consider
himself as almost settled for life in them.

Mr. Openshaw had been too busy, all his life, to be introspective.  He did not know that he
had any tenderness in his nature; and if he had become conscious of its abstract existence,
he would have considered it as a manifestation of disease in some part of his nature.  But
he was decoyed into pity unawares; and pity led on to tenderness.  That little helpless child--always
carried about by one of the three busy women of the house, or else patiently threading coloured
beads in the chair from which, by no effort of its own, could it ever move; the great grave
blue eyes, full of serious, not uncheerful, expression, giving to the small delicate face a
look beyond its years; the soft plaintive voice dropping out but few words, so unlike the continual
prattle of a child--caught Mr. Openshaw's attention in spite of himself.  One day--he half
scorned himself for doing so--he cut short his dinner-hour to go in search of some toy which
should take the place of those eternal beads.  I forget what he bought; but, when he gave the
present (which he took care to do in a short abrupt manner, and when no one was by to see him)
he was almost thrilled by the flash of delight that came over that child's face, and could
not help all through that afternoon going over and over again the picture left on his memory,
by the bright effect of unexpected joy on the little girl's face.  When he returned home, he
found his slippers placed by his sitting-room fire; and even more careful attention paid to
his fancies than was habitual in those model lodgings.  When Alice had taken the last of his
tea-things away--she had been silent as usual till then--she stood for an instant with the
door in her hand.  Mr. Openshaw looked as if he were deep in his book, though in fact he did
not see a line; but was heartily wishing the woman would be gone, and not make any palaver
of gratitude.  But she only said:

"I am very much obliged to you, sir.  Thank you very much," and was gone, even before he could
send her away with a "There, my good woman, that's enough!"

For some time longer he took no apparent notice of the child.  He even hardened his heart into
disregarding her sudden flush of colour, and little timid smile of recognition, when he saw
her by chance.  But, after all, this could not last for ever; and, having a second time given
way to tenderness, there was no relapse.  The insidious enemy having thus entered his heart,
in the guise of compassion to the child, soon assumed the more dangerous form of interest in
the mother.  He was aware of this change of feeling, despised himself for it, struggled with
it nay, internally yielded to it and cherished it, long before he suffered the slightest expression
of it, by word, action, or look, to escape him.  He watched Alice's docile obedient ways to
her stepmother; the love which she had inspired in the rough Norah (roughened by the wear and
tear of sorrow and years); but above all, he saw the wild, deep, passionate affection existing
between her and her child.  They spoke little to any one else, or when any one else was by;
but, when alone together, they talked, and murmured, and cooed, and chattered so continually,
that Mr. Openshaw first wondered what they could find to say to each other, and next became
irritated because they were always so grave and silent with him.  All this time, he was perpetually
devising small new pleasures for the child.  His thoughts ran, in a pertinacious way, upon
the desolate life before her; and often he came back from his day's work loaded with the very
thing Alice had been longing for, but had not been able to procure.  One time it was a little
chair for drawing the little sufferer along the streets, and many an evening that ensuing summer
Mr. Openshaw drew her along himself, regardless of the remarks of his acquaintances. One day
in autumn he put down his newspaper, as Alice came in with the breakfast, and said, in as indifferent
a voice as he could assume:

"Mrs. Frank, is there any reason why we two should not put up our horses together?"

Alice stood still in perplexed wonder.  What did he mean?  He had resumed the reading of his
newspaper, as if he did not expect any answer; so she found silence her safest course, and
went on quietly arranging his breakfast without another word passing between them.  Just as
he was leaving the house, to go to the warehouse as usual, he turned back and put his head
into the bright, neat, tidy kitchen, where all the women breakfasted in the morning:

"You'll think of what I said, Mrs. Frank" (this was her name with the lodgers), "and let me
have your opinion upon it to-night."

Alice was thankful that her mother and Norah were too busy talking together to attend much
to this speech.  She determined not to think about it at all through the day; and, of course,
the effort not to think made her think all the more.  At night she sent up Norah with his tea.
But Mr. Openshaw almost knocked Norah down as she was going out at the door, by pushing past
her and calling out "Mrs. Frank!" in an impatient voice, at the top of the stairs.

Alice went up, rather than seem to have affixed too much meaning to his words.

"Well, Mrs. Frank," he said, "what answer?  Don't make it too long; for I have lots of office-work
to get through to-night."

"I hardly know what you meant, sir," said truthful Alice.

"Well!  I should have thought you might have guessed.  You're not new at this sort of work,
and I am.  However, I'll make it plain this time.  Will you have me to be thy wedded husband,
and serve me, and love me, and honour me, and all that sort of thing?  Because if you will,
I will do as much by you, and be a father to your child--and that's more than is put in the
prayer-book.  Now, I'm a man of my word; and what I say, I feel; and what I promise, I'll do.
Now, for your answer!"

Alice was silent.  He began to make the tea, as if her reply was a matter of perfect indifference
to him; but, as soon as that was done, he became impatient.

"Well?" said he.

"How long, sir, may I have to think over it?"

"Three minutes!" (looking at his watch).  "You've had two already--that makes five.  Be a sensible
woman, say Yes, and sit down to tea with me, and we'll talk it over together; for, after tea,
I shall be busy; say No" (he hesitated a moment to try and keep his voice in the same tone),
"and I shan't say another word about it, but pay up a year's rent for my rooms to-morrow, and
be off.  Time's up!  Yes or no?"

"If you please, sir,--you have been so good to little Ailsie--"

"There, sit down comfortably by me on the sofa, and let us have our tea together.  I am glad
to find you are as good and sensible as I took for."

And this was Alice Wilson's second wooing.

Mr. Openshaw's will was too strong, and his circumstances too good, for him not to carry all
before him.  He settled Mrs. Wilson in a comfortable house of her own, and made her quite independent
of lodgers.  The little that Alice said with regard to future plans was in Norah's behalf.

"No," said Mr. Openshaw.  "Norah shall take care of the old lady as long as she lives; and,
after that, she shall either come and live with us, or, if she likes it better, she shall have
a provision for life--for your sake, missus.  No one who has been good to you or the child
shall go unrewarded.  But even the little one will be better for some fresh stuff about her.
Get her a bright, sensible girl as a nurse: one who won't go rubbing her with calf's-foot jelly
as Norah does; wasting good stuff outside that ought to go in, but will follow doctors' directions;
which, as you must see pretty clearly by this time, Norah won't; because they give the poor
little wench pain.  Now, I'm not above being nesh for other folks myself.  I can stand a good
blow, and never change colour; but, set me in the operating-room in the infirmary, and I turn
as sick as a girl. Yet, if need were, I would hold the little wench on my knees while she screeched
with pain, if it were to do her poor back good.  Nay, nay, wench! keep your white looks for
the time when it comes--I don't say it ever will.  But this I know, Norah will spare the child
and cheat the doctor if she can.  Now, I say, give the bairn a year or two's chance, and then,
when the pack of doctors have done their best--and, maybe, the old lady has gone--we'll have
Norah back, or do better for her."

The pack of doctors could do no good to little Ailsie.  She was beyond their power.  But her
father (for so he insisted on being called, and also on Alice's no longer retaining the appellation
of Mama, but becoming henceforward Mother), by his healthy cheerfulness of manner, his clear
decision of purpose, his odd turns and quirks of humour, added to his real strong love for
the helpless little girl, infused a new element of brightness and confidence into her life;
and, though her back remained the same, her general health was strengthened, and Alice--never
going beyond a smile herself--had the pleasure of seeing her child taught to laugh.

As for Alice's own life, it was happier than it had ever been.  Mr. Openshaw required no demonstration,
no expressions of affection from her. Indeed, these would rather have disgusted him.  Alice
could love deeply, but could not talk about it.  The perpetual requirement of loving words,
looks, and caresses, and misconstruing their absence into absence of love, had been the great
trial of her former married life.  Now, all went on clear and straight, under the guidance
of her husband's strong sense, warm heart, and powerful will.  Year by year their worldly prosperity
increased.  At Mrs. Wilson's death, Norah came back to them, as nurse to the newly-born little
Edwin; into which post she was not installed without a pretty strong oration on the part of
the proud and happy father; who declared that if he found out that Norah ever tried to screen
the boy by a falsehood, or to make him nesh either in body or mind, she should go that very
day.  Norah and Mr. Openshaw were not on the most thoroughly cordial terms; neither of them
fully recognising or appreciating the other's best qualities.

This was the previous history of the Lancashire family who had now removed to London, and had
come to occupy the House.

They had been there about a year, when Mr. Openshaw suddenly informed his wife that he had
determined to heal long-standing feuds, and had asked his uncle and aunt Chadwick to come and
pay them a visit and see London. Mrs. Openshaw had never seen this uncle and aunt of her husband's.
Years before she had married him, there had been a quarrel.  All she knew was, that Mr. Chadwick
was a small manufacturer in a country town in South Lancashire.  She was extremely pleased
that the breach was to be healed, and began making preparations to render their visit pleasant.

