Bianconi did a great stroke of business at the Waterford election of 1826.  Indeed it was the
turning point of his fortunes.  He was at first greatly cramped for capital.  The expense of
maintaining and increasing his stock of cars, and of foddering his horses was very great; and
he was always on the look-out for more capital.  When the Waterford election took place, the
Beresford party, then all-powerful, engaged all his cars to drive the electors to the poll.
The popular party, however, started a candidate, and applied to Bianconi for help. But he could
not comply, for his cars were all engaged.  The morning after his refusal of the application,
Bianconi was pelted with mud. One or two of his cars and horses were heaved over the bridge.

Bianconi then wrote to Beresford's agent, stating that he could no longer risk the lives of
his drivers and his horses, and desiring to be released from his engagement.  The Beresford
party had no desire to endanger the lives of the car-drivers or their horses, and they set
Bianconi free.  He then engaged with the popular party, and enabled them to win the election.
For this he was paid the sum of a thousand pounds.  This access of capital was greatly helpful
to him under the circumstances.  He was able to command the market, both for horses and fodder.
He was also placed in a position to extend the area of his car routes.

He now found time, amidst his numerous avocations, to get married!  He was forty years of age
before this event occurred. He married Eliza Hayes, some twenty years younger than himself,
the daughter of Patrick Hayes, of Dublin, and of Henrietta Burton, an English-woman.  The marriage
was celebrated on the 14th of February, 1827; and the ceremony was performed by the late Archbishop
Murray.  Mr. Bianconi must now have been in good circumstances, as he settled two thousand
pounds upon his wife on their marriage-day.  His early married life was divided between his
cars, electioneering, and Repeal agitation--for he was always a great ally of O'Connell.  Though
he joined in the Repeal movement, his sympathies were not with it; for he preferred Imperial
to Home Rule.  But he could never deny himself the pleasure of following O'Connell, "right
or wrong."

Let us give a picture of Bianconi now.  The curly-haired Italian boy had grown a handsome man.
His black locks curled all over his head like those of an ancient Roman bust.  His face was
full of power, his chin was firm, his nose was finely cut and well-formed; his eyes were keen
and sparkling, as if throwing out a challenge to fortune.  He was active, energetic, healthy,
and strong, spending his time mostly in the open air.  He had a wonderful recollection of faces,
and rarely forgot to recognise the countenance that he had once seen.  He even knew all his
horses by name.  He spent little of his time at home, but was constantly rushing about the
country after business, extending his connections, organizing his staff, and arranging the
centres of his traffic.

To return to the car arrangements.  A line was early opened from Clonmel--which was at first
the centre of the entire connection--to Cork; and that line was extended northward, through
Mallow and Limerick.  Then, the Limerick car went on to Tralee, and from thence to Cahirciveen,
on the south-west coast of Ireland.  The cars were also extended northward from Thurles to
Roscrea, Ballinasloe, Athlone, Roscommon, and Sligo, and to all the principal towns in the
north-west counties of Ireland.

The cars interlaced with each other, and plied, not so much in continuous main lines, as across
country, so as to bring all important towns, but especially the market towns, into regular
daily communication with each other.  Thus, in the course of about thirty years, Bianconi succeeded
in establishing a system of internal communication in Ireland, which traversed the main highways
and cross-roads from town to town, and gave the public a regular and safe car accommodation
at the average rate of a penny-farthing per mile.

The traffic in all directions steadily increased.  The first car used was capable of accommodating
only six persons.  This was between Clonmel and Cahir.  But when it went on to Limerick, a
larger car was required.  The traffic between Clonmel and Waterford was also begun with a small-sized
car.  But in the course of a few years, there were four large-sized cars, travelling daily
each way, between the two places.  And so it was in other directions, between Cork in the south;
and Sligo and Strabane in the north and north-west; between Wexford in the east, and Galway
and Skibbereen in the west and south-west.

Bianconi first increased the accommodation of these cars so as to carry four persons on each
side instead of three, drawn by two horses.  But as the two horses could quite as easily carry
two additional passengers, another piece was added to the car so as to carry five passengers.
Then another four-wheeled car was built, drawn by three horses, so as to carry six passengers
on each side.  And lastly, a fourth horse was used, and the car was further enlarged, so as
to accommodate seven, and eventually eight passengers on each side, with one on the box, which
made a total accommodation for seventeen passengers.  The largest and heaviest of the long
cars, on four wheels, was called "Finn MacCoul's," after Ossian's Giant; the fast cars, of
a light build, on two wheels, were called "Faugh-a-ballagh," or "clear the way"; while the
intermediate cars were named "Massey Dawsons," after a popular Tory squire.

When Bianconi's system was complete, he had about a hundred vehicles at work; a hundred and
forty stations for changing horses, where from one to eight grooms were employed; about a hundred
drivers, thirteen hundred horses, performing an average distance of three thousand eight hundred
miles daily; passing through twenty-three counties, and visiting no fewer than a hundred and
twenty of the principal towns and cities in the south and west and midland counties of Ireland.
Bianconi's horses consumed on an average from three to four thousand tons of hay yearly, and
from thirty to forty thousand barrels of oats, all of which were purchased in the respective
localities in which they were grown.

Bianconi's cars--or "The Bians"--soon became very popular. Everybody was under obligations
to them.  They greatly promoted the improvement of the country.  People could go to market
and buy or sell their goods more advantageously.  It was cheaper for them to ride than to walk.
They brought the whole people of the country so much nearer to each other.  They virtually
opened up about seven-tenths of Ireland to civilisation and commerce, and among their other
advantages, they opened markets for the fresh fish caught by the fishermen of Galway, Clifden,
Westport, and other places, enabling them to be sold throughout the country on the day after
they were caught.  They also opened the magnificent scenery of Ireland to tourists, and enabled
them to visit Bantry Bay, Killarney, South Donegal, and the wilds of Connemara in safety, all
the year round.

