SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN SUPPLEMENT NO. 421

NEW YORK, JANUARY 26, 1884

Scientific American Supplement. Vol. XVII., No. 421.                        6714

      Foot Lathes.--With engraving.                               6715

      Endless Trough Conveyer.--2 engravings.                     6715

      Railroad Grades of Trunk Lines.                             6715

      English Express Trains.--Average speed, long runs, etc.     6715

      Apparatus for Separating Substances Contained in the
      Waste Waters of Paper Mills, etc.--2 figures.               6717

II.   TECHNOLOGY.--An English Adaptation of the American Oil
      Mill.--Description of the apparatus, and of the old and
      new processes.--Several engravings.                         6716

      Large Blue Prints.--By W.B. Parsons, Jr.                    6717

III.  ELECTRICITY, ETC.--Electrical Apparatus for Measuring
      and for Demonstration at the Munich Exhibition.--With
      descriptions and numerous illustrations of the different
      machines.                                                   6711

      A New Oxide of Copper Battery.--By F. De Lalande and S.
      Chaperon.--With description and three illustrations.        6714

IV.   MATHEMATICS, ETC.--To Find the Time of Twilight.--1 figure.  6720

      A New Rule for Division in Arithmetic.                      6725

      Experiments in Binary Arithmetic.                           6726

V.    ARCHÆOLOGY.--Grecian Antiquities.--With engravings of the
      Monument of Philopappus.--Tomb from the Ceramicus.--Tower
      of the winds.--The Acropolis.--Old Corinth.--Temple of
      Jupiter.--The Parthenon.--Temple of Theseus, etc.           6721

VI.   NATURAL HISTORY, ETHNOLOGY, ETC.--Poisonous Serpents and
      their Venom.--By Dr. Archie Stockwell.--A serpent's mouth,
      fangs, and poison gland.--Manner of attack.--Nature of
      the venom.--Action of venom.--Remedies.                     6719

      Ethnological Notes.--Papuans.--Negritos.                    6720

VII.  HORTICULTURE, BOTANY, ETC.--The Hornbeams.--Uses to
      which the tree is put.--Wood for manufactures.--For
      fuel.--Different varieties.--With engravings of the tree
      as a whole, and of its leaves, fruit, flowers, etc.         6724

      Fruit of Camellia Japonica.--1 engraving.                   6725

VIII. MEDICINE. SANITATION, ETC.--House Drainage and Refuse.
      Abstract of a lecture by Capt. Douglas Galton.--Treating
      of the removal of the refuse from camps, small towns, and
      houses.--Conditions to observe in house drains, etc.        6717

      Pasteur's New Method of Attenuation.                        6718

      Convenient Vaults.                                          6719

IX.   MISCELLANEOUS.--Spanish Fisheries.--Noticeable objects
      in the Spanish Court at the late Fisheries Exhibition.      6722

      Duck Shooting at Montauk.                                   6723

       *       *       *       *       *

ELECTRICAL APPARATUS FOR MEASURING AND FOR DEMONSTRATION AT THE MUNICH EXHIBITION.

Apparatus for use in laboratories and cabinets of physics were quite numerous at the Munich
Exhibition of Electricity, and very naturally a large number was to be seen there that presented
little difference with present models. Several of them, however, merit citation. Among the
galvanometers, we remarked an apparatus that was exhibited by Prof. Zenger, of Prague. The
construction of this reminded us of that of other galvanometers, but it was interesting in
that its inventor had combined in it a series of arrangements that permitted of varying its
sensitiveness within very wide limits. This apparatus, which Prof. Zenger calls a "Universal
Rheometer" (Fig. 1), consists of a bobbin whose interior is formed of a piece of copper, whose
edges do not meet, and which is connected by strips of copper with two terminals. This internal
shell is capable of serving for currents of quantity, and, when the two terminals are united
by a wire, it may serve as a deadener. Above this copper shell there are two identical coils
of wire which may, according to circumstances, be coupled in tension or in series, or be employed
differentially. Reading is performed either by the aid of a needle moving over a dial, or by
means of a mirror, which is not shown in the figure. Finally, there is a lateral scale, R,
which carries a magnetized bar, A, that may be slid toward the galvanometer. This magnet is
capable of rendering the needle less sensitive or of making it astatic. In order to facilitate
this operation, the magnet carries at its extremity a tube which contains a bar of soft iron
that may be moved slightly so as to vary the length of the magnet. Prof. Zenger calls this
arrangement a magnetic vernier. It will be seen that, upon combining all the elements of the
apparatus, we can obtain very different combinations; and, according to the inventor, his rheometer
is a substitute for a dozen galvanometers of various degrees of sensitiveness, and permits
of measuring currents of from 20 amperes down to 1/50000000 an ampere. The apparatus may even
be employed for measuring magnetic forces, as it constitutes a very sensitive magnetometer.

Prof. Zenger likewise had on exhibition a "Universal Electrometer" (Fig. 2), in which the fine
wire that served as an electrometric needle was of magnetized steel suspended by a cotton thread.
In this instrument, a silver wire, t, terminating in a ball, is fixed to a support, C, hanging
from a brass disk, P, placed upon the glass case of the apparatus. It will be seen that if
we bring an electrified body near the disk, P, a deviation of the needle will occur. The sensitiveness
of the latter may be regulated by a magnetic system like that of the galvanometer. Finally,
a disk, P', which may be slid up and down its support, permits of the instrument being used
as a condensing electrometer, by giving it, according to the distance of the disks, different
degrees of sensitiveness. One constructor who furnished much to this part of the exhibition
was Mr. Th. Edelmann of Munich, whose apparatus are represented in a group in Fig. 3. Among
them we remark the following: A quadrant electrometer (Fig. 4), in which the horizontal 8-shaped
needle is replaced by two connected cylindrical surfaces that move in a cylinder formed of
four parts; a Von Beetz commutator; spyglasses with scale for reading measuring instruments
(Fig. 3); apparatus for the study of magnetic variations, of Lamont (Fig. 3) and of Wild (Fig.
5); different types of the Wiedemann galvanometer; an electrometer for atmospheric observations
(Fig. 6); a dropping apparatus (Fig. 7), in which the iron ball opens one current at a time
at the moment it leaves the electro-magnet and when it reaches the foot of the support, these
two breakages producing two induction sparks that exactly limit the length to be taken in order
to measure the time upon the tracing of the chronoscope tuning-fork; an absolute galvanometer;
a bifilar galvanometer (Fig. 8) for absolute measurements, in which the helix is carried by
two vertical steel wires stretched from o to u, and which is rendered complete by a mirror
for the reading, and a second and fixed helix, so that an electro-dynamometer may be made of
it; and, finally, a galvanometer for strong currents, having a horseshoe magnet pivoted upon
a vertically divided column which is traversed by the current, and a plug that may be arranged
at different heights between the two parts of the column so as to render the apparatus more
sensitive (Fig. 9).

We may likewise cite the exhibit of Mr. Eugene Hartmann of Wurtzburg, which comprised a series
of apparatus of the same class as those that we have just enumerated--spyglasses for the reading
of apparatus, galvanometers, magnetometers, etc.

Specially worthy of remark were the apparatus of Mr. Kohlrausch for measuring resistances by
means of induction currents, and a whole series of accessory instruments.

Among the objects shown by other exhibitors must be mentioned Prof. Von Waltenhofen's differential
electromagnetic balance. In this, two iron cylinders are suspended from the extremities of
a balance. One of them is of solid iron, and the other is of thin sheet iron and of larger
diameter and is balanced by an additional weight. Both of them enter, up to their center, two
solenoids. If a strong current be passed into these latter, the solid cylinder will be attracted;
but if, on the contrary, the current be weak, the hollow cylinder will be attracted. If the
change in the current's intensity occur gradually, there will be a moment in which the cylinders
will remain in equilibrium.

Prof. Zenger's differential photometer that we shall finally cite is an improvement upon Bunsen's.
In the latter the position of the observer's eye not being fixed, the aspect of the spot changes
accordingly, and errors are liable to result therefrom. Besides, because of the non-parallelism
of the luminous rays, each of the two surfaces is not lighted equally, and hence again there
may occur divergences. In order to avoid such inconveniences, Prof. Zenger gives his apparatus
(Fig. 10) the following form: The screen, D, is contained in a cubical box capable of receiving,
through apertures, light from sources placed upon the two rules, R and R'. A flaring tube,
P, fixes the position of the eye very definitely. As for the screen, this is painted with black
varnish, and three vertical windows, about an inch apart, are left in white upon its paper.
Over one of the halves of these parts a solution of stearine is passed. To operate with the
apparatus, in comparing two lights, the central spot is first brought to invisibility, and
the distances of the sources are measured. A second determination is at once made by causing
one of the two other spots to disappear, and the mean of the two results is then taken. As,
at a maximum, there is a difference corresponding to 3/100 of a candle between the illumination
of the two neighboring windows, in the given conditions of the apparatus, the error is thus
limited to a half of this value, or 2 per cent. of that of one candle.

Among the apparatus designed for demonstration in lecture courses, we remarked a solenoid of
Prof. Von Beetz for demonstrating the constitution of magnets (Fig. 11), and in which eight
magnetized needles, carrying mica disks painted half white and half black, move under the influence
of the currents that are traversing the solenoid, or of magnets that are bought near to it
externally. Another apparatus of the same inventor is the lecture-course galvanometer (Fig.
3), in which the horizontal needle bends back vertically over the external surface of a cylinder
that carries divisions that are plainly visible to spectators at a distance.

Finally, let us cite an instrument designed for demonstrating the principle of the Gramme machine.
A circular magnet, AA', is inserted into a bobbin, B, divided into two parts, and moves under
the influence of a disk, L, actuated by a winch, M. This system permits of studying the currents
developed in each portion of the bobbin during the revolution of the ring (Fig. 12).

To end our review of the scientific apparatus at the exhibition we shall merely mention Mr.
Van Rysselberghe's registering thermometrograph (shown in Figs. 13 and 14), and shall then
say a few words concerning two types of registering apparatus--Mr. Harlacher's water-current
register and Prof. Von Beetz's chronograph.

Mr. Harlacher's apparatus was devised by him for studying the deep currents of the Elbe. It
is carried (Fig. 15) by a long, vertical, hollow rod which is plunged into the river. A cord
that passes over a pulley, P, allows of the apparatus, properly so called, being let down to
a certain depth in the water. What is registered is the velocity of the vanes that are set
in action by the current, and to effect such registry each revolution of the helix produces
in the box, C, an electric contact that closes the circuit in the cable, F, attached to the
terminals, B. This cable forms part of a circuit that includes a pile and a registering apparatus
that is seen at L, outside of the box in which it is usually inclosed. In certain cases, a
bell whose sound indicates the velocity of the current to the ear is substituted for the registering
apparatus.

Fig. 16 represents another type of the same apparatus in which the mechanism of the contact
is uncovered. The supporting rod is likewise in this type utilized as a current conductor.

It now remains to say a few words about Prof. Von Beetz's chronograph. This instrument (Fig.
17) is designed for determining the duration of combustion of different powders, the velocity
of projectiles, etc. The registering drum, T, is revolved by hand through a winch, L, and the
time is inscribed thereon by an electric tuning fork, S, set in motion by the large electro-magnet,
E F. Each undulation of the curves corresponds to a hundredth of a second. The tuning-fork
and the registering electro-magnets, G and H, are placed upon a regulatable support, C, by
means of which they may be given any position desired.

The style, c, of the magnet, C, traces a point every second in order to facilitate the reading.
The style, b, of the electro-magnet, H, registers the beginning and end of the phenomena that
are being studied.

The apparatus is arranged in such a way that indications may thus be obtained upon the drum
by means of induction sparks jumping between the style and the surface of the cylinder. To
the left of the figure is seen the apparatus constructed by Lieutenant Ziegler for experimenting
on the duration of combustion of bomb fuses.

Shortly after the drum has commenced revolving, the contact, K, opens a current which supports
the heavy armature, P, of an electro-magnet, M. This weight, P, falls upon the rod, d, and
inflames the fuse, Z, at that very instant. At this precise moment the electro-magnet, H, inscribes
a point, and renews it only when the cartridge at the extremity of the fuse explodes.

This apparatus perhaps offers the inconvenience that the drum must be revolved by hand, and
it would certainly be more convenient could it be put in movement at different velocities by
means of a clockwork movement that would merely have to be thrown into gear at the desired
moment. As it is, however, it presents valuable qualities, and, although it has already been
employed in Germany for some time, it will be called upon to render still more extensive services.

We have now exhausted the subject of the apparatus of precision that were comprised in the
Munich Exhibition. In general, it may be said that this class of instruments was very well
represented there as regards numbers, and, on another hand, the manufacturers are to be congratulated
for the care bestowed on their construction.--La Lumiere Electrique.

       *       *       *       *       *

COPPER VOLTAMETER.

Dr. Hammerl, of the Vienna Academy of Sciences, has made some experiments upon the disturbing
influences on the correct indications of a copper voltameter. He investigated the effects of
the intensity of the current, the distance apart of the plates, and their preparation before
weighing. The main conclusion which he arrives at is this: That in order that the deposit should
be proportional to the intensity of the current, the latter ought not to exceed seven ampères
per square decimeter of area of the cathode.

       *       *       *       *       *

Speaking of steel ropes as transmitters of power, Professor Osborne Reynolds says these have
a great advantage over shafts, for the stress on the section will be uniform, the velocity
will be uniform, and may be at least ten to fifteen times as great as with shafts--say 100
ft. per second; the rope is carried on friction pulleys, which may be at distances 500 ft.
or 600 ft. so that the coefficient of friction will not be more than 0.015, instead of 0.04.

       *       *       *       *       *

A NEW OXIDE OF COPPER BATTERY.

By MM. F. DE LALANDE and G. CHAPERON.

We have succeeded in forming a new battery with a single liquid and with a solid depolarizing
element by associating oxide of copper, caustic potash, and zinc.

This battery possesses remarkable properties. Depolarizing electrodes are easily formed of
oxide of copper. It is enough to keep it in contact with a plate or a cell of iron or copper
constituting the positive pole of the element.

Fig. 1 represents a very simple arrangement. At the bottom of a glass jar, V, we place a box
of sheet iron, A, containing oxide of copper, B. To this box is attached a copper wire insulated
from the zinc by a piece of India rubber tube. The zinc is formed of a thick wire of this metal
coiled in the form of a flat spiral, D, and suspended from a cover, E, which carries a terminal,
F, connected with the zinc; an India-rubber tube, G, covers the zinc at the place where it
dips into the liquid, to prevent its being eaten away at this level.

The jar is filled with a solution containing 30 or 40 per cent. of potash. This arrangement
is similar to that of a Callaud element, with this difference--that the depolarizing element
is solid and insoluble.

To prevent the inconveniences of the manipulation of the potash, we inclose a quantity of this
substance in the solid state necessary for an element in the box which receives the oxide of
copper, and furnish it with a cover supported by a ring of caoutchouc. It suffices then for
working the battery to open the box of potash, to place it at the bottom of the jar, and to
add water to dissolve the potash; we then pour in the copper oxide inclosed in a bag.

We also form the oxide of copper very conveniently into blocks. Among the various means which
might be employed, we prefer the following:

We mix with the oxide of copper oxychloride of magnesium in the form of paste so as to convert
the whole into a thick mass, which we introduce into metal boxes.

The mass sets in a short time, or very rapidly by the action of heat, and gives porous blocks
of a solidity increasing with the quantity of cement employed (5 to 10 per cent.).

Fig. 2 represents an arrangement with blocks. The jar V, is provided with a cover of copper,
E, screwing into the glass. This cover carries two vertical plates of sheet-iron, A, A', against
which are fixed the prismatic blocks, B, B, by means of India rubber bands. The terminal, C,
carried by the cover constitutes the positive pole. The zinc is formed of a single pencil,
D, passing into a tube fixed to the center of the cover. The India rubber, G, is folded back
upon this tube so as to make an air-tight joint.

The cover carries, besides, another tube, H, covered by a split India-rubber tube, which forms
a safety valve.

The closing is made hermetical by means of an India rubber tube, K, which presses against the
glass and the cover. The potash to charge the element is in pieces, and is contained either
in the glass jar itself or in a separate box of sheet-iron.

Applying the same arrangement, we form hermetically sealed elements with a single plate of
a very small size.

The employment of cells of iron, cast-iron, or copper, which are not attacked by the exciting
liquid, allows us to easily construct elements exposing a large surface (Fig. 3).

The cell, A, forming the positive pole of the battery is of iron plate brazed upon vertical
supports; it is 40 centimeters long by 20 centimeters wide, and about 10 centimeters high.

We cover the bottom with a layer of oxide of copper, and place in the four corners porcelain
insulators, L, which support a horizontal plate of zinc, D, D', raised at one end and kept
at a distance from the oxide of copper and from the metal walls of the cell; three-quarters
of this is filled with a solution of potash. The terminals, C and M, fixed respectively to
the iron cell and to the zinc, serve to attach the leading wires. To avoid the too rapid absorption
of the carbonic acid of the air by the large exposed surface, we cover it with a thin layer
of heavy petroleum (a substance uninflammable and without smell), or better still, we furnish
the battery with a cover. These elements are easily packed so as to occupy little space.

We shall not discuss further the arrangements which may be varied infinitely, but point out
the principal properties of the oxide of copper, zinc, and potash battery. As a battery with
a solid depolarizing element, the new battery presents the advantage of only consuming its
element, in proportion to its working; amalgamated zinc and copper are, in fact, not attacked
by the alkaline solution, it is, therefore, durable.

Its electromotive force is very nearly one volt. Its internal resistance is very low. We may
estimate it at 1/3 or 1/4 of an ohm for polar surfaces one decimeter square, separated by a
distance of five centimeters.

The rendering of these couples is considerable; the small cells shown in Figs. 1 and 2 give
about two amperes in short circuit; the large one gives 16 to 20 amperes. Two of these elements
can replace a large Bunsen cell. They are remarkably constant. We may say that with a depolarizing
surface double that of the zinc the battery will work without notable polarization, and almost
until completely exhausted, even under the most unfavorable conditions. The transformation
of the products, the change of the alkali into an alkaline salt of zinc, does not perceptibly
vary the internal resistance. This great constancy is chiefly due to the progressive reduction
of the depolarizing electrode to the state of very conductive metal, which augments its conductivity
and its depolarizing power.

The peroxide of manganese, which forms the base of an excellent battery for giving a small
rendering, possesses at first better conductivity than oxide of copper, but this property is
lost by reduction and transformation into lower oxides. It follows that the copper battery
will give a very large quantity of electricity working through low resistances, while under
these conditions manganese batteries are rapidly polarized.

The energy contained in an oxide of copper and potash battery is very great, and far superior
to that stored by an accumulator of the same weight, but the rendering is much less rapid.
Potash may be employed in concentrated solution at 30, 40, 60 per cent.; solid potash can dissolve
the oxide of zinc furnished by a weight of zinc more than one-third of its own weight. The
quantity of oxide of copper to be employed exceeds by nearly one-quarter the weight of zinc
which enters into action. These data allow of the reduction of the necessary substances to
a very small relative weight.

The oxide of copper batteries have given interesting results in their application to telephones.
For theatrical purposes the same battery may be employed during the whole performance, instead
of four or five batteries. Their durability is considerable; three elements will work continuously,
night and day, Edison's carbon microphones for more than four months without sensible loss
of power.

Our elements will work for a hundred hours through low resistances, and can be worked at any
moment, after several months, for example. It is only necessary to protect them by a cover
from the action of the carbonic acid of the atmosphere.

We prefer potash to soda for ordinary batteries, notwithstanding its price and its higher equivalent,
because it does not produce, like soda, creeping salts. Various modes of regeneration render
this battery very economical. The deposited copper absorbs oxygen pretty readily by simple
exposure to damp air, and can be used again. An oxidizing flame produces the same result very
rapidly.

Lastly, by treating the exhausted battery as an accumulator, that is to say, by passing a current
through it in the opposite direction, we restore the various products to their original condition;
the copper absorbs oxygen, and the alkali is restored, while the zinc is deposited; but the
spongy state of the deposited zinc necessitates its being submitted to a process, or to its
being received upon a mercury support. Again, the oxide of copper which we employ, being a
waste product of brazing and plate works, unless it be reduced, loses nothing of its value
by its reduction in the battery; the depolarization may therefore be considered as costing
scarcely anything. The oxide of copper battery is a durable and valuable battery, which by
its special properties seems likely to replace advantageously in a great number of applications
the batteries at present in use.

       *       *       *       *       *

FARCOT'S SIX HORSE POWER STEAM ENGINE.

This horizontal steam engine, recently constructed by Mr. E.D. Farcot for actuating a Cance
dynamo-electric machine, consists of a cast iron bed frame, A, upon which are mounted all the
parts. The two jacketed, cylinders, B and C, of different diameters, each contains a simple-acting
piston. The two pistons are connected by one rod in common, which is fixed at its extremity
to a cross-head, D, running in slides, E and F, and is connected with the connecting rod, G.
The head of the latter is provided with a bearing of large diameter which embraces the journal
of the driving shaft, H.

The steam enters the valve-box through the orifice, J, which is provided with a throttle-valve,
L, that is connected with a governor placed upon the large cylinder. The steam, as shown in
Fig. 2 (which represents the piston at one end of its travel), is first admitted against the
right surface of the small piston, which it causes to effect an entire stroke corresponding
to a half-revolution of the fly-wheel. The stroke completed, the slide-valve, actuated by an
eccentric keyed to the driving shaft, returns backward and puts the cylinders, B and C, in
communication. The steam then expands and drives the large piston to the right, so as to effect
the second half of the fly-wheel's revolution. The exhaust occurs through the valve chamber,
which, at each stroke, puts the large cylinder in connection with the eduction port, M.

The volume of air included between the two pistons is displaced at every stroke, so that, according
to the position occupied by the pistons, it is held either by the large or small cylinder.
The necessary result of this is that a compression of the air, and consequently a resistance,
is brought about. In order to obviate this inconvenience, the constructor has connected the
space between the two pistons at the part, A', of the frame by a bent pipe. The air, being
alternately driven into and sucked out of this chamber, A', of relatively large dimensions,
no longer produces but an insignificant resistance.

As shown in Fig. 5, there may be applied to this engine a variable expansion of the Farcot
type. The motor being a single acting one, a single valve-plate suffices. This latter is, during
its travel, arrested at one end by a stop and at the other by a cam actuated by the governor.
Upon the axis of this cam there is keyed a gear wheel, with an endless screw, which permits
of regulating it by hand.

This engine, which runs at a pressure of from 5 to 6 kilogrammes, makes 150 revolutions per
minute and weighs 2,000 kilogrammes. --Annales Industrielles.

       *       *       *       *       *

FOOT LATHES.

We illustrate a foot lathe constructed by the Britannia Manufacturing Company, of Colchester,
and specially designed for use on board ships. These lathes, says Engineering, are treble geared,
in order that work which cannot usually be done without steam power may be accomplished by
foot. For instance, they will turn a 24 inch wheel or plate, or take a half-inch cut off a
3 inch shaft, much heavier work than can ordinarily be done by such tools. They have 6 inch
centers, gaps 7½ inches wide and 6½ inches deep, beds 4 feet 6 inches long by 8¾ inches on
the face and 6 inches in depth, and weigh 14 cwt. There are three speeds on the cone pulley,
9 inches, 6 inches, and 4 inches in diameter and 1½ inches wide. The gear wheels are 9/16 inch
pitch and 1½ inches wide on face. The steel leading screw is 1½ inches in diameter by ¼ inch
pitch. Smaller sizes are made for torpedo boats and for places where space is limited.

       *       *       *       *       *

ENDLESS TROUGH CONVEYER.

The endless trough conveyer is one of the latest applications of link-belting, consisting primarily
of a heavy chain belt carried over a pair of wheels, and in the intermediate space a truck
on which the train runs. This chain or belt is provided with pans which, as they overlap, form
an endless trough. Power being applied to revolve one of the wheels, the whole belt is thereby
set in motion and at once becomes an endless trough conveyer. The accompanying engraving illustrates
a section of this conveyer. A few of the pans are removed, to show the construction of the
links; and above this a link and coupler are shown on a larger scale. As will be seen, the
link is provided with wings, to form a rigid support for the pan to be riveted to it. To reduce
friction each link is provided with three rollers, as will be seen in the engraving. This outfit
makes a fireproof conveyer which will handle hot ore from roasting kiln to crusher, and convey
coal, broken stone, or other gritty and coarse material. The Link Belt Machinery Company, of
Chicago, is now erecting for Mr. Charles E. Coffin, of Muirkirk, Md., about 450 ft. of this
conveyer, which is to carry the hot roasted iron ore from the kilns on an incline of about
one foot in twelve up to the crusher. This dispenses with the barrow-men, and at an expenditure
of a few more horsepower becomes a faithful servant, ready for work in all weather and at all
times of day or night. This company also manufactures ore elevators of any capacity, which,
used in connection with this apparatus, will handle perfectly anything in the shape of coarse,
gritty material. It might be added that the endless trough conveyer is no experiment. Although
comparatively new in this country, the American Engineering and Mining Journal says it has
been in successful operation for some time in England, the English manufacturers of link-belting
having had great success with it.

       *       *       *       *       *

RAILROAD GRADES OF TRUNK LINES.

On the West Shore and Buffalo road its limit of grade is 30 feet to the mile going west and
north, and 20 feet to the mile going east and south. Next for easy grades comes the New York
Central and Hudson River road. From New York to Albany, then up the valley of the Mohawk, till
it gradually reaches the elevation of Lake Erie, it is all the time within the 500 foot level,
and this is maintained by its connections on the lake borders to Chicago, by the "Nickel Plate,"
the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, and the Canada Southern and Michigan Central.

The Erie, the Pennsylvania, and the Baltimore and Ohio roads pass through a country so mountainous
that, much as they have expended to improve their grades, it is practically impossible for
them to attain the easy grades so much more readily obtained by the trunk lines following the
great natural waterways originally extending almost from Chicago to New York.

       *       *       *       *       *

ENGLISH EXPRESS TRAINS.

The Journal of the Statistical Society for September contains an elaborate paper by Mr. E.
Foxwell on "English Express Trains; their Average Speed, etc. with Notes on Gradients, Long
Runs, etc." The author takes great pains to explain his definition of the term "express trains,"
which he finally classifies thus: (a) The general rule; those which run under ordinary conditions,
and attain a journey-speed of 40 and upward. These are about 85 per cent. of the whole. (b)
Equally good trains, which, running against exceptional difficulties, only attain, perhaps,
a journey speed as low as 36 or 37. These are about 5 per cent. of the whole. (c) Trains which
should come under (a), but which, through unusually long stoppages or similar causes, only
reach a journey speed of 39. These are about 10 per cent.[1] of the whole.

  [Footnote 1: 10 per cent. of the number, but not of the mileage,
  of the whole; for most of this class run short journeys.]

He next explains that by "running average" is meant: The average speed per hour while actually
in motion from platform to platform, i.e., the average speed obtained by deducting stoppages.
Thus the 9-hour (up) Great Northern "Scotchman" stops 49 minutes on its journey from Edinburgh
to King's Cross, and occupies 8 hours 11 minutes in actual motion; its "running average" is
therefore 48 miles an hour, or, briefly, "r.a.=48." The statement for this train will thus
appear: Distance in miles between Edinburgh and King's Cross, 392½; time, 9 h. 0 m.; journey-speed,
43.6; minutes stopped, 49; running average, 48.

Mr. Foxwell then proceeds to describe in detail the performances of the express trains of the
leading English and Scottish railways--in Ireland there are no trains which come under his
definition of "express"--giving the times of journey, the journey-speeds, minutes stopped on
way, and running averages, with the gradients and other circumstances bearing on these performances.
He sums up the results for the United Kingdom, omitting fractions, as follows:

