'Shakspeare is always most welcome at the chimney-corner; so is Goldsmith: who does not wish
Dr Primrose to call in the evening, and Olivia to preside at the urn? Elia affirms, that there
is no such thing as reading or writing, but by a candle; he is confident that Milton composed
the morning hymn of Eden with a clear fire burning in the room; and in Taylor's gorgeous description
of sunrise, he found the smell of the lamp quite overpowering.... But Elia,' he says further
on, 'carried his fireside theory too far. Some people have tried "the affectation of a book
at noonday in gardens and sultry arbours," without finding their task of love to be unlearnt.
Indeed, many books belong to sunshine, and should be read out of doors. Clover, violets, and
hedge-roses, breathe from their leaves; they are most lovable in cool lanes, along field-paths,
or upon stiles overhung by hawthorn; while the black-bird pipes, and the nightingale bathes
its brown feathers in the twilight copse.

'The sensation is heightened when an author is read amid the scenery or the manners which he
describes--as Barrow studied the sermons of Chrysostom in his own see of Constantinople. What
daisies sprinkle the walks of Cowper, if we take his Task for a companion through the lanes
of Weston! Under the thick hedges of Horton, darkening either bank of the field in the September
moonlight, Il Penseroso is still more pensive. And whoever would feel at his heart the deep
pathos of Collins's lamentation for Thomson, must murmur it to himself, as he glides upon the
stealing wave, by the breezy lawns and elms of Richmond.'

Our author has some judicious remarks on 'Criticism, its Curiosities and Researches,' and is
himself a critic of refined and delicate appreciation. We certainly do not agree with him in
thinking that the literature of the last century is superior to that of the present; but we
can nevertheless admit that many of his favourite writers are deserving of a higher and more
reverent regard than is now generally awarded them. We would quarrel with no man about his
preferences; still, we cannot hold Mr Willmott justified in such sweeping condemnation of our
current literature as he appears disposed to pass upon it. It would seem, indeed, that in his
disgust at 'the corrupted streams of popular entertainment,' he has not cared to make himself
acquainted with the best of our modern writers. Of these he seems--if we may judge from his
total oversight of them--to have hardly a knowledge of the names. 'He lives,' as he admits,
'among the society of an elder age.' Here, however, he numbers 'tasteful learning with the
chiefest blessings of his home.' If he had lived in the last century, he would probably have
gone back for his idols to an earlier one; and yet his remarks on taste and criticism are of
a catholic nature, although his just application of their canons have this chronological boundary.
We have no room, however, for his disquisition on these elegant subjects; neither can we follow
our accomplished clergyman into his disquisitions on fiction, history, biography, philosophy,
and its pleasures, nor the 'domestic interiors' of taste and learning. We had intended to quote
some fine sentences on the consolations of poetry, but find we have not room for them. The
reader will do well to get the book, and read them there. It is a work altogether well worth
reading. Nay, it will bear reading many times, and even become pleasanter as one's acquaintance
with it increases. Indeed, it is not at all the kind of book to be run through rapidly, and
so disposed of; the thought and observation in it are closely packed and methodised; and if
you wish to derive any benefit, or even pleasure from the perusal, you will need to read deliberately.
We should say the author thoroughly enjoyed his work while he was engaged in it; but the workmanship
exhibits everywhere the greatest care and patience. The same habit of mind employed in writing
it will be required in the reading. We may describe the book as being a graceful, suggestive
review of literature, considered with regard to its enjoyments. Refined, scholarly, tolerant,
and judicious in all his tastes and sympathies, the author's influence upon other minds cannot
be otherwise than wholesome, elevating, and benignant.

FOOTNOTES:

[4] Pleasures, Objects, and Advantages of Literature. A Discourse, by the Rev. Robert Aris
Willmott, Incumbent of Bear Wood, Berks. Bosworth: London.

THE MISSING SHIP.

Alexis Himkof had just taken an affectionate leave of his wife, and stood looking after her,
on the deck of the vessel to which he had been appointed mate, and which had been fitted up
for the whale-fishery near Spitzbergen, by a merchant of the name of Jeremiah Oxladmkof, of
Mesen, a town in the province of Jesovia, in the government of Archangel. She sailed in 1743
on her first voyage. We can conceive how lonely the home of Alexis must have been without him.
We may be sure that his wife's last prayer at night was offered up for his safety. We constantly
hear it said, in stormy weather: 'God help those who are at sea!' 'God help those who have
friends at sea!' might be added to the petition; for there are hearts which quail at every
gust of wind--there are thick-coming fancies, which can conjure up tempest-tossed vessels,
sweeping gales, and raging billows; and yet the ship may at that very moment be in calm waters,
or sailing with a prosperous breeze.

The time came that there might be some account of Himkof--then, that the vessel might be back;
but no news or vessel came. Month after month passed on, and still it came not; and then years
went by, and still there was no ship: whenever a sail was seen in the distance, the poor wife
would hasten to the shore; but still the ship she looked for never came. With a sinking heart,
she would retrace her steps homewards; but still she came again and again, so true it is that
affection and hope are the last earthly companions that part company. The neighbours would
look at her as she passed along, and shake their heads in pity.

The vessel, which had fourteen hands on board, had sailed on with a fair wind for eight days.
On the ninth it veered, and instead of reaching the west of Spitzbergen, the place of rendezvous
for the vessels employed annually in the whale-fishery, it was driven eastward of those islands.
A few days brought her near one of them, known as East Spitzbergen. When within about two English
miles, she was hemmed in by ice, and in extreme danger. In this dreadful emergency, the crew
consulted on what was best to be done. Himkof mentioned that he had been told, some time before,
that some men from Mesen, having decided on wintering on the island, had provided themselves
with timber for building a hut, which they accordingly erected at some distance from the shore.
Being quite aware, that if they remained in their present situation, they must inevitably perish,
they determined to search for the hut, and to winter there, if so fortunate as to find it.
Himkof, with three others, were selected to make the search. They were provided with a musket,
twelve charges of powder, a dozen balls, an axe, a small kettle, a knife, a tinder-box and
tinder, a wooden pipe for each, some tobacco, and a bag with twenty pounds of flour. This was
as much as they could carry with safety, as they had to make their way for two miles over loose
ridges of ice, which would be still more difficult and dangerous if they were overloaded, and
it required the utmost caution to avoid falling between these ridges, which had been raised
by the waves and driven together by the winds. The footing once lost, inevitable destruction
must follow. They had not proceeded above an English mile, when, to their great delight, they
descried the hut, at a distance of about a mile and a half from the shore. Its length was thirty-six
feet, and its breadth and height eighteen. It consisted of two rooms. The antechamber was about
twelve feet broad, and had two doors--one to exclude the outer air, the other by which it communicated
with the inner room, in which there was an earthen stove, such as is commonly used in Russia.
A very slight inspection sufficed to shew that the hut had sustained great injury from the
weather; but to have found it in any condition was a subject of great joy, and they availed
themselves of its shelter for the night.

Eager to communicate the good news to their companions, they set out early the next morning;
and as they went on, they chatted cheerfully about the stores of ammunition and provisions,
and various requisites which could be conveyed from the ship, to be stored in the hut for winter
use. They pursued their way in the highest spirits, picturing to themselves the delight which
they were about to give to their companions. When they arrived on the shore, not a vestige
of the ship was to be seen; no track through the waters marked her path; all was still and
silent, desolate and bleak: no familiar face was seen; not one of their comrades was left to
tell the hapless tale! They stood aghast, looking in mute despair upon the sea. The ice by
which the vessel had been hemmed in had totally disappeared. The violent storm of the night
before, they concluded, might have been the cause of this fatal disaster; the ice might have
been disturbed by the agitation of the waves, and beaten violently against the ship, till she
was shattered to pieces; or she might, perhaps, have been carried on by the current into the
ocean, and there lost. However it might have been, they were never to see her again. What a
difference a few short moments had made in their feelings and in their fate! They thought to
have re-entered the hut with glad companions; they returned to it the sole inhabitants of that
desolate region, disconsolate, and utterly hopeless of ever leaving it. When they could collect
their thoughts, they were anxiously turned to the preservation of their lives, for which it
was necessary to provide some kind of sustenance. The island abounded with reindeer, and they
brought down one with every charge of their powder. They set about devising means to repair
the hut, which, from the cracks and crevices produced by the weather, let in the piercingly
cold air in various directions. No wood, or even shrub, grew on that sterile ground. Nothing
could be more dreary than the prospect--a bleak waste without vegetation; the high mountains
with their rock and crags; the everlasting ice and the vast masses of snow. The very sublimity
of the scene was awfully impressed with all the marks of stern desolation and solitude. As
in that cold climate wood is not liable to decay, they joined the boards of which the hut was
constructed, with the help of their axe, very tolerably, filling up the crevices with moss,
which grows in abundance all over the island. The poor men, like all of their country, were
expert carpenters, for it is customary with them to build their own houses. No want could have
been more dreadful than that of wood, for without firing, they could never bear up against
the intense cold.

