  The most notable event in the reign of the next monarch, Chêng-te
  (1506-1522), was the arrival of the Portuguese at Canton (1517). From
  this time dates modern European intercourse with China. Chêng-te
  suppressed a formidable insurrection headed by the prince of Ning, but
  disorder caused by this civil war encouraged the foreign enemies of
  China. From the north came a Tatar army under Yen-ta in 1542, during
  the reign of Kia-tsing, which laid waste the province of Shen-si, and
  even threatened the capital, and a little later a Japanese fleet
  ravaged the littoral provinces. Ill-blood had arisen between the two
  peoples before this, and a Japanese colony had been driven out of
  Ningpo by force and not without bloodshed a few years previously.
  Kia-tsing (d. 1567) was not equal to such emergencies, and his son
  Lung-king (1567-1573)sought to placate the Tatar Yen-ta by making him
  a prince of the empire and giving him commercial privileges, which
  were supplemented by the succeeding emperor Wan-li (1573-1620) by the
  grant of land in Shen-si. During the reign of this sovereign, in the
  year 1592, the Japanese successfully invaded Korea, and Taikosarna,
  the regent of Japan, was on the point of proclaiming himself king of
  the peninsula, when a large Chinese force, answering to the invitation
  of the king, appeared and completely routed the Japanese army, at the
  same time that the Chinese fleet cut off their retreat by sea. In this
  extremity the Japanese sued for peace, and sent an embassy to Peking
  to arrange terms. But the peace was of short duration. In 1597 the
  Japanese again invaded Korea, defeated the Chinese army, destroyed the
  Chinese fleet and ravaged the coast. Suddenly, however, when in the
  full tide of conquest, they evacuated Korea, which again fell under
  the direction of China. Four years later the missionary Matteo Ricci
  (q.v.) arrived at the Chinese court; and though at first the emperor
  was inclined to send him out of the country, his abilities gradually
  won for him the esteem of the sovereign and his ministers, and he
  remained the scientific adviser of the court until his death in 1610.

  Manchu invasion: 17th century.

About this time the Manchu Tatars, goaded into war by the injustice they were constantly receiving
at the hands of the Chinese, led an army into China (in 1616) and completely defeated the force
which was sent against them. Three years later they gained possession of the province of Liao-tung.
These disasters overwhelmed the emperor, and he died of a broken heart in 1620.

In the same year T'ien-ming, the Manchu sovereign, having declared himself independent, moved
the court to San-ku, to the east of Mukden, which, five years later, he made his capital. In
1627 Ts'ung-chêng, the last emperor of the Ming dynasty, ascended the Chinese throne. In his
reign English merchants first made their appearance at Canton. The empire was now torn by internal
dissensions. Rebel bands, enriched by plunder, and grown bold by success, began to assume the
proportion of armies. Two rebels, Li Tsze-ch'êng and Shang K'o-hi, decided to divide the empire
between them. Li besieged K'ai-fêng Fu, the capital of Ho-nan, and so long and closely did
he beleaguer it that in the consequent famine human flesh was regularly sold in the markets.
At length an imperial force came to raise the siege, but fearful of meeting Li's army, they
cut through the dykes of the Yellow River, "China's Sorrow," and flooded the whole country,
including the city. The rebels escaped to the mountains, but upwards of 200,000 inhabitants
perished in the flood, and the city became a heap of ruins (1642). From K'ai-fêng Fu Li marched
against the other strongholds of Ho-nan and Shen-si, and was so completely successful that
he determined to attack Peking. A treacherous eunuch opened the gates to him, on being informed
of which the emperor committed suicide. When the news of this disaster reached the general-commanding
on the frontier of Manchu Tatary, he, in an unguarded moment, concluded a peace with the Manchus,
and invited them to dispossess Li Tsze-ch'êng. The Manchus entered China, and after defeating
a rebel army sent against them, they marched towards Peking. On hearing of the approach of
the invaders, Li Tsze-ch'êng, after having set fire to the imperial palace, evacuated the city,
but was overtaken, and his force was completely routed.

  Ta-ts'ing dynasty.

The Chinese now wished the Manchus to retire, but, having taken possession of Peking, they
proclaimed the ninth son of T'ien-ming emperor of China under the title of Shun-chi, and adopted
the name of Ta-ts'ing, or "Great Pure," for the dynasty (1644). Meanwhile the mandarins at
Nanking had chosen an imperial prince to ascend the throne. At this most inopportune moment
"a claimant" to the throne, in the person of a pretended son of the last emperor, appeared
at court. While this contention prevailed inside Nanking the Tatar army appeared at the walls.
There was no need for them to use force. The gates were thrown open, and they took possession
of the city without bloodshed. Following the conciliatory policy they had everywhere pursued,
they confirmed the mandarins in their offices and granted a general amnesty to all who would
lay down their arms. As the Tatars entered the city the emperor left it, and after wandering
about for some days in great misery, he drowned himself in the Yangtsze-kiang. Thus ended the
Ming dynasty, and the empire passed again under a foreign yoke. By the Mings, who partly revived
the feudal system by making large territorial grants to members of the reigning house, China
was divided into fifteen provinces; the existing division into eighteen provinces was made
by the Manchus.

  All accounts agree in stating that the Manchu conquerors are
  descendants of a branch of the family which gave the Kin dynasty to
  the north of China; and in lieu of any authentic account of their
  early history, native writers have thrown a cloud of fable over their
  origin (see MANCHURIA). In the 16th century they were strong enough to
  cope with their Chinese neighbours. Doubtless the Mings tried to check
  their ambition by cruel reprisals, but against this must be put
  numerous Manchu raids into Liao-tung.

  The accession to the throne of the emperor Shun-chi did not restore
  peace to the country. In Kiang-si, Fu-kien, Kwang-tung and Kwang-si
  the adherents of the Ming dynasty defended themselves vigorously but
  unsuccessfully against the invaders, while the pirate Chêng Chi-lung,
  the father of the celebrated Coxinga, kept up a predatory warfare
  against them on the coast. Eventually he was induced to visit Peking,
  where he was thrown into prison and died. Coxinga, warned by his
  father's example, determined to leave the mainland and to seek an
  empire elsewhere. His choice fell on Formosa, and having driven out
  the Dutch, who had established themselves in the island in 1624, he
  held possession until the reign of K'ang-hi, when (1682) he resigned
  in favour of the imperial government. Meanwhile a prince of the house
  of Ming was proclaimed emperor in Kwang-si, under the title of
  Yung-li. The Tatars having reduced Fu-kien and Kiang-si, and having
  taken Canton after a siege of eight months, completely routed his
  followers, and Yung-li was compelled to fly to Pegu. Some years later,
  with the help of adherents in Yun-nan and Kwei-chow, he tried to
  regain the throne, but his army was scattered, and he was taken
  prisoner and strangled. Gradually opposition to the new régime became
  weaker and weaker, and the shaved head with the pig-tail--the symbol
  of Tatar sovereignty--became more and more adopted. In 1651 died Ama
  Wang, the uncle of Shun-chi, who had acted as regent during his
  nephew's minority, and the emperor then assumed the government of the
  state. He appears to have taken a great interest in science, and to
  have patronized Adam Schaal, a German Jesuit, who was at that time
  resident at Peking. It was during his reign (1656) that the first
  Russian embassy arrived at the capital, but as the envoy declined to
  kowtow before the emperor he was sent back without having been
  admitted to an audience.

  After an unquiet reign of seventeen years Shun-chi died (1661). and
  was succeeded by his son K'ang-hi. He came into collision with the
  Russians, who had reached the Amur regions about 1640 and had built a
  fort on the upper Amur; but by the Treaty of Nerchinsk, concluded in
  1689 (the first treaty made between China and a European power), the
  dispute was settled, the Amur being taken as the frontier. K'ang-hi
  was indefatigable in administering the affairs of the empire, and he
  devoted much of his time to literary and scientific studies under the
  guidance of the Jesuits. The dictionary of the Chinese language,
  published under his superintendence, proves him to have been as great
  a scholar as his conquests over the Eleuths show him to have been
  famous as a general. During one of his hunting expeditions to Mongolia
  he caught a fatal cold, and he died in 1721. Under his rule Tibet was
  added to the empire, which extended from the Siberian frontier to
  Cochin-China, and from the China Sea to Turkestan. During his reign
  there was a great earthquake at Peking, in which 400,000 people are
  said to have perished.

  K'ien-lung, who began to reign in 1735, was ambitious and warlike. He
  marched an army into Hi, which he converted into a Chinese province,
  and he afterwards added eastern Turkestan to the empire. Twice he
  invaded Burma, and once he penetrated into Cochin-China, but in
  neither country were his arms successful. He is accused of great
  cruelty towards his subjects, which they repaid by rebelling against
  him. During his reign the Mahommedan standard was first raised in
  Kan-suh. (Since the Mongol conquest in the 13th century there had been
  a considerable immigration of Moslems into western China; and numbers
  of Chinese had become converts). But the Mussulmans were unable to
  stand against the imperial troops; their armies were dispersed; ten
  thousand of them were exiled; and an order was issued that every
  Mahommedan in Kan-suh above the age of fifteen should be put to death
  (1784).

  K'ien-lung wrote incessantly, both poetry and prose, collected
  libraries and republished works of value. His campaigns furnished him
  with themes for his verses, and in the Summer Palace was found a
  handsome manuscript copy of a laudatory poem he composed on the
  occasion of his war against the Gurkhas. This was one of the most
  successful of his military undertakings. His generals marched 70,000
  men into Nepal to within 60 miles of the British frontiers, and having
  subjugated the Gurkhas they received the submission of the Nepalese,
  and acquired an additional hold over Tibet (1792). In other directions
  his arms were not so successful. There is no poem commemorating the
  campaign against the rebellious Formosans, nor lament over the loss of
  100,000 men in that island, and the last few years of his reign were
  disturbed by outbreaks among the Miao-tsze, hill tribes living in the
  mountains in the provinces of Kwei-chow and Kwang-si. In 1795, after a
  reign of sixty years, K'ien-lung abdicated in favour of his fifteenth
  son, who adopted the title of Kia-k'ing as the style of his reign.
  K'ien-lung died at the age of eighty-eight in 1798.

  Trade with Europe.

During the reign of K'ien-lung commerce between Europe and Canton--the only Chinese port then
open to foreign trade--had attained important dimensions. It was mainly in the hands of the
Portuguese, the British and the Dutch. The British trade was then a monopoly of the East India
Company. The trade, largely in opium, tea and silk, was subject to many exactions and restrictions,[49]
and many acts of gross injustice were committed on the persons of Englishmen. To obtain some
redress the British government at length sent an embassy to Peking (1793) and Lord Macartney
was chosen to represent George III. on the occasion. The mission was treated as showing that
Great Britain was a state tributary to China, and Lord Macartney was received with every courtesy.
But the concessions he sought were not accorded, and in this sense his mission was a failure.

Kia-k'ing's reign was disturbed and disastrous. In the northern and western provinces, rebellion
after rebellion broke out, due in a great measure to the carelessness, incompetency and obstinacy
of the emperor, and the coasts were infested with pirates, whose number and organization enabled
them for a long time to hold the imperial fleet in check. Meanwhile the condition of the foreign
merchants at Canton had not improved, and to set matters on a better footing the British government
despatched a second ambassador in the person of Lord Amherst to Peking in 1816. As he declined
to kowtow before the emperor, he was not admitted to the imperial presence and the mission
proved abortive. Destitute of all royal qualities, a slave to his passions, and the servant
of caprice, Kia-k'ing died in 1820. The event fraught with the greatest consequences to China
which occurred in his reign (though at the time it attracted little attention) was the arrival
of the first Protestant missionary, Dr R. Morrison (q.v.), who reached Canton in 1807.

Tao-kwang (1820-1850), the new emperor, though possessed in his early years of considerable
energy, had no sooner ascended the throne than he gave himself up to the pursuit of pleasure.
The reforms which his first manifestoes foreshadowed never seriously occupied his attention.
Insurrection occurred in Formosa, Kwang-si, Ho-nan and other parts of the empire, and the Triad
Society, which had originated during the reign of K'ang-hi, again became formidable.

  War with Great Britain, 1840.

More important to the future of the country than the internal disturbances was the new attitude
taken at this time towards China by the nations of Europe. Hitherto the European missionaries
and traders in China had been dependent upon the goodwill of the Chinese. The Portuguese had
been allowed to settle at Macao (q.v.) for some centuries; Roman Catholic missionaries since
the time of Ricci had been alternately patronized and persecuted; Protestant missionaries had
scarcely gained a foothold; the Europeans allowed to trade at Canton continued to suffer under
vexatious regulations--the Chinese in general regarded Europeans as barbarians, "foreign devils."
Of the armed strength of Europe they were ignorant. They were now to be undeceived, Great Britain
being the first power to take action. The hardships inflicted on the British merchants at Canton
became so unbearable that when, in 1834, the monopoly of the East India Company ceased, the
British government sent Lord Napier as minister to superintend the foreign trade at that port.
Lord Napier was inadequately supported, and the anxieties of his position brought on an attack
of fever, from which he died at Macao after a few months' residence in China. The chief cause
of complaint adduced by the mandarins was the introduction of opium by the merchants, and for
years they attempted by every means in their power to put a stop to its importation. At length
Captain (afterwards Admiral Sir Charles) Elliot, the superintendent of trade, in 1839 agreed
that all the opium in the hands of Englishmen should be given up to the native authorities,
and he exacted a pledge from the merchants that they would no longer deal in the drug. On the
3rd of April 20,283 chests of opium were handed over to the mandarins and were by them destroyed.
The surrender of the opium led to further demands by Lin Tze-su, the Chinese imperial commissioner,
demands which were considered by the British government to amount to a casus belli, and in
1840 war was declared. In the same year the fleet captured Chusan, and in the following year
the Bogue Forts fell, in consequence of which operations the Chinese agreed to cede Hong-Kong
to the victors and to pay them an indemnity of 6,000,000 dollars. As soon as this news reached
Peking, Ki Shen, who had succeeded Commissioner Lin, was dismissed from his post and degraded,
and Yi Shen, another Tatar, was appointed in his room. Before the new commissioner reached
his post Canton had fallen into the hands of Sir Hugh Gough, and shortly afterwards Amoy, Ning-po,
Tinghai in Chusan, Chapu, Shanghai and Chin-kiang Fu shared the same fate. Nanking would also
have been captured had not the imperial government, dreading the loss of the "Southern Capital,"
proposed terms of peace. Sir Henry Pottinger, who had succeeded Captain Elliot, concluded,
in 1842, a treaty with the imperial commissioners, by which the four additional ports of Amoy,
Fu-chow, Ningpo and Shanghai were declared open to foreign trade, and an indemnity of 21,000,000
dollars was to be paid to the British.

    Hien-fêng emperor.

    T'ai-p'ing rebellion.

  On the accession of Hien-fêng in 1850, a demand was raised for the
  reforms which had been hoped for under Tao-kwang, but Hien-fêng
  possessed in an exaggerated form the selfish and tyrannical nature of
  his father, together with a voluptuary's craving for every kind of
  sensual pleasure. For some time Kwang-si had been in a very disturbed
  state, and when the people found that there was no hope of relief from
  the oppression they endured, they proclaimed a youth, who was said to
  be the representative of the last emperor of the Ming dynasty, as
  emperor, under the title of T'ien-tê or "Heavenly Virtue." From
  Kwang-si the revolt spread into Hu-peh and Hu-nan, and then languished
  from want of a leader and a definite political cry. When, however,
  there appeared to be a possibility that, by force of arms and the
  persuasive influence of money, the imperialists would re-establish
  their supremacy, a leader presented himself in Kwang-si, whose energy
  of character, combined with great political and religious enthusiasm,
  speedily gained for him the suffrages of the discontented. This was
  Hung Siu-ts'üan. He proclaimed himself as sent by heaven to drive out
  the Tatars, and to restore in his own person the succession to China.
  At the same time, having been converted to Christianity and professing
  to abhor the vices and sins of the age, he called on all the virtuous
  of the land to extirpate rulers who were standing examples of all that
  was base and vile in human nature. Crowds soon flocked to his
  standard. T'ien-tê was deserted; and putting himself at the head of
  his followers (who abandoned the practice of shaving the head), Hung
  Siu-ts'üan marched northwards and captured Wu-ch'ang on the
  Yangtsze-kiang, the capital of Hu-peh. Then, moving down the river, he
  proceeded to the attack of Nanking. Without much difficulty Hung
  Siu-ts'üan in 1853 established himself within its walls, and
  proclaimed the inauguration of the T'ai-p'ing dynasty, of which he
  nominated himself the first emperor under the title of T'ien Wang or
  "Heavenly king." During the next few years his armies penetrated
  victoriously as far north as Tientsin and as far east as Chin-kiang
  and Su-chow, while bands of sympathizers with his cause appeared in
  the neighbourhood of Amoy. As if still further to aid him in his
  schemes, Great Britain declared war against the Tatar dynasty in 1857,
  in consequence of an outrage known as the "Arrow" affair (see PARKES,
  SIR HARRY SMITH). In December 1857 Canton was taken by the British,
  and a further blow was struck against the prestige of the Manchu
  dynasty by the determination of Lord Elgin, who had been sent as
  special ambassador, to go to Peking and communicate directly with the
  emperor. In May 1858 the Taku Forts were taken, and Lord Elgin went up
  the Peiho to Tientsin en route for the capital. At Tientsin,
  however, imperial commissioners persuaded him to conclude a treaty
  with them on the spot, which treaty it was agreed should be ratified
  at Peking in the following year. When, however, Sir Frederick Bruce,
  who had been appointed minister to the court of Peking, attempted to
  pass Taku to carry out this arrangement, the vessels escorting him
  were treacherously fired on from the forts and he was compelled to
  return. Thereupon Lord Elgin was again sent out with full powers,
  accompanied by a large force under the command of Sir Hope Grant. The
  French (to seek reparation for the murder of a missionary in Kwang-si)
  took part in the campaign, and on the 1st of August 1860 the allies
  landed without meeting with any opposition at Pei-tang, a village 12
  m. north of Taku. A few days later the forts at that place were taken,
  and thence the allies marched to Peking. Finding further resistance to
  be hopeless, the Chinese opened negotiations, and as a guarantee of
  their good faith surrendered the An-ting gate of the capital to the
  allies. On the 24th of October 1860 the treaty of 1858 was ratified by
  Prince Kung and Lord Elgin, and a convention was signed under the
  terms of which the Chinese agreed to pay a war indemnity of 8,000,000
  taels. The right of Europeans to travel in the interior was granted
  and freedom guaranteed to the preaching of Christianity. The customs
  tariff then agreed upon legalized the import of opium, though the
  treaty of 1858, like that of 1842, was silent on the subject.

  Great Britain and France were not the only powers of Europe with whom
  Hien-fêng was called to deal. On the northern border of the empire
  Russia began to exercise pressure. Russia had begun to colonize the
  lower Amur region, and was pressing towards the Pacific. This was a
  remote region, only part of the Chinese empire since the Manchu
  conquest, and by treaties of 1858 and 1860 China ceded to Russia all
  its territory north of the Amur and between the Ussuri and the Pacific
  (see AMUR, province). The Russians in their newly acquired land
  founded the port of Vladivostok (q.v.).

    T'ung-chi emperor; dowager empress regent.

  Hien-fêng died in the summer of the year 1861, leaving the throne to
  his son T'ung-chi (1861-1875), a child of five years old, whose
  mother, Tsz'e Hsi (1834-1908), had been raised from the place of
  favourite concubine to that of Imperial Consort. The legitimate
  empress, Tsz'e An, was childless, and the two dowagers became joint
  regents. The conclusion of peace with the allies was the signal for a
  renewal of the campaign against the T'ai-p'ings, and, benefiting by
  the friendly feelings of the British authorities engendered by the
  return of amicable relations, the Chinese government succeeded in
  enlisting Major Charles George Gordon (q.v.) of the Royal Engineers in
  their service. In a suprisingly short space of time this officer
  formed the troops, which had formerly been under the command of an
  American named Ward, into a formidable army, and without delay took
  the field against the rebels. From that day the fortunes of the
  T'ai-p'ings declined. They lost city after city, and, finally in July
  1864, the imperialists, after an interval of twelve years, once more
  gained possession of Nanking. T'ien Wang committed suicide on the
  capture of his capital, and with him fell his cause. Those of his
  followers who escaped the sword dispersed throughout the country, and
  the T'ai-p'ings ceased to be.

  With the measure of peace which was then restored to the country trade
  rapidly revived, except in Yun-nan, where the Mahommedan rebels, known
  as Panthays, under Suleiman, still kept the imperial forces at bay.
  Against these foes the government was careless to take active
  measures, until in 1872 Prince Hassan, the adopted son of Suleiman,
  was sent to England to gain the recognition of the queen for his
  father's government. This step aroused the susceptibilities of the
  imperial government, and a large force was despatched to the scene of
  the rebellion. Before the year was out the Mahommedan capital Ta-li Fu
  fell into the hands of the imperialists, and the followers of Suleiman
  were mercilessly exterminated. In February 1873 the two dowager
  empresses resigned their powers as regents. This long-expected time
  was seized upon by the foreign ministers to urge their right of
  audience with the emperor, and on the 29th of June 1873 tne privilege
  of gazing on the "sacred countenance" was accorded them.

    Accession of Kwang-su, 1875.

  The emperor T'ung-chi died without issue, and the succession to the
  throne, for the first time in the annals of the Ts'ing dynasty, passed
  out of the direct line. As already stated, the first emperor of the
  Ts'ing dynasty, Shih-tsu Hwangti, on gaining possession of the throne
  on the fall of the Ming, or "Great Bright" dynasty, adopted the title
  of Shun-chi for his reign, which began in the year 1644. The legendary
  progenitor of these Manchu rulers was Aisin Gioro, whose name is said
  to point to the fact of his having been related to the race of
  Nü-chih, or Kin, i.e. Golden Tatars, who reigned in northern China
  during the 12th and 13th centuries. K'ang-hi (1661-1722) was the third
  son of Shun-chi; Yung-chêng (1722-1735) was the fourth son of
  K'ang-hi; K'ien-lung (1736-1795) was the fourth son of Yung-chêng;
  Kia-k'ing (1796-1820) was the fifteenth son of K'ien-lung; Tao-Kwang
  (1821-1850) was the second son of Kia-k'ing; Hien-fêng (1851-1861) was
  the fourth of the nine sons who were born to the emperor Tao-kwang;
  and T'ung-chi (1862-1875) was the only son of Hien-fêng. The choice
  now fell upon Tsai-t'ien (as he was called at birth), the infant son
  (born August 2, 1872) of Yi-huan, Prince Chun, the seventh son of the
  emperor Tao-kwang and brother of the emperor Hien-fêng; his mother was
  a sister of the empress Tsz'e Hsi, who, with the aid of Li Hung-chang,
  obtained his adoption and proclamation as emperor, under the title of
  Kwang-su, "Succession of Glory."

    Imperial family nomenclature and rank.

  In order to prevent the confusion which would arise among the princes
  of the imperial house were they each to adopt an arbitrary name, the
  emperor K'ang-hi decreed that each of his twenty-four sons should have
  a personal name consisting of two characters, the first of which
  should be Yung, and the second should be compounded with the
  determinative shih, "to manifest," an arrangement which would, as
  has been remarked, find an exact parallel in a system by which the
  sons in an English family might be called Louis Edward, Louis
  Edwin, Louis Edwy, Louis Edgar and so on. This device obtained
  also in the next generation, all the princes of which had Hung for
  their first name, and the emperor K'ien-lung (1736-1795) extended it
  into a system, and directed that the succeeding generations should
  take the four characters Yung, Mien, Yih and Tsai
  respectively, as the first part of their names. Eight other
  characters, namely, P'u, Yu, Hêng, K'i, Tao, K'ai,
  Tsêng, Ki, were subsequently added, thus providing generic names
  for twelve generations. With the generation represented by Kwang-su
  the first four characters were exhausted, and any sons of the emperor
  Kwang-su would therefore have been called P'u. By the ceremonial law
  of the "Great Pure" dynasty, twelve degrees of rank are distributed
  among the princes of the imperial house, and are as follows: (1)
  Ho-shih Tsin Wang, prince of the first order; (2) To-lo Keun Wang,
  prince of the second order; (3) To-lo Beileh, prince of the third
  order; (4) Ku-shan Beitsze, prince of the fourth order; 5 to 8, Kung,
  or duke (with distinctive designations); 9 to 12, Tsiang-keun, general
  (with distinctive designations). The sons of emperors usually receive
  patents of the first or second order on their reaching manhood, and on
  their sons is bestowed the title of Beileh. A Beileh's sons become
  Beitsze; a Beitsze's sons become Kung, and so on.    (R. K. D.; X.)

(D)--From 1875 to 1901.

  The two dowager-empresses.

The accession to the throne of Kwang-su in January 1875 attracted little notice outside China,
as the supreme power continued to be vested in the two dowager-empresses--the empress Tsz'e
An, principal wife of the emperor Hien-fêng, and the empress Tsz'e Hsi, secondary wife of the
same emperor, and mother of the emperor T'ung-chi. Yet there were circumstances connected with
the emperor Kwang-su's accession which might well have arrested attention. The emperor T'ung-chi,
who had himself succumbed to an ominously brief and mysterious illness, left a young widow
in an advanced state of pregnancy, and had she given birth to a male child her son would have
been the rightful heir to the throne. But even before she sickened and died--of grief, it was
officially stated, at the loss of her imperial spouse--the dowager-empresses had solved the
question of the succession by placing Kwang-su on the throne, a measure which was not only
in itself arbitrary, but also in direct conflict with one of the most sacred of Chinese traditions.
The solemn rites of ancestor-worship, incumbent on every Chinaman, and, above all, upon the
emperor, can only be properly performed by a member of a younger generation than those whom
it is his duty to honour. The emperor Kwang-su, being a first cousin to the emperor T'ung-chi,
was not therefore qualified to offer up the customary sacrifices before the ancestral tablets
of his predecessor. The accession of an infant in the place of T'ung-Tchi achieved, however,
for the time being what was doubtless the paramount object of the policy of the two empresses,
namely, their undisturbed tenure of the regency, in which the junior empress Tsz'e Hsi, a woman
of unquestionable ability and boundless ambition, had gradually become the predominant partner.

  Murder of Mr Margary.

The first question that occupied the attention of the government under the new reign was one
of the gravest importance, and nearly led to a war with Great Britain. The Indian government
was desirous of seeing the old trade relations between Burma and the south-west provinces,
which had been interrupted by the Yun-nan rebellion, re-established, and for that purpose proposed
to send a mission across the frontier into China. The Peking government assented and issued
passports for the party, which was under the command of Colonel Browne. Mr A.R. Margary, a
young and promising member of the China consular service, who was told off to accompany the
expedition as interpreter, was treacherously murdered by Chinese at the small town of Manwyne
and almost simultaneously an attack was made on the expedition by armed forces wearing Chinese
uniform (January 1875). Colonel Browne with difficulty made his way back to Bhamo and the expedition
was abandoned.

  Chifu convention 1876.

Tedious negotiations followed, and, more than eighteen months after the outrage, an arrangement
was come to on the basis of guarantees for the future, rather than vengeance for the past.
The arrangement was embodied in the Chifu convention, dated 13th September 1876. The terms
of the settlement comprised (1) a mission of apology from China to the British court; (2) the
promulgation throughout the length and breadth of the empire of an imperial proclamation, setting
out the right of foreigners to travel under passport, and the obligation of the authorities
to protect them; and (3) the payment of indemnity. Additional articles were subsequently signed
in London relative to the collection of likin on Indian opium and other matters.

  Revolt in Central Asia.

  Imperial consolidation.

Simultaneously with the outbreak of the Mahommedan rebellion in Yun-nan, a similar disturbance
had arisen in the north-west provinces of Shen-si and Kan-suh. This was followed by a revolt
of the whole of the Central Asian tribes, which for two thousand years had more or less acknowledged
the imperial sway. In Kashgaria a nomad chief named Yakub Beg, otherwise known as the Atalik
Gh[=a]zi, had made himself amir, and seemed likely to establish a strong rule. The fertile
province of Kulja or Ili, lying to the north of the T'ianshan range, was taken possession of
by Russia in 1871 in order to put a stop to the prevailing anarchy, but with a promise that
when China should have succeeded in re-establishing order in her Central Asian dominions it
should be given back. The interest which was taken in the rebellion in Central Asia by the
European powers, notably by the sultan of Turkey and the British government, aroused the Chinese
to renewed efforts to recover their lost territories, and, as in the case of the similar crisis
in Yun-nan, they undertook the task with sturdy deliberation. They borrowed money--£1,600,000--for
the expenses of the expedition, this being the first appearance of China as a borrower in the
foreign markets, and appointed the viceroy, Tso Tsung-t'ang, commander-in-chief. By degrees
the emperor's authority was established from the confines of Kan-suh to Kashgar and Yarkand,
and Chinese garrisons were stationed in touch with the Russian outpost in the region of the
Pamirs (December 1877). Russia was now called upon to restore Kulja, China being in a position
to maintain order. China despatched Chung-how, a Manchu of the highest rank, who had been notoriously
concerned in the Tientsin massacre of 1870, to St Petersburg to negotiate a settlement. After
some months of discussion a document was signed (September 1879), termed the treaty of Livadia,
whereby China recovered, not indeed the whole, but a considerable portion of the territory,
on her paying to Russia five million roubles as the cost of occupation. The treaty was, however,
received with a storm of indignation in China. Memorials poured in from all sides denouncing
the treaty and its author. Foremost among these was one by Chang Chih-tung, who afterwards
became the most distinguished of the viceroys, and governor-general of Hu-peh and Hu-nan provinces.
Prince Chun, the emperor's father, came into prominence at this juncture as an advocate for
war, and under these combined influences the unfortunate Chung-how was tried and condemned
to death (3rd of March 1880). For some months warlike preparations went on, and the outbreak
of hostilities was imminent. In the end, however, calmer counsels prevailed. It was decided
to send the Marquis Tseng, who in the meantime had become minister in London, to Russia to
negotiate. A new treaty which still left Russia in possession of part of the Ili valley was
ratified on the 19th of August 1881. The Chinese government could now contemplate the almost
complete recovery of the whole extensive dominions which had at any time owned the imperial
sway. The regions directly administered by the officers of the emperor extended from the borders
of Siberia on the north to Annam and Burma on the south, and from the Pacific Ocean on the
east to Kashgar and Yarkand on the west. There was also a fringe of tributary nations which
still kept up the ancient forms of allegiance, and which more or less acknowledged the dominioi
of the central kingdom. The principal tributary nations then were Korea, Lu-chu, Annam, Burma
and Nepal.

  Korea and Japan.

Korea was the first of the dependencies to come into notice. In 1866 some Roman Catholic missionaries
were murdered, and about the same time an American vessel was burnt in one of the rivers and
her crew murdered. China refused satisfaction; both to France and America, and suffered reprisals
to be made on Korea without protest. America and Japan both desired to conclude commercial
treaties for the opening up of Korea, and proposed to negotiate with China. China refused and
referred them to the Korean government direct, saying she was not wont to interfere in the
affairs of her vassal states. As a result Japan concluded a treaty in 1876, in which the independence
of Korea was expressly recognized. This was allowed to pass without protest, but as other nations
proceeded to conclude treaties on the same terms China began to perceive her mistake, and endeavoured
to tack on to each a declaration by the king that he was in fact a tributary--a declaration,
however, which was quietly ignored. Japan, however, was the only power with which controversy
immediately arose. In 1882 a faction fight, which had long been smouldering, broke out, headed
by the king's father, the Tai Won Kun, in the course of which the Japanese legation was attacked
and the whole Japanese colony had to flee for their lives. China sent troops, and by adroitly
kidnapping the Tai Won Kun, order was for a time restored. The Japanese legation was replaced,
but under the protection of a strong body of Japanese troops. Further revolutions and riots
followed, in which the troops of the two countries took sides, and there was imminent danger
of war. To obviate this risk, it was agreed in 1885 between Count Ito and Li Hung-Chang that
both sides should withdraw their troops, the king being advised to engage officers of a third
state to put his army on such a footing as would maintain order, and each undertook to give
the other notice should it be found necessary to send troops again. In this way a modus vivendi
was established which lasted till 1894.

  Domestic affairs, 1875-1882.

We can only glance briefly at the domestic affairs of China during the period 1875-1882. The
years 1877-1878 were marked by a famine in Shan-si and Shan-tung, which for duration and intensity
has probably never been equalled. It was computed that 12 or 13 millions perished. It was vainly
hoped that this loss of life, due mainly to defective commumcations, would induce the Chinese
government to listen to proposals for railway construction. The Russian scare had, however,
taught the Chinese the value of telegraphs, and in 1881 the first line was laid from Tientsin
to Shanghai. Further construction was continued without intermission from this date. A beginning
also was made in naval affairs. The arsenal at Fuchow was turning out small composite gunboats,
a training ship was bought and put under the command of a British officer. Several armoured
cruisers were ordered from England, and some progress was made with the fortifications of Port
Arthur and Wei-hai-wei. Forts were also built and guns mounted at Fuchow, Shanghai, Canton
and other vulnerable points. Money for these purposes was abundantly supplied by the customs
duties on foreign trade, and China had learnt that at need she could borrow from the foreign
banks on the security of this revenue.

In 1881 the senior regent, the empress Tsz'e An, was carried off by a sudden attack of heart
disease, and the empress Tsz'e Hsi remained in undivided possession of the supreme power during
the remainder of the emperor Kwang-su's minority. Li Hung-Chang, firmly established at Tientsin,
within easy reach of the capital, as viceroy of the home province of Chih-li and superintendent
of northern trade, enjoyed a larger share of his imperial mistress's favour than was often
granted by the ruling Manchus to officials of Chinese birth, and in all the graver questions
of foreign policy his advice was generally decisive.

  Tongking and Hanoi.

While the dispute with Japan was still going on regarding Korea, China found herself involved
in a more serious quarrel in respect of another tributary state which lay on the southern frontier.
By a treaty made between France and Annam in 1874, the Red river or Songkoi, which rising in-south-western
China, flows through Tongking, was opened to trade, together with the cities of Haiphong and
Hanoi situated on the delta. The object of the French was to find a trade route to Yun-nan
and Sze-ch'uen from a base of their own, and it was hoped the Red river would furnish such
a route. Tongking at this time, however, was infested with bands of pirates and cut-throats,
many of whom were Chinese rebels or ex-rebels who had been driven across the frontier by the
suppression of the Yun-nan and Taiping rebellions, conspicuous among them being an organization
called the Black Flags. And when in 1882 France sent troops to Tongking to restore order (the
Annamese government having failed to fulfil its promises in that respect) China began to protest,
claiming that Annam was a vassal state and under her protection.

    Troubles with France.

  France took no notice of the protest, declaring that the claim had
  merely an archaeological interest, and that, in any case, China in
  military affairs was a quantité négligeable. France found, however,
  that she had undertaken a very serious task in trying to put down the
  forces of disorder (see TONGKING). The Black Flags were, it was
  believed, being aided by money and arms from China, and as time went
  on, the French were more and more being confronted with regular
  Chinese soldiers. Several forts, well within the Tongking frontier,
  were known to be garrisoned by Chinese troops. Operations continued
  with more or less success during the winter and spring of 1883-1884.
  Both sides, however, were desirous of an arrangement, and in May 1884
  a convention was signed between Li Hung-Chang and a Captain Fournier,
  who had been commissioned ad hoc, whereby China agreed to withdraw
  her garrisons and to open her frontiers to trade, France agreeing, on
  her part, to respect the fiction of Chinese suzerainty, and guarantee
  the frontier from attack by brigands. No date had been fixed in the
  convention for the evacuation of the Chinese garrisons, and Fournier
  endeavoured to supplement this by a memorandum to Li Hung-Chang, at
  the same time announcing the fact to his government. In pursuance of
  this arrangement the French troops proceeded to occupy Langson on the
  date fixed (21st June 1884). The Chinese commandant refused to
  evacuate, alleging, in a despatch which no one in the French camp was
  competent to translate, that he had received no orders, and begged for
  a short delay to enable him to communicate with his superiors. The
  French commandant ordered an attack, which was repulsed with severe
  loss. Mutual recriminations ensued. From Paris there came a demand for
  a huge indemnity as reparation for the insult. The Peking government
  offered to carry out the convention, and to pay a small indemnity for
  the lives lost through the misunderstanding. This was refused, and
  hostilities recommenced, or, as the French preferred to call them,
  reprisals, for the fiction was still kept up that the two countries
  were not at war. Under cover of this fiction the French fleet
  peaceably entered the harbour of Fuchow, having passed the forts at
  the entrance to the river without hindrance. Once inside, they
  attacked and destroyed the much inferior Chinese fleet which was then
  quietly at anchor, destroying at the same time a large part of the
  arsenal which adjoins the anchorage (23rd August 1884). Retracing its
  steps, the French fleet attacked and destroyed with impunity the forts
  which were built to guard the entrance to the Min river, and could
  offer no resistance to a force coming from the rear. After this
  exploit the French fleet left the mainland and continued its reprisals
  on the coast of Formosa. Kelung, a treaty port, was bombarded and
  taken, October 4th. A similar attempt, however, on the neighbouring
  port of Tamsui was unsuccessful, the landing party having been driven
  back to their ships with severe loss. The attempt was not renewed, and
  the fleet thereafter confined itself to a semi-blockade of the island,
  which was prolonged into 1885 but led to no practical results.
  Negotiations for peace, however, which had been for some time in
  progress through the mediation of Sir Robert Hart, were at this
  juncture happily concluded (April 1885). The terms were practically
  those of the Fournier convention of the year before, the demand for an
  indemnity having been quietly dropped.

  Increased prestige of China.

China, on the whole, came out of the struggle with greatly increased prestige. She had tried
conclusions with a first-class European power and had held her own. Incorrect conclusions as
to the military strength of China were consequently drawn, not merely by the Chinese themselves--which
was excusable--but by European and even British authorities, who ought to have been better
informed. War vessels were ordered by China both from England and Germany, and Admiral Lang,
who had withdrawn his services while the war was going on, was re-engaged together with a number
of British officers and instructors. The completion of the works at Port Arthur was taken in
hand, and a beginning was made in the construction of forts at Wei-hai-wei as a second naval
base. A new department was created for the control of naval affairs, at the head of which was
placed Prince Chun, father of the emperor, who since the downfall of Prince Kung in 1884 had
been taking a more and more prominent part in public affairs.

  1885-1894.

From 1885 to 1894 the political history of China does not call for extended notice. Two incidents,
however, must be recorded, (1) the conclusion in 1886 of a convention with Great Britain, in
which the Chinese government undertook to recognize British sovereignty in Burma, and (2) the
temporary occupation of Port Hamilton by the British fleet (May 1885-February 1887). In 1890
Admiral Lang resigned his command of the Chinese fleet. During a temporary absence of Lang's
colleague, Admiral Ting, the Chinese second in command, claimed the right to take charge--a
claim which Admiral Lang naturally resented. The question was referred to Li Hung-Chang, who
decided against Lang, whereupon the latter threw up his commission. From this point the fleet
on which so much depended began to deteriorate. Superior officers again began to steal the
men's pays, the ships were starved, shells filled with charcoal instead of powder were supplied,
accounts were cooked, and all the corruption and malfeasance that were rampant in the army
crept back into the navy.

  War with Japan, 1894.

  European intervention.

The year 1894 witnessed the outbreak of the war with Japan. In the spring, complications again
arose with Japan over Korea, and hostilities began in July. The story of the war is told elsewhere
(see CHINO-JAPANESE WAR), and it is unnecessary here to recount the details of the decisive
victory of Japan. A new power had arisen in the Far East, and when peace was signed by Li Hung-Chang
at Shimonoseki on the 17th of April 1895 it meant the beginning of a new epoch. The terms included
the cession of Liao-tung peninsula, then in actual occupation by the Japanese troops, the cession
of Formosa, an indemnity of H. taels 200,000,000 (about £30,000,000) and various commercial
privileges.

The signature of this treaty brought the European powers on the scene. It had been for some
time the avowed ambition of Russia to obtain an ice-free port as an outlet to her Siberian
possessions--an ambition which was considered by British statesmen as not unreasonable. It
did not, therefore, at all suit her purposes to see the rising power of Japan commanding the
whole of the coast-line of Korea. Accordingly in the interval between the signature and the
ratification of the treaty, invitations were addressed by Russia to the great powers to intervene
with a view to its modification on the ground of the disturbance of the balance of power, and
the menace to China which the occupation of Port Arthur by the Japanese would involve. France
and Germany accepted the invitation, Great Britain declined. In the end the three powers brought
such pressure to bear on Japan that she gave up the whole of her continental acquisitions,
retaining only the island of Formosa. The indemnity was on the other hand increased by H. taels
30,000,000. For the time the integrity of China seemed to be preserved, and Russia, France
and Germany could pose as her friends. Evidence was, however, soon forthcoming that Russia
and France had not been disinterested in rescuing Chinese territory from the Japanese grasp.
Russia now obtained the right to carry the Siberian railway across Chinese territory from Stryetensk
to Vladivostok, thus avoiding a long détour, besides giving a grasp on northern Manchuria.
France obtained, by a convention dated the 20th of June 1895, a rectification of frontier in
the Mekong valley and certain railway and mining rights in Kiang-si and Yun-nan. Both powers
obtained concessions of land at Hankow for the purposes of a settlement. Russia was also said
to have negotiated a secret treaty, frequently described as the "Cassini Convention," but more
probably signed by Li Hung-Chang at Moscow, giving her the right in certain contingencies to
Port Arthur, which was to be refortified with Russian assistance. And by way of further securing
her hold, Russia guaranteed a 4% loan of £15,000,000 issued in Paris to enable China to pay
off the first instalment of the Japanese indemnity.

  Mekong valley dispute, 1895.

The convention between France and China of the 20th of June 1895 brought China into sharp conflict
with Great Britain. China, having by the Burma convention of 1886 agreed to recognize British
sovereignty over Burma, her quondam feudatory, also agreed to a delimitation of boundaries
at the proper time. Effect was given to this last stipulation by a subsequent convention concluded
in London (1st of March 1894), which traced the boundary line from the Shan states on the west
as far as the Mekong river on the east. In the Mekong valley there were two semi-independent
native territories over which suzerainty had been claimed in times gone by both by the kings
of Ava and by the Chinese emperors. These territories were named Meng Lun and Kiang Hung--the
latter lying partly on one side and partly on the other of the Mekong river, south of the point
where it issues from Chinese territory. The boundary line was so drawn as to leave both these
territories to China, but it was stipulated that China should not alienate any portion of these
territories to any other power without the previous consent of Great Britain. Yielding to French
pressure, and regardless of the undertaking she had entered into with Great Britain, China,
in the convention with France in June 1895, so drew the boundary line as to cede to France
that portion of the territory of Kiang Hung which lay on the left bank of the Mekong. Compensation
was demanded by Great Britain from China for this breach of faith, and at the same time negotiations
were entered into with France. These resulted in a joint declaration by the governments of
France and Great Britain, dated the 15th of January 1896, by which it was agreed as regards
boundary that the Mekong from the point of its confluence with the Nam Huk northwards as far
as the Chinese frontier should be the dividing line between the possessions or spheres of influence
of the two powers. It was also agreed that any commercial privileges obtained by either power
in Yun-nan or Sze-ch'uen should be open to the subjects of the other. The negotiations with
China resulted in a further agreement, dated the 4th of February 1897, whereby considerable
modifications in favour of Great Britain were made in the Burma boundary drawn by the 1894
convention.

  Kiaochow, Port Arthur, Wei-hai-wei.

While Russia and France were profiting by what they were pleased to call the generosity of
China, Germany alone had so far received no reward for her share in compelling the retrocession
of Liao-tung; but, in November 1897, she proceeded to help herself by seizing the Bay of Kiaochow
in the province of Shan-tung. The act was done ostensibly in order to compel satisfaction for
the murder of two German missionaries. A cession was ultimately made by way of a lease for
a term of ninety-nine years--Germany to have full territorial jurisdiction during the continuance
of the lease, with liberty to erect fortifications, build docks, and exercise all the rights
of sovereignty. In December the Russian fleet was sent to winter in Port Arthur, and though
this was at first described as a temporary measure, its object was speedily disclosed by a
request made, in January 1898, by the Russian ambassador in London that two British cruisers,
then also anchored at Port Arthur, should be withdrawn "in order to avoid friction in the Russian
sphere of influence." They left shortly afterwards, and their departure in the circumstances
was regarded as a blow to Great Britain's prestige in the Far East. In March the Russian government
peremptorily demanded a lease of Port Arthur and the adjoining anchorage of Talienwan--a demand
which China could not resist without foreign support. After an acrimonious correspondence with
the Russian government Great Britain acquiesced in the fait accompli. The Russian occupation
of Port Arthur was immediately followed by a concession to build a line of railway from that
point northwards to connect with the Siberian trunk line in north Manchuria. As a counterpoise
to the growth of Russian influence in the north, Great Britain obtained a lease of Wei-hai-wei,
and formally took possession of it on its evacuation by the Japanese troops in May 1898.

  "Open door," and "spheres of influence."

After much hesitation the Chinese government had at last resolved to permit the construction
of railways with foreign capital. A keen competition thereupon ensued between syndicates of
different nationalities, and their claims being espoused by their various governments, an equally
keen international rivalry was set up. Great Britain, though intimating her preference for
the "open door" policy, meaning equal opportunity for all, yet found herself compelled to fall
in with the general movement towards what became known as the "spheres of influence" policy,
and claimed the Yangtsze valley as her particular sphere. This she did by the somewhat negative
method of obtaining from the Chinese government a declaration that no part of the Yangtsze
valley should be alienated to any foreign power. A more formal recognition of the claim, as
far as railway enterprise was concerned, was embodied in an agreement (28th of April 1899)
between Great Britain and Russia, and communicated to the Chinese government, whereby the Russian
government agreed not to seek for any concessions within the Yangtsze valley, including all
the provinces bordering on the great river, together with Cheh-kiang and Ho-nan, the British
government entering into a similar undertaking in regard to the Chinese dominions north of
the Great Wall.[50]

  In 1899 Talienwan and Kiaochow were respectively thrown open by Russia
  and Germany to foreign trade, and, encouraged by these measures, the
  United States government initiated in September of the same year a
  correspondence with the great European powers and Japan, with a view
  to securing their definite adhesion to the "open door" policy. The
  British government gave an unqualified approval to the American
  proposal, and the replies of the other powers, though more guarded,
  were accepted at Washington as satisfactory. A further and more
  definite step towards securing the maintenance of the "open door" in
  China was the agreement concluded in October 1900 between the British
  and German governments. The signatories, by the first two articles,
  agreed to endeavour to keep the ports on the rivers and littoral free
  and open to international trade and economic activity, and to uphold
  this rule for all Chinese territory as far as (wo in the German
  counterpart) they could exercise influence; not to use the existing
  complications to obtain territorial advantages in Chinese dominions,
  and to seek to maintain undiminished the territorial condition of the
  Chinese empire. By a third article they reserved their right to come
  to a preliminary understanding for the protection of their interests
  in China, should any other power use those complications to obtain
  such territorial advantages under any form whatever. On the submission
  of the agreement to the powers interested, Austria, France, Italy and
  Japan accepted its principles without express reservation--Japan first
  obtaining assurances that she signed on the same footing as an
  original signatory. The United States accepted the first two articles,
  but expressed no opinion on the third. Russia construed the first as
  limited to ports actually open in regions where the two signatories
  exercise "their" influence, and favourably entertained it in that
  sense, ignoring the reference to other forms of economic activity. She
  fully accepted the second, and observed that in the contingency
  contemplated by the third, she would modify her attitude according to
  circumstances.

  Meanwhile, negotiations carried on by the British minister at Peking
  during 1898 resulted in the grant of very important privileges to
  foreign commerce. The payment of the second instalment of the Japanese
  indemnity was becoming due, and it was much discussed how and on what
  terms China would be able to raise the amount. The Russian government,
  as has been stated, had made China a loan of the sum required for the
  first portion of the indemnity, viz. £15,000,000, taking a charge on
  the customs revenue as security. The British government was urged to
  make a like loan of £16,000,000 both as a matter of friendship to
  China and as a counterpoise to the Russian influence. An arrangement
  was come to accordingly, on very favourable terms financially to the
  Chinese, but at the last moment they drew back, being overawed, as
  they said, by the threatening attitude of Russia. Taking advantage of
  the position which this refusal gave him, the British minister
  obtained from the Tsung-Li-Yamen, besides the declaration as to the
  non-alienation of the Yangtsze valley above mentioned, an undertaking
  to throw the whole of the inland waterways open to steam traffic. The
  Chinese government at the same time undertook that the post of
  inspector-general of customs (then held by Sir Robert Hart) should
  always be held by an Englishman so long as the trade of Great Britain
  was greater than that of any other nation. Minor concessions were also
  made, but the opening of the waterways was by far the greatest advance
  that had been made since 1860.

  Of still greater importance were the railway and mining concessions
  granted during the same year (1898). The Chinese government had been
  generally disposed to railway construction since the conclusion of the
  Japanese War, but hoped to be able to retain the control in their own
  hands. The masterful methods of Russia and Germany had obliged them to
  surrender this control so far as concerned Manchuria and Shan-tung. In
  the Yangtsze valley, Sheng, the director-general of railways, had been
  negotiating with several competing syndicates. One of these was a
  Franco-Belgian syndicate, which was endeavouring to obtain the trunk
  line from Hankow to Peking. A British company was tendering for the
  same work, and as the line lay mainly within the British sphere it was
  considered not unreasonable to expect it should be given to the
  latter. At a critical moment, however, the French and Russian
  ministers intervened, and practically forced the Yamen to grant a
  contract in favour of the Franco-Belgian company. The Yamen had a few
  days before explicitly promised the British minister that the contract
  should not be ratified without his having an opportunity of seeing it.
  As a penalty for this breach of faith, and as a set-off to the
  Franco-Belgian line, the British minister required the immediate grant
  of all the railway concessions for which British syndicates were then
  negotiating, and on terms not inferior to those granted to the Belgian
  line. In this way all the lines in the lower Yangtsze, as also the
  Shan-si Mining Companies' lines, were secured. A contract for a trunk
  line from Canton to Hankow was negotiated in the latter part of 1898
  by an American company.

  The reform movement, 1898

There can be little doubt that the powers, engrossed in the diplomatic conflicts of which Peking
was the centre, had entirely underrated the reactionary forces gradually mustering for a struggle
against the aggressive spirit of Western civilization. The lamentable consequences of administrative
corruption and incompetence, and the superiority of foreign methods which had been amply illustrated
by the Japanese War, had at first produced a considerable impression, not only upon the more
enlightened commercial classes, but even upon many of the younger members of the official classes
in China. The dowager-empress, who, in spite of the emperor Kwang-su having nominally attained
his majority, had retained practical control of the supreme power until the conflict with Japan,
had been held, not unjustly, to blame for the disasters of the war, and even before its conclusion
the young emperor was adjured by some of the most responsible among his own subjects to shake
himself free from the baneful restraint of "petticoat government," and himself take the helm.
In the following years a reform movement, undoubtedly genuine, though opinions differ as to
the value of the popular support which it claimed, spread throughout the central and southern
provinces of the empire. One of the most significant symptoms was the relatively large demand
which suddenly arose for the translations of foreign works and similar publications in the
Chinese language which philanthropic societies, such as that "for the Diffusion of Christian
and General Knowledge amongst the Chinese," had been trying for some time past to popularize,
though hitherto with scant success. Chinese newspapers published in the treaty ports spread
the ferment of new ideas far into the interior. Fifteen hundred young men of good family applied
to enter the foreign university at Peking, and in some of the provincial towns the Chinese
themselves subscribed towards the opening of foreign schools. Reform societies, which not infrequently
enjoyed official countenance, sprang up in many of the large towns, and found numerous adherents
amongst the younger literati. Early in 1898 the emperor, who had gradually emancipated himself
from the dowager-empress's control, summoned several of the reform leaders to Peking, and requested
their advice with regard to the progressive measures which should be introduced into the government
of the empire. Chief amongst these reformers was Kang Yu-wei, a Cantonese, whose scholarly
attainments, combined with novel teachings, earned for him from his followers the title of
the "Modern Sage." Of his more or less active sympathizers who had subsequently to suffer with
him in the cause of reform, the most prominent were Chang Yin-huan, a member of the grand council
and of the Tsung-Li-Yamen, who had represented his sovereign at Queen Victoria's jubilee in
1897; Chin Pao-chen, governor of Hu-nan; Liang Chichao, the editor of the reformers' organ,
Chinese Progress; Su Chiching, a reader of the Hanlin College, the educational stronghold of
Chinese conservatism; and his son Su In-chi, also a Hanlin man, and provincial chancellor of
public instruction in Hu-nan.

It soon became evident, that there was no more enthusiastic advocate of the new ideas than
the emperor himself. Within a few months the vermilion pencil gave the imperial sanction to
a succession of edicts which, had they been carried into effect, would have amounted to a revolution
as far-reaching as that which had transformed Japan thirty years previously. The fossilized
system of examinations for the public service was to be altogether superseded by a new schedule
based on foreign learning, for the better promotion of which a number of temples were to be
converted into schools for Western education; a state department was to be created for the
translation and dissemination of the standard works of Western literature and science; even
the scions of the ruling Manchu race were to be compelled to study foreign languages and travel
abroad; and last, but not least, all useless offices both in Peking and in the provinces were
to be abolished. A further edict was even reported to be in contemplation, doing away with
the queue or pigtail, which, originally imposed upon the Chinese by their Manchu conquerors
as a badge of subjection, had gradually become the most characteristic and most cherished feature
of the national dress. But the bureaucracy of China, which had battened for centuries on corruption
and ignorance, had no taste for self-sacrifice. Other vested interests felt themselves equally
threatened, and behind them stood the whole latent force of popular superstition and unreasoning
conservatism.

  The Empress's coup d'état.

The dowager-empress saw her opportunity. The Summer Palace, to which she had retired, had been
for some time the centre of resistance to the new movement, and in the middle of September
1898 a report became current that, in order to put an end to the obstruction which hampered
his reform policy, the emperor intended to seize the person of the dowager-empress and have
her deported into the interior. Some colour was given to this report by an official announcement
that the emperor would hold a review of the foreign-drilled troops at Tientsin, and had summoned
Yuan Shihkai, their general, to Peking in order to confer with him on the necessary arrangements.
But the reformers had neglected to secure the goodwill of the army, which was still entirely
in the hands of the reactionaries. During the night of the 20th of September the palace of
the emperor was occupied by the soldiers, and on the following day Kwang-su, who was henceforth
virtually a prisoner in the hands of the empress, was made to issue an edict restoring her
regency. Kang Yu-wei, warned at the last moment by an urgent message from the emperor, succeeded
in escaping, but many of the most prominent reformers were arrested, and six of them were promptly
executed. The Peking Gazette announced a few days later that the emperor himself was dangerously
ill, and his life might well have been despaired of had not the British minister represented
in very emphatic terms the serious consequences which might ensue if anything happened to him.
Drastic measures were, however, adopted to stamp out the reform movement in the provinces as
well as in the capital. The reform edicts were cancelled, the reformers' associations were
dissolved, their newspapers suppressed, and those who did not care to save themselves by a
hasty recantation of their errors were imprisoned, proscribed or exiled. In October the reaction
had already been accompanied by such a recrudescence of anti-foreign feeling that the foreign
ministers at Peking had to bring up guards from the fleet for the protection of the legations,
and to demand the removal from the capital of the disorderly Kan-suh soldiery which subsequently
played so sinister a part in the troubles of June 1900. But the unpleasant impression produced
by these incidents was in a great measure removed by the demonstrative reception which the
empress Tsz'e Hsi gave on the 15th of October to the wives of the foreign representatives--an
act of courtesy unprecedented in the annals of the Chinese court.

  The Boxer movement, 1900.

The reactionary tide continued to rise throughout the year 1899, but it did not appear materially
to affect the foreign relations of China. Towards the end of the year the brutal murder of
Mr Brooks, an English missionary, in Shan-tung, had compelled attention to a popular movement
which had been spreading rapidly throughout that province and the adjoining one of Chih-li
with the connivance of certain high officials, if not under their direct patronage. The origin
of the "Boxer" movement is obscure. Its name is derived from a literal translation of the Chinese
designation, "the fist of righteous harmony." Like the kindred "Big Sword" Society, it appears
to have been in the first instance merely a secret association of malcontents chiefly drawn
from the lower classes. Whether the empress Tsz'e Hsi and her Manchu advisers had deliberately
set themselves from the beginning to avert the danger by deflecting what might have been a
revolutionary movement into anti-foreign channels, or whether with Oriental heedlessness they
had allowed it to grow until they were powerless to control it, they had unquestionably resolved
to take it under their protection before the foreign representatives at Peking had realized
its gravity. The outrages upon native Christians and the threats against foreigners generally
went on increasing. The Boxers openly displayed on their banners the device: "Exterminate the
foreigners and save the dynasty," yet the representatives of the powers were unable to obtain
any effective measures against the so-called "rebels," or even a definite condemnation of their
methods.[51]

Four months (January-April 1900) were spent in futile interviews with the Tsung-Li-Yamen. In
May a number of Christian villages were destroyed and native converts massacred near the capital.
On the 2nd of June two English missionaries, Mr Robinson and Mr Norman, were murdered at Yung
Ching, 40 m. from Peking. The whole country was overrun with bands of Boxers, who tore up the
railway and set fire to the stations at different points on the Peking-Tientsin line. Fortunately
a mixed body of marines and bluejackets of various nationalities, numbering 18 officers and
389 men, had reached Peking on the 1st of June for the protection of the legations. The whole
city was in a state of turmoil. Murder and pillage were of daily occurrence. The reactionary
Prince Tuan (grandson of the emperor Tao-kwang) and the Manchus generally, together with the
Kan-suh soldiery under the notorious Tung-fu-hsiang, openly sided with the Boxers. The European
residents and a large number of native converts took refuge in the British legation, where
preparations were hastily made in view of a threatened attack. On the 11th the chancellor of
the Japanese legation, Mr Sugiyama, was murdered by Chinese soldiers. On the night of the 13th
most of the foreign buildings, churches and mission houses in the eastern part of the Tatar
city were pillaged and burnt, and hundreds of native Christians massacred. On the 20th of June
the German minister, Baron von Ketteler, was murdered whilst on his way to the Tsung-Li-Yamen.
At 4 P.M. on the afternoon of the 20th the Chinese troops opened fire upon the legations. The
general direction of the defence was undertaken by Sir Claude Macdonald, the British minister.

  International expedition.

Meanwhile Peking had been completely cut off since the 14th from all communication with the
outside world, and in view of the gravity of the situation, naval and military forces were
being hurried up by all the powers to the Gulf of Chih-li. On the 10th of June Admiral Sir
E. Seymour had already left Tientsin with a mixed force of 2000 British, Russian, French, Germans,
Austrians, Italians, Americans and Japanese, to repair the railway and restore communications
with Peking. But his expedition met with unexpectedly severe resistance, and it had great difficulty
in making good its retreat after suffering heavy losses. When it reached Tientsin again on
the 26th of June, the British contingent of 915 men had alone lost 124 killed and wounded out
of a total casualty list of 62 killed and 218 wounded. The Chinese had in the meantime made
a determined attack upon the foreign settlements at Tientsin, and communication between the
city and the sea being also threatened, the Taku forts at the mouth of the Pei-ho were captured
by the allied admirals on the 17th. The situation at Tientsin nevertheless continued precarious,
and it was not till the arrival of considerable reinforcements that the troops of the allied
powers were able to assume the offensive, taking the native city by storm on July 14th, at
a cost, however, of over 700 killed and wounded. Even in this emergency international jealousy
had grievously delayed the necessary concentration of forces. No power was so favourably situated
to take immediate action as Japan, and the British government, who had strongly urged her to
act speedily and energetically, undertook at her request to sound the other powers with regard
to her intervention. No definite objection was raised, but the replies of Germany and Russia
barely disguised their ill-humour. Great Britain herself went so far as to offer Japan the
assistance of the British treasury, in case financial difficulties stood in the way, but on
the same day on which this proposal was telegraphed to Tokyo (6th of July), the Japanese government
had decided to embark forthwith the two divisions which it had already mobilized. By the beginning
of August one of the Indian brigades had also reached Tientsin together with smaller reinforcements
sent by the other powers, and thanks chiefly to the energetic counsels of the British commander,
General Sir Alfred Gaselee, a relief column, numbering 20,000 men, at last set out for Peking
on the 4th of August, a British naval brigade having started up river the previous afternoon.
After a series of small engagements and very trying marches it arrived within striking distance
of Peking on the evening of the 13th. The Russians tried to steal a march upon the allies during
the night, but were checked at the walls and suffered heavy losses. The Japanese attacked another
point of the walls the next morning, but met with fierce opposition, whilst the Americans were
delayed by getting entangled in the Russian line of advance. The British contingent was more
fortunate, and skilfully guided to an unguarded water-gate, General Gaselee and a party of
Sikhs were the first to force their way through to the British legation. About 2 p.m. on the
afternoon of the 14th of August, the long siege was raised.

  Siege of the Peking legations.

For nearly six weeks after the first interruption of communications, no news reached the outside
world from Peking except a few belated messages, smuggled through the Chinese lines by native
runners, urging the imperative necessity of prompt relief. During the greater part of that
period the foreign quarter was subjected to heavy rifle and artillery fire, and the continuous
fighting at close quarters with the hordes of Chinese regulars, as well as Boxers, decimated
the scanty ranks of the defenders. The supply of both ammunition and food was slender. But
the heroism displayed by civilians and professional combatants alike was inexhaustible. In
their anxiety to burn out the British legation, the Chinese did not hesitate to set fire to
the adjoining buildings of the Hanlin, the ancient seat of Chinese classical learning, and
the storehouse of priceless literary treasures and state archives. The Fu, or palace, of Prince
Su, separated only by a canal from the British legation, formed the centre of the international
position, and was held with indomitable valour by a small Japanese force under Colonel Sheba,
assisted by a few Italian marines and volunteers of other nationalities and a number of Christian
Chinese. The French legation on the extreme right, and the section of the city wall held chiefly
by Germans and Americans, were also points of vital importance which had to bear the brunt
of the Chinese attack.

  Little is known as to what passed in the councils of the Chinese court
  during the siege.[52] But there is reason to believe that throughout
  that period grave divergences of opinion existed amongst the highest
  officials. The attack upon the legations appears to have received the
  sanction of the dowager-empress, acting upon the advice of Prince Tuan
  and the extreme Manchu party, at a grand council held during the night
  of the 18th/19th June, upon receipt of the news of the capture of the
  Taku forts by the international forces. The emperor himself, as well
  as Prince Ching and a few other influential mandarins, strongly
  protested against the empress's decision, but it was acclaimed by the
  vast majority of those present. Three members of the Tsung-Li-Yamen
  were publicly executed for attempting to modify the terms of an
  imperial edict ordering the massacre of all foreigners throughout the
  provinces, and most of the Manchu nobles and high officials, and the
  eunuchs of the palace, who played an important part in Chinese
  politics throughout the dowager-empress's tenure of power, were heart
  and soul with the Boxers. But it was noted by the defenders of the
  legations that Prince Ching's troops seldom took part, or only in a
  half-hearted way, in the fighting, which was chiefly conducted by
  Tung-fu-hsiang's soldiery and the Boxer levies. The modern artillery
  which the Chinese possessed was only spasmodically brought into play.
  Nor did any of the attacking parties ever show the fearlessness and
  determination which the Chinese had somewhat unexpectedly displayed on
  several occasions during the fighting at and around Tientsin.
  Nevertheless, the position of the defenders at the end of the first
  four weeks of the siege had grown well-nigh desperate. Mining and
  incendiarism proved far greater dangers than shot and shell. Suddenly,
  just when things were looking blackest, on the 17th of July the
  Chinese ceased firing, and a sort of informal armistice secured a
  period of respite for the beleaguered Europeans. The capture of the
  native city of Tientsin by the allied forces had shaken the
  self-confidence of the Chinese authorities, who had hitherto not only
  countenanced, but themselves directed the hostilities.[53] Desultory
  fighting, nevertheless, continued, and grave fears were entertained
  that the approach of the relief column would prove the signal for a
  desperate attempt to rush the legations. The attempt was made, but
  failed. The relief, however, came not a day too soon. Of the small
  band of defenders which, including civilian volunteers, had never
  mustered 500, 65 had been killed and 131 wounded. Ammunition and
  provisions were almost at an end. Even more desperate was the
  situation at the Pei-tang, the Roman Catholic northern cathedral and
  mission house, where, with the help of a small body of French and
  Italian marines, Mgr Favier had organized an independent centre of
  resistance for his community of over 3000 souls. Their rations were
  absolutely exhausted when, on the 15th of August, a relief party was
  despatched to their assistance from the legations.

  Looting of Peking.

The ruin wrought in Peking during the two months' fighting was appalling. Apart from the wholesale
destruction of foreign property in the Tatar city, and of Chinese as well as European buildings
in the vicinity of the legations, the wealthiest part of the Chinese city had been laid in
ashes. The flames from a foreign drug store fired by the Boxers had spread to the adjoining
buildings, and finally consumed the whole of the business quarter with all its invaluable stores
of silks, curiosities, furs, &c. The retribution which overtook Peking after its capture by
the international forces was scarcely less terrible. Looting was for some days almost universal.
Order was, however, gradually restored, first in the Japanese and then in the British and American
quarters, though several months elapsed before there was any real revival of native confidence.

  Flight of the Chinese court.

So unexpected had been the rapid and victorious advance of the allies, that the dowager-empress
with the emperor and the rest of the court did not actually leave Peking until the day after
the legations had been relieved. But the northern and western portions of the Tatar city had
not yet been occupied, and the fugitives made good their escape on the 15th. When the allies
some days later marched through the Forbidden City, they only found a few eunuchs and subordinate
officials in charge of the imperial apartments. At the end of September, Field Marshal Count
von Waldersee, with a German expeditionary force of over 20,000 men, arrived to assume the
supreme command conferred upon him with the more or less willing assent of the other powers.

  Restoration of order.

The political task which confronted the powers after the occupation of Peking was far more
arduous than the military one. The action of the Russians in Manchuria, even in a treaty port
like Niu-chwang, the seizure of the railway line not only to the north of the Great Wall, but
also from Shan-hai-kwan to Peking, by the Russian military authorities, and the appropriation
of an extensive line of river frontage at Tientsin as a Russian "settlement," were difficult
to reconcile with the pacific assurances of disinterestedness which Russia, like the rest of
the powers, had officially given. Great anxiety prevailed as to the effect of the flight of
the Chinese court in other parts of the empire. The anti-foreign movement had not spread much
beyond the northern provinces, in which it had had the open support of the throne and of the
highest provincial officials. But among British and Americans alone, over 200 defenceless foreigners,
men, women and children, chiefly missionaries, had fallen victims to the treachery of high-placed
mandarins like Yü Hsien, and hundreds of others had had to fly for their lives, many of them
owing their escape to the courageous protection of petty officials and of the local gentry
and peasantry. In the Yangtsze valley order had been maintained by the energy of the viceroys
of Nanking and Wu-chang, who had acted throughout the critical period in loyal co-operation
with the British consuls and naval commanders, and had courageously disregarded the imperial
edicts issued during the ascendancy of the Boxers. After some hesitation, an Indian brigade,
followed by French, German and Japanese contingents, had been landed at Shanghai for the protection
of the settlements, and though the viceroy, Liu Kun-yi, had welcomed British support, and even
invited the joint occupation of the Yangtsze forts by British and Chinese troops, the appearance
of other European forces in the Yangtsze valley was viewed with great suspicion. In the south
there were serious symptoms of unrest, especially after Li Hung-Chang had left Canton for the
north, in obedience, as he alleged at the time, to an imperial edict which, there is reason
to believe, he invented for the occasion. The Chinese court, after one or two intermediate
halts, had retired to Si-gan-fu, one of the ancient capitals of the empire, situated in the
inaccessible province of Shen-si, over 600 m. S.W. of Peking. The influence of the ultra-reactionaries,
headed by Prince Tuan and General Tung-fu-hsiang, still dominated its councils, although credentials
were sent to Prince Ching and to Li Hung-Chang, who, after waiting upon events at Shanghai,
had proceeded to Peking, authorizing them to treat with the powers for the re-establishment
of friendly relations.

  Measures of reparation.

The harmony of the powers, which had been maintained with some difficulty up to the relief
of the legations, was subjected to a severe strain as soon as the basis of negotiations with
the Chinese government came to be discussed. While for various reasons Russia, Japan and the
United States were inclined to treat China with great indulgence, Germany insisted upon the
signal punishment of the guilty officials as a conditio sine qua non, and in this she had the
support not only of the other members of the Triple Alliance, but also of Great Britain, and
to some extent even of France, who, as protector of the Roman Catholic Church in Eastern countries,
could not allow the authors of the atrocities committed upon its followers to escape effectual
punishment. It was not until after months of laborious negotiations that the demands to be
formally made upon the Chinese government were embodied in a joint note signed by all the foreign
ministers on the 20th and 21st of December 1900. The demands were substantially as follows:

  Honourable reparation for the murder of von Ketteler and of Mr
  Sugiyama, to be made in a specified form, and expiatory monuments to
  be erected in cemeteries where foreign tombs had been desecrated. "The
  most severe punishment befitting their crimes" was to be inflicted on
  the personages designated by the decree of the 21st of September, and
  also upon others to be designated later by the foreign ministers, and
  the official examinations were to be suspended in the cities where
  foreigners had been murdered or ill-treated. An equitable indemnity,
  guaranteed by financial measures acceptable to the powers, was to be
  paid to states, societies and individuals, including Chinese who had
  suffered because of their employment by foreigners, but not including
  Chinese Christians who had suffered only on account of their faith.
  The importation or manufacture of arms or matériel was to be
  forbidden; permanent legation guards were to be maintained at Peking,
  and the diplomatic quarter was to be fortified, while communication
  with the sea was to be secured by a foreign military occupation of the
  strategic points and by the demolition of the Chinese forts, including
  the Taku forts, between the capital and the coast. Proclamations were
  to be posted throughout China for two years, threatening death to the
  members of anti-foreign societies, and recording the punishment of the
  ringleaders in the late outrages: and the viceroys, governors and
  provincial officials were to be declared by imperial edict
  responsible, on pain of immediate dismissal and perpetual disability
  to hold office, for anti-foreign outbreaks or violations of treaty
  within their jurisdictions. China was to facilitate commercial
  relations by negotiating a revision of the commercial treaties. The
  Tsung-Li-Yamen was to be reformed and the ceremonial for the reception
  of foreign ministers modified as the powers should demand. Compliance
  with these terms was declared to be a condition precedent to the
  arrangement of a time limit to the occupation of Peking and of the
  provinces by foreign troops.

Under instructions from the court, the Chinese plenipotentiaries affixed their signatures on
the 14th of January 1901 to a protocol, by which China pledged herself to accept these terms
in principle, and the conference of ministers then proceeded to discuss the definite form in
which compliance with them was to be exacted. This further stage of the negotiations proved
even more laborious and protracted than the preliminary proceedings. No attempt was made to
raise the question of the dowager-empress's responsibility for the anti-foreign movement, as
Russia had from the first set her face against the introduction of what she euphemistically
termed "the dynastic question." But even with regard to the punishment of officials whose guilt
was beyond dispute, grave divergences arose between the powers. The death penalty was ultimately
waived in the case even of such conspicuous offenders as Prince Tuan and Tung-fu-hsiang, but
the notorious Yü Hsien and two others were decapitated by the Chinese, and three other metropolitan
officials were ordered to commit suicide, whilst upon others sentences of banishment, imprisonment
and degradation were passed, in accordance with a list drawn up by the foreign representatives.
The question of the punishment of provincial officials responsible for the massacre of scores
of defenceless men, women and children was unfortunately reserved for separate treatment, and
when it came up for discussion it became impossible to preserve even the semblance of unanimity,
the Russian minister at once taking issue with his colleagues, although he had originally pledged
himself as formally as the others to the principle. Count Lamsdorff frankly told the British
ambassador at St Petersburg that Russia took no interest in missionaries, and as the foreigners
massacred in the provinces belonged mostly to that class, she declined to join in the action
of the other powers.

  Russia and Manchuria.

The real explanation of Russia's cynical secession from the concert of powers on this important
issue must be sought in her anxiety to conciliate the Chinese in view of the separate negotiations
in which she was at the same time engaged with China in respect of Manchuria. When the Boxer
movement was at its height at the end of June 1900, the Chinese authorities in Manchuria had
wantonly "declared war" against Russia, and for a moment a great wave of panic seems to have
swept over the Russian administration, civil and military, in the adjoining provinces. The
reprisals exercised by the Russians were proportionately fierce. The massacre at Blagovyeshchensk,
where 5000 Chinese--men, women and children--were flung into the Amur by the Cossacks, was
only one incident in the reign of terror by which the Russians sought to restore their power
and their prestige. The resistance of the Chinese troops was soon overcome, and Russian forces
overran the whole province, occupying even the treaty port of Niu-chwang. The Russian government
officially repudiated all responsibility for the proclamations issued by General Gribsky and
others, foreshadowing, if not actually proclaiming, the annexation of Chinese territory to
the Russian empire. But Russia was clearly bent on seizing the opportunity for securing a permanent
hold upon Manchuria. In December 1900 a preliminary agreement was made between M. Korostovetz,
the Russian administrator-general, and Tseng, the Tatar general at Mukden, by which the civil
and military administration of the whole province was virtually placed under Russian control.
In February 1901 negotiations were opened between the Russian government and the Chinese minister
at St Petersburg for the conclusion of a formal convention of a still more comprehensive character.
In return for the restoration to China of a certain measure of civil authority in Manchuria,
Russia was to be confirmed in the possession of exclusive military, civil and commercial rights,
constituting in all but name a protectorate, and she was also to acquire preferential rights
over all the outlying provinces of the Chinese empire bordering on the Russian dominions in
Asia. The clauses relating to Chinese Turkestan, Kashgar, Yarkand, Khotan and Mongolia were
subsequently stated to have been dropped, but the convention nevertheless provoked considerable
opposition both in foreign countries and amongst the Chinese themselves. Most of the powers,
including Germany, who, however, denied that the Anglo-German agreement of the 16th of October
1900 applied to Manchuria,[54] advised the Chinese government not to pursue separate negotiations
with one power whilst collective negotiations were in progress at Peking, and both Japan and
Great Britain pressed for definite information at St Petersburg with regard to the precise
tenor of the proposed convention. At the same time the two viceroys of the lower Yangtsze memorialized
the throne in the strongest terms against the convention, and these protests were endorsed
not only by the great majority of Chinese officials of high rank throughout the provinces,
but by popular meetings and influential guilds and associations. Ultimately the two viceroys,
Chang Chih-tung and Liu Kun-yi,[55] took the extreme step of warning the throne that they would
be unable to recognize the convention, even if it were ratified, and notwithstanding the pressure
exercised in favour of Russia by Li Hung-Chang, the court finally instructed the Chinese minister
at St Petersburg to decline his signature. The attitude of Japan, where public feeling ran
high, was equally significant, and on the 3rd of April the Russian government issued a circular
note to the powers, stating that, as the generous intentions of Russia had been misconstrued,
she withdrew the proposed convention.

  The peace protocol, 1901.

The work of the conference at Peking, which had been temporarily disturbed by these complications,
was then resumed. Friction between European troops of different nationalities and an Anglo-Russian
dispute over the construction of certain roads and railway sidings at Tientsin showed that
an international occupation was fraught with manifold dangers. The question of indemnities,
however, gave rise to renewed friction. Each power drew up its own claim, and whilst Great
Britain, the United States and Japan displayed great moderation, other powers, especially Germany
and Italy, put in claims which were strangely out of proportion to the services rendered by
their military and naval forces. It was at last settled that China should pay altogether an
indemnity of 450 million taels, to be secured (1) on the unhypothecated balance of the customs
revenue administered by the imperial maritime customs, the import duties being raised forthwith
to an effective 5% basis; (2) on the revenues of the "native" customs in the treaty ports;
(3) on the total revenues of the salt gabelle. Finally the peace protocol was drawn up in a
form which satisfied all the powers as well as the Chinese court. The formal signature was,
however, delayed at the last moment by a fresh difficulty concerning Prince Chun's penitential
mission to Berlin. This prince, an amiable and enlightened youth,[56] son of the Prince Chun
who was the emperor Hien-fêng's brother, and thus himself half-brother to the emperor Kwang-su,
had reached Basel towards the end of August on his way to Germany, when he was suddenly informed
that he and his suite would be expected to perform kowtow before the German emperor. The prince
resented this unexpected demand, and referred home for instructions. The Chinese court appear
to have remained obdurate, and the German government perceived the mistake that had been made
in exacting from the Chinese prince a form of homage which Western diplomacy had for more than
a century refused to yield to the Son of Heaven, on the ground that it was barbarous and degrading.
The point was waived, and Prince Chun was received in solemn audience by the emperor William
at Potsdam on the 4th of September. Three days later, on the 7th of September, the peace protocol
was signed at Peking.

The articles recorded the steps to be taken to satisfy the demands of the powers as to commerce.
Article 11 provided for the amendment of existing treaties of commerce and navigation, and
for river conservancy measures at Tientsin and Shanghai. The British government appointed a
special commission, with Sir J. Mackay, member of the council of India, as chief commissioner,
to proceed to Shanghai to carry on the negotiations, and a commercial treaty was signed at
Shanghai on the 6th of September 1902, by which existing obstacles to foreign trade, such as
likin, &c., were removed, regulations were made for facilitating steamer navigation on inland
waters, and several new ports were opened to foreign commerce.

In accordance with the terms of the protocol, all the foreign troops,
except the legation guards, were withdrawn from Peking on the 17th of
September, and from the rest of Chih-li, except the garrisons at the
different points specified along the line of communications, by the 22nd
of September. On the 7th of October it was announced that the Chinese
court had left Si-gan-fu on its way back to the northern capital. A
month later (7th of November) the death of Li Hung-Chang at Peking
removed, if not the greatest of Chinese statesmen, at any rate the one
who had enjoyed the largest share of the empress-dowager's confidence.
    (V. C.)

(E)--From 1901 to 1910.

  "Awakening of China."

The events connected with the Boxer rising and its suppression demonstrated even more forcibly
than had the war with Japan in 1894-1895 the necessity for the adoption of Western methods
in many departments of life and administration if China was to maintain the position of a great
power. The necessity for a thorough reform of the administration was widely recognized in 1901,
and among the progressive classes of the community much disappointment was manifested because
the powers had failed to insist, in the conditions of peace, on a reorganization of the machinery
of government. The Yangtsze viceroys, the viceroy at Canton, Yuan Shih-kai and other high mandarins
repeatedly memorialized the throne to grant effective reforms. While at Si-gan-fu the court
did in fact issue several reform decrees, but at the same time all authority remained in the
hands of reactionaries. There had been an awakening in China, but another lesson--afforded
a few years later by the Russo-Japanese War--was needed before the reform party was able to
gain real power.

For three or four years following the signing of the peace protocol of 1901 it seemed indeed
that there would be little change in the system of government, though in some directions a
return to the old state of affairs was neither possible nor desired. On the 7th of January
1902 the court returned to Peking--a step which marked the restoration, more or less, of normal
conditions. The failure of the Boxer movement, in which, as has been shown, she was deeply
implicated, had impressed upon the dowager empress the need for living on better terms with
foreign powers, but the reform edicts issued from Si-gan-fu remained largely inoperative, though
some steps were taken to promote education on Western lines, to readjust the land tax, and
especially to reorganize the military forces (though on provincial rather than on a national
basis). The building of railways was also pushed on, but the dowager empress was probably at
heart as reactionary as she had proved in 1898. The emperor himself from his return to Peking
until the day of his death appeared to have little influence on public affairs. The most disquieting
feature of the situation in the years immediately following the return of the court to Peking
was the continued efforts of Russia to obtain full control of Manchuria and a predominant influence
in north China. The Chinese government was powerless to stem the advance of Russia, and the
dowager empress herself was credited with indifference to the fate of Manchuria. It was the
menace to other powers, notably Japan, involved in Russia's action which precipitated an issue
in which the destinies of China were involved. Before considering the results of that struggle
(the Russo-Japanese War) the chief events of the years 1902-1905 may be outlined.

  Relations with Europeans.

The dowager empress from the day of her return from Si-gan-fu set herself to conciliate the
foreign residents in Peking. Many foreign onlookers were gathered on the wall of the Tatar
city to witness the return of the court, and to these the dowager empress made a deep bow twice,
an apparently trivial incident which made a lasting impression. On the 1st of February following
the dowager empress received the ladies of the various embassies, when she bewailed the attack
on the legations, entertained her guests to tea and presented each with articles of jewelry,
and from that time onward, as occasion offered, Tsz'e Hsi exchanged compliments and civilities
with the foreign ladies in Peking. Moreover, Sir Robert Hart--after having been nearly forty
years in China--was now presented at court, as well as Bishop Favier and others. Henceforth
attacks on foreigners received no direct encouragement at court. Tung Fu-hsiang,[57] who had
been banished to the remote province of Kan-suh, had at his command there his old Boxer troops,
and his attitude caused anxiety at the end of 1902. He was said to have received support from
Prince Tuan--who had been obliged to retire to Mongolia--but events proved that the power or
the intention of these reactionaries to create trouble had been miscalculated. There were indeed
serious Boxer disturbances in Sze-ch'uen in 1902, but they were put down by a new viceroy sent
from Peking. Notwithstanding the murder of fifteen missionaries during 1902-1905, there was
in general a marked improvement in the relations between the missionaries, the official classes
and the bulk of the people, and an eagerness was shown in several provinces to take advantage
of their educational work. This was specially marked in Hu-nan, a province which had been for
long hostile to missionary endeavours. Illustrative of the attitude of numbers of high officials
was the attendance of the viceroy of Sze-ch'uen, with the whole of his staff, at the opening
in 1905 at Cheng-tu of new buildings of the Canadian Methodist Mission. This friendly attitude
towards the missions was due in part to the influence of Chinese educated abroad and also,
to a large extent, to the desire to take advantage of Western culture. The spread of this new
spirit was coincident with an agitation for independence of foreign control and the determination
of the Chinese to use modern methods to attain their ends. Thus in 1905 there was an extensive
boycott of American goods throughout China, as a retaliatory measure for the exclusion of Chinese
from the United States. Regarding China as a whole the attitude of the people towards Europeans
was held to indicate that the general view was, not that the Boxer teaching was false, but
that the spirits behind Western religion were more powerful than those behind Boxer-dom. The
spiritual prestige of Christianity and respect for the power of the foreigner were direct outcomes
of the failure of the Boxers.[58] The British expedition to Tibet in 1904, the occupation of
Lhassa in August of that year, the flight of the Dalai Lama to Mongolia, gave grave concern
to the Chinese government--which showed much persistence in enforcing its suzerain rights in
Tibet--but did not, apparently, cause any ill-feeling towards Great Britain among the Chinese
people--who viewed with seeming equanimity the flight of the head of the Buddhist religion
from the headquarters of that faith. The country generally was peaceful, a rebellion in Kwang-si--where
a terrible famine occurred in 1903--being suppressed in 1904 by the forces of the viceroy at
Canton.

  Commercial and railway progress.

The expiatory measures required of China in connexion with the Boxer rising were carried through.
China during 1902 recovered possession of the Peking-Tientsin railway and of the city of Tientsin,
which was evacuated by the foreign troops in August of that year. The foreign troops were also
all withdrawn from Shanghai by January 1903. The conclusion of a new commercial treaty between
Great Britain and China in September 1902 has already been recorded. The payment of the indemnity
instalments occasioned some dispute owing to the fall in silver in 1902, but the rise in the
value of the tael in subsequent years led China to agree to the payment of the indemnity on
a gold basis. The increase in revenue was a notable feature of the maritime customs in 1903-1905.
This result was in part due to the new arrangements under the commercial treaty of 1902, and
in part to the opening up of the country by railways. In especial the great trunk line from
Peking to Hankow was pushed on. The line, including a bridge nearly 2 m. long over the Yellow
river was completed and opened for traffic in 1905. The first section of the Shanghai-Nanking
railway was opened in the same year. At this time the Chinese showed a strong desire to obtain
the control of the various lines. During 1905, for instance, the Canton-Hankow railway concession
was repurchased by the Chinese government from an American company, while the Pekin Syndicate,
a British concern, also sold their railway in Ho-nan to the Chinese government.

  Manchuria.

Russia's action regarding Manchuria overshadowed, however, all other concerns during this period.
The withdrawal of the proposed Russo-Chinese agreement of 1901 has been chronicled. The Russian
government had, however, no intention of abandoning its hold on Manchuria. It aimed not only
at effective military control but the reservation to Russian subjects of mining, railway and
commercial rights. Both the sovereignty of China and the commercial interests of other nations
were menaced. This led to action by various powers. The preamble of the Anglo-Japanese treaty
of the 30th of January 1902 declared the main motives of the contracting parties to be the
maintenance of the independence and territorial integrity of China and Korea, and the securing
of equal opportunities in those countries for the commerce and industry of all nations, i.e.
the policy of the "open door." Protests were lodged by Great Britain, Japan and the United
States against the grant of exclusive rights to Russian subjects in Manchuria. Russia asserted
her intention to respect the commercial rights of other nations, and on the 8th of April 1902
an agreement was signed at Peking which appeared to show the good faith of the Russian government,
as it provided for the withdrawal of the Russian troops in Manchuria within eighteen months
from that date. In accordance with this agreement the Shan-hai-kwan-Niu-chwang railway was
transferred to China in October 1902 and the district between Shan-hai-kwan and the Liao river
evacuated by Russia. But it soon appeared that Russia's hold on the country had not relaxed.
Advantage was taken of the terms of concession granted in August 1896 to the Russo-Chinese
Bank[59] to erect towns for Russian colonists and to plant garrisons along the line of railway,
and to exclude Chinese jurisdiction altogether from the railway zone. The so-called evacuation
became in fact the concentration of the Russian forces along the line of railway. Moreover,
the maritime customs at Niu-chwang were retained by the Russo-Chinese Bank despite protests
from the Chinese imperial authorities, and a Russian civil administration was established at
that port. The evacuation of southern Manchuria should have taken place in April 1903, but
in that month, instead of fulfilling the conditions of the 1902 agreement, the Russian chargé
d'affaires in Peking made a series of further demands upon China, including the virtual reservation
of the commerce of Manchuria for Russian subjects. Though Russia officially denied to the British
and American governments that she had made these demands, it was demonstrated that they had
been made. The United States and Japan thereupon insisted that China should conclude with them
commercial treaties throwing open Mukden and two ports on the Yalu river to foreign trade.
The American treaty was signed on the 8th of October 1903--the day fixed for the complete evacuation
of Manchuria by Russia--and the Japanese treaty on the day following. Both treaties provided
that the ports should be opened after ratifications had been exchanged. From fear of Russia
China, however, delayed the ratification of the treaties. Meantime, in August 1903, a regular
through railway service between Moscow and Port Arthur was established. In the same month a
Russian Viceroyalty of the Far East was created which in effect claimed Manchuria as a Russian
province. In September Russia withdrew some of the demands she had made in April, but her concessions
proved illusory. When the 8th of October passed and it was seen that the Russians had not withdrawn
their troops[60] there issued for a time threats of war from Peking. Yuan Shih-kai, the viceroy
of Chih-li, who had at his command some 65,000 troops trained by Japanese officers, pressed
on the government the necessity of action. At this point Japan intervened. Her interests were
vitally affected by Russia's action not only in Manchuria, but in Korea, and seeing that China
was powerless the Japanese government negotiated directly with St Petersburg. In these negotiations
Russia showed that she would not yield her position in either country except to force. Japan
chose the issue of war and proved successful.

  Lessons of the Russo-Japanese War.

The Russo-Japanese War did not very greatly alter China's position in Manchuria. In the southern
part of that country Japan succeeded to the special privileges Russia had wrung from China
(including the lease of Port Arthur); in the north Russia remained in possession of the railway
zone. For Japan's position as at once the legatee of special privileges and the champion of
China's territorial integrity and "the open door" see JAPAN, § History. However, the attitude
of Japan was more conciliatory than that of Russia had been; Mukden and other places were thrown
open to foreign trade and Chinese civil administration was re-established. The important results
of the war, so far as China was concerned, were not to be looked for in Manchuria, but in the
new spirit generated in the Chinese. They had been deeply humiliated by the fact that in the
struggle between Russia and Japan China had been treated as a negligible quantity, and that
the war had been fought on Chinese territory. The lesson which the loot of Peking and the fall
of the Boxers in 1900 had half taught was now thoroughly mastered; the awakening of China was
complete. The war had shown that when an Eastern race adopted Western methods it was capable
of defeating a European nation.

  Army reform.

It was fortunate that among the influential advisers of the throne at this time (1905-1908)
were Prince Chun (the prince who had visited Germany in 1901), Yuan Shih-kai, the viceroy of
Chih-li, and Chang Chih-tung, the viceroy of Hu-kwang (i.e. the provinces of Hu-peh and Hu-nan),
all men of enlightened and strong character. In 1907 both the viceroys named were summoned
to Peking and made members of the grand council, of which Prince Ching, a man of moderate views,
was president. Yuan Shih-kai was an open advocate of a reform of the civil service, of the
abolition of Manchu privileges, of education and other matters. He had specially advocated
the reconstitution of the military forces of the empire, and in Chih-li in 1905 he demonstrated
before a number of foreign military attachés the high efficiency attained by the forces of
the metropolitan province. The success achieved by Yuan Shih-kai in this direction incited
Chang Chih-tung to follow his example, while a decree from the throne called upon the princes
and nobles of China to give their sons a military education. The formerly despised military
profession was thus made honourable, and with salutary effects. The imperial princes sought
high commands, officers were awarded ranks and dignities comparable with those of civil servants,
and the pay of the troops was increased. The new foreign drilled northern army was called upon
to furnish a large proportion of a force sent under Prince Su into Mongolia--a country which
had been on the point of falling into the hands of Russia, but over which, as one result of
the Russo-Japanese War, China recovered control. In 1906 a step was taken towards the formation
of a national army by withdrawing portions of the troops from provincial control and placing
them under officers responsible to the central government, which also took over the charge
of the provincial arsenals. In the years which followed further evidence was given of the earnestness
and success with which the military forces were being reorganized. Less attention was given
to naval affairs, but in the autumn of 1909 a naval commission under Tsai Hsün, a brother of
the emperor Kwang-su, was sent to Europe to report on the steps necessary for the re-establishment
of a fleet. Previously (in 1907) societies had been started in several provinces to collect
funds for naval purposes.

  A parliamentary constitution promised.

The most striking evidence of the change which had occurred was, however, the appointment (in
1905) of an Imperial Commission, headed by Prince Tsai Tse, to study the administrative systems
of foreign countries with a view to the possible establishment of a representative government
in China. The revolutionary nature of this proposal excited indignation among the adherents
to the old order, and a bomb was thrown among the commissioners as they were preparing to leave
Peking.[61] After visiting Japan, America and Europe the commission returned to Peking in July
1906.[62] A committee over which Prince Ching presided was appointed to study the commission's
report, and on the 1st of September following an edict was issued in which the establishment
of a parliamentary form of government was announced, at a date not fixed. To fit the country
for this new form of government (the edict went on to declare) the administration must be reformed,
the laws revised, education promoted and the finances regulated. This edict, moreover, was
but one of many edicts issued in 1906 and following years which showed how great a break with
the past was contemplated. In November 1906 two edicts were issued with the object of reorganizing
the central administrative offices. Their effect was to simplify the conduct of business, many
useless posts being abolished, while an audit board was created to examine the national accounts.
In November 1907 another edict was promulgated stating that for the present the formation of
Houses of Lords and of Commons to determine all public questions was not practicable, but that
it was proposed, as a preliminary measure, to create an Imperial Assembly. At the same time
a scheme of provincial councils was ordered to be prepared. A more definite step followed in
1908 when a decree (dated the 27th of August) announced the convocation of a parliament in
the ninth year from that date.

  The control of the Maritime Customs.

One of the changes made in the public offices brought China into conflict with Great Britain.
On the 9th of May 1906 a decree appointed Chinese commissioners to control the Imperial Maritime
Customs.[63] This was the only department of the government under European (British) control,
and the only department also against which no charge of inefficiency or corruption could be
brought. The change decreed by China was in accord with the new national sentiment, but by
all the foreign powers interested it was felt that it would be a retrograde step if the customs
were taken out of the control of Sir Robert Hart (q.v.), who had been since 1863 inspector-general
of the customs. The British secretary of state for foreign affairs (Sir Edward Grey) at once
protested against the decree of the 6th of May, pointing out that the continuation of the established
system had been stipulated for in the loan agreements of 1896 and 1898. As a result of this
and other representations the Board of Control of the Customs was late in 1906 made a department
of the Board of Finance. The Chinese controllers-general continued in office, and despite the
assurances given to Great Britain by China (in a note of the 6th of June 1906) that the appointment
of the controllers-general was not intended to interfere with the established system of administration,
the absolute authority of Sir Robert Hart was weakened.[64] Sir Robert Hart returned to England
in 1908 "on leave of absence," Sir Robert Bredon, the deputy inspector-general, being placed
in charge of the service under the authority of the Board of Control, of which on the 5th of
April 1910 it was announced that he had been appointed a member. This step was viewed with
disfavour by the British government, for, unless Sir Robert Bredon's post was to be merely
a sinecure, it imposed two masters on the maritime customs. On the 20th of April Sir Robert
Bredon severed his connexion with the Board of Control. At the same time Mr F.A. Aglen (the
Commissioner of Customs at Hankow) became acting Inspector General (Sir Robert Hart being still
nominally head of the service). The attempt on the part of the Chinese to control the customs
was evidence of the strength of the "young China" or Recovery of Rights party--the party which
aspired to break all the chains, such as extra-territoriality, which stamped the country as
not the equal of the other great nations.[65]

  The anti-opium agitation.

In the steps taken to suppress opium smoking evidence was forthcoming of the earnestness with
which the governing body in China sought to better the condition of the people. Opium smoking
followed, in China, the introduction of tobacco smoking, and is stated to have been introduced
from Java and Formosa in the early part of the 17th century. The first edict against the habit
was issued in 1729. At that time the only foreign opium introduced was by the Portuguese from
Goa, who exported about 200 chests[66] a year. In 1773 English merchants in India entered into
the trade, which in 1781 was taken over by the East India Company--the import in 1790 being
over 4000 chests. In 1796 the importation of foreign opium was declared contraband, and between
1839 and 1860 the central government attempted, without success, to suppress the trade. It
was legalized in 1858 after the second "opium war" with Great Britain. At that time the poppy
was extensively grown in China, and the bulk of the opium smoked was, and continued to be,
of home manufacture. But after 1860 the importation of opium from India greatly increased.
Opium was also imported from Persia (chiefly to Formosa, which in 1895 passed into the possession
of Japan). The total foreign import in 1863 was some 70,000 piculs,[67] in 1879 it was 102,000
piculs, but in 1905 had fallen to 56,000 piculs. The number of opium smokers in China in the
early years of the 20th century was estimated at from 25 to 30 millions. The evil effects of
opium smoking were fully recognized, and Chang Chih-tung, one of the most powerful of the opponents
of the habit, was high in the councils of the dowager-empress. On the 20th of September 1906
an edict was issued directing that the growth, sale and consumption of opium should cease in
China within ten years, and ordering the officials to take measures to execute the imperial
will. The measures promulgated, in November following, made the following provisions:--

  (1) The cultivation of the poppy to be restricted annually by
  one-tenth of its existing area; (2) all persons using opium to be
  registered; (3) all shops selling opium to be gradually closed, and
  all places where opium is smoked to discontinue the practice within
  six months; (4) anti-opium societies to be officially encouraged, and
  medicines distributed to cure the opium-smoking habit; (5) all
  officials were requested to set an example to the people, and all
  officials under sixty were required to abandon opium smoking within
  six months or to withdraw from the service of the state.

It was estimated that the suppression of opium smoking would entail a yearly loss of revenue
of over £1,600,000, a loss about equally divided between the central and provincial governments.
The first step taken to enforce the edict was the closing of the opium dens in Peking on the
last day of 1906.

  During 1907 the opium dens in Shanghai, Canton, Fu-chow and many other
  large cities were closed, and restrictions on the issue of licences
  were introduced in the foreign settlements; even the eunuchs of the
  palace were prohibited from smoking opium under severe penalties. The
  central government continued during 1908 and 1909 to display
  considerable energy in the suppression of the use of opium, but the
  provincial authorities were not all equally energetic. It was noted in
  1908 that while in some provinces--even in Yun-nan, where its
  importance tc trade and commerce and its use as currency seemed to
  render it very difficult to do anything effective--the governor and
  officials were whole-hearted in carrying out the imperial regulations,
  in other provinces--notably in Kwei-chow and in the provinces of the
  lower Yangtsze valley--great supineness was exhibited in dealing with
  the subject. Lord William Cecil, however, stated that travelling in
  1909 between Peking and Hankow, through country which in 1907 he had
  seen covered with the poppy, he could not then see a single poppy
  flower, and that going up the Yangtsze he found only one small patch
  of poppy cultivation.[68] The Peking correspondent of The Times, in
  a journey to Turkestan in the early part of 1910, found that in
  Shen-si province the people's desire to suppress the opium trade was
  in advance of the views of the government. Every day trains of opium
  carts were passed travelling under official protection. But in the
  adjoining province of Shan-si there had been complete suppression of
  poppy cultivation and in Kan-suh the officials were conducting a very
  vigorous campaign against the growth of the poppy.[69]

  In their endeavours to suppress opium smoking the Chinese government
  appealed to the Indian government for help, and in 1907 received a
  promise that India would decrease the production of opium annually by
  one-tenth for four years and subsequently if China did likewise. The
  Indian government also assented to Indian opium being taxed equally
  with Chinese opium, but China did not raise the duty on foreign opium.
  In 1908 the Indian government undertook to reduce the amount of opium
  exported by 5100 chests yearly. In the same year the opium dens in
  Hong-Kong were closed. In February 1909, on the initiative of the
  United States, an international conference was held at Shanghai to
  consider the opium trade and habit. At this conference the Chinese
  representative claimed that the consumption of opium had already been
  reduced by one-half--a claim not borne out by the ascertained facts.
  The conference was unable to suggest any heroic measures, but a number
  of proposals were agreed to (including the closing of opium dens in
  the foreign settlements), tending to the restriction of the opium
  trade. The conference also dealt with another and growing habit in
  China--the use of morphia.[70] Japan agreed to prohibit the export of
  morphia to China, a prohibition to which the other powers had
  previously agreed.

  Education.

The attempts to reform the educational system of China on a comprehensive scale date from the
year of the return of the court to Peking after the Boxer troubles. In 1902 regulations were
sanctioned by the emperor which aimed at remodelling the methods of public instruction. These
regulations provided among other things for the establishment at Peking of a university giving
instruction in Western learning, a technical college, and a special department for training
officials and teachers. A much more revolutionary step was taken in September 1905 when a decree
appeared announcing as from the beginning of 1906 the abolition of the existing method of examinations.
The new system was to include the study of modern sciences, history, geography and foreign
languages, and in the higher grades political economy and civil and international law. Thousands
of temples were converted to educational purposes. In Canton, in 1907, the old examination
hall was demolished to make way for a college with every appliance on Western lines. Equal
zeal was noticeable in such conservative cities as Si-gan-fu, and in remote provinces like
Kan-suh. By May 1906 fifteen so-called universities had been founded. Moreover, many young
Chinese went abroad to acquire education--in Japan alone in 1906 there were 13,000 students.
In the same year primary schools for girls were established.[71] Perhaps the most striking
evidence of the new spirit regarding education was the tenour of a communication to the throne
from the head of the Confucian family. On the 31st of December 1906 an imperial edict had appeared
raising Confucius to the same rank as Heaven and Earth--an action taken to indicate the desire
of the government to emphasize the value of ethical training. In thanking the throne for the
honour conferred on his ancestor the head of the family urged that at the new college founded
at the birth-place of Confucius the teaching should include foreign languages, physical culture,
political science and military drill.[72]

While China, with the consent of the emperor and the empress-dowager, and under the guidance
of Prince Ching, Yuan Shih-kai and Chang Chih-tung, was endeavouring to bring about internal
reforms, her attitude to foreign powers was one of reserve and distrust. This was especially
marked in the negotiations with Japan and with Russia concerning Manchuria, and was seen also
in the negotiations with Great Britain concerning Tibet. It was not until April 1908, after
four years' negotiations, that a convention with Great Britain respecting Tibet was signed,
Chinese suzerain rights being respected. In September the Dalai Lama arrived in Peking from
Mongolia and was received by the emperor, who also gave audience to a Nepalese mission.[73]

  Death of the emperor and of the dowager empress.

The emperor Kwang-su had witnessed, without being able to guide, the new reform movement. In
August 1908 an edict was issued in his name announcing the convocation of a parliament in nine
years' time. In November he died. His death occasioned no surprise, as disquieting reports
about his health had been current since July, but the announcement that the dowager empress
died on the 15th of November (the day after that on which the emperor was officially stated
to have died) was totally unexpected. She had celebrated her birthday on the 3rd of November
and appeared then to be in good health. The empress dowager had taken part in the choice of
a successor to the throne, Kwang-su's valedictory edict had been drawn up under her supervision,
and it is believed that the emperor died some days previous to the date officially given for
his death. Kwang-su died childless and was succeeded by his infant nephew Pu-Yi (born on the
8th of February 1906), a son of Prince Chun, who was appointed regent. Prince Chun--himself
then only twenty-six years old--had exercised considerable influence at court since his mission
to Germany in 1901, and was one of the most enlightened of the Manchu princes. The death of
the dowager empress removed a powerful obstacle to a reformed regime, and with her passed away
the last prominent representative of the old era in China.

  Accession of Hsuan Tung.

The accession to the throne of Pu-Yi, who was given as reigning title Hsuan Tung ("promulgating
universally"), was unaccompanied by disturbances, save for an outbreak at Ngan-king, easily
suppressed. Prince Chun had the support of Yuan Shih-kai and Chang Chih-tung,[74] the two most
prominent Chinese members of the government at Peking--and thus a division between the Manchus
and Chinese was avoided. On the 2nd of December 1908 the young emperor was enthroned with the
usual rites. On the day following another edict, which, it was stated, had had the approval
of the late dowager empress, was issued, reaffirming that of the 27th of August regarding the
grant of a parliamentary constitution in nine years' time, and urging the people to prepare
themselves for the change. Other edicts sought to strengthen the position of the regent as
de facto emperor. Yuan Shih-kai and Chang Chih-tung received the title of Grand Guardians of
the Heir, and the year 1908 closed with the chief Chinese members of the government working,
apparently, in complete harmony with the regent.

  Dismissal of Yuan Shih-kai.

  Agreement with Japan.

On the 1st of January 1909, however, the political situation was rudely disturbed by the dismissal
from office of Yuan Shih-kai. This step led to representations by the British and American
ministers to Prince Ching, the head of the foreign office, by whom assurances were given that
no change of policy was contemplated by China, while the regent in a letter to President Taft
reiterated the determination of his government to carry through its reform policy. The dismissal
of Yuan Shih-kai was believed by the Chinese to be due to his "betrayal" of the emperor Kwang-su
in the 1898 reform movement. He had nevertheless refused to go to extremes on the reactionary
side, and in 1900, as governor of Shan-tung, he preserved a neutrality which greatly facilitated
the relief of the Peking legations. During the last years of the life of the dowager empress
it was his influence which largely reconciled her to the new reform movement. Yet Kwang-su
had not forgotten the coup d'état of 1898, and it is alleged that he left a testament calling
upon his brother the prince regent to avenge the wrongs he had suffered.[75] During the greater
part of the year there was serious estrangement between China and Japan, but on the 4th of
September a convention was signed which settled most of the points in dispute respecting Manchuria
and Korea. In Korea the boundary was adjusted so that Chientao, a mountainous district in eastern
Manchuria regarded as the ancestral home of the reigning families of China and Korea, was definitely
assigned to China; while in Manchuria, both as to railways and mines, a policy of co-operation
was substituted for one of opposition.[76] Although Japan had made substantial concessions,
those made by China in return provoked loud complaints from the southern provinces--the self-government
society calling for the dismissal of Prince Ching. In northern Manchuria the Russian authorities
had assumed territorial jurisdiction at Harbin, but on the 4th of May an agreement was signed
recognizing Chinese jurisdiction.[77]

  The control of railways.

The spirit typified by the cry of "China for the Chinese" was seen actively at work in the
determined efforts made to exclude foreign capital from railway affairs. The completion in
October 1909 of the Peking-Kalgan railway was the cause of much patriotic rejoicing. The railway,
a purely Chinese undertaking, is 122 m. long and took four years to build. It traversed difficult
country, piercing the Nan K'ow Pass by four tunnels, one under the Great Wall being 3580 ft.
long. There was much controversy between foreign financiers, generally backed by their respective
governments, as to the construction of other lines. In March 1909 the Deutschasiatische Bank
secured a loan of £3,000,000 for the construction of the Canton-Hankow railway. This concession
was contrary to an undertaking given in 1905 to British firms and was withdrawn, but only in
return for the admittance of German capital in the Sze-ch'uen railway. After prolonged negotiations
an agreement was signed in Paris on the 24th of May 1910 for a loan of £6,000,000 for the construction
of the railway from Hankow to Sze-ch'uen, in which British, French, German and American interests
were equally represented. In January 1910 the French line from Hanoi to Yunnan-fu was opened;[78]
the railway from Shanghai to Nanking was opened for through traffic in 1909.

  Provincial Assemblies constituted. A senate formed.

The progress of the anti-opium movement and the dispute over the control of the Imperial Maritime
Customs have already been chronicled. A notable step was taken in 1909 by the institution of
elected assemblies in each of the provinces. The franchise on which the members were elected
was very limited, and the assemblies were given consultative powers only. They were opened
on the 14th of October (the 1st day of the 9th moon). The businesslike manner in which these
assemblies conducted their work was a matter of general comment among foreign observers in
China.[79] In February 1910 decrees appeared approving schemes drawn up by the Commission for
Constitutional Reforms, providing for local government in prefectures and departments and for
the reform of the judiciary. This was followed on the 9th of May by another decree summoning
the senate to meet for the first time on the 1st day of the 9th moon (the 3rd of October 1910).
All the members of the senate were nominated, and the majority were Manchus. Neither to the
provincial assemblies nor to the senate was any power of the purse given, and the drawing up
of a budget was postponed until 1915.[80]

  Anti-dynastic movements. Riots in Hu-nan.

The efforts of the central government to increase the efficiency of the army and to re-create
a navy were continued in 1910. China was credited with the intention of spending £40,000,000
on the rehabilitation of its naval and military forces. It was estimated in March 1910 that
there were about 200,000 foreign-trained men, but their independent spirit and disaffection
constituted a danger to internal peace. The danger was accentuated by the mutual jealousy of
the central and provincial governments. The anti-dynastic agitation, moreover, again seemed
to be growing in strength. In April 1910 there was serious rioting at Changsha, Hu-nan, a town
whence a few years previously had issued a quantity of anti-foreign literature of a vile kind.
The immediate causes of the riots seem to have been many: rumours of the intention of the foreign
powers to dismember China, the establishment of foreign firms at Changsha competing with native
firms and exporting rice and salt at a time when the province was suffering from famine, and
the approach of Halley's comet. Probably famine precipitated the outbreak, which was easily
crushed, as was also a rising in May at Yung chow, a town in the south of Hu-nan. Much mission
and mercantile property was wrecked at Changsha, but the only loss of life was the accidental
drowning of three Roman Catholic priests.

  The regent's policy.

An edict of the 17th of August 1910 effected considerable and unexpected changes in the personnel
of the central government. Tang Shao-yi, a former lieutenant of Yuan Shih-kai, was appointed
president of the Board of Communications, and to him fell the difficult task of reconciling
Chinese and foreign interests in the development of the railway system. Sheng Kung-pao regarded
as the chief Chinese authority on currency questions, and an advocate of the adoption of a
gold standard, was attached to the Board of Finance to help in the reforms decreed by an edict
of May of the same year (see ante, Currency). The issue of the edict was attributed to the
influence with the regent of Prince Tsai-tao, who had recently returned from a tour in Europe,
where he had specially studied questions of national defence. The changes made among the high
officials tended greatly to strengthen the central administration. The government had viewed
with some disquiet the Russo-Japanese agreement of the 4th of July concerning Manchuria (which
was generally interpreted as in fact lessening the authority of China in that country); it
had become involved in another dispute with Great Britain, which regarded some of the measures
taken to suppress opium smoking as a violation of the terms of the Chifu convention, and its
action in Tibet had caused alarm in India. Thus the appointment to high office of men of enlightenment,
pledged to a reform policy, was calculated to restore confidence in the policy of the Peking
authorities. This confidence would have been greater had not the changes indicated a struggle
for supreme power between the regent and the dowager empress Lung Yu, widow of Kwang-su.

The strength of the various movements at work throughout China was at
this time extremely difficult to gauge; the intensity of the desire for
the acquisition of Western knowledge was equalled by the desire to
secure the independence of the country from foreign control. The second
of these desires gave the force it possessed to the anti-dynastic
movement. At the same time some of the firmest supporters of reform were
found among the Manchus, nor did there seem to be any reason to doubt
the intention of the regent--if he retained power--to guide the nation
through the troubled period of transition into an era of constitutional
government and the full development of the resources of the empire.
    (X.)

PLATE I.

Figs. 2, 4, and 5 are reproduced by permission of the Kokka Company, Tokyo.

PLATE II

  BIBLIOGRAPHICAL NOTE.--Knowledge of the ancient history of China is
  necessarily derived from the native writers on the subject.
  Fortunately, the Chinese have always regarded the preservation of the
  national records as a matter of supreme importance. Confucius set an
  example in this respect, and has preserved for us in the Spring and
  Autumn Annals and the Shu-king, or Book of History, records of
  his country's progress during the past and then present centuries. The
  celebrated emperor Shih Hwang-ti, in establishing the empire,
  attempted to strengthen his cause by destroying all works on the
  national history. But so strongly was the historical sense inculcated
  in the people that immediately on the death of the tyrant the
  nation's records were again brought to light, and have been carefully
  preserved and edited since that time. Prof. Legge's translation of the
  Spring and Autumn Annals and the Shu-king, or Book of History, in
  the "Sacred Books of the East" series, have opened for students the
  stores of historical knowledge which were at the command of Confucius,
  and European writers on Chinese history have found in the dynastic
  annals a never-failing source of valuable information. It was from
  these works and epitomes of these that de Maillac gathered the facts
  for his celebrated Histoire générale de la Chine, and it is from
  similar sources that all other writers on Chinese history have drawn
  their inspiration.

  The following works on ancient and modern Chinese history may be
  specially mentioned: J.A. de Moyria de Maillac, Histoire générale de
  la Chine (1777), &c.; J B. du Halde, General History of China (4
  vols., 1736); M. de Guignes, Voyages à Péking ... (3 vols., 1808);
  D. Boulger, A History of China (3 vols., 1881); Valentine Chirol,
  The Far Eastern Question (1896); E.R. Huc, The Chinese Empire (2
  vols., 1855); T.T. Meadows, The Chinese and their Rebellions (1856);
  G. Pauthier, Histoire des relations politiques de la Chine avec les
  puissances occidentales depuis les temps les plus anciens jusqu'à nos
  jours ... (1859); Sir George Staunton, Notes of Proceedings and
  Occurrences during the British Embassy to Peking in 1816 (1824);
  Chinese Expansion historically reviewed, a paper read before the
  Central Asian Society by Baron Suyematsu on January 11, 1905; F.
  Hirth, Ancient History of China (New York, 1908); Prof. Herbert A.
  Giles's Chinese Biographical Dictionary (1897) is a storehouse of
  biographical detail and anecdote.

  For Chinese relations with foreign powers see H. Cordier, Histoire
  des relations de la Chine avec les puissances occidentales, 1860-1902
  (3 vols., Paris, 1901-1902); Hertslet's China Treaties. Treaties,
  &c., between Great Britain and China, and between China and Foreign
  Powers, and Orders in Council, &c., affecting British Interests in
  China (3rd ed., revised by G.G.P. Hertslet and E. Parkes, London,
  1908); J.O. Bland and E. Backhouse, China under the Empress Dowager
  (London, 1910). More general works are Sir R.K. Douglas, China,
  history since the time of Marco Polo (London, 1899); E.H. Parker,
  China; Her History, Diplomacy and Commerce (London, 1901); China,
  Past and Present (London, 1903); A.J. Sargent, Anglo-Chinese
  Commerce and Diplomacy--mainly in the 19th century (Oxford, 1907).
  For current affairs see the authorities cited in the footnotes.

VI. CHINESE ART

1. Painting.--Painting is the pre-eminent art of China, which can boast of a succession of
great painters for at least twelve centuries. Though the Chinese have an instinctive gift for
harmonious colour, their painting is above all an art of line. It is intimately connected with
writing, itself a fine art demanding the same skill and supple power in the wielding of the
brush. The most typical expression of the Chinese genius in painting is the ink sketch, such
as the masters of the Sung dynasty most preferred and the Japanese from the 15th century adopted
for an abiding model. Utmost vigour of stroke was here combined with utmost delicacy of modulation.
Rich colour and the use of gold are an integral part of the Buddhist pictures, though in the
masterpieces of the religious painters a grand rhythm of linear design gives the fundamental
character. Exquisite subdued colour is also found in the "flower and bird pieces" and still-life
subjects of the Sung artists, and becomes more emphatic and variegated in the decorative artists
of the Ming period.

Not to represent facts, but to suggest a poetic idea (often perfumed, so to speak, with reminiscence
of some actual poem), has ever been the Chinese artist's aim. "A picture is a voiceless poem"
is an old saying in China, where very frequently the artist was a literary man by profession.
Oriental critics lay more stress on loftiness of sentiment and tone than on technical qualities.
This idealist temper helps to explain the deliberate avoidance of all emphasis on appearances
of material solidity by means of chiaroscuro, &c., and the exclusive use of the light medium
of water-colour. The Chinese express actual dislike for the representation of relief. Whoever
compares the painting of Europe with that of Asia (and Chinese painting is the central type
for the one continent, as Italian may claim to be for the other) must first understand this
contrast of aim. The limitations of the Chinese are great, but these limitations save them
from mistaking advances in science for advances in art, and from petty imitation of fact. Their
religious painting has great affinity with the early religious art of Italy (e.g. that of Siena).
But the ideas of the Renaissance, its scientific curiosity, its materialism, its glorification
of human personality, are wholly missing in China. For Europe, Man is ever the hero and the
foreground--hence the dominant study of the nude, and the tendency to thronged compositions,
with dramatic motives of effort and conflict. The Chinese artists, weak in the plastic, weak
in the architectural sense, paint mostly in a lyric mood, with a contemplative ideal. Hence
the value given to space in their designs, the semi-religious passion for nature, and the supremacy
of landscape. Beauty is found not only in pleasant prospects, but in wild solitudes, rain,
snow and storm. The life of things is contemplated and portrayed for its own sake, not for
its uses in the life of men. From this point of view the body of Chinese painting is much more
modern in conception than that of Western art. Landscape was a mature and free art in China
more than a thousand years ago, and her school of landscape is the loftiest yet known to the
world. Nor was man ever dissociated from nature. As early as the 4th century Ku K'ai-chih says
that in painting a certain noble character he must give him a fit background of great peaks
and deep ravines. Chinese painting, in sum, finely complements rather than poorly supplements
that of Europe; where the latter is strong, it is weak; but in certain chosen provinces it
long ago found consummate expression for thoughts and feelings scarcely yet expressed with us.

  History: Early periods (to A.D. 618).

The origin of Chinese painting is lost in legend, though there is no reason to doubt its great
antiquity. References in literature prove that by the 3rd century B.C. it was a developed art.
To this period is ascribed the invention of the hair-brush, in the use of which as an instrument
both for writing and drawing the Chinese have attained marvellous skill; the usual material
for the picture being woven silk, or, less often and since the 1st century A.D., paper. In
early times wood panels were employed; and large compositions were painted on walls prepared
with white lime. These mural decorations have all disappeared. History and portraiture seem
to have been the prevailing subjects; a secular art corresponding to the social ideals of Confucianism.
Yet long before the introduction of Buddhism (A.D. 67) with its images and pictures, we find
that the two great symbolic figures of the Chinese imagination, the Tiger and the Dragon--typifying
the forces of Nature and the power of the Spirit--had been evolved in art; and to imaginative
minds the mystic ideas of Lao Tzü and the legends of his hermit followers proved a fruitful
field for artistic motives of a kind which Buddhism was still more to enrich and multiply.
Early classifications rank Buddhist and Taoist subjects together as one class.

With the 2nd century A.D. we come to individual names of artists and to the beginnings of landscape.
Ku K'ai-chih (4th century) ranks as one of the greatest names of Chinese art. A painting by
him now in the British Museum (Plate I. fig. 1) shows a maturity which has nothing tentative
about it. The dignified and elegant types are rendered with a mastery of sensitive brush-line
which is not surpassed in later art. Ku K'ai-chih painted all kinds of subjects, but excelled
in portraiture. During the next century the criticism of painting was formulated in six canons
by Hsieh Ho. Rhythm, organic or structural beauty, is the supreme quality insisted on.

  T'ang dynasty (A.D. 618-907).

During the T'ang dynasty the empire expanded to its utmost limits, stretching as far as the
Persian Gulf. India was invaded; Buddhism, taught by numbers of Indian missionaries, became
firmly established, and controlled the ideals and imaginations of the time. The vigorous style
of a great era was impressed upon the T'ang art, which culminated in Wu Taotzü, universally
acknowledged as the greatest of all Chinese painters. It is doubtful if any of his work remains.
The picture reproduced (Plate I. fig. 2) was long attributed to him, but is now thought to
be of later date, like the two landscapes well known under his name in Japan. Wu Taotzü seems
to have given supreme expression to the central subject of Buddhist art, the Nirvana of Buddha,
who lies serenely asleep, with all creation, from saints and kings to birds and beasts, passionately
bewailing him. The composition is known from Japanese copies; and it is in fact from the early
religious schools of Japan that we can best conjecture the grandeur of the T'ang style. Wu
Taotzü excelled in all subjects: other masters are best known for some particular one. Han
Kan was famous for his horses, the models for succeeding generations of painters, both Chinese
and Japanese. A specimen of his brush is in the British Museum; and in the same collection
is a long roll which gives a glimpse of the landscape of this age. It is a copy by a great
master of the Yuen dynasty, Chao Mêng-fu, from a famous painting by Wang Wei, representing
scenes on the Wang Ch'uan, the latter's home (Plate I. fig. 3 shows a fragment). With the T'ang
age landscape matured, and two schools arose, one headed by Wang Wei, the other by Li Ssü-hsün.
The style of Wang Wei, who was equally famous as a poet, had a romantic idealist character--disdainful
of mere fact--which in later developments created the "literary man's picture" of the Southern
school, as opposed to the vigorous naturalism of the North.

  Five dynasties (A.D. 907-960).

Next come five brief dynasties, memorable less for any corporate style or tradition, than for
some fine painters like Hsü Hsi, famous for his flowers, and Huang Ch'uan, a great master in
a delicate style. Two pictures by him, fowls and peonies, of extraordinary beauty, are in the
British Museum.

  Sung dynasty (A.D. 960-1280).

The empire, which had been broken up, was reunited, though shorn of its outer dependencies,
under the house of Sung. This was an age of culture in which the freedom of the individual
was proclaimed anew; glorious in art as in poetry and philosophy; the period which for Asia
stands in history as the Periclean age for Europe.

  The religious paintings of Li Lung-mien, the grandest of Sung masters,
  if less forcible than those of T'ang, were unsurpassed in harmonious
  rhythm of design and colour. But the most characteristic painting of
  this period is in landscape and nature-subjects. With a passion
  unmatched in Europe till Wordsworth's day, the Sung artists portrayed
  their delight in mountains, mists, plunging torrents, the flight of
  the wild geese from the reed-beds, the moonlit reveries of sages in
  forest solitudes, the fisherman in his boat on lake or stream. To them
  also, steeped in the Zen philosophy of contemplation, a flowering
  branch was no mere subject for a decorative study, but a symbol of the
  infinite life of nature. A mere hint to the spectator's imagination is
  often all that they rely on; proof of the singular fulness and reality
  of the culture of the time. The art of suggestion has never been
  carried farther. Such traditional subjects as "Curfew from a Distant
  Temple" and "The Moon over Raging Waves" indicate the poetic
  atmosphere of this art. Ma Yuan, Hsia Kuei and the emperor Hwei-tsung
  are among the greatest landscape artists of this period. They belong
  to the South Sung school, which loved to paint the gorges and towering
  rock-pinnacles of the Yangtsze. The sterner, less romantic scenery of
  the Hwang-Ho inspired the Northern school, of which Kuo Hsi and Li
  Ch'eng were famous among many others. Muh Ki was one of the greatest
  masters of the ink sketch; Chao Tan Lin was famed for his tigers; Li
  Ti for his flowers as for his landscapes; Mao I for still-life: to
  name a few among a host.

  Yuen dynasty (A.D. 1280-1368).

The Mongol dynasty continues in art the Sung tradition. Chao Mêng-fu, the greatest master of
his time, belongs to both periods, and ranks with the highest names in Chinese painting. A
landscape by him, copied from Wang Wei, has been already mentioned as in the British Museum,
which also has two specimens of Yen Hui, a painter less known in his own country than in Japan.
He painted especially figures of Taoist legend. The portrait by Ch'ien Shun-chü (Plate I. fig.
5) is a fine example of purity of line and lovely colour, reminding us of Greek art.

  Ming dynasty (A.D. 1368-1644).

The simplicity of motive and directness of execution which had been the strength of the Sung
art gradually gave way during the Ming era to complicated conceptions and elaborate effects.
The high glow of life faded; the lyrical temper and impassioned work of the Sung time were
replaced by love of ornament and elegance. In this respect Kiu Ying is typical of the period,
with his richly coloured scenes from court life (Plate I. fig. 6). None the less, there were
a number of painters who still upheld the grander style of earlier ages. The greatest of these
was Lin Liang (Plate I. fig. 7), whose brush work, if somewhat coarser, is as powerful as that
of the Sung masters. But though individual painters of the first rank preserved the Ming age
from absolute decline, it cannot be said that any new development of importance took place
in a vitalizing direction.

  Tsing dynasty (from A.D. 1644).

The present dynasty prolongs the history of Ming art. The literary school of the South became
more prominent, sending out offshoots in Japan. There has been no movement of national life
to be reflected in art, though a great body of admirable painting has been produced, down to
the present day. The four landscape masters known as the "four Wangs," Yün Shou-p'ing and Wu
Li are pre-eminent names.

  SOURCES AND AUTHORITIES.--While the designs on porcelain, screens,
  &c., have long been admired in the West, the paintings of which these
  are merely reproductions have been utterly ignored. Ignorance has
  gained authority with time, till the very existence of a great school
  of Chinese painting has been denied. Materials for study are scanty.
  Fires, wars and the recent armed ravages of Western civilization have
  left but little. The profound indifference of the Chinese to European
  admiration has prevented their collections from being known. The
  Japanese, always enthusiastic students and collectors of the
  continental art, claim (whether justly or not, is hard to ascertain)
  that the finest specimens are now in their country. Many of these are
  reproduced in the invaluable Tokyo publications, the Kokka, Mr
  Tajima's Select Relics, &c., with Japanese criticisms in English. Of
  actual paintings the British Museum possesses a fair number, and the
  Louvre a few, of real importance. Copies and forgeries abound.

  See H.A. Giles, Introduction to the History of Chinese Pictorial Art
  (1905); F. Hirth, Scraps from a Collector's Note-Book (1905),
  (supplements Giles's work and especially valuable for the art of the
  Ch'ing dynasty); S.W. Bushell, Chinese Art, vol. ii. (1906); K.
  Okakura, Ideals of the East (1903); M. Paléologue, L'Art chinois
  (1887); W. Anderson, Catalogue of Japanese and Chinese Paintings
  (1886); Sei-ichi Taki, "Chinese Landscape Painting," The Kokka, Nos.
  191, &c. (1906); Chinesische Malereien aus der Sammlung Hirth
  (Catalogue of an exhibition held at Dresden) (1897); W. von Seidlitz,
  article in Kunstchronik (1896-1897), No. 16.

2. Engraving.--According to native historians, the art of printing from wooden blocks was invented
in China in the 6th century A.D., when it was employed for the publication of texts. The earliest
evidence we have for the existence of woodcuts made to reproduce pictures or drawings is a
passage in a work by Chang Yen-yüan, from which it appears that these were not made before
the beginning of the T'ang dynasty, under which that author lived. The method employed was
to cut the design with a knife on the plank of the wood, in the manner followed by European
artists till the end of the 18th century, when engraving with a burin on boxwood ousted the
older process. The Japanese borrowed the art from China; and in Japan a whole school of artists
arose who worked specially for the woodcutters and adapted their designs to the limitations
of the material employed. In China the art has remained merely reproductive, and its history
is therefore of less interest. Printing in colours was known to the Chinese in the 17th century,
and probably earlier. In the British Museum is a set of prints brought from the East by Kaempfer
in 1693, in which eight colours and elaborate gauffrage are used. Some fine albums of colour
prints have been issued in China, but nothing equal in beauty to the prints produced in Japan
by the co-operation of woodcutter and designer. Engraving on copper was introduced to China
by the Jesuits, and some well-known sets of prints illustrating campaigns in Mongolia were
made in the 18th century. But the method has never proved congenial to the artists of the Far East.

  See Sir R.K. Douglas, Guide to the Chinese and Japanese Illustrated
  Books (British Museum, 1887); W. Anderson, Japanese Wood Engraving
  (1895).

3. Architecture.--In architecture the Chinese genius has found but limited and uncongenial
expression. A nation of painters has built picturesquely, but this picturesqueness has fought
against the attainment of the finest architectural qualities. There has been little development;
the arch, for instance, though known to the Chinese from very early times, has been scarcely
used as a principle of design, and the cupola has been undiscovered or ignored; and though
foreign architectural ideas were introduced under the influence of the Buddhist and Mahommedan
religions, these were more or less assimilated and subdued to the dominant Chinese design.
Ruins scarcely exist and no building earlier than the 11th century A.D. is known; but we know
from records that the forms of architecture still prevalent imitate in essentials those of
the 4th and 5th centuries B.C. and doubtless represent an immemorial tradition.

The grand characteristic of Chinese architecture is the pre-eminent importance of the roof.
The t'ing is the commonest model of building. The roof is the main feature; in fact the t'ing
consists of this roof, massive and immense, with recurved edges, and the numerous short columns
on which the roof rests. The columns are of wood, the straight stems of the nanmu being specially
used for this purpose. The walls are not supports, but merely fill in, with stone or brickwork,
the spaces between the columns. The scheme of construction is thus curiously like that of the
modern American steel-framed building, though the external form may be derived from the tent
of primitive nomads. The roof, being the preponderant feature, is that on which the art of
the architect has been concentrated. A double or a triple roof may be devised; the ridges and
eaves may be decorated with dragons and other fantastic animals, and the eaves underlaid with
carved and lacquered woodwork; the roof itself is often covered with glazed tiles of brilliant
hue. In spite of efforts, sometimes desperate, to give variety and individual character by
ornament and detail, the general impression is one of poverty of design. "Chinese buildings
are usually one-storeyed and are developed horizontally as they are increased in size or number.
The principle which determines the plan of projection is that of symmetry" (Bushell). All important
buildings must face the south, and this uniform orientation increases the general architectural
monotony produced by a preponderance of horizontal lines.

A special characteristic of Chinese architecture is the pai-lou, an archway erected only by
special authority, usually to commemorate famous persons. The pai-lou is commonly made of wood
with a tiled roof, but sometimes is built entirely of stone, as is the gateway at the avenue
of the Ming tombs. A magnificent example of the pai-lou is that on the avenue leading to Wo
Fo Ssü, the temple of the Sleeping Buddha, near Peking. This is built of marble and glazed
terra-cotta. The pai-lou, like the Japanese torii, derives its origin from the toran of Indian
stupas. Lofty towers called t'ai, usually square and of stone, seem to have been a common type
of important building in early times. They are described in old books as erected by the ancient
kings and used for various purposes. The towers of the Great Wall are of the same character,
and are made of stone, with arched doors and windows. Stone, though plentiful in most provinces
of the empire, has been singularly little used by the Chinese, who prefer wood or brick. M.
Paléologue attributes this preference of light and destructible materials to the national indifference
of the Chinese to posterity and the future, their enthusiasm being wholly devoted to their
ancestors and the past.

Temples are designed on the general t'ing model. The Temple of Heaven is the most imposing
of the Confucian temples, conspicuous with its covering of deep-blue tiles and its triple roof.
Near this is the great Altar of Heaven, consisting of three circular terraces with marble balustrades.
Buddhist temples are built on the general plan of secular residences, and consist of a series
of rectangular courts with the principal building in the centre, the lesser at the sides. Lama
temples differ little from these except in the interior decorations and symbolism. Mahommedan
mosques are far simpler and severer in internal arrangement, but outwardly these also are in
the Chinese style.

The pagoda (Chinese taa), the type of Chinese architecture most familiar to the West, probably
owes its peculiar form to Buddhist influence. In the pagoda alone may be found some trace of
a religious imagination such as in Europe made Gothic architecture so full and splendid an
expression of the aspiring spirit. The most famous pagoda was the Porcelain Tower of Nanking,
destroyed by the T'aip'ing rebels in 1854. This was covered with slabs of faience coated with
coloured glazes. The ordinary pagoda is built of brick on a stone foundation; it is octagonal
with thirteen storeys.

No Chinese buildings show more beauty than some of the graceful stone bridges for which the
neighbourhood of Peking has been famous for centuries.

  See M. Paléologue, L'Art chinois (1887): S.W. Bushell, Chinese
  Art, vol. i. (1904); J. Fergusson, History of Architecture;
  Professor Chûta Itô, articles in The Kokka, Nos. 197, 198.
       (L. B.)

4. Sculpture.--Except in the casting and decoration of bronze vessels the Chinese have not
obtained distinction as sculptors. They have practised sculpture in stone from an early period,
but the incised reliefs of the 2nd century B.C., a number of which are figured in Professor
E. Chavannes's standard work,[81] while they display a certain spirit, lack the true plastic
sense, and though the power of the Chinese draughtsmen increased rapidly under the T'ang and
Sung dynasties, their work in stone showed no parallel progress. The feeling for solidity,
which in Japan was a natural growth, was always somewhat exotic in China. With the impulse
given to the arts by Buddhism a school of sculpture arose. The pilgrim Fa Hsien records sculpture
of distinctive Chinese type in the 5th century. But Indian models dominated the art. Colossal
Buddhas of stone were typical of the T'ang era. Little, however, remains of these earlier times,
and such true sculpture in stone, wood or ivory as we know dates from the 14th and succeeding
centuries. The well-known sculptures on the arch at Chu Yung Kuan (A.D. 1345) are Hindu in
style, though not without elements of breadth and strength, which seem to promise a greater
development than actually took place. The colossal figures guarding the approach to the Ming
tombs (15th century) show that the national taste rapidly became conventional and petrified
so far as monumental sculpture was concerned, though occasional examples of devotional or portrait
sculpture on a smaller scale in wood and ivory are found, which in power, grace, sincerity
and restraint can rank with the work of more gifted nations. Such pieces, however, are extremely
rare, and at South Kensington the ivory "Kwanyin and Child" (274. 1898) is a solitary example.
As a rule the Chinese sculptor valued his art in proportion to the technical difficulties it
conquered. He thus either preferred intractable materials like jade or rock-crystal, or, if
he wrought in wood, horn or ivory, sought to make his work curious or intricate rather than
beautiful. There is, nevertheless, beauty of a kind in Chinese bowls of jade, and there is
dignity in some of the pieces of rock-crystal, but the bulk of the carving done in wood, horn
and ivory does not deserve a moment's serious thought from the aesthetic point of view. The
few fine specimens may be referred to the earlier part of the Ming dynasty when Chinese art
in general was sincere and simple. After the middle of the 15th century there set in the taste
for profuse ornament which injured all subsequent Chinese work, and wholly ruined Chinese sculpture.

Bronzes.--In Chinese bronzes we have a more consistent and exceptional form of plastic art,
which can be traced continuously for some three thousand years. These bronzes take the form
of ritual or honorific vessels, and the archaic shapes used in the service of the prehistoric
religion of the country are repeated and copied with slight changes in decoration or detail
to the present day.

The oldest extant specimens, chiefly derived from the sack of the Summer Palace at Peking,
may be referred to the Shang and Chow dynasties (1766-255 B.C.). These ancient pieces have
a certain savage monumental grandeur of design, are usually covered with a rich and thick patina
of red, green and brown, and are decorated with simple patterns--scrolls, zigzag lines and
a form of what is known as the Greek key-pattern symbolizing respectively waves, mountains
and storm clouds. The animal forms used are those of the tao-tieh (glutton), a fabulous monster
(possibly a conventionalized tiger) representing the powers of the earth, the serpent and the
bull. These two last in later pieces combine to form the dragon, representing the power of
the air. In the Chow dynasty libation vessels were also made in the form of a deer, a ram or
a rhinoceros. These characteristics are shown in figures 9-17, Plate II. Fig. 9 is a temple
vessel of a shape still in use, but which must date from before 1000 B.C. With this massive
piece may be contrasted the flower-like wine vase shown in fig. 10, a favourite shape which
is the prototype of some of the most graceful forms of Chinese porcelain and Japanese bronze.
Its date is about 1000 B.C. The large wine vase shown in fig. 11 is some 400 years later. On
the body appears the head of the tao-tieh, on the handles are superbly modelled serpents. The
technique, which in the previous pieces was somewhat rude, has now become perfect, yet the
menacing majestic feeling remains. We see it no less clearly in fig. 12, a marvellous vessel
richly inlaid with gold and silver and covered with an emerald-green patina. It may date from
about 500 B.C., and indicates that even in this remote epoch the Chinese were not only daring
and powerful artists but also master-craftsmen in metal.

It is indeed at this period that the art reaches its climax. The monumental grandeur of the
Shang specimens is often allied to clumsiness; the later work, if more elaborate, is always
less powerful. Nevertheless, it is to a later period that ninety-nine out of a hundred Chinese
bronzes must be referred, and the great majority belong either to the Han and succeeding dynasties
(220 B.C.-A.D. 400), or to the Renaissance of the arts which culminated under the Ming dynasty
a thousand years later.

The characteristics of the first of these periods is the free use of small solid figures of
animals as decoration--the phoenix, the elephant, the frog, the ox, the tortoise, and occasionally
men; shapes grow less austere and less significant, as a comparison between figures 11 and
13 will indicate; then towards the end of the 2nd century A.D. the influence of Buddhism is
felt in the general tendency towards suavity of form (fig. 14). This vase is most delicately
though sparingly inlaid with silver and a few touches of gold. Some small pieces, very richly
and delicately inlaid and covered with a magnificent emerald-green patina, belonging to this
period, form a connecting link between the inlaid work of the Chow dynasty and that of the
Sung and Ming dynasties. The mirrors with Graeco-Bactrian designs, a conclusive proof of the
external influences brought to bear upon Chinese art, are also attributed to the Han epoch.

  The troubled period between A.D. 400 and A.D. 960, in spite of the
  interval of activity under the T'ang dynasty, produced, it would seem,
  but few bronzes, and those few were of no distinct or noteworthy
  style. Under the Sung dynasty the arts revived, and to this time some
  of the most splendid specimens of inlaid work belong--pieces of
  workmanship and taste no less perfect than that of the Japanese, in
  which the gold and silver of the earlier work are occasionally
  reinforced with malachite and lapis-lazuli. The coming of Kublai Khan
  and the Yuen dynasty (1280-1367) once more brought the East into
  contact with the West, and to this time we may assign certain fine
  pieces of Persian form such as pilgrim bottles. The vessels bearing
  Arabic inscriptions belong to the Ming dynasty (1368-1644), with which
  the modern history of Chinese art begins.

  The work done while the Ming dynasty was still young provides the
  student of Chinese art with many problems, and in one or two cases
  even the South Kensington authorities assign to pre-Christian times
  pieces that are clearly of Ming workmanship. The tendency of the
  period was eclectic and archaistic. The products of earlier days were
  reproduced with perfect technical command of materials, and with
  admirable taste; it is indeed by an excess of these qualities that
  archaistic Ming work may be distinguished from the true archaic. In
  fig. 15 we see how the Ming bronze worker took an earlier Buddhistic
  form of vase and gave it a new grace that amounted almost to artifice.
  A parallel might be found among the products of the so-called art
  nouveau of to-day, in which old designs are revived with just that
  added suavity or profusion of curvature that robs them of character.
  Fig. 16 again might be mistaken almost for a piece of the Chow
  dynasty, were not the grandeur of its form modified by just so much
  harmony in the curvature of the body and neck, and by just so much
  finish in the details as to rob the design of the old majestic vigour
  and to mark it as the splendid effort of an age of culture, and not
  the natural product of a period of strength.

  It is, however, in the inlaid pieces that the difference tells most
  clearly. Here we find the monstrous forms of the Shang and Chow
  dynasties revived by men who appreciated their spirit but could not
  help making the revival an excuse for the display of their own
  superior skill. The monstrous vases and incense-burners of the past
  thus appear once more, but are now decorated with a delicate
  embroidery of inlay, are polished and finished to perfection, but lose
  therewith just the rudeness of edge and outline which made the older
  work so gravely significant. At times even some grandly planned vessel
  will appear with such a festoon of pretty tracery wreathed about it
  that the incongruity is little short of ridiculous, and we recognize
  we have passed the turning-point to decline.

  Decline indeed came rapidly, and to the latter part of the Ming epoch
  we must assign those countless bronzes where dragons and flowers and
  the stock symbols of happiness, good luck and longevity sprawl
  together in interminable convolutions. When once we reach this stage
  of contortion, of elaborate pierced and relief work, we come to the
  place in history of Chinese bronzes where serious study may cease,
  except in so far as the study of the symbols themselves throws light
  upon the history of Chinese procelain (see CERAMICS). One class of
  bronze alone needs a word of notice, namely, the profusely decorated
  pieces which have a Tibetan origin, and are obviously no older than
  the end of the Ming period. Of these fig. 17 will serve as a specimen,
  and a comparison with fig. 9 will show how the softer rounded forms
  and jewelled festoons of Hindu-Greek taste enervated the grand
  primitive force of the earlier age, and that neither the added
  delicacy of texture and substance nor the vastly increased dexterity
  of workmanship can compensate for the vanished majesty.    (C. J. H.)

VII. THE CHINESE LANGUAGE

Colloquial.--In treating of Chinese, it will be found convenient to distinguish, broadly, the
spoken from the written language and to deal with each separately. This is a distinction which
would be out of place if we had to do with any European, or indeed most Oriental languages.
Writing, in its origin, is merely a symbolic representation of speech. But in Chinese, as we
shall see, for reasons connected with the peculiar nature ot the script, the two soon began
to move along independent and largely divergent lines. This division, moreover, will enable
us to employ different methods of inquiry more suited to each. With regard to the colloquial,
it is hardly possible to do more than consider it in the form or forms in which it exists at
the present day throughout the empire of China. Although Chinese, like other living languages,
must have undergone gradual changes in the past, so little can be stated with certainty about
these changes that an accurate survey of its evolution is quite out of the question. Obviously
a different method is required when we come to the written characters. The familiar line, "Litera
scripta manet, volat irrevocabile verbum," is truer perhaps of Chinese than of any other tongue.
We have hardly any clue as to how Chinese was spoken or pronounced in any given district 2000
years ago, although there are written remains dating from long before that time; and in order
to gain an insight into the structure of the characters now existing, it is necessary to trace
their origin and development.

  The dialects.

Beginning with the colloquial, then, and taking a linguistic survey of China, we find not one
spoken language but a number of dialects, all clearly of a common stock, yet differing from
one another as widely as the various Romance languages in southern Europe--say, French, Italian
and Spanish. Most of these dialects are found fringing the coast-line of China, and penetrating
but a comparatively short way into the interior. Starting from the province of Kwang-tung in
the south, where the Cantonese and farther inland the Hakka dialects are spoken, and proceeding
northwards, we pass in succession the following dialects: Swatow, Amoy--these two may almost
be regarded as one--Foochow, Wenchow and Ningpo. Mandarin, of which the dialect of Peking,
the capital since 1421, is now the standard form, comprises a considerable number of sub-dialects,
some of them so closely allied that the speakers of one are wholly intelligible to the speakers
of another, while others (e.g. the vernaculars of Yangchow, Hankow or Mid-China and Ss[)u]-ch'uan)
may almost be considered as separate dialects. Among all these, Cantonese is supposed to approximate
most nearly to the primitive language of antiquity, whereas Pekingese perhaps has receded farthest
from it. But although philologically and historically speaking Cantonese and certain other
dialects may be of greater interest, for all practical purposes Mandarin, in the widest sense
of the term, is by far the most important. For these reasons, all examples of phraseology in
this article will be given in Pekingese.

So far, stress has been laid chiefly on the dissimilarity of the dialects. On the other hand,
it must be remembered that they proceed from the same parent stem, are spoken by members of
the same race, and are united by the bond of writing which is the common possession of all,
and cannot be regarded as derived from one more than from another. They also share alike in
the two most salient features of Chinese as a whole: (1) they are all monosyllabic, that is,
each individual word consists of only one syllable; and (2) they are strikingly poor in vocables,
or separate sounds for the conveyance of speech. The number of these vocables varies from between
800 and 900 in Cantonese to no more than 420 in the vernacular of Peking. This scanty number,
however, is eked out by interposing an aspirate between certain initial consonants and the
vowel, so that for instance p'u is distinguished from pu. The latter is pronounced with little
or no emission of breath, the "p" approximating the farther north one goes (e.g. at Niuchwang)
more closely to a "b." The aspirated p'u is pronounced more like our interjection "Pooh!" To
the Chinese ear, the difference between the two is very marked. It will be found, as a rule,
that an Englishman imparts a slight aspirate to his p's, t's, k's and ch's, and therefore has
greater difficulty with the unaspirated words in Chinese. The aspirates are better learned
by the ear than by the eye, but in one way or another it is essential that they be mastered
by any one who wishes to make himself intelligible to the native.

The influence of the Mongolian population, assisted by the progress of time, has slowly but
surely diminished the number of vocables in Pekingese. Thus the initials ts and k, when followed
by the vowel i (with its continental value) have gradually become softer and more assimilated
to each other, and are now all pronounced ch. Again, all consonantal endings in t and k, such
as survive in Cantonese and other dialects, have entirely disappeared from Pekingese, and n
and ng are the only final consonants remaining. Vowel sounds, on the other hand, have been
proportionately developed, such compounds as ao, ia, iao, iu, ie, ua occurring with especial
frequency. (It must be understood, of course, that the above are only equivalents, not in all
cases very exact, for the sounds of a non-alphabetic language.)

An immediate consequence of this paucity of vocables is that one and the same sound has to
do duty for different words. Reckoning the number of words that an educated man would want
to use in conversation at something over four thousand, it is obvious that there will be an
average of ten meanings to each sound employed. Some sounds may have fewer meanings attached
to them, but others will have many more. Thus the following represent only a fraction of the
total number of words pronounced shih (something like the "shi" in shirt): [Ch] "history,"
[Ch] "to employ," [Ch] "a corpse," [Ch] "a market," [Ch] "an army," [Ch] "a lion," [Ch] "to
rely on," [Ch] "to wait on," [Ch] "poetry," [Ch] "time," [Ch] "to know," [Ch] "to bestow,"
[Ch] "to be," [Ch] "solid," [Ch] "to lose," [Ch] "to proclaim," [Ch] "to look at," [Ch] "ten,"
[Ch] "to pick up," [Ch] "stone," [Ch] "generation," [Ch] "to eat," [Ch] "a house," [Ch] "a
clan," [Ch] "beginning," [Ch] "to let go," [Ch] "to test," [Ch] "affair," [Ch] "power," [Ch]
"officer," [Ch] "to swear," [Ch] "to pass away," [Ch] "to happen." It would be manifestly impossible
to speak without ambiguity, or indeed to make oneself intelligible at all, unless there were
some means of supplementing this deficiency of sounds. As a matter of fact, several devices
are employed through the combination of which confusion is avoided. One of these devices is
the coupling of words in pairs in order to express a single idea. There is a word [Ch] ko which
means "elder brother." But in speaking, the sound ko alone would not always be easily understood
in this sense. One must either reduplicate it and say ko-ko, or prefix [Ch] (ta, "great") and
say ta-ko. Simple reduplication is mostly confined to family appellations and such adverbial
phrases as [Ch][Ch] man-man, "slowly." But there is a much larger class of pairs, in which
each of the two components has the same meaning. Examples are: [Ch][Ch] k'ung-p'a, "to be afraid,"
[Ch][Ch] kao-su, "to tell," [Ch][Ch] shu-mu, "tree," [Ch][Ch] p'i-fu, "skin," [Ch][Ch] man-ying,
"full," [Ch][Ch] ku-tu, "solitary." Sometimes the two parts are not exactly synonymous, but
together make up the sense required. Thus in [Ch][Ch] i-shang, "clothes," i denotes more particularly
clothes worn on the upper part of the body, and shang those on the lower part. [Ch][Ch] fêng-huang
is the name of a fabulous bird, fêng being the male, and kuang the female. In another very
large class of expressions, the first word serves to limit and determine the special meaning
of the second: [Ch][Ch] "milk-skin," "cream"; [Ch][Ch] "fire-leg," "ham"; [Ch][Ch] "lamp-cage,"
"lantern"; [Ch][Ch] "sea-waist," "strait." There are, besides, a number of phrases which are
harder to classify. Thus, [Ch] hu means "tiger." But in any case where ambiguity might arise,
lao-hu, "old tiger," is used instead of the monosyllable. [Ch] (another hu) is "fox," and [Ch]
li, an animal belonging to the smaller cat tribe. Together, hu-li, they form the usual term
for fox. [Ch][Ch] chih tao is literally "to know the way," but has come to be used simply for
the verb "to know." These pairs or two-word phrases are of such frequent occurrence, that the
Chinese spoken language might almost be described as bi-syllabic. Something similar is seen
in the extensive use of suffixes or enclitics, attached to many of the commonest nouns. [Ch]
nü is the word for "girl," but in speech [Ch][Ch] nü-tz[)u] or [Ch][Ch] nü-'rh is the form
used. [Ch] and [Ch] both mean child, and must originally have been diminutives. A fairly close
parallel is afforded by the German suffix chen, as in Mädchen. The suffix [Ch], it may be remarked,
belongs especially to the Peking vernacular. Then, the use of so-called numeratives will often
give some sort of clue as to the class of objects in which a substantive may be found. When
in pidgin English we speak of "one piecee man" or "three piecee dollar," the word piecee is
simply a Chinese numerative in English dress. Even in ordinary English, people do not say "four
cattle" but "four head of cattle." But in Chinese the use of numeratives is quite a distinctive
feature of the language. The commonest of them, [Ch] ko, can be used indifferently in connexion
with almost any class of things, animal, vegetable or mineral. But there are other numeratives--at
least 20 or 30 in everyday use--which are strictly reserved for limited classes of things with
specific attributes. [Ch] mei, for instance, is the numerative of circular objects such as
coins and rings; [Ch] k'o of small globular objects--pearls, grains of rice, &c.; [Ch] k'ou
classifies things which have a mouth--bags, boxes and so forth; [Ch] chien is used of all kinds
of affairs; [Ch] chang of chairs and sheets of paper; [Ch] chih (literally half a pair) is
the numerative for various animals, parts of the body, articles of clothing and ships; [Ch]
pa for things which are grasped by a handle, such as fans and knives.

This by no means exhausts the list of devices by which the difficulties of a monosyllabic language
are successfully overcome. Mention need only be made, however, of the system of "tones," which,
as the most curious and important of all, has been kept for the last.

  The tones.

The tones may be defined as regular modulations of the voice by means of which different inflections
can be imparted to the same sound. They may be compared with the half-involuntary modulations
which express emotional feeling in our words. To the foreign ear, a Chinese sentence spoken
slowly with the tones clearly brought out has a certain sing-song effect. If we speak of the
tones as a "device" adopted in order to increase the number of vocables, this must be understood
rather as a convenient way of explaining their practical function than as a scientific account
of their origin. It is absurd to suppose the tones were deliberately invented in order to fit
each written character with a separate sound. A tone may be said to be as much an integral
part of the word to which it belongs as the sound itself; like the sound, too, it is not fixed
once and for all, but is in a constant, though very gradual, state of evolution. This fact
is proved by the great differences of intonation in the dialects. Theoretically, four tones
have been distinguished--the even, the rising, the sinking and the entering--each of which
falls again into an upper and a lower series. But only the Cantonese dialect possesses all
these eight varieties of tone (to which a ninth has been added), while Pekingese, with which
we are especially concerned here, has no more than four: the even upper, the even lower, the
rising and the sinking. The history of the tones has yet to be written, but it appears that
down to the 3rd century B.C. the only tones distinguished were the [Ch] "even," [Ch] "rising"
and [Ch] "entering." Between that date and the 4th century A.D. the [Ch] sinking tone was developed.
In the 11th century the even tone was divided into upper and lower, and a little later the
entering tone finally disappeared from Pekingese. The following monosyllabic dialogue gives
a very fair idea of the quality of the four Pekingese tones--1st tone: Dead (spoken in a raised
monotone, with slightly plaintive inflection); 2nd tone: Dead? (simple query); 3rd tone: Dead?
(an incredulous query long drawn out); 4th tone: Dead! (a sharp and decisive answer). The native
learns the tones unconsciously and by ear alone. For centuries their existence was unsuspected,
the first systematic classification of them being associated with the name of Shên Yo, a scholar
who lived A.D. 441-513. The Emperor Wu Ti was inclined to be sceptical, and one day said to
him: "Come, tell me, what are these famous four tones?" "They are [Ch][Ch][Ch][Ch] whatever
your Majesty pleases to make them," replied Shên Yo, skilfully selecting for his answer four
words which illustrated, and in the usual order, the four tones in question. Although no native
is ever taught the tones separately, they are none the less present in the words he utters,
and must be acquired consciously or unconsciously by any European who wishes to be understood.
It is a mistake, however, to imagine that every single word in a sentence must necessarily
be given its full tonic force. Quite a number of words, such as the enclitics mentioned above,
are not intonated at all. In others the degree of emphasis depends partly on the tone itself,
partly on its position in the sentence. In Pekingese the 3rd tone (which is really the second
in the ordinary series, the 1st being subdivided into upper and lower) is particularly important,
and next to it in this respect comes the 2nd (that is, the lower even, or 2nd division of the
1st). It may be said, roughly, that any speaker whose second and third tones are correct will
at any rate be understood, even if the 1st and 4th are slurred over.

  The characters.

  Pictorial characters.

It is chiefly, however, on its marvellous script and the rich treasures of its literature that
the Chinese language depends for its unique fascination and charm. If we take a page of printed
Chinese or carefully written manuscript and compare it with a page, say, of Arabic or Sanskrit,
the Chinese is seen at once to possess a marked characteristic of its own. It consists of a
number of wholly independent units, each of which would fit into a small square, and is called
a character. These characters are arranged in columns, beginning on the right-hand side of
the page and running from top to bottom. They are words, inasmuch as they stand for articulate
sounds expressing root-ideas, but they are unlike our words in that they are not composed of
alphabetical elements or letters. Clearly, if each character were a distinct and arbitrarily
constructed symbol, only those gifted with exceptional powers of memory could ever hope to
read or write with fluency. This, however, is far from being the case. If we go to work synthetically
and first see how the language is built up, it will soon appear that most Chinese characters
are susceptible of some kind of analysis. We may accept as substantially true the account of
native writers who tell us that means of communication other than oral began with the use of
knotted cords, similar to the quippus of ancient Mexico and Peru, and that these were displaced
later on by the practice of notching or scoring rude marks on wood, bamboo and stone. It is
beyond question that the first four numerals, as written with simple horizontal strokes, date
from this early period. Notching, however, carries us but a little way on the road to a system
of writing, which in China, as elsewhere, must have sprung originally from pictures. In Chinese
writing, especially, the indications of such an origin are unmistakable, a few characters,
indeed, even in their present form, being perfectly recognizable as pictures of objects pure
and simple. Thus, for "sun" the ancient Chinese drew a circle with a dot in it: [Ch], now modified
into [Ch]; for "moon" [Ch], now [Ch]; for "God" they drew the anthropomorphic figure [Ch],
which in its modern form appears as [Ch]; for "mountains" [Ch], now [Ch]; for "child" [Ch],
now [Ch]; for "fish" [Ch], now [Ch]; for "mouth" a round hole, now [Ch]; for "hand" [Ch], now
[Ch]; for "well" [Ch], now written without the dot. Hence we see that while the origin of all
writing is pictographic, in Chinese alone of living languages certain pictures have survived,
and still denote what they had denoted in the beginning. In the script of other countries they
were gradually transformed into hieroglyphic symbols, after which they either disappeared altogether
or became further conventionalized into the letters of an alphabet. These picture-characters,
then, accumulated little by little, until they comprised all the common objects which could
be easily and rapidly delineated--sun, moon, stars, various animals, certain parts of the body,
tree, grass and so forth, to the number of two or three hundred. The next step was to a few
compound pictograms which would naturally suggest themselves to primitive man: [Ch] the sun
just above the horizon = "dawn"; [Ch] trees side by side = "a forest"; [Ch] a mouth with something
solid coming out of it = "the tongue"; [Ch] a mouth with vapor or breath coming out of it =
"words."

  Suggestive compounds.

  Phonetic characters.

But a purely pictographic script has its limitations. The more complex natural objects hardly
come within its scope; still less the whole body of abstract ideas. While writing was still
in its infancy, it must have occurred to the Chinese to join together two or more pictorial
characters in order that their association might suggest to the mind some third thing or idea.
"Sun" and "moon" combined in this way make the character [Ch], which means "bright"; woman
and child make [Ch] "good"; "fields" and "strength" (that is, labour in the fields) produce
the character [Ch] "male"; two "men" on "earth" [Ch] signifies "to sit"--before chairs were
known; the "sun" seen through "trees" [Ch] designates the east; [Ch] has been explained as
(1) a "pig" under a "roof," the Chinese idea, common to the Irish peasant, of home, and also
(2) as "several persons" under "a roof," in the same sense; a "woman" under a "roof" makes
the character [Ch] "peace"; "words" and "tongue" [Ch] naturally suggest "speech"; two hands
([Ch], in the old form [Ch]) indicate friendship; "woman" and "birth" [Ch] = "born of a woman,"
means "clan-name," showing that the ancient Chinese traced through the mother and not through
the father. Interesting and ingenious as many of these combinations are, it is clear that their
number, too, must in any practical system of writing be severely limited. Hence it is not surprising
that this class of characters, correctly called ideograms, as representing ideas and not objects,
should be a comparatively small one. Up to this point there seemed to be but little chance
of the written language reaching a free field for expansion. It had run so far on lines sharply
distinct from those of ordinary speech. There was nothing in the character per se which gave
the slightest clue to the sound of the word it represented. Each character, therefore, had
to be learned and recognized by a separate effort of memory. The first step in a new, and,
as it ultimately proved, the right direction, was the borrowing of a character already in use
to represent another word identical in sound, though different in meaning. Owing to the scarcity
of vocables noted above, there might be as many as ten different words in common use, each
pronounced fang. Out of those ten only one, we will suppose, had a character assigned to it--namely
[Ch] "square" (originally said to be a picture of two boats joined together). But among the
other nine was fang, meaning "street" or "locality," in such common use that it became necessary
to have some means of writing it. Instead of inventing an altogether new character, as they
might have done, the Chinese took [Ch] "square" and used it also in the sense of "locality."
This was a simple expedient, no doubt, but one that, applied on a large scale, could not but
lead to confusion. The corresponding difficulty which presented itself in speech was overcome,
as we saw, by many devices, one of which consisted in prefixing to the word in question another
which served to determine its special meaning. A native does not say fang simply when he wishes
to speak of a place, but li-fang "earth-place." Exactly the same device was now adopted in
writing the character. To fang "square" was added another part meaning "earth," in order to
show that the fang in question had to do with location on the earth's surface. The whole character
thus appeared as [Ch]. Once this phonetic principle had been introduced, all was smooth sailing,
and writing progressed by leaps and bounds. Nothing was easier now than to provide signs for
the other words pronounced fang. "A room" was [Ch] door-fang; "to spin" was [Ch] silk-fang;
"fragrant" was [Ch] herbs-fang; "to inquire" was [Ch] words-fang; "an embankment," and hence
"to guard against," was [Ch] mound-fang; "to hinder" was [Ch] woman-fang. This last example
may seem a little strange until we remember that man must have played the principal part in
the development of writing, and that from the masculine point of view there is something essentially
obstructive and unmanageable in woman's nature. It may be remarked, by the way, that the element
"woman" is often the determinative in characters that stand for unamiable qualities, e.g. [Ch][Ch]
"jealous," [Ch][Ch] "treacherous," [Ch] "false" and [Ch] "uncanny." This class of characters,
which constitutes at least nine-tenths of the language, has received the convenient name of
phonograms. It must be added that the formation of the phonogram or phonetic compound did not
always proceed along such simple lines as in the examples given above, where both parts are
pictorial characters, one the "phonetic," representing the sound, and the other, commonly known
as the "radical," giving a clue to the sense. In the first place, most of the phonetics now
existing are not simple pictograms, but themselves more or less complex characters made up
in a variety of ways. On analysing, for instance, the word [Ch] hsün, "to withdraw," we find
it is composed of the phonetic [Ch] combined with the radical [Ch], an abbreviated form of
[Ch] "to walk." But [Ch] sun means "grandson," and is itself a suggestive compound made up
of the two characters [Ch] "a son" and [Ch] "connect." The former character is a simple pictogram,
but the latter is again resolvable into the two elements [Ch] "a down stroke to the left" and
[Ch] "a strand of silk," which is here understood to be the radical and appears in its ancient
form as [Ch], a picture of cocoons spun by the silkworm. Again, the sound is in most cases
given by no means exactly by the so-called phonetic, a fact chiefly due to the pronunciation
having undergone changes which the written character was incapable of recording. Thus, we have
just seen that the phonetic of [Ch] is not hsün but sun. There are extreme cases in which a
phonetic provides hardly any clue at all as to the sound of its derivatives. The character
[Ch], for example, which by itself is pronounced ch'ien, appears in combination as the modern
phonetic of [Ch] k'an, [Ch] juan, [Ch] yin and [Ch] ch'ui; though in the last instance it was
not originally the phonetic but the radical of a character which was analysed as [Ch] ch'ien,
"to emit breath" from [Ch] "the mouth," the whole character being a suggestive compound rather
than an illustration of radical and phonetic combined. In general, however, it may be said
that the "final" or rhyme is pretty accurately indicated, while in not a few cases the phonetic
does give the exact sound for all its derivatives. Thus, the characters in which the element
[Ch] enters are pronounced chien, ch'ien, hsien and lien; but [Ch] and its derivatives are
all i. A considerable number of phonetics are nearly or entirely obsolete as separate characters,
although their family of derivatives may be a very large one. [Ch], for instance, is never
seen by itself, yet [Ch], [Ch], and [Ch] are among the most important characters in the language.
Objections have been raised in some quarters to this account of the phonetic development of
Chinese. It is argued that the primitives and sub-primitives, whereby is meant any character
which is capable of entering into combination with another, have really had some influence
on the meaning, and do not merely possess a phonetic value. But insufficient evidence has hitherto
been advanced in support of this view.

The whole body of Chinese characters, then, may conveniently be divided up, for philological
purposes, into pictograms, ideograms and phonograms. The first are pictures of objects, the
second are composite symbols standing for abstract ideas, the third are compound characters
of which the more important element simply represents a spoken sound. Of course, in a strict
sense, even the first two classes do not directly represent either objects or ideas, but rather
stand for sounds by which these objects and ideas have previously been expressed. It may, in
fact, be said that Chinese characters are "nothing but a number of more or less ingenious devices
for suggesting spoken words to a reader." This definition exposes the inaccuracy of the popular
notion that Chinese is a language of ideographs, a mistake which even the compilers of the
Oxford English Dictionary have not avoided. Considering that all the earliest characters are
pictorial, and that the vast majority of the remainder are constructed on phonetic principles,
it is absurd to speak of Chinese characters as "symbolizing the idea of a thing, without expressing
the name of it."

  The "Six Scripts."

The Chinese themselves have always been diligent students of their written language, and at
a very early date (probably many centuries B.C.) evolved a sixfold classification of characters,
the so-called [Ch][Ch] liu shu, very inaccurately translated by the Six Scripts, which may
be briefly noticed:--

1. [Ch][Ch] chih shih, indicative or self-explanatory characters. This is a very small class,
including only the simplest numerals and a few others such as [Ch] "above" and [Ch] "below."

2. [Ch][Ch] hsiang hsing, pictographic characters.

3. [Ch][Ch] hsing shêng or [Ch][Ch] hsieh shêng, phonetic compounds.

4. [Ch][Ch] hui i, suggestive compounds based on a natural association of ideas. To this class
alone can the term "ideographs" be properly applied.

5. [Ch][Ch] chuan chu. The meaning of the name has been much disputed, some saying that it
means "turned round"; e.g. [Ch] mu "eye" is now written [Ch]. Others understand it as comprising
a few groups of characters nearly related in sense, each character consisting of an element
common to the group, together with a specific and detachable part; e.g. [Ch], [Ch], and [Ch],
all of which have the meaning "old." This class may be ignored altogether, seeing that it is
concerned not with the origin of characters but only with peculiarities in their use.

6. [Ch][Ch] chia chieh, borrowed characters, as explained above, that is, characters adopted
for different words simply because of the identity of sound.

The order of this native classification is not to be taken as in any sense chronological. Roughly,
it may be said that the development of writing followed the course previously traced--that
is, beginning with indicative signs, and going on with pictograms and ideograms, until finally
the discovery of the phonetic principle did away with all necessity for other devices in enlarging
the written language. But we have no direct evidence that this was so. There can be little
doubt that phonetic compounds made their appearance at a very early date, probably prior to
the invention of a large number of suggestive compounds, and perhaps even before the whole
existing stock of pictograms had been fashioned. It is significant that numerous words of daily
occurrence, which must have had a place in the earliest stages of human thought, are expressed
by phonetic characters. We can be fairly certain, at any rate, that the period of "borrowed
characters" did not last very long, though it is thought that traces of it are to be seen in
the habit of writing several characters, especially those for certain plants and animals, indifferently
with or without their radicals. Thus [Ch][Ch] "a tadpole" is frequently written [Ch][Ch], without
the part meaning "insect" or "reptile."

    Styles of writing.

  In the very earliest inscriptions that have come down to us, the
  so-called [Ch][Ch] ku-wên or "ancient figures," all the
  above-mentioned forms occur. None are wholly pictorial, with one or
  two unimportant exceptions. These early inscriptions are found on
  bronzes dating from the half-legendary period extending from the
  beginning of the Shang dynasty in the 18th century B.C., or possibly
  earlier, down to a point in the reign of King Hsüan of the Chou
  dynasty, generally fixed at 827 B.C. They have been carefully
  reproduced and for the most part deciphered by painstaking Chinese
  archaeologists, and form the subject of many voluminous works. The
  following may be taken as a specimen, in which it will be noticed that
  only the last character is unmistakably pictorial: This is read:
  [Ch][Ch][Ch][Ch]--"Shên made [this] precious ting." These ancient
  bronzes, which mainly take the shape of bells, cauldrons and
  sacrificial utensils, were until within the last decade our sole
  source of information concerning the origin and early history of
  Chinese writing. But recently a large number of inscribed bone
  fragments have been excavated in the north of China, providing new and
  unexpected matter for investigation. The inscriptions on these bones
  have already furnished a list of nearly 2500 separate characters, of
  which not more than about 600 have been so far identified. They appear
  to be responses given by professional soothsayers to private
  individuals who came to them seeking the aid of divination in the
  affairs of their daily life. It is difficult to fix their date with
  much exactitude. The script, though less archaic than that of the
  earlier bronzes, is nevertheless of an exceedingly free and irregular
  type. Judging by the style of the inscriptions alone, one would be
  inclined to assign them to the early years of the Chou dynasty, say
  1100 B.C. But Mr L.C. Hopkins thinks that they represent a mode of
  writing already obsolete at the time of their production, and retained
  of set purpose by the diviners from obscurantist motives, much as the
  ancient hieroglyphics were employed by the Egyptian priesthood. He
  would therefore date them about 500 years later, or only half a
  century before the birth of Confucius. If that is so, they are merely
  late specimens of the "ancient figures" appearing long after the
  latter had made way for a new and more conventionalized form of
  writing. This new writing is called in Chinese [Ch] chuan, which is
  commonly rendered by the word Seal, for the somewhat unscientific
  reason that many ages afterwards it was generally adopted for use on
  seals. Under the Chou dynasty, however, as well as the two succeeding
  it, the meaning of the word was not "seal," but "sinuous curves," as
  made in writing. It has accordingly been suggested that this epoch
  marks the first introduction into China of the brush in place of the
  bamboo or wooden pencil with frayed end which was used with some kind
  of colouring matter or varnish. There are many arguments both for and
  against this view; but it is unquestionable, at any rate, that the
  introduction of a supple implement like the brush at the very time
  when the forms of characters were fast becoming crystallized and
  fixed, would be sufficient to account for a great revolution in the
  style of writing. Authentic specimens of the [Ch][Ch] ta chuan,
  older or Greater Seal writing, are exceedingly rare. But it is
  generally believed that the inscriptions on the famous stone drums,
  now at Peking, date from the reign of King Hsüan, and they may
  therefore with practical certainty be cited as examples of the Greater
  Seal in its original form. These "drums" are really ten roughly
  chiselled mountain boulders, which were discovered in the early part
  of the 7th century, lying half buried in the ground near Fêng-hsiang
  Fu in the province of Shensi. On them are engraved ten odes, a
  complete ode being cut on each drum, celebrating an Imperial hunting
  and fishing expedition in that part of the country. A facsimile of one
  of these, taken from an old rubbing and reproduced in Dr Bushell's
  Handbook of Chinese Art, shows that great strides had been made in
  this writing towards symmetry, compactness and conventionalism. The
  vogue of the Greater Seal appears to have lasted until the reign of
  the First Emperor, 221-210 B.C. (see History), when a further
  modification took place. For many centuries China had been split up
  into a number of practically independent states, and this circumstance
  seems to have led to considerable variations in the styles of writing.
  Having succeeded in unifying the empire, the First Emperor proceeded,
  on the advice of his minister Li Ss[)u], to standardize its script by
  ordaining that only the style in use in his own state of Ch'in should
  henceforward be employed throughout China. It is clear, then, that
  this new style of writing was nothing more than the Greater Seal
  characters in the form they had assumed after several centuries of
  evolution, with numerous abbreviations and modifications. It was
  afterwards known as the [Ch][Ch] hsiao chuan, or Lesser Seal, and is
  familiar to us from the Shuo Wen dictionary (see Literature).
  Though a decided improvement on what had gone before, the Lesser Seal
  was destined to have but a short career of undisputed supremacy.
  Reform was in the air; and something less cumbrous was soon felt to be
  necessary by the clerks who had to supply the immense quantity of
  written reports demanded by the First Emperor. Thus it came about that
  a yet simpler and certainly more artistic form of writing was already
  in use, though not universally so, not long after the decree
  abolishing the Greater Seal. This [Ch][Ch] li shu, or "official
  script," as it is called, shows a great advance on the Seal character;
  so much so that one cannot help suspecting the traditional account of
  its invention. It is perhaps more likely to have been directly evolved
  from the Greater Seal. If the Lesser Seal was the script of the
  semi-barbarous state of Ch'in, we should certainly expect to find a
  more highly developed system of writing in some of the other states.
  Unlike the Seal, the li shu is perfectly legible to one acquainted
  only with the modern character, from which indeed it differs but in
  minor details. How long the Lesser Seal continued to exist side by
  side with the li shu is a question which cannot be answered with
  certainty. It was evidently quite obsolete, however, at the time of
  the compilation of the Shuo Wên, about a hundred years after the
  Christian era. As for the Greater Seal and still earlier forms of
  writing, they were not merely obsolete but had fallen into utter
  oblivion before the Han Dynasty was fifty years old. When a number of
  classical texts were discovered bricked up in old houses about 150
  B.C., the style of writing was considered so singular by the literati
  of the period that they refused to believe it was the ordinary ancient
  character at all, and nicknamed it k'o-t'ou shu, "tadpole
  character," from some fancied resemblance in shape. The theory that
  these tadpole characters were not Chinese but a species of cuneiform
  script, in which the wedges might possibly suggest tadpoles, must be
  dismissed as too wildly improbable for serious consideration; but we
  may advert for a moment to a famous inscription in which the real
  tadpole characters of antiquity are said to appear. This is on a stone
  tablet alleged to have been erected on Mount Hêng in the modern Hupeh
  by the legendary Emperor Yü, as a record of his labours in draining
  away the great flood which submerged part of China in the 23rd century
  B.C. After more than one fruitless search, the actual monument is said
  to have been discovered on a peak of the mountain in A.D. 1212, and a
  transcription was made, which may be seen reproduced as a curiosity in
  Legge's Classics, vol. iii. For several reasons, however, the whole
  affair must be regarded as a gross imposture.

  Out of the "official script" two other forms were soon developed,
  namely the [Ch][Ch] ts'ao shu, or "grass character," which so
  curtails the usual strokes as to be comparable to a species of
  shorthand, requiring special study, and the [Ch][Ch] hsing shu or
  running hand, used in ordinary correspondence. Some form of grass
  character is mentioned as in use as early as 200 B.C. or thereabouts,
  though how nearly it approximated to the modern grass hand it is hard
  to say; the running hand seems to have come several centuries later.
  The final standardization of Chinese writing was due to the great
  calligraphist Wang Hsi-chih of the 4th century, who gave currency to
  the graceful style of character known as [Ch][Ch] k'ai shu,
  sometimes referred to as the "clerkly hand." When block-printing was
  invented some centuries later, the characters were cut on this model,
  which still survives at the present day. It is no doubt owing to the
  early introduction of printing that the script of China has remained
  practically unchanged ever since. The manuscript rolls of the T'ang
  and preceding dynasties, recently discovered by Dr Stein in Turkestan,
  furnish direct evidence of this fact, showing as they do a style of
  writing not only clear and legible but remarkably modern in
  appearance.

  The whole history of Chinese writing, then, is characterized by a slow
  progressive development which precludes the idea of sharply-marked
  divisions between one period and another. The Chinese themselves,
  however, have canonized quite a series of alleged inventors, starting
  from Fu Hsi, a mythical emperor of the third millennium B.C., who is
  said to have developed a complete system of written characters from
  the markings on the back of a dragon-horse; hence, by the way, the
  origin of the dragon as an Imperial emblem. As a rule, the credit of
  the invention of the art of writing is given to Ts'ang Chieh, a being
  with fabulous attributes, who conceived the idea of a written language
  from the markings of birds' claws upon the sand. The diffusion of the
  Greater Seal script is traced to a work in fifteen chapters published
  by Shih Chou, historiographer in the reign of King Hsüan. The Lesser
  Seal, again, is often ascribed to Li Ss[)u] himself, whereas the
  utmost he can have done in the matter was to urge its introduction
  into common use. Likewise, Ch'êng Mo, of the 3rd century B.C., is
  supposed to have invented the li shu while in prison, and one
  account attributes the Lesser Seal to him as well; but the fact is
  that the whole history of writing, as it stands in Chinese authors, is
  in hopeless confusion.

Grammar.--When about to embark on the study of a foreign language, the student's first thought
is to provide himself with two indispensable aids--a dictionary and a grammar. The Chinese
have found no difficulty in producing the former (see Literature). Now what as to the grammar?
He might reasonably expect a people so industrious in the cultivation of their language to
have evolved some system of grammar which to a certain degree would help to smooth his path.
And yet the contrary is the case. No set of rules governing the mutual relations of words has
ever been formulated by the Chinese, apparently because the need of such rules has never been
felt. The most that native writers have done is to draw a distinction between [Ch][Ch] and
[Ch][Ch] "full" and "empty words," respectively, the former being subdivided into [Ch][Ch]
"living words" or verbs, and [Ch][Ch] "dead words" or noun-substantives. By "empty words" particles
are meant, though sometimes the expression is loosely applied to abstract terms, including
verbs. The above meagre classification is their nearest approach to a conception of grammar
in our sense. This in itself does not prove that a Chinese grammar is impossible, nor that,
if constructed, it might not be helpful to the student. As a matter of fact, several attempts
have been made by foreigners to deduce a grammatical system which should prove as rigid and
binding as those of Western languages, though it cannot be said that any as yet has stood the
test of time or criticism. Other writers have gone to the other extreme, and maintained that
Chinese has no grammar at all. In this dictum, exaggerated as it sounds, there is a very substantial
amount of truth. Every Chinese character is an indivisible unit, representing a sound and standing
for a root-idea. Being free from inflection or agglutination of any kind, it is incapable of
indicating in itself either gender, number or case, voice, mood, tense or person. Of European
languages, English stands nearest to Chinese in this respect, whence it follows that the construction
of a hybrid jargon like pidgin English presents fewer difficulties than would be the case,
for instance, with pidgin German. For pidgin English simply consists in taking English words
and treating them like Chinese characters, that is, divesting them of all troublesome inflections
and reducing them to a set of root-ideas arranged in logical sequence. "You wantchee my no
wantchee" is nothing more nor less than literally rendered Chinese: [Ch][Ch][Ch][Ch][Ch] "Do
you want me or not?" But we may go further, and say that no Chinese character can be definitely
regarded as being any particular part of speech or possessing any particular function absolutely,
apart from the general tenor of its context. Thus, taken singly, the character [Ch] conveys
only the general idea "above" as opposed to "below." According to its place in the sentence
and the requirements of common sense, it may be a noun meaning "upper person" (that is, a ruler);
an adjective meaning "upper," "topmost" or "best"; an adverb meaning "above"; a preposition
meaning "upon"; and finally a verb meaning "to mount upon," or "to go to." [Ch] is a character
that may usually be translated "to enter" as in [Ch][Ch] "to enter a door"; yet in the locution
[Ch][Ch] "enter wood," the verb becomes causative, and the meaning is "to put into a coffin."
It would puzzle grammarians to determine the precise grammatical function of any of the words
in the following sentence, with the exception of [Ch] (an interrogative, by the way, which
here happens to mean "why" but in other contexts is equivalent to "how," "which" or "what"):
[Ch][Ch][Ch][Ch] "Affair why must ancient," or in more idiomatic English, "Why necessarily
stick to the ways of the ancients in such matters?" Or take a proverbial saying like [Ch][Ch][Ch][Ch][Ch][Ch],
which may be correctly rendered "The less a man has seen, the more he has to wonder at." It
is one thing, however, to translate it correctly, and another to explain how this translation
can be inferred from the individual words, of which the bald equivalents might be given as:
"Few what see, many what Strange." To say that "strange" is the literal equivalent of [Ch]
does not mean that [Ch] can be definitely classed as an adjective. On the other hand, it would
be dangerous even to assert that the word here plays the part of an active verb, because it
would be equally permissible to translate the above "Many things are strange to one who has
seen but little."

  Chinese grammar, then, so far as it deals with the classification of
  separate words, may well be given up as a bad job. But there still
  remains the art of syntax, the due arrangement of words to form
  sentences according to certain established rules. Here, at any rate,
  we are on somewhat firmer ground; and for many years the dictum that
  "the whole of Chinese grammar depends upon position" was regarded as a
  golden key to the written language of China. It is perfectly true that
  there are certain positions and collocations of words which tend to
  recur, but when one sits down to formulate a set of hard-and-fast
  rules governing these positions, it is soon found to be a thankless
  task, for the number of qualifications and exceptions which will have
  to be added is so great as to render the rule itself valueless.
  [Ch][Ch] means "on a horse," [Ch][Ch] "to get on a horse." But it will
  not do to say that a preposition becomes a verb when placed before the
  substantive, as many other prepositions come before and not after the
  words they govern. If we meet such a phrase as [Ch][Ch], literally
  "warn rebels," we must not mentally label [Ch] as a verb and [Ch] as a
  substantive, and say to ourselves that in Chinese the verb is followed
  immediately by its object. Otherwise, we might be tempted to
  translate, "to warn the rebels," whereas a little reflection would
  show us that the conjunction of "warning" and "rebels" naturally leads
  to the meaning "to warn (the populace or whoever it may be) against
  the rebels." After all our adventurous incursions into the domain of
  syntax, we are soon brought back to the starting-point and are obliged
  to confess that each particular passage is best interpreted on its own
  merits, by the logic of the context and the application of common
  sense. There is no reason why Chinese sentences should not be
  dissected, by those who take pleasure in such operations, into
  subject, copula and predicate, but it should be early impressed upon
  the beginner that the profit likely to accrue to him therefrom is
  infinitesimal. As for fixed rules of grammatical construction, so far
  from being a help, he will find them a positive hindrance. It should
  rather be his aim to free his mind from such trammels, and to accustom
  himself to look upon each character as a root-idea, not a definite
  part of speech.

The Book Language.--Turning now to some of the more salient characteristics of the book language,
with the object of explaining how it came to be so widely separated from common speech, we
might reasonably suppose that in primitive times the two stood in much closer relation to each
other than now. But it is certainly a striking fact that the earliest literary remains of any
magnitude that have come down to us should exhibit a style very far removed from any possible
colloquial idiom. The speeches of the Book of History (see Literature) are more manifestly
fictitious, by many degrees, than the elaborate orations in Thucydides and Livy. If we cannot
believe that Socrates actually spoke the words attributed to him in the dialogues of Plato,
much less can we expect to find the ipsissima verba of Confucius in any of his recorded sayings.
In the beginning, all characters doubtless represented spoken words, but it must very soon
have dawned on the practical Chinese mind that there was no need to reproduce in writing the
bisyllabic compounds of common speech. Chien "to see," in its written form [Ch], could not
possibly be confused with any other chien, and it was therefore unnecessary to go to the trouble
of writing [Ch][Ch] k'an-chien "look-see," as in colloquial. There was a wonderful outburst
of literary activity in the Confucian era, when it would seem that the older and more cumbrous
form of Seal character was still in vogue. If the mere manual labour of writing was so great,
we cannot wonder that all superfluous particles or other words that could be dispensed with
were ruthlessly cut away. So it came about that all the old classical works were composed in
the tersest of language, as remote as can be imagined from the speech of the people. The passion
for brevity and conciseness was pushed to an extreme, and resulted more often than not in such
obscurity that detailed commentaries on the classics were found to be necessary, and have always
constituted an important branch of Chinese literature. After the introduction of the improved
style of script, and when the mechanical means of writing had been simplified, it may be supposed
that literary diction also became freer and more expansive. This did happen to some extent,
but the classics were held in such veneration as to exercise the profoundest influence over
all succeeding schools of writers, and the divorce between literature and pooular speech became
permanent and irreconcilable. The book language absorbed all the interest and energy of scholars,
and it was inevitable that this elevation of the written should be accompanied by a corresponding
degradation of the spoken word. This must largely account for the somewhat remarkable fact
that the art of oratory and public speaking has never been deemed worthy of cultivation in
China, while the comparatively low position occupied by the drama may also be referred to the
same cause. At the same time, the term "book language," in its widest sense, covers a multitude
of styles, some of which differ from each other nearly as much as from ordinary speech. The
department of fiction (see Literature), which the lettered Chinaman affects to despise and
will not readily admit within the charmed circle of "literature," really constitutes a bridge
spanning the gulf between the severer classical style and the colloquial; while an elegant
terseness characterises the higher-class novel, there are others in which the style is loose
and shambling. Still, it remains true that no book of any first-rate literary pretensions would
be easily intelligible to any class of Chinamen, educated or otherwise, if read aloud exactly
as printed. The public reader of stories is obliged to translate, so to speak, into the colloquial
of his audience as he goes along. There is no inherent reason why the conversation of everyday
life should not be rendered into characters, as is done in foreign handbooks for teaching elementary
Chinese; one can only say that the Chinese do not think it worth while. There are a few words,
indeed, which, though common enough in the mouths of genteel and vulgar alike, have positively
no characters to represent them. On the other hand, there is a vast store of purely book words
which would never be used or understood in conversation.

The book language is not only nice in its choice of words, it also has to obey special rules
of construction. Of these, perhaps the most apparent is the carefully marked antithesis between
characters in different clauses of a sentence, which results in a kind of parallelism or rhythmic
balance. This parallelism is a noticeable feature in ordinary poetical composition, and may
be well illustrated by the following four-line stanza:

"[Ch][Ch][Ch][Ch][Ch] The bright sun completes its course behind the mountains; [Ch][Ch][Ch][Ch][Ch]
The yellow river flows away into the sea. [Ch][Ch][Ch][Ch][Ch] Would you command a prospect
of a thousand li? [Ch][Ch][Ch][Ch][Ch] Climb yet one storey higher." In the first line of this
piece, every single character is balanced by a corresponding one in the second: [Ch] white
by [Ch] yellow, [Ch] sun by [Ch] river, and so on. In the 3rd and 4th lines, where more laxity
is generally allowed, every word again has its counterpart, with the sole exception of [Ch]
"wish" and [Ch] "further."

The question is often asked: What sort of instrument is Chinese for the expression of thought?
As a medium for the conveyance of historical facts, subtle emotions or abstruse philosophical
conceptions, can it compare with the languages of the Western world? The answers given to this
question have varied considerably. But it is noteworthy that those who most depreciate the
qualities of Chinese are, generally speaking, theorists rather than persons possessing a profound
first-hand knowledge of the language itself. Such writers argue that want of inflection in
the characters must tend to make Chinese hard and inelastic, and therefore incapable of bringing
out the finer shades of thought and emotion. Answering one a priori argument with another,
one might fairly retort that, if anything, flexibility is the precise quality to be predicated
of a language in which any character may, according to the requirements of the context, be
interpreted either as noun, verb or adjective. But all such reasoning is somewhat futile. It
will scarcely be contended that German, being highly inflected, is therefore superior in range
and power to English, from which inflections have largely disappeared. Some of the early Jesuit
missionaries, men of great natural ability who steeped themselves in Oriental learning, have
left very different opinions on record. Chinese appeared to them as admirable for the superabundant
richness of its vocabulary as for the conciseness of its literary style. And among modern scholars
there is a decided tendency to accept this view as embodying a great deal more truth than the
other.

Another question, much debated years ago, which time itself is now satisfactorily answering,
was whether the Chinese language would be able to assimilate the vast stock of new terminology
which closer contact with the West would necessarily carry with it. Two possible courses, it
seemed, were open: either fresh characters would be formed on the radical-phonetic principle,
or the new idea might be expressed by the conjunction of two or more characters already existing.
The former expedient had been tried on a limited scale in Japan, where in the course of time
new characters were formed on the same principle as of old, which were yet purely Japanese
and find no place in a Chinese dictionary. But although the field for such additions was boundless,
the Chinese have all along been chary of extending the language in this way, probably because
these modern terms had no Chinese sound which might have suggested some particular phonetic.
They have preferred to adopt the other method, of which [Ch][Ch][Ch] (rise-descend-machine)
for "lift," and [Ch][Ch][Ch][Ch] (discuss-govern-country-assembly) for "parliament" are examples.
Even a metaphysical abstraction like The Absolute has been tentatively expressed by [Ch][Ch]
(exclude-opposite); but in this case an equivalent was already existing in the Chinese language.

A very drastic measure, strongly advocated in some quarters, is the entire abolition of all
characters, to be replaced by their equivalent sounds in letters of the alphabet. Under this
scheme [Ch] would figure as jên or ren, [Ch] as ma, and so on. But the proposal has fallen
extremely flat. The vocables, as we have seen, are so few in number that only the colloquial,
if even that, could possibly be transcribed in this manner. Any attempt to transliterate classical
Chinese would result in a mere jumble of sounds, utterly unintelligible, even with the addition
of tone-marks. There is another aspect of the case. The characters are a potent bond of union
between the different parts of the Empire with their various dialects. If they should ever
fall into disuse, China will have taken a first and most fatal step towards internal disruption.
Even the Japanese, whose language is not only free from dialects, but polysyllabic and therefore
more suitable for romanization, have utterly refused to abandon the Chinese script, which in
spite of certain disadvantages has hitherto triumphantly adapted itself to the needs of civilized
intercourse.

  See P. Premare, Notitiae Linguae Sinicae (1831); Ma Kien-chung, Ma
  shih wên t'ung (1899); L.C. Hopkins, The Six Scripts (1881) and
  The Development of Chinese Writing (1910); H.A. Giles, A
  Chinese-English Dictionary (2nd ed., 1910).    (H. A. GI.; L. GI.)

VIII. CHINESE LITERATURE

The literature of China is remarkable (1) for its antiquity, coupled with an unbroken continuity
down to the present day; (2) for the variety of subjects presented, and for the exhaustive
treatment which, not only each subject, but also each subdivision, each separate item, has
received, as well as for the colossal scale on which so many literary monuments have been conceived
and carried out; (3) for the accuracy of its historical statements, so far as it has been possible
to test them; and further (4) for its ennobling standards and lofty ideals, as well as for
its wholesome purity and an almost total absence of coarseness and obscenity.

No history of Chinese literature in the Chinese language has yet been produced; native scholars,
however, have adopted, for bibliographical purposes, a rough division into four great classes.
Under the first of these, we find the Confucian Canon, together with lexicographical, philological,
and other works dealing with the elucidation of words. Under the second, histories of various
kinds, officially compiled, privately written, constitutional, &c.; also biography, geography
and bibliography. Under the third, philosophy, religion, e.g. Buddhism; the arts and sciences,
e.g. war, law, agriculture, medicine, astronomy, painting, music and archery; also a host of
general works, monographs, and treatises on a number of topics, as well as encyclopaedias.
The fourth class is confined to poetry of all descriptions, poetical critiques, and works dealing
with the all-important rhymes.

Poetry.--Proceeding chronologically, without reference to Chinese classification, we have to
begin, as would naturally be expected, with the last of the above four classes. Man's first
literary utterances in China, as elsewhere, took the form of verse; and the earliest Chinese
records in our possession are the national lyrics, the songs and ballads, chiefly of the feudal
age, which reaches back to over a thousand years before Christ. Some pieces are indeed attributed
to the 18th century B.C.; the latest bring us down to the 6th century B.C. Such is the collection
entitled Shih Ching (or She King), popularly known as the Odes, which was brought together
and edited by Confucius, 551-479 B.C., and is now included among the Sacred Books, forming
as it does an important portion of the Confucian Canon. These Odes, once over three thousand
in number, were reduced by Confucius to three hundred and eleven; hence they are frequently
spoken of as "the Three Hundred." They treat of war and love, of eating and drinking and dancing,
of the virtues and vices of rulers, and of the misery and happiness of the people. They are
in rhyme. Rhyme is essential to Chinese poetry; there is no such thing as blank verse. Further,
the rhymes of the Odes have always been, and are still, the only recognized rhymes which can
be used by a Chinese poet, anything else being regarded as mere jingle. Poetical licence, however,
is tolerated; and great masters have availed themselves freely of its aid. One curious result
of this is that whereas in many instances two given words may have rhymed, as no doubt they
did, in the speech of three thousand years ago, they no longer rhyme to the ear in the colloquial
of to-day, although still accepted as true and proper rhymes in the composition of verse.

  It is noticeable at once that the Odes are mostly written in lines of
  four words, examples of lines consisting of any length from a single
  word to eight, though such do exist, being comparatively rare. These
  lines of four words, generally recognized as the oldest measure in
  Chinese poetry, are frequently grouped as quatrains, in which the
  first, second and fourth lines rhyme; but very often only the second
  and fourth lines rhyme, and sometimes there are groups of a larger
  number of lines in which occasional lines are found without any rhyme
  at all. A few stray pieces, as old as many of those found among the
  Odes, have been handed down and preserved, in which the metre consists
  of two lines of three words followed by one line of seven words. These
  three lines all rhyme, but the rhyme changes with each succeeding
  triplet. It would be difficult to persuade the English reader that
  this is a very effective measure, and one in which many a gloomy or
  pathetic tale has been told. In order to realise how a few Chinese
  monosyllables in juxtaposition can stir the human heart to its lowest
  depths, it is necessary to devote some years to the study of the
  language.

  At the close of the 4th century B.C., a dithyrambic measure, irregular
  and wild, was introduced and enjoyed considerable vogue. It has indeed
  been freely adopted by numerous poets from that early date down to the
  present day; but since the 2nd century B.C. it has been displaced from
  pre-eminence by the seven-word and five-word measures which are now,
  after much refinement, the accepted standards for Chinese poetry. The
  origin of the seven-word metre is lost in remote antiquity; the
  five-word metre was elaborated under the master-hand of Mei Shêng, who
  died 140 B.C. Passing over seven centuries of growth, we reach the
  T'ang dynasty, A.D. 618-905, the most brilliant epoch in the history
  of Chinese poetry. These three hundred years produced an
  extraordinarily large number of great poets, and an output of verse of
  almost incredible extent. In 1707 an anthology of the T'ang poets was
  published by Imperial order; it ran to nine hundred books or sections,
  and contained over forty-eight thousand nine hundred separate poems. A
  copy of this work is in the Chinese department of the University
  Library at Cambridge.

  It was under the T'ang dynasty that a certain finality was reached in
  regard to the strict application of the tones to Chinese verse. For
  the purposes of poetry, all words in the language were ranged under
  one or the other of two tones, the even and the oblique, the
  former now including the two even tones, of which prior to the 11th
  century there was only one, and the latter including the rising,
  sinking and entering tones of ordinary speech. The incidence of these
  tones, which may be roughly described as sharps and flats, finally
  became fixed, just as the incidence of certain feet in Latin metres
  came to be governed by fixed rules. To the trained ear, the effect is most pleasing; and when this
  scansion, so to speak, is united with rhyme and choice diction, the
  result is a vehicle for verse, artificial no doubt, and elaborate, but
  admirably adapted to the genius of the Chinese language. Moreover, in
  the hands of the great poets this artificiality disappears altogether.
  Each word seems to slip naturally into its place; and so far from
  having been introduced by violence for the ends of prosody, it appears
  to be the very best word that could have been chosen, even had there
  been no trammels of any kind, so effectually is the art of the poet
  concealed by art. From the long string of names which have shed lustre
  upon this glorious age of Chinese poetry, it may suffice for the
  present purpose to mention the following, all of the very first rank.

  Mêng Hao-jan, A.D. 689-740, failed to succeed at the public
  competitive examinations, and retired to the mountains where he led
  the life of a recluse. Later on, he obtained an official post; but he
  was of a timid disposition, and once when the emperor, attracted by
  his fame, came to visit him, he hid himself under the bed. His
  hiding-place was revealed by Wang Wei, a brother poet who was present.
  The latter, A.D. 699-759, in addition to being a first-rank poet, was
  also a landscape-painter of great distinction. He was further a firm
  believer in Buddhism; and after losing his wife and mother, he turned
  his mountain home into a Buddhist monastery. Of all poets, not one has
  made his name more widely known than Li Po, or Li T'ai-po, A.D.
  705-762, popularly known as the Banished Angel, so heavenly were the
  poems he dashed off, always under the influence of wine. He is said to
  have met his death, after a tipsy frolic, by leaning out of a boat to
  embrace the reflection of the moon. Tu Fu, A.D. 712-770, is generally
  ranked with Li Po, the two being jointly spoken of as the chief poets
  of their age. The former had indeed such a high opinion of his own
  poetry that he prescribed it for malarial fever. He led a chequered
  and wandering life, and died from the effects of eating roast beef and
  drinking white wine to excess, immediately after a long fast. Po
  Chü-i, A.D. 772-846, was a very prolific poet. He held several high
  official posts, but found time for a considerable output of some of
  the finest poetry in the language. His poems were collected by
  Imperial command, and engraved upon tablets of stone.

  The T'ang dynasty with all its glories had not long passed away before
  another imperial house arose, under which poetry flourished again in
  full vigour. The poets of the Sung dynasty, A.D. 960-1260, were many
  and varied in style; but their work, much of it of the very highest
  order, was becoming perhaps a trifle more formal and precise. Life
  seemed to be taken more seriously than under the gay and
  pleasure-loving T'angs. The long list of Sung poets includes such
  names as Ss[)u]-ma Kuang, Ou-yang Hsiu and Wang An-shih, to be
  mentioned by and by, the first two as historians and the last as
  political reformer. A still more familiar name in popular estimation
  is that of Su Tung-p'o, A.D. 103-1101, partly known for his romantic
  career, now in court favour, now banished to the wilds, but still more
  renowned as a brilliant poet and writer of fascinating essays.

  The Mongols, A.D. 1260-1368, who succeeded the Sungs, and the Mings
  who followed the Sungs and bring us down to the year 1644, helped
  indeed, especially the Mings, to swell the volume of Chinese verse,
  but without reaching the high level of the two great poetical periods
  above-mentioned. Then came the present dynasty of Manchu Tatars, of
  whom the same tale must be told, in spite of two highly-cultured
  emperors, K'ang Hsi and Ch'ien Lung, both of them poets and one of
  them author of a collection containing no fewer than 33,950 pieces,
  most of which, it must be said, are but four-line stanzas, of no
  literary value whatever. It may be stated in this connexion that
  whereas China has never produced an epic in verse, it is not true that
  all Chinese poems are quite short, running only to ten or a dozen
  lines at the most. Many pieces run to several hundred lines, though
  the Chinese poet does not usually affect length, one of his highest
  efforts being the four-line stanza, known as the "stop-short," in
  which "the words stop while the sense goes on," expanding in the mind
  of the reader by the suggestive art of the poet. The "stop-short" is
  the converse of the epigram, which ends in a satisfying turn of
  thought to which the rest of the composition is intended to lead up;
  it aims at producing an impression which, so far from being final, is
  merely the prelude to a long series of visions and of feelings. The
  last of the four lines is called the "surprise line"; but the
  revelation it gives is never a complete one: the words stop, but the
  sense goes on. Just as in the pictorial art of China, so in her
  poetic art is suggestiveness the great end and aim of the artist.
  Beginners are taught that the three canons of verse composition are
  lucidity, simplicity and correctness of diction. Yet some critics have
  boldly declared for obscurity of expression, alleging that the
  piquancy of a thought is enhanced by its skilful concealment. For the
  foreign student, it is not necessary to accentuate the obscurity and
  difficulty even of poems in which the motive is simple enough. The
  constant introduction of classical allusions, often in the vaguest
  terms, and the almost unlimited licence as to the order of words,
  offer quite sufficient obstacles to easy and rapid comprehension.
  Poetry has been defined by one Chinese writer as "clothing with words
  the emotions which surge through the heart." The chief moods of the
  Chinese poet are a pure delight in the varying phenomena of nature,
  and a boundless sympathy with the woes and sufferings of humanity.
  Erotic poetry is not absent, but it is not a feature proportionate in
  extent to the great body of Chinese verse; it is always restrained,
  and never lapses from a high level of purity and decorum. In his love
  for hill and stream which he peoples with genii, and for tree and
  flower which he endows with sentient souls, the Chinese poet is
  perhaps seen at his very best; his views of life are somewhat too
  deeply tinged with melancholy, and often loaded with an overwhelming
  sadness "at the doubtful doom of human kind." In his lighter moods he
  draws inspiration, and in his darker moods consolation from the
  wine-cup. Hard-drinking, not to say drunkenness, seems to have been
  universal among Chinese poets, and a considerable amount of talent has
  been expended upon the glorification of wine. From Taoist, and
  especially from Buddhist sources, many poets have obtained glimpses to
  make them less forlorn; but it cannot be said that there is any
  definitely religious poetry in the Chinese language.

History.--One of the labours undertaken by Confucius was connected with a series of ancient
documents--that is, ancient in his day--now passing under a collective title as Shu Ching (or
Shoo King), and popularly known as the Canon, or Book, of History. Mere fragments as some of
these documents are, it is from their pages of unknown date that we can supplement the pictures
drawn for us in the Odes, of the early civilization of China. The work opens with an account
of the legendary emperor Yao, who reigned 2357-2255 B.C., and was able by virtue of an elevated
personality to give peace and happiness to his "black-haired" subjects. With the aid of capable
astronomers, he determined the summer and winter solstices, and calculated approximately the
length of the year, availing himself, as required, of the aid of an intercalary month. Finally,
after a glorious reign, he ceded the throne to a man of the people, whose only claim to distinction
was his unwavering practice of filial piety. Chapter ii. deals with the reign, 2255-2205 B.C.,
of this said man, known in history as the emperor Shun. In accordance with the monotheism of
the day, he worshipped God in heaven with prayer and burnt offerings; he travelled on tours
of inspection all over his then comparatively narrow empire; he established punishments, to
be tempered with mercy; he appointed officials to superintend forestry, care of animals, religious
observances, and music; and he organized a system of periodical examinations for public servants.
Chapter iii. is devoted to details about the Great Yü, who reigned 2205-2197 B.C., having been
called to the throne for his engineering success in draining the empire of a mighty inundation
which early western writers sought to identify with Noah's Flood. Another interesting chapter
gives various geographical details, and enumerates the articles, gold, silver, copper, iron,
steel, silken fabrics, feathers, ivory, hides, &c., &c., brought in under the reign of the
Great Yü, as tribute from neighbouring countries. Other chapters include royal proclamations,
speeches to troops, announcements of campaigns victoriously concluded, and similar subjects.
One peculiarly interesting document is the Announcement against Drunkenness, which seems to
have been for so many centuries a national vice, and then to have practically disappeared as
such. For the past two or three hundred years, drunkenness has always been the exception rather
than the rule. The Announcement, delivered in the 12th century B.C., points out that King Wên,
the founder of the Chou dynasty, had wished for wine to be used only in connexion with sacrifices,
and that divine favours had always been liberally showered upon the people when such a restriction
had been observed. On the other hand, indulgence in strong drink had invariably attracted divine
vengeance, and the fall and disruption of states had often been traceable to that cause. Even
on sacrificial occasions, drunkenness is to be condemned. "When, however, you high officials
and others have done your duty in ministering to the aged and to your sovereign, you may then
eat to satiety and drink to elevation." The Announcement winds up with an ancient maxim, "Do
not seek to see yourself reflected in water, but in others,"--whose base actions should warn
you not to commit the same; adding that those who after a due interval should be unable to
give up intemperate habits would be put to death. It is worth noting, in concluding this brief
notice of China's earliest records, that from first to last there is no mention whatever of
any distant country from which the "black-haired people" may have originally come; no vestige
of any allusion to any other form of civilization, such as that of Babylonia, with its cuneiform
script and baked-clay tablets, from which an attempt has been made to derive the native-born
civilization of China. A few odd coincidences sum up the chief argument in favour of this now
discredited theory.

    Annals of the Lu state.

  The next step lands us on the confines, though scarcely in the domain,
  of history properly so called. Among his other literary labours,
  Confucius undertook to produce the annals of Lu, his native state; and
  beginning with the year 722 B.C., he carried the record down to his
  death in 479, after which it was continued for a few years, presumably
  by Tso-ch'iu Ming, the shadowy author of the famous Commentary, to
  which the text is so deeply indebted for vitality and illumination.
  The work of Confucius is known as the Ch'un Ch'iu, the Springs and
  Autumns, q.d. Annals. It consists of a varying number of brief entries
  under each year of the reign of each successive ruler of Lu. The
  feudal system, initiated more than four centuries previously, and
  consisting of a number of vassal states owning allegiance to a central
  suzerain state, had already broken hopelessly down, so far as
  allegiance was concerned. For some time, the object of each vassal
  ruler had been the aggrandizement of his own state, with a view either
  to independence or to the hegemony, and the result was a state of
  almost constant warfare. Accordingly, the entries in the Ch'un Ch'iu
  refer largely to covenants entered into between contracting rulers,
  official visits from one to another of these rulers, their births and
  deaths, marriages, invasions of territory, battles, religious
  ceremonies, &c., interspersed with notices of striking natural
  phenomena such as eclipses, comets and earthquakes, and of important
  national calamities, such as floods, drought and famine. For instance,
  Duke Wên became ruler of Lu in 625 B.C., and under his 14th year, 612
  B.C., we find twelve entries, of which the following are specimens:--

  2. In spring, in the first month, the men of the Chu State invaded our
  southern border.

  3. In summer, on the I-hai day of the fifth month, P'an, Marquis of
  the Ch'i State, died.

  5. In autumn, in the seventh month, there was a comet, which entered
  Pei-ton ([Greek: abgd] in Ursa Major).

  9. In the ninth month, a son of the Duke of Ch'i murdered his ruler.

  Entry 5 affords the earliest trustworthy instance of a comet in China.
  A still earlier comet is recorded in what is known as The Bamboo
  Annals, but the genuineness of that work is disputed.

  It will be readily admitted that the Ch'un Ch'iu, written throughout
  in the same style as the quotations given, would scarcely enable one
  to reconstruct in any detail the age it professes to record. Happily
  we are in possession of the Tso Chuan, a so-called commentary,
  presumably by some one named Tso, in which the bald entries in the
  work of Confucius are separately enlarged upon to such an extent and
  with such dramatic brilliancy that our commentary reads more like a
  prose epic than "a treatise consisting of a systematic series of
  comments or annotations on the text of a literary work." Under its
  guidance we can follow the intrigues, the alliances, the treacheries,
  the ruptures of the jealous states which constituted feudal China; in
  its picture pages we can see, as it were with our own eyes,
  assassinations, battles, heroic deeds, flights, pursuits and the
  sufferings of the vanquished from the retribution exacted by the
  victors. Numerous wise and witty sayings are scattered throughout the
  work, many of which are in current use at the present day.

    The Historical Record.

  History as understood in Europe and the west began in China with the
  appearance of a remarkable man. Ss[)u]-ma Ch'ien, who flourished
  145-87 B.C., was the son of an hereditary grand astrologer, also an
  eager student of history and the actual planner of the great work so
  successfully carried out after his death. By the time he was ten years
  of age, Ss[)u]-ma Ch'ien was already well advanced with his studies;
  and at twenty he set forth on a round of travel which carried him to
  all parts of the empire. Entering the public service, he was employed
  upon a mission of inspection to the newly-conquered regions of
  Ss[)u]ch'uan and Yünnan; in 110 B.C. his father died, and he stepped
  into the post of grand astrologer. After devoting some time and energy
  to the reformation of the calendar, he took up the work which had
  been begun by his father and which was ultimately given to the world
  as the Shih Chi, or Historical Record. This was arranged under five
  great headings, namely, (l) Annals of Imperial Reigns, (2)
  Chronological Tables, (3) Monographs, (4) Annals of Vassal Princes,
  and (5) Biographies.

    Burning of the Books.

  The Historical Record begins with the so-called Yellow Emperor, who is
  said to have come to the throne 2698 B.C. and to have reigned a
  hundred years. Four other emperors are given, as belonging to this
  period, among whom we find Yao and Shun, already mentioned. It was
  China's Golden Age, when rulers and ruled were virtuous alike, and all
  was peace and prosperity. It is discreetly handled in a few pages by
  Ss[)u]-ma Ch'ien, who passes on to the somewhat firmer but still
  doubtful ground of the early dynasties. Not, however, until the Chou
  dynasty, 1122-255 B.C., had held sway for some three hundred years can
  we be said to have reached a point at which history begins to separate
  itself definitely from legend. In fact, it is only from the 8th
  century before Christ that any trustworthy record can be safely dated.
  With the 3rd century before Christ, we are introduced to one of the
  feudal princes whose military genius enabled him to destroy beyond
  hope of revival the feudal system which had endured for eight hundred
  years, and to make himself master of the whole of the China of those
  days. In 221 B.C. he proclaimed himself the "First Emperor," a title
  by which he has ever since been known. Everything, including
  literature, was to begin with his reign; and acting on the advice of
  his prime minister, he issued an order for the burning of all books,
  with the exception only of works relating to medicine, divination and
  agriculture. Those who wished to study law were referred for oral
  teaching to such as had already qualified in that profession. To carry
  out the scheme effectively, the First Emperor made a point of
  examining every day about 120 lb weight of books, in order to get rid
  of such as he considered to be useless; and he further appointed a
  number of inspectors to see that his orders were carried out. The
  result was that about four hundred and sixty scholars were put to
  death for having disobeyed the imperial command, while many others
  were banished for life. This incident is known as the Burning of the
  Books; and there is little doubt that, but for the devotion of the
  literati, Chinese literature would have had to make a fresh start in
  212 B.C. As it was, books were bricked up in walls and otherwise
  widely concealed in the hope that the storm would blow over; and this
  was actually the case when the Ch'in (Ts'in) dynasty collapsed and the
  House of Han took its place in 206 B.C. The Confucian books were
  subsequently recovered from their hiding-places, together with many
  other works, the loss of which it is difficult now to contemplate.
  Unfortunately, however, a stimulus was provided, not for the recovery,
  but for the manufacture of writings, the previous existence of which
  could be gathered either from tradition or from notices in the various
  works which had survived. Forgery became the order of the day; and the
  modern student is confronted with a considerable volume of literature
  which has to be classified as genuine, doubtful, or spurious,
  according to the merits of each case. To the first class belongs the
  bulk, but not all, of the Confucian Canon; to the third must be
  relegated such books as the Tao Tê Ching, to be mentioned later on.

  Ss[)u]-ma Ch'ien, dying in 87 B.C., deals of course only with the
  opening reigns of the Han dynasty, with which he brings to a close the
  first great division of his history. The second division consists of
  chronological tables; the third, of eight monographs on the following
  topics: (1) Rites and Ceremonies, (2) Music, (3) Natural Philosophy,
  (4) The Calendar, (5) Astronomy, (6) Religion, (7) Water-ways, and (8)
  Commerce. On these eight a few remarks may not be out of place, (1)
  The Chinese seem to have been in possession, from very early ages, of
  a systematic code of ceremonial observances, so that it is no surprise
  to find the subject included, and taking an important place, in
  Ss[)u]-ma Ch'ien's work. The Li Chi, or Book of Rites, which now
  forms part of the Confucian Canon, is however a comparatively modern
  compilation, dating only from the 1st century B.C. (2) The
  extraordinary similarities between the Chinese and Pythagorean systems
  of music force the conclusion that one of these must necessarily have
  been derived from the other. The Jesuit Fathers jumped to the
  conclusion that the Greeks borrowed their art from the Chinese; but it
  is now common knowledge that the Chinese scale did not exist in China
  until two centuries after its appearance in Greece. The fact is that
  the ancient Chinese works on music perished at the Burning of the
  Books; and we are told that by the middle of the 2nd century B.C. the
  hereditary Court music-master was altogether ignorant of his art. What
  we may call modern Chinese music reached China through Bactria, a
  Greek kingdom, founded by Diodotus in 256 B.C., with which intercourse
  had been established by the Chinese at an early date. (3) The term
  Natural Philosophy can only be applied by courtesy to this essay,
  which deals with twelve bamboo tubes of varying lengths, by means of
  which, coupled with the twenty-eight zodiacal constellations and with
  certain calendaric accords, divine communication is established with
  the influences of the five elements and the points of the compass
  corresponding with the eight winds. (4) In this connexion, it is worth
  noting that in 104 B.C. the Chinese first adopted a cycle of nineteen
  years, a period which exactly brings together the solar and the lunar
  years; and further that this very cycle is said to have been
  introduced by Meton, 5th century B.C., and was adopted at Athens about
  330 B.C., probably reaching China, via Bactria, some two centuries
  afterwards. (5) This chapter deals specially with the sun, moon and
  five planets, which are supposed to aid in the divine government of
  mankind. (6) Refers to the solemn sacrifices to Heaven and Earth, as
  performed by the emperor upon the summit of Mt. T'ai in Shan-tung. (7)
  Refers to the management of the Hoang Ho, or Yellow river, so often
  spoken of as "China's Sorrow," and also of the numerous canals with
  which the empire is intersected. (8) This chapter, which treats of the
  circulation of money, and its function in the Chinese theory of
  political economy, is based upon the establishment in 110 B.C. of
  certain officials whose business it was to regularize commerce. It was
  their duty to buy up the chief necessaries of life when abundant and
  when prices were in consequence low, and to offer these for sale when
  there was a shortage and when prices would otherwise have risen
  unduly. Thus it was hoped that a stability in commercial transactions
  would be attained, to the great advantage of the people. The fourth
  division of the Shih Chi is devoted to the annals of the reigns of
  vassal princes, to be read in connexion with the imperial annals of
  the first division. The final division, which is in many ways the most
  interesting of all, gives biographical notices of eminent or notorious
  men and women, from the earliest ages downwards, and enables us to
  draw conclusions at which otherwise it would have been impossible to
  arrive. Confucius and Mencius, for instance, stand out as real
  personages who actually played a part in China's history; while all we
  can gather from the short life of Lao Tz[)u], a part of which reads
  like an interpolation by another hand, is that he was a more or less
  legendary individual, whose very existence at the date usually
  assigned to him, 7th and 6th centuries B.C., is altogether doubtful.
  Scattered among these biographies are a few notices of frontier
  nations; e.g. of the terrible nomads known as the Hsiung-nu, whose
  identity with the Huns has now been placed beyond a doubt.

  Ss[)u]-ma Ch'ien's great work, on which he laboured for so many vears
  and which ran to five hundred and twenty-six thousand five hundred
  words, has been described somewhat at length for the following reason.
  It has been accepted as the model for all subsequent dynastic
  histories, of which twenty-four have now been published, the whole
  being produced in 1747 in a uniform edition, bound up (in the
  Cambridge Library) in two hundred and nineteen large volumes. Each
  dynasty has found its historian in the dynasty which supplanted it;
  and each dynastic history is notable for the extreme fairness with
  which the conquerors have dealt with the vanquished, accepting without
  demur such records of their predecessors as were available from
  official sources. The T'ang dynasty, A.D. 618-906, offers in one sense
  a curious exception to the general rule. It possesses two histories,
  both included in the above series. The first of these, now known as
  the Old T'ang History, was ultimately set aside as inaccurate and
  inadequate, and a New T'ang History was compiled by Ou-yang Hsiu, a
  distinguished scholar, poet and statesman of the 11th century.
  Nevertheless, in all cases, the scheme of the dynastic history has,
  with certain modifications, been that which was initiated in the 1st
  century B.C. by Ss[)u]-ma Ch'ien.

    The Mirror of History.

  The output of history, however, does not begin and end with the
  voluminous records above referred to, one of which, it should be
  mentioned, was in great part the work of a woman. History has always
  been a favourite study with the Chinese, and innumerable histories of
  a non-official character, long and short, complete and partial,
  political and constitutional, have been showered from age to age upon
  the Chinese reading world. Space would fail for the mere mention of a
  tithe of such works; but there is one which stands out among the rest
  and is especially enshrined in the hearts of the Chinese people. This
  is the T'ung Chien, or Mirror of History, so called because "to view
  antiquity as though in a mirror is an aid in the administration of
  government." It was the work of a statesman of the 11th century, whose
  name, by a coincidence, was Ss[)u]-ma Kuang. He had been forced to
  retire from office, and spent nearly all the last sixteen years of his
  life in historical research. The Mirror of History embraces a period
  from the 5th century B.C. down to A.D. 960. It is written in a
  picturesque style; but the arrangement was found to be unsuited to the
  systematic study of history. Accordingly, it was subjected to
  revision, and was to a great extent reconstructed by Chu Hsi, the
  famous commentator, who flourished A.D. 1130-1200, and whose work is
  now regarded as the standard history of China.

Biography.--In regard to biography, the student is by no means limited to the dynastic histories.
Many huge biographical collections have been compiled and published by private individuals,
and many lives of the same personages have often been written from different points of view.
There is nothing very much by which a Chinese biography can be distinguished from biographies
produced in other parts of the world. The Chinese writer always begins with the place of birth,
but he is not so particular about the year, sometimes leaving that to be gathered from the
date of death taken in connexion with the age which the person may have attained. Some allusion
is usually made to ancestry, and the steps of an official career, upward by promotion or downward
by disgrace, are also carefully noted.

Geography and Travel.--There is a considerable volume of Chinese literature which comes under
this head; but if we exclude certain brief notices of foreign countries, there remains nothing
in the way of general geography which had been produced prior to the arrival of the Jesuit
Fathers at the close of the 16th century. Up to that period geography meant the topography
of the Chinese empire; and of topographical records there is a very large and valuable collection.
Every prefecture and department, some eighteen hundred in all, has each its own particular
topography, compiled from records and from tradition with a fullness that leaves nothing to
be desired. The buildings, bridges, monuments of archaeological interest, &c., in each district,
are all carefully inserted, side by side with biographical and other local details, always
of interest to residents and often to the outside public. An extensive general geography of
the empire was last published in 1745; and this was followed by a chronological geography in 1794.

  Fa Hsien.

The Chinese have always been fond of travel, and hosts of travellers have published notices,
more or less extensive, of the different parts of the empire, and even of adjacent nations,
which they visited either as private individuals or, in the former case, as officials proceeding
to distant posts. With Buddhism came the desire to see the country which was the home of the
Buddha; and several important pilgrimages were undertaken with a view to bring back images
and sacred writings to China. On such a journey the Buddhist priest, Fa Hsien, started in A.D.
399; and after practically walking the whole way from central China, across the desert of Gobi,
on to Khoten, and across the Hindu Kush into India, he visited many of the chief cities of
India, until at length reaching Calcutta he took ship, and after a most adventurous voyage,
in the course of which he remained two years in Ceylon, he finally arrived safely, in A.D.
414, with all his books, pictures, and images, at a spot on the coast of Shan-tung, near the
modern German port of Kiao-chow.

  Hsüan Tsang.

Another of these adventurous priests was Hsüan Tsang (wrongly, Yüan Chwang), who left China
on a similar mission in 629, and returned in 645, bringing with him six hundred and fifty-seven
Buddhist books, besides many images and pictures, and one hundred and fifty relics. He spent
the rest of his life in translating, with the help of other learned priests, these books into
Chinese, and completed in 648 the important record of his own travels, known as the Record
of Western Countries.

  Lao Tz[)u].

Philosophy.--Even the briefest résumé of Chinese philosophical literature must necessarily
include the name of Lao Tz[)u], although his era, as seen above, and his personality are both
matters of the vaguest conjecture. A number of his sayings, scattered over the works of early
writers, have been pieced together, with the addition of much incomprehensible jargon, and
the whole has been given to the world as the work of Lao Tz[)u] himself, said to be of the
6th century B.C., under the title of the Tao Tê Ching. The internal evidence against this book
is overwhelming; e.g. one quotation had been detached from the writer who preserved it, with
part of that writer's text clinging to it--of course by an oversight. Further, such a treatise
is never mentioned in Chinese literature until some time after the Burning of the Books, that
is, about four centuries after its alleged first appearance. Still, after due expurgation,
it forms an almost complete collection of such apophthegms of Lao Tz[)u] as have come down
to us, from which the reader can learn that the author taught the great doctrine of Inaction--Do
nothing, and all things will be done. Also, that Lao Tz[)u] anticipated the Christian doctrine
of returning good for evil, a sentiment which was highly reprobated by the practical mind of
Confucius, who declared that evil should be met by justice. Among the more picturesque of his
utterances are such paradoxes as, "He who knows how to shut, uses no bolts; yet you cannot
open. He who knows how to bind uses no ropes; yet you cannot untie"; "The weak overcomes the
strong; the soft overcomes the hard," &c.

    Chuang Tz[)u].

  These, and many similar subtleties of speech, seem to have fired the
  imagination of Chuang Tz[)u], 4th and 3rd centuries B.C., with the
  result that he put much time and energy into the glorification of Lao
  Tz[)u] and his doctrines. Possessed of a brilliant style and a master
  of irony, Chuang Tz[)u] attacked the schools of Confucius and Mo Ti
  (see below) with so much dialectic skill that the ablest scholars of
  the age were unable to refute his destructive criticisms. His pages
  abound in quaint anecdotes and allegorical instances, arising as it
  were spontaneously out of the questions handled, and imparting a
  lively interest to points which might otherwise have seemed dusty and
  dull. He was an idealist with all the idealist's hatred of a
  utilitarian system, and a mystic with all the mystic's contempt for a
  life of mere external activity. Only thirty-three chapters of his work
  now remain, though so many as fifty-three are known to have been still
  extant in the 3rd century; and even of these, several complete
  chapters are spurious, while in others it is comparatively easy to
  detect here and there the hand of the interpolator. What remains,
  however, after all reductions, has been enough to secure a lasting
  place for Chuang Tz[)u] as the most original of China's philosophical
  writers. His book is of course under the ban of heterodoxy, in common
  with all thought opposed to the Confucian teachings. His views as
  mystic, idealist, moralist and social reformer have no weight with the
  aspirant who has his way to make in official life; but they are a
  delight, and even a consolation, to many of the older men, who have no
  longer anything to gain or to lose.

    Confucius.

  Confucius, 551-479 B.C., who imagined that his Annals of the Lu State
  would give him immortality, has always been much more widely
  appreciated as a moralist than as an historian. His talks with his
  disciples and with others have been preserved for us, together with
  some details of his personal and private life; and the volume in which
  these are collected forms one of the Four Books of the Confucian
  Canon. Starting from the axiomatic declaration that man is born good
  and only becomes evil by his environment, he takes filial piety and
  duty to one's neighbour as his chief themes, often illustrating his
  arguments with almost Johnsonian emphasis. He cherished a shadowy
  belief in a God, but not in a future state of reward or punishment for
  good or evil actions in this world. He rather taught men to be
  virtuous for virtue's sake.

    Mencius.

    Mo Ti.

    Yang Chu.

    Hsün Tz[)u].

    Yang Hsiung.

  The discourses of Mencius, who followed Confucius after an interval of
  a hundred years, 372-289 B.C., form another of the Four Books, the
  remaining two of which are short philosophical treatises, usually
  ascribed to a grandson of Confucius. Mencius devoted his life to
  elucidating and expanding the teachings of the Master; and it is no
  doubt due to him that the Confucian doctrines obtained so wide a
  vogue. But he himself was more a politician and an economist (see
  below) than a simple preacher of morality; and hence it is that the
  Chinese people have accorded to him the title of The Second Sage. He
  is considered to have effectually "snuffed out" the heterodox school
  of Mo Ti, a philosopher of the 5th and 4th centuries B.C. who
  propounded a doctrine of "universal love" as the proper foundation for
  organized society, arguing that under such a system all the calamities
  that men bring upon one another would altogether disappear, and the
  Golden Age would be renewed. At the same time Mencius exposed the
  fallacies of the speculations of Yang Chu, 4th century B.C., who
  founded a school of ethical egoism as opposed to the exaggerated
  altruism of Mo Ti. According to Mencius, Yang Chu would not have
  parted with one hair of his body to save the whole world, whereas Mo
  Ti would have sacrificed all. Another early philosopher is Hsün
  Tz[)u], 3rd century B.C. He maintained, in opposition to Mencius, who
  upheld the Confucian dogma, and in conformity with Christian doctrine,
  that the nature of man at his birth is evil, and that this condition
  can only be changed by efficient moral training.

    Huai-nan Tz[)u].

  There is a voluminous and interesting work, of doubtful age, which
  passes under the title of Huai-nan Tz[)u], or the Philosopher of
  Huai-nan. It is attributed to Liu An, prince of Huai-nan, who died 122
  B.C., and who is further said to have written on alchemy; but alchemy
  was scarcely known in China at the date of his death, being introduced
  about that time from Greece. The author, whoever he may have been,
  poses as a disciple of Lao Tz[)u]; but the speculations of Lao Tz[)u],
  as glorified by Chuang Tz[)u], were then rapidly sinking into vulgar
  efforts to discover the elixir of life. It is very difficult in many
  cases of this kind to decide what books are, and what books are not,
  partial or complete forgeries. In the present instance, the aid of the
  Shuo Wên, a dictionary of the 1st century A.D. (see below), may be
  invoked, but not in quite so satisfactory a sense as that in which it
  will be seen lower down to have been applied to the Tao Tê Ching.
  The Shuo Wên contains a quotation said to be taken from Huai-nan
  Tz[)u]; but that quotation cannot be found in the work under
  consideration. It may be argued that the words in question may have
  been taken from another work by the same author; but if so, it becomes
  difficult to believe that a book, more than two hundred years old,
  from which the author of the Shuo Wên quoted, should have been
  allowed to perish without leaving any trace behind. China has produced
  its Bentleys in considerable numbers; but almost all of them have
  given their attention to textual criticism of the Confucian Canon, and
  few have condescended to examine critically the works of heterodox
  writers. The foreign student therefore finds himself faced with many
  knotty points he is entirely unable to solve.

    Wang Ch'ung.

  Of Wang Ch'ung, a speculative and materialistic philosopher, A.D.
  27-97, banned by the orthodox for his attacks on Confucius and
  Mencius, only one work has survived. it consists of eighty-four essays
  on such topics as the nature of things, destiny, divination, death,
  ghosts, poisons, miracles, criticisms of Confucius and Mencius,
  exaggeration, sacrifice and exorcism. According to Wang Ch'ung, man,
  endowed at birth sometimes with a good and sometimes with an evil
  nature, is informed with a vital fluid, which resides in the blood and
  is nourished by eating and drinking, its two functions being to
  animate the body and keep in order the mind. It is the source of all
  sensation, passing through the blood like a wave. When it reaches the
  eyes, ears and mouth, the result is sight, hearing and speech
  respectively. Disturbance of the vital fluid leads to insanity.
  Without the fluid, the body cannot be maintained; without the body,
  the fluid loses its vitality. Therefore, argues Wang Ch'ung, when the
  body perishes and the fluid loses its vitality, each being dependent
  on the other, there remains nothing for immortality in a life beyond
  the grave. Ghosts he held to be the hallucinations of disordered
  minds, and miracles to be natural phenomena capable of simple
  explanations. His indictments of Confucius and Mencius are not of a
  serious character; though, as regards the former, it must be borne in
  mind that the Chinese people will not suffer the faintest aspersion on
  the fair fame of their great Sage. It is related in the Lun Yü that
  Confucius paid a visit to the notoriously immoral wife of one of the
  feudal nobles, and that a certain disciple was "displeased" in
  consequence, whereupon the Master swore, saying, "If I have done any
  wrong, may the sky fall and crush me!" Wang Ch'ung points out that the
  form of oath adopted by Confucius is unsatisfactory and fails to carry
  conviction. Had he said, "May I be struck dead by lightning!" his
  sincerity would have been more powerfully attested, because people are
  often struck dead by lightning; whereas the fall of the sky is too
  remote a contingency, such a thing never having been known to happen
  within the memory of man. As to Mencius, there is a passage in his
  works which states that a thread of predestination runs through all
  human life, and that those who accommodate themselves will come off
  better in the end than those who try to oppose; it is in fact a
  statement of the [Greek: ouk uper moron] principle. On this Wang
  Ch'ung remarks that the will of God is consequently made to depend on
  human actions; and he further strengthens his objection by showing
  that the best men have often fared worst. For instance, Confucius
  never became emperor; Pi Kan, the patriot, was disembowelled; the bold
  and faithful disciple, Tz[)u] Lu, was chopped into small pieces.

    Book of Changes.

