From the great value of the material, the economical cutting of it up is of the last importance.
Nothing is lost. The smallest fragments are of some value, have certain uses, and bear a corresponding
price. Ivory dust, which is produced in large quantities, is a most valuable gelatine, and
as such extensively employed by straw-hat makers. The greatest consumption of ivory is undoubtedly
in connection with the cutlery trade. For these purposes alone about 200 tons are annually
used in Sheffield and Birmingham, and the ivory in nearly every instance is from India. The
mode of manufacturing knife-handles is very simple and expeditious:--The teeth are first cut
into slabs of the requisite thickness--then to the proper cross dimensions, by means of circular
saws of different shapes. They are afterwards drilled with great accuracy by a machine; rivetted
to the blade; and finally smoothed and polished. We believe that this branch of industry alone
gives employment to about 500 persons in Sheffield. Combs are seldom made of any ivory but
Indian, and their mode of manufacture we had recently occasion to describe.[4] A large amount
of ivory is consumed in the backs of hairbrushes; and this branch of the trade has recently
undergone considerable improvements. The old method of making a tooth-brush, for example, was
to lace the bristles through the ivory, and then to glue, or otherwise fasten, an outside slab
to the brush for the purpose of concealing the holes and wire-thread. This mode of manufacture
has been improved on by a method of working the hair into the solid ivory; and brushes of this
description are now the best in the market. Their chief excellence consists in their preserving
their original white colour to the last, which is a great desideratum. Billiard-balls constitute
another considerable item of ivory consumption. They cost from 6s. to 12s. each; and the nicety
of our ornamental turning produces balls not only of the most perfect spherical form, but accurately
corresponding in size and weight even to a single grain.

The ivory miniature tablets so much in use, and which are so invaluable to the artist from
the exquisitely delicate texture of the material, are now produced by means of a very beautiful
and highly interesting chemical process. Phosphoric acid of the usual specific gravity renders
ivory soft and nearly plastic. The plates are cut from the circumference of the tusk, somewhat
after the manner of paring a cucumber, and then softened by means of the acid. When washed
with water, pressed, and dried, the ivory regains its former consistency, and even its microscopic
structure is not affected by the process. Plates thirty inches square have been formed in this
way, and a great reduction in price has thus been effected. Painting on ivory, we may add,
was practised among the ancients.

Mr M'Culloch and other statistical writers predict the speedy extinction of the elephant, from
the enormous consumption of its teeth; and curious calculations of the number of these animals
annually extirpated to supply the English market alone are now getting somewhat popular. For
example: 'in 1827 the customs-duty on ivory (20s. per cwt.--since reduced to 1s.) amounted
to L.3257. The average weight of the elephant's tusk is 60 lbs.; and therefore 3040 elephants
have been killed to supply this quantity of ivory.' But these calculations are in many respects
quite fallacious. In the first place, the average weight of our imported tusks is not 60 lbs.:
we have the authority of one of the first ivory-merchants in London for stating that 20 lbs.
will be a much closer approximation. This at once involves a threefold ratio of destruction.
In place of 3040, we should have the terrible slaughter of 9120 elephants for one year's consumption
of ivory in England! This, however, is not the case. In these calculations the immense masses
of fossil ivory we have alluded to are obviously overlooked, and the equally immense quantities
of broken teeth which are disinterred from the deserts of Arabia, or the jungles of Central
Africa. The truth is, we have good reason to know, that a very large proportion of the commercial
supply of Europe is sustained from the almost inexhaustible store of these descriptions of ivory.

Nevertheless, it is indisputable that the insatiable demands of modern commerce will inevitably
lead to the ultimate extermination of this noble animal. His venerable career is ignominiously
brought to an end merely for the sake of the two teeth he carries in his mouth; which are very
likely destined to be cut into rings to assist the infant Anglo-Saxons in cutting their teeth,
or partly made into jelly to satisfy the tastes and appetites of a London alderman. We cannot
reasonably hope for a new suspension of the traffic: indeed we can only look for its extension.
The luxurious tastes of man are inimical to the existence of the elephant. From time immemorial,
the war of extermination has existed. His rightful domain--in the plain or the wilderness,
or amid the wild herbage of his native savannas--is at all points ruthlessly invaded. But the
result is inevitable--it will come to an end; and some future generation of naturalists--those
of them at least who are curious in Palæontology--will regard the remains of our contemporary
races of elephants with the same kind of astonishment with which we investigate the pre-historic
evidences of the gigantic tapir or the mammoth.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Footnote 3: In the sacristy of the cathedral at Aix-la-Châpelle is still preserved, among
other relics of this great prince, an immense ivory hunting-horn; and 'Charlemagne's chess-men,'
which still exist, form part of the collection of works of art at Cologne.]

[Footnote 4: See an article on the Aberdeen Combworks, No. 396.]

BLIGHTED FLOWERS.

The facts of the following brief narrative, which are very few and of but melancholy interest,
became known to me in the precise order in which they are laid before the reader. They were
forced upon my observation rather than sought out by me; and they present, to my mind at least,
a touching picture of the bitter conflict industrious poverty is sometimes called upon to wage
with 'the thousand natural shocks which flesh is heir to.'

It must be now eight or nine years since, in traversing a certain street, which runs for nearly
half a mile in a direct line southward, I first encountered Ellen----. She was then a fair
young girl of seventeen, rather above the middle size, and with a queen-like air and gait which
made her appear taller than she really was. Her countenance, pale but healthy, and of a perfectly
regular and classic mould, was charming to look upon from its undefinable expression of lovableness
and sweet temper. Her tiny feet tripped noiselessly along the pavement, and a glance from her
black eye sometimes met mine like a ray of light, as, punctually at twenty minutes to nine,
we passed each other near ---- House, each of us on our way to the theatre of our daily operations.
She was an embroideress, as I soon discovered from a small stretching-frame, containing some
unfinished work, which she occasionally carried in her hand. She set me a worthy example of
punctuality, and I could any day have told the time to a minute without looking at my watch,
by marking the spot where we passed each other. I learned to look for her regularly, and before
I knew her name, had given her that of 'Minerva,' in acknowledgment of her efficiency as a mentor.

A year after the commencement of our acquaintance, which never ripened into speech, happening
to set out from home one morning a quarter of an hour before my usual time, I made the pleasing
discovery that my juvenile Minerva had a younger sister, if possible still more beautiful than
herself. The pair were taking an affectionate leave of each other at the crossing of the New
Road, and the silver accents of the younger as, kissing her sister, she laughed out, 'Good-by,
Ellen,' gave me the first information of the real name of my pretty mentor. The little Mary--for
so was the younger called, who could not be more than eleven years of age--was a slender, frolicsome
sylph, with a skin of the purest carnation, and a face like that of Sir Joshua's seraph in
the National Gallery, but with larger orbs and longer lashes shading them. As she danced and
leaped before me on her way home again, I could not but admire the natural ease and grace of
every motion, nor fail to comprehend and sympathise with the anxious looks of the sisters'
only parent, their widowed mother, who stood watching the return of the younger darling at
the door of a very humble two-storey dwelling, in the vicinity of the New River Head.

Nearly two years passed away, during which, with the exception of Sundays and holidays, every
recurring morning brought me the grateful though momentary vision of one or both of the charming
sisters. Then came an additional pleasure--I met them both together every day. The younger
had commenced practising the same delicate and ingenious craft of embroidery, and the two pursued
their industry in company under the same employer. It was amusing to mark the demure assumption
of womanhood darkening the brows of the aërial little sprite, as, with all the new-born consequence
of responsibility, she walked soberly by her sister's side, frame in hand, and occasionally
revealed to passers-by a brief glimpse of her many-coloured handiwork. They were the very picture
of beauty and happiness, and happy beyond question must their innocent lives have been for
many pleasant months. But soon the shadows of care began to steal over their hitherto joyous
faces, and traces of anxiety, perhaps of tears, to be too plainly visible on their paling cheeks.
All at once I missed them in my morning's walk, and for several days--it might be weeks--saw
nothing of them. I was at length startled from my forgetfulness of their very existence by
the sudden apparition of both one Monday morning clad in the deepest mourning. I saw the truth
at once: the mother, who, I had remarked, was prematurely old and feeble, was gone, and the
two orphan children were left to battle it with the world. My conjecture was the truth, as
a neighbour of whom I made some inquiries on the subject was not slow to inform me. 'Ah, sir,'
said the good woman, 'poor Mrs D---- have had a hard time of it, and she born an' bred a gentlewoman.'

I asked her if the daughters were provided for.

'Indeed, sir,' continued my informant, 'I'm afeard not. 'Twas the most unfortnatest thing in
the world, sir, poor Mr D----'s dying jest as a' did. You see, sir, he war a soldier, a fightin'
out in Indy, and his poor wife lef at home wi' them two blossoms o' gals. He warn't what you
call a common soldier, sir, but some kind o' officer like; an' in some great battle fought
seven year agone he done fine service I've heerd, and promotion was send out to 'un, but didn't
get there till the poor man was dead of his wounds. The news of he's death cut up his poor
wife complete, and she han't been herself since. I've know'd she wasn't long for here ever
since it come. Wust of all, it seems that because the poor man was dead the very day the promotion
reached 'un, a' didn't die a captain after all, and so the poor widder didn't get no pension.
How they've a' managed to live is more than I can tell. The oldest gal is very clever, they
say; but Lor' bless 'ee! 'taint much to s'port three as is to be got out o' broiderin'.'

Thus enlightened on the subject of their private history, it was with very different feelings
I afterwards regarded these unfortunate children. Bereft of both parents, and cast upon a world
with the ways of which they were utterly unacquainted, and in which they might be doomed to
the most painful struggles even to procure a bare subsistence, one treasure was yet left them--it
was the treasure of each other's love. So far as the depth of this feeling could be estimated
from the looks and actions of both, it was all in all to each. But the sacred bond that bound
them was destined to be rudely rent asunder. The cold winds of autumn began to visit too roughly
the fair pale face of the younger girl, and the unmistakable indications of consumption made
their appearance: the harassing cough, the hectic cheek, the deep-settled pain in the side,
the failing breath. Against these dread forerunners it was vain long to contend; and the poor
child had to remain at home in her solitary sick-chamber, while the loving sister toiled harder
than ever to provide, if possible, the means of comfort and restoration to health. All the
world knows the ending of such a hopeless strife as this. It is sometimes the will of Heaven
that the path of virtue, like that of glory, leads but to the grave. So it was in the present
instance: the blossom of this fair young life withered away, and the grass-fringed lips of
the child's early tomb closed over the lifeless relics ere spring had dawned upon the year.

Sorrow had graven legible traces upon the brow of my hapless mentor when I saw her again. How
different now was the vision that greeted my daily sight from that of former years! The want
that admits not of idle wailing compelled her still to pursue her daily course of labour, and
she pursued it with the same constancy and punctuality as she had ever done. But the exquisitely
chiselled face, the majestic gait, the elastic step--the beauty and glory of youth, unshaken
because unassaulted by death and sorrow--where were they? Alas! all the bewitching charms of
her former being had gone down into the grave of her mother and sister; and she, their support
and idol, seemed no more now than she really was--a wayworn, solitary, and isolated straggler
for daily bread.

Were this a fiction that I am writing, it would be an easy matter to deal out a measure of
poetical justice, and to recompense poor Ellen for all her industry, self-denial, and suffering
in the arms of a husband, who should possess as many and great virtues as herself, and an ample
fortune to boot. I wish with all my heart that it were a fiction, and that Providence had never
furnished me with such a seeming anomaly to add to the list of my desultory chronicles. But
I am telling a true story of a life. Ellen found no mate. No mate, did I say? Yes, one: the
same grim yokefellow whose delight it is 'to gather roses in the spring' paid ghastly court
to her faded charms, and won her--who shall say an unwilling bride? I could see his gradual
but deadly advances in my daily walks: the same indications that gave warning of the sister's
fate admonished me that she also was on her way to the tomb, and that the place that had known
her would soon know her no more. She grew day by day more feeble; and one morning I found her
seated on the step of a door, unable to proceed. After that she disappeared from my view; and
though I never saw her again at the old spot, I have seldom passed that spot since, though
for many years following the same route, without recognising again in my mind's eye the graceful
form and angel aspect of Ellen D----.

'And is this the end of your mournful history?' some querulous reader demands. Not quite. There
is a soul of good in things evil. Compassion dwells with the depths of misery; and in the valley
of the shadow of death dove-eyed Charity walks with shining wings.... It was nearly two months
after I had lost sight of poor Ellen, that during one of my dinner-hour perambulations about
town, I looked in almost accidentally upon my old friend and chum, Jack W----. Jack keeps a
perfumer's shop not a hundred miles from Gray's Inn, where, ensconced up to his eyes in delicate
odours, he passes his leisure hours--the hours when commerce flags, and people have more pressing
affairs to attend to than the delectation of their nostrils--in the enthusiastic study of art
and virtu. His shop is hardly more crammed with bottles and attar, soap, scents, and all the
etceteras of the toilet, than the rest of his house with prints, pictures, carvings, and curiosities
of every sort. Jack and I went to school together, and sowed our slender crop of wild oats
together; and, indeed, in some sort have been together ever since. We both have our own collections
of rarities, such as they are, and each criticises the other's new purchases. On the present
occasion there was a new Van Somebody's old painting awaiting my judgment; and no sooner did
my shadow darken his door, than starting from his lair, and bidding the boy ring the bell should
he be wanted, he hustled me up stairs, calling by the way to his housekeeper, Mrs Jones--Jack
is a bachelor--to bring up coffee for two. I was prepared to pronounce my dictum on his newly-acquired
treasure, and was going to bounce unceremoniously into the old lumber-room over the lobby to
regale my sight with the delightful confusion of his unarranged accumulations, when he pulled
me forcibly back by the coat-tail. 'Not there,' said Jack; 'you can't go there. Go into my
snuggery.'

'And why not there?' said I; jealous of some new purchase which I was not to see.

'Because there's somebody ill there--it is a bedroom now: a poor girl; she wanted a place to
die in, poor thing, and I put her in there.'

'Who is she?--a relative?'

'No; I never saw her till Monday last. Sit down, I'll tell you how it was. Set down the coffee,
Mrs Jones, and just look in upon the patient, will you? Sugar and cream? You know my weakness
for the dead wall in Lincoln's Inn Fields.' (Jack never refuses a beggar backed by that wall,
for the love of Ben Jonson, who, he devoutly believes, had a hand in building it.) 'Well, I
met with her there on Monday last. She asked for nothing, but held out her hand, and as she
did so the tears streamed from her eyes on the pavement. The poor creature, it was plain enough,
was then dying; and I told her so. She said she knew it, but had no place to die in but the
parish workhouse, and hoped that I would not send her there. What's the use of talking? I brought
her here, and put her to sleep on the sofa while Jones cleared out the lumber-room and got
up a bed. I sent for Dr H---- to look at her; he gave her a week or ten days at the farthest:
I don't think she'll last so long. The curate of St---- comes every day to see her, and I like
to talk to her myself sometimes. Well, Mrs Jones, how goes she on?'

'She's asleep,' said the housekeeper. 'Would you like to look at her, gentlemen?'

We entered the room together. It was as if some unaccountable presentiment had forewarned me:
there, upon a snow-white sheet, and pillowed by my friend's favourite eider-down squab, lay
the wasted form of Ellen D----. She slept soundly and breathed loudly; and Dr H----, who entered
while we stood at the bedside, informed us that in all probability she would awake only to
die, or if to sleep again, then to wake no more. The latter was the true prophecy. She awoke
an hour or two after my departure, and passed away that same night in a quiet slumber without
a pang.

I never learned by what chain of circumstances she was driven to seek alms in the public streets.
I might have done so perhaps by inquiry, but to what purpose? She died in peace, with friendly
hands and friendly hearts near her, and Jack buried her in his own grave in Highgate Cemetery,
at his own expense; and declares he is none the worse for it. I am of his opinion.

NOTES FROM AUSTRALIA.

Letters from working-men have been published in great numbers by the home-press, but a voice
from the tradesman has seldom been heard; or, if heard, has not been attended to. I trust in
some measure to supply the deficiency to those middle-class townsfolk who seek to emigrate
to Australia.

1st, I can only reconcile the different accounts furnished by emigrants--believing people to
write as they think at the time--by remembering that some have come from quiet rural places,
and others from populous towns. The first will consider Geelong--its beautiful bay, ships,
and steamers, as a hustling, improving, and increasing town, laid out for a future provincial
capital; the last will regard it as a dull, detached series of villages, which will some day
be a large town. A modification of these causes, allowing for age, temperament, circumstances,
and station in life, will explain any ordinary discrepancy in the accounts from this country.

2d, The various accounts of the climate must in a measure be traced to the same causes. People
used to out-door labour in Britain find the winter so mild, that everything is lauded to the
skies; those used to nice, roomy, convenient houses at home, finding themselves so very differently
situated, condemn climate, prospects, and everything. Both may convey a false impression. The
cold or heat by the thermometer is no test of sensation; days, however warm, are exceedingly
agreeable, except the hot-wind days, which are absolutely indescribable, yet I have seen some
men work out all day in the worst of them. They cause great relaxation in the system, and produce
dysentery, especially among children. Compared with other hot countries, this appears to be
the most agreeable.

3d, Employment.--This is readily to be obtained by working mechanics of all kinds in the towns;
remembering that a very small sprinkling of workmen for finer work--such as cornice-mouldings,
fine freestone work, cabinetwork, &c.--will be able to find employment for a long time to come,
because, till a new generation spring up, who can live upon the accumulations of their sires,
money will not be diverted to any great extent from business in land, buildings, or merchandise.
A considerable number of labourers will find employment about the towns, at the stores, on
the wharfs, &c. at about 24s. weekly. Country work on the sheep-stations--as shepherds, drivers
of bullock-drays, sheep-washing and shearing, cooking for the men, &c.--is remunerated by about
L.25 and food. These live far off in the solitary plains, almost apart from men, and come to
town once, twice, or thrice a year, as their distance and employment may determine. The Sabbath
has little of the religious character for them, and they know little of the progress of mankind.
Agriculture also employs men at about the same rate. There is no probability of wages falling,
for a long time to come, with any stream of emigration likely to come out hither; for if the
country cannot grow more wool, a greater attention to its quality would employ more men; and
agriculture will absorb a vast population as soon as the land-question has been fairly overhauled,
and settled on a foundation that will allow a small capitalist to obtain, at a fair price,
a suitable farm: besides, everything necessary to civilisation has yet to be done--roads, bridges,
quarries, wells, and a long etcetera that one can scarcely catalogue.

4th, Capitalists of L.1000 and upwards can make, apart from wool-growing, twenty per cent.
on their money without being in trade, chiefly by buying at the government land-sales, and
subdividing the section into small allotments, or by building houses, shops, &c. The average
of rental returns the capital in four years. But this can only be done if emigration continues--and
emigration with a sprinkling of holders of L.50 to L.200. If this stops, there can be few purchasers.
Should a fixed price be put upon government land, there might be a difference in the way in
which capital could be turned to profit; but L.1000 and upwards can find so many favourable
investments in a new colony, that a living could be secured without much trouble or anxiety.

5th, Population.--By the census just completed, there are 78,000 inhabitants in Victoria (Port-Philip);
County of Bourke, 44,000--including Melbourne, the capital, 20,000; County of Grant, 12,000--including
Geelong, its capital, 8000. Warnambool, Belfast, and Portland, along the coast, only number
hundreds, and Kilmore, forty miles inland, nearly 2000: there are also various villages--on
paper--so called, numbering ten to fifty houses each. From this it will be seen that more than
half of the entire population is within twenty miles of Melbourne, a third of the residue within
fifteen miles of Geelong, and the remainder scattered, including the 1200 squatting-stations,
over a very extensive country. These towns are not, in my opinion, a natural growth, but have
been forced into their present magnitude from the difficulties in obtaining land at a price
to make up for the utter want of every convenience, a want arising from the total absence of
any effort on the part of the government hitherto to make even one great trunk-road through
the colony. Facilities for internal communication would cause towns to increase naturally.
Now, people arrive with glowing ideas of the beauty and fertility of the country, and finding
everything difficult of access there, betake themselves to shopkeeping, forcing up rents to
an exorbitant sum, and losing their little capital. I think my opinion borne out by the fact,
that the country population of Grant County was 1959 in 1846, and 4469 in 1851; Geelong in
1846 had 1911, and in 1851, 8000--the town population more than quadrupling itself in the last
five years, the county increasing only 2510. Melbourne and Bourke County are nearly in the
same position.

There are seven or eight merchants in Geelong who import goods of all kinds, twenty-two drapery
establishments in a respectable way, besides numbers of small ones on the outskirts; other
trades are proportionately overdone. Melbourne is, I am credibly informed, equally crowded.
These facts shew that there is no opening for people in business. A great imposition is practised
by stating the increase of a town at so much per cent., or having doubled or trebled itself
in so short a time, the fact being that even its present condition may be that only of a village.
Interested parties too often talk their places into notice; and if people do not deal in 'notions,'
they all have some allotment that will just suit you, which they don't care to keep any longer.

