Before we go any farther let us see just what the Tenth Cavalry did do in this fight. That
their action was highly meritorious admits of no doubt, and the laurels they won were never
allowed to fade during the whole campaign. General Wheeler speaks of them with the First Cavalry.
He says: "I was immediately with the troops of the First and Tenth Regular Cavalry, dismounted,
and personally noticed their brave and good conduct." There were four troops of the Tenth engaged,
composing the First Squadron of that regiment, under command of Major Norval. Troop A was commanded
by Captain W.H. Beck, who was specially commended by General Wheeler for good conduct. Second
Lieutenant F.R. McCoy was Captain Beck's assistant. This troop moved over to the left, receiving
the fire of the enemy, but making no response, the distance being too great for effective carbine
firing. This troop reached Colonel Wood's right and made the line continuous so that there
was now a force in front of that ridge where the Spaniards were securely entrenched and from
which they were pouring their enfilading fire upon Colonel Wood's line. Troop A, although coming
into the line, did not fire. Their presence, however, gave the Rough Riders the assurance that
their flank was saved. Troop E was commanded by Captain C.G. Ayres with Second Lieutenant George
Vidmar. This troop was placed by General Young in support of Captain Watson's two Hotchkiss
guns, and also of the troops in their front. The troop was under fire one hour and a quarter,
during which they were in plain view of the Spaniards, who also had their exact range. One
man was killed and one wounded. Their courage, coolness and discipline in this trying hour
and a quarter were of the very highest order. The troop commander says: "Their coolness and
fine discipline were superb." This troop did not fire a shot. Thus one-half of the squadron
moved to its positions and held them without being able to do any damage to the enemy, as they
were carrying out to the letter their instructions, which were to fire only when they could
see the enemy. Troop B was commanded by Captain J.W. Watson with H.O. Willard as Second Lieutenant.
A detachment of this troop was placed in charge of four Hotchkiss mountain guns. This detachment
opened fire upon the enemy, using the ammunition sparingly, as they had but fifty rounds with
them. Twenty-two shots were fired, apparently with effect. The remainder of the troop under
Lieutenant Williard was ordered to move out to the extreme right, which would place it beyond
the line of the First Cavalry, thus bringing that regiment between Troop A of the Tenth, which
connected it with the Rough Riders and Troop B, which was to be on its extreme right. Lieutenant
Williard's report of this movement is as follows:

     "I ordered the troop forward at once, telling them to take
     advantage of all cover available. In the meantime the
     volleys from the Spanish were coming in quite frequently and
     striking the ground on all sides near where we were. I found
     it very difficult to move the men forward after having found
     cover, and ran back to a portion of the troop near an old
     brick wall, and ordered them forward at once. They then made
     a dash forward, and in doing so three or four men were
     wounded, Private Russell severely. Who the others were I do
     not know. We encountered a severe fire directly after this
     move forward; and Private Wheeler was wounded in the left
     leg. There was a wire fence on our right, and such thick
     underbrush that we were unable to get through right there,
     so had to follow along the fence for some distance before
     being able to penetrate. Finally, was able to get the
     greater proportion of my men through, and about this time I
     met Lieutenants Fleming and Miller, Tenth Cavalry, moving
     through the thicket at my left. I there heard the order
     passed on 'not to fire ahead,' as there was danger of firing
     into our own forces. In the meantime there was shouting from
     the First Cavalry in our front, 'Don't fire on us in rear.'
     My troop had not fired a shot to my knowledge, nor the
     knowledge of any non-commissioned officers in the troop.
     About this time I found I was unable to keep the troop
     deployed, as they would huddle up behind one rock or tree,
     so I gave all sergeants orders to move out on the extreme
     right and to keep in touch with those on their left. Then,
     with a squad of about five men, I moved to the right front,
     and was unfortunate enough to lose the troop, i.e., I could
     see nothing of them except the men with me.

     "But as I had given explicit instructions to my sergeant, in
     case I was lost from them, to continue to advance until
     halted by some one in authority, I moved ahead myself,
     hoping to find them later on. In making a rush forward three
     men of my squad were lost from me in some way. I still had
     two men with me, Privates Combs and Jackson, and in the next
     advance made I picked up a First Cavalry sergeant who had
     fallen out from exhaustion. After a terrific climb up the
     ridge in front of me, and a very regular though ineffective
     fire from the enemy kept up until we were about sixty yards
     from the summit of hill, we reached the advance line of the
     First United States Cavalry, under command of Captain
     Wainwright. I then reported to him for orders, and moved
     forward when he next advanced. The firing had ceased, and no
     more shots were fired, to my knowledge, after this time.
     With the First Cavalry, Troop G, we followed along the right
     of the ridge and came down to the right front, encountering
     no opposition or fire from the enemy, but finding the
     enemy's breastworks in confusion, ammunition and articles of
     clothing scattered around; also one dead Spaniard and two
     Mauser rifles. At the foot of the ridge we met some of the
     First Volunteer Cavalry, and being utterly exhausted, I was
     obliged to lie down. Soon after, Captain Mills,
     adjutant-general of Second Brigade, Cavalry Division, came
     up to where I was and placed me in command of Troop K, First
     United States Cavalry, whose officers were wounded. I then
     marched them forward on the road to where General Wheeler
     was sitting, and received orders from Colonel Wood, First
     Volunteer Cavalry, to remain until further orders and make
     no further advance. Directly afterwards, learning the action
     was over, I reported back to General Young, and received
     orders to remain camped with the First Cavalry Squadron,
     where the action had closed. In the meantime, I should have
     stated that I found the principal part of my troop and
     collected them and left them under the first sergeant, when
     I went back to receive orders. So far as I know, and to the
     best of my knowledge, the men of my troop acted with the
     greatest bravery, advancing on an enemy who could not be
     seen, and subjected to a severe and heavy fire at each step,
     which was only rendered ineffective to a great degree by the
     poor marksmanship of the enemy, as many times we were in
     sight of them (I discovered this by observation after the
     engagement) while we could see nothing. We were also
     subjected to a severe reverse fire from the hills in our
     right rear, several men being wounded by this fire.
     Throughout the fight the men acted with exceptional
     coolness, in my judgment. The casualties were: Privates
     Russell, Braxton and Morris, severely wounded; Privates F.A.
     Miller, Grice, Wheeler and Gaines, slightly wounded, i.e.,
     less severely. None killed.

     Very respectfully,

     HENRY O. WILLIARD.
     June 24, 1898.
     Troop B, Tenth Cavalry, during action near La Guasima,
     Second Lieutenant, Tenth United States Cavalry, Commanding.

Troop I of the Tenth Cavalry was commanded by First Lieutenant R.J. Fleming with Second Lieutenant
A.M. Miller. This troop moved to the right and wedged in between B Troop and the right of the
First Cavalry. Lieutenant Fleming discovered the enemy posted on the high ridge immediately
in front of his troop, and also extending to his right, in front of B Troop. Moving his troop
a little to the right so as to secure room to advance without coming in contact with the First
Cavalry, he then directed his course straight toward the hill on which he had located the enemy.
The advance was made with great caution, the men seeking cover wherever possible, and dashing
across the open spaces at full run. Thus they moved until the base of the steep part of the
hill was reached. This was found very difficult of ascent, not only because of the rugged steepness,
but also on account of the underbrush, and the sharp-leaved grass, the cacti and Spanish bayonet,
that grow on all these hillsides. Paths had to be cut through these prickly obstructions with
knives and sabres. Consequently the advance up that hill, though free from peril, was very
slow and trying. Twice during the advance the men obtained a view of their enemies and were
permitted to fire. The instructions were rigidly adhered to: No firing only at the visible
foe. Lieutenant Fleming says: "Owing to the underbrush it was impossible for me to see but
a very few men at a time, but as they all arrived on the crest about the time I did, or shortly
after, they certainly advanced steadily." He says: "The entire troop behaved with great coolness
and obeyed every order." Farrier Sherman Harris, Wagoner John Boland and Private Elsie Jones
especially distinguished themselves for coolness and gallantry. The aggressive work of the
Tenth Cavalry, therefore, appears to have been done by Troops B and I, a detachment of the
former troop serving the Hotchkiss gun battery. Troop I was commanded by Lieutenant Fleming
and by him conducted to the front, although he admits that in their advance up the slope of
the hill he could see but very few of the men at a time, and declares that their advance was
certainly steady, because all arrived at the crest of the hill simultaneously or nearly so.

Lieutenant Fleming does not show that his troop of excellent men were in any sense peculiarly
dependent upon their white officers as some have asserted. They advanced steadily, just as
the regulars always do, advanced noiselessly and without any reckless firing, and reached the
crest of the hill in order, although he could not see them as they were making their advance.
They kept their line despite all the obstructions. Lieutenant Fleming also says that in moving
to his position he passed Troop B, which then "inclined to the right, and during the remainder
of the action was on my right." Troop B, therefore, went through about the same experience
as Troop I, and being on the extreme right of the line may have been more directly in front
of that foe which Fleming says was in his front and to the right. Why did not the officer who
directed or led B Troop in its advance upon the enemy report the action of his troop as vividly
and generously as did Lieutenant Fleming the men of Troop I? With not the slightest reflection
upon the gallant officer, he himself has the manliness to say he was so unfortunate as to lose
the troop. The troop, however, did not become demoralized, but went into action under command
of its First Sergeant, John Buck,[17] and remained on Lieutenant Fleming's right during the
action. It has been proven more than once that should the commissioned officers of a company
or troop of colored regulars be killed or incapacitated, the non-commissioned officers can
carry on the fight. Speaking of this same regiment it is equally true that at San Juan the
officers of Troops D and G were all shot and the commands of these troops fell to their First
Sergeants, the first to Sergeant William H. Given, the second to Sergeant Saint Foster, and
it is generally understood that these two men were appointed Lieutenants of Volunteers because
of their success in handling their troops in battle.

The entire attacking force at this end of the line, if we count only those engaged in actual
firing, consisted of two troops of the Tenth Cavalry and two of the First Cavalry--four troops--while
to the left the entire eight troops were on the firing line. The action of the troops of the
First Cavalry was quite similar to that of the troops of the Tenth Cavalry, and equally deserving
of commendation. Of them all General Young says:

     "The ground over which the right column advanced was a mass
     of jungle growth, with wire fences, not to be seen until
     encountered, and precipitous heights as the ridge was
     approached. It was impossible for the troops to keep in
     touch along the front, and they could only judge of the
     enemy from the sound and direction of his fire. However, had
     it not been for this dense jungle, the attack would not have
     been made against an overwhelming force in such a position.
     Headway was so difficult that advance and support became
     merged and moved forward under a continuous volley firing,
     supplemented by that of two rapid-fire guns. Return firing
     by my force was only made as here and there a small clear
     spot gave a sight of the enemy. The fire discipline of these
     particular troops was almost perfect. The ammunition
     expended by the two squadrons engaged in an incessant
     advance for one hour and fifteen minutes averaged less than
     ten rounds per man. The fine quality of these troops is also
     shown by the fact that there was not a single straggler, and
     in not one instance was an attempt made by any soldier to
     fall out in the advance to assist the wounded or carry back
     the dead. The fighting on the left flank was equally
     creditable and was remarkable, and I believe unprecedented,
     in volunter troops so quickly raised, armed and equipped."

The five hundred men of Colonel Wood's regiment were stretched over a space of 800 to 1,000
yards, and were entirely without support or reserve, and appear to have advanced to a point
where this very strong force on the right swept a good part of their line both with rifle fire
and the fire of their two machine guns. Men and officers were falling under both the front
and flank fire of the enemy, and had not the squadrons of the First and Tenth made their successful
assault upon that ridge, which, according to General Wood's report, was "very strongly held,"
the situation of the Rough Riders would have been extreme. Because this successful assault
was participated in by the Tenth Cavalry the story arose that the Rough Riders were rescued
by that regiment. The fair statement would be: That the Regular Cavalry, consisting of a squadron
of the First and a squadron of the Tenth, made their advance on the right at the precise moment
to deliver the Rough Riders from a fire that threatened their annihilation. The marksmanship
and coolness of the men of the Tenth have been specially commented upon and their fire was
described as very effective, but the same remarks could be made of the men of the First, who
fought side by side with them. It is probable that the volunteers advanced more rapidly than
did the regulars, using more ammunition, and manifesting a very high degree of courage and
enthusiasm as well as deliberation; but the regulars reached their objective at the proper
time to turn the battle's tide. Each advancing column was worthy to be companion to the other.

General Wheeler said the fire was very hot for about an hour, and "at 8.30 sent a courier to
General Lawton informing him that he was engaged with a larger force of the enemy than was
anticipated, and asked that his force be sent forward on the Sevilla road as quickly as possible."
("In Cuba With Shafter," p. 83.) General Lawton, however, with the true instinct of a soldier
had already sent orders to General Chaffee to move forward with the First Brigade. The Second
Brigade was also in readiness to move and the men of the Twenty-fifth were expecting to go
forward to take a position on the right and if possible a little to the rear of the Spanish
entrenchments in order to cut off their retreat. The rapid movements of the cavalry division,
however, rendered this unnecessary, and the routing of the foe gave to the Americans an open
country and cleared the field for the advance on Santiago. The first battle had been fought,
and the Americans had been victorious, but not without cost. Sixteen men had been killed and
fifty-two wounded. In Colonel Wood's regiment eight had been killed and thirty-four wounded;
in the First Cavalry, seven killed and eight wounded; in the Tenth Cavalry, one killed and
ten wounded. The percentage of losses to the whole strength of the several organizations engaged
was as follows: Rough Riders, over 8 per cent.; First Cavalry, over 6 per cent.; Tenth Cavalry,
5 per cent. But if we take those on the firing line as the base the rate per cent. of losses
among the regulars would be doubled, while that of the volunteers would remain the same.

The strength of the enemy in this battle is given in the Spanish official reports, according
to Lieutenant Miley, at about five hundred, and their losses are put at nine killed and twenty-seven
wounded. At the time of the fight it was supposed to be much larger. General Young's report
places the estimates at 2,000, and adds "that it has since been learned from Spanish sources
to have been 2,500. The Cuban military authorities claim the Spanish strength was 4,000." These
figures are doubtless too high. The force overtaken at Las Guasimas was the same force that
evacuated Siboney at the approach of Lawton and the force with which the Cubans had fought
on the morning of the 23rd. It may have consisted solely of the garrison from Siboney, although
it is more probable that it included also those from Daiquiri and Jutici, as it is quite certain
that all these troops proceeded toward Santiago over the same road. The force at Siboney had
been given by the Cubans at 600, at Daiquiri at 300, and at Jutici at 150. If these had concentrated
and the figures were correct, the Spanish force at Guasimas was upwards of 1,000. If, however,
it was the force from Siboney alone, it was about as the Spanish official report gives it.
On this latter basis, however, the losses are out of proportion, for while the attacking party
lost a little less than 7 per cent. of its entire strength in killed and wounded, the losses
of the entrenched, defending party, were even a little greater, or over 7 per cent. of its
strength. It is, therefore, probable that the Spanish force was greater than officially reported
and included the troops from the other posts as well as those from Siboney. The engagement
was classed by General Shafter as unimportant, although its effect upon our army was inspiring.
It did not cut off the retreat of the Spanish force, and the men who faced our army at Guasimas
met them again in the trenches before Santiago. General Shafter desired to advance with his
whole force, and cautioned strongly against any further forward movement until the troops were
well in hand. The two battles between the Cubans and Spaniards, fought on the 23rd, in which
the Cubans had sixteen men wounded and two killed, were engagements of some consequence, although
we have no reports of them. There is no evidence that the Cubans took part in the battle of
Guasimas, although they arrived on the grounds immediately after the firing ceased.

The story thus far told is, as the reader cannot fail to see, directly from official records,
and the conclusions arrived at are those which result naturally from the facts as therein detailed.
Not one word is quoted from any but military men--actors in the affair. We may now go briefly
over the same ground, giving the views and conclusions of able civilian correspondents who
followed the army to see what was done, and who were trained observers and skilled writers.
How have these able war journalists told the story of Las Guasimas?

To quote from Stephen Bonsal in substance, not in words, is to contradict what General Shafter
says officially in one particular, but in no such way as to discredit the General, or to weaken
Bonsal. It is not a case of bringing two universal, antagonistic propositions face to face,
but a case where two men of different training look upon an action from different standpoints
and through different field-glasses. General Shafter says of the collision of the Rough Riders
with the Spanish force: "There was no ambush as reported." As a military man, he says there
was no more concealment on the part of the Spanish force than what an attacking party should
expect, no more than what is usual in modern warfare, hence he does not regard it as an ambush,
and does not officially take notice of any surprise or unexpected encounter on the part of
his force. To do so would be to reflect, however slightly, upon the professional skill of the
commander of the left column. General Shafter thus says officially in a manly way: "There was
no ambush." Beyond this his duty does not call him to go, and he halts his expressions exactly
at this line, maintaining in his attitude all the attributes of the true soldier, placing himself
beyond criticism by thus securing from attack the character of his subordinate.

Mr. Bonsal is a writer and author, accustomed to view actions in the broader light of popular
judgment, entirely free from professional bias, and having no class-feeling or obligations
to serve. His pen is not official; his statements are not from the military standpoint; not
influenced in any way by considerations of personal weal or woe with respect to others or himself.
He says that one troop of the Rough Riders, Troop L, commanded by Captain Capron, was leading
the advance of the regiment, and was in solid formation and within twenty-five yards of its
scouting line when it received the enemy's fire. This troop was so far in the advance that
it took the other troops of the regiment more than a half hour to get up to it. The writer
speaks of the advance of that troop as having been made "in the fool-hardy formation of a solid
column along a narrow trail, which brought them, in the way I have described, within point-blank
range of the Spanish rifles, and within the unobstructed sweep of their machine guns." He sums
up as follows: "And if it is to be ambushed when you receive the enemy's fire perhaps a quarter
of an hour before it was expected, and when the troop was in a formation, and the only one
in which, in view of the nature of the ground it was possible to advance quickly, then most
certainly L Troop of the Rough Riders was ambushed by the Spaniards on the morning of June 24th."

Mr. Bonsal also brings into clear view the part taken in this battle by Lawton's Infantry.
He shows by means of a simple map the trail by which Miles' brigade, in which was the Twenty-fifth
Infantry, moved in order to flank the Spanish position, while Chaffee's brigade was hurrying
forward on the Royal Road to reinforce the line in front. A letter from a soldier of the Twenty-fifth
written soon after these events fully confirms Mr. Bonsal in what he says concerning the movement
of Miles' brigade. The soldier says: "On the morning of the 24th the Rough Riders, Tenth and
First Cavalry were to make an attack on a little place where the Spanish were fortified. The
Second Brigade was to come on the right flank of these troops and a little in rear of the fortifications;
but by some misunderstanding, the former troops, led by the Rough Riders, made an attack before
we got our position, and the result was a great many lives lost in the First Cavalry and Rough
Riders--only one in Tenth Cavalry, but many wounded. They captured the fortification." This
letter by a humble soldier, written with no thought of its importance, shows how gallantly
Lawton had sprung to the rescue of Wheeler's division. According to Bonsal, who says he obtained
his information from Spanish officers who were present in this fight, it was the information
of the approach of this brigade and of Chaffee's up the main road that caused the Spaniards
to withdraw rapidly from the position. The whole force was in imminent danger of being captured.
Another soldier of the Twenty-fifth wrote: "The report came that the Twenty-fifth Infantry
was to cut off the Spanish retreat from a stronghold, toward Santiago." These glimpses from
soldiers' letters illustrate how clearly they comprehended the work upon which they were sent,
and show also how hearty and cordial was the support which the infantry at that time was hurrying
forward to the advancing cavalry.

The official reports show that the strength of the Spanish position was before the right of
our line. Mr. Bonsal says: "Directly in front of the Tenth Cavalry rose undoubtedly the strongest
point in the Spanish position--two lines of shallow trenches, strengthened by heavy stone parapets."
We must remember that so far as we can get the disposition of these troops from official records,
Troop A connected the Rough Riders with the First Cavalry, and Troops I and B were on the right
of the First Cavalry. Troop A did not fire a shot; the fighting, therefore, was done by Troops
I and B on the extreme right of the line, and it was on their front that "undoubtedly the strongest
point in the Spanish position" lay--nor should the reader forget that at this very important
moment Troop B was commanded by its First Sergeant, Buck, Lieutenant Williard having by his
own report been "unfortunate enough to lose the troop." This is said with no disparagement
to Lieutenant Williard. It was merely one of the accidents of battle.

Says Mr. Bonsal: "The moment the advance was ordered the black troopers of the Tenth Cavalry
forged ahead. They were no braver certainly than any other men in the line, but their better
training enabled them to render more valuable services than the other troops engaged. They
had with them and ready for action their machine guns, and shoved them right up to the front
on the firing line, from where they poured very effective fire into the Spanish trenches, which
not only did considerable execution, but was particularly effective in keeping down the return
fire of the Spaniards. The machine guns of the Rough Riders were mislaid, or the mules upon
which they had been loaded could not be found at this juncture. It was said they had bolted.
It is certain, however, that the guns were not brought into action, and consequently the Spaniards
suffered less, and the Rough Riders more, in the gallant charge they made up the hill in front
of them, after the Tenth Cavalry had advanced and driven the Spaniards from their position
on the right."

Corporal W.F. Johnson, B Troop, was the non-commissioned officer in charge of the machine guns
during the brief fight at Las Guasimas, and his action was such as to call forth from the troop
commander special mention "for his efficiency and perfect coolness under fire." Here I may
be pardoned for calling attention to a notion too prevalent concerning the Negro soldier in
time of battle. He is too often represented as going into action singing like a zany or yelling
like a demon, rather than as a man calculating the chances for life and victory. The official
reports from the Black Regulars in Cuba ought to correct this notion. Every troop and company
commander, who has reported upon colored soldiers in that war, speaks of the coolness of the
men of his command. Captain Beck, of Troop A, Tenth Cavalry, in the Guasimas fight, says: "I
will add that the enlisted men of Troop A, Tenth Cavalry, behaved well, silently and alertly
obeying orders, and without becoming excited when the fire of the enemy reached them." The
yell, in the charge of the regulars, is a part of the action, and is no more peculiar to Negro
troops than to the whites, only as they may differ in the general timbre of voice. Black American
soldiers when not on duty may sing more than white troops, but in quite a long experience among
them I have not found the difference so very noticeable. In all garrisons one will find some
men more musically inclined than others; some who love to sing and some who do not; some who
have voices adapted to the production of musical tones, and some who have not, and it is doubtless
owing to these constitutional differences that we find differences in habits and expressions.

Lieutenant Miley, of General Shafter's staff, in his description of the departure of General
Shatter from General Garcia's tent, gives us a glimpse of the character of the men that composed
the Cuban army in that vicinity.

     "While the interview was going on, the troops were being
     assembled to do honor to the General on his departure.
     Several companies were drawn up in front of the tent to
     present arms as he came out, and a regiment escorted him to
     the beach down the winding path, which was now lined on both
     sides by Cuban soldiers standing about a yard apart and
     presenting arms. The scene made a strong impression on all
     in the party, there seemed to be such an earnestness and
     fixedness of purpose displayed that all felt these soldiers
     to be a power. About fifty per cent. were blacks, and the
     rest mulattoes, with a small number of whites. They were
     very poorly clad, many without shirts or shoes, but every
     man had his gun and a belt full of ammunition."

B.

EXTRACT FROM A LETTER FROM A SOLDIER OF THE 10TH CAVALRY, TROOP B, CONCERNING THE BATTLE OF
LAS GUASIMAS:

     "... The platoon which escaped this ditch got on the right
     of the 1st Cavalry on the firing line, and pushed steadily
     forward under First Sergeant Buck, being then in two
     squads--one under Sergeant Thompson. On account of the
     nature of the ground and other natural obstacles, there were
     men not connected with any squads, but who advanced with the
     line.

     Both squads fired by volley and at will, at the command of
     the sergeants named; and their shots reached the enemy and
     were effective, as it is generally believed.

     Private W.M. Bunn, of Sergeant Thompson's squad, is reported
     to have shot a sharpshooter from a tree just in front of the
     enemy's work. Private Wheeler was shot twice in the advance.
     Sergeant Thompson's squad was once stopped from firing by
     General Wheeler's adjutant-general for fear of hitting the
     Rough Riders.

     It seems that two distinct battles were fought that day.
     Colonel Wood's command struck the enemy at about the tame
     time, or probably a Little before, ours did, and all unknown
     to the men in our ranks; and got themselves into a pretty
     tight squeeze. About the same time our force engaged the
     enemy and drew part of the attention they were giving the
     Rough Riders. This, the latter claimed, enabled them to
     continue the movement on the enemy's works.

     But as our command had an equal number of 1st and 10th
     Cavalrymen, I am of the opinion that the story of our saving
     the Rough Riders arose from the fact that as soon as the
     fight was over, the 1st Regular Cavalry was opening its arms
     to us, declaring that we, especially B Troop, had saved
     them; for the 1st Regular Cavalry was first in the attack in
     General Young's command; and when the enemy began to make it
     pretty warm, he ordered B and I Troops of the 10th forward
     on the right. Troop B was in the lead; and the alacrity
     with which these two troops moved to the front has always
     been praised by the 1st Cavalry; and they declare that that
     movement helped them wonderfully. In making this movement my
     troop had three or four men wounded; and later, when
     Sergeant Thompson's squad was fighting far to the front, it
     had in it several members of the 1st Cavalry, who are always
     glad to praise him.

     So, I think that by the Rough Riders first attributing their
     success, or their rescue from inevitable defeat, to the
     attack made by our command; and by the 1st Regular Cavalry's
     very generously, in the heat of success, bestowing upon us
     the honors of the day, it finally became a settled thing
     that we saved the whole battle.

     That evening, after the battle, I was met by Lieutenant
     Shipp, later killed at San Juan Hill, who, on inquiring and
     being told that I belonged to Troop B, congratulated me on
     its conduct, and said it had made a name for the regiment.
     Lieutenant Shipp was not in that fight, but had come up
     after it was over and had heard of us through the 1st
     Cavalry."

C.

     Sergeant John Buck was born September 10th, 1861, at Chapel
     Hill, Texas; enlisted in 10th Cavalry, November 6, 1880, and
     passed over ten years in active Indian service. He is a man
     of strong character, an experienced horseman and packer, and
     so commanded a portion of the firing line in the battle of
     June 24 as to elicit remarks of praise from officers of
     other troops "for his gallantry, coolness and good judgment
     under fire." Sergeant Thompson's good conduct in the same
     battle was noticeable also. Sergeant Buck was made second
     lieutenant in the 7th U.S. Volunteer Infantry and
     subsequently captain in the 48th United States Volunteers.

FOOTNOTES:

[15] See Note A at the end of this chapter.

[16] THE TWENTY-FIFTH AT EL-CANEY.

American valor never shone with greater luster than when the Twenty-fifth Infantry swept up
the sizzling hill of El-Caney to the rescue of the rough riders. Two other regiments came into
view of the rough riders. But the bullets were flying like driving hail; the enemy were in
trees and ambushes with smokeless powder, and the rough riders were biting the dust and were
threatened with annihilation.

A rough rider described the feelings of his brigade when they saw the other regiments appear
and retreat. Finally this rough rider, a Southerner, heard a well-known yell. And out of the
distance moved a regiment as if on dress parade, faces set like steel, keeping step like a
machine, their comrades falling here, there, everywhere, moving into the storm of invisible
death without one faltering step, passing the rough riders, conquering up the hill, and never
stopping until with the rough riders El-Caney was won. This was the Twenty-fifth Regiment (colored),
United States Infantry, now quartered at Fort Logan, Denver. We have asked the chaplain, T.G.
Steward, to recite the events at El-Caney. His modesty confines him to the barest recital of
"semi-official" records. But the charge of the Twenty-fifth is deserving of comparison with
that of "the Light Brigade" in the Crimean War, or of Custer at the massacre of the Big Horn.

(Editorial in religious paper.)

[17] See Note C at the end of this chapter.

While the battle of Guasimas was going on, in which the Tenth Cavalry took so conspicuous a
part, the Twenty-fourth Infantry still remained on board the City of Washington awaiting orders
to land. During the night of the 24th such orders were received by the authorities of the transport,
and they were directed to land their troops, but the General Commanding, Brigadier-General
Kent, did not hear of the matter until some time the next morning. He relates the following
circumstances in his official report of the debarkation:

"At 9 a.m. of the 25th Lieutenant Cardin, of the Revenue Marine, came aboard with orders for
me to proceed to and disembark at Altares (Siboney). This officer also handed me a letter from
the corps commander expressing his astonishment that I had remained away three days."

General Kent also states in his report that his travel rations had been exhausted seven days
before and that but one meal of field rations remained, and that the ship's supply both of
water and provisions was running low, and that in consequence of these facts as well as for
higher considerations he was very anxious to get on shore. The debarkation followed as rapidly
as possible, and that afternoon General Kent reported in person to Major-General Wheeler, the
troops bivouacking for the night near the landing. The next day Colonel Pearson, who commanded
the Second Brigade of Kent's division, took the Second Infantry and reconnoitred along the
railroad toward the Morro, going a distance of about six miles and returning in the evening,
having found no enemy in that vicinity, although evidences were found that a force had recently
retreated from a blockhouse situated on the railroad about two miles from Aguadores.

On the day following, June 27th, the entire division moved out on the road toward Santiago
and encamped on the same ground that Lawton had occupied the night previous. The Second Brigade
took its place near Savilla, while the Third Brigade, which included the Twenty-fourth Infantry,
went into camp at Las Guasimas, where the affair of the 24th had occurred. The order of march
had now partially fallen back to the original plan: Lawton in advance, with whom was the Twenty-Fifth
Infantry; Wheeler next, with whom was the Ninth and Tenth Cavalry, and Kent in the rear, who
had, as we have just related, the Twenty-fourth Infantry in his Third Brigade. In this order
the army moved, so far as it moved at all, until the morning of the 30th, when dispositions
for the general attack began.

The story of the great battle, or as it turned out, of the two great battles, begins on this
day, and the careers of the four colored regiments are to be followed through the divisions
of Lawton, Kent and Wheeler. Let us begin, however, with General Shafter's official report
and his "Story of Santiago," as told in the "Century" of February, 1899.

From these sources it is learned that on June 30th General Shafter reconnoitered the country
about Santiago and determined upon a plan of attack. Ascending a hill from which he could obtain
a good view of the city, and could also see San Juan Hill and the country about El Caney, he
observed afresh what had impressed itself upon all immediately upon landing, to wit: That in
all this country there were no good roads along which to move troops or transport supplies.
The General says: "I had never seen a good road in a Spanish country, and Santiago did not
disappoint my expectations." The roads as he saw them from the summit of the hill on June 30th
were very poor, and indeed, little better than bridle paths, except between El Caney and San
Juan River and the city. Within this region, a distance of from four to four and a half miles,
the roads were passable. El Caney lay about four miles northeast of Santiago, and was strongly
fortified, and, as events proved, strongly garrisoned. This position was of great importance
to the enemy, because from it a force might come to attack the right flank and rear of the
American Army as it should make its attempt on San Juan Hill. El Caney held the road from Guantanamo,
at which point an important Spanish force was posted. While General Shafter was surveying the
country from the hill at El Pozo and making what special examination he could of the country
toward San Juan Hills, Generals Lawton and Chaffee were making a reconnoisance around El Caney.
From General Lawton's report it would appear that the work of reconnoitering around El Caney
was done chiefly by General Chaffee. He says: "To General Adna R. Chaffee I am indebted for
a thorough and intelligent reconnoissance of the town of El Caney and vicinity prior to the
battle and the submission of a plan of attack which was adopted. I consider General Chaffee
one of the best practical soldiers in the army and recommend him for special distinction for
successfully charging the stone fort mentioned in this report, the capture of which practically
closed the battle."

The general plan of attack as explained by General Shafter himself in his "Century" article
was "to put a brigade on the road between Santiago and El Caney, to keep the Spaniards at the
latter place from retreating on the city, and then with the rest of Lawton's division and the
divisions of Wheeler and Kent, and Bates' brigade to attack the Spanish position in front of
Santiago." Before that he had said that he wished to put a division in on the right of El Caney
and assault the town on that road. To Admiral Sampson on June 26th he said: "I shall, if I
can, put a large force in Caney, and one perhaps still farther west, near the pipe-line conveying
water to the city, making my main attack from the northeast and east." His desire at this time
was to "get the enemy in my front and the city at my back." On June 30th he had modified this
plan so as to decide to place one brigade on the road between El Caney and Santiago, with a
view merely to keeping the El Caney garrison from retreating into Santiago.

As he was explaining his plan to the division officers and others on the afternoon of the 30th
at his own headquarters, Lawton and Chaffee were of the opinion that they could dispose of
the Spaniards at El Caney in two hours time. "Therefore," says the General, "I modified my
plan, assigning Lawton's whole division for the attack of El Caney and directed Bates' independent
brigade to his support." This last modification of General Shafter's plan was made in deference
to the opinion of subordinates, and was based upon observations made especially by General Chaffee.

The force assigned for the reduction of El Caney was to begin its work early in the morning,
and by ten or eleven o'clock at the outside it was expected that the task would be accomplished
and Lawton would join Kent and Sumner in the assault upon San Juan. Early on the morning of
July 1st Capron's battery was got into position on a line running directly north from Marianage
on a hill about five hundred yards east of Las Guasimas Creek. Lawton's division began its
move on the afternoon of the 30th, as did in fact the whole army, and bivouacked that night
near El Pozo. The Twenty-fifth Infantry, which belonged to the Second Brigade, commanded by
Colonel Miles, a former Major of the Twenty-fifth, left El Pozo at daylight by way of the road
leading almost due north, and marched about one mile to the little town of Marianage. Here
a halt was made for an hour, from 6.30 to 7.30, during which time reconnoitering parties were
sent out to examine the ground toward the Ducoureau House, which lay about one mile to the
northward of Marianage, and which had been designated by General Lawton as a general rendezvous
after the engagement should terminate. Reconnoissance was made also to the front for the purpose
of discovering the enemy, and to ascertain the left of Ludlow's brigade. This was the first
brigade of Lawton's division and consisted of the Eighth and Twenty-second Infantry and the
Second Massachusetts, the last named regiment being on the right. The Second Brigade was to
connect with this on its right and succeeded in finding the position of the Second Massachusetts
during this halt. At 11.30 Miles' brigade was ordered to take position on the right of Ludlow's
brigade, which it did in the following order: The Fourth Infantry on the left, joining with
the Second Massachusetts on Ludlow's right; the Twenty-fifth on the right, with its left joining
on the Fourth Infantry.

We must now review the progress of the battle so far as it is possible to do so, from the firing
of the first shot by Capron's battery up to 11.30, an hour long after the time at which it
had been supposed that El Caney would fall. Capron's reports are very brief. He says: "July
1--Fired shell and shrappnel into El Caney (ranged 2,400) 6.15 a.m. to 11.30 a.m." In another
report he says: "Opened fire July 1, with shell and shrappnel at 6.15 on Caney; range, 2,400
yards; continued until 11.30 a.m." He says that the battery "continued its fire against specified
objectives intermittently throughout the day under the personal direction of the division commander."
The forces we have so far considered, consisting of Ludlow's and Miles' brigades, and of Capron's
battery, lay to the south of Caney, between it and Santiago, Ludlow's brigade having been placed
there to "cut off the retreat of the garrison should it attempt to escape." Up to 11.30 there
had been no call for employing it for that purpose. The garrison had made no attempt to escape.
We must now go around to the east and north of Caney. Here the Third Brigade, consisting of
the Seventh, Twelfth and Seventeenth Infantry, was posted, and early in the morning joined
in the attack, the brigade getting under fire before eight o'clock. Colonel Carpenter, of the
Seventh Regiment, says that one company of his regiment, by General Chaffee's direction, was
detached and sent forward to reduce a blockhouse, well up on the hill, which commanded the
approach of his regiment to the field of action. After several ineffectual attempts by the
company, the Captain (Van Orsdale) was directed to abandon the undertaking and rejoin the regiment,
which then took up a position on the crest of a hill running nearly parallel with the Spanish
lines. From this position the men crawled forward about fifty yards and opened a deliberate
fire upon the enemy, keeping it up for about an hour, but as the losses of the regiment at
this time were considerable and the fire seemed to be without material effect, the command
was withdrawn to its position on the hill where it found protection in a sunken road. In this
condition this regiment lay when Capron's battery made its lull at 11.30. The fearful fire
this regiment met can be estimated by the losses it sustained, which during the day were as
follows: Killed, 1 officer and 33 enlisted men; wounded, 4 officers and 95 enlisted men; missing,
3 enlisted men. The Seventeenth Regiment went into action on the right of the Seventh, doing
but little firing, as their orders were not to open fire unless they could make the fire effective.
Companies C and G fired a few volleys; the remainder of the regiment did not fire at all. Four
enlisted men were killed and two officers severely wounded, one, Lieutenant Dickinson, dying
from his wounds within a few hours. Several enlisted men were also wounded. At 11.30 this regiment
was lying on the right of the Seventh. The Twelfth Regiment began firing between 6 and 7 in
the morning and advanced to take its position on the left of the Seventh Infantry. This regiment
early reached a position within 350 yards of the enemy, in which it found shelter in the sunken
road, "free from the enemy's fire." The regiment remained in this position until about 4 o'clock
in the afternoon, and, hence, was there at 11.30 a.m. The losses of this regiment during the
day were, killed, 7 enlisted men; wounded, 2 officers and 31 enlisted men. From these brief
sketches the reader will now be able to grasp the position of Lawton's entire division. Beginning
on the south, from the west, with Ludlow's brigade, consisting of the Twenty-second, Eighth
and Second Massachusetts, the line was continued by Miles' brigade of the Fourth and Twenty-fifth
Infantry; then passing over a considerable space, we strike Chaffee's brigade, posted as has
just been described. General Bates' brigade probably arrived upon the field about noon. This
brigade consisted of the Third and Twentieth Infantry, and is known as "Bates' Independent
Brigade." The brigade is reported as going into action about 1 o'clock and continuing in action
until 4 o'clock. It took a position on the right, partially filling up the gap between Miles
and Chaffee. The first battalion of the Twentieth Infantry went into action on the left of
the Twenty-fifth Infantry's firing line, and one company, A, took part in the latter part of
the charge by which the stone house was taken. Between 11.30, when Capron's firing stopped,
and when Miles' brigade was moved forward to join the right of Ludlow's, and 12.20, when the
battery recommenced, the troops, including Bates' brigade, were either in the positions described
above or were moving to them. Noon had arrived and El Caney is not taken; the garrison has
not attempted to escape, but is sending out upon its assailants a continuous and deadly fire.
"Throughout the heaviest din of our fire," says Colonel Carpenter, "could be heard the peculiar
high-keyed ring of the defiant enemy's shots."

Twelve o'clock on July 1st, 1898, was a most anxious hour for our army in Cuba. The battle
at El Caney was at a standstill and the divisions of Kent and Sumner were in a most perilous
situation. Bonsal's description of the state of the battle at that time is pathetic. Speaking
of the artillery at El Caney--Capron's battery--he says it was now apparent that this artillery,
firing from its position of twenty-four hundred yards, could do very little damage to the great
stone fort and earthworks north of the village. The shots were too few and the metal used too
light to be effectual. Three hours of the morning had worn away and the advance of our men
had been slowly made and at great cost; all the approaches were commanded by Spanish entrenchments
and the fighting was very unequal. A soldier of the Twenty-fifth says that when he came in
sight of the battle at El Caney, "the Americans were gaining no ground, and the flashes of
the Spanish mausers told us that the forces engaged were unequally matched, the difference
of position favoring the Spaniards." This view was had about noon, or soon after. At that time
"a succession of aides and staff officers came galloping from headquarters with messages which
plainly showed that confusion, if not disaster, had befallen the two divisions which, by the
heavy firing, we had learned to our great surprise, had become warmly engaged in the centre.
The orders to General Lawton from headquarters were at first peremptory in character--he was
to pull out of his fight and to move his division to the support of the centre" (Bonsal). This
call for Lawton arose from the fact that about noon General Shafter received several dispatches
from Sumner, of the Cavalry Division, requiring assistance. General Sumner felt the need of
the assistance of every available man in the centre of the line where he was carrying on his
fight with the Spaniards on Blue House Hill. This situation so impressed the General, Shafter,
that he finally wrote to Lawton, "You must proceed with the remainder of your force and join
on immediately upon Sumner's right. If you do not the battle is lost." Shafter's idea then
was to fall back to his original plan of just leaving enough troops at El Caney to prevent
the garrison from going to the assistance of any other part of the line. Shafter himself says:
"As the fight progressed I was impressed with the fact that we were meeting with a very stubborn
resistance at El Caney and I began to fear that I had made a mistake in making two fights in
one day, and sent Major Noble with orders to Lawton to hasten with his troops along the Caney
road, placing himself on the right of Wheeler" (Sumner). Lawton now made a general advance,
and it is important to see just what troops did advance. The Seventh Infantry did not move,
for Lieutenant-Colonel Carpenter says that after withdrawing "to the partial cover furnished
by the road, the regiment occupied this position from 8 o'clock a.m. until about 4.30 p.m."
The Seventeenth did not move, for Captain O'Brien, commanding, says the regiment took a position
joining "its left with the right of the Seventh Infantry" and that the regiment "remained in
this position until the battle was over." The Twelfth Infantry remained in its shelter within
350 yards of the stone fort until about 4 p.m. Then we have Chaffee's brigade on the north
of the fort remaining stationary and by their own reports doing but little firing. The Seventeenth
fired "for about fifty minutes" about noon, with remarkable precision, but "it seemingly had
no effect upon reducing the Spanish fire delivered in our (their) front." The Seventh did not
fire to any extent. The Twelfth Infantry lay in its refuge "free from the enemy's fire" and
may have kept up an irregular fire.

About this time Bates' brigade entered the field and one battalion of the Twentieth Infantry
is reported to have joined the left of the firing line of the Twenty-fifth. General Ludlow
says there was a lull from 12 to 1 p.m., "when the action again became violent, and at 3 p.m.
the Third Brigade captured the stone fort with a rush and hoisted the American flag." From
Ludlow's brigade, Captain Van Horne, commanding the Twenty-second Infantry, after the wounding
of Lieutenant-Colonel Patterson, says that the First Battalion of his regiment took a position
about 800 yards from the town and kept up firing until the place surrendered. He does not say
positively that the firing was upon the town, but he had said just before that the Second Battalion
slowly moved forward, firing into the town from the left, so that we may readily conclude from
the context as well as from the position that the First Battalion fired into the town also.
Hence it seems fair to exclude from the fort all of Ludlow's brigade, and it is observable
that Ludlow himself claims no part in the capture of that stronghold.

General Bates says his brigade took position to the right of Colonel Miles' brigade and pushed
rapidly to the front. General Chaffee says it was in consequence of the fire of General Bates'
troops upon the fort that the assault by the Twelfth Infantry was postponed.

In General Chaffee's report this statement occurs: "The action lasted nearly throughout the
day, terminating at about 4.30 p.m., at which time the stone blockhouse was assaulted by Captain
Haskell's battalion of the Twelfth Infantry, under the personal direction of Lieutenant-Colonel
Comba, commanding the regiment. The resistance at this point had been greatly affected by the
fire of Capron's battery. A few moments after the seizure of this point--the key to the situation--my
left was joined by General Bates with a portion of his command." The two points to be noted
here are (1) that this battalion was on the left of the Twenty-fifth's firing line, and (2)
that one company took part in the charge upon the stone house. When Chaffee's brigade charged
the stone house from the right some of Bates' troops, at least this Company A, from the battalion
near the firing line of the Twenty-fifth Infantry, took part in the latter part of the charge.
The two brigades, Bates' and Chaffee's, joined immediately after the capture of the stone fort
and opened fire upon the town.

We have now traced the actions and the fortunes of the three following brigades: Ludlow's Chaffee's
and Bates'. But what has become of Miles' brigade? Unfortunately, the Second Brigade has not
been so well reported as were the others engaged in the action at El Caney. We have seen that
it was ordered to take position on the right of Ludlow's brigade at 11.30, when Capron's battery
ceased its firing for the fifty minutes. "We were detained in reaching our position by troops
in our front blocking the road," says the brigade commander. "We came into action directly
in front of the stone blockhouse at 12.30, and from that hour until about 4.30, when the command
'cease firing' was given, the blockhouse having been captured, my command was continuously
under fire." The reader will note in this report that the brigade went into action at 12.30,
several hours before the charge was ordered by General Chaffee, and at least an hour and a
half before, according to the report of the commander of the Third Brigade, "this fort was
practically in the possession of the Twelfth Infantry." Major Baker, who commanded the Fourth
Infantry, says: "About 12 m. we received orders directing us to take our place in the line
of battle, and arriving at the proper point the regiment was placed in line in the following
order: The First Battalion in the fighting line; the Second Battalion in support and regimental
reserve. In this order the First Battalion, under my command, took up the advance toward the
blockhouse, to our right, south east of Caney." This battalion advanced until it reached a
position about 200 yards from the village, where it remained, assisted by the Second Battalion
until the capture of the fort. Two companies of this First Battalion "fired into the town and
also into the blockhouse until its fall." A good part of the fire of this regiment was directed
upon the fort.

Colonel Miles says: "The brigade advanced steadily, with such scanty cover as the ground afforded,
maintaining a heavy fire on the stone fort from the time the fight began until it ended." The
reader is asked to note particularly that this fire was continuous throughout the fight; that
it was characterized by the brigade commander as "heavy," and that it was "on the stone fort".
He says: "As the brigade advanced across a plowed field in front of the enemy's position the
latter's sharpshooters in the houses in Caney enfiladed the left of our line with a murderous
fire. To silence it Major Baker, Fourth Infantry, in command of the battalion of that regiment
on the left of our line of battle, directed it to turn its fire upon the town. In so doing
this battalion lost heavily, but its steady front and accurate volleys greatly assisted the
advance of the remainder of the brigade upon the stone fort."

We have now these facts clearly brought out or suggested: That the brigade took its place in
line of battle soon after 12 o'clock; that the Fourth Infantry was on the left; that the advance
of the First Battalion of the Fourth Infantry was "toward the blockhouse;" that aside from
the companies of the Fourth Infantry that fired into town, "the remainder of the brigade advanced
upon the stone fort." The Fourth Infantry, holding the left of the line, however, reached a
position from which it could not advance, its commander having "quickly perceived that an advance
meant annihilation, as it would involve not only a frontal, but also a flank fire from the
town." Here the Fourth Infantry remained, but continued to maintain a fire upon both the blockhouse
and the town.

There is but one more regiment in all of Lawton's division to be accounted for, and that is
the Twenty-fifth Infantry, holding the right of Miles' brigade in this advance. Major McCaskey
says the First Battalion of his regiment took a position on the left of the Twenty-fifth's
firing line. The statement seems erroneous, and one is inclined to believe that it was originally
written "on the right," instead of "on the left"; but it is enough for our purpose now, that
the firing line of the Twenty-fifth is recognized well in advance. Major Baker, who commanded
on the left of the brigade line, and whose advance was stopped by the flank fire from the village
and a frontal fire from the fort, says: "as a matter of fact the village of El Caney was not
charged by any troops. Those of Bates' brigade and the Twenty-fifth Infantry, after having
carried the stone fort (on a hill some 75 feet higher, and to the east of the town,) fired
into the village, and the Fourth Infantry continued its fire. Nor was it charged by any of
the troops to our left. Such a charge would necessarily have been seen by us." Major Baker,
who was on the field and had the blockhouse in clear view, declares that some of Bates' brigade
and the Twenty-fifth Infantry carried the stone fort. Major McCaskey says that one battalion
of the Twentieth Infantry (Bates' brigade) was on the left of the Twenty-fifth's firing line,
and that one company (A) took part in the latter part of the charge by which the fort was taken.
This battalion may be referred to by Major Baker when he says: "Those of Bates' brigade and
the Twenty-fifth Infantry, after having carried, etc."

As there are some matters of dispute concerning the events which I am now going to relate,
I will present a soldier's statement before I go to the official records. The soldier in writing
to me after the battle says: "I was left-guide of Company G (25th Infantry), and I received
orders from Lieutenant McCorkle to guide on Fourth Infantry, which held the left flank. 'Forward,
march! Guide left. Don't fire until you see somebody; then fire to hit!' came the orders. Tramp!
tramp! Crash! crash! On we walked and stopped. We fired into the underbrush for safety; then
in another moment we were under Spanish fire. Balls flew like bees, humming as they went. Soon
we found ourselves up against a network of Spanish trickery. Barbed-wire fences, ditches and
creeks, too numerous to think of. The only thing left was to go ahead or die; or else retreat
like cowards. We preferred to go ahead. At this first fence Lieutenant McCorkle was taken to
earth by a Spanish bullet. Lieutenant Moss spoke out, 'Come ahead! Let's get at these Spaniards!'
A few moments more and he, too, was almost dead with exertion, loud speaking, running and jumping,
as onward we swept toward the Spanish stronghold. The sun was exceedingly hot, as on the slope
of a little mound we rested for a few moments. We lay here about five minutes, looking into
the Spanish fort or blockhouse; we measured the distance by our eyesight, then with our rifles;
we began to cheer and storm, and in a moment more, up the hill like a bevy of blue birds did
the Twenty-fifth fly. G and H Companies were the first to reach the summit and to make the
Spaniards fly into the city of El Caney, which lay just behind the hill. When we reached the
summit others soon began to mount our ladder. We fired down into the city until nearly dusk."

The brigade made its advance under fire almost from the beginning. The commander says it was
continuously under fire from 12.30 to 4.30 p.m. "The attack was begun by two companies in each
regiment on the firing line, strengthened by supports and reserves from the remaining companies
until the brigade had but two companies in reserve. At one time in this hotly engaged contest
the commanding officer of the Twenty-Fifth Infantry sent me word that he needed troops on his
right. I then sent forward 40 Cubans, under command of Captains Jose' Varges and Avelens Bravo,
with Lieutenants Nicholas Franco and Tomas Repelao, to form on the right of the Twenty-fifth,
which was also the right of the brigade. With these Cubans I ordered Private Henry Downey,
Company H, First Infantry, on duty as interpreter at the headquarters. These men advanced on
the stone fort with our line, fighting gallantly, during which Lieutenant Nicholas Franco was
mortally wounded and died soon afterwards." (Col. Miles' report.)

From the soldier's story, as well as from the official report of the brigade commander, it
is conclusive that the real objective of the Second Brigade was the stone fort, and that the
Twenty-fifth Infantry, which occupied the right of the line, had no other objective whatever.*
It also appears that Bates' brigade, although somewhere on the right, was not so near but that
the commanding officer of the Twenty-fifth could see the need of troops at his right; and to
meet this need the brigade commander "sent forward 40 Cubans, who advanced on the stone fort
with our lines." The fire from this fort continued severe during the whole of the advance,
and until the last halt made by the Twenty-fifth. At the first fence met by the Twenty-fifth
Lieutenant McCorkle was killed; and, to use the words of a soldier, "as the regiment swept
toward the Spanish stronghold" to reach the slope of a little mound for cover, many more fell.
Behind this little mound, after resting about five minutes, they began their last fire upon
the enemy. This must have been as late as 3 o'clock, and perhaps considerably later, and the
fire from the stone fort was vigorous up until their last halt, as their casualties prove.
The battery had begun to fire on the fort again at 12.30 and continued from the same position
until 2.10, the range being as has been already stated, 2,400 yards. Hence the artillery firing
at long range had ceased, and it is generally conceded that this long range firing had been
ineffective. Captain Capron says he moved his battery at 2.10 p.m. to 1,000 yards from Caney
and opened fire on two blockhouses. He does not say at what hour he opened fire on these two
blockhouses, or how long he continued to fire, or what was the effect of his fire upon the
two block houses. Lieutenant-Colonel Bisbee, who was acting as support of Capron's battery,
says of himself that he "moved with the battery at 3.30 p.m. by the Dubroix (Ducureaux) road."
General Lawton says the battery was moved to a new position about 2.30, "about 1,000 yards
from certain blockhouses in the town, where a few shots, all taking effect, were fired." From
these reports it would appear that after moving to the second station the battery fired upon
two blockhouses in the town, and not upon the stone fort. General Ludlow, speaking of the battle,
says: "In the present case, the artillery fire was too distant to reduce the blockhouses or
destroy the entrenchments, so that the attack was practically by infantry alone." On the other
hand, General Chaffee says: "The resistance at this point," meaning the stone fort at the time
of assault, "had been greatly affected by the fire of Capron's battery." Colonel Comba, of
the Twelfth Infantry, says: "The artillery made the breach through which our men entered the
stone work." Bonsal says that Captain Capron, "under the concentrated fire of his four guns
at a point blank range of a thousand yards, had converted the fort into a shapeless ruin,"
when the infantry charged it.

It is probable that in this case, as in most cases of similar nature, the truth divides equally
between the apparently opposing views. Of General Ludlow, who is the authority for this statement,
that the stone fort at El Caney was taken by infantry alone, General Lawton says: "General
Ludlow's professional accomplishments are well known and his assignment to command a brigade
in my division I consider a high compliment to myself." "The fighting was all done with small
arms" were the words written me by an infantryman soon after the battle. The question, whether
Capron fired upon the stone fort after taking his new position, or fired on two blockhouses,
entirely distinct from the fort, remains undetermined. The author of this work inclines to
the conclusion that the fire of Capron after moving to his new position was directed for a
brief period, at least, upon the stone fort.

Inasmuch as we are now to trace the career of the Twenty-fifth Infantry through an unfortunate
dispute, on both sides of which are officers of high rank and unimpeachable honor, it is important
to note, first, to what extent the several statements, both unofficial and official, can be
harmonized and made to corroborate one another. Major Baker says: "Those of Bates' brigade
and the Twenty-fifth Infantry, after having carried the stone fort," which he explains was
some 75 feet higher than the town, then fired down into the village. The soldier who acted
as left-guide of Company G, Twenty-fifth Infantry, says, after getting up on the hill, "we
fired down into the city until near dusk." The experience of the soldier agrees exactly with
the report of the officer. The fact that the Twenty-fifth went up the hill cannot be questioned,
and that up to their last halt, they went under fire, no one will deny. Bonsal, in speaking
of Chaffee's brigade, which was "more immediately charged with the reduction of Caney" (Ludlow's
report), says: "And it was nearly five o'clock when his most advanced regiment, the gallant
Twelfth Infantry, deployed into the valley and charged up the steep hillside, which was lined
with Spanish trenches, rising in irregular tiers and crowned with a great stone fort." The
stone fort at this time, however, was, as he says, "a shapeless ruin." Where was the Twenty-fifth
Infantry at this time? Mr. Bonsal continues: "Almost at the same moment the Twenty-fifth Colored
Infantry, the leading regiment of Miles' brigade, which had been advancing in the centre, started
up the hill also." General Lawton says that after moving the battery to its new position, 1,000
yards from certain blockhouses in the town, Capron fired a few shots, all of which took effect,
and he adds: "This firing terminated the action, as the Spanish garrison were attempting to
escape." Colonel Comba says there was a breach in the stonework large enough for his men to
enter, and that this had been made by the artillery; General Chaffee says resistance had been
greatly affected by the artillery, and Bonsal adds, the garrison resisted the last advance
made by the infantry but for a moment.

General Chaffee declares: "The troops arriving at the fort were there in the following order:
Twelfth Infantry, which took the place; the command of General Bates some moments later; the
Twenty-fifth Infantry."

The facts therefore stand, that the Twenty-fifth Infantry was on the ground with the first
troops that reached the fort and that there was a captain of that regiment who then and there
claimed the capture of the place, even against the claims of a Major-General. He was told that
his proposition was absurd, and so it may have been from one standpoint; and yet there may
be a ground upon which the captain's claim was fair and just.

That the Twelfth Infantry arrived on the ground first is not disputed; but it is questioned
whether the fort was belligerent at that time. General Chaffee says the resistance had been
greatly reduced by the artillery; General Lawton says the action had been finished by Capron's
shots and the garrison was trying to escape; a soldier from the Twenty-fifth says the Spaniards
flew out of the fort to the town; Bonsal says, they stoutly resisted "for a moment and then
fled precipitately down the ravine and up the other side, and into the town." If first occupancy
is the only ground upon which the capture of a place can be claimed, then the title to the
honor of capturing the stone fort lies, according to official report as so far presented, with
the Twelfth Infantry. But even upon this ground it will be shown that the Twenty-fifth's action
will relieve the claim of its captain from absurdity. We are now prepared to read the official
report of the commanding officer of the Twenty-fifth Regiment, Lieutenant-Colonel Daggett,
who was with the regiment all through the fight, and who bore himself so well that the division
commander said: "Lieutenant-Colonel Daggett deserves special mention for skillful handling
of his regiment, and would have received it before had the fact been reported by his brigade
commander."

     July 5, 1898.

     Intrenchments Twenty-fifth United States Infantry,
     Adjutant-General, Second Brigade, Second Division, Fifth
     Corps.

     Sir:--I have the honor to submit the following report of the
     part taken by the Twenty-fifth Infantry in the battle of the
     1st instant. The regiment formed firing line on the right of
     the Fourth Infantry, facing a Spanish fort or blockhouse
     about half a mile distant. On moving forward, the battalion,
     composed of Companies C, D, E, G and H, and commanded by
     Capt. W.S. Scott, received the fire of the enemy, and after
     advancing about 400 yards was subjected to a galling fire on
     their left. Finding cover, the battalion prepared for an
     advance up the hill to the fort. This advance was made
     rapidly and conducted with great skill by company officers.

     "On arriving within a short distance of the fort the white
     flag was waved to our companies, but a cross fire prevented
     the enemy from advancing with it or our officers from
     receiving it. About twenty minutes later a battalion of some
     other regiment advanced to the rear of the fort, completely
     covered from fire, and received the flag; but the men of the
     Twenty-fifth Infantry entered the fort at the same time. All
     officers and men behaved gallantly. One officer was killed
     and three wounded; eight men were killed and twenty wounded.

     "About 200 men and ten officers were in the firing line. I
     attribute the comparatively small losses to the skill and
     bravery of the company officers, viz.: First Lieutenant
     Caldwell and Second Lieutenants Moss and Hunt. Second
     Lieutenant French, adjutant of the battalion, was among
     those who gallantly entered the fort.

     "The battle lasted about two hours and was a hotly contested
     combat. Very respectfully,

     "A.S. DAGGETT,
     "Lieutenant-Colonel, Twenty-fifth Infantry, Commanding."

Here it is shown by the testimony of the regimental commander, that a battalion of the Twenty-fifth
ascended the hill and arrived at a short distance from the fort about twenty minutes before
any other troops are mentioned as coming in sight; and that a white flag was waved to the companies
of the Twenty-fifth. It was doubtless upon this ground that a captain of the Twenty-fifth had
the temerity to claim the capture of the place, even from a Major-General. I do not know who
the captain was, but it is evident that he had what he believed ample grounds for his claim.
Colonel Daggett says, also, that when the men of the other regiment advanced to this fort after
it had waved the white flag to the companies of the Twenty-fifth, the men of the Twenty-fifth
advanced and entered the fort at the same time. Bonsal says: "Almost at the same moment that
the Twelfth started up the hill the Twenty-fifth started up the hill also;" while according
to Colonel Daggett's testimony the Twenty-fifth was well up the hill already and the fort had
waved to it the white flag.

Colonel Daggett makes this further report:

     Headquarters Twenty-fifth Infantry,
     Near Santiago, Cuba, July 16, 1898.

     The Adjutant-General, Second Division, Fifth Corps, near Santiago,
     Cuba.

     Sir:--Feeling that the Twenty-fifth Infantry has not
     received credit for the part it took in the battle of El
     Caney on the first instant, I have the honor to submit the
     following facts:

     I was ordered by the brigade commander to put two companies
     (H, Lieutenant Caldwell, and G, Lieutenant McCorkle) on the
     firing line in extended order. The right being uncovered and
     exposed to the enemy, I ordered D Company (Captain Edwards)
     to deploy as flankers. The battalion was commanded by Capt.
     W.S. Scott. The battalion advanced about 300 yards under
     fire, the Fourth Infantry on its left, where the line found
     cover, halted, and opened fire on the blockhouse and
     intrenchments in front of it. After the line had been
     steadied and had delivered an effective fire, I ordered a
     further advance, which was promptly made. As the Fourth
     Infantry did not advance, my left was exposed to a very
     severe fire from the village on the left. I immediately
     ordered Company C (Lieutenant Murdock), which was in
     support, to the front, and E. Company (Lieutenant Kinnison)
     from regimental reserve to take its place. Thus
     strengthened, the four companies moved up the hill rapidly,
     being skilfully handled by company officers. On arriving
     near the fort the white flag was waved toward our men, but
     the fire from the village on our left was so severe that
     neither our officers nor Spanish could pass over the
     intervening ground. After about twenty minutes some of the
     Twelfth Infantry arrived in rear of the fort, completely
     sheltered from the fire from the village, and received the
     white flag; but Privates J.H. Jones, of Company D, and T.C.
     Butler, H. Company, Twenty-fifth Infantry, entered the fort
     at the same time and took possession of the Spanish flag.
     They were ordered to give it up by an officer of the Twelfth
     United States Infantry, but before doing so they each tore a
     piece from it, which they now have. So much for the facts.

     I attribute the success attained by our line largely to the
     bravery and skill of the company officers who conducted the
     line to the fort. These officers are: First Lieutenants V.A.
     Caldwell and J.A. Moss, and Second Lieutenant J.E. Hunt. It
     is my opinion that the two companies first deployed could
     not have reached the fort alone, and that it was the two
     companies I ordered to their support that gave them the
     power to reach it. I further believe that had we failed to
     move beyond the Fourth Infantry the fort would not have been
     taken that night.

     The Twenty-fifth Infantry lost one officer killed[18] and
     three wounded, and seven men killed and twenty-eight
     wounded.

     Second Lieutenant H.W. French, adjutant of Captain Scott's
     battalion, arrived at the fort near the same time as the
     other officers.

     I request that this report be forwarded to corps
     headquarters.

     Very respectfully,

     A.S. DAGGETT,
     Lieutenant-Colonel, Twenty-fifth Infantry, Commanding.

General Chaffee's statement is not to be questioned for a moment. There is not the least doubt
that the troops, as organizations arrived at the fort in the order he describes. General Lawton
says: "General Chaffee's brigade was especially charged with the duty of assaulting the stone
fort, and successfully executed that duty, after which a portion of the Twenty-fifth, and a
portion of Bates' brigade, assisted in the work, all of which is commendable." He says also,
that the "Twenty-fifth Infantry did excellent service, as reported, though not better than
the others engaged.' This seems to confirm Lieutenant-Colonel Daggett's report, for he says
he is sure the regiment did excellent work, "as reported;" and at that time he is commenting
on Lieutenant-Colonel Daggett's report, the report printed above. The broad statements of General
Lawton do not touch the exact question at issue between the reports of the subordinate commanders;
nor do they throw any light on the circumstances of the final charge. Miles' brigade had been
advancing on the stone fort for some hours, and the Twenty-fifth was so near when the charge
of the Twelfth was made that portions of it were on the hill and near the fort at the same
time. The commander of the Third Brigade saw the fight from one side and reported events as
he learned them. His official statement requires no support. The commanding officer of the
Twenty-fifth Infantry saw the fight from another standpoint, and his official reports are entitled
to equal respect. Both the General's and the Lieutenant-Colonel's must be accepted as recitals
of facts, made with all the accuracy that high personal integrity armed with thorough military
training can command. Happily the statements, which at first appear so widely at variance,
are entirely reconcilable. The following supplementary report of the regimental commander,
when taken in connection with the final complimentary orders published in the regiment before
leaving Cuba, will place the whole subject before the reader and put the question at rest,
and at the same time leave undisturbed all the reports of superior officers.

     Headquarters Twenty-fifth Infantry,
     Montauk Point, Long Island, August 22, 1898.

     The Adjutant-General, U.S. Army, Washington, D.C.

     Sir:--I have the honor to submit a supplementary report to
     the original one made on the 19th (16th) of July, 1898, of
     the battle of El Caney de Cuba, so far as relates to the
     part taken therein by the Twenty-fifth Infantry:

     1. I stated in the original report that the Twenty-fifth
     Infantry, in advancing, broke away from and left the Fourth
     Infantry behind. This may inferentially reflect on the
     latter regiment. It was not so intended, and a subsequent
     visit to the battle-field convinces me that it would have
     been impossible for the regiment to advance to the fort,
     and, although it might have advanced a short distance
     farther, it would have resulted in a useless slaughter, and
     that the battalion commander exercised excellent judgment in
     remaining where he did and by his fire aiding the
     Twenty-fifth Infantry in its advance.

     2. Colonel Miles, the then brigade commander, informed me
     that his first report of the battle would be brief and that
     a later and full report would be made. In his former report
     I think he failed to give credit to myself and regiment. As
     he was soon after relieved of the command of the brigade I
     assume that no further report will be made.

     I have reported what the regiment did, but said nothing
     about my own action. I must, therefore, report it myself or
     let it go unrecorded. Distasteful as it is to me, I deem it
     duty to my children to state the facts and my claims based
     thereon, as follows:

     1. I was ordered to put two companies in the firing line.
     Before this line advanced the brigade commander informed me,
     and personal examination verified, that my right was in the
     air and exposed. On my own judgment I ordered a company, as
     flankers, to that part of the line.

     2. As soon as the line had rested and become steadied at its
     first halt I ordered it to advance, and it continued to
     advance, although it broke away from the rest of the
     brigade.

     3. As this exposed the left to a galling and dangerous fire,
     I ordered, on my own judgment, a company to re-enforce that
     part of the line and a company from the regimental reserve
     also to the fighting line.

     These are the facts, and as my orders were to keep my left
     joined to the right of the Fourth Infantry, and received no
     further orders, my claims are as follows:

     1. That it was necessary to place a company on the right as
     flankers.

     2. That the conditions offered an opportunity to advance
     after the first halt, and I took advantage of it.

     3. That the left being exposed by this advance of the line
     beyond the rest of the brigade, it was proper and necessary
     to re-enforce it by two companies.

     4. That the two companies first deployed could not have
     reached the stone fort.

     5. That the three companies added to the firing line gave it
     the power to reach the fort.

     6. That the advance beyond the rest of the brigade was a
     bold and, without support, dangerous movement, but that the
     result justified the act. Had it failed I would have been
     held responsible.

     7. That I saw at each stage of the battle what ought to be
     done, and did it. Results show that it was done at the right
     moment.

     8. That the Twenty-fifth Infantry caused the surrender of
     the stone fort.

     I desire to repeat that it is with great reluctance that I
     make so much of this report as relates to myself, and
     nothing but a sense of duty would impel me to do it.

     Very respectfully,

     A.S. DAGGETT,
     Lieutenant-Colonel, Twenty-fifth Infantry, Commanding.

LOSSES OF THE TWENTY-FIFTH INFANTRY.

     Killed.--Lieutenant H.L. McCorkle, Company G; Private Albert
     Strother, H; Private John W. Steele, D; Corporal Benj.
     Cousins, H; Private John B. Phelps, D; Private French Payne,
     B; Private Aaron Leftwich, G; Private Tom Howe, D.

     Wounded.--Company A: Private William H. Clarke, Sergeant
     Stephen A. Browne. Company B: Private Tom Brown. Company C:
     Lieutenant John S. Murdock, Private Joseph L. Johnson,
     Private Samuel W. Harley, Private John A. Boyd. Company D;
     Captain Eaton A. Edwards, Sergeant Hayden Richards, Private
     Robert Goodwin. Company E: Lieutenant H.L. Kinnison, Private
     James Howard, Private John Saddler, Private David C. Gillam,
     Private Hugh Swann. Company F: First Sergeant Frank Coleman.
     Company G: Corporal James O. Hunter, Private Henry
     Brightwell, Private David Buckner, Private Alvin Daniels,
     Private Boney Douglas, Private George P. Cooper, Private
     John Thomas, Corporal Gov. Staton, Private Eugene Jones.
     Company H: Private James Bevill, Private Henry Gilbert.

     Wounded July 2.--Private Elwood A. Forman, H; Private Smith,
     D; Private William Lafayette, F.

COMPLIMENTARY ORDER.

     Headquarters 25th Infantry,

     Near Santiago de Cuba, August 11, 1898.
     General Orders No. 19.

     The regimental commander congratulates the regiment on the
     prospect of its speedy return to the United States.

     You endured the severe hardships of a long sea voyage, which
     no one who has not experienced it can appreciate. You then
     disembarked, amidst dangerous surroundings; and on landing
     were for the first time on hostile ground. You marched,
     under a tropical sun, carrying blanket-roll, three days'
     rations, and one hundred rounds of ammunition, through rain
     and mud, part of the time at night, sleeping on the wet
     ground without shelter, living part of the time on scant
     rations, even, of bacon, hard bread and coffee, until on
     July 1 you arrived at El Caney. Here you took the battle
     formation and advanced to the stone fort, more like veterans
     than troops who had never been under fire. You again
     marched, day and night, halting only to dig four lines of
     intrenchments, the last being the nearest point to the enemy
     reached by any organization, when, still holding your
     rifles, within these intrenchments, notice was received that
     Santiago and the Spanish army had surrendered.

     But commendable as the record cited may be, the brightest
     hours of your lives were on the afternoon of July 1. Formed
     in battle array, you advanced to the stone fort against
     volleys therefrom, and rifle-pits in front, and against a
     galling fire from blockhouses, the church tower and the
     village on your left. You continued to advance, skilfully
     and bravely directed by the officers in immediate command,
     halting and delivering such a cool and well-directed fire
     that the enemy was compelled to wave the white flag in token
     of surrender.

     Seldom have troops been called upon to face a severer fire,
     and never have they acquitted themselves better.

     The regimental reserve was called upon to try its nerve, by
     lying quiet under a galling fire, without the privilege of
     returning it, where men were killed and wounded. This is a
     test of nerve which the firing line cannot realize, and
     requires the highest qualities of bravery and endurance.

     You may well return to the United States proud of your
     accomplishments; and if any one asks you what you have done,
     point him to El Caney.

     But in the midst of the joy of going home, we mourn the loss
     of those we leave behind. The genial, generous-hearted
     McCorkle fell at his post of duty, bravely directing his men
     in the advance on the stone fort. He died as the soldier
     dies, and received a soldier's burial. He was beloved by all
     who knew him, and his name will always be fondly remembered
     by his regiment--especially by those who participated in the
     Santiago campaign. The officers of the regiment will wear
     the prescribed badge of mourning for Lieutenant McCorkle for
     thirty days. And Corporal Benjamin Cousins, Privates Payne,
     Lewis, Strother, Taliaferro, Phelps, Howell, Steel and
     Leftwitch, sacrificed their lives on their country's altar.
     Being of a race which only thirty-five years ago emerged
     through a long and bloody war, from a condition of
     servitude, they in turn engaged in a war which was
     officially announced to be in the interest of humanity and
     gave all they had--their lives--that the oppressed might be
     free, and enjoy the blessings of liberty guaranteed by a
     stable government. They also died like true soldiers and
     received a soldier's burial.

     By order of Lieutenant-Colonel Daggett.

     M.D. CRONIN,
     First Lieutenant and Adjutant, 25th Infantry.

MAJOR GENERAL AARON S. DAGGETT.

General Aaron S. Daggett is a native of Maine, born at Greene Corner, in that State, June 14,
1837. He is descended from a paternal ancestry which can be traced, with an honorable record,
as far back as 1100 A.D. His mother was Dorcas C., daughter of Simon Dearborn, a collateral
descendant of General Henry Dearborn. His more immediate ancestors came from Old to New England
about 1630, and both his grandparents served in the Continental Army during the Revolutionary
War. He was educated in his native town, at Monmouth Academy, Maine Wesleyan Seminary and Bates
College. At the outbreak of the Civil War he enlisted as a private, April 27th, 1861, in the
5th Maine Infantry; was appointed second lieutenant May 1, and promoted first lieutenant May
24, 1861. He commanded his company at the first Bull Run battle, and was promoted captain August
14, 1861.

From the first engagement of the regiment to the end of its three years' memorable service,
Captain Daggett proved a faithful and gallant soldier. He was promoted major, January 8th,
1863; on January 18th, 1865, was commissioned lieutenant-colonel of the 5th Regiment, United
States Veteran Volunteers, Hancock Corps, and was brevetted colonel and brigadier-general of
volunteers, March 13, 1865, for "gallant and meritorious services during the war." He also
received the brevets of major in the United States Army for "gallant and meritorious services
at the battle of Rappahannock Station, Va.," November 7, 1863, and lieutenant-colonel for "gallant
and meritorious services in the battle of the Wilderness, Va." Immediately after the battle
of Rappahannock Station, the captured trophies, flags, cannons, etc., were escorted, by those
who had been most conspicuous in the action, to General Meade's headquarters, Colonel Daggett
being in command of the battalion of his brigade. General Upton to whom he owed this distinction,
wrote of him as follows:

     "In the assault at Rappahannock Station, Colonel Daggett's
     regiment captured over five hundred prisoners. In the
     assault at Spottsylvania Court House, May 10, his regiment
     lost six out of seven captains, the seventh being killed on
     the 12th of May, at the "angle," or the point where the tree
     was shot down by musketry, on which ground the regiment
     fought from 9.30 A.M. to 5.30 P.M., when it was relieved. On
     all these occasions Colonel Daggett was under my immediate
     command, and fought with distinguished bravery.

     "Throughout his military career in the Army of the Potomac,
     he maintained the character of a good soldier and an upright
     man, and his promotion would be commended by all those who
     desire to see courage rewarded."

General Upton also wrote to the Governor of Maine as follows:

     "I would respectfully recommend to Your Excellency, Major
     A.S. Daggett, formerly 5th Maine Volunteers, as an officer
     highly qualified to command a regiment. Major Daggett served
     his full term in this brigade with honor both to himself and
     State, and won for himself the reputation of being a brave,
     reliable and efficient officer. His promotion to a colonelcy
     would be a great benefit to the service, while the honor of
     his State could scarcely be entrusted to safer hands."

He was subsequently recommended for promotion by Generals Meade, Hancock, Wright and D.A. Russell.
He was in every battle and campaign in which the Sixth Corps, Army of the Potomac, was engaged,
from the first Bull Run to Petersburg, and was twice slightly wounded. On July 28, 1866, without
his knowledge or solicitation, he was appointed a captain in the U.S. Regular Army, on recommendation
of General Grant, and has since been promoted colonel in this service. During his subsequent
career he has won the reputation of being a fine tactician and of being thoroughly versed in
military law, as is indicated by Major Hancock's commendatory words in 1878:

     "I look upon him as by far the best tactician in the
     regiment, and as for a thorough, clear knowledge of tactics
     his superior is not in the army. As regards military and
     civil law, I know of no one so well informed."

His ability and soldierly qualities have also been highly commended by General Crook, Colonel
Hughes--Inspector-General in 1891--and Colonel ----, Inspector-General in 1892.

Not only as a soldier, but in many other ways, has General Daggett distinguished himself. As
a public speaker the following was said of him by the Rev. S.S. Cummings, of Boston:

     "It was my privilege and pleasure to listen to an address
     delivered by General A.S. Daggett on Memorial Day of 1891. I
     had anticipated something able and instructive, but it far
     exceeded my fondest expectations. The address was dignified,
     yet affable, delivered in choice language without
     manuscript, instructive and impressive, and highly
     appreciated by an intelligent audience."

General Daggett is noted for his courteous and genial manner, and his sterling integrity of
character. He is a member of the Presbyterian church.

     War Department, Inspector-General's Office,
     Washington, Jan. 6th, 1899.

     To the Adjutant-General, U.S.A., Washington, D.C.

     Sir:--I desire to recommend to your favorable consideration
     and for advancement in case of the reorganization of the
     Regular Army, Lieutenant-Colonel A.S. Daggett, 25th U.S.
     Infantry.

     I have known Colonel Daggett for a long time; he served in
     the War of the Rebellion with the 5th Maine Volunteers and
     acquitted himself with much honor; he served in Cuba in the
     war with Spain, commanding the 25th U.S. Infantry, and was
     conspicuous for gallantry at the battle of El Caney. He is
     an officer of the highest character, intelligent, courageous
     and energetic.

     I sincerely trust that he may receive all the consideration
     he deserves.

     Very respectfully,

     (Sd) H.W. LAWTON,
     Major-General, U.S.V.

     A true copy:

     M.D. CRONIN,
     First Lieutenant and Adjutant 25th Infantry.
     Headquarters Department of the East,
     Governor's Island, New York City,
     December 29, 1898.

     Honorable R.A. Alger, Secretary of War, Washington, D.C.

     Sir:--I recommend to the favorable consideration of the
     Secretary of War for promotion to Brigadier-General, Colonel
     A.S. Daggett, 25th Infantry. This officer has an excellent
     war record; his service has been faithful since then, and in
     the recent Spanish-American war he distinguished himself by
     his good judgment and faithful attention to duty, as well as
     for gallant service in action. An appointment of this
     character will be very highly appreciated throughout the
     army as a recognition of faithful, meritorious and gallant
     service. From my observation of Colonel Daggett he is well
     qualified for the position.

     Very respectfully,

     (Sd) WM. R. SHAFTER,
     Major-General, U.S. Volunteers.

     M.D. CRONIN,

     A true copy:

     First Lieutenant and Adjutant 25th Infantry.

To this very brilliant official record it is necessary to add but a word personal. Colonel
Daggett is a typical New Englander; tall, well-formed, nervous and sinewy, a centre of energy,
making himself felt wherever he may be. Precise and forceful of speech, correct and sincere
in manners, a safe counsellor and a loyal friend, his character approaches the ideal. Stern
and commanding as an officer he is nevertheless tender and sympathetic. His very sensitiveness
concerning the feelings of others embarrasses him in giving expression to his own feelings
on seeing suffering, unless it should be urgent, but those who know him best know him to be
just, humane and tender. No man could have taken more care than he did for his regiment in
Cuba. Hating oppression and wrong with a vehemency suited to his intense nature, he nevertheless
deplores war and bloodshed. The President of the United States never did a more worthy act
than when he gave to Lieutenant-Colonel A.S. Daggett of the Twenty-fifth Infantry his commission
as Brigadier-General of Volunteers in recognition of his valor and skill at El Caney and of
his general efficiency as an officer in our army.

TESTIMONIES CONCERNING THE WORK OF THE TWENTY-FIFTH INFANTRY BEFORE EL CANEY.

     Headquarters First District, Southern Luzon,
     El Deposito, P.I., April 20, 1900.

     My Dear General Daggett:--Some time ago I received a letter
     from you asking me to make an official statement as to where
     and at what objective the energies and fire of the 25th
     Infantry were directed during the battle of El Caney, Cuba,
     July 1, 1898.

     In reply I have the honor to officially state that about
     noon July 1, 1898, the regiment moved from the mango grove,
     near the Ducro House, toward a stone fort located on a hill,
     near the town of El Caney.

     It arrived at about one of the afternoon at a point about
     eight hundred yards to the south and east of the fort;
     immediately deployed, and the First Battalion, under command
     of Captain Walter S. Scott, and of which I was adjutant,
     designated as the attacking line. Presently, after advancing
     a few yards, we were subjected to a galling fire from the
     stone fort, the trenches in its front and from a blockhouse
     on its right. The line steadily moved forward, directing its
     fire at the stone fort and the trenches surrounding it. When
     within about one hundred and fifty yards from the fort the
     line was halted, and several sharpshooters, directed by
     their company officers to fire at the loopholes. Finally,
     when the men had regained their wind, a rush was made, part
     of the line going through a cornfield. At the foot the line
     was again halted, and after a few moments' rest charged up
     the hill, and the fort surrendered.

     I went to the fort and found a Spanish lieutenant and seven
     enlisted men whom I passed out and were taken charge of by
     an officer of the 12th Infantry. This was about 3.50 P.M.

       *       *       *       *       *

          Note.--Since the above was written, General Daggett
          served with great distinction in the Philippines and in
          China, and was retired as a brigadier-general--a hero
          of four wars. A bill is now before Congress to make him
          a major-general, an honor to which he is most justly
          entitled.

       *       *       *       *       *

     As soon as the line reached the top of the hill it was
     fired on from the town, which had before been masked by the
     hill; the fire was of course returned, and this was the
     first fire from the battalion directed at the town. About
     five o'clock firing had ceased, the battalion was assembled
     and marched away.

     (Sd) H.W. FRENCH,
     First Lieutenant, 17th Infantry (late Second Lieutenant 25th
     Infantry).

     A true copy:

     H.G. LEARNARD,
     Capt. and Adj. 14th Infantry.
     Manila, P.I., March 30, 1900.

     I certify that in the action of El Caney, Cuba, July 1,
     1898, the company I commanded, i.e., H, 25th Infantry,
     directed its fire almost exclusively on the stone fort and
     the trench a few yards from its base. That very little of
     this company's fire was directed on the town and none before
     the fort was carried.
     Tayug, Luzon, Philippine Islands,
     April 17th, 1900.

     To Those in Military Authority.

     Regarding the battle of El Caney, Cuba, July 1, 1898, I
     hereby certify:

     1. From about 1.20 o'clock P.M. to the time of the capture
     of the town of El Caney, I was in command of two
     companies--C and G--forming part of the 25th U.S. Infantry
     firing line.

     2. From about 2.55 o'clock P.M. to the time of the capture
     of the town, very nearly the entire 25th Infantry firing
     line was under my observation.

     3. From about 2.55 o'clock P. M. to about 3.20, the time of
     the surrender of the stone fort to the east of the town, the
     fire of the entire 25th Infantry firing line within my sight
     was directed against the fort.

     4. During this period of the battle the 25th Infantry firing
     line was about 150 yards from the stone fort.

     5. From the time the firing line began firing--about 1
     o'clock P.M.--to the time of the surrender of the stone
     fort--about 3.20 P.M.--the companies under my command and
     all others under my observation concentrated their fire on
     the fort.

     6. About 3.20 P.M., I was standing about 150 yards from the
     stone fort, and I plainly and distinctly saw a Spaniard
     appear in the door of the fort, and, for two or three
     seconds, wave a white flag at the 25th Infantry firing line,
     and upon being shot down, another Spaniard picked up the
     flag and likewise waved it at the 25th Infantry firing line.

     7. After the white flag had twice been presented to the 25th
     Infantry firing line, and after all fire from the stone fort
     had ceased, the firing line rushed forward, took up a
     position facing to their left--that is, facing the town--and
     began a vigorous fire on a small blockhouse and on the town.

     Respectfully,

     JAMES A. MOSS,
     First Lieutenant, 24th U.S. Infantry.

RECOLLECTIONS OF THE SANTIAGO CAMPAIGN, BY CAPTAIN R.H.R. LOUGHBOROUGH, 25TH U.S. INFANTRY.

     The 25th U.S. Infantry left its stations in Montana on the
     10th of April, 1898; six companies (B, C, D, E, F and H)
     went in camp at Chickamauga National Park; the other two
     companies (A and G) went to Key West, Fla.

     On May 6th the six companies at the Chickamauga National
     Park moved by rail to Tampa, Fla., arriving the night of the
     7th, where they were joined by the two companies from Key
     West. With the exception of three days in 1870, the regiment
     had never been together since its organization in 1869. It
     necessarily followed that many of the officers, as well as
     men, were strangers to each other.

     Our camp at Tampa was fair; the ground is sandy and flat,
     but as the rainy season had not set in, it was dry and the
     health was good. Drills and parades were held daily (Sundays
     excepted), but on account of the intense heat the hours for
     it were limited to the early mornings and after sunset. The
     clothing of the men was the same they had worn in Montana,
     and did not add to their comfort. Supplies of all kinds
     (except rations) came by piecemeal, and we finally sailed
     for the tropics with the same clothing used in the
     Northwest.

     At 6 o'clock P.M. June 6th the regiment received orders to
     strike tents and be ready to move within an hour; the order
     was immediately complied with, though the necessary
     transportation to move the baggage did not report until the
     forenoon of the following day; it was not far from noon when
     the last of it left the camp for the railroad station, en
     route to Port Tampa, where we were to embark on transports
     for the seat of war.

     As soon as the camp equipage was started, the regiment was
     formed and marched to West Tampa (about three miles), where
     we took a train for Port Tampa, distant nine miles. On
     arrival, the regiment boarded the steamer "Concho," one of
     the vessels to carry the expedition to its destination. The
     4th U.S. Infantry had preceded us, and the next day a
     battalion of the 2d Massachusetts Volunteers was put on, but
     owing to the crowded condition of the ship, a few days later
     they were transferred to another vessel.

     The "Concho" is a large ship, but without the comforts I
     have seen since then on the U.S. Army transports plying
     between San Francisco and Manila. The ships used were
     hastily fitted up for the occasion, and it could not be
     expected that they would be all that was required, but some
     of the appointments could and should have been better. After
     a tedious wait until June 14th, we sailed down Tampa Bay and
     out on the Gulf of Mexico, still in ignorance of our
     destination. The evening of the 15th the light at Dry
     Tortugas was seen to our right. June 16th, 17th and 18th our
     course was a little south of east, and part of the time the
     north coast of Cuba was visible. The weather (except the
     intense heat) was fine. On Sunday morning, June 18th, we
     entered the Windward Passage, and it seemed certain, from
     our course, that Santiago was our objective. Early the next
     morning the high mountains of Santiago de Cuba were in plain
     sight to our north. June 20th and 21st, remained off the
     coast; the sea was rough and the vessel rolled considerably,
     adding to the discomfort of every one, especially those
     subject to seasickness. During the evening of the 21st,
     orders were received to be ready to disembark the following
     morning. About 8 A.M. on the 22d our warships began shelling
     the coast, and two hours later the troops started in small
     boats from the transports to the shore. By evening most of
     the Second Division and part of the Cavalry Division were on
     Cuban soil. There was no opposition to our landing; I
     believe that a small force well handled could have made it
     very difficult, if, indeed, it could not have prevented it.

     As soon as the regiment had landed it was marched out about
     four miles and bivouacked for the night. The country is
     rugged and covered with a dense tropical vegetation. A few
     "Cuban Patriots" had joined us and formed the extreme
     advance, saving us some disagreeable outpost duty. This was
     the only service that I know of them doing throughout the
     campaign, though they were always on hand ration day. Later
     developments showed that the service rendered was not so
     important, as any Spanish force had retired to a safe place,
     something our friends looked out for whenever there was any
     danger.

     June 23d, the regiment started shortly after daylight
     towards the city of Santiago. About 9 o'clock there was a
     report that the enemy were in our front. The regiment was
     immediately formed for battle, and reconnoitering parties
     sent forward; after about thirty minutes' delay the supposed
     enemy proved to be the large leaves of some tropical trees
     being moved by the wind, giving them the appearance of
     persons in motion. Our route was over a narrow trail,
     through a dense wilderness; water was scarce and the heat
     was intense. About noon we arrived at Siboney, where we
     bivouacked for the night. Before daylight next morning the
     troops in our rear were heard passing on the trail by our
     camp. Shortly after daylight Captain Capron's battery of
     four guns passed, and the men lined up along the road and
     cheered lustily. About an hour later, musketry fire and the
     occasional discharge of a Hotchkiss gun could be plainly
     heard towards Santiago. About three-quarters of an hour
     later we received orders to march. By mistake, the wrong
     trail was taken, and after marching fourteen hours we
     returned to our camp of the previous night, all fagged out.
     A great many men of the brigade were overcome with heat
     during this long, tiresome and fruitless ramble. I cannot
     say how many of these were of the 25th Infantry, but in my
     own company (B) there was not a man out of the ranks when
     the camp was reached. (I have called the above-mentioned
     place "Siboney." There is probably some other name for it,
     as the Cubans have one for every hamlet. It is not far from
     Siboney, and not knowing the name, have called it Siboney.)

     On the morning of the 25th we got rations from the transport
     and all enjoyed a hearty breakfast. At 1 P.M. we broke camp
     and marched to Sevilla, about six miles. Here we remained
     until the morning of the 27th, part of the regiment being
     out on picket duty. June 27th, the regiment marched three
     miles towards Santiago and bivouacked on the banks of a
     small creek. Bathing was forbidden, as the creek was the
     only water supply for the army. The troops remained at this
     place until the afternoon of June 30th. The camp was in the
     valley of the creek, the ground is low and flat, and with
     the heavy rainfall every one was uncomfortable. Rations had
     to be brought from Siboney over a trail and did not arrive
     regularly.

     About 1 o'clock in the afternoon on the 30th, the officers
     of the regiment were assembled at headquarters and were
     notified that there would be an attack on the Spanish
     position the next morning. About 4 o'clock the regiment
     started for its position, arriving after 10 o'clock, having
     covered a distance of less than three miles. The route was
     over an excuse for a road, but was crowded with some of the
     troops of almost every organization of the army, causing
     numberless halts, but worse than all, breaking the
     much-needed rest of the troops. On one part of this route I
     heard men asking, "What regiment is this?" and heard various
     responses, as follows: "The W.W.W.'s, the 1st Cavalry, the
     4th Infantry, the 10th Cavalry," etc. Some one asked, "What
     are the W.W.W.'s?" and some one replied, "Wood's Weary
     Walkers." I do not know who is responsible for that
     condition of affairs. Had we had an enterprising enemy in
     our front, disaster certainly would have followed. Here were
     a number of organizations scattered along a narrow, muddy
     trail, at the mercy of an active foe. All this was only
     three or four miles from the Spanish works. The men were
     cheerful, and few if any realized that there might be
     danger.

     Most of the men were up and moving about before daylight the
     next morning. Shortly after, the regiment started in the
     direction of El Caney. At 9 A.M. we halted in a mango grove
     near the Ducureau mansion. Shortly before noon a mounted
     orderly appeared with a message for the brigade commander. A
     few minutes later the march towards El Caney was taken up.
     Heavy musketry fire had been heard in that direction since
     shortly before 7 o'clock. A march of little more than a mile
     and the regiment was formed for battle, Companies G and H in
     the firing line, C and D in support, the remaining four
     companies in reserve.

     For two hours or perhaps more the firing was very heavy,
     especially during the second hour. Attention is called to
     report of Colonel A.S. Daggett, pages 387 and 388, "Report
     of the War Department, 1898, Vol. I," and endorsement on
     same by Major-General A.R. Chaffee. He says: "This stone
     fort was practically in the possession of the 12th Infantry
     at about 2 P.M. July 1." I cannot reconcile this statement
     with the fact that between the hours named some of the
     heaviest firing was going on, which does not indicate that
     its defenders were ready to give up. Lord Wellington once
     said, "At the end of every campaign truth lies at the bottom
     of a deep well, and it often takes twenty years to get her
     out." This may not be an exception. About half-past 4
     o'clock the firing ceased and El Caney was ours.

     The dead were collected near a hedge and the regiment was
     formed in column of masses to pay a silent tribute of
     respect to our departed comrades.

     The regiment then started for the mango grove where we had
     left our blanket rolls and haversacks. Just as we were
     starting, some men with canteens started for water (about a
     mile away), when orders were received to be ready to march
     in twenty minutes. A few rods took us back to the road
     leading to Santiago. We moved down the road about
     three-quarters of a mile and halted. Two hours later, the
     pack train arrived with ammunition and then another with
     rations. Before the latter were issued orders were issued to
     move at once to the rear. The regiment marched over the
     trail it had come on the day before, arriving at El Poso
     about 8 o'clock A.M. Here we took the road leading to
     Santiago. About 9 A.M. we passed under San Juan Hill and
     moved to our right. Our forces held the crest of the hill.
     In passing along the hill we were sheltered from the fire
     except a short space, where one or two men were slightly
     wounded. Arriving at the La Cruz house near the road leading
     from El Caney to Santiago about 3.30 P.M. and bivouacked for
     the night. About 10 o'clock the troops on our left were
     attacked by the Spanish. The firing was very heavy for an
     hour, when it suddenly ceased, and we retired for the night.
     During this time we were under the hill and protected from
     the fire.

     Next morning (Sunday, July 3d) desultory firing began at
     daylight. About 7 A.M. the regiment left the La Cruz house
     and moved across the Caney-Santiago road and formed line to
     the left and moved forward to a ridge overlooking the city.
     A number of shots fell about us, but no one was struck.
     Shortly after, we were in possession of the ridge and began
     intrenching. The firing was kept up and two men were
     wounded. About noon we were informed that a truce had been
     established and all work was stopped. This gave all a
     much-needed rest, though it proved to be of short duration,
     caused by a false alarm by Major Webb, the inspector of the
     division staff.

     During the afternoon the regiment was moved to the foot of
     the ridge, leaving only the pickets on the crest. About 8.30
     P.M. we were ordered to the picket line and began
     intrenching. The tall grass was wet from a drenching rain a
     few hours before. The ground, though wet, was hard, and slow
     progress was made, having only their bayonets for picks and
     their bare hands for shovels. All night this work went on.
     The men were tired, and hungry (as rations had not come up
     that day), but worked faithfully. During this, and I will
     add, throughout the campaign, I never heard a murmur nor a
     complaint; even when almost all the men of the regiment were
     down with fever and bowel trouble they were cheerful and
     ready to do any duty they were called on for.

     The morning of July 3d Cervera's fleet sailed down the bay.
     An officer rode by our part of the line about half-past 9
     and informed us of it. A few minutes later we heard the roar
     of the big guns, though at the time I little thought of what
     was going on. In the afternoon we heard cheering on our line
     way to the left, and as the good news came along it was
     taken up, and soon the whole line was shouting.

     On the morning of July 5th the non-combatants left Santiago
     by two roads, one passing through our line. It was a pitiful
     sight. During the forenoon of the 5th we moved about a mile
     to the right and began intrenching. This position was very
     near the Spanish line, and quite elaborate works were
     constructed. We remained in this position until the morning
     of the 11th, when the regiment was ordered to the right of
     the line, about three miles. Here we intrenched. About 1
     P.M. a truce was announced.

     At 9.15 P.M. a staff officer came to the regimental
     commander's tent and informed him that the regiment was to
     be on the line at 12 o'clock midnight, and as soon as the
     moon rose to advance through the jungle until fired on, when
     the line was to halt and intrench. The night was stormy and
     any moon there might have been was obscured by the clouds.
     We were up, however, standing until daylight in a drenching
     rain, for it was so dark that any movement was impossible.
     Our rest was broken, without accomplishing anything that I
     know or heard of.

     However, the rain and storm were providential, for I will
     always believe if the movement had been started we should
     have met with disaster. The ground was broken, deep ravines
     and underbrush with wire fences running through it. I have
     never learned who was "the father" of this order, and
     possibly never will. He must be ashamed of it.

     The afternoon of the 12th the regiment advanced several
     hundred yards to the front and dug more intrenchments. They
     were still on this work the afternoon of the 14th when it
     was announced that the Spanish army had agreed to surrender.
     This came none too soon, for our men were coming down with
     malarial fever. A few days later nearly half the regiment
     were on the sick list, and the balance could not have done
     much.

     The regiment was moved the same afternoon to higher ground
     in rear of the trenches. Strong guards were kept to look out
     for our prisoners and to prevent "our allies," the Cubans,
     from going into the city.

     On the morning of the 17th the formal surrender of the city
     and Spanish army took place. We were some distance away and
     did not see anything of the ceremony.

     On July 25th the regiment was moved about a mile further
     back in the hills and made camp, our tents, etc., having
     been brought up from the transport. Medicines appeared very
     scarce, resulting in much suffering. The food supplied was
     totally unfit for our new surroundings, and I believe not a
     little of the sickness can be traced to this. Our last camp
     was as good as any to be found in that vicinity.

     The regiment remained in camp until August 13th, when it
     embarked on the transport "Camanche" for Montauk Point,
     arriving on the 18th, and landed on the 23d.

     B.H.R. LOUGHBOROUGH,
     Captain, 25th Infantry.

FOOTNOTES:

[18] First Lieutenant McCorkle killed; Captain Edwards and First Lieutenants Kinnison and Murdock
wounded.

When Lawton's division swung off to the right to engage the enemy at El Caney, with the results
described in the preceeding chapter, the divisions of Wheeler and Kent were ordered to proceed
directly along the Santiago road toward San Juan. Within a mile from El Pozo, the point where
they had bivouacked for the night of the 30th, the troops arrived at the Aguadores River, which
crosses the road here within less than a mile from San Juan Heights. Wheeler's division headed
the column, although that general was not commanding. He had been relieved on the afternoon
of the 30th and did not resume command until about 4 o'clock on July 1,[19] long after the
heights had been carried, although he was on the field shortly after 1 o'clock of that day.

The Dismounted Cavalry Division on the morning of July 1 presented 2,663 fighting men, including
officers. The First Brigade, commanded by Colonel Carrol, had 50 officers and 1,054 men, in
regiments as follows: Third Cavalry, 22 officers, 420 men; Sixth Cavalry, 16 officers, 427
men; Ninth Cavalry, 12 officers, 207 men, the Ninth having hardly one-half the strength of
either of the other regiments of the brigade. The Second Brigade, commanded by General Wood,
contained 1,559 persons, distributed as follows: Brigade staff, 9 officers, 14 men; First Cavalry,
21 officers, 501 men: Tenth Cavalry, 22 officers, 507 men; First Volunteer Cavalry (Rough Riders),
25 officers, 517 men.

Before the troops left El Poso, Grimes' battery had been put in position and had fired a few
shots at a blockhouse on San Juan Hill, distance 2,600 yards. Using black powder, which created
a cloud of smoke with every shot, the battery was readily located by the foe, and the shrapnel
from their guns was soon bursting among our forces. The second shot from the Spaniards wounded
four of the Rough Riders and two or three of the regulars, while a third killed and wounded
several Cubans. As a matter of course there was a rapid movements of the troops from that immediate
vicinity. The firing soon ceased, and the troops took up that general advance movement already
noted.

It is no easy task to follow the movements of the Cavalry Division from the time it left El
Poso that July morning until it finally entrenched itself for the night on San Juan Hills.
As heretofore we will take the official reports first, and from them make up the itinerary
and the movements of the battle that followed, as far as they will enable us to do so. General
Sumner says the division proceeded toward Santiago, and when about three-fourths of a mile
from El Poso was halted in a narrow road to await orders and remained there for nearly an hour,
subject to the effects of heavy artillery fire from the enemy's battery. Major Wessells, of
the Third Cavalry, says, while following the road toward Santiago that morn, "much delay ensued
from some reason unknown to the undersigned," and that the First Brigade of the division arrived
at San Juan ford about 10 o'clock. This creek was about five hundred yards farther toward Santiago
than Aguadores River, and ran about parallel with San Juan Heights, from which it was about
three-fourths of a mile distant.

The orders for which General Sumner had waited nearly an hour under fire had come and were
"verbal instructions to move to the San Juan Creek and hold it." Reaching this creek his advance
guard was met by the Spaniards who fired one volley and retreated to a position on a hill on
Sumner's right front, about 1,200 yards distant. Crossing this creek with sufficient strength
to hold it, Sumner was now ordered to move by the right flank and connect with Lawton's left.
While his troops were in this massed condition prior to deploying to the right through a thick
jungle, the balloon that was in use for purposes of reconnoitering, came up the road and exposed
itself to the full view of the Spaniards upon the heights. They needed no further invitation
to direct toward our forces their artillery, for which the balloon became a flying target.
Many officers and men were wounded here by exploding shells and small arms' fire of the enemy
(Sumner). Under this fire, however, the troops were deployed as ordered.

Colonel Wood, who had charge of the Second Brigade, of which the Rough Riders were the leading
regiment, says this "regiment was directed to change direction to the right, and by moving
up the creek to effect a junction with General Lawton's division, which was engaged at Caney,
about one and a-half miles toward the right, but was supposed to be working toward our right
flank. After proceeding in this direction about half a mile the effort to connect with General
Lawton was given up." This movement to the right took place between ten and eleven o'clock,
at which time Lawton's forces had made no impression upon El Caney, and he was far from making
any movement which might be described as working toward the right flank of the Cavalry Division.
Lawton was not found by that half-hour's search to the right; and it was evident that something
must be done by these troops in front, and done quickly. The whole division was under fire,
and the battle on the Spanish side was in actual progress. True our men were hidden away in
the jungle that bordered the creek, but their position was known to the Spaniards, and leaves
and boughs are no cover from shot and shell. They were receiving the fire of the enemy and
making no reply whatever, save by the few ineffective shots from the far away battery on El
Poso Hill.

Directly in front of the cavalry division was a little hill occupied by a Spanish force. This
hill is called in General Wood's report East Hill, but in the literature of the battle it is
usually mentioned as Kettle Hill. The fire in part was coming from here. Colonel Wood gives
another report of the morning's experience in which he says: "The brigade moved down the road
toward Santiago in rear of the First Brigade, with instructions to deploy to the right after
crossing the San Juan, and continue to extend to the right, reaching out toward General Lawton's
left and holding ourselves in rear of the First Brigade as a support. On reaching the stream
the First Volunteer Cavalry, which was in the lead, crossed the stream with comparatively slight
loss and deployed to the right in good order, but at this time a captive balloon was led down
the road in which the troops were massed, and finally anchored at the crossing of the stream.
The approach and anchoring of this balloon served to indicate the line of approach of the troops
and to locate the ford, and the result was a terrific converging of artillery and rifle fire
on the ford, which resulted in severe loss of men. Under this fire the First United States
Cavalry and the Tenth United States Cavalry crossed the stream and deployed to the right where
they were placed in position in rear of the First Brigade. Two regiments of the Second Brigade,
to wit., the First and the Tenth Regular Cavalry, were located in the rear of the First Brigade.
The First Regular Cavalry had begun its day's work as support of Grimes' battery, but had later
come forward and taken its place in the brigade time enough to join in the action that followed.

"After completing the deployment," says Sumner, "the command was so much committed to battle
that it became necessary either to advance or else retreat under fire." The troops were already
in battle, but were not fighting, and could not do so in their present position, simply because
they could not see the enemy. "Lieutenant Miley, representing General Shafter, authorized an
advance, which was ordered, Carroll's brigade taking the advance, reinforced on the right by
Roosevelt's regiment, and supported by the First and Tenth Cavalry." (Sumner.) Colonel Wood
says: "After remaining in this position for about an hour (meaning the position held by his
brigade previous to the coming of the order to advance) the order to advance was given, and
the brigade advanced in good order as possible, but more or less broken up by the masses of
brush and heavy grass and cactus; passing through the line of the First Brigade, mingling with
them and charging the hill in conjunction with these troops, as well as some few infantry who
had extended to the right." It must be remembered that the First Brigade consisted wholly of
regulars, the Third, Sixth and Ninth Cavalry, while the Second Brigade had that remarkable
regiment, the Rough Riders. This fact may account for their breaking through the lines of the
First Brigade. Major Wessells, who commanded the Third Cavalry in that fight, and was himself
wounded at the close of the first charge, says his regiment became entangled with other regiments,
but, nevertheless, was to the crest as soon as any. Of the advance of the whole division, General
Sumner says: "The advance was made under heavy infantry fire, through open flat ground, cut
up by wire fences, to the creek, distant about 600 yards. The advance was made in good order,
the enemy's fire being returned only under favorable opportunities. In crossing the flat one
officer and several men were killed and several officers and men wounded. Both sides of the
creek were heavily wooded for about 200 yards. The creek was swollen, and the crossing through
this space and the creek was made with great difficulty.

"After passing through the thick woods the ground was entirely open and fenced by wire. From
this line it was necessary to storm the hill, upon the top of which is a house, loop-holed
for defense. The slope of the hill is very difficult, but the assault was made with great gallantry
and with much loss to the enemy. A number of casualties occurred among the enlisted men." The
heights were carried by the whole division.

Lieutenant-Colonel Baldwin's account of the part his regiment took in the assault upon San
Juan is told about as follows: After the search for Lawton had been given up, the First and
Tenth Cavalry were formed for attack on East Hill. "I was directed," he says, "to take a position
to the right, behind the river bank, for protection. While moving to this position, and while
there, the regiment suffered considerable loss. After an interval of twenty or thirty minutes
I was directed to form line of battle in a partially open field facing toward the blockhouses
and strong intrenchments to the north occupied by the enemy. Much difficulty was found on account
of the dense undergrowth, crossed in several directions by wire fences. As a part of the cavalry
division under General Sumner, the regiment was formed in two lines, the First Squadron under
Major S.T. Norvell, consisting of Troops A, B, E and I, leading; the second line, under Major
T.J. Wint, consisting of Troops C, F and G. Troop D having crossed farther down the river,
attached itself to a command of infantry and moved with that command on the second blockhouse.
The regiment advanced in this formation in a heavy converging fire from the enemy's position,
proceeding but a short distance when the two lines were united into one. The advance was rapidly
continued in an irregular line toward the blockhouses and intrenchments to the right front.
During this advance the line passed some troops of the First Cavalry, which I think had previously
been formed on our right. Several losses occurred before reaching the top of the hill, First
Lieutenant William H. Smith being killed as he arrived on its crest. The enemy having retreated
toward the northwest to the second and third blockhouses, new lines were formed and a rapid
advance was made upon these new positions. The regiment assisted in capturing these works from
the enemy, and with the exception of Troops C and I, which in the meantime had joined the First
Volunteer Cavalry, then took up a position to the north of the second blockhouse, remaining
there all night."

Major Norvell, who commanded the First Squadron of the Tenth Cavalry, which consisted of Troops
A, B, E and I, gives the following account of the experiences of July 1st:

"The regiment took position in a wood, and here suffered considerable loss, due to the fact
that the whole of the enemy's fire appeared to be directed to this point. In a short time we
moved out of the wood by the right flank and then deployed to the left, being then directly
in front of the enemy and one mile distant from his works, marked by three houses about half
a mile from one another. The enemy was strongly entrenched in front of these houses. The line,
consisting of the cavalry division, under direction of Brigadier-General Sumner, moved forward
in double time, under a terrific fire of the enemy. We had a very heavy jungle to march through,
beside the river (San Juan) to cross, and during our progress many men were killed and wounded.
The troops became separated from one another, though the general line was pretty well preserved.
The works of the enemy were carried in succession by the troops; and the Spaniards were steadily
driven back toward the town to their last ditches. We now found ourselves about half a mile
from the city, but the troops being by this time nearly exhausted, here intrenched themselves
for the night under a heavy fire. By dark this line was occupied by all the troops engaged
during the day."

The official reports of the troop commanders of the Tenth Cavalry bring out a few more particulars
which serve to give us a more vivid conception of this moving line. The entire cavalry division
advanced together, and notwithstanding the roughness of the ground, Major Norvell assures us
the line was pretty well preserved. Troops A, B, E and I were in the First Squadron, which
was in the lead; Troops C, F and G were in the second line; Troop D made its advance with the
infantry off to the left. We have now a fair knowledge of the general movement of the whole
regiment. Let us follow the fortunes of some of the Troops, and by that means get nearer to
the work done by the individual soldier.

Troop A was on the right of the leading squadron as the regiment took its place in line on
the left of the First Cavalry and moved against the Spanish blockhouses in the face of a heavy
fire, making a rush forward without intermission. A portion of the right platoon, under Lieutenant
Livermore, became separated in one of the thickets, and under instructions received personally
from the brigade commander, who seems to have been everywhere where he was needed, continued
up the slope toward his right and toward the first blockhouse. The remainder of the troop,
commanded by Captain Beck and Lieutenant McCoy, moved in the same direction at first, but observing
that on account of the shorter distance to the slope from that end of the line, a large number
of troops were arriving there, Captain Beck swung his troop to the left and reached the summit
of the hill between the second and third blockhouses, and on arriving received a message by
an aid of the brigade commander to hold the ridge. Just then Lieut. Livermore arrived, having
come by way of Blockhouse No. 1. The troop now being together, held the crest for an hour.
At times the fire of the enemy was so severe and Captain Beck's force so small that there was
great danger that he would be compelled to abandon the position, but fortunately at the most
critical juncture Lieutenant Lyon of the Twenty-fourth Infantry came up with a few reinforcements,
and Lieutenant Hughes of the Tenth Cavalry with a Hotchkiss gun. Lieutenant Lyon formed his
troops to the left of the gun, Troop A of the Tenth Cavalry being on the right. With this force
the position was held until other troops arrived. Soon after, the squadron was reformed and
the men entrenched themselves under fire. Troop B was next to Troop A and advanced as skirmishers
by rushes and double time, but soon found its front blocked by other troops. Troop I advanced
in two sections, the left being commanded by Lieutenant Miller, joined in the attack on the
right of the enemy's position; the right commanded by Lieutenant Fleming, advanced on trenches
between two blockhouses, and in so doing caught up with the rest of the troop. The first half
of the troop, after attacking the blockhouse on right of the enemy's position then crossed
the valley and attacked the blockhouse on the left of enemy's position, and then moved forward
with the First Regular Cavalry and First Volunteer Cavalry, until the troop assembled as a
whole. When it reached the place of intrenchment there were altogether about one hundred men
at that point of the ridge, consisting of men from the Tenth Cavalry and of the Rough Riders.
It is claimed by Lieutenant Anderson, who commanded Troop C, and who made his way to the front
on the right of the line, that after coming up on the second hill and joining his troop to
the left of Troop I, Colonel Roosevelt and part of his regiment joined on the right of the
Tenth, and that he reported to him, placing C Troop in his command. Before this time Lieutenant
Anderson had reported to Captain Jones, of Troop F, while they were on Kettle Hill, and the
Two troops, F and C, had been formed in skirmish line and moved against the second blockhouse.
In this movement Troop C got separated from Captain Jones, and Anderson, with 18 men of his
own troop and several from other organizations, moved forward until he connected with Troop
I, as previously narrated. These troops, C and I, were reported by their Colonel as having
joined the First Volunteer Cavalry. All of the troop commanders who were immediately with the
men bear hearty testimony to their good conduct. Captain Jones, commanding Troop F, says: "I
could only do justice to the troop by mentioning by name all who were engaged, not only for
their bravery, but for their splendid discipline under the most demoralizing fire." Lieutenant
Fleming, commanding Troop I, says: "The entire troop behaved with great gallantry. Private
Elsie Jones particularly distinguished himself." Captain Beck, commanding Troop A, says: "The
behaviour of the enlisted men was magnificent, paying studious attention to orders while on
the firing line, and generally exhibiting an intrepidity which marks the first-class soldier."
Lieutenant Hughes, who commanded the Hotchkiss gun detachment, mentions four men for conspicuous
bravery and commends his entire detachment for "spirit, enterprise and good behavior."

The official story is that the entire cavalry division advanced under orders from General Sumner
and that the heft of its first blow fell upon Kettle Hill, which was soon captured, and on
the crest of this hill the troops which had ascended it made a temporary halt, reformed their
lines somewhat and immediately advanced upon the second hill to the help of that part of the
cavalry division which had swung to the left in the advance, and also to the help of the infantry
who were coming against Fort San Juan at the same time. Meanwhile there was left upon Kettle
Hill a sufficient garrison or force to prevent its being recaptured by the enemy. In the assault
on Kettle Hill the brigade commander, Colonel Carroll, had been wounded, and Lieutenant-Colonel
Hamilton of the Ninth Cavalry killed. Many troop officers also had been either killed or wounded
and also in the rush forward through the jungle and high grass some troops had been separated
from their officers, and yet it is remarkable that all were ready to move forward to the next
assault.

The words of praise to the whole cavalry division contained in the following order, published
at Camp Wikoff immediately after the arrival there of the troops, are claimed by both black
and white cavalrymen alike:

     Headquarters, Cavalry Division,
     Camp Wikoff, L.I., September 7th, 1898.

     To the Officers and Soldiers of the Cavalry Division, Army
     of Santiago.

     The duties for which the troops comprising the Cavalry
     Division were brought together have been accomplished.

     On June 14th we sailed from Tampa, Fla., to encounter in the
     sickly season the diseases of the tropical island of Cuba,
     and to face and attack the historic legions of Spain in
     positions chosen by them and which for years they had been
     strengthening by every contrivance and art known to the
     skillful military engineers of Europe.

     On the 23d, one squadron each of the 1st and 10th Regular
     Cavalry and two squadrons of the 1st Volunteer Cavalry, in
     all 964 officers and men, landed on Cuban soil. These troops
     marched on foot fourteen miles, and, early on the morning of
     the 24th, attacked and defeated double their number of
     regular Spanish soldiers under the command of
     Lieutenant-General Linares. Eagerly and cheerfully you
     pushed onward, and on July 1st forded San Juan River and
     gallantly swept over San Juan Hill, driving the enemy from
     its crest. Without a moment's halt you formed, aligning the
     division upon the 1st Infantry Division under General Kent,
     and, together with these troops, you bravely charged and
     carried the formidable intrenchments of Fort San Juan. The
     entire force which fought and won this great victory was
     less than seven thousand men.

     The astonished enemy, though still protected by the strong
     works to which he had made his retreat, was so stunned by
     your determined valor that his only thought was to devise
     the quickest means of saving himself from further battle.
     The great Spanish fleet hastily sought escape from the
     harbor and was destroyed by our matchless navy.

     After seizing the fortifications of San Juan Ridge, you, in
     the darkness of night, strongly intrenched the position
     your valor had won. Reinforced by Bates' Brigade on your
     left and Lawton's Division on your right, you continued the
     combat until the Spanish army of Santiago Province succumbed
     to the superb prowess and courage of American arms. Peace
     promptly followed, and you return to receive the plaudits of
     seventy millions of people.

     The valor displayed by you was not without sacrifice.
     Eighteen per cent., or nearly one in five, of the Cavalry
     Division fell on the field either killed or wounded. We
     mourn the loss of these heroic dead, and a grateful country
     will always revere their memory.

     Whatever may be my fate, wherever my steps may lead, my
     heart will always burn with increasing admiration for your
     courage in action, your fortitude under privation and your
     constant devotion to duty in its highest sense, whether in
     battle, in bivouac or upon the march.

     JOSEPH WHEELER,
     Major-General U.S.V., Commanding.

Aside from that part of the Tenth Cavalry who fought under General Wheeler and who are consequently
included among those congratulated by the General Order just quoted, Troop M of that regiment,
under command of Lieutenant C.P. Johnson, performed an important part in the war. The troop
consisted of 50 men and left Port Tampa June 21 on board the steamship Florida, the steamship
Fanita also making a part of the expedition. The troop was mounted and was accompanied by a
pack train of 65 animals. Both ships were heavily loaded with clothing, ammunition and provision,
and had on board besides Lieutenant Johnson's command, General Nunez and staff and 375 armed
Cubans. The expedition sailed around the west end of the island and attempted a landing at
a point chosen by General Nunez on June 29, but failed owing to the fact that the place chosen
was well guarded by Spaniards, who fired upon the landing party. The expedition had with it
a small gunboat, the Peoria, commanded by Captain Ryan, and on the afternoon of June 30th an
attack was made upon a blockhouse on the shore by the gunboat, and a small force of Cuban and
American volunteers landed, but were repulsed with the loss of one killed, General Nunez's
brother, and seven wounded. Two days later Lieutenant Johnson was able to land and immediately
made connection with General Gomez, unloading his stores for the Cuban Army.

Lieutenant G.P. Ahearn, of the Twenty-fifth Infantry, who went on this expedition as a volunteer,
rendered important service on the night after the attack on the blockhouse at Tayabacoa. As
the attacking party met with repulse and escaped to the ship in the darkness, several of their
wounded were left on shore. Several boats sent out to recover them had returned without the
men, their crews fearing to go on shore after them. Lieutenant Ahearn volunteered to attempt
the rescue of the men, and taking a water-logged boat, approached the shore noiselessly and
succeeded in his undertaking. The crew accompanying Lieutenant Ahearn was made up of men from
Troop M, Tenth Cavalry, and behaved so well that the four were given Medals of Honor for their
marked gallantry. The action of Lieutenant Ahearn in this case was in keeping with his whole
military career. He has ever manifested a fondness for exceptional service, and has never failed
when opportunity occurred to display a noble gallantry on the side of humanity. Nothing appeals
to him so commandingly as an individual needing rescue, and in such a cause he immediately
rises to the hero's plane. The noble colored soldiers who won medals on that occasion were
all privates and became heroes for humanity's sake. Their names deserve a place in this history
outside the mere official table. They were Dennis Bell, George H. Wanton, Fitz Lee and William
H. Tompkins, and were the only colored soldiers who, at the time of this writing, have won
Medals of Honor in the Spanish War. Others, however, may yet be given, as doubtless others
are deserved. The heroic service performed by whole regiments, as in the case of the Twenty-fourth
Infantry, should entitle every man in it to a medal of some form as a souvenir for his posterity.

Losses of the Ninth Cavalry in the battles of San Juan:

OFFICERS--Killed, Lieutenant-Colonel John M. Hamilton.

MEN--Killed, Trumpeter Lewis Fort, Private James Johnson.

OFFICERS--Wounded, Adjutant Winthrop S. Wood, Captain Charles W. Taylor.

MEN--Wounded. First Sergeant Charles W. Jefferson, Sergeant Adam Moore, Sergeant Henry F. Wall,
Sergeant Thomas B. Craig, Corporal James W. Ervine, Corporal Horace T. Henry, Corporal John
Mason, Burwell Bullock, Elijah Crippen, Edward Davis, Hoyle Ervin, James Gandy, Edward D. Nelson,
Noah Prince, Thomas Sinclair, James R. Spear, Jr., Jacob Tull, William H. Turner, George Warren,
Alfred Wilson.

Losses of the Tenth Cavalry during the battle of San Juan:

OFFICERS--Killed, First Lieutenant W.E. Shipp, First Lieutenant W.H. Smith.

MEN--Killed, John H. Smoot, Corporal W.F. Johnson, John H. Dodson, George Stroal, William H.
Slaughter.

OFFICERS--Wounded, Major T.J. Wint Captain John Bigelow, Jr., Adjutant and First Lieutenant
M.H. Barnum, First Lieutenant R.L. Livermore, First Lieutenant E.D. Anderson, Second Lieutenant
F.R. McCoy, Second Lieutenant H.C. Whitehead, Second Lieutenant T.A. Roberts, Second Lieutenant
H.O. Willard.

MEN--Wounded, First Sergeant A. Houston, First Sergeant Robert Milbrown, Q.M. Sergeant William
Payne, Sergeant Smith Johnson, Sergeant Ed. Lane, Sergeant Walker Johnson, Sergeant George
Dyers, Sergeant Willis Hatcher, Sergeant John L. Taylor, Sergeant Amos Elliston, Sergeant Frank
Rankin, Sergeant E.S. Washington, Sergeant U.G. Gunter, Corporal J.G. Mitchell, Corporal Allen
Jones, Corporal Marcellus Wright, Privates Lewis L. Anderson, John Arnold, Charles Arthur,
John Brown, Frank D. Bennett, Wade Bledsoe, Hillary Brown, Thornton Burkley, John Brooks, W.H.
Brown, Wm. A. Cooper, John Chinn, J.H. Campbell, Henry Fearn, Benjamin Franklin, Gilmore Givens,
B.F. Gaskins, William Gregory, Luther D. Gould, Wiley, Hipsher, Thomas Hardy, Charles Hopkins,
Richard James, Wesley Jones, Robert E. Lee, Sprague Lewis, Henry McCormack, Samuel T. Minor,
Lewis Marshall, William Matthews, Houston Riddill, Charles Robinson, Frank Ridgeley, Fred.
Shackley, Harry D. Sturgis, Peter Saunderson, John T. Taylor, William Tyler, Isom Taylor, John
Watson, Benjamin West, Joseph Williams, Allen E. White, Nathan Wyatt.

       *       *       *       *       *

     Note.--"While we talked, and the soldiers filled their
     canteens and drank deep and long, like camels who, after
     days of travel through the land of 'thirst and emptiness,'
     have reached the green oasis and the desert spring, a black
     corporal of the 24th Infantry walked wearily up to the
     'water hole.' He was muddy and bedraggled. He carried no cup
     or canteen, and stretched himself out over the
     stepping-stones in the stream, sipping up the water and the
     mud together out of the shallow pool. A white cavalryman ran
     toward him shouting, 'Hold on, bunkie; here's my cup!' The
     negro looked dazed a moment, and not a few of the spectators
     showed amazement, for such a thing had rarely if ever
     happened in the army before. 'Thank you,' said the black
     corporal. 'Well, we are all fighting under the same flag
     now.' And so he drank out of the white man's cup. I was glad
     to see that I was not the only man who had come to recognize
     the justice of certain Constitutional amendments, in the
     light of the gallant behaviour of the colored troops
     throughout the battle, and, indeed, the campaign. The
     fortune of war had, of course, something to do with it in
     presenting to the colored troops the opportunities for
     distinguished service, of which they invariably availed
     themselves to the fullest extent; but the confidence of the
     general officers in their superb gallantry, which the event
     proved to be not misplaced, added still more, and it is a
     fact that the services of no four white regiments can be
     compared with those rendered by the four colored
     regiments--the 9th and 10th Cavalry, and the 24th and 25th
     Infantry. They were to the front at La Guasima, at Caney,
     and at San Juan, and what was the severest test of all, that
     came later, in the yellow-fever hospitals."--Bonsal.

FOOTNOTES:

[19] Official Report of General Sumner.

Turning now to the centre and left of the American line we follow the advance of that division
of infantry commanded by General Kent, and which met the brunt of Spanish resistance at San
Juan. This division, known as the First Division, Fifth Army Corps, consisted of three brigades,
composed as follows:

First Brigade, Brigadier-General Hawkins commanding, made up of the Sixth Infantry, the Sixteenth
Infantry, and the Seventy-first New York Volunteers.

The Second Brigade, Colonel Pearson commanding, made up of the Second Infantry, the Tenth Infantry
and the Twenty-first Infantry.

The Third Brigade, commanded by Colonel Wikoff, in which were the Ninth Infantry, the Thirteenth
Infantry and the Twenty-fourth Infantry; in all 262 officers and 5,095 men. Thus, in the whole
division there were eight regiments of regular infantry and one volunteer regiment, the Seventy-first
New York.

Although our present purpose is to bring into view the special work of the Twenty-fourth Infantry,
it will be necessary to embrace in our scope the work of the entire division, in order to lay
before the reader the field upon which that particular regiment won such lasting credit. General
Kent, who commanded the division, a most accomplished soldier, gives a lucid account of the
whole assault as seen from his position, and of the work performed by his division, in his
report, dated July 8, 1898.

When General Kent's division arrived in the neighborhood of the San Juan ford and found itself
under fire and the trail so blocked by troops of the cavalry division, which had not yet deployed
to the right, that direct progress toward the front was next to impossible, the welcome information
was given by the balloon managers that a trail branched off to the left from the main trail,
only a short distance back from the ford. This trail led to a ford some distance lower down
the stream and nearly facing the works on the enemy's right. General Kent on learning of this
outlet immediately hastened back to the forks and meeting the Seventy-first New York Regiment,
the rear regiment of the First Brigade, he directed that regiment into this trail toward the
ford. The regiment was to lead the way through this new trail and would consequently arrive
at the front first on the left; but meeting the fire of the enemy, the First Battalion of the
regiment apparently became panic stricken and recoiled upon the rest of the regiment; the regiment
then lay down on the sides of the trail and in the bushes, thoroughly demoralized.

Wikoff's brigade was now coming up and it was directed upon the same trail. This brigade consisted
of the Ninth, Thirteenth and Twenty-fourth. Colonel Wikoff was directed by General Kent to
move his brigade across the creek by the trail (the left fork) and when reaching the opposite
side, of the creek to put the brigade in line on the left of the trail and begin the attack
at once. In executing this order the entire brigade stumbled through and over hundreds of men
of the Seventy-first New York Regiment. When a volunteer regiment broke through the lines of
the Ninth Cavalry from the rear, that regiment was in its place on the field in line of battle,
with its morale perfect. It was under discipline and delivering its fire with regularity. It
had an absolute right to its place. The Seventy-first was in no such attitude, and General
Kent directed the advance through it in these words: "Tell the brigade to pay no attention
to this sort of thing; it is highly irregular." The Ninth Cavalry's position was exactly regular;
the position of the Seventh-first was to the eyes of General Kent "highly irregular."

The three regiments of this brigade were to take their positions on the left of the ford after
crossing the stream, in the following order: On the extreme left the Twenty-fourth, next to
it in the centre of the brigade, the Ninth, and on the right of the brigade the Thirteenth.
In approaching the ford the Ninth and Twenty-fourth became mixed and crossed in the following
order: First one battalion of the Ninth; then a battalion of the Twenty-fourth; then the second
battalion of the Ninth, followed by the second battalion of the Twenty-fourth. The line was
formed under fire, and while superintending its formation the brigade commander, Colonel Wikoff,
came under observation and was killed; Lieutenant-Colonel Worth, who succeeded him, was seriously
wounded within five minutes after having taking command, and Lieutenant-Colonel Liscum, who
next assumed charge of the brigade, had hardly learned that he was in command before he, too,
was disabled by a Spanish shot By this time, however, the formation was about complete and
the brigade ready to begin the advance.

Leaving Wikoff's brigade in line ready to begin the advance we must now return in our narrative
to the main ford, where the major portions of Hawkins' and Pearson's brigades are massed and
follow the various regiments as they come to their places in the battle line preparing for
the onslaught. After crossing the ford with the Sixth Infantry, pursuant to the orders given
by Lieutenant Miley in the name of General Shafter, General Hawkins attempted to flank the
enemy by a movement to the left, the Sixth Infantry leading and the Sixteenth intending to
pass beyond it in its rear and join to its left. The Sixth in passing to its intended position
passed to the left of the Sixth Cavalry, which held the left of the line of the cavalry division,
which had crossed the ford and deployed to the right, reaching beyond the Spanish lines in
that direction, or at least it was able to reach the extreme right of the enemy. The Sixth
Infantry continued this line southward and it was to be farther extended by the Sixteenth.
Before this disposition could be effected the fire of the enemy became so severe that an advance
movement was started and the Sixth lined up facing the fort on the hill, with only one company
and a half of the Sixteenth on its left.

While Hawkins' and Wikoff's brigades were preparing for the advance upon the enemy's works,
Pearson's brigade was approaching the ford, hurrying to the support. The Twenty-first Regiment
of this brigade was detached from the brigade and sent directly forward on the main trail with
orders to re-enforce the firing line. This regiment crossed the San Juan River to the left
of the main ford and rushed forward to support Hawkins' left. In the meantime the two other
regiments of the brigade, the Second and Tenth, which had preceded the Twenty-first in their
march from El Poso, had been deflected to the left by order of the division commander and were
passing to the front over the trail previously taken by Wikoff's brigade, crossing the San
Juan at the lower ford. The Tenth crossed in advance and formed in close order on the opposite
side of the stream, its line facing northwest. It was soon after, however, put in battle formation
and moved to the right until it connected with the Twenty-first. The Second Regiment crossed
the ford in the rear of the Tenth, having been delayed considerably by the Seventh-first New
York Volunteers, who still blocked the way between the forks and the lower ford. After crossing
the ford the Second put itself in line on the left of the Tenth, the whole brigade being now
in position to support the First and Third Brigades in their charge.

This movement of Colonel Pearson's brigade had not been made without hardship and loss. All
of the regiments came under the enemy's fire before reaching the San Juan River and many men
were killed or wounded while the regiments were gaining their positions. The movement was so
well executed as to call forth from the division commander the following enconium: "I observed
this movement from the Fort San Juan Hill. Colonel E.P. Pearson, Tenth Infantry, commanding
the Second Brigade, and the officers and troops under his command deserve great credit for
the soldierly manner in which this movement was executed."

Although we left Wikoff's brigade standing in line on the left of the lower ford, we must not
imagine that it remained in that position until the above movement on the part of the Second
Brigade had been accomplished. There was no standing still in the fierce fire to which the
men of that brigade were at that time subjected--a fire which had already cut down in rapid
succession three brigade commanders. The formation was no sooner completed than the rapid advance
began. The Thirteenth Infantry holding the right of the brigade moved to the right and front,
while the Ninth and Twenty-fourth moved almost directly to the front at first, thus partially
gaining the flank of the enemy's position. The whole line moved with great rapidity across
the open field and up the hill, so that when the Second and Tenth Infantry came to their position
as support, the heroic Third Brigade was well up the heights. To the Third Brigade he gives
the credit of turning the enemy's right.

Let us now examine more closely that sweep of the Third Brigade from the left of the lower
ford to San Juan Hill, in order to trace more distinctly the pathway of honor made for itself
by the Twenty-fourth. This regiment formed left front into line under fire and advanced over
the flat in good order, and then reformed under shelter of the hill preparatory to the final
charge upon the enemy's intrenchments. The experience of the companies in crossing the flat
is told by the company commanders. One company under the orders of its captain formed line
of skirmishers and advanced in good order at rapid gait, reaching the foot of the hill almost
exhausted. This was about the experience of all, but this company is mentioned because it was
the first company of the regiment to reach the top of the hill. In crossing the flat there
was necessarily some mixing of companies and in some instances men were separated from their
officers, but those who escaped the enemy's bullets made their way across that plain of fire
and were ready to join in the charge up the hill where only brave men could go.

There was but a moment's pause for breath at the foot of the hill and the general charge all
along the line began, the Sixth Infantry probably taking the initiative, although the gallant
Colonel Egbert, of that regiment (since killed in the Philippines), makes no such claim. In
his farewell official report of the Sixth he thus describes the final act:

     "We were now unexpectedly re-enforced. Lieutenant Parker,
     made aware by the heavy fire from the hill that a conflict
     was going on in his front, opened fire with his Gatlings
     most effectively on the intrenchments, while from far down
     on my left I heard cheering and shouts, and saw coming up
     the slope towards us a multitude of skirmishers. As they
     drew nearer we distinguished the tall figure of General
     Hawkins, with his aide, Lieutenant Ord, Sixth Infantry,
     charging at the head of the skirmishers and waving their
     hats. When the charge came up nearly abreast of where the
     Sixth stood in the road I ordered the companies out through
     the gaps in the wire fence to join it, and they complied
     with the same alacrity and enthusiasm that they had
     displayed in entering this bloody field. The Gatlings
     redoubled their fierce grinding of bullets on the Spanish,
     despite which there still came a savage fire from the
     blockhouse and trenches. Here the gallant Captain Wetherell,
     Sixth Infantry, fell, shot through the forehead, at the head
     of his company, and I received a Mauser bullet through the
     left lung, which disabled me. But the blood of the troops
     was now up, and no loss of officers or men could stop them.
     They charged up the incline until, coming to a steep ridge
     near the top, they were brought to a stand by the hail of
     bullets from the Gatlings against the summit. As soon as
     this could be stopped by a signal, the mingled troops of the
     Sixth, Sixteenth, Thirteenth and Twenty-fourth swept up and
     over the hill and it was won."

From testimony gathered on the evening of the fight it was concluded that there were more men
of the Twenty-fourth Infantry on the ridge in this first occupation than of any other regiment,
but all of the regiments of the division had done admirably and the brave blacks of the Twenty-fourth
won on that day a standing in arms with the bravest of the brave.

The Spaniards although driven from their first line, by no means gave up the fight; but retreating
to a line of intrenchments about eight hundred yards in the rear they opened upon the new-comers
a fire almost as hot as before, and the troops found it difficult to hold what they had gained.
The supporting regiments were coming up and strengthening the line, the men meanwhile entrenching
themselves under fire as rapidly as possible. The Thirteenth Infantry was immediately ordered
off to the right to assist the cavalry division, especially the Rough Riders, who were said
to be in danger of having their flank turned. Here it remained under fire all night.

The advance and charge of the Twenty-fourth made up only a part of the advance and charge of
the Third Brigade; and this in turn was part of the attack and assault made by the whole infantry
division; a movement also participated in at the same hour by the cavalry division; so that
regarded as a whole, it was a mighty blow delivered on the enemy's right and centre by two-thirds
of the American Army, and its effect was stunning, although its full weight had not been realized
by the foe. The part sustained in the assault by each regiment may be estimated by the losses
experienced by each in killed and wounded. Judged by this standard the brunt fell upon the
Sixth, Sixteenth, Thirteenth, and Twenty-fourth, all of which regiments lost heavily, considering
the short time of the action.

The movement by which the Twenty-fourth reached its position on that memorable 1st of July
has called forth especial mention by the regimental commander and by the acting Assistant Adjutant-General
of the brigade; it was also noted immediately after the battle by all the newspaper writers
as one of the striking occurrences of the day. The regiment on coming under fire marched about
one mile by the left flank, and then formed left front into line on its leading company, Company
G, commanded by Captain Brereton. The first man of the regiment to take position in the line
was the First Sergeant of G Company, R.G. Woods. This company when reaching its position formed
on left into line, under a severe fire in front and a fire in the rear; the other companies
forming in the same manner, with more or less regularity, to its left. As soon as the line
was formed the order was given to charge. The advance was made across an open meadow, during
which several officers were wounded, among them the officers of Company F, the command of that
company devolving upon its First Sergeant, William Rainey, who conducted the company successfully
to the crest of the hill.

The description of the movement of Company D as given by Lieutenant Kerwin, who was placed
in command of that company after its officers had been shot, is a very interesting document.
Lieutenant Kerwin claims to have made his report from "close inquiries and from personal observation."
According to this report the company was led across the San Juan Creek by its Captain (Ducat),
the Second Lieutenant of the company (Gurney) following it, and keeping the men well closed
up. While crossing, the company encountered a terrific fire, and after advancing about ten
yards beyond the stream went through a wire fence to the right, and advanced to an embankment
about twenty yards from the right bank of the stream. Here Captain Ducat gave the order to
advance to the attack and the whole company opened out in good order in line of skirmishers
and moved rapidly across the open plain to the foot of San Juan Hill. In making this movement
across the plain the line was under fire and the brave Lieutenant Gurney was killed, and First
Sergeant Ellis, Corporal Keys and Privates Robinson and Johnson wounded. It was a race with
death, but the company arrived at the base of the hill in good form, though well-nigh exhausted.
After breathing a moment the men were ready to follow their intrepid commander, Captain Ducat,
up the hill, and at twelve o'clock they gained the summit, being the first company of the regiment
to reach the top of the hill. Just as they reached the crest the brave Ducat fell, shot through
the hip, probably by a Spanish sharpshooter, thus depriving the company of its last commissioned
officer, and leaving its first sergeant also disabled.

The commander of the regiment speaks of its doings in a very modest manner, but in a tone to
give the reader confidence in what he says. He became temporarily separated from the regiment,
but made his way to the crest of the hill in company with the Adjutant and there found a part
of his command. He says a creditable number of the men of his regiment reached the top of the
hill among the first to arrive there. The commander of the Second Battalion, Captain Wygant,
crossed the meadow, or flat, some distance ahead of the battalion, but as the men subsequently
charged up the hill, he was unable to keep up with them, so rapid was their gait It was from
this battalion that Captain Ducat's company broke away and charged on the right of the battalion,
arriving, as has been said, first on the top of the hill. As the regiment arrived Captain Wygant,
finding himself the ranking officer on the ground, assembled it and assigned each company its
place. Captain Dodge, who commanded Company C in this assault, and who subsequently died in
the yellow fever hospital at Siboney, mentions the fact that Captain Wygant led the advance
in person, and says that in the charge across the open field the three companies, C, B and
H, became so intermixed that it was impossible for the company commanders to distinguish their
own men from those of the other companies, yet he says he had the names of twenty men of his
own company who reached the trenches at Fort San Juan in that perilous rush on that fiery mid-day.
The testimony of all the officers of the regiment is to the effect that the men behaved splendidly,
and eight of them have been given Certificates of Merit for gallantry in the action of July 1.

The losses of the regiment in that advance were numerous, the killed, wounded and missing amounted
to 96, which number was swelled to 104 during the next two days. So many men falling in so
short a time while advancing in open order tells how severe was the fire they were facing and
serves to modify the opinion which was so often expressed about the time the war broke out,
to the effect that the Spanish soldiers were wanting both in skill and bravery. They contradicted
this both at El Caney and at San Juan. In the latter conflict they held their ground until
the last moment and inflicted a loss upon their assailants equal to the number engaged in the
defence of the heights. Since July 1, 1898, expatiation on the cowardice and lack of skill
of the Spanish soldier has ceased to be a profitable literary occupation. Too many journalists
and correspondents were permitted to witness the work of Spanish sharpshooters, and to see
their obstinate resistance to the advance of our troops, to allow comments upon the inefficiency
of the Spanish Army to pass unnoticed. Our army from the beginning was well impressed with
the character of the foe and nerved itself accordingly. The bravery of our own soldiers was
fully recognized by the men who surrendered to our army and who were capable of appreciating
it, because they themselves were not wanting in the same qualities.

After the battle of El Caney the Twenty-fifth Infantry started for the mango grove, where the
blanket rolls and haversacks had been left in the morning, and on its way passed the Second
Massachusetts Volunteers standing by the roadside. This regiment had seen the charge of the
Twenty-fifth up the hillside, and they now manifested their appreciation of the gallantry of
the black regulars in an ovation of applause and cheers. This was the foundation for Sergeant
Harris' reply when on another occasion seeing the manifest kind feelings of this regiment to
the Twenty-fifth, I remarked: "Those men think you are soldiers." "They know we are soldiers,"
replied the sergeant. The regiment bivouacked in the main road leading from El Caney to Santiago,
but sleep was out of the question. What with the passing of packtrains and artillery, and the
issuing of rations and ammunition, the first half of the night gave no time for rest; and shortly
after 12 o'clock, apprehensions of a Spanish attack put every one on the alert. At 3.30 the
march to the rear was commenced and the entire division passed around by El Poso and advanced
to the front by the Aguadores road, finally reaching a position on Wheeler's right about noon,
July 2.

Subsequently the line of investment was extended to the right, the Cuban forces under General
Garcia holding the extreme right connecting with the water front on that side of the city.
Next to them came Ludlow's McKibben's and Chaffee's forces. In McKibben's brigade was the Twenty-fifth,
which dug its last trench on Cuban soil on July 14th, on the railroad running out from Santiago
to the northwest. This intrenchment was the nearest to the city made by any American organization,
and in this the regiment remained until the surrender.

The Twenty-fourth remained entrenched over to the left, in General Kent's division, lying to
the right of the 21st. This regiment (24th) had won great credit in its advance upon the enemy,
but it was to win still greater in the field of humanity. Capt. Leavel, who commanded Company
A, said: "It would be hard to particularize in reporting upon the men of the company. All--non-commissioned
officers, privates, even newly joined recruits--showed a desire to do their duty, yea, more
than their duty, which would have done credit to seasoned veterans. Too much cannot be said
of their courage, willingness and endurance." Captain Wygant, who commanded the Second Battalion
of the regiment, says: "The gallantry and bearing shown by the officers and soldiers of the
regiment under this trying ordeal was such that it has every reason to be proud of its record.
The losses of the regiment, which are shown by the official records, show the fire they were
subjected to. The casualties were greater among the officers than the men, which is accounted
for by the fact that the enemy had posted in the trees sharpshooters, whose principal business
was to pick them off." There is no countenance given in official literature to the absurd notion
maintained by some, that it was necessary for the officers of black troops to expose themselves
unusually in order to lead their troops, and that this fact accounts for excessive losses among
them. The fact is that the regular officer's code is such that he is compelled to occupy the
place in battle assigned him in the tactics, and no matter how great his cowardice of heart
may be, he must go forward until ordered to halt. The penalty of cowardice is something to
be dreaded above wounds or even death by some natures. "Colored troops are brave men when led
by white officers."(?) As a matter of fact there is very little leading of any sort by officers
in battle. The officer's place is in the rear of the firing line, directing, not leading, and
it is his right and duty to save his own life if possible, and that of every man in his command,
even while seeking to destroy the enemy, in obedience to orders. The record of the Twenty-fourth
for bravery was established beyond question when it swept across that open flat and up San
Juan Hill on that hot mid-day of July 1st, 1898.

After lying in the trenches until July 15th, the news reached the camp of the Twenty-fourth
that yellow fever had broken out in the army, and that a large hospital and pest-house had
been established at Siboney. About 4 o'clock that day an order came to the commanding officer
of the regiment directing him to proceed with his regiment to Siboney and report to the medical
officer there. The regiment started on its march at 5.30, numbering at that time 8 companies,
containing 15 officers and 456 men. Marching on in the night, going through thickets and across
streams, the men were heard singing a fine old hymn:

    When through the deep waters I call thee to go,
    The rivers of woe shall not thee o'erflow;
    For I will be with thee, thy troubles to bless,
    And sanctify to thee they deepest distress.

In view of what was before them, the words were very appropriate. They arrived on the hill
at Siboney at 3.30 on the morning of July 16th.

Without discussing the graphic story told by correspondents of the highest respectability describing
the regiment as volunteering, to a man, to nurse the sick and dying at Siboney, we will rather
follow the official records of their doings in that fever-stricken place. On arriving at Siboney
on the morning of July 16, Sunday, Major Markely, then in command of the regiment, met Colonel
Greenleaf of the Medical Department, and informed him that the Twenty-fourth Infantry was on
the ground. Colonel Greenleaf was just leaving the post, but Major La Garde, his successor,
manifested his great pleasure in seeing this form of assistance arrive. Such a scene of misery
presented itself to Major Markely's eyes that he, soldier as he was, was greatly affected,
and assured Major La Garde that he was prepared personally to sink every other consideration
and devote himself to giving what assistance he could in caring for the sick, and that he believed
his whole regiment would feel as he did when they came to see the situation. In this he was
not mistaken. The officers and men of the Twenty-fourth Infantry did give themselves up to
the care of the sick and dying, furnishing all help in their power until their own health and
strength gave way, in some instances laying down even their lives in this noble work.

On the day of arrival seventy men were called for to nurse yellow fever patients and do other
work about the hospital. More than this number immediately volunteered to enter upon a service
which they could well believe meant death to some of them. The camp was so crowded and filthy
that the work of cleaning it was begun at once by the men of the Twenty-fourth, and day by
day they labored as their strength would permit, in policing the camp, cooking the food for
themselves and for the hospital, unloading supplies, taking down and removing tents, and numberless
other details of necessary labor. Despite all the care that could be taken under such conditions
as were found at Siboney, the yellow fever soon overran the entire camp, and of the 16 officers
of the regiment, 1 had died, 2 more were expected to die; 3 were dangerously ill, and 5 more
or less so. Out of the whole sixteen there were but three really fit for duty, and often out
of the whole regiment it would be impossible to get 12 men who could go on fatigue duty. Out
of the 456 men who marched to Siboney only 24 escaped sickness, and on one day 241 were down.
Those who would recover remained weak and unfit for labor. Silently, without murmuring, did
these noble heroes, officers and men, stand at their post ministering to the necessities of
their fellowman until the welcome news came that the regiment would be sent north and the hospital
closed as soon as possible. On August 8 Major La Garde, more entitled to the honor of being
classed among the heroes of Santiago than some whose opportunities of brilliant display were
vastly superior, succumbed to the disease. The fact should be borne in mind that all of these
men, officers, soldiers and surgeons, went upon this pest-house duty after the severe labors
of assault of July 1-2, and the two weeks of terrible strain and exposure in the trenches before
Santiago, and with the sick and wounded consequent upon these battles and labors--none were strong.

On July 16th, the day after the Twenty-fourth left the trenches, the surrender was made and
on the next morning the final ceremonies of turning over Santiago to the American forces took
place, and the soldiers were allowed to come out of their ditches and enter into more comfortable
camps. The hardships of the period after the surrender were not much less than those experienced
while in the lines.

On the 26th of August the Twenty-fourth Infantry, having obtained an honorable release from
its perilous duty, marched out of Siboney with band playing and colors flying to go on board
the transport for Montauk; but of the 456 men who marched into Siboney, only 198 were able
to march out, directed by 9 out of the 15 officers that marched in with them. Altogether there
were 11 officers and 289 men who went on board the transport, but all except the number first
given were unable to take their places in the ranks. They went on board the steamer Nueces,
and coming from an infected camp, no doubt great care was taken that the transport should arrive
at its destination in a good condition. Although there was sickness on board, there were no
deaths on the passage, and the Nueces arrived in port "one of the cleanest ships that came
to that place." The official report states that the Nueces arrived at Montauk Point September
2, with 385 troops on board; 28 sick, no deaths on the voyage, and not infected. Worn out by
the hard service the regiment remained a short time at Montauk and then returned to its former
station, Fort Douglass, Utah, leaving its camp at Montauk in such a thoroughly creditable condition
as to elicit official remark.

While the Twenty-fourth Infantry had without doubt the hardest service, after the surrender,
of any of the colored regiments, the others were not slumbering at ease. Lying in the trenches
almost constantly for two weeks, drenched with rains, scorched by the burning sun at times,
and chilled by cool nights, subsisting on food not of the best and poorly cooked, cut off from
news and kept in suspense, when the surrender finally came it found our army generally very
greatly reduced in vital force. During the period following, from July 16th to about the same
date in August the re-action fell with all its weight upon the troops, rendering them an easy
prey to the climatic influences by which they were surrounded.[20] Pernicious malarial fever,
bowel troubles and yellow fever were appearing in all the regiments; and the colored troops
appeared as susceptible as their white comrades. The theory had been advanced that they were
less susceptible to malarial fever, and in a certain sense this appears to be true; but the
experience of our army in Cuba, as well as army statistics published before the Cuban War,
do not bear out the popular view of the theory. The best that can be said from the experience
of Cuba is to the effect that the blacks may be less liable to yellow fever and may more quickly
rally from the effects of malarial fever. These conclusions are, however, by no means well
established. The Twenty-fourth suffered excessively from fevers of both kinds, and in the judgment
of the commanding officer of the regiment "effectually showed that colored soldiers were not
more immune from Cuban fever than white," but we must remember that the service of the Twenty-fourth
was exceptional. The Twenty-fifth Infantry lost but one man during the whole campaign from
climatic disease, John A. Lewis, and it is believed that could he have received proper medical
care his life would have been saved. Yet this regiment suffered severely from fever as did
also the Ninth and Tenth Cavalry.

Arriving at Montauk[21] early the author had the opportunity to see the whole of the Fifth
Army Corps disembark on its return from Cuba, and was so impressed with its forlorn appearance
that he then wrote of it as coming home on stretchers. Pale, emaciated, weak and halting, they
came, with 3,252 sick, and reporting 87 deaths on the voyage. But, as General Wheeler said
in his report, "the great bulk of the troops that were at Santiago were by no means well."
Never before had the people seen an army of stalwart men so suddenly transformed into an army
of invalids. And yet while all the regiments arriving showed the effects of the hardships they
had endured, the black regulars, excepting the Twenty-fourth Infantry, appeared to have slightly
the advantage. The arrival of the Tenth Cavalry in "good condition" was an early cheering item
in the stream of suffering and debility landing from the transports. Seeing all of the troops
land and remaining at Camp Wikoff until its days were nearly numbered, the writer feels sure
that the colored troops arrived from the front in as good condition as the best, and that they
recuperated with marked comparative rapidity.

The chaplain of the Twenty-fifth Infantry, while en route to join his regiment at Montauk,
thinking seriously over the condition of the men returning from such a hard experience, concluded
that nothing would be more grateful to them than a reasonable supply of ripe fruit, fresh from
the orchards and fields. He therefore sent a dispatch to the Daily Evening News, published
in Bridgeton, N.J., asking the citizens of that community to contribute a carload of melons
and fruits for the men of the Twenty-fifth, or for the whole camp, if they so wished. Subsequently
mentioning the fact to the commanding officer of the regiment, Lieutenant-Colonel Daggett,
he heartily commended the idea, believing that the fruit would be very beneficial. The good
people of Bridgeton took hold of the matter heartily, and in a short time forwarded to the
regiment more than four hundred of Jersey's finest watermelons, fresh from the vines. These
were distributed judiciously and the health of the men began to improve forthwith. Soon five
hundred more arrived, sent by a patriotic citizen of Philadelphia. These were also distributed.
Ladies of Brooklyn forwarded peaches and vegetables, and supplies of all sorts now were coming
in abundance. Our men improved so rapidly as to be the occasion of remark by correspondents
of the press. They were spoken of as being apparently in good condition. While engaged in the
work of supplying their physical wants the chaplain was taken to task by a correspondent of
Leslie's for being too much concerned in getting a carload of watermelons for his regiment,
to go over to a graveyard and pray over the dead. The next day the chaplain made haste to go
over to that particular graveyard to relieve the country from the crying shame that the correspondent
had pointed out, only to find two men already there armed with prayer-books and one of them
especially so fearful that he would not get a chance to read a prayer over a dead soldier,
that the chaplain found it necessary to assure him that the opportunity to pray should not
be taken from him; and thus another popular horror was found to be without reality.

The colored ladies of Brooklyn organized a Soldiers' Aid Society, and besides contributing
in a general way, as already mentioned, also made and presented to the soldiers about four
hundred home-made pies, which were most highly appreciated. They also prepared a tasty souvenir
commemorative of the heroic work performed by the troops in Cuba, and expressive of high appreciation
of the gallantry of the colored regiments. A beautiful stand of colors was also procured for
the Twenty-fourth Infantry, which were subsequently presented to the regiment with appropriate
ceremonies.

At the camp were three colored chaplains and one colored surgeon, serving with the Regular
Army, and their presence was of great value in the way of accustoming the people at large to
beholding colored men as commissioned officers. To none were more attention shown than to these
colored men, and there was apparently no desire to infringe upon their rights. Occasionally
a very petty social movement might be made by an insignificant, with a view of humiliating
a Negro chaplain, but such efforts usually died without harm to those aimed at and apparently
without special comfort to those who engineered them.

The following paragraphs, written while in camp at the time indicated in them, may serve a
good purpose by their insertion here, showing as they do the reflections of the writer as well
as in outlining the more important facts associated with that remarkable encampment:

       *       *       *       *       *

CAMP WIKOFF AND ITS LESSONS.

Now that the days of this camp are drawing to a close it is profitable to recall its unique
history and gather up some of the lessons it has taught us. Despite all the sensationalism,
investigations, testings, experimentation, and general condemnation, the camp at Montauk accomplished
what was intended, and was itself a humane and patriotic establishment. It is not for me to
say whether a better site might not have been selected, or whether the camp might not have
been better managed. I will take it for granted that improvement might have been made in both
respects, but our concern is rather with what was, than with what "might have been."

To appreciate Camp Wikoff we must consider two things specially; first, its purpose, and secondly,
the short time allowed to prepare it; and then go over the whole subject and properly estimate
its extent and the amount of labor involved.

The intention of the camp was to afford a place where our troops, returning from Cuba, prostrated
with climatic fever, and probably infected with yellow fever, might receive proper medical
treatment and care, until the diseases were subdued. The site was selected with this in view,
and the conditions were admirably suited to such a purpose. Completely isolated, on dry soil,
with dry pure air, cool climate, away from mosquitoes, the camp seemed all that was desired
for a great field hospital.

Here the sick could come and receive the best that nature had to bestow in the way of respite
from the heat, and pure ocean breezes, and, taken altogether, the experiences of August and
a good part of September, have justified the selection of Montauk. While prostrations were
occurring elsewhere, the camp was cool and delightful most of the time.

As to the preparations, it must be remembered that the recall of the whole Army of Invasion
from Cuba was made in response to a popular demand, and as a measure of humanity. Bring the
army home! was the call, and, Bring it at once!

Such urgency naturally leaps ahead of minor preparations. The soldiers wanted to come; the
people wanted them to come; hence the crowding of transports and the lack of comforts on the
voyages; hence the lack of hospital accommodations when the troops began to arrive. Haste almost
always brings about such things; but sometimes haste is imperative. This was the case in getting
the army out of Cuba and into Camp at Montauk in August, '98. Haste was pushed to that point
when omissions had to occur, and inconvenience and suffering resulted.

We must also remember the condition of the men who came to Montauk. About 4,000 were reported
as sick before they left Cuba; but, roughly speaking, there were 10,000 sick men landing in
Montauk. Those who were classed as well were, with rare exceptions, both mentally and physically
incapable of high effort. It was an invalid army, with nearly one-half of its number seriously
sick and suffering.

Ten thousand sick soldiers were never on our hands before, and the mighty problem was not realized
until the transports began to emit their streams of weakness and walking death at Montauk.
The preparation was altogether inadequate for such a mass of misery, and for a time all appeared
confusion.

Then came severe, cruel, merciless criticisms; deserved in some cases no doubt, but certainly
not everywhere. The faults, gaps, failures, were everywhere to be seen, and it was easy to
see and to say what ought to have been done. But the situation at Camp Wikoff from August 15th
to Sep. 15th needed more than censure; it needed help. The men who were working for the Government
in both the medical and commissary departments needed assistance; the former in the way of
nurses, and the latter in the way of appropriate food. The censure and exposure indulged in
by the press may have contributed to direct the attention of the benevolently disposed to the
conditions in the camp.

Then came the era of ample help; from Massachusetts; from New York, in a word, from all over
the country. The Merchants' Relief Association poured in its thousands of dollars worth of
supplies, bringing them to the camp and distributing them generously and wisely. The Women's
Patriotic Relief, the Women's War Relief, the International Brotherhood League, and the powerful
Red Cross Society, all poured in food and comforts for the sick thousands. Besides these great
organizations there were also the spontaneous offerings of the people, many of them generously
distributed by the Brooklyn Daily Eagle's active representatives. The tent of that journal
was an excellent way-mark and a veritable house of the good shepherd for many a lost wanderer,
as well as a place of comfort, cheer and rest. The work done was very valuable and highly appreciated.

To the medical department came the trained hand of the female nurse. No one who saw these calm-faced,
white-hooded sisters, or the cheery cheeked, white capped nurses from the schools, could fail
to see that they were in the right place. The sick soldier's lot was brightened greatly when
the gentle female nurse came to his cot. Woman can never be robbed of her right to nurse. This
is one of the lessons taught by the Hispano-American War.

This vast army has been handled. No yellow fever has been spread. The general health has been
restored. The disabled are mostly housed in hospitals, and many of them are on the road to
recovery. Some have died; some are on furlough, and many have gone to their homes.

The regulars are repairing to their stations quite invigorated, and greatly helped in many
ways by the kind treatment they have received. Camp Wikoff was not a failure; but a great and
successful object lesson, as well as a great summer school in nationalism. Here black, white
and Indian soldiers fraternized; here Northerners and Southerners served under the same orders.
Ten thousand soldiers and as many civilians daily attended the best school of its kind ever
held in this country, striving to take home to their hearts the lessons that God is teaching
the nations.

The Rev. Sylvester Malone thus sums up the message of the war to us in his letter to the committee
to welcome Brooklyn's soldiers:

     "This short war has done so much for America at home and
     abroad that we must take every soldier to our warmest
     affection and send him back to peaceful pursuits on the
     conviction that there is nothing higher in our American life
     than to have the privilege to cheer and gladden the marine
     and the soldier that have left to America her brightest and
     best page of a great history. This past war must kindle in
     our souls a love of all the brethren, black as well as
     white, Catholic as well as Protestant, having but one
     language, one nationality, and it is to be hoped, yet one
     religion."

These are true words, as full of patriotism as they are of fraternity, and these are the two
special lessons taught at Montauk--a broad, earnest, practical fraternity, and a love of country
before which the petty prejudices of race and section were compelled to yield ground.

THE YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION IN CAMP WIKOFF.

The Young Men's Christian Association has done an excellent work in Camp Wikoff. Their tents
have afforded facilities for profitable amusements, in the way of quiet games, thus bringing
out the use of these games distinct from their abuse--gambling.

Their reading tables have also been well supplied with papers and magazines, religious and
secular, generally very acceptable to the soldiers, as attested by the numbers that read them.
But perhaps best of all, has been the provision made for the soldiers to write. Tables, pens,
ink, paper and envelopes have been supplied in abundance. These were of great advantage to
soldiers living in tents, and the work of the Association in this respect cannot be too highly
commended.

The specially religious work of the Association as I have seen it, consists of three divisions:
First, the meetings in their tents, held nightly and on Sundays. These have been vigorously
carried on and well attended, the chaplains of the camp often rendering assistance. Secondly,
I have noticed the Y.M.C.A. men visiting the sick in the hospitals and camps, giving the word
of exhortation and help to the sick. Perhaps, however, in their work of private conversation
with the well men, they have done as much real service for God as in either of the other two
fields. They have made the acquaintance of many men and have won the respect of the camp. This
I have numbered as the third division of their work--personal contact with the soldiers of
the camp, at the same time keeping themselves "unspotted from the world."

B.

     The 24th Infantry was ordered down to Siboney to do guard
     duty. When the regiment reached the yellow-fever hospital it
     was found to be in a deplorable condition. Men were dying
     there every hour for the lack of proper nursing. Major
     Markley, who had commanded the regiment since July 1st, when
     Colonel Liscum was wounded, drew his regiment up in line,
     and Dr. La Garde, in charge of the hospital, explained the
     needs of the suffering, at the same time clearly setting
     forth the danger to men who were not immune, of nursing and
     attending yellow-fever patients. Major Markley then said
     that any man who wished to volunteer to nurse in the
     yellow-fever hospital could step forward. The whole regiment
     stepped forward. Sixty men were selected from the volunteers
     to nurse, and within forty-eight hours forty-two of these
     brave fellows were down seriously ill with yellow or
     pernicious malarial fever. Again the regiment was drawn up
     in line, and again Major Markley said that nurses were
     needed, and that any man who wished to do so could
     volunteer. After the object lesson which the men had
     received in the last few days of the danger from contagion
     to which they would be exposed, it was now unnecessary for
     Dr. La Garde to again warn the brave blacks of the terrible
     contagion. When the request for volunteers to replace those
     who had already fallen in the performance of their dangerous
     and perfectly optional duty was made again, the regiment
     stepped forward as one man. When sent down from the trenches
     the regiment consisted of eight companies, averaging about
     forty men each. Of the officers and men who remained on duty
     the forty days spent in Siboney, only twenty-four escaped
     without serious illness, and of this handful not a few
     succumbed to fevers on the voyage home and after their
     arrival at Montauk.

     As a result, thirty-six died and about forty were discharged
     from the regiment owing to disabilities resulting from
     sickness which began in the yellow-fever hospital.--Bonsal's
     Fight for Santiago.

FOOTNOTES:

[20] "After the surrender, dear Chaplain, the real trouble and difficulties began. Such a period,
from July 14, 1898 to August 14, 1898, was never before known to human beings, I hope. The
starving time was nothing to the fever time, where scores died per day. We were not permitted
to starve; but had fever, and had it bad; semi-decayed beef, both from refrigerators and from
cans. We had plenty of fever, but no clothing until very late; no medicine save a little quinine
which was forced into you all the time, intermittent only with bad meat."--Extract from a soldier's
letter.

[21] While the Twenty-fifth Infantry was in camp at Chickamauga Park I was ordered to Xenia,
Ohio, on recruiting duty, and on July 5. on seeing the reports of the wounded I asked officially
to be ordered to my regiment. An order to that effect came about a month later, directing me
to join my regiment by way of Tampa, Florida. Arriving in Tampa, my destination was changed
by telegraph to Montauk Point, N.Y., whither I arrived a few days before the regiment did.

It is time now to sum up the work of the four regiments whose careers we have thus far followed,
and to examine the grounds upon which the golden opinions they won in battle and siege are
based. We have seen that in the first fight, that of Las Guasimas, on June 24th, the Tenth
Cavalry, especially Troops I and B, both with their small arms and with the machine guns belonging
to Troop B, did most effective work against the Spanish right, joining with the First Cavalry
in overcoming that force which was rapidly destroying Roosevelt's Rough Riders. Nor should
it be forgotten that in this first fight, Troop B, which did its full share, was commanded
on the firing line by Sergeants John Buck and James Thompson. In the squad commanded by Sergeant
Thompson several men of the First Regular Cavalry fought and it is claimed were highly pleased
with him as squad commander.

While this was the first fight of the men of the Tenth Cavalry with the Spaniards, it was by
no means their first experience under fire. From the time of the organization of the regiment
in 1866 up to within a year of the war, the men had been engaged frequently in conflicts with
Indians and marauders, often having men killed and wounded in their ranks. The fights were
participated in by small numbers, and the casualties were not numerous, but there were opportunities
for the acquirement of skill and the display of gallantry. Altogether the men of the regiment
during their experience on the plains engaged in sixty-two battles and skirmishes. This training
had transformed the older men of the regiment into veterans and enabled them to be cool and
efficient in their first fight in Cuba.

Sergeant Buck, upon whom the command of Troop B chiefly fell after becoming separated from
his Lieutenant in the battle at Guasimas, joined the regiment in 1880, and had already passed
through eighteen years of the kind of service above described. He was at the time of the Cuban
War in the prime of life, a magnificent horseman, an experienced scout, and a skilled packer.
In 1880, when he joined the regiment, the troops were almost constantly in motion, marching
that one year nearly seventy-seven thousand miles, his own troop covering twelve hundred and
forty-two miles in one month. This troop with four others made a ride of sixty-five miles in
less than twenty-one hours, arriving at their destination without the loss of a single horse.
In 1893 he was mentioned by the commanding officer of Fort Missoula, Montana, for highly meritorious
service, skill and energy displayed while in charge of pack train of an expedition across the
Bitter Root Mountains, Idaho, during the most inclement weather, in quest of a party of gentlemen
lost. (Letter of commanding officer, Fort Missoula, Montana, February 12, 1894.) Sergeant Buck
has also won the silver medal for revolver shooting.

Sergeant James Thompson joined the regiment in 1888, and has passed the ten years in the one
troop, and proved himself at Las Guasimas a soldier worthy his regiment.

The first battle gave the Tenth a reputation in a new field, corresponding to that which it
had gained in the West, and this was not allowed to fade during its stay in Cuba. The fame
of this first action spread rapidly through the army and inspired the other regiments of colored
men with a desire to distinguish themselves on this new field of honor, and their readiness
to be to the front and to take prominent part in all service was so marked that opportunity
could not be withheld from them. As the army advanced toward Santiago these regiments became
more and more the mark of observation by foreign military men who were present, and by the
great throng of correspondents who were the eyes for the people of the civilized world. And
hence, when the lines of assault were finally determined and the infantry and cavalry of our
army deployed for its perilous attack upon the Spanish fortifications the black regiments were
in their places, conspicuous by their vigor and enthusiasm. In them were enlisted men whose
time of service had expired a few days before, but who had promptly re-enlisted. In at least
two cases were men who served their full thirty years and could have retired with honor at
the breaking out of the war. They preferred to share the fortunes of their comrades in arms,
and it is a comfort to be able to record that the two spoken of came home from the fight without
a wound and with health unimpaired. How many others there were in the same case in the army
is not reported, but the supposition is that there were several such in both the white and
colored regiments.

Recalling the scenes of that memorable first of July, 1898, we can see the Twenty-fifth Infantry
advancing steadily on the stone fort at El Caney at one time entirely alone, meeting the fire
of the fort even up to their last rush forward. Captain Loughborough, who commanded Company
B, of that regiment, and although his company was in the reserve, was nevertheless under fire,
says: "The hardest fighting of the Twenty-fifth was between two and four o'clock," at which
time all the other troops of the attacking force, except Bates' brigade, were under cover and
remaining stationary, the Twenty-fifth being the only organization that was advancing. The
official reports give the positions of General Chaffee's brigade during the two hours between
two o'clock and four of that afternoon as follows:

The Seventh was under partial cover and remained in its position "until about 4.30 p.m." The
Seventeenth remained with its left joined to the right of the Seventh "until the battle was
over." The Twelfth Infantry was in its shelter within 350 yards of the fort "until about 4
p.m." Ludlow's brigade was engaged with the town, hence only Miles' brigade, consisting of
the Fourth and Twenty-fifth Infantry, was advancing upon the fort. The Fourth Infantry was
soon checked in its advance, as General Daggett especially notes in his report, and the Twenty-fifth
was thus thrust forward alone, excepting Bates' brigade, which was making its way up the right.

This conspicuous advance of the Twenty-fifth brought that regiment into the view of the world,
and established for it a brilliant reputation for skill and courage. Arriving in the very jaws
of the fort the sharpshooters and marksmen of that regiment poured such a deadly fire into
the loopholes of the fort that they actually silenced it with their rifles. These men with
the sternness of iron and the skill acquired by long and careful training, impressed their
characteristics on the minds of all their beholders. Of the four hundred men who went on the
field that morning very few were recruits, and many had passed over ten years in the service.
In each breast a spirit of bravery had been developed and their skill in the use of their arms
did not for a moment forsake them. Before a less severe fire than this, on that very day, a
regiment of white volunteers had succumbed and was lying utterly demoralized by the roadside;
before this same fire the Second Massachusetts Volunteers were forced to retire--in the face
of it the Twenty-fifth advanced steadily to its goal.

Lieutenant Moss, who commanded Company H on the firing line on that day, has published an account
in which he says: "The town was protected on the north by three blockhouses and the church;
on the west by three blockhouses (and partially by the church); on the east by the stone fort,
one blockhouse, the church, and three rifle pits; on the south and southeast by the stone fort,
three blockhouses, one loop-holed house, the church and eight rifle pits. However, the Second
Brigade was sent forward against the southeast of the town, thus being exposed to fire from
fourteen sources, nearly all of which were in different planes, forming so many tiers of fire.
The cover on the south and southeast of the town was no better than, if as good, as that on
the other sides."

The cavalry regiments were no less conspicuous in their gallantry at San Juan than was the
Twenty-fifth Infantry at El Caney. The brilliancy of that remarkable regiment, the Rough Riders,
commanded on July 1st by Colonel Roosevelt, was so dazzling that it drew attention away from
the ordinary regulars, yet the five regiments of regular cavalry did their duty as thoroughly
on that day as did the regiment of volunteers.[22] In this body of cavalry troops, where courage
was elevated to a degree infringing upon the romantic, the two black regiments took their places,
and were fit to be associated in valor with that highly representative regiment. The Inspector-General
turns aside from mere routine in his report long enough to say "the courage and conduct of
the colored troops and First United States Volunteers seemed always up to the best." That these
black troopers held no second place in valor is proven by their deeds, and from the testimony
of all who observed their conduct, and that they with the other regulars were decidedly superior
in skill was recognized by the volunteer Colonel himself. The Ninth Cavalry, although suffering
considerably in that advance on East Hill, involved as it was, more or less, with Roosevelt's
regiment, did not receive so large a share of public notice as its sister regiment. The strength
of the Ninth was but little over one-half that of the Tenth, and its movements were so involved
with those of the volunteers as to be somewhat obscured by them; the loss also of its commander
just as the first position of the enemy fell into our hands, was a great misfortune to the
regiment. The Ninth, however, was with the first that mounted the heights, and whatever praise
is to be bestowed upon the Rough Riders in that assault is to be distributed in equal degree
to the men of that regiment. Being in the leading brigade of the division this regiment had
been firing steadily upon the Spanish works before the charge was ordered, and when the movement
began the men of the Ninth advanced so rapidly that they were among the first to reach the crest.

The Tenth Regiment, with its Hotchkiss guns, and its trained men, took its place in the line
that morning to add if possible further lustre to the distinction already won. In crossing
the flat, in climbing the heights, and in holding the ridge these brave men did all that could
be expected of them. Roosevelt said: "The colored troops did as well as any soldiers could
possibly do," meaning the colored men of the Ninth and Tenth Cavalry. To their officers he
bestows a meed of praise well deserved, but not on the peculiar ground which he brings forward.
He would have the reader believe that it has required special ability and effort to bring these
colored men up to the condition of good soldiers and to induce them to do so well in battle;
while the testimony of the officers themselves and the experience of more than a quarter of
a century with colored professional troops give no countenance to any such theory. The voice
of experience is that the colored man is specially apt as a soldier, and General Merritt declares
him always brave in battle. The officers commanding colored troops at Santiago honored themselves
in their reports of the battles by giving full credit to the men in the ranks, who by their
resolute advance and their cool and accurate firing dislodged an intrenched foe and planted
the flag of our Union where had floated the ensign of Spain.

That rushing line of dismounted cavalry, so ably directed by Sumner, did not get to its goal
without loss. As it swept across the open to reach the heights, it faced a well-directed fire
from the Spanish works, and men dropped from the ranks, wounded and dying. Of the officers
directing that advance 35 fell either killed or wounded and 328 men. These numbers appear small
when hastily scanned or when brought into comparison with the losses in battle during the Civil
War, but if we take time to imagine 35 officers lying on the ground either killed or wounded
and 328 men in the same condition, the carnage will not appear insignificant. Woe enough followed
even that one short conflict. It must be observed also that the whole strength of this division
was less than 3000 men, so that about one out of every eight had been struck by shot or shell.

Several enlisted men among the colored cavalry displayed high soldierly qualities in this assault,
evidencing a willingness to assume the responsibility of command and the ability to lead. Color-Sergeant
George Berry became conspicuous at once by his brilliant achievement of carrying the colors
of two regiments, those of his own and of the Third Cavalry. The Color-Sergeant of the latter
regiment had fallen and Berry seized the colors and bore them up the hill with his own. The
illustrated press gave some attention to this exploit at the time, but no proper recognition
of it has as yet been made. Sergeant Berry's character as a soldier had been formed long before
this event, and his reputation for daring was already well established. He entered the service
in 1867 and when he carried that flag up San Juan was filling out his thirty-first year in
the service. All this time he had passed in the cavalry and had engaged in many conflicts with
hostile Indians and ruffians on our frontiers.

Perhaps the most important parts taken by any enlisted men in the cavalry division were those
taken by Sergeants Foster and Givens. The former was First Sergeant of Troop G and as the troop
was making its way to the hill by some means the Spaniards were able not only to discover them
but also the direction in which they were moving and to determine their exact range. Sergeant
Foster ventured to tell the Lieutenant in charge that the course of advance should be changed
as they were marching directly into the enemy's guns.

"Silence," shouted the Lieutenant. "Come on, men; follow me." "All right, sir," said the Sergeant;
"we'll go as far as you will." The next instant the Lieutenant was shot through the head, leaving
Sergeant Foster in command. Immediately the troop was deployed out of the dangerous range and
the Sergeant by the exercise of good judgment brought his men to the crest of the hill without
losing one from his ranks. At the time of this action Sergeant Foster was a man who would readily
command attention. Born in Texas and a soldier almost continuously since 1875, part of which
time had been passed in an infantry regiment, he had acquired valuable experience. In 1888,
while serving in the cavalry, he had been complimented in General Orders for skill in trailing
raiding parties in Arizona. He was a resolute and stalwart soldier, an excellent horseman and
possessed of superior judgment, and with a reputation for valor which none who knew him would
question. The return of Troop G, Tenth Cavalry, for July, 1898, contains the following note:
"Lieutenant Roberts was wounded early in the engagement; Lieutenant Smith was killed about
10.30 a.m. while gallantly leading the troop in the advance line. After Lieutenant Smith fell
the command of the troop devolved upon First Sergeant Saint Foster, who displayed remarkable
intelligence and ability in handling the troop during the remainder of the day. Sergeant Foster's
conduct was such as cannot be excelled for valor during the operations around Santiago. He
commanded the troop up the hills of San Juan."

Sergeant William H. Givens, of Troop D, Tenth Cavalry, also commanded in the action against
San Juan. His Captain, who was wounded three times in the fight, being finally disabled before
reaching the hill, makes the following report: "Sergeant William H. Givens was with the platoon
which I commanded; whenever I observed him he was at his post exercising a steadying or encouraging
influence on the men, and conducting himself like the thorough soldier that I have long known
him to be. I understand to my great satisfaction that he has been rewarded by an appointment
to a lieutenancy in an immune regiment."

The Descriptive list of Sergeant Givens, made on August 4th, 1898, contains these remarks:

     "Commanded his troop with excellent judgment after his
     captain fell at the battle of San Juan, July 1, 1898,
     leading it up the hill to the attack of the blockhouse.

     "Character: A most excellent soldier."[23]

Sergeant Givens may also be called an "old-timer." He had enlisted in '69, and had passed all
that time in hard frontier service. The troop in which he enlisted during the years 1876-78
was almost constantly engaged with hostile Indians along the Mexican border, and Sergeant Givens
was called upon to take part in numerous scouts in which there were many striking adventures.
He was also in that memorable campaign against Victoria, conducted by General Grierson. Sergeant
Givens was an ideal soldier and worthy the commendations bestowed upon him by his troop commander
and others. Captain Bigelow received his disabling wound about seventy-five yards from the
blockhouse and was taken to the rear under heavy fire by two soldiers of the troop by the name
of Henderson and Boardman.

Lieutenant Kennington, reporting the work of the troop on that morning says that Corporal J.
Walker was probably the first soldier to reach the top of the hill and is believed to have
shot the Spaniard who killed Lieutenant Ord. The report containing the above statement is dated
July 5, 1898. Since that time the matter has been fully investigated by Captain Bigelow and
the fact ascertained that Corporal Walker did arrive first on the hill and did shoot the Spaniard
referred to and he has been recommended for a Medal of Honor in consequence.

The Sergeant-Major of the Tenth Cavalry, Mr. E.L. Baker, who served with great credit during
the Santiago campaign, is a soldier with an excellent record. He was born of French and American
parentage in Wyoming and enlisted in the Ninth Cavalry as trumpeter in 1882, serving five years
in that regiment. He then enlisted in the Tenth Cavalry, and in 1892 became Sergeant-Major.
Being desirous of perfecting himself in the cavalry service he applied for an extended furlough
with permission to leave the country, intending to enter a cavalry school in France. In this
desire he was heartily endorsed by the officers of his regiment, and was specially commended
by General Miles, who knew him as a soldier and who highly appreciated him as such. The breaking
out of the Spanish war soon after he had made application prevented a full consideration of
his case. In 1897 Sergeant-Major Baker published a specially valuable "Roster of the Non-Commissioned
Officers of the Tenth U.S. Cavalry, with Some Regimental Reminiscences, etc.," which has been
of marked service in the preparation of the sketches of the enlisted men of his regiment. He
contributes the interesting sketch of his experiences in Cuba with his regiment, which follows
this chapter, and which will prove to many perhaps the most interesting portion of my book.

The Twenty-fourth Infantry advanced in that line of attack on the extreme left and reached
the crest of the San Juan Hills in such numbers as to lead the press correspondents and others
to conclude that there were more men of this regiment promptly on the ground than of any other
one regiment. It is certain they made a record for heroism in that assault as bright as any
won on the field that day; and this record they raised to a magnificent climax by their subsequent
work in the fever hospital at Siboney. For their distinguished service both in the field and
in the hospital, the colored ladies of New York honored themselves in presenting the regiment
the beautiful stand of colors already mentioned. As these fever-worn veterans arrived at Montauk
they presented a spectacle well fitted to move strong men to tears. In solemn silence they
marched from on board the transport Nueces, which had brought them from Cuba, and noiselessly
they dragged their weary forms over the sandy roads and up the hill to the distant "detention
camp." Twenty-eight of their number were reported sick, but the whole regiment was in ill-health.

These were the men who had risked their lives and wrecked their health in service for others.
Forty days they had stood face to face with death. In their soiled, worn and faded clothing,
with arms uncleaned, emaciated, and with scarce strength enough to make the march before them,
as they moved on that hot 2nd of September from the transport to the camp, they appeared more
like a funeral procession than heroes returning from the war; and to the credit of our common
humanity it may be recorded that they were greeted, not with plaudits and cheers, but with
expressions of real sympathy. Many handkerchiefs were brought into view, not to wave joyous
welcome, but to wipe away the tears that came from overflowing hearts. At no time did human
nature at Montauk appear to better advantage than in its silent, sympathetic reception of the
Twenty-fourth Infantry. These men came up to Montauk from great tribulations which should have
washed their robes to a resplendent whiteness in the eyes of the whole people. Great Twenty-fourth,
we thank thee for the glory thou hast given to American soldiery, and to the character of the
American Negro!

Thus these four colored regiments took their place on the march, in camp, in assault and in
siege with the flower of the American Army, the choice and pick of the American nation, and
came off acknowledged as having shared equally in heroism and sacrifices with the other regular
regiments so engaged, and deserving of special mention for the exhibition of regard for the
welfare of their fellow man. The query is now pertinent as to the return which has been made
to these brave men. The question of Ahasuerus when told of the valuable services of the Jew,
Mordecai, is the question which the better nature of the whole American people should ask on
hearing the general report of the valuable services of the Negro Regular in the Spanish War.
When Ahasuerus asked: "What honor and dignity hath been done to Mordecai for this?" his servants
that ministered unto him were compelled to answer: "There is nothing done for him." Looking
over these four regiments at the time of this writing an answer somewhat similar in force must
be returned. That the colored soldier is entitled to honor and dignity must be admitted by
all who admire brave deeds, or regard the welfare of the state. The colored soldier, however,
was compelled to stand by and see a hundred lieutenancies filled in the Regular Army, many
in his own regiments, only to find himself overlooked and to be forced to feel that his services
however valuable, could not outweigh the demerit of his complexion.

The sum total of permanent advantage secured to the colored regular as such, in that bloody
ordeal where brave men gave up their lives for their country's honor, consists of a few certificates
of merit entitling the holders to two dollars per month additional pay as long as they remain
in the service. Nor is this all, or even the worst of the matter. Men who served in the war
as First Sergeants, and who distinguished themselves in that capacity, have been allowed to
go back to their old companies to serve in inferior positions. Notably is this the case with
Sergeant William H. Givens, whose history has been detailed as commanding Troop D, Tenth Cavalry,
after Captain Bigelow fell, and who heroically led the troop up the hill. He is now serving
in his old troop as Corporal, his distinction having actually worked his reduction rather than
substantial promotion.

It must not be inferred from the foregoing, however, that nothing whatever was done in recognition
of the gallantry of the colored regulars. Something was done. Cases of individual heroism were
so marked, and so numerous, that they could not be ignored. The men who had so distinguished
themselves could not be disposed of by special mention and compliments in orders. Something
more substantial was required. Fortunately for such purpose four regiments of colored United
States Volunteer Infantry were then in course of organization, in which the policy had been
established that colored men should be accepted as officers below the grade of captain. Into
these regiments the colored men who had won distinction at Santiago were placed, many as Second
Lieutenants, although some were given First Lieutenancies. This action of the Government was
hailed with great delight on the part of the colored Americans generally, and the honors were
accepted very gratefully by the soldiers who had won them on the field. Fortunately as this
opening seemed, it turned out very disappointing. It soon became evident that these regiments
would be mustered out of the service, as they had proven themselves no more immune, so far
as it could be determined from the facts, than other troops. The Lieutenants who had been most
fortunate in getting their commissions early got about six or seven months' service, and then
the dream of their glory departed and they fell back to the ranks to stand "attention" to any
white man who could muster political influence sufficient to secure a commission. Their day
was short, and when they were discharged from the volunteer service, there appeared no future
for them as commissioned officers. Their occupation was indeed gone. It was for them a most
disappointing and exasperating promotion, resulting in some cases in loss of standing and in
financial injury. Their honors were too short-lived, and too circumscribed, to be much more
than a lively tantalization, to be remembered with disgust by those who had worn them. Cruel,
indeed, was the prejudice that could dictate such a policy to the brave black men of San Juan.
The black heroes, however, were not without sympathy in their misfortune. The good people of
the country had still a warm place in their hearts for the colored soldier, despite the sayings
of his maligners.

The people of Washington, D.C., had an opportunity to testify their appreciation of the Tenth
Cavalry as that regiment passed through their city on its way to its station in Alabama, and
later a portion of it was called to Philadelphia to take part in the Peace Jubilee, and no
troops received more generous attention. To express in some lasting form their regard for the
regiment and its officers, some patriotic citizens of Philadelphia presented a handsome saber
to Captain Charles G. Ayres, who had charge of the detachment which took part in the Peace
Jubilee, "as a token of their appreciation of the splendid conduct of the regiment in the campaign
of Santiago, and of its superb soldierly appearance and good conduct during its attendance
at the Jubilee Parade in Philadelphia."

Likewise when the Twenty-fifth Infantry arrived at its station at Fort Logan, Colorado, the
people of Denver gave to both officers and men a most cordial reception, and invited them at
once to take part in their fall carnival. All over the country there was at that time an unusual
degree of good feeling toward the colored soldier who had fought so well, and no one seemed
to begrudge him the rest which came to him or the honors bestowed upon him.

This state of feeling did not last. Before the year closed assiduous efforts were made to poison
the public mind toward the black soldier, and history can but record that these efforts were
too successful. The three hundred colored officers became an object at which both prejudice
and jealousy could strike; but to reach them the reputation of the entire colored contingent
must be assailed. This was done with such vehemence and persistency that by the opening of
1899 the good name of the black regular was hidden under the rubbish of reports of misconduct.
So much had been said and done, even in Denver, which had poured out its welcome words to the
heroes of El Caney, that the Ministerial Alliance of that city, on February 6, 1899, found
it necessary to take up the subject, and that body expressed itself in the unanimous adoption
of the following resolutions:

     RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED UNANIMOUSLY BY THE MINISTERIAL ALLIANCE
     OF DENVER, FEBRUARY 6, 1899.

     Resolved, By the Ministerial Alliance of the City of
     Denver, that the attempt made in certain quarters to have
     the Twenty-fifth Regiment, United States Infantry, removed
     from Fort Logan, appears to this body to rest on no just
     grounds, to be animated on the contrary by motives unworthy
     and discreditable to Denver and the State, and that
     especially in view of the heroic record of the Twenty-fifth
     Regiment, its presence here is an honor to Denver and
     Colorado, which this Alliance would regret to have
     withdrawn.[24]

The mustering out of the volunteers about the time this opposition was approaching what appeared
to be a climax, causing the removal from the service of the colored officers, appeased the
wrath of the demon, and the waves of the storm gradually sank to a peace, gratifying, indeed,
to those who shuddered to see a black man with shoulder-straps. As the last Negro officer descended
from the platform and honorably laid aside his sword to take his place as a citizen of the
Republic, or a private in her armies, that class of our citizenship breathed a sigh of relief.
What mattered it to them whether justice were done; whether the army were weakened; whether
individuals were wronged; they were relieved from seeing Negroes in officers' uniforms, and
that to them is a most gracious portion. The discharge of the volunteers was to them the triumph
of their prejudices, and in it they took great comfort, although as a matter of fact it was
a plain national movement coming about as a logical sequence, entirely independent of their
whims or wishes. The injustice to the Negro officer does not lie in his being mustered out
of the volunteer service, but in the failure to provide for a recognition of his valor in the
nation's permanent military establishment.

The departure of the colored man from the volunteer service was the consequent disappearance
of the colored military officer, with the single exception of Lieutenant Charles Young of the
Regular Cavalry, had a very depressing effect upon the colored people at large, and called
forth from their press and their associations most earnest protests. With a few exceptions,
these protests were encouched in respectful language toward the President and his advisers,
but the grounds upon which they were based were so fair and just, that right-thinking men could
not avoid their force. The following resolution, passed by the National Afro-American Council,
may be taken as representative of the best form of such remonstrance:

