"Mother can just think of me for once. It will be a bit of a change for her. It will do her
good. I've told her whom I want to marry, and she must just get used to it. She admits herself
that she can't have anything against you personally, except that you're too young. I asked
her whether she wanted me to marry a Dowager of sixty."

Joan moved away. She walked to the window and looked out at the grey mist sweeping like an
army of ghostly messengers across the Cathedral Green. She turned round to him.

"No, Johnny, this time it isn't a joke. I mean absolutely what I say. We're not to meet alone
or to write until--father doesn't need me any more. I can't think, I mustn't think, of anything
but father now. Nothing that you can say, or any one can say, will make me change my mind about
that now.... And please go, Johnny, because it's so hard while you're here. And we must do
it. I'll never change, but you're free to, and you ought to. It's your duty to find some one
more satisfactory than me."

But Johnny appeared not to have heard her last words. He had been looking about him, at the
walls, the windows, the ceiling--rather as a young dog sniffs some place new to him.

"Joan, tell me. Are you all right here? You oughtn't to be all alone here like this, just with
your father. Can't you get some one to come and stay?"

"No," she answered bravely. "Of course it's all right. I've got Gladys, who's been with us
for years."

"There's something funny," he said, still looking about him. "It feels queer to me--sort of
unhappy."

"Never mind that," she said, hurriedly moving towards the door, as though she had heard footsteps.
"You must go, Johnny. Kiss me once, the last time. And then no letters, no anything, until--until--father's
happy again."

She rested in his arms, suddenly tranquil, safe, at peace. Her hands were round his neck. She
kissed his eyes. They clung together, suddenly two children, utterly confident in one another
and in their mutual faith.

A hand was on the door. They separated. The Archdeacon came in. He peered into the dusky room.

"Joan! Joan! Are you there?"

She came across to him. "Yes, father, here I am. And this is Lord St. Leath."

"How do you do, sir?" said Johnny.

"How do you do? I hope your mother is well."

"Very well, thank you, sir."

"That's good, that's good. I have some business to discuss with her. Rather important business;
I may come and see her to-morrow afternoon if she is disengaged; Will you kindly tell her?"

"Indeed I will, sir."

"Thank you. Thank you. This room is very dark. Why are there no lights? Joan, you should have
lights. There's no one else here, is there?"

"No, father."

Johnny heard their voices echoing in the empty hall as he let himself out.

Brandon shut his study door and looked about him. The lamp on his table was lit, his study
had a warm and pleasant air with the books gleaming in their shelves and the fire crackling.
(You needed a fire on these late summer evenings.) Nevertheless, although the room looked comfortable,
he did not at once move into it. He stood there beside the door, as though he was waiting for
something. He listened. The house was intensely quiet. He opened the door and looked into the
passage. There was no one there. The gas hissed ever so slightly, like a whispering importunate
voice. He came back into his room, closing the door very carefully behind him, went across
softly to his writing-table, sat down, and took up his pen. His eyes were fixed on the door,
and then suddenly he would jerk round in his chair as though he expected to catch some one
who was standing just behind him.

Then began that fight that always now must be waged whenever he sat down at his desk, the fight
to drive his thoughts, like sheep, into the only pen that they must occupy. He must think now
only of one thing; there were others--pictures, ideas, memories, fears, horrors even--crowding,
hovering close about him, and afterwards--after Pybus--he would attend to them. Only one thing
mattered now. "Yes, you gibbering idiots, do your worst; knock me down. Come on four to one
like the cowards that you are, strike me in the back, take my wife from me, and ruin my house.
I will attend to all of you shortly, but first--Pybus."

His lips were moving as he turned over the papers. Was there some one in the room with him?
His head was aching so badly that it was difficult to think. And his heart! How strangely that
behaved in these days! Five heavy slow beats, then a little skip and jump, then almost as though
it had stopped beating altogether.

Another thing that made it difficult to work in that room was that the Cathedral seemed so
close. It was not close really, although you could, so often, hear the organ, but now Brandon
had the strange fancy that it had drawn closer during these last weeks, and was leaning forward
with its ear to his house, listening just as a man might! Funny how Brandon now was always
thinking of the Cathedral as a person! Stones and bricks and mortar and bits of glass, that's
what the Cathedral was, and yet lately it had seemed to move and have a being of its own.

Fancies! Fancies! Really Brandon must attend to his business, this business of Pybus and Forsyth,
which in a week now was to be settled. He talked to himself as he turned the papers over. He
had seen the Bishop, and Ryle (more or less persuaded), and Bentinck-Major (dark horse, never
could be sure of him), Foster, Rogers...Foster? Foster? Had he seen Foster? Why did the mention
of that name suddenly commence the unveiling for him of a scene upon which, he must not look?
The crossing the bridge, up the hill, at the turnstile, paying your shilling...no, no, no farther.
And Bentinck-Major! That man laughed at him! Positively he dared, when a year ago he would
have bent down and wiped the dust off his shoes! Positively!

That man! That worm! That mean, sycophantic...He was beginning to get angry. He must not get
angry. That's what Puddifoot had said, that had been the one thing that old Puddifoot had said
correctly. He must not get angry, not even with--Ronder.

At the mention of that name something seemed to stir in the room, some one to move closer.
Brandon's heart began to race round like a pony in a paddock. Very bad. Must keep quiet. Never
get excited. Then for a moment his thoughts did range, roaming over that now so familiar ground
of bewilderment. Why? Why? Why?

Why a year ago that, and now this? When he had done no one in the world any harm and had served
God so faithfully? Why? Why? Why?

Back, back to Pybus. This wasn't work. He had much to do and no time to lose. That enemy of
his was working, you could be sure of that. Only a week! Only a week!

Was that some one moving in the room? Was there some one stealing behind him, as they had done
once, as...? He turned sharply round, rising in his chair. No one there. He got up and began
stealthily to pace the floor. The worst of it was that however carefully you went you could
never be quite sure that some one was not just behind you, some one very clever, measuring
his steps by yours. You could never be sure. How still the house was! He stopped by his door,
after a moment's hesitation opened it and looked out. No one there, only the gas whispering.

What was he doing, staring into the hall? He should be working, making sure of his work. He
went back to his table. He began hurriedly to write a letter:

  DEAR FOSTER--I cannot help feeling that I did not make myself quite
  clear when I was speaking to you yesterday about Forsyth as the best
  incumbent of the Pybus living. When I say best, I mean, of course, most
  suitable.

When he said best did he meant most suitable? Suitable was not perhaps exactly the word for
Forsyth. It was something other than a question of mere suitability. It was a keeping out of
the bad, as well as a bringing in of the good. Suitable was not the word that he wanted. What
did he want? The words began to jump about on the paper, and suddenly out of the centre of
his table there stretched and extended the figure of Miss Milton. Yes, there she was in her
shabby clothes and hat, smirking.... He dashed his hand at her and she vanished. He sprang
up. This was too bad. He must not let these fancies get hold of him. He went into the hall.

He called out loudly, his voice echoing through the house, "Joan! Joan!"

Almost at once she came. Strange the relief that he felt! But he wouldn't show it. She must
notice nothing at all out of the ordinary.

She sat close to him at their evening meal and talked to him about everything that came into
her young head. Sometimes he wished that she wouldn't talk so much; she hadn't talked so much
in earlier days, had she? But he couldn't remember what she had done in earlier days.

He was very particular now about his food. Always he had eaten whatever was put in front of
him with hearty and eager appreciation; now he seemed to have very little appetite. He was
always complaining about the cooking. The potatoes were hard, the beef was underdone, the pastry
was heavy. And sometimes he would forget altogether that he was eating, and would sit staring
in front of him, his food neglected on his plate.

It was not easy for Joan. Not easy to choose topics that were not dangerous. And so often he
was not listening to her at all. Perhaps at no other time did she pity him so much, and love
him so much, as when she saw him staring in front of him, his eyes puzzled, bewildered, piteous,
like those of an animal caught in a trap. All her old fear of him was gone, but a new fear
had come in its place. Sometimes, in quite the old way, he would rap out suddenly, "Nonsense--stuff
and nonsense!...As though he knew anything about it!" or would once again take the whole place,
town and Cathedral and all of them, into his charge with something like, "I knew how to manage
the thing. What they would have done without-- " But these defiances never lasted.

They would fade away into bewilderment and silence.

He would complain continually of his head, putting his hand suddenly up to it, and saying,
like a little child:

"My head's so bad. Such a headache!" But he would refuse to see Puddifoot; had seen him once,
and had immediately quarrelled with him, and told him that he was a silly old fool and knew
nothing about anything, and this when Puddifoot had come with the noblest motives, intending
to patronise and condole.

After dinner to-night Joan and he went into the drawing-room. Often, after dinner, he vanished
into the study "to work"--but to-night he was "tired, very tired--my dear. So much effort in
connection with this Pybus business. What'a come to the town I don't know. A year ago the matter
would have been simple enough...anything so obvious...."

He sat in his old arm-chair, whence for so many years he had delivered his decisive judgments.
No decisive judgments tonight! He was really tired, lying back, his eyes closed, his hands
twitching ever so slightly on his knees.

Joan sat near to him, struggling to overcome her fear. She felt that if only she could grasp
that fear, like a nettle, and hold it tightly in her hand it would seem so slight and unimportant.
But she could not grasp it. It was compounded of so many things, of the silence and the dulness,
of the Precincts and the Cathedral, of whispering trees and steps on the stairs, of her father
and something strange that now inhabited him like a new guest in their house, of her loneliness
and of her longing for some friend with whom she could talk, of her ache for Johnny and his
comforting, loving smile, but most of all, strangely, of her own love for her father, and her
desire, her poignant desire, that he should be happy again. She scarcely missed her mother,
she did not want her to come back; but she ached and ached to see once again that happy flush
return to her father's cheek, that determined ring to his voice, that buoyant confident movement
to his walk.

To-night she could not be sure whether he slept or no. She watched him, and the whole world
seemed to hold its breath. Suddenly an absurd fancy seized her. She fought against it for a
time, sitting there, her hands tightly clenched. Then suddenly it overcame her. Some one was
listening outside the window; she fancied that she could see him--tall, dark, lean, his face
pressed against the pane.

She rose very softly and stole across the floor, very gently drew back one of the curtains
and looked out. It was dark and she could see nothing-- only the Cathedral like a grey web
against a sky black as ink. A lamp, across the Green, threw a splash of orange in the middle
distance--no other light. The Cathedral seemed to be very close to the house.

She closed the curtain and then heard her father call her.

"Joan! Joan! Where are you?"

She came back and stood by his chair. "I was only looking out to see what sort of a night it
was, father dear," she said.

He suddenly smiled. "I had a pleasant little nap then," he said; "my head's better. There.
Sit down close to me. Bring your chair nearer. We're all alone here now, you and I. We must
make a lot of one another."

He had paid so little attention to her hitherto that she suddenly realised now that her loneliness
had, during these last weeks, been the hardest thing of all to bear. She drew her chair close
to his and he took her hand.

"Yes, yes, it's quite true. I don't know what I should have done without you during these last
weeks. You've been very good to your poor, stupid, old father!"

She murmured something, and he burst out, "Oh, yes, they do! That's what they say! I know how
they talk. They want to get me out of the way and change the place--put in unbelievers and
atheists. But they shan't--not while I have any breath in my body--" He went on more gently,
"Why just think, my dear, they actually want to have that man Wistons here. An atheist! A denier
of Christ's divinity! Here worshipping in the Cathedral! And when I try to stop it they say
I'm mad. Oh, yes! They do! I've heard them. Mad. Out-of-date. They've laughed at me--ever since--ever
since... that elephant, you know, dear...that began it...the Circus...."

She leaned over him.

"Father dear, you mustn't pay so much attention to what they say. You imagine so much just
because you aren't very well and have those headaches--and--and--because of other things. You
imagine things that aren't true. So many people here love you----"

"Love me!" he burst out suddenly, starting up in his chair. "When they set upon me, five of
them, from behind and beat me! There in public with the lights and the singing." He caught
her hand, gripping it. "There's a conspiracy, Joan. I know it. I've seen it a long time. And
I know who started it and who paid them to follow me. Everywhere I go, there they are, following
me.

"That old woman with her silly hat, she followed me into my own house. Yes, she did! 'I'll
read you a letter,' she said. 'I hate you, and I'll make you cry out over this.' They're all
in it. He's setting them on. But he shan't have his way. I'll fight him yet. Even my own son----"
His voice broke.

Joan knelt at his feet, looking up into his face. "Father! Falk wants to come and see you!
I've had a letter from him. He wants to come and ask your forgiveness--he loves you so much."

He got up from his chair, almost pushing her away from him. "Falk! Falk! I don't know any one
called that. I haven't got a son----"

He turned, looking at her. Then suddenly put his arms around her and kissed her, holding her
tight to his breast.

"You're a good girl," he said. "Dear Joan! I'm glad you've not left me too. I love you, Joan,
and I've not been good enough to you. Oh, no, I haven't! Many things I might have done, and
now it's too late...too late..."

He kissed her again and again, stroking her hair, then he said that he was tired, very tired--he'd
sleep to-night. He went slowly upstairs.

He undressed rapidly, flinging off his clothes as though they hurt him. As though some one
else had unexpectedly come into the room, he saw himself standing before the long glass in
the dressing-room, naked save for his vest. He looked at himself and laughed.

How funny he looked only in his vest--how funny were he to walk down the High Street like that!
They would say he was mad. And yet he wouldn't be mad. He would be just as he was now. He pulled
the vest off over his head and continued to stare at himself. It was as though he were looking
at some one else's body. The long toes, the strong legs, the thick thighs, the broad hairless
chest, the stout red neck--and then those eyes, surely not his, those strange ironical eyes!
He passed his hand down his side and felt the cool strong marble of his flesh. Then suddenly
he was cold and he hurried into his night-shirt and his dressing-gown.

He sat on his bed. Something deep down in him was struggling to come up. Some thought...some
feeling...some name. Falk! It was as though a bell were ringing, at a great distance, in the
sleeping town--but ringing only for him. Falk! The pain, the urgent pain, crept closer. Falk!
He got up from his bed, opened his door, looked out into the dark and silent house, stepped
forward, carefully, softly, his old red dressing-gown close about him, stumbling a little on
the stairs, feeling the way to his study door.

He sat in his arm-chair huddled up. "Falk! Falk! Oh, my boy, my boy, come back, come back!
I want you, I want to be with you, to see you, to touch you, to hear your voice! I want to
love you!

"Love--Love! I never wanted love before, but now I want it, desperately, desperately, some
one to love me, some one for me to love, some one to be kind to. Falk, my boy. I'm so lonely.
It's so dark. I can't see things as I did. It's getting darker.

"Falk, come back and help me...."

Chapter III

Prelude to Battle

That night he slept well and soundly, and in the morning woke tranquil and refreshed. His life
seemed suddenly to have taken a new turn. As he lay there and watched the sunlight run through
the lattices like strands of pale-coloured silk, it seemed to him that he was through the worst.
He did what he had not done for many days, allowed the thought of his wife to come and dwell
with him.

He went over many of their past years together, and, nodding his head, decided that he had
been often to blame. Then the further thought of what she had done, of her adultery, of her
last letter, these like foul black water came sweeping up and darkened his mind.... No more.
No more. He must do as he had done. Think only of Pybus. Fight that, win his victory, and then
turn to what lay behind. But the sunlight no longer danced for him, he closed his eyes, turned
on his side, and prayed to God out of his bewilderment.

After breakfast he started out. A restless urgency drove him forth. The Chapter Meeting at
which the new incumbent of Pybus was to be chosen was now only three days distant, and all
the work in connection with that was completed--but Brandon could not be still. Some members
of the Chapter he had seen over and over again during the last months, and had pressed Rex
Forsyth's claims upon them without ceasing, but this thing had become a symbol to him now--a
symbol of his fight with Ronder, of his battle for the Cathedral, of his championship, behind
that, of the whole cause of Christ's Church.

It seemed to him that if he were defeated now in this thing it would mean that God Himself
had deserted him. At the mere thought of defeat his heart began to leap in his breast and the
flags of the pavement to run before his eyes. But it could not be. He had been tested; like
Job, every plague had been given to him to prove him true, but this last would shout to the
world that his power was gone and that the Cathedral that he loved had no longer a place for
him. And then--and then-----

He would not, he must not, look. At the top of the High Street he met Ryle the Precentor. There
had been a time when Ryle was terrified by the Archdeacon; that time was not far distant, but
it was gone. Nevertheless, even though the Archdeacon were suddenly old and sick and unimportant,
you never could tell but that he might say something to somebody that it would be unpleasant
to have said. "Politeness all the way round" was Ryle's motto, and a very safe one too. Moreover,
Ryle, when he could rise above his alarm for the safety of his own position, was a kindly man,
and it really was sad to see the poor Archdeacon so pale and tired, the scratch on his cheek,
even now not healed, giving him a strangely battered appearance.

And how would Ryle have liked Mrs. Ryle to leave him? And how would he feel if his son, Anthony
(aged at present five), ran away with the daughter of a publican? And how, above all, would
he feel did he know that the whole town was talking about him and saying "Poor Precentor!"?
But perhaps the Archdeacon did not know. Strange the things that people did not know about
themselves!--and at that thought the Precentor went goose-fleshy all over, because of the things
that at that very moment people might be saying about him and he knowing none of them!

All this passed very swiftly through Ryle's mind, and was quickly strangled by hearing Brandon
utter in quite his old knock-you-down-if-you- don't-get-out-of-my-way voice, "Ha! Ryle! Out
early this morning! I hope you're not planning any more new-fangled musical schemes for us!"

Oh, well! if the Archdeacon were going to take that sort of tone with him, Ryle simply wasn't
going to stand it! Why should he? To-day isn't six months ago.

"That's all right, Archdeacon," he said stiffly. "Ronder and I go through a good deal of the
music together now. He's very musical, you know. Every one seems quite satisfied." That ought
to get him--my mention of Ronder's name.... At the same time Ryle didn't wish to seem to have
gone over to the other camp altogether, and he was just about to say something gently deprecatory
of Ronder when, to his astonishment, he perceived that Brandon simply hadn't heard him at all!
And then the Archdeacon took his arm and marched with him down the High Street.

"With regard to this Pybus business, Precentor," he was saying, "the matter now will be settled
in another three days. I hope every one realises the extreme seriousness of this audacious
plot to push a heretic like this man Wistons into the place. I'm sure that every one does realise
it. There can be no two opinions about it, of course. At the same time----"

How very uncomfortable! There had been a time when the Precentor would have been proud indeed
to walk down the High Street arm-in-arm with the Archdeacon. But that time was past. The High
Street was crowded. Any one might see them. They would take it for granted that the Precentor
was of the Archdeacon's party. And to be seen thus affectionately linked with the Archdeacon
just now, when his family affairs were in so strange a disorder, when he himself was behaving
so oddly, when, as it was whispered, at the Jubilee Fair he had engaged in a scuffle of a most
disreputable kind. The word "Drink" was mentioned.

Ryle tried, every so gently, to disengage his arm. Brandon's hand was of steel.

"This seems to me," the Archdeacon was continuing, "a most critical moment in our Cathedral's
history. If we don't stand together now we--we--"

The Archdeacon's hand relaxed. His eyes wandered. Ryle detached his arm. How strange the man
was! Why, there was Samuel Hogg on the other side of the street!

He had taken his hat off and was smiling. How uncomfortable! How unpleasant to be mixed in
this kind of encounter! How Mrs. Ryle, would dislike it if she knew!

But his mind was speedily taken off his own affairs. He was conscious of the Archdeacon, standing
at his full height, his eyes, as he afterwards described it a thousand times, "bursting from
his head." Then, "before you could count two," the Archdeacon was striding across the street.

It was a sunny morning, people going about their ordinary business, every one smiling and happy.
Suddenly Ryle saw the Archdeacon stop in front of Hogg; himself started across the street,
urged he knew not by what impulse, saw Hogg's ugly sneering face, saw the Archdeacon's arm
shoot out, catch Hogg one, two terrific blows in the face, saw Hogg topple over like a heap
of clothes falling from their peg, was in time to hear the Archdeacon crying out, "You dirty
spy! You'd set upon me from behind, would you? Afraid to meet me face to face, are you? Take
that, then, and that!" And then shout, "It's daylight! It's daylight now! Stand up and face
me, you coward!"

The next thing of which the terrified Ryle was conscious was that people were running up from
all sides. They seemed to spring from nowhere. He saw, too, how Hogg, the blood streaming from
his face, lay there on his back, not attempting to move. Some were bending down behind him,
holding his head, others had their hands about Brandon, holding him back. Errand- boys were
running, people were hurrying from the shops, voices raised on every side--a Constable slowly
crossed the street--Ryle slipped away--

Joan had gone out at once after breakfast that morning to the little shop, Miss Milligan's,
in the little street behind the Precincts, to see whether she could not get some of that really
fresh fruit that only Miss Milligan seemed able to obtain. She was for some little time in
the shop, because Miss Milligan always had a great deal to say about her little nephew Benjie,
who was at the School as a day-boy and was likely to get a scholarship, and was just now suffering
from boils. Joan was a good listener and a patient, so that it was quite late--after ten o'clock--as
she hurried back.

Just by the Arden Gate Ellen Stiles met her.

"Oh, you poor child!" she cried; "aren't you at home? I was just hurrying up to see whether
I could be of any sort of help to you!"

"Any help?" echoed Joan, seeing at once, in the nodding blue plume in Ellen's hat, forebodings
of horrible disaster.

"What, haven't you heard?" cried Ellen, pitying from the bottom of her heart the child's white
face and terrified eyes.

"No! What? Oh, tell me quickly! What has happened? To father--"

"I don't know exactly myself," said Ellen. "That's what I was hurrying up to find out.... Your
father...he's had some sort of fight with that horrible man Hogg in the High Street.... No,
I don't know...But wait a minute...."

Joan was gone, scurrying through the Precincts, the paper bag with the fruit clutched tightly
to her.

Ellen Stiles stared after her; her eyes were dim with kindness. There was nothing now that
she would not do for that girl and her poor father! Knocked down to the ground they were, and
Ellen championed them wherever she went. And now this! Drink or madness--perhaps both! Poor
man! Poor man! And that child, scarcely out of the cradle, with all this on her shoulders!
Ellen would do anything for them! She would go round later in the day and see how she could
be useful.

