Electric heating is, however, the method which will probably take precedence over others in
all those cases where systems are tried on their actual merits apart from sentiment or usage.
The wonderful facility afforded by the electric heating wire for the distribution of a moderate
degree of warmth, in exactly the proportions in which it may be needed, gives the electric
method an enormous advantage over its rivals. The fundamental principle upon which heating
by electricity is generally arranged depends upon the fact that a thin wire offers more electrical
resistance to the passage of a current than a thick one, and therefore becomes heated. In the
case of the incandescent lamp, in which the carbon filament requires to be raised to a white
heat and must be free to emit its light without interference from opaque matter, it is necessary
to protect the resisting and glowing material by nearly exhausting the air from the hermetically
sealed globe or bulb in which it is enclosed.

But in electrical house-warming, for which a white heat is not required and in which the necessary
protection from the air can be secured by embedding the conveying medium in opaque solid material,
the problem becomes much simpler, because strong metallic wires can be used, and they may be
enclosed in any kind of cement which does not corrode them and which distributes the heat while
refusing to conduct the electric current. A network of wire, crossing and recrossing but always
carrying the same current, may be embedded in plaster and a gentle heat may be imparted to
the whole mass through the resistance of the wires to the electricity and their contact with
the non-conducting material.

Concurrently with this method of heating there is gradually being introduced a practice of
using metallic lathing for the plastering of dwelling-rooms in place of the old wooden battens
generally employed for lath-and-plaster work. The solution of the practical problem which has
to be faced seems to depend upon the prospect of effecting a compromise between the two systems,
introducing thin resisting wire as the metallic element in such work, but making all other
components from non-conducting material. In the event of any "cut-out" or "short-circuiting"
occurring through accidental injury to the wall, it would be very inconvenient to be compelled
to knock away the plaster. Moreover, it is not necessary for ordinary warming purposes that
the whole of the wall, up to the ceiling, should be heated.

Accordingly the system which is likely to commend itself is that of constructing panels on
some such principle as the one already described, and affixing them to the wall, forming a
kind of solid dado from three to four feet from the floor. These can be fastened so as to facilitate
removal for examination and repairs. When the current is switched on they are slowly warmed
up by the heat generated through the resistance of the wires, and the air in the room is gently
heated without being vitiated or deprived of its oxygen as it is by the presence of flames,
whether of fuel or of gas. Warming footstools will also be provided, and a room heated in this
way will be found eminently comfortable to live in.

This method of house-warming having once obtained a decided lead within the cities and other
localities where a cheap electric current is available, somewhat similar systems, adapted for
the heating of walls by hot air in tubes, instead of by resistant wires, will be largely adopted
in the rural districts, more particularly in churches and other places of public assemblage.
The progress made in this direction during the last few years of the nineteenth century is
already noteworthy, but when electric-heating really gets a good chance to force the pace of
improvement, the day will soon arrive when it will be regarded as nothing less than barbarous
to ask people to sit during the winter months in places not evenly warmed all through by methods
which result in the distribution of the heat exactly as it is wanted.

Ventilation is another household reform which will be very greatly accelerated by the presence
of electric power of low cost. The great majority of civilised people, as yet, have no idea
of ventilation excepting that highly unreasonable kind which depends upon leaving their houses
and other buildings partly open to the outside weather. One man is sitting in church under
a down draught from an open window above him, while others, in different parts of the same
building, may be weltering in the heat and feeling stifled through the vitiated air. In dwelling-houses
the great majority of living rooms really have no other effective form of ventilation than
the draught from the fireplace. The strength of this draught, again, is regulated to a very
large extent by the speed and direction of the outside wind.

In calm and sultry weather, when ventilation is most needed, the current of air from the fireplace
may be very slight indeed; while in the wild and boisterous days succeeding a sudden change
of weather, the living rooms are subjected to such a drop in temperature and are swept by such
draughts of cold air that the inmates are very liable to catch colds and influenza. Hence has
arisen in the British Islands, and in the colder countries of Europe and America, the very
general desire among the poorer classes to suppress all ventilation. Rooms are closed at the
commencement of winter and practically remain so until the summer season. Many people whose
circumstances have improved, and who pass suddenly from ill-ventilated houses to those which
have better access to the outside air, find the change so severe upon their constitutions and
habits that they give a bad name to everything in the shape of ventilation. Meanwhile the dread
of draughts causes people to exclude the fresh air to such an extent that consumption and many
other diseases are fostered and engendered.

All this arises mainly from the very serious mistake of imagining that it is possible to move
air without the exercise of force. In the case of the draught caused by a fire no doubt an
active force is employed in the energy of the heated air ascending the chimney, and in the
corresponding inrush. This latter is usually drawn from below the door--the very worst place
from which it can be taken, seeing that in the experience of most people it is by getting the
feet chilled, through draughts along the floor, that the worst colds are generally contracted.
Fireplaces are not unusually regarded as a direct means for ventilation, and with regard to
nearly all the devices commonly adopted in houses and public buildings, it may be said that
they lack the first requisite for a scientific system of renewing the air, namely a source
of power by means of which to shift it from outside to inside, and vice versâ. There is no
direction in which a more pressing need exists for the distribution of power in small quantities
than in regard to the ventilation of private and public edifices.

