In our many conversations, I had always ventured to enforce upon the Duke that the passion
for territory, for space, would be found at the bottom of all discussion with the United States.
Give them territory, not their own, and for a time you would appease them, while, still, the
very feast would sharpen their hunger. I reminded the Duke that General Cass had said, "I have
an awful swallow ('swaller' was his pronunciation) for territory;" and all Americans have that
"awful swallow." The dream of possessing a country extending from the Pole to the Isthmus of
Panama, if not to Cape Horn, has been the ambition of the Great Republic--and it is a dangerous
ambition for the rest of the world. We have seen its effects in all our treaties. We have always
been asked for land. We gave up Michigan after the war of 1812. We gave up that noble piece,
the "Aroostook" country, now part of the State of Maine, under the Ashburton Treaty in 1841.
We have, again, been shuffled out of our boundary at St. Juan on the Pacific, under an arbitration
which really contained its own award. The Reciprocity Treaty was put an end to, in 1866, by
the United States, not because the Great West--who may govern the Union if they please--did
not want it, but because the Great West was cajoled by the cunning East into believing that
a restriction of intercourse between the United States and the British Provinces would, at
last, force the subjects of the Queen to seek admission into the Republic. So it was, and is
and will be; and the only way to prevent aggression and war was, is, and will be, to "put our
foot down." Not to cherish the "peace-in-our-time" policy, or to indulge in the half-hearted
language, to which I shall have hereafter to allude--but to combine and strengthen the sections
of our Colonial Empire in the West--to give to their people a greater Empire still, a nobler
history, and a prouder lot: a lot to last, because based upon institutions which have stood,
and will stand, the test of time and trouble. Unfortunately we have had a "little England"
party in our country. A Liberal Government, immediately following the Act of Confederation,
took every red-coat out of the Dominion of Canada, shipped off, or sold, the very shot and
shell to any one, friend or foe, who chose to buy: and the few guns and mortars Canada demanded
were charged to her "in account" with the ruth of the miser. If the Duke of Newcastle had been
a member of that Cabinet such a miserable policy never could have been put in force; but he
was dead. I venture to think that the whole people of England, who knew of the transaction,
were ashamed of it. Certainly, I saw, a few years ago, that one member of the very Cabinet
which did this thing, repudiated the "little England" policy, as opposed to the best traditions
of the Liberal party.

The "little England" party of the past have tried, so far in vain, to alienate these our fellow
subjects. But, fortunately for the Empire, while some in the mother country have been indifferent
as to whether the Provinces went or stayed, many in the Colonies have been earnest in their
desire to escape annexation to the States. The feeling of these patriotic men was well described
in December, 1862, by Lord Shaftesbury, at a dinner given to Messrs. Howe, Tilley, Howland
and Sicotte, delegates from the Provinces of Canada, New Brunswick and Nova Scotia. He said
Canada addressed us in the affecting language of Ruth --"Entreat me not to leave thee, nor
to refrain from following after thee"--and he asked, "Whether the world had ever seen such
a spectacle as great and growing nations, for such they were, with full and unqualified power
to act as they pleased, insisting on devoting their honor, strength, and substance to the support
of the common mother; and not only to be called, but to be, sons." And Lord Shaftesbury asked,
"Whether any imperial ruler had ever preferred," as he said Canada had, "love to dominion,
and reverence to power."

Lord Shaftesbury's sentiments are, I believe, an echo of those of the "great England" party;
but, I repeat, "little England" sold the shot and shell, nevertheless.

Whatever this man or that may claim to have done towards building up Confederation, I, who
was in good measure behind the scenes throughout, repeat that to the late Duke of Newcastle
the main credit of the measure of 1867 was due. While failing health and the Duke's premature
decease left to Mr. Cardwell and Mr. W. E. Forster--and afterwards to Lord Carnarvon and the
Duke of Buckingham--the completion of the work before the English Parliament, it was he who
stood in the gap, and formed and moulded, with a patience and persistence admirable to behold,
Cabinet opinion both in England and in the Provinces. At the same time George Etienne Cartier,
John A. Macdonald, and John Ross, in Canada; Samuel L. Tilley, in New Brunswick, and, notably,
Joseph Howe, in Nova Scotia, stood together for Union like a wall of brass. And these should
ever be the most prominent amongst the honoured names of the authors of an Union of the Provinces
under the British Crown.

The works, I repeat, to be effected were--first, the physical union of the Maritime Provinces
with Canada by means of Intercolonial Railways; and, second, to get out of the way of any unification,
the heavy weight and obstruction of the Hudson's Bay Company. The; latter was most difficult,
for abundant reasons.

This difficult work rested mainly on my shoulders.

It may be well here to place in contrast the condition of the Provinces in 1861 and of the
Confederation in 1886. In 1861 each of the five Provinces had its separate Governor, Parliament,
Executive, and system of taxation. To all intents and purposes, and notwithstanding the functions
of the Governor-General and the unity flowing from the control of the British Crown--these
Provinces, isolated for want of the means of rapid transit, were countries as separate in every
relation of business, or of the associations of life, as Belgium and Holland, or Switzerland
and Italy. The associations of New Brunswick and Nova Scotia were far more intimate with the
United States than with Canada; and the whole Maritime Provinces regulated their tariffs, as
Canada did in return, from no consideration of developing a trade with each other, or with
the Canadas, between whose territory and the ocean these Provinces barred the way. Thus, isolated
and divided, it could be no matter of wonder if their separate political discussions narrowed
themselves into local, sectional, and selfish controversies; and if, while each possessing
in their Legislature men in abundance who deserved the title of sagacious and able statesmen,
brilliant orators, far-sighted men of business, their debates often reminded the stranger who
listened to them of the squabbles of local town councils. Again, the Great Republic across
their borders, with its obvious future, offered with open arms, and especially to the young
and ambitious, a noble field, not shut in by winter or divided by separate governments. Thus
the gravitation towards aggregation--which seems to be a condition of the progress of modern
states--a condition to be intensified as space is diminished by modern discoveries in rapid
transit--was, in the case of the Provinces, rather towards the United States than towards each
other or the British Empire. Thus there were, in 1860, many causes at work to discourage the
idea of Confederation. And it is by no means improbable that the occurrence of the great Civil
War destroyed this tendency.

