Boetius' Consolations of Philosophy.--Alfred the Great translated this work into Anglo-Saxon;
Chaucer, Queen Elizabeth, and Lord Preston into English.

Has Queen Elizabeth's work (which she executed during her captivity before she ascended the
throne) been printed? Richard Viscount Preston's appeared first, I believe, in 1712, in 12mo.
How often has it been reprinted? What other English translations have been made, and what are
the latest?

JARTZBERG.

Gloucestershire Gospel Tree.--Mary Roberts, in her Ruins and Old Trees associated with Historical
Events, gives a very pretty account of a certain Gospel Tree. Can any kind correspondent inform
me where in Gloucestershire it is situated? Although a native of the county, I never heard of it.

W. H. B.

Churchyards--Epitaphs.--Up to the time of the Norman Conquest, churchyards appear to have been
considered almost as sacred as churches; but soon after that period, though regarded as places
of sanctuary, they were often used for profane purposes. I recollect reading of fairs and rustic
sports being held in them as early as John's reign, but unfortunately I have not been an observer
of your motto, and know not now where to refer for such instances. I shall therefore feel obliged
to any of your readers who will specify a few instances of the profanation of churchyards at
different periods, or refer me to works where such may be found. Churchyards appear to have
been used in special cases for sepulture from the year 750, but not commonly so used till the
end of the fourteenth century. Are there any instances of sepulchral monuments, between the
above dates, now existing in churchyards?

Stone crosses, evidently of Saxon or very early Roman structure, are found in churchyards,
but I am not aware of any sepulchral monuments detached from the church of the same date. I
shall be glad of any notices of early monuments or remarkable epitaphs in churchyards. When
did churchyards cease to be places of sanctuary? What is the exact meaning of the word "yard?"
and was not "God's acre" applied to Christian cemeteries before sepulture was admitted in churches
or churchyards?

W. H. K.

Drayton Beauchamp, June 10.

Anthony Warton.--Who was Anthony Warton, minister of the word at Breamore, in Hampshire, and
author of Refinement of Zion, London, 1657? Another Anthony Warton was matriculated at Magdalen
College, Oxford, 2nd Nov., 1665, at sixteen, as son of Francis Warton, of Breamore, Hants,
plebeian. He remained clerk till 1671; chaplain from 1671 to 1674; instituted vicar of Godalming,
Surrey, in 1682; obiit 15th March, 1714-15. He was father of Thomas Warton, Demy and Fellow
of Magdalen College, vicar of Basingstoke, Hants, and of Cobham, Surrey, Professor of Poetry
in the University of Oxford, 1718-28; who was father of the more celebrated Thomas Warton,
Fellow of Trinity College, Oxford, and of Joseph Warton, Head Master of Winchester School.

Manning says (History of Surrey, vol. i. p. 648.) that Anthony Warton, vicar of Breamore, Hants,
was younger brother of Michael Warton, Esq., of Beverley, but originally of Warton Hall in
Lancashire. Both Wood and Manning seem to have confounded the first Anthony with the clerk,
&c. of Magdalen. Was the former brother of Francis?

MAGDALENENSIS.

Cardinal's Hat.--O'Halloran mentions the cardinal's hat--"birede"--"biretrum"--as the hat anciently
worn by the Irish doctors. What is its history?

J. SANSOM.

Maps of London.--I should be grateful to any of your correspondents who could inform me whether
there are any maps of London before that of Aggas? what they are? and where they are to be
found? The date of Aggas's map is supposed to be about 1560, and must have been after 1548,
as the site of Essex House in the Strand is there called "Paget Place." There is a MS. map
by Anthony Van Den Wyngerde in the Sutherland Collection in the Bodleian, the date of which
would be about 1559.

EDWARD FOSS.

Griffith of Penrhyn.--Can any of your correspondents refer me to a good pedigree of GRIFFITH
OF PENRHYN AND CARNARVON?

WILLIAM D'OYLY BAYLEY.

Coatham, near Redcar.

The Mariner's Compass.--What is the origin of the fleur-de-lis with which the northern radius
of the compass-card is always ornamented?

NAUTILUS.

Pontefract on the Thames.--Permit me to ask, through the medium of your useful publication,
where Pontefract on the Thames was situate in {57} the fourteenth century? Several documents
of Edw. II. are dated from Shene (Richmond); in 1318, one from Mortelak; in 1322, one from
Istelworth; and several are dated Pountfrcyt, or Pontem fractum super Thamis. (See Rymer's
Foedera). It is very clear that this Pountfrcyt on the Thames must have been at no great distance
from Shene, Mortlake, and Isleworth, also upon the Thames; and this is further corroborated
by the dates following, from the places alluded to, so closely.

<pointing hand> N.

June 14. 1850.

       *       *       *       *       *

Replies.

ON THE ORIGIN AND PROGRESS OF THE STUDY OF GEOMETRY IN LANCASHIRE.

The extensive study of geometry in Lancashire and the northern counties generally is a fact
which has forced itself upon the attention of several observers; but none of these have attempted
to assign any reasons for so singular an occurrence. Indeed, the origin and progress of the
study of any particular branch of science, notwithstanding their attractive features, have
but rarely engaged the attention of those best qualified for the undertaking. Fully satisfied
with pursuing their ordinary courses of investigation, they have scarcely ever stopped to inquire
who first started the subject of their contemplations; nor have they evinced much more assiduity
to ascertain the how, the when, or in what favoured locality he had his existence: and hence
the innumerable misappropriations of particular discoveries, the unconscious traversing of
already exhausted fields of research, and many of the bickerings which have taken place amongst
the rival claimants for the honour of priority.

Mr. Halliwell's Letters on the Progress of Science sufficiently show that the study of geometry
was almost a nonentity in England previously to the commencement of the eighteenth century.
Before this period Dr. Dee, the celebrated author of the preliminary discourse to Billingsley's
Euclid, had indeed resided at Manchester (1595), but his residence here could effect little
in flavour of geometry, seeing, as is observed by a writer in the Penny Cyclopædia--

    "The character of the lectures on Euclid was in those days extremely
    different from that of our own time ... the propositions of Euclid
    being then taken as so many pegs to hang a speech upon."

