PUNCH, OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI

VOL. 102

June 25, 1892

"VERSAILLES" IN LEICESTER SQUARE.

(OR, THE NEW BALLET AT THE EMPIRE, AS IT APPEARS THROUGH MR. PUNCH'S PINCE-NEZ.)

TABLEAU I.--The Park at Versailles. "Gardeners," according to the "Argument" supplied with
programmes, "are seen busily preparing for the arrival of King Louis the Fourteenth and his
Court." If tickling the gravel gently with brooms, and depositing one petal a-piece in large
baskets is "busily preparing," they are. The Gardeners, feeling that they have done a very
fair afternoon's work, dance a farandole in sabots, after which Ladies and Cavaliers arrive
and prepare to dance too; the Cavaliers select their partners by chasing them on tiptoe, the
Ladies run backwards, and coyly slap their favourites' faces with bouquets. Here, according
to Argument, "refreshments are served by Pages." Don't see any; these particular Pages seem
to have been cut. Dance follows: the Vicomte Raoul de Bragelonne arrives, but stands apart,
taking no part in the dance, and looking melancholy. Fancy he is wishing he had learnt dancing
in his boyhood, or else waiting for the refreshments to be served. On referring to Argument,
however, discover that "his mind is occupied by thoughts of Louise de Lavallière, who was betrothed
to him in her childhood." Stupid not to see this for oneself. So obvious. Enter Louise. Think
Raoul informs her in pantomime that one of the bows on her dress has "come undone;" she rewards
him for this act of politeness by taking the bow off and pinning it on his breast. Raoul not
satisfied, pleads for another, to put on his hat. Louise refuses, can't ruin her new frock
like that for him. Find I'm wrong again. Argument says, "he implores her to fulfil the wish
of his own and their parents' hearts by naming the nuptial day. Louise is confused, and bids
him wait." He retires brokenhearted, in search of the refreshments, and the Cavaliers, with
whom a very little dancing on gravel and a warm afternoon goes a long way, retire with him.
The ladies, left alone, "now freely express their opinions on the merits of their late companions,"
which seems natural enough. Louise dissents; doesn't see anything particularly rude in their
conduct, "Cavaliers are like that--will rush off for refreshments alone after every dance and
leave their partners." At least, that's how I understood her. Missed the point again. Argument
informs me she has been answering, "abruptly that the Sun (meaning the King) absorbs her whole
soul, and that she has no thoughts to bestow on mere planets." She said all that in a shake
of the head and two shrugs, so "abruptly" is quite the right word. Other ladies annoyed with
her, and show it by walking past and waggling their fingers in her face, which appears to depress
Louise considerably. Then they go out, after the Cavaliers, or the refreshments. Meanwhile
Louis the Fourteenth has entered at the back and overheard all. He knows what the shake and
shrugs meant, and smiles and nods knowingly to himself. "Oh, I am an irresistible Monarch,
I am!" he seems to be saying. "I'll follow this up." So he struts down with a fixed smile on
his face, like the impudent young dog he is, and pats his chest passionately at her. Louise
startled. "Don't go away," says Louis in pantomime. "I say, there's an arbour in that shrubbery,--let's
go and sit in it--do!" Louise undecided; tries to excuse herself. "Earwiggy? not a bit of it!"
Louis assures her (he wouldn't be so confident about it if he had seen his Gardeners at work);
"come along!" Louise still timid; suggests spiders. Louis vows that no spider shall harm her
while he lives to protect her, and draws her gently towards the shrubbery; he does this several
times, but on each occasion her dread of insects returns, and she recoils shrinking. The King
puts his arms round her to give her courage, and at this instant, Raoul de Bragelonne returns,
sees the back of someone embracing the maiden who was betrothed to him in childhood, draws
his sword--and recognises his Sovereign. "Whew!" his expression says plainly enough. "Now I
have put my foot in it nicely!" He takes off his hat and apologises profusely; but Louis is
indignant. What's the use of being a Roi Soleil if you can't ask a lady of your Court to sit
in an arbour without being interrupted like this? He swells visibly, and intimates that he
will pay Raoul out for this in various highly unpleasant ways. Louise kneels to him for pardon.
Louis subsides gradually, but still shows the whites of his eyes; finally he tells Raoul to
be off. Raoul is submissive--only wants to know where he's to go to. Louis points to Heaven,
evidently regal politeness forbids him to indicate any other place. Raoul goes off perplexed,
and no wonder. Then, as the Argument explains, "a trumpet-call is heard," and Louise "bewildered,"
perhaps because it is the signal to go and dress for dinner, escapes to the palace; and Louis,
feeling that the arbour is only a question of time, follows. Then Musketeers come off duty
and get up an assault-at-arms, until their careful captain, afraid that they will hurt themselves
with those nasty swords, orders them to stop, and the First Tableau is over.

TABLEAU II.--Rich hangings have fallen close to the footlights, to represent an "Ante-room
in the Palace." Attendants bring on two dressing-tables. Enter the two principal danseuses,
who are about to dress for the Grand Ballet, when Lulli, the Composer, and Prévot, the Maître
de dance du Roi, come in and very inconsiderately propose a rehearsal, which of course must
be an undress rehearsal--then and there. This not unnaturally puts both the ladies out of temper;
they object to the ballet-skirts supplied by the Management as skimpy, and one of them throws
up her part, which almost reduces Lulli to tears. The other undertakes it at a moment's notice,
whereupon the first lady tries to scratch her eyes out, and then has a fit of hysterics. Both
ladies have hysterics. A bell rings and, suddenly remembering that a Royal Ante-room is rather
a public place to dress in, they catch up the ballet-skirts and flee, Attendants remove the
dressing-tables. Tableau over. Plot where it was.

TABLEAU III.--Grand Reception Room in the Palace. Enter the Queen, sulky, because Louis has
taken all the Pages, and only left her a couple of Chamberlains. Enter Louis, more impudent
than ever. They take their places on a daïs; the hangings at head of a flight of steps behind
are withdrawn, and the first "Grand Ballet Divertissement" begins. Louis frankly bored, knowing
there's another to come after that. Ballet charming, but he doesn't deign to glance at it,
gives all his attention to a stuffed lamb on the top of the steps. Bevy after bevy of maidens
disclosed behind hangings, each more bewitching and gorgeously attired than the last--but they
don't interest Louis,--or else the presence of the Queen restrains him. Instructive to note
the partiality of the Corps de Ballet. When Signorina DE SORTIS dances, they are so overcome
that they lean backwards with outstretched arms in a sort of semi-swoon of delight. But the
other lady may prance and whirl and run about on the points of her toes till she requires support,
and they merely retire up and ignore her altogether. There is a dancing Signor in pearl grey,
who supports first one Signorina and then the other with the strictest impartiality, and finally
dances with both together, to show that he makes no distinctions and has no serious intentions.
All this time Louis has been getting more and more restless; now and then he makes some remark,
evidently disparaging, to the Queen, who receives it coldly. But at last he can't stand it
any longer. "Call this dancing! I'll show 'em how to dance!" his look says. "Where's LOUISE?"
And he gets up, pulls himself together, and invites her to come and dance a minuet. Queen disgusted
with him, but pretends not to notice. Louis goes through minuet with extreme satisfaction to
himself. Enter Page with an immense cushion, on which is "a bracelet of great value" (Argument
again). Queen excited--thinks it's for her; but Louis stops the dance, takes the bracelet,
and gives it to Louise. "A present from Paris. There, that's for being a good girl--take it,
and say no more about it." She does, and they finish the minuet. Louis, on turning round to
the daïs, discovers that the Queen has gone away, which he seems to think most unreasonable
of her--just when he was dancing his very best! There is more ballet, after which the King
discovers that Louise is missing too. Her Page comes on and hands him a letter, which he opens
triumphantly. "A rendezvous, eh? Never knew jewellery fail yet! How I am carrying on, to be
sure!" says his face. But, as he reads, his eyes begin to roll, and he has another attack of
swelling. Then the curtains at the back are withdrawn again, and on the top of the steps, where
the stuffed lambs were, he sees Louise de Lavallière in a nun's robe, entering a Convent. Louis
can't believe it; he thinks it must be part of the performance, though not on the original
programme. As he goes nearer to see, the curtains close, open again--and there is nothing.
And the baffled monarch realises the melancholy truth--Louise has gone into a nunnery, without
even returning the "bracelet of great value"! Whereupon the Act-drop mercifully falls, and
veils his discomfiture. And that's all!

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

LADY GAY'S SELECTIONS.

DEAR MR. PUNCH.--Several people who do not know me as the writer of the "Selections," have
told me that they took the tip about "Balmoral" for the Manchester Cup, but backed it to win
instead of to be last--thereby winning money!--now--of course the last thing a tipster wishes,
is that his prophecy should turn out successful, therefore I am delighted at the result, as
also was Sir MINTING BLOUNDELL, who won a good stake, and is the only person who knows the
secret of my incognito. He congratulated me most heartily on my success, which he said was
the more wonderful as he knew the owner did not much fancy the horse!--but, as I told him--if
owners of race-horses knew as much as some of the public--(to say nothing of the prophets)--they
would never lose the money they do, and would probably give up racing! The selection was entirely
my own "fancy." I need scarcely say, I never ask an owner anything, and if he volunteers the
information that he thinks his horse "has a good chance," I find as a rule, it's just as well
to "let the horse run loose," as they put it; though that is an expression I never quite understood,
as I've never yet seen a horse "run loose" in a race, except on one or two occasions when the
jockey has been thrown at the start--which now I come to think of it, may be the origin of
the expression!

So Ascot is once more a departed glory! We all shivered on Tuesday, got roasted on Wednesday,
were comfortable on Thursday, and resigned on Friday--and on the whole the toilette show was
successful; though I fancy some of the best gowns were held over for Goodwood--one of mine
was at all events--but my goodness!--if only our great grandmothers could have seen some of
our modern petticoats!--more elaborate than any dress they ever saw!--but then, as Lord HARPER
REDCLYFFE said, our great grandmothers never got off and on coaches with an admiring crowd
looking on, as we have to do now-a-days; and you have to be pretty smart not to get hung up
on the wheels--though as Lady HARRIETT ENTOUCAS said, "my dear Lady GAY--what is the use of
wearing all this loveliness unless one--" but perhaps it will annoy her if I tell what she did say!

The Royal Hunt Cup was a beautiful race, although the winner was not supposed to be the best
of "JEWITT's lot;" but I am told he is one of those who "will not do his best at home," being
beaten in the trial--and after all, how very human that is--for how many men one knows who
are perfect bears in their home circle!

Of the horses I advised my readers to "Keep an eye on," only one, Buccaneer, put in an appearance,
and won the Gold Cup; so that my warning as to the difficulty of doing this, was fully borne
out by the result. My Gold Cup selection did not run, and had I known that Ermak would have
been his sole opponent, I should have made him my tip; but I do not pretend to be Ermakulate!
(That's awful--please forgive me, dear Mr. Punch!) From the way St. Angelo won the Palace Stakes,
I can't help thinking he would have won the Derby but for the French horse Rueil, who tried
to eat him during the race--(how shameful to let the poor thing get so hungry)--and this of
course interfered with his chance--as you really cannot attend to two things at a time with
a satisfactory result, unless they be sleeping and snoring!

I presume that this sort of thing is meant when one reads in the sporting papers that such-and-such
a horse was "nibbled at!"--but I really think that those who saw St. Angelo on Thursday, saw
the winner of the Leger! There is no race of any special importance next week, either at Windsor
or Sandown, but I will give my weekly tip for the probable last in the Windsor June Handicap,
and meanwhile I may as well say that I shall grace with my presence the Newmarket July Meeting,
and, emulating the example of other tipsters who send "Paddock Wires," I shall be happy to
supply anyone with my two-horse-a-day "Songs from the Birdcage," at five guineas a-week--(a
reduction to owners)--at which price my selections must be cheap.

Yours devotedly, LADY GAY.

WINDSOR JUNE HANDICAP.

  If "SHAKSPEARE" spells "ruin," as Managers say,
    Tragedians all should be needy!
  But a fortune was made by the best of his day,
    And an Actor of "notes" was "Macready."

       *       *       *       *       *

Why is the Dissolution of Parliament like the human tongue?--Because it is in everybody's mouth.

       *       *       *       *       *

"CUTS!" OR, WE NEVER SPEAK AS WE PASS BY.

  We never speak as we pass by!
    Alas! it was not always so.
  But now I cannot catch his eye,
    And, when I come, he's prompt to go.
  "Il me reverra." So I said
    When I resigned, his love to try,
  But see how WILHELM turns his head!
    We never speak as we pass by!

  Not indispensable! Absurd!
    I built the Empire, made the Crown.
  Of Emperor WILHELM who had heard
    But for my prowess and renown?
  And Emperor WILHELM cocks his nose,
    Regards me with averted eye;
  And, just as though, we now were foes,
    We never speak as we pass by!

  The boy, the ingrate, the young cock,
    Who thinks he's eagle when he crows;
  Old Aquila is he to mock?
    I'll cut his comb ere matters close.
  And yet, and yet he keeps it up,
    And Germany demands not why!
  He bangs away like a big Krupp--
    We never speak as we pass by.

  My HERBERT, you should hold my place,
    But you must share your sire's cold snub.
  Did I promote the lion's race
    To be kicked out by its least cub?
  This wedding-favour's gay and smart.
    I to Vienna's bridal fly;
  But something rankles in my heart;--
  We never speak as we pass by!

  Will FRANCIS-JOSEPH see his way
    To--help Coriolanus back?
  I can't believe I've had my day;
    It makes ambition's heart-strings crack.
  But that imperious youngster shuts
    The door of hope howe'er I try.
  Are we for ever to be "cuts,"
    And never speak as we pass by?

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

AN EARL'S COURT IDYL.

    SCENE--A knick-knack stall outside the Wild West Arena.
    Behind the counter is a pretty and pert maiden of seventeen
    or so. A tall and stately Indian Warrior, wrapped in a blue
    blanket, lounges up, and leans against the corner, silent and
    inscrutable.

The Maiden (with easy familiarity). 'Ullo, CHOC'LIT, what do you want? (The Chieftain smiles
at her with infinite subtlety, and fingers a small fancy article shaped like a bottle, in seeming
confusion.) Like to see what's inside of it? Look 'ere then. (She removes the cork, touches
a spring, and a paper fan expands out of the neck of the bottle; CHOCOLATE is grimly pleased,
and possibly impressed, by this phenomenon, which he repeats several times for his own satisfaction.)
Ah, that fetches you, don't it, CHOC'LIT? (The Warrior nods, and says something unintelligible
in his own tongue.) Why don't yer talk sense, 'stead o' that rubbish?

    [CHOCOLATE watches her slyly out of the corners of his eyes;
    presently he puts the bottled-fan inside his blanket, and
    slouches off in a fit of pretended abstraction.

The Maiden (imperiously). 'Ere, come back, will yer? Walkin' off with my things like that!
Fetch it 'ere--d'jear what I tell yer? (CHOCOLATE lounges over the counter of an adjoining
Bovril stall, and affects a bland unconsciousness of being addressed. After awhile he peeps
round and pats his blanket knowingly, and, finding she takes no further notice of him, lounges
back to his corner again.) Oh, 'ere you are again! Now jest you put that bottle back. (The
Warrior giggles, with much appreciation of his own playfulness.) Look sharp now. I know you've
got it!

Chocolate (with another giggle). Me no got.

    [He intimates that the person at the Bovril stall has it.

The Maiden. You needn't think to get over Me that way! It's inside o' that old blanket o' yours.
Out with it now, or I'll make yer! (CHOCOLATE produces it chuckling, after which he loses all
further interest in it, his notice having been attracted by a small painted metal monkey holding
a miniature cup and saucer.) Want to buy one o' them monkeys? (She sets its head nodding at
the Indian, who is gravely interested in this product of European civilisation.) All right,
pay for it then--they're ninepence each.

    [The Warrior plays with it thoughtfully, apparently in the
    faint hope that she may be induced to make him a present of
    it, but, finding that her heart shows no sign of softening to
    such an extent, the desire of acquiring the monkey becomes so
    irresistible that, after much diving into his robes, he fishes
    up three coppers, which he tenders as a reasonable ransom.

The Maiden (encouragingly). That's all right, so far as it goes; you've on'y got to give me
another sixpence--twice as much as that, you know. Come on! (CHOCOLATE meditates whether as
an economical Indian Chieftain, he can afford this outlay, and finally shakes his head sadly,
and withdraws the coppers.) Oh, very well, then; please yourself, I'm sure! (CHOCOLATE's small
black eyes regard her admiringly, as he tries one last persuasive smile, probably to express
the degree to which the possession of a nodding monkey would brighten his existence.) It ain't
a bit o' good, CHOC'LIT, I can't lower my price for you; and what's more, I'm not going to!

    [CHOCOLATE examines the monkey once more undecidedly, then
    puts it gently down with a wistful reluctance, and drifts
    off.

The Maiden (calling after him). You like to do your shoppin' cheap, don't you, CHOC'LIT? Everythink
for nothen' is what you want, ain't it? I know yer!

    [The Warrior stalks on impassively, ignoring these gibes;
    whether he is reflecting on the beauty and heartlessness of
    the Pale-face Maiden, or resolving to save up for the monkey
    if it takes him a lifetime, or thinking of something else
    totally different, or of nothing whatever, is a dark secret
    which he keeps to himself.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PLAYFUL SALLY.

O SARAH B.! O Mr. ABBEY! What un-ABBEY thought induced you to select so dreary a play as Pauline
Blanchard wherewith to weary the British Public? And what a finish! Pauline, all for the sake
of her disappointed lover, kills her husband with a sickle!--a sickle-ly sight--and then reaps
her reward. M. PERON, the Maire, was effective. Ancient Angelina, Mme. GILBERTE FLEURY, "fetched"
everybody, and in her turn was fetched by M. FLEURY from a loft where stage-business had taken
her in the previous Act, in order to receive her share of the plaudits. We hear that SARAH
has accepted a One-Act piece called Salammbô, by OSCAR WILDE. Naturally we all see SARAH in
the first part of Sal. Perhaps the "ambo" means SARAH and OSCAR. Being an Eastern subject,
SARAH sees the chance in it of a Sara-scenic success. On Saturday last, with her wonderful
La Tosca in the afternoon, and her Dame aux Camélias (the "O'Camélias" sounds like an Irish
title) at night, SARAH regularly "knocked them" in the Shaftesbury Avenue. No one interested
in dramatic art should miss seeing SARAH, at all events, in La Dame aux Camélias.

       *       *       *       *       *

PARTICULAR AND GENERAL RELATIONSHIP.--Mr. GEORGE CURZON, as the Saturday Review remarks in
its notice of Curzon's Persia, "is not the first of his family who has written a good book
of Eastern travel." The author, then, is not a first, but a second, or third CURZON, and this
particular work of authorship creates a new kinship, as his travels are, now, related to the
public.

       *       *       *       *       *

OPERATIC NOTES.

Wednesday.--The Irish Question, heard for the first time operatically, put by The O'WAGNER
in his music-story of "Tristan und Isolde." The story is decidedly a triste 'un and is old
no doubt of it. Frau SUCHER first rate as the Irish Princess Isolde. Herr ALVARY plays Her
Tristan; good, but not great. All vary well. As Kurwenal, Herr KNAPP, in spite of his name,
kept everyone awake, and did his very best; in fact, "went Knapp."

Fräulein RALPH was charming as Braugäne, and her manner of inducing the Princess of the Most
Distressful Country to take to the bottle--KINAHAN's L.L.L.--deserved the encore which she
ought to have received. No matter--Fräulein RALPH played with spirit, which is a dangerous
thing to do as a rule. House crammed: not packed.

Thursday.--Long live the Don! Vive MOZART! Don Giovanni's taste as to ladies changed as he
grew older. The two musical Duchesses who accompany Don Ottavio when he is singing are usually,
fine and large; but Zerlina, the Don's latest fancy, is petite. Why does Signor CARACCIOLO
make Masetto an idiotic old bumpkin? EDOUARD DE RESZKÉ is admirable as the cowardly Leporello,
and MAUREL fine as the Im-maurel Don. With what an air he salutes Zerlina! The air is MOZART's
"La ci darem," and therefore perfect. ZÉLIE DE LUSSAN delightful as that arrant flirt Zerlina.
The Statue was rather in the dark. The Stalls couldn't see him "noddin', nid nid noddin'."
Let Sir DRURIOLANUS look to this, and say to the Limelighter, quoting GOËTHE, "More light!
More light!"

Friday.--Carmen. Commend me at once to Madame DESCHAMPS-JEHIN as Carmen. Her name is too long,
and there's a little too much of her, figure-ratively speaking. A trifle over-size for quite
an ideal Carmen, but then Madame D.-JEHIN is so good that we cannot have too much of her. Acting
excellent. Madame EMMA EAMES EMMA-nently first-rate as Michaela. We all know JEAN DE RESZKÉ'S
Don José, which up to now is hard to beat; so for LASSALLE as Escamillo,--the great song encored,
of course. Signor CARACCIOLO as Dancairo (of a mixed race, Irish Dan and Egyptian Cairo--a
regular Bohemian), and RINALDINI as Remendado, capital, not overdone. Mlle. BAUERMEISTER as
Frasquita, and AGNES JANSON as Mercedes, looked winning, especially when playing cards.

Saturday.--Cavalleria Rusticana. Most appropriate when everybody is talking of the elections
and "going to the country."

       *       *       *       *       *

GIRLS OF THE PERIOD.

LETTER I.

(From Miss Mary Logic to Miss Rosa Blackbord.)

Coached Cottage.

MY DEAR ROSA,

I fancy I told you that my Uncle JACK was coming home from sea. I had not seen him for six
years--in fact he left England when I was a child of four or so. As you know, I am now ten.
I naturally was rather curious to meet him. Well he is here, and I am fairly puzzled. He is
rather a nice fellow--partly educated. He is distinctly shaky with his Classics, and has evidently
forgotten half his Mathematics. However we got on pretty well. He seemed to be interested in
my lecture upon Astronomy, and said "I seemed to be a hand at Chemistry." Well so I am. As
you know, when I was a mere child I was always fond of experiments of an analytical character.
He asked me if I had a doll, and I suppose he referred to the old lay-figure that I was wont
to sketch before I took to studying from the nude. And now you will ask, why I am writing to
you, when both you and I are so busy--when we are both preparing for matriculation? When we
have so little spare time at our disposal?

I will tell you. The fact is, he accuses me of ignorance in the biographical section of my
studies. He gave me the history of a gentleman who used a blue dye for his moustache and murdered
his wives with impunity. Then he related the adventures of a lady who slept for a hundred years
from the wound of a spinning needle. I had to confess (although a constant reader of the Lancet)
I had never heard of the case before. Then he recounted the adventures of a traveller who seems
to have had a life of considerable interest. This person obtained quite a number of diamonds,
with the assistance of a huge bird called a Roc. Then he had much to say about a dwarf who
defeated (in really gallant style) several men of abnormally large stature. He laughed when
I had to confess that I had never heard of these people before. He gave me their names. The
wife-slaughterer was called Bluebeard; the lady who slumbered for a hundred years, The Sleeping
Beauty (I suppose she preferred to keep her anonymity); the traveller's name was Sindbad, and
the dwarf was Jack the Giant-Killer. Have you heard of any of these people?

Your affectionate Cousin, MARY.

LETTER II.

(Reply to Same, from Miss Rosa Blackbord.)

Algebra Lodge.

MY DEAR MARY,

As you are many weeks my junior (to be precise, exactly two months), I hasten to answer your
letter. I have searched all my Biographical Dictionaries, but cannot find the people of whom
you are in search. As for myself, I have never heard of Bluebeard, know nothing of The Sleeping
Beauty, and am sceptical of the existence of Sindbad and Jack the Giant-Killer. Like Mrs. Prig,
who doubted the existence of Mrs. Harris, "I don't believe there were no such persons." By
the way, you ought to read DICKENS. He is distinctly funny, and I can quite understand his
amusing our grandmothers. I generally turn to his works after a long day with HOMER or EURIPIDES.

Your affectionate Cousin, ROSA.

       *       *       *       *       *

"NE PLUS ULSTER."--Decidedly, Ulster can't go beyond "its last," or rather, its latest, most
utter utterances. So far, "words, words, words;" but from words to blows there is a long interval,
especially when their supply of breath having been considerably exhausted, there is not much
to be feared from their "blows." However, so far, the men with Ulsterior views have been patted
on the back by the Times, and "approbation from Sir HUBERT STANLEY is praise indeed." Yet,
had the meeting been of Nationalists! "But," as Mr. KIPLING's phrase goes, "that is another
story." For, from the Times leader-writer's point of view, "that in the Orangeman's but a choleric
word which in the Nationalist is rank blasphemy." However, the steam is let off through the
spout, and by the time the Nationalist's dream of Home Rule is realised, all efforts to the
contrary on The part of gallant little Ulster will probably be "Ulster vires."

       *       *       *       *       *

ADVICE GRATIS.--DEAFNESS. (To "EXPERIMENTALIST.")--Yours seems a peculiar form of this painful
complaint. We cannot understand why you should feel "as if wind were always coming from your
left ear." Try blowing into the ear with the bellows three times a day. It may drive the wind
back. For the "fulness, throbbing, &c.," we should advise ramming a good-sized darning-needle
as far as it will go into the orifice. After that--or even before--it might be best to consult
a competent medical man.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

"WHEN GREEK MEETS GREEK;"

OR, MANOEUVRING FOR A HOLD.

  Ye who have read in HOMER's mighty song
  How sage ULYSSES, AJAX towering strong,
  Met at the funeral games on Trojan sands,
  With knotted limbs and grip of sinewy hands,
  To wrestle for the prize, attend, draw near,
  And a new tale of coming tussle hear!
  Now Greek meets Greek again, but wrestling now
  Is not as on old Ilion's shore, I trow;
  Not now the olive crown, the long-wool'd sheep,
  Is prize; 'tis Power they strive to win and keep.
  By diverse dodges and by novel "chips,"
  Subtler "approaches," and more artful "grips,"
  The rival champions strive to lock and fell,
  Gallia's devices, found to answer well
  In wary onset and in finish slow,
  Old Attic swiftness, seen in hold and throw.
  Supplement or supplant. When AJAX stood
  Before ULYSSES, neither seemed in mood
  For long manoeuvring. To the clutch they came
  With sinews of snap-steel and souls of flame.
  So in old days. Now wrestlers shift like snakes,
  And dodge à la DUBOIS, for mightier stakes
  Than olive, parsley, or the champion's belt
  Can furnish forth.
                     Long time hath it been felt
  That two superior champions, age-long foes,
  At last must come to a conclusive close.
  Great GLADSTONIDES--place allow to age!--
  A chief of seasoned strength and generous rage,
  Fell, at their last encounter, to the skill
  Of him the swart of look, the stern of will,
  Broad-shouldered SALISBURION. Such defeat
  Valiant and vigorous veteran well might fret.
  He erst invincible, the Full of Days,
  The Grand Old One, full-fed with power and praise.
  ACHILLES-NESTOR, to no younger foe,
  Because of one chance slip and casual throw,
  The Champion's Belt is ready to resign;
  Nor may his foe the final fall decline.
  So "Greek meets Greek" in wrestling rig once more.
  Not AJAX or ULYSSES sly of yore,
  Nor modern STEAD MAN, JAMESON, or WEIGHT,
  Was e'er more eager for the sinewy fight.
  Much time is spent in "getting into grips."
  Mark how each wrestler crouches, feints, and slips!
  Mark how they circle round and round the ring,
  Like wary "pug," like tiger on the spring,
  Cautious as one, though as the other bold,
  Eye, foot, and hand manoeuvring for a hold!
  And when indeed they close in mutual clutch,
  And put the champion honours to the touch,
  Strain every muscle, try each latest "chip,"
  Which man shall first relax his sinewy grip,
  Be hiped, back-heeled, cross-buttocked, or bored down,--
  That's just the question that now stirs the town.
  Will SALISBURION fairly hold his own,
  Or be by white-lock'd GLADSTONIDES thrown?
  All ask, all wonder much, but who may say?
  "Another story" that, and for another day!

