See also Jamieson (Scottish Dictionary):

    "AVER, a cart-horse."

A suggestion may also be gathered from Webster under AVERAGE.

F. S. Q.

In the Chronicle of Jocelyn de Brakelond, at p. 29. of Tomlins's translation, mention is made
of one Beodric,

    "Lord of that town, whose demesne lands are now in the demesne of the
    Cellarer. And that which is now called Averland was the land of the
    rustics."

Again, at p. 30.:

    The Cellarer was used freely to take all the dung-hills in every
    street, for his own use, unless it were before the doors of those who
    were holding averland; for to them only was it allowable to collect
    dung and to keep it."

To this a note is appended to the effect that

    "Averland seems to have been ancient arable land so called, held by
    rustic drudges and villans."

At p. 29. the said Cellarer is stated

    To have aver-peni, to wit, for each thirty acres two pence."[8]

Roquefort, in his Glossaire de la Langue Romane, gives Aver, from avoir: "Bestiaux qui nantissent
une ferme de campagne;" and Avè, "un troupeau de brebis," from ovis.

Raynouard, in the Nouveau Choix des Poésies des Troubadours, vol. ii., which commences the
Lexique Roman, derives "Aver" also from Avoir; to signify possession generally I take it. 2dly,
Troupeau,

     "E play mi quan li corredor
      Fan las gens e 'ls avers fugir."
  ("Et il me plaît quand les coureurs
  Font fuir les gens et les troupeaux.")

  Bertrand de Born, Be m Play.

Barbazan, in his short Glossary, derives the word from Avarus.

H. C. C.

[Footnote 8: "Averpenny was a sum paid as a composition for certain rustic services."]

I would inform D. 2. and others (Vol. iii., p. 42.) that aver, or haver-cake, which he states
to be the name applied in North Yorkshire to the thin oat-cake in use there, is evidently derived
from the Scandinavian words, Hafrar, Havre, Hafre, oats.

G. E. R. GORDON.

Stockholm.

"The Sword Flamberg" (Vol. iii., p. 168.)--AN ENGLISH MOTHER is informed that "Flamberge,"
or "Floberge," is the name of the sword won in battle from the Saracen admiral Anthenor by
Mangis d'Aygremont, the hero of the romance of that name. Ancient swords were frequently "flamboyant,"
or with waved edges; more especially those used for purposes of state. The Dukes of Burgundy
bore a two-handed sword of this form. Indeed, "flaming swords," as they were called, were worn
down to the time of our Charles II., and perhaps later. It is rather singular that the ordinary
synonyma for a sword should be "brand." The name of the weapon taken from King Bucar by the
Cid was "Tizona," or the Fire-brand.

The flamboyant type may possibly be of Eastern origin. The krisses of the Malays, at the present
day have serpentine blades.

W. J. BERNHARD SMITH.

Temple.

Cockade (Vol. iii., pp. 7. 196.).--The cockade was simply the knot of the riband that served
to cock the broad flapped hat worn by military men in the seventeenth century, and which in
fine weather, or going into action, &c., they used to cock, by means of hooks, laces, and ribands.
We see still in the {293} cocked-hats of coachmen and beadles, the traces of these old ligaments.
Hence the phrase to cock one's hat. Let me add one or two remarks on other points of dress
arising out of old military habits. In old times coats were of the shape we now call frocks,
and lined throughout, generally with a different colour from the outside. When a person in
one of these coats was going about any active work, and particularly into fight, he doubled
back his sleeves, and folded back the collar, which, being of a different colour, came to be
what we now call the facings of military uniforms. The French, truer to their origin, still
call them the "revers." So also on such occasions the broad skirts of the frock coat used to
be hooked back not to impede the movements of the lower limbs, and thence the swallow tails
of military uniforms. So also the high jack-boots, that covered the knees, used, in walking,
to be turned down, and the inside being of a lighter colour, gave the idea of what are called
top-boots.

C.

       *       *       *       *       *

Miscellaneous.

NOTES ON BOOKS, SALES, CATALOGUES, ETC.

In the belief that the time has arrived when the history of our national architecture must
be reconsidered, with a view to a revision of the classes or periods into which it has hitherto
been divided, Mr. Sharpe has just put forth a handsomely illustrated volume, under the title
of The Seven Periods of English Architecture defined and illustrated. Mr. Sharpe's proposal
is, that these seven periods should be thus formed:--three belonging to the division Romanesque,
under the titles of Saxon, Norman, and Transitional Periods; and the remaining four to the
Gothic, viz. the Lancet, Geometrical, Curvilinear, and Rectangular Periods. We must, of course,
refer our readers who desire to know the principles upon which Mr. Sharpe proposes this great
change to the work itself, which is plain and to the purpose.

Mr. Bohn some time since became the purchaser of a large number of the copper-plates of Gillray's
Caricatures. Having had impressions taken, and arranged them in one large volume, he sought
the assistance of Mr. Wright, who had just then published his History of the House of Hanover,
illustrated by Caricatures, and Mr. R. H. Evans, the well-known bibliopole, towards an anecdotical
catalogue of the works of this clever satirist: and the result of the labours of these gentlemen
has just been published under the title of Historical and Descriptive Account of the Caricatures
of James Gillray, comprising a Political and Humorous History of the latter Part of the Reign
of George III. The volume will be found not only an interesting key to Mr. Bohn's edition of
Gillray, and a guide to those who may be making a separate collection of his works, but a pleasant
illustration of the wit and satire which lashed the politicians and amused the public

    "In the old time when George the Third was king."

Those who know the value of those historical researches which Sir F. Palgrave has already given
to the world, will be glad to hear that the first volume of his History of Normandy and of
England will probably be published before the close of the present month. In this first volume,
which is described in the advertisement as containing the general relations of Mediæval Europe,
the Carlovingian Empire, and the Danish Expeditions into Gaul, we understand the learned author
has treated those expeditions at considerable length, and enters very fully into that of the
decline of the Carlovingian Empire,--a portion of the work as important, as it is in a great
measure new, to the English reader. Not the least valuable part of the book will be Sir Francis
Palgrave's account of the nature and character of the Continental Chronicles, which form the
substratum of his work, but which, existing only in the great collections of Duchesne, Bouquet,
Pertz, &c., are generally very imperfectly known to English students.

Messrs. Sotheby and Wilkinson will sell, on Monday next, a collection of very rare and interesting
Autograph Letters, more particularly illustrative of the period of the Civil Wars. On the same
day they will also commence a Four-days' Sale of valuable Books, and Books of Engravings, chiefly
from the library of a gentleman deceased, including the original edition of Stuart and Revett's
Athens, a copy of Merian's Topographia Germaniæ containing nearly one thousand engravings,
and many other works of high character.

BOOKS RECEIVED.--Boswell's Life of Johnson, Illustrated, vol. i. This is the first volume of
the National Illustrated Library, which the projectors describe "as an endeavour to bestow
upon half-crown volumes for the many the same typographical accuracy, and the same artistic
ability, hitherto almost exclusively devoted to high-priced books for the few." In choosing
Boswell's Johnson for their first work, the projectors have shown excellent judgment; and we
are bound to add that the book is not only well selected, but neatly printed, and illustrated
with a number of excellent woodcuts.--Illustrations of Medieval Costume in England, &c., Part
II. This second part deserves the same praise for cheapness as its predecessor.--The Cape and
the Kafirs, the new volume of Bohn's cheap series, is a well-timed reprint of Mrs. Ward's Five
Years in Kafirland, with some little alteration and abridgment, and the addition of some information
for intending emigrants, from information supplied by published official reports.

CATALOGUES RECEIVED.--J. Miller's (43. Chandos Street) Catalogue No. XX. of Books Old and New;
T. Kerslake's (3.

  THE COMPLAYNT OF SCOTLAND, edited by Leyden. 8vo. Edinburgh, 1801.

  THOMS' LAYS AND LEGENDS OF VARIOUS NATIONS. Parts I. to VII. 12mo. 1834.
  {294}

  PASSIONAEL EFTE DAT LEVENT DER HEILIGEN. Folio. Basil, 1522.

  CARTARI--LA ROSA D'ORO PONTIFICIA. 4to. Rome, 1681.

  PULLEN'S ETYMOLOGICAL COMPENDIUM. 8vo.

  COOPER (C. P.), ACCOUNT OF PUBLIC RECORDS. 8vo. 1822. Vol. I.

  LINGARD'S HISTORY OF ENGLAND. Sm. 8vo. 1837. Vols. X. XI., XII., XIII. We
trust, therefore, we shall be excused if, with reference to what we stated
a fortnight since, on the subject of making this enlargement permanent
instead of occasional, we quote from a valued correspondent the mode he
has kindly adopted with the view of promoting that increase of our
circulation, upon which such permanent enlargement of our paper must
depend. NOCAB writes thus:--"Whenever I find an article in any Number
which I know to be peculiarly congenial to the taste of any of my literary
or scientific friends, I forward them a copy. A letter of thanks and an
intention of future subscription has almost invariably been the result."
We are sure that this hint will not be lost upon our friends.

P. will find his communication on Averia inserted in No. 69. p. 157.

S. H. H. Received, and will be taken care of.

COMETS AND ECLIPSES. We are requested by our valued correspondent C. to say that his Reply,
p. 253., should have been headed Eclipses, and was intended to refer to the list of Eclipses
(not Comets) in the work to which he refers. He was probably led into this slip of the pen
by the manner in which S. P. O. R. had, in No. 73. p. 223. mixed up Comets and Eclipses in
the same Query.

JARLTZBERG has our best thanks. We receive his friendly suggestions in the spirit in which
they are offered; and will, as far as practicable, attend to them. We trust he will receive
in the same spirit our explanation, that the delay in inserting his communications arises chiefly
from the difficulty in deciphering them. Our correspondents little know how greatly editorial
labours are increased by this apparently trifling cause.

E. T. C. Our correspondent will find, on referring to our First Vol., p. 445., that the so-called
French original of "Not a drum was heard," is only a clever literary hoax from the pen of Father
Prout, which first appeared in Bentley's Miscellany.

J. B. C. A proof of the Sovereign of 1820; and if in very good condition, would perhaps sell
for Two or Three Pounds.

LLEWELLYN. Will this correspondent favour us with his address, that we may forward a communication
which we have received for him?

ACHE is requested to say how a communication may reach him.

F. R. R. We have a further Query for this correspondent on the subject of Sir Andrew Chadwick,
if he will favour us with his address.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE QUARTERLY REVIEW, NO. CLXXVI., is just published.

CONTENTS:

  1. POULTRY LITERATURE.
  2. WOMEN IN FRANCE--MADAME DE MAINTENON.
  3. JULIUS CÆSAR--MERIVALES'S ROMAN HISTORY.
  4. THE REPUBLIC IN THE KING'S COACHES.
  5. SANITARY MOVEMENT--CENTRALIZATION.
  6. LIVES OF CALVIN. By DYER, &C.
  7. LORD HOLLAND'S REMINISCENCES.
  8. LORD JOHN RUSSELL.

JOHN MURRAY, Albemarle Street.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO BOOK COLLECTORS, AUCTIONEERS, and DEALERS in SECOND-HAND BOOKS.--The Book containing the
MINUTES of VESTRY of the Parish of St. Paul, Covent garden, between the years 1645 and 1681,
having been (on examination of the Books, and Documents belonging to the Parish) discovered
to be missing, a REWARD of TEN POUNDS will be paid to any Person who shall forthwith cause
the said Minute-book to be delivered to Mr. MOSELEY, Vestry Clerk, 13. Bedford Street, Covent
Garden.

       *       *       *       *       *

This day is published. By D. M. MOIR [Delta]. In Fcap. 8vo. (pp. 330.) price 5s.

       *       *       *       *       *

FREEMASON'S QUARTERLY MAGAZINE and REVIEW, No. 5, just published, price 3s.

CONTENTS:--Freemasonry during the Great Exhibition--Love's Triumph--The First Offence--On the
Tabernacle and Temple--Notes upon Funeral Solemnities--The Condition of Scotch Masonry--"Thinking"
and "Working" Freemasons--Masonic Processions--On the Rhine--Correspondence--Obituary: Dr.
Crucefix, Peter Thompson. Sir W. Lorraine, T. Pryer, &c.--G. Chapter and G. Lodge Report--The
33rd Degree--The Charities--Metropolitan and Provincial Intelligence--Scotland, Ireland, The
Colonies, East Indies, West Indies, America, Switzerland.

R. SPENCER, 314. High Holborn; and sold by all Booksellers.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE EDINBURGH REVIEW, NO. CXC., will be published on TUESDAY next.

CONTENTS:

  1. ENGLAND AS IT IS.
  2. SALMON FISHERIES.
  3. SOUTHEY'S LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE.
  4. LAMANISM IN TARTARY AND THIBET.
  5. VICTOR COUSIN.
  6. SPAIN AND SPANISH POLITICS.
  7. SHALL WE RETAIN OUR COLONIES?
  8. THE DEFEAT OF ITALY.
  9. ULTRAMONTANE DOUBTS.

London: LONGMAN & CO. Edinburgh: A. & C. BLACK.

       *       *       *       *       *

JOHN MILLER'S CATALOGUE of BOOKS.--The New Number for APRIL is ready this day, and can be had
Gratis, on application. Amongst others, it contains a large Selection of Books on Painting
and the Fine Arts, from the Library of the late Sir M. A. Shee, President of the Royal Academy;
a few articles from the late Duke of Cambridge's Collection; Works on Political Economy and
History; Books of Ballads; the Drama, &c. &c.

JOHN MILLER, 43. Chandos Street, Trafalgar Square.

       *       *       *       *       *

{295}

Just published, in One thick Volume, 8vo. cloth, 12s.

WILLIAM PENN; an HISTORICAL BIOGRAPHY, from New Sources. With an extra Chapter on "The Macaulay
Charges." By WILLIAM HEPWORTH DIXON. With a Portrait.

    "Within the compass of an octavo volume Mr. Dixon has compressed a
    great variety of facts, many original, and all skilfully arranged, so
    as to produce an authentic moral portrait of his hero. The literary
    merits of the volume include great research, and a narrative at once
    consecutive and vivid.... It makes an undeniable exposure of blunders
    committed by Mr. Macaulay in reference to its hero, which will go far
    to compromise his character as a historian."--Athenæum.

London: CHAPMAN AND HALL, 193. Piccadilly.

       *       *       *       *       *

ARNOLD'S SELECT PLAYS OF SOPHOCLES, WITH ENGLISH NOTES.

In 12mo. price 3s. The AJAX of SOPHOCLES, with English Notes. 3s.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GENTLEMAN'S MAGAZINE for April contains, among other articles:--The Character of Charles
II. by Peter Cunningham, Esq., F.S.A., being Chapter IV. of the History of Nell Gwyn.--Unpublished
Poems of Alex. Catalogues will be sent on application.

