It seems hardly necessary to give the form of a letter from one member of a family to another.
It is often the case that letters sent from home to an absent member are decidedly unsatisfactory,
if not to a great extent of little interest outside of one or two facts mentioned. Consequently
some hint as to what those letters should be, are here given. They should be written as though
the writer were talking, using familiar expressions, and such peculiarities as the writer possesses
in ordinary speech should find a place in the letter. The writer may speak of many trivial
things at and about home, and gossipy matters in the neighborhood, and should keep the absent
one posted upon all minor facts and occurrences, as well as the more important ones. The writer
may make inquiries as to how the absent one is enjoying himself, whether he finds any place
better than home, and ask such other questions as he may desire, concluding with sincere expressions
of affection from various members of the family. The absent one may, in like manner, express
himself freely on all subjects, describe his journey minutely, and speak of whatever he may
feel deep interest in. In short, a family letter may be as gossipy as the writer can make it,
without much regard to an attempt at showy or dignified composition.

THE LETTER OF FRIENDSHIP.

This should be of a more dignified tone, contain less trivialities than the family letter,
and should embrace matters that will be of interest to both. A letter of friendship should
be answered in due time, according to the intimacy of the parties, but should not be delayed
long enough to allow the friendship to cool, if there is a desire to keep it warm.

THE LOVE LETTER.

Of this it may be only said, that while it may be expressive of sincere esteem and affection,
it should be of a dignified tone, and written in such a style, that if it should ever come
under the eyes of others than the party to whom it was written, there may be found in it nothing
of which the writer may be ashamed, either of silliness or of extravagant expression.

BUSINESS LETTERS.

These should be brief and to the point, should be of plain chirography, and relate to the business
in hand, in as few words and as clearly as possible. Begin at once without apology or explanation,
and finish up the matter pertaining to the business. If an apology or explanation is due, it
may be made briefly at the close of the letter, after the business has been attended to. A
letter on business should be answered at once, or as soon as possible after receiving it.

It is allowable, in some cases, upon receiving a brief business letter, to write the reply
on the same page, beneath the original letter, and return both letter and answer together.

Among business letters may be classed all correspondence relating to business, applications
for situations, testimonials regarding the character of a servant or employe, letters requesting
the loan of money or an article, and letters granting or denying the favor; while all forms
of drawing up notes, drafts and receipts may properly be included. The forms of some of these
are here given.

LETTERS REQUESTING EMPLOYMENT.

A letter of this kind should be short, and written with care and neatness, that the writer
may both show his penmanship and his business-like qualities, which are often judged of by
the form of his letter. It may be after this fashion:

                                           NEW YORK, March 1, 1880.

          MESSRS. LORD & NOBLE,

                            DEAR SIRS:

         Having heard that you are in need of more
         assistance in your establishment (or store, office)
         I venture to ask you for employment. I can refer
         you to Messrs. Jones & Smith, my late employers, as
         to my qualifications, should you decide to consider
         my application.

                                         Yours truly,
                                              JAMES ROBERTS.

LETTERS REGARDING THE CHARACTER OF A SERVANT.

          DEAR MADAM: Sarah Riley, having applied to me for
          the position of cook, refers me to you for a
          character. I feel particularly anxious to obtain a
          good servant for the coming winter, and shall
          therefore feel obliged by your making me
          acquainted with any particulars referring to her
          character, and remain, madam,

                          Your very obedient servant,
                                         MRS. GEORGE STONE.

                TO MRS. ALFRED STARK.

          MRS. GEORGE STONE,

          DEAR MADAM: It gives me pleasure to say that Sarah
          Riley lived with me for two years, and during that
          time I found her active, diligent and efficient.
          She is a superior cook, and I have full confidence
          in her honesty. I feel that I can recommend her
          with full confidence of her being likely to give
          you satisfaction. She was thoroughly
          competent as a cook, but in other respects I
          cannot conscientiously recommend her. I remain,

                                       Yours, very truly,
                                            MRS. ALFRED STARK.

NOTES, DRAFTS, BILLS AND RECEIPTS.

The following are forms of notes, drafts, receipts, etc.:

Promissory Note Without Interest.

          $500.                    CINCINNATI, O., June 6, 1880.

          Sixty days after date, I promise to pay Samuel
          Archover, or order, at my office in Cincinnati,
          five hundred dollars, value received.

                                     TIMOTHY MORTGRAVE.

Promissory Note With Interest but not Negotiable.

          $125.30.                    CHICAGO, Sept. 2, 1880.

          For value received, I promise to pay Daniel
          Cartright one hundred and twenty-five dollars and
          thirty cents, on August 12th next, with interest
          at seven per cent. after January 1, 1881.

                                     JOHN S. ALLBRIGHT.

A Negotiable Note Payable to Bearer.

          $75.                 DETROIT, MICH., Oct. 8, 1881.

          Thirty days after date, for value received, I
          promise to pay Silas G. Smithers, or bearer, at my
          office in Detroit, seventy-five dollars with
          interest from date.

                                        SAMUEL Q. PETTIBONE.

Form of a Receipt.

          $25.                   NEW YORK, Nov. 3, 1880.

          Received from James O. Mitchell, twenty-five
          dollars, to apply on account.

                                     SMITH, JONES & CO.

Form of a Draft, Time from Sight.

          $1,000.              DETROIT, MICH., July 7, 1880.

          At ten days sight, pay to the order of J. Smith &
          Co., one thousand dollars, and charge the same to
          the account of             SHEPARD & NILES

          TO SAMUEL STOKER & CO.,
                          Indianapolis, Ind.

A Draft or Order "Without Grace."

          $175.           CINCINNATI, OHIO, Aug. 12, 1880.

          At sight, without grace, pay to F. B. Dickerson &
          Co., one hundred and seventy-five dollars, and
          charge to the account of        H.S. Morehouse.

          TO TRADERS' NATIONAL BANK,
                          Cincinnati, Ohio.

Form of a Bill.

                              BUFFALO, N.Y., Dec. 6, 1880.
          MARTIN HUGHES, Dr.
                        TO JOHN J. HART.

          Four volumes History of France, at $2.50 per
          volume, $10.00.

                                     Received payment.

CHAPTER XXIII.

General Rules of Conduct.

In society, everybody should receive equal attention, the young as well as the old. A high
authority says, "If we wish our young people to grow up self-possessed and at ease, we must
early train them in those graces by giving them the same attention and consideration we do
those of maturer years. If we snub them, and systematically neglect them, they will acquire
an awkwardness and a deprecatory manner, which will be very difficult for them to overcome."

GRACEFULNESS OF CARRIAGE.

Physical education is indispensable to every well-bred man and woman. A gentleman should not
only know how to fence, to box, to ride, to shoot and to swim, but he should also know how
to carry himself gracefully, and how to dance, if he would enjoy life to the utmost. A graceful
carriage can best be attained by the aid of a drilling master, as dancing and boxing are taught.
A man should be able to defend himself from ruffians, if attacked, and also to defend women
from their insults. Dancing and calisthenics are also essential for a lady, for the better
the physical training, the more graceful and self-possessed she will be. Every lady should
know how to dance, whether she intends to dance in society or not. Swimming, skating, archery,
games of lawn-tennis, and croquet, riding and driving, all aid in strengthening the muscles
and giving open air exercise, and are therefore desirable recreations for the young of both sexes.

ATTITUDE.

Awkwardness of attitude is a mark of vulgarity. A lady who sits cross-legged or sidewise on
her chair, who stretches out her feet, who has a habit of holding her chin, or twirling her
ribbons or fingering her buttons; a man who lounges in his chair, nurses his leg, bites his
nails, or caresses his foot crossed over on his knee, shows clearly a want of good home training.
Each should be quiet and graceful, either in their sitting or standing position, the gentleman
being allowed more freedom than the lady. He may sit cross-legged if he wishes, but should
not sit with his knees far apart, nor with his foot on his knee. If an object is to be indicated,
you must move the whole hand, or the head, but never point the finger.

COUGHING, SNEEZING, ETC.

Coughing, sneezing, clearing the throat, etc., if done at all, must be done as quickly as possible.
Snuffing, hawking and expectorating must never be done in society. A sneeze can be checked
by pressing the thumb or fingers firmly across the bridge of the nose. If not checked, the
face should be buried in the handkerchief, during the act of sneezing, for obvious reasons.

ANECDOTES, PUNS AND REPARTEES.

Anecdotes should be seldom brought into a conversation. Puns are always regarded as vulgar.
Repartee should be indulged in with moderation, and never kept up, as it degenerates into the
vulgarity of an altercation.

A SWEET AND PURE BREATH.

The breath should be kept sweet and pure. Onions are the forbidden fruit, because of their
offensiveness to the breath. No gentleman should go into the presence of ladies smelling of
tobacco.

SMOKING.

It is neither respectful nor polite to smoke in the presence of ladies, even though they have
given permission, nor should a gentleman smoke in a room which ladies are in the habit of frequenting.
In those homes when the husband is permitted to smoke in any room of the house, the sons will
follow the father's example, and the air of the rooms becomes like that of a public house.

SUPPRESSION OF EMOTION.

Suppression of undue emotion, whether of laughter, of anger, or of mortification, of disappointment,
or of selfishness in any form, is a mark of good breeding.

A GOOD LISTENER.

To be a good listener is almost as great an art as to be a good talker; but it is not enough
only to listen, you must endeavor to seem interested in the conversation of those who are talking.
Only the low-bred allow their impatience to be manifest.

GIVE PRECEDENCE TO OTHERS.

Give precedence to those older or of higher social position than yourself, unless they required
you to take the precedence, when it is better to obey than to refuse. Be more careful to give
others their rank of precedence than to take your own.

BE MODERATE.

Always express your own opinions with modesty, and, if called upon, defend them, but without
that warmth which may lead to hard feelings. Do not enter into argument. Having spoken your
mind, and thus shown you are not cowardly in your beliefs and opinions, drop the subject and
lead to some other topic. There is seldom any profit in idle discussion.

SINGING AND PLAYING IN SOCIETY.

A lady in company should never exhibit any anxiety to sing or play: but being requested to
do so, if she intends to comply, she should do so at once, without waiting to be urged. If
she refuses, she should do so in a manner that shall make her decision final. Having complied,
she should not monopolize the evening with her performances, but make room for others.

RECEIVING AND MAKING PRESENTS.

Emerson says: "Our tokens of love are for the most part barbarous, cold and lifeless, because
they do not represent our life. The only gift is a portion of thyself. To persons of refined
nature, whatever the friend creates takes added value as part of themselves--part of their
lives, as it were, having gone into it. People of the highest rank, abroad, will often accept,
with gratitude, a bit of embroidery done by a friend, a poem inscribed to them by an author;
a painting executed by some artist; who would not care for the most expensive bauble that was
offered them. Mere costliness does not constitute the soul of a present; it is the kind feeling
that it manifests which gives it its value. People who possess noble natures do not make gifts
where they feel neither affection nor respect, but their gifts are bestowed out of the fullness
of kind hearts.

A present should be acknowledged without delay, but you must not follow it quickly by a return.
It is to be taken for granted that a gift is intended to afford pleasure to the recipient,
not to be regarded as a question of investment or exchange. Never allude to a present you have
given, unless you have reason to believe that it has not been received by the person to whom
it was sent.

Unmarried ladies should not accept presents from gentlemen who are neither related nor engaged
to them, nor indebted to them for some marked favors. A married lady may accept presents from
a gentleman who is indebted to her for hospitality.

In presenting a book to a friend, do not write in it the name of the person to whom it is given.
But this is a rule better honored in its breach than in its observance, when the giver of the
book is its author.

Presents made by a married lady to a gentleman, should be in the name of both herself and her
husband.

Never refuse a present if offered in kindness, unless the circumstances are such that you cannot,
with propriety, receive it. Nor, in receiving a present, make such comments as would seem to
indicate that your friend cannot afford to make the present. On the other hand, never make
a present which you cannot afford to make. In that case the recipient, if he or she knows anything
of your circumstances, will think that you had better kept it yourself.

GOVERNING OUR MOODS.

We should subdue our gloomy moods before we enter society. To look pleasantly and to speak
kindly is a duty we owe to others. Neither should we afflict them with any dismal account of
our health, state of mind or outward circumstances. Nevertheless, if another makes us the confidant
of his woes, we should strive to appear sympathetic, and if possible help him to be stronger
under them. A lady who shows by act, or expresses in plain, curt words, that the visit of another
is unwelcome, may perhaps pride herself upon being no hypocrite. But she is, in reality, worse.
She is grossly selfish. Courtesy requires her, for the time being, to forget her own feelings,
and remember those of her visitor, and thus it is her duty to make that visitor happy while
she remains.

A LADY DRIVING WITH A GENTLEMAN.

When a lady offers to drive a gentleman in her phaeton, he should walk to her house, if he
accepts the invitation, unless, the distance being great, she should propose to call for him.
In that case he will be on the watch, so as not to keep her waiting, and, if possible, meet
her on the way.

AN INVITATION CANNOT BE RECALLED.

An invitation, once given, cannot be recalled, even from the best motives, without subjecting
the one who recalls it to the charge of being either ignorant or regardless of all conventional
rules of politeness. There is but one exception to this rule, and that is when the invitation
has been delivered to the wrong person.

AVOID TALKING OF PERSONALITIES.

Avoid speaking of your birth, your travels and of all personal matters, to those who may misunderstand
you, and consider it boasting. When induced to speak of them, do not dwell too long upon them,
and do not speak boastfully.

ABOUT PERSONS' NAMES.

Do not speak of absent persons, who are not relatives or intimate friends, by their Christian
names or surnames, but always as Mr. ----, or Mrs. ----, or Miss ----. Never name anyone by
the first letter of his name, as "Mr. C." Give a foreigner his name in full when speaking of him.

SHUN GOSSIP AND TALE-BEARING.

Gossip and tale-bearing are always a personal confession either of malice or imbecility. The
young of both sexes should not only shun these things, but, by the most thorough culture, relieve
themselves from all temptation in that direction.

REMOVING THE HAT.

A gentleman never sits in the house with his hat on in the presence of ladies. Indeed, a gentleman
instinctively removes his hat as soon as he enters a room, the habitual resort of ladies. A
gentleman never retains his hat in a theatre or other place of public entertainment.

TREATMENT OF INFERIORS.

Never affect superiority. In the company of an inferior never let him feel his inferiority.
If you invite an inferior as your guest, treat him with all the politeness and consideration
you would show an equal.

INTRUDING ON PRIVACY.

Never enter a private room anywhere without knocking. Sacredly respect the private property
of others, and let no curiosity tempt you to pry into letters, desks, packets, trunks, or other
belongings of another. It is ill-mannered to read a written paper lying upon a table or desk;
whatever it may be, it is certainly no business of yours. No person should ever look over the
shoulder of another who is reading or writing. You must not question a servant or child upon
family affairs. Never betray an implied confidence, even if you have not been bound to secrecy.

KEEPING ENGAGEMENTS.

Nothing is more rude than to make an engagement, be it of business or pleasure, and break it.
If your memory is not sufficiently retentive to keep all the engagements you make, carry a
little memorandum book, and enter them there.

VALUE OF POLITENESS.

ADAPTING YOURSELF TO OTHERS.

Conform your conduct as far as possible to the company you chance to be with, only do not throw
yourself into improper company. It is better even to laugh at and join in with vulgarity, so
that it do not degenerate into indecency, than to set yourself up as better, and better-mannered
than those with whom you may chance to be associated. True politeness and genuine good manners
often not only permit but absolutely demand a temporary violation of the ordinary obligations
of etiquette.

A WOMAN'S GOOD NAME.

Let no man speak a word against a woman at any time, or mention a woman's name in any company
where it should not be spoken. "Civility," says Lord Chesterfield, "is particularly due to
all women; and remember that no provocation whatsoever can justify any man in not being civil
to every woman; and the greatest man would justly be reckoned a brute if he were not civil
to the meanest woman. It is due to their sex, and is the only protection they have against
the superior strength of ours."

DO NOT CONTRADICT.

Never directly contradict anyone. Say, "I beg your pardon, but I think you are mistaken or
misinformed," or some such similar phrase which shall break the weight of direct contradiction.
Where the matter is unimportant it is better to let it pass without correction.

EXPRESSING UNFAVORABLE OPINIONS.

You should be exceedingly cautious about expressing an unfavorable opinion relative to a young
lady to a young man who appears to be attracted by, and attentive to her. If they should marry,
the remembrance of your observations will not be pleasurable to yourself nor the married parties.

A CONVERSATION CHECKED.

If a person checks himself in a conversation, you should not insist on hearing what he intended
to say. There is some good reason for checking himself, and it might cause him unpleasant feelings
to urge him to carry out his first intentions.

VULGARITIES.

Some of the acts which may be classed as vulgarities when committed in the presence of others
are given:

To sit with your back to a person, without asking to be excused.

To stand or sit with the feet wide apart.

To hum, whistle or sing in suppressed tones.

To stand with the arms akimbo; to lounge or yawn, or to do anything which shows disrespect,
selfishness or indifference.

To correct inaccuracies in the statements of others, or their modes of speech.

To use profane language, or stronger expression than the occasion justifies.

To chew tobacco and its unnecessary accompaniment, spitting, are vulgar in the extreme.

MISCELLANEOUS RULES.

A gentleman precedes a lady passing through a crowd; ladies precede gentlemen under ordinary
circumstances.

Give your children, unless married, their Christian names only, or say "my daughter" or "my
son," in speaking of them to any one except servants.

Ladies in escorting each other, never offer to take the arm.

Acknowledge an invitation to stop with a friend, or any unusual attention without delay.

Never boast of birth, money or friends, or of any superior advantages you may possess.

Never ridicule others, be the object of your ridicule present or absent.

Always show respect for the religious opinions and observances of others, no matter how much
they may differ from your own.

You should never scratch your head, pick your teeth, clean your nails or pick your nose in company.

Never lean your head against the wall, as you may disgust your wife or hostess by soiling the
paper of her room.

Never slam a door or stamp noisily on entering a room.

Always be punctual. You have no right to waste the time of others by making them wait for you.

Always hand a chair for a lady, pick up her glove and perform any little service she may seem
to require.

Never attract attention to yourself by talking or laughing loudly in public gatherings.

Keep yourself quiet and composed under all circumstances. Do not get fidgety. If you feel that
time drags heavily, do not let this be apparent to others by any visible sign of uneasiness.

Refrain from absent-mindedness in the presence of others. You pay them a poor compliment if
you thus forget them.

Never refuse to accept an apology for an offense, and never hesitate to make one, if one is
due from you.

Never answer another rudely or impatiently. Reply courteously, at whatever inconvenience to
yourself.

Never intrude upon a business man or woman in business hours unless you wish to see them on
business.

Never engage a person in private conversation in presence of others, nor make any mysterious
allusions which no one else understands.

On entering a room, bow slightly as a general salutation, before speaking to each of the persons
assembled.

Do not seem to notice by word or glance, the deformity of another.

To administer reproof to anyone in the presence of others is very impolite. To scold at any
time is unwise.

Never undertake a commission for a friend and neglect to perform it.

Never play a practical joke upon anyone, or answer a serious remark by a flippant one.

Never lend a borrowed book, and never keep such a book a single day after you are done with it.

Never pass between two persons who are talking together; and never pass before persons when
it is possible to pass behind them. When such an act is absolutely necessary, always apologize
for so doing.

"Never speak of a man's virtues before his face, or his faults behind his back," is a maxim
to be remembered.

Another maxim is, "In private watch your thoughts; in your family watch your temper; in society
watch your tongue."

Never address a mere acquaintance by his or her Christian name. It is a presumption at which
the acquaintance may take offense.

Haughtiness and contempt are among the habits to be avoided. The best way is to deal courteously
with the rude as well as with the courteous.

In the presence of others, talk as little of yourself as possible, or of the business or profession
in which you are engaged.

It shows a want of courtesy to consult your watch, either at home or abroad. If at home, it
appears as though you were tired of your company, and wished them to be gone. If abroad, it
appears as though the hours dragged heavily, and you were calculating how soon you would be
released.

Do not touch or handle any of the ornaments in the house where you visit. They are intended
to be admired, not handled by visitors.

Do not read in company. A gentleman or lady may, however, look over a book of engravings or
a collection of photographs with propriety.

Every species of affectation should be avoided, as it is always detected, and exceedingly disagreeable.

WASHINGTON'S MAXIMS.

Mr. Sparks, in his biography of Washington, has given to the public a collection of Washington's
directions as to personal conduct, which he called his "Rules of Civility and Decent Behavior
in Company." We give these rules entire, as the reader may be interested in learning the principles
which governed the conduct of the "Father of his Country."

Let your countenance be pleasant, but in serious matters somewhat grave.

Show not yourself glad at the misfortune of another, though he were your enemy.

They that are in dignity or office have in all places precedency, but whilst they are young,
they ought to respect those that are their equals in birth or other qualities, though they
have no public charge.

It is good manners to prefer them to whom we speak before ourselves, especially if they be
above us.

Let your discourse with men of business be short and comprehensive.

In visiting the sick do not presently play the physician if you be not knowing therein.

In writing or speaking, give to every person his due title according to his degree and the
custom of the place.

When a man does all he can though it succeeds not well, blame not him that did it.

Being to advise or reprehend anyone, consider whether it ought to be in public or in private,
presently or at some other time, also in what terms to do it; and in reproving show no signs
of choler, but do it with sweetness and mildness.

Mock not nor jest at anything of importance; break no jests that are sharp or biting, and if
you deliver anything witty or pleasant, abstain from laughing thereat yourself.

Wherein you reprove another be unblamable yourself, for example is more prevalent than precept.

Use no reproachful language against any one, neither curses or revilings.

Be not hasty to believe flying reports to the disparagement of anyone.

Play not the peacock, looking everywhere about you to see if you be well decked, if your shoes
fit well, if your stockings set neatly and clothes handsomely.

Let your conversation be without malice or envy, for it is a sign of a tractable and commendable
nature; and in all cases of passion admit reason to govern.

Be not immodest in urging your friend to discover a secret.

Break not a jest when none take pleasure in mirth. Laugh not aloud, nor at all without occasion.
Deride no man's misfortunes, though there seem to be some cause.

Be not forward, but friendly and courteous, the first to salute, hear and answer, and be not
pensive when it is time to converse.

Detract not from others, but neither be excessive in commending.

Go not thither where you know not whether you shall be welcome or not. Give not advice without
being asked; and when desired, do it briefly.

If two contend together, take not the part of either unconstrained, and be not obstinate in
your opinions; in things indifferent be of the major side. Sublime matters treat seriously.

Treat with men at fit times about business, and whisper not in the company of others.

Make no comparisons; and if any of the company be commended for any brave act of virtue, commend
not another for the same.

Be not apt to relate news if you know not the truth thereof. In discoursing of things that
you have heard, name not your author always. A secret discover not.

When you deliver a matter, do it without passion and indiscretion, however mean the person
may be you do it to.

When your superiors talk to anybody, hear them; neither speak nor laugh.

In disputes be not so desirous to overcome as not to give liberty to each one to deliver his
opinion, and submit to the judgment of the major part, especially if they are judges of the
dispute.

Be not tedious in discourse, make not many digressions, nor repeat often the same matter of
discourse.

Speak no evil of the absent, for it is unjust.

Be not angry at table, whatever happens; and if you have reason to be so show it not; put on
a cheerful countenance, especially if there be strangers, for good humor makes one dish a feast.

Set not yourself at the upper end of the table; but if it be your due, or the master of the
house will have it so, contend not, lest you should trouble the company.

When you speak of God or his attributes, let it be seriously, in reverence and honor, and obey
your natural parents.

Let your recreations be manful, not sinful.

CHAPTER XXIV.

Anniversary Weddings.

The custom of celebrating anniversary weddings has, of late years, been largely practiced,
and they have become a very pleasant means of social reunion among the relatives and friends
of both husband and wife. Often this is the only reason for celebrating them, and the occasion
is sometimes taken advantage of to give a large party, of a more informal nature than could
be given under other circumstances. The occasion becomes one of the memorable events in the
life of the couple whose wedding anniversary is celebrated. It is an occasion for recalling
the happy event which brought to each a new existence, and changed the current of their lives.
It is an occasion for them to receive congratulations upon their past married life, and wishes
for many additional years of wedded bliss.

Upon these occasions the married couple sometimes appear in the costumes worn by them on their
wedding day, which they have preserved with punctilious care, and when many years have intervened
the quaintness and oddity of the style of dress from the prevailing style is a matter of interest,
and the occasion of pleasant comments. The couple receive their guests together, who upon entering
the drawing-room, where they are receiving, extend to them their congratulations and wishes
for continued prosperity and happiness. The various anniversaries are designated by special
names, indicative of the presents suitable on each occasion, should guests deem it advisable
to send presents. It may be here stated that it is entirely optional with parties invited as
to whether any presents are sent or taken. At the earlier anniversaries, much pleasantry and
amusement is occasioned by presenting unique and fantastic articles, gotten up for the occasion.
When this is contemplated, care should be taken that they should not be such as are liable
to give offense to a person of sensitive nature.

THE PAPER, COTTON AND LEATHER WEDDING.

The first anniversary of the wedding-day is called the Paper Wedding, the second the Cotton
Wedding, and the third the Leather Wedding. The invitations to the first should be issued on
a grey paper, representing thin cardboard. Presents, if given should be solely articles made
of paper.

The invitations for the cotton wedding should be neatly printed on fine white cloth, and presents
should be of articles of cotton cloth.

For the leather wedding invitations should be issued upon leather, tastily gotten up, and presents,
of course, should be articles made of leather.

THE WOODEN WEDDING.

The wooden wedding is the fifth anniversary of the marriage. The invitations should be upon
thin cards of wood, or they may be written on a sheet of wedding note paper, and a card of
wood enclosed in the envelope. The presents suitable to this occasion are most numerous, and
may range from a wooden paper knife or trifling article for kitchen use up to a complete set
of parlor or kitchen furniture.

THE TIN WEDDING.

The tenth anniversary of the marriage is called the tin wedding. The invitations for this anniversary
may be made upon cards covered with a tin card inclosed. The guests, if they desire to accompany
their congratulations with appropriate presents, have the whole list of articles manufactured
by the tinner's art from which to select.

THE CRYSTAL WEDDING.

The crystal wedding is the fifteenth anniversary. Invitations may be on thin, transparent paper,
or colored sheets of prepared gelatine, or on ordinary wedding note-paper, enclosing a sheet
of mica. The guests make their offerings to their host and hostess of trifles of glass, which
may be more or less valuable, as the donor feels inclined.

THE CHINA WEDDING.

The china wedding occurs on the twentieth anniversary of the wedding-day. Invitations should
be issued on exceedingly fine, semi-transparent note-paper or cards. Various articles for the
dining or tea-table or for the toilet-stand, vases or mantel ornaments, all are appropriate
on this occasion.

THE SILVER WEDDING.

The silver wedding occurs on the twenty-fifth marriage anniversary. The invitations issued
for this wedding should be upon the finest note-paper, printed in bright silver, with monogram
or crest upon both paper and envelope, in silver also. If presents are offered by any of the
guests, they should be of silver, and may be the merest trifles, or more expensive, as the
means and inclinations of the donors incline.

THE GOLDEN WEDDING.

The close of the fiftieth year of married life brings round the appropriate time for the golden
wedding. Fifty years of married happiness may indeed be crowned with gold. The invitations
for this anniversary celebration should be printed on the finest note-paper in gold, with crest
or monogram on both paper and envelopes in highly-burnished gold. The presents, if any are
offered, are also in gold.

THE DIAMOND WEDDING.

Rarely, indeed, is a diamond wedding celebrated. This should be held on the seventy-fifth anniversary
of the marriage-day. So seldom are these occurrences that custom has sanctioned no particular
style or form to be observed in the invitations. They might be issued upon diamond-shaped cards,
enclosed in envelopes of a corresponding shape. There can be no general offering of presents
at such a wedding, since diamonds in any number are beyond the means of most persons.

PRESENTS AT ANNIVERSARY WEDDINGS.

It is not, as before stated, required that an invitation to an anniversary wedding be acknowledged
by a valuable gift, or indeed by any. The donors on such occasions are usually only members
of the family or intimate friends, and may act at their own discretion in the matter of giving
presents.

On the occasion of golden or silver weddings, it is not amiss to have printed at the bottom
of the invitation the words "No presents," or to enclose a card announcing--

"It is preferred that no wedding gifts be offered."

INVITATIONS TO ANNIVERSARY WEDDINGS.

The invitations to anniversary weddings may vary something in their wording, according to the
fancy of the writer, but they are all similar. They should give the date of the marriage and
the anniversary. They may or may not give the name of the husband at the right-hand side and
the maiden name of the wife at the left. What the anniversary is should also be indicated.

The following form will serve as a model:

A proper variation will make this form equally suitable for any of the other anniversary weddings.

MARRIAGE CEREMONY AT ANNIVERSARY WEDDINGS.

It is not unusual to have the marriage ceremony repeated at these anniversary weddings, especially
at the silver or golden wedding. The earliest anniversaries are almost too trivial occasions
upon which to introduce this ceremony. The clergyman who officiates may so change the exact
words of the marriage ceremony as to render them appropriate to the occasion.

CHAPTER XXV.

Births and Christenings.

Upon the announcement of the birth of a child, the lady friends of the mother send her their
cards, with inquiries after her health. As soon as she is strong enough to permit, the mother
returns her own card to all from whom she received cards and inquiries, with "thanks for kind
inquiries." Her lady friends then make personal visits, but gentlemen do not call upon the
mother on these occasions. If they wish, they may pay their visits to the father, and inquire
after the health of the mother and child.

NAMING THE CHILD.

It becomes an all-important matter to the parents, what name they shall give to the newly-born
child, and as this is a matter which may also concern the latter at some future day, it becomes
an object of solicitude, until a suitable name is settled upon. The custom in Scotland is to
name the first son after the father's father, and the first daughter after the mother's mother,
the second son after the father, the second daughter after the mother, and succeeding children
after other near relations. This perpetuates family names, and if they are persons whose names
are regarded as worthy of perpetuation, it may be considered a good custom to follow. With
some it is customary to name children after some renowned person, either living or dead. There
are objections to this plan, however, for if the person be still living, he may commit some
act which will bring opprobrium to his name, and so cause both the parent and child to be ashamed
of bearing such a disgraced name. If the person after whom the child is named be dead, it may
be that the child's character may be so entirely different from the person who formerly bore
it, that the name shall be made a reproach or satire.

The plan of reviving the old Saxon names has been adopted by some, and it has been claimed
that the names of Edgar, Edwin, Arthur, Alfred, Ethel, Maud, Edith, Theresa, and many others
of the Saxon names are pleasant sounding and strong, and a desirable contrast to the Fannies,
Mamies, Minnies, Lizzies, Sadies, and other petty diminutives which have taken the place of
better sounding and stronger names.

THE CHRISTENING.

The christening and the baptism usually occur at the same time, and are regulated according
to the practices of the special church where the parents attend worship. As these are quite
varied, it will be sufficient only to indicate the forms and customs which society imposes
at such times.

GODPARENTS OR SPONSORS.

In the Episcopal Church there are two, and sometimes three, godparents or sponsors. If the
child is a boy, there are two godfathers and one godmother. If a girl, two godmothers and one
godfather. The persons selected for godparents should be near relatives or friends of long
and close standing, and should be members of the same church into which the child is baptized.
The maternal grandmother and paternal grandfather usually act as sponsors for the first child,
the maternal grandfather and paternal grandmother for the second. A person invited to act as
godparent should not refuse without good reason. If the grandparents are not selected, it is
an act of courtesy to select the godmother, and allow her to designate the godfather. Young
persons should not stand sponsors to an infant; and none should offer to act unless their superior
position warrants them in so doing.

PRESENTS FROM GODFATHERS.

The sponsors must make their godchild a present of some sort--a silver mug, a knife, spoon
and fork, a handsomely-bound bible, or perhaps a costly piece of lace or embroidery suitable
for infants' wear. The godfather may give a cup, with name engraved, and the godmother the
christening robe and cap.

THE CHRISTENING CEREMONY.

Upon entering the church the babe is carried first in the arms of its nurse. Next come the
sponsors, and after them the father and mother, if she is able to be present. The invited guests
follow. In taking their places the sponsors stand, the godfather on the right and the godmother
on the left of the child. When the question is asked, "Who are the sponsors for the child?"
the proper persons should merely bow their heads without speaking.

In the Roman Catholic Church baptism takes place at as early a date as possible. If the child
does not seem to be strong, a priest is sent for at once, and the ceremony is performed at
the mother's bedside. If, on the other hand, the child is healthy, it is taken to the church
within a few days after its birth. In Protestant churches the ceremony of baptism is usually
deferred until the mother is able to be present. If the ceremony is performed at home, a carriage
must be sent for the clergyman, and retained to convey him back again after the ceremony is
concluded. A luncheon may follow the christening, though a collation of cake and wine will
fill all the requirements of etiquette. It is the duty of the godfather to propose the health
of the infant.

PRESENTS FROM GUESTS.

Friends invited to a christening should remember the babe in whose honor they convene, by some
trifling gift. Gentlemen may present an article of silver, ladies something of their own manufacture.

THE HERO OF THE OCCASION.

It should be remembered that the baby is the person of the greatest importance on these occasions,
and the guests should give it a large share of attention and praise. The parents, however,
must not make this duty too onerous to their guests by keeping a tired, fretful child on exhibition.
It is better to send it at once to the care of the nurse as soon as the ceremony is over.

FEES TO THE CLERGYMAN.

Though the Church performs the ceremony of baptism gratuitously, the parents should, if they
are able, make a present to the officiating clergyman, or, through him a donation to the poor
of the neighborhood.

CHAPTER XXVI.

Funerals.

The saddest of all ceremonies is that attendant upon the death of relatives and friends, and
it becomes us to show, in every possible way, the utmost consideration for the feelings of
the bereaved, and the deepest respect for the melancholy occasion. Of late the forms of ostentation
at funerals are gradually diminishing, and by some people of intelligence, even mourning habiliments
are rejected in whole or in part.

INVITATION TO A FUNERAL.

It is customary in cities to give the notice of death and announcement of a funeral through
the daily newspapers, though sometimes when such announcement may not reach all friends in
time, invitations to the funeral are sent to personal and family friends of the deceased. In
villages where there is no daily paper, such invitations are often issued.

Private invitations are usually printed on fine small note paper, with a heavy black border,
and in such form as the following:

When an announcement of a death is sent to a friend or relative at a distant point, it is usual
to telegraph or to write the notice of death, time and place of funeral, to allow the friend
an opportunity to arrive before the services.

It is a breach of good manners not to accept an invitation to a funeral, when one is sent.

ARRANGEMENTS FOR THE FUNERAL.

It is customary to trust the details of the arrangements for the funeral to some relative or
friend of the family, and if there be no friend who can perform this duty, it can be safely
left with the undertaker to perform the painful duties of master of ceremonies. It is prudent
to name a limit for the expenses of the funeral, and the means of the family should always
govern these. Pomp and display should always be avoided, as they are out of keeping with the
solemn occasion, and inconsistent with real grief. At the funeral some one should act as usher
to seat the friends who attend.

THE HOUSE OF MOURNING.

Upon entering the house of mourning, a gentleman should always remove his hat in the hall,
and not replace it until he is about to depart. No calls of condolence should be made upon
the bereaved family while the dead remains in the house, and members of the family may be excused
from receiving any but their most intimate friends at that time.

There should be no loud talking or confusion while the body remains in the house. All differences
and quarrels must be forgotten in the house of mourning, and personal enemies who meet at a
funeral must treat each other with respect and dignity. The bell knob or door handle is draped
with black crape, with a black ribbon tied on, if the deceased is married or advanced in years,
and with a white ribbon, if young or unmarried.

THE FUNERAL SERVICES.

If the services are held at the house, some near friend or relative will receive the guests.
The immediate members of the family and near relatives should take a final view of the corpse
just before the arrival of the guests, and should not make their appearance again until the
services are about to commence. It is becoming customary now to reserve a room of the house
adjoining that in which the services are held, for the exclusive use of the near relatives
and members of the family during the services. Then the clergyman takes his position at the
door between the two rooms while conducting the services. As guests arrive, they are requested
to take a last look at the corpse before seating themselves, and upon the conclusion of the
services the coffin lid is closed, and the remains are borne to the hearse. The custom of opening
the coffin at the church to allow all who attend to take a final look at the corpse, is rapidly
coming into disfavor. The friends who desire it are requested to view the corpse at the house,
before it is taken to the church.

If, however, the deceased is a person of great prominence in the community, and the house is
not able to accommodate the large numbers who desire to take a last look at the face of the
deceased, then, perhaps, it may be well that the coffin should be opened at the church.

THE PALL-BEARERS.

The pall-bearers, usually six, but sometimes eight, when the deceased is a person of considerable
prominence, are generally chosen from the intimate acquaintances of the deceased, and of nearly
the same age. If they walk to the cemetery, they take their position in equal numbers on either
side of the hearse. If they ride, their carriage or carriages precede the hearse.

ORDER OF THE PROCESSION.

The carriages containing the clergyman and pall-bearers precede the hearse, immediately following
which are the carriages of the nearest relatives, more distant relatives and friends respectively.
When societies or masonic bodies take part in the procession they precede the hearse.

The horse of a deceased mounted military officer, fully equipped and draped in mourning, will
be led immediately after the hearse. As the mourners pass out to enter the carriage, the guests
stand with uncovered heads. No salutations are given or received. The person who officiates
as master of ceremonies, assists the mourners to enter and alight from the carriages. At the
cemetery the clergyman or priest walks in advance of the coffin. In towns and villages where
the cemetery is near at hand and the procession goes on foot, the men should go with uncovered
heads, if the weather permit, the hat being held in the right hand. Guests return to their
respective homes after the services at the grave.

FLORAL DECORATIONS.

The usual decorations of the coffin are flowers, tastefully arranged in a beautiful wreath
for a child or young person, and a cross for a married person, which are placed upon the coffin.
These flowers should mostly be white. Near friends of the deceased may send beautiful floral
devices, if they wish, as a mark of their esteem for the deceased, which should be sent in
time to be used for decorative purposes.

OTHER DECORATIONS.

A person of rank generally bears some insignia upon his coffin. Thus a deceased army or naval
officer will have his coffin covered with the national flag, and his hat, epaulettes, sword
and sash laid upon the lid. The regalia of a deceased officer of the Masonic or Odd Fellows'
fraternity is often placed upon the coffin.

CALLS UPON THE BEREAVED FAMILY.

About a week after the funeral, friends call upon the bereaved family, and acquaintances call
within a month. The calls of the latter are not repeated until cards of acknowledgment have
been received by the family, the leaving of which announces that they are ready to see their
friends. It is the custom for friends to wear no bright colors when making their calls of condolence.
In making first calls of condolence, none but most intimate friends ask to see the family.
Short notes of condolence, expressing the deepest sympathy, are usually accepted, and help
to comfort stricken hearts. Formal notes of condolence are no longer sent. Those who have known
anything of the unsounded depths of sorrow do not attempt consolation. All that they attempt
to do is to find words wherein to express their deep sympathy with the grief-stricken ones.

SECLUSION OF THE BEREAVED FAMILY.

No member of the immediate family of the deceased will leave the house between the time of
the death and the funeral. A lady friend will be commissioned to make all necessary purchases,
engage seamstresses, etc. It is not desirable to enshroud ourselves in gloom after a bereavement,
however great it may be, and consequently no prescribed period of seclusion can be given. Real
grief needs no appointed time for seclusion. It is the duty of every one to interest himself
or herself in accustomed objects of care as soon as it is possible to make the exertion; for,
in fulfilling our duties to the living, we best show the strength of our affection for the
dead, as well as our submission to the will of Him who knows what is better for our dear ones
than we can know or dream.

CHAPTER XXVII.

Washington Etiquette.

Certain local rules have been recognized in society at Washington, from the fact that a gentleman's
social position is acquired by virtue of certain offices which he holds, and the social status
of woman is also determined by the official rank of her husband.

THE PRESIDENT.

As the President of the United States holds the highest official rank in political life, so
is he also by virtue of that office, awarded precedence in social life. There is no necessity
of special formalities to form his acquaintance, and he receives calls without being under
any obligation to return them. He may be addressed either as "Mr. President," or "Your Excellency."
Sometimes he gives up the morning hours to receiving calls, and at such times precedence is
given to such people as have business with him, over parties who go to make a formal call.
In either case, the caller is shown to the room occupied by the President's secretaries, presents
his card and waits his turn to be admitted. If the caller has no business, but goes out of
curiosity, he pays his respects and withdraws to make room for others. It is better in making
a private call, to secure the company of some official or some friend of the President to introduce
you.

RECEPTIONS AT THE WHITE HOUSE.

Stated receptions are given at the White House by the President during sessions of congress,
and all are at liberty to attend them. Sometimes these are morning, and sometimes evening,
receptions. Upon entering the reception room, the caller gives his name to the usher, who announces
it, and upon approaching the President is introduced, by some official to whom the duty is
assigned, both to the President and to the members of his family who receive with him. The
callers pass on, after being introduced, mingle in social intercourse and view the various
rooms until ready to depart. If a caller wishes he may leave his card.

The same rules of etiquette prevail at state dinners given by the President as at any formal
dinner, precedence being given to guests according to official rank and dignity. An invitation
by the President must be accepted, and it is admissible to break any other engagement already
made; however, it is necessary to explain the cause, in order to avoid giving offense. It is
not regarded as discourteous to break an engagement for this reason.

The wife of the President is not under obligation to return calls, though she may visit those
whom she wishes to favor with such attentions. Other members of the President's family may
receive and return calls.

NEW-YEAR'S RECEPTIONS AT THE WHITE HOUSE.

As the New-Year's receptions at the White House are the most ceremonious occasions of the executive
mansion, it is the custom of the ladies who attend them to appear in the most elegant toilets
suited to a morning reception. Members of foreign legations appear in the court dresses of
their respective countries on this occasion, in paying their respects to the President of the
United States.

ORDER OF OFFICIAL RANK.

Next in rank to the President come the Chief Justice, the Vice-President and the Speaker of
the House of Representatives. These receive first visits from all others. The General of the
army and the Admiral of the navy come next in the order of official rank. Members of the House
of Representatives call first on all the officials named. The wife of any official is entitled
to the same social precedence as her husband.

THE CABINET OFFICERS.

The officers of the cabinet, comprising the Secretaries of State, the Treasury, the War, the
Navy, the Postmaster-General, the Secretary of the Interior and Attorney-General, expect to
receive calls, and as all the officers are of the same rank and dignity, it is only on occasions
of State ceremonies that an order of preference is observed, which is as above given. The wives
of the cabinet officers, or the ladies of their household, have onerous social duties to perform.
They hold receptions every Wednesday during the season, which lasts from the first of January
to Lent, when their houses are open to all who choose to favor them with a call, and on these
occasions refreshments are served. The ladies of the family are expected to return these calls,
at which time they leave the card of the cabinet officer, and an invitation to an evening reception.
The cabinet officers are expected to entertain Senators, Representatives, Justices of the Supreme
Court, members of the diplomatic corps and distinguished visitors at Washington, as well as
the ladies of their respective families. The visiting hours at the capital are usually from
two until half-past five. The labor and fatigue which social duties require of the ladies of
the family of a cabinet officer are fairly appalling. To stand for hours during receptions
at her own house, to stand at a series of entertainments at the houses of others, whose invitation
courtesy requires should be accepted, and to return in person calls made upon her, are a few
of the duties of the wife of a cabinet officer.

HOW TO ADDRESS THE OFFICIALS.

When writing to the different officials, the President is addressed "His Excellency, the President
of the United States;" the members of the cabinet "The Honorable, the Secretary of State,"
etc., giving each his proper title; the Vice-President, "The Honorable, the Vice-President
of the United States." In a ceremonious note, words must not be abbreviated. In conversation
the Speaker of the House of Representatives is addressed as "Mr. Speaker;" a member of the
cabinet as "Mr. Secretary;" a senator as "Mr. Senator;" a member of the House of Representatives
as "Mister," unless he has some other title; but he is introduced as "The Honorable Mr. Burrows,
of Michigan." The custom is becoming prevalent of addressing the wives of officials with the
prefixed titles of their husbands, as "Mrs. General Sherman," "Mrs. Senator Thurman," "Mrs.
Secretary Evarts."

THE FIRST TO VISIT.

The custom of first visits or calls at the capital is that residents shall make the first call
on strangers, and among the latter those arriving first upon those coming later. Foreign ministers,
however, in order to make themselves known, call first upon the members of the cabinet, which
is returned.

SENATORS AND REPRESENTATIVES.

It is entirely optional with Senators, Representatives and all other officials except the President
and members of his cabinet, whether they entertain. They act upon their own pleasure in the matter.

CHAPTER XXVIII.

Foreign Titles.

In this country, where everybody possesses one and the same title, that of a citizen of this
Republic, no one can claim a superiority of rank and title. Not so in European countries, where
the right of birth entitles a person to honor, rank and title. And as our citizens are constantly
visiting foreign countries, it is well to understand something of titles and ranks and their
order of precedence.

ROYALTY.

In England, the king and queen are placed at the top of the social structure. The mode by which
they are addressed is in the form "Your Majesty."

The Prince of Wales, the heir-apparent to the throne, stands second in dignity. The other children
are all known during their minority as princes and princesses. The eldest princess is called
the crown princess. Upon their majority the younger sons have the title of duke bestowed upon
them, and the daughters retain that of princesses, adding to it the title of their husbands.
They are all designated as "Their Royal Highnesses."

THE NOBILITY.

A duke who inherits the title from his father, stands one grade below a royal duke. The wife
of a duke is known as a duchess. They are both addressed as "Your Grace." The eldest son is
a marquis until he inherits the higher title of his father. His wife is a marchioness. The
younger sons are lords by courtesy, and the daughters are distinguished by having "Lady" prefixed
to their Christian names. Earls and barons are both spoken of as lords and their wives as ladies,
though the latter are by right respectively countesses and baronesses. The daughters of the
former are "ladies," the younger sons of both "honorables." The earl occupies the higher position
of the two in the peerage.

These complete the list of nobility, unless we include bishops, who are lords in right of their
ecclesiastical office, but whose title is not hereditary.

All these are entitled to seats in the upper House of Parliament.

THE GENTRY.

Baronets are known as "Sirs," and their wives receive the title of "Lady;" but they are only
commoners of a higher degree, though there are families who have borne their title for many
successive generations who would not exchange it for a recently created peerage.

A clergyman, by right of his calling, stands on an equality with all commoners, a bishop with
all peers.

ESQUIRE.

The title of Esquire, which is only an empty compliment in this country, has special significance
in England. The following in that country have a legal right to the title:

The sons of peers, whether known in common conversation as lords or honorables.

The eldest sons of peers' sons, and their eldest sons in perpetual succession.

All the sons of baronets.

All esquires of the Knights of the Bath.

Lords of manors, chiefs of clans and other tenants of the crown in capite are esquires by prescription.

Esquires created to that rank by patent, and their eldest sons in perpetual succession.

Esquires by office, such as justices of the peace while on the roll, mayors of towns during
mayoralty, and sheriffs of counties (who retain the title for life).

Members of the House of Commons.

Barristers-at-law.

Bachelors of divinity, law and physic.

All who in commissions signed by the sovereign, are ever styled esquires retain that designation
for life.

IMPERIAL RANK.

Emperors and empresses rank higher than kings. The sons and daughters of the emperor of Austria
are called archdukes and archduchesses, the names being handed down from the time when the
ruler of that country claimed for himself no higher title than that of archduke. The emperor
of Russia is known as the czar, the name being identical with the Roman cæsar and the German
kaiser. The heir-apparent to the Russian throne is the czarowitch.

EUROPEAN TITLES.

Titles in continental Europe are so common and so frequently unsustained by landed and moneyed
interests, that they have not that significance which they hold in England. A count may be
a penniless scamp, depending upon the gambling-table for a precarious subsistence, and looking
out for the chance of making a wealthy marriage.

A German baron may be a good, substantial, unpretending man, something after the manner of
an American farmer. A German prince or duke, since the absorption of the smaller principalities
of Germany by Prussia, may have nothing left him but a barren title and a meagre rent-roll.
The Italian prince is even of less account than the German one, since his rent-roll is too
frequently lacking altogether, and his only inheritance may be a grand but decayed palace,
without means sufficient to keep it in repair or furnish it properly.

PRESENTATION AT THE COURT OF ST. JAMES.

It is frequently a satisfaction to an American to be presented to the Queen during a sojourn
in England, and as the Queen is really an excellent woman, worthy of all honor, not only can
there be no valid cause for objection to such presentation, but it may well be looked upon
as an honor to be sought for.

THOSE ELIGIBLE TO PRESENTATION AT COURT.

The nobility, with their wives and daughters, are eligible to presentation at court, unless
there be some grave moral objection, in which case, as it has ever been the aim of the good
and virtuous Queen to maintain a high standard of morality within her court, the objectionable
parties are rigidly excluded. The clergy, naval and military officers, physicians and barristers
and the squirearchy, with their wives and daughters, have also the right to pay their personal
respects to their queen. Those of more democratic professions, such as solicitors, merchants
and mechanics, have not, as a rule, that right, though wealth and connection have recently
proven an open sesame at the gates of St. James. Any person who has been presented at court
may present a friend in his or her turn. A person wishing to be presented, must beg the favor
from the friend or relative of the highest rank he or she may possess.

PRELIMINARIES TO PRESENTATION.

Any nobleman or gentleman who proposes to be presented to the queen, must leave at the lord
chamberlain's office before twelve o'clock, two days before the levee, a card with his name
written thereon, and with the name of the nobleman or gentleman by whom he is to be presented.
In order to carry out the existing regulation that no presentation can be made at a levee except
by a person actually attending that levee, it is also necessary that a letter from the nobleman
or gentleman who is to make the presentation, stating it to be his intention to be present,
should accompany the presentation card above referred to, which will be submitted to the queen
for Her Majesty's approbation. These regulations of the lord chamberlain must be implicitly obeyed.

Directions at what gate to enter and where the carriages are to stop are always printed in
the newspapers. These directions apply with equal force to ladies and to gentlemen.

The person to be presented must provide himself or herself with a court costume, which for
men consists partly of knee-breeches and hose, for women of an ample court train. These costumes
are indispensable, and can be hired for the occasion.

THE PRESENTATION.

It is desirable to be early to escape the crowd. When the lady leaves her carriage, she must
leave everything in the shape of a cloak or scarf behind her. Her train must be carefully folded
over her left arm as she enters the long gallery of St. James, where she waits her turn for
presentation.

The lady is at length ushered into the presence-chamber, which is entered by two doors. She
goes in at the one indicated to her, dropping her train as she passes the threshold, which
train is instantly spread out by the wands of the lords-in-waiting. The lady then walks forward
towards the sovereign or the person who represents the sovereign. The card on which her name
is inscribed is then handed to another lord-in-waiting, who reads the name aloud. When she
arrives just before His or Her Majesty, she should courtesy as low as possible, so as to almost
kneel.

If the lady presented be a peeress or a peer's daughter, the queen kisses her on the forehead.
If only a commoner, then the queen extends her hand to be kissed by the lady presented, who,
having done so, rises, courtesies to each of the other members of the royal family present,
and then passes on. She must keep her face turned toward the sovereign as she passes to and
through the door leading from the presence-chamber.

CHAPTER XXIX.

Business.

In the chapter on "Our Manners," we have spoken of the importance of civility and politeness
as a means of success to the business and professional man. It is in the ordinary walks of
life, in the most trivial affairs that a man's real character is shown, and consequently every
man, whatever may be his calling, will do well to give due attention to those trivial affairs
which, in his daily association with men of the world, will give him a reputation of being
cold, austere, and unapproachable, or warm-hearted, genial, and sympathetic.

FORM GOOD HABITS.

It is important for the young man learning business, or just getting a start in business, to
form correct habits, and especially of forming the habit of being polite to all with whom he
has business relations, showing the same courteous treatment to men or women, poorly or plainly
dressed, as though they were attired in the most costly of garments. A man who forms habits
of politeness and gentlemanly treatment of everybody in early life, has acquired the good-will
of all with whom he has ever been brought into social or business relations. He should also
guard against such habits as profanity, the use of tobacco and intoxicating liquors, if he
would gain and retain the respect of the best portion of the community, and should, if possible,
cultivate the habit of being cheerful at all times and in all places.

KEEP YOUR TEMPER.

In discussing business matters, never lose your temper, even though your opponent in a controversy
should become angry, and in the heat of discussion make rude and disagreeable remarks and charges.
By a calm and dignified bearing and courteous treatment you will conquer his rudeness.

HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.

"Honesty is the best policy," is a maxim which merchants and tradesmen will find as true as
it is trite, and no tradesman who wishes to retain his customers and his reputation will knowingly
misrepresent the quality of his goods. It is not good policy for a merchant or clerk, in selling
goods, to tell the customer what they cost, as, in a majority of cases, he will not be believed.

THE EXAMPLE OF A MERCHANT PRINCE.

The value of politeness to a merchant is nowhere more clearly shown than in the case of the
late A.T. Stewart, the merchant prince of New York. He not only treated every customer he waited
upon with the utmost courtesy, but he demanded it of every employe, and sought for men possessing
every quality of character tending to secure this suavity of manner, in the selection of his
salesmen and clerks. He required them to observe rigidly all rules and forms of politeness,
and would allow no partiality shown to people on account of their dress, those clad in humble
apparel being treated with the same affability and politeness as those richly dressed. Everybody
who entered his store was sure of receiving kind and courteous treatment. This may, or may
not, have been his secret of success, but it certainly gained and retained for him a large
custom, and was one element in his character which can be highly commended. And every merchant
will be judged of by his customers in proportion to the courteous treatment they receive from
him, or from clerks in his store. The lawyer or the doctor will also acquire popularity and
patronage as he exhibits courteous and kind treatment to all with whom he comes into social
or business relations.

BREAKING AN APPOINTMENT.

Do not break an appointment with a business man, if possible to avoid it, for if you do, the
party with whom you made it may have reason to think that you are not a man of your word, and
it may also cause him great annoyance, and loss of time. If, however, it becomes absolutely
necessary to do so, you should inform him beforehand, either by a note or by a special messenger,
giving reasons for its non-fulfillment.

PROMPTLY MEETING NOTES AND DRAFTS.

Every business man knows the importance of meeting promptly his notes and drafts, for to neglect
it is disastrous to his reputation as a prompt business man. He should consider, also, apart
from this, that he is under a moral obligation to meet these payments promptly when due. If
circumstances which you cannot control prevent this, write at once to your creditor, stating
plainly and frankly the reason why you are unable to pay him, and when you will be able. He
will accommodate you if he has reason to believe your statements.

PROMPT PAYMENT OF BILLS.

If a bill is presented to you for payment, you should, if it is correct, pay it as promptly
as though it were a note at the bank already due. The party who presents the bill may be in
need of money, and should receive what is his due when he demands it. On the other hand, do
not treat a man who calls upon you to pay a bill, or to whom you send to collect a bill, as
though you were under no obligation to him. While you have a right to expect him to pay it,
still its prompt payment may have so inconvenienced him as to deserve your thanks.

GENERAL RULES.

If you chance to see a merchant's books or papers left open before you, it is not good manners
to look over them, to ascertain their contents.

If you write a letter asking for information, you should always enclose an envelope, addressed
and stamped for the answer.

Courtesy demands that you reply to all letters immediately.

If you are in a company of men where two or more are talking over business matters, do not
listen to the conversation which it was not intended you should hear.

In calling upon a man during business hours, transact your business rapidly and make your call
as short as is consistent with the matters on hand. As a rule, men have but little time to
visit during business hours.

If an employer has occasion to reprove any of his clerks or employes, he will find that by
speaking kindly he will accomplish the desired object much better than by harsher means.

In paying out a large sum of money, insist that the person to whom it is paid shall count it
in your presence, and on the other hand, never receive a sum of money without counting it in
the presence of the party who pays it to you. In this way mistakes may be avoided.

CHAPTER XXX.

Dress.

To dress well requires good taste, good sense and refinement. A woman of good sense will neither
make dress her first nor her last object in life. No sensible wife will betray that total indifference
for her husband which is implied in the neglect of her appearance, and she will remember that
to dress consistently and tastefully is one of the duties which she owes to society. Every
lady, however insignificant her social position may appear to herself, must exercise a certain
influence on the feelings and opinions of others. An attention to dress is useful as retaining,
in the minds of sensible men, that pride in a wife's appearance, which is so agreeable to her,
as well as that due influence which cannot be obtained without it. But a love of dress has
its perils for weak minds. Uncontrolled by good sense, and stimulated by personal vanity it
becomes a temptation at first, and then a curse. When it is indulged in to the detriment of
better employments, and beyond the compass of means, it cannot be too severely condemned. It
then becomes criminal.

CONSISTENCY IN DRESS.

Consistency in regard to station and fortune is the first matter to be considered. A woman
of good sense will not wish to expend in unnecessary extravagances money wrung from an anxious,
laborious husband; or if her husband be a man of fortune, she will not, even then, encroach
upon her allowance. In the early years of married life, when the income is moderate, it should
be the pride of a woman to see how little she can spend upon her dress, and yet present that
tasteful and creditable appearance which is desirable. Much depends upon management, and upon
the care taken of garments. She should turn everything to account, and be careful of her clothing
when wearing it.

EXTRAVAGANCE IN DRESS.

Dress, to be in perfect taste, need not be costly. It is unfortunate that in the United States,
too much attention is paid to dress by those who have neither the excuse of ample means nor
of social culture. The wife of a poorly paid clerk, or of a young man just starting in business,
aims at dressing as stylishly as does the wealthiest among her acquaintances. The sewing girl,
the shop girl, the chambermaid, and even the cook, must have their elegantly trimmed silk dresses
and velvet cloaks for Sunday and holiday wear, and the injury done by this state of things
to the morals and manners of the poorer classes is incalculable.

As fashions are constantly changing, those who do not adopt the extremes, as there are so many
of the prevailing modes at present, can find something to suit every form and face.

INDIFFERENCE TO DRESS.

Indifference and inattention to dress is a defect of character rather than virtue, and often
denotes indolence and slovenliness. Every woman should aim to make herself look as well as
possible with the means at her command. Among the rich, a fondness for dress promotes exertion
and activity of the mental powers, cultivates a correct taste and fosters industry and ingenuity
among those who seek to procure for them the material and designs for dress. Among the middle
classes it encourages diligence, contrivance, planning and deftness of handiwork, and among
the poorer classes it promotes industry and economy. A fondness for dress, when it does not
degenerate into vain show, has an elevating and refining influence on society.

APPROPRIATE DRESS.

To dress appropriately is another important matter to be considered. Due regard must be paid
to the physical appearance of the person, and the dress must be made to harmonize throughout.
An appropriate dress is that which so harmonizes with the figure as to make the apparel unnoticeable.
Thin ladies can wear delicate colors, while stout persons look best in black or dark grey.
For young and old the question of appropriate color must be determined by the figure and complexion.
Rich colors harmonize with brunette complexions or dark hair, and delicate colors with persons
of light hair and blonde complexions.

GLOVES.

Gloves are worn by gentlemen as well as ladies in the street, at an evening party, at the opera
or theatre, at receptions, at church, when paying a call, riding or driving; but not in the
country or at dinner. White should be worn at balls; the palest colors at evening parties and
neutral shades at church.

EVENING DRESS FOR GENTLEMEN.

The evening or full dress for gentlemen is a black dress-suit--a "swallow-tail" coat, the vest
cut low, the cravat white, and kid gloves of the palest hue or white. The shirt front should
be white and plain; the studs and cuff-buttons simple. Especial attention should be given to
the hair, which should be neither short nor long. It is better to err upon the too short side,
as too long hair savors of affectation, destroys the shape of the physiognomy, and has a touch
of vulgarity about it. Evening dress is the same for a large dinner party, a ball or an opera.
In some circles, however, evening dress is considered an affectation, and it is as well to
do as others do. On Sunday, morning dress is worn and on that day of the week no gentleman
is expected to appear in evening dress, either at church, at home or away from home. Gloves
are dispensed with at dinner parties, and pale colors are preferred to white for evening wear.

MORNING DRESS FOR GENTLEMEN.

The morning dress for gentlemen is a black frock-coat, or a black cut-away, white or black
vest, according to the season, gray or colored pants, plaid or stripes, according to the fashion,
a high silk (stove-pipe) hat, and a black scarf or necktie. A black frock coat with black pants
is not considered a good combination, nor is a dress coat and colored or light pants. The morning
dress is suitable for garden parties, Sundays, social teas, informal calls, morning calls and
receptions.

It will be seen that morning and evening dress for gentlemen varies as much as it does for
ladies. It is decidedly out of place for a gentleman to wear a dress coat and white tie in
the day-time, and when evening dress is desired on ceremonious occasions, the shutters should
be closed and the gas or lamps lighted. The true evening costume or full dress suit, accepted
as such throughout the world, has firmly established itself in this country; yet there is still
a considerable amount of ignorance displayed as to the occasions when it should be worn, and
it is not uncommon for the average American, even high officials and dignified people, to wear
the full evening costume at a morning reception or some midday ceremony. A dress coat at a
morning or afternoon reception or luncheon, is entirely out of place, while the frock-coat
or cut-away and gray pants, make a becoming costume for such an occasion.

JEWELRY FOR GENTLEMEN.

It is not considered in good taste for men to wear much jewelry. They may with propriety wear
one gold ring, studs and cuff-buttons, and a watch chain, not too massive, with a modest pendant,
or none at all. Anything more looks like a superabundance of ornament.

EVENING DRESS FOR LADIES.

Evening dress for ladies may be as rich, elegant and gay as one chooses to make it. It is everywhere
the custom to wear full evening dress in brilliant evening assemblages. It may be cut either
high or low at the neck, yet no lady should wear her dress so low as to make it quite noticeable
or a special subject of remark. Evening dress is what is commonly known as "full dress," and
will serve for a large evening party, ball or dinner. No directions will be laid down with
reference to it, as fashion devises how it is to be made and what material used.

BALL DRESS.

Ball dressing requires less art than the nice gradations of costume in the dinner dress, and
the dress for evening parties. For a ball, everything should be light and diaphanous, somewhat
fanciful and airy. The heavy, richly trimmed silk is only appropriate to those who do not dance.
The richest velvets, the brightest and most delicate tints in silk, the most expensive laces,
elaborate coiffures, a large display of diamonds, artificial flowers for the head-dress and
natural flowers for hand bouquets, all belong, more or less, to the costume for a large ball.

THE FULL DINNER DRESS.

The full dinner dress for guests admits of great splendor. It may be of any thick texture of
silk or velvet for winter, or light rich goods for summer, and should be long and sweeping.
Every trifle in a lady's costume should be, as far as she can afford it, faultless. The fan
should be perfect in its way, and the gloves should be quite fresh. Diamonds are used in broaches,
pendants, ear-rings and bracelets. If artificial flowers are worn in the hair, they should
be of the choicest description. All the light neutral tints, and black, dark blue, purple,
dark green, garnet, brown and fawn are suited for dinner wear.

DRESS OF HOSTESS AT A DINNER PARTY.

The dress of a hostess at a dinner party should be rich in material, but subdued in tone, so
as not to eclipse any of her guests. A young hostess should wear a dress of rich silk, black
or dark in color, with collar and cuffs of fine lace, and if the dinner be by daylight, plain
jewelry, but by gaslight diamonds.

SHOWY DRESS.

The glaring colors and "loud" costumes, once so common, have given place to sober grays, and
browns and olives; black predominating over all. The light, showily-trimmed dresses, which
were once displayed in the streets and fashionable promenades, are now only worn in carriages.
This display of showy dress and glaring colors is generally confined to those who love ostentation
more than comfort.

DRESS FOR RECEIVING CALLS.

If a lady has a special day for the reception of calls, her dress must be of silk, or other
goods suitable to the season, or to her position, but must be of quiet colors and plainly worn.
Lace collars and cuffs should be worn with this dress, and a certain amount of jewelry is also
admissible. A lady whose mornings are devoted to the superintendence of her domestic affairs,
may receive a casual caller in her ordinary morning dress, which must be neat, yet plain, with
white plain linen collars and cuffs. For New Year's, or other calls of special significance,
the dress should be rich, and may be elaborately trimmed. If the parlors are closed and the
gas lighted, full evening dress is required.

CARRIAGE DRESS.

The material for a dress for a drive through the public streets of a city, or along a fashionable
drive or park, cannot be too rich. Silks, velvets and laces, are all appropriate, with rich
jewelry and costly furs in cold weather. If the fashion require it, the carriage dress may
be long enough to trail, or it may be of the length of a walking dress, which many prefer.
For driving in the country, a different style of dress is required, as the dust and mud would
soil rich material.

VISITING COSTUMES.

Visiting costumes, or those worn at a funeral or informal calls, are of richer material than
walking suits. The bonnet is either simple or rich, according to the taste of the wearer. A
jacket of velvet, or shawl, or fur-trimmed mantle are the concomitants of the carriage dress
for winter. In summer all should be bright, cool, agreeable to wear and pleasant to look at.

DRESS FOR MORNING CALLS.

Morning calls may be made either in walking or carriage dress, provided the latter is justified
by the presence of the carriage. The dress should be of silk; collar and cuffs of the finest
lace; light gloves; a full dress bonnet and jewelry of gold, either dead, burnished or enameled,
or of cameo or coral. Diamonds are not usually worn in daylight. A dress of black or neutral
tint, in which light colors are introduced only in small quantities, is the most appropriate
for a morning call.

MORNING DRESS FOR STREET.

The morning dress for the street should be quiet in color, plainly made and of serviceable
material. It should be short enough to clear the ground without collecting mud and garbage.
Lisle-thread gloves in midsummer, thick gloves in midwinter, are more comfortable for street
wear than kid ones. Linen collars and cuffs are most suitable for morning street dress. The
bonnet and hat should be quiet and inexpressive, matching the dress as nearly as possible.
In stormy weather a large waterproof with hood is more convenient and less troublesome than
an umbrella. The morning dress for visiting or breakfasting in public may be, in winter, of
woolen goods, simply made and quietly trimmed, and in summer, of cambric, pique, marseilles
or other wash goods, either white or figured. For morning wear at home the dress may be still
simpler. The hair should be plainly arranged without ornament.

THE PROMENADE DRESS.

The dress for the promenade should be in perfect harmony with itself. All the colors worn should
harmonize if they are not strictly identical. The bonnet should not be of one color, and parasol
of another, the dress of a third and the gloves of a fourth. Nor should one article be new
and another shabby. The collars and cuffs should be of lace; the kid gloves should be selected
to harmonize with the color of the dress, a perfect fit. The jewelry worn should be bracelets,
cuff-buttons, plain gold ear-rings, a watch chain and brooch.

OPERA DRESS.

Opera dress for matinees may be as elegant as for morning calls. A bonnet is always worn even
by those who occupy boxes, but it may be as dressy as one chooses to make it. In the evening,
ladies are at liberty to wear evening dresses, with ornaments in their hair, instead of a bonnet,
and as the effect of light colors is much better than dark in a well-lighted opera house, they
should predominate.

THE RIDING DRESS.

A lady's riding habit should fit perfectly without being tight. The skirt must be full, and
long enough to cover the feet, but not of extreme length. The boots must be stout and the gloves
gauntleted. Broadcloth is regarded as the more dressy cloth, though waterproof is the more
serviceable. Something lighter may be worn for summer, and in the lighter costumes a row of
shot must be stitched at the bottom of the breadths of the left side to prevent the skirts
from being blown by the wind. The riding dress is made to fit the waist closely, and button
nearly to the throat. Above a small collar or reverse of the waist is shown a plain linen collar,
fastened at the throat with a bright or black necktie. Coat sleeves should come to the wrist
with linen cuffs beneath them. No lace or embroidery is allowable in a riding costume. It is
well to have the waist attached to a skirt of the usual length, and the long skirt fastened
over it, so that if any accident occurs obliging the lady to dismount, she may easily remove
the long overskirt and still be properly dressed.

The hair should be put up compactly, and no veil should be allowed to stream in the wind. The
shape of the hat will vary with the fashion, but it should always be plainly trimmed, and if
feathers are worn they must be fastened so that the wind cannot blow them over the wearer's eyes.

A WALKING SUIT.

The material for a walking suit may be either rich or plain to suit the taste and means of
the wearer. It should always be well made and never appear shabby. Bright colors appear best
only as trimmings. Black has generally been adopted for street dresses as the most becoming.
For the country, walking dresses are made tasteful, solid and strong, more for service than
display, and what would be perfectly appropriate for the streets of a city would be entirely
out of place on the muddy, unpaved walks of a small town or in a country neighborhood. The
walking or promenade dress is always made short enough to clear the ground. Thick boots are
worn with the walking suit.

DRESS FOR LADIES OF BUSINESS.

For women who are engaged in some daily employment such as teachers, saleswomen and those who
are occupied in literature, art or business of some sort, the dress should be somewhat different
from the ordinary walking costume. Its material should be more serviceable, better fitted to
endure the vicissitudes of the weather, and of quiet colors, such as brown or gray, and not
easily soiled. While the costume should not be of the simplest nature, it should dispense with
all superfluities in the way of trimming. It should be made with special reference to a free
use of the arms, and to easy locomotion. Linen cuffs and collars are best suited to this kind
of dress, gloves which can be easily removed, street walking boots, and for jewelry, plain
cuff-buttons, brooch and watch chain. The hat or bonnet should be neat and tasty, with but
few flowers or feathers. For winter wear, waterproof, tastefully made up, is the best material
for a business woman's outer garment.

ORDINARY EVENING DRESS.

The ordinary evening house dress should be tasteful and becoming, with a certain amount of
ornament, and worn with jewelry. Silks are the most appropriate for this dress, but all the
heavy woolen dress fabrics for winter, and the lighter lawns and organdies for summer, elegantly
made, are suitable. For winter, the colors should be rich and warm, and knots of bright ribbon
of a becoming color, should be worn at the throat and in the hair. The latter should be plainly
dressed. Artificial flowers and diamonds are out of place. This is both a suitable dress in
which to receive or make a casual evening call. If a hood is worn, it must be removed during
the call. Otherwise a full dress bonnet must be worn.

DRESS FOR SOCIAL PARTY.

For the social evening party, more latitude is allowed in the choice of colors, material, trimmings,
etc., than for the ordinary evening dress. Dresses should cover the arms and shoulder; but
if cut low in the neck, and with short sleeves, puffed illusion waists or some similar device
should be employed to cover the neck and arms. Gloves may or may not be worn, but if they are
they should be of some light color.

DRESS FOR CHURCH.

The dress for church should be plain, of dark, quiet colors, with no superfluous trimming or
jewelry. It should, in fact, be the plainest of promenade dresses, as church is not the place
for display of fine clothes.

THE DRESS FOR THE THEATRE.

The promenade dress with the addition of a handsome cloak or shawl, which may be thrown aside
if it is uncomfortable, is suitable for a theatre. The dress should be quiet and plain without
any attempt at display. Either a bonnet or hat may be worn. Gloves should be dark, harmonizing
with the dress.

DRESS FOR LECTURE AND CONCERT.

For the lecture or concert, silk is an appropriate dress, and should be worn with lace collars
and cuffs and jewelry. A rich shawl or velvet promenade cloak, or opera cloak for a concert
is an appropriate outer garment. The latter may or may not be kept on the shoulders during
the evening. White or light kid gloves should be worn.

CROQUET, ARCHERY AND SKATING COSTUMES.

Croquet and archery costumes may be similar, and they admit of more brilliancy in coloring
than any of the out-of-door costumes. They should be short, displaying a handsomely fitting
but stout boot, and should be so arranged as to leave the arms perfectly free. The gloves should
be soft and washable. Kid is not suitable for either occasion. The hat should have a broad
brim, so as to shield the face from the sun, and render a parasol unnecessary. The trimming
for archery costumes is usually of green.

An elegant skating costume may be of velvet, trimmed with fur, with fur bordered gloves and
boots. Any of the warm, bright colored wool fabrics, however, are suitable for the dress. If
blue or green are worn, they should be relieved with trimmings of dark furs. Silk is not suitable
for skating costume. To avoid suffering from cold feet, the boot should be amply loose.

BATHING COSTUME.

Flannel is the best material for a bathing costume, and gray is regarded as the most suitable
color. It may be trimmed with bright worsted braid. The best form is the loose sacque, or the
yoke waist, both of them to be belted in, and falling about midway between the knee and ankle;
an oilskin cap to protect the hair from the water, and merino socks to match the dress, complete
the costume.

TRAVELING DRESS.

Comfort and protection from dust and dirt are the requirements of a traveling dress. When a
lady is about making an extensive journey, a traveling suit is a great convenience, but for
a short journey, a large linen overdress or duster may be put on over the ordinary dress in
summer, and in winter a waterproof cloak may be used in the same way. For traveling costumes
a variety of materials may be used, of soft, neutral tints, and smooth surface which does not
retain the dust. These should be made up plainly and quite short. The underskirts should be
colored, woolen in winter and linen in summer. The hat or bonnet must be plainly trimmed and
completely protected by a large veil. Velvet is unfit for a traveling hat, as it catches and
retains the dust; collars and cuffs of plain linen. The hair should be put up in the plainest
manner. A waterproof and warm woolen shawl are indispensible, and may be rolled in a shawl
strap when not needed. A satchel should be carried, in which may be kept a change of collars,
cuffs, gloves, handkerchiefs, toilet articles, and towels. A traveling dress should be well
supplied with pockets. The waterproof should have large pockets, and there should be one in
the underskirt in which to carry such money and valuables as are not needed for immediate use.

THE WEDDING DRESS.

A full bridal costume should be white from head to foot. The dress may be of silk, heavily
corded, moire antique, satin or plain silk, merino, alpaca, crape, lawn or muslin. The veil
may be of lace, tulle or illusion, but it must be long and full. It may or may not descend
over the face. Orange blossoms or other white flowers and maiden blush roses should form the
bridal wreath and bouquet. The dress is high and the arms covered. Slippers of white satin
and white kid gloves complete the dress.

The dress of the bridegroom and ushers is given in the chapter treating of the etiquette of
weddings.

DRESS OF BRIDEMAIDS.

The dresses of bridemaids are not so elaborate as that of the bride. They should also be of
white, but may be trimmed with delicately colored flowers and ribbons. White tulle, worn over
pale pink or blue silk and caught up with blush roses or forget-me-nots, with bouquet de corsage
and hand bouquet of the same, makes a beautiful costume for the bridemaids. The latter, may
or may not, wear veils, but if they do, they should be shorter than that of the bride.

TRAVELING DRESS OF A BRIDE.

This should be of silk, or any of the fine fabrics for walking dresses; should be of some neutral
tint; and bonnet and gloves should match in color. It may be more elaborately trimmed than
an ordinary traveling dress, but if the bride wishes to attract as little attention as possible,
she will not make herself conspicuous by a too showy dress. In private weddings the bride is
sometimes married in traveling costume, and the bridal pair at once set out upon their journey.

DRESS AT WEDDING RECEPTIONS.

At wedding receptions in the evening, guests should wear full evening dress. No one should
attend in black or mourning dress, which should give place to grey or lavender. At a morning
reception of the wedded couple, guests should wear the richest street costume with white gloves.

MOURNING.

The people of the United States have settled upon no prescribed periods for the wearing of
mourning garments. Some wear them long after their hearts have ceased to mourn. Where there
is profound grief, no rules are needed, but where the sorrow is not so great, there is need
of observance of fixed periods for wearing mourning.

Deep mourning requires the heaviest black of serge, bombazine, lustreless alpaca, delaine,
merino or similar heavily clinging material, with collar and cuffs of crape. Mourning garments
should have little or no trimming; no flounces, ruffles or bows are allowable. If the dress
is not made en suite, then a long or square shawl of barege or cashmere with crape border is
worn. The bonnet is of black crape; a hat is inadmissible. The veil is of crape or barege with
heavy border; black gloves and black-bordered handkerchief. In winter dark furs may be worn
with the deepest mourning. Jewelry is strictly forbidden, and all pins, buckles, etc., must
be of jet. Lustreless alpaca and black silk trimmed with crape may be worn in second mourning,
with white collars and cuffs. The crape veil is laid aside for net or tulle, but the jet jewelry
is still retained. A still less degree of mourning is indicated by black and white, purple
and gray, or a combination of these colors. Crape is still retained in bonnet trimming, and
crape flowers may be added. Light gray, white and black, and light shades of lilac, indicate
a slight mourning. Black lace bonnet, with white or violet flowers, supercedes crape, and jet
and gold jewelry is worn.

PERIODS OF WEARING MOURNING.

The following rules have been given by an authority competent to speak on these matters regarding
the degree of mourning and the length of time it should be worn:

"The deepest mourning is that worn by a widow for her husband. It is worn two years, sometimes
longer. Widow's mourning for the first year consists of solid black woolen goods, collar and
cuffs of folded untrimmed crape, a simple crape bonnet, and a long, thick, black crape veil.
The second year, silk trimmed with crape, black lace collar and cuffs, and a shorter veil may
be worn, and in the last six months gray, violet and white are permitted. A widow should wear
the hair perfectly plain if she does not wear a cap, and should always wear a bonnet, never a hat.

"The mourning for a father or mother is worn for one year. The first six months the proper
dress is of solid black woolen goods trimmed with crape, black crape bonnet with black crape
facings and black strings, black crape veil, collar and cuffs of black crape. Three months,
black silk with crape trimming, white or black lace collar and cuffs, veil of tulle and white
bonnet-facings; and the last three months in gray, purple and violet. Mourning worn for a child
is the same as that worn for a parent.

"Mourning for a grandparent is worn for six months, three months black woolen goods, white
collar and cuffs, short crape veil and bonnet of crape trimmed with black silk or ribbon; six
weeks in black silk trimmed with crape, lace collar and cuffs, short tulle veil; and six weeks
in gray, purple, white and violet.

"Mourning worn for a friend who leaves you an inheritance, is the same as that worn for a grandparent.

"Mourning for a brother or sister is worn six months, two months in solid black trimmed with
crape, white linen collar and cuffs, bonnet of black with white facing and black strings; two
months in black silk, with white lace collar and cuffs; and two months in gray, purple, white
and violet.

"Mourning for an uncle or aunt is worn for three months, and is the second mourning named above,
tulle, white linen and white bonnet facings being worn at once. For a nephew or niece, the
same is worn for the same length of time.

"The deepest mourning excludes kid gloves; they should be of cloth, silk or thread; and no
jewelry is permitted during the first month of close mourning. Embroidery, jet trimmings, puffs,
plaits--in fact, trimming of any kind--is forbidden in deep mourning, but worn when it is lightened.

"Mourning handkerchiefs should be of very sheer fine linen, with a border of black, very wide
for close mourning, narrower as the black is lightened.

"Mourning silks should be perfectly lusterless, and the ribbons worn without any gloss.

"Ladies invited to funeral ceremonies should always wear a black dress, even if they are not
in mourning; and it is bad taste to appear with a gay bonnet or shawl, as if for a festive
occasion.

"The mourning for children under twelve years of age is white in summer and gray in winter,
with black trimmings, belt, sleeve ruffles and bonnet ribbons."

CHAPTER XXXI.

Harmony of Colors in Dress.

The selection and proper arrangement of colors, so that they will produce the most pleasant
harmony, is one of the most desirable requisites in dress. Sir Joshua Reynolds says: "Color
is the last attainment of excellence in every school of painting." The same may also be said
in regard to the art of using colors in dress. Nevertheless, it is the first thing to which
we should give our attention and study.

We put bright colors upon our little children; we dress our young girls in light and delicate
shades; the blooming matron is justified in adopting the warm, rich hues which we see in the
autumn leaf, while black and neutral tints are declared appropriate to the old.

One color should predominate in the dress; and if another is adopted, it should be in a limited
quantity and only by way of contrast or harmony. Some colors may never, under any circumstances,
be worn together, because they produce positive discord to the eye. If the dress be blue, red
should never be introduced by way of trimming, or vice versa. Red and blue, red and yellow,
blue and yellow, and scarlet and crimson may never be united in the same costume. If the dress
be red, green maybe introduced in a minute quantity; if blue, orange; if green, crimson. Scarlet
and solferino are deadly enemies, each killing the other whenever they meet.

Two contrasting colors, such as red and green, may not be used in equal quantities in the dress,
as they are both so positive in tone that they divide and distract the attention. When two
colors are worn in any quantity, one must approach a neutral tint, such as gray or drab. Black
may be worn with any color, though it looks best with the lighter shades of the different colors.
White may also be worn with any color, though it looks best with the darker tones. Thus white
and crimson, black and pink, each contrast better and have a richer effect than though the
black were united with the crimson and the white with the pink. Drab, being a shade of no color
between black and white, may be worn with equal effect with all.

A person of very fair, delicate complexion, should always wear the most delicate of tints,
such as light blue, mauve and pea-green. A brunette requires bright colors, such as scarlet
and orange, to bring out the brilliant tints in her complexion. A florid face and auburn hair
call for blue.

Black hair has its color and depth enhanced by scarlet, orange or white, and will bear diamonds,
pearls or lustreless gold.

Dark brown hair will bear light blue, or dark blue in a lesser quantity.

If the hair has no richness of coloring, a pale yellowish green will by reflection produce
the lacking warm tint.

Light brown hair requires blue, which sets off to advantage the golden tint.

Pure golden or yellow hair needs blue, and its beauty is also increased by the addition of
pearls or white flowers.

Auburn hair, if verging on the red, needs scarlet to tone it down. If of a golden red, blue,
green, purple or black will bring out the richness of its tints.

Flaxen hair requires blue.

MATERIAL FOR DRESS.

The material for dress must be selected with reference to the purpose which it is to serve.
No one buys a yellow satin dress for the promenade, yet a yellow satin seen by gaslight is
beautiful, as an evening-dress. Neither would one buy a heavy serge of neutral tint for an
opera-dress.

SIZE IN RELATION TO DRESS AND COLORS.

A small person may dress in light colors which would be simply ridiculous on a person of larger
proportions. So a lady of majestic appearance should never wear white, but will be seen to
the best advantage in black or dark tints. A lady of diminutive stature is dressed in bad taste
when she appears in a garment with large figures, plaids or stripes. Neither should a lady
of large proportions be seen in similar garments, because, united with her size, they give
her a "loud" appearance. Indeed, pronounced figures and broad stripes and plaids are never
in perfect taste.

Heavy, rich materials suit a tall figure, while light, full draperies should only be worn by
those of slender proportions and not too short. The very short and stout must be content with
meagre drapery and quiet colors.

Tall and slim persons should avoid stripes; short, chunky ones, flounces, or any horizontal
trimming of the dress which, by breaking the outline from the waist to the feet, produces an
effect of shortening.

HOW COLORS HARMONIZE.

Colors may form a harmony either by contrast or by analogy. When two remote shades of one color
are associated, such as very light blue and a very dark blue, they harmonize by contrast, though
the harmony may be neither striking nor perfect. When two colors which are similar to each
other are grouped, such as orange and scarlet, crimson and orange, they harmonize by analogy.
A harmony of contrast is characterized by brilliancy and decision, and a harmony of analogy
by a quiet and pleasing association of colors.

When a color is chosen which is favorable to the complexion, it is well to associate with it
the tints which will harmonize by analogy, as to use contrasting colors would diminish its
favorable effect. When a color is used in dress, not suitable to the complexion, it should
be associated with contrasting colors, as they have the power to neutralize its objectionable
influence.

Colors of similar power which contrast with each other, mutually intensify each other's brilliancy,
as blue and orange, scarlet and green; but dark and light colors associated do not intensify
each other to the same degree, the dark appearing darker and the light appearing lighter, as
dark blue and straw color. Colors which harmonize with each other by analogy, reduce each other's
brilliancy to a greater or less degree, as white and yellow, blue and purple, black and brown.

The various shades of purple and lilac, dark blues and dark greens, lose much of their brilliancy
by gaslight, while orange, scarlet, crimson, the light browns and light greens, gain brilliancy
by a strong artificial light.

Below the reader will find a list of colors that harmonize, forming most agreeable combinations,
in which are included all the latest and most fashionable shades and colors:

          Black and pink.
          Black and lilac.
          Black and scarlet.
          Black and maize.
          Black and slate color.
          Black and orange, a rich harmony.
          Black and white, a perfect harmony.
          Black and brown, a dull harmony.
          Black and drab or buff.
          Black, white or yellow and crimson.
          Black, orange, blue and scarlet.
          Black and chocolate brown.
          Black and shaded cardinal.
          Black and cardinal.
          Black, yellow, bronze and light blue.
          Black, cardinal, blue and old gold.
          Blue and brown.
          Blue and black.
          Blue and gold, a rich harmony.
          Blue and orange, a perfect harmony.
          Blue and chestnut (or chocolate).
          Blue and maize.
          Blue and straw color.
          Blue and white.
          Blue and fawn color, weak harmony.
          Blue and stone color.
          Blue and drab.
          Blue and lilac, weak harmony.
          Blue and crimson, imperfectly.
          Blue and pink, poor harmony.
          Blue and salmon color.
          Blue, scarlet and purple (or lilac).
          Blue, orange and black.
          Blue, orange and green.
          Blue, brown, crimson and gold (or yellow).
          Blue, orange, black and white.
          Blue, pink and bronze green.
          Blue, cardinal and old gold.
          Blue, yellow, chocolate-brown and gold.
          Blue, mulberry and yellow.
          Bronze and old gold.
          Bronze, pink and light blue.
          Bronze, black, blue, pink and gold.
          Bronze, cardinal and peacock blue.
          Brown, blue, green, cardinal and yellow.
          Brown, yellow, cardinal and peacock blue.
          Crimson and gold, rich harmony.
          Crimson and orange, rich harmony.
          Crimson and brown, dull harmony.
          Crimson and black, dull harmony.
          Crimson and drab.
          Crimson and maize.
          Crimson and purple.
          Cardinal and old gold.
          Cardinal, brown and black.
          Cardinal and navy blue.
          Chocolate, blue, pink and gold.
          Claret and old gold.
          Dark green, white and cardinal.
          Ecrue, bronze and peacock.
          Ecrue and light blue.
          Garnet, bronze and pink.
          Gensd'arme and cardinal.
          Gensd'arme and bronze.
          Gensd'arme and myrtle.
          Gensd'arme and old gold.
          Gensd'arme, yellow and cardinal.
          Gensd'arme, pink, cardinal and lavender.
          Green and gold, or gold color.
          Green and scarlet.
          Green and orange.
          Green and yellow.
          Green, crimson, blue and gold, or yellow.
          Green, blue and scarlet.
          Green, gold and mulberry.
          Green and cardinal.
          Lilac and white, poor.
          Lilac and gray, poor.
          Lilac and maize.
          Lilac and cherry.
          Lilac and gold, or gold color.
          Lilac and scarlet.
          Lilac and crimson.
          Lilac, scarlet and white or black.
          Lilac, gold color and crimson.
          Lilac, yellow or gold, scarlet and white.
          Light pink and garnet.
          Light drab, pine, yellow and white.
          Myrtle and old gold.
          Myrtle and bronze.
          Myrtle, red, blue and yellow.
          Myrtle, mulberry, cardinal, gold and light green.
          Mulberry and old gold.
          Mulberry and gold.
          Mulberry and bronze.
          Mulberry, bronze and gold.
          Mulberry and pearl.
          Mode, pearl and mulberry.
          Maroon, yellow, silvery gray and light green.
          Navy blue, light blue and gold.
          Navy blue, gensd'arme and pearl.
          Navy blue, maize, cardinal and yellow.
          Orange and bronze, agreeable.
          Orange and chestnut.
          Orange, lilac and crimson.
          Orange, red and green.
          Orange, purple and scarlet.
          Orange, blue, scarlet and purple.
          Orange, blue, scarlet and claret.
          Orange, blue, scarlet, white and green.
          Orange, blue and crimson.
          Pearl, light blue and peacock blue.
          Peacock blue and light gold.
          Peacock blue and old gold.
          Peacock blue and cardinal.
          Peacock blue, pearl, gold and cardinal.
          Purple and maize.
          Purple and blue.
          Purple and gold, or gold color, rich.
          Purple and orange, rich.
          Purple and black, heavy.
          Purple and white, cold.
          Purple, scarlet and gold color.
          Purple, scarlet and white.
          Purple, scarlet, blue and orange.
          Purple, scarlet, blue, yellow and black.
          Red and white, or gray.
          Red and gold, or gold color.
          Red, orange and green.
          Red, yellow or gold color and black.
          Red, gold color, black and white.
          Seal brown, gold and cardinal.
          Sapphire and bronze.
          Sapphire and old gold.
          Sapphire and cardinal.
          Sapphire and light blue.
          Sapphire and light pink.
          Sapphire and corn.
          Sapphire and garnet.
          Sapphire and mulberry.
          Shaded blue and black.
          Scarlet and blue.
          Scarlet and slate color.
          Scarlet and orange.
          Scarlet, blue and white.
          Scarlet, blue and yellow.
          Scarlet, black and white.
          Scarlet, blue, black and yellow.
          Shaded blue, shaded garnet and shaded gold.
          Shaded blue and black.
          White and cherry.
          White and crimson.
          White and brown.
          White and pink.
          White and scarlet.
          White and gold color, poor.
          Yellow and black.
          Yellow and brown.
          Yellow and red.
          Yellow and chestnut or chocolate.
          Yellow and white, poor.
          Yellow and purple, agreeable.
          Yellow and violet.
          Yellow and lilac, weak.
          Yellow and blue, cold.
          Yellow and crimson.
          Yellow, purple and crimson.
          Yellow, purple, scarlet and blue.
          Yellow, cardinal and peacock blue.
          Yellow, pink, maroon and light blue.

CHAPTER XXXII.

The Toilet.

To appear at all times neat, clean and tidy, is demanded of every well-bred person. The dress
may be plain, rich or extravagant, but there must be a neatness and cleanliness of the person.
Whether a lady is possessed of few or many personal attractions, it is her duty at all times
to appear tidy and clean, and to make herself as comely and attractive as circumstances and
surroundings will permit. The same may be said of a gentleman. If a gentleman calls upon a
lady, his duty and his respect for her demand that he shall appear not only in good clothes,
but with well combed hair, exquisitely clean hands, well trimmed beard or cleanly shaven face,
while the lady will not show herself in an untidy dress, or disheveled hair. They should appear
at their best.

Upon the minor details of the toilet depend, in a great degree, the health, not to say the
beauty, of the individual. In fact the highest state of health is equivalent to the highest
degree of beauty of which the individual is capable.

PERFUMES.

Perfumes, if used at all, should be used in the strictest moderation, and be of the most recherche
kind. Musk and patchouli should always be avoided, as, to many people of sensitive temperament,
their odor is exceedingly disagreeable. Cologne water of the best quality is never offensive.

THE BATH.

Cleanliness is the outward sign of inward purity. Cleanliness of the person is health, and
health is beauty. The bath is consequently a very important means of preserving the health
and enhancing the beauty. It is not to be supposed that we bathe simply to become clean, but
because we wish to remain clean. Cold water refreshes and invigorates, but does not cleanse,
and persons who daily use a sponge bath in the morning, should frequently use a warm one, of
from ninety-six to one hundred degrees Fahrenheit for cleansing purposes. When a plunge bath
is taken, the safest temperature is from eighty to ninety degrees, which answers the purposes
of both cleansing and refreshing. Soap should be plentifully used, and the fleshbrush applied
vigorously, drying with a coarse Turkish towel. Nothing improves the complexion like the daily
use of the fleshbrush, with early rising and exercise in the open air.

In many houses, in large cities, there is a separate bath-room, with hot and cold water, but
in smaller places and country houses this convenience is not to be found. A substitute for
the bath-room is a large piece of oil-cloth, which can be laid upon the floor of an ordinary
dressing-room. Upon this may be placed the bath tub or basin, or a person may use it to stand
upon while taking a sponge bath. The various kinds of baths, both hot and cold, are the shower
bath, the douche, the hip bath and the sponge bath.

The shower bath can only be endured by the most vigorous constitutions, and therefore cannot
be recommended for indiscriminate use.

A douche or hip bath may be taken every morning, with the temperature of the water suited to
the endurance of the individual. In summer a sponge bath may be taken upon retiring. Once a
week a warm bath, at from ninety to one hundred degrees, may be taken, with plenty of soap,
in order to thoroughly cleanse the pores of the skin. Rough towels should be vigorously used
after these baths, not only to remove the impurities of the skin but for the beneficial friction
which will send a glow over the whole body. The hair glove or flesh brush may be used to advantage
in the bath before the towel is applied.

THE TEETH.

The teeth should be carefully brushed with a hard brush after each meal, and also on retiring
at night. Use the brush so that not only the outside of the teeth becomes white, but the inside
also. After the brush is used plunge it two or three times into a glass of water, then rub
it quite dry on a towel.

Use tooth-washes or powders very sparingly. Castile soap used once a day, with frequent brushings
with pure water and a brush, cannot fail to keep the teeth clean and white, unless they are
disfigured and destroyed by other bad habits, such as the use of tobacco, or too hot or too
cold drinks.

DECAYED TEETH.

On the slightest appearance of decay or tendency to accumulate tartar, go at once to the dentist.
If a dark spot appearing under the enamel is neglected, it will eat in until the tooth is eventually
destroyed. A dentist seeing the tooth in its first stage, will remove the decayed part and
plug the cavity in a proper manner.

TARTAR ON THE TEETH.

Tartar is not so easily dealt with, but it requires equally early attention. It results from
an impaired state of the general health, and assumes the form of a yellowish concretion on
the teeth and gums. At first it is possible to keep it down by a repeated and vigorous use
of the tooth brush; but if a firm, solid mass accumulates, it is necessary to have it chipped
off by a dentist. Unfortunately, too, by that time it will probably have begun to loosen and
destroy the teeth on which it fixes, and is pretty certain to have produced one obnoxious effect--that
of tainting the breath. Washing the teeth with vinegar when the brush is used has been recommended
as a means of removing tartar.

Tenderness of the gums, to which some persons are subject, may sometimes be met by the use
of salt and water, but it is well to rinse the mouth frequently with water with a few drops
of tincture of myrrh in it.

FOUL BREATH.

Foul breath, unless caused by neglected teeth, indicates a deranged state of the system. When
it is occasioned by the teeth or other local case, use a gargle consisting of a spoonful of
solution of chloride of lime in half a tumbler of water. Gentlemen smoking, and thus tainting
the breath, may be glad to know that the common parsley has a peculiar effect in removing the
odor of tobacco.

THE SKIN.

Beauty and health of the skin can only be obtained by perfect cleanliness of the entire person,
an avoidance of all cosmetics, added to proper diet, correct habits and early habits of rising
and exercise. The skin must be thoroughly washed, occasionally with warm water and soap, to
remove the oily exudations on its surface. If any unpleasant sensations are experienced after
the use of soap, they may be immediately removed by rinsing the surface with water to which
a little lemon juice or vinegar has been added.

PRESERVING A YOUTHFUL COMPLEXION.

The following rules may be given for the preservation of a youthful complexion: Rise early
and go to bed early. Take plenty of exercise. Use plenty of cold water and good soap frequently.
Be moderate in eating and drinking. Do not lace. Avoid as much as possible the vitiated atmosphere
of crowded assemblies. Shun cosmetics and washes for the skin. The latter dry the skin, and
only defeat the end they are supposed to have in view.

MOLES.

Moles are frequently a great disfigurement to the face, but they should not be tampered with
in any way. The only safe and certain mode of getting rid of moles is by a surgical operation.

FRECKLES.

Freckles are of two kinds. Those occasioned by exposure to the sunshine, and consequently evanescent,
are denominated "summer freckles;" those which are constitutional and permanent are called
"cold freckles." With regard to the latter, it is impossible to give any advice which will
be of value. They result from causes not to be affected by mere external applications. Summer
freckles are not so difficult to deal with, and with a little care the skin may be kept free
from this cause of disfigurement. Some skins are so delicate that they become freckled on the
slightest exposure to open air in summer. The cause assigned for this is that the iron in the
blood, forming a junction with the oxygen, leaves a rusty mark where the junction takes place.
We give in their appropriate places some recipes for removing these latter freckles from the face.

OTHER DISCOLORATIONS.

There are various other discolorations of the skin, proceeding frequently from derangement
of the system. The cause should always be discovered before attempting a remedy; otherwise
you may aggravate the complaint rather than cure it.

THE EYES.

Beautiful eyes are the gift of Nature, and can owe little to the toilet. As in the eye consists
much of the expression of the face, therefore it should be borne in mind that those who would
have their eyes bear a pleasing expression must cultivate pleasing traits of character and
beautify the soul, and then this beautiful soul will look through its natural windows.

Never tamper with the eyes. There is danger of destroying them. All daubing or dyeing of the
lids is foolish and vulgar.

SHORT-SIGHTEDNESS.

Short-sightedness is not always a natural defect. It may be acquired by bad habits in youth.
A short-sighted person should supply himself with glasses exactly adapted to his wants; but
it is well not to use these glasses too constantly, as, even when they perfectly fit the eye,
they really tend to shorten the sight. Unless one is very short-sighted, it is best to keep
the glasses for occasional use, and trust ordinarily to the unaided eye. Parents and teachers
should watch their children and see that they do not acquire the habit of holding their books
too close to their eyes, and thus injure their sight.

SQUINT-EYES AND CROSS-EYES.

Parents should also be careful that their children do not become squint or cross-eyed through
any carelessness. A child's hair hanging down loosely over its eyes, or a bonnet projecting
too far over them, or a loose ribbon or tape fluttering over the forehead, is sometimes sufficient
to direct the sight irregularly until it becomes permanently crossed.

THE EYELASHES AND EYEBROWS.

A beautiful eyelash is an important adjunct to the eye. The lashes may be lengthened by trimming
them occasionally in childhood. Care should be taken that this trimming is done neatly and
evenly, and especially that the points of the scissors do not penetrate the eye. The eyebrows
may be brushed carefully in the direction in which they should lie. In general, it is in exceeding
bad taste to dye either lashes or brows, for it usually brings them into disharmony with the
hair and features. There are cases, however, when the beauty of an otherwise fine countenance
is utterly ruined by white lashes and brows. In such cases one can hardly be blamed if India
ink is resorted to to give them the desired color. Never shave the brows. It adds to their
beauty in no way, and may result in an irregular growth of new hair.

TAKE CARE OF THE EYES.

The utmost care should be taken of the eyes. They should never be strained in an imperfect
light, whether that of shrouded daylight, twilight or flickering lamp or candle-light. Many
persons have an idea that an habitually dark room is best for the eyes. On the contrary, it
weakens them and renders them permanently unable to bear the light of the sun. Our eyes were
naturally designed to endure the broad light of day, and the nearer we approach to this in
our houses, the stronger will be our eyes and the longer will we retain our sight.

EYEBROWS MEETING.

Some persons have the eyebrows meeting over the nose. This is usually considered a disfigurement,
but there is no remedy for it. It may be a consolation for such people to know that the ancients
admired this style of eyebrows, and that Michael Angelo possessed it. It is useless to pluck
out the uniting hairs; and if a depilatory is applied, a mark like that of a scar left from
a burn remains, and is more disfiguring than the hair.

INFLAMED EYES.

If the lids of the eyes become inflamed and scaly, do not seek to remove the scales roughly,
for they will bring the lashes with them. Apply at night a little cold cream to the edges of
the closed eyelids, and wash them in the morning with lukewarm milk and water. It is well to
have on the toilet-table a remedy for inflamed eyes. Spermaceti ointment is simple and well
adapted to this purpose. Apply at night, and wash off with rose-water in the morning. There
is a simple lotion made by dissolving a very small piece of alum and a piece of lump-sugar
of the same size in a quart of water; put the ingredients into the water cold and let them
simmer. Bathe the eyes frequently with it.

THE STY.

A sty in the eye is irritating and disfiguring. Bathe with warm water; at night apply a bread-and-milk
poultice. When a white head forms, prick it with a fine needle. Should the inflammation be
obstinate, a little citrine ointment may be applied, care being taken that it does not get
into the eye.

THE HAIR.

There is nothing that so adds to the charm of an individual, especially a lady, as a good head
of hair. The skin of the head requires even more tenderness and cleanliness than any other
portion of the body, and is capable of being irritated by disease. The hair should be brushed
carefully. The brush should be of moderate hardness, not too hard. The hair should be separated,
in order that the head itself may be well brushed, as by doing so the scurf is removed, and
that is most essential, as it is not only unpleasant and unsightly, but if suffered to remain
it becomes saturated with perspiration, and tends to weaken the roots of the hair, so that
it is easily pulled out. In brushing or combing, begin at the extreme points, and in combing,
hold the portion of hair just above that through which the comb is passing, firmly between
the first and second fingers, so that if it is entangled it may drag from that point, and not
from the roots. The finest head of hair may be spoiled by the practice of plunging the comb
into it high up and dragging it in a reckless manner. Short, loose, broken hairs are thus created,
and become very troublesome.

THE USE OF HAIR OILS.

Do not plaster the hair with oil or pomatum. A white, concrete oil pertains naturally to the
covering of the human head, but some persons have it in more abundance than others. Those whose
hair is glossy and shining need nothing to render it so; but when the hair is harsh, poor and
dry, artificial lubrication is necessary. Persons who perspire freely, or who accumulate scurf
rapidly, require it also. Nothing is simpler or better in the way of oil than pure, unscented
salad oil, and in the way of a pomatum, bear's grease is as pleasant as anything. Apply either
with the hands, or keep a soft brush for the purpose, but take care not to use the oil too
freely. An overoiled head of hair is vulgar and offensive. So are scents of any kind in the
oil applied to the hair. It is well also to keep a piece of flannel with which to rub the hair
at night after brushing it, in order to remove the oil before laying the head upon the pillow.

Vinegar and water form a good wash for the roots of the hair. Ammonia diluted in water is still
better.

The hair-brush should be frequently washed in diluted ammonia.

For removing scurf, glycerine, diluted with a little rose-water, will be found of service.
Any preparation of rosemary forms an agreeable and highly cleansing wash. The yolk of an egg
beaten up in warm water is an excellent application to the scalp. Many heads of hair require
nothing more in the way of wash than soap and water. Beware of letting the hair grow too long,
as the points are apt to weaken and split. It is well to have the ends clipped off once a month.

Young girls should wear their hair cut short until they are grown up, if they would have it
then in its best condition.

DYEING THE HAIR.

A serious objection to dyeing the hair is that it is almost impossible to give the hair a tint
which harmonizes with the complexion. If the hair begins to change early, and the color goes
in patches, procure from the druggist's a preparation of the husk of the walnut water of eau
crayon. This will, by daily application, darken the tint of the hair without actually dyeing
it. When the change of color has gone on to any great extent, it is better to abandon the application
and put up with the change, which, in nine cases out of ten, will be in accordance with the
change of the face. Indeed, there is nothing more beautiful than soft, white hair worn in bands
or clustering curls about the face. The walnut water may be used for toning down too red hair.

BALDNESS.

Gentlemen are more liable to baldness than ladies, owing, no doubt, to the use of the close
hat, which confines and overheats the head. If the hair is found to be falling out, the first
thing to do is to look to the hat and see that it is light and thoroughly ventilated. There
is no greater enemy to the hair than the silk dress-hat. It is best to lay this hat aside altogether
and adopt a light felt or straw in its place.

Long, flowing hair on a man is not in good taste, and will indicate him to the observer as
a person of unbalanced mind and unpleasantly erratic character--a man, in brief, who seeks
to impress others with the fact that he is eccentric, something which a really eccentric person
never attempts.

THE BEARD.

Those who shave should be careful to do so every morning. Nothing looks worse than a shabby
beard. Some persons whose beards are strong should shave twice a day, especially if they are
going to a party in the evening.

The style of the growth of the beard should be governed by the character of the face. But whatever
the style be, the great point is to keep it well brushed and trimmed, and to avoid any appearance
of wildness or inattention. The full, flowing beard of course requires more looking after in
the way of cleanliness, than any other. It should be thoroughly washed and brushed at least
twice a day, as dust is sure to accumulate in it, and it is very easy to suffer it to become
objectionable to one's self as well as to others. If it is naturally glossy, it is better to
avoid the use of oil or pomatum. The moustache should be worn neatly and not over-large. There
is nothing that so adds to native manliness as the full beard if carefully and neatly kept.

THE HAND.

The beautiful hand is long and slender, with tapering fingers and pink, filbert-shaped nails.
The hand to be in proper proportion to the rest of the body, should be as long as from the
point of the chin to the edge of the hair on the forehead.

The hands should be kept scrupulously clean, and therefore should be very frequently washed--not
merely rinsed in soap and water, but thoroughly lathered, and scrubbed with a soft nail-brush.
In cold weather the use of lukewarm water is unobjectionable, after which the hands should
be dipped into cold water and very carefully dried on a fine towel.

Be careful always to dry the hands thoroughly, and rub them briskly for some time afterward.
When this is not sufficiently attended to in cold weather, the hands chap and crack. When this
occurs, rub a few drops of honey over them when dry, or anoint them with cold cream or glycerine
before going to bed.

CHAPPED HANDS.

As cold weather is the usual cause of chapped hands, so the winter season brings with it a
cure for them. A thorough washing in snow and soap will cure the worst case of chapped hands,
and leave them beautifully soft.

TO MAKE THE HANDS WHITE AND DELICATE.

Should you wish to make your hands white and delicate, you might wash them in milk and water
for a day or two. On retiring to rest, rub them well over with some palm oil and put on a pair
of woolen gloves. The hands should be thoroughly washed with hot water and soap the next morning,
and a pair of soft leather gloves worn during the day. They should be frequently rubbed together
to promote circulation. Sunburnt hands may be washed in lime-water or lemon-juice.

TREATMENT OF WARTS.

Warts, which are more common with young people than with adults, are very unsightly, and are
sometimes very difficult to get rid of. The best plan is to buy a stick of lunar caustic, which
is sold in a holder and case at the druggist's for the purpose, dip it in water, and touch
the wart every morning and evening, care being taken to cut away the withered skin before repeating
the operation. A still better plan is to apply acetic acid gently once a day with a camel's
hair pencil to the summit of the wart. Care should be taken not to allow this acid to touch
any of the surrounding skin; to prevent this the finger or hand at the base of the wart may
be covered with wax during the operation.

THE NAILS.

Nothing is so repulsive as to see a lady or gentleman, however well dressed they may otherwise
be, with unclean nails. It always results from carelessness and inattention to the minor details
of the toilet, which is most reprehensible. The nails should be cut about once a week--certainly
not oftener. This should be accomplished just after washing, the nail being softer at such
a time. Care should be taken not to cut them too short, though, if they are left too long,
they will frequently get torn and broken. They should be nicely rounded at the corners. Recollect
the filbert-shaped nail is considered the most beautiful. Never bite the nails; it not only
is a most disagreeable habit, but tends to make the nails jagged, deformed and difficult to
clean, besides gives a red and stumpy appearance to the finger-tips.

Some persons are troubled by the cuticle adhering to the nail as it grows. This may be pressed
down by the towel after washing; or should that not prove efficacious, it must be loosened
round the edge with some blunt instrument. On no account scrape the nails with a view to polishing
their surface. Such an operation only tends to make them wrinkled.

Absolute smallness of hand is not essential to beauty, which requires that the proper proportions
should be observed in the human figure. With proper care the hand may be retained beautiful,
soft and shapely, and yet perform its fair share of labor. The hands should always be protected
by gloves when engaged in work calculated to injure them. Gloves are imperatively required
for garden-work. The hands should always be washed carefully and dried thoroughly after such
labor. If they are roughened by soap, rinse them in a little vinegar or lemon-juice, and they
will become soft and smooth at once.

REMEDY FOR MOIST HANDS.

People afflicted with moist hands should revolutionize their habits, take more out-door exercise
and more frequent baths. They should adopt a nutritious but not over-stimulating diet, and
perhaps take a tonic of some sort. Local applications of starch-powder and the juice of lemon
may be used to advantage.

THE FEET.

A well formed foot is broad at the sole, the toes well spread, each separate toe perfect and
rounded in form. The nails are regular and perfect in shape as those of the fingers. The second
toe projects a little beyond the others, and the first, or big toe, stands slightly apart from
the rest and is slightly lifted. The feet, from the circumstance of their being so much confined
by boots and shoes, require more care in washing than the rest of the body. Yet they do not
always get this care. The hands receive frequent washings every day. Once a week is quite as
often as many people can bestow the same attention upon their feet. A tepid bath at about 80
or 90 degrees, should be used. The feet may remain in the water about five minutes, and the
instant they are taken out they should be rapidly and thoroughly dried by being well rubbed
with a coarse towel. Sometimes bran is used in the water. Few things are more invigorating
and refreshing after a long walk, or getting wet in the feet, than a tepid foot-bath, clean
stockings and a pair of easy shoes. After the bath is the time for paring the toe-nails, as
they are so much softer and more pliant after having been immersed in warm water.

TREATMENT FOR MOIST OR DAMP FEET.

Some persons are troubled with moist or damp feet. This complaint arises more particularly
during the hot weather in summer-time, and the greatest care and cleanliness should be exercised
in respect to it. Persons so afflicted should wash their feet twice a day in soap and warm
water, after which they should put on clean socks. Should this fail to cure, they may, after
being washed as above, be rinsed, and then thoroughly rubbed with a mixture consisting of half
a pint of warm water and three tablespoonfuls of concentrated solution of chloride of soda.

BLISTERS ON THE FEET.

People who walk much are frequently afflicted with blisters. The best preventative of these
is to have easy, well-fitting boots and woolen socks. Should blisters occur, a very good plan
is to pass a large darning-needle threaded with worsted through the blister lengthwise, leaving
an inch or so of the thread outside at each end. This keeps the scurf-skin close to the true
skin, and prevents any grit or dirt entering. The thread absorbs the matter, and the old skin
remains until the new one grows. A blister should not be punctured save in this manner, as
it may degenerate into a sore and become very troublesome.

CHILBLAINS.

To avoid chilblains on the feet it is necessary to observe three rules: 1. Avoid getting the
feet wet; if they become so, change the shoes and stockings at once. 2. Wear lamb's wool socks
or stockings. 3. Never under any circumstances "toast your toes" before the fire, especially
if you are very cold. Frequent bathing of the feet in a strong solution of alum is useful in
preventing the coming of chilblains. On the first indication of any redness of the toes and
sensation of itching it would be well to rub them carefully with warm spirits of rosemary,
to which a little turpentine has been added. Then a piece of lint soaked in camphorated spirits,
opodeldoc or camphor liniment may be applied and retained on the part. Should the chilblain
break, dress it twice daily with a plaster of equal parts of lard and beeswax, with half the
quantity in weight of oil of turpentine.

THE TOE NAILS.

The toe-nails do not grow so fast as the finger-nails, but they should be looked after and
trimmed at least once a fortnight. They are much more subject to irregularity of growth than
the finger-nails, owing to their confined position. If the nails show a tendency to grow in
at the sides, the feet should be bathed in hot water, pieces of lint introduced beneath the
parts with an inward tendency, and the nail itself scraped longitudinally.

Pare the toe-nails squarer than those of the fingers. Keep them a moderate length--long enough
to protect the toe, but not so long as to cut holes in the stockings. Always cut the nails;
never tear them, as is too frequently the practice. Be careful not to destroy the spongy substance
below the nails, as that is the great guard to prevent them going into the quick.

CORNS.

It is tolerably safe to say that those who wear loose, easy-fitting shoes and boots will never
be troubled with corns. Some people are more liable to corns than others, and some will persist
in the use of tightly-fitting shoes in spite of corns.

HOW TO HAVE SHOES MADE.

The great fault with modern shoes is that their soles are made too narrow. If one would secure
perfect healthfulness of the feet, he should go to the shoemaker and step with his stockinged
feet on a sheet of paper. Let the shoemaker mark with a pencil upon the paper the exact size
of his foot, and then make him a shoe whose sole shall be as broad as this outlined foot.

Still more destructive of the beauty and symmetry of our women's feet have been the high, narrow
heels so much worn lately. They make it difficult to walk, and even in some cases permanently
cripple the feet. A shoe, to be comfortable, should have a broad sole and a heel of moderate
height, say one-half an inch, as broad at the bottom as at the top.

CHAPTER XXXIII.

Toilet Recipes.

TO REMOVE FRECKLES.

Bruise and squeeze the juice out of common chick-weed, and to this juice add three times its
quantity of soft water. Bathe the skin with this for five or ten minutes morning and evening,
and wash afterwards with clean water.

Elder flowers treated and applied exactly in the same manner as above. When the flowers are
not to be had, the distilled water from them, which may be procured from any druggist, will
answer the purpose.

A good freckle lotion is made of honey, one ounce, mixed with one pint of lukewarm water. Apply
when cold.

Carbonate of potassa, twenty grains; milk of almonds, three ounces; oil of sassafras, three
drops. Mix and apply two or three times a day.

One ounce of alcohol; half a dram salts tartar; one dram oil bitter almonds. Let stand for
one day and apply every second day.

FOR PIMPLES ON THE FACE.

Wash the face in a solution composed of one teaspoonful of carbolic acid to a pint of water.
This is an excellent purifying lotion, and may be used on the most delicate skin. Be careful
not to get any of it in the eyes as it will weaken them.

One tablespoonful of borax to half a pint of water is an excellent remedy for cutaneous eruptions,
canker, ringworm, etc.

Pulverize a piece of alum the size of a walnut, dissolve it in one ounce of lemon juice, and
add one ounce of alcohol. Apply once or twice a day.

Mix two ounces of rose-water with one dram of sulphate of zinc. Wet the face gently and let
it dry. Then touch the affected part with cream.

WASH FOR THE COMPLEXION.

A teaspoonful of the flour of sulphur and a wine-glassful of lime-water, well shaken and mixed;
half a wine-glass of glycerine and a wine-glass of rose water. Rub it on the face every night
before going to bed. Shake well before using.

Another prescription, used by hunters to keep away the black flies and mosquitoes, is said
to leave the skin very clear and fair, and is as follows: Mix one spoonful of the best tar
in a pint of pure olive oil or almond oil, by heating the two together in a tin cup set in
boiling water. Stir till completely mixed and smooth, putting in more oil if the compound is
too thick to run easily. Rub this on the face when going to bed, and lay patches of soft cloth
on the cheeks and forehead to keep the tar from rubbing off. The bed linen must be protected
by cloth folded and thrown over the pillows.

The whites of four eggs boiled in rose-water; half an ounce of alum; half an ounce of sweet
almonds; beat the whole together until it assumes the consistency of paste. Spread upon a silk
or muslin mask, to be worn at night.

Take a small piece of the gum benzoin and boil it in spirits of wine till it becomes a rich
tincture. In using it pour fifteen drops into a glass of water, wash the face and hands and
allow it to dry.

BORACIC ACID FOR SKIN DISEASES.

Boracic acid has been used with great success as an external application in the treatment of
vegetable parasitic diseases of the skin. A solution of a dram of the acid to an ounce of water,
or as much of the acid as the water will take up, is found to meet the requirements of the
case satisfactorily. The affected parts should be well bathed in the solution twice a day and
well rubbed.

TO SOFTEN THE SKIN.

Mix half an ounce of glycerine with half an ounce of alcohol, and add four ounces of rose-water.
Shake well together and it is ready for use. This is a splendid remedy for chapped hands.

REMEDY FOR RINGWORM.

Apply a solution of the root of common narrow-leafed dock, which belongs to the botanical genus
of Rumex. Use vinegar for the solvent.

Dissolve a piece of sulphate of potash, the size of a walnut, in one ounce of water. Apply
night and morning for a couple of days, and it will disappear.

TO REMOVE SUNBURN. When clear and transparent, strain through a blotting paper and bottle for use.

TO PREVENT HAIR FALLING OUT.

Ammonia one ounce, rosemary one ounce, cantharides four drams, rose-water four ounces, glycerine
one ounce. First wet the head with cold water, then apply the mixture, rubbing briskly.

Vinegar of cantharides half an ounce, eau-de-cologne one ounce, rose-water one ounce. The scalp
should be brushed briskly until it becomes red, and the lotion should then be applied to the
roots of the hair twice a day.

TO BEAUTIFY THE HAIR.

Take two ounces of olive oil, four ounces of good bay rum, and one dram of the oil of almonds;
mix and shake well. This will darken the hair.

HAIR OILS.

Mix two ounces of castor oil with three ounces of alcohol, and add two ounces of olive oil.
Perfume to liking.

TO MAKE POMADES FOR THE HAIR.

Take the marrow out of a beef shank bone, melt it in a vessel placed over or in boiling water,
then strain and scent to liking, with ottar of roses or other perfume.

Unsalted lard five ounces, olive oil two and a half ounces, castor oil one-quarter ounce, yellow
wax and spermaceti one-quarter ounce. These ingredients are to be liquified over a warm bath,
and when cool, perfume to liking.

Fresh beef marrow, boiled with a little almond oil or sweet oil, and scented with ottar of
roses or other mild perfume.

A transparent hair pomade is made as follows: Take half a pint of fine castor oil and an ounce
of white wax. Stir until it gets cool enough to thicken, when perfume may be stirred in; geranium,
bergamot or lemon oil may be used.

GERMAN METHOD OF TREATING THE HAIR.

The women of Germany have remarkably fine and luxuriant hair. The following is their method
of managing it: About once in two or three weeks, boil for half an hour or more a large handful
of bran in a quart of soft water; strain into a basin, and when tepid, rub into the water a
little white soap. With this wash the head thoroughly, using a soft linen cloth or towel, thoroughly
dividing the hair so as to reach the roots. Then take the yolk of an egg, slightly beaten in
a saucer, and with the fingers rub it into the roots of the hair. Let it remain a few minutes,
and then wash it off entirely with a cloth dipped in pure water. Rinse the head well till the
yolk of the egg has disappeared from it, then wipe and rub it dry with a towel, and comb the
hair from the head, parting it with the fingers, then apply some soft pomatum. In winter it
is best to do all this in a warm room.

TO KEEP THE HAIR FROM TURNING GREY.

Take the hulls of butternuts, about four ounces, and infuse in a quart of water, and to this
add half an ounce of copperas. Apply with a soft brush every two or three days. This preparation
is harmless, and is far better than those dyes made of nitrate of silver.

Oxide of bismuth four drams, spermaceti four drams, pure hog's lard four ounces. Melt the two
last and add the first.

TO CLEANSE THE HAIR AND SCALP.

Beat up a fresh egg and rub it well into the hair, or if more convenient, rub it into the hair
without beating. Rub the egg in until a lather is formed, occasionally wetting the hands in
warm water softened by borax. By the time a lather is formed, the scalp is clean, then rinse
the egg all out in a basin of warm water, containing a tablespoonful of powdered borax: after
that rinse in a basin of clean water.

HAIR WASH.

Bay rum six ounces, aromatic spirits of ammonia half an ounce, bergamot oil six drops. Mix.

TO MAKE THE HAIR GROW.

If the head be perfectly bald, nothing will ever cause the hair to grow again. If the scalp
be glossy, and no small hairs are discernible, the roots or follicles are dead, and can not
be resuscitated. However if small hairs are to be seen, there is hope. Brush well, and bathe
the bald spot three or four times a week with cold, soft water; carbonate of ammonia one dram,
tincture of cantharides four drams, bay rum four ounces, castor oil two ounces. Mix well and
use it every day.

SEA FOAM OR DRY SHAMPOO.

Take a pint of alcohol, half pint of bay rum, and half an ounce of spirits of ammonia, and
one dram of salts tartar. Shake well together and it is ready for use. Pour a quantity on the
head, rub well with the palm of the hand. It will produce a thick foam, and will cleanse the
scalp. This is used generally by first-class barbers.

BARBER'S SHAMPOO.

To one pint of warm water add half an ounce of salts tartar. Cut up very fine a piece of castile
soap, the size of two crackers, and mix it, shaking the mixture well, and it is ready for use.

CLEANING GOLD JEWELRY.

Gold ornaments may be kept bright and clean with soap and warm water, scrubbing them well with
a soft nail brush. They may be dried in sawdust of box-wood. Imitation jewelry may be treated
in the same way.

TO LOOSEN STOPPERS OF TOILET BOTTLES.

Let a drop of pure oil flow round the stopper and let the bottle stand a foot or two from the
fire. After a time tap the stopper smartly, but not too hard, with the handle of a hair brush.
If this is not effectual, use a fresh drop of oil and repeat the process. It is almost sure
to succeed.

TO MAKE BANDOLINE.

Half a pint of water, rectified spirits with an equal quantity of water three ounces, gum tragacanth
one and a half drams. Add perfume, let the mixture stand for a day or two and then strain.

Simmer an ounce of quince seed in a quart of water for forty minutes, strain, cool, add a few
drops of scent, and bottle, corking tightly.

Iceland moss one-fourth of an ounce, boiled in a quart of water, and a little rectified spirit
added, so that it will keep.

TO MAKE LIP-SALVE.

Melt in a jar placed in a basin of boiling water a quarter of an ounce each of white wax and
spermaceti, flour of benzoin fifteen grains, and half an ounce of the oil of almonds. Stir
till the mixture is cool. Color red with alkanet root.

TO CLEAN KID BOOTS.

Mix a little white of egg and ink in a bottle, so that the composition may be well shaken up
when required for use. Apply to the kid with a piece of sponge and rub dry. The best thing
to rub dry with is the palm of the hand. When the kid shows symptoms of cracking, rub in a
few drops of sweet oil. The soles and heels should be polished with common blacking.

TO CLEAN PATENT-LEATHER BOOTS.

In cleaning patent-leather boots, first remove all the dirt upon them with a sponge or flannel;
then the boot should be rubbed lightly over with a paste consisting of two spoonfuls of cream
and one of linseed oil, both of which require to be warmed before being mixed. Polish with
a soft cloth.

TO REMOVE STAINS AND SPOTS FROM SILK.

Boil five ounces of soft water and six ounces of powdered alum for a short time, and pour it
into a vessel to cool. Warm it for use, and wash the stained part with it and leave dry.

Wash the soiled part with ether, and the grease will disappear.

We often find that lemon-juice, vinegar, oil of vitriol and other sharp corrosives, stain dyed
garments. Sometimes, by adding a little pearlash to a soap-lather and passing the silks through
these, the faded color will be restored. Pearlash and warm water will sometimes do alone, but
it is the most efficacious to use the soap-lather and pearlash together.

TOOTHACHE PREVENTIVE.

Use flower of sulphur as a tooth powder every night, rubbing the teeth and gums with a rather
hard toothbrush. If done after dinner, too, all the better. It preserves the teeth and does
not communicate any smell whatever to the mouth.

HOW TO WHITEN LINEN.

Stains occasioned by fruit, iron rust and other similar causes may be removed by applying to
the parts injured a weak solution of the chloride of lime, the cloth having been previously
well washed. The parts subjected to this operation should be subsequently rinsed in soft, clear,
warm water, without soap, and be immediately dried in the sun.

Oxalic acid diluted with water will accomplish the same end.

TO TAKE STAINS OUT OF SILK.

Mix together in a vial two ounces of essence of lemon and one ounce of oil of turpentine. Grease
and other spots in silk must be rubbed gently with a linen rag dipped in the above composition.
To remove acid stains from silks, apply with a soft rag, spirits of ammonia.

TO REMOVE STAINS FROM WHITE COTTON GOODS.

For mildew, rub in salt and some buttermilk, and expose it to the influence of a hot sun. Chalk
and soap or lemon juice and salt are also good. As fast as the spots become dry, more should
be rubbed on, and the garment should be kept in the sun until the spots disappear. Some one
of the preceding things will extract most kinds of stains, but a hot sun is necessary to render
any one of them effectual.

Scalding water will remove fruit stains. So also will hartshorn diluted with warm water, but
it will be necessary to apply it several times.

Common salt rubbed on fruit stains before they become dry will extract them.

Colored cotton goods that have ink spilled on them, should be soaked in lukewarm sour milk.

TO REMOVE SPOTS OF PITCH OR TAR.

Scrape off all the pitch or tar you can, then saturate the spots with sweet oil or lard; rub
it in well, and let it remain in a warm place for an hour.

TO EXTRACT PAINT FROM GARMENTS.

Saturate the spot with spirits of turpentine, let it remain a number of hours, then rub it
between the hands; it will crumble away without injury either to the texture or color of any
kind of woolen, cotton or silk goods.

TO CLEAN SILKS AND RIBBONS.

Take equal quantities of soft lye-soap, alcohol or gin, and molasses. Put the silk on a clean
table without creasing; rub on the mixture with a flannel cloth. Rinse the silk well in cold,
clear water, and hang it up to dry without wringing. Iron it before it gets dry, on the wrong
side. Silks and ribbons treated in this way will look very nicely.

Camphene will extract grease and clean ribbons without changing the color of most things. They
should be dried in the open air and ironed when pretty dry.

The water in which pared potatoes have been boiled is very good to wash black silks in; it
stiffens and makes them glossy and black.

Soap-suds answer very well. They should be washed in two suds and not rinsed in clean water.

REMEDY FOR BURNT KID OR LEATHER SHOES.

If a lady has had the misfortune to put her shoes or slippers too near the stove, and thus
had them burned, she can make them nearly as good as ever by spreading soft-soap upon them
while they are still hot, and then, when they are cold, washing it off. It softens the leather
and prevents it drawing up.

REMEDY FOR CORNS.

Soak the feet for half an hour two or three nights successively in a pretty strong solution
of common soda. The alkali dissolves the indurated cuticle and the corn comes away, leaving
a little cavity which, however, soon fills up.

Corns between the toes are generally more painful than others, and are frequently so situated
as to be almost inaccessible to the usual remedies. They may be cured by wetting them several
times a day with spirits of ammonia.

INFLAMED EYELIDS.

Take a slice of stale bread, cut as thin as possible, toast both sides well, but do not burn
it; when cold soak it in cold water, then put it between a piece of old linen and apply, changing
when it gets warm.

TO MAKE COLD CREAM.

Melt in a jar two ounces of white wax, half an ounce of spermaceti, and mix with a pint of
sweet oil. Add perfume to suit.

Melt together an ounce of white wax, half an ounce of spermaceti, and mix with a pint of oil
of sweet almonds and half a pint of rose-water. Beat to a paste.

TO MAKE ROSE-WATER.

Take half an ounce of powdered white sugar and two drams of magnesia. With these mix twelve
drops of ottar of roses. Add a quart of water, two ounces of alcohol, mix in a gradual manner,
and filter through blotting paper.

HOW TO WASH LACES.

Take a quart bottle and cover it over with the leg of a soft, firm stocking, sew it tightly
above and below. Then wind the collar or lace smoothly around the covered bottle; take a fine
needle and thread and sew very carefully around the outer edge of the collar or lace, catching
every loop fast to the stocking. Then shake the bottle up and down in a pailful of warm soap-suds,
occasionally rubbing the soiled places with a soft sponge. It must be rinsed well after the
same manner in clean water. When the lace is clean, apply a very weak solution of gum arabic
and stand the bottle in the sunshine to dry. Take off the lace very carefully when perfectly
dry. Instead of ironing, lay it between the white leaves of a heavy book; or, if you are in
a hurry, iron on flannel between a few thicknesses of fine muslin. Done up in this way, lace
collars will wear longer, stay clean longer, and have a rich, new, lacy look that they will
not have otherwise.

HOW TO DARKEN FADED FALSE HAIR.

The switches, curls and frizzes which fashion demands should be worn, will fade in course of
time; and though they matched the natural hair perfectly at first, they will finally present
a lighter tint. If the hair is brown this can be remedied. Obtain a yard of dark brown calico.
Boil it until the color has well come out into the water. Then into this water dip the hair,
and take it out and dry it. Repeat the operation until it shall be of the required depth of shade.

PUTTING AWAY FURS FOR THE SUMMER.

When you are ready to put away furs and woolens, and want to guard against the depredations
of moths, pack them securely in paper flour sacks and tie them up well. This is better than
camphor or tobacco or snuff scattered among them in chests and drawers. Before putting your
muffs away for the summer, twirl them by the cord at the ends, so that every hair will straighten.
Put them in their boxes and paste a strip of paper where the lid fits on.

TO KEEP THE HAIR IN CURL.

To keep the hair in curl take a few quince-seed, boil them in water, and add perfumery if you
like; wet the hair with this and it will keep in curl longer than from the use of any other
preparation. It is also good to keep the hair in place on the forehead on going out in the wind.

PROTECTION AGAINST MOTHS.

Dissolve two ounces of camphor in half a pint each of alcohol and spirits of turpentine; keep
in a stone bottle and shake before using. Dip blotting paper in the liquid, and place in the
box with the articles to be preserved.

TO TAKE MILDEW OUT OF LINEN.

Wet the linen in soft water, rub it well with white soap, then scrape some fine chalk to powder,
and rub it well into the linen; lay it out on the grass in the sunshine, watching to keep it
damp with soft water. Repeat the process the next day, and in a few hours the mildew will entirely
disappear.

CURE FOR IN-GROWING NAILS ON TOES.

Take a little tallow and put it into a spoon, and heat it over a lamp until it becomes very
hot; then pour it on the sore or granulation. The effect will be almost magical. The pain and
tenderness will at once be relieved. The operation causes very little pain if the tallow is
perfectly heated. Perhaps a repetition may be necessary in some cases.

TO REMOVE GREASE-SPOTS FROM WOOLEN CLOTH.

Take one quart of spirits of wine or alcohol, twelve drops of winter green, one gill of beef-gall
and six cents' worth of lavendar. A little alkanet to color if you wish. Mix.

TO CLEAN WOOLEN CLOTH.

Take equal parts of spirits hartshorn and ether. Ox-gall mixed with it makes it better.

TO TAKE INK-SPOTS FROM LINEN.

Take a piece of mould candle of the finest kind, melt it, and dip the spotted part of the linen
in the melted tallow: Then throw the linen into the wash.

TO REMOVE FRUIT-STAINS.

Moisten the parts stained with cold water; then hold it over the smoke of burning brimstone,
and the stain will disappear. This will remove iron mould also.

CLEANING SILVER.

For cleaning silver, either articles of personal wear or those pertaining to the toilet-table
or dressing-case, there is nothing better than a spoonful of common whiting, carefully pounded
so as to be without lumps, reduced to a paste with gin.

TO REMOVE GREASE SPOTS.

French chalk is useful for removing grease-spots from clothing. Spots on silk will sometimes
yield if a piece of blotting-paper is placed over them and the blade of a knife is heated (not
too much) and passed over the paper.

TO REMOVE A TIGHT RING.

When a ring happens to get so tight on a finger that it cannot be removed, a piece of string,
well soaped, may be wound tightly round the finger, commencing at the end of the finger and
continued until the ring is reached. Then force the end of the twine between the ring and finger,
and as the string is unwound, the ring will be gradually forced off.

MOSQUITOES WARDED OFF.

To ward off mosquitoes, apply to the skin a solution made of fifty drops of carbolic acid to
an ounce of glycerine. Mosquito bites may be instantly cured by touching them with the solution.
Add two or three drops of the ottar of roses to disguise the smell. The pure, crystalized form
of the acid has a less powerful odor than the common preparation.

LINIMENT FOR THE FACE AFTER SHAVING.

One ounce of lime water, one ounce of sweet oil, one drop oil of roses, is a good liniment
for the face after shaving. Shake well before using. Apply with the forefinger.

TO REMOVE SUNBURN.

Wash thoroughly with milk of almonds, which can be obtained at the drug store.

TO WHITEN THE FINGER NAILS.

Take two drams of dilute sulphuric acid, one dram of the tincture of myrrh, four ounces of
spring water, and mix in a bottle. After washing the hands, dip the fingers in a little of
the mixture. Rings with stones or pearls in them should be removed before using this mixture.

TO REMOVE TAN.

Tan can be removed from the face by dissolving magnesia in soft water. Beat it to a thick mass,
spread it on the face, and let it remain a minute or two. Then wash off with castile soapsuds
and rinse with soft water.

TO CURE WARTS.

Take a piece of raw beef steeped in vinegar for twenty-four hours, tie it on the part affected.
Apply each night for two weeks.

REMEDY FOR IN-GROWING TOE-NAILS.

The best remedy for in-growing toe-nails is to cut a notch about the shape of a V in the end
of the nail, about one-quarter the width of the nail from the in-growing side. Cut down as
nearly to the quick as possible, and one-third the length of the nail. The pressure of the
boot or shoe will tend to close the opening you have made in the nail, and this soon affords
relief. Allow the in-growing portion of the nail to grow without cutting it, until it gets
beyond the flesh.

TO REMOVE WRINKLES.

Melt one ounce of white wax, add two ounces of juice of lily-bulbs, two ounces of honey, two
drams of rose-water, and a drop or two of ottar of roses. Use it twice a day.

Put powder of best myrrh upon an iron plate sufficiently hot to melt the gum gently, and when
it liquefies, cover over your head with a napkin, and hold your face over the fumes at a distance
that will cause you no inconvenience. If it produces headache, discontinue its use.

In washing, use warm instead of cold water.

REMEDY FOR CHAPPED HANDS.

After washing with soap, rinse the hands in fresh water and dry them thoroughly, by applying
Indian meal or rice flour.

Lemon-juice three ounces, white wine vinegar three ounces, and white brandy half a pint.

Add ten drops of carbolic acid to one ounce of glycerine, and apply freely at night.

TO CURE CHILBLAINS.

Two tablespoonfuls of lime water mixed with enough sweet oil to make it as thick as lard. Rub
the chilblains with the mixture and dry it in, then wrap up in linen.

Bathe the chilblains in strong alum water, as hot as it can be borne.

When indications of the chilblains first present themselves, take vinegar three ounces and
camphorated spirits of wine one ounce; mix and rub on the parts affected.

Bathe the feet in warm water, in which two or three handsful of common salt have been dissolved.

Rub with a raw onion dipped in salt.

HAIR RESTORATIVE.

The oil of mace one-half ounce, mixed with a pint of deodorized alcohol, is a powerful stimulant
for the hair. To apply it, pour a spoonful or two into a saucer, dip a stiff brush into it
and brush the hair and head smartly.

On bald heads, if hair will start at all, it may be stimulated by friction with a piece of
flannel till the skin becomes red. Repeat this process three times a day, until the hair begins
to grow, when the tincture may be applied but once a day, till the growth is well established.
The head should be bathed in cold water every morning, and briskly brushed to bring the blood
to the surface.

WASH FOR THE TEETH.

Dissolve two ounces of borax in three pints of warm water. Before the water is quite cold,
add one teaspoonful of spirits of camphor. Bottle the mixture for use. One wine-glass of the
mixture, added to half a pint of tepid water, is sufficient for each application. This solution
used daily, beautifies and preserves the teeth.

FOE WHITENING THE HANDS.

A wine-glass of cologne and one of lemon-juice strained clear. Scrape two cakes of brown Windsor
soap to a powder and mix well in a mould. When hard, it is fit for use, and will be found excellent
for whitening the hands.

Wear during the night, large cloth mittens filled with wet bran or oatmeal, and tied closely
at the wrist. Persons who have a great deal of house-work to do, may keep their hands soft
and white by wearing bran or oatmeal mittens.

TO REDUCE THE FLESH.

A strong decoction of sassafras, drank frequently, will reduce the flesh as rapidly as any
remedy known. A strong infusion is made at the rate of an ounce of sassafras to a quart of
water. Boil it half an hour very slowly, and let it stand till cold, heating again if desired.
Keep it from the air.

SMOOTH AND SOFT HANDS.

A few drops of glycerine thoroughly rubbed over the hands, after washing them, will keep them
smooth and soft.

TO MAKE TINCTURE OF ROSES.

Take the leaves of the common rose and place, without pressing them, in a glass bottle, then
pour some spirits of wine on them, close the bottle and let it stand till required for use.
Its perfume is nearly equal to that of ottar of roses.

SOFT CORNS.

A weak solution of carbolic acid will heal soft corns between the toes.

BURNED EYEBROWS.

Five grains sulphate of quinine dissolved in an ounce of alcohol, will, if applied, cause eyebrows
to grow when burned off by the fire.

TO RESTORE GRAY HAIR.

A recipe for restoring gray hair to its natural color, said to be very effective when the hair
is changing color, is as follows: One pint of water, one ounce tincture of acetate of iron,
half an ounce of glycerine, and five grains sulphuret potassium. Mix and let the bottle stand
open until the smell of the potassium has disappeared, then add a few drops of ottar of roses.
Rub a little into the hair daily, and it will restore its color and benefit the health.

Bathing the head in a strong solution of rock salt, is said to restore gray hair in some cases.
Make the solution two heaping tablespoonfuls of salt to a quart of boiling water, and let it
stand until cold before using.

A solution made of a tablespoonful of carbonate of ammonia to a quart of water is also recommended,
wash the head thoroughly with the solution and brush the hair while wet.

TO TAKE STAINS OUT OF SILKS.

Make a solution of two ounces of essence of lemon, and one ounce oil of turpentine. Rub the
silk gently with linen cloth, dipped in the solution.

To remove acid stains from silk, apply spirits of ammonia with a soft rag.

TO TAKE INK-SPOTS FROM LINEN.

Dip the spotted part of the linen in clean, pure melted tallow, before being washed.

TO REMOVE DISCOLORATION BY BRUISING.

Apply to the bruise a cloth wrung out of very hot water, and renew frequently until the pain
ceases.

TO CLEAN KID GLOVES.

Make a solution of one quart of distilled benzine with one-fourth of an ounce of carbonate
of ammonia, one-fourth of an ounce of fluid chloroform, one-fourth of an ounce of sulphuric
ether. Pour a small quantity into a saucer, put on the gloves, and wash, as if washing the
hands, changing the solution until the gloves are clean. Rub them clean and as dry as possible
with a clean dry cloth, and take them off and hang them where there is a good current of air
to dry. This solution is also excellent for cleaning ribbons, silks, etc., and is perfectly
harmless to the most delicate tints. Do not get near the fire when using, as the benzine is
very inflammable.

Washing the gloves in turpentine, the same as above, is also a good means of cleaning them.

PERSPIRATION.

To remove the unpleasant odor produced by perspiration, put two tablespoonfuls of the compound
spirit of ammonia in a basin of water, and use it for bathing. It leaves the skin clear, sweet
and fresh as one could wish. It is perfectly harmless, very cheap, and is recommended on the
authority of an experienced physician.

TO REMOVE FLESH WORMS.

Flesh worms, or little black specks, which appear on the nose, may be removed by washing in
warm water, drying with a towel, and applying a wash of cologne and liquor of potash, made
of three ounces of the former to one ounce of the latter.

CHAPPED LIPS.

Oil of roses four ounces, white wax one ounce, spermaceti half an ounce; melt in a glass vessel,
stirring with a wooden spoon, and pour into a china or glass cup.

RECIPES FOR THE CARE OF THE TEETH.

A remedy for unsound gums, is a gargle made of one ounce of coarsely powdered Peruvian bark
steeped in half a pint of brandy for two weeks. Put a teaspoonful of this into a tablespoonful
of water, and gargle the mouth twice a day.

The ashes of stale bread, thoroughly burned, is said to make a good dentifrice.

The teeth should be carefully brushed after every meal, as a means of preserving a sweet breath.
In addition, a small piece of licorice may be dissolved in the mouth, which corrects the effects
of indigestion. Licorice has no smell, but simply corrects ill-flavored odor.

A good way to clean teeth is to dip the brush in water, rub it over white castile soap, then
dip it in prepared chalk, and brush the teeth briskly.

To beautify the teeth, dissolve two ounces of borax in three pints of boiling water, and before
it is cold, add one teaspoonful of spirits of camphor; bottle for use. Use a teaspoonful of
this with an equal quantity of warm water.

TO MAKE COLD CREAM.

Five ounces oil of sweet almonds, three ounces spermaceti, half an ounce of white wax, and
three to five drops ottar of roses. Melt together in a shallow dish over hot water. Strain
through a piece of muslin when melted, and as it begins to cool, beat it with a silver spoon
until cold and snowy white. For the hair use seven ounces of oil of almonds instead of five.

REMEDY FOR BLACK TEETH.

Take equal parts of cream of tartar and salt, pulverize it and mix it well. Wash the teeth
in the morning and rub them well with the powder.

TO CLEANSE THE TEETH AND GUMS.

Take an ounce of myrrh in fine powder, two tablespoonfuls of honey, and a little green sage
in very fine powder; mix them well together, and wet the teeth and gums with a little, twice a day.

CHAPTER XXXIV.

Sports, Games, Amusements.

There is a great variety of games, sports and amusements for both out-door and in-door entertainment,
in which both sexes mingle for pleasure, and brief mention is here made of some of these.

ARCHERY.

The interest that has been recently awakened in this country in archery, is worthy of mention.
As a graceful, healthful and innocent sport, it has no equal among any of the games that have
been introduced, where both sexes participate. Our young and middle aged ladies too often neglect
out-door physical exertion, which is essential to acquiring strength of limbs and muscle, and
a gracefulness of carriage which is dependent thereon. It is a mistaken idea that with youth
all indulgence in physical recreation should cease. On the contrary, such exercises as are
most conducive to health, and are attended with pleasure, might with propriety be kept up by
young women as well as by young men, as a means of retaining strength and elasticity of the
muscles; and, instead of weak, trembling frames and broken down constitutions, in the prime
of life, a bright, vigorous old age would be the reward. The pursuit of archery is recommended
to both young and old, male and female, as having advantages far superior to any of the out-door
games and exercises, as a graceful and invigorating pastime, developing in ladies a strong
constitution, perfection of sight at long range, and above all, imparting to the figure a graceful
appearance and perfect action of the limbs and chest. Let the women of this country devote
some of their spare hours to this pleasant, health-giving sport, and their reward will be bright,
ruddy faces, elasticity of movement, and strong and vigorous constitutions.

IMPLEMENTS FOR ARCHERY.

For the purposes of archery, the implements required are the bow, arrows, targets, a quiver
pouch and belt, an arm-guard or brace, a shooting glove or finger tip, and a scoring card.

The bow is from five to six feet long, made of lancewood or locust. Spanish yew is considered
the choicest, next comes the Italian, then the English yew; lancewood and lancewood backed
with hickory are used more than any other. In choosing a bow, get the best you can afford,
it will prove the cheapest in the end. Men should use bows six feet long, pulling from forty
to sixty pounds, and ladies bows of five feet or five feet six inches in length, and pulling
from twenty-five to forty pounds. The arrows are generally of uniform thickness throughout,
and are made of pine; the finest grades being made of white deal, with sharp points of iron
or brass. They are from 25 to 30 inches in length. The quiver belt is worn round the waist,
and contains the arrows which are being used. The arm is protected from the blow of the string
by the "arm-guard," a broad guard of strong leather buckled on the left wrist by two straps.
A shooting-glove is worn on the right hand to protect the fingers from soreness in drawing
the string of the bow.

The target consists of a circular, thick mat of straw, from two to four feet in diameter, covered
with canvas, painted in a series of circles. The inner circle is a gold color, then comes red,
white, black, and the outer circle white. The score for a gold hit is nine; the red 7, the
inner white 5; the black 3, and the outer white 1.

The use of the bow and arrows, the proper manner of holding them, and directions for shooting
are to be found in pamphlets of instruction, which often accompany the implements.

ARCHERY CLUBS AND PRACTICE.

In many cities and villages throughout the country, clubs have been formed, and regular days
for practice and prize shooting are appointed. Each member of the the club is expected to furnish
his or her own implements, and to attend all the practice meetings and prize shootings. The
clubs are about equally divided as to ladies and gentlemen, as both sexes participate equally
in the sport. The officers are such as are usually chosen in all organizations, with the addition
of a Lady Paramount, a scorer, and a Field Marshal. The lady paramount is the highest office
of honor in the club. She is expected to act as an umpire or judge in all matters of dispute
that may come up in the club, and her decisions must be regarded as final. She is also expected
to do all in her power to further the interests of the organization. A field marshal has been
appointed by some clubs, and his duties are to place the targets, measure the shooting distances,
and have general supervision of the field on practice days. The scorer keeps a score of each
individual member of the club.

In meeting for practice, it is customary to have one target for every six, eight or ten persons,
the latter number being sufficient for any one target. The targets are placed at any distance
required, from thirty to one hundred yards; ladies being allowed an advantage of about one-fourth
the distance in shooting. To beginners, a distance of from twenty-five to forty yards for gentlemen,
and twenty to thirty for ladies, is sufficient, and this distance may be increased as practice
is acquired. An equal number of ladies and gentlemen usually occupy one target, and each shoots
a certain number of arrows as agreed upon, usually from three to six, a score being kept as
the target is hit. After each person has shot the allotted number of arrows, it is regarded
as an "end," and a certain number of ends, as agreed upon, constitute a "round." For prize
shooting, the National Archery Association has established three rounds, known as the "York
Round," the "American Round," and the "Columbia Round" (for ladies). The "York Round" consists
of 72 arrows at 100 yards, 48 at 80 yards, and 24 at 60 yards. The "American Round" consists
of 30 arrows, each at 60, 50 and 40 yards respectively, and the "Columbia Round" (for ladies),
24 arrows, each at 50, 40 and 30 yards respectively. A captain is appointed for each target,
who designates a target scorer, and the gentleman who makes the largest score, is appointed
captain of the target at the succeeding meeting. The target scorer, at the close of the round,
hands the score to the official scorer, who announces the result at the next meeting of the
club. Some clubs have adopted the plan of having every alternate meeting for prize shooting,
awarding some small token to the lady and gentleman who makes the highest scores.

Ladies' costume for archery may be more brilliant than for an ordinary walking dress, and are
usually trimmed with green and gold color, and in many cases a green jacket is worn. The costumes
are short enough for convenience in movement, and made so as to give free and easy movement
of the arms.

LAWN-TENNIS.

Amongst all games, none, perhaps can so justly lay claim to the honor of antiquity as tennis.
The ancient Greeks played it, the Romans knew it as pila, and ever since those days, with little
intermission, the game has been played in many European countries. After a long season of rest,
the game has now re-appeared in all the freshness of renewed youth. There are many points to
be said to commend tennis. Both ladies and gentlemen can join in the game, and often the palm
will be borne off by the "weaker, yet fairer" sex. The exercise required to enjoy the game
is not in any way of an exhausting character, and affords ladies a training in graceful and
charming movements. Lawn-tennis may be played either in summer or winter, and in cold weather,
if the ground be dry, is a very agreeable out-door recreation. At a croquet or garden party
it is certainly a desideratum.

The requisites for playing lawn-tennis, are a lawn or level surface about 45 by 100 feet, as
the "court" upon which the playing is done is 27 by 78 feet. A net four or five feet in height
and 27 feet long, divides the court. A ball made of india rubber and covered with cloth, and
a "racket" for each player are the implements needed for playing. The racket is used for handling
the ball, and is about two feet in length, with net work at the outer end, by means of which
the ball is tossed from one place to another. Rules for playing the game are obtained with
the implements needed, which can be procured from dealers in such lines of goods.

CROQUET.

The game of croquet is played by opposite parties, of one or more on a side, each player being
provided with a mallet and her own ball which are distinguished by their color.

The players in their turn place their ball a mallet's length from the starting stake, and strike
it with the mallet, the object being to pass it through the first one or two hoops. The turning
or upper stake must be struck with the ball before the player can pass her ball through the
returning hoops, and on returning to the starting point the ball must hit the starting stake
before the player is the winner. The one who passes through all the hoops and gets her ball
to the starting stake first is the winner. We do not give the rules of the game as each croquet
set is accompanied by a complete set of rules.

Where four are playing, two of whom are gentlemen, one lady and gentleman usually play as partners.
As it is the height of ill-manners to display any rudeness, no lady or gentleman will be so
far forgetful as to become angry should the opposing parties be found "cheating."

Invitations to a croquet party may be of the same form as invitations to any other party.

BOATING.

Where there is a sufficiently large body or stream of water to admit of it, boating is a very
enjoyable recreation, which may be pursued by both ladies and gentlemen. There is much danger
in sailing, and the proper management of a sail-boat requires considerable tact and experience.
Rowing is safer, but caution should be observed in not over-loading the boat. A gentleman should
not invite ladies to ride on the water unless he is thoroughly capable of managing the boat.
Rowing is a healthful and delightful recreation, and many ladies become expert and skillful
at it. Every gentleman should have some knowledge of rowing, as it is easily acquired. If a
gentleman who is inexperienced in rowing, goes out with other gentlemen in a boat, he should
refrain from any attempt to row, as he will only display his awkwardness, and render the ride
uncomfortable to his companions.

In rowing with a friend, it is polite to offer him the "stroke" oar, which is the post of honor.

When two gentlemen take a party of ladies out for a row, one stands in the boat to steady it
and offer assistance to the ladies in getting seated, and the other aids from the wharf.

A lady's dress for rowing should be one which will give perfect freedom to her arm; a short
skirt, stout boots, and hat with sufficient brim to protect her face from the sun.

PICNICS.

While ladies and gentlemen never forget their good manners, and are always polite and courteous,
yet at picnics they are privileged to relax many of the forms and ceremonies required by strict
etiquette. Here men and women mingle for a day of pleasure in the woods or fields, or on the
water, and it is the part of all who attend to do what they can for their own and their neighbor's
enjoyment. Hence, formal introductions and other ceremonies need not stand in the way of enjoyment
either by ladies or gentlemen, and at the same time no act of rudeness should occur to mar
the pleasure of the occasion. It is the duty of gentlemen to do all they can to make the occasion
enjoyable and even mirthful. They should also look to providing the means of conveyance to
and from the spot selected for the festivities, make such arrangements as are necessary in
the way of providing music, games, boats, and whatever else is needed to enhance the pleasure
of the day. The ladies provide the luncheon or dinner, which is spread upon the grass or eaten
out of their baskets, and at which the restraints of the table are withdrawn. At picnics, gentlemen
become the servants as well as the escorts and guides of the ladies, and perform such services
for ladies in the way of procuring flowers, carrying baskets, climbing trees, baiting their
fish-hooks, and many other things as are requested of them.

PRIVATE THEATRICALS.

Private theatricals may be made very pleasing and instructive entertainments for fall or winter
evenings, among either young or married people. They include charades, proverbs, tableaux,
dramatic readings, and the presentation of a short dramatical piece, and may successfully be
given in the parlor or drawing room. The hostess seeks the aid of friends in the preparation
of her arrangements, and if a drama has been determined upon, she assigns the various parts
to each. Her friends should aid her in her efforts by giving her all the assistance they can,
and by willingly and good-naturedly complying with any request she may make, accepting the
parts allotted to them, even if they are obscure or distasteful. They should endeavor to perform
their part in any dramatical piece, tableau or charade as well as possible, and the success
they achieve will determine how conspicuous a part they may be called upon to perform at a
subsequent time. The hostess should consult each performer before alloting a part, and endeavor
to suit each one. The host or hostess should not have any conspicuous part assigned them, unless
it is urged by all the other performers. Those who are to participate, should not only learn
their parts, but endeavor to imbue themselves with the spirit of the character they personate,
so as to afford pleasure to all who are invited to witness its performance. When persons have
consented to participate in any such entertainment, only sickness or some very grave cause
should prevent them from undertaking their part. Supper or refreshments usually follow private
theatricals, of which both the performers and invited guests are invited to partake, and the
remainder of the evening is spent in social intercourse.

ETIQUETTE OF CARD PLAYING.

Never urge any one who seems to be unwilling to play a game of cards. They may have conscientious
scruples in the matter, which must be respected.

If you have no scruples of conscience, it is not courteous to refuse, when a game cannot be
made up without you.

You may refuse to play if you do not understand the game thoroughly. If, however, you are urged
to try, and your partner and opponents offer to instruct you, you may accede to their requests,
for in so doing, you will acquire a better knowledge of the game.

Married and elderly people take precedence over young and unmarried people, in a game of cards.

It is the privilege of the host and hostess to suggest cards as a means of amusement for the
guests. The latter should never call for them.

"Whist" is a game of cards so-called, because it requires silence and close attention. Therefore
in playing this game, you must give your whole attention to the cards, and secure at least
comparative silence. Do not suggest or keep up any conversation during a game, which will distract
your own mind or the mind of others from the game.

Never hurry any one who is playing. In endeavoring to play their best, they should take their
own time, without interruption.

Betting at cards is vulgar, partakes of the nature of gambling, and should at all times be avoided.

Never finger the cards while they are being dealt, nor take up any of them until all are dealt
out, when you may take your own cards and proceed to play.

In large assemblies it is best to furnish the cards and tables, and allow guests to play or
not, at their option, the host and hostess giving their assistance in seeking for people disposed
to play, and in making up a game. In giving card parties, new cards should be provided on every
occasion.

CHAPTER XXXV.

The Language of Flowers.

There is a sentiment attached to flowers, and this sentiment has been expressed in language
by giving names to various flowers, shrubs and plants. These names constitute a language, which
may be made the medium of pleasant and amusing interchange of thought between men and women.
A bouquet of flowers and leaves may be selected and arranged so as to express much depth of
feeling--to be truly a poem. We present herewith a list of many flowers and plants, to which,
by universal consent, a sentiment has become attached.

          Acacia--Concealed love.
          Acacia, Rose--Friendship.
          Acanthus--Arts.
          Adonis Vernalis--Bitter memories.
          Agnus Casus--Coldness.
          Agrimony--Thankfulness.
          Almond--Hope.
          Aloe--Superstition.
          Althea--Consumed by love.
          Alyssum, Sweet--Worth beyond beauty.
          Amaranth--Immortality.
          Amaryllis--Splendid beauty.
          Ambrosia--Love returned.
          Anemone--Expectation.
          Anemone, Garden--Forsaken.
          Angelica--Inspiration.
          Apocynum (Dogbane)--Inspiration.
          Apple--Temptation.
          Apple Blossom--Preference.
          Arbor vitæ--Unchanging friendship.
          Arbutus, Trailing--Welcome.
          Arum--Ardor.
          Ash--Grandeur.
          Ash, Mountain--Prudence.
          Aspen Tree--Lamentation.
          Asphodel--Regrets beyond the grave.
          Aurilica--Avarice.
          Azalea--Romance.
          Bachelor's Button--Hope in love.
          Balm--Sympathy.
          Balm of Gilead--Healing.
          Balsam--Impatience.
          Barberry--Sharpness, satire.
          Basil--Hatred.
          Bay Leaf--No change till death.
          Beech--Prosperity.
          Bee Ophrys--Error.
          Bee Orchis--Industry.
          Bell Flower--Gratitude.
          Belvidere, Wild (Licorice)--I declare against you.
          Bilberry--Treachery.
          Birch Tree--Meekness.
          Black Bryony--Be my support.
          Bladder-Nut Tree--Frivolous amusements.
          Blue Bottle--Delicacy.
          Borage--Bluntness.
          Box--Constancy.
          Briers--Envy.
          Broken Straw--Constancy.
          Broom--Neatness.
          Buckbean--Calm repose.
          Bugloss--Falsehood.
          Burdock--Importunity.
          Buttercup--Riches.
          Cactus--Thou leavest me.
          Calla Lilly--Feminine beauty.
          Calycanthus--Benevolence.
          Camelia--Pity.
          Camomile--Energy in action.
          Candytuft--Indifference.
          Canterbury Bell--Gratitude.
          Cape Jasmine Gardenia--Transport, ecstasy.
          Cardinal Flower--Distinction.
          Carnation, Yellow--Disdain.
          Catchfly (Silene), Red--Youthful love.
          Catchfly, White--I fall a victim.
          Cedar--I live for thee.
          Cedar of Lebanon--Incorruptible.
          Celandine--Future joy.
          Cherry Tree--Good education.
          Chickweed--I cling to thee.
          Chickory--Frugality.
          China Aster--I will think of thee.
          China, Pink--Aversion.
          Clematis--Artifice.
          Clover, Red--Industry.
          Coboea--Gossip.
          Coxcomb--Foppery.
          Colchium--My best days fled.
          Convolvulus Major--Dead hope.
          Convolvulus Minor--Uncertainty.
          Corchorus--Impatience of happiness.
          Coreopsis--Love at first sight.
          Coriander--Hidden merit.
          Corn--Riches.
          Cornelian Cherry Tree--Durability.
          Coronilla--Success to you.
          Cowslip--Pensiveness.
          Cowslip, American--My divinity.
          Crocus--Cheerfulness.
          Crown Imperial--Majesty.
          Currants--You please me.
          Cypress--Mourning.
          Daisy, Michaelmas--Farewell.
          Daisy, Red--Beauty unknown to possessor.
          Daisy, White--Innocence.
          Daisy, Wild--I will think of it.
          Dandelion--Coquetry.
          Daphne Mezereon--I desire to please.
          Daphne Odora--I would not have you otherwise.
          Deadleaves--Sadness.
          Diosma--Usefulness.
          Dittany--Birth.
          Dock--Patience.
          Dodder--Meanness.
          Elm--Dignity.
          Endine--Frugality.
          Epigæa, Repens (Mayflower)--Budding beauty.
          Eupatorium--Delay.
          Evening Primrose--Inconstancy.
          Evergreen--Poverty.
          Everlasting (Graphalium)--Never ceasing memory.
          Filbert--Reconciliation.
          Fir Tree--Elevation.
          Flax--I feel your kindness.
          Flora's Bell--Without pretension.
          Flowering Reed--Confide in heaven.
          Forget-me-not--True love.
          Foxglove--Insincerity.
          Fraxinella--Fire.
          Fritilaria (Guinea-hen Flower)--Persecution.
          Furze--Anger.
          Fuchsia--The ambition of my love thus plagues itself.
          Fuchsia, Scarlet--Taste.
          Gardenia--Transport; Ecstasy.
          Gentian, Fringed--Intrinsic worth.
          Geranium, Apple--Present preference.
          Gooseberry--Anticipation.
          Goosefoot--Goodness.
          Gorse--Endearing affection.
          Grape--Charity.
          Grass--Utility.
          Guelder Rose (Snowball)--Winter.
          Harebell--Grief.
          Hawthorn--Hope.
          Heart's Ease--Think of me.
          Heart's Ease, Purple--You occupy my thoughts.
          Hazel--Reconciliation.
          Heath--Solitude.
          Helenium--Tears.
          Heliotrope, Peruvian--I love; devotion.
          Hellebore--Scandal.
          Henbane--Blemish.
          Hepatica--Confidence.
          Hibiscus--Delicate Beauty.
          Honesty (Lunaria)--Sincerity.
          Honeysuckle--The bond of love.
          Honeysuckle, Coral--The color of my fate.
          Honeysuckle, Monthly--I will not answer hastily.
          Hop--Injustice.
          Hornbeam--Ornament.
          Horse-Chestnut--Luxury.
          House-Leek--Domestic Economy.
          Houstonia--Content.
          Hoya (Wax Plant)--Sculpture.
          Indian Cress--Resignation.
          Ipomaca--I attach myself to you.
          Iris--Message.
          Iris, German--Flame.
          Ivy--Friendship; matrimony.
          Jessamine, Cape--Transient joy.
          Judas-Tree--Betrayed.
          Juniper--Perfect Loveliness.
          Kalmia (Mountain Laurel)--Treachery.
          Lagerstroema (Cape Myrtle)--Eloquence.
          Lantana--Rigor.
          Larch--Boldness.
          Larkspur--Fickleness.
          Laurel--Glory.
          Laurestinus--I die if neglected.
          Lavender--Distrust.
          Lemon Blossom--Discretion.
          Lettuce--Cold-hearted.
          Lilac--First emotion of love.
          Lilac, White--Youth.
          Linden Tree--Conjugal love.
          Live Oak--Liberty.
          Liverwort--Confidence.
          Locust--Affection beyond the grave.
          London Pride--Frivolity.
          Lotus--Forgetful of the past.
          Lucerne--Life.
          Lungwort (Pulmonaria)--Thou art my life.
          Lupine--Imagination.
          Lychnis--Religious Enthusiasm.
          Lythrum--Pretension.
          Madder--Calumny.
          Maiden's Hair--Discretion.
          Magnolia, Chinese--Love of Nature.
          Magnolia, Grandiflora--Peerless and Proud.
          Magnolia, Swamp--Perseverance.
          Mallow--Sweetness.
          Mandrake--Horror.
          Maple--Reserve.
          Marigold--Cruelty.
          Marigold, African--Vulgar-minded.
          Marigold, French--Jealousy.
          Marjoram--Blushes.
          Marshmallow--Beneficence.
          Marvel of Peru (Four o'clock)--Timidity.
          Meadow Saffron--My best days gone.
          Meadow Sweet--Usefulness.
          Mignonette--Your qualities surpass your charms.
          Monkshood--A deadly foe is near.
          Moonwort--Forgetfulness.
          Morning Glory--Coquetry.
          Mouse-ear Chickweed--Simplicity.
          Mulberry, Black--I will not survive you.
          Mulberry, White--Wisdom.
          Mullein--Good nature.
          Mushroom--Suspicion.
          Mush Plant--Weakness.
          Mustard Seed--Indifference.
          Myosotis--Forget me not.
          Myrtle--Love.
          Orange--Generosity.
          Pasque Flower--Unpretentious.
          Passion Flower--Religious Fervor.
          Pea--Appointed meeting.
          Pea, Everlasting--Wilt go with me?
          Pea, Sweet--Departure.
          Peach Blossom--My heart is thine.
          Pear Tree--Affection.
          Peony--Anger.
          Pennyroyal--Flee away.
          Periwinkle--Sweet memories.
          Persimmon--Bury me amid nature's beauties.
          Petunica--Am not proud.
          Pheasant's Eye--Sorrowful memories.
          Phlox--Our souls united.
          Pimpernel--Change.
          Pine--Time.
          Pine Apple--You are perfect.
          Pine, Spruce--Farewell.
          Pink--Pure affection.
          Pink, Clove--Dignity.
          Pink, Variegated--Refusal.
          Pink, White--You are fair.
          Pink, Yellow--Disdain.
          Plane Tree--Genius.
          Pleurisy Root (Asclopias)--Heartache cure.
          Plum Tree--Keep promise.
          Plum Tree, Wild--Independence.
          Polyanthus--Confidence.
          Poplar, Black--Courage.
          Poplar, White--Time.
          Poppy--Consolation.
          Poppy, White--Sleep of the heart.
          Pomegranate--Foolishness.
          Pomegranate Flower--Elegance.
          Potato--Beneficence.
          Pride of China (Melia)--Dissension.
          Primrose--Early youth.
          Primrose, Evening--Inconstancy.
          Privet--Mildness.
          Pumpkin--Coarseness.
          Quince--Temptation.
          Ragged-robin (Lychnis)--Wit.
          Ranunculus--Radiant with charms.
          Reeds--Music.
          Rhododendron--Agitation.
          Rose--Beauty.
          Rose, Daily--That smile I would aspire to.
          Rose, Damask--Freshness.
          Rose, Dog--Pleasure and pain.
          Rose, Hundred Leaf--Pride.
          Rose, Inermis--Ingratitude.
          Rosebud, Moss--Confessed love.
          Rose, Multiflora--Grace.
          Rose, Musk-cluster--Charming.
          Rose, Sweetbriar--Sympathy.
          Rose, Tea--Always lovely.
          Rose, Wild--Simplicity.
          Rose, Yellow--Decrease of love.
          Rose, York and Lancaster--War.
          Roses, Garland of--Reward of Virtue.
          Rosebud--Young girl.
          Rosebud, White--The heart that knows not love.
          Rosemary--Your presence revives me.
          Rue--Disdain.
          Rush--Docility.
          Saffron--Excess is dangerous.
          Sage--Esteem.
          Sardonia--Irony.
          Satin-flower (Lunaria)--Sincerity.
          Scabious, Mourning Bride--Widowhood.
          Sensitive Plant--Timidity.
          Service Tree--Prudence.
          Southernwood--Jesting.
          Spearmint--Warm feelings.
          Speedwell, Veronica--Female fidelity.
          Spindle-tree--Your image is engraven on my heart.
          Star of Bethlehem--Reconciliation.
          Starwort, American--Welcome to a stranger.
          St. John's Wort (Hypericum)--Superstition.
          Stock, Ten-week--Promptitude.
          Stramonium, Common--Disguise.
          Strawberry--Perfect excellence.
          Strawberry Tree (Arbutus)--Esteemed love.
          Sumac--Splendor.
          Sunflower, Dwarf--Your devout admirer.
          Sunflower, Fall--Pride.
          Sweet Sultan--Felicity.
          Sweet William--Artifice.
          Sycamore--Curiosity.
          Syringia--Memory.
          Tansy--I declare against you.
          Teasel--Misanthropy.
          Thistle--Austerity.
          Thorn Apple--Deceitful charms.
          Thorn, Black--Difficulty.
          Thorns--Severity.
          Thrift--Sympathy.
          Touch me not, Balsam--Impatience.
          Truffle--Surprise.
          Valerian--Accommodating disposition.
          Vine--Intoxicating.
          Violet, Blue--Love.
          Violet, White--Modesty.
          Violet, Yellow--Modest worth.
          Virgin's Bower--Filial love.
          Wall Flower--Fidelity.
          Walnut--Stratagem.
          Weeping Willow--Forsaken.
          Wheat--Prosperity.
          Woodbine--Fraternal love.
          Wood Sorrel--Joy.
          Wormwood--Absence.
          Yarrow--Cure for heartache.
          Yew--Sorrow.
          Zennæ--Absent friends.

CHAPTER XXXVI.

Precious Stones.

Some of the precious stones and gems have been given a distinct significance by imparting a
special meaning or name to them. The ancients besides considered certain months sacred to the
different stones, and some people have considered this in making birthday or wedding presents.
Below will be found the stones regarded as sacred to the various months, with the meaning given
to each.

          January--Garnet--Constancy and Fidelity.
          February--Amethyst--Sincerity.
          March--Bloodstone--Courage.
          April--Sapphire--Repentance.
          May--Emerald--Success in love.
          June--Agate--Health and long life.
          October--Opal--Hope and Faith.
          November--Topaz--Fidelity and Friendship.
          December--Turquoise--Prosperity.

Of the precious stones not included in the above list, the language is given below:

          Diamond--Innocence.
          Pearl--Purity.
          Cornelian--Contented mind.
          Moonstone--Protects from danger.
          Heliotrope--Causing the owner to walk invisible.

       *       *       *       *       *

   Punctuation normalized except where hyphenation could not be determined.

   Page 10, "LTETER" changed to "LETTER".

   Page 38, "circumstrances" changed to "circumstances". (but
   circumstances may)

   Page 52, "M." changed to "P.M." (12 P.M.)

   Page 88, "abominally" changed to "abominably". (abominably stupid)

   Page 132, "alloted" changed to "allotted". (conventional time allotted)

   Page 142, "remaned" changed to "remained". (obliged to remain)

   Page 167, "defferential" changed to "deferential". (show a deferential)

   Page 251, "acquantance" changed to "acquaintance". (upon an
   acquaintance)

   Page 261, "trivialties" changed to "trivialities". (trivialities than
   the family)

   Page 267, "wish" changed to "wishes". (wishes, but should)

   Page 286, "anniversay" changed to "anniversary". (The first anniversary)

   Page 287, "anniversay" chanted to "anniversary". (the fifth anniversary)

   Page 293, "somtimes" changed to "sometimes". (two, and sometimes)

   Page 315, "charater" changed to "character". (man's real character)

   Page 325, "comonly" changed to "commonly". (dress is what is commonly)

   Page 335, "boquet" changed to "bouquet". (wreath and bouquet.)

   Page 368, "paring" changed to "paring". (paring the toe-nails)

   Page 374, "halt" changed to "half". (half an ounce)

   Page 376, "ounce" changed to "ounces". (mix two ounces)

   Page 379, "on" changed to "an". (moss one-fourth of an ounce)

   Page 412, "alloted" changed to "allotted". (the allotted number)

   Page 413, "Frugalit ." changed to "Frugality." (Chickory--Frugality.)

   Page 417, "Valey" changed to "Valley". (Lily of the Valley)