PUNCH,

OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL. 100.

February 7, 1891.

THE "MODEL HUSBAND" CONTEST.

SCENE THE FIRST--AT THE GALAHAD-GREENS'.

Mrs. G.-G. GALAHAD!

Mr. G.-G. (meekly). My love?

Mrs. G.-G. I see that the proprietors of All Sorts are going to follow the American example,
and offer a prize of £20 to the wife who makes out the best case for her husband as a Model.
It's just as well, perhaps, that you should know that I've made up my mind to enter you!

Mr. G.-G. (gratified). My dear CORNELIA! really, I'd no idea you had such a--

Mrs. G.-G. Nonsense! The drawing-room carpet is a perfect disgrace, and, as you can't, or won't,
provide the money in any other way, why--Would you like to hear what I've said about you?

Mr. G.-G. Well, if you're sure it wouldn't he troubling you too much, I should, my dear.

Mrs. G.-G. Then sit where I can see you, and listen. (She reads.) "Irreproachable in all that
pertains to morality"--(and it would be a bad day indeed for you, GALAHAD, if I ever had cause
to think otherwise.')--"morality; scrupulously dainty and neat in his person"--(ah, you may
well blush, GALAHAD, but, fortunately, they won't want me to produce you!)--"he imports into
our happy home the delicate refinement of a preux chevalier of the olden time." (Will you kindly
take your dirty boots off the steel fender!) "We rule our little kingdom with a joint and equal
sway, to which jealousy and friction are alike unknown; he, considerate and indulgent to my
womanly weakness,"--(You need not stare at me in that perfectly idiotic fashion!)--"I, looking
to him for the wise and tender support which has never yet been denied. The close and daily
scrutiny of many years has discovered"--(What are you shaking like that for?)--"discovered
no single weakness; no taint or flaw of character; no irritating trick of speech or habit."
(How often have I told you that I will not have the handle of that paper-knife sucked? Put
it down; do!) "His conversation--sparkling but ever spiritual--renders our modest meals veritable
feasts of fancy and flows of soul ... Well, GALAHAD?

Mr. G.-G. Nothing, my dear; nothing. It struck me as well,--a trifle flowery, that last passage,
that's all!

Mrs. G.-G. (severely). If I cannot expect to win the prize without descending to floweriness,
whose fault is that, I should like to know? If you can't make sensible observations, you had
better not speak at all. (Continuing,) "Over and over again, gathering me in his strong loving
arms, and pressing fervent kisses upon my forehead, he has cried, 'Why am I not a Monarch that
so I could place a diadem upon that brow? With such a Consort, am I not doubly crowned?'" Have
you anything to say to that, GALAHAD?

Mr. G.-G. Only, my love, that I--I don't seem to remember having made that particular remark.

Mrs. G.-G. Then make it now. I'm sure I wish to be as accurate as I can. [Mr. G.-G. makes the
remark--but without fervour.

SCENE THE SECOND--AT THE MONARCH-JONES'.

Mr. M.-J. Twenty quid would come in precious handy just now, after all I've dropped lately,
and I mean to pouch that prize if I can--so just you sit down, GRIZZLE, and write out what
I tell you; do you hear?

Mrs. M.-J. (timidly). But, MONARCH, dear, would that be quite fair? No, don't be angry, I didn't
mean that--I'll write whatever you please!

Mr. M.-J. You'd better, that's all! Are you ready? I must screw myself up another peg before
I begin. (He screws.) Now, then. (Stands over her and dictates.) "To the polished urbanity
of a perfect gentleman, he unites the kindly charity of a true Christian." (Why the devil don't
you learn to write decently, eh?) "Liberal, and even lavish, in all his dealings, he is yet
a stern foe to every kind of excess"--(Hold on a bit, I must have another nip after that)--"every
kind of excess. Our married life is one long dream of blissful contentment, in which each contends
with the other in loving self-sacrifice." (Haven't you corked all that down yet!) "Such cares
and anxieties as he has, he conceals from me with scrupulous consideration as long as possible"--(Gad,
I should be a fool if I didn't!)--"while I am ever sure of finding in him a patient and sympathetic
listener to all my trifling worries and difficulties."--(Two f's in difficulties, you little
fool--can't you even spell?) "Many a time, falling on his knees at my feet, he has rapturously
exclaimed, his accents broken by manly emotion, 'Oh, that I were more worthy of such a pearl
among women! With such a helpmate, I am indeed to be envied!'" That ought to do the trick.
If I don't romp in after that!--(Observing that Mrs. M.-J.'s shoulders are convulsed.) What
the dooce are you giggling at now?

Mrs. M.-J. I--I wasn't giggling, MONARCH dear, only--

Mr. M.-J. Only what? Mrs. M.-J. Only crying!

THE SEQUEL.

"The Judges appointed by the spirited proprietors of All Sorts to decide the 'Model Husband
Contest'--which was established on lines similar to one recently inaugurated by one of our
New York contemporaries--have now issued their award. Two competitors have sent in certificates
which have been found equally deserving of the prize; viz., Mrs. CORNELIA GALAHAD-GREEN, Graemair
Villa, Peckham, and Mrs. GRISELDA MONARCH-JONES, Aspen Lodge, Lordship Lane. The sum of Twenty
Pounds will consequently be divided between these two ladies, to whom, with their respective
spouses, we beg to tender our cordial felicitations."--(Extract from Daily Paper, some six
months hence.)

       *       *       *       *       *

CRUMMLES REDIVIVUS!

For some months Society has been on the tip-toe of expectation with regard to the new Tragedy
by Mr. SHAKSPEARE SMITHSON, which is to inaugurate the magnificent Theatre, built at a sumptuous
and total disregard of expense by Mr. DILEY PUFF, a lineal descendant of the great PUFF family,
by intermarriage with the more recent CRUMMLES's, expressly for the performance of the genuine
English Drama. A veil of secrecy has, however, been drawn over all the arrangements connected
with the new production. One after another the Author, the Manager, and the leading Actors
were appealed to in vain. Finally, one of Our Representatives taking his courage in both hands,
brought it and himself safely to the stage-door of the new theatre, and knocked. After some
hesitation he was admitted by an intelligent boy, who, however, at first seemed indisposed
to be drawn into conversation, though he admitted he had been engaged for the responsible post
of call-boy at an inadequate salary. Our Representative managed to interest the lad in the
inspection of a numismatic representation of Her Most Gracious Majesty, which he happened to
have brought with him on the back of half-a-crown, and with which Our Representative toyed,
holding it between the thumb and dexter finger of the right hand. We give the result in Our
Representative's own words:--

"Come this way," said the boy, on whom the sight of the coin seemed to operate like some weird
talisman, leading me to a remote part of the stage, the floor of which had been tastefully
littered with orange-peel in a variety of patterns; "we shall be comfortabler."

"Now tell me," I said, "about this new piece."

"It's what they call a Tragedy," said the boy.

"Ah!" I replied, "that is interesting; but I want to know about the Author. What do you think
of him?"

"The horther? Oh my!" said the precocious lad, producing an apple from his trousers' pocket,
but his right eye still fixed on the talisman, "'e don't count. Why we none of us pays no attention
to 'im. Crikey, you should 'a seen 'im come a cropper on his nut down them new steps. But,
look 'ere, Sir," he continued, more solemnly, "I'm a tellin' yer secrets, I am; and if DILEY
were to 'ear of it, I'd get a proper jacketin'. Swear you won't peach."

I gave the requisite pledge. "And that ere arf-crown?" he said. I nodded assent to what was
evidently in his mind. Then he resumed. "It's a beautiful piece. The play, I mean," he explained;
being fearful lest I should consider him as over-eager for the coveted and covenanted reward.
"I'm sure o' that. The horther says so, and DILEY says so, and Miss O'GRADY says so; she's
got the 'eroine to play,--and oh, don't she die in the lawst Act just proper, with pink light
and a couple o' angels to carry 'er up! Then there's Mr. KEANE 'ARRIS, 'e touches 'em all up
with 'is sword, 'places his back to the wall, and defies the mob,' is what the book says. So
you may take it from me, it's fust-rate."

I thanked my intelligent little friend for his information, and was proceeding to put a further
question about the music for this new Drama, which, as everyone will soon know, is to be a
real chef d'oeuvre of Sir HAUTHOR SUNNIVUN, when a step was heard approaching across the stage--the
deepest, by the way, in London--to where we were talking.

"That's 'im," said the boy, trembling. "'E's a noble-'earted master, so kind and generous,
but 'e 'ates deception, and it would be more than my place is worth to let 'im catch me talking
these 'ere dead secrets to you. Give us the coin. I'm orf!"

And, before I was able to carry out my portion of the contract, he was gone. And in another
moment--so was I.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE UP-TO-DATE CONVERSATIONIST.

He (at the end of a turn). I see there's been a row in Chili--what do you think about it?

She. I don't know the place--isn't it somewhere in America?

He. I shouldn't be surprised if it were, but my geography's shaky. I rather fancy it's somehow
connected with pickles.

She. Oh, then it's a mistake their quarrelling, as I suppose it will be hard upon the poor,
especially during the winter?

He. Fancy that's the idea. Been to the Guelph Exhibition?

She. Yes, and I think it's a pity they took the jewels out of GEORGE THE FOURTH's Crown. I
should like to have seen the Koh-i-Noor.

He. But they wanted them for the one at the Tower, don't you know, and as for the Koh-i-Noor,
was that invented in his time?

She. Perhaps it wasn't. Stay, wasn't it discovered by Captain COOK, or DRAKE, or somebody?

He. I daresay. I have never looked the matter up. À propos, One-pound Bank-notes are to be issued.

She. Are they? I suppose they will be useful for change?

He. Shouldn't be astonished, but don't pretend to know anything about it. By the way, do you
take much interest in the subjects we have been discussing?

She. Not the faintest.

He. No more do I! [Waltz continued.

       *       *       *       *       *

DEARNESS AND DEARTH.

"Spanish onions are rising in price, though probably only temporarily."--Daily News.

I.

    Will it be long, then--long?
      For the people watch and wait,
    Till the strength of the onion makes them strong,
      At only the normal rate.
    And their eyes are dim with tears,
      And ache with the need of sleep.
    And watch till the lapse of the lapsing years
      Shall make the onions cheap.
  Cheap, my love, cheap! Sleep, my love, sleep!
  Onions are dear, love, but sentiment's cheap!

  II.

    Listen! Is it a voice
      Calling--again--again,
    Or a fragrance to make my heart rejoice
      From the sunlit land of Spain?
    Listen, my own, my bride,
      While the glad tears dew your cheek,
    They are fried, my bride, by the sad sea tide
      With a smell that can almost speak
  Creep, my love, creep into the deep,
  And sing to the fishes that onions are cheap.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PROPOSED ONE-POUND NOTES.--"Ne-Goschenable currency."

       *       *       *       *       *

AN ELEGY ON A MAD DOG.

(AFTER GOLDSMITH, MORE OR LESS.)

  Good patriots all of every sort,
    Give ear unto my song,
  For if in substance it is short,
    In moral it is strong.

  At Hawarden lived a Grand Old Man,
    Of whom the world might say,
  A wondrous lengthy race he ran,
    And won it all the way.

  Some swore he'd veer to catch a vote;
    Old age to flout one loathes,
  But, if he never turned his coat,
    He often changed his clothes.

  To see so strange and sad a sight
    Quidnuncs and gobemouches ran,
  And swore the dog was rabid quite
    To bite that Grand Old Man.

  The wound indeed seemed sore and sad
    To every party eye,
  And while they swore the dog was mad,
    They swore the man must die.

  But marvels sometimes come to light
    Rash prophets to belie.
  The man seems healing of the bite,
    The dog looks like to die!

       *       *       *       *       *

Remarkable Conversion.

"CANON TEIGNMOUTH SHORE proposes to convert the two Convocations." ... that is startling without
the context--"into one National Synod." But two into one won't go. How will he manage it? Will
those in the York ship join the Canterbury, or vice versâ? Or, quitting both ships, will they
land on common ground? "Who's for SHORE?"

       *       *       *       *       *

PAR ABOUT PICTURES.--"Over the Garden Wall," seems to be the song that Mr. G.S. ELGOOD sings
at the Fine Art Society's Gallery. In the course of his travels he has been over a good many
garden walls. At Wroxton, Compton Wynyates, Penshurst, Montacute, Berkeley, and Helmingham,
he has pursued his studies to some purpose; the result is an enjoyable collection of pictures,
which he entitles, "A Summer among the Flowers."

       *       *       *       *       *

BRUSTLES' BISHOP.

(BY A MUDDLED MORALIST.)

CHAPTER I.

BEN BRUSTLES was only a poor shoeblack-boy who cleaned boots--ay, and even shoes, for his daily
bread. Such time as he could spare from his avocation he devoted to diligent study of the doctrine
of chance, as exemplified in the practice of pitch-and-toss. Often and often, after pitching
and tossing in the cold wet streets for long weary hours, he would return home without a halfpenny.
Think of this, ye more fortunate youths, who sit at home at ease, and play Loto for nuts! But
through all his vicissitudes, BEN kept a stout heart, never losing his conviction that something--he
knew not what--would eventually turn up. Sometimes it was heads, at others tails: and in either
case the poor boy lost money by it--but he persevered notwithstanding, confident that Fortune
would favour him at last. It is this spirit of undaunted enterprise that has made our England
what it is!

And one day Fortune did favour him. He observed, as he knelt before his box, a portly and venerable
person close by, who was engrossed in studying, with apparent complacency, his own reflection
in a plate-glass shop-front. So naïve a display of personal vanity, in one whose dress and
demeanour denoted him a Bishop, not unnaturally excited BENJAMIN's interest, nor was this lessened
when the stranger, after shaking his head reproachfully at his reflected image, advanced to
the shoe-black's box as if in obedience to a sudden impulse.

"My lad," he said, with a certain calm dignity, "will you be so good as to black both my legs
for me--at once?"

This unusual request, conceived as it was on a larger scale than the orders he habitually received,
startled the youth, particularly as he noted that the symmetrical and well-turned limb which
the Bishop extended consisted, like its fellow, of a rare and costly species of mahogany, and
shone with the rich and glossy hue of a newly-fallen horse-chestnut, "I see," commented the
Bishop, with a melancholy smile, "that you have already discovered that my lower members are
the product--not of Nature, but of Art. It was not always thus with me--but in my younger days
I was an ardent climber--indeed, I am still an Honorary Member of the Hampstead Heath Alpine
Club. Many years since, whilst scaling Primrose Hill, I was compelled, by a sudden storm, to
take refuge in a half-way hut, where I passed the night, exposed to all the rigours of an English
Midsummer! When I awoke I found, to my surprise, that both my legs had been bitten by the relentless
frost short off immediately below the knee, and I had to continue the ascent next day in a
basket. On descending, I caused these substitutes to be fashioned, and on them I stumped my
way to the exalted position I now fill, nor have I ever evinced any physical inconveniences
from my misfortune, save in one particular--that it has rendered the assumption of gaiters
unhappily out of the question! But, possibly, my wish to have these legs of mine disguised
by your pigments, strikes you as bizarre, if not positively eccentric? You will better understand
my reasons after you have heard a confession which, though necessary, is, believe me, painful
to make." And the good old man, after a short internal struggle, began the following narrative,
which we reserve for a succeeding chapter.

CHAPTER II.

"Even as a Curate, a certain harmless vanity was ever my besetting weakness. I might, indeed,
have hoped that, after my accident--but see, my good lad, how pride may lurk, even in our very
infirmities! These artificial limbs have become a yet subtler snare to me than even those they
replaced. I had them constructed, as you see, of the best mahogany--to match the furniture
in my dining-room. With ever-increasing pleasure, my eyes have gloried in their grain and gloss,
in the symmetry of their curves, in the more than Chinese delicacy of their extremities, until
gradually they have trampled upon my better self, they have run away with all my possibilities
of moral usefulness! Yes, but this very moment, as I stood admiring their contour at yonder
window, the pernicious thought crossed my mind that their appearance would be yet more enhanced
if I had them gilded!"

"But, your reverent Lordship," objected BRUSTLES, as the Bishop paused, overcome by humiliation,
"it's no use coming to me for that 'ere job!" For, though but a poor boy, he was too honest
to accept any commission under false pretences. Gilding, he knew, might--and, in a London atmosphere,
soon would--become black, but no boot-polish would ever assume the appearance, even of the
blackest gilt, and so he candidly explained to the Bishop.

"I know, my boy," said the latter, patting BEN's head kindly with the handle of his umbrella,
"I know. Hence my application to your skill. That presumptuous idea revealed as in a lightning
flash the abyss on the brink of which I stood. This demon of perverse pride must be laid; humbled
for ever. So ply your brushes, and see you spare not the blacking!"

CHAPTER III.

BRUSTLES obeyed--not without awe, and in a short space of time two pots of blacking were exhausted,
and the roseate glow of the Bishop's mahogany limbs was for ever hidden under a layer of more
than Nubian ebony!

"'Selp me, your lordly reverence," he cried, dazzled by the brilliancy of the result; "but
you might be took, below, for a Lifeguardsman!"

"Hush," said the Bishop, though with a gratification he could not restrain, "would you recall
the demon I strove to exorcise! It is true that the change is less of a disfigurement than
I feared--ahem, hoped--but after all, may not the wish to please the eye of man be excusable?
You shall receive a rich reward. Do you happen to have such a thing as change for a five-pound
note about you?"

"Alas!" replied the lad, with ready presence of mind, "but I have only just paid all my gold
into my bank for the day!"

"No matter," said the Bishop, gently. "I find I have a threepenny bit, after all. It is yours!"
And the good ecclesiastic, as if to avoid thanks, moved nimbly off, though his eyes still sought
the shop-windows as he passed, with even greater complacency than before.

BEN tested the threepenny bit between his teeth--it was a spurious coin; he looked up, but
his late customer was already passed out of hearing of his sentiments. He sank down with his
head laid amongst his pots and brushes. "Bilked!" he moaned piteously, "bilked--and by a blooming
Bishop!"

CHAPTER IV.

But mark the sequel. The good Bishop had been quite ignorant that the threepenny bit was a
pewter one; quite sincere, for the time, in his determination to subdue his own weakness. Still
it was not to be: inbred pride is not so easily vanquished--even by Bishops! The Bishop learned
to glory in his blacking far more than he had ever done in the original mahogany. He had it
continually renewed, and with the most expensive compositions. He would bend enraptured over
the burnished surfaces of his extended legs, gazing, like another Narcissus, at the features
he saw so faithfully repeated.

Meanwhile the threepence, base as it was, became the humble instrument of brighter fortunes
to BRUSTLES; it showed a marvellous aptitude for turning up tails, which BEN no sooner perceived
than he availed himself of a blessing that had, indeed, come to him in disguise!

But the Bishop--what of him? Nemesis overtook him at last. The discontent long smouldering
in his diocese broke out into a climax. Thousands of Curates, inflamed by professional agitators,
went out on strike, and their first victim was the Bishop of TIMBERTOWS, who was discovered
prostrate one dark night by his horrified Chaplain. He had been picketed as a Blackleg!

THE END.

    (Copies of the above may be obtained for distribution, at
    very reasonable terms, on application to the Author.)

       *       *       *       *       *

PLAYTIME FOR A DOLL'S HOUSE.

DEAR MR. PUNCH,--According to a well-known Critic, writing of a morning performance of The
Doll's House on Tuesday, the 27th ult., at Terry's Theatre, "There is no need to discuss IBSEN's
piece any more." I will go a little further, and say, not only should the play be spared discussion,
but also performance. All that could be done for this miserable drama (if a work utterly devoid
of dramatic interest can be so entitled) was effected some years since, when Breaking a Butterfly,
a version with Messrs. HERMAN and JONES as adapters, was played at the Prince's (now Prince
of Wales's) Theatre. I believe some one or other has said that that version was misleading,
because it modified IBSEN, and did not reveal him in his true colours. This I can readily believe,
as my recollection of Breaking a Butterfly merely suggests boredom; whereas, when I consider
The Doll's House of Tuesday, I distinctly mingle with boredom a recollection of something that
caused a feeling of absolute loathing. That something, I imagine, must be the new matter which
was absent from the first version, and crops up in the text of the second, which, according
to the Play-bill, appears "in Vol. I. of the authorised edition of IBSEN's Prose Dramas, edited
by WILLIAM ARCHER, and published by Mr. WALTER SCOTT." By the way, I must confess that, although
the name of the Editor is not familiar to me as a dramatic author, his superintendence of the
authorised text seems to have been performed sufficiently creditably to have rendered him as
worthy of an honourable prefix as the publisher. Why omit the "Mr."? Now I come to think of
it, there is an Englishman, not unconnected with dramatic literature, who is known nowadays
as WILLIAM, without the prefix of Mister, but in his own time he was known as Master WILLIAM
SHAKSPEARE, and Master he remains. "But this," as Mr. RUDYARD KIPLING might observe, "is quite
another WILLIAM."

I have not the original for reference handy, but the version played at Terry's Theatre bears
internal evidence of a close translation. An adapter, I fancy, with a free hand would scarcely
have made one of the characters use the same exit speech on two occasions. Nils Krogstad does
this. He can think of nothing better than, "If I am flung into the gutter, you shall accompany
me," repeated twice with the slight variation, "If I am flung into the gutter for the second
time, you shall accompany me," used for the last exit. Again, Torvald Helmer has a long monologue
in the final Act that a practised playwright would have "broken up" with the assistance of
a portrait, or a letter, or something. From this it would appear that the Editor, WILLIAM ARCHER
(without the "Mr.") has very faithfully produced the exact translation of the original. To
be hypercritical, I might suggest that perhaps occasionally the version is rather too literal.
For instance, Torvald Helmer, although he is cursed with one of the most offensive wives known
to creation, would scarcely call her "a little lark," which conveys the impression that he
is a "gay dog," and one given to the traditional ways of that species of ultra-sociable animals.
I have confessed I have not the original before me, so I cannot say whether the title used
by IBSEN is "Smalle Larke," but I fancy that a "capering capercailzie," if not actually his
words, would be nearer his meaning. A capercailzie is, according to the dictionaries, a bird
of "a delicious flavour" and partially "green;" it is also found in Norway "very fine and large,"
as IBSEN might say. Surely Torvald would have thus described his semi-verdant Nora, finding
her distinctly to his taste.

Returning to what I venture to imagine must be "new matter" not in the Herman-plus-Jonesian
version, I consider the scene in which Nora chaffs Dr. Rank about his illness absolutely nauseous,
and the drink-inspired admiration of husband for wife in the concluding Act repulsive to the
last degree. On Tuesday the spectators received the piece with patient apathy; and, this being
the case, I could not help feeling that anyone who could single out such a play as suitable
for performance before an English audience, could scarcely possess the acumen generally considered
a necessary adjunct to the qualifications of an efficient Dramatic Critic. The hero, the heroine,
the doctor, as prigs, could only appeal to prigs, and thank goodness the average London theatre-goer
is the reverse of a prig. There was but one redeeming point in the play--its conclusion. It
ends happily in Nora, forger, liar, and--hem--wedded flirt, being separated from her innocent
children.

For the rest, the piece was fairly well acted. But when the Curtain had fallen for the last
time, and the audience were departing more in sadness than in anger, I could not help asking
myself the question, Had the advantages obtained in witnessing the performance balanced the
expense incurred in securing a seat? I am forced to reply in the negative, as I sign myself
regretfully,

ONE WHO PAID FOR A PLACE IN THE PIT.

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

I see three ladies in a drawing-room, each with a green volume. "What is it?" No, they won't
hear. Each one is intent on her volume, and an irritable answer, in a don't bother kind of
manner, is all that I can obtain. The novel is Miss BRADDON's latest, One Life, One Love (but
three volumes, for all that), in which they are absorbed. Later on, at intervals, I get the
volumes, and, raven-like, secrete them. I can quite understand the absorption of my young friends.
Marvellous, Miss BRADDON! Very few have approached you in sensation-writing, and none in keeping
up sensationalism as fresh as ever it was when first I sat up at night nervously to read Aurora
Floyd, and Lady Audley's Secret. In this bad time of year (I am writing when the snow is without,
and the North-East wind is engaged in cutting leaves), the Baron recommends remaining indoors
with this Three-volume Novel as a between lunch and dinner companion, only don't take it up
to your bed-room, and sit over the fire with it, or--but there, I won't mention the consequences.
Keep it till daylight doth appear. The Baron being a busy man--no, Sir, not a busy-body,--is
grateful to the authors of good short stories in Magazines. Many others agree with the Baron,
who wishes to recommend "Saint or Satan" in The Argosy; The story of an "Old Beau," which might
have been advantageously abbreviated in Scribner; an odd tale entitled, "The Phantom Portrait,"
in the Cornhill; which leaves the reader in doubt as to whether he has been egregiously "sold"
or not; and, above all, the short and interesting--too short and most interesting--paper on
THACKERAY, in Harper's Monthly, with fac-similes of some of the great humorist's most eccentric
and most spirited illustrations, conceived in the broadly burlesquing spirit that was characteristic
of GILRAY and ROWLANDSON. THACKERAY, philosopher and satirist, who can take us behind the scenes
of every show in Vanity fair, who can depict the career of the scoundrel Barry Lyndon, of the
heathen Becky Sharp, and the death-bed of the Christian soldier and gentleman, dignissimus,
Colonel Newcome, could on occasion, and when a rollicking spirit moved him, put on a pantomime
mask (have we not his own pathetic vignette representing him doing this?) to amuse the children,
or give us some rare burlesque writing and drawing to set us all on the broad grin. The Baron
trusts that Mrs. RITCHIE will give us more of this, and sincerely hopes that there may be a
"lot more" caricatures in that portfolio "where these came from." I heartily thank you for
so much, and respectfully ask for more, says yours, very gratefully,

THE BARON DE BOOK-WORMS.

       *       *       *       *       *

IN MEMORIAM.

  Strong man and strenuous fighter, stricken down
  Just when foes owned thee neither knave nor clown!
  The fiercest of them, time-taught, need not fear
  To drop a blossom now on BRADLAUGH's bier.

       *       *       *       *       *

ARTHUR AND COMPOSER.--Saturday, January 31.--First night of SULLIVAN's Ivanhoe in D'OYLEY CARTE's
new Theatre. Full inside, all right. Sir ARTHUR's success. We congratulate him Arthurly, CARTE
called before horse,--should say before Curtain, but t'other came so naturally,--looked pale,--quite
carte blanche; but, like SULLIVAN's music, composed. Could get a CARTE, but no cab. Gallant
gentlemen and delicate ladies braving rain and slosh. More in our next, but for the present
... (Paroxysm of sneezing).

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

WHAT DO YOU THINK?

    (A Song of the Session, as sung by that Eminent and Evergreen
    Lion Comique, "JOLLY GLAD" at the St. Stephen's Hall of
    Varieties, Westminster.)

JOLLY GLAD, sings:--

