Harris's evidence was first received. He found it difficult to give his story connectedly,
but item by item he told of his acquaintance with Riles in the eastern province; of their decision
to come west and take up more land; of the chance by which they had fallen with Gardiner, and
the prospect he had laid before them of more profitable returns from another form of investment;
of how his hesitation had finally been overcome by the assurance that all he need do was have
his money ready--he was to be under no obligation to go any further in the transaction unless
entirely satisfied; of the offer wired by the New York capitalists; of the sale of his farm
for a disappointing sum, and their journey with the money to the old shanty up the valley,
where they were to be met by Riles and Gardiner, and also, as they expected, by the owner of
the mine, with whom they would open direct negotiations, producing the money as proof of their
desire and ability to carry out their undertaking; of how they hoped the owner would be induced
to accept a deposit and accompany them back to town, where an option would be secured from
him for a period sufficient to enable them to turn the property over to the New York investors
at a handsome profit; of how he--Harris--wearied by the long ride in the bright, thin air,
had gone to sleep confidently with Allan at his side, and of how he had suddenly been awakened
by a shot and had heard Allan spring to his feet and rush across the floor of the old building.
Then there had been another shot--a revolver shot this time--and everything was darkness, and
he could hear only something struggling at the door. Then he told of his own fight; of how
they had fallen and rolled about on the rotten floor, and how, in desperation, he had not hesitated
to use his teeth on the hand of his assailant, who had finally broken away and disappeared
in the darkness. Then he told the rest of his story; of his vigil with Allan, of the loss of
the money, of the capture of Travers, and finally of the arrival of the policeman on the scene.

"Didn't it seem to you a foolish thing to go into the hills with all that money to meet a man
you had never seen, and buy a property you had never examined?" asked the coroner.

"It wasn't foolishness; it was stark, raving madness, as I see it now," Harris admitted. "But
I didn't see it that way then. It looked like a lot of easy money. I didn't care what the coal
mine was like--I didn't care whether there was a coal mine at all or not, so long as we made
our turn-over to the New York people."

"But did it not occur to you that the whole thing--coal mine and mine owner and New Yorkers
and all--was simply a scheme hatched up to induce you away into the fastnesses of the foothills
with a lot of money in your possession?"

A half-bewildered look came over Harris, as of a man gripped by a new and paralyzing thought.
But he shook his head. "No, it couldn't have been that," he said. "You see, Riles was an old
neighbour of mine, and Mr. Gardiner, too, I knew for a good many years. It wasn't like as if
I had been dealing with strangers."

"We will go deeper into that matter after a little," said the coroner. "It's very fortunate
Mr. Gardiner is here to add what light he can to the mystery. We will now adjourn to the room
where the younger Mr. Harris lies and hear his evidence. It would be unwise to move him for
some days yet."

They found Allan partly propped up in the white bed. His face was pale, and his hands were
astonishingly thin and white, but his mind was clear, and he could talk without difficulty.
He covered much the same ground as his father had done, up to the point where the elder Harris
had fallen asleep in the old building.

