He wondered whether, although she was the typist, there was not something rare about her. He
could not compare her in this moment with his sisters May and Gracie, who were always getting
up French plays for bazaars, or Chrissie, who played the violin, for the earth held nothing
to vex the sturdiness of these young women except the profligacy with which it offered its
people attractions competitive with bazaars and violin solos. But he thought it unlikely that
any occasion would have evoked from them this serene despair, which was no more irritable than
that which is known by the nightingale. It was impossible that they could shed such tears as
smudged her bright colours now, such exquisite distillations of innocent grief at the wasting
of the youth of which she was so innocently proud, and generous rage at the decrying of a name
that was neither relative nor friend nor employer but merely a maker of beauty. Without doubt
she lived in a lonely world, where tears were shed for other things than the gift of gold,
and where one could perform these simplicities before a witness without fear of contempt, because
human intercourse went only to the tune of charity and pity. Suddenly he wanted to enter into
this world; not indeed with the intention of naturalising himself as its inhabitant nor with
the intention of staying there for ever, but as a navvy might stop on his way to work and refresh
his horny sweating body by a swim in a sunny pool. He felt a thirst, a thing that stopped the
breath for her pity. And although his desire was but for participation in kindness, his instinct
for conformity was so suspicious of her vividness that he felt furtive and red-eared while
he searched in the purse of his experiences to find the coin that would admit him to her world.
The search at first was vain, for most of them that he cared to remember were mere manifestations
of the kind of qualities that are mentioned in testimonials. But presently he gripped the disappointment
that would buy him her pity.

He said, "I'm right sorry for you, Miss Melville. But you know ... We all have our troubles."

She raised her eyebrows.

"I wanted to go into the Navy."

"You did? Would your father not let you?" She said it in her red-headed "My-word-if-I'd-been-there"
way.

"Aye, he would have liked it fine."

"What was it then?" She leaned forward and almost crooned at him. "What was it then?"

His speech became more clipped. "My eyes."

"Your eyes!" she breathed. He suddenly became a person to her. "I never thought."

"I'm as short-sighted as a bat."

"They look all right." She frowned at them as though they were traitors.

He basked in her pity. "They're not. I never could play football at the University."

She rose and stood beside him at the table, so that he would feel how sorry she was, and set
one finger to her lips and murmured, "Well, well!" and at the end of a warm, drowsy moment,
after which they seemed to know each other much better, she said softly and irrelevantly, "I
saw you capped."

"Did you so? How did you notice me? It was one of the big graduations."

"I went with my mother to see my cousin Jeanie capped M.A., and we saw your name on the list.
Philip Mactavish James. And mother said, 'Yon'll be the son of Mactavish James. Many's the
time I've danced with him when I was Ellen Forbes.' Funny to think of them dancing!"

"Oh, father was a great man for the ladies." They both laughed. He vacillated from the emotional
business of the moment. "Do you dance?" he asked.

"I did at school--"

"Don't you go to dances?"

She shook her head. It was a shame, thought Mr. Philip.

