(567) the once celebrated place of amusement was so called from its site being that of a villa
of' Viscount Ranelagh, near Chelsea. The last entertainment given in it was the installation
ball of the Knights of the Bath, in 1802.  It has since been razed to the ground.-E.

(568) In the Olimpiade.

(569) A satirical medal: on one side was the head of Francis, Duke of Lorrain (afterwards emperor)
with this motto, aut Caesar aut nihil: on the reverse, that of the Emperor Charles Vii. Elector
of Bavaria, who had been driven out of his dominions, et Caesar et nihil.

(570) Sir H. Mann had mentioned, in one of his letters, the
appearance of several cracks in the walls of his house at
Florence.  Mrs. Goldsworthy, the wife of the English consul,
               had taken refuge in it when driven from Leghorn by
an earthquake.-D.

(571) Mrs. ('Goldsworthy.

(572) George Granville, Lord Lansdown, Pope's "Granville the
polite," one of Queen
                     Anne's twelve peers, and one of the minor
poets of that time. He died in 1734, without
                     male issue, and his honours
extinguished.-D.

(573) Princess Craon.

(574) The Chevalier de Sade.

249 Letter 64 To Sir Horace Mann. London, April 29, 1742.

By yours of April 17, N. S. and some of your last letters, I find my Lady Walpole is more mad
than ever-why, there never was so wild a scheme as this, of setting up an interest through
Lord Chesterfield!  one who has no power; and, if he had, would think of, or serve her, one
of the last persons upon earth. What connexion has he with what interest could he have in obliging
her? and, but from views, what has he ever done, or will he ever do? But is Richcourt (575)
so shallow, and so ambitious, as to put any trust in there projects?  My dear child, believe
me, if I was to mention them here, they would sound so chimerical, so womanish, that I should
be laughed at for repeating them.  For yourself, be quite at rest, and laugh, as I do, at feeble,
visionary malice, and assure yourself, whoever mentions such politics to you, that my Lady
Walpole must have very frippery intelligence from hence, if she can raise no better views and
on no better foundations.  For the poem you mention, I never read it: upon inquiry, I find
there was such a thing though now quite obsolete: undoubtedly not Pope's, and only proves what
I said before, how low, how paltry, how uninformed her ladyship's correspondents must be.

We are now all military! all preparations for Flanders! no parties but reviews; no officers,
but "hope" they are to go abroad-at least, it is the fashion to say so.  I am studying lists
of regiments and Dames of colonels-not that "I hope I am to go abroad," but to talk of those
who do.  Three thousand men embarked yesterday and the day before, and the thirteen thousand
others sail as soon as the transports can return.  Messieurs d'Allemagne (576) roll their red
eyes, stroke up their great beards, and look fierce-you know one loves a review and a tattoo.

We had a debate yesterday in the House on a proposal for replacing four thousand men of some
that are to be sent abroad, that, in short, we might have fifteen thousand men to guard the
kingdom.  This was strongly opposed by the Tories, but we carried it in the committee, 214
against 123, and to-day, in the House, 280 against 169.  Sir John Barnard, Pultney, the new
ministry, all the Prince's people, except the Cobham cousins,(577) the Lord Mayor, several
of the Opposition, voted with us; so you must interpret Tories in the strongest sense of the word.

The Secret Committee has desired leave to-day to examine three members, Burrel, Bristow, and
Hanbury Williams: (578) the two first are directors of the bank; and it is upon an agreement
made with them, and at which Williams was present, about remitting some money to Jamaica, and
in which they pretend Sir Robert made a bad bargain, to oblige them as members of Parliament.
they all three stood up, and voluntarily offered to be examined; so no vote passed upon it.

These are all the political news: there is little of any other sort; so little gallantry is
stirring, that I do not hear of so much as one maid of honour who has declared herself with
child by any officer, to engage him not to go abroad.  I told you once or twice that Miss Hamilton
is going to be married to Lord Brook: somebody wished Lord Archibald joy.  He replied, "Providence
has been very good to my family."

We had a great scuffle the other night at the Opera, which interrupted it.  Lord Lincoln was
abused in the most shocking manner by a drunken officer, upon which he kicked him, and was
drawing his sword, but was prevented.  were they were put under arrest, and the next morning,
the man begged his pardon before the Duke of Marlborough, Lord Albemarle, and other officers,
in the most submissive terms.  I saw the quarrel from the other side of the house, and rushing
to get to Lord Lincoln, could not for the crowd.  I climbed into the front boxes, and stepping
over the shoulders of three ladies, before I knew where I was, found I had lighted in Lord
Rockingham's (579) lap.  It was ridiculous! Good night!

(575) Count Richcourt was a Lorrainer, and chief minister of Florence; there was a great connexion
between him and Lady Walpole.

(576)The royal family.

(577) Pitts, Grenvilles, Lytteltons, all related by marriage, or female descent, to Lord Cobham.-D.

(578) Sir Charles Hanbury Williams, a devoted follower of Sir Robert Walpole.  His various
satirical poems against the enemies and successors of that minister are well known, and must
ever be admired for their ease, their spirit, and the wit and humour of their sarcasm.  It
was said at the time that Sir Charles's poetry had done more in three months to lower and discredit
those it was written against, than the Craftsman and other abusive papers had been able to
effect against Sir Robert in a long series of years.-D.

(579) Lewis Watson, second Earl of Rockingham.  He married Catharine, second daughter and coheir
of George Sondes, Earl of Feversham, and died in 1745.-D.

251 Letter 65 To Richard West, Esq. London, May 4, 1742.

Dear West, Your letter made me quite melancholy, till I came to the postscript of fine weather.
Your so suddenly finding the benefit of it makes me trust you will entirely recover your health
and spirits with the warm season: nobody wishes it more than I: nobody has more reason, as
few have known you so long. Don't be afraid of your letters being dull.  I don't deserve to
be called your friend, if I were impatient at hearing your complaints.  I do not desire you
to suppress them till the causes cease; nor should I expect you to write cheerfully while you
are Ill.  I never desire to write any man's life as a stoic, and consequently should not desire
him to furnish me with opportunities of assuring posterity what pains he took not to show any pain.

If you did amuse yourself with writing any thing in poetry, you know how pleased I should be
to see it; but for encouraging you to it, d'ye see, 'tis an age most unpoetical! 'Tis even
a test of wit to dislike poetry; and though Pope has half a dozen old friends that he has preserved
from the taste of last century, yet, I assure you, the generality of readers are more diverted
with any paltry prose answer to old Marlborough's secret history of Queen Mary's robes.  I
do not think an author would be universally commended for any production in verse, unless it
were an ode to the Secret Committee, with rhymes of liberty and property, nation and administration.

Wit itself is monopolized by politics; no laugh would be ridiculous if it were not on one side
or t'other.  Thus, Sandys thinks he has spoken an epigram, when he crincles up his nose and
lays a smart accent on ways and means.

We may, indeed. hope a little better now to the declining arts.  The reconciliation between
the royalties is finished, and fifty thousand pounds a-year more added to the heir apparent's
revenue.  He will have money now to tune up Glover, and Thomson, and Dodsley again: Et spes
et ratio studiorum in Caesare tantUM.

Asheton is much yours.  He has preached twice at Somerset Chapel with the greatest applause.
I do not mind his pleasing the generality, for you know they ran as much after Whitfield as
they could after Tillotson; and I do not doubt but St. Jude converted as many Honourable women
as St. Paul.  But I am sure you would approve his compositions, and admire them still more
when you heard him deliver them.  He will write to you himself next post, but is not mad enough
with his fame to write you a sermon.  Adieu, dear child!  Write me the progress of your recovery,(580)
and believe it will give me a sincere pleasure; for I am, yours ever.

(580) Mr. West died in less than a month from the date of this letter, in the twenty-sixth
year of his age.  (see ant`e, p. 121, Letter 1.)  In his last letter to Grey, written a few
days before his death, he says, "I will take my leave of you for the present, with a vale et
vive paulisper cum vivis:" so little was he aware of the short time that he himself would be
numbered among the living.  But this is almost constantly the case with those who die of that
most flattering of all diseases, a consumption.  "Shall humanity," says Mason, "be thankful
or sorry that it is so?  Thankful, surely! for as this malady generally attacks the young and
the innocent, it seems the merciful intention of Heaven, that to these death should come unperceived,
and, as it were, by stealth; divested of one of its sharpest stings, the lingering expectation
of their dissolution."-E.

252 Letter 66 To Sir Horace Mann. Downing Street, May 6, 1742.

I have received a long letter from you of the 22d of April.  It amazes me! that our friends
of Florence should not prove our friends.(581)  Is it possible?  I have always talked of their
cordiality, because I was convinced they could have no shadow of interest in their professions:--of
that, indeed, I am convinced still-but how could they fancy they had?  There is the wonder!
If they wanted common honesty, they seem to have wanted common sense more.  What hope of connexion
could there ever be between the British ministry and the Florentine nobility!  The latter have
no views for being, or knowledge for being envoys, etc. They are too poor and proud to think
of trading with us; too abject to hope for the restoration of their liberty from us-and, indeed,
however we may affection our own, we have showed no regard for their liberty-they have had
no reason ever to expect that from us!  In short, to me it is mystery! But how could you not
tell me some particulars?  Have I so little interested myself with Florence, that you should
think I can be satisfied without knowing the least particulars? I must know names.  Who are
these wretches that I am to scratch out of my list?  I shall give them a black blot the moment
I know who have behaved ill to you.  Is Casa Ferroni of the number?  I suspect it:-that was
of your first attachments.  Are the prince and princess dirty?-the Suares?-tell me, tell me!
Indeed, my dear Mr. Chute, I am not of your opinion, that he should shut himself up and despise
them; let him go abroad and despise them.  Must he mope because the Florentines are like the
rest of the world? But that is not true, for the world in England have not declared themselves
so suddenly.  It has not been the fashion to desert the earl and his friends: he has had more
concourse, more professions, and has still, than in the height of his power.  So your neighbours
have been too hasty: they are new style, at least, eleven days before us.  Tell them, tell
Richcourt, tell his Cleopatra,(582) that all their hopes are vanished, all their faith in Secret
Committees-the reconciliation is made, and whatever reports their secretships may produce,
there will be at least above a hundred votes added to our party. Their triumph has been but
in hope, and their hope has failed in two months.

As to your embroil with Richcourt, I condemn you excessively: not that you was originally in
fault, but by seeming to own yourself so. He is an impertinent fellow, and will be so if you'll
let him.  My dear child, act with the spirit of your friends here; show we have lost no credit
by losing power, and that a little Italian minister must not dare to insult you.  Publish the
accounts I send you; which I give you my honour are authentic. If they are not, let Cytheris,
your Antony's travelling concubine, contradict them.

You tell me the St. Quintin is arrived at Genoa: I see by the prints of to-day that it is got
to leghorn: I am extremely glad, for I feared for it, for the poor boy, and for the things.
Tell me how you like your secretary.  I shall be quite happy, if I have placed one with you
that you like.

I laughed much at the family of cats I am to receive.  I believe they will be extremely welcome
to Lord Islay now: for he appears little, lives more darkly and more like a wizard than ever.
These huge cats will figure prodigiously in his cell: he is of' the mysterious, dingy nature
of Stosch.

As words is what I have not rhetoric to find out to thank you, for sending me this paragraph
of Madame Goldsworthy, I can only tell you that I have laughed for an hour at it.  This was
one of my Lady Pomfret's correspondents.

There seems to be a little stop in our embarkations: since the first, they have discovered
that the horse must not go till all the hay is provided.  Three thousand men will make a fine
figure towards supporting the balance of power! Our whole number was to be but sixteen; and
if all these cannot be assembled before the end of July, what will be said of it?

The Secret Committee go on very pitifully: they are now inquiring about some customhouse officers
that were turned out at Weymouth for voting wrong at elections.  Don't you think these articles
will prove to the world what they have been saying of Sir Robert for these twenty years?  The
House still sits in observance to them; which is pleasant to me, for it keeps people in town.
We have operas too; but they are almost over, and if it were not for a daily east wind, they
would give way to Vauxhall and Chelsea. The new directors have agreed with the Fumagalli for
next year, but she is to be second woman: they keep the Visconti. Did I never mention the Bettina,
the first dancer.  It seems she was kept by a Neapolitan prince, who is extremely jealous of
her thither.  About a fortnight ago, she fell ill, upon which her Neapolitan footman made off
immediately.  She dances again, but is very weak, and thinks herself poisoned.

Adieu! my dear child; tell me you are well, easy, and in spirits: kiss the Chutes for me, and
believe me, etc

(581) This alludes to an account given by Sir Horace Mann, in one of his letters, of the change
he had observed in the manner of many of the Florentines towards himself since Sir Robert Walpole's
retirement from office, upon the supposition entertained by them that he was intimately connected
with the fallen minister@D.

(582) Lady Walpole.

254 Letter 67 To Sir Horace Mann. London, May 13, 1742.

As I am obliged to put my letter into the secretary's office by nine o'clock, and it now don't
want a quarter of it, I can say but three words, and must defer till next post answering Your
long letter by the courier.  I am this moment come from the House, where we have had the first
part of the Report from the Secret Committee. It is pretty long; but, unfortunately for them,
there is not once to be found in it the name of the Earl of Orford: there is a good deal about
Mr. Paxton and the borough of Wendover; and it appears that in eleven years Mr. Paxton has
received ninety-four thousand pounds unaccounted for: now, if Lady Richcourt can make any thing
of all this, you have freely my leave to communicate it to her.  By this bill, whoever are
guilty of murder, treason, forgery, etc. have nothing to do but to add perjury, and swear Lord
Orford knew of it, and they may plead their pardon.  Tell Lady Richcourt this.  Lord Orford
knew of her gallantries: she may plead her pardon.  Good night! I have not a moment to lose.

254 Letter 68 To Sir Horace Mann. May 20, 1742.

I sent you a sketch last post of the division on the Indemnity Bill.  As they carried the question
for its being brought in, they brought it in on Saturday; but were prevailed on to defer the
second reading till Tuesday.  Then we had a long debate till eight at night, when they carried
it, 228 against 217, only eleven majority: before, they had had twenty-three.  They immediately
went into the committee on it,-and reported it that night.  Yesterday it came to the last reading;
but the House, having sat so late the night before, was not so full, and they carried it, 216
to 184.  But to-day it comes into the Lords,-where they do not in the least expect to succeed;
yet, to show their spirit, they have appointed a great dinner at the Fountain to-morrow to
consider on methods for supporting the honour of the Commons, as they call it, against the
Lords, So now all prospect of quiet seems to vanish!  The noise this bill makes is incredible;
it is so unprecedented, so violent a step! Every thing is inflamed by Pultney, who governs
both parties only, I think, to exasperate both more.  Three of our own people of the committee,
the Solicitor,(582) Talbot, and Bowles, vote against us in the Indemnity Bill, the two latter
have even spoke against us.  Sir Robert said, at the beginning, when he was congratulated on
having some of his own friends in the committee, "The moment they are appointed, they will
grow so jealous of the honour of their committee, that they will prefer that to every other
consideration."(583)

Our foreign news are as bad as our domestic: there seem little hopes of the Dutch coming into
our measures; there are even letters, that mention strongly their resolution of not stirring-so
we have Quixoted away sixteen thousand men! On Saturday we had accounts of the Austrians having
cut off two thousand Prussians, in a retreat; but on Sunday came news of the great victory,(584)
which the latter have gained, killing six, and taking two thousand Austrians prisoners, and
that Prince Charles is retired to Vienna wounded.  This will but too much confirm the Dutch
in their apprehensions of Prussia. As to the long letter you wrote me, in answer to a very
particular one of mine, I cannot explain myself, till I find a safer conveyance than the post,
by which, I perceive all our letters are opened.  I can only tell you, that in most things
you guessed right; and that as to myself (585) all is quiet. I am in great concern, for you
seem not satisfied with the boy we sent you.  Your brother entirely agreed with me that he
was what you seem to describe; and as to his being on the foot of a servant, I give you my
honour I repeated it over and over to his mother.  I suppose her folly was afraid of shocking
him.  As to Italian, she assured me he had been learning it some time.  If he does not answer
your purpose, let me know if you can dispose of him any other way, and I will try to accommodate
you better.  Your brother has this moment been here, but there was no letter for me; at least,
none that they will deliver yet.

I know not in the least how to advise Mr. Jackson.(586)  I do not think Mr. Pelham the proper
person to apply to; for the Duke of Newcastle is as jealous of him as of any body.(587)  Don't
say this to him.  For Lord Hervey, though Mr. Jackson has interest there, I would not advise
him to try it, for both hate him.  The application to the Duke of Newcastle by the Most direct
means, I should think the best, or by any one that can be serviceable to the government.

You will laugh at an odd accident that happened the other day to my uncle:(588) they put him
into the papers for Earl of Sheffield.  There have been little disputes between the two Houses
about coming into each other's House; when a lord comes into the Commons, they call out, withdraw:
that day, the moment my uncle came in, they all roared out, Withdraw! withdraw!

The great Mr. Nugent has been unfortunate, too, in parliament; besides being very ill heard,
from being a very indifferent speaker, the other day on the Place Bill, (which, by the way,
we have new modelled and softened, and to which the Lords have submitted to agree to humour
Pultney,) he rose, and said, "He would not vote, as he was not determined in his opinion; but
he would offer his sentiments; which were, particularly, that the bishops had been the cause
of this bill being thrown out before." Winnington called him to order, desiring he would be
tender of the Church of England.  You know he was a papist.  In answer to the beginning of
his speech, Velters Cornwall, who is of the same side, said, "He wondered that when that gentleman
could not convince himself by his eloquence, he should expect to convince the majority."

Did I tell you that Lord Rochford,(589) has at last married Miss Young?(590)  I say, at last,
for they don't pretend to have been married this twelvemonth; but they were publicly married
last week.  Adieu!

(582) John Strange, Esq. made Solicitor-general in 1736, and Master of the Rolls in 1750, he
died in 1754.-E.

(583) Voltaire has since made the same kind of observation in his "Life of Louis XlV." Art
of Calvinism;-"Les hommes se piquent toujours de remplir un devoir qui les distingue."

(584) The battle of Chotusitz, or Czaslau, gained by the King of Prussia over the very superior
forces of the Austrians.  This victory occasioned the peace between the contending powers,
and the cession of Silesia to the Prussian monarchy.- D.

(585) This relates to some differences between Mr. Walpole and his father, to which the former
had alluded in one of his letters.  They never suited one another either in habits, tastes,
or opinions; in addition to which, Sir Robert appears to have been rather a harsh father to
his youngest son.  If such was the case, the latter nobly revenged himself, by his earnest
solicitude through life for the Honour of his parent's memory.-D. [See ant`e, p. 207, Letter 50.)

(586) He had been consul at Genoa.

(587) Sir Robert Walpole used to say of the Duke of Newcastle, "He has a foolish head and a
perfidious heart.  His name is perfidy."-E.

(588) Horace Walpole the elder@D.

(589) William Henry Zulestein Nassau, fourth Earl of Rochford. He filled many diplomatic situations,
and was also at different times, groom of the stole and secretary of state. He died in 1781.-D.

(590) Daughter of Edward Young, Esq.  She had been maid of honour to the Princess of Wales.

The list I meant: you must know, some time ago, before the
change, they had moved for a committee to examine, and state the
public accounts: It was passed.  Finding how little
success they had with their Secret Committee, they have set this
on foot, and we were to ballot for seven commissioners, who are
to have a thousand a-year; We balloted yesterday: on our lists
were Sir Richard Corbet,(598) Charles Hamilton (599) Lady
Archibald's brother,) Sir William Middleton,(600) Mr. West, Mr.
Fonnereau, Mr. Thompson, and Mr. Ellis.(601)  On theirs
 Mr. Bance, George Grenville, Mr. Hooper, Sir Charles
Mordaunt,(602) Mr, Phillips, Mr. Pitt, and Mr. Stuart.  On
casting up the numbers, the four first on ours, and the three
first on their list, appeared to have the majority,: so no great
harm will come from this, should it pass the Lords;
which it is not likely to do.  I have now told you, I think, all
the political news, except that the troops continue going to
Flanders, though we hear no good news yet from Holland.
If we can prevent any dispute between the two Houses, it is
believed and much hoped by the Court, that the Secret
Committee will desire to be dissolved: if it does, there is an
end of all this tempest!

My Lady Townshend made me laugh the other night about your old acquaintance, Miss Edwin; who,
by the way, is grown almost a Methodist.  My lady says she was forced to have an issue made
on one side of her head, for her eyes, and that Kent(604) advised her to have another on the
other side for symmetry.

As to Stosch expecting any present from me, he was so extremely well paid for all I had of'
him, that I do not think myself at all in his debt: however, you was very good to offer to pay him.

As to my Lady Walpole, I shall say nothing now, as I have not seen either of the two persons
since I received your letter to whom I design to mention her; only that I am extremely sorry
to find you still disturbed at any of the little nonsense of' that cibal.  I hoped that the
accounts which I have sent you, and which, except in my last letter, must have been very satisfactory,
would have served you as an antidote to their legends; and I think the great victory in the
House of Lords, and which, I assure you, is here reckoned prodigious, Will raise your spirits
against them.  I am happy you have taken that step about Sir Francis Dashwood; the credit it
must have given you with the King will more than counterbalance any little hurt you might apprehend
from the cabal.

I am in no hurry for any of my things; as we shall be moving from hence as soon as Sir Robert
has taken another house, I shall not want them till I am more settled.

Adieu! I hope to tell you soon that we are all at peace, and then I trust you will be so. 
A thousand loves to the Chutes.  How I long to see you all!

(591) This farce, the production of Fielding, was acted several nights with success; but it
being hinted, that one of the characters was written in ridicule of a man of quality, the Lord
Chamberlain sent an order to forbid its being performed any more.-E.

(592) catherine Clive, an excellent actress in low comedy. Churchill says of her, in the Rosciad,

In spite of outward blemishes she shone, For humour famed, and humour all her own. Easy, as
if at home, the stage she trod, Nor sought the critic's praise, nor fear'd his rod Original
in spirit and in ease, She pleased by hiding all attempts to please. No comic actress ever
yet could raise On humour's base, more merit or more praise."

In after life she lived at Twickenham, in the house now called Little Strawberry Hill, and
became an intimate friend of Horace Walpole@D.

(593) Garrick made his first appearance, October 19, 1741, in the character of Richard the
Third.  Walpole does not appear to have been singular in the opinion here given.  Gray in a
letter to Chute, says, "Did I tell you about Mr. Garrick, that the town are horn-mad after:
there are a dozen dukes of a night at Goodman-fields sometimes; and vet I am stiff in the opposition."-E.

(594) prince Craon.

(595) Madame Sarasin, a Lorrain lady, companion to Princess Craon.

(596) Wills Hill, the second Lord Hillsborough, afterwards created an Irish earl and made cofferer
of the household. (In the reign of George III. he was created Earl of Hillsborough, in England,
and finally Marquis of Downshire, in Ireland; and held the office of secretary of state for
the colonies.-D.)

(597) William Wildman, Viscount Barrington, made a lord of the admiralty on the coalition,
and master of the great wardrobe, in 1754.  He afterwards held the offices of chancellor of
the exchequer, secretary at war, and treasurer of the navy, and died February 1st, 1793.-D.)

(598) Sir Richard Corbett, of Leighton, in Montgomeryshire, the fourth baronet of that family.
He was member for Shrewsbury, and died in 1774.-D.

(599) The Hon. Charles Hamilton, sixth son of James, sixth Earl of Abercorn.  Member for Truro,
comptroller of the green cloth to the Prince of Wales, and subsequently receiver-general of
the Island of Minorca.  He died in 1787.-D.

(600) Sir William Middleton, Bart. of Belsay Castle, Northumberland, the third baronet of the
family.  He was member for Northumberland, and died in 1767.-D.''

(601) Welbore Ellis, member of parliament for above half a century; during which period he
held the different offices of a lord of the admiralty, secretary at war, treasurer of the navy,
vice-treasurer of Ireland, and secretary of state. He was created Lord Mendip in 1794, with
remainder to his nephew, Viscount Clifden, and died February 2, 1802, at the age of eighty-eight.-D.

(602) Sir Charles Mordaunt, of Massingham, in Norfolk, the sixth baronet of the family.  He
was member for the county of Warwick, and died in 1778.-D.

(603) Robert, the second Lord Raymond, son of the lord chief justice.  [On whose death, in
1753, without issue, the title expired.]

(604) William Kent, of whom Walpole himself drew the following just character:-"He was a painter,
an architect, and the father of modern gardening.  In the first character he was below mediocrity;
in the second, he was a restorer of the science; in the last, an original, and the inventor
of an art that realizes painting and improves nature.  Mahomet imagined an elysium, Kent created
many."-The misfortune of Kent was, that his fame and popularity in his own age were so great,
that he was employed to give designs for all things, even for those which he could know nothing
about-such as ladies' birthday dresses, which he decorated with the five orders of architecture.
These absurdities drew upon him the satire of Hogarth.-D.  [Walpole further states of Kent,
that Pope undoubtedly contributed to form his taste.]

(605) Miss Edwards, an unmarried lady of great fortune, who openly kept Lord Anne Hamilton.

260 Letter 70 To Sir Horace Mann. London, June 3, 1742.

I have sent Mr. Chute all the news; I shall only say to you that I have read your last letter
about Lady W. to Sir R.  He was not at all surprised at her thoughts of England, but told me
that last week my Lord Carteret had sent him a letter which she had written to him, to demand
his protection.  This you may tell publicly; it will show her ladyship's credit.

Here is an epigram, which I believe will divert you: it is on Lord Islay's garden upon Hounslow
Heath.

"Old Islay, to show his fine delicate taste,(606) In improving his gardens purloined from the
waste, Bade his gard'ner one day to open his views, By cutting a couple of grand avenues: No
particular prospect his lordship intended, But left it to chance how his walks should be ended.

With transport and joy he beheld his first view end In a favourite prospects church that was
ruin'd- But alas! what a sight did the next cut exhibit! At the end of the walk hung a rogue
on a gibbet! He beheld it and wept, for it caused him to muse on Full many a Campbell that
died with his shoes on. All amazed and aghast at the ominous scene, He order'd it quick to
be closed up again With a clump of Scotch firs that served for a Screen."

Sir Robert asked me yesterday about the Dominichini, but I did not know what to answer: I said
I would write to you about it. Have you bought it? or did you quite put it off? I had forgot
to mention it again to you.  If you have not, I am still of opinion that you should buy it
for him.  Adieu!

(606) These lines were written by Bramston, author of "The Art of Politics," and "The Man of
Taste." [The Reverend James Bramston, vicar of Starling, Sussex.  Pope took the line in the
Dunciad, "Shine in the dignity of F. R. S." from his Man of Taste;-"A satire," says Warton,
"in which the author has been guilty of the absurdity of making his hero laugh at himself and
his own follies."  He died in 1744.]

261 Letter 71 To Sir Horace Mann. June 10, the Pretender's birthday, which, by the way, I believe
he did not expect to keep at Rome this year, 1742.

Since I wrote you my last letter, I have received two from you of the 27th May and 3d of June,
N. S. I hope you will get my two packets; that is, one of them was addressed to Mr. Chute,
and in them was all my fagot of compliments.

Is not poor SCUlly (607) vastly disappointed that we are not arrived? But really, will that
mad woman never have done! does she still find credit for her extravagant histories.  I carried
her son with me to Vauxhall last night: he is a most charming boy,(608) but grows excessively
like her in the face. I don't at all foresee how I shall make out this letter: every body is
gone out of town during the Whitsuntide, and many will not return, at least not these six weeks;
for so long they say it will be before the Secret Committee make their Report, with which they
intend to finish.  We are, however, entertained with pageants every day-reviews to gladden
the heart of David,(609) (609) and triumphs to Absalom! He,(610) and his wife went in great
parade yesterday through the city and the dust to dine at Greenwich; they took water at the
Tower, and trumpeting away to Grace Tosier's,

"Like Cimon, triumph'd over land and wave"

I don't know whether it was my Lord of Bristol (611) or some of the SaddlerS,((612) Company
who had told him that this was the way "to steal the hearts of the people." He is in a quarrel
with Lord Falmouth.(613)  There is just dead one Hammond,(614) a disciple of Lord Chesterfield,
and equerry to his royal highness: he had parts, and was Just come into parliament, strong
of the Cobham faction, or nepotism, as Sir Robert calls it.  The White Prince desired Lord
Falmouth to choose Dr. Lee, who, you know, has disobliged the party by accepting a lordship
of the admiralty.  Lord Falmouth has absolutely refused, and insists upon choosing one of his
own brothers: his highness talks loudly of opposing him.  The borough is a Cornish one.

There is arrived a courier from Lord Stair, with news of Prince Lobkowitz having cut off five
thousand French.  We are hurrying away the rest of our troops to Flanders, and say that we
are in great spirits, and intend to be in greater when we have defeated the French too.

For my own particular, I cannot say I am well; I am afraid I have a little fever upon my spirits,
or at least have nerves, which, you know, every body has in England.  I begin the cold-bath
to-morrow, and talk of going to Tunbridge, if the parliament rises soon.

Sir R. who begins to talk seriously of Houghton, has desired me to go -with him thither;' but
that is not all settled.  Now I mention Houghton, you was in the right to miss a gallery there;
but there is one actually fitting up, where the green-house was, and to be furnished with the
spoils of Downing-street.

I am quite sorry you have [)ad so much trouble with those odious cats of Malta: dear child,
fling them into the Arno, if there is water enough at this season to drown them; or, I'll tell
you, give them to Stosch, to pay the postage he talked of.  I have no ambition to make my court
with them to the old wizard.

I think I have not said any thing lately to you from Patapan; he is handsomer than ever, and
crows fat: his eyes are charming; they have that agreeable lustre which the vulgar moderns
call sore eyes, but the judicious ancients golden eyes, ocellos Patapanicos.

The process is begun against her Grace of Beaufort,(615) and articles exhibited in Doctors'
Commons.  Lady Townshend has had them copied, and lent them to me.  There is every thing proved
to your heart's content, to the birth of the child, and much delectable reading.

Adieu! my dear child; you see I have eked out a letter: I hate missing a post, and yet at this
dead time I have almost been tempted to invent a murder or a robbery.  But you are good, and
will be persuaded that I have used my eyes and ears for your service; when, if it were not
for you, I should let them lie by in a drawer from week's end to week's end.  Good night!

(607) An Irish tailor at Florence, who let out ready-furnished apartments to travelling English.
Lady W. had reported that Lord Orford was flying from England and would come thither. (608)
George Walpole, afterwards the third Earl of Orford.  He succeeded to the earldom in 1751,
and was appointed lord-lieutenant and custos rotulorum of the county of Norfolk Mr, Pitt, in
a letter, written in 1759, says, "Nothing could make a better appearance than the two Norfolk
battalions: Lord Orford, with the port of Mars himself, and really the genteelest figure under
arms I ever saw, was the theme of every tongue." Chatham Correspondence, vol. ii. p. 4.-E.

(609) George the Second.

(610) Frederic, Prince of Wales.

(611) Dr. Secker, afterwards Bishop of Oxford. (And eventually Archbishop of Canterbury.  According
to Walpole, he was bred a man-midwife.-D.)  [Secker had committed in Walpole's eyes, the unpardonable
offence of having "procured a marriage between the heiress of the Duke of Kent and the chancellor's
(Hardwicke's) son;" he, therefore, readily propagated the charges of his being "a Presbyterian,
a man-midwife, and president of a very freethinking club," (Memoires, i. p. 56,) when the fact
is, the parents of Secker were Dissenters, and he for a time pursued the study, though not
the practice of medicine and surgery.  The third charge is a mere falsehood.  See also Quarterly
Review, xxv'i. p. 187.]

(612) The Prince was a member of the Saddlers' company.

(613) Hugh Boscawen, second Viscount Falmouth, a great dealer in boroughs.  It is of him that
Lord Dodington tells the story, that he went to the minister to ask a favour, which the minister
seemed unwilling to grant; upon which Lord Falmouth said, "Remember, Sir, we are seven."-D.

(614) Author of Love Elegies. [See ant`e, p. 210.)

(615) Frances, daughter and heir of the last Lord Scudamore, wife of Henry Somerset, Duke of
Beaufort; from whom she was divorced for adultery with Lord Talbot.  She was afterwards married
to Colonel Fitzroy, natural son of the Duke of Grafton. [The duke Having clearly proved the
incontinence of his wife, obtained a divorce in March 1743-4.)

263 Letter 72 To Sir Horace Mann. Downing Street, June 14, 1742.

We were surprised last Tuesday with the great good news of the peace between the Queen and
the King of Prussia.  it was so unexpected and so welcome, that I believe he might get an act
of parliament to forbid any one thinking that he ever made a slip in integrity.  Then, the
reported accounts of the successes of Prince Charles and Lobkowitz over the French have put
us into the greatest spirits.  Prince charles is extremely commended for courage and conduct,
and makes up a little for other flaws in the family.

it is at last settled that Lords gower,(616) Cobham, and Bathurst (617) are to come in.  The
first is to be privy-seal, and was to have kissed hands last Friday, but Lord Hervey had carried
the seal with him to Ickworth; but he must bring it back. Lord Cobham is to be field-marshal,
and to command all the forces in England.  Bathurst was to have the Gentleman-pensioners, but
Lord Essex,(618) who is now the Captain, and was to have had the Beef-eaters, will not change.
Bathurst is to have the Beef-eaters; the Duke of Bolton (619) who has them, is to have the
Isle of Wight, and Lord lymington,(620) who has that, is to have--nothing!

The Secret Committee are in great perplexities about
Scrope:(621) he would not take the oath, but threatened the
Middlesex justices who tendered it to him "Gentlemen," said he,
"have you any complaint against Me?  if you have not,
don't you fear that I will prosecute you for enforcing oaths?"
However, one of them began to read the oath--"I, John
Scrope,"--"I John Scrope:"said he; "I did not say any such thing;
but come, however, let's hear the oath;"--"do promise that I will
faithfully and truly answer all such questions as shall be asked
me by the Committee of Secrecy, and--" they were going on, but
Scrope cried out, "Hold, hold! there is more than I can digest
already."  He then went before the
committee, and desired time to consider.  Pitt asked him
abruptly, if he wanted a quarter of an hour: he replied, "he did
not want to inform either his head or his heart, for both were
satisfied what to do; but that he would ask the King's leave."
He wants to fight Pitt.  He is a most testy little old gentleman,
and about eight years ago would have fought Alderman Perry.  It
was in the House, at the time of the
excise: he said we should carry it: Perry said he hoped to see
him hanged first. "You see me hanged, you dog, you!" said
Scrope, and pulled him by the nose.  The committee have tried all
ways to soften him, and have offered to let him swear to only
what part he pleased, or only with regard to money given to
members of parliament.  Pultney himself has tried to work on him;
but the old gentleman is inflexible, and answered, "that he was
fourscore years old, and did not care whether he spent the few
months he had to live (622) in the Tower or not; that the last
thing he would do should be to betray the King and next to him
the Earl of Orford." It remains in suspense.
The troops continue going to Flanders, but slowly enough.  Lady
Vane has taken a trip thither after a cousin (623) of Lord
Berkeley, who is as simple about her as her own husband is, and
has written to Mr. Knight at Paris to furnish her with what money
she wants.  He says she is vastly to blame; for he was trying to
get her a divorce from Lord Vane, and then would have married her
himself.  Her adventures(624 arc worthy to be bound up with those
of my good sister-in-law,
 as the German Princess, and Moll Flanders.

Whom should I meet in the Park last night but Ceretesi!  He told me he was at a Bagne.  I will
find out his bagnio; for though I was not much acquainted with him, yet the obligations I had
to Florence make me eager to show any Florentine all the civilities in my power; though I do
not love them near so well, since what you have told me of their late behaviour; notwithstanding
your letter of June 20th, which I have just received.  I perceive that simple-hearted, good,
unmeaning Ituccilai is of the number of the false, though you do not directly say so.

I was excessively diverted with your pompous account of the siege of Lucca by a single Englishman.
I do believe that you and the Chutes might put a certain city into as great a panic.  Adieu!

(616) John Leveson Gower, second Lord Gower; in 1746 created an earl.  He died in 1754.-E.

(617) Allan, first Lord Bathurst, one of the twelve Tory peers created by Queen Anne, in 1711.
He was the friend of Pope, Congreve, Swift, Prior, and other men of letters.  He lived to see
his eldest son chancellor of England, and died at the advanced age of ninety, in 1775; having
been created an earl in 1772.-D.

(618) William Capel, third Earl of Essex; ambassador at the court of Turin. he died in January
1743.  The Beef-eaters are otherwise called the Yeomen of the Guard.-D.

(619) Charles Powlett, third Duke of Bolton.  His second wife was Miss Lavinia Fenton, otherwise
Mrs. Beswick, the actress; who became celebrated in the character of Polly Peacham in the Beggar's
Opera.  By her the duke had three sons, born before marriage.  With his first wife, the daughter
and sole heiress of John Vaughan, Earl of Carberry in Ireland, he never cohabited.  He died
in 1754.-D.

(620) John Wallop, first Viscount Lymington; in the following April created Earl of Portsmouth.
He died in 1762.-E.

(621) John Scrope, secretary of the treasury.  He had been in Monmouth's rebellion, when very
young, and carried intelligence to Holland in woman's clothes.

(622) He did not die till 1753.  Tindal states that, upon giving this answer he was no further
pressed.-E.

(623) Henry Berkeley; killed the next year at the battle of Dettingen.

(624) Lady Vane's Memoirs, dictated by herself, were actually published afterward,,; in a book,
called "The Adventures of Peregrine Pickle;" and she makes mention of Lady Orford. [See ant`e,
p. 189, Letter 42.  Sir Walter Scott says, that "she not only furnished Smollett with the materials
for recording her own infamy, but rewarded him handsomely for the insertion of her story."]

265 Letter 73 To sir Horace Mann. Midsummer Day, 1742.

One begins every letter with an Io Paean! indeed our hymns are not so tumultuous as they were
some time ago, to the tune of Admiral Vernon.  They say there came an express last night, of
the taking of Prague and the destruction of some thousand French.  It is really amazing the
fortune of the Queen! We expect every day the news of the king of Poland having made his peace;
for it is affirmed that the Prussians left him but sixteen days to think of it.  There is nothing
could stop the King of Prussia, if he should march to Dresden: how long his being at peace
with that king will stop him I look upon as very uncertain.

They say we expect the Report from the Secret Committee next Tuesday, and then finish.  I preface
all my news with "they say;" for I am not at all in the secret, and I had rather that "they
say" should tell you a lie than myself.  They have sunk the affair of Scrope: the Chancellor
(625) and Sir John Rushout spoke in the committee against persecuting him, for he is secretary
to the treasury.  I don't think there is so easy a language as the ministerial in the world-one
learns it in a week! There are few members in town, and most of them no friends to the committee;
so that there is not the least apprehension of any violence following the Report.  I dare say
there is not; for my uncle, who is my political weather-glass, and whose quicksilver rises
and falls with the least variation of parliamentary weather, is in great spirits, and has spoken
three times in the House within this week; he had not opened his lips before since the change.
Mr. Pultney has his warrant in his pocket for Earl of Bath, and kisses hands as soon as the
parliament rises.  The promotions I mentioned to you are not yet come to pass; but a fortnight
will settle things wonderfully.

The Italian, (626) who I told you is here, has let me into a piece of secret history, which
you never mentioned: perhaps it is not true; but he says the mighty mystery of the Count's
(627) elopement from Florence, was occasioned by a letter from Wachtendonck,(628) which was
so impertinent as to talk of satisfaction for some affront.  The great Count very wisely never
answered it-his life, to be sure, is of too great consequence to be trusted at the end of a
rash German's sword! however, the General wrote again, and hinted at coming himself for an
answer. So it happened that when he arrived, the Count was gone to the baths of Lucca-those
waters were reckoned better for his health, than steel in the abstract-How oddly it happened!
He Just returned to Florence as the General was dead!  Now was not this heroic lover worth
running after? I wonder, as the Count must have known my lady's courage and genius for adventures,
that he never thought of putting her in men's clothes, and sending her to answer the challenge.
How pretty it would have been to have fought for one's lover! and how great the obligation,
when he durst not fight for himself!

I heard the other day, that the Primate of Lorrain was dead of the smallpox.  Will you make
my compliments of condolence? though I dare say they are little afflicted: he -was a 'most
worthless creature, and all his wit and parts, I believe little comforted them for his brutality
and other vices.

The fine Mr. Pit (629) is arrived: I dine with him to-day at Lord Lincoln's, with the Pomfrets.
So now the old partie quarr`ee is complete again.  The earl is not quite cured,(630) and a
partner in sentiments may help to open the wound again.  My Lady Townshend dines with us too.
She flung the broadest Wortley-eye (631) on Mr. Pitt, the other night, in the park!

Adieu! my dear child; are you quite well? I trust the summer will perfectly re-establish you.

(625) Mr. Sandys, chancellor of the exchequer.

(626) Ceretesi.

(627) Count Richcourt.

(628) General Wachtendonck, commander of the Queen of Hungary's troops at Leghorn.

(629) George Pitt, of Strathfieldsea: he had been in love with Lady Charlotte Fermor, second
daughter of Lord Pomfret, who was afterwards married to William Finch, vice-chamberlain.  (Mr.
Pitt was created Lord Rivers in 1776. In 1761 he was British envoy at Turin in 1770, ambassador
extraordinary to Spain.  He died in 1803.-D.)

(630) Of his love for lady Sophia Fermor.-D.

(631) Mr. Pitt was very handsome, and Lady Mary Wortley Montagu had liked him extremely, when
he was in Italy.

267 Letter 74 To Sir Horace Mann. Downing Street, June 30, 1742.

It is about six o'clock, and I am come from the House, where, at last, we have had another
Report from the Secret Committee.  They have been disputing this week among themselves, whether
this should be final or not.  The new ministry, thanked them! were for finishing; but their
arguments were not so persuasive as dutiful, and we are to have yet another.  This lasted two
hours and a half in reading, though confined to the affair of Burrel and Bristow, the Weymouth
election, and secret-service money.  They moved to print it; but though they had fetched most
of their members from Ale and the country, they were not strong enough to divide.  Velters
Cornwall, whom I have mentioned to you, I believe, for odd humour, said, "ie believed the somethingness
of this report would make amends for the nothingness of the last, and that he was for printing
it, if it was only from believing that the King would not see it, unless it is printed." Perhaps
it may be printed at the conclusion; at least it will without authority-and so you will see it.

I received yours of June 24, N. S. with one from Mr. Chute, this morning, and I will now go
answer it and Your last.  You seem still to be uneasy about my letters, and their being retarded.
I have not observed, lately, the same signs of yours being opened; and for my own, I think
it may very often depend upon the packet-boat and winds.

You ask me if Pultney has lately received any new disgusts.-How can one answer for a temper
so hasty, so unsettled!-not that I know, unless that he finds, what he has been twenty years
undoing, is not yet undone.

I must interrupt the thread of my answer, to tell you that I hear news came last night that
the States of Holland have voted forty@seven thousand men for the Assistance of the Queen,(632)
and that it was not doubted but the States--General would imitate this resolution.  This seems
to be the consequence of the King of Prussia's proceedings-but how can they trust him so easily?

I am amazed that your leghorn ministry are so wavering; they are very old style, above eleven
days out of fashion, if they any longer fear the French: my only apprehension is, lest these
successes should make Richcourt more impertinent.

You have no notion how I laughed at the man that "takes nothing but Madeira."(633)  I told
it to my Lady Pomfret, concluding it would divert her too; and forgetting that she repines
when she should laugh, and reasons when she should be diverted.  She asked gravely what language
that was That Madeira being subject to an European prince, to be sure they talk some European
dialect!" The grave personage!  It was a piece with her saying, "that Swift would have written
better, if he had never written ludicrously."

I met a friend of yours the other day at an auction, and though I knew him not the least, yet
being your friend, and so like you (for, do you know, he is excessively,) I had a great need
to speak to him-and did.  He says, "he has left off writing to you, for he never could get
an answer." I said, you had never received 'but one from him in all the time I was with you,
and that I was witness to your having Answered it.  He was with his mother, Lady Abercorn,(634)
a most frightful gentlewoman: Mr. Winnington says, he one day overheard her and the Duchess
of Devonshire (635) talking of "hideous ugly women!"  By the way, I find I have never told
you that it was Lord Paisley;(636) but that you will have perceived.

Amorevoli is gone to Dresden for the summer; our directors are in great fear that he will serve
them like Farinelli, and not return for the winter.

I am writing to you in one of the charming rooms towards the park: it is a delightful evening,
and I am willing to enjoy this sweet corner while I may, for we are soon to quit it.  Mrs.
Sandys came yesterday to give us warning; Lord Wilmington has lent it to them.  Sir Robert
might have had it for his own at first, but would only take it as first lord of the treasury.(637)
He goes into a small house of his own in Arlington Street, opposite to where we formerly lived.
Whither I shall travel is yet uncertain: he is for my living with him; but then I shall be
cooped-and besides, I never found that people loved one another the less for living asunder.

The drowsy Lord Mayor (638) is dead-so the newspapers say.  I think he is not dead, but sleepeth.
Lord Gower is laid up with the gout: this, they say, is the reason of his not having the privy
seal yet.  The town has talked of nothing lately but a plot: I will tell you the circumstances.
last week the Scotch hero (639) sent his brother (640) two papers, which he said had been left
at his house by an Unknown hand; that he believed it was by Colonel Cecil, agent for the Pretender--though
how could that be, for he had had no conversation with Colonel Cecil for these two years! 
He desired Lord Islay to lay them before the ministry.  One of the papers seemed a letter,
though with no address or subscription, written in true genuine Stuart characters.  It was
to thank Mr. Burnus (D. of A.) for his services, and that he hoped he would answer the assurances
given of him.  The other was to command the Jacobites, and to exhort the patriots to continue
what they had mutually so well begun, and to say how pleased he was with their having removed
mr. Tench.  Lord Islay showed these letters to Lord Orford, and then to the King, and told
him he had showed them to my father. "You did well."-Lord Islay, "Lord Orford says one is of
the Pretender's hand."-King, "He (641) knows it: whenever any thing of this sort comes to your
hand, carry it to Walpole."  This private conversation you must not repeat.  A few days afterwards,
the Duke wrote to his brother, "That upon recollection he thought it right to say, that he
had received those letters from Lord Barrimore"(642) who is as well known for General to the
Chevalier, as Montemar is to the Queen of Spain-or as the Duke of A. would be to either of
them. Lord Islay asked Sir R. if he was against publishing this story, which he thought was
a justification both of his brother and Sir R. The latter replied, he could certainly have
no objection to its being public-but pray, will his grace's sending these letters to the secretaries
of state Justify him from the assurances that had been given of' him?(643)  However, the Pretender's
being of opinion that the dismission of Mr. Tench was for his service, will scarce be an argument
to the new ministry for making more noise about these papers.

I am sorry the boy is so uneasy at being on the foot of a servant.  I will send for his mother,
and ask her why she did not tell him the conditions to which we had agreed; at the same time,
I will tell her that she may send any letters for him to me. Adieu! my dear child: I am going
to write to Mr. Chute, that is, to-morrow.  I never was more diverted than with his letter.

(632) The Queen of Hungary, Maria Theresa.-D.

(633) The only daughter and heiress of the Marquis Accianoli at Florence, was married to one
of the same name, who was born at Madeira. ' (634) Anne Plummer, Countess of Abercorn, wife
of James, the seventh earl.  She died in 1756.-E.

(635) Catherine, daughter of John Hoskins, Esq.  She was married to the third Duke of Devonshire
in 171@, and died in 1777.-E.

(636) James Hamilton succeeded as eighth Earl of Abercorn, on the death of his father in 1743.
He was created Viscount Hamilton in England in 1786, and died unmarried in 1789.-D.

(637) This is the house, in Downing Street, which is still the residence of the first lord
of the treasury.  George the First gave it to Baron Bothmar, the Hanoverian minister-, for
life.  On his death, George the Second offered to give it to Sir Robert Walpole; who, however,
refused it, and begged of the King that it might be attached to the office of first lord of
the treasury.-D.

(638) Sir Robert Godschall.

(639) The Duke of Argyll.

(640) Earl of Islay.

(641) Besides intercepted letters, Sir R. Walpole had more than once received letters from
the Pretender, making him the greatest offers, which Sir R. always carried to the King, and
got him to endorse, when he returned them to Sir R.

(642) James Barry, fourth Earl of Barrymore, succeeded his half-brother Lawrence in the family
titles in 1699, and died in 1747, at the age of eighty.  James, Lord Barrymore, was an adherent
of the Pretender, whereas Lawrence had been so great a supporter of the revolution, that he
was attainted, and his estates sequestered by James the Second's Irish parliament, in 1689.-D.

(643) The Duke of Argyll, in the latter part of his life, was often melancholy and disordered
in his understanding. After this transaction, and it is supposed he had gone still farther,
he could with difficulty be brought even to write his name.  The marriage of his eldest daughter
with the Earl of Dalkeith was deferred for some time, because the duke could not be prevailed
upon to sign the writings.

269 Letter 75 To Sir Horace Mann.

On the Death of Richard West, Esq.(644)

While surfeited with life, each hoary knave Grows, here, immortal, and eludes the grave, Thy
virtues immaturely met their fate, Cramp'd in the limit of too short a date!

Thy mind, not exercised so oft in vain, In health was gentle, and composed in pain: successive
trials still refined thy soul, And plastic Patience perfected the whole.

A friendly aspect, not suborn'd by art; An eye, which look'd the meaning of thy heart; A tongue,
With simple truth and freedom fraught, The faithful index of thy honest thought.

Thy pen disdain'd to seek the servile ways Of partial censure, and more partial praise; Through
every tongue it flowed in nervous ease, With sense to Polish , and With wit to please.

No lurking venom from thy pencil fell; Thine was the kindest satire, living well: The vain,
the loose, the base, might blush to see In what thou wert, what they themselves should be,

Let me not charge on Providence a crime, Who snatch'd thee, blooming, to a better clime, To
raise those virtues to a higher sphere: Virtues! which only could have starved thee here;

                         A Receipt To Make A Lord.
             Occasioned by a late report of a promotion.(645)

Take a man, who by nature's a true son of earth,' By rapine enriched, though a beggar by birth;
In genius the lowest, ill-bred and obscene; In morals most Wicked, most nasty in mien; By none
ever trusted, yet ever employed; In blunders quite fertile, in merit quite void; A scold in
the Senate, abroad a buffoon, The scorn and the jest of all courts but his own: A slave to
that wealth that ne'er made him a friend, And proud of that cunning that ne'er gain'd an end;
A dupe in each treaty, a Swiss in each vote; In manners and form, a complete Hottentot. Such
an one could you find, of all men you'd commend him;  But be sure let the curse of each Briton
attend him. thus fully prepared, add the grace of the throne, The folly of monarchs, and screen
of a crown-- Take a prince for his purpose, without ears or eyes, And a long parchment roll
stuff'd brimful of lies: These mingled together, a fiat shall pass, and the thing be a Peer,
that before was an ass.

The former copy I think you will like: it was written by one Mr. Ashton (646) on Mr. West,
two friends of mine, whom you have heard me often mention.  The other copy was printed in the
Common Sense, I don't know by whom composed: the end of it is very bad, and there are great
falsities in it, but some strokes are terribly like!

I have not a moment to thank the Grifona, nor to answer yours of June 17, N. S. which I have
this instant read.  Yours, in great haste.

(644) See ante, pp. 121, (Letter 1), 251, (Letter 65).

(645) The report, mentioned in a preceding letter, that Horace Walpole, brother to Sir Robert,
was created a peer.

(646)Thomas Ashton, afterwards fellow of Eton College. [See ant`e, p. 128, Letter 6, footnote 153.)

271 Letter 76 To Sir Horace Mann. London, July 7, 1742.

Well! you may bid the Secret Committee good night.  The House adjourns to-day till Tuesday,
and on Thursday is to be prorogued.  Yesterday we had a bill of Pultney's, about returning
officers and regulating elections: the House was thin, and he carried it by 93 to 92. Mr. Pelham
was not there, and Winnington did not vote, for the gentleman is testy still; when he saw how
near he had been to losing it, he said loud enough to be heard, "I will make the gentlemen
of that side feel me!" and, rising up, he said, "He was astonished, that a bill so calculated
for the freedom of elections was so near being thrown out; that there was a report on the table,
which showed how necessary such a bill was, and that though we had not time this year to consider
what was proper to be done in consequence of it, he hoped we should next,"-with much to the
same purpose; but all the effect this notable speech had, was to frighten my uncle, and make
him give two or three shrugs extraordinary to his breeches.  They now say,(647) that Pultney
will not take out the patent for his earldom, but remain in the House of Commons in terrorem;
however, all his friends are to have places immediately, or, as the fashion of expressing it
is, they are to go to Court in the Bath coach!"(648)

Your relation Guise (649) is arrived from Carthagena, madder than ever.  As he was marching
up to one of the forts, all his men deserted him; his lieutenant advised him to retire; he
replied, "He never had turned his back yet, and would not now," and stood all the fire.  When
the pelicans were flying over his head, he cried out, "What would Chloe (650) give for some
of these to make a pelican pie!" When he is brave enough to perform such actions as are really
almost incredible, what pity it is that he should for ever persist In saving things that are
totally so!

Lord Annandale (651) is at last mad in all the forms: he has long been an out-pensioner of
Bedlam College.  Lord and Lady Talbot,(652) are parted; he gives her three thousand pounds
a-year.  Is it not amazing, that in England people will not find out that they can live separate
without parting?  The Duke of Beaufort says, "He pities Lord Talbot to have met with two such
tempers as their two wives!"

Sir Robert Rich (653) is going to Flanders, to try to make up an affair for his son; who, having
quarrelled with a Captain Vane, as the commanding officer was trying to make it up at the head
of the regiment, Rich came behind Vane, "And to show you," said he, "that I will not make it
up, take that," and gave him a box on the ear.  They were immediately put in arrest; but the
learned in the laws of honour say, they must fight, for no German officer will serve with Vane,
till he has had satisfaction.

Mr. Harris,(654) who married Lady Walpole's mother, is to be one of the peace-offerings on
the new altar.  Bootle is to be chief-justice; but the Lord Chancellor would not consent to
it, unless Lord Glenorchy,(655) whose daughter is married to Mr. Yorke, had a place in lieu
of the Admiralty, which he has lost-he is to have Harris's.  Lord Edgecumbe's, in Ireland,
they say, is destined to Harry Vane,(656) Pultney's toad-eater.

Monticelli lives in a manner at our house.  I tell my sister that she is in love with him,
and that I am glad it was not Amorevoli.  Monticelli dines frequently with Sir Robert, which
diverts me extremely; you know how low his ideas are of music and the virtuosi; he calls them
all fiddlers.

I have not time now to write more, for I am going to a masquerade at the Ranelagh amphitheatre:
the King is fond of it, and has pressed people to go; but I don't find that it will be full.
Good night! All love to the Pope for his good thing.

(647) Sir R. W. to defeat Pultney's ambition persuaded the ++King to insist on his going into
the House of Lords: the day he carried his patent thither, he flung it upon the floor in a
passion, and could scarce be prevailed on to have it passed.

(649) General Guise, a, very brave officer, but apt to romance; and a great connoisseur in
pictures.  (He bequested his collection of pictures, which is a very indifferent one, to christ
church College, Oxford.-D.)

(650) the duke of Newcastle's French cook.

(651) George Johnstone, third Marquis of Annandale, in Scotland.  He was not declared a lunatic
till the year 1748.  Upon his death, in 1792, his titles became either extinct or dormant.-D.

(652) Mary, daughter of Adam de Cardonel, secretary to John the great Duke of Marlborough,
married to William, second Lord Talbot, eldest son of Lord Chancellor Talbot.-D.

(653) Sir Robert Rich, Bart., of Rose Hall, Suffolk.  At his death, in 1768, he was colonel
of the fourth regiment of dragoons, governor of Chelsea Hospital, and field-marshal of the
forces.-E.

(654) This article did not prove true.  Mr. Harris was not removed, nor Bootle made chief-justice.

(655) John Campbell, Lord Glenorchy, and, on his father's death, in 1752, third Earl of Breadalbane.
His first wife was Lady Amiable Grey, eldest daughter and coheir of the Duke of Kent.  By her
he had an only daughter, Jemima, who, upon the death of her grandfather, became Baroness Lucas
of Crudwell, and Marchioness de Grey.  She married Philip Yorke, eldest son of the Chancellor
Hardwicke, and eventually himself the second duke of that title.-D.

(656) Henry Vane, eldest son of Gilbert, second Lord Barnard, and one of the tribe who came
into office upon the breaking up of Sir Robert Walpole's administration.  He was created Earl
of Darlington in 1753, and died in 1758.-D.

273 Letter 77 To Sir Horace Mann. Downing Street, July 14, 1742.

Sir Robert Brown(657) is displaced from being paymaster of something, I forget what, for Sir
Charles Gilmour, a friend of Lord Tweedale.(658)  Nee Finch (659) is made groom of the bedchamber,
which was vacant; and Will Finch (660) vice chamberlain, which was not vacant; but they have
emptied it of Lord Sidney Beauclerc.(661)  Boone is made commissary-general, in Hurley's room,
and JefFries(662) in Will Stuart's.  All these have been kissing hands to-day, headed by the
Earl of Bath.  He went into the King the other day ",it this'long list, but was told shortly,
that unless he would take up his patent and quit the House of Commons, nothing should be done-he
has consented.  I made some of them very angry; for when they told me who had kissed hands,
I asked, if the Pretender had kissed hands too, for being King?  I forgot to tell you, that
Murray is to be solicitor-general, in Sir John Strange's place, who is made chief justice,
or some such thing.(663)

I don't know who it was that said it, but it was a very good answer to one who asked why Lord
Gower had not kissed hands sooner--"the Dispensation was not come from Rome."(664)

I am writing to you up to the ears in packing: Lord Wilmington has lent this house to Sandys,
and he has given us instant warning; we are moving as fast as possible to Siberia,-Sir Robert
has a house there, within a few mile,, of the Duke of Courland; in short, child, we are all
going to Norfolk, till we can get a house ready in town: all the furniture is taken down, and
lying about in confusion.  I look like St. John in the Isle of Patmos, writing revelations,
and prophesying "Woe! woe! woe! the kingdom of desolation is at hand!" -indeed, I have prettier
animals about me, than he ever dreamed of: here is the dear Patapan, and a little Vandyke cat,
with black whiskers -ind boots; you would swear it was of a very ancient family, in the West
of England, famous for their loyalty.

I told you I was going to the masquerade at Ranelagh gardens, last week: it was miserable;
there were but an hundred men, six women, and two shepherdesses.  The King liked it,--and that
he might not be known, they had dressed him a box with red damask!  Lady Pomfret and her three
daughters were there, all dressed alike, that they might not be known.  My Lady said to Lady
Bel Finch,(665) who was dressed like a nun, and for coolness had cut off the nose of her mask,
"Madam, you are the first nun that ever I saw without a nose!"

As I came home last night, they told me there was a fire in Downing Street; when I came to
Whitehall, I could not get to the end of the street in my chariot, for the crowd; when I got
out, the first thing I heard was a man enjoying himself: "Well! if it lasts two hours longer,
Sir Robert Walpole's house will be burnt to the ground!"  it was a very comfortable hearing!
but I found the fire was on the opposite side of the way, and at a good distance.  I stood
in the crowd an hour to hear their discourse: one man was relating at how many fires he had
happened to be present, and did not think himself at all unlucky in passing by, just at this.
What diverted me most, was a servant-maid, who was working, and carrying pails of water, with
the strength of half-a-dozen troopers, and swearing the mob out of her way-the soft creature's
name was Phillis! When I arrived at our door, I found the house full of goods, beds, women,
and children, and three Scotch members of parliament, who lodge in the row, and who had sent
in a saddle, a flitch of bacon, and a bottle of ink.  There was no wind, and the house was
saved, with the loss of only its garret, and the furniture.

I forgot to mention the Dominichin last post, as I suppose I had before, for I always was for
buying it; it is one of the most engaging pictures I ever saw.  I have no qualms about its
originality; and even if Sir Robert should not like it when it comes, which is impossible,
I think I would live upon a flitch of bacon and a bottle of ink, rather than not spare the
money to buy it myself: so my dear Sir, buy it.

Your brother has this moment brought me a letter: I find by it, that you are very old style
with relation to the Prussian peace.  Why, we have sent Robinson (666) and Lord Hyndford (667)
a green ribbon, for it, above a fortnight ago.  Muley, (as Lord Lovel calls him,) Duke of Bedford,
(668) is, they say, to have a blue one, for making his own peace: you know we always mind home-peaces
more than foreign ones.

I am quite sorry for all the trouble you have had about the Maltese cats; but you know they
were for Lord Islay, not for myself.  Adieu!  I have no more time.

(657) Sir Robert Brown had been a merchant at Venice, and British resident there, for which
he was created a baronet in 1732.  He held the place at this time of" "paymaster of his Majesty's
works, concerning the repairs, new buildings, and well-keeping of any of his Majesty's houses
of access, and others, in time of progress."-D

(658) John Hay, fourth Marquis of Tweedale.  In 1748, he married Frances, daughter of John
Earl Granville, and died in 1762.-E.

(659) The Hon.  Edward Finch, fifth son of Daniel, sixth Earl of Winchilsea and second Earl
of Nottingham, and the direct ancestor of the present Lord Winchilsea.  He assumed the name
of Hatton, in 1764, in consequence of inheriting the fortune of William Viscount Hatton, his
mother's brother.  He was employed in diplomacy, and was made master of the robes in 1757.
He died in 1771.-D.

(660) The Hon. William Finch, second son of Daniel, sixth Earl of Winchilsea, had been envoy
in Sweden and in Holland.  He continued to hold the office of vice-chamberlain of the household
till his death in 1766.  These two brothers, and their elder brother Daniel, seventh Earl of
Winchilsea, are the persons whom Sir Charles Hanbury Williams, calls, on account of the blackness
of their complexions, "the dark, funereal Finches."  [His widow, Charlotte, daughter of the
Earl of Pomfret, was appointed governess to the young princes and princesses.]

(661) Lord Sidney Beauclerk, fifth son of the first Duke of St. Albans; a man of bad character.
Sir Charles Hanbury Williams calls him "Worthless Sidney." He was notorious for hunting after
the fortunes of the old and childless.  Being very handsome, he had almost persuaded Lady Betty
Germain, in her old age, to marry him; but she was dissuaded from it by the Duke of Dorset
and her relations.  He failed also in obtaining the fortune of Sir' Thomas Reeve, Chief Justice
of the (common Pleas, whom he used to attend on the circuit, with a view of ingratiating himself
with him.  At length he induced Mr. Topham, of Windsor, to leave his estate to him.  He died
in 1744, leaving one son, Topham Beauclerk, Esq.-D. [This son, so celebrated for his conversational,
talents, and described by Dr. Jonson as uniting the eloquent manners of a gentleman with the
mental acccomplishments of a scholar, married, in 1768, Lady Diana Spencer, daughter of the
Duke of Marlborough, and died in 1780.]

(662) John JefFries, secretary of the treasury.-D.

(663) Sir John Strange was made master of the rolls, but not till some years afterwards; he
died in 1754.

(664) From the Pretender.  Lord Gower had been, until he was made privy-seal, one of the leading
Jacobites; and was even supposed to lean to that party, after he had accepted the appointment.

(665) Lady Isabella Finch, third daughter of the sixth Earl of Winchilsea, first lady of the
bedchamber to the Princess Amelia.  It was for her that Kent built the pretty and singular
house on the western side of Berkeley Square, with a fine room in it, of which the ceiling
is painted in arabesque compartments, by Zucchi;-now the residence of C. B. Wall, Esq.-D. [In
this house her ladyship died unmarried, in 1771.)

(666) Sir Thomas Robinson, minister at Vienna; be was made secretary of state in 1754.  (And
a peer, by the title of Lord Grantham, in 1761.-D.)

(667) John Carmichael, third Earl of Hyndford.  He had been sent as envoy to the King of Prussia,
during the first war of Silesia.  He was afterwards sent ambassador to St. Petersburgh and
Vienna, and died in 1767.-D.

(668) The Duke of Bedford had not the Garter till some years after this.

275 Letter 78 To Sir Horace Mann.

You scolded me so much about my little paper, that I dare not venture upon it even now, when
I have very little to say to you.  The long session is over, and the Secret Committee already
forgotten.  Nobody remembers it but poor Paxton, who has lost his place(669)  by it.  saw him
the day after he came out of Newgate: he came to Chelsea:(670) Lord Fitzwilliam was there,
and in the height of zeal, took him about the neck and kissed him.  Lord Orford had been at
Court that morning, and with his usual spirits, said to the new ministers, "So! the parliament
is up, and Paxton, Bell, and I have got our liberty!"  The King spoke in the kindest manner
to him at his levee, but did not call him into the closet, as the new ministry feared he would,
and as perhaps, the old ministry expected he would.  The day before, when the King went to
put an end to the session, Lord Quarendon asked Winnington "whether Bell would be let out time
enough to hire a mob to huzza him as he went to the House of Lords."

The few people that are left in town have been much diverted with an adventure that has befallen
the new ministers.  Last Sunday the Duke of Newcastle gave them a dinner at Claremont, where
their servants got so drunk, that when they came to the inn over against the gate of Newpark,(671)
the coachman, who was the only remaining fragment of their suite, tumbled off the box, and
there they were planted.  There were Lord Bath, Lord Carteret, Lord Limerick, and Harry Furnese
(672) in the coach: they asked the innkeeper if he could contrive no way to convey them to
town. , No," he said, "not unless it was to get Lord Orford's coachman to drive them." They
demurred; but Lord Carteret said "Oh, I dare say, Lord Orford will willingly let us have him."
So they sent and he drove them home.(673)

Ceretesi had a mind to see this wonderful Lord Orford, of whom he had heard so much; I carried
him to dine at Chelsea.  You know the earl don't speak a word of any language but English and
Latin,(674) and Ceretesi not a word of either; yet he assured me that he was very happy to
have made cosi bella conascenza!  He whips out his pocket-book every moment, and writes descriptions
in issimo of every thing he sees: the grotto alone took up three pages.  What volumes he will
publish at his return, in usum Serenissimi Pannom!(675)

There has lately been the most shocking scene of murder imaginable; a parcel of drunken constables
took it into their heads to put the laws in execution against disorderly persons, and so took
up every woman they met, till they had collected five and six or twenty, all of whom they thrust
into St. Martin's roundhouse, where they kept them all night, with doors and windows closed.
The poor creatures, who could not stir or breathe, screamed as long as they had any breath
left, begging at least for water: one poor wretch said she was worth eighteen-pence, and would
gladly give it for a draught of water, but in vain! So well did they keep them there, that
in the morning four were found stifled to death, two died soon after, and a dozen more are
in a shocking way.  In short, it is horrid to think what the poor creatures suffered: several
of them were beggars, who, from having no lodging, were necessarily found in the street, and
others honest labouring women.  One of the dead was a poor washerwoman, big with child, who
was returning home late from washing.  One of the constables is taken, and others absconded;
but I question(676) if any of them will suffer death, though the greatest criminals in this
town are the officers of justice; there is no tyranny they do not exercise, no villainy of
which they do not partake.  These same men, the same night, broke into a bagnio in Covent-Garden,
and took up Jack Spencer,(677) Mr. Stewart, and Lord George Graham,(678) and would have thrust
them into the round-house with the poor women, if they had not been worth more than eighteen-pence!

I have just now received yours of the 15th of July, with a married letter from both Prince
and Princess:(679) but sure nothing ever equalled the setting out of it! She says, "The generosity
of your friendship for me, Sir, leaves me nothing to desire of all that is precious in England,
China, and the Indies!" Do you know, after such a testimony under the hand of a princess, that
I am determined, after the laudable example of the house of Medici, to take the title of Horace
the Magnificent! I am only afraid it should be a dangerous example for my posterity, who may
ruin themselves in emulating the magnificence of their ancestor.  It happens comically, for
the other day, in removing from Downing-street, Sir Robert found an old account-book of his
father, wherein he set down all his, expenses.  In three months and ten days that he was in
London one winter as member of parliament, he spent-what do you think?-sixty-four pounds seven
shillings and five-pence! There are many articles for Nottingham ale, eighteen-pences for dinners,
five shillings to Bob (now Earl of Orford), and one memorandum of six shillings given in exchange
to Mr. Wilkins for his wig-and yet this old man, my grandfather, had two thousand pounds a-year,
Norfolk sterling!  He little thought that what maintained him for a whole session, would scarce
serve one of his younger grandsons to buy japan and fans for princesses at Florence!

Lord Orford has been at court again to-day: Lord Carteret came up to thank him for his coachman;
the Duke of Newcastle standing by. My father said, "My lord, whenever the duke is near overturning
you, you have nothing to do but to send to me, and I will save you." The duke said to Lord
Carteret, "Do you know, my lord, that the Venison you eat that day came out of Newpark?"  Lord
Orford laughed, and said, "So, you see I am made to kill the fatted calf for the return of
the prodigals!" The King passed by all the new ministry to speak to him, and afterwards only
spoke to my Lord Carteret.

Should I answer the letters from the court of Petraria again? there will be no end of our magnificent
correspondence!-but would it not be too haughty to let a princess write last?

Oh, the cats! I can never keep them, and yet It is barbarous to send them all to Lord Islay:
he will shut them up and starve them, and then bury them under the stairs with his wife.  Adieu!

(669) Solicitor to the treasury.  See ante, p. 246.

(670) Sir R. Walpole's house at Chelsea.-D.

(671) Lord Walpole was ranger of Newpark.  (Now called Richmond Park.-D.)

(672) One of the band of incapables who obtained power and place on the fall of Walpole.  Horace
Walpole, in his Memoires, calls him "that old rag of Lord Bath's quota to an administration,
the mute Harry Furnese."-D.

(673) This occurrence was celebrated in a ballad which is inserted in C. Hanbury Williams's
works, and begins thus.

"As Caleb and Carteret, two birds of a feather, Went down to a feast at Newcastle's together."

Lord Bath is called "Caleb," in consequence of the name of Caleb DAnvers having been used in
The Craftsman, of which he was the principal author.-D.

(674) It was very remarkable that Lord Orford could get and keep such an ascendant with King
George 1. when they had no way of conversing but very imperfectly in Latin.

(675) The coffee-house at Florence where the nobility meet.

(676) The keeper of the round-house was tried but acquitted of wilful murder. [The keeper,
whose name was William Bird, was tried at the Old Bailey in October, and received sentence
of death; which was afterwards transmuted to transportation.]

(677) The Honourable John Spencer, second son of Charles, third Earl of Sunderland, by Anne
his wife, second daughter of the great Duke of Marlborough.  He was the favourite grandson
of old Sarah, Duchess of Marlborough who left him a vast fortune, having disinherited, to the
utmost of her power, his eldest brother, Charles, Duke of Marlborough.  The condition upon
which she made this bequest was that neither he nor his heirs should take any place or pension
from any government, except the rangership of Windsor Park.  He was the ancestor of the present
Earl Spencer, and died in 1746.- D.

(678) Lord George Graham, youngest son of the Duke of Montrose, and a captain in the navy.
He died in 1747.-D.

(679) Prince and Princess Craon.

278 Letter 79 To Sir Horace Mann. Chelsea, July 29, 1742.

I am quite out of humour; the whole town is melted away; you never saw such a desert.  You
know what Florence is in the vintage-season, at least I remember what it was: London is just
as empty, nothing but half-a-dozen private gentlewomen left, who live upon the scandal that
they laid up in the winter.  I am going too! this day se'nnight we set out for Houghton, for
three months; but I scarce think that I shall allow thirty days apiece to them.  Next post
I shall not be able to write to you; and when I am there shall scarce find any materials to
furnish a letter above every other post.  I beg, however, that you will write constantly to
me: it will be my only entertainment, for I neither hunt, brew, drink, nor reap.  When I return
in the winter, I will make amends for this barren season of our correspondence.

I carried Sir Robert the other night to Ranelagh for the first time: my uncle's prudence, or
fear, would never let him go before.  It was pretty full, and all its fulness flocked round
us: we walked with a train at our heels, like two chairmen going to fight; but they were extremely
civil, and did not crowd him, or say the least impertinence--I think he grows popular already!
The other day he got it asked, whether he should be received if he went to Carleton House?-no,
truly!-but yesterday morning Lord Baltimore' came (680) to soften it a little; that his royal
highness -did not refuse to see him, but that now the Court was out of town, and he had no
drawing-room, he did not see any body.

They have given Mrs. Pultney an admirable name, and one that is likely to stick by her-instead
of Lady Bath, they call her the wife of Bath.(681)  Don't you figure her squabbling at the
gate with St. Peter for a halfpenny.

Cibber has published a little pamphlet against Pope, which has a great deal of spirit, and,
from some circumstances, will notably vex him.(682)  I will send it to you by the first opportunity,
with a new pamphlet, said to be Doddington's, called "A Comparison of the Old and New Ministry:"
it is much liked.  I have not forgot your magazines, but will send them and these pamphlets
together.  Adieu! I am at the end of my tell.

P. S. Lord Edgecumbe is just made lord-lieutenant of Cornwall, at which the Lord of Bath looks
sour. He said, yesterday, that the King would give orders for several other considerable alterations;
but gave no orders, except for this, which was not asked by that earl.

(680) Lord of the bedchamber to the Prince.

(681) In allusion to the old ballad.

(682) This pamphlet, which was entitled "A Letter from Mr. Cibber to Mr. Pope; inquiring into
the motives that might induce him, in his satirical works to be so frequently fond of Mr. Cibber's
name," so "notably vexed" the great poet, that, in a new edition of the Dunciad, he dethroned
Theobald from his eminence as King of the dunces, and enthroned Cibber in his stead.-E.

279 Letter 80 To Sir Horace Mann. (From Houghton.)

Here are three new ballads,(683) and you must take them as a plump part of a long letter. 
Consider, I am in the barren land of Norfolk, where news grows as slow as any thing green;
and besides, I am in the house of a fallen minister!  The first song I fancy is Lord Edgcumbe's;
at least he had reason to write it.  The second I do not think so good as the real Story that
occasioned it.  The last is reckoned vastly the best, and is much admired: I cannot say I see
all those beauties in it, nor am charmed with the poetry, which is cried up. I don't find that
any body knows whose it is.(684) Pultney is very anoyed, especially as he pretends, about his
wife, and says, "it is too much to abuse ladies!"  You see, their twenty years' satires come
back home!  He is gone to the Bath in great dudgeon: the day before he went, he went in to
the King to ask him to turn out Mr. Hill of the customs, for having opposed him at Heydon.
"Sir," said the King, "was it not when you was opposing me? I won't turn him out: I will part
with no more of my friends." Lord Wilmington was waiting to receive orders accordingly, but
the King gave him none.

We came hither last Saturday; as we passed through Grosvenor-square, we met Sir Roger Newdigate,
(685) with a vast body of Tories, proceeding to his election at Brentford: we might have expected
some insult, but only one single fellow hissed. and was not followed.  Lord Edgcumbe, Mr. Ellis,
and Mr. Hervey, in their way to Coke's,(686) and Lord Chief Justice Wills (on the circuit)
are the Only company here yet.  My Lord invited nobody, but left it to their charity.  The
other night, as soon as he had gone through showing Mr. Wills the house, Well," said he, "here
I am to enjoy  't, and my Lord of Bath may--."  I forgot to tell you, in confirmation of what
you see in the song of the wife of Bath having shares of places, Sir Robert told me, that when
formerly she got a place for her own father, she took the salary and left him only the perquisites!

It is much thought that the King will go abroad, if he can avoid leaving the Prince in his
place--.  Imagine all this!

I received to-day yours of July 21), and two from Mr. Chute and Madame Pucci,(687) which I
will answer very soon: where is she now?  I delight in Mr. Villiers's, (688) modesty-in one
place you had written it villette's; I fancy on purpose, for it would do for him.

Good night, my dear child! I have written myself threadbare. I know you will hate my campaign,
but what can one do!

(683) As these ballads are to be found in the edition of Sir Charles Hanbury Williams's works,
published in 1822, it has been deemed better to omit them here.  They are called, "Labour in
Vain," "The Old Coachman," and "The Country Girl."-D.

(684) it was written by Hanbury Williams.

(685) Sir Roger Newdigate, the fifth baronet of the family.
He was elected member for Middlesex, upon the vacancy
occasioned by Pultney's being created Earl of Bath.  He
belonged to the Tory or Jacobite party.-D. [Sir Roger
afterwards represented the University of Oxford in five
parliaments, and died in 1806, in his eighty-seventh year.
Among other benefactions to his Alma Mater, he gave the noble
candelabra in the Radcliffe library, and founded an annual
prize
 for English verses on ancient painting, sculpture, and
architecture.]

(686) Holkham.  Coke was the son of Lord Lovel, afterward Viscount Coke, when his father was
created Earl of Leicester.-D.

(687) She was the daughter of the Conte di Valvasone, of Friuli, sister of Madame Suares, and
of the bedchamber to the Duchess of Modena.

(688) Thomas Villiers a younger son of william, second Earl of Jersey, at this time British
minister at the court of Dresden, and eventually created Lord Hyde, and Earl of clarendon.
Sir H. Mann had alluded in one of his letters to a speech attributed to Mr. Villiers, in which
he took great credit to himself for having induced the King of Poland to become a party to
the peace of Breslau, recently concluded between the Queen of Hungary and the King, of Prussia;
a course of proceeding, which, in fact, his Polish Majesty had no alternative but to adopt.
Villettes was an inferior diplomatic agent from England to some of the Italian courts, and
was at this moment resident at the court of Turin.-D.

280 Letter 81 To Sir Horace Mann. Houghton, Aug. 20, 1742

By the tediousness of the post, and distance of place, I am still receiving letters from you
about the Secret Committee, which seems strange, for it is as much forgotten now, as if it
had happened in the last reign.  Thus much I must answer you about it, that it is possible
to resume the inquiry upon the Report next session; but you may judge whether they will, after
all the late promotions.

We are willing to believe that there are no news in town, for we hear none at all: Lord Lovel
sent us word to-day, that he heard, by a messenger from the post office, that Montemar (689)
is put under arrest.  I don't tell you this for news, for you must know it long ago: but I
expect the confirmation of it from you next post.  Since we came hither I have heard no more
of the king's journey to Flanders: our troops are as peaceable there as On Hounslow Heath,
except some bickerings and blows about beef with butchers, and about sacraments with friars.
You know the English can eat no meat, nor be civil to any God but their own.

As much as I am obliged to you for the description of your Cocchiata,(690) I don't like to
hear of it.  It is very unpleasant, instead of being at it, to be prisoner, in a melancholy,
barren province, which would put one in mind of the deluge, only that we have no water.  Do
remember exactly how your last was; for I intend that you shall give me just such another Cocchiata
next summer, if it pleases the kings and queens of this world to let us be at peace For "it
rests that without fig-leaves," as my Lord Bacon says in one of his letters , "I do ingenuously
confess and acknowledge," (691) that I like nothing so well as Italy.

I agree with you extremely about Tuscany for Prince Charles,(692) but I can only agree with
you on paper; for as to knowing anything of it, I am sure Sir Robert himself knows nothing
of it: the Duke of Newcastle and my Lord Carteret keep him in as great ignorance as possible,
especially the latter; and even in other times, you know how little he ever thought on those
things.  Believe me, he will every day know less.

Your last, which I have been answering, was the. 5th of August; I this minute receive another
of the 12th.  How I am charmed with your spirit and usage of Richcourt!  Mais ce n'est pas
d'aujourdhui que je commence `a les m`epriser!  I am so glad that you have quitted your calm,
to treat them as they deserve.  You don't tell me if his opposition in the council hindered
your intercession from taking place for the valet de chambre.  I hope not! I could not bear
his thwarting you!

I am now going to write to your brother, to get you the overtures; and to desire he will send
them with some pamphlets and the magazines which I left in commission for you, at my leaving
London.  I am going to send him, too, des pleins pouvoirs, for nominating a person to represent
me at his new babe's christening.

I am sorry Mrs. Goldsworthy is coming to England, though I think it can be of no effect.  Sir
Charles (692) has no sort of interest with the new powers, and I don't think the Richmonds
have enough to remove foreign ministers.  However, I will consult with Sir Robert about it,
and see if he thinks there is any danger for you, which I do not in the least; and whatever
can be done by me, I think you know, will.

P. S. I inclose an answer to Madame Pucci's letter.  Where is she in all this Modenese desolation

(689) Montemar was the General of the King of Spain, who commanded the troops of that sovereign
against the Imperialists in Italy.-D.

(690) A sort of serenade.  Sir H. Mann had mentioned, that he was about to give an entertainment
of this kind in his garden to the society of Florence.-D.

(691) Prince Charles of Lorraine, younger brother of Francis, who was now Grand Duke of Tuscany.
He was a general of some abilities; but it was his misfortune to be so often opposed to the
superior talents of the King of Prussia.-D.

(692) Sir Charles Wager.

281 Letter 82 To Sir Horace Mann. Houghton, August 28, 1742.

I did receive your letter of the 12th, as I think I mentioned in my last; and to-day another
of the 19th.  Had I been you, instead of saying that I would have taken my lady's(693) woman
for my spy, I should have said, that I would hire Richcourt himself: I dare to say that one
might buy the count's own secrets of himself.

I am sorry to hear that the Impressarii have sent for the Chiaretta; I am not one of the managers;
I should have remonstrated against her, for she will not do on the same stage with the Barbarina.
I don't know who will be glad of her coming, but Mr. Blighe and Amorevoli.

'Tis amazing, but we hear not a syllable of Prague taken,(694) it must be!  Indeed, Carthagena,
too, was certain of being taken! but it seems, Maillebois is to stop at Bavaria.  I hope Belleisle
(695) will be made prisoner?  I am indifferent about the fate of the great Broglio-but Belleisle
is able, and is our most determined enemy: we need not have more, for to-day it is confirmed
that Cardinal Tencin (696) and M. d'Argenson are declared of the prime ministry.  The first
moment they can, Tencin will be for transporting the Pretenders into England.  Your advice
about Naples was quite judicious: the appearance of a bomb will have great weight in the councils
of the little king.

We don't talk now of any of the Royals passing into Flanders; though the Champion (697) this
morning had an admirable quotation, on the supposition that the King would go himself: it was
this line from the Rehearsal:-

"Give us our fiddle; we ourselves will play."

The lesson for the Day (698) that I sent you, I gave to Mr. Coke, who came in as I was writing
it, and by his dispersing it, it has got into print, with an additional one, which I cannot
say I am proud should go under my name.  Since that, nothing but lessons are the fashion: first
and second lessons, morning and evening lessons, epistles, etc.  One of the Tory papers published
so abusive an one last week on the new ministry, that three gentlemen called on the printer,
to know how he dared to publish it.  Don't you like these men who for twenty years together
led the way, and published every thing that was scandalous, that they should wonder at any
body's daring to publish against them! Oh! it will come home to them! Indeed, every body's
fame now is published at length: last week the Champion mentioned the Earl of Orford and his
natural daughter, Lady Mary, at length (for which he had a great mind to prosecute the printer).
To-day, the London Evening Post says, Mr. Pane, nephew of Mr. Scrope, is made first clerk of
the treasury, as a reward for his uncle's taciturnity before the Secret Committee.  He is in
the room of old Tilson, who was so tormented by that Committee that it turned his brain, and
he is dead.

I am excessively shocked at Mr. Fane's (699) behaviour to you; but Mr. Fane is an honourable
man! he lets poor you pay him his salary for eighteen months, without thinking of returning
it! But if he had lost that sum to Jansen,(700) or to any of the honourable men at White's,
he would think his honour engaged to pay it.  There is nothing, sure, so whimsical as modern
honour! You may debauch a woman upon a promise of marriage, and not marry her; you may ruin
your tailor's or your baker's family by not paying them; you may make Mr. Mann maintain you
for eighteen months, as a public minister, out of his own pocket, and still be a man of honour!
But, not to pay a common sharper, or not to murder a man that has trod upon your toe, is such
a blot in your scutcheon, that you could never recover your honour, though you had in your
veins "all the blood of all the Howards!"

My love to Mr. Chute: tell him, as he looks on the east front of Houghton, to tap under the
two windows in the left-hand wing, up stairs, close to the colonnade-there are Patapan and
I, at this instant, writing to you; there we are almost every morning, or in the library; the
evenings, we walk till dark; then Lady Mary, Miss Leneve, and I play at comet; the Earl, Mrs.
Leneve, and whosoever is here, discourse; car telle est notre vie!  Adieu!

(693) Lady Walpole.  Richcourt, the Florentine minister, was her lover, and both, as has been
seen in the former part of these letters, were enemies of Sir . H. Mann.-D.

(694) This means retaken by the Imperialists from the French, who had obtained possession of
it on the 25th of November, 1741.  The Austrian troops drove the French out of Prague, in December,
1742.-D.

(695) This wish was gratified, though not in this year. Marshal Belleisle was taken prisoner
in 1745, by the Hanoverian dragoons, was confined for some months in Windsor Castle, and exchanged
after the battle of Fontenoy.-D.

(696) A profligate ecclesiastic, who was deeply engaged in the corrupt political intrigues
of the day.  In these he was assisted by his sister Madame Tencin, an unprincipled woman of
much ability, who had been the mistress of the still more infamous Cardinal Dubois.  Voltaire
boasts in his Memoirs, of having killed the Cardinal Tencin from vexation, at a sort of political
hoax, which he played off upon him.-D. [The cardinal was afterwards, made Archbishop of Lyons.
In 1752, he entirely quitted the court, and retired to his diocese, where he died in 1758,
,greatly esteemed," says the Biog. Univ.  for his extensive charities." His sister died in
1749.  She was mother of the celebrated D'Alembert by Destouches Canon, and authoress of "Le
Comte de Comminges," "Les Malheurs de l'Amour," and other romances.]

(697) 'The Champion was an opposition Journal, written by Fielding. [Assisted by Ralph, the
historian.)

(698) Entitled " The Lessons for the Day, 1742." Published in Sir Charles Hanbury Williams's
works, but written by Walpole.-D.

(699) Charles Fane, afterwards Lord Fane, had been minister at Florence before Mr. Mann.

(700) A notorious gambler.  He is mentioned by Pope, in the character of the young man of fashion,
in the fourth canto of the Dunciad,

"As much estate, and principle, and wit, As Jansen, Fleetwood, Cibber, shall think fit."-D.

284 Letter 83 To Sir Horace Mann. Houghton, Sept. 11, 1742.

I could not write     to you last week, for I was at Woolterton,(701) and in a course of visits,
that took up my every moment.  I received one from you there, of August 26th, but have had
none at all this week.

You know I am not prejudiced in favour of the country, nor like a place because it bears turnips
well, or because you may gallop over it without meeting a tree: but I really was charmed with
Woolterton; it is all wood and water! My uncle and aunt may, without any expense, do what they
have all their lives avoided, wash themselves and make fires.(702)  Their house is more than
a         good one; if they had not saved eighteen pence in every room, it would have been
a fine one. I saw several of my acquaintance,(703)  Volterra vases, Grisoni landscapes, the
four little bronzes, the raffle-picture, etc.

We have printed about the expedition to Naples: the affair at
Elba, too, is in the papers, but we affect not to believe it.
 We are in great apprehensions of not taking Prague--the only
thing that has been taken on our side lately, I think, is my
Lord Stair's journey hither and back again-we don't know for
what-he is such an Orlando! The papers are full of the most
defending King'S Journey to Flanders;our private letters say
not a word of it-I say our, for at                  present I
think the earl's intelligences and mine are pretty equal as to
authority.

Here is a little thing which I think has humour in it.

A CATALOGUE OF NEW FRENCH BOOKS.

1. Jean-sans-terre, on l'Empereur en pet-en-l'air; imprim`e `a Frankfort.

                  2. La France mourante d'une suppression
d'hommes et d'argent: dedi`e au public.

                  3. L'art de faire les Neutralit`es, invent`e
en Allemagne, et `ecrit en cette langue, par Un des Electeurs,
et nouvellement traduit en Napolitain; par le Chef d'Escadre
Martin.

4. Voyage d'Allemaune, par Monsieur de Maupertuis; avec un t`elescope, invent`e pendant son
voyage; `a l'usage des H`eros, pour regarder leur victoires de loin.

5. M`ethode court et facile pour faire entrer les troupes Fran`coies en Allemagne:-mais comment
faire, pour les en faire sortir?

6. Trait`e tr`es salutaire et tr`es utile sur la reconnoissance envers les bienfaicteurs, par
le Roy de Pologne.  Folio, imprim`e `a Dresde.

7. Obligation sacr`ee des Trait`es, Promesses, et Renonciations, par le Grand Turc; avec des
Remarques retractoires, par un Jesuite.

8. Probleme; combien il faut d'argent FranSois pour payer le sang Su`edois circul`e par le
Comte de Gyllembourg

9. Nouvelle m`ethode de friser les cheveux `a la Francoise; par le Colonel Mentz et sa Confrairie.

10. Recueil de Dissertations sur la meilleure mani`ere de faire la partition des successions,
par le Cardinal de Fleury; avec des notes, historiques et politiques, par la Reine d'Espagne.

11. Nouveau Voyage de Madrid `a Antibes, par l'Infant Dom Philippe.

12. Lart de chercher les ennemis sans lea trouver; par le Marechal de Maillebois.

13. La fid`elit`e couronn`ee, par le G`en`eral Munich et le Comte d'Osterman.

14. Le bal de Lintz et les amusements de DOnawert; pi`ece
pastorale et galante,
                           en un acte, par le Grand Duc.

15. l'Art de maitriser les Femmes, par sa Majest`e Catliolique.

16. Avantures Boh`emiennes, tragi-comiques, tr`es curieuses, tr`es int`erressantes, et charg`ees
d'incidents.  Tom. i. ii. iii. N.B. Le dernier tome, qui fera le denouement, est sous presse.

Adieu! my dear child; if it was not for this secret of transcribing, what should one do in
the country to make out a letter?

285 Letter 84 To Sir Horace Mann. Houghton, Sept. 25th, 1742.

At last, my dear child, I have got two letters from you! I have been in strange pain, between
fear of your being ill, and apprehensions of your letters being stopped; but I have received
that by Crew, and another since.  But you have been ill! I am angry with Mr. Chute for not
writing to let me know it.  I fancied you worse than you say, or at least than you own.  But
I don't wonder you have fevers!  such a busy politician as Villettes,(704) and such a blustering
negotiator as il Furibondo (705) are enough to put all your little economy of health and spirits
in confusion.  I agree with you, that " they don't pique themselves upon understanding sense,
any more than Deutralities!"  The grand journey to Flanders(706) is a little -it a stand: the
expense has been computed at two thousand pounds a day! Many dozen of embroidered portmanteaus
full of laurels and bays have been prepared this fortnight.  The Regency has been settled and
unsettled twenty times: it is now said, that the weight of it is not to be laid on the Prince.
The King is to return by his birthday; but whether he is to bring back part of French Flanders
with him, or will only have time to fetch Dunkirk, is uncertain.  In the mean time, Lord Carteret
is gone to the Hague; by which jaunt it seems that Lord Stair's journey was not conclusive.
The converting of the siege of Prague into a blockade makes no great figure in the journals
on this side the water and question-but it is the fashion not to take towns that one was sure
of taking.  I cannot pardon the Princess for having thought of putting off her `epuisements
and lassitudes to take a trip to Leghorn, "pendant qu'on ne donnoit `a manger `a Monsieur le
Prince son fils, que de la chair de chevaux!" Poor Prince Beauvau!(707)  I shall be glad to
hear he is safe from this siege.  Some of the French princes of the blood have been stealing
away a volunteering, but took care to be missed in time.  Our Duke goes with his lord and father-they
say, to marry a princess of Prussia, whereof great preparations have been making in his equipage
and in his breeches.

Poor Prince Craon! where did De Sade get fifty sequins.  When I was at Florence, you know all
his clothes were in pawn to his landlord; but he redeemed them by pawning his Modenese bill
of credit to his landlady! I delight in the style of the neutrality maker(708)-his neutralities
and his English arc perfectly of a piece.

You have diverted me excessively with the history of the Princess Eleonora's(709) posthumous
issue-but how could the woman have spirit enough to have five children by her footman, and
yet not have enough to own them.  Really, a woman so much in the great world should have known
better! Why, no yeoman's dowager could have acted more prudishly! It always amazes me, when
I reflect on the women, who are the first to propagate scandal of one another.  If they would
but agree not to censure what they all agree to do, there would be no more loss of characters
among them than amongst men.  A woman cannot have an affair, but instantly all her sex travel
about to publish it, and leave her off: now, if a man cheats another of his estate at play,
forges a will, or marries a ward to his own son, nobody thinks of leaving him off for such trifles.

The English parson at Stosch's, the archbishop on the chapter of music, the Fanciulla's persisting
in her mistake, and old Count Galli's distress, are all admirable stories.(710)  But what is
the meaning of Montemar's writing to the Antinora?--I thought he had left the Galia for my
illustrissima,(711) her sister.  lord! I am horridly tired of that romantic love and correspondence!
Must I answer her last letter?  there were but six lines--what can I say? I perceive, by what
you mention of the cause of his disorder, that Rucellai does not turn out that simple, honest
man you thought him-come, own it

I just recollect a story, which perhaps will serve your archbishop on his Don Pilogio(712)-the
Tartuffe was meant for the then archbishop of Paris, who, after the first night, forbad its
being acted.  Moliere came forth, and told the audience, "Messieurs, on devoit vous donner
le Tartuffe, mais MOnSeigneur l'Archev`eque ne veut pas qu'on le joue."

My lord is very impatient for his Dominichin; so you will send it by the first safe conveyance.
He is making a gallery, for the ceiling of which I have given the design of that in the little
library of St. Mark at Venice: Mr. Chute will remember how charming it was; and for the frieze,
I have prevailed to have that of the temple at Tivoli.  Naylor(713) came here the other day
with two coaches full of relations: as his mother-in-law, who was one of the company is widow
of Dr. Hare, Sir Robert's old tutor at Cambridge, he made them stay to dine: when they were
gone, he said, "Ha, child! what is that Mr. Naylor, Horace  ? he is the absurdest man I ever
saw!" I subscribed to his opinion; won't you?  I must tell you a story of him.  When his father
married this second wife, Naylor said,"Father, they say you are to be married to-day, are you?"
"Well," replied the bishop, "and what is that to you?"  "Nay, nothing; only if you had told
me, I would have powdered my hair."

(704) Mr. Villettes was minister at Turin.

(705) Admiral Matthews; his ships having committed some outrages on the coast of Italy, the
Italians called him it Furibondo.

(706) Of George the Second.-D.

(707) Afterwards a marshal of France. He was a man of some ability, and the friend and patron
of St. Lambert, and of other men of letters of the time of Lewis XV.-D.  [He was made a marshal
in 1783 by the unfortunate Louis XVI. and in 1789 a minister of state.  He died in 1793, a
few weeks after the murder of his royal master.]

(708) Admiral Matthews.

(709) Eleonora of Guastalla, widow of the last cardinal of Medici, died at Venice. (The father
of the children was a French running footman.-D.) [Cosmo the Third was sixty-seven years old
at the period of the marriage: "une fois le marriage conclu," says the Biog. Univ. "El`eonore
refusa de la consommer, rebut`ee par la figure, par l'age et surtout par les d`esordres de
son `epouse."  Cosmo died at the age of eighty-one. A translation of his Travels through England,
in 1669, was published in 1820.

(710) These are stories in a letter of Sir H. Mann's, which are neither very decent nor very
amusing.-D.

(711) Madame Grifoni.

(712) The Archbishop of Florence had forbid the acting of a burlettae called Don Pilogio, a
sort of imitation of Tartuffe. When the Impresario of the Theatre remonstrated upon the expense
he had been put to in preparing the music for it, the archbishop told him he might use it for
some other opera.-D.

(713) He was the son of Dr. Here, Bishop of Chichester, and changed his name for an estate.

                            287 Letter 85
          To Sir Horace Mann.
Houghton, Oct. 8th, 1742.

I have not heard from you this fortnight; if I don't receive a letter to-morrow, I shall be
quite out of humour.  It is true, of late I have written to you but every other post; but then
I have been in the country, in Norfolk, in Siberia!  You were still at Florence, in the midst
of Kings of Sardinia, Montemars, and Neapolitan neutralities; your letters are my only diversion.
As to German news, it is all so simple that I am peevish: the raising of the siege of Prague,((714)
and Prince Charles and Marechal Maillebois playing at hunt the squirrel, have disgusted me
from inquiring about the war.  The earl laughs in his great chair, and sings a bit of an old
ballad,

"They both did fight, they both did beat, they both did run
     away,
They both strive again to meet, the quite contrary way."

Apropos! I see in the papers that a Marquis de Beauvau escaped out of Prague with the Prince
de Deuxpons and the Duc de Brissac; was it our Prince Beauvau?

At last the mighty monarch does not go to Flanders, after making the greatest preparations
that ever were made but by Harry the Eighth, and the authors of the grand Cyrus and the illustrious
Hassa: you may judge by the quantity of napkins, which were to the amount of nine hundred dozen-indeed,
I don't recollect that ancient heroes were ever so provident of necessaries, or thought how
they were to wash their hands and face after a victory.  Six hundred horses, under the care
of the Duke of Richmond, were even shipped; and the clothes and furniture of his court magnificent
enough for a bull-fight at the conquest of Granada.  Felton Hervey's(715) war-horse, besides
having richer caparisons than any of the expedition, had a gold net to keep off the flies-in
winter!  Judge of the clamours this expense to no purpose will produce! My Lord Carteret is
set out from the Hague, but was not landed when the last letters came from London: there are
no great expectations from this trip; no more than followed from my Lord Stair's.

I send you two more odes on Pultney,(716) I believe by the same hand as the former, though
none are equal to the Nova Progenies, which has been more liked than almost ever any thing
was.  It is not at all known whose they are; I believe Hanbury Williams's.  The note to the
first was printed with it: the advice to him to be privy seal has its foundation; for when
the consultation was held who were to have places, and my Lord Gower was named to succeed Lord
Hervey, Pultney said with some warmth, "I designed to be privy seal myself!"

We expect some company next week from Newmarket: here is at present only Mr. Keene and Pigwiggin,(717)-you
never saw so agreeable a creature!-oh yes! you have seen his parents!  I must tell you a new
story of them Sir Robert had given them a little horse for Pigwiggin, and somebody had given
them another: both which, to save the charge of keeping, they sent to grass in Newpark.  After
three years that they had not used them, my Lord Walpole let his own son ride them, while he
was at the park, in the holidays.  Do you know, that the woman Horace sent to Sir Robert, and
made him give her five guineas for the two horses, because George had ridden them?  I give
you my word this is fact.

There has been a great fracas at Kensington: one of the Mesdames(718) pulled the chair from
under Countess Deloraine(719) at cards, who, being provoked that her monarch was diverted with
her disgrace, with the malice of a hobby-horse, gave him just such another fall.  But alas!
the Monarch, like Louis XIV. is mortal in the part that touched the ground, and was so hurt
and so angry, that the countess is disgraced, and her German rival (720) remains in the sole
and quiet possession of her royal master's favour.

October 9th.

Well! I have waited till this morning, but have no letter from you; what can be the meaning
of it? Sure, if you was ill, Mr. Chute would write to me!  Your brother protests he never lets
your letters lie at the office.

Sa Majest`e Patapanique(721) has had a dreadful misfortune!-not lost his first minister, nor
his purse--nor had part of his camp equipage burned in the river, nor waited for his secretary
of state, who is perhaps blown to Flanders--nay, nor had his chair pulled from under him-worse!
worse! quarrelling with a great pointer last night about their countesses, he received a terrible
shake by the back and a bruise on the left eye--poor dear Pat! you never saw such universal
consternation! it was at supper.  Sir Robert, who makes as much rout with him as I do, says,
he never saw ten people show so much real concern! Adieu! Yours, ever and ever-but write to me.

(714) The Marshal de Maillebois and the Count de Saxe had been sent with reinforcements from
France, to deliver the Marshal de Broglio and the Marshal de Belleisle, who, with their army,
were shut up in Prague, and surrounded by the superior forces of the Queen of Hungary, commanded
by Prince Charles of Lorraine.  They succeeded in facilitating the escape of the Marshal de
Broglio, and of a portion of the French troops; but the Marshal de Belleisle continued to be
blockaded in Prague with twenty-two thousand men, till December 1742, when he made his escape
to Egra.-D.

(715) Felton Hervey, tenth son of John, first Earl of Bristol; in 1737, appointed groom of
the bedchamber to the Duke of Cumberland.  He died in 1775.-E.

(716) These are "The Capuchin," and the ode beginning, "'Great Earl of Bath, your reign is
o'er;"  As they have been frequently published, they are omitted.  The "Nova Progenies" is
the well-known ode beginning, "See, a new progeny descends."-D.

(717) Eldest son of old Horace Walpole. [Afterwards the second Lord Walpole of Wolterton, and
in 1806, at the age of eighty-three created Earl of Orford.  He died in 1809.-E.]

(718) The Princesses, daughters of George II.-D.

(719) Elizabeth Fenwick, widow of Henry Scott, third Earl of Deloraine.  She was a favourite
of George II. and lived much in his intimate society.  From the ironical epithets applied to
her in Lord Hervey's ballad in the subsequent letter, it would appear, that her general conduct
was not considered to be very exemplary.  She died in 1794.-D.

(720) Lady Yarmouth.

289 Letter 86
                                        To Sir Horace Mann.
Houghton, Oct. 18, 1742.

I have received two letters from you since last post; I suppose the wind stopped the packet-boat.

Well! was not I in the right to persist in buying the Dominichin?  don't you laugh at those
wise connoisseurs, who pronounced it a copy? If it is one, where is the original? or who was
that so great master that could equal Dominichin? Your brother has received the money for it,
and Lord Orford is in great impatience for it; yet he begs, if you can find any opportunity,
that it may be sent in a man-of-war.  I must desire that the statue may be sent to Leghorn,
to be shipped with it, and that you will get Campagni and Libri to transact the payment as
they did for the picture, and I will pay your brother.

Villettes' important despatches to you are as ridiculous as good Mr. Matthews's devotion. -
I fancy Mr. Matthews's own god (722) would make as foolish a figure about a monkey's neck,
as a Roman Catholic one.  You know, Sir Francis Dashwood used to say that Lord Shrewsbury's
providence was an old angry man in a blue cloak: another person-that I knew, believed providence
was like a mouse, because he is invisible.  I dare to say Matthews believes, that providence
lives upon beef and pudding, loves prize-fighting and bull-baiting, and drinks fog to the health
of Old England.

I go to London in a week, and then will send you cart-loads of news: I know none now, but that
we hear to-day of the arrival of Duc d'Aremberg-I suppose to return my Lord Carteret's visit.
The latter was near being lost; he told the King that being in a storm, he had thought it safest
to put into Yarmouth roads, at which he laughed, hoh! hoh! hoh!

For want of news, I live upon ballads to you; here is one that has made a vast noise, and by
Lord Hervey's taking great pains to disperse it, has been thought his own-if it is,(723) he
has taken true care to disguise the niceness of his style.

1. O England, attend. while thy fate I deplore, Rehearsing the schemes and the conduct of power.
And since only of those who have power I sing, I am sure none can think that I hint at the King.

2. From the time his son made him old Robin depose, All the power of a King he was well-known
to lose; But of all but the name and the badges bereft, Like old women, his paraphernalia are left.

3. To tell how he shook in St. James's for fear, When first these new Ministers bullied him
there, Makes my blood boil with rage, to think what a thing They have made of a man We 'obey
as a King.

4. Whom they pleas'd they put in, whom they pleas'd they put out, And just like a top they
all lash'd him about, Whilst he like a top with a murmuring noise, Seem'd to grumble, but turn'd
to these rude lashing boys.

5. At last Carteret arriving, spoke thus to his grief, If you'll make me your Doctor, I'll
bring you relief; You see to your closet familiar I come, And seem like my wife in the circle-at
home."

6. Quoth the King, "My good Lord, perhaps you've been told, That I used to abuse you a little
of old; 'But now bring whom you will, and eke turn away, But let me and my money, and Walmoden(724)
stay."

7." For you and Walmoden, I freely consent, But as for your money, I must have it spent; I
have promised your son (nay, no frowns,) shall have some, Nor think 'tis for nothing we patriots
are come.

8. "But, however, little King, since I find you so good, Thus stooping below your high courage
and blood, Put yourself in my hands, and I'll do what I can, To make you look yet like a King
and a man.

9. "At your Admiralty and your Treasury-board, To save one single man y; u shan't say a word,
For, by God! all your rubbish front both you shall shoot, Walpole's ciphers and Gasherry'S(725)
vassals to boot.

10. "And to guard Prince's ears, as all Statesmen take care, So, long as yours are-not one
man shall come near; For of all your Court-crew we'll leave only those Who we know never dare
to say boh! to a goose.

11. "So your friend booby Grafton I'll e'en let you keep, Awake he can't hurt, and is still
half asleep; Nor ever was dangerous, but to womankind, And his body's as impotent now as his mind.

12. "There's another Court-booby, at once hot and dull, Your pious pimp, Schutz, a mean, Hanover
tool; For your card-play at night he too shall remain, With virtuous and sober, and wise Deloraine.(726)

13. "And for all your Court-nobles who can't write or read, As of such titled ciphers all courts
stand in need, Who, like parliament-Swiss, vote and fight for their pay, They're as good as
a new set to cry yea and nay.

14. "Though Newcastle's as false, as he's silly, I know, By betraying old Robin to me long
ago, As well as all those who employed him before, Yet I leave him in place, but I leave him
no power.

15. "For granting his heart is as black as his hat, With no more truth in this, than there's
sense beneath that; Yet as he's a coward, he'll shake when I frown; You call'd him a rascal,
I'll use him like one,

16. "And since his estate at elections he'll spend, And beggar himself, without making a friend;
So whilst the extravagant fool has a sous, As his brains I can't fear, so his fortune I'll use,

17. "And as miser Hardwicke, with all courts will draw, He too may remain, but shall stick
to his law; For of foreign affairs, when he talks like a fool, I'll laugh in his face,, and
will cry 'Go to school!'

18. "The Countess of Wilmington, excellent nurse, I'll trust with the Treasury, not with its
purse, For nothing by her I've resolved shall be done, She shall sit at that board, as you
sit on the throne.

19. "Perhaps now, you expect that I should begin To tell you the men I design to bring in;
But we're not yet determined on all their demands -And you'll know soon enough, when they come
to kiss hands.

20. "All that weathercock Pultney shall ask, we must grant, For to make him a great noble nothing,
I want; And to cheat such a man, demands all my arts, For though he's a fool, he's a fool with
great parts,

21. "And as popular Clodius, the Pultney of Rome, >From a noble, for power did plebeian become,
So this Clodius to be a Patrician shall choose, Till what one got by changing, the other shall
lose.

22. "Thus flatter'd and courted, and gaz'd at by all, Like Phaeton, rais'd for a day, he shall
fall, Put the world in a flame, and show he did strive To get reins in his hand, though 'tis
plain he can't drive.

23. "For your foreign affairs, howe'er they turn out, At least I'll take care you shall make
a great rout: Then cock your great hat, strut, bounce, and look bluff, For though kick'd and
cuffd here, you shall there kick and cuff.

24. "That Walpole did nothing they all used to say, So I'll do enough, but I'll make the dogs
pay; Great fleets I'll provide, and great armies engage, Whate'er debts we make, or whate'er
wars we wage."

25. With cordials like these the Monarch's new guest Revived his sunk spirits and gladden'd
his heart; Till in raptures he cried, " y dear Lord, you shall do Whatever you will, give me
troops to review.

26. "But oh! my dear England, since this is thy state, Who is there that loves thee but weeps
at thy fate? Since in changing thy masters, thou art just like old Rome, Whilst Faction, Oppression,
and Slavery's thy doom.

27. "For though you have made that rogue Walpole retire, You're out of the frying-pan into
the fire! But since to the Protestant line I'm a friend, I tremble to think where these changes
may end!"

This has not been printed.  You see the burthen of all the songs Is the rogue Walpole, which
he has observed himself, but I believe is content, as long as they pay off his arrears to those
that began the tune.  Adieu!

(722) Admiral Matthews's crew having disturbed some Roman Catholic ceremonies in a little island
on the coast of Italy, hung a crucifix about a monkey's neck.

(723) It was certainly written by Lord Hervey.

(724) Lady Yarmouth.

(725) Sir Charles Wager's nephew, and Secretary to the Admiralty.

(726) Countess Dowager of Deloraine, governess to the young Princesses.

293 Letter 87 To Sir Horace Mann. Houghton, Oct. 23, 1742.

At last I see an end of my pilgrimage; the day after tomorrow I am affirming it to you as earnestly
as if' you had been doubting of it like myself: but both my brothers are here, and Sir Robert
will let me go.  He must follow himself soon: the Parliament meets the 16th of November, that
the King may go abroad the first of March: but if all threats prove true prophecies, he will
scarce enter upon heroism so soon, for we are promised a winter just like the last-new Secret
Committees to be tried for, and impeachments actually put into execution. It is horrid to have
a prospect of a session like the last.

In the meantime, my Lord of Bath and Lord Hervey, who seem deserted by every body else, are
grown the greatest friends in the world at Bath; and to make a complete triumvirate, my Lord
Gower is always of their party: how they must love one another, the late, the present, and
the would-be Privy Seal!

Lord Hyndford has had great honours in Prussia: that King bespoke for him a service of plate
to the value of three thousand pounds.  He asked leave for his Majesty's arms to be put upon
it: the King replied, "they should, with the arms of Silesia added to his paternal coat for
ever." I will tell you Sir ]Robert's remark on this: "He is rewarded thus for having obtained
Silesia for the King of Prussia, which he was sent to preserve to the Queen of Hungary!"  Her
affairs begin to take a little better turn again; Broglio is prevented from joining Maillebois,
who, they affirm, can never bring his army off, as the King of Poland is guarding all the avenues
of Saxony, to prevent his passing through that country.

I wrote to you in my last to desire that the Dominichin and my statue might come by a man-of-war.
Now.  Sir Robert, who is impatient for his picture, would have it sent in a Dutch ship, as
he says he can easily get it from Holland.  If you think this conveyance quite safe, I beg
my statue may bear it company.

Tell me if you are tired of ballads on my Lord Bath; if you are not, here is another admirable
one,(727) I believe by the same hand as the others; but by the conclusion certainly ought not
to be Williams's.  I only send you the good ones, for the newspapers are every day full of
bad ones on this famous earl.

My compliments to the Princess; I dreamed last night that she was come to Houghton, and not
at all `epuis`ee with her journey.  Adieu!

P.S. I must add a postscript, to mention a thing I have often designed to ask you to do for
me.  Since I came to England I have been buying drawings, (the time is well chosen, when I
had neglected it in Italy!)  I saw at Florence two books that I should now be very glad to
have, if you could get them tolerably reasonable; one was at an English painter's; I think
his name was Huckford, over against your house in via Bardi; they were of Holbein: the other
was of Guercino, and brought to me to see by the Abb`e Bonducci; my dear child, you will oblige
me much if you can get them.

(727) Sir Charles Hanbury Williams's ode, beginning "What Statesman, what Hero, what King-."
It is to be found in all editions of his poems.-D.

294 Letter 88
             To Sir Horace Mann.
Arlington Street, Nov. 1, 1742.

I have not felt so pleasantly these three months as I do at present, though I have a great
cold with coming into an unaired house, and have been forced to carry that cold to the King's
levee and the drawing-room.  There were so many new faces that I scarce knew where I was; I
should have taken 'it for Carlton House, or my Lady Mayoress's visiting-day, only the people
did not seem enough at home, but rather as admitted to see the King dine in public.  'Tis quite
ridiculous to see the numbers of old ladies, who, from having been wives of patriots, have
not been dressed these twenty years; out they come, in all the accoutrements that were in use
in Queen Anne's days.  Then the joy and awkward jollity of them is inexpressible!  They titter,
and, wherever you meet them, are always going to court, and looking at their watches an hour
before the time.  I met several on the birthday, (for I did not arrive time enough to make
clothes,) and they were dressed in all the colours of the rainbow: they seem to have said to
themselves twenty years ago, ,Well, if ever I do go to court again, I will have a pink and
silver, or a blue and silver," and they keep their resolutions.- But here's a letter from you,
sent to me back from Houghton; I must stop to read it.-Well, I have read it, and am diverted
with Madame Grifoni's being with child; I hope she was too.  I don't wonder that she hates
the country; I dare to say her child does not owe its existence to the Villeggiatura.  When
you wrote, it seems you had not heard what a speedy determination was put to Don Philip's reign
in Savoy.  I suppose he will retain the title: you know great princes are fond of titles, which
proves they are not so great as they once were.

I find a very different face of things from what we had conceived in the country.  There are,
indeed, thoughts of renewing attacks on Lord Orford, and Of stepping the supplies; but the
new ministry laugh at these threats, having secured a vast majority in the House: the Opposition
themselves own that the Court will have upwards of a hundred majority: I don't, indeed, conceive
how; but they are confident of carrying every thing.  They talk of Lord Gower's not keeping
the privy seal; that he will either resign it, or have it taken away: Lord Bath, who is entering
into all the court measures, is most likely to succeed him.  The late Lord Privy Seal(728)
has had a most ridiculous accident at Bath: he used to play in a little inner room; but one
night some ladies had got it, and he was reduced to the public room; but being extremely absent
and deep in politics, he walked through the little room to a convenience behind the curtain,
from whence (still absent) he produced himself in a situation extremely diverting to the women:
imagine his delicacy, and the passion he was in at their laughing!

I laughed at myself prodigiously the other day for a piece of absence; I was writing on the
King's birthday, and being disturbed with the mob in the street, I rang for the porter, and,
with an air of grandeur, as if I was still at Downing Street, cried, "Pray send away those
marrowbones and cleavers!" The poor fellow with the most mortified air in the world, replied,
"Sir, they are not at our door, but over the way at my Lord Carteret's." "Oh," said I, "then
let them alone; may be he does not dislike the noise!" I pity the poor porter, who sees all
his old customers going over the way too.

Our operas begin to-morrow with a pasticcio, full of most of my favourite songs: the Fumagalli
has disappointed us; she had received an hundred ducats, and then wrote word that she had spent
them, and was afraid of coming through the Spanish quarters; but if they would send her an
hundred more, she would come next year.  Villettes has what been written to in the strongest
manner to have her forced hither (for she is at Turin.) I tell you this by way of key, in case
you should receive a mysterious letter in cipher from him about this important business.

I have not seen Due d'Aremberg; but I hear that all the entertainments for him are suppers,
for he -will dine at his own hour, eleven in the morning.  He proposed it to the Duchess of
Richmond when she invited him; but she said she did not know where to find company to dine
with him at that hour.

I must advise YOU to be cautious how you refuse humouring our captains (729) in any of their
foolish schemes; for they are popular, and I should be very sorry to have them out of humour
with you when they come home, lest it should give any handle to your enemies.  Think of it,
my dear child! The officers in Flanders, that are members of parliament, have had intimations,
that if they asked leave to come on their private affairs, and drop in, not all together, they
will be very well received; this is decorum.  Little Brook's little wife is a little with child.
Adieu!

(728) Lord Hervey.

(729) The captains of ships in the English fleet at Leghorn.

296 Letter 89 To Sir Horace Mann. London, Nov. 15, 1742.

I have not written to you lately, expecting letters from you; last I have received two.  I
still send mine through France, as I am afraid they would get to you with still more difficulty
through Holland.

Our army is just now ordered to march to Mayence, at the repeated instances of the Queen of
Hungary; Lord Stair goes with them, but almost all the officers that arc in parliament arc
come over, for the troops are only to be in garrison till March, when, it is said, the King
will take the field with them.  This step makes a great noise, for the old remains of the Opposition
are determined to persist, and have termed this a H(inoverian measure.  They begin to-morrow,
with opposing the address on the King's speech: Pitt is to be the leading mail; there are none
but he and Lyttelton of the Prince's court, who do not join with the ministry: the Prince has
told them, that he will follow the advice they long ago gave him, "turning out all his people
who do not vote as he would have them."

Lord Orford is come to town, and was at the King's levee to-day; the joy the latter showed
to see him was very visible: all the new ministry came and spoke to him; and he had a long,
laughing conversation with my Lord Chesterfield, who is still in Opposition.

You have heard, I suppose, of the revolution in the French Court; Madame de Mailly is disgraced,
and her handsome sister De la Tournelle(730) succeeds: the latter insisted on three conditions;
first, that the Mailly should quit the palace before she entered it; next, that she should
be declared mistress, to which post, they pretend, there is a large salary annexed, (but that
is not probable,) and lastly, that she may always have her own parties at supper: the last
article would very well explain what she proposes to do with her salary.

There are admirable instructions come up from Worcester to Sandys and Winnington; they tell
the latter how little hopes they always had of him.  "But for you, Mr. Sandys, who have always,
etc., you to snatch at the first place you could get," etc.  In short, they charge him, who
is in the Treasury and Exchequer not to vote for any supplies.(731)

I write to you in a vast hurry, for I am going to the meeting at the Cockpit, to hear the King's
speech read to the members: Mr. Pelham presides there.  They talk of a majority of fourscore:
we shall see to-morrow.

The Pomfrets stay in the country most part of the winter-. Lord Lincoln and Mr. (George) Pitt
have declared off in form.(732)  So much for the schemes of my lady!  The Duke of Grafton used
to say that they put him in mind of a troop of Italian comedians; Lord Lincoln was Valere,
Lady Sophia, Columbine, and my lady the old mother behind the scenes.

Our operas go on au plus miserable: all our hopes lie in a new dancer, Sodi, who has performed
but once, but seems to please as much as the Fausan.  Did I tell you how well they had chosen
the plot of the first opera? There was a prince who rebels against his father, who had before
rebelled against his.(733)  The Duke of Montagu says, there is to be an opera of dancing, with
singing between the acts.

My Lord Tyrawley(734) is come from Portugal, and has brought three wives and fourteen children;
one of the former is a Portuguese, with long black hair plaited down to the bottom of her back.
He was asked the other night at supper, what he thought of England; whether he found much alteration
from fifteen years ago?  "No," he said, "not at all: why, there is my Lord Bath, I don't see
the least alteration in him; he is just what he was: and then I found Lord Grantham (735) walking
on tiptoe, as if he was still afraid of waking the Queen."

Hanbury Williams is very ill at Bath, and his wife in the same way in private lodgings in the
city.  Mr. Doddington has at last owned his match with his old mistress.(736)  I suppose he
wants a new one.

I commend your prudence about Leghorn; but, my dear child, what pain I am in about you! Is
it possible to be easy while the Spaniards are at your gates! write me word every minute as
your apprehensions vanish or increase.  I ask every moment what people think; but how can they
tell here? You say nothing of Mr. Chute, sure he is with You Still! When I am in such uneasiness
about you, I want you every post to mention your friends being with you: I am sure you have
none so good or sensible as he is.  I am vastly obliged to you for the thought of the book
of shells, and shall like -it much; and thank you too about my Scagliola table; but I am distressed
about your expenses.  Is there any way one could get your allowance increased? You know how
low my interest is now; but you know too what a push I would make to be of any service to you-tell
me,, and adieu!

(730) Afterwards created Duchess of Chateauroux. (Mary Anne (le Mailly, widow of the Marquis
de la Tournelle.  She succeeded her sister Madame de Mailly, as mistress of Louis XV., as the
latter had succeeded the other sister, Madame de Vintimille, in the same situation.  Madame
de Chateauroux was sent away from the court during the illness of Louis at Metz; but on his
recovery he recalled her.  Shortly after which she died, December 10, 1744, and on her deathbed
accused M. de Maurepas, the minister, of having poisoned her.  The intrigue, by means of which
she supplanted her sister, was conducted principally by the Marshal de Richelieu.-D.

(731) "We earnestly entreat, insist, and require, that you will postpone the supplies until
you have renewed the secret committee of inquiry."-E.

(732) An admirer of Lady Sophia Fermor.-D.

(733) This was a pasticcio, called "Mandane," another name for Metastasio's drama of "Artaserse."-E.

(734) Lord Tyrawley was many years ambassador at Lisbon.  Pope has mentioned his and another
ambassador's seraglios in one of his imitations of Horace, "Kinnoul's lewd cargo, or Tyrawley's
crew." [James O'Hara, second and last Lord Tyrawley of that family, He died in 1773, at the
age of eighty-five.]

(735) Henry Nassau d'Auverquerque, second Earl of Grantham. He had been chamberlain to Queen
Caroline.  He died in 1754, when his titles became extinct.-E.

(736) Mrs. Beghan.

298 Letter 90 To Sir Horace Mann. Arlington Street, Dec. 2, 1742.,

You will wonder that it is above a fortnight Since I wrote to you; but I have had an inflammation
in one of my eyes, and durst not meddle with a pen.  I have had two letters from you of Nov.
6th and 13th, but I am in the utmost impatience for another, to hear you are quite recovered
of your Trinculos and FuribOndos.  You tell me you was in a fever; I cannot be easy till I
hear from you again.  I hope this will come much too late for a medicine, but it will always
serve for sal volatile to give you spirits.  Yesterday was appointed for considering the army;
but Mr. Lyttelton stood up and moved for another Secret Committee, in the very words of last
year; but the whole debate ran, not upon Robert Earl of Orford, but Robert Earl of Sandys:(737)
he is the constant butt of the party; indeed he bears it notably.  After five hours' haranguing,
we came to a division, and threw out the motion by a majority of sixty-seven, 253 against 186.
The Prince had declared so openly for union and agreement in all measures, that, except the
Nepotism,(738) all his servants but one were with us.  I don't know whether they will attempt
any thing else, but with these majorities we must have an easy winter.  The union of the Whigs
has saved this parliament.  It is expected that Pitt and Lyttelton will be dismissed by the
Prince.  That faction and Waller are the only Whigs of any note that do not join with the Court.
I do not  count Doddington, who must now always be with the minority, for no majority will
accept him. It is believed that Lord Gower will retire, or be desired to do so.  I suppose
you have heard from Rome,(739) that Murray is made Solicitor-general, in the room of Sir John
Strange, who has resigned for his health.  This is the sum of politics; we can't expect any
winter, (I hope no winter will be) like the last.  By the crowds that come hither, one should
not know that Sir Robert is out of place, only that now he is scarce abused.

De reste, the town is wondrous dull; operas unfrequented, plays not in fashion, amours as old
as marriages-in short, nothing but whist!  I have not yet learned to play, but I find that
I wait in vain for its being left off.

I agree with you about not sending home the Dominichin in an English vessel; but what I mentioned
to you of its coming in a Dutch vessel, if you find an opportunity, I think will be very safe,
if you approve it; but manage that as you like.  I shall hope for my statue at the same time;
but till the conveyance is absolutely safe, I know you will not venture them.  Now I mention
my statue, I must beg you will send me a full bill of all my debts to you, which I am sure
by this time must be infinite; I beg to know the particulars, that I may pay your brother.
Adieu, my dear Sir; take care of yourself, and submit to popery and slavery rather than get
colds with sea-heroes.(740)

(737) Samuel Sandys, chancellor of the Exchequer, in the room of Sir R. Walpole.

(738) Lord Cobham's nephews and cousins.-D.

(739) This alludes to the supposed Jacobite principles of Murray, afterwards Lord Mansfield.-D.

(740) Sir H. Mann had complained, in one of his letters, of the labours he had gone through
in doing the honours of Florence to some of Admiral Matthews's (il Furibondo) officers. They
will probably march in two months, if no peace prevents it.  Adieu!

(741) Upon a motion, made by Sir William Yonge, that 534,763 pounds be granted for defraying
the charge of 16,259 men, to be employed in Flanders.  The numbers on the division were 280
against 160.-E.

(742) From Toryism.-D.

(743) Hugh Hume, third Earl of Marchmont.

(744) This alludes to the extravagant encomiums bestowed on Glover's Leonidas by the young
patriots.

(746) A famous dancer.

301 Letter 92 To Sir Horace Mann. Arlington Street, Dec. 23, 1742.

I have had no letter from you this fortnight, and I have heard nothing this month: judge now
how fit I am to write.  I hope it is not another mark of growing old; but, I do assure you,
my writing begins to leave me.  Don't be frightened! I don't mean this as an introduction towards
having done with you-I will write to you to the very stump of my pen, and as Pope says,

"Squeeze out the last dull droppings of my sense."

But I declare, it is hard to sit spinning out one's brains by the fireside, without having
heard the least thing to set one's hand a-going.  I am so put to it for something to say, that
I would make a memorandum of the most improbable lie that could be invented by a viscountess-dowager;
as the old Duchess of Rutland (747) does when she is told of some strange casualty, "Lucy,
child, step into the next room and set that down."-"Lord, Madam!" says Lady Lucy,(748) "it
can't be true!"-"Oh, no matter, child; it will do for news into the country next post." But
do you conceive that the kingdom of the Dull is come upon earth-not with the forerunners and
prognostics of other to-come kingdoms? No, no; the sun and the moon go on just as they used
to do, without giving us any hints: we see no knights come prancing upon pale horses, or red
horses; no stars, called wormwood, fall into the Thames, and turn a third part into wormwood;
no locusts, like horses, with their hair as the hair of women-in short, no thousand things,
each of which destroys a third part of mankind: the only token of this new kingdom is a woman
riding on a beast, which is the mother of abominations, and the name in the forehead is whist:
and the four-and-twenty elders, and the woman, and the whole town, do nothing but play with
this beast.  Scandal itself is dead, or confined to a pack of cards; for the only malicious
whisper I have heard this fortnight, is of an intrigue between the Queen of hearts and the
Knave of clubs.  Y our friend Lady Sandwich (749) has got a son; if one may believe the belly
she wore, it is a brave one.  Lord Holderness(750) has lately given a magnificent repast to
fifteen persons; there were three courses of ten, fifteen, and fifteen, and a sumptuous dessert:
a great saloon illuminated, odours, and violins-and, who do you think were the invited?-the
Visconti, Giuletta, the Galli, Amorevoli, Monticelli, Vanneschi and his wife, Weedemans the
hautboy, the prompter, etc. The bouquet was given to the Guiletta, who is barely handsome.
How can one love magnificence and low company at the same instant!  We are making great parties
for the Barberina and the Auretti, a charming French girl; and our schemes succeed so well,
that the opera begins to fill surprisingly; for all those who don't love music, love noise
and party, and will any night give half-a-guinea for the liberty of hissing-such is English
harmony.

I have been in a round of dinners with Lord Stafford, and Bussy the French minister, who tells
one stories of Capuchins, confessions, Henri Quatre, Louis XIV., Gascons, and the string which
all Frenchmen go through, without any connexion or relation to the discourse.  These very stories,
which I have already heard four times, are only interrupted by English puns, which old Churchill
translates out of jest-books into the mouth of my Lord Chesterfield, and into most execrable
French.

Adieu! I have scribbled, and blotted, and made nothing out, and, in short, have nothing to
say, so good night!

(747) Lady Lucinda Sherard, widow of John Manners, second Duke of Rutland.  She died in 1751.-E.

(748) Lady Lucy Manners, married, in 1742, to William, second Duke of Montrose.  She died in
1788.-E.

(749) Judith, sister of Lord Viscount Fane, wife of John Montagu, fifth Earl of Sandwich.-E.

(750) Robert d'Arcy, fourth Earl of Holderness; subsequently made secretary of State.  Upon
his death his earldom extinguished, and what remained of his estate, as well as the Barony
of Conyers, descended to his only daughter, who was married to Francis Osborne, fifth Duke
of Leeds, in 1773.-D. [From whom she was divorced in 1779.  She afterwards married Captain
John Byron, son of Admiral Byron, and father of the great poet.]

302 Letter 93 To Sir Horace Mann. Arlington Street, Jan. 6, 1743.

You will wonder that you have not heard from me, but I have been too ill to write.  I have
been confined these ten days with a most violent cough, and they suspected an inflammation
on my lungs; but I am come off with the loss of my eyes and my voice, both of which I am recovering,
and would write to you to-day.  I have received your long letter of December 11th, and return
you a thousand thanks for giving up so much of your time; I wish I could make as long a letter
for you, but we arc in a neutrality of news.  The Elector Palatine (751) is dead; but I have
not heard what alterations that will make.  Lord Wilmington's death, which is reckoned hard
upon, is likely to make more conversation here.  He is going to Bath, but that is only to pass
away the time until be dies.

The great Vernon is landed, but we have not been alarmed with any bonfires or illuminations;
he has outlived all his popularity.  There is nothing new but the separation of a Mr. and Mrs.
French, whom it is impossible you should know.  She has been fashionable these two winters;
her husband has commenced a suit in Doctors' Commons against her cat, and will, they say, recover
considerable damages: but the lawyers are of opinion, that the kittens must inherit Mr. French's
estate, as they were born in lawful wedlock.

The parliament meets again on Monday, but I don't hear of any fatigue that we are likely to
have; in a little time, I suppose, we shall hear what campaigning we are to make.

I must tell you of an admirable reply of your acquaintance the Duchess of Queensberry:(752)
old Lady Granville, Lord Carteret's mother, whom they call the Queen-Mother, from taking upon
her to do the honours of her son's power, was pressing the duchess to ask her for some place
for herself or friends, and assured her that she would procure it, be it what it would.  Could
she have picked out a fitter person to be gracious to?  The duchess made her a most grave curtsey,
and said, "Indeed, there was one thing she had set her heart on."-"Dear child, how you oblige
me by asking, any thing! What is it?  tell me."  "Only that you would speak to my Lord Carteret
to get me made lady of the bedchamber to the Queen of Hungary."

I come now to your letter, and am not at all pleased to find that the Princess absolutely intends
to murder you with her cold rooms.  I wish you could come on those cold nights and sit by my
fireside; I have the prettiest warm little apartment, with all my baubles, and Patapans, and
cats! Patapan and I go to-morrow to New Park, to my lord, for the air, and come back with him
on Monday.

What an infamous story that affair of Nomis is! and how different the ideas of honour among
officers in your world and ours!  Your history of cicisbeosm is more entertaining: I figure
the distress of a parcel of lovers who have so many things to dread-the government in this
world! purgatory in the next! inquisitions, villeggiaturas, convents, etc.

Lord Essex is extremely bad, and has not strength enough to go through the remedies that are
necessary to his recovery.  He now fancies that he does not exist, will not be persuaded to
walk or talk, because, as he sometimes says, "How should he do any thing? he is not."  You
say, "How came I not to see Duc d'Aremberg?" I did once at the opera; but he went away soon
after: and here it is not the way to visit foreigners, unless you are of the Court, or are
particularly in a way of having them at your house: consequently Sir R. never saw him either-we
are not of the Court! Next, as to Arlington Street: Sir R. is in a middling kind of house,
which has long been his, and was let; he has taken a small one next to it for me, and they
are laid together.

I come now to speak to you of the affair of the Duke of Newcastle; but absolutely, on considering
it much myself, and on talking of it with your brother, we both are against your attempting
any such thing.  In the first place, I never heard a suspicion of the duke's taking presents,
and should think he would rather be affronted: in the next place, my dear child, though you
are fond of that coffee-pot, it would be thought nothing among such wardrobes as he has, of
the finest wrought plate: why, he has- a set of gold plates that would make a figure on any
sideboard in the Arabian Tales;(753) and as to Benvenuto cellini, if the duke could take it
for his, people in England understand all work too well to be deceived. Lastly, as there has
been no talk of alterations in the foreign ministers, and as all changes seem at an end, why
should you be apprehensive?  As to Stone,(754) if any thing was done, to be sure it should
be to him though I really can't advise even that.  These are my sentiments sincerely: by no
means think of the duke.  Adieu!

(751) Charles Philip of Neubourg, , Elector Palatine.  He died December 31, 1742.  He was succeeded
by Charles Theodore, Prince of Sulzbach, descended from a younger branch of the house of Neubourg,
and who, in his old age, became Elector of Bavaria.-D.

(752) Catherine Hyde, daughter of the Earl of Clarendon, and wife of Charles Douglas, Duke
of Queensberry; a famous beauty, celebrated by Prior in that pretty poem which begins, "Kitty,
beautiful and young," and often mentioned in Swift and Pope's letters, She was forbid the Court
for promoting subscriptions to the second part of the Beggar's Opera, when it had been prohibited
from being acted.  She and the duke erected the monument to Gay in Westminster Abbey. [And
to which Pope supplied the epitaph, "the first eight lines of which," says Dr. Johnson, "have
no grammar; the adjectives without substantives, and the epithets without a subject." The duchess
died in 1777, and her husband in the year following.]

(753) Walpole, in his Memoires, says that the duke's houses, gardens, table, and equipages
swallowed immense treasures, and that the sums he owed were only exceeded by those he wasted.
He employed several physicians, without having had apparently much need of them.  His gold
plate appears to have been almost as dear to him as his health; for he usually kept it in pawn,
except when he wished to display it on great occasions.

(754) Andrew Stone, at this time private secretary to the Duke of Newcastle.  he subsequently
filled the offices of under- secretary of state, sub-governor to Prince George, keeper of the
state-paper office, and, on the marriage of George the third, treasurer to the Queen.  he died
in 1773.-E.

304 Letter 94 To Sir Horace Mann. Arlington Street, Jan. 13, 1743,

Your brother brought me two letters together this morning, and at the same time showed me yours
to your father. How should I be ashamed, were I he, to receive such a letter! so dutiful, so
humble, and yet so expressive of the straits to which he has let you be reduced! My dear child,
it looks too much like the son of a minister, when I am no longer so; but I can't help repeating
to you offers of any kind of service that you think I can do for you any way.

I am quite happy at your thinking Tuscany so secure from Spain, unless the wise head of Richcourt
works against the season; but how can I ever be easy while a provincial Frenchman, Something
half French, half German, instigated by a mad Englishwoman is to govern an Italian dominion?

I laughed much at the magnificent presents made by one of the first families in Florence to
their young accouch`ee.  Do but think if a Duke or Duchess of Somerset were to give a Lady
Hertford fifty pounds and twenty yards of velvet for bringing an heir to the blood of Seymour!

It grieves me that my letters drop in so slowly to you: I have never missed writing, but when
I have been absolutely too much out of order, or once or twice when I had no earthly thing
to tell you.  This winter is so quiet, that one must inquire much to know any thing.  The parliament
is met again, but we do not hear of any intended opposition to any thing.  the tories have
dropped the affair of the Hanoverians in the House of Lords, in compliment to Lord Gower. 
there is a second pamphlet on that subject which makes a great noise.(755)  The ministry are
much distressed on the ways and means for raising the money for this year: there is to be a
lottery, but that will not supply a quarter of what they want.  Nothing is determined; the
new folks do not shine at expedients.  Sir Robert's health is now drunk at all the clubs in
the city; there they are for having him made a duke, and placed again at the head of the Treasury;
but I believe nothing could prevail on him to return thither.  He says he will keep the 12th
of February,.-the day he resigned, with his family as long as he lives.  They talk of Sandys
being raised to the peerage, by way of getting rid of him; he is so dull they can scarce draw
him on.(756)

The English troops in Flanders march to-day, whither we don't know, but "probably to Liege:
from whence they imagine the Hanoverians are going into Juliers and Bergue.(757)  The ministry
have been greatly alarmed with the King of Sardinia's retreat, and suspected that it was a
total one from the Queen's interest; but it seems he sent for Villettes and the Hungarian minister,
and had their previous approbations of his deserting Chamberry, etc.

Vernon is not yet got to town, we are impatient for what will follow the arrival of this mad
hero.  Wentworth will certainly challenge him, but Vernon does not profess personal valour:
he was once knocked down by a merchant, who then offered him satisfaction-but he was satisfied.

Lord Essex' is dead:(758) Lord Lincoln will have the bedchamber; Lord Berkeley of Stratton(759)
(a disciple of Carteret's) the Pensioners; and Lord Carteret himself probably the riband.

As to my Lady Walpole's dormant title,(760) it was in her family; but being in the King's power
to give to which sister in equal claim he pleased, it was bestowed on Lord Clinton, who descended
from the younger sister of Lady W.'s grandmother, or great grand-something.  My Lady Clifford,(761)
Coke's mother, got her barony so, in preference to Lady Salisbury and Lady Sondes, her elder
sisters, who had already titles for their children.  It is called a title in abeyance.

Sir Robert has just bid me tell you to send the Dominichin by the first safe conveyance to
Matthews, who has had orders from Lord Winchilsea (762) to send it by the first man-of-war
to England; or if you meet with a ship going to Port Mahon, then you must send it thither to
Anstruther, and write to him that Lord Orford desires that he will take care of it, and send
it by the first ship that comes directly home.  He is so impatient for it, that he will have
it thus; but I own I should not like to have my things tumbled out of one ship into another,
and beg mine may stay till they can come at once. Adieu!

(755) Entitled "The Case of the Hanover Forces in the Pay of Great Britain examined."  It was
written by Lord Chesterfield, and excited much attention.-E.

(756) In December he was created a peer, by the title of Lord Sandys, Baron of Ombersley, and
made cofferer of the household.-E.

(757) The British troops began their march from Flanders at the end of February, under the
command of the Earl of Stair; but were so tardy in their movements, that it was the middle
of May before they crossed the Rhine and fixed their station at Hochst, between Mayence and
Frankfort.-E.

(758) William Capel, third Earl of Essex. [A lord of the bedchamber, knight of the garter,
and captain of the yeomen of the guard.)

(759) John, fifth and last Lord Berkeley of Stratton.  He died in 1773.-D.

(760) The barony of Clinton in fee descended to the daughters of Theophilus, Earl of Huntingdon,
who died without male issue.  One of those ladies died without children, by which means the
title lay between the families of Rolle and Fortescue.  King George I. gave it to Hugh Fortescue,
afterwards Created an earl; on whose death it descended to his only sister, a maiden lady,
after whom, without issue, it devolved on Lady Orford.

(761) Lady Margaret Tufton, third daughter of Thomas, sixth Earl of Thanet.  the barony of
De Clifford had descended to Lord Thanet, from his mother, Lady Margaret Sackville, daughter
of Anne Clifford, Countess of Dorset, Pembroke, and Montgomery.  Upon Lord Thanet's death,
the barony of De Clifford fell into abeyance between his five daughters.  These were Lady Catherine,
married to Edward Watson, Viscount Sondus; Lady Anne, married to James Cecil, Earl of Salisbury;
Lady Margaret, before mentioned; Lady Mary, married first to Anthony Grey, Earl of Harold,
and secondly to John Earl Gower; and Lady Isabella, married to Lord Nassau Powlett.-D.

(762) First lord of the admiralty.-]).

306 Letter 95 To Sir Horace Mann. Arlington Street, Jan. 27, 1743.

I could not write you last Thursday, I was so much out of order with a cold; your brother came
and found me in bed. TO-night, that I can write, I have nothing to tell you; except that yesterday
the welcome news (to the ministry) came of the accession of the Dutch to the King's measures.
They are in great triumph; but till it Is clear what part his Prussian Uprightness is acting,
other people take the liberty to be still in suspense.  So they are about all our domestic
matters too.  It is a general stare! the alteration that must soon happen in the Treasury will
put some end to the uncertainties of this winter.  Mr. Pelham is universally named to the head
of it; but Messrs.  Prince,(263) Carteret, Pultney, and Companies must be a little considered.
how they will like it: the latter the least.

You will wonder, perhaps be peevish, when I protest I have not another paragraph by me in the
world.  I want even common conversation; for I cannot persist, like the royal family, in asking
people the same questions, "Do you love walking?" "Do you love music'!" "Was you at the opera?"
"When do you go into the country!"  I have nothing else to say: nothing happens; scarce the
common episodes of a newspaper, of a man falling off a ladder and breaking his leg; or of a
countryman cheated out of his leather pouch, with fifty shillings in it.  We are in such a
state of sameness, that I shall begin to wonder at the change of seasons, and talk of the spring
as a strange accident.  Lord Tyrawley, who has been fifteen years in Portugal, is of my opinion;
he says he finds nothing but a fog, whist, and the House of Commons.

In this lamentable state, when I know not what to write even to you, what can I do about my
serene Princess Grifoni? Alas! I owe her two letters, and where to find a beau sentiment, I
cannot tell! I believe I may have some by me in an old chest of draws, with some exploded red-heel
shoes and full-bottom wigs; but they would come out so yellow and moth-eaten! Do bow to her,
in every superlative degree in the language, that my eyes have been so bad, that as I wrote
you word, over and over, I have not been able to write a line.  That will move her, when she
hears what melancholy descriptions I write, of my not being able to write-nay, indeed it will
not be so ridiculous as you think; for it is ten times worse for the eyes to write in a language
one don't much practise! I remember a tutor at Cambridge, who had been examining some lads
in Latin, but in a little while excused himself, and said he must speak English, for his mouth
was very sore.

I had a letter from you yesterday of January 7th, N. S. which has wonderfully excited my compassion
for the necessities of the princely family,(764) and the shifts the old Lady' is put to for
quadrille.(765)

I triumph much on my penetration about the honest Rucellai(766)-we little people, who have
no honesty, virtue, nor shame, do so exult when a good neighbour, who was a pattern, turns
out as bad as oneself!  We are like the good woman in the Gospel, who chuckled so much on finding
her lost bit; we have more joy on a saint's fall, than in ninety-nine devils, who were always
de nous autres! I am a little pleased too, that Marquis BagneSi'(767) whom you know I always
liked much, has behaved so well; and am more pleased to hear what a Beffana(768) the Electress(769)
is-Pho! here am I sending you back your own paragraphs, cut and turned! it is so silly to think
that you won't know them again! I will not spin myself any longer; it is better to make a short
letter.  I am going to the masquerade, and will fancy myself in via della Pergola.(770)  Adieu!
"Do you know me?"-"That man there with you, in the black domino, is Mr. Chute.,, Good night!

(763) Frederick, Prince of Wales.-D.

(764) Prince and Princess Craon.

(765) Madame Sarasin.

(766) Sir H. Mann says, in his letter of January 7, 1743, 11 I must be so just as to tell you,
@my friend, the Senator Rucellai, is, as you always thought, a sad fellow.  He has quite abandoned
me for fear of offending."-D.

(767) "Apropos of duels, two of our young nobles, Marquis BagneSi and Strozzi, have fought
about a debt of' fifteen shillings; the latter, the creditor and the occasion of the fight,
behaved ill."-Letter from Sir H. Mann, dated Jan. 7, 1743.-D.

(768) A Beffana was a puppet, which was carried about the town on the evening of the Epiphany.
The word is derived from Epifania.  It also means an ugly woman.  The Electress happened to
go out for the first time after an illness on the Epiphany, and said in joke to Prince Craon,
that the "Beffane all went abroad on that day."-D.

(769) The Electress Palatine Dowager, the last of the House of Medici.

(770) A street at Florence, in which the Opera house stands.

308 Letter 96 To Sir Horace Mann. Arlington Street, Feb. 2, 1743.

Last night at the Duchess of Richmond's I saw Madame Goldsworthy: what a pert, little, unbred
thing it is! The duchess presented us to one another; but I cannot say that either of us stepped
a foot beyond the first civilities.  The good duchess was for harbouring her and all her brood:
how it happened to her I don't conceive, but the thing had decency enough to refuse it.  She
is going to live with her father at Plymouth-tant mieux!

The day before yesterday the lords had a great day: Earl Stanhope(771) moved for an address
to his Britannic Majesty, in consideration of the heavy wars, taxes, etc. far exceeding all
that ever were known, to exonerate his people of foreign troops, Hanoverians,) which are so
expensive, and can In no light answer the ends for which they were hired.  Lord Sandwich seconded:
extremely well, I hear, for I was not there.  Lord Carteret answered, but was under great concern.
Lord Bath spoke too, and would fain have persuaded that this measure was not Solely Of one
minister, but that himself and all the council were equally concerned in it.  The late Privy
Seal(772) Spoke for an hour and a half, with the greatest applause, against the Hanoverians:
and my Lord Chancellor extremely well for them.  The division was, 90 for the Court, 35 against
it  The present Privy Seal(773) voted with the Opposition: so there will soon be another. 
Lord Halifax, the Prince's new Lord, was with the minority too; the other, Lord Darnley,(774)
with the Court.  After the division, Lord Scarborough, his Royal Highness's Treasurer, moved
an address of approbation of the measure, which was carried by 78 to the former 35.  Lord Orford
was ill, and could not be there, but sent his proxy: he has got a great cold and slow fever,
but does not keep his room.  If Lord Gower loses the Privy Seal, (as it is taken for granted
he does not design to keep it,) and Lord Bath refuses it, Lord Cholmondeley stands the fairest
for it.

I will conclude abruptly, for you will be tired of my telling you that I have nothing to tell
you-but so it is literally- oh! yes, you will want to know what the Duke of Argyle did-he was
not there; he is every thing but superannuated.  Adieu!

(771) Philip, second Earl Stanhope, born in 1714.  He succeeded his father when he was only
seven years old, and died in 1786.  His character is thus sketched by his great- grandson,
Viscount Mahon, in his History of England, vol. iii. p. 242.-"He had great talents, but fitter
for speculation than for practical objects of action.  He made himself one of the best-Lalande
used to say the best-mathematicians in England of his day, and was likewise deeply skilled
in other branches of science and philosophy.  The Greek language was as familiar to him as
the English; he was said to know every line of Homer by heart.  In public life, on the contrary,
he was shy, ungainly, and embarrassed.  From his first onset in Parliament, he took part with
vehemence against the administration of Sir Robert Walpole."  Bishop Secker says, that Lord
Stanhope "spoke a precomposed speech, which he held in his hand, with great tremblings and
agitations, and hesitated frequently in the midst of great vehemence."-E.

(772) Lord Hervey.

(773) Lord Gower.

(774) Edward Bligh, second Earl of Darnley, in Ireland, and Lord of the Bedchamber to Frederic
Prince of Wales.-D.

 309 Letter 97
To Sir Horace Mann.
Feb. 13, 1743.

Ceretesi tells me that Madame Galli is dead: I have had two letters from you this week; but
the last mentions only the death of old Strozzi.  I am quite sorry for Madame Galli, because
I proposed seeing her again, on my return to Florence, which I have firmly in my intention:
I hope it will be a little before Ceretesi's, for he seems to be planted here.  I don't conceive
who -waters him! Here are two noble Venetians that have carried him about lately to Oxford
and Blenheim: I am literally waiting for him now, to introduce him to Lady Brown's sunday night;
it is the great mart for all travelling and travelled calves-pho! here he is.

Monday morning.-Here is your brother: he tells me you never hear from me; how can that be?
I receive yours, and you generally mention having got one of mine, though long after the time
you should.  I never miss above one post, and that but very seldom.  I am longer receiving
yours, though you have never missed; but then-I frequently receive two at once.  I am delighted
with Goldsworthy's mystery about King Theodore! If you will promise me not to tell him, I will
tell you@a secret, which is, that if that person is not King Theodore, I assure you it is not
Sir Robert Walpole.

I have nothing to tell you but that Lord Effingham Howard(775) is dead, and Lord Litchfield(776)
at the point of death; he was struck with a palsy last Thursday.  Adieu!

(775) Francis, first Earl of Effingham, and seventh Lord Howard of Effingham.  He died February
12, 1743.-D.

(776) George Henry Lee, second Earl of Lichfield. You know in the last war in Spain, Lord Peterborough
rode galloping about to inquire for his army.

But to come to more real contests; Handel has set up an oratorio against the opera @ind succeeds.
I am sure you will enjoy it as much as we did.  Adieu!

310 Letter 99 To Sir Horace Mann. March 3d, 1743.

So, she is dead at last, the old Electress!(780)-well, I have nothing more to say about her
and the Medici; they had outlived all their acquaintance: indeed, her death makes the battle
very considerable -makes us call a victory what before we did not look upon as very decided
laurels.

Lord Hervey has entertained the town with another piece of wisdom: on Sunday it was declared
that he had married his eldest daughter the night before to a Mr. Phipps,(781) grandson of
the Duchess of Buckingham.  They sent for the boy but the day before from Oxford, and bedded
them at a day's notice.  But after all this mystery, it does not turn out that there is any
thing great in this match, but the greatness of the secret.  Poor Hervey,(782) the brother,
is in fear and trembling, for he apprehends being ravished to bed to some fortune or other
with as little ceremony.  The Oratorios thrive abundantly-for my part, they give me an idea
of heaven, where every body is to sing whether they have voices or not.

The Board (the Jacobite Club) have chosen his Majesty's Lord Privy Seal(783) for their President,
in the room of Lord Litchfield.  Don't you like the harmony of parties? We expect the parliament
will rise this month: I shall be sorry, for if I am not hurried out of town, at least every
body else will-and who can look forward from April to November? Adieu! though I write in defiance
of having nothing to say, yet you see I can't go a great way in this obstinacy; but you will
bear a short letter rather than none.

(780) Anna Maria of Medicis, daughter of Cosmo III. widow of John William, Elector Palatine.
After her husband's death she returned to Florence, where she died, Feb @ 7 1743, aged seventy-five,
being the last of that family.

(781) Constantine Phipps, in 1767, created Lord Mulgrave in Ireland.  He married, on the 26th
of February, Lepel, eldest daughter of Lord Hervey, and died in 1775.  Her ladyship was found
dead in her bed, 9th March, 1780, at her son's house in the Admiralty.-E.

(782) George William Hervey, afterwards second Earl of Bristol.  He died unmarried, in 1775.-E.

(783) Lord Gower.

 311 Letter 100
To Sir Horace Mann.
Arlington Street, March 14, 1743.

I don't at all know how to advise you about mourning; I always think that the custom of a country,
and what other foreign ministers do, should be your rule.  But I had a private scruple rose
with me: that was, whether you should show so much respect to the late woman (784) as other
ministers do, since she left that legacy to Quella a Roma.(785)  I mentioned this to my lord,
but he thinks that the tender manner of her wording it, takes off that exception; however,
he thinks it better that you should write for advice to your commanding officer.  That will
be very late, and you will probably have determined before.  You see what a casuist I am in
ceremony; I leave the question more perplexed than I found it.

Pray, Sir, congratulate me upon the new acquisition of glory to my family! We have long been
eminent statesmen; now that we are out of employment we have betaken ourselves to war-and we
have made great proficiency in a short season.  We don't run, like my Lord Stair, into Berg
and Juliers, to seek battles where we are sure of not finding them-we make shorter marches;
a step across the Court of Requests brings us to engagement. But not to detain you any longer
with flourishes, which will probably be inserted in my uncle Horace's patent when he is made
a field-marshal; you must know that he has fought a duel, and has scratched a scratch three
inches long on the side of his enemy-lo Paon! The circumstances of this memorable engagement
were, in short, that on some witness being to be examined the other day in the House upon remittances
to the army, my uncle said, He hoped they would indemnify him, if he told any thing that affected
himself." Soon after he was standing behind the Speaker's chair, and Will.  Chetwynd,(786)
an intimate of Bolingbroke, came up to him, What, Mr. Walpole, are you for rubbing up old sores?"
He replied, "I think I said very little, considering that you and your friends would last year
have hanged up me and my brother at the lobby-door without a trial."  Chetwynd answered, I
would still have you both have your deserts." The other said, If you and I had, probably I
should be here and you would be somewhere else." This drew more words, and Chetwynd took him
by the arm and led him out.  In the lobby, Horace said, "We shall be-observed, we had better
put it off till to-morrow."  "No, no, now! now!" When they came to the bottom of the stairs,
Horace said, "I am out of breath, let us draw here." They drew; Chetwynd hit him on the breast,
but was not near enough to pierce his coat. Horace made a pass which the other put by with
his hand, but It glanced along his side-a clerk, who had observed them go out together so arm-in-arm-ly,
could not believe it amicable, but followed them, and came up just time enough to beat down
their swords, as Horace had driven him against a post, and would probably have run him through
at the next thrust. Chetwynd went away to a surgeon's, and kept his bed the next day; he has
not reappeared yet, but is in no danger. I expect to see it daubed up by some circuit-painter
on the ceiling of the saloon at Woolterton.

I have no news to tell you, but that we hear King Theodore has sent over proposals of his person
and crown to Lady Lucy Stanhope,(788) with whom he fell in love the last time he was in England.

Princess Buckingham(789) is dead or dying: she has sent for Mr. Anstis, and settled the ceremonial
of her burial.  On Saturday she was so ill that she feared dying before all the pomp was come
home: she said, "Why won't they send the canopy for me to see? let them send it, though all
the tassels are not finished."  But yesterday was the greatest stroke of all! She made her
ladies vow to her, that if she should lie senseless, they would not sit down in the room before
she was dead.  She has a great mind to be buried by her father at Paris.  Mrs. Selwyn says,
"She need not be carried out of England, and yet be buried by her father." You know that Lady
Dorchester always told her, that old Graham(790) was her father.

I am much obliged to you for the trouble you have taken about the statue; do draw upon me for
it immediately, and for all my other debts to you: I am sure they must be numerous; pray don't
fail.

A thousand loves to the Chutes: a thousand compliments to the Princess; and a thousand-what?
to the Grifona.  Alas! what can one do? I have forgot all my Italian.  Adieu!

(784) The Electress Palatine Dowager.

(785) She left a legacy to the Pretender, describing him only by these words, To Him at Rome.

(786) William Chetwynd, brother of the Lord Viscount Chetwynd. On the coalition he was made
Master of the Mint.

(787) Coxe, in his Memoirs of Lord Walpole, gives the following account of this duel: "A motion
being made in the House of Commons, which Mr. Walpole supported, he said to Mr. Chetwynd, 'I
hope we shall carry this question.' Mr. Chetwynd replied, 'I hope to see you hanged first!'
'You see me hanged first!' rejoined Mr. Walpole and instantly seized him by the nose.  They
went out and fought.  The account being conveyed to Lord Orford, he sent his son to make inquiries;
who, on coming into the House of Commons, found his uncle speaking with the same composure
as if nothing had happened to ruffle his tamper or endanger his life.  Mr. Chetwynd was wounded."
vol. ii. p. 68.-E.

(788) Sister of Philip, second Earl Stanhope.

(789) Catherine, Duchess of Buckingham, natural daughter of King James II. by the Countess
of Dorchester.  She was so proud of her birth, that she would never go to Versailles, because
they would not give her the rank of Princess of the Blood.  At Rome, whither she went two or
three times to see her brother, and to carry on negotiations with him for his interest, she
had a box at the Opera distinguished like those of crowned heads.  She not only regulated the
ceremony of her own burial, and dressed up the waxen figure of herself for Westminster Abbey,
but had shown the same insensible pride on the death of her only son, dressing his figure,
and sending messages to her friends, that if they had a mind to see him lie in state, she would
carry them in conveniently by a back-door.  She sent to the old Duchess of Marlborough to borrow
the triumphal car that had carried the Duke's body. Old Sarah, as mad and proud as herself,
sent her word, "that it had carried my Lord Marlborough, and should never be profaned by any
other corpse." The Buckingham retorted that, "she had spoken to the undertaker, and he had
engaged to make a finer for twenty pounds." [See ant`e, p. 204.]

(790) Colonel Graham.  When the Duchess was young, and as insolent as afterwards, her mother
used to say, "You need not be so proud, for you are not the King's but old Graham's daughter."
It is certain, that his legitimate daughter, the Countess of Berkshire and  Suffolk, was extremely
like the Duchess, and that he often said with a sneer, "Well, well, kings are great men, they
make free with whom they please! All I can say is, that I am sure the same man begot those
two women." The Duchess often went to weep over her father's body at Paris: one of the monks
seeing her tenderness, thought it a proper opportunity to make her observe how ragged the pall
is that lies over the body, (which is kept unburied, to be some time or other interred in England,)-but
she would not buy a new!

314 Letter 101 To Sir Horace Mann. Arlington Street, March 25, 1743.

Well! my dear Sir, the Genii, or whoever are to look after the seasons, seem to me to change
turns, and to wait instead of one another, like lords of the bedchamber.  We have had loads
of sunshine all the winter; and within these ten days nothing but snows, north-east winds,
and blue plagues.  The last ships have brought over all your epidemic distempers: not a family
in London has escaped under five or six ill: many people have been forced to hire new labourers.
Guernier, the apothecary, took two new apothecaries, and yet could not drug all his patients.
It is a cold and fever.  I had one of the worst, and was blooded on Saturday and Sunday, but
it is quite gone: my father was blooded last night: his is but slight.  The physicians say
that there has been nothing like it since the year Thirty-three, and then not so bad: in short,
our army abroad would shudder to see what streams of blood have been let out! Nobody has died
of it, but old Mr. Eyres, of Chelsea, through obstinacy of not bleeding; and his ancient Grace
of York:(791) Wilcox of Rochester(792) succeeds him, who is fit for nothing in the world, but
to die of this cold too.

They now talk of the King's not going abroad: I like to talk on that side; because though it
may not be true, one may at least be able to give some sort of reason why he should not. We
go into mourning for your Electress on Sunday; I suppose they will tack the Elector of Mentz
to her, for he is just dead.  I delight in Richcourt's calculation- I don't doubt but it is
the method he often uses in accounting with the Great Duke.

I have had two letters from you of the 5th and 12th, with a note of things coming by sea; but
my dear child, you are either run Roman Catholicly devout, or take me to be so; for nothing
but a religious fit of zeal could make you think of sending me so many presents.  Why, there
are Madonnas enough in one case to furnish a more than common cathedral-I absolutely will drive
to Demetrius, the silversmith's, and bespeak myself a pompous shrine! But indeed, seriously,
how can I, who have a conscience, and am no saint, take all these things? You must either let
me pay for them, or I will demand my unfortunate coffee-pot again, which has put you upon ruining
yourself By the way, do let me have it again, for I cannot trust it any longer in your hands
at this rate; and since I have found out its virtue, I will present it to somebody, whom I
shall have no scruple of letting send me bales and cargoes, and ship-loads of Madonnas, perfumes,
prints, frankincense, etc.  You have not even drawn upon me for my statue, my hermaphrodite,
my gallery, and twenty other things, for which I am lawfully your debtor.

I must tell you one thing, that I will not say a word to my lord of this Argosie, as Shakspeare
calls his costly ships, till it is arrived, for he will tremble for his Dominichin, and think
it will not come safe in all this company-by the way, will a captain of a man-of-war care to
take all? We were talking over Italy last night- my lord protests, that if he thought he had
strength, he would see Florence, Bologna, and Rome, by way of Marseilles, to Leghorn.  You
may imagine how I gave in to such a jaunt.  I don't set my heart upon it, because I think he
cannot do it; but if he does, I promise you, you shall be his Cicerone.  I delight in the gallantry
of the Princess's brother.(793) I will tell you what, if the Italians don't take care, they
will grow as brave and as wrongheaded as their neighbours.  Oh! how shall I do about writing
to her? Well, if I can, I will be bold, and write to her to-night.

I have no idea what the two minerals are that you mention, but I will inquire, and if there
are such, you shall have them; and gold and silver, if they grow in this land; for I am sure
I am deep enough in your debt.  Adieu!  .

P. S. It won't do! I have tried to write, but you would bless yourself to see what stuff I
have been forging for half an hour, and have not waded through three lines of paper. i have
totally forgot my Italian, and if she will but have prudence enough to support the loss of
a correspondence, which was long since worn threadbare, we will come to as decent a silence
as may be.

(791) Doctor lancelot Blackburne.  Walpole, in his Memoires, vol. i. p. 74, calls him "the
jolly old archbishop, who had the manners of a man of quality, though he had been a buccaneer,
and was a clergyman."  Noble, in his continuation of Granger, treats these aspersions as the
effect of malice. "How is it possible!" he asks, ,that a buccaneer should be so great a scholar
as Blackburne certainly was? he who had so perfect a knowledge of the classics, as to be able
to read them with the same ease as he could Shakspeare, must have taken great pains to have
acquired the learned languages, and have had both leisure and good masters." He is allowed
to have been a remarkably pleasant man; and it was said of him, that "he gained more hearts
than souls."-E.

(792)  He was not succeeded by Dr. Wilcox, but by Dr. Herring, who was elevated, in 1747, to
the archbishopric of Canterbury, and died in 1757.-E.

(793) a Signor Capponi, brother of Madame Grifoni.

315 Letter 102 To Sir Horace Mann. Monday, April 4, 1743.

I had my pen in my hand all last Thursday morning to write to you, but my pen had nothing to
say.  I would make it do something to-day though what will come of it, I don't conceive.

They say, the King does not go abroad: we know nothing about our army.  I suppose it is gone
to blockade Egra, and to not take Prague, as it has been the fashion for every body to send
their army to do these three years.  The officers in parliament are not gone yet.  We have
nothing to do, but I believe the ministry have something for us to do, for we are continually
adjourned, but not prorogued.  They talk of marrying Princess Caroline and Louisa to the future
Kings of Sweden and Denmark; but if the latter(794) is King of both, I don't apprehend that
he is to marry both the Princesses in his double capacity.

Herring, Of Bangor, the youngest bishop, is named to the see of York. it looks as if the bench
thought the church going out of fashion; for two or three(795) of them have refused this mitre.

Next Thursday we are to be entertained with a pompous parade for the burial of old Princess
Buckingham.  They have invited ten peeresses to walk: all somehow or other dashed with blood-royal,
and rather than not have King James's daughter attended by princesses, they have fished out
two or three countesses descended from his competitor Monmouth.

There, I am at the end of my tell! If I write on, it must be to ask questions.  I Would ask
why Mr. Chute has left me off but when he sees what a frippery correspondent I am, he will
scarce be in haste to renew with me again.  I really don't know why I am so dry; mine used
to be the pen of a ready writer, but whist seems to have stretched its leaden wand over me
too, who have nothing to do with it. I am trying to set up the noble game of bilboquet against
it, and composing a grammar in opposition to Mr. Hoyle's.  You will some day or other see an
advertisement in the papers, to tell you where it may be bought, and that ladies may be waited
upon by the author at their houses, to receive any further directions.  I am 'really ashamed
to send this scantling of paper by the post, over so many seas and mountains: it seems as impertinent
as the commission which Prior gave to the winds,

"Lybs must fly south, and Eurus east, For jewels for her neck and breast."

Indeed, one would take you for my Chloe, when one looks on this modicum of gilt paper, which
resembles a billet-doux more than a letter to a minister.  You must take it as the widow's
mite, and since the death of my spouse, poor Mr. News, I cannot afford such large doles as
formerly.  Adieu! my dear child, I am yours ever, from a quire of the largest foolscap to a
vessel of the smallest gilt.

(794) There was a party at this time in Sweden, who tried to choose the Prince Royal of Denmark
for successor to King Frederick of sweden.

(795) Dr. Wilcox, Bishop of Rochester, and Dr. Sherlock, Bishop of Salisbury: the latter afterwards
accepted the See of London.

317 Letter 103 To Sir Horace Mann. Arlington Street, April 14, 1743.

This has been a noble week; I have received three letters at once from you.  I am ashamed when
I reflect on the poverty of my own!  but what can one do? I don't sell you my news, and therefore
should not be excusable to invent.  I wish we don't grow to have more news!  Our politics,
which have not always been the most in earnest, now begin to take a very serious turn.  Our
army is wading over the Rhine, up to their middles in snow.  I hope they will be thawed before
their return: but they have gone through excessive hardships.  The King sends six thousand
more of his Hanoverians at his own expense: this will be popular-and the six thousand Hessians
march too.  All this will compose an army considerable enough to be a great loss if they miscarry.
The King certainly goes abroad in less than a fortnight.  He takes the Duke with him to Hanover
who from thence goes directly to the army.  The Court will not be great: the King takes only
Lord Carteret, the Duke of Richmond, master of the horse, and Lord Holderness and Lord Harcourt,(796)
for the bedchamber.  The Duchesses of Richmond and Marlborough,(797) and plump Carteret,(798)
go to the Hague.

His Royal Highness is not Regent: there are to be fourteen. The Earl of Bath and Mr. Pelham,
neither of them in regency-posts, are to be of the number.

I have read your letters about Mystery to Sir Robert.  He denies absolutely having ever had
transactions with King Theodore, and is amazed Lord Carteret can; which he can't help thinking
but he must, by the intelligence about Lady W. Now I can conceive all that affected friendship
for Richcourt! She must have meant to return to England by Richcourt's interest with Touissant(799)
and then where was her friendship? You are quite in the right not to have engaged with King
Theodore: your character is not-Furibondo.  Sir R. entirely disapproves all Mysterious dealings;
he thinks Furibondo most bad and most improper, and always did.  You mistook me about Lady
W.'s Lord-I meant Quarendon, who is now Earl of Litchfield, by his father's death, which I
mentioned.  I think her lucky in Sturges's death, and him lucky in dying.  He had outlived
resentment; I think had almost lived to be pitied.

I forgot to thank you about the model, which I should have been sorry to have missed.  I long
for all the things, and my Lord more. so.  Am I not to have a bill of lading, or how!

I never say any thing of the Pomfrets, because in the great city of London the Countess's follies
do not make the same figure as they did in little Florence.  Besides, there are such numbers
here who have such equal pretensions to be absurd, that one is scarce aware of particular ridicules.

I really don't know whether Vanneschi be dead; he married some low English woman, who is kept
by Amorevoli; so the Abbate turned the opera every way to his profit.  As to Bonducci,(200)
I don't think I could serve him; for I have no interest with the Lords Middlesex and Holderness,
the two sole managers.  Nor if I had, would I employ it, 'to bring over more ruin to the operas.
Gentlemen directors, with favourite abb`es and favourite mistresses, have almost overturned
the thing in England.  You will plead my want of interest to Mr. Smith(801) too: besides, we
had Bufos here once, and from not understanding the language, people thought it a dull kind
of dumb-show.  We are next Tuesday to have the Miserere of Rome. It must be curious! the finest
piece of vocal music in the world, to be performed by three good voices, and forty bad ones,
from Oxford, Canterbury, and the farces!  There is a new subscription formed for an opera next
year, to be carried on by the Dilettanti, a club, for which the nominal qualification is having
been in Italy, and the real one, being drunk: the two chiefs are Lord Middlesex and Sir Francis
Dashwood, who were seldom sober the whole time they were in Italy.

The parliament rises next week: every body is going out of town.  My Lord goes the first week
in May; but I shall reprieve myself till towards August.  Dull as London is in summer, there
is always more company in it than in any one place in the country.  I hate the country: I am
past the shepherdly age of groves and streams, and am not arrived at that of hating every thing
but what I do myself, as building and planting.  Adieu!

(796) Simon, second Viscount Harcourt, created an earl in 1749; in 1768 appointed ambassador
at Paris, and in 1769 Lord Lieutenant of Ireland.  He was accidentally drowned in a well in
his park at Nuncham, in 1777; occasioned, it is believed, by overreaching himself, in order
to save the life of a favourite dog.-E.

(797) Elizabeth Trevor, daughter of Thomas Lord Trevor, wife of Charles Spencer, Duke of Marlborough.
She died in 1761.-E.

(798) Frances, only daughter of Sir Robert Worseley, first wife of Lord Carteret.

(799) First minister of the Great Duke.

(800) Bonducci was a Florentine abb`e, who translated some of Pope's works into Italian.

(801) The English Consul at Venice.

318 Letter 104 To Sir Horace Mann. Arlington Street, April 25, 1743.

Nay, but it is serious! the King is gone, and the Duke with him.  The' latter actually to the
army.  They must sow laurels, if they design to reap any; for there are no conquests forward
enough for them to come just in time and finish.  The French have relieved Egra and cut to
pieces two of the best Austrian regiments, the cuirassiers.  This is ugly! We are sure, you
know, of beating the French afterwards in France and Flanders; but I don't hear that the heralds
have produced any precedents for our conquering them on the other side the Rhine.(802)  We
at home may be excused from trembling at the arrival of every post; I am sure I shall.  If
I were a woman, should support my fears with more dignity; for if one did lose a husband or
a lover, there are those becoming comforts, weeds and cypresses, jointures and weeping cupids;
but I have only a friend or two to lose, and there are no ornamental substitutes settled, to
be one's proxy for that sort of grief.  One has not the satisfaction of fixing a day for receiving
visits of consolation from a thousand people whom one don't love, because one has lost the
only person one did love.  This is a new situation, and I don't like it.

You will see the Regency in the newspapers.  I think the Prince might have been of it when
my Lord Gower is.  I don't think the latter more Jacobite than his Royal Highness.

The Prince is to come to town every Sunday fortnight to hold drawing-rooms; the Princesses
stay all the summer at St. James's-would I did! but I go in three weeks to Norfolk; the only
place that could make me wish to live at St. James's.  My Lord has pressed me so much, that
I could not with decency refuse: he is going to furnish and hang his picture-gallery, and wants
me.  I can't help wishing that I had never known a Guido from a Teniers: but who could ever
suspect any connexion between painting and the wilds of Norfolk.

Princess Louisa's contract with the Prince of Denmark was signed the morning before the King
Went; but I don't hear when she goes.  Poor Caroline misses her man of Lubeck,(803) by his
missing the crown of Sweden.

I must tell you an odd thing that happened yesterday at Leicester House.  The Prince's children
were in the circle: Lady Augusta(804) heard somebody call Sir Robert Rich by his name.  She
concluded there was but one Sir Robert in the world, and taking him for Lord Orford, the child
went staring up to him, and said, "Pray, where is your blue string! and pray what has become
of your fat belly?" Did one ever hear of a more royal education, than to have rung this mob
cant in the child's ears till it had made this impression on her!

Lord Stafford is come over to marry Miss Cantillon, a vast fortune, of his own religion.  She
is daughter of the Cantillon who was robbed and murdered, and had his house burned by his cook(805)
a few years ago.  She is as ugly as he; but when she comes to Paris, and wears a good deal
of rouge, and a separate apartment, who knows but she may be a beauty! There is no telling
what a woman is, while she is as she is.  There is a great fracas in Ireland in a noble family
or two, heightened by a pretty strong circumstance of Iricism. A Lord Belfield(806) married
a very handsome daughter of a Lord Molesworth.(807)  A certain Arthur Rochfort, who happened
to be acquainted in the family, by being Lord Belfield's own brother, looked on this woman,
and saw that she was fair. These ingenious people, that their history might not be discovered,
corresponded under feigned names-And what names do you think they chose?-Silvia and Philander!
Only the very same that Lord Grey(808) and his sister-in-law took upon a parallel occasion,
and which arc printed in their letters!

Patapan sits to Wootton to-morrow for his picture.  He is to have a triumphal arch at a distance,
to signify his Roman birth, and his having barked at thousands of Frenchmen in the very heart
of Paris. If you can think of a good Italian motto applicable to any part of his history send
it to me.  If not, he shall have this antique one-for I reckon him a senator of Rome, while
Rome survived,-"O, et Presidium et dulce decus meum!"  He is writing an ode on the future campaign
of this summer; it is dated from his villa, where he never was, and being truly in the classic
style, "While you, great Sir," etc. Adieu!

(802) Walpole seems to have forgotten the battle of Blenheim.-D;

(803) Adolphus Frederick of Holstein, Bishop of Lubeck, was elected successor, and did succeed
to the crown of Sweden.  He married the Princess Louisa Ulrica of Prussia.

(804) Afterwards Duchess of Brunswick.-D.

(805) Cantillon was a Paris wine-merchant and banker, who had been engaged with Law in the
Mississippi scheme.  He afterwards brought his riches to England and settled in this country.
In May 1734, some of his servants, headed by the cook, conspired to murder him, knowing that
he kept large sums of money in his house.  They killed him, and then set fire to the house;
but the fire was extinguished, and the body, with the wounds upon it, found.  The cook fled
beyond sea; but in December, three of his associates were tried at the Old Bailey for the murder,
and acquitted.-E.

(806) Robert Rochfort, created Lord Belfield in Ireland in 1737, Viscount Belfield in 1751,
and Earl of Belvedere in 1756.  His second wife, whom be married in 1736, was the Hon. Mary
Molesworth.  D.

(807) Richard, third Viscount Molesworth, in Ireland.  He had been aide-de-camp to the great
Duke of Marlborough, and in that capacity distinguished himself greatly at the battle of Ramilies.
He became afterwards master-general of the ordnance in Ireland, and commander of the forces
in that kingdom, and a field-marshal.  He died in 1758.-D.

(808) Fordo, the infamous Lord Grey of werke, and his sister-in-law, Lady Henrietta Berkeley,
whose "Love Letters," under these romantic names, were published in three small volumes.  They
are supposed to have been compiled by Mrs. Behn.-D. [Lord Grey commanded the horse at Sedgmoor,
and is accused of flying at the first charge, and preserving his life by giving evidence against
his associates.  He married Lady Mary, daughter of George, first Earl of Berkeley, and died
in 1701.)

320 Letter 105 To Sir Horace Mann. May 4, 1743.

The King was detained four or five days at Sheerness but
yesterday we heard that he was got to Helvoetsluys.  They
talk' of an interview between him and his nephew of Prussia-I
never knew any advantage result from such conferences.  We
expect to hear of the French attacking our army, though there
are accounts of their retiring, which would necessarily
produce a peace-I hope so! I don't like to be at the eve, even
of an Agincourt; that, you know, every Englishman is bound in
faith to expect: besides, they say my Lord Stair has in his
pocket, from the records of the Tower, the original patent,
empowering us always to conquer.  I am told that Marshal
Noailles is as mad as Marshal Stair.  Heavens! twice fifty
thousand men trusted to two mad captains, without one Dr.
Monroe(809) over
                          them!

I am sorry I could give you so little information about King
Theodore; but my lord knew nothing of him, and as little of
any connexion between Lord Carteret and him.  I am sorry you
have him on your
                          hands. He quite mistakes his
province: an adventurer should come hither;(810) this is the
soil for mobs and patriots              it is the country of
the world to make one's fortune - with parts never so scanty,
one's dulness is not discovered, nor one's dishonesty, till
one obtains the post one wanted-and then, if they do not come
to light-why, one slinks into one's green velvet bag,(811) and
lies so snug! I don't approve of your hinting at the
falsehoods(812)              of Stosch's intelligence; nobody
                          regards it but the King , it pleases
him-e basta.

I was not in the House at Vernon's frantic speech;(813) but I know he made it, and have heard
him pronounce several such: but he has worn out even laughter, and did not make impression
enough on me to remember till the next post that he had spoken.

I gave your brother the translated paper; he will take care of it.  Ceretesi is gone to Flanders
with Lord Holderness.  Poor creature! he was reduced, before he went, to borrow five guineas
of Sir Francis Dashwood.  How will he ever scramble back to Florence?

We are likely at last to have no opera next year: Handel has
had a palsy, and can't compose; and the Duke of Dorset has set
himself strenuously to oppose it, as Lord Middlesex is the
impresario, and must ruin the house of Sackville by a course
of these follies.  Besides what he will lose this year, he has
not paid his share to the losses of the last; and yet is
singly undertaking another for next season, with
                          the almost certainty of losing
between four or five thousand pounds, to which the
deficiencies of the opera generally amount now.  The
                          Duke of Dorset has desired the King
not to subscribe; but Lord Middlesex is so obstinate, that
this will probably only make him lose a
                          thousand pounds more.

The Freemasons are in so low repute now in England, that one has scarce heard the proceedings
at Vienna against them mentioned.  I believe nothing but a persecution could bring them into
vogue again here.  You know, as great as our follies are, we even grow tired of them, and are
always changing.

(809) Physician of Bedlam-

"Those walls where Folly holds her throne, And laughs to think Monroe would take her down."-E.

(810) He afterwards came to England, where he suffered much from poverty and destitution, and
was finally arrested by his creditors and confined in the King,'s Bench prison.  He was released
from thence under the Insolvent Act, having registered the kingdom of Corsica for the use of
his creditors.  Shortly after this event he died, December 11, 1756, and was buried in the
churchyard of St. Anne's, Soho, where Horace Walpole erected a marble slab to his memory. 
He was an adventurer, whose name was Theodore Anthony, Baron Newhoff, and was born at Metz,
in 1686.  Walpole, who had seen him, describes him as "a comely, middle-sized man, very reserved,
and affecting much dignity,"-D.

(811) The secretaries of state and lord treasurer carry their papers in a green velvet bag.

(812) Stosch used to pretend to send over an exact journal of
the life of the Pretender and his sons, though he had been
sent out of Rome at the Pretender's request, and must have
                          had very bad, or no intelligence, of
what passed in that family.

(813) The admiral had recently said, in the House of Commons, that "there was not, on this
side Hell, a nation so burthened with taxes as England."-E.

322 Letter 106 To Sir Horace Mann. Arlington Street, May 12, 1743.

It is a fortnight since I got any of your letters, but I will expect two at once.  I don't
tell you by way of news, because you will have had expresses, but I must talk of the great
Austrian victory!(814)  We have not heard the exact particulars yet, nor whether it was Kevenhuller
or lobkowitz who beat the Bavarians; but their general, Minucci, is prisoner.  At first, they
said Seckendorffe was too; I am glad he is not: poor man, he has suffered enough by the house
of Austria! But my joy is beyond the common, for I flatter myself this victory will save us
one: we talk of nothing, but its producing a peace, and then one's friends will return.

The Duchess of Kendal(815) is dead-eighty-five years old: she was a year older than her late
King.  Her riches were immense; but I believe my Lord Chesterfield will get nothing by her
death-but his wife: (816) she lived in the house with the duchess, where he had played away
all his credit.

Hough,(817) the good old Bishop of Worcester, is dead too.  I have been looking at the "Fathers
in God" that have been flocking over the way this Morning to Mr. Pelham, who is just come to
his new house.  This is absolutely the ministerial street Carteret has a house here too; and
Lord Bath seems to have lost his chance by quitting this street.  Old Marlborough has made
a good story of the latter; she says, that when he found he could not get the privy seal, he
begged that at least they would offer it to him, and upon his honour he would not accept it,
but would plead his vow of never taking a place; in which she says they humoured him.  The
truth is, Lord Carteret did hint an offer to him, upon which he went with a nolo episcopari
to the King-he bounced, and said, "Why I never offered it to you:" upon which he recommended
my Lord Carlisle, with equal Success.

Just before the King went, he asked my Lord Carteret, " Well, when am I to get rid of those
fellows in the Treasury?" They are on so low a foot, that somebody said Sandys had hired a
stand of hackney-coaches, to look like a levee.

Lord Conway has begged me to send you a commission, which you will oblige me much by executing.
It is to send him three Pistoia barrels for guns: two of them, of two feet and a half in the
barrel in length; the smallest of the inclosed buttons to be the size of the bore, hole, or
calibre, of the two guns. The third barrel to be three feet and an inch in length; the largest
of these buttons to be the bore of it; these feet are English measure.  You will be so good
to let me know the price of them.

There has happened a comical circumstance at Leicester House: one of the Prince's coachmen,
who used to drive the Maids of Honour, was so sick of them, that he has left his son three
hundred pounds, upon condition that he never carries a Maid of Honour!

Our journey to Houghton is fixed to Saturday se'nnight; 'tis unpleasant, but I flatter myself
that I shall get away in the beginning of August.  Direct your letters as you have done all
this winter; your brother will take care to send them to me. Adieu!

(814) There was no great victory this year till the battle of Dettingen, which took place in
June; but the Austrians obtained many advantages during the spring over the Bavarians and the
French, and obliged the latter to recross the Rhine.-D.

(815) Erangard Melusina Schulembergh, the mistress of George I.  George I. created her Duchess
of Munster and Marchioness of Dungannon in Ireland in 1719; Ind Duchess of Kendal, Countess
of Feversham, and Baroness of Glastonbury. in England, in 1723.  All these honours were for
life only.  He also persuaded the Emperor to create her Princess of eberstein in the Roman
empire in 1723.-D.

(816) Melusina Schulembergh, Countess of Walsingham, niece of the Duchess of Kendal, and her
heiress.

(817) Hough Was a man of piety, ability, and integrity, and had distinguished himself early
in his life by his resistance to the arbitrary proceedings of James II. against Magdalen College,
Oxford, of which he was the president.  Pope, with much justice, speaks of "Hough's unsullied
mitre."-D. [He was nominated Bishop of Oxford in 1690; and translated to Worcester in 1717.]

323 Letter 107 To Sir Horace Mann. May 19, 1743.

I am just come tired from a family dinner at the Master of the Rolls;(818) but I have received
two letters from you since my last, and will write to you, though my head aches with maiden
sisters' healths, forms, and Devonshire and Norfolk.  With yours I received one from Mr. Chute,
for which I thank him a thousand times, and will answer as soon as I get to Houghton. Monday
is fixed peremptorily, though we have had no rain this month; but we travel by the day of the
week, not by the day of the sky.

We are in more confusion than we care to own.  There lately came up a highland regiment from
Scotland, to be sent abroad. One heard of nothing but their good discipline and quiet disposition.
When the day came for their going to the water side, an hundred and nine of them mutinied,
and marched away in a body.  They did not care to go where it would not be equivocal for what
King they fought.  Three companies of dragoons are sent after them.  If you happen to hear
of any rising don't be surprised-I shall not, I assure you.  Sir Robert Monroe, their lieutenant-colonel,
before their leaving Scotland, asked some of the ministry, " "But suppose there should be any
rebellion in Scotland, what should we do for these eight hundred men?"  It was answered, "Why,
there would be eight hundred fewer rebels there."

"Utor permisso, caudeque pilos ut equinae Paulatim cello; demo unum, demo etiam unum, Dum-"

My dear child, I am surprised to hear you enter so seriously into earnest ideas of my lord's
passing into Italy! Could you think (however he, you, or I might wish it) that there could
be any probability of it? Can you think his age could endure it, or him so indifferent, so
totally disministered, as to leave all thoughts of what he has been, and ramble like a boy,
after pictures and statues? Don't expect it.

We had heard of the Duke of Modena's command before I had your letter.  I am glad, for the
sake of the duchess, as she is to return to France.  I never saw any body wish anything more!
and indeed, how can one figure any particle of pleasure happening to the daughter of the Regent,(819)
and a favourite daughter too, full of wit and joy, buried in a dirty, dull Italian duchy, with
an ugly, formal object for a husband, and two uncouth sister-princesses for eternal companions?
I am so near the eve of going into Norfolk, that I imagine myself something in her situation,
and married to some Hammond or Hoste (820) who is Duke of Wootton or Darsingham.  I remember
in the fairy tales where a yellow dwarf steals a princess, and shows her his duchy, of which
he is very proud: among the blessings of grandeur, of which he makes her mistress, there is
a most beautiful ass for her palfrey, a blooming meadow of nettles and thistles to walk in,
and a fine troubled ditch to slake her thirst, after either of the above mentioned exercises.

Adieu! My next will be dated from some of the doleful castles in the principality of your forlorn
friend, the duchy of Reepham.

(818) William Fortescue, master of the rolls, a relation of Margaret Lady Walpole. ffortescue
was made master of the rolls in 1741, and continued so until his death in 1749.  He was the
friend and correspondent of Pope, and assisted the poet in drawing up the humorous report,
"Stradling versus Stiles." He was a man of great humour, talents, and integrity.]

(819) Mademoiselle de Valois, who had made herself notorious during the regency of her father,
by her intrigue with the Duke of Richelieu.  She consented to marry the Duke of Modena, in
order to obtain the liberty of her lover, who was confined in the Bastille, for conspiring
against the Regent.  The Duke of Richelieu, in return, followed her afterwards secretly to
Modena.-D.

(820) The Hammonds and Hostes are two Norfolk families, nearly allied to the Walpoles.

324 letter 108 To Sir Horace Mann. Houghton, Jan. 4, 1743.

I wrote, this week to Mr. Chute, addressed to you; I could not afford two letters in one post
from the country, and in the dead of summer.  I have received one from you of May 21st, since
I came I must tell you a smart dialogue between your father and me the morning we left London:
he came to wish my lord a good journey: I found him in the parlour. "Sir," said he, "I may
ask you how my son does; I think you hear from him frequently: I never do."  I replied, "Sir,
I write him kind answers; pray do you do so?"  He coloured, and said with a half mutter, "Perhaps
I have lived too long for him!"  I answered shortly, "Perhaps you have."  My dear child, I
beg your pardon, but I could not help this.  When one loves any body, one can't help being
warm for them at a fair opportunity.  Bland and Mr. Legge were present-your father could have
stabbed me.  I told your brother Gal, who was glad.

We are as private here as if we were in devotion-. there is nobody with us now but Lord Edgecumbe
and his son.  The Duke of Grafton and Mr. Pelham come next week, and I hope Lord Lincoln with
them.  Poor Lady Sophia is at the gasp of her hopes; all is concluded for his match with Miss
Pelham.  It is not to be till the winter.  He is to have all Mr. Pelham and the Duke of Newcastle
can give or settle; unless Lady Catherine should produce a son, or the duchess should die,
and the duke marry again.

Earl Poulett(821)  is dead, and makes vacant another riband. I imagine Lord Carteret will have
one; Lord Bath will ask it. I think they should give Prince Charles(822) one of the two, for
all the trouble he saves us. The papers talk of nothing but a suspension of arms: it seems
toward, for at least we hear of no battle, though there are so many armies looking at one another.

Old Sir Charles Wager(823) is dead at last, and has left the fairest character.  I can't help
having a little private comfort, to think that Goldsworthy-but there is no danger.

Madox of St. Asaph has wriggled himself into the see of Worcester.  He makes haste; I remember
him only domestic chaplain to the late Bishop of Chichester.(824)  Durham is not dead, as I
believe I told you from a false report.

You tell me of dining with Madame de Modene,(824) but you don't tell me of being charmed with
her.  I like her excessively-I don't mean her person, for she is as plump as the late Queen;
but, sure her face is fine; her eyes vastly fine! and then she is as agreeable as one should
expect the Regent's daughter to be.  The Princess and she must have been an admirable contrast;
one has all the good breeding of a French court, and the other all the ease of it.  I have
almost a mind to go to Paris to see her.  She was so excessively civil to me.  You don't tell
me if the Pucci goes into France with her.

I like the Genoese selling Corsica! I think we should follow their example and sell France;
we have about as good a title, and very near as much possession.  At how much may they value
Corsica?  at the rate of islands it can't go for much. Charles the Second sold Great Britain
and Ireland to Louis XIV. for 300,000 pounds. a-year, and that was reckoned extravagantly dear.
Lord Bolingbroke took a single hundred thousand for them, when they were in much better repair.

We hear to-day that the King goes to the army on the 15th N. S. that is, to-day; but I don't
tell it you for certain. There has been much said against his commanding it, as it is only
an army of succour, and not acting as principal in the cause.  In my opinion, his commanding
will depend upon the more or less probability of its acting at all.  Adieu!

(821) John, first Earl of Poulett, knight of the garter.  He died, aged upwards of eighty,
on the 28th May 1743.-D.

(822) Prince Charles of Lorraine, the queen of Hungary's general against the French.-D.

(823) This distinguished admiral died on the 24th of May, in his seventy-seventh year; at which
time he was member for West looe.  A splendid monument was erected to his memory in Westminster
Abbey.-E.

(824) Dr. Waddington.

(825) It was not the Duchess of Modena, but the Duke's second sister, who went to Florence.

326 letter 109 To Sir Horace Mann. Houghton, June 10, 1743.

You must not expect me to write you a very composed, careless letter; my spirits are all in
agitation! I am at the eve of a post that may bring me the most dreadful news! we expect to-morrow
the news of a decisive battle.  Oh! if you have any friend there, think what apprehensions
I (826) must have of such a post!  By yesterday's letters, our army was within eight miles
of the French, who have had repeated orders to attack them.  Lord Stair and Marshal Noailles
both think themselves superior, and have pressed for leave to fight.  The latter call themselves
fourscore thousand; ours sixty.  Mr. Pelham and Lord Lincoln come to Houghton to-morrow, so
we are sure of hearing as soon as possible, if any thing has happened.  By this time the King
must be with them.- My fears for one or two friends have spoiled me for any English hopes-I
cannot dwindle away the French army-every man in it appears to my imagination as big as the
sons of Anak! I am conjuring up the ghosts of all who have perished by French ambition, and
am dealing out commissions to these spectres,

"-To sit heavy on their souls to-morrow!"

Alas! perhaps that glorious to-morrow was a dismal yesterday at least, perhaps it was to me!
The genius of England might be a mere mercenary man of the world, and employed all his attention
to turn aside cannonballs from my Lord Stair, to give new edge to his new Marlborough's sword:
was plotting glory for my Lord Carteret, or was thinking of furnishing his own apartment in
Westminster Hall with a new set of trophies-who would then take care of Mr. Conway? You, who
are a minister, will see all this in still another light, will fear our defeat, and will foresee
the train of consequences.-Why, they may be wondrous ugly; but till I know what I have to think
about my own friends, I cannot be wise in my generation.

I shall now only answer your letter; for till I have read to-morrow's post, I have no thoughts
but of a battle.

I am angry at your thinking that I can dislike to receive two or three of your letters at once.
Do you take me for a child, and imagine, that though I may like one plum-tart, two may make
me sick?  I now get them regularly; so I do but receive them, I am easy.

You are mistaken about the gallery; so far from unfurnishing any part of the house, there are
several pictures undisposed of, besides numbers at Lord Walpole's, at the Exchequer, at Chelsea,
and at New Park.  Lord Walpole has taken a dozen to Stanno, a small house, about four miles
from hence, where he lives with my lady Walpole's vicegerent.(827)  You may imagine that her
deputies are no fitter than she is to come where there is In a modest, unmarried girl.(828)

I will write to London for the life of Theodore, though you may depend upon its being a Grub
Street piece, without one true fact.  Don't let it prevent your undertaking his Memoirs. Yet
I should say Mrs. Heywood,(829) or Mrs. Behn(830) were fitter to write his history.

How slight you talk of Prince Charles's victory at Brunau! We thought it of vast consequence;
so it was.  He took three posts afterwards, and has since beaten the Prince of Conti, and killed
two thousand men.  Prince Charles civilly returned him his baggage.  The French in Bavaria
are quite dispirited-poor wretches! how one hates to wish so ill as one does to fourscore thousand
men!

There is yet no news of the Pembroke.  The Dominichin has a post of honour reserved in the
gallery.  My Lord says, as to that Dalton's Raphael, he can say nothing without some particular
description of the picture and the size, and some hint at the price, which you have promised
to get.  I leave the residue of my paper for tomorrow: I tremble, lest I should be forced to
finish it abruptly!  I forgot to tell you that I left a particular commission with my brother
Ned, who is at Chelsea, to get some tea-seed from the physic-garden; and he promised me to
go to Lord Islay, to know what cobolt and zingho(831) are, and where they are to be got.

Saturday morning.

The post is come: no battle! Just as they were marching against the French, they received orders
from Hanover not to engage, for the Queen's generals thought they were inferior, and were positive
against fighting.  Lord Stair, with only the English, proceeded, and drew out in order; but
though the French were then so vastly superior, they did not attack him. The King is now at
the army, and, they say, will endeavour to make the Austrians fight.  It wilt make great confusion
here if they do not.  The French are evacuating Bavaria as fast as possible, and seem to intend
to join all their force together. I shall still dread all the events of this campaign.  Adieu!

(826) Mr. Conway the most intimate friend of Horace Walpole, was now serving in Lord Stair's army.

(827) Miss Norsa; she was a Jewess, and had been a singer.

(828) Lady Maria Walpole.

(829) Eliza Heywood, a voluminous writer of indifferent novels; of which the best known is
one called "Betsy Thoughtless."  She was also authoress of a work entitled "The Female Spectator."
- Mrs. Heywood was born in 1693, and died in 1756.-D.

(830) Mrs. Afra Behn, a woman whose character and writings were equally incorrect.  Of her
plays, which were seventeen in number, Pope says,

"The stage how loosely does Astrea tread, Who fairly puts all characters to bed."

Her novels and other productions were also marked with similar characteristics.  She died in
1689-D.

(831) Cobalt and Zinc, two metallic substances; the former composed of silver, copper, and
arsenic, the latter of tin and iron.-D.

328 letter 110 To Sir Horace Mann. Houghton, June 20, 1743.

I have painted the    Raphael to my lord almost as fine as Raphael himself could; but he will
not think of it-. he will not give a thousand guineas for what he never saw.  I wish I could
persuade him.  For the other hands, he has already fine ones of every one of them.  There are
yet no news of the Pembroke: we row impatient.

I have made a short tour to Euston this week with the Duke of Grafton, who came over from thence
with Lord Lincoln and Mr. Pelham.  Lord Lovel and Mr. Coke carried me and brought me back.
It is one of the most admired seats in England-in my opinion, because Kent has a most absolute
disposition of it. Kent is now so fashionable, that, like Addison's Liberty, he

"Can make bleak rocks and barren mountains smile."

I believe the duke wishes he could make them green too.  The
house is large and   bad; it was built by Lord Arlington, and
stands, as all old houses do for convenience of water and
shelter, in a hole; so it neither sees, nor is seen: he has no
money to build another.  The park is fine, the old woods
excessively so: they are much grander than Mr. Kent's passion
clumps-that is, sticking a dozen trees here and there, till a
lawn looks like the ten of spades.  Clumps have their beauty;
but in a great extent of country, how trifling to scatter
arbours, where you should spread forests! He is so unhappy in
his heir apparent,(832) that he checks his hand in almost
every thing he undertakes.  Last week he heard a new complaint
of his barbarity.  A tenant of Lord Euston, in
Northamptonshire, brought him his rent: the Lord said it
wanted three and sixpence: the tenant begged he would examine
the account, that it would prove exact-however, to content
him, he would willingly pay him the three and sixpence.  Lord
E. flew into
                            a rage, and vowed he would write
to the Duke to have him turned out of a little place he has in
the post-office of thirty pounds a-year.  The poor man, who
has six children, and knew nothing of my lord's
                            being upon no terms of power with
his father, went home and shot himself!

I know no syllable of news          '. but that my Lady
Carteret is dead at Hanover, and Lord Wilmington dying.  So
there will be to let a first
                            minister's ladyship and a first
lordship of the Treasury.  We have nothing from the army,
though the King has now been there some time.  As new a thing
as it is, we don't talk much about it.

Adieu! the family are gone a fishing: I thought I stayed at home to write to you, but I have
so little to say that I don't believe you will think so.

