#3. Early Sufferings.#--More than a third of their number were ill with scurvy and other diseases--sixty-six
lay in the little hospital which had been set up, and many of them never recovered. Those who
were well enough to work began to clear the land for cultivation; but so soon as everything
was ready for the ploughing to begin, the amazing fact was discovered that no one knew anything
of agriculture; and had it not been that Governor Phillip had with him a servant who had been
for a time on a farm, their labour would have been of little avail. As it was, the cultivation
was of the rudest kind; one man, even if he had been a highly experienced person, could do
very little to instruct so many. The officers and soldiers were smart enough on parade, but
they were useless on a farm; the convicts, instead of trying to learn, expended all their ingenuity
in picking each other's pockets, or in robbing the stores. They would do no work unless an
armed soldier was standing behind them, and if he turned away for a moment, they would deliberately
destroy the farm implements in their charge, hide them in the sand or throw them into the water.
Thus, only a trifling amount of food was obtained from the soil; the provisions they had brought
with them were nearly finished, and when the news came that the Guardian transport, on which
they were depending for fresh supplies, had struck on an iceberg and had been lost, the little
community was filled with the deepest dismay. Soon after, a ship arrived with a number of fresh
convicts, but no provisions; in great haste the Sirius was sent to the Cape of Good Hope, and
the Supply to Batavia; these vessels brought back as much as they could get, but it was all
used in a month or two. Starvation now lay before the settlement; every one, including the
officers and the Governor himself, was put on the lowest rations which could keep the life
in a man's body, and yet there was not enough of food, even at this miserable rate, to last
for any length of time. Numbers died of starvation; the Governor stopped all the works, as
the men were too weak to continue them. The sheep and cattle which they had brought with so
much trouble to become the origin of flocks and herds were all killed for food, with the exception
of two or three which had escaped to the woods and had been lost from sight.

#4. Norfolk Island.#--Under these circumstances, Governor Phillip sent two hundred convicts,
with about seventy soldiers, to Norfolk Island, where there was a moderate chance of their
being able to support themselves; for, immediately after his arrival in New South Wales, he
had sent Lieutenant King to take possession of that island, of whose beauty and fertility Captain
Cook had spoken very highly. Twenty-seven convicts and soldiers had gone along with King, and
had cleared away the timber from the rich brown soil. They had little trouble in raising ample
crops, and were now in the midst of plenty, which their less fortunate companions came to share.
But the Sirius, in which they had been carried over, was wrecked on a coral reef near the island
before she could return, and with her was lost a considerable quantity of provisions.

