Second case. "And it came to pass after these things that God did tempt Abraham." The contrary
does not happen to be a contradiction. Any grammarian can see at once that there is no contradiction
here. God did (try) tempt Abraham. When was this and what was it for? Well, it was thousands
of years before James's present tense language was written. Suppose I give a parallel. Here
it is: Let no Jew say when he offers a lamb he offers it to obey the Lord, for the Lord accepteth
not lambs, neither does he require them of any man. The contradiction is found in the fact
that some thousands of years in the past, the Lord did, for wise and benevolent purposes, require
Jews to offer lambs. Now, can any man fail to see that there is no contradiction here. God
did tempt Abraham. What was it for? Answer. He simply designed to teach Abraham, in a way that
would impress the lesson upon the mind for all time to come, that the human beings were not
to be offered in burnt sacrifices as the heathen were wont to do. His angel said to Abraham,
"Stay thy hand." See! there is an offering fast by the horns in the bushes. Don't kill your
son! Yes, God did try or tempt Abraham. It was a grand trial of his loyalty to God. And it
was God's most effectual way of teaching Abraham and his posterity that they must not offer
their sons and daughters in the fire as the heathen did. There is not only no contradiction
here, but a grand lesson also, which represents God in just the reverse of the infidel interpretation
of the case.

Third case. "And the man which journeyed with him stood speechless, hearing a voice, but seeing
no man."--Acts iv, 7. This voice heard by those persons was in the Hebrew tongue, and as such
was not understood by those who were with Saul. So we have it upon record in the 22d chapter
of the Acts of the Apostles, that "they saw the light and were afraid, but they heard not,"
that is, understood not, the voice. That the voice was in the Hebrew is asserted in the twenty-sixth
chapter and the fourteenth verse. We often hear a man's voice, and fail at the same time--say
we did not hear because we did not understand the words uttered. Such is the latitude of the
original term translated by the word hear. So there is no contradiction here. The term hear
in one passage is used with reference simply to the noise; in the other it is used with reference
to the words spoken, which they understood not. So it is said, they heard them not. Can you
hear a man speaking in a dead language? You can hear the voice in the sense of hearing the
noise, but you can't hear the voice in the sense of hearing the language. No man can hear a
language unless he understands it in the sense of the original term. It somehow happens that
my good querist in giving this quotation refers me to the 31st chapter, which is wrong again.
He says he has taken advice, and has read the contexts. Well, perhaps he has. But this is the
second mistake any way. The first is reference to the wrong book. The second is reference to
the wrong chapter. How is this?

Our querist's contrary is, however, in these words, "No man hath seen God at any time."--John's
Record i, 18. Our friend, proposing these contradictions for my consideration, says he has
"given himself the trouble to investigate;" has "read the context in connection with each quotation,
and still they are not clear," yet for the last quotation he refers me to 1 John iv, 12. Well,
well; how shall we understand this? And how shall we harmonize the quotations? Well, "No man
hath seen God at any time"--this is true, for he is "the King Eternal, immortal, invisible,
whom no man hath seen" with the literal eye, "nor can see." This teaching is positive and pointed,
but in ancient times even "those to whom the word of God was sent were called gods." So said
Jesus. The one Jacob saw was called a man. And again, there was a messenger--an angel, if you
please--that bore Jehovah's name upon him. (See Exodus xxiii, 21, and context.) This was the
angel of God's presence. "The angel of his presence saved them."--Isaiah lxiii, 9. God's great
messenger bore his name. Men saw him, the angel, and seeing him saw God, for this angel was
God with them--God's representative bearing his name. This angel God, or angel having God's
name in him, talked with Moses. Moses saw him, and it is truthfully said that Moses saw God,
that is, saw this angel whose name was that of God. That is all there is of it. I once sat
in a church-house in Logansport when there were present representatives from different states
in our Union, and a gentleman made a little address and introduced them to the audience, saying,
Ohio is here, Iowa is here, Kentucky is here, Illinois is here, California is here. How was
this? Well, those men were messengers from those states, and their presence was the presence
of those several states. Just so the angel of God's presence was with Moses; and Stephen said,
with our fathers. The presence of this angel was the presence of God, and they who saw him
saw God, for this angel's name was God, or, in other words, "God's name was in him." But the
God whose name this angel bore, and whose name even men bore who were called Gods, because
to them the word of God was sent, and they, having God's word, were his representatives, has
not been seen at any time, neither indeed can be with literal eyes.

N.B.--Friends who wish to engage our attention and space must remember the important rule among
editors, and send their name along with their requests and articles.

SOME THINGS THAT NEED THOUGHT.

It has been said of past nations, that side by side have grown in their midst the elements
both of greatness and of ruin. There is one phase of our society, as Americans, which is more
to be dreaded than all others known to the philosophic mind, that is the reckless licentiousness
which characterizes many politicians during political campaigns.

