The newspapers, chronicling Thorold's appointment briefly, were heavy with harbingering of
the funeral procession of the boy who had fallen a fortnight before in the American navy's
attack upon Vera Cruz. The relative values that editors placed upon the marine's death and
his own honoring nettled Thorold. Ambassadors to the Court of St. Jerome were not chosen from
Chicago every day, he reasoned, finding Isador Framberg already the fly in the amber of his
contentment. To change the current of his thought he read over Peter's telegram, smiling at
the exuberant message of joy in which the boy had vaunted the family glory. The yellow slip
drove home to James Thorold the realization of how largely Peter's young enthusiasm was responsible
for the whetting of his father's desire to take part in public affairs. For Peter's praise
James Thorold would have moved mountains; and Peter's praise had a way of following the man
on horseback. Thorold's eager anticipation of the boy's pride in him sped his course through
rosy mists of hope as his motor-car threaded the bright drive and through the crowded Parkway
toward the Rush Street bridge.

A cloud drifted across the sky of his serenity, however, as a blockade of traffic delayed his
car in front of the old Adams homestead, rising among lilacs that flooded half city square
with fragrance. The old house, famous beyond its own day for Judge Adams's friendship with
Abraham Lincoln and the history-making sessions that the little group of Illinois idealists
had held within its walls, loomed gray above the flowering shrubs, a saddening reminder of
days that James Thorold must have known; but Thorold, glimpsing the place, turned away from
it in a movement so swift as to betoken some resentment and gave heed instead to the long line
of motors rolling smoothly toward the city's heart.

Over the bridge and through the packed streets of the down-town district Thorold, shaken from
his revery of power and Peter, watched the film that Chicago unrolled for the boulevard pilgrims.
The boats in the river, the long switch-tracks of the railroads, the tall grain-elevators,
the low warehouses from which drifted alluring odors of spices linked for James Thorold the
older city of his youth with the newer one of his age as the street linked one division of
the city's geography with another. They were the means by which Chicago had risen from the
sand-flats of the fifties to the Michigan Avenue of the present, that wide street of the high
skyline that fronted the world as it faced the Great Lakes, squarely, solidly, openly. They
were the means, too, by which James Thorold had augmented his fortune until it had acquired
the power to send him to Forsland. To him, however, they represented not ladders to prosperity
but a social condition of a passing generation, the Chicago of the seventies, a city distinctively
American in population and in ideals, a youthful city of a single standard of endeavor, a pleasant
place that had been swallowed by the Chicago of the present, that many-tentacled monster of
heterogeneous races, that affected him as it did so many of the older residents, with an overwhelming
sensation of revolt against its sprawling lack of cohesion. Even the material advantages that
had accrued to him from the growth of the city could not reconcile James Thorold to the fact
that the elements of the city's growth came from the races of men whom he held in contempt.
What mattered it, he reasoned, that Chicago waxed huge when her grossness came from the unassimilated,
indigestible mass of Latins and Greeks, Poles and Russians, Czechs, Bulgars, Jews, who filled
the streets, the factories, and the schools?

The prejudice, always strong within him, rose higher as he found his machine blocked again,
this time by the crowd that stood across Jackson Boulevard at La Salle Street. Even after the
peremptory order of a mounted police officer had cleared the way for him James Thorold frowned
on the lines of men and women pressed back against the curbstones. The thought that they were
waiting the coming of the body of that boy who had died in Mexico added to his annoyance the
realization that he would have to fight his way through another crowd at the station if he
wished to reach the train-shed where Peter's train would come. The struggle was spared him,
however, by the recognition of a newspaper reporter who took it for granted that the ambassador
to Forsland had come to meet the funeral cortège of the marine and who led him through a labyrinthine
passage that brought him past the gates and under the glass dome of the train-shed.

Left alone, Thorold paced the platform a little apart from the group of men who had evidently
been delegated to represent the city. Some of them he knew. Others of them, men of Isador Framberg's
people and of the ten tribes of Israel, he did not care to know. He turned away from them to
watch the people beyond the gates. Thousands of faces, typical of every nation of Europe and
some of the lands of Asia, fair Norsemen and Teutons, olive-skinned Italians and men and women
of the swarthier peoples of Palestine, Poles, Finns, Lithuanians, Russians, Bulgars, Bohemians,
units of that mass which had welded in the city of the Great Lakes of America, looked out from
behind the iron fence. The tensity written on their faces, eager yet awed, brought back to
James Thorold another time when men and women had stood within a Chicago railway terminal waiting
for a funeral cortège, the time when Illinois waited in sorrow to take Abraham Lincoln, dead,
to her heart. The memory of that other day of dirges linked itself suddenly in the mind of
James Thorold with the picture of the lilacs blooming in the yard of the Adams homestead on
the parkway, that old house where Abraham Lincoln had been wont to come; and the fusing recollections
spun the ambassador to Forsland upon his heel and sent him far down the platform, where he
stood, gloomily apart, until the limited, rolling in from the end of the yards, brought him
hastening to its side.

Peter Thorold was the first to alight.

A boy of sixteen, fair-haired, blue-eyed, ruddy-cheeked, springing from the platform of the
Pullman into his father's arms, he brought with him the atmosphere of high adventure. In height,
in poise of shoulders, in bearing, in a certain trick of lifting his chin, he was a replica
of the dignified man who welcomed him with deep emotion; but a difference--of dream rather
than of dogma--in the quality of their temperaments accoladed the boy. It was not only that
his voice thrilled with the higher enthusiasms of youth. It held besides an inflexibility of
tone that James Thorold's lacked. Its timbre told that Peter Thorold's spirit had been tempered
in a furnace fierier than the one which had given forth the older man's. The voice rang out
now in excited pleasure as the boy gripped his father's shoulders. "Oh, but it's good to see
you again, dad," he cried. "You're a great old boy, and I'm proud of you, sir. Think of it!"
he almost shouted. "Ambassador to Forsland! Say, but that's bully!" He slipped his arm around
his father's shoulder, while James Thorold watched him with eyes that shone with joy. "What
do you call an ambassador?" he demanded laughingly.

"Fortunately," the older man said, "there is no title accompanying the office."

"Well, I should think not," the boy exclaimed. "Oh, dad, isn't it the greatest thing in the
world that you're to represent the United States of America?"

James Thorold smiled. "No doubt," he said dryly. His gaze passed his son to glimpse the crowd
at the gate, frantic now with excitement, all looking forward toward some point on the platform
just beyond where the man and boy were standing. "These United States of America have grown
past my thought of them," he added. The boy caught up the idea eagerly. "Haven't they, though?"
he demanded. "And isn't it wonderful to think that it's all the same old America, 'the land
of the free and the home of the brave?' Gee, but it's good to be back in it again. I came up
into New York alongside the battleship that brought our boys home from Mexico," he went on,
"and, oh, say, dad, you should have seen that harbor! I've seen a lot of things for a fellow,"
he pursued with a touch of boyish boastfulness, "but I never saw anything in all my life like
that port yesterday. People, and people, and people, waiting, and flags at half-mast, and a
band off somewhere playing a funeral march, and that battleship with the dead sailors--the
fellows who died for our country at Vera Cruz, you know--creeping up to the dock. Oh, it was--well,
I cried!" He made confession proudly, then hastened into less personal narrative.

"One of them came from Chicago here," he said. "He was only nineteen years old, and he was
one of the first on the beach after the order to cross to the customhouse. He lived over on
Forquier Street, one of the men was telling me--there are six of them, the guard of honor for
him, on the train--and his name was Isador Framberg. He was born in Russia, too, in Kiev, the
place of the massacres, you remember. See, dad, here comes the guard!"

Peter Thorold swung his father around until he faced six uniformed men who fell into step as
they went forward toward the baggage-car. "It's too bad, isn't it," the boy continued, "that
any of the boys had to die down in that greaser town? But, if they did, I'm proud that we proved
up that Chicago had a hero to send. Aren't you, dad?" James Thorold did not answer. Peter's
hands closed over his arm. "It reminds me," he said, lowering his voice as they came closer
to the place where the marines stood beside the iron carrier that awaited the casket of Isador
Framberg's body, "of something the tutor at Westbury taught us in Greek last year, something
in a funeral oration that a fellow in Athens made on the men who died in the Peloponnesian
War. 'Such was the end of these men,'" he quoted slowly, pausing now and then for a word while
his father looked wonderingly upon his rapt fervor, "'and they were worthy of Athens. The living
need not desire to have a more heroic spirit. With the solemnity of the chant the young voice
went on while the flag-covered casket was lifted from car to bier. Make them your examples,
and, esteeming courage to be freedom and freedom to be happiness, do not weigh too nicely the
perils of war.'"

He pulled off his cap, tucking it under his arm and dragging his father with him to follow
the men who had fallen in behind the marines as they moved forward toward the gates and the
silent crowd beyond. Almost unwillingly James Thorold doffed his hat. The words of Peter's
unexpected declamation of Pericles's oration resounded in his ears. "Once before," he said
to the boy, "I heard that speech. Judge Adams said it one night to Abraham Lincoln."

"Father!" Peter's eyes flashed back from the cortège to meet James Thorold's. "I never knew
that you knew Abraham Lincoln." His tone betokened an impression of having been cheated of
some joy the older man had been hoarding. But James Thorold's voice held no joy. "Yes," he
said. "I knew him."

The gates, sliding back, opened the way for the officers who led the procession with which
Isador Framberg came back to the city of his adoption. The crowd yawned to give space to the
guard of honor, walking erectly beside the flag-draped coffin, to the mourners, men and women
alien as if they had come from Kiev but yesterday, to the little group of men, public officials
and rabbis, who trailed in their wake, and to James Thorold and Peter, reverently following.
Then it closed in upon the cortège, urging it silently down the broad stairways and out into
the street where other crowds fell in with the strange procession. Surging away after the shabby
hearse, drawn by its listless horses and attended by the marines, the crowd left the Thorolds,
father and son, on the pavement beside the station. "Don't you want to go?" There was a wistfulness
in Peter's voice that told his father that the boy had sensed some lack of responsiveness in
him. "He's going to lie in state to-day at the city hall. Don't you think we should go, dad?"
Not Peter's query but Peter's eyes won his father's answer. "After a while," he promised. "Then
let's find a breakfast," the boy laughed. "I spent my last dollar sending you that telegram."

All the way over to his father's club on Michigan Avenue, and all through the breakfast that
he ordered with lusty young appetite, Peter kept up a running fire of reminiscence of his European
adventures. That the fire held grapeshot for his father when he talked of the latter's worthiness
for the ambassadorship to Forsland he could not guess; but he found that he was pouring salt
in a wound when he went back to comment upon Isador Framberg's death. "Why make so much of
a boy who happened to be at Vera Cruz?" the older man said at last, nettled that even his son
found greater occasion for commendation in the circumstance of the Forquier Street hero than
in his father's selection to the most important diplomatic post in the gift of the government.
Peter's brows rose swiftly at his father's annoyance. He opened his lips for argument, then
swiftly changed his intention. "Tell me about Judge Adams, dad," he said, bungling over his
desire to change the topic, "the fellow who knew his Pericles."

"It's too long a story," James Thorold said. He watched Peter closely in the fashion of an
advocate studying the characteristics of a judge. The boy's idealism, his vivid young patriotism,
his eager championship of those elements of the new America that his father contemned, had
fired his personality with a glaze that left James Thorold's smoothly diplomatic fingers wandering
over its surface, unable to hold it within his grasp. He had a story to tell Peter--some time--a
story of Judge Adams, of the house among the lilacs, of days of war, of Abraham Lincoln; but
the time for its telling must wait upon circumstance that would make Peter Thorold more ready
to understand weakness and failure than he now seemed. Consciously James Thorold took a change
of venue from Peter Thorold of the visions to Peter Thorold of the inevitable disillusions.
But to the former he made concession. "Shall we go to the city hall now?" he asked as they
rose from the table.

The city hall, a massive white granite pile covering half of the square east of La Salle Street
and north of Washington and meeting its twin of the county building to form a solid mass of
masonry, flaunted black drapings over the doorways through which James Thorold and his son
entered. Through a wide corridor of bronze and marble they found their way, passing a few stragglers
from the great crowd that had filled the lower floors of the huge structures when Isador Framberg's
body had been brought from its hearse and carried to the centre of the aisles, the place where
the intersecting thoroughfares met. Under a great bronze lamp stood the catafalque, covered
with the Stars and Stripes and guarded by the men of the fleet.

