"I know so," said Pietro. "The Grand Judge, as the child's story-book says of ogres, loves
fresh meat, and would see a spot on the brow of an angel. Now, I am not exactly an angel--and
if he saw a spot, your excellency's head might be safe, but for want of a chicken he might
twist my neck. The jailer would be the victim, and my friend the executioner would have to
do with me. I know him. He would be enthusiastic in the operation, to make a vacancy in my
place. He is bound up in his family."

For an instant the Count had not heard the jailer. One single name inspired him with the greatest
terror, for it recalled one of the participators in his escape. This man held in his own hands
his own and his accomplice's escape. Pietro had not foreseen all. This assistant, the character
and dress of whom he had assumed, this Crespo, this mole, would be summoned before the magistrate.
The keeper had seen and spoken to him, had opened the gate of the castle to suffer him to pass
out, or at least fancied he had. What then would the man say? With great emotion, then, Monte-Leone
said,

"The danger does not come from the place you apprehend. One witness, however, may ruin all."

"Of whom do you speak?" said Pietro, trembling.

"Of Crespo," said the Count.

"Ah--what have you to fear of Crespo?"

"Have you gained him over?"

"No. I was spared the trouble. At this moment the poor fellow is probably in the other world."

"Have you killed him?" said the Count, with terror.

"For what does your excellency take me? One may yield to the prayers of a prisoner, and secure
a fortune by permitting him a few hours' exercise, yet be no murderer. If Crespo dies, it is
in consequence of his unfortunate passion."

"Was he in love?"

"No. He was fond of water-rats."

"Horrible appetite."

"Not at all," said the jailer. "Crespo says the animal is very savory, especially when fat
as those in the ditches of the castle are. The waters bear hither all the offal of Naples,
and the rats live like canons."

"And Crespo eats them?"

"He has a passion for game of that kind, and does nothing but hunt them. He makes some very
ingenious traps to catch them with. I do not molest him, because the taste is so innocent,
and besides, saves me the expense of several cats."

"But how came that passion to endanger Crespo's life?"

"Ah--one is not always lucky. Perhaps the last rats Crespo ate, had feasted on arsenic--rats
are so whimsical. The poor devil, perhaps, was poisoned in that manner. Rather an expensive
taste. Unfortunately, the lesson will do him no good."

After this touching funeral oration, the jailer took out a blue and torn handkerchief, and
dried his eyes. The Count shuddered at this story. He understood the atrocious plan adopted
by Pietro to get rid of a dangerous witness, and forgetful of his own safety, said,

"Perhaps, if you hurry for a physician, the poor man may yet be saved."

"Bah! do you think the Governor would let one of his officers die without assistance? The doctor,
however, was too late; and when I came hither, Crespo was dying."

Notwithstanding his firmness, the horror of Monte-Leone at the wretch was so great that he
hastened to terminate the conversation. The quasi complicity in a crime committed in cold blood,
and with premeditation; was odious to him.

"Do not fear lest my examination should compromise you. I will be prudent. Now, one word more,
or if you please to consider it so, one favor more--when will I be tried?"

"In two days. To-night they will come to take you to Castello Capuano, where the supreme court
will meet."

Pietro left, and Monte-Leone relapsed into a profound reverie. The drama was about to begin.
What the Count hitherto had done, was as it were but a prelude, an exposition, or rather a
skilful introduction. On the eve of the event he did not quail, but like a sagacious tactician
asked himself if he had been guilty of no neglect, if he had taken advantage of all the circumstances.
One thing alone made him uneasy. When he returned to the Etruscan villa, to assume the clothes
of the assistant-jailer, he saw with terror that he had lost the great emerald, the chef-d'oeuvre
of Benvenuto, the family ring, so long celebrated and so well known. He readily enough fancied
that it had been lost during his rapid flight, and did not suspect that it had fallen into
the hands of his enemies. Reassured on this point, he waited patiently for the hour when, as
the jailer said, they would come to take him to Castello Capuano. It came at last, and Monte-Leone
was glad of it, for it seemed to bring him nearer to liberty. It was about midnight when the
Governor came to the Count's cell, accompanied by the worthy jailer and several officers.

"Excellency," said he to Monte-Leone, "I have an order from the Duke of Palma, minister of
police, to take you to Castello Capuano, to be tried."

"I am ready to obey the orders of the Duke," said Monte-Leone, "late as the hour and bad as
the weather are. But, Signor, the Duke treats me like those curious monsters, who travel by
night to avoid the anxious eyes of the public, and to enhance the profits received from their
exhibition."

"Signor, the Duke of Palma," said the Governor, piqued by this irony in relation to his patron,
"has a more exalted object than exciting or allaying the curiosity of the people of Naples.
He wishes to prevent any demonstration of your numerous partisans in your favor. Such conduct
would certainly injure your cause."

The sarcasm of the Count had made the Governor say too much. He had revealed to Monte-Leone
the interest he had excited, and the efforts which might be made to save him. To a man like
Monte-Leone nothing was lost, and like a skilful geometer, he knew how to take advantage of
the errors of his adversary.

"Let us go, Signor," said Monte-Leone to the Governor. "I am impatient to make an acquaintance
with the new castle which the king honors me with. Let me change once or twice again, and I
will be able to publish a statistical account of all the dungeons in the kingdom, for the information
of his majesty's beloved subjects."

An hour after this scene the Count was in a room of Castello Capuano, appropriated to the reception
of great and distinguished criminals to be tried by the high court.

On the next day, a man of cold and ascetic air waited on Monte-Leone. This person was Felippo
San Angelo, the ogre of whom Pietro had spoken, the terror of all criminals, the Grand Judge
of Naples. If the morale of the Judge had been calumniated by Pietro, his physique bore a strong
analogy to that of certain beasts of prey to which carnivorous appetite is attributed. His
nose was hooked like an eagle's, his brow was prominent, oblong and bald, his lips were thin
and fixed as if he had never smiled, his body was long and attenuated, and he never met the
glance of those with whom he spoke.

"Signor," said the Grand Judge, "I am come to announce to you, as the law requires, that you
will appear before the court on the day after to-morrow. You will be allowed to choose an advocate,
and, as Grand Judge of the Kingdom, I come to invite you to do so."

"I am deeply sensible of your Excellency's consideration," said Monte-Leone, "but I must say,
the first act of your justice is unjust. If my enemies have had two months to prepare their
accusation, it is cruel to allow me but two days to prepare my defence."

"This is the provision of the laws which regulate at Naples the special courts, like the one
which is to try you, Signor Comte. I do not make the law, but only administer it."

"But, Excellency, a man of your character should not administer an unjust law; nothing should
compel him to do so."

"Signor," said the Grand Judge, much annoyed at finding himself unexpectedly drawn into such
a discussion, "the legislator gives us the text of law, we find the interpretation. Your judges,
the chief of whom I am, have carefully studied them, and if we have assumed on our honor and
conscience their application, it is because we think them just. We do not permit the accused
to contest their forms. When a man is unfortunately brought before a court, he must submit."

"I do, Excellency," said Monte-Leone, "I will even court their severity, and will not take
advantage of the very short time allowed me to choose a defender. For humanity's sake alone
I address you as I do. It seems to me, however, that it is necessary that I should know, in
the first place, of what I am accused; and I wait until it please your Excellency to tell me."

"You are charged, Signor, with two capital crimes. First, of having, on the night of the 20th
December, 1815, conspired against the security of the state, near the ruins of Pompeii, where
you presided over a secret society, the object of which is the overthrow of royalty. You are,
in the second place, accused of having attempted to assassinate Stenio Salvatori, of Torre-del-Greco,
to avenge yourself on account of his testimony."

"Is this all?" asked Monte-Leone.

"It is, Signor," said the Grand Judge; "I think such charges are important enough to induce
you to remember that you must now choose your counsel."

"You are right, Signor," said Monte-Leone. "For such a cause a skilful advocate is required,
one who shall be able to impress your heart with the conviction of my innocence, for on his
word depends my life or death."

"Find such a one, then, Signor," said the Grand Judge. "Believe me, however, the most eloquent
advocate has less influence over a conscientious judge than the facts of the case, the light
which illumines them, and which it is their duty to make brilliant in our eyes, rather than
seek an opportunity to display their fluency and their political opinions, or, worse yet, to
produce public or private scandal--"

"You are right, Signor, but the person who will speak in my behalf is neither eloquent nor
skilful, yet the most famous pleas, the most powerful defences of Naples, will not produce
so much effect as the words of that man."

"You, Signor, alone," said the Grand Judge, "can choose your defender. But let me know his name--"

"That can only be revealed at the trial."

"But you do not know, Signor, you thus deprive yourself of a precious right to all who are
accused, secured them by law, the right of communicating with their defenders."

"That right I waive. The man who will defend me will know his grave mission only when called
on in the face of the supreme tribunal to fulfil it."

The Grand Judge looked with amazement at Monte-Leone. "Why, Signor, cannot he be informed of
his grave duty?"

"God forbid he should!"

"Why?"

"Because in that case I would lose my cause." The Count laughed.

"Act then, Signor, as you please. Strange and whimsical as your conduct is, I have no authority
to speak of its advantages and disadvantages."

He bowed to Monte-Leone and withdrew.

"He is mad," said he, as he was leaving Castello Capuano.

"He is a fool," said Monte-Leone, as the Grand Judge left. "He did not understand that one
defends himself from the effects of a crime committed, but not when no crime has been committed."

V.--THE TRIAL.

The appointed day came at last, and all Naples assumed a strange and unusual air. One subject
of interest took possession of all the city, one idea occupied it, and from the Senator to
the Lazzarone all had one name on their lips. Monte-Leone, Count Monte-Leone.

"Monte-Leone, the people's friend," said some.

"Monte-Leone, the conspirator," said others.

"Monte-Leone, the assassin of Stenio Salvatori," said the enemies of the Count.

"Monte-Leone, the victim of Fernando," said the enemies of the King.

As all this was going on around the prison, calm and thoughtful Monte-Leone waited for the
hour of trial.

Castello Capuano, usually called la Vicaria, had been for several centuries the palace of the
Kings and Viceroys, until Pedro de Toledo abandoned for a more splendid palace, that of the
existing Kings, and devoted la Vicaria or Castello Capuano to the civil and criminal courts
of the realm. Nothing can be more sad and melancholy than the portion of the palace in which
the prisons are. As if to enhance this appearance, the outside of the prison was hung with
iron cages, in which were the heads and hands of persons who had been executed. These relics
of humanity, long before dried up, and the skeletons of which alone remained, rattled in the
night wind horribly, and filled with superstitious terror the minds of belated travellers returning
through the Porta Capuano, from which the Castle took its name, to Naples.

La Vicaria was then from an early hour in the morning besieged by a numerous crowd, awaiting
the opening of its gates to rush into the hall of audience. The doors were opened. The hall
was instantly occupied by a crowd of curious persons, who everywhere in Europe are attracted
by criminal trials. It is a matter of surprise that in France women, and especially those of
rank, are attracted in numbers sufficient sometimes to form a majority of the audience. But
the reason is, that women are nervous and impressionable, and that they constantly require
excitement. They are not often careful in the selection of these emotions, provided there are
violent shocks, revulsions of feeling, terror, hope, surprise. Such are the fruits of criminal
trials. The head of the prisoner becomes a shuttlecock between the advocate and magistrate.
The varied chances of such a scene offer great and real interest, effacing all the fictions
of tragedy. There, far more than on the stage, women take delight in the dark dramas, and are
the first to resent the terrible effect of the denouements.

The beautiful women of Naples did not fail to add to the interest of the representation of
this drama, the hero of which possessed the admiration of all and the good graces of many.
Some of the upper seats were occupied by women of high rank, who did not dare to show themselves
publicly at this strange spectacle, and came, like beggars, to enjoy a scene which they would
be ashamed to have acknowledged. Places, too, had been reserved for the patrician women, near
the bench of the judges and advocates. These cold, careless creatures, attracted by mere curiosity,
were not the most numerous of the agitated crowd. The private friends of the Count, his partisans,
the members of the society of which he was the chief, formed an imposing mass agitated by the
most tumultuous sentiments. Two hearts beat violently, and, though in different places, a skilful
clock-maker would have declared that one was not faster than the other by a single second.
These two hearts were full of the same object, desired the same thing, pursued the same end.
One sentiment united both, and they were equally tortured by hope and fear.

One of these was a woman dressed in black, and having a half disclosed, fresh and beautiful
face. A fine and delicately gloved hand was placed upon her heart as if to restrain its pulsations.
Her other hand, from time to time, was passed beneath her veil, to bear to her lips an exquisitely
embroidered and perfumed handkerchief. She sat alone on one of the remote benches. For a long
time she remained motionless, but suddenly seeming anxious to avoid observation, she approached,
as nearly as possible, the front of the recess in which the bench on which she had been sitting
was placed. She then cast a quick, anxious glance on the crowd which filled every portion of
the court-room, returned, and became again motionless, and apparently calm as she had been before.

The other actor in this silent scene, was a young man with a pale and agitated countenance,
which betrayed the anxiety of his mind, and the deep interest he took in the events of the
day. Yet not to the place reserved for the judges, nor the doors through which the prisoner
would be led, did he look. Suspiciously examining every bench in the hall, perceiving (so to
speak) the mass of spectators, the long lines of which rose one above another, he examined
the most remote, even, without perceiving what he was evidently so anxious to find. At last,
by a sudden start, he attracted the attention of those near him,--a half-stifled cry burst
from his lips; he had perceived the lonely woman on the remote bench.

"Do you know that lady?" said a young man who sat upon the advocates' bench.

"I know her?" said he, "not at all."

"Excuse me, you seemed surprised when you saw her."

"The fact was, I had not remarked those seats; they are real opera boxes."

"Look again, Signor, the lady amuses herself strangely."

"I see nothing, sir," said the pale young man, who still kept his eyes fixed upon the lady.

"Three times," said the first speaker, "she has placed her hand upon her hair, as if she would
point out to somebody a diamond pin which shines amid her jetty locks like a star in a stormy sky."

"You think so?"

"I am sure of it, it is a signal--and see, she has taken her pin from her hair, and is imploring.
Ah! sir, what a pretty Venus hand. One kiss on her hand, and I would die content!"

"To be sure," said the other mechanically, and without knowing what he said.

"It is some intrigue," said the gossiper, "the women of our country go everywhere, to the church,
to the court, and to the theatre. It would be odd if it were the judge's wife. They who always
condemn others, sometimes must atone for it."

"Speak lower, Signor, speak lower; you may compromise her."

"True, true, but by St. Januarius, see what she is about now;" he spoke lower.

"What!" said the young man.

"She has placed her finger upon her pin, and looks this way, as if she was interrogating you."

"You are mistaken; besides, how can you see under a veil which way she looks?"

"There is no doubt about it, it is intended for us, and she wishes to speak either to you or
to me."

Looking towards the person of whom they spoke, for the purpose of giving more force to his
asseveration, he was amazed to see her white hand holding the diamond pin to her lips. The
scene we have been so long describing had taken place in a few seconds. Prompt as was the reply
of the young man to the interrogatory of the woman, his companion had perceived it. The latter
being a man of good taste, and perfectly expert in the telegraphs of love, was persuaded that
he had interfered in some love affair, and hastened to say to the hero of the adventure,

"Do not be afraid, sir, I have seen nothing. Well-bred people, such as you and I are, never
speak of secrets we thus become acquainted with--and I am ready to maintain with my lip and
with my sword, that you have not the slightest acquaintance with the lady there."

"Thank you, sir," said the young man; "your conduct proves you to be a gentleman."

Just then all the assemblage became full of eager expectation at the entrance of the High Court,
preceded by the President.

"The court is opened--produce the prisoner," said the Grand Judge.

The agitation became stronger. Women stood up in their chairs, men climbed up on the banisters,
and others, vexed at not being able to see, protested against the appropriation of seats by
the legs and boots of those in front of them. The disorder was quickly put an end to by the
imperious voice of the Grand Judge, who threatened to have the hall cleared if order were not
at once restored, and the respect due to the court maintained. All became immediately quiet;
the audience sat down, those in the rear ceased to complain, and many an eye was fixed on Count
Monte-Leone.

The Count sat in the lofty seat reserved for him, an arm-chair replaced the stool used by vulgar
criminals. The respect due to rank and birth was religiously observed in this aristocratic
tribunal. The noble, if found guilty, was certainly sentenced to death, as the merest commoner--the
form of trial, though, always exhibited respect for illustrious names, which was most gratifying
to the people. The fact was, at that time people believed in social superiority, had faith
in their God, king and nobles, and though they demanded that their nobles should be punished,
did not expect them to die like common people; the difference was the difference between the
rope and the sabre. That very difference, however, between the two deaths--the terrible theatrical
effect of the latter, made a great impression on the masses.

The public accuser arose, and pronounced an eloquent harangue against Monte-Leone, as guilty
of two crimes, the nature of which the Grand Judge had already described to him in prison.

First crime: Conspiracy against the State, in having presided at the secret venta of Pompeia,
as chief of a society, having for its object the overturning of the monarchy.

TO BE CONTINUED.

From Graham's Magazine.

BALLAD OF JESSIE CAROL.

BY ALICE CAREY.

              I.

    At her window, Jessie Carol,
      As the twilight dew distils,
    Pushes back her heavy tresses,
      Listening toward the northern hills.
    "I am happy, very happy,
      None so much as I am blest;
    None of all the many maidens
      In the Valley of the West,"
    Softly to herself she whispered;
      Paused she then again to hear
    If the step of Allen Archer,
      That she waited for, were near.
    "Ah, he knows I love him fondly!--
      I have never told him so!--
    Heart of mine be not so heavy,
      He will come to-night, I know."

    Brightly is the full moon filling
      All the withered woods with light,
    "He has not forgotten surely--
      It was later yesternight!"
    Shadows interlock with shadows--
      Says the maiden, "Woe is me!"
    In the blue the eve-star trembles
      Like a lily in the sea.
    Yet a good hour later sounded,--
      But the northern woodlands sway!--
    Quick a white hand from her casement
      Thrust the heavy vines away.
    Like the wings of restless swallows
      That a moment brush the dew,
    And again are up and upward,
      Till we lose them in the blue,
    Were the thoughts of Jessie Carol,--
      For a moment dim with pain,
    Then with pleasant waves of sunshine,
      On the hills of hope again.
    "Selfish am I, weak and selfish,"
      Said she, "thus to sit and sigh;
    Other friends and other pleasures
      Claim his leisure well as I.
    Haply, care or bitter sorrow
      'Tis that keeps him from my side,
    Else he surely would have hasted
      Hither at the twilight tide.
    Yet, sometimes I can but marvel
      That his lips have never said,
    When we talked about the future,
      Then, or then, we shall be wed!
    Much I fear me that my nature
      Cannot measure half his pride,
    And perchance he would not wed me
      Though I pined of love and died.
    To the aims of his ambition
      I would bring nor wealth nor fame.
    Well, there is a quiet valley
      Where we both shall sleep the same!"
    So, more eves than I can number,
      Now despairing, and now blest,
    Watched the gentle Jessie Carol
      From the Valley of the West.

              II.

    Down along the dismal woodland
      Blew October's yellow leaves,
    And the day had waned and faded,
      To the saddest of all eves.
    Poison rods of scarlet berries
      Still were standing here and there,
    But the clover blooms were faded,
      And the orchard boughs were bare.
    From the stubble fields the cattle
      Winding homeward, playful, slow,
    With their slender horns of silver
      Pushed each other to and fro.
    Suddenly the hound upspringing
      From his sheltering kennel, whined,
    As the voice of Jessie Carol
      Backward drifted on the wind,
    Backward drifted from a pathway
      Sloping down the upland wild,
    Where she walked with Allan Archer,
      Light of spirit as a child!
    All her young heart wild with rapture
      And the bliss that made it beat--
    Not the golden wells of Hybla
      Held a treasure half so sweet!
    But as oft the shifting rose-cloud,
      In the sunset light that lies,
    Mournful makes us, feeling only
      How much farther are the skies,--
    So the mantling of her blushes,
      And the trembling of her heart,
    'Neath his steadfast eyes but made her
      Feel how far they were apart.

    "Allan," said she, "I will tell you
      Of a vision that I had--
    All the livelong night I dreamed it,
      And it made me very sad.
    We were walking slowly, seaward,
      In the twilight--you and I--
    Through a break of clearest azure
      Shone the moon--as now--on high;
    Though I nothing said to vex you,
      O'er your forehead came a frown,
    And I strove, but could not soothe you--
      Something kept my full heart down;
    When, before us, stood a lady
      In the moonlight's pearly beam,
    Very tall and proud and stately--
      (Allan, this was in my dream!--)
    Looking down, I thought, upon me,
      Half in pity, half in scorn,
    Till my soul grew sick with wishing
      That I never had been born.
    'Cover me from woe and madness!'
      Cried I to the ocean flood,
    As she locked her milk-white fingers
      In between us where we stood,--
    All her flood of midnight tresses
      Softly gathered from their flow,
    By her crown of bridal beauty,
      Paler than the winter snow.
    Striking then my hands together,
      O'er the tumult of my breast,--
    All the beauty waned and faded
      From the Valley of the West!"

    In the beard of Allan Archer
      Twisted then his fingers white,
    As he said, "My gentle Jessie,
      You must not be sad to-night;
    You must not be sad, my Jessie--
      You are over kind and good,
    And I fain would make you happy,
      Very happy--if I could!"
    Oft he kissed her cheek and forehead,
      Called her darling oft, but said,
    Never, that he loved her fondly,
      Or that ever they should wed;
    But that he was grieved that shadows
      Should have chilled so dear a heart;
    That the time foretold so often
      Then was come--and they must part!
    Shook her bosom then with passion,
      Hot her forehead burned with pain,
    But her lips said only, "Allan,
      Will you ever come again?"
    And he answered, lightly dallying
      With her tresses all the while,
    Life had not a star to guide him
      Like the beauty of her smile;
    And that when the corn was ripened
      And the vintage harvest prest,
    She would see him home returning
      To the Valley of the West.

    When the moon had veiled her splendor,
      And went lessening down the blue,
    And along the eastern hill-tops
      Burned the morning in the dew,
    They had parted--each one feeling
      That their lives had separate ends;
    They had parted--neither happy--
      Less than lovers--more than friends.
    For as Jessie mused in silence,
      She remembered that he said,
    Never, that he loved her fondly,
      Or that ever they should wed.

    'Twas full many a nameless meaning
      My poor words can never say,
    Felt without the need of utterance,
      That had won her heart away.

    O the days were weary! weary!
      And the eves were dull and long,
    With the cricket's chirp of sorrow,
      And the owlet's mournful song.
    But in slumber oft she started
      In the still and lonesome nights,
    Hearing but the traveller's footstep
      Hurrying toward the village lights.

    So, moaned by the dreary winter--
      All her household tasks fulfilled--
    Till beneath the last year's rafters
      Came the swallows back to build.
    Meadow-pinks, like flakes of crimson,
      Over all the valleys lay,
    And again were oxen ploughing
      Up and down the hills all day.
    Thus the dim days dawned and faded
      To the maid, forsaken, lorn,
    Till the freshening breeze of summer
      Shook the tassels of the corn.
    Ever now within her chamber
      All night long the lamp-light shines,
    But no white hand from her casement
      Pushes back the heavy vines.
    On her cheek a fire was feeding,
      And her hand transparent grew--
    Ah, the faithless Allan Archer!
      More than she had dreamed was true.

    No complaint was ever uttered,
      Only to herself she sighed,--
    As she read of wretched poets
      Who had pined of love and died.
    Once she crushed the sudden crying
      From her trembling lips away,
    When they said the vintage harvest
      Had been gathered in that day
    Often, when they kissed her, smiled she,
      Saying that it soothed her pain,
    And that they must not be saddened--
      She would soon be well again!
    Thus nor hoping nor yet fearing,
      Meekly bore she all her pain.
    Till the red leaves of the autumn
      Withered from the woods again;
    Till the bird had hushed its singing
      In the silvery sycamore,
    And the nest was left unsheltered
      In the lilac by the door;
    Saying, still, that she was happy--
      None so much as she was blest--
    None, of all the many maidens
      In the Valley of the West.

              III.

    Down the heath and o'er the moorland
      Blows the wild gust high and higher,
    Suddenly the maiden pauses
      Spinning at the cabin fire,
    And quick from her taper fingers
      Falls away the flaxen thread,
    As some neighbor entering, whispers,
      "Jessie Carol lieth dead."
    Then, as pressing close her forehead
      To the window-pane, she sees
    Two stout men together digging
      Underneath the church-yard trees.
    And she asks in kindest accents,
      "Was she happy when she died?"--
    Sobbing all the while to see them
      Void the heavy earth aside;
    Or, upon their mattocks leaning,
      Through their fingers numb to blow,
    For the wintry air is chilly,
      And the grave-mounds white with snow;
    And the neighbor answers softly,
      "Do not, dear one, do not cry:
    At the break of day she asked us
      If we thought that she must die;
    And when I had told her, sadly,
      That I feared it would be so,
    Smiled she, saying, ''Twill be weary
      Digging in the churchyard snow!'
    'Earth,' I said, 'was very dreary--
      That its paths at best were rough;
    And she whispered, she was ready,
      That her life was long enough.
    So she lay serene and silent,
      Till the wind, that wildly drove,
    Soothed her from her mortal sorrow,
      Like the lullaby of love."
    Thus they talked, while one that loved her
      Smoothed her tresses dark and long,
    Wrapped her white shroud down, and simply
      Wove her sorrow to this song:

              IV.

    Sweetly sleeps she: pain and passion
      Burn no longer on her brow--
    Weary watchers, ye may leave her--
      She will never need you now!
    While the wild spring bloomed and faded,
      Till the autumn came and passed,
    Calmly, patiently, she waited--
      Rest has come to her at last!
    Never have the blessed angels,
      As they walked with her apart,
    Kept pale Sorrow's battling armies
      Half so softly from her heart
    Therefore, think not, ye that loved her,
      Of the pallor hushed and dread,
    Where the winds, like heavy mourners,
      Cry about her lonesome bed,
    But of white hands softly reaching
      As the shadow o'er her fell,
    Downward from the golden bastion
      Of the eternal citadel.

[From "The Memorial," just published by Putnam.]

A STORY OF CALAIS.

BY THE AUTHOR OF "ST. LEGER."

Some years ago, I was detained unexpectedly in Calais for an entire week. It was with difficulty
I could occupy the time. For a while my chief resource was to inspect the different faces which
daily presented themselves at the Hotel de Meurice, where one could see every variety of features
belonging to every country, age, sex, and condition. I grew tired of this presently, for I
had been on the continent a considerable period, and had seen the human species under as many
different phases as could well be imagined. Therefore, when the third day brought with it one
of those disagreeable storms peculiar to the coast--half drizzle, half sleet and rain--it found
me weary of the amusement of attending on new arrivals and departures, and of the nameless
petty doings by which time, in a bustling hotel, is attempted to be frittered away. A misty,
dreary, damp, offensive day! An out-and-out tempest, a thorough right-down drenching rain,
would have been in agreeable contrast with the previous hot, dusty, sunny weather; but this--it
seemed absolutely intolerable! I was, besides, in no particular condition to be pleased. I
was neither setting out upon a tour, nor returning from one, but had been interrupted in my
progress and forced to stand still at this most uninteresting spot. I came down, and with a
bad grace, to order breakfast.

"Garçon, Café--oeufs a la coque--biftek--rotie--vite!"

I turned angrily upon the speaker, doubtful of the design of this repetition of my order.

The reader will perceive that my breakfast was a substantial one; indeed, such a breakfast
as an American, who had not so far lost himself in "European society" as to forget his appetite,
would be very likely to call for. The idea that I was watched, doubtless made me a little suspicious,
or sensitive, or irritable; at any rate, I turned, as I have said, angrily upon the speaker.
He was a slightly made, elderly man, at least fifty, with pleasant features, a calm appearance,
and quiet manners--a person evidently at home with the world. I recollected at the same moment,
that the stranger had been at the hotel ever since my arrival there, although I had not, from
his unobtrusive habit, given him more than a passing notice. His appearance at once dispelled
the frown which I had brought to bear upon him; but when he answered my stare with a respectful
yet half familiar bow, I could have sworn that it came from an old acquaintance. I need not
say that I returned the salutation cordially. At the same time my new friend rose, came towards
me, and held out his hand.

"I am quite sure," he said, "that you are an American--perhaps a New Englander; I am both;
why, then, should not countrymen beguile an unpleasant day in company? Excuse me--I did hear
your order just now, and as it suited my own taste, I proposed to myself that we should breakfast
together;--we may trust to François; he has been here, to my knowledge, more than twenty years,
and pleases every body."

I pressed the hand of my new acquaintance--acknowledged myself to be from New Hampshire--gave
my name, and received in return--"Philip Belcher."

We sat down to the same table, and very soon François appeared with a well-served breakfast.

"Pray," said I, "what can one do to relieve the monotony of this intolerable place? If the
country about were agreeable--nay, if it were bearable! but as it is, I repeat, what is to
be done?"

"Done!" said Mr. Belcher, rather sharply, "a hundred things! Put on your Mackintosh and overshoes;
come with me to the Courtgain, and see the fishermen putting to sea, their boats towed out
by their wives and daughters; a sight, I will be bound, you have not beheld, although you may
have coursed Europe over, and been at Calais half a dozen times."

Mr. Belcher proceeded in this vein, detailing many things that could be seen to advantage even
in Calais; but as he suggested nothing which interested me so much as he himself did, I had
the boldness to tell him so, and that my curiosity was excited to know more of him.

"There is nothing in my history that can amuse a stranger; indeed, it is without incident or
marvel. To be sure, I am alone in the world, but I have never been afflicted, or suffered misfortune,
within my recollection. My parents died when I was very young; my father and mother were both
only children; a small property which the former left was carefully invested, and faithfully
nursed during my minority, by a scrupulous and honest lawyer, in no way connected with us,
but whom my father named as executor in his will, and my guardian. Ill health prevented my
getting on at school. I can't say that I was an invalid, but my constitution was delicate and
my temperament nervous. I tried to make some progress in the study of a profession, under my
excellent guardian, but was forced to give it up as too trying to my nerves. The excitement
of a court-room I could not endure for a day, much less for a lifetime. Before I was twenty-five,
my income had so much increased that I could afford to travel. I have gained in this way my
health, which, however, would become impaired should I return to a sedentary life; so, as a
matter of necessity, I have wandered about the world. You see my story is soon told."

I found Mr. Belcher was not in the habit of talking about himself, and I liked him the better
for it. Without pressing for a more particular account, I led the conversation to treat of
the different countries he had visited, referring, by the way, to some principal objects of
attraction. Here I touched an idiosyncrasy of my new friend.

"I never formed," he said, "any distinct 'plan' of travel. I never 'did' Paris in eight days,
nor the gallery of the Louvre in half an hour, as they have been done by an acquaintance. I
never opened a guide-book in my life; I never employed a commissionere, a valet, a courier,
a cicerone, or a dragoman. My pleasure has been to let the remarkable--the beautiful--the interesting--burst
upon me without introduction, and I have found my account in it. I have quitted the Val d'Arno,
turned off from the Lake of Como, passed to the wrong side of Lake Leman and its romantic castles,
pursuing my way, regardless of these well-worn attractions, while I beheld rarer--at least
familiar scenes--and enjoyed with zest what was fresh and unhackneyed. No everlasting 'route'--no
mercenary and dishonest landlords--no troops of travellers, travelling that they may become
'travelled'--but in place of all this, I saw every thing naturally--the country in its simplicity--the
inhabitants in their simplicity--while, I trust, I have preserved my own simplicity. Indeed,
I rather prefer what your tourist calls an 'uninteresting region.'"

"For that reason," I remarked, pleasantly, "you have come here to Calais to spend a few weeks;
you must enjoy the barren sand-plain which extends all the way from this to St. Omer. How picturesque
are those pollards scattered along the road, with here and there a superannuated windmill,
looking like an ogre with three arms and no legs: then, to relieve the dreariness of the place,
you have multitudes of miserable cabins, grouped into more miserable villages, to say nothing
of the chateaux of dingy red, in which painters of the brick-dust school so much delight. Really,
Mr. Belcher, you will have a capital field here!"

My new acquaintance shook his head a little seriously, as if deprecating further pleasantry.

"You are like the rest of them, I fear," he remarked, "a surface traveller; at least you will
force me to believe so if you go on in this way. But come," he continued, "the storm threatens
to last the morning; if you wish, I will help to make away with part of it, by recounting a
little adventure which happened to me hard by those very pollards, which you are pleased to
abuse so freely."

It is needless to add that I joyfully assented to the proposal, and was soon seated in Mr.
Belcher's room before a cheerful fire--for he had managed even in Calais to procure one--when
he commenced as follows:

"I think it was during the first season I was on the continent, that I visited St. Omer. After
spending a day or two in that place, I concluded to walk to Calais, and set out one morning
accordingly.

"The weather was fine; but after I had been a few hours on the road, the wind began to blow
directly in my face, and soon enveloped me in a cloud of sand from which there seemed no escape,
and which threatened actually to suffocate me. To avoid this I left the highway, but keeping
what I supposed to be in the general direction of the road, I struck out into the adjacent
fields. There was nothing for a considerable distance to repay me for this detour, except that
I thus was rid of the sand. The country was barren and uninteresting, the cottages little better
than hovels, and the whole scene uninviting. But I pushed on, not a whit discouraged; indeed
my spirits rose as the prospect darkened, and like a valiant general invading a country for
the purpose of conquering a peace, I resolved in some way to force an adventure before I reached
Calais. I trudged along for hours, stopping occasionally for a draught of sour wine and a bit
of bread. I made no inquiry about the main road, for I preferred to know nothing of it. In
this way I proceeded, until it was almost night, when I spied, some half a mile distant, a
cluster of trees surrounding a small tenement. I turned at once toward the spot, and coming
up to it, found a cottage not differing in size or structure from those I had seen on the way,
except that it appeared even more antiquated. It was, however, in perfect repair, and finely
shaded by a variety of handsome trees, and flanked on one side by a neat garden. The door stood
open and I entered. There was no one in the room. I called, but received no answer. I strayed
out into the garden and walked through it. At the lower end was a small inclosure covered over
at the top as if to protect it from the weather, and fenced on each side with open wire-work,
looking through which, I beheld a small grave, overspread with mosses, and strewed with fresh-gathered
white flowers. It bore no name or inscription, except the following simple but pathetic line;

    "Enfant cherie, avec toi mes beaux jours sont passes.--1794."

Surprised by the appearance of fresh flowers upon a tomb which had been so long closed over
its occupant, I turned, hoping to find some explanation of the mystery, in what I might see
elsewhere, But there was nothing near to attract one's attention, nor was any person within sight.

"After taking a glance around, I returned to the cottage, and walking in, sat down to wait
the arrival of the occupants. In a few minutes, I heard voices from the side of the house opposite
the garden, and soon two persons, of the peasant class, evidently husband and wife, came in.
The man was strong and robust, with the erect form and martial appearance acquired only by
military service, and which the weight of nearly sixty years had not seemed to impair. His
countenance was frank and manly, and his step firm. The woman appeared a few years younger,
while the air of happy contentment which beamed in her face, put the ordinary encroachments
of time at defiance. Altogether, I had never seen a couple so fitted to challenge observation
and interest. They both stopped short on seeing me.

"I hastened to explain my situation, as that of a belated traveller, attracted by the sight
of the cottage; and told them I was both hungry and tired, and desirous of the hospitality
of their roof. I was made welcome at once.

"Louis Herbois, for that was his name, gave me a bluff, soldierly greeting, while Agathe, his
wife, smiled her acquiescence. Supper was soon laid; I ate with a sharpened appetite, which
evidently charmed my host, who encouraged me at intervals, as I began to flag.

"Supper concluded, I was glad to accept the offer of a bed--for I was exhausted with fatigue.

"I had been so engrossed with the repast, that curiosity was for the time suspended, and it
was not again in action until I had said good-night to my entertainers, and found myself in
the room where I was to sleep. This was an apartment of moderate size; the furniture was old
and common, but neither dilapidated nor out of order; the bed was neatly covered; around the
room were scattered several books of interest, and in one corner was a neat writing-desk, of
antiquated appearance, with silver mounting, and handsomely inlaid; while some small articles
of considerable value placed on a table in another corner, indicated at least occasional denizens
very different from the peasant and his wife. Yet this could not be a rural resort for any
family belonging to the town. There were but two other apartments in the house, and these were
occupied. Nevertheless, I reasoned, these things can never have been brought here by the worthy
people I have seen; and then--the little grave in the garden? who has watched the tomb for
so many years, preserving the moss so green and the flowers so fresh--cherishing an affection
which has triumphed over time? How intense, how sacred, how strange must be such devotion!
I decided that some persons besides my host were concerned, in some way, in the history of
the little dwelling, and with this conclusion I retired; and so, being fatigued by my day's
travel, I soon fell asleep.

"I awoke about sunrise. Going to the window, I put aside the curtain, and looked out into the
garden. Louis Herbois and his wife were there, renewing the garlands with fresh flowers, and
watering the moss which was spread over the grave. It must be their own child, thought I, and
yet--no--I will step out and ask them, and put an end to the mystery. I met the good people
coming in: they inquired if I had rested well, and said that breakfast would soon be ready.
'You do not forget your little one,' I said to the old fellow, at the same time pointing towards
the inclosure. 'Monsieur mistakes,' replied he, crossing himself devoutly. 'Some dear friend,
I suppose?' He looked at me earnestly: 'On voit bien, Monsieur, que vous etes un homme comme
il faut. After you have breakfasted, you shall hear the story. 'Ah, there is then a story,'
said I to myself, as I followed Louis Herbois into the cottage, where Agathe had preceded us,
and sat down to an excellent breakfast. When it was concluded I asked for the promised narration.
'Let me see,' said Louis, 'Agathe, how long have we been married?' Agathe, matron as she was,
actually blushed at the question, yet answered readily, without stopping to compute the time.
'Yes; true; very well;' resumed Louis. 'You must know, Monsieur, that my father was a soldier,
and enrolled me, at an early age, in the same company with himself. Having been detailed, soon
after, on service to one of the provinces, I was so severely wounded that I was thought to
be permanently unfitted for duty, and was honorably dismissed with a life pension. Owing to
the care and skill of a famous surgeon who attended me, and whom I was fortunate enough to
interest, I was at last cured of my wounds, and very soon after I wandered away here, for no
better reason, I believe, than that Agathe was in the neighborhood; for we had known each other
from the time we were children. Very soon she and I were married, and we took this little place,
and were as blessed as possible.

"'In the mean time, great changes were going on at Paris. The revolution had begun, and soon
swept every thing before it. But it did not matter with us. We rose with the birds, and went
to rest with the sun, and no two could have been happier: am I not right, Agathe?' The old
lady put her hand affectionately upon the shoulder of her husband, but said nothing. 'And we
have never ceased being happy: we are always happy, are we not Agathe?' The tears stood in
Agathe's eyes, and Louis Herbois went on. 'Well, the revolution was nothing to me, they were
mad with it, and killed the king, and slew each other, until our dear Paris became a bedlam--still,
as I said, it was nothing to me. To be sure, I went occasionally to Calais, where I heard a
new language in every body's mouth, and much talk of Les hommes suspects, Mandats d'arrets,
with shouts of Abas les aristocrates, and Vive la Republique--but I did not trouble myself
about any of it; Agathe and I worked together in the field, and in the garden, and in the house--always
together--always happy. One morning we went out to prune our vines, the door of the house was
open, just as you found it yesterday; why should we ever shut the door? we were honest, and
feared nobody; we stood--Agathe here on this side holding the vine; I, with my knife, on the
other side, bending over to lop a sprout from it; when down came two young people--lad and
lass--upon us, as fast as they could run; out of breath--agitated--and as frightened as two
wood-pigeons. The young man flew to me, and catching hold of my arm begged me, pour l'amour
de Dieu, to secrete his wife somewhere--anywhere--out of the reach of the gens-d'armes, who
were pursuing them. I felt in ill-humor, for I had cut my finger just then; besides, I did
not relish the mention of the gens-d'armes, so I replied plainly, that I would have nothing
to do with persons who were suspects. Why should I thrust my own neck into the trap? they had
better go about their business, and not trouble poor people. Bah! such a speech was not like
Louis Herbois! but out it came, Heaven knows how, and no sooner had I finished than up runs
the young creature, and seizing my moustache she cries, "My brave fellow, hie away, and crop
off all this; none but men have a right to it; God grant you were not born in France; no Frenchman
could give such an answer to a man imploring protection for his wife. Look at my husband--did
he ask aid for himself? Do you think he would turn you off in this way, had you sought his
assistance to save her?" pointing to Agathe, who stood trembling all the while like an aspen.
"Ah! you have made a mistake, I see you repent, be quick; what will you do with us?" And she
held me tight by the moustache until I should answer, while the husband stared upon me in a
sort of breathless agony. I took another look at the little creature, while she kept fast hold
of me, and saw that she was----eh bien! I see you understand me,' said Louis, interrupting
himself, as he glanced towards his wife. 'My heart knocked loud enough, believe me, and there
the dear little thing stood, her hand, as I was telling you, clenched fast in my moustache--ha!
ha! ha!--and looking so full into my eyes, with her own clear bright blue gazers. "Mon Dieu--mon
Dieu! Agathe we must help these pauvres enfans." "You are a Frenchman--I thought so," cried
the little one, letting go my moustache and clapping her hands. "Oh! hasten, hasten, or we
are lost!" "All in good time," said I, "for--" "No no," interrupted she, "they are almost upon
us: in a moment we may be captured, and then Albert, oh, Albert, what will become of you?"
So saying, she threw her arms about her husband, and clung to him as if nothing should part
them. "Voilà bien les femmes; to the devil with my caution; come with me, and I will put you
in a place where the whole Directory shall not find you, unless they pull my cottage down stone
by stone." I hurried them to the house, and hid them in a private closet which, following out
my soldier-like propensities, I had constructed in one end of the room, in a marvellously curious
way. Not a soul but Agathe knew of it, and I disliked to give up the secret, but I hurried
the young people in, and arranged the place, and went back to the vines and cut away harder
than ever. In two minutes, up rode three dragoons with drawn swords, as fine looking troopers
as one would ask for. I saw them reconnoitre the cottage, then spying me, they came towards
us at a gallop. "What have you done with the Comte and Comtesse de Choissy?" said the leading
horseman. "You had better hold your tongue," I retorted, "than be clattering away at random.
What the devil do I know of the Comte and Comtesse de Choissy, as you call them?" "Look, you,"
said the dragoon, laying his hand on my shoulder; "the persons for whom I seek, are escaped
prisoners; they were seen to come in the direction of this cottage; our captain watched them
with his glass, and he swears they are here." "And look you, Monsieur Cavalier, I am an old
soldier, as you see, if scars and hard service can prove one, and it seems to me you should
take an old soldier's word. I have said all I have to say; there is my house, the doors are
open--look for yourself: come Agathe, we must finish our morning's work." So saying, I set
at the vines harder than ever. I looked neither one way nor the other, but kept clipping, clipping,
thus standing between the dragoons and poor Agathe, who was frightened terribly, although she
tried to seem as busy as I. The rider who was spokesman, stared for a minute without saying
a word, and then broke out into a loud laugh. "An old soldier indeed!--a regular piece of steel!
one has but to point a flint at you, and the sparks fly." He turned to his men: "Our captain
was mistaken, evidently; this is a bon camarade; we may trust to him. We will take a turn through
the cottage and push forward." With that he bid me good morning, and after looking around the
house the party made off.

"'"Well, Agathe, what's to be done now?" said I, when the dragoons were fairly out of sight.
"We have made a fine business of it." "Ah, Louis," said she, "let us not think of the danger;
we have saved two innocent lives, for innocent I know they are: what if we have perilled our
own? Heaven will reward us." Nothing more was said, though we both thought a great deal, but
we kept at our work as if nothing had happened. It was a long time before I dared let the fugitives
come from their hiding-place; for I was afraid of that cursed glass of Monsieur le Capitaine.
When I did open it I found my prisoners nearly dead with suspense. We held a council as to
the best means for their concealment--for who would have had the heart to turn the young people
adrift?--and it was finally settled that the comte and his wife should dress as peasants, and
take what other means were necessary to alter their appearance, that they might pass as such
without suspicion. This was no sooner resolved than carried out. Agathe was as busy as a bee,
and in a few minutes had a dress ready for Victorine--we were to call her by her first name--who
was now as lively as a creature could be, running about the room, looking into the glass, and
making fun of her husband, who had in the mean time pulled on some of my clothes. After this,
the young comte explained to me that his father had died a short time before, leaving him his
title and immense estates, which, however, should he die childless, would pass to an uncle,
a man unscrupulous and of bad reputation. This uncle was among the most conspicuous of the
revolutionists. Through his agency the Comte de Choissy and his young wife, with whom he had
been but a twelvemonth united, were arrested, and shortly after sentenced to death. They escaped
from prison and the guillotine by the aid of a faithful domestic, and were almost at Calais
when they discovered that they were pursued. By leaving the road and sending the carriage forward,
they managed to gain the few moments which saved them. Their principal fear now was from the
wicked designs of the uncle, for the Directory had too much on their hands to hunt out escaped
prisoners who were not specially obnoxious. For some days the young people did not stir from
the house, but were ever ready to resort to their hiding-place on the first alarm. There were,
however, no signs of the gens-d'armes in the neighborhood. I went to Calais in a little while,
and found, after much trouble, the old servant who was in the carriage when the comte and his
wife deserted it. He had been permitted to pass on without being molested, so alert were the
soldiers in pursuit of the fugitives; and he had brought the few effects which he could get
together for his master on leaving Paris to a safe place; and to prevent suspicion, he himself
had taken service with a respectable traiteur. By degrees, I managed to bring off every thing
belonging to my guests, and we fitted up the little room in which you passed the night, as
comfortably as possible, without having it excite remark from any one casually entering it.
"Albert" was industrious, aiding me at my work, no matter what I was doing, and "Victorine,"
too, insisted upon helping my wife in whatever she did, here, there, and everywhere, the liveliest,
the merriest, the most innocent creature I ever set eyes upon. But for all that, one could
see that time hung heavy on the comte. He became thoughtful and triste, and like every man
out of his proper place, he was restless and uneasy. Not so the dear wife: she declared she
had never been so happy, that she had her Albert all to herself: wanted nothing more: if she
but knew how to requite us, she would not wish the estates back again--she would live where
she was, forever. Then her husband would throw his arms around her, and call her by endearing
names, which would make the little thing look so serious, but at the same time so calm and
satisfied and angel-like, that it seemed as if the divine soul of the Holy Virgin had taken
possession of her, as she turned her eyes up to her husband and met his, looking lovingly down....'

"Here Louis Herbois stopped, and felt for his handkerchief, and blew his nose until the walls
resounded, and wiped his eyes as if trying to remove something that was in them, and proceeded--

"'Any one to have seen her at different times would have sworn I had two little women for guests
instead of one: so full of fun and mischief and all sorts of pranks; so lively, running hither
and yon, teasing me, amusing Agathe, rallying her husband; but on the occasions I mention,
so subdued, so thoughtful so--different from her other self: Ciel! she had all our hearts.

"'Several months passed, much in the same manner. The comte by degrees gained courage, and
often ventured away from the house. Twice he had been to the town, but his wife was in such
terror during his absence, that he promised her he would not venture again. He continued meanwhile
moody and ill at ease; it would be madness to leave his place of concealment; this he knew
well enough; still he could not bring himself to be patient. Do not think, Monsieur, that the
Comte de Choissy failed to love his wife just as ever: that was not it at all. A man is a man
the world about; the comte felt as any body would feel who finds himself rusting away like
an old musket, which has been tossed aside into some miserable cock-loft. I had seen the world
and knew how it was with him. But what could be done? In Paris things were getting worse and
worse. At first we had le Côté Gauche; les Montagnards; les Jacobines: then came les Patriotes
de '93; and after that, les Patriotes par excellence, who were succeeded by les Patriotes plus
patriotes que les patriotes: and then the devil was let loose in mad earnest; for what with
les Bonnets-Rouges, les Enragés, les Terroristes, les Beveurs de Sang, and les Chevaliers du
Poignard, Paris was converted into a more fitting abode for Satan than his old-fashioned country
residence down below. Pardon Monsieur! I am getting warm; but it always stirs my blood when
I recall those days. I see, too, I am getting from my story. Well: I tried to comfort the comte
with such scraps of philosophy as I had picked up in my campaigns--for in the army, you must
know, one learns many a good maxim--but I did little by that. The sweet young comtesse was
the only one who could make him cheerful, and smile, and laugh, and seem happy in a natural
way, for he loved her as tenderly as a man ever loved; besides, the comtesse had now a stronger
claim than ever upon her husband. I fancy I can see her sitting there, her face bent over,
employing her needle upon certain diminutive articles, whose use it is very easy to understand.
Do you know, when she was at work on these, that she was serious--never playful--always serious;
wearing the same expression as when she received from her husband a tender word? No: nothing
could make her merry then. I used to sit and wonder how the self-same person could become so
changed all in one minute. How the comte loved to look at her! his eyes were upon her wherever
she was; not a word she spoke, not a step she took, not a motion of hers escaped him. Well,
the time came at last, and by the blessing of God and the Holy Virgin, as beautiful a child
as the world ever welcomed, was placed by my Agathe in the arms of the comtesse. Perhaps,'
added Louis Herbois, in a lower voice, while speech seemed for the instant difficult, 'perhaps
I have remembered this the better, because God willed it that we ourselves should be childless.
When Agathe took the infant and laid it in the mother's bosom, the latter regarded it for a
moment with an expression of intense fondness; then, raising her eyes to her husband, who stood
over her, she laughed for joy.

"'Mother and daughter prospered apace. The little girl became the pet of the house; we all
quarelled for her; but each had to submit in turn. How intelligent! what speaking eyes! what
knowing looks! what innocently mischievous ways! mother and child! I wish you could have seen
them. I soon marked a striking change: the young comtesse was now never herself a child. A
gentle dignity distinguished her--new-born, it would seem--but natural. I am making my story
a long one, but I could talk to you the whole day in this way. So, the months passed on--and
the revolution did not abate; and the comte was sick at heart, and the comtesse was, as ever,
cheerful, content, happy, and the little one could stand alone by a chair and call out to us
all, wherever we were. The comte, notwithstanding his promise, could not resist his desire
to learn more of what was going on than I could inform him of. I seldom went away, for when
hawks are abroad, it is well to look after the brood: and as I had nothing to gain, and every
thing to lose, by venturing out, I thought it best to stay at home. The comte, on the contrary,
was anxious to know every thing. He had made several visits to Calais, first obtaining his
wife's consent, although the agony she suffered seemed to fill his heart with remorse; this,
however, was soon smothered by his renewed and unconquerable restlessness. One morning he was
pleading with her for leave to go again, answering her expressions of fear with the fact that
he had been often already without danger. "There is always a first time," said my Agathe, who
was in the room. "And there is always a last time, too," said I, happening to enter at that
moment. I did not know what they were talking about, and the words came out quite at random.
The comtesse turned pale. "Albert," she said, "content yourself with your Victorine and our
babe: go not away from us." The infant was standing by its mother's knee, and without understanding
what was said, she repeated, "Papa--not go. The comte hesitated: "What a foreboding company--croakers
every one of you--away with such presentiments of evil. Go I will, to show you how foolish
you have all been;" and with that he snatched a kiss from his wife and the little one, and
started off. The former called to him twice, "Albert, Albert!" and the baby in imitation, with
its little voice said, "Papa, papa!" but the comte did not hear those precious tones of wife
or child, and in a few minutes he was out of sight. I cannot say what was the matter with me;
my spirit was troubled; the comtesse looked so desponding, and Agathe so triste, that I knew
not what to do with myself. I did nothing for an hour, then I spoke to Agathe: "Wife, I am
going across to the town." She said, "Ah, Louis, I almost wish you would go. See how the comtesse
suffers. I am sure I shall feel easier myself." Then I told her to say nothing of where I had
gone, and away I went. It did not take me long, for it seemed as if I ought to hasten. I got
into the town, and having walked along till I came to the Rue de Paris, I was about turning
down it when I saw a small concourse of people on the opposite corner; I crossed over and beheld
the Comte de Choissy in the custody of four gens-d'armes, and surrounded by a number of "citizens."
My first impulse was to rush to his assistance, but I reflected in time, and contented myself
with joining the crowd. One of the soldiers had gone for a carriage, and the remainder were
questioning him; the comte, however, would make no reply, except, "You have me prisoner, I
have nothing to say, do what you will." I waited quietly for an opportunity of showing myself
to him, but he did not look toward me. Presently I said to the man next me, "Neighbor, you
crowd something too hard for good fellowship." The comte started a very little at the sound
of my voice, but he did not immediately look up. Shortly he raised his head and fixed his eyes
on me for an instant only, and then turned them upon others of the company with a look as indifferent
as if he were a mere spectator. What a courageous dog! by Heaven, he never changed an iota,
nor showed the slightest possible mark of recognition; still, I knew well enough he did recognize
me, but I got no sign of it, neither did he look towards me again. Soon the carriage came up
and he was hurried in by the gens-d'armes, and off they drove! I made some inquiries, and found
that the comte was known, and that they were taking him to Paris.

"'It seems that he had been observed by a spy of the uncle during one of his visits to the
town, and although he was not tracked to his home--for he was always very cautious in his movements--yet
a strict watch was kept for his next appearance. I went to see the old domestic, but he knew
not so much as I. My steps were next turned homeward. What a walk that was for me? How could
I enter my house the bearer of such tidings! "Bon Dieu! ah, bon Dieu," I exclaimed, "ayez pitie!"
and I stopped under a hedge and got down on my knees and said a prayer, and then I began crying
like a child. I said my prayer again, and walked slowly on; then I saw the house, and Agathe
in the garden, and the comtesse with the little one standing in the door--looking--looking.
I came up--"Albert--where is Albert? where is my husband?" I made no answer. "Tell me," she
said, almost fiercely, taking hold of my arm. I opened my mouth and essayed to speak, but although
my lips moved I did not get out a syllable. I thought I might whisper it, so I tried to do
so, but I could not whisper! The comtesse shrieked, the child began to cry, and Agathe came
running in. "Come with me," said I to my wife, and I went into our chamber and told her the
whole, and bid her go to the comtesse and tell the truth, for I could not. My dear Agathe went
out half dead. I sat still in my chamber; presently the door opened, and the comtesse stood
on the threshold. Her eyes were lighted up with fire, her countenance was terribly agitated,
her whole frame trembled: "And you are the wretch base enough to let him be carried off to
be butchered before your eyes without lifting voice or hand against it, without interposing
one word--one look, one thought! Cowardly recreant!" she screamed, and fell back in the arms
of my wife in violent convulsions; the infant looked on with wondering eyes and followed us
as we laid the comtesse on the bed, and then put her little hand on her mother's cheek, and
said softly, "Mamma." In a few minutes the comtesse began to recover. She opened her eyes with
an expression of intense pain, gave a glance at Agathe and me, and then observing her child,
she took it, and pressed it to her breast and sobbed. Shortly she spoke to me, and oh, with
what a mournful voice and look: "Louis, forgive me; I said I knew not what; I was beside myself.
You have never merited aught from me but gratitude; will you forgive me?" I cried as if I were
a baby. Agathe too went on so that I feared she could never be reconciled to the dreadful calamity--for
myself, I was well nigh mad. I could but commend the comtesse to the Great God and hasten out
of her sight. Five wretched and wearisome days were spent. The character of the comtesse meantime
displayed itself. Instead of sinking under the weight of this sorrowful event, she summoned
resolution to endure it. She was devoted to her child; she assumed a cheerful air when caressing
it; she even tried to busy herself in her ordinary occupations; but I could not be deceived,
I knew the iron had entered her soul. All these heroic signs were only evidences of what she
really suffered. Did I not watch her closely? and when the comtesse, folding her infant to
her breast, raised her eyes to heaven as if in gratitude that it was left to her, I fancied
there was an expression which seemed to say, "Why were not all taken?" The little one, unconscious
of its loss, would talk in intervals about "papa;" and when the mother, pained by the innocent
prattle, grew sad of countenance, the child would creep into her lap, and putting its slender
fingers upon her eyes, her lips, and over her face, would say, "Am I not good, mamma? I am
not naughty; I am good, mamma."

"'Five days were passed in this way; on the morning of the sixth, we were startled by the comtesse,
who, in manifest terror came to us holding her child, which was screaming as if suffering acute
pain: its eyes were bloodshot and gleamed with an unnatural brilliancy, its pulse rapid, and
head so hot that it almost burned me to feel of it. Presently it became quiet for a few minutes,
but soon the screams were renewed. Alas! what could we do? Agathe and I tried every thing that
occurred to us, but to no purpose: the pains in the head became so intense that the poor thing
would shriek as if some one was piercing her with a knife, then she would lay in a lethargy,
and again start and scream until exhausted. Not for a moment did the comtesse allow her darling
to be out of her arms. For two days and two nights she neither took rest nor food; absorbed
wholly in her child's sufferings, she would not for a moment be diverted from them. Agathe
too watched night and day. On the third night the child appeared much easier, and the comtesse
bade Agathe go and get some rest. She came and laid down for a little time and at last fell
asleep; when she awoke it was daylight; she knocked at the door of the comtesse--all was still;--she
opened it and went in. The comtesse, exhausted by long watching, had fallen asleep in her chair,
with her little girl in her arms. The child had sunk into a dull lethargic state never to be
broken. Alas! Monsieur--alas! the little one was dead! Agathe ran and called me. I came in.
What a spectacle!... Which of us should arouse the unhappy comtesse? or should we disturb her?
Were it not better gently to withdraw the dead child and leave the mother to her repose? We
thought so. I stepped forward, but courage failed me. I did not dare furtively to abstract
the precious burden from the jealous arms which even in slumber were clasped tightly around
it. Oh! my God!... While we were standing the comtesse opened her eyes: her first motion was
to draw the child closer to her heart--then to look at us--then at the little one. She saw
the whole. She had endured so much that this last stroke scarcely added to her wretchedness.
She allowed me to take the child, and Agathe to conduct her to the couch and assist her upon
it. She had held out to the point of absolute exhaustion, and when once she had yielded she
was unable to recall her strength. She remained in her bed quite passive, while Agathe nursed
her without intermission. I dug a little grave in the garden yonder, and Agathe and I laid
the child in it. The mother shed no tears; when from her bed she saw us carry it away she looked
mournfully on, and as we went out she whispered, "Mes beaux jours sont passés." Soon the grave
was filled up and flowers scattered over it, and we came back to the cottage. As I drew near
her room I beheld the comtesse at the window, supporting herself by a chair, regarding the
grave with an earnest longing gaze which I cannot bear to recall. As I passed, her eye met
mine,--such a look of quiet enduring anguish, which combined in one expression a world of untold
agonies! Oh! I never could endure a second look like that. I rushed into the house: Agathe
was already in. I called to her to come to me, for I could not enter that room again. "Wife,"
I said, "I am going to Paris. Do not say one word. God will protect us. Comfort the comtesse.
Agathe, if I never return, remember--it is on a holy errand--adieu." I was off before Agathe
could reply. I ran till I came to the main road, there I was forced to sit down and rest. At
last I saw a wagoner going forward; part of the way I rode with him, and a part I found a faster
conveyance. At night I walked by myself.

"'I had a cousin in Paris, Maurice Herbois, with whom in old times I had been on companionable
terms. He was a smith, and had done well at the trade until the revolution broke out, since
then I had heard nothing from him. He was a shrewd fellow, and I thought he would be likely
to keep near the top of the wheel. But I had a perilous time after getting into Paris before
I could find him. I learned as many of the canaille watchwords by heart as I could. I thought
they would serve me if I was questioned; but my dangers thickened, until I was at last laid
hold of, for not giving satisfactory answers, as un homme sans aveu, and was on the point of
being conveyed to a maison d'arret, when I mentioned the name of Maurice Herbois as a person
who could speak in my favor. "What," said one, "le Citoyen Herbois?" "The very same," said
I, "and little thanks will you get from him for slandering his cousin with a charge of incivisme."
There was a general shout at this, and off we hurried to find Maurice. I had answered nothing
of whence I came or where I was going, which was the reason I had at length got into trouble.
I knew Maurice to be a true fellow, revolution or no revolution, and so determined to hold
my peace till I should meet him. I found that he had been rapidly advanced by the tide of affairs,
which had set him forward whether he would or no. Indeed Maurice was no insignificant fellow
at any rate. The noise of the men who carried me along, soon brought him out. I spoke first:
"Maurice, my dear cousin, I am glad to find you; but before we can shake hands, you must first
certify my--loyalty," I was about to say, but bit my tongue, and got out "civisme." "My friends,"
said Maurice, "this is my cousin Louis Herbois, once a valiant soldier, now a brave and incorruptible
citoyen. He is trustworthy; he comes to visit me; I vouch for him." This was so satisfactory,
that we were greeted with huzzas, and then I went in with Maurice. I need not tell you how
much passed between us. In short, we talked till our tongues were tired. I found my cousin
as I expected, true as a piece of his own steel. He had been carried along, in spite of himself,
in the course of revolution, and had become a great man as the best chance of saving his head.
I told him my whole story, and the object of my visit. "A fruitless errand, Louis," said he;
"I know the case; and where personal malice is added to the ordinary motive for prosecution,
there is no escape. Poor fellow, I wish I could help him; but the uncle, he is in power: ah!
there is no help for it." Suddenly a new thought struck him. "Louis, did you come by the Hotel
de Ville?" "Yes." "What was going on?" "I looked neither right nor left; I don't know." "Well,
what did you hear?" "I heard a cry of Vive Tallien! with strange noises, and shouts, and yells;
and somebody said that the National Guards were disbanding, and had forsaken Robespierre; and
the people were surrounding the Hotel de Ville." "Then, Dieu merci, there is hope. You are
in the nick of time; let us out. If Robespierre falls, you may rescue the comte. He is in the
Rue St. Martin; in the same prison is Madame de Fontenay, the friend of Tallien, whom Robespierre
has incarcerated. The former will proceed thither as soon as Robespierre is disposed of, to
free Madame; there will be confusion and much tumult. I know the keeper: I must be cautious;
but I will discover where the comte and the lady are secured. Then I will leave you with the
jailer; the crisis cannot be delayed another day. Wait till you hear them coming, then shout
Vive Tallien! run about, dance around like a crazy man--hasten the jailer to release Madame,
and do you manage to rescue the comte--then be off instantly; don't come here again; strike
into the country while the confusion prevails. Come; let us go this minute." And I did go.
I found Maurice's introduction potent with the keeper, and what was better, I found the keeper
to be an old companion in arms, who had belonged to the same company with me. We embraced;
we were like two brothers; nothing could have happened better. I learned from him all I cared
to know. I staid hour after hour; just as I was in despair at the delay, I heard the expected
advance. I found my fellow-soldier understood what it meant. I began to shout Vive Tallien!
as loud as I could cry. In a fit of enthusiasm I snatched the keys from the hands of the keeper,
as if to liberate the lady, while my comrade opened the doors to the company. I hied first
to the comte's room. In one instant the door was unlocked. "Quick!" I whispered; "follow me--do
as I do. Shout, huzza; jump this way and that--but stick close to me." In another minute I
had unbolted the door of Madame de Fontenay, making as much noise as I could get from my lungs--the
comte keeping very good time to my music. So, while we were shouting Vive Tallien! at the top
of our voices, Tallien himself rushed in with a large party. I took the opportunity to gain
the street, and without so much as thanking my comrade for his attentions, I glided into an
unfrequented lane, the comte at my heels; and I did not stop, nor look around, nor speak, till
I found myself under cover of an old windmill near St. Denis, where I used to play when I was
a boy. There I came to a halt, and seizing the comte in my arms, I embraced him a thousand
times. I look some provisions from my pouch, which my cousin had provided, and bade him eat,
for we should stand in need of food. We then proceeded, avoiding the main road, and getting
a ride whenever we could, but never wasting a moment--not a moment. I told the comte what had
happened, and that he must hasten if he would see his wife alive. At last we came near our
house. The comte could scarcely contain himself; he ran before me: I could not keep up with
him. How my heart was filled with foreboding!--how I dreaded to come nearer!--but apprehension
was soon at an end. There was my little cottage, and in the doorway, leaning for support against
the side, stood the comtesse, gazing on vacancy--the picture of despair and desolation. At
the sight of her husband, she threw out her hands and tried to advance: she was too feeble,
and would have fallen had he not the same moment folded her in his arms.

"'Bien Monsieur!' continued Louis Herbois, after clearing his voice, 'the worst of the story
is told. The comtesse was gradually restored to health, and the comte was content to remain
quietly with us till the storm swept past; but the lady never recovered the bright spirits
which she before displayed, and the comte himself could never speak of the little one whom
he kissed for the last time on that fatal morning, without the deepest emotion. It seems to
have been destined that this should be their only affliction. The uncle was beheaded in one
of the sudden changes of parties the succeeding year, and in due time the comte regained his
estates. Sons and daughters were born to them, and their family have grown up in unbroken numbers.
The comte and comtesse can scarcely yet be called old, their health and vigor remain, and they
enjoy still those blessings which a kind Providence is pleased to bestow on the most favored.
But the Comtesse de Choissy will never forget the child which lies there. Twice a year, accompanied
by the comte, she visits the cottage. She lays with her own hands fresh flowers over the little
grave, and waters the moss which overspreads it; and the tears stand in her eyes when she looks
upon the spot where we buried her first-born. We have engaged that every morning we will renew
the flowers, and preserve the mosses always green. It is a holy office, consecrated by holy
feelings. Ah! life is a strange business: we may not be always serious, we cannot be always
gay. God grant, Monsieur, that in heaven we may all be happy!'

"I have given you the whole story," said Mr. Belcher, after a short pause; "but look, the sun
is out; let us go to the Courtgain."

[From Fraser's Magazine.]

LIFE AT A WATERING-PLACE.

OLDPORT SPRINGS.

BY CHARLES ASTOR BRISTED.

"Hold on a minute," said Harry, as they were about to take the stage, after a very fair three-o'clock
dinner at Constantinople (the Occidental, not the Oriental city of that name); "there goes
an acquaintance of ours whom you must know. He has arrived by the Westfield train, doubtless."

Away sped Benson after the acquaintance, arm-in-arm with whom he shortly returned, and, with
all the exultation of an American who has brought two lions into the same cage, introduced
M. le Vicomte Vincent Le Roi to the honorable Edward Ashburner.

Ashburner was rather puzzled at Le Roi, whose personal appearance did not in any way answer,
either to his originally conceived idea of a Frenchman, or to the live specimens he had thus
far met with. The Vicomte looked more like an Englishman, or perhaps like the very best kind
of Irishman. He was a middle-sized man, of thirty or thereabout, with brown hair and a florid
complexion; and very quietly dressed, his clothes being neither obtrusively new nor cut with
any ultra-artistic pretension. Except his wearing a moustache and (of course) not speaking
English, there was nothing continental about his outward man, or the first impression he gave
of himself. Fortunately, he was also bound for the Springs, so that Ashburner would have abundant
opportunity to study his character, if so disposed.

The stage in which our tourists were to embark was not unlike a French diligence, except that
it had but one compartment instead of three; in which compartment there were three seats, and
on each seat more or less room for three persons, and two more could sit with the driver. All
the baggage was carried on the top. The springs were made like coach-springs, or C-springs,
as they are always called in America (just as in England a pilot-coat is called a P-jacket),
only they were upright and perpendicular to the axletree instead of curving; and the leathern
belts connected with them, on which the carriage swung, were of the thickest and toughest description.
As the party, with the addition of Le Roi, amounted to eight, Benson managed, by a little extra
expenditure of tin and trouble, to secure the whole of one vehicle, and for the still greater
accommodation of the ladies and child, the gentlemen were to sit on the box two at a time by
turns. Benson's first object was to get hold of the reins, for which end he began immediately
to talk around the driver about things in general. From the price of horses they diverged to
the prospects of various kinds of business, and thence slap into the politics of the country.
The driver was a stubborn Locofoco, and Benson did not disdain to enter into an elaborate argument
with him. Ashburner, who then occupied the other box-seat, was astonished at the man's statistical
knowledge, the variety of information he possessed upon local topics, and his accurate acquaintance
with the government and institutions of his country. It occurred to him to prompt Benson, through
the convenient medium of French, to sound him about England and European politics. This Harry
did, not immediately, lest he might suspect the purport of their conversational interlude,
but by a dexterous approach to the point after sufficient preliminary; and it then appeared
that he had lumped "the despotic powers of the old world" in a heap together, and supposed
the Queen of England to be on a par with the Czar of Russia as regarded her personal authority
and privileges. However, when Benson set him right as to the difference between a limited and
an absolute monarchy, he took the information in very good part, listened to it attentively,
and evidently made a mental note of it for future reference.

The four-horse team was a good strong one, but the stage with its load heavy enough, and the
roads, after the recent storm, still heavier, besides being a succession of hills. The best
they could do was to make six miles an hour, and they would not have made three but for a method
of travelling down-hill, entirely foreign to European ideas on the subject. When they arrived
at the summit there was no talk of putting on the drag, nor any drag to put on, but away the
horses went, first at a rapid trot, and soon at full gallop; by which means the equipage acquired
sufficient momentum to carry it part of the way up the next hill before the animals relapsed
into the slow walk which the steepness of the ascent imposed upon them. Indeed this part of
the route would have been a very tedious one (for the country about was almost entirely devoid
of interest), had it not been for Le Roi, who came out in great force. He laughed at every
thing and with every body; told stories, and good ones, continuously, and only ceased telling
stories to break forth into song. In fine, he amused the ladies so much, that when he took
his turn on the box they missed him immediately, and sent Benson outside again on the first
opportunity; whereat the Vicomte, being very much flattered, waxed livelier and merrier than
ever, and kept up a constant fire of jest and ditty. As to Ashburner, who had a great liking
for fresh air, and an equal horror of a small child in a stage-coach, he remained outside the
whole time; for which the fair passengers set him down as an insensible youth, who did not
know how to appreciate good company; until the evening becoming somewhat chilly by comparison
with the very hot day they had undergone, both he and Harry took refuge in the interior, and
a very jolly party they all made.

While they were outside together, Benson had been giving Ashburner some details about Le Roi--in
fact, a succinct biography of him; for be it noted, that every New-Yorker is able to produce
off-hand a minute history of every person, native or foreign, at all known in society: for
which ability he is indebted partly to the inquisitive habits of the people, partly to their
communicative disposition, partly to their remarkable memory of small particulars, and partly
to a fine imagination and power of invention, which must be experienced to be fully appreciated.
Benson, we say, had been, telling his friend the story of his other friend or acquaintance;
how he was of good family and no fortune; how he had written three novels and three thousand
or more feuilletons; how he had travelled into some out-of-the-way part of Poland, where no
one had ever been before or since, and about which he was, therefore, at liberty to say what
he pleased; how, besides his literary capabilities, such as they were, he played, and sang,
and danced, and sketched--all very well for an amateur; how he was altogether a very agreeable
and entertaining man, and, as such, was supposed to have been sent out by a sort of mutual-benefit
subscription-club, which existed at Paris for the purpose of marrying its members to heiresses
in different countries. Ashburner had once heard rumors of such a club in Germany, but was
never able to obtain any authentic details concerning it, or to determine whether it was any
thing more than a traveller's traditionary legend. Even Benson was at fault here, and, indeed,
he seemed rather to tell the club part of the story as a good joke, than to believe it seriously
himself.

As they approached the termination of their journey, their talk naturally turned more and more
on the Springs. The Vicomte was in possession of the latest advices thence; the arrivals and
expected arrivals, and the price-current of stock: that is, of marriageable young gentlemen,
and all other matters of gossip; how the whole family of the Robinsons was there in full force,
with an unlimited amount of Parisian millinery; how Gerard Ludlow was driving four-in-hand,
and Lowenberg had given his wife no end of jewelry; how Mrs. Harrison, who ought not to have
been (not being of our set), nevertheless was the great lioness of the season; how Miss Thompson,
the belle expectant, had renounced the Springs altogether, and shut herself up at home somewhere
among the mountains--all for unrequited love of Hamilton White, as was charitably reported;
last, but not least, how Tom Edwards had invented six new figures for the German cotillon.
Ashburner did not at first altogether understand the introduction of this personage into such
good company, supposing from his familiar abbreviation and Terpsichorean attributes that he
must be the fashionable dancing-master of Oldport, or perhaps of New-York; but he was speedily
given to understand that, on the contrary, Mr. Edwards was a gay bachelor of good family and
large fortune, who, in addition to gambling, intriguing, and other pleasant little propensities,
had an insatiable passion for the dance, and was accustomed to rotate morning, noon, and night,
whenever he was not gambling, &c. as aforesaid. "And," continued Benson, "I'll lay you any
bet you please, that the first thing we see on arriving at our hotel, will be Tom Edwards dancing
the polka; unless, indeed, he happen to be dancing the Redowa."

"Very likely," said Mrs. Benson, "seeing we shall arrive there at ten o'clock, and this is
a ball-night."

Both Harry and his wife were right; they arrived at half-past ten, just as the ball was getting
into full swing. On the large portico in front of the large hotel opened a large room, with
large windows down to the floor,--the dining-room of the establishment, now cleared for dancing
purposes. All the idlers of Oldport, male and female, black and white, congregated at these
windows and thronged the portico; and almost into the very midst of this crowd our party was
shot, baggage and all. While Ashburner was looking out of a confused heap of people and luggage,
he heard one of the assistant loafers say to another, "Look at Mr. Edwards!" Profiting by the
information not originally intended for him, he followed the direction of the speaker's nose,
and beheld a little showily-dressed man flying down the room with a large showily-dressed woman,
going the poursuite of the Redowa at a terrific rate. So that, literally, the first thing he
saw in Oldport was Tom Edwards dancing. But there was no opportunity to make a further study
of this, "one of the most remarkable men among us," for the party had to look up their night
quarters. Benson had dispatched in advance to Mr. Grabster, proprietor of the Bath Hotel at
Oldport Springs, a very particular letter, stating the number of his party, the time he meant
to be there, and the number of rooms he wanted, and had also sent his horses on ahead; but
though the animals had arrived safe and found stable-room, there was no preparation for their
master. Ashburner, at the request of the ladies, followed Benson into the office (for the Bath
Hotel being, nominally at least, the first house in the place, had its bar-room and office
separate), and found Harry in earnest expostulation with a magnificently-dressed individual,
whom he took for Mr. Grabster himself, but who turned out to be only that high and mighty gentleman's
head book-keeper. The letter had been dispatched so long beforehand that, even at the rate
of American country posts, it ought to have arrived, but no one knew any thing about it. Both
the young men suspected--uncharitably, perhaps, but not altogether unnaturally--that Mr. Grabster
and his aids, finding a prospect of a full season, had not thought it worth their while to
trouble themselves about the application, or to keep any rooms. Ashburner suggested trying
another hotel, but the roads were muddy, and vehicles scarce at that time of night, so that
altogether there seemed a strong probability of their being compelled to "camp out" on the
portico. But it was not in Benson "to give it up so." He possessed, as we have already hinted,
that faculty so alarmingly common in his country, which polite people call oratory, and vulgar
ones the "gift of the gab;" and he was not the man to throw away the opportunity of turning
any of his gifts to account. Warming with his subject, he poured out upon the gorgeously-attired
Mr. Black such a flood of conciliatory and expostulatory eloquence, that that gentleman absolutely
contrived to find some accommodation for them. The ladies, child, and servants were huddled
together into one tolerably large room, in the third story. Benson had a sort of corner-cupboard
in the fourth, that might, perhaps, have accommodated a mouse with a small family; and to Ashburner
and Le Roi were assigned two small chambers in the fifth. As to the baggage, that was all piled
up in the office, with the exception of a few indispensable articles. Supper was out of the
question, there being no room to eat it in because of the dancers. The ladies did not want
supper; they only regretted not being able to unpack their trunks, and dress for the ball then
and there going on; their eyes lighted up at the sound of the music, and their little feet
began to beat the floor incontinently. The gentlemen took a drink all round by way of substitute
for something more solid. Ashburner had mounted to his dormitory--no small journey--and was
sitting on his bed, wishing he had some contrivance for pulling off all his clothes at once
without the trouble of removing them piece by piece, when he heard in the passage the voice
of Le Roi, quantum mutatus ab illo! The Vicomte had sworn up all his own language, and was
displaying a knowledge of English expletives that quite surprised his fellow-traveller. On
investigation, the cause of his wrath proved to be this: a semi-civilized Irish waiter had
shown him to No. 296, in accordance with Mr. Black's directions. But Mr. Black, in the multiplicity
of his affairs, had forgotten that No. 296 was already tenanted, to wit, by a Western traveller,
who did, indeed, intend to quit it by an early stage next morning, but had not the least idea
of giving up his quarters before that time; and accordingly, as if from a presentiment that
some attempt would be made to dislodge him, had, in addition to the ordinary not very strong
fastenings of the door, so barricaded it with trunks and furniture, that it could have stood
a considerable amount of siege. The waiter had gone off, leaving Le Roi to shift for himself.
Bells were scarce in the upper stories of the Bath Hotel, nor was there any light throughout
the long corridor, except the one tallow candle which his useless guide had deposited on the
floor. Utterly upset at the idea of having to tramp down four pair of stairs and back again
in search of accommodation, the unlucky Gaul was seeking a momentary relief in the manner above
stated, when Ashburner came to the rescue. His bed happened to be rather a large one--so large,
comparatively, that it was a mystery how it had ever found its way into the little room, the
four walls of which seemed to have grown or been built up around it; and this bed he instantly
proposed to share with Le Roi for the night. The Frenchman mercied, and couldn't think of such
a thing for five minutes, edging into the room and pulling off his coat and boots all the time;
then he gave a glorious exemplification of cessanta causa, for all his rage vanished in a moment,
and he was the same exuberantly good-natured and profusely loquacious man that he had been
all day. On he streamed in a perpetual flow of talk long after both were in bed, until Ashburner
began to feel as a man might to whom some fairy had given a magical instrument, which discoursed
sweet music at first, but could never be made to stop playing. And when at length the Vicomte,
having lighted on the subject of women, poured out an infinity of adventures with ladies of
all countries, of all which stories Vincent Le Roi was, of course, the hero, his fellow-traveller,
unable to help being disgusted at his vanity and levity, turned round to the wall, and without
considering whether he was acting in accordance with bienseance, fell fast asleep in the midst
of one of the most thrilling narratives.

When Ashburner awoke next morning, the first thing he was conscious of was Le Roi talking.
It required very little exercise of the imagination to suppose that he had been going on uninterruptedly
all night. Afterwards he became aware of a considerable disturbance, evidently originating
in the lower story of the house, but sufficiently audible all over it, which he put down to
the account of numerous new arrivals. By the time they had completed their toilettes (which
did not take very long, for the room being just under the roof, was of a heat that made it
desirable for them to evacuate it as soon as possible), Benson made his appearance. He had
obtained possession of his baggage, and arrayed himself in the extreme of summer costume:--a
white grass-cloth coat, about the consistency of blotting-paper, so transparent that the lilac
pattern of his check shirt was distinctly visible through the arms of it; white duck vest,
white drilled trousers, long-napped white hat, a speckled cravat to match his shirt, and highly
varnished shoes, with red and white striped silk stockings,--altogether very fresh and innocent-looking.
He came to show them the principal spring, which was not far from the hotel--just a pleasant
walk before breakfast, though it was not likely they would meet many people so early, on account
of last night's ball.

"I am afraid your quarters were not very comfortable," said Harry, as the three strolled arm-in-arm
down a sufficiently sandy road; "but we shall have better rooms before dinner to-day."

"The house must be very full," Ashburner remarked; "and were there not a great many arrivals
this morning? From the noise I heard, I thought at least fifty people had come."

"No; I glanced at the book, and there were not a dozen names on it. Hallo!" and Benson swore
roundly in Spanish, apparently forgetting that his friend understood that language.

Ashburner looked up, and saw meeting them a large Frenchman and a small Irish boy. The Frenchman
had an immense quantity of hair of all sorts on his face, nearly hiding his features, which,
as what was visible of them had a particularly villainous air, was about the best thing he
could have done to them; and on his head he carried a something of felt, which indisputably
proved the proposition that matter may exist without form. The Irish youth sported a well-meant,
but not very successful attempt at a moustache, and a black cloth cap pitched on one side of
his head. In other respects, they were attired in the usual costume of an American snob; that
is to say, a dress-coat and full suit of black at seven in the morning. Ashburner noticed that
Benson spit ostentatiously while passing them; and after passing he swore again, this time
in downright English.

Le Roi had seen in his acquaintance with European watering-places, a goodly amount of scamps
and blacklegs, and Ashburner was not without some experience of the sort, so that they were
not disposed to be curious about one blackguard more or less in a place of the kind; but these
two fellows had such a look of unmitigated rascality, that both the foreigners glanced inquiringly
at their friend, and were both on the point of asking him some questions, when he anticipated
their desire.

"God forgive me for swearing, but it is too provoking to meet these loafers in respectable
quarters. The ancients used to think their journey spoiled if they met an unclean animal on
starting, and I feel as if my whole stay here would go wrong after meeting these animals the
first thing in the first morning."

"Mais qu'est ce qu'ils sont donc, ces vaut-riens?" asked Le Roi.

"The Frenchman is a deported convict, who is doing us the honor to serve out his time here;
the Irishman is a refugee, I believe. They have come here to report for The Sewer."

They cooled their virtuous indignation in the spring, and were returning.

"Hallo, Benson! Hallo! I thought that was you!" shouted somebody, a quarter of a mile off,
from the hotel steps.

"Ah," said Harry, "I understand now why you heard so much noise this morning. Bird Simpson
has arrived."

Mr. Simpson, popularly known as "the bird" (why no one could tell exactly, but people often
get such names attached to them for some inexplicable reason), came on a half-run to meet them.
He was a tall, showy, and rather handsome, though not particularly graceful man; very flashily
got up in a blue cutaway with gilt buttons, wide blue stripes down the sides of his white trousers,
a check shirt of enormous crimson pattern, and a red and white cravat; no waistcoat, and wide
embroidered braces, the work of some lady friend. He seemed to have dressed himself on the
principle of the tricolor, and to have carried it out in his face--his cheeks being very red,
his eyes very blue, and his hair very white. After having pump-handled Benson's arm for some
time, he made an attack on Le Roi, whom he just knew by name, and inquired if he had just come
de l'autre côte, meaning the other side of the Atlantic, according to a common New-York idiom;
but the Vicomte not unnaturally took it to mean from the other side of the road, and gave a
corresponding answer in English as felicitous as Mr. Simpson's French. Then he digressed upon
Ashburner, whom he saw to be an Englishman, in so pointed a manner, that Benson was obliged
to introduce them; and the introduction was followed by an invitation on Simpson's part to
the company to take a drink, which they did, somewhat to the consternation of the Frenchman,
who knew not what to make of iced brandy and mint before breakfast. Then Simpson, having primed
himself for the morning meal, set about procuring it, and his departure visibly relieved Benson,
who was clearly not proud of his acquaintance. Le Roi also went after his breakfast, taking
care to get as far as possible from the corner of the room where Simpson was.

"There," said Benson, "is a very fair specimen of 'second set.' He is B, No. 1, rather a great
man in his own circle, and imports French goods. To hear him talk about French actresses and
eating-houses, you would think him a ten-years' resident of that city, instead of having been
there perhaps four times in his life, a week each time. But you know we Americans have a wonderful
faculty of seeing a great deal in a little time. Just so with Italy; he was there two months,
and professes to know all about the country and the people. But he doesn't know the set abroad
or at home. Sometimes you meet him at a ball, where he does his duty about supper time; but
you will never see him dancing with, or talking to, the ladies who are 'of us.' Nevertheless,
they will avail themselves of his services sometimes, when they want to buy silks at wholesale
prices, or to have something smuggled for them; for he is the best-natured man in the world.
And, after all, he is not more given to scandal than the exquisites, and is a great deal honester
and truer. Once I caught a fever out on the north-eastern boundary, and had not a friend with
me, or any means of getting help. This man nursed me like a brother, and put himself to no
end of trouble for me until we could fetch Carl on. I would certainly rather have been under
such an obligation to some other men I know than to Simpson; but having incurred it, I do not
think it can be justly paid off with a 'glad-to-know-you-when-I'm-at-Bath-again' acquaintance;
and I feel bound to be civil to him, though he does bother me immensely at times with his free-and-easy
habits,--walking into my parlor with his hat on and cigar in his mouth; chaffing me or my wife
in language about as elegant as an omnibus driver's; or pawing ladies about in a way that he
takes for gallantry. Talking of ladies, I wish mine would show themselves for breakfast. Ah,
here are two men you must know; they are good types of two classes of our beaux--the considerably
French and the slightly English--the former class the more numerous, you are probably aware.
Mr. White, Mr. Ashburner--Mr. Ashburner, Mr. Sumner."

Hamilton White was a tall, handsome man, some few years on the wrong side of thirty, broader-shouldered
and deeper-chested than the ordinary American model, elaborately but very quietly dressed,
without any jewelry or showy patterns. There was something very Parisian in his get-up and
manner, yet you would never take him for a Frenchman, still less for a Frenchified-Englishman.
But he had the look of a man who had lived in a gay capital, and quite fast enough for his
years: his fine hair was beginning to go on the top of his head, and his face wanted freshness
and color. His manner, slightly reserved at first, rapidly warmed into animation, and his large
dark eyes gave double expression to whatever he said. His very smallest talk was immensely
impressive. He would tell a stranger that he was happy to make his acquaintance with an air
that implied all the Spaniard's mi casa a la disposicion de usted, and meant about as much;
and when you saw him from the parquet of the Opera talking to some young lady in the boxes,
you would have imagined that he was making a dead set at her, when in fact he was only uttering
some ordinary meteorological observation. Apart from his knack of looking and talking sentiment,
he had no strongly-marked taste or hobby: danced respectably, but not often; knew enough about
horses to pick out a good one when he wanted a mount for a riding-party; drank good wine habitually,
without being pedantic about the different brands of it; and read enough of the current literature
of the day to be able to keep up a conversation if he fell among a literary circle. He was
not a marrying man, partly because his income, sufficient to provide him with all bachelor
luxuries, was not large enough to support a wife handsomely; partly because that a man should
tie himself to one woman for life was a thing he could not conceive, much less practice: but
he very much affected the society of the softer sex, and was continually amusing himself with
some young girl or young wife. He rather preferred the latter--it was less compromising; still
he had no objection to victimize an innocent débutante, and leave her more or less broken-hearted.
(It must be observed, however, for the credit of American young ladies, that they are not addicted
to dying of this complaint, so often fatal in novels; many of Hamilton's victims had recovered
and grown absolutely fat upon it, and married very successfully.) Wherever there was a fiancée,
or a probable fiancée, or a married belle with an uxorious husband,--in short, wherever he
could make himself look dangerous and another man jealous or foolish, he came out particularly
strong; at the same time, being adroit and not over belligerent, he always contrived to stop
or get out of the way in time if the other party showed open signs of displeasure.

Frank Sumner was rather shorter than White, rather younger, and rather more dressed. He had
the same broad shoulders, which in America, where most of the beaux are either tall and thin
or short and thin, find favor with the ladies; just as blondes create a sensation in southern
countries, because they are so seldom seen. In almost all other particulars, the two men were
totally unlike, and Sumner might have passed for an English gentleman put into French clothes.
He was reserved in his conversation, and marked in the expression of his likes and dislikes.
With no more intention of marrying than White, he took care never to make love to any woman,
and if any woman made love to him, he gave her no encouragement. He was not richer than White,
not so good-looking, and certainly not so clever, but more respected and more influential;
for the solid and trustworthy parts of his character, backed by a bull-dog courage and an utter
imperturbability, got the better in the long run of the other's more brilliant qualities.

Some of these things Ashburner observed for himself, some of them Benson told him after White
and Sumner, who did not ask the stranger to take a drink, had passed on. He had noticed that
the latter's manner, though perfectly civil, was very cold compared with the empressement which
the former had exhibited.

"He doesn't like your countrymen," said Harry, "and nothing can vex him more than to be told,
what is literally the truth, that he resembles an Englishman in many respects. I believe it
is about the only thing that can vex him. What an immovable man it is! I have seen a woman
throw a lighted cigar into his face, and another cut off one end of his moustache (that was
when we were both younger, and used to see some queer scenes abroad), and a servant drop half
a tureen of soup over him, and none of these things stirred him. Once at Naples, I recollect,
he set our chimney on fire. Such a time we had of it; every one in the house tumbling into
our room, from the piccolo, with no coat and half a pair of pants, to the proprietor in his
dressing-gown and spectacles--women calling on the Virgin, men running after water--and there
sat Frank, absolutely radiating off so much coolness, that he imparted a portion of it to me,
and we sat through the scene as quietly as if they had only been laying the cloth for dinner.
A rum pair they must have thought us! The day before we had astonished the waiter by lighting
brandy over a pudding. I suppose we left them under the impression that the Anglo-Saxons had
a propensity to set fire to every thing they came in contact with."

"It is very odd that so many of your people should be afraid of resembling us, and take the
French type for imitation in preference to the English. The original feeling of gratitude to
France for having assisted you in the war of independence, does not seem sufficient to account
for it."

"Certainly not; for that feeling would naturally diminish in succeeding generations, whereas
the Gallicism of our people is on the increase,--in fact its origin is of comparatively recent
date. But we really are more like the French in some senses. Politically the American is very
Anglo-Saxon. So he is morally; but socially, so far as you can separate society from morals,
he is very French. The Englishman's first idea of his duty in society is non-interference;
the Frenchman's and American's, amusement. An Englishman does not think it his business to
endeavor to amuse the company in which he happens to be; an Englishwoman does not think it
her duty to make any attempt to entertain a man who is introduced to her. A Frenchman will
rather talk trash, knowing that he is talking trash, than remain silent and let others remain
silent. So will an American. But an Englishman, unless he is sure of saying something to the
point, will hold his tongue. The imperturbable self-possession of the English gentleman is
generally understood by us, any more than it is by the French. His minding his own business
is attributed to selfish indifference. The picture that half our people form of an Englishman
is, a heavy, awkward man, very badly dressed, courageous, and full of learning; but devoid
of all the arts and graces of life, and caring for nobody but himself. It is a great pity that
there is not a better understanding; but, unfortunately, the best Englishmen who come here
seldom stay long enough to be appreciated, and the best Americans who go to England seldom
stay there long enough to appreciate the country. Whenever an American chances to stay some
years among you, he ends by liking England very much; but it is very seldom that he has any
provocation, unless compelled by business, to stay some years, for acquaintances are harder
to make in London than in any other city, while it has less resources for a man without acquaintances
than any other city--besides being so dear. But here come the ladies at last; now for breakfast."

Breakfast was the best managed meal at the Bath Hotel. The table d'hôte began at half past
seven, but fresh relays of rolls and eggs, ham, chops, and steaks, were always to be obtained
until half-past ten or eleven by those who had interest with the waiters. After breakfast the
company went to work promenading. There was a very wide hall running through the hotel, and
up and down this, and up and down the two broadest sides of the portico, all the world walked--"our
set" being conspicuous from the elegance of their morning costume. One side of the portico
was devoted to the gentlemen and their cigars, and there Ashburner and Benson took a turn,
leaving with the ladies Le Roi and a small beau or two who had joined them. Suddenly Benson
pressed his friend's arm.

"Here comes really 'one of the most remarkable men'--the very god of the dance; behold Tom
Edwards!"

Ashburner beheld a little man, about five feet and a half high. If he could have stood on his
bushy black beard it would have lifted him full three inches higher. Besides this beard he
cherished a small moustache, very elaborately curling-tongsed at the ends into the shape of
half a lyre. Otherwise he had not much hair on his head, but what he had was very carefully
brushed. His features were delicate, and not without intelligence, but terribly worn by dissipation.
To look at his figure, you would take him for a boy of nineteen; to look at his face, for a
man of thirty: he was, probably, about half way between the two ages. Every thing about him
was wonderfully neat: a white coat and hat like Benson's; cream-colored waistcoat and pearl-colored
trousers; miraculously small feet in resplendent boots, looking more like a doll's extremities
than a man's; a fresh kid glove on one of his little hands, and on the other a sapphire ring,
so large that Ashburner wondered how the little man could carry it, and thought that he should,
like Juvenal's dandies, have kept a lighter article for summer wear. Then he had a watch-chain
of great balls of blue enamel, with about two pounds of chatelaine charms dependent therefrom;
and delicate little enamelled studs, with sleeve-buttons to match. Altogether he was a wonderful
lion, considering his size. Even Benson had not the courage to stop and introduce his friend
until he passed the great dancer more than once, in silent admiration, and with a respectful bow.

And as they passed he detailed to Ashburner, with his usual biographical accuracy, the history
of Tom Edwards, which he had begun in the stage-coach. Tom had been left in his infancy with
a fortune and without a father, to be brought up by relatives who had an unlucky preference
of Parisian to American life. Under their auspices and those of other Mentors, whom he found
in that gay capital, his progress was so rapid, that at a very early age he was known as the
banker of two or three distinguished lorettes, and the pet pupil of the renowned Cellarius.
Indeed, he had lived so much in the society of that gentleman and his dancing girls, that he
took the latter for his standard of female society, and had a tendency to behave to all womankind
as he behaved to them. To married ladies he talked slightly refined double-entendre: to young
ladies he found it safest to say very little, his business and pleasure being to dance with
them; if they did not dance, he gave them up for uncivilized beings, and troubled himself no
further about them. Of old people of either sex he took no further notice than to order them
out of the way when they impeded the polkers, or dance bodily over them when they disobeyed.
Still it must be said, in justice to him, that dancing was not his sole and all-absorbing pursuit.
Having an active turn of mind and body, he found leisure for many other profitable amusements.
He was fond of that noble animal, the horse, gambled habitually, ate and drank luxuriously,--in
short, burned his candle at a good many ends: but the dance was, though not his sole, certainly
his favorite passion; and he was never supremely happy but when he had all the chairs in the
house arranged in a circle, and all the boys and women of "our set" going around them in the
German cotillon, from noon to midnight at a (so-called) matinée, or from midnight to daybreak
at a ball.

"And now," said Benson, "I think my cousin Gerard must be up by this time; he and Edwards are
generally the last to come down to breakfast. Perhaps we shall find him at the ten-pin alley;
I see the ladies are moving that way."

To the ten-pin alley they went. Down stairs, men were playing, coat off and cigar in mouth;
while others waited their turn, with feet distributed in various directions. Above, all was
decorum; the second story being appropriated to the ladies and their cavaliers. And very fond
of the game the ladies were, for it afforded them an opportunity of showing off a handsome
arm, and sometimes a neat ankle. Gerard was not there; they had to wait some time for alleys:
altogether Benson was a little bored, and whispered to his friend that he meant to console
himself by making a little sensation.

"By your play?" asked Ashburner.

"No, but by taking off my coat."

"Why, really, considering the material of your coat, I think it might as well be on as off.
Surely you can't find it an impediment?"

"No, but I mean to take it off for fun,--just to give the people here something to talk about;
they talk so much about so little. They will be saying all over by to-morrow that Mr. Benson
was in the ladies' room half undressed."

After an hour's rolling they turned hotelwards again, and as they did so a very spicy phaeton,
with gray wheelers and black leaders, drove up to the door. A tall, handsome man, handed out
a rather pretty and very showily-dressed little woman; and Ashburner recognized Gerard Ludlow.

It was not the first time he had seen Gerard. They had travelled half over Greece together,
having accidentally fallen upon the same route. As the Honorable Edward had all the national
fear of compromising himself, and Gerard was as proud and reserved as any Englishman, they
went on together for days without speaking, although the only Anglo-Saxons of the party. At
last, Ludlow having capsized, horse and all, on a particularly bad road, Ashburner took the
liberty of helping to pick him up, and then they became very good friends. Gerard was at that
time in the full flush of youth and beauty, and the lion of the Italian capital which he had
made his headquarters, where it was currently reported that a certain very desirable countess
had made desperate love to him, and that a rich nobleman (for there are some rich noblemen
still left on the continent) had tried very hard to get the handsome foreigner for a son-in-law.
Knowing this and some other similar stories about him, Ashburner was a little curious to see
Mrs. Ludlow, and confessed himself somewhat disappointed in her; he found her rather pretty,
and certainly not stupid; lively and agreeable in her manners, like most of her countrywomen;
but by no means remarkably distinguished either for beauty or wit. Benson explained to him
that his cousin "had married for tin."

"But Ludlow always talked of his father as a rich man, and his family as a small one. I should
have supposed money about the last thing he would have married for."

"Yes, he had prospects of the best; but he wanted ready money and a settled income. He was
on a small allowance; he knew the only way to get a handsome one was to marry, and that the
more money his wife brought, the more his father would come down with. So as Miss Hammersley
had eight thousand a year, old Ludlow trebled it; and Gerard may build as many phaetons as
he likes. I don't mean to say that the match is an uncongenial one--they have many tastes alike;
but I do mean to say that love had nothing to do with it."

"Well, I used to think that in your unsophisticated Republican country, people married out
of pure love; but now it looks as if the fashionables, at least, marry for money about as often
as we do."

"They don't marry for any thing else," replied Benson, using one of the slang phrases of the
day.[26]

While the two friends were gossiping, Sumner and Le Roi had carried off the ladies; and an
assemblage of juvenile beaux and young girls, and some few of the younger married women, had
extemporized a dance in the largest of the public parlors, which they kept up till two o'clock,
and then vanished--to dress, as it appeared, for the three o'clock dinner. Benson's party had
obtained their apartments at last,--a parlor and two bedrooms for the ladies on the first floor,
and chambers for the three men in the second story, of a recently built wing, popularly known
as "the Colony," where most of the gay bachelors, and not a few of the young married men, slept.
At dinner the ladies presented themselves as much dressed as they could be without being décolletées;
and the men had doffed their grass-cloth or linen garments, and put on dress-coats, or, at
least, black coats. Ashburner was a good-looking young man enough, and had sufficient vanity
to take notice, in the course of the morning, that he was an object of attention; at dinner
many looks were directed towards him, but with an expression of disappointment which he did
not exactly understand at the time, but afterwards learned the reason of from his friend. Though
making no pretensions to the title of exquisite, he happened to have a very neat shooting-jacket,
unexceptionable in material and fit; and "our set," having approved of this, were curious to
see what sort of costume he would display at dinner. When, therefore, he came to table,

    Avec les mêmes bas et la même cravate,

and the shooting-jacket unchanged, they were visibly disappointed. Benson, to keep him in countenance,
had retained his white coat, on the plea of its being most wanted then, as they were in the
hottest part of the day, which excuse did not enable him to escape some hints from his sister-in-law,
and a direct scolding from his wife.

Our Englishman thought the dinner hardly worth so much dressing for. The dishes, so far as
he had an opportunity of judging, were tolerably cooked; but their number was not at all proportionate
to that of the guests; in short, it was a decided case of short commons, and the waiters were
scarce to match. There were but two parties well attended to. One was the family of an old
gentleman from the South, who was part owner of the building, and who, besides this advantage,
enjoyed the privilege of letting his daughter monopolize the piano of the public parlor half
the day, to sing Italian arias shockingly out of tune, much to the disgust of the boarders
generally, and especially of the dancing set, who were continually wanting the instrument themselves
for polking purposes. The other was----the reporters of The Sewer; who had a choice collection
of dishes and waiters always at their command. To be sure they had their end of the table to
themselves, too, for not a person sat within three chairs of them on either side; but this
they, no doubt, accepted as a complimentary acknowledgment of their formidable reputation.
Every one else was famished. The married women grumbled, and scolded their husbands--those
convenient scapegoats of all responsibility; the young ladies tried to look very sentimental,
and above all such vulgar anxiety as that of meat and drink, but only succeeded in looking
very cross; the men swore in various dialects at the waiters whenever they could catch them
flying, and the waiters being used to it didn't mind it; and Ashburner, as a recollection of
a former conversation flitted across his mind, could not help letting off a tu quoque at his
friend.

"I say, Benson," quoth he, "is this one of the hotels that are so much better than ours, and
that our people ought to take a lesson from?"

Harry looked half-a-dozen bowie-knives at him. Besides the natural irritation produced by hunger,
his wife and sister-in-law had been whipping him over each other's shoulders for the last half-hour,
and now this last remark made him ready to boil over. For a few seconds his face wore an expression
positively dangerous, but in another moment the ridiculous side of the case struck him. With
a good-humored laugh he called for some wine--the only thing one was sure to get, as it was
an extra, and a pretty expensive one, too, on the hills--and they drowned their hunger in a
bumper of tolerable champagne.

The fact was, that the Bath Hotel had been a most excellent house three or four summers previous,
and the "enterprising and gentlemanly" landlord (to borrow an American penny-a-liner's phrase)
having made a fortune, as he deserved, had sold out his lease, with the good-will and fixtures
of the establishment, to Mr. Grabster. The latter gentleman was originally a respectable farmer
and market-gardener in the vicinity of Oldport; and having acquired by his business a fair
sum of money, was looking about for some speculation in which to invest it. He commenced his
new profession with tolerably good intentions, but having as much idea of keeping a hotel as
he had of steering a frigate, and finding a balance against him at the end of the first season
from sheer mismanagement, he had been endeavoring ever since to make up for it by screwing
his guests in every way. People naturally began to complain. Two courses were open to him--to
improve his living, or to tip an editor to puff him. He deemed the latter course the cheaper,
and bought The Sewer, which, while uttering the most fulsome adulation of every thing connected
with the Bath Hotel, frightened the discontented into silence through dread of its abuse. Ludlow,
and some of the other exclusives, had, in the beginning of the present season, contrived a
remedy, which, for the time, was perfectly successful. They held a private interview with the
cook, and made up a weekly contribution for him, on condition of their having the best of every
thing, and enough of it, for dinner; and the waiters were similarly retained. For a time this
worked to a marvel, and the subscribers were as well fed as they could desire. But the other
guests began to make an outcry against the aristocracy and exclusiveness of private dishes
on a public table, and the servants soon hit upon a compromise of their own, which was to take
the money without rendering the quid pro quo. This, of course, soon put an end to the payments,
and things were on the old starvation footing again.

After dinner, every body who had horses rode or drove. The roads about Oldport were heavy and
sandy, and terrible work the dust made with the ladies' fine dresses and the gentlemen's fine
coats.

"Rather different from the drives about Baden-Baden," said Benson.

"Yes; but I suppose we must console ourselves on moral grounds, and remember, that there we
owe the beautiful promenades to the gambling-table, while here we are without the roads, and
also without the play."

"Ah, but isn't there play here! only all sub rosâ. Wait a while, and you'll find out."

And Ashburner did find out before many nights, when the footsteps and oaths of the young gamblers
returning at four in the morning to their rooms in the "Colony," woke him out of his first
sleep. After the drive, tea--still at the table-d'hôte--and after tea, dressing for the ball,
which this night was at the Bellevue House, appropriately so called from commanding a fine
view of nothing. As the Bellevue was not a fashionable hotel (although the guests were sufficiently
fed there), some of the exclusive ladies had hesitated about "assisting" on the occasion; but
the temptation of a dance was too strong to be resisted, and they all ultimately went. Le Roi
accompanied the Bensons in the all-accommodating Rockaway. The Bellevue had a "colony," too,
in the second story of which was the ballroom. As they ascended the stairs, the lively notes
of La Polka Sempiternelle, composée par Josef Bungel, et dédiée à M. T. Edwards, reached their
ears; and hardly were they over the threshold when Edwards himself hopped up before them, and
without other preface or salutation than a familiar nod, threw his arm round Mrs. Benson's
waist, and swung her off in the dance; while Sumner, who had simultaneously presented himself
to Miss Vanderlyn, took similar possession of her.

"Do you dance?"

"No, I thank you."

While Benson asked the question, Le Roi dived at a girl and whirled her away: almost before
Ashburner had answered it, his friend shot away from him, making point at a young married lady
in the distance; and his bow of recognition ended in the back-step of the polka, as the two
went off together at a killing pace. In five seconds from the time of entrance, Ashburner was
left standing alone at one end of the room, and his companions were twirling at the other.
For so habituated were the dancers to their fascinating exercise, that they were always ready
to go at the word, like trained horses. And certainly the dancing was beautiful. He had never
seen gentlemen move so gracefully and dexterously in a crowded room as these young Americans
did. Le Roi and Röwenberg, who, by virtue of their respective nationalities, were bound to
be good dancers, looked positively awkward alongside of the natives. As to the ladies, they
glided, and swam, and realized all the so-often-talked-of-and-seldom-seen "poetry of motion."
Indeed Ashburner thought they did it too well. He thought of Catiline's friend, commemorated
by Sallust, who "danced better than became a modest woman." He thought some of their displays
were a little operatic, and that he had seen something like them at certain balls in Paris--not
the balls of the Faubourg St. Germain. He thought that the historian's aphorism might be extended
to the male part of the company,--and that they danced better than became intelligent men.
He thought--but as he prudently kept thoughts to himself, and as some of his foreign prejudice
may have been at the bottom of them, we will not stop to record them all. By and by there was
a quadrille for the benefit of the million, during which the exclusives rested, and Ashburner
had full opportunity of observing them. The first thing that struck him was the extreme youth
of the whole set, and more especially of the masculine portion of it. Old men there were none.
The old women, that is to say, the mammas and aunts, were stuck into corners out of the way,
and no one took any notice of them. Hamilton White was quite an old beau by comparison--almost
superannuated. Sumner would have been nearly off the books but for his very superior dancing.
Even Benson seemed a middle-aged man compared with the majority of "our set," who averaged
between boys of seventeen and young men of twenty-four. And the more juvenile the youth, the
larger and stiffer was his white tie. Some of these neck-fastenings were terrific to behold,
standing out a foot on each side of the wearer. All the Joinvilles that Ashburner had ever
seen, on all the gents in London or elsewhere, faded into insignificance before these portentous
cravats. He could not help making some observations on this fashion to Benson, as he encountered
him promenading with a fair polkiste.

"Did you ever notice the whiffletrees of my team-trotting wagon, how they extend on each side
beyond the hubs of the wheels? They serve for feelers in a tight place: wherever you clear
your whiffletrees, you can clear your wheels; and these cravats are built on the same principle--wherever
you clear your tie, you can clear your partner."

By one in the morning the democracy of the ballroom had had enough of four hours' dancing and
looking on. "Our set" was left in full possession of the floor. Forthwith they seized upon
all the chairs, and the interminable German cotillon commenced. It lasted two hours--and how
much longer Ashburner could not tell. When he went away at three, the dancers looked very deliquescent,
but gave no symptoms of flagging. And so ended his first day's experience of an American watering-place.

FOOTNOTES:

[26] This is the strongest American (slang) way of putting an affirmation; and, probably, the
strongest instance of it on record is that of a Bowery boy, who, when asked by a clergyman,
"Wilt thou have this woman?" replied, "I won't have any one else."

[From the Dublin University Magazine.]

THE MYSTIC VIAL:

OR,

THE LAST DEMOISELLE DE CHARREBOURG.

Continued from page 75.

PART II.

VI.--THE MINIATURE.

Lucille had not, therefore, gained by her marriage the position to which her ambition aspired.
She had made several ineffectual efforts to dissolve the spell of isolation which seemed to
seclude the intercourse of the Chateau des Anges from all human ken and visitation as absolutely
as the palace of a merman. With the exception, however, of a few visits from the great ladies
who resided in the neighborhood, no casual beams from the brilliant world of rank and fashion
without penetrated the dismal shadows of her gorgeous abode.

She was dissatisfied, angry, and resolved upon the earliest fitting occasion to rebel against
the selfish tyranny which consigned her to solitude and monotony.

She had hitherto gained nothing by those little expedients, hints, and even entreaties, which
are sometimes found so effectual in like cases. The old fermier-general was just as smiling
and as promising as the Chateau des Anges itself, but, alas! as absolutely impenetrable. An
iron will encountered and repressed all her shifts and struggles. She chafed and coaxed alike
in vain. Whether the bird sang or fluttered, the bars of her cage were immovable.

Under these circumstances, no very cordial feelings began to animate the fiery girl respecting
her resolute and reserved old helpmate.

Meanwhile the humble cottage in the park of Charrebourg was deserted, and permitted to fall
to decay, for the old visconte, and even Marguerite, had been removed to the establishment
at Des Anges, and so, in process of time, the little walks were overgrown with grass, the fences
spread and straggled, dark green plants clambered to the roof, and weeds showed themselves
over the tiled vestibule and even ventured into the inner chambers. Thus time and nature, in
mournful alliance, began their obliterating work. But there were some plants and flowers which
grew outside what had been for so long Mademoiselle Lucille de Charrebourg's window. They had
been the objects of her care, and Gabriel!--sweet but sorrowful remembrance!--had been, in
those happy times, privileged to tend them for her. Poor Gabriel was now desolate indeed, but
he pleased himself with dressing those flowers, and watering, and weeding them day by day,
just as if she were there; and he would then sit on the bank that bounded the bowling-green,
and watch the desolate casement where he used so often to see that face that too probably was
never more to beam on him. And thus hours would glide away, and, young as he was, he came to
live chiefly in the past.

And generally when he rose, and with an effort, and many a backward look, lingeringly departed,
he would strengthen his sinking heart with some such reflection as this:--

"She did not love the fermier-general--it was the visconte who made her marry him. This Monsieur
Le Prun--what was he at first but a roturier--no better than myself--and made his own money--fortune
may yet befriend me also. I have energies, and resolution, and courage, for her sake, to dare
ten thousand deaths. I'll not despair. And then the old fellow can't live very long--a few
years--and so who knows yet what may befall?"

There was one beautiful rose which grew close to the window, and which Lucille herself had
planted, and this tree Gabriel came gradually to regard as connected by some sweet and silent
sympathy with the features and feelings of its mistress. When it drooped, she, he thought,
was sick or in sorrow; when, on the contrary, it was covered with blossoms and fresh leaves,
she was full of smiles and health; when a rough gust tore its slender sprays, some vexation
and disappointment had fretted her; and when again it put forth new buds and sprouts, these
were forgotten, and time had gathered round her new hopes and delights. Thus this tree became
to him an object of strangely tender interest, and he cherished the fancy that, in tending
and guarding it, he was protecting the fortunes and the happiness of poor Lucille.

Meanwhile, as a sort of beginning of that great fortune that awaited him, he obtained employment
as an under-gardener at the Chateau de Charrebourg, which had just been let to a wealthy noble,
whose millions had elevated him (like Monsieur le Prun) from the bourgeoisie to his present rank.

But we must return to the Chateau des Anges. Lucille's apartments were situated at a side of
the chateau overlooking a small court communicating with the greater one at the front of the
building; and this narrow area was bounded by a lofty wall, which separated the other pleasure-grounds
from the park.

It was night; Lucille and her gentle companion, Julie, had been chatting together, as young-lady
friends will do, most confidentially. The little maiden had detailed all her sadness and alarms.
Her married companion had been fluent and indignant upon her wrongs and disappointments. Each
felt a sort of relief, and drawn as it were into a securer intimacy, by the absence of Monsieur
le Prun, who was that night necessarily absent upon business.

The conversation had now shifted to Julie's engagement.

"And so, I suppose, I must marry him. Is it not a cruel tyranny to compel one who desires nothing
but to live and die among good Christians, in the quiet of a convent, to marry a person whom
she does not or cannot love?"

"Yes, Julie, so it seems; but you may yet be happier so married, than leading the life you
long for. Remember, Julie, he is not a man who has outlived the warmth, and tenderness, and
trust of youth. He is still capable of a generous passion, and capable of inspiring one. There
is no grief like the tyranny of one whom law and not love has made your master."

As they conversed, some cases of Lucille's lay open on the table before her companion, who
had been amusing herself in girlish fashion by the varied splendor and exquisite taste of the
jewelry they contained.

"This brooch," she said, taking up a miniature in enamel, representing some youthful tradition
of Monsieur le Prun's person, set round with diamonds, "is set very like mine, but I hate to
look at it."

"It represents, then----"

"The Marquis. Yes."

"The world calls him handsome, I am told."

"Yes, but somehow, if he be so, I can't perceive it; he does not please me."

"Well, then, bring me the miniature, and I will pronounce between you and the world."

With a melancholy smile Julie ran to her own apartment, hard by, and in a few minutes returned.
With curiosity all alive, Lucille took the brooch and looked at it.

"Well, what say you?" asked Julie, who stood behind her chair, gazing at the trinket over her
shoulder. Lucille was silent, although nearly a minute had elapsed.

"He certainly has the noble air," she continued; but still Lucille offered no criticism.

On a sudden she put down the miniature sharply on the table, and said, abruptly, "It is time
to go to rest; let us go to bed."

She rose and turned full round on Julie as she spoke. Her face was pale as death, and her eyes
looked large and gleaming. Her gaze was almost wild.

"Are you ill?" said Julie, frightened, and taking her hand, which was quite cold.

"O, no, no," said Lucille quickly, with a smile that made her pallor and her dilated stare
more shocking. "No, no, no--tired, vexed, heart-sick of the world and of my fate."

Julie, though shocked and horrified, thought she had never seen Lucille look so handsome before.
She was an apparition terrible, yet beautiful as a lost angel.

"You are, after all, right," she said suddenly. "I--I believe I am ill."

The windows of the apartment descended to the floor, and opened upon a balcony. She pushed
the casement apart, and stood in the open air. Julie had hurried to her assistance, fearing
she knew not what, and stood close by her. Never was scene so fitted to soothe the sick brain,
and charm the senses with its sad and sweet repose. The pure moon, high in the deep blue of
the heavens, shed over long rows of shimmering steps, and urns, and marble images--over undulating
woodlands, and sheets of embowered and sleeping water, and distant hills, a mournful and airy
splendor.

It seemed as though nature were doing homage to so much beauty. The old forest wafted from
his broad bosom a long hushed sigh as she came forth; the moon looked down on her with a serene,
sad smile; and the spirits of the night-breeze sported with her tresses, and kissed her pale
lips and forehead.

At least five minutes passed in silence. Lucille, on a sudden, said--

"So, at the end of a year you will be married?"

It seemed to Julie that the countenance that was turned upon her gleamed with an expression
of hatred which froze her. But the moonlight is uncertain, and may play wild freaks with the
character of an excited face.

"Yes, dear Lucille; alas! yes," she answered, in a tone that was almost deprecatory.

"Well, well, I am better now," she said, after a second interval. "My head, Julie--my poor head!"

"Have you a pain there, dear Lucille?"

"Yes, yes, it's all there," she said, abstractedly; and, returning, she kissed her gentle companion,
bade her good night, and was alone.

Julie was strangely perplexed by the scene which had just occurred. She could account for it
upon no theory but the supposition that some flickering vein of insanity was shooting athwart
her reason, and as suddenly disappeared. As soon as she was partially composed, she kneeled
down at the bedside, and prayed long and fervently; and for far the greater part of the time
poor Lucille was the sole theme of her supplications. At last she lay down, and composed herself
to sleep. Spite of the unpleasant images with which her mind was filled, slumber ere long overpowered
her. But these painful impressions made teasing and fantastic shapes to themselves. Her pillow
was haunted, and strange dreams troubled her slumbering senses. From one of these visions she
awoke with a start, and found herself sitting upright in her bed, with her heart beating fast
with terror. A burst of passionate wailing from Lucille's apartments thrilled her with a sort
of terror at the same moment. In hushed uncertainty she listened for a repetition of the sound;
but in vain. She was prompted to go and try whether she needed any help or comfort; but something
again withheld her; and, after another interval of somewhat excited reflection, she once more
gradually fell asleep. Again, however, hateful visions tormented her. She dreamed that a phantom,
said to have haunted the chateau for ages, and known by the familiar title of "La Belle Colombe,"
was pursuing her from chamber to chamber, dressed in her accustomed shroud of white; and had
at last succeeded in chasing her into a chamber from which there was no second door of escape--when
she awoke with a start; and, behold! there was a light in the room, and a female form, dressed
in white, standing between the bedside and the door. For some moments she fancied that she
saw but the continuation of her dream, and awaited the further movements of the figure with
the fascination of terror. But gradually her senses reported more truly, and she perceived
that the figure in white was indeed Lucille--pale, haggard; while with one she held the candlestick,
with the other she motioned slowly towards the bed, which she was approaching with breathless
caution, upon tiptoe. With an effort Julie succeeded in calling her by name, almost expecting
as she did so to see the whole apparition vanish into air.

"Awake, awake; how softly you breathe, Julie!" said Lucille, drawing close to the bedside,
and drawing the curtains.

"Yes, dear Lucille; can I do any thing for you?"

"No, no--nothing but----"

"How do you feel now?--are you better?"

"Yes, better than I desire to be."

"But why are you here, dear Lucille? Has any thing--frightened you?"

"Ha! then you heard it, did you?"

"Heard it? What?"

"Why, how long have you been awake--did you--did you hear music--singing?"

"No, no; but in truth, dear Lucille, I thought I heard you weeping."

"O, nonsense; who minds a girl's weeping. But you heard nothing else?"

"No, indeed."

Lucille appeared greatly relieved by this assurance. She stooped over her and kissed her; and
it was not until her face was thus brought near that Julie could perceive how worn and wan
with weeping it was.

"I have been dreaming, then; yes, yes, I suspected as much--dreaming," she said; and, as she
reached her own room, she muttered--

"Well, God be thanked, she did not hear it. But what can it mean? What madness and crime can
have conjured up these sounds? What can it mean but guilt, danger, and despair?"

VII.--THE DEVIL'S COACH.

It seemed to Julie that Lucille was moody and abstracted next morning. Sometimes for a few
moments she talked and smiled as before, but this was fitfully, and with an effort. She appeared
like one brooding over some wrong that had taken possession of her thoughts, or some dark and
angry scheme which engrossed her imagination. She soon left Julie and retired to her own apartments.

When Monsieur Le Prun returned, some time after noon, not finding his young wife in her usual
chamber, he went up stairs to wish her good day in her own suite of rooms.

He was surprised at the sullen and stormy countenance with which she greeted him. She had not
yet ventured to rebel against his authority, although she had frequently hinted her remonstrances
and wrongs. But there was now a darkness charged with thunder on her brow, and the fermier-general
began seriously (in nautical phrase) to look out for squalls.

"Good-day, my pretty wife."

"Good-day, sir."

"Are you well to-day?"

"No."

"Hey? that's a pity; what ails you, my charming little wife?"

"Solitude."

"Solitude! pooh, pooh! why, there is Julie."

"Julie has her young lover to think of."

"And when you weary of her," he continued, resolved not to perceive the slight but malicious
emphasis, "you have got your own sweet thoughts to retire upon."

"My thoughts are ill company, sir."

"Well, as it seems to me, the pretty child is out of temper to-day," he said, with evident chagrin.

"Perhaps I am--it is natural--I should be a fool were I otherwise."

"Par bleu! what new calamity is this?" he asked, with a smile and a shrug.

"Nothing new, sir."

"Well, what old calamity?"

The past night had wrought a change in Lucille; and, little as she had ever liked M. Le Prun,
she now felt a positive hatred of him, and she answered with a gloomy sort of recklessness--

"Sir, I am a prisoner."

"Tut, tut! pretty rogue."

"Yes, a prisoner; your prisoner."

"A prisoner on parole, perhaps; but provided, pretty captive, you don't desert me, you may
wander where you will."

"Pshaw! that is nonsense," she said sharply.

"Nonsense!" he repeated, testily; "it is no such thing, madame; you have the handsomest equipages
in France. Pray, when did I refuse you carriages, or horses, or free egress from this place?
par bleu! or lock the gates, madame? Treated as you are, how can you call yourself a prisoner?"

"What advantage in carriages, and horses, and open gates, when we are surrounded by a desert?"

"A desert? what do you mean?"

"There is not a soul to speak to."

"Not a soul--why, you are jesting; pray, is the Marquise de Pompignaud nobody? is the Conte
de la Perriere nobody?"

"Worse than nobody, monsieur: I should prefer a desert to a wilderness haunted by such creatures."

"Sacre! what does the child want?"

"What every wife in France commands--society, sir."

"Well, I say you have got it: independently of your immediate domestic circle, you have a neighborhood
such as ought to satisfy any reasonable person. There are persons fully as well descended as
yourself, and others nearly as rich as I am, all within easy visiting distance."

"The rich are all plebeians, and the nobles are all poor; there is and can be in a group so
incongruous no cordiality, no gayety, no splendor; in a word, no such society as the last descendant
of the Charrebourgs may reasonably aspire to."

"It is fully as numerous and respectable, notwithstanding, as the society which the last descendant
of the Charrebourgs enjoyed in the ancestral park where first I had the honor of making her
acquaintance."

"Yes; but not such as with my birth and beauty I might and must have commanded, sir."

"Well, what do you expect? These people won't give fêtes."

"Bring me to Paris, sir; I wish to take my place among the noble society, where I may meet
my equals; and at court, where I may, like all my ancestry, see my sovereign. Here, sir, my
days fly by in melancholy isolation; I am kept but to amuse your leisure; this, sir, is not
indulgence--it is selfish and tyrannical."

Monsieur Le Prun looked angrier and uglier than ever she had seen him before. His eyes looked
more black and prominent, and his face a great deal paler. But he did not trust himself with
an immediate answer; and his features, as if in the effort to restrain the retort his anger
prompted, underwent several grotesque and somewhat ghastly contortions.

His handsome wife, meanwhile, sat sullen and defiant, daring, rather than deprecating, the
menaced explosion of his wrath.

Their matrimonial bickerings, however, were not so soon to reach their climax. Monsieur Le
Prun contrived to maintain a silent self-command--thrust his hands into his pockets, walked
to the window humming an air, and after a few moments' pause, turned abruptly and left the room.

Near the stair-head he met old Marguerite on her way to Lucille's apartments. He signed to
her to follow him, and entered a chamber there. She perceived the unmistakable traces of angry
excitement in his face--always sinister in an old man, but in one so powerful, and about whom
she had heard so many dark rumors, full of vague terrors. As soon as he had closed the door,
he said to her--

"I hope they make you comfortable here, Marguerite?"

"Yes, sir, very comfortable," she replied, with a low courtesy, and trembling a good deal.

"Well, Marguerite, I suppose you would wish to make a suitable return. Now, some vile miscreant
meddler, who has got the ear of your young mistress, has been endeavoring to make her unhappy
in her present secluded situation--I think I could place my hand upon the culprit; but at all
events, do you lose no opportunity henceforward of cheering her, and reconciling your young
mistress, to this most suitable residence."

It was perfectly plain from his looks, that Monsieur Le Prun suspected her of being the "meddler"
in question; but before she could muster presence of mind to attempt her exculpation, he was
gone. The interview was like an ugly, flitting dream. His angry face and menacing croak had
scared her senses but for a moment; the apparition had vanished, and, with a heart still beating
fast, she went stealthily on her way.

Now Julie perceived that a change had taken place in Lucille--she was anxious and excited,
and appeared morbidly and passionately eager to share in those amusements which before she
had desired with comparative moderation.

"Julie, I will mix in the world; I will meet people and associate with my equals--I am resolved
upon it. If Monsieur Le Prun persists in refusing my reasonable wishes, it will perchance be
the worse for himself."

Such sentences she used to utter amidst blushes and pallor, and with a fire and agitation that
painfully perplexed her gentle, but now somewhat estranged, little companion.

Her conduct, too, became eccentric and capricious; sometimes she appeared sullen and reserved--sometimes,
at moments, as if animated with a positive hatred of her unoffending companion. Then, again,
she would relent, and, in an agony of compunction, entreat her to be reconciled.

It happened, not unfrequently, that business compelled Monsieur Le Prun to pass the night from
home. Upon one of these occasions Lucille had gone early to her bed, and old Marguerite, at
her special desire, sat beside her.

"Well, Marguerite," said her young mistress, "I am going to exact the fulfilment of a promise
you made me long ago, when first you came home, and before you became afraid of Monsieur Le
Prun. You told me, then, that you knew some stories of him--come, what are they?"

"Hey dear, bless the pretty child!--did I though?"

"Yes, yes, Marguerite; and you must tell them now--I say you must--I will have them. Nay, don't
be afraid; I'll not tell them again, and nobody can overhear us here."

"But, my pretty pet, these stories----"

"Then there are stories--see, you can't deny it any longer; tell them, tell them to me all."

"Why, they are nothing but a pack of nonsense. You would laugh at me. It is only about monsieur's
father, and the wonderful coach they say he left to his son."

"Well, be it what it may, let me have it."

"Well, then, my pretty bird, you shall have it as they told it to myself."

She looked into the next apartment, and having satisfied herself that it was vacant, and shut
the door of communication, she prepared for her narrative.

We have clipped the redundancies and mended the inaccuracies of honest Marguerite's phraseology;
but the substance and arrangement of the story is recorded precisely as she gave it herself.

"Monsieur's father, they say, began with a very little money, madame, and he made it more by--by--in
short, by usury; I beg pardon, but they say so, madame; and so finding as he grew old that
he had a great deal of gold, and wishing to have some one of his own flesh and blood to leave
it to, when he should be dead and buried, he bethought him of getting a wife. He must have
been a shrewd man, I need not tell you, to have made so much money, so he was determined not
to make his choice without due consideration. Now there was a farmer near them, who had a pretty
and innocent daughter, and after much cautious inquiry and patient study of her character,
old money-bags resolved that she was excellently suited for his purpose."

"She was young and pretty, and he old and ugly, but rich; well, what followed?"

"Why, she, poor thing, did not want to marry him at all; for though he was rich, he had a very
ill name in the country, and she was afraid of him; but her father urged her, and the old man
himself spoke her fair, and between them they overpowered her fears and scruples, and so she
was married."

"Poor thing!" said Lucille, unconsciously.

"Well, madame, he married, and brought her home to his desolate old house, and there, they
say, he treated her harshly; and, indeed he might there safely use her as he pleased, for there
was not another house for a great way round to be seen: and nobody but his own creatures and
dependents, who, they said, were just as bad as himself, could hear her cries, or witness his
barbarities."

Lucille sat up in the bed, and listened with increased interest.

"Poor thing! it was there, in the midst of sufferings and cruelties, that she gave birth to
a child, who is now Monsieur Le Prun, the great fermier-general; but her health, and indeed
her heart, was broken; and, some rumor having reached her relations, that she was sick and
unhappy, a cousin of hers, who, they said, was in love with her in their early days, brought
the village physician with him to see her, though it was full three leagues and a half away."

"The cousin loved her; poor fellow, he was true," said Lucille, with a blush of interest.

"Ay, so they say; but Monsieur Le Prun, who was a jealous curmudgeon, would not admit him;
but he did allow the physician to see her (himself standing by), because he was always glad
to have the use of any body's skill for nothing--which, more than any love he bore his poor
wife, was the reason of his letting him prescribe for her. Well, of course, she could not send
any message to her friends, nor tell how she was treated, for old Le Prun was at her bedside;
but the physician saw that she was ill, and he said to the old miser--'Your wife can't walk,
and she must have air; let her drive every day in your coach.' 'I have no such thing,' said
old Le Prun. 'But you are rich,' said the physician, 'you can afford to buy one; and it is
your duty to do so for your wife, who will die else.' 'Let her die, then, for me--the devil
may send her a coach to ride in, as they say he sent me my money; but I'll not waste my gold
on any such follies.' So the physician went away, disappointed and disgusted, and her poor
cousin was not able to effect any good on her behalf; but it seems the words of Monsieur Le
Prun did not fall quite to the ground--they were heard in the quarter to where they were directed.
That evening closed in clouds, and before twelve o'clock at night, they say, there came on
such another thunder-storm as never was heard in the neighborhood, before or since. Nothing
but thunder, roaring and crashing, peal upon peal, till the old house shook and trembled to
its very base; and the blue lightning glared at every window, and split along the pavement
in streams of livid fire; and all this time the rain was beating straight down in an incessant
and furious deluge."

"And so, I suppose, the devil came in the midst of the tempest, and took him away bodily in
a flash of lightning?"

"No, no, my pretty bird, not so fast. There was an old negro servant of his, a fellow just
as wicked as himself, who was sitting in the kitchen, cursing the rain that was battering in
huge drops down the chimney, and putting out the wood at which he was warming his shins, when,
in the midst of the dreadful hubbub of the tempest, what should he hear but the rush of a great
equipage, and wheels and horses clattering over the pavement, amidst the shouts of men and
the sound of horns. Up jumped the black, and, listening, he heard a loud voice shouting through
the storm, as if to summon some one to the door. Though they say he was a courageous old sinner,
his heart failed him, for such sounds had not visited the old house within the memory of man
in the day time, much less in the dead of night; and, instead of going to the door, he hurried
away to the chamber where old Le Prun was cowering, screwed up in the middle of a great old
fauteuil, and more frightened at the tempest than he would have cared to confess. So he told
him of the sounds he had just heard, and he and his master mounted together to a small room
in a gable over the hall-door, and from the casement of this they commanded a view of the paved
court in front. It was so dark, however, that they could see nothing; and the thunder still
echoing in loud explosions, and the rain battering at the windows, prevented their distinctly
hearing the words which the voice was shouting outside. 'Shall we open the casement and ask
him what they want?' said the old negro. 'Let it alone,' said his old master, shoving his arm
back again, with a curse. At the same moment a vivid flash of lightning, or rather several
in almost continuous succession, shed for some seconds a blue, pulsating illumination over
the scene, and then they saw before their eyes a coach, with a team of horses and outriders,
in the style of a royal equipage, drawn up before the hall door; and all the postillions and
outriders were sitting motionless, with their whips pointing to the house, as if they were
signing to the inhabitants to come out: and some one was looking from the window, and cried,
in a tone like the shriek of the wind--'The coach that Monsieur Le Prun ordered this morning.'
In the quivering blue light the whole thing looked like a smoky shadow, and was swallowed in
darkness in a moment. Then came the bellowing thunder-burst, and a wild scream of winds rushed
whooping, and sighing, and hissing through the tree-tops, and died away in the unknown distance.
The two old sinners, master and man, crept away from the window, and stumbled their way back
again to the chamber which Monsieur Le Prun had occupied before, and which, being in the rear
of the house, and most remote from the sight that had scared them, was preferred by them to
any other. In the morning a coach, of first-rate workmanship in all respects, was standing
in front of the hall door, just where they had seen it on the night before, but no sign of
horse, rider, or owner. For several days it remained in the same position, no one caring to
touch it; but at the end of that time, having grown accustomed to its presence, and gradually
less and less in awe of it, they lodged it in the coach-house; and so, after a considerable
time, the old usurer's instincts prevailed, and he resolved to make trial of the vehicle, with
a view to sell it in Paris. At first the horses snorted, and reared, and shyed, when they were
attempted to be harnessed to it, but in a little while they too became reconciled to it, and
Monsieur Le Prun made an experimental trip in it himself. Whatever passed upon that occasion,
it certainly determined him against parting with it. And, it was said, whenever he was thenceforward
in doubt about any purchase, or meditating any important financial coup, he invariably took
a solitary drive in this preternaturally-acquired vehicle; and, in the course of that drive,
his doubts, whatever they may have been, were invariably resolved, and some lucky purchase
or successful operation upon 'Change was sure to follow. It was said that upon these occasions
Monsieur Le Prun was always heard to converse with some companion in the coach; and the driver
once avowed that, having been delayed by an accident on the road, as the darkness came on,
he distinctly saw two shadowy outriders spurring duly in their van, and never lost sight of
them until, with hair standing on end, and bathed in a cold sweat, he drew up in the court
before his master's house."

"And what happened to old Le Prun?"

"When they returned from one of their drives, taken, Heaven bless us! for the purpose of consulting
the Evil One, so to speak, face to face, they found old Le Prun quite dead, sitting back in
his wonted attitude, and with his arm slung in the embroidered strap."

"And what has become of the wonderful coach?"

"That I have never heard; but they say that Monsieur Le Prun, the fermier-general, has it in
one of his houses, either in the country or in Paris, and that, whenever he wants to consult
the familiar demon of the family, he takes a drive in it alone; and this, they say, has been
the cause of his great successes and his enormous fortune."

"I should like to ride in that coach myself," said Lucille.

"Heaven and all the saints forbid!"

"I want to know my destiny, Marguerite. Were I sure that all my days were to pass as at present,
I would rather die than live."

"Oh, but sure my pretty bird would not ask her fortune of--of--"

"Yes, of any one--of any spirit, good or evil, that could tell it. I am weary of my life, Marguerite.
I would rather beg or work with my liberty, and the friends I like, than see my days glide
by in this dull, wealthy house, without interest, or hope, or--or love."

"But never desire, while you live, my child, the visits of the Evil One. Once asked for, it
is said he never refuses them."

"Say you so? then I invite him with all my heart," she said, with a bitter pleasantry; "he
can't be a great deal worse than the society I have sometimes had to share; and, if he discloses
the futurity that awaits me, he will have been the most instructive companion that fortune
ever lent me."

"Chut! madame, listen."

"What is the matter, Marguerite?"

"Did not you hear?"

"What?--whom?"

"There--there again; blessed Virgin shield us!"

"Psha! Marguerite; it is nothing but the moths flying against the window-panes; I have heard
that little tapping a hundred times."

"Well, well, maybe so; but say your prayers, my dear, and ask forgiveness for your foolish words."

"No, Marguerite; for in truth I do wish my fortune were read to me, and care not by whom."

"Hey, what's that? Chut! in Heaven's name hold thy mad tongue," she cried, in the irritation
of panic; "surely that is no moth. May the saints guard your bed, my child. You heard it, did
you not?"

"Hum--yes--there was a sound."

"I should think so, par bleu! something a size or two larger than a moth, too."

"It was a spray of one of the plants swung by the breeze against the window."

"Ma foi! it was no such thing, my sweet pet; no, no, something with a pair of wings fluttered
up against it."

Had the old woman, in her trepidation, had leisure to study the countenance of her young mistress,
she would have perceived that her cheeks were flushed with crimson. But she was too busy with
her medley of prayers and protestations, and too fully preoccupied with the idea of an unearthly
visitation.

"Well, well, Marguerite, be it as you say; I'll not dispute the point; but leave me now; I'm
tired, and would sleep. Good night."

After the old woman had withdrawn some minutes, Lucille rose from her bed. She had only been
partially undressed; and throwing on her dressing-gown, and putting her little ivory feet into
her slippers, she glided to her chamber-door, which she secured, and then cautiously, and almost
fearfully, stepped to the window, which she pushed open, and stood upon the balcony.

With a beating heart, and a cheek that momentarily changed color, she looked all along the
edges of the court, and over the tall plants, and under the shadow of the lofty jessamine-covered
wall. She listened with breathless and excited suspense--she waited for some minutes; but,
having watched and listened in vain, she pressed her hand on her heart, and, with a deep and
trembling sigh, turned back again. It was at this moment she saw something white, no bigger
than a playing-card, lie at her feet. She picked it up, entered her room, and trembling violently,
closed the window again, and was alone.

VIII.--THE ORDEAL.

The next morning came with sunshine, and the merry carols of all the sylvan choirs. It would
have meetly ushered in a day of rejoicing; but joy seemed to have bid an eternal adieu to the
luxurious solitudes of the Chateau des Anges.

Julie that morning remarked that Lucille remained unusually late in her own rooms. Fearing
that she might be ill, she ventured to visit her in her apartments. It was past twelve o'clock
when she knocked at her door. There was no answer; and she knocked repeatedly, but without
success. At last she opened the door, but Lucille was not as usual in that room. She walked
through it, and the apartment beyond it, without seeing her; but in her dressing-room, which
lay beyond that again, she found her.

She was sitting in a loose morning-robe; her head was supported by her hand, and the open sleeve
of heavy silk had fallen back from her white round arm. An open letter lay upon the table under
her gaze. She had evidently been weeping, and was so absorbed either in her own reflections
or the contents of the letter, that she did not perceive the entrance of Julie.

The visitor paused; but feeling that every moment of her undiscovered presence added to the
awkwardness of her situation, she called Lucille by name.

At the sound of her name she started from her seat, and stood, pale as death, with all her
dark hair shaken wildly about her shoulders, and her eyes gleaming with a malign terror upon
the intruder. At the same moment she had clutched the letter, and continued to crumple it in
her hand with a spasmodic eagerness.

Julie was almost as much confounded as Lucille. Both were silent for a time.

"I beg your pardon, dear Lucille; I fear my unperceived intrusion startled you."

"Yes, yes; I suppose I am nervous. I am not well. Oh, God! you did startle me very much."

To do her justice, she looked terrified; every vestige of color had fled from her face, even
from her lips, and her eyes continued gleaming wildly and fixedly on her.

"Why did you come, then--what do you want of me?" she said, at last, excitedly, and even angrily.

"I came to ask how you are, Lucille--I feared you were ill."

"I--I ill? You know I was not ill," she said hurriedly and impatiently, and either forgetting
or despising her own excuse of but a moment before. "You came--you came for a purpose, Julie--yes,
yes--do not deny it--there is perfidy enough already."

"You wrong me, Lucille; I told you the simple truth--why should I deceive you?"

"Why--why? Because the world is full of deceit, full of falsehood and treason--they are every
where, every where."

She turned away, and Julie perceived that she was weeping.

She was pained and puzzled--nay, she was crossed every moment by the horrid fear that Lucille's
mind was unsettled. Her strange agitation seemed otherwise unaccountable.

"Lucille--dear Lucille--surely you will not be angry with your poor little friend--surely you
believe Julie."

She looked at her for a moment, and said--

"Yes, Julie, I do believe you;" and so saying, she kissed her. "But--but I am utterly, and
I fear irremediably miserable."

"But what is the cause of your wretchedness, my dear Lucille?"

"This place--this solitude oppresses me; I cannot endure the isolation to which I am unnaturally
and tyrannically condemned. Oh, Julie! there are circumstances, secrets, miseries, I dare not
tell you; fate is weaving round me a net, to all eyes but my own invisible. But why do you
look at me with those strange glances? Do not believe that I am guilty, because I am miserable--do
not dare to touch me with such a thought."

She stamped her little foot furiously on the floor at these words, while her cheek and eye
kindled with excitement. It speedily subsided, however, into a deep and sullen gloom, and she
continued--

"I scarce know myself, Julie, what I am, or what I may be; but my heart is as full of tumult,
of suffering, of hatred, as hell itself. I will at least be free--my captivity in this magician's
prison shall terminate--I will not endure it. It shall end soon, one way or another--I will
liberate myself."

Lucille spoke with something more than passion--it was fierceness; and her gentle companion
was filled with vague alarms. She had, as feeble natures often have, an instinctive appreciation
of the superior energy and daring of her more fiery companion, and knew that she would, too
probably, take some violent and irreparable step in furtherance of her resolution. It was,
therefore, with feelings of anxiety and fear that she left her to the solitary influence of
her own angry and excited thoughts.

Monsieur Le Prun did not arrive till night. As he and the Count de Blassemare rolled homeward,
side by side in his carriage, under the uncertain moonlight, between the lordly rows of forest-trees
that, like files of gloomy Titans, kept perennial guard along the approaches of the chateau,
or, as Lucille has not unaptly styled it, "the magician's prison," they talked pretty much
as follows:

"Le Prun, my good friend, you are jealous--jealous, by all the imps in true love's purgatory,"
said Blassemare.

"Not jealous, but cautious."

"A nice distinction."

"Why, when one has reached our time of life----"

"Ours! you might be my father."

"Well, I can't deny it, for nobody knows how old you are. But at my years a man with a young
wife must exercise precaution. Par bleu! we are neither of us fools, and I need not tell you that."

"Why, yes, we have had our experiences--I as a spectator--you as----"

"Of course--therefore this threatened irruption of frivolity and vice--"

"Say of youth and beauty; the other qualities--frivolity and vice--may coexist with age and
ugliness, and, therefore, harmlessly."

"Well, what you will, it does not please me. But, under existing circumstances, with my application
pending, you know it was impossible to deny the marchioness her whim."

"Of course; and so for a single night the Chateau des Anges becomes a fairy palace. Well, what
harm--you can't apprehend that a single fête, however gay and spirited, will--ruin you."

"Why, no; after all, it is, as you say, but a single fête, and then extinguish the lights,
and lock the doors, and so the Chateau des Anges becomes as sober as before."

"And I wager a hundred crowns you will tell Madame Le Prun that you have given this fête entirely
on her account."

"I thought of that," he replied, with a grin; "but it would not be wise."

"Why so?"

"Because it would make a precedent."

"And will you never again indulge her fancy for society?"

"By ---- my good friend, never. She fancies she has a great deal of spirit, and will contrive
to rule me; but she does not know Etienne Le Prun--she does not know him--I will treat her
like what she is--a child."

"And she will treat you, perhaps, like----"

"Like what?"

"Like what you are--a bridegroom of seventy."

"If she dares. Ay, Blassemare, I have just as little trust as you in what conventionality calls
the virtue of the sex. I rely upon my own strong will--the discipline I can put in force, and
their salutary fears."

There was here a pause of more than a minute in the dialogue; each appeared to have enough
to think of, and the carriage was driving nearly at a gallop under the funereal shadow of the
dense and lofty trees. With a fierce start, Monsieur Le Prun cried, suddenly--

"What do you mean?"

"I?--nothing."

"Why do you say that?"

"What?"

"You said--Bluebeard."

"Hey?"

"Ay!--what the devil did you mean by that?"

"Upon my soul, I said no such thing," said Blassemare, with a hollow, satirical laugh.

Monsieur Le Prun glanced over his shoulder once or twice, and then hummed to himself for a time.

"Seriously," he repeated, "did you not call me by that name?"

"I!--no; I always call things by their name, and yours is gray."

"Hem!--what is he driving in this shadow for? Tell him to keep in the moonlight--one would
think he wanted to break our necks."

Monsieur Le Prun, it was evident, had become fidgety and fanciful.

A few minutes' rapid driving brought the carriage to the hall-door of the chateau, and its
wealthy, but, perhaps, after all, not very much to be envied, master conducted his familiar
imp, Blassemare, into a saloon, where supper awaited them.

"I don't myself understand these things, Blassemare, but you will be my stage-manager, and
get up the spectacle in the best style."

"Why, yes. I don't see why I should not lend a hand, that is to say, if nothing happens to
call me away," said Blassemare, who delighted in such affairs, but liked a little importance also.

"How soon is it to take place?"

"She said in about three weeks."

"Ha! very good."

And the Count de Blassemare was instantaneously translated, in spirit, among feu d'artifice,
water-works, arches, colored lamps, bands, and all the other splendors and delectations of
an elaborate fête.

"I remember," said Le Prun, abruptly dispelling these happy and gorgeous visions with his harsh
tones, "when I was at school, reading about Socrates and those invisible demons that were always
hovering at his ears; it was devilish odd, Blassemare. But to be sure those were good-natured
devils; ay, that is true, and meant him no harm."

"By my faith, I forget all about it; but what the devil connection have these demons, blue,
black, or red, with your fête?"

"I sometimes think, Blassemare, you are a worse fellow than I am, for you have no qualms of
conscience."

"No qualms of stomach, no fumes of indigestion; as for conscience, it is an infirmity of which
we both stand equally acquitted."

"I did not speak of it in a good sense," said Le Prun, gloomily; "it may be remorse or superstition,
but I fancy the man who has none of it is already dead, and under his coffin-lid, so far as
his spiritual chances are concerned."

"Faith, it is a treat, Le Prun, to hear you talk religion. When do you mean to take orders?
I should so like to see you, my buck, in a cassock and cowl begging meal, and telling your
beads, and calling yourself brother Ambrose."

"I have not good enough in me for that," he replied, in a tone which might be earnest, or might
be a sneer; "besides, I dare say that the grand melange of rapture and diablerie they call
religion is altogether true; but par bleu! my good fellow, there is something more than this
life--agencies, subtler and more powerful mayhap than those our senses are commonly cognizant
of. I say I have had experience of this truth, and of them. You laugh! and I suppose will laugh
on, until that irresistible old gentleman-usher, DEATH, presents you to other realities face
to face."

"Well, so be it. If they have faces, I suppose they have mouths, and can laugh, and chat, and
so, egad I'll make the best of them; it is one comfort, we shall all understand religion then,
and need not plague our heads about it any further. But, in the mean time, suppose we have
a game of piquet."

"Agreed! call for cards, and, by the time you have got them, I will return."

Le Prun took a candle, and opening a door which led through a passage to a back stair communicating
with Lucille's apartments, he directed his steps thither for the purpose of announcing his
arrival, and ascertaining at the same time the state of his wife's temper.

He tapped at the door, and, having received permission to enter, did so to the manifest surprise
of the occupants of the chamber, who had expected to see one of the servants.

Julie, who was in the very middle of a story about the Marquis de Secqville, her intended husband,
(to which Lucille was listening, as she leaned pensively back in her rich fauteuil, with downcast
eyes,) suspended her narrative.

"Well, sir?"

"Well, madame?"

Such was the curt and menacing greeting exchanged between the fermier-general and his wife.

"You appear dissatisfied," he said, after an interval, and having taken a chair.

"I am so."

"This is tiresome, ma femme."

"Yes, insupportably; this, and every thing else that passes here."

"It appears to me, you are somewhat hard to please."

"Quite the reverse. I ask but to mix in human society."

"You have society enough, madame."

"I have absolutely none, sir."

"I can't say what society you enjoyed in the Parc de Charrebourg, madame," he began, in an
obvious vein of sarcasm. And as he did so, he thought he observed her eyes averted, and her
color brighten for a moment. He did not suffer this observation to interrupt him, but he laid
it up in the charnel of his evil remembrances, and continued: "I don't know, I say, what society
you there enjoyed. It may have been very considerable, or it may have been very limited: it
was possibly very dull, or possibly very delightful, madame. But if you had any society there
whatever, it was private, secret; it was neither seen nor suspected, madame, and, therefore,
you must excuse me if I can't see what sacrifice, in point of society, you have made in exchanging
your cottage in the Parc de Charrebourg for a residence in the Chateau des Anges."

"Sir, I have made sacrifices--I have lost my liberty, and gained you."

"I see, my pretty wife, it will be necessary that you and I should understand one another,"
he said, tranquilly, but with a gloom upon his countenance that momentarily grew darker and darker.

"That is precisely what I desire," replied his undaunted helpmate.

"Leave us, Julie," said the fermier-general, with a forced calmness.

Julie threw an imploring glance at Lucille as she left the room, for she held her uncle in
secret dread. As she glided through the door her last look revealed them seated at the little
table; he--ugly: black, and venomous; she--beautiful, and glittering in gay colors. It was
like a summer fly basking unconsciously within the pounce of a brown and bloated spider.

"Depend upon it, madame, this will never do," he began.

"Never, sir," she repeated emphatically.

"Be silent, and listen as becomes you," he almost shouted, with a sudden and incontrollable
explosion of rage, while the blood mounted to his discolored visage. "Don't fancy, madame,
that I am doting, or that you can manage me with your saucy coquetry or sulky insolence. I
have a will of my own, madame, under which, by Heaven, I'll force yours to bend, were it fifty
times as stubborn as ever woman's was yet. You shall obey--you shall submit. If you will not
practise your duty cheerfully, you shall learn it in privation and tears; but one way or another,
I'll bring you to act, and to speak, and to think as I please, or I'm not your husband."

"Well, sir, try it: and in the mean time, I expect----"

"What do you expect?" he thundered.

"I expect to receive a counterpart of this," she said, with deliberate emphasis, holding the
magic vial steadily before his eyes.

For a second or two, the talisman appeared powerless, but only for so long. On a sudden his
gaze contracted--he became fascinated, petrified--his face darkened, as if a tide of molten
lead were projected through every vessel--and a heavy dew of agony stood in beads upon his
puckered forehead. With all this horror was mingled a fury, if possible, more frightful still;
every fibre of his face was quivering; the hand that was clenched and drawn back, as if it
held a weapon to be hurled into her heart, was quivering too; his mouth seemed gasping in vain
for words or voice; he resembled the malignant and tortured victim of a satanic possession;
and this frightful dumb apparition was imperceptibly drawing nearer and nearer to her.

A sudden revulsion broke the horrid spell of which he was the slave; like one awaking from
a nightmare, conscience-stricken, he uttered a trembling groan of agony, and with one hand
upon his breast, the other clutched upon his forehead, he hurried, speechless, like a despairing,
detected criminal, from the room.

IX.--THE UNTOLD SECRET.

Julie, who had heard high words as she traversed the apartments which lay en suite, paused
in the lobby at the stair-head--a sort of oeil de boeuf, to which several corridors converged,
and with a lofty lantern-dome above, from which swung a cluster of rose-colored lamps.

Here she sat down upon a sofa, ill at ease on account of the scene which was then going on
so near her; and, in the midst of her reverie, raising her eyes suddenly, she saw Monsieur
Le Prun, the thick carpets rendering his tread perfectly noiseless, gliding by her with a countenance
guilty and terrible beyond any thing that fancy had ever seen.

Without appearing to see her, like a spectre from the grave he came, passed, and vanished,
leaving her frozen with horror, as if she had beheld a phantom from the dead and damned.

With steps winged with hideous alarm she sped through the intervening chambers to that in which
she had left Lucille.

She was standing with an ashy smile of triumph on her face, and in her hand was still mechanically
grasped the queer little vial with its four spires of gold.

Monsieur Le Prun had recovered his self-possession to a certain extent by the time he reached
the apartment where he had left Blassemare. But that observant gentleman did not fail to perceive,
at a glance, that something had occurred to agitate his patron profoundly.

"Egad," he thought, "I should not be surprised if the girl were taken at disadvantage by his
abrupt visit, and that the venerable Adonis saw something to justify his jealousy. A husband
has no right to surprise his wife. Le Prun," he continued carelessly aloud, "I wonder why Nature,
who has been so bounteous to the sex, has not furnished husbands, like certain snakes, with
rattles to their tails, to give involuntary warning of their approach."

Le Prun poured out a glass of cold water and drank it. Blassemare observed, as he did so, that
his hand trembled violently. The fermier-general was silent, and his flippant Mercury did not
care just then to hazard any experiment upon his temper.

"Blassemare!" he exclaimed, abruptly arresting his glass, and eyeing his companion with a sort
of brutal rage, "I ought to run you through the body, sir, where you stand, for your accursed
perfidy."

"What! me?--by my soul, sir, I don't understand you," he replied, at once offended and amazed.
"Why the devil should you murder me?"

"You have broken your word with me!"

"In what respect?"

"Exactly where it was most vitally needful to keep it, sir."

"Deuce take me if I know what you mean."

"You do--you do--a thousand curses! You must know it."

"But hang me if I do."

"You have suffered that calumny to reach her ears."

"What calumny?"

"She must have seen her."

"Her!--whom?"

"She must have spoken with her."

"Do say, plainly, what it is all about?"

"About that--that d---- woman; there, is that intelligible? She is at large, sir, in spite
of all I've said--in spite of all you undertook, sir; and she has been filling my wife's ears
with those hell-born lies that have been whispered to you, sir, and which it was your business
to have suppressed and extinguished. By ----, Blassemare, you deserve my curses and my vengeance."

As he concluded, he struck the glass upon the table with a force that shivered it to pieces.

"Monsieur le Prun," said Blassemare, coolly, "I deprecate no man's vengeance, and fear no man's
sword; but whatever be the ground of your present convictions, it is utterly fallacious. The
person in question has never stirred abroad--you mean the sister of course--since your marriage,
except under close and trustworthy attendance; and the other--that you know is out of the question."

"There has been mismanagement somewhere, or else some new device of infernal malice; I say
the thing has been misconducted, with the same cursed blundering that has always attended that
affair; and I would rather my wife were in her coffin than have seen what I have seen to-night."

"What! in her coffin!" echoed Blassemare, with a sort of fiendish satire.

"Ay, sir, in her coffin!" said Le Prun, with a black defiance which made Blassemare shrug his
shoulders and become silent.

The chill and the smell of death seemed to him to have come with these words into the room.
But he would not on any account have betrayed his sensations; on the contrary, he pointed gayly
to the cards, and looked a smiling interrogatory towards the fermier. But that excellent gentleman
was in no mood for picquet. He declined the challenge gloomily and peremptorily.

"Ma foi! you suffer trifles to plague you strangely," said Blassemare, as they parted for the
night. "What on earth does it signify after all? Thwart a woman, and she will strive to vex
you--there's nothing new in that; why should not Madame Le Prun share the pretty weaknesses
of her sex? On the other hand, indulge her, and she will flatter as much as she teased before.
You are too sensitive, too fond, and, therefore, exaggerate trifles. Good night."

Monsieur Le Prun withdrew, and Blassemare muttered--

"Remorseless old criminal! I shall keep my eye close upon you, and if I see any sign of the
sort----"

He set his teeth together, smiled resolutely and threateningly, and nodded his head twice or
thrice in the direction of the door through which the fermier-general had just disappeared.

The violent explosion we have just described was not followed by any very decisive results.
The fermier-general and his wife had not been upon very pleasant terms for some time previous
to the scene which had so fearfully agitated the millionaire; and, whatever may have been the
immediate promptings of his anger, his temper had cooled down sufficiently, before the morning,
to enable him to carry the matter off, like a man of the world, with a tolerable grace. Whatever
change for the worse had taken place in his feelings towards his wife, he was able to suppress
the manifestation of it: but, as we have said, their relations had of late been by no means
cordial, and Monsieur Le Prun did not think it necessary to affect any warmer sentiment toward
his wife, nor any abatement of the sinister estrangement which had been gradually growing between
them.

Meanwhile the preparations for the fête proceeded at the Chateau des Anges upon a scale worthy
of the rarity of the occasion and the vastness of the proprietor's fortune.

All these were carried on by Blassemare, who indulged his gallantry by consulting the beautiful
young wife of the fermier-general upon every detail of the tasteful and magnificent arrangements
as they proceeded.

Monsieur Le Prun had a special object in gratifying the great lady who had insisted upon this
sacrifice. Blassemare had, therefore, a carte blanche in the matter. There were to be musicians
from Paris, bands of winged instruments among the trees, galleys and singers upon the waters,
illuminated marquees and fanciful grottoes, feu d'artifice, and colored lamps of every dye,
in unimaginable profusion, theatricals, gaming, feasting, dancing--in a word, every imaginable
species of gayety, revelry, and splendor.

As these grand projects began to unfold themselves, Lucille's ill-temper began to abate. Her
interest was awakened, and at last she became pleased, astonished, and even delighted.

Now at length she hoped that the long-cherished object of her wishes was about to be supplied,
and that she was indeed to emerge from her chrysalis state, and enjoy, among the sweets and
gayeties of life, the glittering freedom for which she felt herself so fitted, and had so long
sighed in vain; and which, moreover, as the reader may have suspected, she desired also in
furtherance of certain secret and cherished aspirations.

Monsieur de Blassemare found his æsthetic and festive confidences most encouragingly received
by the handsome and imperious Madame Le Prun. The subject of his consultations delighted her;
and knowing well the close relation in which he stood with her husband, she perhaps thought
it no such bad policy to secure him, by a little civility, in her interest. She little imagined,
perhaps, engrossed as she was with other images, to what aspiring hopes she was thus unconsciously
introducing the Sieur de Blassemare. That gentleman was proud of his bonnes fortunes; and the
rapid chemistry of his vanity instantaneously transmuted the lightest show of good-humor, in
a handsome woman, into the faint but irrepressible evidences of a warmer sentiment of preference.

Perfectly convinced of the reality of the penchant he believed himself to have inspired, you
may be sure the lively scoundrel was not a little flattered at his imaginary conquest. He debated,
therefore, in his self-complacent reveries, whether he should take prompt advantage of the
weakness of his victim, or pique her by the malice of suspense. He chose the latter tactique,
and, with a happy self-esteem, reserved the transports of his confession to reward the longings
and agitations of a protracted probationary ordeal.

Thus Blassemare was in his glory, superintending the preparations for a fête, which left him
nothing in prodigality and magnificence to desire; enjoying, at the same time, the delightful
consciousness of having placed, without an effort, the prettiest woman in France at his feet,
and the piquant sense, beside, of his little treason against old Le Prun.

Thus matters proceeded; but, strange to say, while the evening for which all these preparations
were being made was still more than a week distant, Madame Le Prun, whose impatience of even
that brief delay had been unspeakable, on a sudden lost all her interest in the affair. Such,
alas! is the volatility, the caprice, of women. The object for sake of which she had led poor
Le Prun a dog's life for so long, was now presented to her, and she turned from it with indifference,
if not with disgust. This would, indeed, have been very provoking to Le Prun himself, had he
been just then upon speaking terms with his wife; but not happening to be so, and being in
no mood to talk about her further to his gay familiar, Blassemare, he was wholly ignorant of
those feminine fluctuations of interest and of liking which Blassemare himself did not fully
comprehend. The change was so abrupt as to excite his surprise. Her apathy, too, was unaccompanied
by ill-temper, and was obviously so genuine, that he could hardly believe it affected merely
to pique him. We are disposed to think there was a powerful, but mysterious, cause at work
in this change.

It was just about this time that one night, Julie, having sat up rather later than usual, and
intending to bid Lucille good night, if she were still awake, entered her suite of apartments,
and approached her dressing-room door. She heard her rush across the floor, as she did so,
and, with a face of terror, she emerged from the door and stood before it, as if to bar ingress
to the room.

Julie was disconcerted and agitated by this apparition; and Lucille was evidently, from whatever
cause, greatly terrified. The two girls confronted one another with pale and troubled looks.
Lucille was white with fear, and, alas! as it seemed to her companion, with the agitation of
guilt. Julie looked at her all aghast.

"Good night, Julie, good night," she whispered, hurriedly.

"Good night," answered she; "I fear I have interrupted--I mean, startled you."

"Good night, good night," repeated Lucille.

As Julie retreated across the lobby, she was overtaken by Lucille, who placed her hand upon
her shoulder.

"Julie, will you hate me if I tell you all?" she said, in great agitation, as she hurried with
her into her apartment.

"Hate you, Lucille! How could I hate my dear friend and companion?"

"Friend, O yes, friend; what a friend I have proved to you!"

"Come, come, you must not let yourself be excited; you know you are my friend, my only friend
and confidante, and you know I love you."

Lucille covered her face with her hands and sobbed or shuddered violently. Julie embraced and
kissed her tenderly; but, in the midst of these caresses, her unhappy friend threw her arms
about her neck, and, looking earnestly in her face for a few seconds, drew her passionately
to her heart and kissed her, murmuring as she did so--

"No, no; she never could forgive me."

And, so saying, she mournfully betook herself away, leaving Julie a prey to all manner of vague
and perplexing alarms.

Whatever was the cause of Lucille's profound mental agitation, it was an impenetrable mystery
to Julie. Blassemare obviously did not know what to make of it; and as the fête drew near without
eliciting any corresponding interest on her part, Julie, who had observed with pleasure the
delight with which at first she had anticipated the event, was dismayed and astonished at the
change. As often as she had endeavored to recall her to the topic so strangely approached,
and inexplicably recoiled from, upon the occasion we have just described, Lucille repulsed
her curiosity, or at least evaded it with entire and impenetrable secrecy. Finding, therefore,
that the subject was obviously distasteful to her, she forbore to return to it, and contented
herself with recording the broken conversation of the night in question among the other unexplained
mysteries of her life.

"Well, Lucille," she said to her one day, as they were walking upon the terrace together, and
interrupting by the remark a long and gloomy silence, "you do not seem to enjoy the prospect
of the gay night which my uncle has prepared, now that it approaches, half so much as you did
in the distance."

"Enjoy it? no, no."

"But you longed for such an occasion."

"Perhaps, Julie, I had reasons; perhaps it was not all caprice."

"But do you not still enjoy the prospect? surely it has not lost all its charms?"

"I say, Julie, I had reasons--that is, perhaps I had--for wishing it. I have none now."

"Well, but it seems to me it positively depresses you. Surely, if it were merely indifferent,
it need not distress you."

"Ah, Julie, Julie, we are strange creatures; we know not ourselves, neither our strength nor
our weakness, our good nor our evil, until time and combinations solve the problem, and show
us the sad truth."

"It seems to me," said Julie, with a gentle smile, "you take a wondrous moral tone in treating
of a ball, my pretty sage; and, notwithstanding all you say, I suspect you like a fête as well
as most young women."

"Julie, when I tell you honestly I hate it--that I would gladly be hidden in the roof or the
cellar of the loneliest tower in the chateau upon that evening, you will cease to suspect me
of so poor a dissimulation. Honestly, then, and sadly, these crowded festivities, I expected
but a short time since with so much delight, are now not only indifferent to me, but repulsive.
I no longer wish to meet and mix with people; the idea, on the contrary, depresses, nay, even
terrifies me."

"Lucille, you are hiding something from me."

"Hiding!--no, nothing--that is, nothing but my own thoughts, the images of my reflections;
nothing, dear Julie, that it would not render you unhappy to hear. Why should I throw upon
your mind the gloom and shadows of my own?"

"But perhaps your troubles are fantastic and unreal; and, were you to confide in me, I might
convince you that they are so."

"Julie, they are real."

"So thinks every body who is haunted by chimeras."

"These are none. Oh, Julie! would I could tell you all. The agony of the relation would be
in some sort recompensed by having one human being to tell my thoughts to. But it cannot be;
it is quite, quite impossible."

"This impossibility is also one of the imagination."

"No, no, Julie; the effort to repose this confidence would destroy all confidence between us.
I have said enough--let us speak of other matters. My innermost grief, be it what it may, I
must endure alone. Julie, it is a hard condition; but I must and will--alone."

Here they were interrupted by Blassemare, who gayly joined them, with a prayer that they would
resolve a momentous difficulty, by deciding upon the best site for one of his principal batteries
of fireworks; and so, with little good-will, they surrendered themselves for a quarter of an
hour to the guidance and the light sarcastic conversation of the master of the revels, with
whom for the present we shall leave them.

X.--THE FÊTE.

At length the eventful night arrived--a beautiful, still, star-lit night. You may fancy the
splendor of the more than royal festivities. What a magnificent levee of gayety, rank, and
beauty! What unexampled illuminations!--what fantastic and inexhaustible ingenuity of pyrotechnics!
How the gorgeous suites of salons laughed with the brilliant crowd! How the terraces, arched
and lined with soft-colored lamps, re-echoed with gay laughter or murmured flatteries! What
an atmosphere it was of rosy hues, of music, and ceaseless hum of human enjoyment! For miles
around, the wandering peasants beheld the wide, misty, prismatic circle that overarched the
enchanted ground, and heard the silver harmonies and drumming thunders of the orchestras floating
over the woods, and filling the void darkness with sounds of unseen festivities. In such a
scene all are in good-humor--all wear their best looks. Each finds his appropriate amusement.
The elegant gamester discovers his cards and his companions; the garrulous find listeners;
the gossip retails, and imbibes, from a hundred sources, all the current scandal; vanity finds
incense--beauty adoration; the young make love, or dance, or in groups give their spirits play
in pleasantries, and raillery, and peals of animated laughter; their elders listen to the music,
or watch the cards, or in a calmer fashion converse; while all, each according to his own peculiar
taste, find whatever pleases their palate best. Whatever is rarest, most fantastic--things
only dreamed of--the epicurean connoisseur has only to invoke, and, at a touch of the magic
wand of Mammon, it is there before him. Wines, too,--what-not, est-est, tokay, and all the
rest, flowing from the inexhaustible tap of the same Mephistopheles, with his golden gimlet.
All the demons of luxury riot there, and at your nod ransack the earth for a flavor or a flask;
and place it before you, almost before your wish is uttered. It is, indeed, the Mahomet's paradise
of all true believers in the stomach, and worshippers of Bacchus. Thus in a realized dream
all eddies on in a delicious intoxication, and each is at once the recipient of enjoyment and
the dispenser of good-humor, imbibing through every sense enchanted fare, reflecting smiles,
and radiating hilarity. Each, indeed, becomes, as it were, a single glowing particle in the
genial and brilliant mass, and tends to keep alive the general fire, from which he derives
and to which returns at once light and geniality. It is admitted that he who has discovered
the grand arcanum, and has the philosopher's stone in his waistcoat-pocket, is, so to speak,
ex officio, a magician. But M. Le Prun had no need of any such discoveries. He had the gold
itself, and was, therefore, a ready-made magician, and as such was worshipped accordingly with
an oriental fanaticism.

Monsieur le Prun had, like other favorites of fortune in the latter days of the monarchy, purchased
his patent of noblesse. Every body knew that he was a parvenu; and rumor, as she is wont in
such cases, had adorned his early history with so many myths and portents, that Niebuhr himself
could hardly have distinguished between the fable and the truth. It was said and believed that
he was a foundling--a Gipsy's son, a wandering beggar, a tinker. Others had seen him in rags,
selling pencils at the steps between the Pont-Neuf and the Pont-au-Change. Others, again, maintained
that he had for years filled the canine office of guide to an old blind mendicant, whose beat
was about the Rue de Bauboug; and were even furnished with a number of pleasant anecdotes about
his hardships and adroitness, while in this somewhat undignified position. Indeed, the varieties
of positions though which good Mother Gossip sent him were such, and so interminable, that
a relation of half of them would alone make a library of fiction. But fortune had consecrated
this mean and smutty urchin. He stood now worshipped in the awful glory of his millions, pedestalled
on his money-bags, gilded from head to heel; and what could the proudest noblesse upon earth
do but forget and forgive the rags and hunger of his infancy, and come together, from the east
and from the west, to drink of the cup of his enchantments, and cry, "Long live King Solomon
in all his glory?"

"She is beautiful as a divinity," exclaimed the gallant old Marquess de Fauteuil, who had just
completed an admiring survey of the fair Madame le Prun.

"Pretty--yes; but she has the manners of a petite moine," said the Duchess de la Cominade,
an old flame of the marquis, who, in spite of her marriage and her mistakes, conceived her
claims upon his devotions unabated.

"And her little gossip, too, Le Prun's niece, is a charming creature--an exquisitely contrived
contrast. By my word, this place deserves its name--is it not truly the Chateau des Anges?"

"Who is that young person whom Le Prun is leading towards them? He is the only man I have seen
to-night whose dress is perfect; and he looks like a hero of romance."

"That?--eh? Why that is the Marquis de Secqville."

"What! the horrid man who enslaves us all? I have not seen him for years--how very handsome he is!"

"Yes; and I fancy that melancholy air assists him very much in vanquishing the gentle sex.
I once had a little vein of that myself."

"So you had," murmured the duchess, with a tender smile of memory, and a little sigh. "But
is it not a madness of poor Le Prun to present that terrible man to his handsome young wife?"

"He is to marry the niece--the affair is concluded. Poor little thing! she looks so frightened;
see--a little fluttered pigeon of Venus--it becomes her very much."

Meanwhile Le Prun and the marquis were approaching Lucille and Julie, who were seated together
close to a window which opened to the floor, and admitted the soft summer air, charged with
such sounds and perfumes as might have hovered among the evergreen groves of Calypso's island.

"He is coming," said Julie, "he is coming with my uncle."

"Who?" asked Lucille, looking coldly on the advancing figures.

"My--my fiancé, the Marquis de Secqville," whispered Julie, in trembling haste, blushing, and
dropping her eyes.

"Oh, then, I must observe him carefully," said Lucille, with an arch smile.

"Do, and tell me honestly what you think of him."

"Ha! little rogue, I see you are not quite so indifferent as you pretend."

"My heart is indifferent--but--but he is very handsome--don't you think so?"

"Hush! here he is."

"I have the happiness, madame, to present Monsieur le Marquis de Secqville, with whom, as you
are aware, we are about to have the honor of being nearly allied."

So said Monsieur le Prun, with a smile of conjugal affection, which may, or may not, have been
genuine.

"I was not until now aware of the full extent of the honor and the happiness involved in that
alliance," said the marquis, with a glance of respectful admiration.

Madame le Prun acknowledged this little speech with a slight bow, and a cold and haughty smile.

"You have been in the south lately?"

"Yes, madame, with my regiment at Avignon."

"So he says," interrupted the fermier-general, with a cunning leer; "but his colonel swears
he never saw him there."

"Then either you or your colonel must be wrong," said Madame le Prun, drily.

"No, no, madame; but Monsieur le Prun likes a jest at my expense."

"Not at all," said Le Prun, laughing; "I protest D'Artois, his colonel, vows he has not seen
him for six months at least."

"They are in a conspiracy to quiz me."

"Then you were at Avignon?"

"No such thing, I tell you; the fellow was about some mischief--ha! ha! ha!"

"He is resolved to laugh at me."

"Yes, yes, I say he is a mischievous fellow--the most dangerous dog in France; and so shy that,
by my word, it requires a shrewd fellow like myself to discover his rogueries."

"And so he deserves not only all my sins, but a great deal more."

"Stay--here is the Visconte de Charrebourg. Visconte, this is the Marquis de Secqville, my
future nephew."

The old visconte looked closely and dubiously for a moment in the young man's face. The marquis,
on the contrary, seemed to have some little difficulty in suppressing a smile.

"But that I know I have not had the honor of meeting you before, I should----but no doubt it
is a family likeness. I knew your father when he was about your age, and a very handsome fellow,
by my faith. Is his brother, the Conte de Cresseron, still living?"

The old gentleman drew the marquis away before he had had time to pay his devoirs to Julie,
who had shrunk at his approach into the background, and left the little group to themselves.

"What do you think of him?" whispered Julie, resuming her place by Lucille.

"He is pretty well."

"Monsieur le Marquis is a handsome man," said Blassemare, who at that moment joined them; and,
addressing Lucille, "You have seen him before?"

"I?--no. He has just been presented to me for the first time."

"And you think him----"

"Rather handsome--indeed, decidedly handsome; but, somehow, his melancholy spoils him. But
I forgot, Julie--I ask your pardon, my pretty niece, for criticising your hero. Remember, however,
I admit his beauty, though I can't admire him."

There is no truth of which we have been reminded with such unnecessary reiteration, as the
pretty obvious fact that every human enjoyment must, sooner or later, come to an end. The fête
at the Chateau des Anges had no exemption from this law of nature and necessity. Musicians,
cooks, artists, and artisans of all sorts, gradually disappeared. At length the last equipage
whirled down the great avenue, and a stillness and void, more mournful from the immediate contrast,
supervened.

The windows were closed--the yawning servants betook themselves to their beds, and the angel
of sleep waved his downy wings over the old chateau. The genius of Blassemare was of that electric
sort which is not easily unexcited. He could no more have slept than he could have transformed
himself into one of the stone Tritons of the fountain by which in the moonlight he now stood
alone. Blassemare had had a magnificent triumph; so well-contrived an entertainment had never,
perhaps, been known before; and, like certain great generals, he felt desirous to visit the
field of his victory after the heat of action was over.

Monsieur Le Prun was also wide awake and astir from other causes. No vein of Blassemare's excitement--not
even jealousy, nor conscience, nor any mental malady--kept him waking. The cause of his vigilance
was, simply, his late supper and an indigestion.

Now it happened that both these worthies were walking unconsciously almost side by side--Le
Prun along the summit, and Blassemare along the base, of the beautiful terrace which stretched
in front of the windows of the chateau.

There was a little receding court which lay in front of Madame Le Prun's windows, which were
furnished with a heavy stone balcony. On the side opposite was a high wall, which divided the
pleasure-grounds from the wild, wooded park that lay immediately beyond, and in this was a
door with a private key and a spring lock.

Now it happened that both Monsieur Le Prun and the Sieur de Blassemare, as they approached
this point, amid the fumes of expiring lamps and the wreck of fireworks, heard certain sounds
of an unexpected sort. These were, in fact, human voices, conversing in earnest but suppressed
tones--so low, indeed, that were it not for the breathless stillness of the night they would
have been unheard.

"Sacre!" muttered Le Prun, looking up like a toothless old panther.

"Ma foi! what's this?" whispered Blassemare, whose jealousy was also alarmed.

The sounds continued--the eavesdroppers quickened their paces. Le Prun was, however, unfortunately
a little asthmatic, as sometimes happens to bridegrooms of a certain age, and, spite of all
his efforts to hold it in, he could not contain a burst of coughing.

Its effect was magical. There supervened an instantaneous silence, followed by the dropping
of a heavy body upon the ground, as it seemed, under Madame Le Prun's windows. The descent
was, however, unfortunately made; a dog, evidently hurt, raised a frightful yelping, making
the night additionally hideous. Blassemare hurried up the steps, and at the top encountered
Le Prun, running and panting, with his sword drawn. There was a sound, as of hastily closing
the casement above the balcony--a light gleamed from it for an instant, and was extinguished--and,
at the same moment, they beheld the dim figure of a man hurrying across the court, and darting
through the opposite door, which shut with a crash behind him.

"Thieves! robbers!" shouted Le Prun, dashing at the door.

"Robbers! thieves!" cried a shrill voice of alarm from Madame Le Prun's casement.

"Horns! antlers!" halloed Blassemare.

"Robbers! robbers!"

"Thieves! thieves!"

The lady screamed, Le Prun bawled, Blassemare laughed.

"He is gone, however," said the latter, as soon as the explosion had a little subsided. "Suppose
we get the key, madame. Please throw us yours from the window. I promise to pink the burglar
through the body. Quick--quick!"

"Ay, ay," thundered Le Prun, "the key! the key!"

Madame Le Prun was too much excited to get it in an instant. She ran here, and flew there--she
screamed and rummaged. Le Prun stormed. A key was at last thrown out, amid prayers and imprecations.
How provoking!--it was a wrong one. Another effort--a new burst of execration from Le Prun--another
fit of laughter from Blassemare--more screaming and pressing from the window--and all accompanied
by the sustained yelping of the injured lap-dog.

"Here it is--this must be it," and another key clangs and jingles on the ground.

"Yes, this time it is the right key." The door flies open--Le Prun rushes puffing among the
bushes. Blassemare sees something drop glittering to the ground as the door opens--a button
and a little rag of velvet; he says nothing, but pockets it, and joins the moonlight chase.

It is all in vain. Le Prun, perspiring and purple, his passion as swollen as his veins, knowing
not what to think, but fearing every thing, staggered back, silent and exhausted; Blassemare
also silent--no longer laughing--abstracted, walks with knit brows, and compressed lips, beside
him.

"Of course," said Blassemare, "you have the fullest reliance upon the honor of your wife?"

Monsieur Le Prun growled an inarticulate curse or two, and Blassemare whistled a minuet.

"Come, my dear Le Prun," he resumed, "let us be frank; you are uneasy."

"About what?"

"Madame Le Prun."

"She is not injured?"

"No, but----"

"Ah, she's in league with the thieves, may be?" said Le Prun, with an agitated sneer.

"Precisely so," answered Blassemare, with a cold laugh.

"I know what you think, and I know what I think," replied Le Prun, with suppressed fury.

His suspicions were all awake; he was bursting with rage, and looked truly infernal.

"On the faith of a gentleman," said Blassemare, with a changed tone, "I cannot be said to think
any thing about the affair. I have my doubts, but that is all. We men are naturally suspicious;
but, after all, there are such things as thieves and housebreakers."

Le Prun said nothing, but looked black and icy as the north wind.

"At all events," said Blassemare, "we men of the world know how to deal with affairs of this
sort; so long as any uncertainty exists, put ostensibly the best possible construction upon
it. Thus much is due to one's dignity in the eyes of the public; and in private we may prosecute
inquiries unsuspected, and with the greater likelihood of success."

"I know the world as well as you, Blassemare. I'm sick of your tone of superiority and advice.
I know when to respect and when to defy the world. A man can no more make a fortune without
tact than he can lose one without folly."

"Well, well," said Blassemare, who was used to an occasional rebuff, and regarded a gruff word
from his principal no more than he did the buzz of a beetle, "I know all that very well; but
you, robust fellows, with millions at your back, are less likely to respect those subtle and
delicate influences which sometimes, notwithstanding, carry mischief with them, than we poor,
sensitive valetudinarians, without a guinea in our pockets; and if you will permit me, I will,
when I return to-day, sift the matter for you. I understand woman; it is an art in itself,
though not, perhaps, a very high one. A careless conversation with Madame Le Prun will let
me further into the mystery, than a year spent in accumulating circumstantial evidence. You
may rely on the result."

The fermier-general uttered something between a growl and a grunt, which might or might not
convey assent; and, waving Blassemare towards the house, walked along the terrace alone; and
sat himself down upon the steps at the further end.

The mental torpor which supervenes under sudden disasters was not, in the case of the fermier-general,
without its dreamy groups of ugly images in prospect. As the light broke, and the darkness
began to melt eastward into soft crimson mists and streaks of amber, Monsieur Le Prun rose
stiffly from his hard, cold seat, and, with the slow step of a man irresolute and oppressed
with profound wrath and mortification, began to return homeward.

"Robbers!--thieves!" he muttered bitterly. "How glibly the traitress echoed the cry! The rascal
Blassemare gave the true alarm--she did not echo that. D---- her, and d----him! Robbers, indeed!
Thieves!--very like. I know what they came a thieving for. Upon her balcony--talking in murmurs--the
candle extinguished in such a devil of a hurry--the ready cry of 'Thieves'--the spring door
open for his flight--and the long delay to find the key. Bah! what proofs are wanting?"

He heard just at this point a cracked voice singing a gay love verse from an open window. He
knew the voice; every association connected with the performance and the performer jarred upon
his nerves.

It was indeed the Visconte de Charrebourg, some of whose early gayety had returned with his
good fortune. He had, such was the pride of his rich son-in-law, a little household of his
own, and kept his state and his own exorbitantly early hours in a suite of rooms assigned him,
through one of whose windows, arrayed in a velvet cap and gown of brocade, he was rivalling
the lark and greeting the rising sun, and, while sipping his chocolate in the intervals, moved,
with the nimble irregularity of idle and active-minded age, about his apartment.

"Well, sir, a pleasant affair this!" cried a harsh voice, interrupting his cheery occupation;
and on looking round he saw the purple and sinister face of the fermier-general looming through
the window.

"What affair?" asked the visconte, in unfeigned astonishment, for he had been quite certain
that his worthy son-in-law was quietly in his bed.

"Your daughter's conduct."

"What of her?"

"Just this--she is a ----!" and, with the term of outrage, Le Prun uttered a forced laugh of fury.

"I cannot have heard you aright: be kind enough to repeat that."

There was a certain air of pomp and menace in this little speech, which drove Le Prun beyond
all patience. He repeated the imputation in language still grosser. This was an insult which
the ancient blood of the Charrebourgs could not tolerate, and the visconte taunted him with
the honor which one of his house had done him in mingling their pure blood with that of a "roturier."
Then came the obvious retort, "beggar," and even "trickster," retaliated by a torrent of scarcely
articulate scorn and execration, and an appeal to the sword, which, with brutal contempt, (while
at the same time, nevertheless, he recoiled instinctively a foot or two from the window,) the
wealthy plebeian retorted by threatening to arrest him for the sums he had advanced. Le Prun
had the best of it; he left the outraged visconte quivering and shrieking like an old woman
in a frenzy. It was some comfort to have wrapt another in the hell-fire that tormented himself.

[From the Examiner.]

MAZZINI ON ITALY.

We may--we do differ from Mazzini in many of his political views, and in our estimate of what
may be the wisest policy for Italian liberals in existing circumstances. We think that he seeks
to impart to politics a mathematical precision of which they are not susceptible, and does
not sufficiently regard a principle the correctness of which has been admitted by himself,
that the fact of a thing being true in principle cannot give the right of suddenly enthroning
it in practice. But his errors are all on the large and generous side. He is too apt to attribute
to society the precise convictions and spirit he feels within himself, and so to expect impossibilities,
by impossible means. But there is a power of reasoning in Mazzini, an unsullied moral purity,
a chivalrous veracity and frankness, an utter abnegation of self, and a courage that has stood
the severest trials, which command not only respect but veneration. He belongs to the martyr
age of Italian liberalism, and possesses himself the highest qualities of the martyr.

His declared object in publishing the small volume[27] before us is to correct public opinion
in England as to the Italian movement in which he took part. But it is a statement of principles
rather than a narrative of details. It is always dignified in tone, often singularly eloquent,
and substantially it contains little which would be likely to draw forth an expression of willing
disagreement from any well-educated, high-minded, liberal Englishman.

Mr. Mazzini thus declares his reasons

     WHY THE GOVERNMENT SHOULD BE REPUBLICAN.

     The Italian tradition is eminently republican. In England, the
     aristocratic element has a powerful influence, because it has a
     history: well or ill, it has organized society: it has
     created a power, snatched from royalty, by conquering
     guarantees for the rights of the subject; it has founded in
     part the wealth and the influence of England abroad. The
     monarchical element has still great influence over the
     tendencies of France, because it also claims an important page
     in the national history; it has produced a Charlemagne, a Louis
     XI., a Napoleon; it has contributed to found the unity of
     France; it has shared with the communes the risks and the
     honors of the struggle against feudalism; it has surrounded the
     national banner with a halo of military glory. What is the
     history of the monarchy and of the aristocracy of Italy? What
     prominent part have they played in the national development?
     What vital element have they supplied to Italian strength, or
     to the unification of the future existence of Italy? The
     history of our royalty in fact commences with the dominion of
     Charles V., with the downfall of our liberties; it is
     identified with servitude and dismemberment; it is written on a
     foreign page, in the cabinets of France, of Austria, and of
     Spain. Nearly all of them the issue of foreign families,
     viceroys of one or other of the great powers, our kings do not
     offer the example of a single individual redeeming by brilliant
     personal qualities the vice of subalternity, to which his
     position condemned him; not a single one who has ever evinced
     any grand national aspiration. Around them in the obscurity of
     their courts, gather idle or retrograde courtiers, men who call
     themselves noble, but who have never been able to constitute
     an aristocracy. An aristocracy is a compact independent body,
     representing in itself an idea, and from one extremity of the
     country to another, governed, more or less, by one and the same
     inspiration: our nobles have lived upon the crumbs of royal
     favor, and if on some rare occasions they have ventured to
     place themselves in opposition to the monarch, it has not been
     in the cause of the nation, but of the foreigner, or of
     clerical absolutism. The nobility can never be regarded as an
     historical element: it has furnished some fortunate
     Condottieri, powerful even to tyranny, in some isolated town;
     it has knelt at the feet of the foreign emperors who have
     passed the Alps or crossed the sea. The original stock being
     nearly everywhere extinct, the races have become degenerated
     amidst corruption and ignorance. The descendants of our noble
     families at Genoa, at Naples, at Venice, and at Rome, are, for
     the most part specimens of absolute intellectual nullity.
     Almost every thing that has worked its difficult way in art, in
     literature, or in political activity, is plebeian.

     In Italy the initiative of progress has always belonged to the
     people, to the democratic element. It is through her communes
     that she has acquired all she has ever had of liberty: through
     her workmen in wool or silk, through her merchants of Genoa,
     Florence, Venice, and Pisa, that she has acquired her wealth;
     through her artists, plebeian and republican, from Giotto to
     Michael Angelo, that she has acquired her renown; through her
     navigators,--plebeian,--that she has given a world to humanity;
     through her Popes--sons of the people even they--that until the
     twelfth century she aided in the emancipation of the weak, and
     sent forth a word of unity to humanity. All her memories of
     insurrection against the foreigner are memories of the people:
     all that has made the greatness of our towns, dates almost
     always from a republican epoch: the educational book, the only
     book read by the inhabitant of the Alps or the Transteverin who
     can read, is an abridgment of the history of the Ancient Roman
     Republic. This is the reason why the same men who have so long
     been accused of coldness, and who had in fact witnessed with
     indifference the aristocratic and royal revolutions of 1820 and
     1821, arose with enthusiasm and with a true power of
     self-sacrifice at the cry of St. Mark and the Republic, God
     and the People! These words contained for them a guarantee.
     They awoke in them, even unconsciously to themselves, the
     all-powerful echo of a living past, a confused recollection of
     glory, of strength, of conscience, and of dignity.

     With such elements how would it be possible to found a monarchy
     surrounded with an aristocracy? How can one speak of a balance
     of powers, where there are but two forces--foreign absolutism,
     and the people? How could one organize a constitutional
     monarchy where the aristocracy is without a past, and where
     royalty inspires neither affection nor respect?

It will surprise many candid readers to find Mr. Mazzini repeatedly declaring in this book
that the republican, or, as he calls it, the national party, are not responsible for the disunion,
which, at a time when the whole nation was armed against the foreigners and might have driven
them from the country, turned its forces against its own citizens. He gives proof that his
own advice was for union till the day of victory, and not till then for discussion as to what
party should reap its fruits. Whether to monarch, or to people, he affirms that he was ready
to submit; he asserts repeatedly that it was only after having been betrayed that the national
party set up for themselves; and he expresses his belief that even now, when a union of princes
has been seen to be impossible, the leadership of a single prince would be accepted by all,
supposing such a fitting leader could be found. He thus describes

     THE REPUBLICAN PARTY AND THEIR DETRACTORS.

     They have said, and they say again, without taking advantage of
     the favorable position in which events have placed them:--Let
     the nation arise; let her make herself mistress of her own
     territory; then, the victory once gained, let her freely decide
     who shall reap the fruits. Monarch or People, we will submit
     ourselves to the power she herself shall organize. Is it
     possible that so moderate and rational a proposition should be
     the object of such false interpretations, in a country which
     reveres the idea of right and of self-government? Is it
     possible that its leaders should be the object of so much
     calumny?

     It is time that these calumnies should cease. It matters little
     to us, who act as our conscience dictates, without troubling
     ourselves as to the personal result; and to whom faith and
     exile have given the habit of looking higher than the praise or
     blame of this earth. But it should be recognized as most
     important by all who believe that political questions agitated
     by whole nations, are questions eminently religious. For
     religion, to all those who see more in it than the mere
     materialism of forms and formulæ, is not only a thought of
     heaven, but the impulse which seeks to apply that thought, as
     far as possible to government on earth, our rule of action for
     the good of all, and for the moral development of humanity.
     Politics then are like religion--sacred; and all good men are
     bound to see them morally respected. Every question has a right
     to serious, calm, and honest discussion. Calumny should be the
     weapon of those only who have to defend not ideas, but crimes.

     It is immoral to say to men who have preached clemency
     throughout the whole of their political career, who have
     initiated their rule by the abolition of capital punishment,
     who, when in power, never signed a single sentence of exile
     against those who had persecuted them, nor even against the
     known enemies of their principle.--"You are the sanguinary
     organizers of terror, men of vengeance and of cruelty." It is
     immoral to ascribe to them views which they never had, and to
     choose to forget that they have, through the medium of the
     press here and elsewhere, attracted and refuted those
     communistic systems and exclusive solutions which tend to
     suppress rather than to transform the elements of society; and
     to say to them, "You are communists, you desire to abolish
     property." It is immoral to accuse of irreligion and impiety
     men who have devoted their whole lives to the endeavor to
     reconcile the religious idea, betrayed and disinherited by the
     very men who pretend to be its official defenders, with the
     National movement. It is immoral to insinuate accusations of
     personal interest and of pillage, against men who have serenely
     endured the sufferings of poverty, and whose life, accessible
     to all, has never betrayed either cupidity or the desire of
     luxury. It is immoral continually to proclaim, as the act of a
     whole party, the death of a statesman killed by an unknown
     hand, under the influence of the irritation produced by his own
     acts and by the attacks of another political party, many months
     before the Republican party recommenced its activity.

Mr. Mazzini charges no direct treachery against Carlo Alberto. He declares him to have been
himself the victim of the weakness which caused others as well as himself so much loss and
misery. For the impossible political project of a Kingdom of the North he was content to surrender
the grand reality of a United People which fate had placed within his hands.

CHARLES ALBERT.

Genius, love, and faith were wanting in Charles Albert. Of the first, which reveals itself
by a life entirely, logically, and resolutely devoted to a great idea, the career of Charles
Albert does not offer the least trace; the second was stifled in him by the continual mistrust
of men and things, which was awakened by the remembrance of an unhappy past; the last was denied
him by his uncertain character, wavering always between good and evil, between to do and not
to do, between daring and not daring. In his youth, a thought, not of virtue, but of Italian
ambition--the ambition however which may be profitable to nations--had passed through his soul
like lightning; but he recoiled in affright, and the remembrance of this one brilliant moment
of his youth presented itself hourly to him, and tortured him like the incessant throbbing
of an old wound, instead of acting upon him as an excitement to a new life. Between the risk
of losing, if he failed, the crown of his little kingdom, and the fear of the liberty which
the people, after having fought for him, would claim for themselves, he went hesitating on,
with this spectre before his eyes, stumbling at every step, without energy to confront these
dangers, without the will or power to comprehend that to become King of Italy he must first
of all forget that he was King of Piedmont. Despotic from rooted instinct, liberal from self-love,
and from a presentiment of the future, he submitted alternately to the government of Jesuits,
and to that of men of progress. A fatal disunion between thought and action, between the conception
and the faculty of execution, showed itself in every act. Most of those who endeavored to place
him at the head of the enterprise, were forced to agree to this view of his character. Some
of those intimate with him went so far as to whisper that he was threatened with lunacy. He
was the Hamlet of Monarchy.

A characteristic passage of the volume has relation to

LAMARTINE'S VIEWS OF ITALIAN INDEPENDENCE.

The war between the two principles was general in Europe--the enthusiasm excited by the movements
in Italy, especially the Lombard insurrection and the prodigies of the five days, was immense;
and Italy could, had she willed it and known how, have drawn thence sufficient force to counterbalance
all the strength of hostile reaction. But to do this, it was necessary, whatever the mean policy
of the Moderates might fear, to give to the movement a character so audaciously national as
to alarm our enemies, and to offer the most powerful element of support to our friends. Both
felt the time was ripe, and began to believe that Italy would be but Italy, and not the Kingdom
of the North. I remember the consoling words Lamartine addressed to me, at his house, on the
eve of my departure for Italy, and in presence, amongst others, of Alfred de Vigny, and of
the same Forbin Janson whom I was afterwards to meet preaching the papal restoration, and getting
up various petty conspiracies and ridiculous intrigues at Rome.

"The hour has struck for you," said the minister, "and I am so firmly convinced of it, that
the first words with which I have charged Monsieur d'Harcourt for the Pope are these; Holy
Father, you know that you ought to be the President of the Italian Republic." But Monsieur
d'Harcourt had quite other things to say to the Pope, on the part of that faction which involved
Lamartine in its snares whilst he imagined that he could control it. For myself I attached
no importance, except as a symptom, to these words of Lamartine, a man of impulse and of noble
instincts, but unstable in belief, without energy for a fixed purpose, and without real knowledge
of men and things. He was indeed the echo of a tendency all-powerful, in those moments of excitement,
upon the French mind; and every re-awakening nationality, every political programme, which,
if not absolutely republican, was like that, at least, of the Italian constituent, would have
compelled the support of the most hesitating government in France.

From great things great things are born. The dwarfish conception of the Moderates froze up
all souls, and imposed an utter change of politics upon France. The ITALIAN PEOPLE was an ally
more than sufficiently powerful to preserve the Republic from all danger of a foreign war;
a Kingdom of the North, in the hands of princes little to be relied upon, and hostile, by long
tradition, to the Republicans of France, did but add a dangerous element to the league of kings.
The French nation became silent, and left its government free to exist without any foreign
policy, and to leave the destinies of the republic to the impenetrable future.

The incidents described in most detail are those immediately preceding and following the fatal
surrender of Milan; and it is impossible not to be struck by the contrast of the royal and
the republican party, assuming the statement to be in all respects correct. But passing this
ignominious period, there ought to be small difference of opinion in a free and educated country
as to where the right lay in the subsequent Roman struggle. What sensible or honest Protestant
would not sympathize with the indignant eloquence of this earnest Italian protesting against
the flimsy oratory of a Jesuit Frenchman?

MAZZINI TO MONTALEMBERT.

"You base your argument upon the void; you discuss that which was, not that which is. The Papacy
is dead, choked in blood and mire; dead, because it has betrayed its own mission of protection
to the weak against the oppressor; dead, because for three centuries and a half it has prostituted
itself with princes; dead, because in the name of egotism and before the palaces of all the
corrupt, hypocritical, and skeptical governments, it has for the second time crucified Christ;
dead, because it has uttered words of faith which it did not itself believe; dead, because
it has denied human liberty and the dignity of our immortal souls; dead, because it has condemned
science in Galileo, philosophy in Giordano Bruno, religious aspiration in John Huss and Jerome
of Prague, political life by an anathema against the rights of the people, civil life by Jesuitism,
the terrors of the inquisition, and the example of corruption, the life of the family by confession
converted into a system of espionage, and by division introduced between father and son, brother
and brother, husband and wife; dead, for the princes, by the treaty of Westphalia; dead, for
the peoples, with Gregory XI., in 1378, and with the commencement of the schism; dead, for
Italy, since 1530, when Clement VII. and Charles V., the Pope and the Emperor, signed an infamous
compact, and extinguished, at Florence, the dying liberties of Italy, as to-day you have attempted
to extinguish her rising liberties in Rome; dead, because the people has risen, because Pius
IX. has fled, because the multitude curses him, because those very men who for fifteen years
have made war upon the priests, in the name of Voltaire, now hypocritically defend them, because
you and yours defend them, with intolerance and by force of arms, and declare that the Papacy
and liberty cannot live side by side? You ask Victor Hugo to point out to you an idea which
has been worshipped for eighteen centuries. It is that idea which you have declared irreconcilable
with the Papacy, and which was breathed into humanity by God; the idea which has withdrawn
from Catholicism the half of the Christian world, the idea which has snatched from you Lammennais
and the flower of the intellects of Europe, the idea of Christ, that pure, holy, and sacred
liberty which you invoked for Poland some years back, which Italy invokes for herself to-day,
under the form, and with the guarantee of nationality, and which you cannot pretend to be good
for one country and bad for another, unless you believe it a part of religion to create a pariah
people in the bosom of humanity."

Very admirably, too, and nobly written, are Mr. Mazzini's later remarks on the republican and
anti-papal administration of Rome, and the coldness it met with in England and elsewhere. We
must admit that it is hard for a people to struggle, suffer, and bleed alone, yet hold themselves
in this temperate attitude. It is not generous, as Mr. Mazzini too truly complains, in a nation
having the enjoyment and the consciousness of liberty herself, to wait until the hour of victory
has sounded for another nation before she stretches out a sister's hand towards her.

WHAT THE REPUBLICANS DID AND ENGLAND MIGHT HAVE DONE.

I affirm that with the exception of Ancona, where the triumvirate were obliged energetically
to repress certain criminal acts of political vengeance, the republican cause was never sullied
by the slightest excess; that no censorship was assumed over the press before the siege, and
that no occasion arose for exercising it during the siege. Not a single condemnation to death
or exile bore witness to a severity which it would have been our right to have exercised, but
which the perfect unanimity which reigned amongst all the elements of the state rendered useless.
I affirm that, except in the case of three or four priests, who had been guilty of firing upon
our combatants, and who were killed by the people during the last days of the siege, not a
single act of personal violence was committed by any fraction of the population against another,
and that if ever there was a city presenting the spectacle of a band of brothers pursuing a
common end, and bound together by the same faith, it was Rome under the republican rule. The
city was inhabited by foreigners from all parts of the world, by the consular agents, by many
of your countrymen; let any one of them arise and under the guarantee of his own signature
deny, if he can, the truth of what I say. Terror now reigns in Rome; the prisons are choked
with men who have been arrested and detained without trial; fifty priests are confined in the
castle of St. Angelo, whose only crime consists in their having lent their services in our
hospitals; the citizens, the best known for their moderation, are exiled; the army is almost
entirely dissolved, the city disarmed, and the "factious" sent away even to the last man; and
yet France dares not consult in legal manner the will of the populations, but re-establishes
the papal authority by military decree. I do not believe that since the dismemberment of Poland
there has been committed a more atrocious injustice, a more gross violation of the eternal
right which God has implanted in the peoples, that of appreciating and defining for themselves
their own life, and governing themselves in accordance with their own appreciation of it. And
I cannot believe that it is well for you or for Europe that such things can be accomplished
in the eyes of the world, without one nation arising out of its immobility to protest in the
name of universal justice. This is to enthrone brute force, where, by the power of reason,
God alone should reign; it is to substitute the sword and poniard for law--to decree a ferocious
war without limit of time or means between oppressors rendered suspicious by their fears, and
the oppressed abandoned to the instincts of reaction and isolation. Let Europe ponder upon
these things. For if the light of human morality becomes but a little more obscured, in that
darkness there will arise a strife that will make those who come after us shudder with dread.

The balance of power in Europe is destroyed. It consisted formerly in the support given to
the smaller states by the great powers: now they are abandoned. France in Italy, Russia in
Hungary, Prussia in Germany, a little later perhaps in Switzerland; these are now the masters
of the continent. England is thus made a nullity; the "celsa sedet in Eolus in arce," which
Canning delighted to quote, to express the moderating function which he wished to reserve for
his country, is now a meaningless phrase. Let not your preachers of the theory of material
interests, your speculators upon extended markets deceive themselves; there is history to teach
them that political influence and commercial influence are closely bound together. Political
sympathies hold the key of the markets; the tariff of the Roman Republic will appear to you,
if you study it, to be a declaration of sympathy towards England to which your government did
not think it necessary to respond.

       *       *       *       *       *

And yet, above the question of right, above the question of political interest, both of which
were of a nature to excite early the attention of England, there is, as I have said, another
question being agitated at Rome of a very different kind of importance, and which ought to
have aroused all those who believe in the vital principle of religious reformation--it is that
of liberty of conscience. The religious question which broods at the root of all political
questions showed itself there great and visible in all its European importance. The Pope at
Gaeta was the theory of absolute infallible authority exiled from Rome for ever; and exiled
from Rome was to be exiled from the world. The abolition of the temporal power evidently drew
with it, in the minds of all those who understood the secret of the papal authority, the emancipation
of men's minds from the spiritual authority. The principle of liberty and of free consent,
elevated by the Constituent Assembly into a living active right, tended rapidly to destroy
the absolutist dogma which from Rome aims more than ever to enchain the universe. The high
aristocracy of the Roman Catholic clergy well know the impossibility of retaining the soul
in darkness, in the midst of light inundating the intelligence of men; for this reason they
carried off their Pope to Gaeta; for this reason they now refuse all compromise. They know
that any compromise would be fatal to them; that they must re-enter as conquerors, or not at
all. And in the same way that the aristocracy of the clergy felt this inseparability of the
two powers, the French government, in its present reactionary march, has felt that the keystone
of despotism is at Rome--that the ruin of the spiritual authority of the middle ages would
be the ruin of its own projects--and that the only method of securing to it a few more years
of existence was to rebuild for it a temporal domination.

England has understood nothing of this. She has not understood what there was of sublime and
prophetic in this cry of emancipation, in this protestation in favor of human liberty, issuing
from the very heart of ancient Rome, in the face of the Vatican. She has not felt that the
struggle in Rome was to cut the Gordian knot of moral servitude against which she has long
and vainly opposed her Bible Societies, her Christian and Evangelical Alliances; and that there
was being opened, had she but extended a sisterly hand to the movement, a mighty pathway for
the human mind. She has not understood that one bold word, "respect for the liberty of thought,"
opposed to the hypocritical language of the French government, would have been sufficient to
have inaugurated the era of a new religious policy, and to have conquered for herself a decisive
ascendency upon the continent.

The writer of such passages as these may nevertheless be of good heart. Though we may not think
him exactly qualified to conduct to a successful issue practical political movements in the
existing state of Italian society, we think him qualified for something far higher and nobler.
Like Knox and Wicliffe, Huss and Luther, Mr. Mazzini is no maker of ephemeral arrangements
and compromises; but like them he is the uncompromising asserter of principles, and the creator
of a national sentiment, that will in time give law to the makers of such arrangements. Looking
to the yet weak and timid condition of public opinion in Italy--looking to the narrow provincial
views which still hamper general society--above all, looking to the limited power of its princes
and prelates, and to the imbecile and demoralized characters of its Pio Nonos and Antonellis,
we must confess that we see no hope of any immediate political settlement, the attainment of
which need make it worth while for Mr. Mazzini to compromise or abandon for a moment his most
extreme political opinions. Nothing is to be accomplished at present; and he is therefore more
usefully employed in rallying his party by fervent reiteration of his principles, and in forming
a pure and elevated public sentiment alike by his precepts and his example.

How masterly is this sketch of the career of

PIO NONO.

A Pope arose, by his tendencies, his progressive instincts and his love of popularity, an exception
to the Popes of later times: to whom Providence, as if to teach mankind the absolute powerlessness
of the institution, opened, in the love and in the illusions of the people, the path to a new
life. So great is the fascination exercised by great memories--so great is the power of ancient
customs--so feverish, in these multitudes who are said to be agitated by the breath of anarchy,
is the desire for authority as the guide and sanction of their progress, that a word of pardon
and tolerance from the Pope's lips sufficed to gather round him, in an enthusiasm and intoxication
of affection, friends and enemies, believers and unbelievers, the ignorant and the men of thought.
One long cry, the cry of millions ready to make themselves martyrs or conquerors at his nod,
saluted him as their father and benefactor, the regenerator of the Catholic faith and of humanity.
The experience of three ages and the inexorable logic of ideas, were at once forgotten; writers,
powerful by their intellect and doctrines, until then dreaded as adversaries, employed themselves
in founding around that One man systems destined to prepare for him the way to a splendid initiative.
The many advocates of liberty of conscience, weary of the spectacle of anarchy revealed by
the Protestant sects, remained in doubt. The few believers in the future church remained silent
and thoughtful. It might be that history had decided too rashly, it might be amongst the secrets
of Providence that an institution, which had for ten centuries at least given life and movement
to Europe, should rise again, reconciled with the life and movement of humanity, from its own
tomb. The minds of the whole civilized world hung, troubled and excited, upon the word which
was to issue from the Vatican.

And where now is Pius IX.?

In the camp of the enemy: irrevocably disjoined from the progressive destinies of humanity;
irrevocably adverse to the desires, to the aspirations which agitate his people and the people
of believers. The experiment is complete. The abyss between Papacy and the world is hollowed
out. No earthly power can fill it up.

Impelled by the impulses of his heart to seek for popularity and affection, but drawn on by
the all-powerful logic of the principle that he represents, to the severity of absolute dictatorship;
seduced by the universal movement of men's minds, by living examples in other countries, by
the spirit of the age, to feel, to understand the sacred words of progress, of people, of free
brotherhood, but incapable of making himself their interpreter; fearful of the consequences,
and trembling like one who feels himself insecure, lest he should see the people, raised to
a new consciousness of its own faculties and of its own rights, question the authority of the
pontificate--Pius IX. vacillated contemptibly between the two paths presented to him, muttered
words of emancipation, which he neither knew how nor intended to make good, and promises of
country and independence to Italy which his followers betrayed by conspiring with Austria.
Then, struck with sudden terror, he fled before the multitudes who cried aloud to him courage;
he sheltered himself under the protection of a Prince whom he despised--the executioner of
his subjects; he imbibed his tendencies, and in order to revenge himself for the quiet with
which Rome, provoked in vain to a civil war, was organizing a new government, he solicited
foreign aid; and he who had, from a horror of bloodshed, shortly before endeavored to withdraw
Roman assistance from the Lombard struggle, agreed that French, Austrian, Neapolitan, and Spanish
bayonets should rebuild his throne. He now wanders amidst the fallacies of secret protocols,
the servant of his protectors, the servant of all except of duty and of the wish of those who
hoped in him, turning to the frontiers of Rome and yet not expecting to re-enter there, and
as if kept back by the phantoms of the slain. The Louis XVI. of Papacy, he has destroyed it
for ever. The cannon ball of his allies discharged against the Vatican, gave the last blow
to the institution.

Whilst these things were happening, a Prince was pursuing in the north of our peninsula a similar
course, accompanied by the same hopes, by the same illusions and delusions of the people. He
was saluted by the title of the Sword of Italy. The choicest spirits from all parts pointed
out to him Austria and the Alps, and suspended, in order to make the last trial of monarchy,
the propagandism of their most cherished ideas. He was preceded by the encouragement of all
Europe, and followed by a numerous and valiant army. Where died Charles Albert?

Thus has Providence shown to our people, desirous of the right, but lukewarm in faith and too
credulous in the illusions of the old world, the powerlessness of monarchy to insure the safety
of Italy, and the irreconcilability of papacy with the free progress of humanity. The dualism
of the middle ages is henceforward a mere form without life or soul; the Guelph and Ghibelline
insignia are now those of the tomb. Neither Pope, nor King! God and the people only shall henceforth
disclose to us the regions of the future.

       *       *       *       *       *

Future times--nay the present will do ample justice to Mazzini, as well as to Pio Nono. In
the first will be frankly recognized one of those iron men who are able to beard tyranny and
profligacy even while they stand alone, the apostles of reformation, the originators and heralds
of after change. In the other--but the words just quoted anticipate as it seems to us, and
in no ungenerous spirit, the verdict and language of history.

FOOTNOTES:

[27] Royalty and Republicanism in Italy; or Notes and Documents relating to the Lombard Insurrection,
and to the Royal War of 1848. By Joseph Mazzini. Charles Gilpin.

[From the Keepsake for 1851.]

THE MOTHER'S LAST SONG.

BY BARRY CORNWALL.

    Sleep!--the ghostly winds are blowing;
    No moon's abroad; no star is glowing;
    The river is deep, and the tide is flowing
    To the land where you and I are going!
         We are going afar,
         Beyond moon or star,
         To the land where the sinless angels are!

    I lost my heart to your heartless sire;
    ('Twas melted away by his looks of fire;)
    Forgot my God, and my father's ire,
    All for the sake of a man's desire:--
         But now we'll go
         Where the waters flow,
         And make us a bed where none shall know.

    The world is cruel; the world's untrue;
    Our foes are many; our friends are few;
    No work, no bread, however we sue!
    What is there left for us to do--
         But fly--fly,
         From the cruel sky,
         And hide in the deepest deeps--and die!

[From the Ladies' Companion.]

A DRIVE ABOUT MY NEIGHBORHOOD IN 1850.

BY MARY RUSSEL MITFORD.

If there be one thing more than another in the nice balance of tastes and prejudices (for I
do not speak here of principles) which incline us now to the elegance of Charles, now to the
strength of Cromwell,--which disgust us alternately with the license of the Cavaliers and the
fanaticism of the Roundheads; it would be the melancholy ruin of cast-down castles and plundered
shrines, that meet our eyes all over our fair land, and nowhere in greater profusion than in
this district, lying as it does in the very midst of some of the most celebrated battles of
the Civil Wars. To say nothing of the siege of Reading, which more even than the vandalism
of the Reformation completed the destruction of that noble abbey, the third in rank and size
in England, with its magnificent church, its cloisters, and its halls, covering thirty acres
of buildings,--and such buildings! within the outer courts;--to say nothing of that most reckless
barbarity just at our door--we in our little village of Aberleigh lie between Basting-House
to the south, whose desperately defended walls offer little more now than a mere site,--and
Donnington to the west, where the ruined Gatehouse upon the hill alone remains of that strong
fortress, which overlooked the well-contested field of Newbury,--and Chalgrove to the north,
where the reaper, as he binds his sheaf, still pauses to tell you the very place where Hampden
fell; every spot has a history! Look at a wooden spire, and your companion shakes his head,
and says that it has been so ever since the Cavaliers were blown up in the church tower! Ask
the history of a crumbling wall, and the answer is pretty sure to be, Cromwell! That his Highness
the Lord Protector did leave what an accomplished friend of mine calls "his peculiar impressions"
upon a great many places in our neighborhood is pretty certain; on so many, that there is no
actual or authentic catalogue of all; and in some cases there is nothing but general tradition,
and the nature of the "impressions" in question, to vouch for the fact of their destruction
at that period.

Amongst these, one of the edifices that must have been best worth preserving, and is even now
most interesting to see, is the grand old castellated mansion, which in the reign of Elizabeth
belonged to one of her favorite courtiers, and was known as Master Comptroller's House, at Grays.

The very road to it is singularly interesting. Passing through the town, which increases in
growth every day, until one wonders when and where it will stop, and looking with ever fresh
admiration at the beautiful lacework window of the old Friary, which I long to see preserved
in the fitliest manner, by forming again the chief ornament of a church, and then driving under
the arch of the Great Western Railway, and feeling the strange vibration of some monster train
passing over our heads,--a proceeding which never fails to make my pony show off his choicest
airs and graces, pricking up his pretty ears, tossing his slender head, dancing upon four feet,
and sometimes rearing upon two,--we arrive at the long, low, picturesque old bridge, the oldest
of all the bridges that cross the Thames, so narrow that no two vehicles can pass at once,
and that over every pier triangular spaces have been devised for the safety of foot passengers.
On the centre arch is a fisherman's hut, occupying the place once filled by a friar's cell,
and covering a still existing chapel, dedicated to the Virgin Mary, now put to secular uses--a
dairy or a cellar.

A little way down the river is one of the beautiful islands of the Thames, now a smooth and
verdant meadow, edged round with old willow pollards calmly reflected in the bright, clear
waters, but giving back in the twelfth century a far different scene. Here was fought a wager
of battle between Robert de Montford, appellant, and Henry de Essex, hereditary Standard-bearer
of the kings of England, defendant, by command, and in the presence of Henry the Second. The
story is told very minutely and graphically by Stowe. Robert de Montford at length struck down
his adversary, "who fell," says the old historian, "after receiving many wounds; and the King,
at the request of several noblemen, his relations, gave permission to the monks to inter the
body, commanding that no further violence should be offered to it. The monks took up the vanquished
knight, and carried him into the abbey, where he revived. When he recovered from his wounds,
he was received into the community, and assumed the habit of the order, his lands being forfeited
to the King." I have always thought that this story would afford excellent scope to some great
novelist, who might give a fair and accurate picture of monastic life, and, indeed, of the
monastic orders, as landlords, neighbors, teachers, priests, without any mixture of controversial
theology, or inventing any predecessors of Luther or Wicliffe. How we should have liked to
have heard all about "The Monastery," about the "Abbot" and Father Eustace, untroubled by Henry
Warden or John Knox! From the moment that they appear, our comfort in the book vanishes, just
as completely as that of the good easy Abbot Boniface himself. There we are in the middle of
vexed questions, with the beautiful pile of Melrose threatening every moment to fall about
our ears!

Our business now, however, is to get over the bridge, which after the excitement of one dispute
with a pugnacious carrier, and another with a saucy groom, whose caracoling horse had well
nigh leaped over the parapets on either side; after some backing of other carriages, and some
danger of being forced back to our own, we at last achieve, and enter unscathed, the pleasant
village of Caversham.

To the left, through a highly ornamented lodge, lies the road to the ancient seat of the Blounts,
another house made famous by Pope, where the fair ladies of his love, the sisters Martha and
Teresa, lived and died. A fine old place it is; and a picturesque road leads to it, winding
through a tract called the Warren, between the high chalk-cliffs, clothed with trees of all
varieties, that for so many miles fence in the northern side of the Thames, and the lordly
river itself, now concealed by tall elms, now open and shining in the full light of the summer
sun. There is not such a flower bank in Oxfordshire as Caversham Warren.

Our way, however, leads straight on. A few miles further, and a turn to the right conducts
us to one of the grand old village churches, which give so much of character to English landscape.
A large and beautiful pile it is. The tower half clothed with ivy, standing with its charming
vicarage and its pretty vicarage-garden on a high eminence, overhanging one of the finest bends
of the great river. A woody lane leads from the church to the bottom of the chalk-cliff, one
side of which stands out from the road below, like a promontory, surmounted by the laurel hedges
and flowery arbors of the vicarage-garden, and crested by a noble cedar of Lebanon. This is
Shiplake church, famed far and near for its magnificent oak carving, and the rich painted glass
of its windows, collected, long before such adornments were fashionable, by the fine taste
of the late vicar, and therefore filled with the very choicest specimens of mediæval art, chiefly
obtained from the remains of the celebrated Abbey of St. Bertin, near St. Omers, sacked during
the first French Revolution. In this church Alfred Tennyson was married. Blessings be upon
him! I never saw the great Poet in my life, but thousands who never may have seen him either,
but who owe to his poetry the purest and richest intellectual enjoyment, will echo and re-echo
the benison.

A little way farther, and a turn to the left leads to another spot consecrated by genius,--Woodcot,
where Sir Edward Bulwer Lytton passed the earlier years of his married life, and wrote several
of his most powerful novels. I have always thought that the scenery of Paul Clifford caught
some of its tone from that wild and beautiful country, for wild and beautiful it is. The terrace
in the grounds commands a most extensive prospect; and beneath a clump of trees on the common
behind the house, is the only spot where on a clear day Windsor may be seen on one side, and
Oxford on the other,--looking almost like the domes, and towers, and pinnacles that sometimes
appear in the clouds--a fairy picture that the next breeze may waft away! This beautiful residence
stands so high, that one of its former possessors, Admiral Fraser (grandfather to that dear
friend of mine who is the present owner), could discover Woodcot Clump from the mast of his
own ship at Spithead, a distance of sixty miles.

Wyfold's Court, another pretty place a little farther on, which also belonged once to a most
dear friend, possesses the finest Wych-elms in England. Artists come from far and near to paint
these stately trees, whose down-dropping branches and magnificent height are at once so graceful
and so rich. They are said always to indicate ecclesiastical possession, but no trace of such
dependency is to be found in the title-deeds, or in the tenure by which in feudal times the
lands were held,--that of presenting a rose to the King, should he pass by a certain road on
a May-day.

And now we approach Rotherfield Grays,--its bowery lanes, its wild rugged commons, and its
vast beech woods, from the edge of which projects every here and there a huge cherry-tree,
looking, in the blossoming springtime, as if carved in ivory, so exquisite is the whiteness,
casting upon the ferny-turf underneath showers of snowy petals that blanch the very ground,
and diffusing around an almond-like odor, that mingles with the springing thyme and the flowering
gorse, and loads the very air with heavy balm.

Exquisite is the pleasantness of these beech woods, where the light is green from the silky
verdure of the young leaves, and where the mossy wood-paths are embroidered with thousands
of flowers, from the earliest violet and primrose, the wood-anemone, the wood-sorrel, the daffodil,
and the wild hyacinth of spring, to the wood-vetch, the woodroof, the campanulas, and the orchises
of summer;--for all the English orchises are here: that which so curiously imitates the dead
oak leaf, that again which imitates the human figure; the commonest but most pretty bee orchis,
and the parallel ones which are called after the spider, the frog, and the fly. Strange freak
of nature this, in a lower order of creation, to mimic her own handyworks in a higher!--to
mimic even our human mimicry!--for that which is called the man orchis is most like the imitation
of a human figure that a child might cut from colored paper. Strange, strange mimicry! but
full of variety, full of beauty, full of odor. Of all the fragrant blossoms that haunt the
woods, I know none so exquisite as that night-scented orchis which is called indifferently,
the butterfly or the lily of the valley. Another glory of these woods, an autumnal glory, is
the whole fungus tribe, various and innumerable as the mosses; from the sober drab-colored
fungi, spotted with white, which so much resemble a sea-egg, to those whose deep and gorgeous
hues would shame the tinting of an Indian shell. Truffles, too, are found beneath the earth;
and above it are deposited huge masses of the strange compound called in modern geological
phrase Agglomerate. Flint and coral, and gravel, and attrited pebbles enter into the combination
of this extraordinary natural conglomeration, which no steel, however hardened, can separate,
and which seems to have been imitated very successfully by the old builders in their cements
and the substances used in the filling up of their grandest structures, as may be seen in the
layers which unite the enormous slabs of granite in the Roman walls at Silchester, as well
as in the works of the old monkish architects at Reading Abbey. Another beauty of this country
is to be found in the fields,--now of the deep-red clover, with its shining crimson tops, now
of the gay and brilliant saintfoin (the holy hay), the bright pink of whose flowery spikes
gives to the ground the look of a bed of roses.

And now we reach the gate that admits us down a steep descent to the Rectory-house, a large
substantial mansion, covered with Banksia roses, and finely placed upon a natural terrace,--a
fertile valley below, and its own woods and orchard-trees above.

My friend the rector, raciest of men, is an Oxford divine of the old school; a ripe scholar;
one who has travelled wide and far, and is learned in the tongues, the manners, and the literature
of many nations; but who is himself English to the backbone in person, thought, and feeling.
Orthodox is he, no doubt. Nowhere are church and schools, and parish visitings, better cared
for; but he has a knack of attending also to the creature comforts of all about him, of calling
beef and blankets in aid of his precepts, which has a wonderful effect in promoting their efficacy.
Mansion and man are large alike, and alike overflowing with hospitality and kindliness. His
original and poignant conversation is so joyous and good-humored, the making every body happy
is so evidently his predominant taste, that the pungency only adds to the flavor of his talk,
and never casts a moment's shade over its sunny heartiness.

Right opposite the Rectory terrace, framed like a picture by the rarest and stateliest trees,
stands the object of my pilgrimage, Grays' Court, a comparatively modern house, erected amongst
the remains of a vast old castellated mansion, belonging first to the noble family of Gray,
who gave their name not merely to the manor, but to the district; then to the house of Knollys;
and latterly to the Stapletons, two venerable ladies of that name being its present possessors.

All my life I had heard of Grays' Court; of the rich yet wild country in which it is placed;
of the park so finely undulated, and so profusely covered by magnificent timber; of the huge
old towers which seem to guard and sentinel the present house; of the far extended walls, whose
foundations may yet be traced, in dry seasons, among the turf of the lawn; of the traditions
which assign the demolition of those ancient walls to the wars of the Commonwealth; and of
the strange absence of all documentary evidence upon the subject.

Another cause for my strong desire to see this interesting place, is to be found in its association
with one of those historical personages in whom I have always taken the warmest interest. Lord
Essex (whose mother was the famous Lettice Knollys, who had had for her second husband another
of Queen Elizabeth's favorites, Robert Dudley, Earl of Leicester), when confined in London,
a prey to the tyranny of Elizabeth, petitioned, in one of those eloquent letters to the Virgin
Queen which will always remain amongst the earliest and finest specimens of English prose,
to be allowed to repair, for the benefit of his health, "to Master Comptroller's house at Grays."
Ah! we can fancy, when looking over this lovely valley, with its woods, its verdure, its sweep
of hills, its feeling of the near river, we can well fancy how the poet-heart of the great
Earl must have longed to leave the trial, the turmoil, the jangling, the treachery, the weary
fears, the bitter humiliations of his London captivity, and to taste once more the sweet air,
the pleasant sights, the calmness and the quiet of the country. Hope and comfort must have
come with the thought. One of the prettiest pictures that I know, is an extract from a contemporary
letter, in the first volume of Mr. Craik's most interesting book, the "Romance of the Peerage,"
telling of the Earl and Countess, during one of the daily visits that she was at one time permitted
to pay him when he was a prisoner in Essex House, walking together in the garden, "now he,
now she, reading one to the other." The whole taste and feeling of the man, the daily habit
of his life, is shown in this little circumstance. And this is the brave soldier who, when
examined before the Privy Council, a council composed of open enemies and treacherous friends,
had been kept nearly all the day kneeling at the bottom of the table. Tyranny drove him into
madness, and then exacted the full penalty of the wild acts which that madness prompted. But
Essex was a man in advance of his age; the companion as well as the patron of poets; the protector
of papist and puritan; the fearless asserter of liberty of conscience! He deserved a truer
friend than Bacon, a more merciful judge than Elizabeth.

To the house of Knollys belongs another interesting association, that strangest of genealogical
romances, the great case of the Banbury peerage. The cause was decided (if decided it can be
called even now) by evidence found in the parish register of Rotherfield Grays.

The place has yet another attraction in its difficulty of access; the excellent ladies of the
Court admitting few beyond their own immediate connections and nearest friends. One class,
to be sure, finds its way there as if by instinct--the poor, who, as the birds of the air detect
the grain under the surface in the newly sown ground, are sure to find out the soil where charity
lies germinating. Few excepting these constant visitors are admitted. But, besides the powerful
introduction of our mutual friend the rector, a nephew of theirs, and his most sweet and interesting
wife, had for some time inhabited the house which had been the home of my own youth, so that
my name was not strange to them; and they had the kindness to allow me to walk over their beautiful
grounds and gardens, to see their charming Swiss dairy, with its marbles and its china, and,
above all, to satisfy my curiosity by looking over the towers which still remain of the old
castle,--piles whose prodigious thickness of wall and distance from each other give token of
the immense extent and importance of the place. It is said to have been built round two courts.
Alnwick and Windsor rose to my thoughts as I contemplated these gigantic remains, and calculated
the space that the original edifice must have covered. One of these towers is still occupied
by the well of the castle, a well three hundred feet deep, which supplies the family with water.
It will give some idea of the scale of the old mansion, to say that the wheel by which the
water is raised, is twenty-five feet in diameter. Two donkeys are employed in the operation.
One donkey suffices for the parallel but much smaller well at Carisbrook, where the animal
is so accustomed to be put in for the mere purpose of exhibiting the way in which the water
is raised to the visitors who go to look at the poor king's last prison, that he just makes
the one turn necessary to show the working of the machine, and then stops of his own accord.
The donkeys at Grays, kept for use and not for show, have not had a similar opportunity of
displaying their sagacity.

One cannot look at the place without a feeling of adaptedness. It is the very spot for a stronghold
of the Cavaliers: a spot where Lovelace and Montrose might each have fought and each have sung,
defending it to the last loaf of bread and the last charge of powder, and yielding at last
to the irresistible force of Cromwell's cannonade.

[From the Keepsake for 1851.]

STANZAS.

    Come not, when I am dead,
      To drop thy foolish tears upon my grave,
    To trample round my fallen head,
      And vex the unhappy dust thou wouldst not save.
    There let the wind sweep, and the plover cry;
          But go thou by.
    Pass on, weak heart, and leave me where I lie.
          Go by--go by!

    ALFRED TENNYSON.

FOOTNOTES:

[28] By the pounds Milanese, Giacomo means the Milanese lira.

Gleanings from the Journals.

Dr. TURNBULL says in the Medical Gazette, "It has struck me that, if we could discover any
substance which could be so applied as to contract the iris, one cause of the effect of shortsightedness
would be remedied. The result, I am happy to say, has been most satisfactory. In the first
instance I applied the extract of ginger, which was rubbed five or ten times over the whole
forehead, with the view of acting upon the fifth pair of nerves. Afterwards I substituted a
concentrated tincture, of the strength of one part of ginger to two parts of spirits of wine,
decolorated by animal charcoal. In numerous cases this application has almost doubled the vision."

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. GEORGE CRUIKSHANK has presided over a temperance meeting at Bristol. He maintained in his
address that if Shakspeare were alive now, he would be of their society! "In 'Othello,' there
was the character of a bad man, one Iago, who, setting himself to work the ruin of another,
begins by making him drunk, and when it is first offered to him the answer is, 'Not to-night,
good Iago. I have very poor and unhappy brains for drinking. I could well wish courtesy would
invent some other custom of entertainment.' They would re-echo that wish, he was sure; courtesy
might invent a better custom of entertainment than that of drinking"--(applause). We observe
that the meeting gave three cheers for "The Bottle." A stranger to modern engravings would
no doubt consider this in the last degree inconsistent.

       *       *       *       *       *

We find in the London papers accounts of a Copying Electric Telegraph, invented by a Mr. Bakewell,
who had given lectures upon it at the Russell Institution. Its object is the transmission of
the handwriting of correspondents. Its advantages are, freedom from error, as the messages
transmitted are fac-similes of the originals: authentication of the communications by the transmission
of copies of the handwriting; increased rapidity, to such an extent that a single wire may
be as effective as ten with the needle telegraph, and consequent economy in the construction
of telegraphic lines of communication. The secrecy of correspondence would also be maintained
in a greater degree by the copying telegraph, as it would afford peculiar facility for transmitting
messages in cipher, and the telegraph clerks, instead of being compelled by their duties to
read all the messages transmitted, might be forbidden from perusing any portion but the address.
As an additional means of secrecy, the messages may be transmitted invisibly, by moistening
the paper with diluted muriatic acid alone, the writing being rendered legible by a solution
of prussiate of potass.

       *       *       *       *       *

The "original Mrs. Partington" was a respectable old lady (says Notes and Queries), living
at Sidmouth, in Devonshire. Her cottage was on the beach, and during an awful storm (November,
1824, when some fifty or sixty ships were wrecked at Plymouth) the sea rose to such a height
as every now and then to invade the old lady's place of domicile; in fact, almost every wave
dashed in at the door. Mrs. Partington, with such help as she could command, with mops and
brooms, as fast as the water entered the house, mopped it out again; until at length the waves
had the mastery, and the dame was compelled to retire to an upper story of the house. The first
allusion to the circumstance was made by Lord Brougham in his celebrated speech in the House
of Commons on the Reform Bill, in which he compared the Conservative opposition to the bill
to be like the opposition of "Dame Partington, who endeavored to mop out the waves of the Atlantic."

       *       *       *       *       *

It is stated that the Neapolitan Government has granted a sum of twenty thousand ducats for
continuing the excavations at Pompeii.

FOOTNOTES:

[29] JEREMY TAYLOR--Of Christian Prudence.

Ladies' Fashions for January.

The evening costumes of the present season are characterized by profuse trimming. The skirts
of the newest dresses, excepting those composed of very rich materials, are all very fully
trimmed. Corsages, whether high or low, are ornamented in some way or other. Flounces, employed
to trim the skirts of ball dresses, are made somewhat fuller than heretofore. Even lace flounces,
which used to be set on plain, are now gathered up in slight fulness. To add still more to
the appearance of amplitude in dresses trimmed with lace, some dressmakers edge the skirts
with a fontange of ribbon. With ball dresses of transparent textures, trimmed with flounces
of the same, this fontange of ribbon is frequently placed at the edge of the slip worn under
the dress. Tulle dresses are now fashionable for ball costume. Some pretty organdy muslins,
intended for very young ladies, have just been introduced. These dresses should be made with
two jupes, simply edged with a broad hem.

Cloth is adopted for morning walking dresses, redingote form, open down the front, and embroidered
in arabesque pattern, in silk braid and other trimming; the sleeves are worked at bottom, and
open, to admit underneath cambric or muslin sleeves tight at the wrist; the body is embroidered
to match the skirts. With this redingote is worn a pardessus of the same cloth, embroidered
in front and at bottom with braiding of from two to two and a half inches wide.

The more showy dresses, and a little décolletées, are square in front (Louis XV. style), the
body pointed, the skirt plain, and but few flounces. The colors are sombre and plain; the materials
are velvet, satin, damask, watered, antique, and some plaids, for the theatres and for half
dress. These dresses are always worn with open sleeves, trimmed with engageantes.

Short velvet cloaks, richly embroidered either in satin stitch, silk braid, or gimp, are in
vogue, the preferred colors being burnt-bread and black. Short velvet cloaks, of the paletot
shape, half tight, trimmed with lace, embroidered entirely in satin stitch, and with narrow
braiding, are also worn.

On mantelets of silk, entirely embroidered velvet ribbon is worn; or stamped velvet flowers,
upon the stuff, produce a very pleasing effect. The braid used for the arabesque pattern is
commonly plain, or has only a thick cord, and is from half to three quarters of an inch wide.
Walking boots, entirely of leather, are the most fashionable.

In the Illustrations which we give this month:

I. Is a Cap of Alencon lace, with flat bows of ribbon, and lappets of the same.

II. A Bonnet of pink satin, covered with cut black velvet. A trimming of black lace encircles
the crown. The bonnet may be lined either with pink satin or with black velvet; and the under
trimming consists of small pink flowers. Strings of pink satin ribbon.

III. Engageantes of India muslin, with two rows of Mechlin lace, one above the other.

IV. Velvet mantelet, with arabesque in silk braiding, a quarter of an inch wide, and satin
stitch, slightly fitting to the waist; wide sleeves, and entirely embroidered.

V. (See the group of figures upon the following page.)

(I.) Evening Costume for a Bride, back view.--The headdress a wreath of white roses, mingled
with orange-blossom. Back hair arranged in twists, in the style called noeud d' Apollon. Across
the forehead may be worn a narrow bandeau of pearls or diamonds. Dress of white crape over
white satin; front of the skirt with bouquets of the same flowers as those in the wreath. The
corsage has a berthe of folds of white tulle. The sleeves slightly full, and ornamented on
the shoulder with epaulettes of tulle. Necklace, a single row of pearls. (II.) Costume for
an Evening Party.--Dress of brocade, the ground a dark violet color, with large bouquets of
flowers in a variety of hues.

A sortie de bal of cerulean blue satin, edged with a broad band of velvet of the same color,
on which a braid is disposed in a zigzag pattern. The headdress of loops of narrow blue velvet
ribbon fixed on each side of the head. (III.) Bride's dress suited to the Nuptial Ceremony.--Robe
of white satin; the skirt ornamented with side trimmings, consisting each of a row of lace,
headed by a fronce of white satin ribbon. This trimming is set on spirally up each side of
the skirt, and is attached at intervals by small bows of white satin ribbon. The corsage is
half high at the back, and is sloped somewhat lower in front. The front of the corsage is trimmed
with rows of lace set on horizontally. On the neck is worn a chemisette of lace. The sleeves
are finished at the ends with a full trimming of white satin ribbon. The under-sleeves are
loose at the ends, and are edged with two rows of lace. On each arm a bracelet of gold, one
of the serpent pattern, and the other fastened by a cameo snap. Bridal wreath of orange-blossom
and jasmin. A very large veil of tulle illusion is fixed under the wreath instead of being
thrown over it, as is sometimes customary.