As she moved she heard a low moan. She started, paling, and then stood stock still, trembling
with dread, but determined not to run. The sound came again, seeming to issue from the interior
of the shed, and she retraced her step and leaned again against the wall of the building, listening.

There was no mistaking the sound--someone was in trouble. But she wanted to be certain before
calling for help and she listened again to hear an unmistakable pounding on the wall near her,
and a voice, calling frenziedly: "Help, help--for God's sake!"

Her fears fled and she sprang to the door, finding it locked. She rattled it, impotently, and
then left it and ran across the street to where the window-washer stood. He wheeled and spat
copiously, almost in her face, as she rapidly told him her news, and then deliberately dropped
his brush and cloth into the dust and mud at his feet and jumped after her, across the street.

"Who's in here?" demanded the man, hammering on the door.

"It's I--Judge Lindman! Open the door! Hurry! I'm smothering--and hurt!"

In what transpired within the next few minutes--and indeed during the hours following--the
girl felt like an outsider. No one paid any attention to her; she was shoved, jostled, buffeted,
by the crowd that gathered, swarming from all directions. But she was intensely interested.

It seemed to her that every person in Manti gathered in front of the shed--that all had heard
of the abduction of the Judge. Some one secured an iron bar and battered the lock off the door;
a half-dozen men dragged the Judge out, and he stood in front of the building, swaying in the
hands of his supporters, his white hair disheveled, his lips blood-stained and smashed, where
Corrigan had hit him. The frenzy of terror held him, and he looked wildly around at the tiers
of faces confronting him, the cords of his neck standing out and writhing spasmodically. Twice
he opened his lips to speak, but each time his words died in a dry gasp. At the third effort
he shrieked:

"I--I want protection! Don't let him touch me again, men! He means to kill me! Don't let him
touch me! I--I've been attacked--choked--knocked insensible! I appeal to you as American citizens
for protection!"

It was fear, stark, naked, cringing, that the crowd saw. Faces blanched, bodies stiffened;
a concerted breath, like a sigh, rose into the flat, desert air. Rosalind clenched her hands
and stood rigid, thrilling with pity.

"Who done it?" A dozen voices asked the question.

"Corrigan!" The Judge screamed this, hysterically. "He is a thief and a scoundrel, men! He
has plundered this county! He has prostituted your court. Your judge, too! I admit it. But
I ask your mercy, men! I was forced into it! He threatened me! He falsified the land records!
He wanted me to destroy the original record, but I didn't--I told Trevison where it was--I
hid it! And because I wouldn't help Corrigan to rob you, he tried to kill me!"

A murmur, low, guttural, vindictive, rippled over the crowd, which had now swelled to such
proportions that the street could not hold it. It fringed the railroad track; men were packed
against the buildings surrounding the shed; they shoved, jostled and squirmed in an effort
to get closer to the Judge. The windows of the Castle hotel were filled with faces, among which
Rosalind saw Hester Harvey's, ashen, her eyes aglow.

The Judge's words had stabbed Rosalind--each like a separate knife-thrust; they had plunged
her into a mental vacuum in which her brain, atrophied, reeled, paralyzed. She staggered--a
man caught her, muttered something about there being too much excitement for a lady, and gruffly
ordered others to clear the way that he might lead her out of the jam. She resisted, for she
was determined to stay to hear the Judge to the end, and the man grinned hugely at her; and
to escape the glances that she could feel were directed at her she slipped through the crowd
and sought the front of the shed, leaning against it, weakly.

A silence had followed the murmur that had run over the crowd. There was a breathless period,
during which every man seemed to be waiting for his neighbor to take the initiative. They wanted
a leader. And he appeared, presently--a big, broad-shouldered man forced his way through the
crowd and halted in front of the Judge.

"I reckon we'll protect you, Judge. Just spit out what you got to say. We'll stand by you.
Where's Trevison?"

"He came to the courthouse last night to get the record. I told him where it was. He forced
me to go with him to an Indian pueblo, and he kept me there yesterday. He left me there last
night with Clay Levins, while he came here to get the record."

"Do you reckon he got it?"

"I don't know. But from the way Corrigan acted last night--"

"Yes, yes; he got it!"

The words shifted the crowd's gaze to Rosalind, swiftly. The girl had hardly realized that
she had spoken. Her senses, paralyzed a minute before, had received the electric shock of sympathy
from a continued study of the Judge's face. She saw remorse on it, regret, shame, and the birth
of a resolution to make whatever reparation that was within his power, at whatever cost. It
was a weak face, but it was not vicious, and while she had been standing there she had noted
the lines of suffering. It was not until the girl felt the gaze of many curious eyes on her
that she realized she had committed herself, and her cheeks flamed. She set herself to face
the stares; she must go on now.

"It's Benham's girl!" she heard a man standing near her whisper hoarsely, and she faced them,
her chin held high, a queer joy leaping in her heart. She knew at this minute that her sympathies
had been with Trevison all along; that she had always suspected Corrigan, but had fought against
the suspicion because of the thought that in some way her father might be dragged into the
affair. It had been a cowardly attitude, and she was glad that she had shaken it off. As her
brain, under the spur of the sudden excitement, resumed its function, her thoughts flitted
to the agent's babble during the time she had been sending the telegram to her father. She
talked rapidly, her voice carrying far:

"Trevison got the record last night. He stopped at my ranch and showed it to me. I suppose
he was going to the pueblo, expecting to meet Levins and Lindman there--"

"By God!" The big, broad-shouldered man standing at Judge Lindman's side interrupted her. He
turned and faced the crowd. "We're damned fools, boys--lettin' this thing go on like we have!
Corrigan's took his deputies out, trailin' Trevison, chargin' him with murderin' Braman, when
his real purpose is to get his claws on that record! Trevison's been fightin' our fight for
us, an' we've stood around like a lot of gillies, lettin' him do it! It's likely that a man
who'd cook up a deal like the Judge, here, says Corrigan has, would cook up another, chargin'
Trevison with guzzlin' the banker. I've knowed Trevison a long time, boys, an' I don't believe
he'd guzzle anybody--he's too square a man for that!" He stood on his toes, raising his clenched
hands, and bringing them down with a sweep of furious emphasis.

The crowd swayed restlessly. Rosalind saw it split apart, men fighting to open a pathway for
a woman. There were shouts of: "Open up, there!" "Let the lady through!" "Gangway!" "She's
got somethin' to say!" And the girl caught her breath sharply, for she recognized the woman
as Hester Harvey.

It was some time before Hester reached the broad-shouldered man's side. There was a stain in
each of her cheeks, but outwardly, at least, she showed none of the excitement that had seized
the crowd; her movements were deliberate and there was a resolute set to her lips. She got
through, finally, and halted beside the big man, the crowd closing up behind her. She was swallowed
in it, lost to sight.

"Lift her up, Lefingwell!" suggested a man on the outer fringe. "If she's got anything to say,
let us all hear it!" The suggestion was caught up, insistently.

"If you ain't got no objections, ma'am," said the big man. He stooped at her cold smile and
swung her to his shoulder. She spoke slowly and distinctly, though there was a tremor in her voice:

"Trevison did not kill Braman--it was Corrigan. Corrigan was in my room in the Castle last
night just after dark. When he left, I watched him from my window, after putting out the light.
He had threatened to kill Braman. I watched him cross the street and go around to the rear
of the bank building. There was a light in the rear room of the bank. After a while Braman
and Corrigan entered the banking room. The light from the rear room shone on them for an instant
and I recognized them. They were at the safe. When they went out they left the safe door open.
After a while the light went out and I saw Corrigan come from around the rear of the building,
recross the street and come into the Castle. You men are blind. Corrigan is a crook who will
stop at nothing. If you let him injure Trevison for a crime that Trevison did not commit you
deserve to be robbed!"

Lefingwell swung her down from his shoulder.

"I reckon that cinches it, boys!" he bellowed over the heads of the men nearest him. "There
ain't nothin' plainer! If we stand for this we're a bunch of cowardly coyotes that ain't fit
to look Trevison in the face! I'm goin' to help him! Who's comin' along?"

A chorus of shouts drowned his last words; the crowd was in motion, swift, with definite purpose.
It melted, streaming off in all directions, like the sweep of water from a bursted dam. It
broke at the doors of the buildings; it sought the stables. Men bearing rifles appeared in
the street, mounting horses and congregating in front of the Belmont, where Lefingwell had
gone. Other men, on the board sidewalk and in the dust of the street, were running, shouting,
gesticulating. In an instant the town had become a bedlam of portentous force; it was the first
time in its history that the people of Manti had looked with collective vision, and the girl
reeled against the iron wall of the shed, appalled at the resistless power that had been set
in motion. On a night when she sat on the porch of the Bar B ranchhouse she had looked toward
Manti, thrilled over a pretty mental fancy. She had thought it all a game--wondrous, joyous,
progressive. She had neglected to associate justice with it then--the inexorable rule of fairness
under which every player of the game must bow. She brought it into use now, felt the spirit
of it, saw the dire tragedy that its perversion portended, groaned, and covered her face with
her hands.

She looked around after a while. She saw Judge Lindman walking across the street toward the
Castle, supported by two other men. A third followed; she did not know him, but Corrigan would
have recognized him as the hotel clerk who had grown confidential upon a certain day. The girl
heard his voice as he followed after the Judge and the others--raucous, vindictive:

"We need men like Trevison in this town. We can get along without any Corrigans."

She heard a voice behind her and she turned, swiftly, to see Hester Harvey walking toward her.
She would have avoided the meeting, but she saw that Hester was intent on speaking and she
drew herself erect, bowing to her with cold courtesy as the woman stopped within a step of
her and smiled.

"You look ready to flop into hysterics, dearie! Won't you come over to my room with me and
have something to brace you up? A cup of tea?" she added with a laugh as Rosalind looked quickly
at her. She did not seem to notice the stiffening of the girl's body, but linked her arm within
her own and began to walk across the street. The girl was racked with emotion over the excitement
of the morning, the dread of impending violence, and half frantic with anxiety over Trevison's
safety. Hester's offense against her seemed vague and far, and very insignificant, relatively.
She yearned to exchange confidences with somebody--anybody, and this woman, even though she
were what she thought her, had a capacity for feeling, for sympathy. And she was very, very
tired of it all.

"It was fierce, wasn't it?" said Hester a few minutes later in the privacy of her room, as
she balanced her cup and watched Rosalind as the girl ate, hungrily. "These sagebrush rough-necks
out here will make Corrigan hump himself to keep out of their way. But he deserves it, the crook!"

The girl looked curiously at the other, trying hard to reconcile the vindictiveness of these
words and the woman's previous action in giving damaging testimony against Corrigan, with the
significant fact that Corrigan had been in her room the night before, presumably as a guest.
Hester caught the look and laughed. "Yes, dearie, he deserves it. How much do you know of what
has been going on here?"

"Very little, I am afraid."

"Less than that, I suspect. I happen to know considerable, and I am going to tell you about
it. My trip out here has been a sort of a wild-goose chase. I thought I wanted Trevison, but
I've discovered I'm not badly hurt by his refusal to resume our old relations."

The girl gasped and almost dropped her cup, setting it down slowly afterward and staring at
her hostess with doubting, fearing, incredulous eyes.

"Yes, dearie," laughed the other, with a trace of embarrassment; "you can trust your ears on
that statement. To make certain, I'll repeat it: I am not very badly hurt by his refusal to
resume our old relations. Do you know what that means? It means that he turned me down cold,
dearie."

"Do you mean--" began the girl, gripping the table edge.

"I mean that I lied to you. The night I went over to Trevison's ranch he told me plainly that
he didn't like me one teenie, weenie bit any more. He wouldn't kiss me, shake my hand, or welcome
me in any way. He told me he'd got over it, the same as he'd got over his measles days--he'd
outgrown it and was going to throw himself at the feet of another goddess. Oh, yes, he meant
you!" she laughed, her voice a little too high, perhaps, with an odd note of bitterness in
it. "Then, determined to blot my rival out, I lied about you. I told him that you loved Corrigan
and that you were in the game to rob him of his land. Oh, I blackened you, dearie! It hurt
him, too. For when a man like Trevison loves a woman--"

"How could you!" said the girl, shuddering.

"Please don't get dramatic," jeered the other. "The rules that govern the love game are very
elastic--for some women. I played it strong, but there was no chance for me from the beginning.
Trevison thinks you are Corrigan's trump card in this game. It is a game, isn't it. But he
loves you in spite of it all. He told me he'd go to the gallows for you. Aren't men the sillies!
But just the same, dearie, we women like to hear them murmur those little heroic things, don't
we? It was on the night I told him you'd told Corrigan about the dynamiting."

"Oh!" said the girl.

"That was my high card," laughed the woman, harshly. "He took it and derided me. I decided
right then that I wouldn't play any more."

"Then he didn't send for you?"

"Corrigan did that, dearie."

"You--you knew Corrigan before--before you came here?"

"You can guess intelligently, can't you?"

"Corrigan planned it all?"

"All." Hester watched as the girl bowed her head and sobbed convulsively.

"What a brazen, crafty and unprincipled thing Trevison must think me!"

Hester reached out a hand and laid it on the girl's. "I--there was a time when I would have
done murder to have him think of me as he thinks of you, dearie. He isn't for me, though, and
I can't spoil any woman's happiness. There's little enough--but I'm not going to philosophize.
I was going away without telling you this. I don't know why I am telling it now. I always was
a little soft. But if you hadn't spoken as you did a while ago in that crowd--taking Trevison's
end--I--I think you'd never have known. Somehow, it seemed you deserved him, dearie. And I
couldn't bear to--to think of him facing any more disappointment. He--he took it so--"

The girl looked up, to see the woman's eyes filling with a luminous mist. A quick conception
of what this all meant to the woman thrilled the girl. She got up and walked to the woman's
side. "I'm so sorry, Hester," she said as her arms stole around the other's neck.

                   *       *       *       *       *

She went out a little later, into the glaring, shimmering sunlight of the morning, her cheeks
red, her eyes aglow, her heart racing wildly, to see an engine and a luxurious private car
just pulling from the main track to a switch.

"Oh," she whispered, joyously; "it's father's!"

And she ran toward it, tingling with a new-found hope.

In her room at the Castle sat a woman who was finding the world very empty. It held nothing
for her except the sad consolation of repentance.

CHAPTER XXVII

THE FIGHT

"The boss is sure a she-wolf at playin' a lone hand," growled Barkwell, shortly after dusk,
to Jud Weaver, the straw boss. "Seems he thinks his friends is delicate ornaments which any
use would bust to smithereens. Here's his outfit layin' around, bitin' their finger nails with
ongwee an' pinin' away to slivers yearnin' to get into the big meal-lee, an' him racin' an'
tearin' around the country fightin' it out by his lonesome. I call it rank selfishness!"

"He sure ought to have give us a chancst to claw the hair outen that damned Corrigan feller!"
complained Weaver. "In some ways, though, I'm sorta glad the damned mine was blew up. 'Firebrand'
would have sure got a-hold of her some day, an' then we'd be clawin' at the bowels of the earth
instid of galivantin' around on our cayuses like gentlemen. I reckon things is all for the best."

The two had come in from the river range ostensibly to confer with Trevison regarding their
work, but in reality to satisfy their curiosity over Trevison's movements. There was a deep
current of concern for him under their accusations.

They had found the ranchhouse dark and deserted. But the office door was open and they had
entered, prepared supper, ate with a more than ordinary mingling of conversation with their
food, and not lighting the lamps had gone out on the gallery for a smoke.

"He ain't done any sleepin' to amount to much in the last forty-eight hours, to my knowin',"
remarked Barkwell; "unless he's done his sleepin' on the run--an' that ain't in no ways a comfortable
way. He's sure to be driftin' in here, soon."

"This here country's goin' to hell, certain!" declared Weaver, after an hour of silence. "She's
gettin' too eastern an' flighty. Railroads an' dams an' hotels with bath tubs for every six
or seven rooms, an' resterawnts with filleedegree palms an' leather chairs an' slick eats is
eatin' the gizzard outen her. Railroads is all right in their place--which is where folks ain't
got no cayuses to fork an' therefore has to hoof it--or--or ride the damn railroad."

"Correct!" agreed Barkwell; "she's a-goin' the way Rome went--an Babylone--an' Cincinnati--after
I left. She runs to a pussy-cafe aristocracy--an' napkins."

"She'll be plumb ruined--follerin' them foreign styles. The Uhmerican people ain't got no right
to adopt none of them new-fangled notions." Weaver stared glumly into the darkening plains.

They aired their discontent long. Directed at the town it relieved the pressure of their resentment
over Trevison's habit of depending upon himself. For, secretly, both were interested admirers
of Manti's growing importance.

Time was measured by their desires. Sometime before midnight Barkwell got up, yawned and stretched.

"Sleep suits me. If 'Firebrand' ain't reckonin' on a guardian, I ain't surprisin' him none.
He's mighty close-mouthed about his doin's, anyway."

"You're shoutin'. I ain't never seen a man any stingier about hidin' away his doin's. He just
nacherly hawgs all the trouble."

Weaver got up and sauntered to the far end of the gallery, leaning far out to look toward Manti.
His sharp exclamation brought Barkwell leaping to his side, and they both watched in perplexity
a faint glow in the sky in the direction of the town. It died down as they watched.

"Fire--looks like," Weaver growled. "We're always too late to horn in on any excitement."

"Uh, huh," grunted Barkwell. He was staring intently at the plains, faintly discernable in
the starlight. "There's horses out there, Jud! Three or four, an' they're comin' like hell!"

They slipped off the gallery into the shadow of some trees, both instinctively feeling of their
holsters. Standing thus they waited.

The faint beat of hoofs came unmistakably to them. They grew louder, drumming over the hard
sand of the plains, and presently four dark figures loomed out of the night and came plunging
toward the gallery. They came to a halt at the gallery edge, and were about to dismount when
Barkwell's voice, cold and truculent, issued from the shadow of the trees:

"What's eatin' you guys?"

There was a short, pregnant silence, and then one of the men laughed.

"Who are you?" He urged his horse forward. But he was brought to a quick halt when Barkwell's
voice came again:

"Talk from where you are!"

"That goes," laughed the man. "Trevison here?"

"What you wantin' of him?"

"Plenty. We're deputies. Trevison burned the courthouse and the bank tonight--and killed Braman.
We're after him."

"Well, he ain't here." Barkwell laughed. "Burned the courthouse, did he? An' the bank? An'
killed Braman? Well, you got to admit that's a pretty good night's work. An' you're wantin'
him!" Barkwell's voice leaped; he spoke in short, snappy, metallic sentences that betrayed
passion long restrained, breaking his self-control. "You're deputies, eh? Corrigan's whelps!
Sneaks! Coyotes! Well, you slope--you hear? When I count three, I down you! One! Two! Three!"

His six-shooter stabbed the darkness at the last word. And at his side Weaver's pistol barked
viciously. But the deputies had started at the word "One," and though Barkwell, noting the
scurrying of their horses, cut the final words sharply, the four figures were vague and shadowy
when the first pistol shot smote the air. Not a report floated back to the ears of the two
men. They watched, with grim pouts on their lips, until the men vanished in the star haze of
the plains. Then Barkwell spoke, raucously:

"Well, we've broke in the game, Jud. We're Simon-pure outlaws--like our boss. I got one of
them scum--I seen him grab leather. We'll all get in, now. They're after our boss, eh? Well,
damn 'em, we'll show 'em! They's eight of the boys on the south fork. You get 'em, bring 'em
here an' get rifles. I'll hit the breeze to the basin an' rustle the others!" He was running
at the last word, and presently two horses raced out of the corral gates, clattered past the
bunk-house and were swallowed in the vast, black space.

Half an hour later the entire outfit--twenty men besides Barkwell and Weaver--left the ranchhouse
and spread, fan-wise, over the plains west of Manti.

                   *       *       *       *       *

