 She sat very straight, her head high, the little
parasol poised against the sun, the other hand clasping the hat ribbon.

"Dem's quality foh sure!" said Sam with conviction.

Sherwood drove rapidly around the edge of the Plaza and, so into Kearney Street. From here
to the water front were by now many fireproof brick and stone structures, with double doors
and iron shatters, like fortresses. So much had San Francisco learned from her five disastrous
fires. The stone had come from China, the brick also from overseas. Down side streets one caught
glimpses of huge warehouses--already in this year of 1852 men talked of the open-air auctions
of three years before as of something in history inconceivably remote. The streets, where formerly
mule teams had literally been drowned in mud, now were covered with planking. This made a fine
resounding pavement. Horses' hoofs went merrily klop, klop, klop, and the wheels rumbled a
dull undertone. San Francisco had been very proud of this pavement when it was new. She was
very grateful for it even now, for in the upper part of town the mud and dust were still something
awful. Unfortunately the planks were beginning to wear out in places; and a city government,
trying to give the least possible for its taxes, had made no repairs.

There were many holes, large or small: jagged, splintered, ugly holes going down to indeterminate
blackness either of depth or mud. Private philanthropists had fenced or covered these. Private
facetiousness had labelled most of them with signboards. These were rough pictures of disaster
painted from the marking pot, and various screeds--"Head of Navigation," "No Bottom," "Horse
and Dray Lost Here," "Take Soundings," "Storage, Inquire Below," "Good Fishing for Teal," and
the like.

Among these obstructions Sherwood guided his team skilfully, dodging not only them, but other
vehicles darting or crawling in the same direction. Newsboys and bootblacks darted in all directions,
shouting raucously as they do to-day. Cigar boys, an institution of the time, added to the
hubbub. Everybody was going in the same direction, some sauntering with an air of leisure,
some hurrying as though their fortunes were at stake.

A wild shriek arose, and everybody made room for the steam sand shovel on its way to dump the
sand hills into the bay. It was called the "steam paddy" to distinguish it from the "hand paddy"--out
of Cork or Dublin. It rumbled by on its track, very much like juggernaut in its calm indifference
as to how many it ran over. Sherwood's horses looked at it nervously askance; but he spoke
to them, and though they trembled they stood.

Now they debouched on the Central Wharf, and the sound of the hoofs and the wheels changed
its tone. Central Wharf extended a full mile into the bay. It was lined on either side its
narrow roadway by small shacks, in which were offered fowls, fish, vegetables, candy, refreshments.
Some of them were tiny saloons or gambling houses. But by far the majority were the cubicles
where the Jewish slop sellers displayed their wares. Men returning from the mines here landed,
and here replenished their wardrobes. Everything was exposed to view outside, like clothes
hung out after a rain.

The narrow way between this long row of shops was crowded almost dangerously. Magnificent dray
horses, with long hair on the fetlocks above their big heavy hoofs, bridling in conscious pride
of silver-mounted harness and curled or braided manes, rose above the ruck as their ancestors,
the warhorses, must have risen in medieval battle. The crowd parted before them and closed
in behind them. Here and there, too, a horseman could be seen--with a little cleared space
at his heels. Or a private calash picking its way circumspectly.

From her point of vantage on the elevated seat Mrs. Sherwood could see over the heads of people.
She sat very quietly, her body upright, but in the poised repose characteristic of her. Many
admiring glances were directed at her. She seemed to be unconscious of them. Nevertheless,
nothing escaped her. She saw, and appreciated and enjoyed, every phase of that heterogeneous
crowd--miners in their exaggeratedly rough clothes, brocaded or cotton clad Chinese, gorgeous
Spaniards or Chilenos, drunken men, sober men, excited men, empty cans or cases kicking around
underfoot, frantic runners for hotels or steamboats trying to push their way by, newsboys and
cigar boys darting about and miraculously worming their way through impenetrable places. Atop
a portable pair of steps a pale, well-dressed young man was playing thimble-rig on his knees
with a gilt pea. From an upturned keg a preacher was exhorting. And occasionally, through gaps
between the shacks, she caught glimpses of blue water; or of ships at anchor; or, more often,
of the tall pile drivers whose hammers went steadily up and down.

Sherwood guided his glossy team and light spidery vehicle with the greatest delicacy and skill.
He was wholly absorbed in his task. Suddenly up ahead a wild turmoil broke out. People crowded
to right and left, clambering, shouting, screaming. A runaway horse hitched to a light buggy
came careering down the way.

A collision seemed inevitable. Sherwood turned his horses' heads directly at an open shop front.
They hesitated, their small pointed ears working nervously. Sherwood spoke to them. They moved
forward, quivering, picking their way daintily. Sherwood spoke again. They stopped. The runaway
hurtled by, missing the tail of the buggy by two feet. A moment later a grand crash marked
the end of its career farther down the line. Again Sherwood spoke to his horses, and exerted
the slightest pressure on the reins. Daintily, slowly, their ears twitching back and forth,
their fine eyes rolling, they backed out of the opening.

Throughout all this exciting little incident the woman had not altered her pose nor the expression
of her face. Her head high, her eye ruminative, she had looked on it all as one quite detached
from possible consequences. The little parasol did not change its angle. Only, quite deliberately,
she had relinquished the ribbon by which she held on her hat, and had placed her slender hand
steadyingly on the side of the vehicle.

The bystanders, already leaping down from their places of refuge and again crowding the narrow
way, directed admiring eyes toward the beautiful, nervous, docile horses, the calm and dominating
man, and the poised, dainty creature at his side. One drunken individual cheered her personally.
At this a faint shell pink appeared in her cheeks, though she gave no other sign that she had
heard. Sherwood glanced down at her, amused.

But now emerged the Jew slop seller, very voluble. He had darted like a rat to some mysterious
inner recess of his burrow; but now he was out again filling the air with lamentations, claims,
appeals for justice. Sherwood did not even glance toward him; but in the very act of tooling
his horses into the roadway tossed the man some silver. Immediately, with shouts and cheers
and laughter, the hoodlums nearby began a scramble.

The end of the long wharf widened to a great square, free of all buildings but a sort of warehouse
near one end. Here a rope divided off a landing space. Close to the rope the multitude crowded,
ready for its entertainment. Here also stood in stately grandeur the three livery hacks of
which San Francisco boasted. They were magnificent affairs, the like of which has never elsewhere
been seen plying for public hire, brightly painted, highly varnished, lined with silks, trimmed
with solid silver. The harnesses were heavily mounted with the same metal. On their boxes sat
fashionable creatures, dressed, not in livery, but throughout in the very latest of the late
styles, shod with varnished leather, gloved with softest kid. Sherwood drove skilfully to the
very edge of the roped space, pushing aside the crowd on foot. They growled at him savagely.
He paid no attention to them, and they gave way. The buggy came to a stop. The horses, tossing
their heads, rolling their eyes, stamping their little hoofs, nevertheless stood without need
of further attention.

Now the brass bands blared with a sudden overwhelming blast of sound, the crowd cheered noisily;
the runners for the hotels began to bark like a pack of dogs. With a vast turmoil of paddle
wheels, swirling of white and green waters, bellowing of speaking trumpets, throwing of handlines
and scurrying of deck hands and dock hands, the Panama came to rest. After considerable delay
the gangplank was placed. The passengers began to disembark, facing the din much as they would
have faced the buffeting of a strong wind. This was the cream of the entertainment for which
the crowd had gathered; for which, indeed, the Sherwoods had made their excursion. Each individual
received his meed of comment, sometimes audible and by no means always flattering. Certainly
in variety both of character and of circumstance they offered plenty of material. From wild,
half-civilized denizens of Louisiana's canebrakes, clinging closely to their little bundles
and their long rifles, to the most polished exquisites of fashion they offered all grades and
intermediates. Some of them looked rather bewildered. Some seemed to know just what to do and
where to go. Most dove into the crowd with the apparent idea of losing their identity as soon
as possible. The three magnificent hacks were filled, and managed, with much plunging and excitement,
to plow a way through the crowd and so depart. Amusing things happened to which the Sherwoods
called each other's attention. Thus a man, burdened with a single valise, ducked under the
ropes near them. A paper boy happened to be standing near. The passenger offered the boy a
fifty- cent piece.

"Here, boy," said he, "just carry this valise for me."

The paper boy gravely contemplated the fifty cents, dove into his pocket, and produced another.

"Here, man," said he, handing them both to the traveller, "take this and carry it yourself."

One by one the omnibuses filled and departed. The stream of passengers down the gangplank had
ceased. The crowd began to thin. Sherwood gathered his reins to go. Mrs. Sherwood suddenly
laid her hand on his forearm.

"Oh, the poor thing!" she cried, her voice thrilling with compassion.

A young man and a steward were supporting a girl down the gangplank. Evidently she was very
weak and ill. Her face was chalky white, with dark rings under the eyes, her lips were pale,
and she leaned heavily on the men. Although she could not have heard Mrs. Sherwood's exclamation
of pity, she happened to look up at that instant, revealing a pair of large, dark, and appealing
eyes. Her figure, too, dressed in a plain travelling dress, strikingly simple but bearing the
unmistakable mark of distinction, was appealing; as were her exquisite, smooth baby skin and
the downward drooping, almost childlike, curves of her lips. The inequalities of the ribbed
gangplank were sufficient to cause her to stumble.

"She is very weak," commented Mrs. Sherwood.

"She is--or would be--remarkably pretty," added Sherwood. "I wonder what ails her."

Arrived at the foot of the gangplank the young man removed his hat with an air of perplexity,
and looked about him. He was of the rather florid, always boyish type; and the removal of his
hat had revealed a mat of close- curling brown hair, like a cap over his well-shaped head.
The normal expression of his face was probably quizzically humorous, for already the little
lines of habitual half laughter were sketched about his eyes.

"A plunger," said John Sherwood to himself, out of his knowledge of men; then as the young
man glanced directly toward him, disclosing the colour and expression of his eyes, "a plunger
in something," he amended, revising his first impression.

But now the humorous element was quite in abeyance, and a faint dismay had taken its place.
One arm supporting the drooping girl, he was looking up and down the wharf. Not a vehicle remained
save the heavy drays already backing up to receive their loads of freight. The dock hands had
dropped and were coiling the line that had separated the crowd from the landing stage.

With another exclamation the woman in the carriage rose, and before Sherwood could make a move
to assist her, had poised on the rim of the wheel and leaped lightly to the dock. Like a thistledown
she floated to the little group at the foot of the gangplank. The steward instantly gave way
to her evident intention. She passed her arm around the girl's waist. The three moved slowly
toward the buggy, Mrs. Sherwood, her head bent charmingly forward, murmuring compassionate,
broken, little phrases, supporting the newcomer's reviving footsteps.

Sherwood, a faint, fond amusement lurking in the depths of his eyes, quietly cramped the wheels
of the buggy.

IV

A half hour later the two men, having deposited the women safely in the Sherwoods' rooms at
the Bella Union, and having been unceremoniously dismissed by Mrs. Sherwood, strolled together
to the veranda. They had not, until now, had a chance to exchange six words.

The newcomer, who announced himself as Milton Keith from Baltimore, proved to have a likable
and engaging personality. He was bubbling with interest and enthusiasm; and these qualities,
provided they are backed solidly, are always prepossessing. Sherwood, quietly studying him,
concluded that such was the case. His jaw and mouth were set in firm lines; his eye, while
dancing and mischievous, had depths of capability and reserves of forcefulness. But Sherwood
was, by inclination and by the necessities of his profession, a close observer of men. Another,
less practised, might have seen here merely an eager, rather talkative, apparently volatile,
very friendly, quite unreserved young man of twenty-five. Any one, analytical or otherwise,
could not have avoided feeling the attractive force of the youth's personality, the friendly
quality that is nine tenths individual magnetism and one tenth the cast of mind that initially
takes for granted the other man's friendliness.

At the moment Keith was boyishly avid for the sights of the new city. In these modern days
of long journeys, a place so remote as San Francisco, in the most commonplace of circumstances,
gathers to its reputation something of the fabulous. "Sydney ducks" from the criminal colonies;
"shoulder strikers" direct from the tough wards of New York; long, lean, fever-haunted crackers
from the Georgia mountains or the Louisiana canebrakes; Pike County desperadoes; long-haired
men from the trapping countries; hard-fisted, sardonic state of Maine men fresh from their
rivers; and Indian fighters from the Western Reserve; grasping, shrewd commercial Yankees;
fire-eating Southern politicians; lawyers, doctors, merchants, chiefs, and thiefs, the well-educated
and the ignorant, the high-minded and the scalawags, all dumped down together on a sand hill
to work out their destinies; a city whose precedents, whose morals, whose laws, were made or
adapted on the spot; where might in some form or another--revolver, money, influence--made
its only right; whose history ranged in three years the gamut of human passion, strife, and
development; whose background was the fabled El Dorado whence the gold in unending floods poured
through its sluices. To the outside world tales of these things had come. They did not lose
in the journey. The vast loom of actual occurrences rose above the horizon like mirages. Names
and events borrowed a half-legendary quality from distances, as elsewhere from time. Keith
had heard of Coleman, of Terry, of Broderick, Brannan, Gwin, Geary, as he had heard of the
worthies of ancient history; he had visualized the fabled splendours of San Francisco's great
gambling houses, of the excitements of her fervid, fevered life, as he might have visualized
the magnificences of pagan Rome; he had listened to tales of her street brawls, her vast projects,
the buccaneering raids of her big men, her Vigilance Committee of the year before, as he would
have listened to the stories of one of Napoleon's veterans. Now, by the simple process of a
voyage that had seemed literally interminable but now was past, he had landed in the very midst
of fable. It was like dying, he told Sherwood eagerly, like going irretrievably to a new planet.
All his old world now seemed as remote, as insubstantial, as phantomlike, as this had seemed.

"Even yet I can't believe it's all so," he cried, walking excitedly back and forth, and waving
an extinct cigar. "I've got to see it, touch it! Why, I know it all in advance. That must be
where the Jenny Lind Theatre stood-- before the fire--just opposite? I thought so! And the
bay used to come up to Montgomery Street, only a block down! You see, I know it all! And when
we came in, and I saw all those idle ships lying at anchor, just as they have lain since their
crews deserted them in '49 to go to the mines--and I know why they haven't been used since,
why they will continue to lie there at anchor until they rot or sink--"

"Do you?" said Sherwood, who was vastly amused and greatly taken by this fresh enthusiasm.

"Yes, the clipper ships!" Keith swept on. "The first cargoes in this new market make the money--the
fastest clippers--poor old hulks--but you brought in the argonauts!"

So he ran on, venting his impatience, so plainly divided between his sense of duty in staying
near his wife and his great desire to slip the leash, that Sherwood smiled to himself. Once
again he mentioned Coleman and the Vigilantes of '51.

"I suppose he's around here? I may see him?"

"Oh, yes," said Sherwood, "you'll see him. But if you would accept a bit of advice, go slow.
You must remember that such a movement makes enemies, arouses opposition. A great many excellent
people--whom you will know--are a little doubtful about all that."

Keith mentioned other names.

"I know them all. They are among the most influential members of the bar." He glanced at a
large watch. "Just at this hour we might find them at the Monumental engine house. What do
you say?"

"I should like nothing better!" cried Keith.

"Your wife's illness is not likely to require immediate attendance?" suggested Sherwood inquiringly.

"She's only seasick--horrible voyage--she's always under the weather on shipboard--three weeks
of it from Panama--Nan's as strong as a horse," replied Keith, with obvious impatience.

They walked across the Plaza to the Monumental fire engine house, a square brick structure
of two stories, with wide folding doors, and a bell cupola apart. Keith paused to admire the
engine. It was of the type usual in those days, consisting of a waterbox with inlet and outlet
connections, a pump atop, and parallel pump rails on either side, by the hand manipulation
of which the water was thrown with force from the box. The vehicle was drawn by means of a
long rope, carried on a drum. This could be slacked off at need to accommodate as high as a
hundred men or as few as would suffice to move her. So far this engine differed in no manner
from those Keith had seen in the East. But this machine belonged to a volunteer company, one
of many and all rivals. It was gayly coloured. On the sides of its waterbox were scenic paintings
of some little merit. The woodwork was all mahogany. Its brass ornamentation was heavy and
brought to a high state of polish. From a light rack along its centre dangled two beautifully
chased speaking trumpets, and a row of heavy red-leather helmets. Axes nestled in sockets.
A screaming gilt eagle, with wings outspread, hovered atop. Alongside the engine stood the
hook and ladder truck and the hose cart. These smaller and less important vehicles were painted
in the same scheme of colour, were equally glittering and polished. Keith commented on all
this admiringly.

"Yes," said Sherwood, "you see, since the big fires, it has become a good deal a matter of
pride. There are eleven volunteer companies, and they are great rivals in everything, political
and social, as well as in the line of regular business, so to speak. Mighty efficient. You'll
have to join a company, of course; and you better look around a little before deciding. Each
represents something different--some different element. They are really as much clubs as fire
companies."

They mounted to the upper story, where Keith found himself in a long room, comfortably fitted
with chairs, tables, books, and papers. A double door showed a billiard table in action. Sherwood
indicated a closed door across the hall.

"Card rooms," said he briefly.

The air was blue with smoke and noisy with rather vociferative conversation and laughter. Several
groups of men were gathered in little knots. A negro in white duck moved here and there carrying
a tray.

Sherwood promptly introduced Keith to many of these men, and he was as promptly asked to name
his drink. Keith caught few of the names, but he liked the hearty, instant cordiality. Remarking
on the beauty and order of the machines, loud cries arose for "Taylor! Bert Taylor!" After
a moment's delay a short, stocky, very red-faced man, with rather a fussy manner, came forward.

"Mr. Keith," said a tall, dark youth, with a pronounced Southern accent, "I want foh to make
you acquainted with Mr. Tayloh. Mr. Tayloh is at once the patron saint of the Monumentals,
but to a large extent its 'angel' as well --I hope you understand the theatrical significance
of that term, suh. He is motheh, fatheh, guardeen, and dry nurse to every stick, stone, and
brick, every piece of wood, brass, or rubbah, every inch of hose, and every man and Irishman
on these premises." Taylor had turned an embarrassed brick red. "Mr. Keith," went on the dark
youth, explanatorily, "was just sayin' that though he had inspected carefully many fire equipments,
per'fessional and amateur, he had nevah feasted his eyes on so complete an outfit as that of
our Monumentals."

Keith had not said all this, but possibly he had meant it. The brick-red, stocky little man
was so plainly embarrassed and anxious to depart that Keith racked his brains for something
to say. All he could remember was the manufacturer's nameplate on the machine downstairs.

"I see you have selected the Hunaman engine, sir," said he. The little man's eye brightened.

"It may be, sir, that you favour the piano-box type--of the sort made by Smith or Van Ness?"
he inquired politely.

"It is a point on which my opinion is still-suspended," replied Keith with great gravity.

The little man moved nearer, and his shyness fell from him.

"Oh, but really there is no choice, none whatever!" he cried. "I'm sure, sir, I can convince
you in five minutes. I assure you we have gone into the subject thoroughly--this Hunaman cost
us over five thousand dollars; and you may be certain we went very thoroughly into the matter
before making the investment----"

He went on talking in his self-effacing, deprecatory, but very earnest fashion. The other men
in the group, Keith felt, were watching with covert amusement. Occasionally, he thought to
catch half-concealed grins at his predicament. In less than the five minutes the claims of
the piano box were utterly demolished. Followed a dissertation on methods of fighting fire;
and then a history of the Monumental Company--its members, its officers, and its proud record.
"And our bell--did you know that?--is the bell used by the Vigilantes--" He broke off suddenly
in confusion, his embarrassment descending on him again. A moment later he sidled away.

"But I found him very interesting!" protested Keith, in answer to implied apologies.

"Bert is invaluable here; but he's a lunatic on fire apparatus. We couldn't get along without
him, but it's sometimes mighty difficult to get on with him," said some one.

Keith was making a good impression without consciously trying to do so. His high spirits of
youth and enthusiasm were in his favour; and as yet he had no interests to come into conflict
with those of any one present. More drinks were ordered and fresh cigars lighted. From Sherwood
they now learned that Keith had but just landed, and intended to settle as a permanent resident.
As one man they uprose.

"And yo' wastin' of yo' time indoors!" mourned the dark Southerner. "And so much to see!"

Enthusiastically they surrounded him and led him forth. Only a very old, very small, very decadent
village is devoid of what is modernly called the "booster" spirit. In those early days of slow
transportation and isolated communities, local patriotism was much stronger than it is now.
And something about the air's wine of the Pacific slope has always, and probably will always,
make of every man an earnest proselyte for whatever patch of soil he calls home. But add to
these general considerations the indubitable facts of harbour, hill, health, opportunity, activity,
and a genuine history, if of only three years, one can no longer marvel that every man, each
in his own way, saw visions.

In the course of the next few hours Keith got confused and mixed impressions of many things.
The fortresslike warehouses; the plank roads; the new Jenny Lind Theatre; the steam paddies
eating steadily into the sand hills at the edge of town; the Dramatic Museum; houses perched
on the crumbling edges of hills; houses sunk far below the level of new streets, with tin cans
and ducks floating around them; new office buildings; places where new office buildings were
going to be or merely ought to be; land that in five years was going to be worth fabulous sums;
unlikely looking spots where historic things had stood or had happened--all these were pointed
out to him. He was called upon to exercise the eye of faith; to reconstruct; to eliminate the
unfinished, the mean, the sordid; to overlook the inadequate; to build the city as it was sure
to be; and to concern himself with that and that only. He admired Mount Tamalpais over the
way. He was taken up a high hill--a laborious journey--to gaze on the spot where he would have
been able to see Mount Diabolo, if only Mount Diabolo had been visible. And every few blocks
he was halted and made to shake hands with some one who was always immediately characterized
to him impressively, under the breath--"Colonel Baker, sir, one of the most divinely endowed
men with the gift of eloquence, sir"; "Mr. Rowlee, sir, editor of one of our leading journals";
"Judge Caldwell, sir at present one of the ornaments of our bench"; "Mr. Ben Sansome, sir,
a leadin' young man in our young but vigorous social life"; and so on.

These introductions safely and ceremoniously accomplished, each newcomer insisted on leading
the way to the nearest bar.

"I insist, sir. It is just the hour for my afternoon toddy."

After some murmuring of expostulation, the invitation was invariably accepted.

There was always a barroom immediately adjacent. Keith was struck by the number and splendour
of these places. Although San Francisco was only three years removed from the tent stage, and
although the freightage from the centres of civilization was appalling, there was no lack of
luxury. In addition, certain of the more pretentious boasted special attractions. Thus, one
place supported its ceiling on crystal pillars; another--and this was crowded--had dashing
young women to serve the drinks, though the mixing was done by men; a third offered one of
the new large musical boxes capable of playing several very noisy tunes; a fourth had imported
a marvellous piece of mechanism: a piece of machinery run by clockwork, exhibiting the sea
in motion, a ship tossing on its bosom; on shore, a water mill in action, a train of cars passing
over a bridge, a deer chase with hounds, huntsmen, and game, all in pursuit or flight, and
the like. The barkeepers were marvels of dexterity and of especial knowledge. At command they
would deftly and skilfully mix a great variety of drinks--cocktails, sangarees, juleps, bounces,
swizzles, and many others. In mixing these drinks it was their especial pride to pass them
at arm's length from one tall glass to another, the fluid describing a long curve through the
air, but spilling never a drop.

In these places Keith pledged in turn each of his new acquaintances, and was pledged by them.
Never, he thought, had he met so jolly, so interesting, so experienced a lot of men. They had
not only lived history, they had made it. They were so full of high spirits and the spirit
of play. His heart warmed to them mightily; and over and over he told himself that he had made
no mistake in his long voyage to new fields of endeavour. On the other hand, he, too, made
a good impression. Naturally the numerous drinks had something to do with this mutual esteem;
but also it was a fact that his boyish, laughing, half-reckless spirit had much in common with
the spirit of the times. Quite accidentally he discovered that the tall, dark Southern youth
was Calhoun Bennett. This then seemed to him a remarkable coincidence.

"Why, I have a letter of introduction to you!" he said.

Again and again he recurred to this point, insisting on telling everybody how extraordinary
the situation was.

"Here I've been talking to him for three hours," he exclaimed, "and never knew who he was,
and all the time I had a letter of introduction to him!"

This and a warm irresponsible glow of comradeship were the sole indications of the drinks he
had had. Keith possessed a strong head. Some of the others were not so fortunate. Little Rowlee
was frankly verging on drunkenness.

The afternoon wind was beginning to die, and the wisps of high fog that had, since two o'clock,
been flying before it, now paused and forgathered to veil the sky. Dusk was falling.

"Look here," suggested Rowlee suddenly; "let's go to Allen's Branch and have a good dinner,
and then drift around to Belle's place and see if there's any excitement to be had thereabouts."

"Belle--our local Aspasia, sah," breathed a very elaborate, pompous, elderly Southerner, who
had been introduced as Major Marmaduke Miles.

But this suggestion brought to Keith a sudden realization of the lateness of the hour, the
duration of his absence, and the fact that, not only had he not yet settled his wife in rooms
of her own, but had left her on the hands of strangers. For the first time he noticed that
Sherwood was not of the party.

"When did Sherwood leave?" he cried.

"Oh, a right sma't time ago," said Bennett.

Keith started to his feet.

"I should like to join you," said he, "but it is impossible now."

A chorus of expostulation went up at this.

"But I haven't settled down yet!" persisted Keith. "I don't know even whether my baggage is
at the hotel."

They waived aside his objections; but finding him obdurate, perhaps a little panicky over the
situation, they gave over urging the point.

"But you must join us later in the evening," said they.

The idea grew.

"I tell you what," said Rowlee, with half-drunken gravity; "he's got to come back. We can't
afford to lose him this early. And he can't afford to lose us. The best life of this glorious
commonwealth is as yet a sealed book to him. It is our sacred duty, gentlemen, to break those
seals. What does he know of our temples of Terpsichore? Our altars to the gods of chance? Our
bowers of the Cyprians?"

He would have gone on at length, but Keith, laughingly protesting, trying to disengage himself
from the detaining hands, broke in with a promise to return. But little Rowlee was not satisfied.

"I think we should take no chances," he stated. "How would it be to appoint a committee to
'company him and see that he gets back?"

Keith's head was clear enough to realize with dismay that this brilliant idea was about to
take. But Ben Sansome, seizing the situation, locked his arm firmly in Keith's.

"I'll see personally that he gets back," said he.

V

"That was mighty good of you; you saved my life!" said Keith to him, gratefully, as they walked
up the street.

"You couldn't have that tribe of wild Indians descending on your wife," said Sansome. He had
kept pace with, the others, but showed it not at all. Sansome was a slender, languid, bored,
quiet sort of person, exceedingly well dressed in the height of fashion, speaking with a slight,
well-bred drawl, given to looking rather superciliously from beneath his fine eyelashes, almost
too good looking. He liked, or pretended he liked, to view life from the discriminating spectator's
standpoint; and remained unstirred by stirring events. He prided himself on the delicacy of
his social tact. In the natural course of evolution he would probably never marry, and would
become in time an "old beau," haunting ballrooms with reminiscences of old-time belles.

Keith, meeting the open air, began to feel his exhilaration.

"What I need is my head under a pump for about ten seconds," he told Sansome frankly. "Lord!
It was just about time I got away."

Arrived at the hotel, Sansome said good-bye, but Keith would have none of it.

"No, no!" he cried. "You must come in, now you've come so far! I want you to meet my wife;
she'll be delighted!"

And Sansome, whose celebrated social tact had been slightly obscured by his potations, finally
consented. Truth to tell, it would have been a little difficult for him to have got away. Poising
his light stick and gloves in his left hand, giving his drooping moustache a last twirl, and
settling his heavy cravat in place, he followed Keith down the little hall to the Sherwoods'
apartments.

At the knock Keith was at once invited to enter. The men threw open the door. Sansome stared
with all his might.

Nan Keith had made the usual miraculous recovery from seasickness once she felt the solid ground
beneath, her. The beautiful baby-textured skin had come alive with soft colour, her dark, wide,
liquid eyes had brightened. She had assumed a soft, silken, wrapperlike garment with, a wide
sash, borrowed from Mrs. Sherwood; and at the moment was seated in an enveloping armchair beneath
a wide-shaded lamp. The firm, soft lines of her figure, uncorseted in this negligee, were suggested
beneath the silk. Sansome stopped short, staring, his eyes kindling with, interest. Here was
something not only new but different--a distinct addition. Sansome, like most dilettantes,
was something of a phrase maker, and prided himself on the apt word. He found it here, to his
own satisfaction, at least.

"Her beauty is positively creamy!" he murmured to himself.

At sight of her Keith crossed directly to her, full of a sudden, engaging, tender solicitude.

"How are you feeling now, honey?" he inquired. "Quite recovered? All right now?"

