Campbell, the poet, was another early friend of our engineer; and the attachment seems to have
been mutual.  Writing to Dr. Currie, of Liverpool, in 1802, Campbell says: "I have become acquainted
with Telford the engineer, 'a fellow of infinite humour,' and of strong enterprising mind.
He has almost made me a bridge-builder already; at least he has inspired me with new sensations
of interest in the improvement and ornament of our country.  Have you seen his plan of London
Bridge? or his scheme for a new canal in the North Highlands, which will unite, if put in effect,
our Eastern and Atlantic commerce, and render Scotland the very emporium of navigation? Telford
is a most useful cicerone in London.  He is so universally acquainted, and so popular in his
manners, that he can introduce one to all kinds of novelty, and all descriptions of interesting
society."  Shortly after, Campbell named his first son after Telford, who stood godfather for
the boy.  Indeed, for many years, Telford played the part of Mentor to the young and impulsive
poet, advising him about his course in life, trying to keep him steady, and holding him aloof
as much as possible from the seductive allurements of the capital.  But it was a difficult
task, and Telford's numerous engagements necessarily left the poet at many seasons very much
to himself.  It appears that they were living together at the Salopian when Campbell composed
the first draft of his poem of Hohenlinden; and several important emendations made in it by
Telford were adopted by Campbell.  Although the two friends pursued different roads in life,
and for many years saw little of each other, they often met again, especially after Telford
took up his abode at his house in Abingdon Street, where Campbell was a frequent and always
a welcome guest.

When engaged upon his surveys, our engineer was the same simple, cheerful, laborious man. 
While at work, he gave his whole mind to the subject in hand, thinking of nothing else for
the time; dismissing it at the close of each day's work, but ready to take it up afresh with
the next day's duties.  This was a great advantage to him as respected the prolongation of
his working faculty.  He did not take his anxieties to bed with him, as many do, and rise up
with them in the morning; but he laid down the load at the end of each day, and resumed it
all the more cheerfully when refreshed and invigorated by natural rest, It was only while the
engrossing anxieties connected with the suspension of the chains of Menai Bridge were weighing
heavily upon his mind, that he could not sleep; and then, age having stolen upon him, he felt
the strain almost more than he could bear.  But that great anxiety once fairly over, his spirits
speedily resumed their wonted elasticity.

When engaged upon the construction of the Carlisle and Glasgow road, he was very fond of getting
a few of the "navvy men," as he called them, to join him at an ordinary at the Hamilton Arms
Hotel, Lanarkshire, each paying his own expenses.  On such occasions Telford would say that,
though he could not drink, yet he would carve and draw corks for them.  One of the rules he
laid down was that no business was to be introduced from the moment they sat down to dinner.
All at once, from being the plodding, hard-working engineer, with responsibility and thought
in every feature, Telford unbended and relaxed, and became the merriest and drollest of the
party.  He possessed a great fund of anecdote available for such occasions, had an extraordinary
memory for facts relating to persons and families, and the wonder to many of his auditors was,
how in all the world a man living in London should know so much better about their locality
and many of its oddities than they did themselves.

