It was snowing to purpose, the country all white, and ourselves walking snowdrifts, when the
first glimmer of the morning showed us an inn upon the highwayside.  Some distance off, under
the shelter of a corner of the road and a clump of trees, I loaded Rowley with the whole of
our possessions, and watched him till he staggered in safety into the doors of the Green Dragon,
which was the sign of the house.  Thence I walked briskly into Aylesbury, rejoicing in my freedom
and the causeless good spirits that belong to a snowy morning; though, to be sure, long before
I had arrived the snow had again ceased to fall, and the eaves of Aylesbury were smoking in
the level sun.  There was an accumulation of gigs and chaises in the yard, and a great bustle
going forward in the coffee-room and about the doors of the inn.  At these evidences of so
much travel on the road I was seized with a misgiving lest it should be impossible to get horses,
and I should be detained in the precarious neighbourhood of my cousin.  Hungry as I was, I
made my way first of all to the postmaster, where he stood--a big, athletic, horsey-looking
man, blowing into a key in the corner of the yard.

On my making my modest request, he awoke from his indifference into what seemed passion.

'A po'-shay and 'osses!' he cried.  'Do I look as if I 'ad a po'- shay and 'osses?  Damn me,
if I 'ave such a thing on the premises. I don't MAKE 'osses and chaises--I 'IRE 'em.  You might
be God Almighty!' said he; and instantly, as if he had observed me for the first time, he broke
off, and lowered his voice into the confidential.  'Why, now that I see you are a gentleman,'
said he, 'I'll tell you what!  If you like to BUY, I have the article to fit you.  Second-'and
shay by Lycett, of London.  Latest style; good as new.  Superior fittin's, net on the roof,
baggage platform, pistol 'olsters--the most com-plete and the most gen-teel turn-out I ever
see!  The 'ole for seventy-five pound!  It's as good as givin' her away!'

'Do you propose I should trundle it myself, like a hawker's barrow?' said I.  'Why, my good
man, if I had to stop here, anyway, I should prefer to buy a house and garden!'

'Come and look at her!' he cried; and, with the word, links his arm in mine and carries me
to the outhouse where the chaise was on view.

It was just the sort of chaise that I had dreamed of for my purpose:  eminently rich, inconspicuous,
and genteel; for, though I thought the postmaster no great authority, I was bound to agree
with him so far.  The body was painted a dark claret, and the wheels an invisible green.  The
lamp and glasses were bright as silver; and the whole equipage had an air of privacy and reserve
that seemed to repel inquiry and disarm suspicion.  With a servant like Rowley, and a chaise
like this, I felt that I could go from the Land's End to John o' Groat's House amid a population
of bowing ostlers.  And I suppose I betrayed in my manner the degree in which the bargain tempted
me.

'Come,' cried the postmaster--'I'll make it seventy, to oblige a friend!'

'The point is:  the horses,' said I.

'Well,' said he, consulting his watch, 'it's now gone the 'alf after eight.  What time do you
want her at the door?'

'Horses and all?' said I.

''Osses and all!' says he.  'One good turn deserves another.  You give me seventy pound for
the shay, and I'll 'oss it for you.  I told you I didn't MAKE 'osses; but I CAN make 'em, to
oblige a friend.'

What would you have?  It was not the wisest thing in the world to buy a chaise within a dozen
miles of my uncle's house; but in this way I got my horses for the next stage.  And by any
other it appeared that I should have to wait.  Accordingly I paid the money down--perhaps twenty
pounds too much, though it was certainly a well-made and well-appointed vehicle--ordered it
round in half an hour, and proceeded to refresh myself with breakfast.

The table to which I sat down occupied the recess of a bay-window, and commanded a view of
the front of the inn, where I continued to be amused by the successive departures of travellers--the
fussy and the offhand, the niggardly and the lavish--all exhibiting their different characters
in that diagnostic moment of the farewell: some escorted to the stirrup or the chaise door
by the chamberlain, the chambermaids and the waiters almost in a body, others moving off under
a cloud, without human countenance.  In the course of this I became interested in one for whom
this ovation began to assume the proportions of a triumph; not only the under-servants, but
the barmaid, the landlady, and my friend the postmaster himself, crowding about the steps to
speed his departure.  I was aware, at the same time, of a good deal of merriment, as though
the traveller were a man of a ready wit, and not too dignified to air it in that society. 
I leaned forward with a lively curiosity; and the next moment I had blotted myself behind the
teapot.  The popular traveller had turned to wave a farewell; and behold! he was no other than
my cousin Alain.  It was a change of the sharpest from the angry, pallid man I had seen at
Amersham Place.  Ruddy to a fault, illuminated with vintages, crowned with his curls like Bacchus,
he now stood before me for an instant, the perfect master of himself, smiling with airs of
conscious popularity and insufferable condescension.  He reminded me at once of a royal duke,
or an actor turned a little elderly, and of a blatant bagman who should have been the illegitimate
son of a gentleman.  A moment after he was gliding noiselessly on the road to London.

I breathed again.  I recognised, with heartfelt gratitude, how lucky I had been to go in by
the stable-yard instead of the hostelry door, and what a fine occasion of meeting my cousin
I had lost by the purchase of the claret-coloured chaise!  The next moment I remembered that
there was a waiter present.  No doubt but he must have observed me when I crouched behind the
breakfast equipage; no doubt but he must have commented on this unusual and undignified behaviour;
and it was essential that I should do something to remove the impression.

'Waiter!' said I, 'that was the nephew of Count Carwell that just drove off, wasn't it?'

'Yes, sir:  Viscount Carwell we calls him,' he replied.

'Ah, I thought as much,' said I.  'Well, well, damn all these Frenchmen, say I!'

'You may say so indeed, sir,' said the waiter.  'They ain't not to say in the same field with
our 'ome-raised gentry.'

'Nasty tempers?' I suggested.

'Beas'ly temper, sir, the Viscount 'ave,' said the waiter with feeling.  'Why, no longer agone
than this morning, he was sitting breakfasting and reading in his paper.  I suppose, sir, he
come on some pilitical information, or it might be about 'orses, but he raps his 'and upon
the table sudden and calls for curacoa.  It gave me quite a turn, it did; he did it that sudden
and 'ard.  Now, sir, that may be manners in France, but hall I can say is, that I'm not used
to it.'

'Reading the paper, was he?' said I.  'What paper, eh?'

'Here it is, sir,' exclaimed the waiter.  'Seems like as if he'd dropped it.'

And picking it off the floor he presented it to me.

I may say that I was quite prepared, that I already knew what to expect; but at sight of the
cold print my heart stopped beating. There it was:  the fulfilment of Romaine's apprehension
was before me; the paper was laid open at the capture of Clausel.  I felt as if I could take
a little curacoa myself, but on second thoughts called for brandy.  It was badly wanted; and
suddenly I observed the waiter's eye to sparkle, as it were, with some recognition; made certain
he had remarked the resemblance between me and Alain; and became aware--as by a revelation--of
the fool's part I had been playing.  For I had now managed to put my identification beyond
a doubt, if Alain should choose to make his inquiries at Aylesbury; and, as if that were not
enough, I had added, at an expense of seventy pounds, a clue by which he might follow me through
the length and breadth of England, in the shape of the claret-coloured chaise!  That elegant
equipage (which I began to regard as little better than a claret-coloured ante-room to the
hangman's cart) coming presently to the door, I left my breakfast in the middle and departed;
posting to the north as diligently as my cousin Alain was posting to the south, and putting
my trust (such as it was) in an opposite direction and equal speed.

CHAPTER XXII--CHARACTER AND ACQUIREMENTS OF MR.  ROWLEY

I am not certain that I had ever really appreciated before that hour the extreme peril of the
adventure on which I was embarked. The sight of my cousin, the look of his face--so handsome,
so jovial at the first sight, and branded with so much malignity as you saw it on the second--with
his hyperbolical curls in order, with his neckcloth tied as if for the conquests of love, setting
forth (as I had no doubt in the world he was doing) to clap the Bow Street runners on my trail,
and cover England with handbills, each dangerous as a loaded musket, convinced me for the first
time that the affair was no less serious than death.  I believe it came to a near touch whether
I should not turn the horses' heads at the next stage and make directly for the coast.  But
I was now in the position of a man who should have thrown his gage into the den of lions; or,
better still, like one who should have quarrelled overnight under the influence of wine, and
now, at daylight, in a cold winter's morning, and humbly sober, must make good his words. It
is not that I thought any the less, or any the less warmly, of Flora.  But, as I smoked a grim
segar that morning in a corner of the chaise, no doubt I considered, in the first place, that
the letter-post had been invented, and admitted privately to myself, in the second, that it
would have been highly possible to write her on a piece of paper, seal it, and send it skimming
by the mail, instead of going personally into these egregious dangers, and through a country
that I beheld crowded with gibbets and Bow Street officers.  As for Sim and Candlish, I doubt
if they crossed my mind.

At the Green Dragon Rowley was waiting on the doorsteps with the luggage, and really was bursting
with unpalatable conversation.

'Who do you think we've 'ad 'ere, sir?' he began breathlessly, as the chaise drove off.  'Red
Breasts'; and he nodded his head portentously.

'Red Breasts?' I repeated, for I stupidly did not understand at the moment an expression I
had often heard.

'Ah!' said he.  'Red weskits.  Runners.  Bow Street runners.  Two on' em, and one was Lavender
himself!  I hear the other say quite plain, "Now, Mr. Lavender, IF you're ready."  They was
breakfasting as nigh me as I am to that postboy.  They're all right; they ain't after us. 
It's a forger; and I didn't send them off on a false scent--O no!  I thought there was no use
in having them over our way; so I give them "very valuable information," Mr. Lavender said,
and tipped me a tizzy for myself; and they're off to Luton.  They showed me the 'andcuffs,
too--the other one did--and he clicked the dratted things on my wrist; and I tell you, I believe
I nearly went off in a swound!  There's something so beastly in the feel of them! Begging your
pardon, Mr. Anne,' he added, with one of his delicious changes from the character of the confidential
schoolboy into that of the trained, respectful servant.

Well, I must not be proud!  I cannot say I found the subject of handcuffs to my fancy; and
it was with more asperity than was needful that I reproved him for the slip about the name.

'Yes, Mr. Ramornie,' says he, touching his hat.  'Begging your pardon, Mr. Ramornie.  But I've
been very piticular, sir, up to now; and you may trust me to be very piticular in the future.
It were only a slip, sir.'

'My good boy,' said I, with the most imposing severity, 'there must be no slips.  Be so good
as to remember that my life is at stake.'

I did not embrace the occasion of telling him how many I had made myself.  It is my principle
that an officer must never be wrong.  I have seen two divisions beating their brains out for
a fortnight against a worthless and quite impregnable castle in a pass:  I knew we were only
doing it for discipline, because the General had said so at first, and had not yet found any
way out of his own words; and I highly admired his force of character, and throughout these
operations thought my life exposed in a very good cause.  With fools and children, which included
Rowley, the necessity was even greater.  I proposed to myself to be infallible; and even when
he expressed some wonder at the purchase of the claret-coloured chaise, I put him promptly
in his place.  In our situation, I told him, everything had to be sacrificed to appearances;
doubtless, in a hired chaise, we should have had more freedom, but look at the dignity!  I
was so positive, that I had sometimes almost convinced myself.  Not for long, you may be certain!
This detestable conveyance always appeared to me to be laden with Bow Street officers, and
to have a placard upon the back of it publishing my name and crimes.  If I had paid seventy
pounds to get the thing, I should not have stuck at seven hundred to be safely rid of it.

And if the chaise was a danger, what an anxiety was the despatch- box and its golden cargo!
I had never had a care but to draw my pay and spend it; I had lived happily in the regiment,
as in my father's house, fed by the great Emperor's commissariat as by ubiquitous doves of
Elijah--or, my faith! if anything went wrong with the commissariat, helping myself with the
best grace in the world from the next peasant!  And now I began to feel at the same time the
burthen of riches and the fear of destitution.  There were ten thousand pounds in the despatch-box,
but I reckoned in French money, and had two hundred and fifty thousand agonies; I kept it under
my hand all day, I dreamed of it at night.  In the inns, I was afraid to go to dinner and afraid
to go to sleep.  When I walked up a hill I durst not leave the doors of the claret-coloured
chaise.  Sometimes I would change the disposition of the funds: there were days when I carried
as much as five or six thousand pounds on my own person, and only the residue continued to
voyage in the treasure-chest--days when I bulked all over like my cousin, crackled to a touch
with bank paper, and had my pockets weighed to bursting-point with sovereigns.  And there were
other days when I wearied of the thing--or grew ashamed of it--and put all the money back where
it had come from:  there let it take its chance, like better people!  In short, I set Rowley
a poor example of consistency, and in philosophy, none at all.

Little he cared!  All was one to him so long as he was amused, and I never knew any one amused
more easily.  He was thrillingly interested in life, travel, and his own melodramatic position.
All day he would be looking from the chaise windows with ebullitions of gratified curiosity,
that were sometimes justified and sometimes not, and that (taken altogether) it occasionally
wearied me to be obliged to share.  I can look at horses, and I can look at trees too, although
not fond of it.  But why should I look at a lame horse, or a tree that was like the letter
Y?  What exhilaration could I feel in viewing a cottage that was the same colour as 'the second
from the miller's' in some place where I had never been, and of which I had not previously
heard?  I am ashamed to complain, but there were moments when my juvenile and confidential
friend weighed heavy on my hands.  His cackle was indeed almost continuous, but it was never
unamiable.  He showed an amiable curiosity when he was asking questions; an amiable guilelessness
when he was conferring information.  And both he did largely.  I am in a position to write
the biographies of Mr. Rowley, Mr. Rowley's father and mother, his Aunt Eliza, and the miller's
dog; and nothing but pity for the reader, and some misgivings as to the law of copyright, prevail
on me to withhold them.

A general design to mould himself upon my example became early apparent, and I had not the
heart to check it.  He began to mimic my carriage; he acquired, with servile accuracy, a little
manner I had of shrugging the shoulders; and I may say it was by observing it in him that I
first discovered it in myself.  One day it came out by chance that I was of the Catholic religion.
He became plunged in thought, at which I was gently glad.  Then suddenly -

'Odd-rabbit it!  I'll be Catholic too!' he broke out.  'You must teach me it, Mr. Anne--I mean,
Ramornie.'

I dissuaded him:  alleging that he would find me very imperfectly informed as to the grounds
and doctrines of the Church, and that, after all, in the matter of religions, it was a very
poor idea to change.  'Of course, my Church is the best,' said I; 'but that is not the reason
why I belong to it:  I belong to it because it was the faith of my house.  I wish to take my
chances with my own people, and so should you.  If it is a question of going to hell, go to
hell like a gentleman with your ancestors.'

'Well, it wasn't that,' he admitted.  'I don't know that I was exactly thinking of hell.  Then
there's the inquisition, too. That's rather a cawker, you know.'

'And I don't believe you were thinking of anything in the world,' said I--which put a period
to his respectable conversion.

He consoled himself by playing for awhile on a cheap flageolet, which was one of his diversions,
and to which I owed many intervals of peace.  When he first produced it, in the joints, from
his pocket, he had the duplicity to ask me if I played upon it.  I answered, no; and he put
the instrument away with a sigh and the remark that he had thought I might.  For some while
he resisted the unspeakable temptation, his fingers visibly itching and twittering about his
pocket, even his interest in the landscape and in sporadic anecdote entirely lost.  Presently
the pipe was in his hands again; he fitted, unfitted, refitted, and played upon it in dumb
show for some time.

'I play it myself a little,' says he.

'Do you?' said I, and yawned.

And then he broke down.

'Mr. Ramornie, if you please, would it disturb you, sir, if I was to play a chune?' he pleaded.
And from that hour, the tootling of the flageolet cheered our way.

He was particularly keen on the details of battles, single combats, incidents of scouting parties,
and the like.  These he would make haste to cap with some of the exploits of Wallace, the only
hero with whom he had the least acquaintance.  His enthusiasm was genuine and pretty.  When
he learned we were going to Scotland, 'Well, then,' he broke out, 'I'll see where Wallace lived!'
And presently after, he fell to moralising.  'It's a strange thing, sir,' he began, 'that I
seem somehow to have always the wrong sow by the ear.  I'm English after all, and I glory in
it.  My eye! don't I, though!  Let some of your Frenchies come over here to invade, and you'll
see whether or not!  Oh, yes, I'm English to the backbone, I am.  And yet look at me!  I got
hold of this 'ere William Wallace and took to him right off; I never heard of such a man before!
And then you came along, and I took to you.  And both the two of you were my born enemies!
I--I beg your pardon, Mr. Ramornie, but would you mind it very much if you didn't go for to
do anything against England'--he brought the word out suddenly, like something hot--'when I
was along of you?'

I was more affected than I can tell.

'Rowley,' I said, 'you need have no fear.  By how much I love my own honour, by so much I will
take care to protect yours.  We are but fraternising at the outposts, as soldiers do.  When
the bugle calls, my boy, we must face each other, one for England, one for France, and may
God defend the right!'

So I spoke at the moment; but for all my brave airs, the boy had wounded me in a vital quarter.
His words continued to ring in my hearing.  There was no remission all day of my remorseful
thoughts; and that night (which we lay at Lichfield, I believe) there was no sleep for me in
my bed.  I put out the candle and lay down with a good resolution; and in a moment all was
light about me like a theatre, and I saw myself upon the stage of it playing ignoble parts.
I remembered France and my Emperor, now depending on the arbitrament of war, bent down, fighting
on their knees and with their teeth against so many and such various assailants.  And I burned
with shame to be here in England, cherishing an English fortune, pursuing an English mistress,
and not there, to handle a musket in my native fields, and to manure them with my body if I
fell.  I remembered that I belonged to France.  All my fathers had fought for her, and some
had died; the voice in my throat, the sight of my eyes, the tears that now sprang there, the
whole man of me, was fashioned of French earth and born of a French mother; I had been tended
and caressed by a succession of the daughters of France, the fairest, the most ill-starred;
and I had fought and conquered shoulder to shoulder with her sons.  A soldier, a noble, of
the proudest and bravest race in Europe, it had been left to the prattle of a hobbledehoy lackey
in an English chaise to recall me to the consciousness of duty.

When I saw how it was I did not lose time in indecision.  The old classical conflict of love
and honour being once fairly before me, it did not cost me a thought.  I was a Saint-Yves de
Keroual; and I decided to strike off on the morrow for Wakefield and Burchell Fenn, and embark,
as soon as it should be morally possible, for the succour of my downtrodden fatherland and
my beleaguered Emperor. Pursuant on this resolve, I leaped from bed, made a light, and as the
watchman was crying half-past two in the dark streets of Lichfield, sat down to pen a letter
of farewell to Flora.  And then--whether it was the sudden chill of the night, whether it came
by association of ideas from the remembrance of Swanston Cottage I know not, but there appeared
before me--to the barking of sheep- dogs--a couple of snuffy and shambling figures, each wrapped
in a plaid, each armed with a rude staff; and I was immediately bowed down to have forgotten
them so long, and of late to have thought of them so cavalierly.

Sure enough there was my errand!  As a private person I was neither French nor English; I was
something else first:  a loyal gentleman, an honest man.  Sim and Candlish must not be left
to pay the penalty of my unfortunate blow.  They held my honour tacitly pledged to succour
them; and it is a sort of stoical refinement entirely foreign to my nature to set the political
obligation above the personal and private.  If France fell in the interval for the lack of
Anne de St.-Yves, fall she must!  But I was both surprised and humiliated to have had so plain
a duty bound upon me for so long--and for so long to have neglected and forgotten it.  I think
any brave man will understand me when I say that I went to bed and to sleep with a conscience
very much relieved, and woke again in the morning with a light heart.  The very danger of the
enterprise reassured me:  to save Sim and Candlish (suppose the worst to come to the worst)
it would be necessary for me to declare myself in a court of justice, with consequences which
I did not dare to dwell upon; it could never be said that I had chosen the cheap and the easy--only
that in a very perplexing competition of duties I had risked my life for the most immediate.

We resumed the journey with more diligence:  thenceforward posted day and night; did not halt
beyond what was necessary for meals; and the postillions were excited by gratuities, after
the habit of my cousin Alain.  For twopence I could have gone farther and taken four horses;
so extreme was my haste, running as I was before the terrors of an awakened conscience.  But
I feared to be conspicuous. Even as it was, we attracted only too much attention, with our
pair and that white elephant, the seventy-pounds-worth of claret- coloured chaise.

Meanwhile I was ashamed to look Rowley in the face.  The young shaver had contrived to put
me wholly in the wrong; he had cost me a night's rest and a severe and healthful humiliation;
and I was grateful and embarrassed in his society.  This would never do; it was contrary to
all my ideas of discipline; if the officer has to blush before the private, or the master before
the servant, nothing is left to hope for but discharge or death.  I hit upon the idea of teaching
him French; and accordingly, from Lichfield, I became the distracted master, and he the scholar--how
shall I say? indefatigable, but uninspired.  His interest never flagged.  He would hear the
same word twenty times with profound refreshment, mispronounce it in several different ways,
and forget it again with magical celerity.  Say it happened to be STIRRUP.  'No, I don't seem
to remember that word, Mr. Anne,' he would say:  'it don't seem to stick to me, that word don't.'
And then, when I had told it him again, 'Etrier!' he would cry.  'To be sure!  I had it on
the tip of my tongue.  Eterier!' (going wrong already, as if by a fatal instinct).  'What will
I remember it by, now?  Why, INTERIOR, to be sure!  I'll remember it by its being something
that ain't in the interior of a horse.'  And when next I had occasion to ask him the French
for stirrup, it was a toss-up whether he had forgotten all about it, or gave me EXTERIOR for
an answer.  He was never a hair discouraged.  He seemed to consider that he was covering the
ground at a normal rate.  He came up smiling day after day.  'Now, sir, shall we do our French?'
he would say; and I would put questions, and elicit copious commentary and explanation, but
never the shadow of an answer.  My hands fell to my sides; I could have wept to hear him. 
When I reflected that he had as yet learned nothing, and what a vast deal more there was for
him to learn, the period of these lessons seemed to unroll before me vast as eternity, and
I saw myself a teacher of a hundred, and Rowley a pupil of ninety, still hammering on the rudiments!
The wretched boy, I should say, was quite unspoiled by the inevitable familiarities of the
journey.  He turned out at each stage the pink of serving-lads, deft, civil, prompt, attentive,
touching his hat like an automaton, raising the status of Mr. Ramornie in the eyes of all the
inn by his smiling service, and seeming capable of anything in the world but the one thing
I had chosen--learning French!

CHAPTER XXIII--THE ADVENTURE OF THE RUNAWAY COUPLE

The country had for some time back been changing in character.  By a thousand indications I
could judge that I was again drawing near to Scotland.  I saw it written in the face of the
hills, in the growth of the trees, and in the glint of the waterbrooks that kept the high-road
company.  It might have occurred to me, also, that I was, at the same time, approaching a place
of some fame in Britain- -Gretna Green.  Over these same leagues of road--which Rowley and
I now traversed in the claret-coloured chaise, to the note of the flageolet and the French
lesson--how many pairs of lovers had gone bowling northwards to the music of sixteen scampering
horseshoes; and how many irate persons, parents, uncles, guardians, evicted rivals, had come
tearing after, clapping the frequent red face to the chaise-window, lavishly shedding their
gold about the post- houses, sedulously loading and re-loading, as they went, their avenging
pistols!  But I doubt if I had thought of it at all, before a wayside hazard swept me into
the thick of an adventure of this nature; and I found myself playing providence with other
people's lives, to my own admiration at the moment--and subsequently to my own brief but passionate
regret.

At rather an ugly corner of an uphill reach I came on the wreck of a chaise lying on one side
in the ditch, a man and a woman in animated discourse in the middle of the road, and the two
postillions, each with his pair of horses, looking on and laughing from the saddle.

'Morning breezes! here's a smash!' cried Rowley, pocketing his flageolet in the middle of the
Tight Little Island.

I was perhaps more conscious of the moral smash than the physical-- more alive to broken hearts
than to broken chaises; for, as plain as the sun at morning, there was a screw loose in this
runaway match.  It is always a bad sign when the lower classes laugh: their taste in humour
is both poor and sinister; and for a man, running the posts with four horses, presumably with
open pockets, and in the company of the most entrancing little creature conceivable, to have
come down so far as to be laughed at by his own postillions, was only to be explained on the
double hypothesis, that he was a fool and no gentleman.

I have said they were man and woman.  I should have said man and child.  She was certainly
not more than seventeen, pretty as an angel, just plump enough to damn a saint, and dressed
in various shades of blue, from her stockings to her saucy cap, in a kind of taking gamut,
the top note of which she flung me in a beam from her too appreciative eye.  There was no doubt
about the case:  I saw it all.  From a boarding-school, a black-board, a piano, and Clementi's
Sonatinas, the child had made a rash adventure upon life in the company of a half-bred hawbuck;
and she was already not only regretting it, but expressing her regret with point and pungency.

As I alighted they both paused with that unmistakable air of being interrupted in a scene.
I uncovered to the lady and placed my services at their disposal.

It was the man who answered.  'There's no use in shamming, sir,' said he.  'This lady and I
have run away, and her father's after us:  road to Gretna, sir.  And here have these nincompoops
spilt us in the ditch and smashed the chaise!'

'Very provoking,' said I.

'I don't know when I've been so provoked!' cried he, with a glance down the road, of mortal terror.

'The father is no doubt very much incensed?' I pursued civilly.

'O God!' cried the hawbuck.  'In short, you see, we must get out of this.  And I'll tell you
what--it may seem cool, but necessity has no law--if you would lend us your chaise to the next
post-house, it would be the very thing, sir.'

'I confess it seems cool,' I replied.

'What's that you say, sir?' he snapped.

'I was agreeing with you,' said I.  'Yes, it does seem cool; and what is more to the point,
it seems unnecessary.  This thing can be arranged in a more satisfactory manner otherwise,
I think.  You can doubtless ride?'

This opened a door on the matter of their previous dispute, and the fellow appeared life-sized
in his true colours.  'That's what I've been telling her:  that, damn her! she must ride!'
he broke out. 'And if the gentleman's of the same mind, why, damme, you shall!'

As he said so, he made a snatch at her wrist, which she evaded with horror.

I stepped between them.

'No, sir,' said I; 'the lady shall not.'

He turned on me raging.  'And who are you to interfere?' he roared.

'There is here no question of who I am,' I replied.  'I may be the devil or the Archbishop
of Canterbury for what you know, or need know.  The point is that I can help you--it appears
that nobody else can; and I will tell you how I propose to do it.  I will give the lady a seat
in my chaise, if you will return the compliment by allowing my servant to ride one of your horses.'

I thought he would have sprung at my throat.

'You have always the alternative before you:  to wait here for the arrival of papa,' I added.

And that settled him.  He cast another haggard look down the road, and capitulated.

'I am sure, sir, the lady is very much obliged to you,' he said, with an ill grace.

I gave her my hand; she mounted like a bird into the chaise; Rowley, grinning from ear to ear,
closed the door behind us; the two impudent rascals of post-boys cheered and laughed aloud
as we drove off; and my own postillion urged his horses at once into a rattling trot.  It was
plain I was supposed by all to have done a very dashing act, and ravished the bride from the
ravisher.

In the meantime I stole a look at the little lady.  She was in a state of pitiable discomposure,
and her arms shook on her lap in her black lace mittens.

'Madam--' I began.

And she, in the same moment, finding her voice:  'O, what you must think of me!'

'Madam,' said I, 'what must any gentleman think when he sees youth, beauty and innocence in
distress?  I wish I could tell you that I was old enough to be your father; I think we must
give that up,' I continued, with a smile.  'But I will tell you something about myself which
ought to do as well, and to set that little heart at rest in my society.  I am a lover.  May
I say it of myself--for I am not quite used to all the niceties of English--that I am a true
lover?  There is one whom I admire, adore, obey; she is no less good than she is beautiful;
if she were here, she would take you to her arms:  conceive that she has sent me--that she
has said to me, "Go, be her knight!"'

'O, I know she must be sweet, I know she must be worthy of you!' cried the little lady.  'She
would never forget female decorum--nor make the terrible erratum I've done!'

And at this she lifted up her voice and wept.

This did not forward matters:  it was in vain that I begged her to be more composed and to
tell me a plain, consecutive tale of her misadventures; but she continued instead to pour forth
the most extraordinary mixture of the correct school miss and the poor untutored little piece
of womanhood in a false position--of engrafted pedantry and incoherent nature.

'I am certain it must have been judicial blindness,' she sobbed. 'I can't think how I didn't
see it, but I didn't; and he isn't, is he?  And then a curtain rose . . . O, what a moment
was that!  But I knew at once that YOU WERE; you had but to appear from your carriage, and
I knew it, O, she must be a fortunate young lady! And I have no fear with you, none--a perfect
confidence.'

'Madam,' said I, 'a gentleman.'

'That's what I mean--a gentleman,' she exclaimed.  'And he--and that--HE isn't.  O, how shall
I dare meet father!'  And disclosing to me her tear-stained face, and opening her arms with
a tragic gesture:  'And I am quite disgraced before all the young ladies, my school-companions!'
she added.

'O, not so bad as that!' I cried.  'Come, come, you exaggerate, my dear Miss--?  Excuse me
if I am too familiar:  I have not yet heard your name.'

