The heavy rains confined us for days to the shelter of tent and wagon; but the days were nothing
to the nights, which on the banks of the Sacramento are almost equinoctial throughout the year;
and we had neither coal nor candle. All the fuel that could be found was rather too little
for culinary purposes. Concerning the rest of our comforts, there is no use in being particular;
but at intervals between the drowning showers, we were willing enough to come out and work,
though the muddy soil and the swollen river made our labour still harder, and our profits less.
The best service was done us by an honest Paisley weaver, who had left his helpmate and two
children at San Francisco, in hopes of taking back, quite full, a strong chest, of some two
hundredweight capacity, which he had brought with infinite pains to the diggings. He enlivened
our wet leisure by repeating whole volumes of Burns and Scott. Bill also returned to his wonderful
stories, though the captain and mate sneered at them more than ever; indeed, they were by far
the most discontented of the company, and an unaccountable sort of distrust seemed growing
between them and Bill. At length, fever and ague began to thin the ranks of the gold-seekers;
we saw the working-parties around us diminish day by day, and graves dug in the shadows of
the low coppice. Our company kept lip amazingly, perhaps because, according to the captain's
counsel, we held but little communication with other workers; but the want of the buffalo-meat,
which the Indian traders were accustomed to bring, was much felt among us; and one day less
rainy than usual, Bill Williams, as the idlest, was sent up the river's bank, on their wonted
track, to look out for their coming. The rest were busy, and did not miss him; but I thought
he stayed long. The sky became unusually dark; great clouds floated over us from the west,
and then broke with a sudden thunder-crash, which was renewed every five minutes with such
rain and lightning as I had never seen. We ran to our tents, and, when fairly sheltered, Bill
also arrived, wet to the skin, out of breath, and looking terribly frightened. He said, hastily,
that he had seen nothing, and no word of the Indians; but the poor fellow began to shiver as
he spoke, and before evening the fever was strong upon him.

To keep the rest safe, he was quartered alone in a small hut which the Americans had left us.
It was a poor shelter, being built of turf, and roofed with boughs and grass, but as good as
any we had. There was no surgeon among us, and handing him food or drink was deemed a perilous
business; but all his comrades had a sort of a liking for Bill, and, besides, he was regarded
as the palladium of the party. The fever was not violent, though Bill raved at times, and all
his wanderings were after gold. I have heard him talk for half-hours together in a loud whisper,
as if communicating a secret to some very dull car, concerning a pool among rocks, with glistening
sands, and something shining far down in a crevice. He was restless, too, and kept looking
out on the track of the Indians after they had come and gone. One evening I observed him particularly
so. The night fell with heavy rain; we all took early to shelter, and slept so soundly, that
Bill was forgotten among us; but in the morning we found him lying wrapped in his blanket,
as thoroughly wet as if he had been dipped in the river, while the hut remained quite dry.
Where he had been, or under what illusion of the fever, we could not learn, for he never spoke
a rational word after. The wet and exposure increased his malady tenfold. He became fiercely
delirious, and struck at whoever approached him, swearing he would let nobody kill him for
his gold. The captain warned us all, that this was the most dangerous time for infection; but
I saw that he and his brother had got wind of something, for their eyes were never off the hut.

Towards the second evening, Bill grew worse, his ravings became faint and low, and he lay gathered
up on a corner of his mattress. I had placed a pitcher of water as near him as possible, escaping
by chance a blow which the poor soul struck at me in his feverish fury; but I could not help
thinking of him when we had all gone to rest. The night was so still, that I could hear the
rush of the river and the cries of the night-hawks on its opposite bank; but being unable to
sleep, I crept out of the tent, and looked to Bill's hut. A smothered sound of scuffling came
from that direction, and stepping nearer, I saw by the rising moon, which just then shone with
extraordinary brightness, two men struggling, as it seemed for life, in the narrow space between
Bill's bed and the door.

'If you don't give me the full half, I'll tell them all,' said the voice of the captain's brother;
but almost as he spoke, his antagonist threw him heavily back. I knew it was upon poor Williams,
for a low moan reached my ear, and I sprang forward just in time to intercept the victor, who
stumbled over me as he rushed out, and a heavy bag rolled from him. The next moment the other
was at my side, and I stood face to face with the captain and his brother in the broad moonlight.
The bag for which they had sneaked, and sinned, and scuffled, had burst by the fall, and its
contents--stones, gravel, and sand, with some small sparkles of gold-dust amongst them--were
scattered at my feet. Both stood stupefied, and I stepped into the hut; but Bill was dead,
and growing cold, with his stiff hands stretched out, as if clutching at something, and a wild
expression of pain and anger in the ghastly face, which lay turned up to the moon. Her light
filled the hut, and lay upon plain, and tent, and river. It was a glorious night, such as sometimes
shines in the gold-country. I woke up my comrades, and told them what I had seen, but they
all said: 'Poor Bill! How could they help it? and it was a good thing that the captain and
his chum had been disappointed;' upon which every man composed himself again to sleep.

Next morning, the captain and mate were gone with all their traps, having joined, as we afterwards
heard, a company returning to San Francisco. We laid Bill beside the gold-seekers who rested
in the coppice, and our company broke up, and scattered away: some settled at San Francisco;
some went to the United States; and I, having collected through so many hardships almost a
pound of dust, returned to the employment I had left in London with such high contempt. From
an old comrade, however, still located at the diggings, I heard by letter that a party of Americans
had made a great discovery of gold among some rocks in a creek of the Sacramento, and that
they had found, sticking fast in a crevice close by, a small spade marked with the name of
Bill Williams, which the poor fellow had cut on the handle, as I well remembered, in one of
his many idle hours. This explained to me Bill's long absence when he went to look for the
Indians, his after-anxiety, and where he had been in the delirium of the fever, filling up
that canvas bag which so fatally deceived the captain and his brother. The last I heard of
these worthies was, that they had gone to the diggings in Australia; and I never see gold in
any shape without a recollection of their disappointment, and my own experiences in California.

HYGIENIC CHANGE OF AIR.

The age of hygiene is rapidly approaching, when the exhibition of drugs will be the exception
instead of the rule in medical treatment. For this reason, the effect of climate on disease
is rising into a subject of first-rate importance, and, no longer a prejudice or a tradition,
submits to the investigations of science. The chief recent writers on what we already presume
to call climatology, are Sir James Clark in England, Schouw in Sweden, and Carrière in France;
and now there comes Dr Burgess, armed with the united authority of these physicians, and with
his own experience, to indoctrinate the public as well as the profession. His book is of moderate
size and price, and we recommend it to all invalids, whether they are able to travel abroad,
or are confined by circumstances to their own country; but in the meantime, as the subject
is both new and interesting to general readers, we propose giving them an inkling of what it
contains.[2]

We do not mean that the subject of climate is new in itself: it is only new in its treatment.
We have all, from our earliest youth, heard of the effects of climate; we have all been brought
up to believe in certain foreign places; and we have all observed that when--consumption, for
instance--approaches its last stage (rarely before), it is shipped off, as a matter of course,
for Italy or the south of France. And, alas! we have all heard from the wan lips of the stricken
one excluded by poverty from the privilege of foreign travel: 'If I could but get to a warm
climate, I should live!' Such notions, right or wrong, depended exclusively upon habit or prejudice.
Experience had no effect upon them, any more than it had upon the orthodox course of medicines
which entitled the death of a patient to be considered professionally legitimate. Sometimes,
indeed, the venue was changed, and one place became more fashionable than another to die in.
Here the group of English tombs grew gray and ancient, and there a new city of the silent sprang
up with the suddenness of an American emporium. But still the cry was: 'A warm climate! Give
us Italy, or we perish!'

But we need not say the cry was: it continues to this moment. Such impressions are long of
being dispelled; it takes a great many years for the voice of doubt even to reach completely
the public ear; and we think it a privilege to be able to take such advantage of our wide circulation
as will give repining invalids to understand, that the advantages of a foreign climate are
closely limited by one portion of the profession, and considered by another portion as highly
problematical, if not entirely visionary. This applies, however, mainly to consumption; for
the advantages of the climatic change are seldom denied in dyspepsy, rheumatism, scrofula,
and the tribe of nervous diseases. Even in these, however, the locality chosen is rarely a
proper one. There are countries which, if they could only obtain the stamp of fashion, would
be invaluable to the invalid. 'The climate of Norway, for example,' says Dr Burgess, 'is admirably
suited, during several months of the year, between the middle of May and the middle of September,
for certain forms of dyspepsy, lesions of the nervous system affecting the mind, or that form
of general innervation which results from an overwrought brain, and diseases of repletion.
But Norway is little frequented, because it is not fashionable, although it would be difficult
to point out a more appropriate occasional residence for the numerous class of invalids just
mentioned, than Christiania, with its picturesque environs, sublime scenery, and clear and
rarefied atmosphere.'

The non-professional predilection in favour of a warm climate for consumption, may be referred,
we suspect, to the analogy that exists between the earlier stages of that disease and those
of a common cold. In fact, in most cases in this country, consumption is for a long time styled
a cold; then it becomes a bad cold; then a worse; till it is impossible to withhold from it
the more formidable name. A cold, however, it should be considered, occurs as frequently in
summer as in winter; and in neither is it owing to the temperature, whether high or low, but
to the atmospheric changes. The warmer the weather is, the greater will be the morbific effect
of a cold draught of air. That a warm climate in itself is neither prevention nor cure in consumption,
may be inferred from the prevalence of the complaint in all latitudes. In India and in Africa
it is as rife as in any part of Europe. By the Army Reports from Malta, we find that upwards
of 30 per cent. of the whole number of deaths throughout the year is caused by phthisis. In
Madeira, according to Dr Heineken, Dr Gourlay, and Dr Mason, no disease is more common among
the natives than pulmonary consumption. At Nice, it is stated by Dr Meryon, more natives die
annually of consumption than in any town in England of the same amount of population. In Genoa,
one of the most prevalent and fatal of the indigenous diseases is pulmonary consumption. In
Florence, pneumonia is marked by a suffocating character, and rapid progress towards its last
stage. In Naples, 1 death from consumption occurs in a mortality of 2-1/3; while in the hospitals
of Paris, where phthisis is notoriously prevalent, the proportion is only 1 in 3-1/4. In short,
in all the celebrated sanatoria to which we fly for relief, we find the disease as firmly established
as at home.

If we examine the analogies presented by the history of the inferior animals, we find no argument
in favour of a foreign climate. The fishes, birds, and wild beasts of one region, die in another.
'Man, although endowed in a remarkable degree, and more so than any other animal, with the
faculty of enduring such unnatural transitions, nevertheless becomes sensible of their injurious
results. For familiar illustrations of this influence, we have only to look to the broken-down
constitutions of our Indian officers, or to the emaciated frame of the shivering Hindoo who
sweeps the crossings of the streets of London. The child of the European, although born in
India, must be sent home in early life to the climate of his ancestors, or to one closely resembling
it, in order to escape incurable disease, if not premature death. Again, the offspring of Asiatics
born in this country pine and dwindle into one or other of the twin cachexiæ--scrofula and
consumption; and, if the individual survives, lives in a state of passive existence, stunted
in growth, and incapable of enduring fatigue. If such extreme changes of climate prove obnoxious
to the health of individuals having naturally a sound constitution, how are we to expect persons
in a state of organic disease to be thereby benefited? In fact, view the subject in whatever
light we may, we must eventually arrive at the natural and rational conclusion--that nature
has adapted the constitution of man to the climate of his ancestors. The accident of birth
does not constitute the title to any given climate. The natural climate of man is that in which
not only he himself was born, but likewise his blood-relations for several generations. This
is his natural climate, as well in health as when his constitution is broken down by positive
disease, or unhinged by long-continued neglect of the common rules of hygiene.' It is Dr Burgess's
theory, therefore, that when change is necessary, a modification of the patient's own climate--that
is to say, change of air in the same climate--is more in accordance with the laws of nature,
and more likely to effect good, than a violent transition to warmer countries.

With regard to the curability of this disease, there is now, we believe, no doubt of the fact,
although, unfortunately the process has not yet come completely into the hands of the physician.
That a cure has frequently taken place, somehow or other, even in advanced stages of pulmonary
consumption, has been demonstrated by post-mortem examinations; but nature herself seems, in
these cases, to have been her own doctor, for no mode of treatment of general applicability
has been discovered. Some think that the progress of tubercles may be arrested in the first
stage--others, that nothing can be effected till the second. Some resort to the water-cure--others,
to the still more marvellous Spanish baths of Panticosa; and others, again, swear by cod-liver
oil. As to the last remedy, our author quotes the statements of Dr Williams, 'that the pure
fresh oil from the liver of the cod is more beneficial in the treatment of pulmonary consumption
than any agent, medicinal, dietetic, or regimenal, that has yet been employed. Out of 234 cases
carefully recorded, the oil disagreed, and was discontinued, in only 9 instances. In 19, although
taken, it appeared to do no good; whilst in the larger proportion of 206 out of 234, its use
was followed by marked and unequivocal improvement--this improvement varying in degree in different
cases, from a temporary retardation of the progress of the disease, and a mitigation of distressing
symptoms, up to a more or less complete restoration to apparent health. The most numerous examples
of decided and lasting improvement, amounting to nearly 100, have occurred in patients in the
second stage of the disease, in which the tuberculous deposits begin to undergo the process
of softening. The most striking instance of the beneficial operation of cod-liver oil in phthisis,
is to be found in cases in the third stage--even those far advanced, where consumption has
not only excavated the lungs, but is rapidly wasting the whole body with copious purulent expectoration,
hectic, night-sweats, colliquative diarrhoea, and other elements of that destructive process
by which, in a few weeks, the finest and fairest of the human family may be sunk to the grave.
The power of staying the demon of destruction sometimes displayed by the cod-liver oil is marvellous.'
Dr Burgess, however, although witnessing the same results even in far-gone cases, limits their
duration to a year or eighteen months, after which the medicine lost its effect. Although the
oil, therefore, is serviceable through the process of nutrition, he considers it no specific,
and concludes on the subject thus: 'All that our present knowledge enables us to state positively
on the subject is this: cod-liver oil is the most effectual stay to the progress of consumption,
in a great majority of cases, that we possess; this salutary action is not always lasting,
and there are cases in which its administration cannot be borne, and others in which it produces
no good effects whatever. In those cases in which the stomach rejects the pure oil, if it be
given in combination with phosphoric acid, it will generally be borne easily, and the acid
will assist the tonic action of the oil.'

The non-professional notion respecting the curative powers of climate is, that by breathing
a mild and soothing atmosphere, the phthisical patient withdraws irritation, and leaves nature
at liberty to effect her own cure. But this, it seems, is entirely erroneous, inasmuch as it
is through the skin, not the lungs, that a warm climate acts beneficially. When an atmospheric
change takes place so as to produce a chill, 'whereby the cutaneous transpiration is instantly
checked, the skin then becomes dry and hard, so that the respiratory organs suffer from the
excessive action they now undergo, for the matter of transpiration must be eliminated through
the lungs if the action of the skin be interrupted.' This is illustrated by the instantaneous
relief usually afforded by free perspiration in cases where difficult breathing and oppression
of the chest have been occasioned by artificial heat. What really soothes, therefore, is equability
of climate, not high temperature. Some authors even think that a cold climate is more suitable
for consumption than a warm one, and point to Upper Canada, with its pure, dry, tonic atmosphere,
affording hardly any trace of the complaint at all.

