The colonel was on his feet, standing before Hendricks, with, his hands stretched toward the
younger man. Hendricks did not reply at once, and the colonel broke forth: "Bob Hendricks,
why did you and my little girl quarrel? Did she break it or did you? Did I sell her, Bob, did
I sell my little girl?" He slipped back into the chair and for a moment hid his face, and shook
with a great sob, then pulled himself together, and said, "I know I'm a foolish old man, Bob,
only I feel a good deal depends on knowing the truth--a good deal of my attitude toward him."

Hendricks looked at the colonel for an abstracted moment, and then said: "Colonel, Adrian Brownwell
is hard up--very hard up, and you don't know how he is suffering with chagrin at being beaten
by the Index. He is quick-tempered--just as you are, Colonel." He paused a moment and took
the colonel by the hand,--a fat, pink hand, without much iron in it,--and brought him to his
feet. "And about that other matter," he added, as he put his arm about the colonel, "you didn't
sell her. I know that; I give you my word on that. It was fifteen years ago--maybe longer--since
Molly and I were--since we went together as boy and girl. That's a long time ago, Colonel,
a long time ago, and I've managed to forget just why we--why we didn't make a go of it." He
smiled kindly at the colonel as he spoke--a smile that the colonel had not seen in Hendricks'
face in many years. Then the mask fell on his face, and the colonel saw it fall--the mask of
the man over the face of the boy. A puzzled, bewildered look crept into the gray, fat face,
and Hendricks could see that the doubt was still in the colonel's heart. The younger man pressed
the colonel's hand, and the two moved toward the door. Suddenly tears flushed into the dimmed
eyes of the colonel, and he cried, through a smile, "Bob Hendricks, I believe in my soul you're
a liar--a damn liar, sir, but, boy, you're a thoroughbred--God bless you, you're a thoroughbred."
And he turned and shuffled from the room and out of the bank.

When Colonel Martin Culpepper left Robert Hendricks at the door of the directors' room of the
Exchange National Bank, the colonel was persuaded in his heart that his daughter had married
Adrian Brownwell to please her parents, and the colonel realized that day that her parents
were pleased with Brownwell as a suitor for their daughter, because in time of need he had
come to their rescue with money, and incidentally because he was of their own blood and caste--a
Southern gentleman of family. The colonel went to the offices of the Culpepper Mortgage and
Loan Company and went over his bank-book again. The check that he drew would take all but three
hundred and forty-five dollars out of the accounts of his company, and not a dollar of it was
his. The Culpepper Mortgage Company was lending other people's money. It had been lending money
on farm mortgages for ten years. Pay-day on many mortgages was coming due, and of the fifteen
thousand dollars he checked out to pay Adrian Brownwell's debt, thirteen thousand dollars was
money that belonged to the Eastern creditors of the company--men and women who had sent their
money to the company for it to lend; and the money checked out represented money paid back
by the farmers for the release of their mortgages. Some of the money was interest paid by farmers
on their mortgages, some of it was partial payments--but none of it was Colonel Culpepper's money.

"Molly," said the colonel, as his daughter came into the office, "I've given a check for that--that
money, you know, to Adrian--paid it in full, my dear. But--" the colonel fumbled with his pencil
a moment and added, "I'm a trifle shy--a few thousand in point of fact, and I just thought
I'd ask--would you borrow it of Bob, if you were me?"

He looked at her closely, and she coloured and shook her head vehemently as she replied: "Oh,
no, father--no, can't you get it somewhere else? Not from Bob--for that! I mean--oh--I'd much
rather not."

The colonel looked at his daughter a moment and drew a deep breath, and sighed, and smiled
across his sigh, and took her hand and put it around his neck and kissed it, and when she was
close to him he put his arm about her, and their eyes met for a fleeting instant, and they
did not speak. But in a moment from across his desk the daughter spoke, "Why don't you go to
John or Carnine, father?"

"Well, Gabe--you know Gabe. I'm borrowed clear to the limit there, now. And John--you know
John, Molly--and the muss, the disagreeable muss,--the row, in point of fact, we had over that
last seventy-five dollars settling up the College Heights business--you remember? Well, I just
can't go to John. But," he added cheerfully, "I can get it elsewhere, my dear--I have other
resources, other resources, my dear." And the colonel smiled so gayly that he deceived even
his daughter, and she went home as happy as a woman with eyelids as red as hers were that day
might reasonably expect to be.

As for the colonel, he sat figuring for an hour upon a sheet of white paper. His figures indicated
that by putting all of his property except his home into the market, and reserving all of his
commissions on loans that would fall due during the three years coming, he could pay back the
money he had taken, little by little, and be square with the company's creditors in three years--or
four at the most. So he let the check stand, and did not try to borrow money of the banks to
make it good, but trusted to to-morrow's receipts to pay yesterday's debts of the company.
Knowing that several mortgages of more than three thousand each would fall due in a few weeks,
and that the men carrying them, expected to pay them, the colonel wrote dilatory letters to
the Eastern creditors whose money he had taken, explaining that there was some delay in the
payment of the notes, and that the matter would be straightened out in a few weeks. When the
money came in from the mortgages falling due the next month, he paid those already due, and
delayed the payment of Peter until Paul paid up. It was a miserable business, and Colonel Culpepper
knew that he was a thief. The knowledge branded him as one, and bent his eyes to the ground,
and wrenched his proud neck so that his head hung loosely upon it. Always when he spoke in
public, or went among his poor on errands of mercy, at his elbow stood the accusing spectre,
and choked his voice, and unnerved his hand. And trouble came upon the Culpeppers, and the
colonel's clothes, which, had always been immaculate, grew shabby. As that year and the next
passed and mortgages began falling due, not only in the colonel's company but all over the
county, all over the state, all over the Missouri Valley, men found they could not pay. The
cycle of business depression moved across the world, as those things come and go through the
centuries. Moreover, General Ward was riding on the crest of a wave of unrest which expressed
in terms of politics what the people felt in their homes. Debts were falling due; crops brought
small returns; capital was frightened; men in the mills lost their work; men on the farms burned
their corn; and Colonel Martin Culpepper sank deeper and deeper into the mire.

Those years of the panic of the early nineties pressed all the youth out of his step, dimmed
the lustre of his eyes, and slowly broke his heart. His keenest anguish was not for his own
suffering, but because his poor, the people at the Mission, came trooping to him for help,
and he had to turn so many away. The whole town knew that he was in trouble, though no one
knew or even suspected just what it was. For the people had their own troubles in those days,
and the town and the county and the state and the whole world grew shabby.

One day in the summer of '93, Colonel Culpepper was sitting in his office reading a letter
from Vermont demanding a long-deferred interest payment on a mortgage. There were three hundred
dollars due, and the colonel had but half that amount, and was going to send what he had. Jake
Dolan came into the office and saw the colonel sitting with the letter crumpled in his hands,
and with worry in the dull old eyes.

"Come in, Jake, come in," cried the colonel, a little huskily. "What's the trouble, comrade--what's
wrong?"

But let Dolan tell it to Hendricks three days later, as the two are sitting at night on the
stone bridge across the Sycamore built by John Barclay to commemorate the battle of Sycamore
Ridge. "'Well, Mart,' says I, 'I'm in vicarious trouble,' says I. 'It's along of my orphan
asylum,' says I. 'What orphan asylum?' says he. 'Well, it's this way, Mart,' says I. 'You know
they found Trixie Lee guilty this afternoon in the justice court, don't you?' Mart sighs and
says, 'Poor Trixie, I supposed they would sooner or later, poor girl--poor girl. An' old Cap
Lee of the Red Legs was her father; did you know that, Jake?' he asks. 'Yes, Mart,' says I,
'and Lady Lee before her. She comes by it honestly.' Mart sat drumming with his fingers on
the table, looking back into the years. 'Poor Jim,' he says, 'Jim was a brave soldier--a brave,
big-hearted, generous soldier--he nursed me all that first night at Wilson's Creek when I was
wounded. Poor Jim.' 'Yes,' says I, 'and Trixie has named her boy for him--Jim Lord Lee Young;
that was her husband's name--Young,' says I. 'And it's along of the boy that I'm here for.
The nicest bright-eyed little chap you ever saw; and he seems to know that something is wrong,
and just clings to his mother and cries--seven years old, or maybe eight--and begs me not to
put his mother in jail. And,' says I to Mart, 'Mart, I just can't do it. The sheriff he's run,
and so has the deputy; they can't stand the boy crying, and damn it to hell, Mart, I can't,
either; so I just left 'em in the office and locked the door and come around to see you. I'd
'a' gone to see Bob, only he's out of town this week,' I says. 'I can throw up the job, Mart--though
I'd have to go on the county; but Mart, they ain't a soul for the boy to go to; and it ain't
right to put him in jail with the scum that's in there.'"

"Tough--wasn't it?" said Hendricks. "What did you do? Why didn't you go to Carnine or Barclay?"

"That's just what I'm a-comin' to,--the Priest or the Levite?" said Jake. "Well, Mart said,
'Where're the men they caught--won't they help?' and I says, 'They paid their tine and skipped.'
'Fine?' asks Mart, 'fine? I thought you said it was jail sentence.' 'Well,' says I, 'it amounts
to the same thing; she can't pay her fine, and that damn reform judge, wanting to make a record
as a Spartan, has committed her to jail till it is paid!' 'So they go free, and she goes to
jail, because she is poor,' says Mart.' That's what your reform means,' says I, 'or I let her
and the boy loose and lose my job. And oh, Mart,' says I, 'the screams of that little boy at
the disgrace of it and the terror of the jail--man--I can't stand it!' 'How much is it?' sighs
Mart. 'An even hundred fine and seventeen dollars and fifty cents costs,' says I. Mart's eyes
was leaking, and he gets up and goes to the vault, and comes back with the cash and says, blubbering
like a calf: 'Here, Jake Dolan, you old scoundrel, take this. I'll pass a paper and get it
to-morrow--now get out of here.' And he handed me the money all cried over where he'd been
slow counting it out, and said when he'd got hold of his wobbly jaw: 'Don't you tell her where
you got it--I don't want her around here. I'll see her to-morrow when I'm down that way and
talk to her for old Cap Lee--' And then he laughs as he stands in the door and says: 'Well,
Jim,' and he points up, 'your bread cast upon the waters was a long time a-coming--but here
she is;' and he says, 'Do you suppose the old villain knows?' And I turned and hunted up the
justice and went around to the office, and told Trixie to 'go sin no more,' and she laughs
and says, 'Well, hardly ever!' and I kissed the kid, and he fought my whiskers, and we all
live happy ever after."

But the colonel, after Dolan left the office, went into the darkening room, and spread out
the harsh letter from the Vermont banker demanding money long past due, and read and reread
it and took up his burden, and got into the weary treadmill of his life. It rained the next
day, and he did not go out with his subscription paper; he had learned that people subscribe
better on bright days; and as Hendricks and Barclay were both out of town, he wrote a dilatory
letter to the Vermont people--the fifth he had written about that particular transaction--and
waited another rainy day and still another before starting out with his paper. But the event
was past; the cry of the child was not in the people's ears; they knew that the colonel had
put up the money; so it was not until Hendricks came back and heard the story from Dolan that
the colonel was repaid. Then because he actually had the money--at least half of it due on
that particular debt, which was one of scores of its kind--the colonel delayed another day
and another, and while he was musing the fire burned. And events started in Vermont which greatly
changed the course of this story.

"I wonder," he has written in that portion of the McHurdie Biography devoted to "The Press
of the Years," "why, as we go farther and farther into life, invariably it grows dingier and
dingier. The 'large white plumes' that dance before the eyes of youth soil, and are bedraggled.
And out of the inexplicable tangle of the mesh of life come dark threads from God knows where
and colour the woof of it gray and dreary. Ah for the days of the large white plumes--for the
days when life's woof was bright!"

CHAPTER XX

If the reader of this tale should feel drawn to visit Sycamore Ridge, he will find a number
of interesting things there, and the trip may be made by the transcontinental traveller with
the loss of but half a dozen hours from his journey. The Golden Belt Railroad, fifteen years
ago, used to print a guide-book called "California and Back," in which were set down the places
of interest to the traveller. In that book Sycamore Ridge was described thus:--

    "Sycamore Ridge, pop. 22,345, census 1890; large water-power, main
    industry milling; also manufacturing; five wholesale houses. Seat
    Ward University, 1300 students; also Garrison County High School,
    also Business College. Thirty-five churches, two newspapers, the
    Daily Banner and the Index; fifty miles of paved streets;
    largest stone arch bridge in the West, marking site of Battle of
    Sycamore Ridge, a border ruffian skirmish; home of Watts McHurdie,
    famous as writer of war-songs, best known of which is--" etc., etc.

But excepting Watts, who may be gone before you get there,--for he is an old man now, and is
alone and probably does not always have the best of care,--the things above annotated will
not interest the traveller. At the Thayer House they will tell you that three things in the
town give it distinction: the Barclay home, a rambling gray brick structure which the natives
call Barclay Castle, with a great sycamore tree held together by iron bands on the terraced
lawn before the house--that is number one; the second thing they will advise the traveller
to see is Mary Barclay Park, ten acres of transplanted elm trees, most tastefully laid out,
between Main Street and the Barclay home; and the third thing that will be pointed out to the
traveller is the Schnitzler fountain, in the cemetery gateway, done by St. Gaudens; it represents
a soldier pouring water from his canteen into his hand, as he bathes the brow of a dying comrade.

These things, of course,--the house, the park, and the fountain,--represent John Barclay and
his money. The town is proud of them, but the reader is advised not to expect too much of them.
One of the two things really worth seeing at the Ridge is the view over the wheat fields of
the Sycamore Valley from the veranda of the Culpepper home on the hill. There one may see the
great fields lying in three townships whereon John Barclay founded his fortune. The second
thing worth seeing may be found in the hallway of the public library building, just at the
turn of the marble stairway, where the morning light strikes it. Take the night train out of
Chicago and get to the Ridge in the morning, to get the light on that picture.

It is a portrait of John Barclay, done when he was forty years old and painted by a Russian
during the summer when the Barclays were called home from Europe before their journey was half
completed, to straighten out an obstreperous congressman, one Tom Wharton by name, who was
threatening to put wheat and flour on the free list in a tariff bill, unless--but that is immaterial,
except that Wharton was on Barclay's mind more or less while the painter was at work, and the
portrait reflects what Barclay thought of a number of things. It shows a small gray-clad man,
with a pearl pin in a black tie, sitting rather on the edge of his chair, leaning forward,
so that the head is thrown into the light. The eyes are well opened, and the jaw comes out,
a hard mean jaw; but the work of the artist, the real work that reveals the soul of the sitter,
is shown in three features, if we except the pugnacious shoulders. In the face are two of these
features: the mouth, a hard, coarse, furtive mouth,--the mouth of the liar who is not polished,--the
peasant liar who has been caught and has brazened it out; the mouth and the forehead, full
almost to bulging, so clean and white and naked that it seems shameful to expose it, a poet's
forehead, noble and full of dreams, broad over the eyes, and as delicately modelled at the
temples as a woman's where the curly brown hair is brushed away from it. But the wonderful
feature about the portrait is the right hand. The artist obviously asked Barclay to assume
a natural attitude, and then seeing him lean forward with his hand stretched out in some gesture
of impatience, persuaded him to take that pose. It is the sort of vital human thing that would
please Barclay--no sham about it; but he did not realize what the Russian was putting into
that hand--a long, hard, hairy, hollow, grasping, relentless hand, full in the foreground and
squarely in the light--a horrible thing with artistic fingers, and a thin, greedy palm indicated
by the deep hump in the back. It reaches out from the picture, with the light on the flesh
tints, with the animal hair thick upon it, and with the curved, slender, tapering fingers cramped
like a claw; and when one follows up the arm to the crouching body, the furtive mouth, the
bold, shrewd eyes, and then sees that forehead full of visions, one sees in it more than John
Barclay of Sycamore Ridge, more than America, more than Europe. It is the menace of civilization--the
danger to the race from the domination of sheer intellect without moral restraint.

General Ward, who was on the committee that received the picture fifteen years after it was
painted, stood looking at it the morning it was hung there on the turn of the stairs. As the
light fell mercilessly upon it, the general, white-haired, white-necktied, clean-shaven, and
lean-faced, gazed at the portrait for a long time, and then said to his son Neal who stood
beside him, "And Samson wist not that the Lord had departed from him."

It will pay one to stop a day in Sycamore Ridge to see that picture--though he does not know
John Barclay, and only understands the era that made him, and gave him that refined, savage,
cunning, grasping hand.

Barclay stopped a week in Washington on his return from Europe the year that picture was painted,
made a draft for fifty thousand dollars on the National Provisions Company to cover "legal
expenses," and came straight home to Sycamore Ridge. He was tired of cities, he told Colonel
Culpepper, who met Barclay at the post-office the morning he returned, with his arms full of
newspapers. "I want to hear the old mill, Colonel," said Barclay, "to smell the grease down
in the guts of her, and to get my hair full of flour again." When he had gorged himself for
two days, he wired Bemis to come to the Ridge, and Barclay and Bemis sat on the dam one evening
until late bedtime, considering many things. As they talked, Barclay found that a plan for
the reorganization of the Provisions Company was growing in his mind, and he talked it out
as it grew.

"Lige," he said, as he leaned with his elbows on a rock behind him, "the trouble with the company
as it now stands is that it's too palpable. There's too much to levy on--too much in sight;
too much physical property. How would it do to sell all these mills and elevators, and use
the company as a kind of a cream skimmer--a profit shop--to market the products of the mills?"
He paused a moment, and Bemis, who knew he was not expected to reply, flipped pebbles into
the stream. Barclay changed his position slightly and began to pick stones out of the crevices,
and throw the stones into the water. "That's the thing to do--go ahead and sell every dollar's
worth of assets the company's got--I'll take the mill here. I couldn't get along without that.
Then we'll buy the products of the mills at cost of the millers, and let them get their profits
back as individual holders of our stock. Our company will handle the Door Strip--buy it and
sell it--and if any long-nosed reformer gets to snooping around the mills, he'll find they
are making only a living profit; and as for us--any state grain commissioner or board of commissioners
who wanted to examine us could do so, and what'd he find? Simply that we're buying our products
at cost of the millers and selling at the market price--sometimes at a loss, sometimes at a
profit; and what if we do handle all the grain and grain products in the United States? They
can't show that we are hurting anything. I tell you there's getting to be too much snooping
now in the state and federal governments. Have you got any fellow in your office who can fix
up a charter that will let us buy and sell grain, and also sell the Barclay Economy Strip?"

Bemis nodded.

"Then, damn 'em, let 'em go on with their commissioners and boards and legislative committees;
they can't catch us. There's no law against the railroads that ship our stuff buying the Economy
Door Strip, is there? You bet there isn't. And we're entitled to a good round inventor's profit,
ain't we? You bet we are. You go ahead and get up that reorganization, and I'll put it through.
Say, Lige--" Barclay chuckled as a recollection flashed across his mind--"you know I've made
some of our Northwest senators promise to make you a federal judge. That's one of the things
I did last week; I thought maybe sometime we'd need a federal judge as one of the--what do
you call it--the hereditaments thereunto appertaining of the company." Bemis opened his eyes
in astonishment, and Barclay grunted in disgust as he went on: "Of course we can't get you
appointed from this state--that's clear--but they think we can work it through in the City--as
soon as there is a vacancy--or make a new district. How would you like that? Judge Bemis--say,
that sounds all right, doesn't it?"

Barclay rose and stretched his legs and arms. "Well, I must be going--Mrs. Barclay and my mother
want to hear the new organ over in the Congregational Church. It's a daisy--Colonel Culpepper,
amongst hands, skirmished up three thousand. They let me pick it out, and I had to put up another
thousand myself to get the kind I wanted. Are you well taken care of at the hotel?" When Bemis
explained that he had the bridal chamber, the two men clambered up the bank of the stream,
crossed the bridge, and at his gate Barclay said: "Now, I'll sleep on this to-night,--this
reorganization,--and then I'll write you a letter to-morrow, covering all that I've said, and
you can fix up a tentative charter and fire it down--and say, Lige, figure out what a modest
profit on all the grain and grain produce business of the country would be--say about two and
a half per cent, and make the capitalization of the reorganization fit that. We'll get the
real profits out of the Door Strip, and can fix that up in the books. We'll show the reformers
a trick or two." It was a warm night, and when the organ recital was over, John and Jane Barclay,
after the custom of the town, sat on a terrace in front of the house talking of the day's events.
Music always made John babble.

"Jane," he asked suddenly, "Jane--when does a man begin to grow old? Here I am past forty.
I used to think when a man was forty he was middle-aged; every five years I have advanced my
idea of what an old man was; when I was fifteen, I thought a man was getting along when he
was thirty. When I was twenty-five, I regarded forty as the beginning of the end; when I was
thirty, I put the limit of activity at forty-five; five years ago I moved it up to fifty; and
to-day I have jumped it to sixty. It seems to me, Jane, that I'm as much of a boy as ever;
all this talk about my being a man puzzles me. What's this Provisions Company but a game? And
I'm going to play another game; I'm going to get grain and grain produce organized, and then
I'm going to tackle meat. In ten years I'll have the packing-houses where I have the mills;
but it's just play--and it's a lot of fun."

He was silent a moment. Jane did not disturb his reveries. She understood, without exactly
putting her feeling into language, that she was being talked at, not talked to.

"Say, Jane," he exclaimed, "wasn't that 'Marche Triomphante to-night great?" He hummed a bar
from the motif, "That's it--my--" he cried, hitting his chair arm with his fist, "but that's
a big thing--almost good enough for Wagner to have done; big and insistent and strong. I'm
getting to like music with go to it--with bang and brass. Wagner does it; honest, Jane, when
I hear his trombones coming into a theme, I get ideas enough to give the whole force in the
office nervous prostration for a month. To-night when that thing was swelling up like a great
tidal wave of music rolling in, I worked out a big idea; I'm going to sell all the mills and
factories back to the millers for our stock, and when I own every dollar of our stock, I'm
going to double the price of it to them and sell it back to them; and if they haggle about
it, I'll build a new mill across the track from every man-jack who tries to give me any funny
business--I'll show 'em. That reorganization ought to clean up millions for us in the next
year. What a lot of fun it all is! I used to think old Jay Gould was some pumpkins; but if
we get this reorganization through, I'll go down there and buy the Gould outfit and sell 'em
for old iron."

The current of his thoughts struck under language, as a prairie stream sometimes hides from
its surface bed. After a time Jane said: "Grandma Barclay thought the 'Marche Funebre' was
the best thing the man did. I heard the Wards speaking of it in the vestibule; and Molly, who
held my hand through it, nearly squeezed it off--poor girl; but she looks real well these days."
Jane paused a moment and added: "Did you notice the colonel? How worn and haggard he looks--he
seems broken so. They say he is in trouble. Couldn't we help him?"

Her husband did not reply at once. Finally he recalled his wandering wits and answered: "Oh,
I don't know, Jane. He'll pull through, I guess." Then he reverted to the music, which was
still in his head. "He played the Largo well--didn't he? That was made for the organ. But some
way I like the big things. The Largo is like running a little twenty-horse-power steam mill,
and selling to the home grocers. But 'The Ride of the Valkyries,' with those screaming discords
of brass, and those magnificent crashes of harmony--Jane, I've got an idea--Wagner's work is
the National Provisions Company set to music, and I'm the first trombone." He laughed and reached
for his wife's hand and kissed it; then he rose and stood before her, admiring her in the starlight,
as he exclaimed: "And you are those clarinets, sweet and clear and delicious, that make a man
want to cry for sheer joy. Come on, my dear--isn't it very late?" And the little man limped
across the grass up the steps and into the house. The two stopped a moment while he listened
to the roar of the water and the rumble of the mill, that glowed in the night like a phosphorescent
spectre. He squeezed her hand and cried out in exultation, "It's great, isn't it--the finest
mill on this planet, my dear--do you realize that?" And then they turned into the house.

The next morning he kept two stenographers busy; he was spinning the web of his reorganization,
bringing about a condition under which men were compelled to exchange their stock in the National
Provisions Company for their former property. He was a crafty little man, and his ways were
sometimes devious, even though to outward view his advertised and proclaimed methods were those
of a pirate. So when he had dictated a day's work to two girls, he went nosing through the
mill, loafing in the engine rooms, looking at the water wheel, or running about rafters in
the fifth floor like a great gray rat. As he went he hummed little tunes under his breath or
whistled between his teeth, with his lips apart. After luncheon he unlocked a row-boat, and
took a cane pole and rowed himself a mile up the mill-pond, and brought home three good-sized
bass. Thus did he spend his idle moments around the Ridge. That night he thumped his piano
and longed for a pipe organ. The things he tried to play were noisy, and his mother, sitting
in the gloaming near him, sighed and said: "John, play some of the old pieces--the quieter
ones; play 'The Long and Weary Day' and some of the old songs. Have you forgotten the 'Bohemian
Girl' and those Schubert songs?"

His fingers felt their way back to his boyhood, and when he ceased playing, he stood by his
mother a moment, and patted her cheeks as he hummed in German the first two lines of the "Lorelei,"
and then said, "We have come a long way since then--eh, mother?" She held his hand to her cheek
and then to her lips, but she did not reply. He repeated it, "A long, long way from the little
home of one room here!" After a pause he added, "Would you like to go back?"

A tear fell on the hand against her cheek. He felt her jaw quiver, and then she said, "Oh,
yes, John--yes, I believe I would."

He knew she did not care for his wealth, and there were many things about his achievements
that he felt she might misunderstand; her attitude often puzzled him. So he sat a moment on
her chair arm, and said, "Well, mother, I have done my best." It was a question more than a
protest.

"Yes, dear," she replied, "I know you have--you have done your best--your very best. But I
think it is in your blood."

"What?" he asked.

"Oh, all this," she answered; "all this money-getting. I am foolish, John, but some way, I
want my little boy back--the one who used to sit with me so long ago, and play on the guitar
and sing 'Sleeping, I Dream, Love.' I don't like your new music, John; it's so like clanging
cars, and crashing hammers, and the groans of men at toil."

"But this is a new world, mother--a new world that is different," protested the son, impatiently.

And the mother answered sadly as she looked up at him: "I know, dear--it is a new world; but
the same old God moves it; and the same faith in God and love of man move men that always have
moved them, and always will move them; there are as many things to live and die for now, as
when your father gave up his life, John--just as many." They rocked together in silence--the
boy of forty and the mother of sixty. Finally she said, "Johnnie, play me 'Ever of Thee I'm
fondly Thinking,' won't you, before you go?"

He sat with his foot on the soft pedal and played the old love song, and as he played his mother
wandered over hills he had never seen, through fields he had never known, and heard a voice
in the song he might never hear, even in his dreams. When he finished, she stood beside him
and cried with all the passion her years could summon: "Oh, John--John--it will come out some
way--some day. It's in your soul, and God in His own way will bring it out." He did not understand
her then, and it was many years before he prayed her prayer.

The next day he went to the City and plunged into his work, and the Ridge and its people and
the prayers of his mother became to him only as a dream that comes in the night and fades in
the day. Even the shabby figure of Colonel Martin Culpepper, with his market basket on his
arm, waving a good-by as the Barclay private car pulled out of the Sycamore Ridge depot, disappeared
from his mind, though that pathetic image haunted him for nearly a hundred miles as he rode,
and he could not shake it off until he immersed himself in the roar of the great City. He could
not know that he had any remote relation with the worry in the old man's eyes. Nor did Martin
Culpepper try to shift his load to John. He knew where the blame was, and he tried to take
it like a man. But in reckoning the colonel's account, may not something be charged off to
the account of John Barclay, who to save himself and accomplish the Larger Good--which meant
the establishment of his own fortunes--sent Adrian Brownwell in those days in the seventies
with the money to the colonel, not so much to help the colonel as to save John Barclay? The
Larger Good is a slow, vicious, accumulative poison, and heaven only knows when it will come
out and kill.

It was a week after the pipe-organ recital at the church, when Mary Barclay, doing her day's
marketing, ran into Colonel Culpepper standing rather forlornly in front of McHurdie's shop.
He bowed to her with elaborate graciousness, and she stopped to speak with him. In a moment
he was saying, "So you have not heard, are unaware, entirely ignorant, in point of fact, of
my misfortunes?" She assented, and the colonel went on: "Well, madam, the end has come; I have
played out my hand; I have strutted my hour upon the stage, and now I go off. Old Mart Culpepper,
my dear, is no longer the leading citizen, nor our distinguished capitalist, not even the hustling
real estate agent of former days--just plain old Mart Culpepper, I may say. He who was, is
now a has-been,--just an old man without a business." He saw that she did not appreciate what
had happened, and he smiled gently and said: "Closed up, my dear madam. A receiver was appointed
a few minutes ago for the Culpepper Mortgage Company, and I gave him the key. Failure--failure--"
he repeated the word bitterly--"failure is written over the door of this life."

