Susanna worked on in silent anxiety. The likelihood of such crises as this had sometimes crossed
her mind, and knowing how frail human nature is, she often marveled that instances seemed so
infrequent. Her instinct told her that in every Community the risk must exist, even though
all were doubly warned and armed against the temptations that flesh is heir to; yet no hint
of danger had showed itself during the months in which she had been a member of the Shaker
family. She had heard the Elder's plea to the young converts to take up "a full cross against
the flesh"; she had listened to Eldress Abby when she told them that the natural life, its
thoughts, passions, feelings, and associations, must be turned against once and forever; but
her heart melted in pity for the two poor young things struggling helplessly against instincts
of which they hardly knew the meaning, so cloistered had been the life they lived. The kind,
conscientious hands that had fed them would now seem hard and unrelenting; the place that had
been home would turn to a prison; the life that Elder Gray preached, "the life of a purer godliness
than can be attained by marriage," had seemed difficult, perhaps, but possible; and now how
cold and hopeless it would appear to these two young, undisciplined, flaming hearts!

"Hetty dear, talk to me!" whispered Susanna, softly touching her shoulder, and wondering if
she could somehow find a way to counsel the girl in her perplexity.

Hetty started rebelliously to her feet as Nathan moved away farther into the orchard. "If you
say a single thing to me, or a word about me to Eldress Abby, I'll run away this very day.
Nobody has any right to speak to me, and I just want to be let alone! It's all very well for
you," she went on passionately. "What have you had to give up? Nothing but a husband you did
n't love and a home you did n't want to stay in. Like as not you'll be a Shaker, and they'll
take you for a saint; but anyway you'll have had your life."

"You are right, Hetty," said Susanna, quietly; "but oh! my dear, the world outside isn't such
a Paradise for young girls like you, motherless and fatherless and penniless. You have a good
home here; can't you learn to like it?"

"Out in the world people can do as they like and nobody thinks of calling them wicked!" sobbed
Hetty, flinging herself down, and putting her head in Susanna's aproned lap. "Here you've got
to live like an angel, and if you don't, you've got to confess every wrong thought you've had,
when the time comes."

"Whatever you do, Hetty, be open and aboveboard; don't be hasty and foolish, or you may be
sorry forever afterwards."

Hetty's mood changed again suddenly to one of mutiny, and she rose to her feet.

"You have n't got any right to interfere with me anyway, Susanna; and if you think it's your
duty to tell tales, you'll only make matters worse"; and so saying she took her basket and
fled across the fields like a hunted hare.

That evening, as Hetty left the infirmary, where she had been sent with a bottle of liniment
for the nursing Sisters, she came upon Nathan standing gloomily under the spruce trees near
the back of the building. It was eight o'clock and quite dark. It had been raining during the
late afternoon and the trees were still dripping drearily. Hetty came upon Nathan so suddenly,
that, although he had been in her thoughts, she gave a frightened little cry when he drew her
peremptorily under the shadow of the branches. The rules that govern the Shaker Community are
very strict, but in reality the true Believer never thinks of them as rules, nor is trammeled
by them. They are fixed habits of the blood, as common, as natural, as sitting or standing,
eating or drinking. No Brother is allowed to hold any lengthy interview with a Sister, nor
to work, walk, or drive with her alone; but these protective customs, which all are bound in
honor to keep, are too much a matter of everyday life to be strange or irksome.

"I must speak to you, Hetty," whispered Nathan. "I cannot bear it any longer alone. What shall
we do?"

"Do?" echoed Hetty, trembling.

"Yes, do." There was no pretense of asking her if she loved or suffered, or lived in torture
and suspense. They had not uttered a word to each other, but their eyes had "shed meanings."

"You know we can't go on like this," he continued rapidly. "We can't eat their food, stay alongside
of them, pray their prayers and act a lie all the time, we can't!"

"Nay, we can't!" said Hetty. "Oh, Nathan, shall we confess all and see if they will help us
to resist temptation? I know that's what Susanna would want me to do, but oh! I should dread it."

"Nay, it is too late," Nathan answered drearily. "They could not help us, and we should be
held under suspicion forever after."

"I feel so wicked and miserable and unfaithful, I don't know what to do!" sobbed Hetty.

"Yee, so do I!" the lad answered. "And I feel bitter against my father, too. He brought me
here to get rid of me, because he did n't dare leave me on somebody's doorstep. He ought to
have come back when I was grown a man and asked me if I felt inclined to be a Shaker, and if
I was good enough to be one!"

"And my stepfather would n't have me in the house, so my mother had to give me away; but they're
both dead, and I'm alone in the world, though I've never felt it, because the Sisters are so
kind. Now they will hate me--though they don't hate anybody."

"You've got me, Hetty! We must go away and be married. We'd better go tonight to the minister
in Albion."

"What if he would n't do it?"

"Why should n't he? Shakers take no vows, though I feel bound, hand and foot, out of gratitude.
If any other two young folks went to him, he would marry them; and if he refuses, there are
two other ministers in Albion, besides two more in Buryfield, five miles farther. If they won't
marry us tonight, I'll leave you in some safe home and we 'll walk to Portland tomorrow. I'm
young and strong, and I know I can earn our living somehow."

"But we have n't the price of a lodging or a breakfast between us," Hetty said tearfully. "Would
it be sinful to take some of my basketwork and send back the money next week?"

"Yee, it would be so," Nathan answered sternly. "The least we can do is to go away as empty-handed
as we came. I can work for our breakfast."

"Oh, I can't bear to disappoint Eldress Abby," cried Hetty, breaking anew into tears. "She'll
say we've run away to live on the lower plane after agreeing to crucify Nature and follow the
angelic life!"

"I know; but there are five hundred people in Albion all living in marriage, and we shan't
be the only sinners!" Nathan argued. "Oh, Sister Hetty, dear Hetty, keep up your spirits and
trust to me!"

Nathan's hand stole out and met Hetty's in its warm clasp, the first hand touch that the two
ignorant young creatures had ever felt. Nathan's knowledge of life had been a journey to the
Canterbury Shakers in New Hampshire with Brother Issachar; Hetty's was limited to a few drives
into Albion village, and half a dozen chats with the world's people who came to the Settlement
to buy basketwork.

"I am not able to bear the Shaker life!" sighed Nathan. "Elder Gray allows there be such!"

"Nor I," murmured Hetty. "Eldress Harriet knows I am no saint!"

Hetty's head was now on Nathan's shoulder. The stiff Shaker cap had resisted bravely, but the
girl's head had yielded to the sweet proximity. Youth called to youth triumphantly; the Spirit
was unheard, and all the theories of celibacy and the angelic life that had been poured into
their ears vanished into thin air. The thick shade of the spruce tree hid the kiss that would
have been so innocent, had they not given themselves to the Virgin Church; the drip, drip,
drip of the branches on their young heads passed unheeded.

Then, one following the other silently along the highroad, hurrying along in the shadows of
the tall trees, stealing into the edge of the woods, or hiding behind a thicket of alders at
the fancied sound of a footstep or the distant rumble of a wagon, Nathan and Hetty forsook
the faith of Mother Ann and went out into the world as Adam and Eve left the garden, with the
knowledge of good and evil implanted in their hearts. The voice of Eldress Abby pursued Hetty
in her flight like the voice in a dream. She could hear its clear impassioned accents, saying,
"The children of this world marry; but the children of the resurrection do not marry, for they
are as the angels." The solemn tones grew fainter and fainter as Hetty's steps led her farther
and farther away from the quiet Shaker village and its drab-clad Sisters, and at last they
almost died into silence, because Nathan's voice was nearer and Nathan's voice was dearer.

VIII. Concerning Backsliders

There was no work in the herb-garden now, but there was never a moment from dawn till long
after dusk when the busy fingers of the Shaker Sisters were still. When all else failed there
was the knitting: socks for the Brothers and stockings for the Sisters and socks and stockings
of every size for the children. One of the quaint sights of the Settlement to Susanna was the
clump of young Sisters on the porch of the girls' building, knitting, knitting, in the afternoon
sun. Even little Shaker Jane and Mary, Maria and Lucinda, had their socks in hand, and plied
their short knitting-needles soberly and not unskillfully. The sight of their industry incited
the impetuous Sue to effort, and under the patient tutelage of Sister Martha she mastered the
gentle art. Susanna never forgot the hour when, coming from her work in the seed-room, she
crossed the grass with a message to Martha, and saw the group of children and girls on the
western porch, a place that caught every ray of afternoon sun, the last glint of twilight,
and the first hint of sunset glow. Sister Martha had been reading the Sabbath-School lesson
for the next day, and as Susanna neared the building, Martha's voice broke into a hymn. Falteringly
the girls' voices followed the lead, uncertain at first of words or tune, but gaining courage
and strength as they went on:--

  "As the waves of the mighty ocean
   Gospel love we will circulate,
  And as we give, in due proportion,
   We of the heavenly life partake.
  Heavenly Life, Glorious Life,
   Resurrecting, Soul-Inspiring,
  Regenerating Gospel Life,
   It leadeth away from all sin and strife."

The clear, innocent treble sounded sweetly in the virgin stillness and solitude of the Settlement,
and as Susanna drew closer she stopped under a tree to catch the picture--Sister Martha, grave,
tall, discreet, singing with all her soul and marking time with her hands, so accustomed to
the upward and downward movement of the daily service. The straight, plain dresses were as
fresh and smooth as perfect washing could make them, and the round childlike faces looked quaint
and sweet with the cropped hair tucked under the stiff little caps. Sue was seated with Mary
and Jane on the steps, and Susanna saw with astonishment that her needles were moving to and
fro and she was knitting as serenely and correctly as a mother in Israel; singing, too, in
a delicate little treble that was like a skylark's morning note.

Jane's cap was slightly unsettled, causing its wearer to stop knitting now and then and pull
it forward or push it back; and in one of these little feminine difficulties Susanna saw Sue
reach forward and deftly transfer the cap to her own head. Jane was horrified, but rather slow
to wrath and equally slow in ingenuity. Sue looked a delicious Shaker with her delicate face,
her lovely eyes, and her yellow hair grown into soft rings; and quite intoxicated with her
cap, her knitting, and the general air of holiness so unexpectedly emanating from her, she
moved her little hands up and down, as the tune rose and fell, in a way that would have filled
Eldress Abby with joy. Susanna's heart beat fast, and she wondered for a moment, as she went
back to her room, whether she could ever give Sue a worldly childhood more free from danger
than the life she was now living. She found letters from Aunt Louisa and Jack on reaching her
room, and they lay in her lap under a pile of towels, to be read and reread while her busy
needle flew over the coarse crash. Sue stole in quietly, kissed her mother's cheek, and sat
down on her stool by the window, marveling, with every "under" of the needle and "over" of
the yarn, that it was she, Sue Hathaway, who was making a real stocking.

Jack's pen was not that of an especially ready writer, but he had a practical way of conveying
considerable news. His present contributions, when freed from their phonetic errors and spelled
in Christian fashion, read somewhat as follows:

Father says I must write to you every week, even if I make him do without, so I will. I am
well, and so is Aunt Louisa, and any boy that lives with her has to toe the mark, I tell you;
but she is good and has fine things to eat every meal. What did Sue get for her birthday? I
got a book from father and one from Aunt Louisa and the one from you that you told her to buy.
It is queer that people will give a boy books when he has only one knife, and that a broken
one. There's a book prize to be given at the school, and I am pretty afraid I will get that,
too; it would be just my luck. Teachers think about nothing but books and what good they do,
but I heard of a boy that had a grand knife with five sharp blades and a corkscrew, and in
a shipwreck he cut all the ropes, so the sail came down that was carrying them on to the rocks,
and then by boring a hole with his corkscrew all the water leaked out of the ship that had
been threatening to sink the sailors. I could use a little pocket money, as Aunt Louisa keeps
me short. ... I have been spending Sunday with father, and had a pretty good time, not so very.
Father will take me about more when he stops going to the store, which will be next week for
good. The kitchen floor is new painted, and Ellen says it sticks, and Aunt Louisa is going
to make Ellen clean house in case you come home. Do you like where you are? Our teacher told
the girls' teacher it seemed a long stay for any one who had a family, and the boys at school
call me a half orphan and say my mother has left me and so my father has to board me in the
country. My money is run out again. I sat down in a puddle this afternoon, but it dried up
pretty quick and did n't hurt my clothes, so no more from your son

JACK.

This was the sort of message that had been coming to Susanna of late, bringing up little pictures
of home duties and responsibilities, homely tasks and trials. "John giving up the store for
good"; what did that mean? Had he gone from bad to worse in the solitude that she had hoped
might show him the gravity of his offenses, the error of his ways? In case she should die,
what then would become of the children? Would Louisa accept the burden of Jack, for whom she
had never cared? Would the Shakers take Sue? She would be safe; perhaps she would always be
happy; but brother and sister would be divided and brought up as strangers. Would little Sue,
grown to big Sue, say some time or other, "My mother renounced the world for herself, but what
right had she to renounce it for me? Why did she rob me of the dreams of girlhood and the natural
hopes of women, when I was too young to give consent?" These and other unanswerable questions
continually drifted through Susanna's mind, disturbing its balance and leaving her like a shuttlecock
bandied to and fro between conflicting blows.

"Mardie," came a soft little voice from across the room; "Mardie, what is a backslider?"

"Where did you hear that long word, Sue?" asked Susanna, rousing herself from her dream.

"'T is n't so long as 'regenerating' and more easier."

"Regenerating means 'making over,' you know."

"There'd ought to be children's words and grownup words,--that's what I think," said Sue, decisively;
"but what does 'backslider' mean?"

"A backslider is one who has been climbing up a hill and suddenly begins to slip back."

"Does n't his feet take hold right, or why does he slip?"

"Perhaps he can't manage his feet;--perhaps they just won't climb." 295

"Yes, or p'raps he just does n't want to climb any more; but it must be frightensome, sliding
backwards."

"I suppose it is."

"Is it wicked?"

"Why, yes, it is, generally; perhaps always."

"Brother Nathan and Sister Hetty were backsliders; Sister Tabitha said so. She told Jane never
to speak their names again any more than if they was dead."

"Then you had better not speak of them, either."

"There's so many things better not to speak of in the world, sometimes I think 't would be
nicer to be an angel."

"Nicer, perhaps, but one has to be very good to be an angel."

"Backsliders could n't be angels, I s'pose?"

"Not while they were backsliders; but perhaps they'd begin to climb again, and then in time
they might grow to be angels."

"I should n't think likely," remarked Sue, decisively, clicking her needles as one who could
settle most spiritual problems in a jiffy. "I think the sliding kind is diff'rent from the
climbing kind, and they don't make easy angels."

A long pause followed this expression of opinion, this simple division of the human race, at
the start, into sheep and goats. Then presently the untiring voice broke the stillness again.

"Nathan and Hetty slid back when they went away from here. Did we backslide when we left Fardie
and Jack?"

"I'm not sure but that we did," said poor Susanna.

"There's children-Shakers, and brother-and-sister Shakers, but no father-and-mother Shakers?"

"No; they think they can do just as much good in the world without being mothers and fathers."

"Do you think so?"

"Ye-es, I believe I do."

"Well, are you a truly Shaker, or can't you be till you wear a cap?"

"I'm not a Shaker yet, Sue."

"You're just only a mother?"

"Yes, that's about all."

"Maybe we'd better go back to where there's not so many Sisters and more mothers, so you 'll
have somebody to climb togedder with?"

"I could climb here, Sue, and so could you."

"Yes, but who'll Fardie and Jack climb with? I wish they'd come and see us. Brother Ansel would
make Fardie laugh, and Jack would love farmwork, and we'd all be so happy. I miss Fardie awfully!
He did n't speak to me much, but I liked to look at his curly hair and think how lovely it
would be if he did take notice of me and play with me."

A sob from Susanna brought Sue, startled, to her side.

"You break my heart, Sue! You break it every day with the things you say. Don't you love me, Sue?"

"More'n tongue can tell!" cried Sue, throwing herself into her mother's arms. "Don't cry, darling
Mardie! I won't talk any more, not for days and days! Let me wipe your poor eyes. Don't let
Elder Gray see you crying, or he'll think I've been naughty. He's just going in downstairs
to see Eldress Abby. Was it wrong what I said about backsliding, or what, Mardie? We'll help
each udder climb, an' then we'll go home an' help poor lonesome Fardie; shall we?"

"Abby!" called Elder Gray, stepping into the entry of the Office Building.

"Yee, I'm coming," Eldress Abby answered from the stairway. "Go right out and sit down on the
bench by the door, where I can catch a few minutes' more light for my darning; the days seem
to be growing short all to once. Did Lemuel have a good sale of basket-work at the mountains?
Rosetta has n't done so well for years at Old Orchard. We seem to be prospering in every material
direction, Daniel, but my heart is heavy somehow, and I have to be instant in prayer to keep
from discouragement."

"It has n't been an altogether good year with us spiritually," confessed Daniel; "perhaps we
needed chastening."

"If we needed it, we've received it," Abby ejaculated, as she pushed her darning-ball into
the foot of a stocking. "Nothing has happened since I came here thirty years ago that has troubled
me like the running away of Nathan and Hetty. If they had been new converts, we should have
thought the good seed had n't got fairly rooted, but those children were brought to us when
Nathan was eleven and Hetty nine."

"I well remember, for the boy's father and the girl's mother came on the same train; a most
unusual occurrence to receive two children in one day."

"I have cause to remember Hetty in her first month, for she was as wild as a young hawk. She
laughed in meeting the first Sunclay, and when she came back, I told her to sit behind me in
silence for half an hour while I was reading my Bible. 'Be still now, Hetty, and labor to repent,'
I said. When the time was up, she said in a meek little mite of a voice, 'I think I'm least
in the Kingdom now, Eldress Abby!' 'Then run outdoors,' I said. She kicked up her heels like
a colt and was through the door in a second. Not long afterwards I put my hands behind me to
tie my apron tighter, and if that child had n't taken my small scissors lying on the table
and cut buttonholes all up and down my strings, hundreds of them, while she was 'laboring to
repent.'"

Elder Gray smiled reminiscently, though he had often heard the story before. "Neither of the
children came from godly families," he said, "but at least the parents never interfered with
us nor came here putting false ideas into their children's heads."

"That's what I say," continued Abby; "and now, after ten years' training and discipline in
the angelic life, Hetty being especially promising, to think of their going away together,
and worse yet, being married in Albion village right at our very doors; I don't hardly dare
to go to bed nights for fear of hearing in the morning that some of the other young folks have
been led astray by this foolish performance of Hetty's; I know it was Hetty's fault; Nathan
never had ingenuity enough to think and plan it all out."

"Nay, nay, Abby, don't be too hard on the girl; I've watched Nathan closely, and he has been
in a dangerous and unstable state, even as long ago as his last confession; but this piece
of backsliding, grievous as it is, does n't cause me as much sorrow as the fall of Brother
Ephraim. To all appearance he had conquered his appetite, and for five years he has led a sober
life. I had even great hopes of him for the ministry, and suddenly, like a great cloud in the
blue sky, has come this terrible visitation, this reappearance of the old Adam. 'Ephraim has
returned to his idols.'"

"How have you decided to deal with him, Daniel?"

"It is his first offense since he cast in his lot with us; we must rebuke, chastise, and forgive."

"Yee, yee, I agree to that; but how if he makes us the laughing-stock of the community and
drags our sacred banner in the dust? We can't afford to have one of our order picked up in
the streets by the world's people."

"Have the world's people found an infallible way to keep those of their order out of the gutters?"
asked Elder Gray. "Ephraim seems repentant; if he is willing to try again, we must be willing
to do as much."

"Yee, Daniel, you are right. Another matter that causes me anxiety is Susanna. I never yearned
for a soul as I yearn for hers! She has had the advantage of more education and more reading
than most of us have ever enjoyed; she's gifted in teaching and she wins the children. She's
discreet and spiritually minded; her life in the world, even with the influence of her dissipated
husband, has n't really stained, only humbled her; she would make such a Shaker, if she was
once 'convinced,' as we have n't gathered in for years and years; but I fear she's slipping,
slipping away, Daniel!"

"What makes you feel so now, particularly?"

"She's diff'rent as time goes on. She's had more letters from that place where her boy is;
she cries nights, and though she does n't relax a mite with her work, she drags about sometimes
like a bird with one wing."

Elder Daniel took off his broadbrimmed hat to cool his forehead and hair, lifting his eyes
to the first pale stars that were trembling in the sky, hesitating in silver and then quietly
deepening into gold.

Brother Ansel was a Believer because he had no particular love for the world and no great susceptibility
to its temptations; but what had drawn Daniel Gray from the open sea into this quiet little
backwater of a Shaker Settlement? After an adventurous early life, in which, as if youth-intoxicated,
he had plunged from danger to danger, experience to experience, he suddenly found himself in
a society of which he had never so much as heard, a company of celibate brothers and sisters
holding all goods and possessions in common, and trying to live the "angelic life" on earth.
Illness detained him for a month against his will, but at the end of that time he had joined
the Community; and although it had been twenty-five years since his gathering in, he was still
steadfast in the faith.

His character was of puritanical sternness; he was a strict disciplinarian, and insisted upon
obedience to the rules of Shaker life, "the sacred laws of Zion," as he was wont to term them.
He magnified his office, yet he was of a kindly disposition easily approached by children,
and not without a quaint old-time humor.

There was a long pause while the two faithful leaders of the little flock were absorbed in
thought; then the Elder said: "Susanna's all you say, and the child, well, if she could be
purged of her dross, I never saw a creature better fitted to live the celestial life; but we
must not harbor any divided hearts here. When the time comes, we must dismiss her with our
blessing."

"Yee, I suppose so," said Eldress Abby, loyally, but it was with a sigh. Had she and Tabitha
been left to their own instincts, they would have gone out into the highways and hedges, proselyting
with the fervor of Mother Ann's day and generation.

"After all, Abby," said the Elder, rising to take his leave, still in a sort of mild trance,
"after all, Abby, I suppose the Shakers don't own the whole of heaven. I'd like to think so,
but I can't. It's a big place, and it belongs to God."

IX. Love Manifold

The woods on the shores of Massabesic Pond were stretches of tapestry, where every shade of
green and gold, olive and brown, orange and scarlet, melted the one into the other. The somber
pines made a deep-toned background; patches of sumach gave their flaming crimson; the goldenrod
grew rank and tall in glorious profusion, and the maples outside the Office Building were balls
of brilliant carmine. The air was like crystal, and the landscape might have been bathed in
liquid amber, it was so saturated with October yellow.

Susanna caught her breath as she threw her chamber window wider open in the early morning;
for the greater part of the picture had been painted during the frosty night.

"Throw your little cape round your shoulders and come quickly, Sue!" she exclaimed.

The child ran to her side. "Oh, what a goldy, goldy morning!" she cried.

