"There have been several meetings with regard to this living already," he said, "and certain
names have been very thoroughly discussed among us. I think we were last week agreed that two
names stood out from the others. If to-day we cannot agree on one of those two names, we must
then consider a third. That will not, I hope, be necessary. The two names most favourably considered
by us are those of the Rev. Rex Forsyth, Chaplain to Bishop Clematis, and the Rev. Ambrose
Wistons of St. Edward's Hawston. The first of these two gentlemen is known to all of us personally,
the second we know chiefly through his writings. We will first, I think, consider Mr. Wistons.
You, Canon Foster, are, I know, a personal friend of his, and can tell us why, in your opinion,
his would be a suitable appointment."

"It depends on what you want," said Foster, frowning around upon every one present; and then
suddenly selecting little Bond as apparently his most dangerous enemy and scowling at him with
great hostility, "if you want to let the religious life of this place, nearly dead already,
pass right away, choose a man like Forsyth. But I don't wish to be contentious; there's been
contention enough in this place during these last months, and I'm sick and ashamed of the share
I've had in it. I won't say more than this--that if you want an honest, God-fearing man here,
who lives only for God and is in his most secret chamber as he is before men, then Wistons
is your man. I understand that some of you are afraid of his books. There'll be worse books
than his you'll have to face before you're much older. That I can tell you! I said to myself
before I came here that I wouldn't speak this morning. I should not have said even what I have,
because I know that in this last year I have grievously sinned, fighting against God when I
thought that I was fighting for Him. The weapons are taken out of my hands. I believe that
Wistons is the man for this place and for the religious life here. I believe that you will
none of you regret it if you bring him to this appointment. I can say nothing more."

What had happened to Foster? They had, one and all, expected a fighting speech. The discomfort
and uneasiness that was already in the room was now greatly increased.

The Dean asked Ronder to say something. Ronder leaned forward, pushing his spectacles back
with his fingers. He leaned forward that he might not see Brandon's face.

By chance he had not seen Brandon for more than a fortnight. He was horrified and frightened
by the change. The grey-white face, the restless, beseeching, bewildered eyes belonging apparently
to some one else, to whom they were searching to return, the long white fingers ceaselessly
moving among the papers and tapping the table, were those of a stranger, and in the eyes of
the men in that room it was he who had produced him. Yes, and in the eyes of how many others
in that town? You might say that had Brandon been a man of real spiritual and moral strength,
not Ronder, not even God Himself, could have brought Brandon to this. But was that so? Which
of us knows until he is tried? His wife, his son, his body, all had failed him. And now this
too.... And if Ronder had not come to that town would it have been so? Had it not been a duel
between them from the moment that Ronder first set his foot in that place? And had not Ronder
deliberately willed it so? What had Ronder said to Brandon's son and to the woman who would
ruin Brandon's wife?

All this passed in the flash of a dfeam through Ronder's brain, perhaps never entirely to leave
him again. In that long duel there had been perhaps more than one defeat. He knew that they
were waiting for him to speak, but the thoughts would not come. Wistons? Forsyth?...Forsyth?
Wistons? Who were they? What had they to do with this personal relation of his with the man
opposite?

