"She is married to-day, duke, down in Scotland,"--said Lady Glencora, sitting close to the
duke's ear, for the duke was a little deaf. They were in the duke's small morning sitting-room,
and no one else was present excepting Madame Max Goesler.

"Married to-morrow,--down in Scotland. Dear, dear! what is he?" The profession to which Mr.
Emilius belonged had been mentioned to the duke more than once before.

"He's some sort of a clergyman, duke. You went and heard him preach, Madame Max. You can tell
us what he's like."

"Oh, yes; he's a clergyman of our church," said Madame Goesler.

"A clergyman of our church;--dear, dear. And married in Scotland! That makes it stranger. I
wonder what made a clergyman marry her?"

"Money, duke," said Lady Glencora, speaking very loud.

"Oh, ah, yes; money. So he'd got money; had he?"

"Not a penny, duke; but she had."

"Oh, ah, yes. I forgot. She was very well left; wasn't she? And so she has married a clergyman
without a penny. Dear, dear! Did not you say she was very beautiful?"

"Lovely!"

"Let me see,--you went and saw her, didn't you?"

"I went to her twice,--and got quite scolded about it. Plantagenet said that if I wanted horrors
I'd better go to Madame Tussaud. Didn't he, Madame Max?" Madame Max smiled and nodded her head.

"And what's the clergyman like?" asked the duke.

"Now, my dear, you must take up the running," said Lady Glencora, dropping her voice. "I ran
after the lady, but it was you who ran after the gentleman." Then she raised her voice. "Madame
Max will tell you all about it, duke. She knows him very well."

"You know him very well; do you? Dear, dear, dear!"

"I don't know him at all, duke, but I once went to hear him preach. He's one of those men who
string words together, and do a good deal of work with a cambric pocket-handkerchief."

"A gentleman?" asked the duke.

"About as like a gentleman as you're like an archbishop," said Lady Glencora.

This tickled the duke amazingly. "He, he, he;--I don't see why I shouldn't be like an archbishop.
If I hadn't happened to be a duke, I should have liked to be an archbishop. Both the archbishops
take rank of me. I never quite understood why that was, but they do. And these things never
can be altered when they're once settled. It's quite absurd, now-a-days, since they've cut
the archbishops down so terribly. They were princes once, I suppose, and had great power. But
it's quite absurd now, and so they must feel it. I have often thought about that a good deal,
Glencora."

"And I think about poor Mrs. Arch, who hasn't got any rank at all."

"A great prelate having a wife does seem to be an absurdity," said Madame Max, who had passed
some years of her life in a Catholic country.

"And the man is a cad;--is he?" asked the duke.

"A Bohemian Jew, duke,--an impostor who has come over here to make a fortune. We hear that
he has a wife in Prague, and probably two or three elsewhere. But he has got poor little Lizzie
Eustace and all her money into his grasp, and they who know him say that he's likely to keep it."

"Dear, dear, dear!"

"Barrington says that the best spec he knows out, for a younger son, would be to go to Prague
for the former wife, and bring her back with evidence of the marriage. The poor little woman
could not fail of being grateful to the hero who would liberate her."

"Dear, dear, dear!" said the duke. "And the diamonds never turned up after all. I think that
was a pity, because I knew the late man's father very well. We used to be together a good deal
at one time. He had a fine property, and we used to live--but I can't just tell you how we
used to live. He, he, he!"

"You had better tell us nothing about it, duke," said Madame Max.

The affairs of our heroine were again discussed that evening in another part of the Priory.
They were in the billiard-room in the evening, and Mr. Bonteen was inveighing against the inadequacy
of the law as it had been brought to bear against the sinners who, between them, had succeeded
in making away with the Eustace diamonds. "It was a most unworthy conclusion to such a plot,"
he said. "It always happens that they catch the small fry, and let the large fish escape."

"Whom did you specially want to catch?" asked Lady Glencora.

"Lady Eustace, and Lord George de Bruce Carruthers,--as he calls himself."

"I quite agree with you, Mr. Bonteen, that it would be very nice to send the brother of a marquis
to Botany Bay, or wherever they go now; and that it would do a deal of good to have the widow
of a baronet locked up in the Penitentiary; but you see, if they didn't happen to be guilty,
it would be almost a shame to punish them for the sake of the example."

"They ought to have been guilty," said Barrington Erle.

"They were guilty," protested Mr. Bonteen.

Mr. Palliser was enjoying ten minutes of recreation before he went back to his letters. "I
can't say that I attended to the case very closely," he observed, "and perhaps, therefore,
I am not entitled to speak about it."

"If people only spoke about what they attended to, how very little there would be to say,--eh,
Mr. Bonteen?" This observation came, of course, from Lady Glencora.

"But as far as I could hear," continued Mr. Palliser, "Lord George Carruthers cannot possibly
have had anything to do with it. It was a stupid mistake on the part of the police."

"I'm not quite so sure, Mr. Palliser," said Bonteen.

"I know Coldfoot told me so." Now Sir Harry Coldfoot was at this time Secretary of State for
the Home affairs, and in a matter of such importance of course had an opinion of his own.

"We all know that he had money dealings with Benjamin, the Jew," said Mrs. Bonteen.

"Why didn't he come forward as a witness when he was summoned?" asked Mr. Bonteen triumphantly.
"And as for the woman, does anybody mean to say that she should not have been indicted for
perjury?"

"The woman, as you are pleased to call her, is my particular friend," said Lady Glencora. When
Lady Glencora made any such statement as this,--and she often did make such statements,--no
one dared to answer her. It was understood that Lady Glencora was not to be snubbed, though
she was very much given to snubbing others. She had attained this position for herself by a
mixture of beauty, rank, wealth, and courage;--but the courage had, of the four, been her greatest
mainstay.

Then Lord Chiltern, who was playing billiards with Barrington Erle, rapped his cue down on
the floor, and made a speech. "I never was so sick of anything in my life as I am of Lady Eustace.
People have talked about her now for the last six months."

"Only three months, Lord Chiltern," said Lady Glencora, in a tone of rebuke.

"And all that I can hear of her is, that she has told a lot of lies and lost a necklace."

"When Lady Chiltern loses a necklace worth ten thousand pounds there will be talk of her,"
said Lady Glencora.

At that moment Madame Max Goesler entered the room and whispered a word to the hostess. She
had just come from the duke, who could not bear the racket of the billiard-room. "Wants to
go to bed, does he? Very well. I'll go to him."

"He seems to be quite fatigued with his fascination about Lady Eustace."

"I call that woman a perfect God-send. What should we have done without her?" This Lady Glencora
said almost to herself as she prepared to join the duke. The duke had only one more observation
to make before he retired for the night. "I'm afraid, you know, that your friend hasn't what
I call a good time before her, Glencora."

In this opinion of the Duke of Omnium, the readers of this story will perhaps agree.