January 18th. I have not written for a whole week, we have such a frantic lot of work, especially
in French in which we are very backward, at least Dunker says so!! She can't stand Madame Arnau,
that's obvious. For my part I liked Mad. Arnau a great deal better, if only because she had
no pimples. And Prof. Jordan's History class is awfully difficult, because he always makes
one find out the causes for oneself; one has to learn intelligently!, but that is very difficult
in History. No one ever gets an Excellent from him, except Verbenowitsch sometimes, but she
learns out of a book, not our class book, but the one on which Herr Prof. J. bases his lectures.
And because she reads it all up beforehand, naturally she always knows all the causes of the
war and the consequences. Really consequences means something quite different, and so Hella
and I never dare look at one another when he is examining us and asks: What were the consequences
of this event? Of course the Herr Prof. imagined that Franke was laughing at him when she was
only laughing at consequences; and it was impossible for her to explain, especially to a gentleman!!!!

January 20th. When Dora and I were coming home from skating to-day we met Mademoiselle, and
I said how d'you do to her at once, and I was asking her how she (much emphasised) was getting
on, when suddenly I noticed that Dora had gone on, and Mademoiselle said: "Your sister seems
in a great hurry, I don't want to detain her." When I caught Dora up and asked her: "Why did
you run away?" she tossed her head and said: "That sort of company does not suit me." "What
on earth do you mean, you were so awfully fond of Mad., and besides she is really lovely."
That's true enough, she said; but it was awfully tactless of her to tell me of all that--you
know what. Such an intimacy behind her parents' backs cannot possibly lead to happiness. Then
I got in such a fearful temper and said: "Oh do shut up. Father and Mother did not know anything
about Viktor either, and you were happy enough then. It is just the secrecy that makes one
so happy." Then she said very softly: "Dear Grete, you too will change your views," and then
we did not say another word. But I was awfully angry over her meanness; for first of all she
wanted to hear the whole story, although Mad. never offered to tell her, and now she pretends
that she did not wish it. If I only knew where to find Mad. I would warn her. Anyhow, this
day week at 7 I shall take care to be in W. Street, and perhaps I may meet her, for she probably
has a private lesson somewhere in that neighborhood.

January 24th. Mother is very ill again to-day, in spite of the operation. I have decided that
I won't go on Sunday to the Brs. although Jeno will be there, and that I won't wait about for
Mademoiselle on Monday. I have not told Hella anything about this for she would probably say
it was very stupid of me, but I would rather not; not because Dora has twice spoken to me pointedly
about a clear conscience, but because I don't enjoy anything when Mother is ill.

January 26th. Mother is an angel. Yesterday she asked Aunt Dora: "By the way, Dora, has Grete
put a fresh lace tucker in her blue frock, ready for the Brs. to-morrow?" Then I said: "I'm
not going Mother," and Mother asked: "But why not, surely not on my account?" Then I rushed
up to her and said: "I can't enjoy anything when you are ill." And then Mother was so awfully
sweet, and she wept and said: "Such moments make one forget all pains and troubles. But really
you must go, besides I'm a good deal better to-day, and to-morrow I shall be quite well again."
So I answered: "All right, I'll go, but only if you are really well. But you must tell me honestly."
But in any case I shan't go to meet Mademoiselle on Monday.

January 28th. It was Mathematics to-day at school, so I could not write yesterday. We had a
heavenly time on Sunday. We laughed till our sides ached and Hella was nearly suffocated with
laughing. Lajos is enough to give one fits; it was absolutely ripping the way he imitated the
wife of Major Zoltan in the Academy and Captain Riffl. I can hardly write about it, for my
hand shakes so with laughing when I think of it. And then, while Hella and Lajos were singing
songs together, Jeno told me that every student in the Neustadt has an inamorata, a real one.
Mostly in Vienna, but some in Wiener Neustadt though that is dangerous because of being caught.
All the officers know about it, but no one must be found out. Then I told him about Oswald's
affair and he said: "Oswald was a great donkey, you'll excuse me for saying so since he's your
brother; but really he made a fool of himself. He was only a civilian; it's quite different
in the army." Then I got cross and said: "That's all very well, Jeno, but you are not an officer
yourself, so I don't see how you can know anything about it." Then he said to Hella: "I say,
Ilonka, you must keep your friend in better order, she is rather inclined to be insubordinate."
She is to make a written note of every act of insubordination, and then he will administer
exemplary punishment. All very fine, but it will take two to that.

January 30th. I wish I knew whether Mademoiselle really passed through W. Street again at 7
o'clock on Monday, for she certainly said very distinctly: "Au revoir, ma cherie!" She is so
pretty and so pale; perhaps she is really ill, and she must be awfully nervous about -- --
-- That would be terrible. We wonder whether she knows about certain means, but one simply
can't tell her.

February 2nd. I've had a wonderful idea and Hella thinks it a positive inspiration. We are
going to write anonymously to Mademoiselle about those means, and Hella will write, so that
no one can recognise my writing. We think something of that sort must have happened to Mademoiselle,
for the other day I heard Mother say to Aunt Dora: "If we had known that, we should never have
engaged her for the children; it will be a terrible thing for her parents." And Aunt Dora said:
"Yes, those are the sort of people who hide their disgrace under the water." It seems quite
clear, for disgrace means an illegitimate child. And the worst of it is, that they know that
she has done that. We must help the poor thing. And that is why Dora is so indignant all of
a sudden. But how can she know? there is nothing to notice yet in Mademoiselle; if there had
been I should certainly have seen it, for Hella often says I've a keen eye for it. That is
quite true, I was the first person to notice it in the maid at Prof. Hofer's, when even Father
had not noticed it.

February 4th. Well, we have written to her, at least Hella has, saying there are such means,
and that she will find all the details in the encyclopedia. We have addressed it to F. M. and
signed it "Someone who understands you." Unfortunately we shall never be able to find out whether
she got the letter, but the main thing is that she should.

February 7th. What a frightful lot of anxiety a letter can give one! In the interval to-day
the school servant came up to me and said: Please are you Fraulein Lainer of the Third. "There
is a letter for you." I blushed furiously, for I thought, it must be from Mademoiselle, but
my blushing made Frau Berger think it must be from a young man: "Really I ought to give it
to the head mistress; I am not allowed to deliver any letters to the pupils, but in your case
I will make an exception. But please remember if it happens again I shall have to hand it in
to the office." Then I said: "Frau Berger, I am quite certain it is not from a gentleman, but
from a young lady," and when she gave it to me I saw directly that it really was not from a
gentleman but only from Ada! It really is too stupid of her! At the New Year she reproached
me for having broken my word, and now she begs me to enquire at the Raimund Theatre or at the
People's Theatre whether Herr G. is there; she says she can't live without him in St. P. But
in the holidays she told me that she was not in love with him, that for her he was only a means
to an end. I'm absolutely certain she said that. Nothing will induce me to go to enquire at
a theatre office, and Hella says too that to make such a suggestion is a piece of impudence.
I shall just write her an ordinary letter, telling her what a row she might have got me into
at school. I really think Ada has a bee in her bonnet, as Father always says.

February 10th. I never heard of such a thing! I was sent for to the office to-day because the
school servant had complained that on two occasions I had thrown down some orange peel at the
entrance. It's quite true that I did drop one piece there yesterday, but I pushed it out of
the way with my foot into the corner, and as for any other time I know nothing about it. But
I see which way the wind is blowing. Frau Berger thought I would give her some money for that
letter; just fancy, how absurd, money for a letter like that, I wouldn't give 20 kreuzer for
such a letter. But since then she's been in a frightfully bad temper, I noticed it on Wednesday
when we were wiping our shoes at the door. What I said to the head was: "It happened only once,
and I kicked the peel into the corner where no one could tread on it, but I certainly did not
do it twice, and Bruckner can confirm what I say." Then the head said: "Oh well, we need not
make a state affair of it, but the next time you drop something, please pick it up." Frau Berger
is furious, and all we girls in our class have decided that while we won't make more mess than
we need, still, we shan't be too particular. If any one of us happens to drop a piece of paper
she will just let it lie. Such cheek, one really can't stand it!

February 12th. We got our reports to-day. I have not got any Satisfactories, only Praiseworthy
and Excellent. Father and Mother are awfully pleased and they have given each of us 2 crowns.
Indeed Dora has practically nothing but Excellents, only three Praiseworthies; but she studies
frantically hard, and she is learning Latin again with Frau Doktor M. If she is still teaching
the lower classes next year, I shall go too, for that way we shall have her for 3 hours longer
each week. By the way, Franke has actually got Praiseworthy in Maths. and Physics, though she's
hardly any good. The Nutling seems to give extraordinarily good reports, for twice in the Maths.
schoolwork Hella has had an Unsatisfactory, and yet now in her report she has Praiseworthy.
With Frau Doktor M. one has really to deserve one's report, and it was just the same last year
with Fr. Dr. St. The worst of all is with Herr Prof. Jordan. Not a single one of us has got
an Excellent except that deceitful cat Verbenowitsch. To-morrow the Brs. are giving a great
birthday party because of Hella's 14th birthday. Lajos and Jeno are coming and the two Ehrenfelds,
because Hella is very fond of them, especially Trude, the elder, that is she is 2 days older
than Kitty, for they are twins!! How awful!!! They only came to the Lyz this year, and Hella
meets them skating every day, I don't because we have no season tickets this year but only
take day tickets when we can go, because of Mother's illness. I am giving Hella an electric
torch with a very powerful reflector, so that it really lights up the whole room, and an amber
necklace.

February 14th. It's a good thing that we have the half-term holiday to-day and to-morrow for
that gives me time to write all about yesterday. It was simply phenomenal! I went to wish Hella
many happy returns quite early, and I stayed to dinner and Lajos and Jeno had been invited
to dinner too in the afternoon the 2 Ehrenfelds came and brought a box of sweets, and 3 of
Hella's girl cousins and two boys, one of whom is frightfully stupid and never speaks a word,
and several aunts and other ladies, for the grown-ups had their friends too. But we did not
bother about them, for the dining-room, Lizzi's room, and Hella's room had been arranged for
us. Hella had been sent such a lot of flowers that they nearly gave us a headache. At dinner
Lajos proposed a toast to Hella and another at tea. Hella was splendid, and in the evening
she said to me: "At 14 one really does become a different being." For in proposing his toast
Lajos had said that every 7 years a human being is completely changed, and Hella thinks that
is perfectly true. Thank goodness, in 6 1/2 months I shall change my whole being too. There
really did seem to be something different about her, and when we all had to blow to extinguish
the candles on her birthday cake, all except the life-light in the middle, as a sign that the
other years have passed, she really got quite pale, for she was afraid that in joke or through
awkwardness some one would blow out her life-light. Thank goodness it was all right. I don't
much care for such things myself, for I'm always afraid that something might happen. Of course
I know that it's only a superstition, but it would have been horribly unpleasant if anyone
had blown out the life-light. Openly!! Lajos gave Hella an enormous square box of sweets, and
secretly!! a silver ring with a heart pendant. He wanted her to wear this until it is replaced
by a gold one--the wedding ring. But she can't because of her parents, so she begged me to
allow her to say that I had given it her, but that would not do either because of Father and
Mother. These things are such a nuisance, and that is why no young man will ever go on living
at home where one is continually being questioned about everything one has, and does, and wears.
After tea we sang: "Had I but stayed on my lonely Hearth" and other sad songs, because they
are the prettiest, and in the evening we danced while Hella's Father played for us; and then
Elwira, the tall cousin, danced the czardas with Lajos, it was wonderful. I've never known
such a birthday party as yesterday's. It's only possible in winter; you can never have anything
like it on my birthday, July 30th, for the people one is fondest of are never all together
at that time. Really no one ought to have a birthday in the holiday months, but always sometime
between the end of September and June. I do wish I were 14, I simply can't wait. Hella's mother
said to Hella, You are not a child any longer, but a grown-up; I do wish I were too!!!

February 16th. We have a new schoolfellow. All the girls and all the staff are delighted with
her. She is so small she might be only 10, but awfully pretty. She has brown curls (Hella says
foxy red, but I don't agree) hanging down to her shoulders, large brown eyes, a lovely mouth,
and a complexion like milk and roses. She is the daughter of a bank manager in Hamburg; he
shot himself, I don't know why. Of course she is in mourning and it suits her wonderfully.
She has a strong North German accent. Frau Doktor Fuchs is simply infatuated with her and the
head is awfully fond of her too.

February 19th. Hella and I walked home to-day with Anneliese. She is called Anneliese von Zerkwitz.
Her mother has been so frightfully upset by her father's death that she'll probably have to
be sent to a sanatorium; that is why Anneliese has come to Vienna to stay with her uncle. He
is a professor and they live in Wiedner Hauptstrasse. Dora thinks her charming too, the whole
school is in love with her, she is going to gym. with us; I am so glad. Of course she won't
stand near Hella and me because she's so small; but we can always keep an eye on her, show
her everything, and help her with the apparatus. Hella is a trifle jealous and says: "It seems
to me that Anneliese has quite taken my place in your affections." I said that was not a bit
true, but did she not think Anneliese awfully loveable? "Yes," said Hella, "but one must not
neglect old friends on that account." "I certainly shan't do anything of the kind; but Anneliese
really needs some one who will show her everything and explain everything." Besides, the head
mistress and Frau Doktor M. placed her in front of me and said to us: "Give her a helping hand."

February 20th. It's such a pity that I can't ask Anneliese here, for Mother has been in bed
for the last week. But she is going to Hella's on Sunday, and since I am going too of course
I am frightfully glad. Naturally I would much rather have her here; but unfortunately it's
impossible because of Mother. Dora thinks that Mother will have to have another operation,
but I don't believe it, for such an operation can only be done once. What I can't understand
is why there should be anything wrong with Mother if the operation was successful. Dora is
afraid that Mother has cancer, that would be horrible; but I don't believe she has, because
if one has cancer one can't recover.

February 23rd. It was heavenly at the Bruckners! Anneliese did not come until 4, for they don't
have dinner until 3. She wore a white embroidered frock with black silk ribbons. Hella's mother
kissed her with tears in her eyes. For her mother really is in a sanatorium because is suffering
from nervous disease. Anneliese is living with her uncle and aunt. But she often cries because
of her father and mother. Still, she enjoyed herself immensely in the round games, winning
all the best prizes, a pocket comb and mirror, a box of sweets, a toy elephant, a negro with
a vase, and other things as well. I won a pen-wiper, a double vase, a pencil holder, a lot
of sweets, and a note book, Hella won a lot of things too, and so did her two cousins and Jenny.

Then we had some music and Anneliese sang the Wacht am Rhein and a lot of folk songs; her voice
is as sweet as herself. She was fetched at 7, I stayed till 8.

March 1st. To-morrow Hella and I have been in vised to Anneliese's. I am so awfully glad. I
shall ask Mother to let me wear my new theatre blouse and the green spring coat and skirt.
The temperature went up to 54 degrees to-day.

March 3rd. Yesterday we went to Anneliese's. She shares a room with her cousin; she is only
11 and goes to the middle school, but she is a nice girl I expected to find everything frightfully
smart at Professor Arndt's, but it was not so at all. They have only 3 rooms not particularly
well furnished. He has retired on a pension, Emmy is their granddaughter, she lives with them
because her father is in Galicia, a captain or major I think. It was not so amusing as at Hella's.
We played games without prizes, and that is dull; it is not that one plays for the sake of
the prizes, but what's the use of playing if one does not win anything? Then they read aloud
to us out of a story book. But what Hella and I found exasperating was that Anneliese's uncle
said "Du" to us both. For Hella is 14, and I shall be 14 in a few months. But Hella was quite
right; in conversation she said: "At the High School only the mistresses say Du to us, the
professors have to say Sie." Unfortunately he went away soon after, so we don't know whether
he took the hint. Hella says too that it was not particularly entertaining.

March 9th. Oh dear, Mother really has got cancer; of course Father has not told us so, but
she has to have another operation. Dora has cried her eyes out and my knees are trembling.
She's going to hospital on Friday. Aunt Dora is coming back on Thursday and will stay here
till Mother is well again. I do so dread the operation, and still more Mother's going away.
It's horrible, but still lots of people have cancer and don't die of it.

March 22nd. Mother is coming home again tomorrow. Oh I am so glad! Everything is so quiet in
the hospital and one hardly dares speak in the passages. Mother said: "I don't want to stay
here any longer, let me go back to my children." We went to see Mother in hospital every day
and took her violets and other flowers, for she was not allowed to eat anything during the
first few days after the operation. But it's quite different now that she's home again. I should
have liked to stay away from school to-day, but Mother said: "No, children, go to school, do
it to please me." So of course we went, but I simply could not attend to my lessons.

March 24th. Mother is asleep now. She looks frightfully ill and still has a lot of pain. I'm
sure the doctors can't really understand her case; for if they had operated properly she would
not still have pain after the second operation. I should like to know what Mother has been
talking to Dora about, for they both cried. Although Dora and I are on good terms now, she
would not tell me, but said she had promised Mother not to speak about it. I can't believe
that Mother has told Dora a secret, but perhaps it was something about marrying. For Dora only
said: "Besides, Mother did not need to say that to me, for my mind was quite made up in any
case." I do hate such hints, it's better to say nothing at all. As soon as Mother can get up
she is going to Abbazia for a change, and most likely Dora will go with her.

March 26th. Mother and Dora are going to Abbazzia next week. Dora thinks I envy her the journey,
and she said: "I would willingly renounce the journey and the seaside if only Mother would
get well. And this year when I have to matriculate, I certainly should not go for pleasure."
I'm so awfully miserable that I simply can't wear a red ribbon in my hair, though red suits
me best. I generally wear a black one now, but since yesterday a brown one, for Mother said:
"Oh, Gretel, do give up that black ribbon; it looks so gloomy and does not suit you at all."
Of course I could not tell Mother how I was feeling, so I took the brown one and said the red
ribbon was quite worn out.

April 12th. I never get my diary written. It's so gloomy at home for Mother is very bad. Oswald
is coming home to-morrow for the Easter holidays and Mother is looking forward so to seeing
him. I was to have gone with Hella and her father to Maria-Zell, for this year they are probably
going to take a house for the summer in Mitterbach or Mitterberg near Maria-Zell. But I am
not going after all, for I don't feel inclined, and I think Mother is better pleased that I
should not; for she said: "So I shall have all my three darlings together here at Easter."
When she said that I wanted to cry, and I ran quickly out of the room so that she might not
see me. But she must have seen, for after dinner she said: "Gretel, if you really want to go
with the Bruckners, I should like you to; I should be so glad for you to have a little pleasure,
you have not had much enjoyment all the winter." And then I could not stop myself, and I burst
out crying and said: "No, Mother, I won't go on any account. All I want is that you should
get quite well again." And then Mother cried too and said: "Darling, I'm afraid I shall never
be quite well again, but I should like to stay until you are all grown up; after that you won't
need me so much." Then Dora came in and when she saw that Mother was crying she said that Father
had sent for me. He hadn't really but in the evening she told me that Mother's illness was
hopeless, but that I must not do anything to upset her or let her see what I was feeling. And
then we both cried a lot and promised one another that we would always stay with Father.

May 16th. Mother died on April 24th, the Sunday after Easter. We are all so awfully unhappy.
Hardly anyone says a word at mealtimes, only Father speaks to us so lovingly. Most likely Aunt
Dora will stay here for good. It's not three weeks yet since Mother was buried, but in one
way we feel as if she had already been dead three years, and in another way one is always suddenly
wanting to go into her room, to ask her something or tell her something. And when we go to
bed we talk about her for such a long time, and then I dream about her all night. Why should
people die? Or at least only quite old people, who no longer have anyone to care about it.
But a mother and a father ought never to die. The night after Mother died Hella wanted me to
come and stay with them, but I preferred to stay at home; but late in the evening I did not
dare to go into the hall alone, so Dora went with me. Father had locked the door into the drawing-room,
where Mother was laid out, but all the same it was awfully creepy. They did not call me on
the 24th until after Mother was dead; I should have so liked to see her once more. Good God,
why should one die? If only I had been called Berta after her; but she did not wish that either
of us should be called after her, nor did Father wish it in Oswald's case.

May 19th. When Mother was buried, one thing made me frightfully angry with Dora, at least not
really angry but hurt, that she should have gone into church and come out of church with Father.
For I have always gone with Father and Dora has always gone with Mother. And while poor Mother
was in hospital, Dora went with Aunt. But at the funeral Father went with her, and I had to
go with Aunt Dora. A few days later I spoke to her about it, and she said it was quite natural
because she is the elder. She said that Oswald ought to have gone with me, that that would
have been the proper thing. But he went alone. Another thing that annoys me is this; when Aunt
Dora came here in the autumn, Dora and I sat on the same side of the table at dinner and supper,
and Aunt sat opposite Mother, and when Mother took to her bed her place was left vacant. After
she died Oswald sat on the fourth side, and now for about a week Dora has been sitting in Mother's
place. I can't understand how Father can allow it!

May 19th. At dinner to-day no one could eat anything. For we had breast of veal, and we had
had the same thing on the day of poor Mother's funeral, and when the joint was brought in I
happened to look at Dora and saw that she was quite red and was sobbing frightfully. Then I
could not contain myself any more and said: "I can't eat any breast of veal, for on Mother's
burial day -- -- --," then I could not say any more, and Father stood up and came round to
me, and Dora and Aunt Dora burst out crying too. And after dinner Aunt promised us that we
should never have breast of veal again. For tea, Aunt Dora ordered an Ulm cake because we had
eaten hardly anything at dinner.

May 26th. To-day is the first day of Dora's written matriculation. Father wanted her to withdraw
because she looks so ill, but she would not for she said it would be a distraction for her
and that she would like to finish with the High School. Next year she is to go to a preparatory
school for the Gymnasium. She ought really to go to a dancing class, for she is nearly 17,
but since she is in mourning it is quite impossible and of course she does not want to go anyhow.
The head thought too that Dora would withdraw from the examination because she is so overwrought,
but she did not want to withdraw. The staff were so awfully sweet to us after Mother's death,
at least the women teachers were. The professors don't bother themselves about our private
concerns, for they only see us for 1 or 2 hours a week. Frau Doktor Steiner, from whom we don't
have any lessons this year, was awfully sympathetic; I saw plainly that she had tears in her
eyes, and Frau Doktor M. was an angel as she always is! We did not go to the spring festival
on May 20th, though Father said we could go if we liked. Hella and Anneliese were awfully anxious
that I should go; but I would not, and indeed I shall never go to any more amusements. No doubt
the others enjoyed themselves immensely, but for Dora and me it would have been horrible. In
the evenings I often fancy to myself that it is not really true, that Mother has simply gone
to Franzensbad and will be back soon. And then I cry until my head aches or until Dora says:
"Oh Gretel, I do wish you'd stop, it's awful." She often cries herself, I can hear her quite
well, but I never say anything.

June 4th. So Dora looks upon Mother's death as a sign of God's displeasure against Father!
But what could we have done to prevent it? She said, Oh, yes, we did a lot of things we ought
not to have done, and above all we had secrets from Mother. That is why God has punished us.
It's horrible, and now that she is always speaking of the eye of God and the finger of God
it makes me so terribly afraid to go into a dark room, because I always feel there is some
one there who is eying me and wants to seize me.

June 8th. Father is in a frightful rage with Dora; yesterday evening, when I opened the drawing-room
door and there was Father coming out, quite unintentionally I gave a yell, and when Father
asked what was the matter I told him about God's displeasure; only I did not tell him it was
against him, but only against Dora and me. And then Father was frightfully angry for the first
time since Mother's death, and he told Dora she was not to upset me with her ill-conditioned
fancies, and Dora nearly had an attack of palpitation so that the doctor had to be sent for.
Aunt came to sleep in our room and we both had to take bromide. To-day Father was awfully kind
to us and said: "Girls, you've no reason to reproach yourselves, you have always been good
children, and I hope you always will be good." Yes, I will be, for Mother's eye watches over
us. Hella thinks I look very poorly, and she asked me to-day whether perhaps . . . . ?? But
I told her that I would not talk about such things any more, that it would be an offence to
my Mother's memory. She wanted to say something more, but I said: "No, Hella, I simply won't
talk about that any more. You can't understand, because your mother is still alive."

June 12th. It is awful; just when I did not want to think any more about such things, there
comes an affair of that very sort! I'm in a frightful mess through no fault of my own. Just
after 9 to-day a girl from the Second came in to our Mathematic lesson and said: "The head
mistress wishes to see Lainer, Bruckner, and Franke in the office directly." All the girls
looked at us, but we did not know why. When we came into the office, the door of the head's
room was shut and Fraulein N. told us to wait. Then the head came out and called me in. Inside
a lady was sitting, and she looked at me through a lorgnon. "Do you spend much time with Zerkwitz?"
asked the head. "Yes, said I," and I had a foreboding. "This lady is Zerkwitz's mother, she
complains that you talk about very improper things with her daughter; is it so?" "Hella and
I never wanted to tell her anything; but she begged us to again and again, and besides we thought
she really knew it anyhow and only pretended she didn't." "What did you think she knew, and
what did you talk to her about?" broke in Anneliese's mother. "Excuse me," said the head, "I
will examine the girls; so Bruckner was concerned in the matter too?" "Very seldom," said I;
"Yes, the chief offender is Lainer, the girl whose mother died recently." Then I choked down
my tears, and said: "We should never have said a word about these matters unless Anneliese
had kept on at us." After that I would not answer any more questions. Then Hella was called
in. She told me afterwards that she knew what was up directly she saw my face. "What have you
been talking about to Zerkwitz?" Hella would not say at first, but then she said in as few
words as possible: "About getting babies, and about being married!" "Gracious goodness, such
little brats, and to talk about such things," said Anneliese's mother. "Such corrupt minds."
"We did not believe that Anneliese did not really know, or we should never have told her anything,"
said Hella just as I had; she was simply splendid. "As regards Alfred, we have nothing to do
with that, and we have often advised her not to allow him to meet her coming home from school;
but she would not listen to us." "I am talking about your conversations with which you have
corrupted the poor innocent child," said Frau von Zerkwitz. "She certainly must have known
something about it before, or she would not have gone with Alfred or wanted to talk about it
with us," said Hella. "Heavenly Father, that is worse still; such corruptness of mind!" Then
we were sent out of the room. Outside, Hella cried frightfully, and so did I, for we were afraid
there would be a row at home. We could not go back into the Mathematic lesson because we had
been crying such a lot. In the interval Hella walked past Anneliese and said out loud: "Traitress!!"
and spat at her. For that she was ordered out of the ranks. I stepped out of the ranks too,
and when Frau Professor Kreindl said: "Not you, Lainer, you go on," I said: "Excuse me, I spat
at her too," and went and stood beside Hella. All the girls looked at us. It was plain that
Frau Prof. Kreindl knew all about it already for she did not say any more. In the German lesson
from 11 to 12 Frau Doktor M. said: "Girls, why can't you keep the peace together? This continual
misconduct is really too bad, and serves only to make trouble for you and for your parents
and for us." Just before 12 Hella and I were summoned to the head's room again. "Girls," she
said, "it's a horrible business this. Even if your own imaginations have been prematurely poisoned,
why should you try to corrupt others? As for you, Lainer, you ought to be especially ashamed
of yourself that such complaints should be made of you when your mother has been buried only
a few weeks." "Excuse me," said Hella, "all this happened in the spring, and even earlier,
in the winter, for we were still skating at the time. Rita's mother was pretty well then. Besides,
Zerkwitz was continually pestering us to tell her. I often warned Rita, and said: 'Don't trust
her,' but she was quite infatuated with Zerkwitz. Please, Frau Direktorin, don't say anything
about it to Rita's father, for he would be frightfully upset."

Hella was simply splendid, I shall never forget. She does not want me to write that; we are
writing together. Hella thinks we must write it all down word for word, for one never can tell
what use it may be. No one ever had a friend like Hella, and she is so brave and clever. "You
are just as clever," she says, "but you get so easily overawed, and besides you are still quite
nervous because of your mother's death. I only hope your father won't hear anything about it."
That stupid idiot dug up the old story about the two students on the ice, a thing that was
over and done with ages ago. "You should never trust anyone," says Hella, and she's perfectly
right. I never could have believed Anneliese would be such a sneak. We don't know yet what
was up with Franke. As she came in she put her finger to her lips, meaning of course "Betray
nothing!"

June 15th. The school inspector came to-day. I was at the blackboard in the Maths lesson, when
there was a knock at the door and the head came in with the Herr Insp. For a moment I thought
he had come about that matter, and I went as white as a sheet (at least the girls say I did;
Hella says I looked like Niobe mourning for her children). Thank goodness, the sum was an easy
one, and besides I can always do sums; in Maths and French I am the best in the class. But
the Herr Insp. saw that I had tears in my eyes and said something to the head; then the head
said: "She has recently lost her mother." Then the Herr Insp. praised me, and like a stupid
idiot I must needs begin to howl. The head said: "It's all right L., sit down," and stroked
my hair. She is so awfully sweet, and I do hope that she and Frau Doktor M. will say a word
for me at the Staff Meeting. And I do hope that Father won't hear anything of it, for of course
he would reproach me dreadfully because it all comes so soon after Mother's death. But really
it all happened long before that. The way it all happened was that Hella's mother went away
to see Emmy, her married niece, who was having her first baby. And then it was that we told
the "innocent child" (that's what we call the deceitful cat) everything. Hella still thinks
that the "innocent child" was a humbug. That is quite likely, for after all she is nearly fourteen;
and at 14 one must surely know a great deal already; it's impossible that at that age a girl
can continue to believe in the stork story, as Anneliese is said!!! to have done. Hella thinks
that I shall soon be "developed" too, because I always have such black rings under my eyes.
I overheard Frau von Zerkwitz say, "Little brats;" but Hella says that the head hemmed loudly
to drown it. Afterwards Hella was in fits of laughter over the expression "little brats" for
her mother always says about such things; Little brats like you have no concern with such matters.
Good Lord, when is one to learn all about it if one does not know when one is nearly 14! As
a matter of fact both Hella and I learned these things very early, and it has not done us any
harm. Hella's mother always says that if one learns such things too early one gets to look
old; but of course that's nonsense. But why do mothers not want us to know? I suppose they're
just ashamed.

June 16th. Yesterday evening after we had gone to bed, Dora said: "What were you really talking
about to Z., or whatever her name is? The head called me into the office to-day and told me
that you had been talking of improper matters. She said I must watch over you in Mother's place!"
Well that would be a fine thing! Besides, it all happened when Mother was still alive. A mother
never knows what children are talking of together. Dora thinks that I shall have a written
Reprimand from the Staff Meeting. I should hate that because of Father; that would mean another
fearful row; although Father is really awfully sweet now; I have not had a single rowing since
Mother first got ill. It's quite true that death makes people gentle, but why? Really one would
have thought people would get disagreeable, because they've been so much distressed. Last week
the tombstone was put up and we all went to see it. I should like to go alone to the cemetery
once at least, for one does not like to weep before the others.

June 18th. The "innocent child" does not come to gym. any longer, at least she has not been
since that affair. We think she's afraid, although we should not say anything to her. We punish
her with silent contempt, she'll feel that more than anything. And thank goodness she does
not come to play tennis. I do hate people who are deceitful, for one never knows where to have
them. When a girl tells an outright cram, then I can at least say to her: Oh, clear out, don't
tell such a frightful whacker; I was not born yesterday. But one has no safeguard against deceitfulness.
That's why I don't like cats. We have another name for the "innocent child," we call her the
"red cat." I think she knows. Day after tomorrow is the school outing to Carnuntum. I am so
excited. We have to be at the quay at half past 7.

June 21st. The outing was lovely. Hella was to come and fetch me. But she overslept herself,
so her mother took a taxi; and luckily I had waited for her. I should like to be always driving
in a taxi. Dora would not wait, and went away at a quarter to 7 by electric car. At a quarter
to 8 Hella came in the taxi, and just before the ship weighed anchor (I believe one ought only
to say that of a sailing ship at sea, but it does not matter, I'm not Marina who knows everything
about the navy), that is just at the right moment, we arrived. They all stared at us when we
came rushing up in the taxi. I tumbled down as I got out of the car, it was stupid; but I don't
think they all noticed it. Aunt Dora said that for this one day we had better put off our mourning,
and Father said so too, so we wore our white embroidered frocks and Aunt Dora was awfully good
and had made us black sashes; it looked frightfully smart, and they say that people wear mourning
like that in America. I do love America, the land of liberty. Boys (that is young students)
and girls go to school together there!! -- -- -- But about the outing. In the boat we sat next
Frau Doktor M., she was awfully nice; Hella was on the right and I was on the left, and we
sat so close that she said: "Girls, you're squashing me, or at least you're crushing my dress!"
She was wearing a white frock and had a coral necklace which suited her simply splendidly.
When we were near Hainburg Hella's hat fell into the Danube, and all the girls screamed because
they thought a child had fallen overboard. But thank goodness it was only the hat. We went
up the Schlossberg and had a lovely view, that is, I did not look at anything except Frau Doktor
M. because she was so lovely; Professor Wilke was with us, and he went about with her all the
time. The girls say he will probably marry her, perhaps in the holidays. Oh dear, that would
be horrid. Hella thinks that is quite out of the question because of the German professor;
at any rate it would be better for her to marry Professor W. than the other, because he is
said to be a Jew. "Still, with regard to all the things that hang upon marriage, it's the same
with every man," said I. "That's just the chief point, you little goose," said Hella. And Frau
Doktor M. said: "Do you allow your chum to talk to you like that? What is the chief point?"
I was just going to say: "We can't tell you that," when Hella interrupted me and said: "Just
because I'm her chum I can talk to her like that; she would not let anyone else do it." Then
we went to dinner. Unfortunately we did not sit next "her." We had veal cutlets and four pieces
of chocolate cake, and as the Herr Religionsprof. went by he said: "How many weeks have you
been fasting?" Before dinner we went to the museum to see the things they had dug up in the
Roman camp. The head mistress and Fraulein V. explained everything. It was most instructive.
In the afternoon we went to Deutsch-Altenburg. It was great fun at tea. Then we had games and
all the staff joined in, the Fifth had got up a comedy by one of the girls. We were all in
fits of laughter. Then suddenly there came along a whole troop of officers of the flying corps,
frightfully smart, and one of them sat down at the piano and began to play dance music. Another
came up to the head and begged her to allow the "young ladies" to dance. The head did not want
to at first, but all the girls of the Fifth and Sixth begged her to, and the Herr Rel. Prof.
said: "Oh, Frau Direktorin, let them have the innocent pleasure," and so they really were allowed
to dance. The rest of us either danced with one another or looked on. And then, when Hella
and I were standing right in front, up came a splendid lieutenant and said: "May I venture
to separate the two friends for a little dance?" "If you please," said I, and sailed off with
him. To dance with a lieutenant is glorious. Then the same lieutenant danced with Hella and
in the evening on the way home she said that the lieutenant had really wanted to dance with
her first, but I had been so prompt with my "If you please" and had placed my hand on his shoulder.
Of course that's not true, but it is not a thing one would quarrel about with one's best friend,
and anyhow he danced with both of us. Unfortunately we were not able to dance very long because
we got so hot. Oh, and I had almost forgotten, a captain with a black moustache saluted Frau
Doktor M., for they know one another. She blushed furiously; so he is probably the man she
will marry, and not Herr Prof. Wilke and not the Jewish professor. He would please me a great
deal better. They were all so awfully smart! Before we left a lieutenant brought in a huge
bunch of roses, and the officers gave a rose to each member of the staff, the ladies I mean.
Then something awfully funny happened. There is a girl in the Sixth who looks quite old, as
if she might be 24, and "our" lieutenant offered her a rose too. And then she said: "No thank
you, I am not one of the staff, I'm in the Sixth." Everyone burst out laughing, and she was
quite abashed because the lieutenant had taken her for one of the staff. And the Herr Rel.
Prof. said to her: "Tschapperl, you might just as well have taken it." But really she was quite
right to refuse. I think there must have been 20 officers at least. Of course Hella told the
lieutenant that she was a colonel's daughter. I wonder if we shall ever see him again.

I am writing this four days after the outing. Dora told me yesterday that when I was dancing
with the lieutenant the Herr Rel. Prof. said to the Frau Direktorin: "Do just look at that
young Lainer; little rogue, see what eyes she's making." Making eyes, forsooth! I did not make
eyes, besides, what does it mean anyhow to make eyes!! Of course I did not shut my eyes; if
I had I should probably have fallen down, and then everyone would have laughed. And I don't
like being laughed at. I hardly saw Dora all through the outing, and she did not dance. She
said very cuttingly: "Of course not, for after all we are in mourning, even if we did wear
white dresses; you are only a child, for whom that sort of thing does not matter." That sort
of thing, as if I had done something dreadful! I don't love Mother any the less, and I don't
forget her. Father was quite different; the day before yesterday evening he said: "So my little
witch has made a conquest; you're beginning early. But it's no good taking up with an officer,
little witch, they're too expensive." But I would like to have the lieutenant, I would go up
with him in an aeroplane, up, up, till we both got quite giddy. In the religion lesson yesterday,
when the Herr Prof. came in he laughed like anything and said: "Hullo, Lainer, is the world
still spinning round you? The Herr Leutnant has not been able to sleep since." So I suppose
he knows him. Still, I'm quite sure that he has not lost his sleep on my account, though very
likely he said so. If I only knew what his name is, perhaps Leo or Romeo; yes, Romeo, that
would suit him admirably!

June 26th. When I was writing hard yesterday Aunt Alma came with Marina and that jackanapes
Erwin who was really responsible for all the row that time. Since Mother died we have been
meeting again. I don't think Mother liked Aunt Alma much, nor she her. Just as Father and Aunt
Dora are not particularly fond of one another. It is so in most families, the father does not
care much for the mother's brothers and sisters and vice versa. I wonder why? I wonder whether
He has a fiancee, probably he has, and what she looks like. I wish I knew whether He likes
brown hair or fair hair or black hair best. But about the visit! Of course Marina and I were
very standoffish. She is so frightfully conceited because she goes to the Training College.
As if that were something magnificent! The High School is much more important, for from the
High School one goes on to the university, but not from the Training College; and they don't
learn English, nor French properly, for it is only optional. Aunt Alma knows that it annoys
Father when anyone says we don't look well, so she said: "Why, Dora looks quite overworked;
thank goodness it's nearly over, and she won't get much out of it after all, it's really better
for a girl to become a teacher." Erwin lounged in his chair and said to me: "Do you dare me
to spit on the carpet?" "You are ill-bred enough to do it; I can't think why Marina, the future
schoolmistress, does not give you a good smacking," said I. Then Aunt Alma chimed in: "What's
the matter children? What game are you playing?" "It's not a game at all; Erwin wants to spit
on the carpet and he seems to think that would be all right." Then Aunt said something to him
in Italian, and he pulled a long nose at me behind Father's back, but I simply ignored it;
little pig, and yet he's my cousin! Kamillo is supposed to have been just as impudent as Bub.
But we have never seen him, for he has been in Japan as an ensign for the last two years. Mourning
does not suit Marina at all; there's a provincial look about her and she can't shake it off.
Her clothes are too long and she has not got a trace of b--, although she was 17 last September;
she is disgustingly thin.

June 27th. The Herr Insp. came to our class to-day, in French this time. Frau Doktor Dunker
is always frightfully excited by his visits, and at the beginning of the lesson she said: "Girls,
the Inspector is coming to-day; pull yourselves together; please don't leave me in the lurch."
So it must be true what Oswald always says that the inspectors come to inspect the teachers
and not the pupils. "At the inspection," Oswald often says, "every pupil has the professor
in his hands." Being first, of course I was called upon, and I simply could not think what
"trotteur" meant. I would not say "Trottel" [idiot], and so I said nothing at all. Then Anneliese
turned round and whispered it to me, but of course I was not going to say it after her, but
remained speechless as an owl. At length the Herr Inspektor said: "Translate the sentence right
to the end, and then you'll grasp its meaning." But I can't see the sense of that; for if I
don't know one of the words the sentence has no meaning, or at least not the meaning it ought
to have. If Hella had not been absent to-day because of -- --, she might have been able to
whisper it to me. Afterwards Frau Doktor Dunker reproached me, saying that no one could ever
trust anyone, and that I really did not deserve a One. "And the stupidest thing of all was
that you laughed when you did not know a simple word like that." Of course I could not tell
her that my first thought had been to translate it "Trottel." Unseen translation is really
too difficult for us.

June 28th. The Staff Meeting is to-day. I'm on tenter hooks to know whether I shall have a
Reprimand, or a bad conduct mark in my report. That would be awful. It does not matter so much
to Hella, for her father has just gone away to manoeuvres in Hungary or in Bosnia, and by the
time he is back the holidays will have begun and no one will be bothering about reports any
more. So I shall know to-morrow. Oh bother, to-morrow is a holiday and next day is Sunday.
So for another 2 1/2 days I shall have "to linger in suspense," but a different sort of suspense
from what Goethe wrote about.

June 30th. We were at home yesterday and this afternoon because of Dora's matriculation. The
Bruckners went to Breitenstein to visit an aunt, who is in a convalescent home, and so I could
not go with them. In the evening we went to Turkenschanz Park to supper, but there was nothing
on. By the way, I have not written anything yet about the "innocent child" at the outing. On
the boat she began fussing round Hella and me and wanted to push into the conversation, indirectly
of course! But she did not succeed; Hella is extraordinarily clever in such matters; she simply
seemed to look through her Really I'm a little sorry for her, for she hasn't any close friends
beyond ourselves; but Hella said: "Haven't you had enough of it yet? Do you want to be cooked
once more with the same sauce?" And when Hella's hat fell into the water and we were still
looking after it in fits of laughter, all of a sudden we found Anneliese standing behind us
offering Hella a fine lace shawl which she had brought with her for the evening because she
so readily gets earache. "Wouldn't you like to use this shawl, so that you won't have to go
back to Vienna without a hat?" "Please don't trouble yourself, I'm quite used to going about
bare-headed." But the way she said it, like a queen! I must learn it from her. She is really
shorter than I am, but at such moments she looks just like a grownup lady. I told her as much,
and she rejoined: "Darling Rita, you can't learn a thing like that; it's inborn." She rather
annoyed me, for she always seems to think that an officer's daughter is a thing apart.

July 1st. Thank goodness, everything has passed off without a public scandal. Frau Doktor M.
spoke to me in the corridor, saying: "Lainer, you've had a narrow escape. If certain voices
had not been raised on your behalf, I really don't know -- -- --." Then I said: "I'm quite
certain, Frau Doktor, that you alone have saved me from a Bad Conduct Mark." And I kissed her
hand. "Get along, you little baggage, for the one part simply a child, and for the other with
your head full of thoughts which grown-ups would do well to dispense with."

After all, one can't help one's thoughts, and we shall be more careful in future as to the
persons to whom we talk about that sort of thing. Here's another thing I forgot to mention
about the outing: When we got back into Vienna by rail, most of the parents came to meet us
at the station; Father was there too, and so was the "innocent child's" mother. Thank goodness
Father did not know her. When we got out of the train there was a great scrimmage, because
we were all trying to sort ourselves to our parents, and suddenly I heard Hella's voice: "No,
Madam, your child is not in our bad company." I turned round sharply, and there was Hella standing
in front of Frau von Zerkwitz who had just asked her: "Hullo, you, what has become of my little
Anneliese?" The answer was splendid; I should never have been able to hit upon it; I always
think of good repartees after the event. It was just the same that time when the old gentleman
in the theatre asked Hella if she was alone there, and she snapped at him. He said: Impudent
as a Jewess, or an impudent Jewess! It was too absurd, for first of all it's not impudent to
make a clever repartee, and secondly it does not follow because one can do it that one is a
Jewess. So Hella finished up by saying to him: "No, you've made a mistake, you are not speaking
to one of your own sort."

We break up on the 6th; but because of Dora's matriculation we are staying here until the 11th.
Then we are going to Fieberbrunn in Tyrol, and this year we shall stay in a hotel, so I am
awfully pleased. Hella had a splendid time there last year.

July 2nd. My goodness, to-day I have . . . ., no, I can't write it plain out. In the middle
of the Physics lesson, during revision, when I was not thinking of anything in particular,
Fraulein N. came in with a paper to be signed. As we all stood up I thought to myself: Hullo,
what's that? And then it suddenly occurred to me: Aha!! In the interval Hella asked me why
I had got so fiery red in the Physics lesson, if I'd had some sweets with me. I did not want
to tell her the real reason directly, and so I said: "Oh no, I had nearly fallen asleep from
boredom, and when Fraulein N. came in it gave me a start." On the way home I was very silent,
and I walked so slowly (for of course one must not walk fast when . . . ) that Hella said:
"Look here, what's up to-day, that you are so frightfully solemn? Have you fallen in love without
my knowing it, or is it at long last . . . .?" Then I said "Or is it at long last!" And she
said: "Ah, then now we're equals once more," and there in the middle of the street she gave
me a kiss. Just at that moment two students went by and one of them said: "Give me one too."
And Hella said: "Yes, I'll give you one on the cheek which will burn." So they hurried away.
We really had no use for them: to-day!! Hella wanted me to tell her everything about it; but
really I hadn't anything to tell, and yet she believed that I wouldn't tell. It is really very
unpleasant, and this evening I shall have to take frightful care because of Dora. But I must
tell Aunt because I want a San-- T--. It will be frightfully awkward. It was different in Hella's
case, first of all because she had such frightful cramps before it began so that her mother
knew all about it without being told, and secondly because it was her mother. I certainly shan't
tell Dora whatever happens, for that would make me feel still more ashamed. As for a San--
T--, I shall never be able to buy one for myself even if I live to be 80. And it would be awful
for Father to know about it. I wonder whether men really do know; I suppose they must know
about their wives, but at any rate they can't know anything about their daughters.

July 3rd. Dora does know after all. For I switched off the light before I undressed, and then
Dora snapped at me: "What on earth are you up to, switch it on again directly." "No I won't."
Then she came over and wanted to switch it on herself; "Oh do please wait until I've got into
bed." "O-o-h, is that it," said Dora, "why didn't you say so before? I've always hidden my
things from you, and you haven't got any yet." And then we talked for quite a long time, and
she told me that Mother had commissioned her to tell me everything when -- -- -- Mother had
told her all about it, but she said it was better for one girl to tell it to another, because
that was least awkward. Mother knew too that in January Hella had . . . But how? I never let
on! It was midnight before we switched off the light.

July 6th. Oh, I am so unhappy, when we went to get our reports to-day and said good-bye to
Frau Doktor M., she was awfully sweet, and at the end she said: "I hope that you won't give
too much trouble to my successor." At first we did not understand, for we thought she only
meant that it is always uncertain whether the same member of the staff will keep the same class
from year to year, but then she said: "I am leaving the school because I am going to be married."
It gave me such a pang, and I said: "Oh, is it true?" "Yes, Lainer, it's quite true." And all
the girls thronged round her and wanted to kiss her hand. No one spoke for a moment, and then
Hella said: "Frau Doktor, may I ask you something? But you mustn't be angry!" "All right, ask
away!" "Is it the captain we met in Carnuntum?" She was quite puzzled for a minute, and then
she laughed like anything and said, "No, Bruckner, it is not he, for he has a wife already."
And Gilly, who is not so frightfully fond of her as Hella and I are, said: "Frau Doktor, please
tell us whom you are going to marry." "There's no secret about it, I am going to marry a professor
in Heidelberg." That is why she has to leave the High School. It's simply ruined my holidays.
Hella has such lovely ideas. The girls would not leave Frau Doktor alone, and they all wanted
to walk home with her. Then she said: "My darling girls, that's impossible, for I am going
to Purkersdorf to see my parents." And then Hella had her splendid idea. The others said: "Please
may we come with you as far as the metropolitan?" and at length she said they might. But Hella
said, "Come along," and we hurried off to the metropolitan before them and took tickets to
Hutteldorf so that we should be able to get back in plenty of time, and there we were waiting
on the platform when she came and when all the girls came with her as far as the entrance.
Then we rushed up to her and got into the train which came in at that moment. Of course we
had second class tickets, for Hella, being an officer's daughter, mayn't travel third, and
Frau Doktor M. always travels second too. And we all three sat together on a seat for two,
though it was frightfully hot. She was so nice to us; I begged her to give us her photograph
and she promised to send us one. Then, alas, we got to Hutteldorf. "Now, girls, you must get
out." Then we both burst out crying, and she kissed us! Never shall I forget that blessed moment
and that heavenly ride! As long as the train was still in sight we both waved our handkerchiefs
to her and she waved back! When we wanted to give up our tickets Hella looked everywhere for
her purse and could not find it; she must have left it in the ticket office. Luckily I still
had all my July pocket money and so I was able to pay the excess fare, and then for once in
a way I was the sharp-witted one; I said we had travelled third and had only passed out through
the second, so we had not to pay so much; and no one knew anything about it, there's no harm
in that sort of cheating. Of course we really did go back third, although Hella said it would
spoil the memory for her. That sort of thing does not matter to me. We did not get home until
a quarter past 1, and Aunt Dora gave me a tremendous scolding. I said I had been arranging
books in the library for Frau Doktor, but Dora had enquired at the High School at 12, and there
had been no one there. We had already gone away then, I said, and had gone part of the way
with Frau Doktor M., for she was leaving because of her marriage. Then Dora was quite astonished
and said: "Ah, now I understand." The other day when she had to go into the room while the
staff meeting was on, the staff was talking about an engagement, and Fraulein Thim was saying:
"Not everyone has the luck to get a university professor." That must have been about her. Certainly
Thim won't get one, not even a school porter. To-day, (I've been writing this up for two days),
I had such a delightful surprise; she sent me her photo, simply heavenly!! Father says the
portrait is better looking than the reality. Nothing of the sort, she is perfectly beautiful,
with her lovely eyes and her spiritual expression! Of course she has sent Hella a photo too.
We are going to have pocket leather cases made for the photographs, so that we can take them
with us wherever we go. But we shall have to wait until after the holidays because Hella has
lost her money, and nearly all mine was used up in paying the excess fares. And such a leather
case will cost 3 crowns. Father has some untearable transparent envelopes, and I shall ask
him for two of them. They will do as a makeshift.

Dora's matriculation is to-morrow, she's quite nervous about it although she is very well up
in all the subjects. But she says it's so easy to make mistakes. But Father is quite unconcerned,
though last year he was very much bothered about Oswald, and poor dear Mother was frightfully
anxious: "Pooh," said Oswald, "I shall soon show them that there's no need to bother; all one
wants at the metric is cheek, that's the whole secret!" And then all he telegraphed was "durch"
[through] and poor Mother was still very anxious, and thought that it might mean durchgefallen
[failed]. But of course it really meant durchgekommen [passed], for meanwhile the second telegram
had come. And father had brought two bottles of champagne to Rodaun, ready to celebrate Oswald's
return. There won't be anything of the sort after Dora's matriculation because Mother is not
with us any more; oh it does make me so miserable when I think that 2 1/2 months ago she was
still alive, and now -- -- --.

July 9th. This morning, while Dora was having her exam (she passed with Distinction), I went
to the cemetery quite alone. I told Aunt Dora I was going shopping with Hella and her mother,
and I told Hella I was going with Aunt, and so I took the tram to Potzleinsdorf and then walked
to the cemetery. People always ought to go to the cemetery alone. There was no one in the place
but me. I did not dare to stay long, for I was afraid I should be home late. It's a frightfully
long way to Potzleinsdorf, and it always seems so much further when one is alone. And when
I came away from the cemetery I took a wrong turning and found myself in a quite deserted street
near the Turkenschanze. That sort of thing is very awkward, and for a long time there was simply
no one of whom I could ask the way. Then by good luck an old lady came along, and she told
me I had only to take the next turning to get back to the tram line. And just as I did get
there a Potzleinsdorf car came along, so I got in and reached home long before Dora. But in
the afternoon Hella nearly gave me away, quite unintentionally. But since they were all talking
about the matriculation I was able to smooth it over. Now that Dora has finished her matriculation
she will have to tell me a great deal more about certain things; she promised she would. Before
the matriculation she was always so tired because of the frightful grind, but that is over
now, and I never do any work in the holidays. What are holidays for? Frau Doktor Dunker has
really given me only a Satisfactory, it's awfully mean of her; and I shall have to learn from
her for three years more! Nothing will induce me to bother myself about French now, for she
has a down on me, and when one's teacher has a down on one, one can work as hard as one likes
and it's no good. It was so different with Frau Doktor M.!! I have just been looking at her
photo so long that my eyes are positively burning; but I had to write up about to-day: even
when one had been stupid once or twice, she never cast it up against one, never, never, never
-- -- the sweet angel!

July 10th. We are going to F. to-morrow; I am so glad. It is frightfully dull to-day, for Hella
went away yesterday to Berchtesgaden where she is to stay for 6 weeks, and on the way back
she is going to Salzburg and perhaps Aunt Dora will take me to Salzburg for 2 days so that
we can see one another again before Hella goes to Hungary. She is lucky! I can't go to K--
M-- this year, for we are going to stay in F. till the middle of September. I got my name day
presents to-day because they are things for the journey: a black travelling satchel with a
black leather belt, and half a dozen mourning handkerchiefs with a narrow black border, and
an outfit for pokerwork, and a huge bag of sweets for the journey from Hella. The world is
a wretched place without Hella. I do hope we shall marry on the same day, for Mother always
used to say: "The most ardent girl friendships are always broken up when one of the two marries."
I suppose because the other one is annoyed because she has not married. I wonder what it will
be like at Frau Doktor M.'s wedding! and I wonder whether she knows about everything; very
likely not, but if not I suppose her mother will tell her all about it before she is married.
Dora told me yesterday that Mother had once said to her: "A girl always gets all sorts of false
ideas into her head; the reality is quite different." But that is not so in our case, for we
really know everything quite precisely, even to the fact that you have to take off every stitch;
oh dear, I shall never forget it!--Oswald is coming to F. on the 20th, for first he is going
to Munich for a few days.

July 12th. It's lovely here; mountains and mountains all round, and we're going to climb them
all; oh, how I am enjoying myself! I simply can't keep a diary; it will have to be a weekary.
For I must write to Hella at least every other day. We are staying in the Edelweiss boarding
house; there are about 40 visitors, at least that's what we counted at dinner. There is a visitors'
list hanging up in the hall, and I must study it thoroughly. The journey was rather dull, for
Dora had a frightful headache so we could not talk all through the night. I stood in the corridor
half the night. At one place in Salzburg there was a frightful fire; no one was putting it
out, so I suppose no one knew anything about it. The boarding house is beautifully furnished,
carpets everywhere; there are several groups of statuary in the hall. We are awfully pleased
with everything. There are 4 courses at dinner and two at supper. Flowers on every table. Father
says we must wait and see whether they change them often enough. Father has a new tweed suit
which becomes him splendidly for he is so tall and aristocratic looking. We have coats and
skirts made of thin black cotton material and black lace blouses, and we also have white coats
and skirts and white blouses, and light grey tweed dresses as well. For Father is really quite
right: "Mourning is in your heart, not in your dress." Still, for the present, we shall wear
black, but we have the white things in case it gets frightfully hot. To-day, on a cliff quite
near the house, we picked a great nosegay of Alpine roses. Dora has brought Mother's photo
with her and has put the flowers in front of it; unluckily I forgot to bring mine. I should
like to go to the top of the Wildeck or one of the other mountains. It would be lovely to pick
Edelweiss for oneself. But Father says that mountaineering is not suited to our ages. The baths
here always seem very cold, only about 54 or 60 degrees at most. Dr. Klein said we should only
bathe when the water is quite warm. But apparently that won't be often. We have not made any
acquaintances yet, but I like the look of the two girls wearing Bosnian blouses at the second
table from ours. Perhaps we shall get to know them. One plan has come to nothing. I wanted
to talk to Dora in the evenings about all sorts of important things, but it is impossible because
Aunt Dora shares our room. Here's another tiresome thing; Father's room has a lovely veranda
looking on to the promenade, while our room only looks into the garden. Of course the view
is lovely, but I should have liked Father's room much better, only it is a great deal too small
for three persons; there is only one bed and its furniture is of a very ancient order. I do
hate that sort of furniture; the lady who keeps the boarding house calls it Empire!! I don't
suppose she can ever have seen a room furnished in real Empire style.

July 15th. When Dora and I were out for a walk yesterday she told me a great deal about Aunt
Dora. I never really knew before whether Uncle Richard was employed in the asylum or whether
he was a patient there; but he is a patient. He has spinal disease and is quite off his head
and often has attacks of raving madness. Once before he was sent to the asylum he tried to
throttle Aunt Dora, and in another respect he did her a frightful lot of harm!!! I don't quite
understand how, for Aunt Dora has never had any children. And why on earth do they make such
a secret about Uncle Richard? But when I come to think of it, no one ever wanted to talk about
Mother's illness. There's no sense in this secrecy, for in the first place that always makes
one think about things, and secondly one always finds out in the long run. At last Aunt Dora
was so terribly afraid of Uncle that she always kept the door of her bedroom locked. It must
be awful to have a husband who is a raging maniac. Father once said to Dora: your Aunt Dora
is enough to drive one mad with her whims and fancies. Of course he didn't mean that literally,
but I must watch carefully to find out what Aunt really does to annoy anyone so much. Most
likely it is something connected with this matter. To my mind Aunt Alma has many more whims
and fancies, and yet Uncle Franz has never gone raving mad. Dora says that Uncle Richard may
go on living for another 20 years, and that she is frightfully sorry for Aunt Dora because
she is tied to such a monster. Why tied? After all, he is in an asylum and can't do her any
harm. Dora didn't know about all this before, Aunt only told her after Mother's death. Dora
thinks it is better not to marry at all, unless one is madly in love with a man. And then only
by a marriage contract!! In that case that would be excluded. But I always imagined a marriage
contract was made because of a dowry and money affairs generally; and never thought of its
having such a purpose. Frau Mayer, whom we met in the summer holidays two years ago, had married
under such conditions. But it puzzles me, for if that is what men chiefly want when they marry,
I don't see how any man can be satisfied with a marriage contract. There must be a mistake
somewhere. Perhaps it is different among the Jews, for the Mayers were Jews.

July 21st. No, I never should have thought that Hella would prove to have been right in that
matter. I got a letter 8 pages long from Anneliese to-day. That time when Hella had to stay
at home for five days she believed that Anneliese would make fresh advances. But obviously
she was afraid. So now she has written to me: My own dear Rita! You are the only friend of
my life; wherever I go, all the girls and everybody likes me, and only you have turned away
from me in anger. What harm did I do you -- -- --? After all, she did do me some harm; for
there might have been a fine row if it had not been for Frau Doktor M., that angel in human
form! She writes she is so lonely and so unhappy; she is with her mother at the Gratsch Hydropathic
near Meran or Bozen, I forget which, I must look it up if I answer her. For I gave my word
of honour to Hella that I would never forgive the "innocent child." But after all, to write
an answer is mere ordinary politeness, and is far from meaning a reconciliation, and still
less a friendship. She says that there are absolutely no girls in Gratsch, only grown-up ladies
and old gentlemen, the youngest is 32! brr, I know I should find it deplorably dull myself.
So I really will write to her, but I shall be exceedingly reserved. She finishes up with: Listen
to the prayer of an unhappy girl and do not harden your heart against one who has always loved
you truly. That is really very fine, and Anneliese always wrote the best compositions; Frau
Doktor M. used often to praise them and to speak of her excellent style, but later she really
did not like her at all. She often told her she ought not to be so affected, or she would lose
the power of expression from sheer affectation. I shall not write to her immediately, but only
after a few days, and, as I said, with great reserve.

July 23rd. I got to know the two girls to-day, their names are Olga and Nelly, one is 15 and
the other 13; I don't know their surname yet, but only that they have a leather goods business
in Mariahilferstr. Their mother's hair is quite grey already, their father is not coming until
August 8th. We have arranged to go for a walk at 4 o'clock this afternoon, to Brennfelden.

July 26th. I have made up my mind to write every day before dinner, for after dinner we all
go with our hammocks into the wood. After all I wrote to Anneliese three days ago, without
waiting, so as not to keep her on tenterhooks. I have not written anything to Hella about it
because I don't know how Anneliese will answer. Hella says she is having a royal time in Innichen;
but the tiresome thing does not say just what she means by royal; she wrote only a bare 3 sides
including the signature so of course I did not write to her as much as usual.

July 27th. Dora is not very much taken with the Weiners; she thinks they are frightfully stuck
up. She says it's not the proper thing to wear gold bracelets and chains in the country, above
all with peasant costume. Of course she is right, but still I like the two girls very much,
and especially Olga, the younger one; Nelly puts on such airs; they go to a high school too,
the Hietzinger High School; but Olga has only just got into the Second while Nelly is in the
Fifth. Dora says they will never set the Danube on fire. No matter, leave it to others to do
that. We enjoyed ourselves immensely on our walk. I'm going to spend the whole day with them
to-day. Father says: "Don't see too much of them; you'll only get tired of them too soon."
I don't believe that will happen with the Weiners.

July 29th. It's my birthday to-morrow. I wonder what my presents will be. I've already had
one of them before we left Vienna, 3 pairs of openwork stockings, Aunt Dora gave them to me,
exquisitely fine, and my feet look so elegant in them. But I must take frightful care of them
and not wear them too often. Aunt says: "Perhaps now you will learn to give up pulling at your
stockings when you are doing your lessons." As if I would do any lessons in the holidays.

LAST HALF-YEAR, AGE FOURTEEN AND A HALF

LAST HALF-YEAR

July 30th. Thank goodness this is my 14th!!! birthday; Olga thought that I was 16 or at least
15; but I said: No thank you; to look like 16 is quite agreeable to me, but I should not like
to be 16, for after all how long is one young, only 2 or 3 years at most. But as to feeling
different, as Hella said she did, I really can't notice anything of the kind; I am merely delighted
that no one, not even Dora, can now call me a child. I do detest the word "child," except when
Mother used to say: "My darling child," but then it meant something quite different. I like
Mother's ring best of all my birthday presents; I shall wear it for always and always. When
I was going to cry, Father said so sweetly: "Don't cry, Gretel, you must not cry on your 14th!!
birthday, that would be a fine beginning of grown-upness!" Besides the ring, Father gave me
a lovely black pearl necklace which suits me perfectly, and is at the same time so cool; then
Theodor Storm's Immensee, from Aunt Dora the black openwork stockings and long black silk gloves,
and from Dora a dark grey leather wristband for my watch. But I shan't wear that until we are
back in Vienna and I am going to school again. Grandfather and Grandmother sent fruit as usual,
but nothing has come from Oswald. He can't possibly have forgotten. I suppose his present will
come later. Father also gave me a box of delicious sweets. At dinner Aunt Dora had ordered
my favourite chocolate cream cake, and every one said: Hullo, why have we got a Sunday dish
on a weekday? And then it came out that it was my birthday, and the Weiner girls, who knew
it already, told most of the other guests and nearly everyone came to wish me many happy returns.
Olga and Nelly had done so in the morning, and had given me a huge nosegay of wild flowers
and another of cut flowers. This afternoon we are all going to Flagg; it is lovely there.

Evening: I must write some more. We could not have the expedition, because there was a frightful
thunderstorm from 2 to 4 o'clock. But we enjoyed ourselves immensely. And I had another adventure:
As I was leaving the dining-room in order to go to the . . . ., I heard a voice say: May I
wish you a happy birthday, Fraulein? I turned round, and there behind me stood the enormously
tall fair-haired student, whom I have been noticing for the last three days. "Thank you very
much, it's awfully kind of you," said I, and wanted to pass on, for I really had to go. But
he began speaking again, and said: "I suppose that's only a joke about your being 14. Surely
you are 16 to-day?" "I am both glad and sorry to say that I am not, said I, but after all everyone
is as old as he seems. Please excuse me, I really must go to my room," said I hurriedly, and
bolted, for otherwise -- -- -- --!! I hope he did not suspect the truth. I must write about
it to Hella, it will make her laugh. She sent me a lovely little jewel box with a view of Berchtesgaden
packed with my favourite sweets, filled with brandy. In her letter she complains of the "shortness
of my last letter." I must write her a long letter to-morrow. At supper I noticed for the first
time where "Balder" sits; that's what I call him because of his lovely golden hair, and because
I don't know his real name. He is with an old gentleman and an old lady and a younger lady
whose hair is like his, but she can't possibly be his sister for she is much too old.

July 31st. The family is called Scharrer von Arneck, and the father is a retired member of
the Board of Mines. The young lady is really his sister, and she is a teacher at the middle
school in Brunn. I found all this out from the housemaid. But I went about it in a very cunning
way, I did not want to ask straight out, and so I said: Can you tell me who that white-haired
old gentleman is, he is so awfully like my Grandfather. (I have never see my Grandfather, for
Father's Father has been dead 12 or 15 years, and Mother's Father does not live in Vienna but
in Berlin.) Then Luise answered: "Ah, Fraulein, I expect you mean Herr Oberbergrat Sch., von
Sch. But I expect Fraulein's Grandfather is not quite so grumpy." I said: "Is he so frightfully
grumpy then?" And she answered: "I should think so; we must all jump at the word go or it's
all up with us!" And then one word led to another, and she told me all she knew; the daughter
is 32 already, her name is Hulda and her father won't let her marry, and the young gentleman
has left home because his father pestered him so. He is a student in Prague, and only comes
home for the holidays. It all sounds very melancholy, and yet they look perfectly happy except
the daughter. By the way, it's horrid for the Weiners; Olga is 13 and Nelly actually 15, and
their mother is once more -- -- -- -- I mean their mother is in an i-- c--. They are both in
a frightful rage, and Nelly said to me to-day: "It's a perfect scandal;" they find it so awkward
going about with their mother. I can't say I'd noticed anything myself; but they say it has
really been obvious for a long time; "the happy event!! will take place in October," said Olga.
It really must be very disagreeable, and I took a dislike to Frau W. from the first. I simply
can't understand how such a thing can happen when people are so old. I'm awfully sorry for
the two Weiner girls. Something of the same sort must have happened in the case of the Schs.,
for Luise has told me that the young gentleman is 21 and his sister not 32 but 35, she had
made a mistake; so she is 14 years older, appalling. I'm awfully sorry for her because her
father won't let her marry, or rather would not let her marry. I'm sure Father would never
refuse if either of us wanted to marry. I have written all this to Hella; I miss her dreadfully,
for after all the Weiner girls are only strangers, and I could never tell my secrets to Dora,
though we are quite on good terms now. Oswald is coming to-morrow.

August 1st. A young man has a fine time of it. He comes and goes when he likes and where he
likes. A telegram arrived from Oswald to-day, saying he was not coming till the middle of August:
Konigsee, Watzmann, glorious tramp. Letter follows. Father did not say much, but I fancy he's
very much annoyed. Especially just now, after poor Mother's death, Oswald might just as well
come home. Last year he was so long away after matriculation, quite alone, and now it's the
same this year. One pleasure after another like that is really not the thing when one's Mother
has been dead only three months. The day after we came here and before we had got to know anyone,
I went out quite early, at half past 8, and went alone to the cemetery. It is on the slope
of the mountain and some of the tombstones are frightfully old, in many cases one can't decipher
the inscriptions; there was one of 1798 in Roman figures. I sat on a little bank thinking about
poor Mother and all the unhappiness, and I cried so terribly that I had to bathe my eyes lest
anyone should notice it. I was horribly annoyed to-day. A letter came from Aunt Alma, she wants
to come here, we are to look for rooms for her, to see if we can find anything suitable, Aunt
Alma always means by that very cheap, but above all it must be in a private house; of course,
for a boarding house would be far too dear for them. I do hope we shan't find anything suitable,
we really did not find anything to-day, for a storm was threatening and we did not go far.
I do so hope we shall have no better success to-morrow; for I really could not stand having
Marina here, she is such a spy. Thank goodness Aunt Dora and Dora are both very much against
their coming. But Father said: That won't do girls, she's your aunt, and you must look for
rooms for her. All right, we can look for them; but seeking and finding are two very different
things.

August 2nd. This morning we went out early to look for the rooms, and since Dora always makes
a point of finding what's wanted, she managed to hunt up 2 rooms and a kitchen, though they
are only in a farm. The summer visitors who were staying there had to go back suddenly to Vienna
because their grandmother died, and so the rooms are to let very cheap. Dora wrote to Aunt
directly, and she said that we shall all be delighted to see them, which is a downright lie.
However, I wrote a P.S. in which I sent love to them all, and said that the journey was scandalously
expensive; perhaps that may choke them off a bit. Owing to this silly running about looking
for rooms I saw nothing of the Weiners yesterday afternoon or this morning, and of course nothing
of God Balder either. And at dinner we can't see the Scharrers' table because they have a table
in the bay window, for they have come here every year for the last 9 years. I'm absolutely
tired out, but there's something I must write. This afternoon the Weiners and we went up to
Kreindl's, and Siegfried Sch. came with us, for he knows the Weiners, who have been here every
year for the last 3 years. He talked chiefly to Dora, and that annoyed me frightfully. So I
said not a word, but walked well behind the others. On the way home he came up to me and said:
"I say, Fraulein Grete, are you always so reserved? Your eyes seem to contradict the idea."
I said: "It all depends on my mood, and above all I hate forcing myself on any one." "Could
you not change places at table with your mother?" "In the first place, she is not my Mother,
who died on April 24th, but my Aunt, and in the second place, why do you say that to me, you
had better say it to my sister!" "Don't be jealous! There's no reason for that. I can't help
talking to your sister when we're in company; but I can assure you that you have no occasion
whatever to be jealous." I wish I knew how I could manage that change of places, but I always
sit next Father; anyhow I would not do it directly; next week at soonest. Farewell, my Hero
Siegfried, sleep sweetly and dream of -- --.

August 3rd, Anneliese wrote to me: "You heart of gold, so you are able to forgive my sins of
youth? The world shines with a new light since I received your letter." I don't know that my
letter was so forgiving as all that, for all I said was that I was very sorry she was so lonely
in Gratsch, and that we could not alter the past, so we had better bury it. She sends me a
belated birthday greeting (last winter we told one another when our birthdays were), and she
sends me a great pressed forget-me-not. She waited to answer until it had been pressed. I don't
know quite what I had better do. Big Siegfried could no doubt give me very good advice, but
I can't very well tell him the whole story, for then I should have to tell him why we quarrelled,
and that would be awful. I had better write to Hella before I answer. I must write to-day,
for it will be quite three days before I can get an answer, and then 1 or two days more before
Anneliese gets the letter, so that will be 5 days at least. It is raining in torrents, so it
is very dull, for Father won't let us sit in the hall alone; I can't think why. Generally speaking
Father's awfully kind, quite different from other fathers, but this is really disgusting of
him. I shall lie down on the sofa after dinner and read Immensee, for I've not had a chance before.

August 6th. Well, the whole tribe arrived to-day; Marina in a dust-grey coat and skirt that
fits her abominably, and Erwin and Ferdinand; Ferdinand is going through the artillery course
in Vienna, at the Neustadt military academy; he's the most presentable of the lot. Uncle was
in a frightful temper, growling about the journey and about the handbaggage, I think they must
have had 8 or 10 packages, at least I had to carry a heavy travelling rug and Dora a handbag
of which she said that it contained the accumulated rubbish of 10 years. Aunt Alma's appearance
was enough to give one fits, a tweed dress kilted up so high that one saw her brown stockings
as she walked, and a hat like a scarecrow's. When I think how awfully well dressed Mother always
was, and how nice she always looked; of course Mother was at least 20 years younger than Aunt
Alma, but even if Mother had lived to be 80 she would never have looked like that. Thank goodness,
on the way from the station we did not meet any one, and above all we did not meet him. For
once in a way they all came to dinner at our boarding house. We had two tables put together,
and I seized the opportunity to change my place, for I offered Aunt Alma the place next Father
and seated myself beside the lovely Marina, exactly opposite -- -- --! Anyway, Marina looked
quite nice at dinner, for her white blouse suits her very well, and she has a lovely complexion,
so white, with just a touch of pink in the cheeks. But that is her only beauty. The way she
does her hair is hideous, parted and brushed quite smooth, with two pigtails. I've given them
up long ago, though everyone said they suited me very well. But "snails" suit me a great deal
better. He looked across at me the whole time, and Aunt Alma said: "Grete is blossoming out,
I hope there's not a man in the case already." "Oh no," said Father, "country air does her
such a lot of good, and when I take the children away for a change I don't forbid any innocent
pleasures." My darling Father, I had to keep a tight hand on myself so as not to kiss him then
and there. They were all so prim, with their eyes glued to their plates as if they had never
eaten rum pudding before. It is true that Ferdinand winked at Marina, but of course she noticed
nothing. They soon put away their first helps, and they all took a second, and then they went
on talking. When we went to our rooms I knocked at Father's door and gave him the promised
kiss and said: "You really are a jewel of a Father." "Well, will you, if you please, be a jewel
of a daughter, and keep the peace with Marina and the others?" I said: "Oh dear, I simply can't
stand her, she's such a humbug!" "Oh well," said Father, "it may be a pity, but you know one
can't choose one's parents and one's relations." "I would not have chosen any different parents,
for we could not have found another Father and another Mother like you." Then Father lifted
me right up into the air as if I had still been a little girl, saying: "You are a little treasure,"
and we kissed one another heartily. I really do like Father better than anyone in the world;
for the way I like Hella is quite different, she is my friend, and Dora is my sister; and I
like Aunt Dora too, and Oswald if I ever see him again.

August 8th. Oh, I am so furious! To-day I got a postcard from Hella, with nothing on it but
"Follow your own bent, with best wishes, your M." When we write postcards we always use a cipher
which no one else can understand, so that M. means H. It's a good thing no one can understand
it. Of course I wrote to Anneliese directly, and was most affectionate, and I sent a postcard
to Hella, in our cipher, with nothing more than: Have done so, with best wishes, W. Not even
your W. I do wonder what she will do. Hero Siegfried was lying with us to-day in the hayfield,
and what he said was lovely. But I can't agree that all fathers without exception are tyrants.
I said: "My Father isn't!" He rejoined: "Not yet, but you will find out in time. However, anyone
with a character of his own won't allow himself to be suppressed. I simply broke with my Old
Man and left home; there are other technical schools besides the one in Brunn. And since you
say not all fathers; well just look at Hulda; whenever anyone fell in love with her the Old
Man marred her chance, for no one can stand such tutelage." "Tutelage, what do you mean," said
I, but just at that moment everyone got up to go away. To-morrow perhaps, poor persecuted man.

August 9th. Oh dear, it's horrible if it's all really true what Hella writes about being infected;
an eruption all over the body, that is the most horrible thing in the world. I must tear up
her letter directly, and since she could not write 8 whole pages in our cipher, I must absolutely
destroy it, so that no one can get hold of a fragment of it. Above all now that Marina is here,
for you never can tell -- -- --. But I know what I'll do; I'll copy the letter here, even if
it takes 2 or 3 days. She writes:

Darling Rita, what did you say when you got yesterday's postcard. If you were angry, you must
make it up with me. Consort with whom you please and write to whom you please; but all the
consequences be on your own head. Father always says: Beware of red hair! And I insist that
the "innocent child" has foxy red hair. But you can think what you like.

Now I've got something much more important to tell you. But you must promise me dirst that
you will tear up my letter directly you have read it. Otherwise please send it back to me unread.

Just fancy. Here in B. there is a young married woman living with her mother and her cousin,
a girl who is studying medicine; they are Poles and I have always had an enthusiastic admiration
for the Poles. The young wife has got a divorce from her husband, for she was infected by him
on the wedding night. Of course you remember what being infected is. But really it is something
quite different from what we imagined. Because of that she got a frightful eruption all over
her body and her face, and most likely all her hair will fall out; is it not frightful? Her
cousin, the medical student, who is apparently very poor, is there to nurse her. Our servant
Rosa told me about it, she heard of it from the housemaid where they have rooms. As you know,
one can't talk to Lizzi about anything of that kind, and so I did not learn any more; but the
other day, when I went to buy some picture postcards, I met the three ladies. The young wife
was wearing a very thick veil, so that one could see nothing. They were sitting on a bench
in the garden in front of their house, and I bowed in passing, on the way back. They bowed,
and smiled in a friendly way. In the afternoon I had to lie down, for I was feeling very bad
because of . . . .!! Then I suddenly heard some people talking on the veranda just outside
my window--the veranda runs all round the house. At first I saw shadows passing, and then they
sat down outside. I recognised the soft voice of the Polish student directly, and I heard her
say to the wife of the mayor of J.: "Yes, my unfortunate cousin's experience has been a terrible
one; that is because people sell girls like merchandise, without asking them, and without their
having the least idea what they are in for." I got up at once and sat down close to the window
behind the curtain so that I could hear everything. The mayor's wife said: "Yes, it's horrible
what one has to go through when one is married. My husband is not one of that sort but -- --
--" And then I could not understand what she went on to say I overheard this conversation on
Thursday. But that's not all I have to tell you. Of course my first thought was, if only I
could have a talk with her; for she spoke about enlightenment and although we are both of us
already very much enlightened, still, as a medical student, she must know a great deal more
than we do, so that we can learn from her. And since she said that girls ought not to be allowed
to run blindly into marriage, I thought she would probably tell me a little if I went cautiously
to work. There was a word which she and the mayor's wife used more than once, segsual and I
don't know what it means, and I'm sure you don't know either, darling Rita. She said something
about segsual intimacies; of course when people talk about intimacies, one knows it has a meaning,
but what on earth does segsual mean? It must mean something, since it is used with intimacy.
Well, let me get on. On Saturday there was a party, and the medical student came, and I left
my Alpine Songs lying on the piano, and somebody picked it up and turned over the pages, and
the word went round that the person to whom it belonged must sing something. At first I did
not let on, but went out for a moment, and then came back saying: "I'm looking for my music
book, I left it lying about somewhere." There was a general shout, and everyone said: "We've
agreed that the person to whom that book belongs has got to sing." Now I knew that Fraulein
Karwinska had accompanied the singing on such evenings before. So I said: "I shall be delighted
to sing, provided Fraulein K. will accompany me, For you gentlemen play too loud for my voice."
Great laughter, but I had got what I wanted. We were introduced, and I thought to myself: You
will soon improve the acquaintance. On Sunday for once in a way I got up quite early, at half
past 6, for Fraulein K. can only go out walking early in the morning since she spends the whole
day with her cousin. She sits near the Luisenquelle, so I went there with a book, and as soon
as she came I jumped up, said "good-morning," and went on: "I'm afraid I've taken possession
of your bench." "Not at all," she said, "Do you study on Sundays?" "Oh no, this is only light
reading," I answered, and I made haste to sit on the book, for in my hurry I had not noticed
what it was. But luck was with me. She sat down beside me and said: "What is it you are reading
that you hide so anxiously? I suppose it's something that your mother must not know about."
"Oh no," said I, "we have not brought any such books to the country with us." "I take it that
means that you do manage to get them when you are in town?" "Goodness me, one must try and
learn a little about life; and since no one will ever tell one anything, one looks about for
oneself to see if one can find anything in a book." "In the encyclopedia, I suppose?" "No,
that's no good, for one can't always find the truth there." She burst out laughing and said:
"What sort of truth do you want?" "I think you can imagine very well what sort of things I
want to know." Of course one can speak more plainly to a medical student than one can to other
girls, and she was not in the least disgusted or angry but said: "Yes, it's the same struggle
everywhere." Then I made use of your favourite phrase and said: "Struggle, what do you mean?
What I really want to know about is being infected." Then she flushed up and said: "Who's been
talking to you about that? It seems to me that the whole town is chattering about my unhappy
cousin. You must see that I can't tell you that." But I answered: "If you don't, who will?
You study medicine, and are seeing and talking about such things all day." "No, no, my dear
child (you can imagine how furious that made me), you are still much too young for that sort
of thing." What do you think of that, we are too young at 14 1/2, it's utterly absurd. I expect
that really her studies have not gone very far, and she would not admit it. Anyhow, I stood
up, and said: "I must not disturb you any longer," and bowed and went away; but I thought to
myself: "A fig for her and her studies; fine sort of a doctor she'll make!" What do you think
about it all? We shall still have to trust to the encyclopedia, and after all a lot of what
we can learn there is all right, and luckily we know most things except the word segsual. Next
winter I expect we shall find it easier than we used to to get to the bookcase in your house.
I don't bow to the silly idiot any more.

But darling Rita, with regard to the "innocent child," I don't want to influence you in any
way, and I shan't be angry with you for preferring an unworthy person to me!!! Faithless though
you are, I send you half a million kisses, your ever faithful friend, H. P.S. I have been 4
days writing this letter; tear it up, whatever you do!!!

Now that I have copied the letter, I really can't see why Hella wants me to tear it up. There's
nothing so very dreadful in it. But there is one thing I shan't be able to do for Hella, to
help her in looking up things in the encyclopedia. I think I should always feel that Mother
would suddenly come in and stand behind us. No, I simply can't do it.

August 13th. Through that stupid copying I have been prevented writing about my own affairs,
although they are far more important. Last Wednesday the Society for the Preservation of Natural
Beauties had arranged a great excursion to Inner-Lahn in breaks. Dora did not want to go at
first, but Father said that if it would give us pleasure, he would very much like to go with
us, and Mother would be only too delighted to see that we were enjoying something once more.
And two days before the excursion Dora finally decided that she would like to go; I knew why
at once; she thought that by that time all the places would have been taken, and that we should
have been told: Very sorry, no more room. But luckily she had made a great mistake. For the
secretary said: With pleasure; how many places shall I reserve? and so we said: 7; namely,
Father, Dora, and I, Aunt Alma (unfortunately), Marina (very unfortunately), and the two boys
(no less unfortunately). "That will need an extra conveyance," replied the secretary, and we
thought we should make a family party. But it was not so: Next Dora sat a gentleman whom I
had seen once or twice before, and he paid her a tremendous amount of attention. Besides that
there were 2 strange gentlemen, Frau Bang and her 2 daughters and her son, who is not quite
all there; opposite was Hero Siegfried, a young lady who is I believe going on the stage, the
two Weiner girls and their Mother (notwithstanding!!!), then I, and afterwards Marina, Father,
Aunt Alma, and the two boys opposite. I don't know who made up the other break-loads. At 6
in the morning we all met outside the school, for the schoolmaster acted as our guide. I did
not know before that he has two daughters and a son who has matriculated this year. First of
all they held a great review, and the gentlemen fortified themselves with a nip and so did
some of the ladies; I did not, for I hate the way in which a liqueur burns one's throat so
that every one, at any rate girls and ladies, make such faces when they are drinking, that
is why I never drink liqueur. I did not care much about the drive out, for it was very cold
and windy, most of us had red noses and blue lips; I kept on biting my lips to keep them red,
for one looks simply hideous when one's lips are white or blue, I noticed that in Dora when
we were skating last winter. Father went only on our account, and Aunt Dora stayed at home
so that Aunt Alma could go. Marina wears "snails" now, the sight of her is enough to give one
fits. Dora gets on with her quite well, which is more than I can say for myself. Only when
we got out aid I notice that Siegfried's sister, Fraulein Hulda, had been sitting next the
aspiring actress. She is awfully nice, and many, many years ago she must have been very pretty;
she has such soft brown eyes, and her hair is the same colour as her brother's; but he has
glorious blue eyes, which get quite black when he is angry, as he was when he was talking about
his father. I should tremble before him in his wrath. He is so tall that I only come up to
his shoulder. Father calls him the red tapeworm; but that's really not fair. He is very broad
but so thin. In Unter-Toifen we stopped for breakfast, eating the food we had brought with
us; about half an hour; then the schoolmaster hurried us all away, for we had quite 10 miles
to walk. The two boys made a party with other boys, and we five girls, we 2, the 2 Weiners,
and Marina, led the way. Aunt Alma walked with a clergyman's wife from Hildesheim, or whatever
it was called, and with the schoolmaster's wife. It was awfully dull at first, so that I began
to be sorry that I had begged Father to let us go. But after we had gone a few miles the schoolmaster's
son and three bright young fellows came along and walked with us. Then we had such fun that
we could hardly walk for laughing, and the elders had continually to drive us on. Marina was
quite unrestrained, I could never have believed that she could be so jolly. One of the schoolmaster's
daughters fell down, and some one pulled her out of the brook into which she had slid because
she was laughing so much. I really don't know what time we got to Inner-Lahn, for we were enjoying
ourselves so much. Dinner had been ordered ready for us, and we were all frantically hungry.
We laughed without stopping, for we had all sat down just as we had come in, although Aunt
Alma did not want us to at first. But she was outvoted. I was especially pleased to show Hero
Siegfried that I could amuse myself very well without him, for he had frozen on to the aspiring
actress, or she had frozen on to him--I don't know which, or at least I did not know then!
Since we were sitting all mixed up everyone had to pay for himself, and Father said next day
we had spent a perfect fortune; but that was not in the hotel, it happened later, when we were
buying mementoes. And I think Dora gave Marina 3 crowns, so that she could buy some things
too. But Dora never lets on about anything of that sort. I must say I like her character better
and better; in those ways she is very like Mother. Well, our purchases were all packed into
two or three rucksacks, and were kept for a raffle in Unter-Toifen on the way back. I must
have spent at least 7 crowns, for Father had given each of us 5 crowns before we started, and
I still had a lot of my August pocket money left, and now I've got only 40 hellers. After we
had had dinner and bought the things we lay about in the forest or walked about in couples.
I had curled myself up for a nap when some one came up behind me, and when I sat up this someone
put his hands over my eyes and said: "The Mountain Spirit." And I recognised his hands instantly,
and said: "Hero Siegfried!" Then he laughed like anything and sat down beside me and said:
"You were enjoying yourself so much this morning that you had not even a glance to spare for
me." "Contrariwise (I've got that from Dora), I never foist myself on anyone, and never hang
around anyone's neck." Then he wanted to put his arm round my waist (and probably, most probably,
he would have kissed me), but I sprang to my feet and called Dora or rather Thea, for before
the gentlemen we pretend that we never call one another anything but Thea and Rita. Father
says that that is awfully silly, and no longer suitable for Dora (but of course it was alright
for me!), but we keep to our arrangement. Then he raised my hand to his lips and said: "Don't
call!" But Dora came up, and with her the gentleman with the pincenez, who is a doctor of law
belonging to the District Court of Innsbruck, and Marina and one of the young men, and I asked,
"I say, when are we going to have tea?" "Just fancy, she is hungry again already," they all
said, and laughed like anything. And Dora looked frightfully happy. She was wearing an edelweiss
buttonhole which she had not been wearing before; in the evening she told me that Dr. P. had
given it her. If possible he is even taller than Hero Siegfried, for Dora is taller than I
am and her head only comes up to his ear. At 3 o'clock the last party came up to the belvedere,
we had got there earlier. The view was lovely. But I must say I can enjoy a fine view much
better when I am alone, that is with Father or quite a few persons; it is no good when there's
such a crowd; each additional person seems to take something more away. In a lovely place and
at the cemetery one must be alone. For a beautiful view usually makes one feel frightfully
sad, and one ought not to have been laughing so much just before, or laugh directly afterwards.
If I were alone in Inner-Lahn I'm sure I should become melancholy, for it is so gloriously
beautiful there.

At 4 o'clock, after tea, we started back, for the schoolmaster thought the descent would not
take more than two hours and a half, but we needed more than three. For we were all very tired,
and a great many of them had sore feet, especially Aunt Alma! We had said before, that it would
be too much for Aunt; but she had to come with us to take care of Marina, though Marina enjoyed
herself extremely with a Herr Furtner, who is studying mining like Oswald, not in Leoben but
in Germany. One does not really find out what a girl is like until one sees how she behaves
with a man, or what she is like when one talks to her about certain things; as for the last,
of course that's impossible with Marina since the experience we had. But anyhow she is nicer
than one would have thought at first sight. It was lovely on the way home. Driving back from
Unter-Toifen we sat quite differently.

In our break, instead of the Weiners, there were three students from Munich, they were awfully
nice, and we sang all the songs we knew; especially "Hoch vom Dachstein, wo der Aar nur haust,"
and "Forelle" and "Wo mein Schatz ist," were lovely, and the people in two different breaks
sang together. And then some of them sang some Alpine songs and yodelled till the hills echoed.
Two or three of the men in the third break were rather tipsy and Hero Siegfried!! was one of
them. Aunt Alma had a frightful headache; it was utterly idiotic for her to come, and we did
not know yet what was still to happen. At every house from which a girl had come there was
a serenade. And next evening there was to be a great raffle of the mementoes we had bought,
but Father would not let us go to that.

August 14th. It is desperately dull. I don't know what on earth to do, so I am writing my diary.
Besides, I have not written about the row yet. The next afternoon Aunt Alma came just as we
were going out and said to Father: Ernst, please let me have a word with you. Now we all know
Aunt Alma's let me have a word with you. In plain language it means: I'm going to make a scene.
She began: "Ernst, you know I never like these big parties with a lot of strangers, for no
good can come of them. Still, I made up my mind to go for the sake of the children, and chiefly
for the sake of your motherless children. (Nobody asked her to; and Aunt Dora had to stay at
home on her account.) Do you know what sort of people were in our company? That impudent young
student whom Gretel is always running after (did you ever hear anything like it! I should like
to know when I ran after him; I suppose in the wood I put my arm round his waist, and I suppose
that it was I who began the acquaintance on my birthday) and that girl who's training for the
stage did not come home after the excursion till the night was half over. God knows where they
were! They were certainly no cleaner when they got home. (Naturally, for where could they have
had a wash.) His father gave the young blackguard a fine talking to, but of course the girl's
mother takes her side. It would positively kill me to think of my Marina doing anything of
the kind." Father was able to get a word in at last: "But my dear Alma, what has all this to
do with my girls? As far as I know these two people weren't in our break, isn't that so girls?"
I was glad that Father turned to us, and I said: "Siegfried Sch. and the girl drove in the
fourth break, I saw them getting in. And it was toute meme chause where he drove and with whom
he was driving." (Of course that's not true, but I said it was because of Aunt.) "Such language
and such a tone to your own Father!" Directly she said that Father was in such a passion as
I have never seen him in before. "My dear Alma, I really must beg you not to interfere with
my educational methods, any more than I ever attempt to interfere in your affairs." Father
said this quite quietly, but he was simply white with rage, and Dora told me afterwards that
I was quite white too, also from rage of course. Aunt Alma said: "I don't want to prophesy
evil, but the future will show who is right Goodbye." As soon as she had gone Dora and I rushed
to Father and said: "Please Father, don't be so frightfully angry; there's no reason why you
should." And Father was awfully sweet and said: "I know quite well that I can trust you; you
are my Berta's children." And then I simply could not contain myself, and I said: "No, Father,
I really did flirt with Siegfried, and in the wood he put his arm round my waist; but I did
not let him kiss me, I give you my word I did not. And if you want me to I'll promise never
to speak to him again." And then Father said: "Really, Gretel, you have plenty of time yet
for such affairs, and even if that red-haired rascal plays the gallant with you, he is only
making himself a laughing-stock. And you don't want that, do you, little witch?" Then I threw
my arms round Father and promised him on my word of honour that I would never speak to Siegfried
again. For it really distresses me very much that he should make himself ridiculous; and that
he should go out walking half the night with that girl; such shamelessness!

We were so much upset that we did not go for a walk, and of course did not go to the raffle.
But I'm frightfully sorry about those things I paid 7 crowns for. I do hope he did not win
any of them.

August 15th. Just a few words more. Early this morning, as I was going to breakfast, in the
corridor I met S. (it's a good thing that is the initial both of his name and of Strick [rascal]
as Father called him) and he said: "Good morning, Fraulein Gretchen. Why weren't you at the
raffle? Hadn't you any share?"--"Oh yes, I had bought 7 crowns worth for it, but I had no fancy
for the company I should meet." -- -- Why, what has taken you all of a sudden? They were the
same people as at the excursion! -- -- -- "Precisely for that reason," said I, and passed on.
I think I gave him what for, for he simply must have understood. Father is really quite right,
and it is not at all nice to abuse one's parents to strangers as he is always doing. I could
not say a word against my parents to anyone, although I'm often frightfully angry with them;
of course not about Mother, for she is dead. But not even about Father; I would rather choke
down the greatest injustice. For when we had that trouble with Aunt Alma about Marina, I was
really not in the least to blame, but he scolded me so, even while Aunt Alma was there, so
that I can never forget it. But still, to a stranger, to some one whom I had only just got
to know, I would never say a word against anyone in our family; though I used to get on so
badly with Dora, I never said much against her even to Hella; at most that she was deceitful,
and that really used to be so, though she seldom is now.

August 19th. It is so filthyly dull here; I can't bear the word filthy, but it's the only one
that's strong enough. Oswald is coming this evening, at last. Thank goodness. S. has made several
advances, but I have ignored them. Let him stick to his actress who can go out walking with
him half the night. I really should like to know where they went. In the night, I never heard
of such a thing! Dora says she took a dislike to S. from the first because he -- -- -- -- --
it's an absolute lie! -- -- -- has clammy! hands. It's simply not true, on the contrary he
has such entrancingly cool hands, I'm sure I must know that better than Dora. But I've known
for a long time that whenever anyone pays me attention Dora is unsympathetic, naturally enough.
By the way, on Sunday I got a charming letter from Anneliese. I must answer it to-day.

August 22nd. Oswald is awfully nice. He did not forget my birthday, but he says that at that
time he was stoney, in student's slang that means that he hadn't any money, and then he could
not find anything suitable, but that he will repair the omission as soon as we get back to
Vienna. But I don't know what I should like. Oswald is going to stay until we all go back to
Vienna, and we are making a few excursions by ourselves. That is really the best way after
all. I am not much with the Weiners now, for we had a little tiff on the big excursion. But
Nelly is rather taken with Oswald, so she came twice to our table to-day, once about a book
we had lent her, and once to arrange for a walk.

August 24th. It is really absurd that one's own brother can think such a lot of one; but if
he does, I suppose he knows. Oswald said to me to-day: "Gretl, you are so smart I could bite
you. How you are developing." I said: "I don't want anyone to bite me," and he said: "Nor do
I," but I was awfully delighted, though he is only my brother. He can't stand Marina, and as
a man he finds Dora too stupid; I think he's right, really. And I simply can't understand Dr.
P., that he can always find something to talk about to Dora. He has hardly said 10 words to
me yet. Still, I don't care.

August 27th. We went up the Matscherkogel yesterday, and we had a lovely view. The two boys
came, for they had begged their father to let them; but of course Aunt Alma and Marina did
not come. Oswald calls Aunt Alma Angular Pincushion, but only when Father isn't there, for
after all she is Father's sister. The Weiners wanted to come too, but I said that my brother
was staying only a few days more, and that this was a "farewell excursion en famille." They
were rather hurt, but they have made me very angry by the way in which they will go on talking
about S. in front of me, on purpose, saying that he is engaged or is going to be engaged to
the actress girl against his father's will. What does it matter to me? They keep on exchanging
glances when they say that, especially Olga, who is really rather stupid. I am so sad now at
times that I simply can't understand how I could have enjoyed myself so much on the big excursion.
I'm always thinking of dear Mother, and I often wear my black frock. It suits my mood better.

August 30th. I believe the Schs. are leaving to-morrow. At least the old gentleman said to
Father the day before yesterday: "Thank the Lord, we shall soon be able to enjoy the comforts
of home once more." That is what Hella's grandmother used to say before they came back from
the country. And to-day I saw two great trunks standing in the passage just outside Herr Scharrer's
room. Oswald thinks the old gentleman charming; well, there's no accounting for tastes. I don't
believe he's ever spoken to S., though he is a German Nationalist too, but of a different section;
Oswald belongs to the Sudmark, and S. abused that section frightfully when I told him that
Oswald belonged to the Sudmark.

August 31st. He has really gone to-day, that is, the whole family has gone. They came to bid
us goodbye yesterday after supper, and they left this morning by the 9 o'clock train to Innsbruck.
And his hands are not clammy, I paid particular attention to the point; it is pure imagination
on Dora's part. He and Oswald greeted one another with Hail! That's a splendid salutation,
and I shall introduce it between Hella and me.

September 2nd. The Weiners left to-day too, because people are really beginning to stare at
their mother too much. When Olga said goodbye to me she told me she hated having to travel
with her mother and whenever possible she would lag behind a little so that people should not
know they belonged together.

September 4th. I never heard of such a thing!! S. has come back, alone of course. Everyone
is indignant, for he has only come back because of Fraulein A., the actress girl. But Oswald
defends him like anything. This afternoon Frau Lunda said to Aunt Dora: "It's simply scandalous,
and his parents certainly ought not to have allowed him to come, even if the girl's mother
does not know any better." Then Oswald said: "Excuse me, Frau Lunda, Scharrer is no longer
a schoolboy who must cling to his mother's apron-string; such tutelage would really be unworthy
of a full-grown German." I was so pleased that he gave a piece of his mind to Frau L., for
she is always glaring at one and is so frantically inquisitive. And tutelage is such an impressive
word, S. used it once when he was speaking of his sister and why she had never married. Frau
L. was furious. She turned to Aunt Dora and said: "Young men naturally take one another's part,
until they are fathers themselves and then they hold other views."

September 8th. Thank goodness we are going home the day after to-morrow. It really has been
rather dull here, certainly I can't join in the paean Hella sang about the place last year;
of course they were not staying in the Edelweiss boarding house but in the Hotel Kaiser von
Oesterreich. It makes a lot of difference where one is staying. By the way, it has just occurred
to me. The young wife who had the eruption after infection can't have been divorced, as Hella
wrote me the week before last; for her husband has been there on a visit, he is an actor at
the Theatre Royal in Munich. So it would seem that actors really are all infected; and Hella
always says it is only officers! She takes rather an exaggerated view.

September 14th. We have been back in Vienna since the 11th, but I have been absolutely unable
to write, though there was plenty to write about. For the first person I met when I went out
on the 11th to fetch some cocoa which Resi had forgotten, was Lieutenant R. Viktor, the Conqueror!!
Of course he recognised me immediately, and was awfully friendly, and walked with me a little
way. He asked casually after Dora, but it is obvious that he is not in love with her any more.
And it was so funny that he should not know that Dora had matriculated this year and so would
not be going to the High School any more. I did not tell him that she intends to go on with
her studies, for it is not absolutely settled yet.

September 16th. Hella came home yesterday; I am so glad; I greeted her with: Hail! but she
said; "don't be silly," besides, it's unsuitable for an Austrian officer's daughter!!! Still,
we won't quarrel about it after 2 months' separation, and Servus is very smart too though not
so distinguished. She told me a tremendous lot more about that young married woman; some of
the ladies in B. said that her cousin was in love with the husband. That would be awful, for
then she would get infected too; but Hella says she did not notice anything, though she watched
very closely during the fortnight he was there. He sang at two of the musical evenings, but
she did not see any sign of it. Lizzi is engaged, but Hella could not write anything about
it, for the engagement is only being officially announced now that they are back in Vienna;
her fiance is Baron G. He is an attache in London, and she met him there. He is madly in love
with her. In August he was on leave, and he came to B. to make an offer of marriage; that is
why they stayed the whole summer in B. instead of going to Hungary. Those were the special
circumstances, about which Hella said she could not write to me. I don t see why she could
not have told me that, I should have kept it to myself; and after all, Lizzi is 19 1/2 now,
and no one would have been surprised that she is engaged at last. They can't have a great betrothal
party, for Baron G.'s father died in July. Hella is very much put out. Lizzi says it does not
matter a bit.

September 18th. Lizzi's betrothal cards arrived to-day. It must be glorious to send out betrothal
cards. Dora got quite red with annoyance, though she said when I asked her: "Why do you flush
up so, surely there's no reason to be ashamed when anyone is engaged!" "Really, why should
you think I am ashamed, I am merely extremely surprised." But one does not get so red as that
from surprise.

September 19th. School began to-day; unfortunately, for she has gone. And what was the Third
is now the Fourth, and that is detestable, to sit in the classroom without her. Luckily we
have Frau Doktor St. as class mistress, and she is to teach us mathematics and physics once
more; Frau Doktor F., whom we used to call Nutling and the Fifth used to call Waterfall has
gone, for she has been appointed to the German High School in Lemberg. For the time being we
are sitting in our old place, but Hella says we must ask Frau Doktor S. to let us have another
seat, for the memory of the three years when we had Frau Doktor M. might make us inattentive.
That is a splendid idea. In German we have a master, in French I am sorry to say it's still
Frau Doktor Dunker, whose complexion has not improved, and in English the head mistress. I
am very pleased with that, for first of all I like her very much, and secondly I shall be in
her good books from the start because Dora was her favourite. Of course I'm not learning Latin,
for it would not interest me now that Frau Doktor M. has gone. Oh, and we have a new Religion
teacher, for Herr Professor K. has retired, since he was 60 already.

September 21st. We have managed it. In the long interval, Hella said to Frau Doktor St., who
was in charge. "Frau Doktor, may we venture to ask for something?" So she said: "What, in the
very first week; well, what is it?" We said we should like to move from the third bench towards
the window, for we found it very painful to go on sitting where we had sat when Frau Doktor
M., was there. At first she refused, but after a while she said: "I'll see what I can do, if
you are really not happy where you are." From 11 to 12 was the mathematic lesson, and as soon
as Frau Doktor Steiner had taken her place she said: "This arrangement of your seats was only
provisional. You had better sit more according to height." Then she rearranged us all, and
Hella and I were moved to the 5th bench on the window side; the two twins, the Ehrenfelds got
our places; in front of us is Lohr and a new girl called Friederike Hammer whose father is
a confectioner in Mariahilferstrasse. We are awfully glad that we have got away from that hateful
third bench where she used so often to stand near us and lay her hand on the desk.

September 29th. Professor Fritsch, the German professor, came to-day for the first time. He
is always clearing his throat and he wears gold spectacles. Hella thinks him tolerably nice,
but I don't. I'm quite sure that I shall never get an Excellent in German again. Yesterday
the new Religion master came for the first time, and I sat alone, for Hella being a Protestant
did not attend. He looks frightfully ill and his eyes are always lowered though he has burning
black eyes. Next time I shall sit beside Hammer which will be company for us both.

October 2nd. We had confession and communion to-day, and since the staff will not allow us
to choose our confessors, I had to go to Professor Ruppy. I did hate it. I whispered so low
that he had to tell me to speak louder three times over. When I began about the sixth commandment
he covered his eyes with his hand. But thank goodness he did not ask any questions about that.
The only one of the staff who used to allow us to choose our confessors was Frau Doktor M.
Really, she did not allow it directly but when one ran quickly to another confessional box,
she pretended not to notice. The Herr Rel. Prof gives frightfully long penances; all the girls
who went to him took a tremendous time to get through. I do hope he won't be so strict over
his examinations or I shall get an Unsatisfactory; that would be awful. October 3rd. Father
was so splendid to-day! Aunt Dora must have told him that I asked her not long ago whether
Father was likely to marry Frau Riedl, whose husband died almost exactly the same time as Mother,
for Father is guardian to her three children. She was here to-day with Willi, because he has
just begun going to school. Dora and I talked it over, and she said that if Father married
Frau R., she would leave home. In the evening when we were at supper, I said: "If only Frau
v. R. was not so ugly. Father, don't you think she's perfectly hideous? And Father laughed
so lovingly and said: You need not be anxious, little witch, I'm not going to inflict a stepmother
on you." I was so glad, and so was Dora and we kissed Father such a lot, and Dora said: "I
felt sure that you would never break your oath to Mother," and she burst out crying. And Father
said: "No, girls, I did not give any promise to your Mother, she would never have asked anything
of the kind. But with grown girls like you it would never do to bring a stepmother into the
house." And then I told Father that Dora would have gone away from home, and as for me, I should
certainly have been frightfully upset. For if Father really wanted to marry again I should
have to put up with it; and so would Dora. But Father said once more: "Don't worry, I certainly
shan't marry again." And I said: "Not even Aunt Dora?" And he said: "Oh, as for her -- --"
And then he pulled himself up and said: "No, no, not even Aunt Dora." Dora has just told me
that I am a perfect idiot, for surely I must know that Father is not particularly charmed by
Aunt. And then she blamed me for having told Father that she would leave home if he were to
marry again. I am a child to whom it is impossible to entrust any secrets!! Now we have been
quarrelling for at least three quarters of an hour, so it is already half past 11. Luckily
to-morrow is a holiday, because of the Emperor's birthday. But I am so glad to know for certain
that Father is not going to marry Frau v. R I could never get on with a stepmother.

October 9th. It's horribly difficult in German this year. In composition we are not allowed
to make any rough notes, we have to write it straight off and then hand it in. I simply can't.
Professor Fritsch is very handsome, but the girls are terribly afraid of him for he is so strict.
His wife is in an asylum and his children live with his mother. He has got a divorce from his
wife, and since he has the luck to be a Protestant he can marry again if he wants to. Hella
is perfectly fascinated by him, but I'm not in the least. For I always think of Prof. W. in
the Second, and that's enough for me. I'm not going to fall in love with any more professors.
In the Training College, where Marina is now, in her fourth year one of the professors last
year married a former pupil. I would not do that at any price, marry a former professor, who
knows all one's faults. Besides, he must be at least 12 or 20 years older than the girl; and
that's perfectly horrible, one might as well marry one's father; he would be at least fond
of her, and she would at least know the way he likes to have everything done; but to marry
one's former professor, what an extraordinary thing to do!

October 15th. I'm frightfully anxious that Hella may have a relapse; she says that nothing
would induce her to have a second operation, especially now that -- -- --; she says she would
rather die. That would be awful! I did my best to persuade her to tell her mother that she
has such pain; but she won't.

October 19th. In November, Hella's father will be made a general and will be stationed in Cracow.
Thank goodness she is going to stay here with her grandmother until she leaves the Lyz. She
will only go to Cracow at Christmas and Easter and in the summer holidays. She is frantically
delighted. The good news has made her quite well again. Everyone at school is very proud that
there will be a general's daughter in our class. It's true that there is a field-marshal's
daughter in the Third, but he is retired. Father always says: Nobody makes any fuss over a
retired officer.

October 22nd. We are so much excited that we've hardly any time to learn our lessons. At Christmas
last year some one gave Hella's mother several of Geierstamm's novels. The other day one of
them was lying on the table, and when her mother was out Hella had a hurried look at it and
read the title The Power of Woman!!! When her mother had finished it, she watched to see where
it was put in the bookcase, and now we are reading it. It's simply wonderful! It keeps me awake
all night; Signe whom he is so passionately fond of and who deceives him. We cried so much
that we could not go on reading. And Gretchen, the girl, to whom her father is everything;
I can understand so well that she is always anxious lest her father should marry that horrid
Frau Elise, although she has a husband already. And when she dies, oh, it's so horrible and
so beautiful that we read it over three times in succession. The other day my eyes were quite
red from crying, and Aunt said I must be working too hard; for she thinks that Hella and I
are studying literature together. Oh dear, lessons are an awful nuisance when one has such
books to read.

October 24th. When I look at Father I always think of the novel The Power of Woman; of course
leaving Signe out of account. Hella hopes she'll be able to get hold of some other book, but
it's not so easy to do without her mother finding it out, for she often lends books to her
friends. Then there would be an awful row. We certainly don't want to read The Little Brother's
Book, the title does not attract us; but there's a novel called The Comedy of Marriage, it
must be splendid; we must get that whatever happens.

October 26th. The Bruckners are going to keep on their flat, and Hella's grandmother will come
and live there; only the Herr General!!! is going to C., and of course Hella's mother too.
Lizzi will stay, for she is taking cooking lessons, since she is to be married in Mid-Lent.

October 31st. Hella's parents left to-day, she cried frightfully, for she did so want to go
with them. Lizzi was quite unconcerned, for she is engaged already, and the Baron, her fiance,
is coming at Christmas, either to Vienna or Cracow; he does not care which.

November 4th. Some of the girls in our class were furious in the German lesson to-day. One
or two of the girls did not know the proper places for commas, and Prof. Fritsch hinted that
we had learned nothing at all in previous years. We understood perfectly well that he was aiming
at Frau Doktor M., whose German lessons were 10 times or rather 100 times better than Professor
F.'s. And on this very matter of punctuation Frau Doktor M. took a tremendous lot of trouble
and gave us lots of examples. Besides, whether one has a good style or not does not depend
upon whether one puts a comma in the right place. The two Ehrenfelds, who towards the end were
awfully fond of Frau Doktor M., say that we, who were Frau Doktor M.'s favourites, ought to
write a composition without a single comma, just to show him. That's a splendid idea, and Hella
and I will do it like a shot if only the others can be trusted to do it too.

November 6th. This year all the classes must have at least two outings every month, even in
winter. If that had been decided in the last school year, when Frau Doktor M. was still there,
I should certainly have gone every time. But this year, when she has left, we can't enjoy it.
Frau Doktor St. is awfully nice, but not like Frau Doktor M. Besides, we go somewhere with
Father every Sunday, Hella comes with us, and Lizzi if she likes. As soon as the snow comes
we are going to have tobogganing parties at Hainfeld or Lilienfeld.

December 3rd. Nearly a whole month has passed without my writing, but I must write to-day!
There's been such a row in the German lesson!! We got back the compositions in which Hella
and I, the 2 Ehrenfelds, Brauner, Edith Bergler, and Kuhnelt, had not put a single comma. Nothing
would have been found out had not that idiot Brauner put in commas first and then scratched
them out. We had agreed that if the Prof. noticed anything we would say we had meant to go
through them together before the lesson, and to decide where to put in commas, but that we
had had no time. Now the silly fool has given away the whole show. He is going to bring the
matter before the staff meeting. But after all, it's simply impossible to give 6 girls out
of 25 a bad conduct mark.

December 4th. The head mistress came to inspect the German lesson to-day. Afterwards she said
that she expected us to make all the knowledge which Frau Doktor M. had instilled into us for
3 years, the firm foundation of our further development in the higher classes. In the English
lesson she referred to the more restricted use of punctuation marks in English; and afterwards
we 6 sinners were summoned to the office. The whole school knew about the trouble and was astonished
at our courage, especially the lower classes; the Fifth and the Sixth were rather annoyed that
we in the Fourth had dared to do it. The head gave us a terrible scolding, saying that it was
an unexampled piece of impudence, and that we were not doing credit to Frau Doktor M. Then
Hella said very modestly: "Frau Direktorin, will you please allow me to say a word in our defence?"
Then she explained that Prof. Fritsch never missed a chance of casting a slur upon Frau Doktor
M., not in plain words of course, but so that we could not fail to understand it, and that
was why we acted as we did. The head answered we must certainly be mistaken, that no member
of the staff could ever speak against another in such a way we had simply misunderstood Prof
Fritsch! But we know perfectly well how often the Nutling used to say in the Maths lesson:
"Don't you know that? Surely you must have been taught that." The emphasis does it!!!!! The
staff meeting is to-morrow, and we were told to do our best to make amends before the meeting.
The 2 Ehrenfelds suggested that we should write the compositions over again, of course with
all the commas, and should place them on his desk to-morrow morning before the German lesson;
but all the rest of us were against this, for we saw plainly that the head had changed colour
when Hella said what she did. We shall make the corrections and then we shall all begin new
copybooks.

December 8th. It is 3 days now since the staff meeting, but not a word has been said yet about
our affair, and in the German lesson yesterday the Prof. gave out the subject for the third
piece of home work without saying anything in particular. I think he is afraid to. Hella has
saved us all, for everyone else would have been afraid to say what she did, even I. Hella said:
"My dear Rita, I'm not an officer's daughter for nothing;" if I have not courage, who should
have? The girls stare at us in the interval and whenever they meet us, though in the office
the head said to us: "I do hope that this business will not be spread all over the school."
But Brauner has a sister in the Second and Edith Bergler's sister is in the Fifth and through
them all the classes have heard about it. I suppose nothing is going to be said to our parents
or something would have happened already. Besides, to be on the safe side, I have already dropped
a few hints at home. And since Dora, thank goodness, is no longer at the school, it is impossible
that there can be much fuss. It was only at first that we were alarmed, but Hella was quite
right when she said: "I'm sure nothing will happen to us, for we are in the right."

December 15th. A meeting with Viktor!!! Dora and I had gone to do our Christmas shopping, and
we came across him just as we had turned into Tuchlauben. Dora got fiery red, and both their
voices trembled. He does look fine, with his black moustache and his flashing eyes! And the
green facings on his tunic suit him splendidly. He cleared his throat quickly to cover his
embarrassment, and walked with us as far as the Upper Market-place; he has another six-months
furlough because of throat trouble; so Dora can be quite easy in her mind in case she fancied
that -- -- -- -- --. When he said goodbye he kissed our hands, mine as well as Dora's, and
smiled so sweetly, sadly and sweetly at the same time. Several times I wanted to turn the conversation
upon him. But when Dora does not want a thing, you can do what you like and she won't budge;
she's as obstinate as a mule! She's always been like that since she was quite a little girl,
when she used to say: Dor not! That meant: Dora won't; little wretch! such a wilful little beast!

December 17th. Yesterday we had our first tobogganing party on the Anninger; it was glorious,
we kept on tumbling into the snow; the snow lay fairly thick, especially up there, where hardly
anyone comes. As we were going home such a ridiculous thing happened to Hella; she caught her
foot on a snag and tore off the whole sole of a brand new shoe. She had to tie it on with a
string, and even then she limped so badly that every one believed she had sprained her ankle
tobogganing. Her grandmother was frightfully angry and said: "That comes of such unladylike
amusements!" Aunt Dora was very much upset, for she had been with us, but Father said: Hella's
grandmother is quite an old lady, and in her day people had very different views in this respect.
I should say so, in this respect, Hella finds it out a dozen times a day, all the things she
must not say and must not do, and all the things which are unsuitable for young girls! Her
grandmother would like to keep her under a glass shade; but not a transparent one, for she
must not be able to see out, and no one must be able to see in. (The last is the main point.)

December 20th. To-day was the last German lesson before Christmas, and not a word more has
been said about our affair. Hella has proved splendidly right. Even Verbenowitsch, who curries
favour with every member of the staff, has congratulated her, and so has Hammer, who is a newcomer
and did not know Frau Doktor M. By the way, at 1 o'clock the other day we met Franke; she goes
now to a school of dramatic art, and says that the whole tone of the place is utterly different,
she is so glad to have done with the High School. She had heard of the affair with Prof. F.
and she congratulated us upon our strength of character, especially Hella of course. She says
that the matter is common talk in all the High Schools of Vienna, at least she heard of it
from a girl at the High School for the Daughters of Civil Servants, a girl whose sister is
at the School of Dramatic Art. She is very happy there, but she is annoyed that such an institution
should still be called a school; it's not a school in the least; we would be astonished to
see how free they all are. She is very pretty and has even more figure than she used to have.
She speaks very prettily too, but rather too loudly, so that everyone turned round to look
at us. She hopes that she will be able to invite us to see her debut in one year!!! I should
never be able to stand on a stage before a lot of strangers, I know I would never be able to
get a word out.

December 21st. Hella is awfully unlucky. The day before yesterday she got such bad influenza
and sore throat that she can't go to Cracow. She says she is born to ill luck; this is the
second Christmas that has been spoiled, two years ago the appendicitis operation, and now this
wretched influenza. She hopes her mother will come to Vienna, but if so her father will be
left quite alone. And how on earth shall we get on, Christmas without Mother, the first Christmas
without Mother. I simply don't dare to think of it, for if I did it would make me cry. Dora
says too that it can't be a proper Christmas without Mother. I wonder what Father will say
when he sees Mother's portrait. I do hope the frame will be ready to-morrow. Hella is especially
unhappy because she is not able to see Lajos. Besides, she is madly in love at the same time
with a lieutenant of dragoons whom we meet every day and who is a count, and he is madly in
love with her. He knows that her father is a general, for when her father went to kiss the
Emperor's hand he took Hella part of the way with him in the motor, and she was introduced
to the lieutenant then. So now he salutes her when they meet. He is tremendously tall and looks
fearfully aristocratic. But what annoys me with Hella is that she invariably denies it when
she is in love with anyone. I always tell her, or if she notices anything I don't deny it.
What's the sense of it between friends? for example, the year before last she was certainly
in love with the young doctor in the hospital. And in September when we came back from Theben
with that magnificent lieutenant in the flying corps, I made no secret of the fact that I was
frantically in love with him. But she did not believe me, and said: That is not real love,
when people don't see one another for months and flirt with others between whiles. That was
aimed at Hero Siegfried. Goodness me, at him!! it's really too absurd.

December 22nd. I am so delighted, Frau Doktor M., at least she is Frau Professor Theyer now,
has written to me. I had sent her Christmas good wishes, and she sent a line to thank me, and
at the same time she wished me a happy New Year, she took the lead in this; it was heavenly.
I was frightfully annoyed because Dora said that she had done it only to save herself the trouble
of writing again; I'm sure that's not true. Dora always says things like that simply to annoy
me. But her sweet, her divine letter, I carry it about with me wherever I go, and her photograph
too. She sent Hella only a card, naturally, for that was all Hella had sent her. I can quite
well fancy Frau Doktor M. as a stepmother, that is, not quite well, but better than anyone
else. She wrote so sweetly about Mother, saying that of course I should find this Christmas
less happy than usual. She is certainly right there. We can none of us feel as if the day after
to-morrow is to be Christmas Eve. The only thing that I really enjoy thinking of is the way
Father will stare when he sees the portrait. But really in the first years after such a loss
one ought not to keep Christmas, for on such days one feels one's sadness more than ever.

December 23rd. I have still a frightful lot to do for Christmas, but I must write to-day. There
was a ring at the front door this morning at about half past 11. I thought it must be Hella
come to fetch me, that she must be all right again, so I rushed out, tore the door open, prepared
to greet Hella, and then I was simply kerblunxed, for there was a gentleman standing who asked
most politely: Is anyone at home? I knew him in a moment, it was that Dr. Pruckmuller from
Fieberbr. Meanwhile Dora had opened the drawing-room door, and now came the great proof of
deceitfulness: She was not in the least surprised, but said: "Ah, Dr. Pruckmuller, I am so
glad you have kept your word." So it was plain that he had promised her to come, and I am practically
sure she knew he was coming to-day, for she was wearing her best black silk apron with the
insertions, such as we only wear when visitors are expected. What a humbug she is! So I went
into the drawing-room too. Then Aunt Dora came in and asked him to supper this evening. Then
he went away. All the time he had not said a word to me, it seemed as if he had not even noticed
that there was such a person as me in the world Not until he was actually leaving did he say:
"Well; Fraulein, how are you?" "Oh well," said I, "I'm much as anyone can expect to be so soon
after Mother's death." Dora got as red as fire, for she understood. I shall know how to treat
him if he becomes my brother-in-law. But that may be a long way off; for he lives in Innsbruck,
and Father is not likely to allow Dora to marry away to Innsbruck. At dinner I hardly said
a word, I was so enraged at this deceitfulness. But there is more to come. At 7, or whatever
time it was, Dr. Pruckmuller turned up. Dora appeared in a white blouse with a black bow, and
had remained in her room till the last minute so that I might not know what she was wearing.
For I had believed she would wear her black dress with the insertions, and so I was wearing
mine. Oh well, that did not matter. At supper he talked all the time to Dora, so I purposely
talked to Oswald. Then he said that on March 1st he was going to be transferred to Vienna.
Once more Dora was not in the least astonished, so she must have known all about it! But now
I remember quite well that in October the postman handed me a letter for her with the Innsbruck
postmark. So she was corresponding with him openly the whole time, less than 6 months after
Mother's death. It really is too bad! But when I was chattering about the country, she kicked
me under the table as a hint not to laugh so frightfully. And when my brother-in-law in spe,
oh how it does make me laugh, two or three years ago, in Goisern I think it was, we used to
call Dora Inspe, because she had said of Robert Warth and me: The bridal pair in spe! And now
she is in the same position. When he went away in the evening I was trembling lest Father should
invite him to the Christmas tree, but thank goodness when Father asked: "What are you doing
with yourself to-morrow," he answered: "To-morrow I am spending the day with my sister's family,
she is married to a captain out Wieden way." Thank goodness that came to nothing, for we are
not at all in the mood for visitors, especially the first Christmas without Mother. And if
she knew -- -- -- I wish I knew what really happens to the soul. Of course I gave up believing
in Heaven long ago; but the soul must go somewhere. There are so many riddles, and they make
one so unhappy; in a newspaper feuilleton the other day I saw the title of a chapter: The Riddle
of Love. But this riddle does not make people sad, as one can see by Dora. Anyhow, all girls,
that is all elder sisters, seem alike in this respect. I remember what Hella told me about
Lizzi's engagement. It is true, she had first made his acquaintance in London, not at home;
but there was just the same deceitfulness. What on earth does it mean? Would it not be much
more kindly and reasonable to tell your sister everything? Otherwise how can anyone expect
one to be an ally. Oh well, I don't care, I'm not going to let my Christmas Eve be disturbed
by a thing like that; if one can call it a Christmas Eve at all. On Boxing Day, when he is
to spend the evening here, I shall tell Hella that I want to come to her and her grandmother.
After all, I am glad she has stayed in Vienna.

December 25th. Christmas Eve was very melancholy. We all three got Mother's picture, life size
in beautiful green frames, for our rooms. Dora sobbed out loud, and so I cried too and went
up to Father and put my arms around him. His eyes were quite wet; for he adored Mother. Only
Oswald did not actually cry, but he kept on biting his lips. I was so glad that Dr. P. was
not there, for it is horribly disagreeable to cry before strangers. We both got lovely white
guipure blouses, not lace blouses, then Aunt gave me a splendid album for 500 postcards, and
she also gave me an anthology which I had asked for. Brahms' Hungarian Dances, because Dora
would not lend me hers last year because she said they were too difficult for me; as if that
were any business of hers; surely my music mistress is a better judge; then some writing paper
with my monogram, a new en-tout-cas with everything complete, and hair ribbons and other trifles.
Father was awfully delighted with Mother's portrait; of course we had not known that he was
getting us life-size portraits of Mother, and from the last photograph of the winter before
last we had quite a small likeness painted by Herr Milanowitz, who is a painter, and who knew
Mother very well--in colour of course. And we got a lovely rococo frame to close up; when it
is open it looks as if Mother were looking out of the window. That was my idea, and Herr Milanowitz
thought it most original. Dora considered it very awkward that he would not take any money
for it, but it made it possible for us to get a much more elegant frame. After Christmas; for
New Year, we are going to send Herr M. some of the best cigars, bought with our own money,
I wanted to send them for Christmas, but we don't know anything about cigars, and we did not
want to tell anyone because one can never know whether one won't be betrayed and you will be
told it is unintentional; but that is not true, for when one betrays anything one has always
secretly intended to do so; and then one says it was a slip of the tongue; but one really knows
all the time. I can't write down all the extra things that Dora got, only one of them: At 7
o'clock just when Father was lighting the candles on the tree, a commissionaire brought some
lovely roses with two sprays of mistletoe interwoven and beneath a nosegay of violets -- --
-- of course from Dr. P. with a card, but she would not let anyone read that. All she said
was: "Dr. P. sends everyone Christmas greetings; I believe he had really written: Merry Christmas,"
but Dora did not dare to say that. Oh, and Hella gave me a bead bag, and I gave her a purse
with the double eagle on it, for she wanted a purse that would have a military look. I never
knew anyone with such an enthusiasm for the army as Hella; certainly I think officers look
awfully smart; but surely it's going too far when she feels that other men practically don't
exist. The others have to learn a lot, for example doctors, lawyers, mining engineers, not
to speak of students at the College of Agriculture, for perhaps these last "hardly count" (that's
the phrase Hella is always using); but all of them have to learn a great deal more than officers
do; Hella never will admit that, and always begins to talk of the officers of the general staff;
as if they all belonged to the general staff! We have often argued about it. Still, I do hope
she will get an officer for her husband, of course one who is well enough off to marry, for
otherwise it's no go; for Father says the Bruckners have no private means. It's true he always
says that of us too, but I don't believe it; we are not so to say rich, but I fancy we should
both of us have enough money for an officer to be able to marry us. Anyhow, Dora voluntarily
renounces that possibility, if she is really going to marry Dr. P.

27th. Well, I went to Hella's yesterday and stayed till 9, and on Christmas Day she was here.
I see that I wrote above that the Bs. were not well off; it seems to me to be very much the
reverse. We always get a great many things and very nice ones at Christmas and on our birthdays
and name days (of course Protestants don't have these last), but we don't give one another
such splendid things as the Bs. do. Hella had been given a piece of rose-coloured silk for
a dress to wear at the dancing class which must have cost at least 50 crowns, and a lace collar
and cuffs, which we had seen at the shop, and it had cost 24 crowns, then she had a gold ring
with an emerald, and a number of smaller things which she never even looked at. And to see
all the things her sister got, things for her trousseau! And the Bs. Christmas tree cost 12
crowns whilst ours cost only 7, though ours was just as good. So I think that the Bs. really
have plenty of money, and I said to Hella: "You must be enormously rich." And she said: "Oh
well, not so rich as all that; I must not expect to marry an officer on the general staff.
Lizzi has done very well for herself for Paul is a baron and is very well off. He is frantically
in love with her; queer taste, isn't it?" I quite agree, for Lizzi has not much to boast of
in the way of looks, beautiful fair hair, but she is so awfully thin, not a trace of b -- --,
Hella has much more figure. And if one hasn't any by the time one is 20 one is not likely to
get one.

Something awfully funny happened to-day. Hella asked me: "I say, what's the Christian name
of that Dr. who is dangling after your sister?" Then it struck me for the first time that on
his visiting card he only has Dr. jur. A. Pruckmuller, and then I remembered that last summer,
when we first made his acquaintance, Dora said, It's a pity he's called August, the name does
not suit him at all. Well, we laughed till we felt quite ill, for of course Hella began to
sing: "O du lieber Augustin," and then I thought of Der dumme August [clown's nickname in circus]
and we wondered what Dora would call him. Gusti or Gustel, or Augi, my darling Augi, my beloved
Gusterl, oh dear, we were in fits of laughter. Then we discussed what names we should like
to have for our husbands, and I said: Ewald or Leo, and Hella said: Wouldn't you like Siegfried?
But I put my hand on her mouth and said: "Shut up, or you will make me really angry, that is
and must remain forgotten." She said what she would like best would be to have a husband called
Peter or Thamian or Chrysostomus; then for a pet name she would use Dami or Sosti; and then
she said quite seriously that she would only marry a man called Egon, or Alexander, or at least
Georg. Just at that moment her mother came in to call us to tea, and she said: "What's an that
about Alexander and Georg? You are such dreadful girls. If you are alone together for a couple
of minutes (I had come at half past 2 and the Brs. have tea at 4, and that's what Hella's mother
calls 2 minutes), you begin to talk of unsuitable things." Hella was afraid her mother would
think God knows what, so she said: "Oh no, Mother, we were only discussing what names we should
like our fiances to have." You ought to have seen how her mother went on. "That's just it,
that when you are barely 15 (I'm not 15 yet) you should have nothing but such things in your
heads!" Such things, how absurd. At tea it was almost as dull as it was the other evening at
home; for the Herr Baron was there, that is, they all say Du to one another now, for the wedding
is to be in February, as soon as it is settled whether the Baron is to stay in London or to
be transferred to Berlin. It must be funny to say "Du" to a strange man. Hella says she soon
got used to it, and that she likes Paul well enough. When he brings Lizzi sweets, when he is
taking her to the theatre, he always gives Hella a box for herself. Other people would certainly
not do that, and I know other people who wouldn't accept it. When I got home, Father said:
Well, another time I think you'd better stay and sleep at the Brs., and I said: I did not want
to be a killjoy here. And Oswald said: "What you need is a box on the ear," Father was luckily
out of the room already and so I said: "Your children, if you ever have any, can be kept in
order by boxing their ears till they are green and blue, but you have no rights over your sisters,
Father told you so in Fieberbrunn." "Oh, I know Father always backs you two up, he has done
so from the first." "Please don't draw me into your quarrels," said Dora, as if she had been
something quite different from me. And then Aunt Dora said: "I do wish you would not keep on
quarreling." "I didn't begin it," said I, and went away without saying goodnight; that is I
went to Father's room to say goodnight to him and I saw Aunt Dora in the hall, but I didn't
say goodnight to Oswald and Dora, for I'm not going to put up with everything. And now it's
half past 11 already, for I have been writing such a long time, and have cried such a lot,
for I'm very unhappy. Even Hella doesn't know how unhappy I am. I must go to bed now; whether
I shall sleep or not is another question. If I can possibly manage it, I shall go alone to
the cemetery to-morrow.

31st. Hella and I went to the cemetery to-day. Her father and mother returned to Cracow yesterday
evening, and she told her grandmother she was going to spend the morning with me, and I said
I was going to the Brs., so we went alone to Potzleinsdorf. Hella went for a walk round the
cemetery while I went to darling Mother's grave. I am so unhappy; Hella consoles me as much
as she can, but even she can't understand.

January 1, 19--! Of course we did not keep New Year's Eve yesterday, but were quite alone and
it was very melancholy. This morning Dr. P. brought Dora and Aunt Dora some roses and he gave
me some lovely violets as a New Year's greeting. He is leaving on the 4th, so he is coming
here on the evening of the 3rd. I can't say I look forward to it. To-morrow school begins thank
goodness. I met a dust cart, that means good luck; Father says it is a scandal the way the
dirt carts go on all through the day in Vienna, and that one should see one even on New Year's
day at 2 in the afternoon. But still, if it means good luck!

January 2nd. The dust cart did bring good luck. We had a real piece of luck to-day! In the
big interval I noticed a little knot of girls in the hall, and suddenly I felt as if my heart
would stop beating. Frau Doktor M., I should say Frau Professor Theyer, was standing among
them, she saw us directly and held out her hand to us so we kissed it. She has come to visit
her parents and her husband is with her; since she did not know for certain whether she would
be able to come to the school she had not written either to me or to Hella about it. She is
so lovely and so entrancingly loveable. When the bell rang for class and Frau Doktor Dunker
came in I saw that she was still standing outside. So I put my handkerchief up to my face as
if my nose were bleeding, and rushed out to her. And because I slipped and nearly fell, she
held out her arms to me. Hardly had I reached her, when Hella came out and said: "Of course
I understood directly; I said you were awfully bad, so I must go and look after you." Then
the Frau Professor laughed like anything and said: "You are such wicked little actresses; I
must send you back immediately." But of course she did not but was frightfully sweet. Then
we begged her to let us stay with her, but she said: "No, no, I've been your teacher here,
and I must not encourage you in mischief. But here is a better idea. Would you like to come
and see me to-morrow?" "Rather," we both exclaimed. She said she was staying in a hotel, but
we must not come alone to a hotel, so she would see us at her parents, in Schwindgasse, and
we were to come there at 4 or half past. Then we kissed both her hands and were so happy! To-morrow
at 4! Oh dear, a whole night more and nearly a whole day to wait. "If your parents allow you,"
she said; as if Father or even Hella's grandmother would not allow that! All Father said was:
"All right Gretel, but don't go quite off your head first or you won't be able to find your
way to Schwindgasse. Is Hella as crazy as you are?" Of course, how can one be otherwise?

January 3rd. Still 2 hours, it's awful, Hella is coming to fetch me at half past 3. In school
to-day we kept on looking at one another, and all the other girls thought it must be something
to do with a man. Goodness, what do we care about a man now! We had a splendid idea, that we
had just time to make a memento for her, since she does not leave until the evening of the
5th. I am having traced on a piece of yellow silk for a book marker an edelweiss and her monogram
E. T., the new one of course. Hella is painting a paperknife in imitation of tarsia mosaic.
I would rather have done something of that sort too, but I have no patience for such work,
so I often spoil it before I've finished. But one can't very well spoil a piece of embroidery.
But I shan't get the tracing on the silk back from the shop until half past 3, so I shall have
to work all night and the whole day to-morrow.

Evening. Thank goodness and confound it, whichever way you like to take it, the idiot at the
shop had forgotten about the bookmarker and I shan't get it until to-morrow morning early.
So I'm able to write now: It was heavenly! We had to walk up and down in front of her house
for at least half an hour, until at last it was 5 minutes past 4. She was so sweet to us! She
wanted to say Sie to us, but we simply would not have it, and so she said Du as she used to.
We talked of all sorts of things, I don't know what, only that I suddenly burst out crying,
and then she drew me to her b -- --, no, I can't write that about her; she drew me to herself
and than I felt her heart beating! and went almost crazy. Hella says that I put both my arms
round her neck, but I'm sure that's all imagination, for I should never have dared. She has
such fascinating hands, and the wedding ring glistens so on her divine ring finger. Of course
we talked about the school, and then she suddenly said: Tell me what really happened about
those compositions, when half the class deliberately refrained from putting any punctuation
marks. "Oh," we said, "that is a frightful cram, it wasn't half the class, but only 6 of us
who have a special veneration for you." Then we told her how it all came about. She laughed
a little, and said: "Well, girls, you did not do me any particular service. It really was a
great piece of impertinence." But I said: "Prof. Fritsch's remarks were 10 times more impertinent,
for they related to another member of the staff, and what was worse to you." Then she said:
"My darling girls, that often happens in life, that the absent are given a bad reputation,
whether justly or unjustly; one is liable to that in every profession." Hella said that the
head mistress was not like that or there would have been a frightful row, since the matter
had become known in all the High Schools of Vienna. Then Frau Doktor M. said: "Yes, the Frau
Direktorin is really a splendid woman." Then there came something glorious, or really 2 glorious
things: (1). She gave us some magnificent sweets, better than I have ever eaten before. Hella
agrees, and we are really connoisseurs in the matter of sweets. The second thing, even more
glorious, was this: after we had been there some time, there was a knock at the door and in
came her husband, the Herr Prof., and said: "How are you my treasure?" and to us: "Goodday,
young ladies." Then she introduced us, saying: "Two of my best-loved pupils and my most faithful
adherents." Then the Herr Prof. laughed a great deal and said: "That can't be said of all pupils."
So I said quickly: "Oh yes, it can be said of Frau Doktor, the whole class would go through
fire for her." Then he went away, and she said: "Excuse me for a moment," and we could hear
quite plainly that he kissed her in the next room, and then she said as she came in again:
"Oh well, be off with you, Karl, goodbye." It's a pity his name is Karl, it's so prosaic, and
he calls her Lise, and I expect when they are alone he calls her Lieschen, since he is a North
German. I must go to bed, it's half past 11 already. To be continued to-morrow. Sleep well,
my sweet glorious ecstatic golden and only treasure! God, I am so happy.

January 6th. Thank goodness to-day is a holiday, and we can't go tobogganing because Dora has
a chill!!! I got the bookmarker on the 4th, worked at it all day and up till midnight, and
yesterday I got up at half past 5, went on working the whole morning, and at 2 o'clock we took
our mementoes to the house. Though we should have liked to give them to her ourselves, we didn't,
but only gave them to the maid. She said: Shall I show you in? but Hella said: "No, thank you,
we don't want to disturb Frau Theyer, and when I reproached her for this she said: Oh no, it
was better not; you are quite upset anyhow, you know what she said: But my dear child, you
will make yourself ill; you must not do that on my account!" Oh dear, I'm crying so that I
can hardly write, but I must write, for there is still so much that's glorious to put down,
things that I must never, never forget, even if it should take me a week to write. The great
thing is that I shall simply live upon this memory, and the only thing I want in life is that
I may see her once more. Of course we took her some flowers on Friday, I lilies of the valley
with violets and tuberoses, and Hella Christmas roses. She was delighted, and went directly
to fetch 2 vases which her mother brought in. She is as small as Frau Richter, and her hair
is grey, she is charming; but she is not in the least like Frau Doktor M. When we said goodbye
she offered us still more sweets, but since we were both nearly crying already we did not want
to take any more, but she wrapped them nearly all up for us, saying: "To console you in your
sorrow." From anyone else it might have sounded ironical, but from her it was simply lovely.
There were 17 large sweets, and Hella gave me 9 of them and took only 8 for herself. I shall
eat only one every day, so that they will last me 9 days. Joy and sorrow combined!! Hella is
not so frightfully in love as I am, and yesterday she said, in joke of course: "It seems to
me that your whole world is foundered; I must pull you out, or you'll be drowned." And then
she asked me how I could have been so stupid as to use the word honeymoon to her, although
she hemmed to warn me. She said it really was utterly idiotic of me, and that the Frau Prof.
blushed. I did not notice it myself, but when her husband came in, she certainly did flush
up like anything. Hella and I talked of quite a lot of other things of that sort. I should
so much have liked to ask her whether she has given up going to church, for I think the Herr
Prof. really is a Jew, though he does not look like one. For lots of other men wear black beards.
But I did not venture to ask, and Hella thinks it is a very good thing I did not, for one does
not talk about such things. I wonder whether she will have a baby? Oh, it would be horrible.
Of course she may have entered into a marriage contract, that would have been the best way.
However, Hella thinks that the professor would not have agreed to anything of the kind. But
surely if he was frantically in love with her . . .

January 1 5th. The girls in our class are frantically jealous. We did not say in so many words
that we, alone among them all, had been invited to see her, but Hella had brought one of the
sweets she had given us and in the interval she said: This must be eaten reverently, and she
cut it in two to give me half. The Ehrenfelds thought it must have been given by some acquaintance
made at the skating rink, and Trude said: "Doubly sweetened, by chocolate and love." "Yes,"
said I, "but not in the sense you imagine." And since she said: "Oh, of course, I know all
about that, but I don't want to be indiscreet," Hella said: "I may as well tell you that Frau
Doktor M., or I should say the married Frau Prof. Theyer, gave us this sweet and a great many
more on the day she had invited us to go and see her." Then they were all utterly kerblunxed
and said: "Great Scott, what luck, but you always were Frau Doktor M.'s favourites, especially
Lainer. But Lainer always courted Frau Doktor M."

January 17th. The whole school knows about our being invited to see her, the glorious one!
I've just been reading it over, and I see that I have left a frightful lot out, especially
about her father. When we were leaving, just outside the house door we burst out crying because
as I opened the door I had said, For the last time! Just then an old gentleman came up and
was about to go in, and when he saw that we were crying, though we were standing quite in the
shadow, he came up to us and asked what was the matter. Then Hella said: "We have lost out
best friend." Then the old gentleman looked at us for a tremendously long time and said: "I
say, do you happen to be the two ardent admirers of Frau Doktor Mallburg? She is my daughter,
you know. And then he said: But you really can't go through the streets bathed in tears like
that. Come upstairs again with me and my daughter will console you." So we really did go upstairs
again, and she was perfectly unique. Her father opened the door and called out: Lieserl, your
admirers simply can't part from you, and I found them being washed out to sea in a river of
tears. Then she came out wearing a rose-coloured dressing-gown!!! exquisite. And she led us
into the room and said: "Girls, you must not look at me in this old rag, which is only fit
to throw away." I should have liked to say: "Give it to me then." But of course I could not.
And when we made our final goodbye, perhaps for ever, she kissed each of us twice over and
said: Girls, I wish you all the happiness in the world!

January 18th. Hella invited me there to-day, to meet Lajos and Jeno. But I'm not going, for
Jeno does not interest me in the very least. That was not a real love. I don't care for anyone
in the whole world except her, my one and only! Even Hella can't understand that, in fact she
thinks it dotty. Father wanted me to go to Hella's to change the current of my thoughts. Of
course I hardly say a word about her to anyone, for no one understands me. But I never could
have believed that Father would be just like anyone else. It's quite true that I'm getting
thin. I'm so glad that we are not going tobogganing to-day because Dora has a chill, a real
chill this time. So I am going to the church in Schwindgasse and shall walk up and down in
front of her house; perhaps I shall meet her father or her mother. I wrote to her the day before
yesterday.

January 24th. I am so happy. She wrote to me by return! This is the second letter I have had
from her! At dinner to-day Father said: "Hullo, Gretel, why are you looking so happy to-day?
I have not seen you with such a sunny face for a long time." So I answered in as few words
as possible: "After dinner I will tell you why." For the others need not know anything about
it. And when I told Father vaguely that Frau Prof. Th. had written to me, Father said: "Oh,
is that what has pleased you so much. But I have something up my sleeve which will also please
you. February 1st and 2nd are Sunday and Monday, you have 2 days free, and if you and Hella
can get a day off from school on Saturday we might make an excursion to Mariazell. How does
that strike you?" It would be glorious, if only Hella is allowed to come, for her grandmother
imagines that the sore throat she had before Christmas was due to the tobogganing on the Anninger,
where the sole was torn off her shoe! As if we could help that. Still, by good luck she may
have forgotten it; she is 63 already, and one forgets a lot when one is that age.

Evening. Hella may come; it will be splendid! Perhaps we shall try a little skiing. But really
Hella is a horrid pig; she said: "All right, I'll come, if you'll promise not to be continually
talking about Frau Professor Th. I'm very fond of her too, but you are simply crazy about her."
It's really too bad, and I shall never mention her name to the others any more. I am looking
forward so to the tobogganing at Mariazell. We've never made any such excursion in winter before.
Hurrah, it will be glorious! Oh I do wish the 31st of January were here; I'm frantically excited.

EDITOR'S NOTE

Rita's joyful expectations of tobogganing among glistening snow-clad hills, remained unfulfilled.
The rude hand of fate was thrust into the lives of the two sisters. On January 29th their father,
suddenly struck down with paralysis, was brought home in an ambulance, and died in a few hours
without recovering consciousness.

Torn from the sheltering and affectionate atmosphere of home, separated from her most intimate
friend, the young orphan had to struggle for peace of soul in the isolation of a provincial
town -- -- --