([beta].) Arsenious Acid (AsO^{3}).--This acid crystallizes in octahedrons, or, when fused,
forms a colorless glass, which finally becomes opaque and enamel-like, or forms a white powder.
It sublimes without change or decomposition. When heated for a longer while below the temperature
of sublimation, it melts into a transparent, colorless, tough glass. The opaque acid is sparingly
soluble in cold water, and still more soluble in hot water. It is converted, by continued boiling,
into the transparent acid, which is much more soluble in water. Arsenious acid is easily dissolved
by caustic potassa. It is also soluble in hydrochloric acid. This acid occurs associated with
antimonious acid, protoxide of tin, protoxide of lead, and oxide of copper. It occurs likewise
in very small quantity in ferruginous mineral springs.

([gamma].)Arsenic Acid (AsO^{5}) is a white mass, which readily absorbs moisture and dissolves.
It will not volatilize at a low red heat, nor will it decompose. Exposed to a strong heat,
it is decomposed, yielding oxygen, and passing into arsenious acid.

Reactions before the Blowpipe.

Metallic arsenic, heated in a glass tube closed at one end, yields a black sublimate of a metallic
lustre, and at the same time gives out the characteristic alliaceous odor. This is the case
too with alloys of arsenic, if there is a maximum quantity of arsenic present.

When heated in a glass tube open at both ends, metallic arsenic is oxidized to arsenious acid,
which appears as a white crystalline sublimate on the sides of the glass tube. This deposit
will occur at some distance from the assay, in consequence of the great volatility of the arsenic.
The sublimate can be driven from one place upon the tube to another, by a very low heat. Alloys
of arsenic are converted into basic arseniates of metal oxides, while surplus arsenic is converted
into arsenious acid, which sublimes on the tube. If too much arsenic is used for this experiment,
a dark-brown incrustation will sublime upon the sides of the tube which will give an alliaceous
smell. If this sublimate should be deposited near the assay, then it resembles the white sublimate
of arsenious acid.

Heated upon charcoal, metallic arsenic is volatilized before it melts, and incrusts the charcoal
in the flame of oxidation as a white deposit of arsenious acid. This sublimate appears sometimes
of a greyish color, and takes place at some distance from the assay. When heated slightly with
the blowpipe flame, this sublimate is instantly driven away, and being heated rapidly in the
reduction flame, it disappears with a light blue tinge, while the usual alliaceous or garlic
smell may be discerned.

Arsenious acid sublimes in both glass tubes very readily, as a white crystalline sublimate.
These crystals appear to be regular octahedrons when observed under the microscope. Upon charcoal
it instantly volatilizes, and when heated, the characteristic garlic smell may be observed.

Arsenic acid yields, heated strongly in a glass tube closed at one end, oxygen and arsenious
acid, the latter of which sublimes in the cool portions of the tube. Compounds of arsenic produce,
in consequence of their volatility, no reactions with fluxes. Being heated upon charcoal with
carbonate of soda, they are reduced to metallic arsenic which may be detected by the alliaceous
odor peculiar to all the arsenic compounds when volatilized.

NINTH GROUP.--COPPER, SILVER, GOLD.

These metals are not volatile, neither are their oxides. They are reduced to the metallic state,
by fusion with carbonate of soda, when they melt to a metallic grain. The oxides of silver
and gold are reduced per se to the metallic state by ignition. In the reduction of the oxides
of this group, no sublimate is visible upon the charcoal.

(a.) Copper (Cu).--This metal occurs in the metallic state, also as the protoxide, and as oxides
combined with acids in different salts (carbonate of copper as malachite, etc.) The sulphide
of copper is the principal ore of copper occurring in nature. In the metallic state, copper
is of a red color, has great lustre and tenacity, is ductile and malleable, and crystallizes
in octahedrons and cubes. It melts at a bright red heat, is more difficult than silver to fuse,
but fuses more readily than gold. It absorbs oxygen while melting. There arises from its surface
a fine dust of metallic globules, which are covered with the protoxide. The surface of the
metal is likewise covered with the protoxide. Copper exposed to moist air tarnishes, and is
converted into hydratic carbonate of copper. When ignited in the open air, it is soon covered
with the brownish-red protoxide.

([chi].) Protoxide of Copper (Cu^{2}O).--This oxide occurs in nature, crystallized in octahedrons
of a ruby-red color, of a lamellar structure, and transparent. Artificially prepared, it forms
a powder of the same color. It is decomposed by dilute acids into salts of peroxide and metal.
It is converted by ignition, with free access of air, into peroxide.

([beta].) Oxide of Copper (CuO).--This oxide is a dark-brown or black powder. It is dissolved
by acids, with a blue or green-colored solution. It is soluble in aqua ammonia, and the solution
is of a dark blue color.

Reactions before the Blowpipe.--Oxide of copper exposed upon platinum wire to the inmost flame
(the blue flame), communicates to the external flame a green color. Heated upon charcoal in
the oxidation flame, it melts to a black ball, soon spreads over the charcoal, and is partially
reduced.

Exposed to the reduction flame, at a temperature which will not melt copper, it is reduced
with a bright metallic lustre, but as soon as the blast ceases, the surface of the metal becomes
oxidized, and appears dark brown or black. If the temperature is continued still higher, it
melts to a metallic grain.

Borax dissolves the oxide of copper in the flame of oxidation to a clear green-colored bead,
even if the quantity of oxide be quite small, but by cooling, the bead becomes blue. In the
flame of reduction upon platinum wire, the bead soon becomes colorless, but while cooling presents
a red color (protoxide of copper). This bead is opaque, but, if too much of the oxide is added,
a part of it is reduced to metal, which is visible by breaking the metallic grain.

Upon charcoal, the oxide is reduced to the metal, and the bead appears colorless after cooling.
With the addition of some tin, the bead becomes brownish-red and opaque after cooling.

Microcosmic Salt dissolves oxide of copper in the flame of oxidation to a green bead, not so
intensely colored as the borax bead. In the reduction flame the bead, if pretty well saturated,
becomes dark-green while hot, and brownish-red when cool, opaque and enamel-like. If the oxide
is so little that no reaction is visible, by the addition of some tin, the bead appears colorless
while hot, and dark brownish-red and opaque when cold.

Carbonate of Soda dissolves oxide of copper in the oxidation flame upon platinum wire, to a
clear, green bead, which loses its color when cooling, and becomes opaque.

Upon charcoal, it is reduced to the metal, the soda is absorbed by the charcoal, and the metallic
particles melt with sufficient heat to a grain.

(b.) Silver (Ag).--This metal occurs in nature in the metallic state, and in combination with
other metals, particularly with lead. It also occurs as the sulphide in several mines. It crystallizes
in cubes and octahedrons; is of a pure white color, great lustre, is very malleable and ductile,
and is softer than copper, but harder than gold. It is not oxidizable, neither at common temperatures
nor at those which are considerably higher. It is soluble in dilute nitric acid, and in boiling
concentrated sulphuric acid.

([chi].) Protoxide of Silver (Ag^{2}O).--It is a black powder. It is converted by acids and
ammonia into oxide and metal.

([beta].) Oxide of Silver (AgO).--It is a greyish-brown or black powder, and is the base of
the silver salts. With aqua ammonia, it is converted into the black, fulminating silver.

([gamma].) Superoxide or Binoxide of Silver (AgO^{2}).--This oxide occurs in black needles
or octahedral crystals of great metallic lustre. It is dissolved by the oxygen acids with the
disengagement of oxygen gas.

Behavior before the Blowpipe.--When exposed to the flames of oxidation and reduction, the oxides
of silver are instantly reduced to the metallic state.

Borax dissolves silver-oxides upon platinum wire in the oxidation flame but partially, while
the other portion is reduced, the bead appearing opalescent after cooling, in correspondence
to the degree of saturation. The bead becomes grey in the flame of reduction, the reduced silver
melting to a grain, and the bead is rendered clear and colorless again.

Microcosmic Salt dissolves oxides of silver in the flame of oxidation upon platinum wire to
a transparent yellowish bead, which presents, when much of the oxide is present, an opalescent
appearance.

In the flame of reduction, the reaction is analogous to that of borax.

By fusion with carbonate of soda in the oxidation and reduction flames, the silver oxides are
instantly reduced to metallic silver, which fuses into one or more grains.

(c.) Gold (Au).--This metal occurs mostly in the metallic state, but frequently mixed with
ores, and with other metals. Gold crystallizes in cubes and octahedrons, is of a beautiful
yellow color, great lustre, and is the most malleable and ductile of all the metals. It melts
at a higher temperature than copper, gives a green colored light when fused, and contracts
greatly when cooling. It does not oxidize at ordinary temperatures, nor when heated much above
them. It is soluble in nitro-hydrochloric acid (aqua regia).

([chi].) Protoxide of Gold (Au^{2}O).--This oxide is a dark violet colored powder which is
converted by a temperature of 540° into metallic gold and oxygen. It is only soluble in aqua
regia. Treated with hydrochloric acid, it yields the chloride of gold and the metal. With aqua
ammonia, it yields the fulminating gold, which is a blue mass and very explosive.

([chi].) Peroxide of Gold (Au^{2}O^{3}).--This oxide is an olive-green or dark brown powder,
containing variable quantities of water. Decomposed at 530°, it yields metallic gold and oxygen.

Reactions before the Blowpipe.--Oxides of gold are reduced, in both the oxidation and reduction
flames, to the metal, which fuses to grains.

Borax does not dissolve it, but it is reduced to the metallic state in this flux in either
flame. The reduced metal fuses upon charcoal to a grain.

Microcosmic Salt presents the same reactions as borax.

When fused with soda, upon charcoal, the soda is absorbed, and the gold remains as a metallic
grain.

TENTH GROUP.--MOLYBDENUM, OSMIUM.

These metals are not volatile, and are infusible before the blowpipe; but some of their oxides
are volatile, and can be reduced to an infusible metallic powder.

(a.) Molybdenum (Mo) occurs in the metallic state; also combined with sulphur, or as molybdic
acid combined with lead. It is a white, brittle metal, and is unaltered by exposure to the
air. When heated until it begins to glow, it is converted into a brown oxide. Heated at a continued
dull red heat, it turns blue. At a higher temperature, it is oxidized to molybdic acid, when
it glimmers and smokes, and is converted into crystallized molybdic acid upon the surface.

([chi].) Protoxide of Molybdenum (MoO).--This oxide is a black powder.

([chi].) Deutoxide of Molybdenum (MoO^{2}).--This oxide is a dark copper-colored crystalline
powder.

Reactions before the Blowpipe.--Metallic molybdenum, its protoxide and binoxide, are converted
in the oxidation flame into molybdic acid. This acid fuses in the flame of oxidation to a brown
liquid, which spreads, volatilizes, and sublimes upon the charcoal as a yellow powder, which
appears crystalline in the vicinity of the assay. This sublimate becomes white after cooling.
Beyond this sublimate there is visible a thin and not volatile ore of binoxide, after cooling;
this is of a dark copper-red color, and presenting a metallic lustre.

Heated in a glass tube, closed at one end, it melts to a brown mass, vaporizes and sublimates
to a white powder upon a cool portion of the tube. Immediately above the assay, yellow crystals
are visible; these crystals are colorless after cooling, and the fused mass becomes light yellow-colored
and crystalline.

Upon platinum foil, in the flame of oxidation, it melts and vaporizes, and becomes light yellow
and crystalline after cooling. In the reduction flame it becomes blue, and brown-colored if
the heat is increased.

Upon charcoal, in the reduction flame, it is absorbed by the charcoal; and, with an increase
of the temperature, it is reduced to the metal, which remains as a grey powder after washing
off the particles of charcoal.

Borax dissolves it, in the oxidation flame, upon platinum wire easily, and in great quantity,
to a clear yellow, which becomes colorless while cooling. By the addition of more of the molybdenic
acid the bead is dark yellow, or red while hot, and opalescent when cold. In the reduction
flame, the color of the bead is changed to brown and transparent. By the addition of more of
the acid, it becomes opaque.

Microcosmic Salt dissolves it in the oxidation flame, upon platinum wire, to a clear, yellowish-green
bead, which becomes colorless after cooling. In the reduction flame the bead is very dark and
opaque, but becomes of a bright green after cooling. This is the case likewise upon charcoal.

Carbonate of Soda dissolves it upon platinum wire in the oxidation flame with intumescence,
to a clear bead, which appears milk-white after cooling. Upon charcoal the soda and the molybdic
acid are absorbed, the latter is reduced to the metallic state, the metal remaining as a grey
powder after washing off the particles of charcoal. When molybdic acid, or any other oxide
of this metal, is exposed upon platinum wire, or with platinum tongs, to the point of the blue
flame, a yellowish-green color is communicated to the external flame. If also any of the compounds
of molybdenum are mixed in the form of a powder with concentrated sulphuric acid and alcohol,
and the latter inflamed, the flame of the alcohol appears colored green.

(c.) Osmium (Os).--This metal occurs associated with platinum. It is of a bluish-grey color,
and is very brittle. Ignited in the open air, it is oxidized to volatile osmic acid, which
is possessed of a pungent smell, and affects the eyes. It communicates a bright white color
to the flame of alcohol. Osmium oxide (OsO^{2}) is converted in the oxidation flame to osmic
acid, which is volatilized with a peculiar smell, leaving a sublimate.

In the reduction flame it is reduced to a dark-brown infusible metallic powder. It produces
no reactions with fluxes. Carbonate of soda reduces it upon charcoal to an infusible metallic
powder, which appears, after washing off the particles of charcoal, of a dark-brown color.

ELEVENTH GROUP.--PLATINUM, PALLADIUM, IRIDIUM, RHODIUM, RUTHENIUM.

These metals are infusible before the blowpipe. They are not volatile, nor are they oxidizable.
Their oxides are, in both flames, reduced to a metallic and infusible powder. They give no
reactions with fluxes, but are separated in the metallic form. These metals are generally found
associated together in the native platinum, also with traces of copper, lead, and iron.

The metal palladium is found native, associated with iridium and platinum. This metal generally
occurs in greatest quantity in Brazil.

The metal rhodium is found along with platinum, but in very small quantities.

Iridium occurs in nature associated with osmium, gold, and platinum, in the mines of Russia.
Its great hardness has rendered it desirable for the points of gold pens. In South America
this metal is found native, associated with platinum and osmium. The latter metal, associated
with platinum and iridium, has been found in South America.

As these metals will not oxidize or dissolve, they cannot be separated from each other by the
blowpipe with the reagents peculiar to that species of analysis. It is true that colors may
be discerned in the beads, but these tints proceed from the presence of small traces of copper,
iron, etc.

The ore of osmium and iridium can be decomposed, and the former recognized by its fetid odor.
This metal, strongly ignited in a glass tube with nitrate of potash, is converted to the oxide
of osmium, which gives an odor not unlike the chloride of sulphur.

As the metals of this group are very rare ones, especially the last four ones, we shall not
devote an especial division to each of them. For a more detailed statement of their reactions,
the student is referred to the large works upon blowpipe analysis.

CLASS III.

NON-METALLIC SUBSTANCES.

1. Water--2. Nitric Acid--3. Carbon--4. Phosphorus --5. Sulphur--6. Boron--7. Silicon--8. Chlorine
--9. Bromine--10. Iodine--11. Fluorine--12. Cyanogen --13. Selenium.

(1.) Water (HO).--Pure distilled water is composed of one volume of oxygen, and two volumes
of hydrogen gases; or, by weight, of one part of hydrogen to eight parts of oxygen gases. Water
is never found pure in nature, but possessing great solvent properties, it always is found
with variable proportions of those substances it is most liable to meet with, dissolved in
it. Thus it derives various designations depending upon the nature of the substance it may
hold in solution, as lime-water, etc.

In taking cognizance of water in relation to blowpipe analysis, we regard it only as existing
in minerals. The examination for water is generally performed thus: the substance may be placed
in a dry tube, and then submitted to heat over a spirit-lamp. If the water exists in the mineral
mechanically it will soon be driven off, but if it exists chemically combined, the heat will
fail to drive it off, or if it does, it will only partially effect it. The water will condense
upon the cool portions of the tube, where it can be readily discerned. If the water exists
chemically combined, a much stronger heat must be applied in order to separate it.

Many substances may be perhaps mistaken for water by the beginner, such as the volatile acids, etc.

(2.) Nitric Acid (NO^{5}).--Nitric acid occurs in nature in potash and soda saltpetre. These
salts are generally impure, containing lime, as the sulphate, carbonate and nitrate, and also
iron in small quantity. The soda saltpetre generally contains a quantity of the chloride of
sodium. The salts containing nitric acid deflagrate when heated on charcoal. Substances containing
nitric acid may be heated in a glass tube closed at one end, by which the characteristic red
fumes of nitrous acid are eliminated. If the acid be in too minute a quantity to be thus distinguished,
a portion of the substance may be intimately mixed with some bisulphate of potash, and treated
as above. The sulphuric acid of the bisulphate combines with the base, and liberates the nitric
acid, while the tube contains the nitrous acid gas.

