PUNCH, OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL. 158.

April 21st, 1920.

CHARIVARIA.

It appears that Irish criminals may be divided into three classes (a) The ones you can't catch;
(b) The ones you have caught but can't convict; (c) The ones you have convicted but can't keep
in prison.

* * *

To such an extent has America gone dry that nearly all letters despatched from Scotsmen living
over there are posted with the stamps pinned to the envelopes.

* * *

"We are certainly going to gain by the sale of the Slough works," said Mr. BONAR LAW last week.
Whether to an extent that will justify the Government for having kept The Daily Mail waiting
like that is another question.

* * *

Mr. JAMES FOWLER of Deptford has offered to walk from Westminster Bridge to Brighton with a
jar on his head. We assume that he has mislaid his hat.

* * *

In Hertfordshire the other day a boy was knocked down by a funeral-car. It may have been an
accident, but it has all the appearance of greed.

* * *

A constable giving evidence at Willesden police-court said a prisoner called him a "sergeant-major."
We feel sure the fellow could not have meant it.

* * *

Mrs. ALICE L. YOCUM, of Boone, U.S.A., has just obtained her thirteenth divorce. It is said
that she has the finest collection of husbands in America.

* * *

The man who last week said he had not read "Another Powerful Article" by Mr. HORATIO BOTTOMLEY
in the Sunday Press is thought to be an impostor.

* * *

Parents in New York who are afraid of losing their children may register them at the Bureau
of Missing People. As we have no such institution in this country parents must adopt the old
method of writing their names and addresses on the top right-hand corner of their offspring.

* * *

Any wind blowing at more than seventy miles an hour, says an informing paper, may be called
a hurricane. At the same time we doubt if this would have much effect on it.

* * *

Our sympathy is with the young Flight Lieutenant of the R.A.F. who has been unable to keep
up with the uniforms designed by the Air Ministry. He is now said to be three uniforms behind.

* * *

It is claimed that whilst standing on a certain rock near Aberdeen one can obtain a thousand
echoes from a single shout. We understand that the local habit of going there in order to pull
a cork out of a bottle has now been prohibited owing to the annoyance caused to American visitors.

* * *

A large grocery warehouse in Liverpool was practically destroyed by fire last Thursday week.
We understand that the orderly manner in which the cheeses fell in and marched out of the danger-zone
was alone responsible for preventing a panic.

* * *

"Keep smiling and you will never need a doctor," advises a writer in an illustrated daily.
A friend of ours who put it to the test now writes to us from a well-known county asylum advising
us to choose the doctor.

* * *

According to a morning paper, Micky, the oldest ape in the Zoo, now wears a mournful expression
and seems to be tired of life. It is thought that he may have recently overhead the remark
made by a thoughtless visitor that he was growing more like a Bolshevik every day.

* * *

A certain lamp-post in Maida Vale has been knocked down twice by the same bus. If the bus knocks
it down once more the lamp becomes its own property.

* * *

The amazing report that one of the first six to finish in the London to Brighton walk was once
a telegraph-boy is now denied.

* * *

There is a man living in the Edgware Road, it is stated, who has never been on an omnibus.
He has often seen them whizzing by, he declares, but has always resisted the temptation to
take the fatal plunge.

* * *

There will be no Naval manoeuvres this year, it is announced. How under these conditions Mr.
POLLEN can continue to teach the Navy its business is a very grave question.

* * *

At a St. Dunstan's auction at Thornton Heath autographs of Mr. GEORGE ROBEY and the PREMIER
were sold at ten shillings each. Mr. ROBEY, it appears, generously insisted on treating the
matter as a joke.

* * *

A Manchester scientist claims to have discovered a means of making vegetable alcohol undrinkable
without impairing its usefulness. It looks as if the secret of Government ale must have leaked
out at last.

* * *

We are in a position to deny a report which was being spread in connection with a certain Model
Village scheme, to the effect that the model bricklayer had refused to perform unless he was
provided with a model public-house, while the model public-house could not be provided until
the model bricklayer started work.

* * *

Bonnet strings, says a fashion paper, will be worn by débutantes this summer. Apron strings,
we gather, will continue to be unfashionable with our flappers.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

ON THE ITALIAN RIVIERA.

ENGLAND TO HER FRANCE.

  This is a joyous trysting-place, my love,
    With no inconstant climate to distract us;
  Pure azure is the sky that laughs above
    These admirable bowers of prickly cactus,
  Where we may nestle, conjugating amo
             (Dear old San Remo!).

  We've had our difference, as lovers do;
    A slight misunderstanding came between us;
  But that is past; the sky (I said) is blue
    And this the very sea that nurtured Venus;
  Come, like her doves amid the groves of myrtle--
             Come, let us turtle.

  "How can they ever kiss again?" 'twas said;
    But Love made light of that absurd conundrum;
  And lo! your breast is pillow to my head,
    And we've a pair of hearts that beat as one drum;
  Our bonds, if anything, are even more
             Tight than before.

  Your independence caused a passing pain,
    But now, I thank you, I am feeling better;
  You'll never go upon your own again
    Nor I will write another nasty letter;
  Embrace me, then, for sign of love's renewal,
             Mon bijou (jewel).

  O.S.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE IDENTIFICATION OF HOBBS.

Old Hobbs, the gardener, has been in our family longer than I have. Although we live within
twenty miles of London only once has he made the journey to the great city, for that one memorable
day so nearly ended in disaster that he always speaks of it with a shudder. Indeed, but for
the arrival of Mrs. Hobbs, belated, flustered and inquiring everywhere for her man, he must
assuredly have spent the night in a police-station.

This is how it all happened. Mrs. Hobbs was returning from a visit to relations in Sussex,
and her husband was to meet her in London, convoy her across the city and bring her home. In
order to avail himself of a cheap fare Hobbs left by the 7.30 train, though his wife would
not arrive till four o'clock in the afternoon.

He managed to get across London somehow. After locating the station at which Mrs. Hobbs was
to arrive his intention was to spend the day "looking round London a bit;" but the crowds and
the traffic were too much for the old countryman, so he sought safety by staying where he was.

Time hung heavily after a while. He lingered round the bookstall looking at the books and papers
till a pert girl behind the counter asked him if he wouldn't like a chair; but when Hobbs,
who was never rude and consequently never suspected rudeness in other people, raised his hat
and said, "No, thank'ee, Miss, I be all right standing," even the pert girl was disarmed.

Next he amused himself counting the milk-churns on the platform. Then he killed time by interesting
himself in the stacks of unattended luggage and examining the labels; and at three o'clock
a railway policeman laid a hand on his shoulder and asked him what his game was.

Hobbs, a little startled but clear in conscience, told his tale.

"That don't do for me," announced the constable. "I been keeping observation on you since nine,
and your wife don't arrive till four, so you say. I seen you hanging round the luggage and
fingering parcels, and you'll just come with me to the police-office as a suspected person
loitering. An old luggage-thief, I should say, to put it quite plain."

"Me a thief!" gasped Hobbs, roused to realities; "why, I've worked ever since I was twelve,
and me sixty-three now; I was never a thief, Sir. Look at me hands."

The constable inspected them critically. "They're a bit horny certainly; but then that may
be only your dam artfulness. Come on and talk to the Sergeant."

The Railway Police-Sergeant briskly inquired his name, address, occupation and all the rest
of it. Hobbs gave a good account of himself and mentioned that he had worked in our family
for forty-two years.

"Any visiting-cards, correspondence or other papers to identify you?" asked the Sergeant mechanically.
He had said it so often to the people who cry "Season! Season!" when there is no Season.

Hobbs confessed to having none of these things; and no, he knew no one in London.

"Then you'll stay here till four," pronounced the Sergeant, "and we'll see if this good lady
of yours comes along."

But, alas! no Mrs. Hobbs appeared. "Must have missed the train," suggested Hobbs despairingly.
"P'r'aps the trap broke down or something."

There was only one more train, it seemed, and that was not due until nine.

"Oh, I don't think my missus 'ud like to be so late as that," said the suspect. "She'd wait
till the morning. I don't reckon she'll come to-night."

"No more don't I." The constable was beginning to enjoy himself. "If I was you I should drop
the bluff and own I was fair caught. If you was to ask me, I should say you didn't look like
a married man at all. We'll see what the Sergeant says now."

The Sergeant was accordingly consulted. He too was rather sceptical.

"If there's any truth in what you say you'd better wire to this gentleman at Monk's Langford
that you say you work for, and try if we can identify you somehow," he advised. And to the
constable, "Take him to the Telegraph Office and let him send his wire. Then bring him back
here. Mind he don't give you the slip."

So Hobbs, sighing deeply and perspiring freely, wrote his message: "Sir, they have got me in
the police-station here and say I am a suspected person, which you know I never was, having
worked for you, Sir, and your father for forty-two years. But the Sargeant here says he wants
proofs, and you, Sir, must vouch for me as being respectable, which you know I am, and none
of us was ever thieves. So will you please do so, Sir, and oblige, as this leaves me at present,
George Hobbs."

The clerk glanced at it. "It's a long message," he said; "it'll cost four or five shillings."

Hobbs hadn't got that--no, really he hadn't.

The constable standing on guard, rather bored, interposed, "We ain't asking you to write a
book about it."

"No, Sir, I couldn't do that," replied Hobbs anxiously. "What would you say, Sir, if you was me?"

"Don't ask me," answered the policeman. "It's your wire, not mine. Send something you can pay
for. We only wants to find out if you're the person you say you are. Daresay you'd like me
to write it for you, and you 'op it while I done it. I seen your kind before. Try again, mate."

So Hobbs tried again. And that is how it came about that at tea-time a telegraph-boy brought
me the bewildering message: "Mr. Lockwood, The Nook, Monk's Langford. Sir, am I Hobbs? Hobbs."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

BRIDGE NOTES.

(With acknowledgments to several contemporaries.)

It would, I feel, be but fair to the great Bridge-playing public to preface these few notes
with a word of warning against the writers whom I find to my regret affecting to speak with
authority on this subject in other periodicals. Until, as in the kindred profession of Medicine,
it is impossible to practise without a Bridge degree, nothing can be done to prevent these
quacks from laying down the law. All I can do for the present is to point out that there is
only one writer who can speak not merely with authority, but with infallibility, upon all matters
pertaining to our national game.

In this the eighth instalment of my series on Auction etiquette, I should like to urge once
more upon the young Bridge-player the importance of playing quickly. And this because yet another
case has come under my notice in which much trouble might have been avoided by doing so. In
this case A. took seven minutes to decide whether to play the King or the Knave, which, especially
as the Queen had already been played, was, I consider, far too long. Y., the declarer, sitting
on A.'s left, certainly found it so, for towards the end of the seventh minute he dropped off
to sleep and his cards fell forward face upward on the table. Dummy having gone away in search
of liquid refreshment, A. and his partner B. then played out the hand as they liked and then
roused Y. to inform him that, instead of making game, he had lost three hundred above.

Now, A. and B. were strictly within the rules of Auction Bridge in acting as they did. There
is no legal time limit for players, as there is at cricket. But it would have been more tactful
had they roused Y. at once, that he might see what they were doing with his cards.

Nor should tact be confined to such comparatively rare incidents as this. For instance, it
is a mistake to confuse Auction Bridge with Rugby football. I have known players who declared
"Two No-trumps" in very much the same manner as that in which a Rugby football-player throws
the opposing three-quarter over the side-line. Excessive aggression is a mistake. A young Civil
Servant of my acquaintance even went so far as to abstain from claiming an obvious revoke when
the delinquent was the chief of his department. Unfortunately, however, this young man, so
wise in other ways, had the annoying habit of turning his chair to bring him luck. On one evening,
when the run of the cards was against him, he turned his chair between every hand and so annoyed
his chief that no promotion has ever come his way, and he now spends his days bitterly regretting
that he did not claim that revoke.

Passing to another point, I am asked by a correspondent if it is permissible occasionally to
play from left to right, instead of from right to left, just to relieve the monotony. He asks,
not unreasonably, why, if this is not so, writers on Bridge go to the trouble of putting those
little curved arrows to show which way round the cards are to be played.

For myself, I see no reason why the right-to-left convention should not occasionally be reversed,
always provided that the whole table agrees beforehand to play in the same direction.

There are many other points to which I should like to refer, and many players to whom I should
like to give a word of warning. There is the player who suddenly breaks off to join in the
conversation of other people who happen to be in the room. There is the player who whistles
to himself while he is playing: this is a grave fault, nor does the class of music whistled
affect the question; the Preislied performed through the teeth is quite as exasperating as
K-K-Katie. Then there is the player who breathes so hard with the exertion of the game that
he blows the cards about the table. Finally there is the player who slaps the face of his or
her partner. This is a mistake, however great the provocation. I have not space now to deal
exhaustively with these breaches of Auction etiquette. Besides, I have to keep something in
hand for future articles.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MADDING CROWD.

The scene is an Irish Point-to-Point meeting.

The course lies along a shallow valley, bounded on the north by a wall of cloudy blue mountains.

At each jump stands a group of spectators; the difficulty or danger of an obstacle may be measured
by the number of spectators who stand about it, recounting tales of past accidents and hoping
cheerfully for the future. Motor cars, side-cars, waggonettes, pony-traps and ass-carts are
drawn up anyhow round a clump of whitewashed farm buildings in the background.

Blanketed hunters are having their legs rubbed or being led up and down by grooms. Comes a
broken-winded tootle on a coach-horn and the black-and- scarlet drag of the local garrison
trundles into view. The unsophisticated gun-horses in the lead shy violently at the flapping
canvas of an orange-stall and swerve to the left into a roulette-booth presided over by a vociferous
ancient in a tattered overcoat and blue spectacles. The gamblers scatter like flushed partridges
and the ancient bites the turf beneath his upturned board amid a shower of silver coins. The
leaders, scared by the animated table, and the blood-curdling invocations and wildly-waving
arms and legs of the fallen croupier, shy violently in the opposite direction and disappear
into the refreshment-tent, whence issue the crash of crockery and the shrieks of the attendant
Hebes. (Lieut.- Commander KENWORTHY should have some questions to pop about this at Westminster
when next the Irish Question comes up.)

The bookmakers are perched a-top of a grassy knoll which overlooks the whole course, and around
them surges the crowd.

       *       *       *       *       *

Scarecrow (in somebody's cast-off dinner-jacket and somebody else's abandoned hunting breeches.)
Kyard of the races! Kyard of the races!

Farmer. Here y' are. How much?

Scarecrow. Wan shillin'-an'-sixpence, Sorr.

Farmer. There's "Price wan shillin'" printed on ut, ye blagyard.

Scarecrow. The sixpence is for the Government's little Intertainmints Tax, Sorr.

Farmer. Oh, go to the divil!

Scarecrow. Shure an' I will if yer honour'll give me a letther of inthroduction. We'll call
ut a shillin', thin, and I'll sthand the loss mesilf.

[Farmer parts with the price and the Scarecrow dodges swiftly into the crowd. The Farmer peruses
the card and frowns in a puzzled way; then the date catches his eye and he curses and tears
the list to pieces.

Farmer. Drat take the little scut; he's sold me last year's kyard!

Cattle-Dealer (shouting). Hi, sthop him there!

Farmer. Whist, let him go. Let him trap some others first the way I'll not be the only mug
on the market this day.

Trickster (setting up his table and jerking his cards about). I'm afther losin' a pony to thim
robbers beyant, but, as Pierpont Rockafeller said to Jawn D. Morgan, "business is business,
an' if ye don't speculate ye won't accumulate." Spot the dame and my money's yours; spot the
blank and yours is mine. "The quickness of the hand deceives the eye, or vicy-versy," as Lord
Carnegie remarked to Andrew Rothschild. Walk up, walk up, my sporty gintlemen and thry yer
luck wid the owld firm.

Farmer. There go the harses down to the post. Who's that leadin' on the black?

Dealer. Young Misther Darley, no less. 'Tis a great fella for all kinds of divarsion he is,
the same. I was beyant to Darleystown this week past and found him fightin' a main o'cocks
before the fire in his grandmother's drawin'-room. Herself riz up off her bed and gave the
two of us the father and mother of a dhrubbin' wid her crutch, an' she desthroyed wid the gout
an' all.

Farmer. 'Tis herself has the great heart. Hey! that's never Clancy goin' down on the owld foxey
mare? Faith, it's sorra a ha'porth cud she course or lep these fifteen years.

Dealer. Lep, is ut? Shure she'll spring out like a birrd an' fear no foe by dint of the two
bottles of potheen she has taken an' the couple o' lads Clancy has stationed at ivvery jump
to let a roar at her an' hearthen her wid the sthroke of an ash-plant as she comes at ut.

First Country Boy. Arrah, they're off, they're away!

Second Country Boy. Thin let us down to the big double, avic, and be the grace of God we'll
see a corpse.

Girl in Brown (hopping from one foot to the other). Can you see Freddy, Uncle George? Is he
in front? I'm sure he is. He hasn't fallen, has he? He won't fall, will he? I'm sure he will.
I do hope he'll win; I know he won't. The jumps look frightful, and I'm certain he'll break
his darling neck. Oh, where is he, Uncle George?

Uncle George. Here, take my field-glasses.

Girl in Brown. I can't see, I can't see.

Uncle George (drily). Try looking through them the other way round.

Beshawled Crone (towing an aged beggar-man who wears a framed placard reminding the public
that "charity covers a multitude of sins," and announcing that the bearer is not only "teetotally"
deaf and dumb, but also blind, barmy and partially paralysed). May God's blessin' and the blessin's
of all the howly Saints an' Martyrs be on ye, and would ye spare a little copper for a poor
owld sthricken crature an' I'll pray for ye this night an' ivvery night of me life?

Girl in Brown. Give her a shilling, Uncle George, and tell her to pray for Freddy now.

[Uncle George does the needful.

Beggar-man (miraculously recovering his speech). Whist! Was that a shillin' he gave ye? That
makes ten ye have now, thin. Bun like a hare an' put ut on Acrobat at the best ye can get.

Farmer. Clancy leads be a length.

Dealer. Thin 'tis a hardy rider will dare pass the owld foxey mare now, for she'd reach out
an' chew the leg off him, she's that jealous.

Farmer. Woof! Pat Maguire is into the wather head-first an' dhrinkin' a bellyful, I'll warrant--which
same will be a new sensation for him.

Dealer. It will indeed. 'Tis a wonder he wouldn't send a lad round the course before him givin'
the ditches a dash from a pocket-flask the way he'd be in his iliment should he take a toss--the
thirsty poor fella!

Farmer. The foxey mare is down on her nose an' Clancy throwing somersets all down the course.
Acrobat has ut.

Dealer. He has not. He is all bet up. He's rollin' like a Wexford pig-boat. Beau Brocade has
the legs of him.

Girl in Brown (jumping up and down). Beau Brocade! Beau Brocade! Oh, Freddy darling!

Beggar-man (miraculously recovering his sight). Acrobat! Put the whip to him, ye lazy varmint!
Acrobat! Och, wirra, wirra!

Dealer. Beau Brocade has him cot. He is on his quarther. He is on his shoulder. They are neck
and neck. He has him bet. Huroosh!

Farmer. What are you hurooshin' for--you with five poun' on Acrobat?

Dealer (crestfallen). Och, dang it, I was forgettin'.

Girl in Brown (dancing and clapping her hands). Hurray! Hurray! Hurray!

Beggar-man. ***!!! ***!!!

[Local brass band, throned in a dilapidated waggonette, explodes into the opening strains of
"Garryowen."

PATLANDER.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The question which arises in the mind of
    the writer is this:--'Is Salicylic Aldehyde
    "C6H4<COH orthohydroxybenzaldehyde"
          OH
    the cause of the trouble?'"--The Fruit-Grower.

It must be a dreadful thing to have a mind like that.

       *       *       *       *       *

]

       *       *       *       *       *

TELEPHONE TACTICS.

It is now some months since the great autumn offensive was conducted with the idea of biting
off an awkward salient in my circumstances--in brief, of obtaining the necessary telephone
to enable me to commence an ordered existence. For many, many days my voice had been unheard
crying in the wilderness that I was a poor demobilised soldier, that I had once had a telephone
and had given it up at my country's call, and please couldn't they give me back even my old,
old telephone again? I have already told how in response to these very human appeals I at length
got only a request for the balance due for calls for 1914. My old friend Time, however, worked
his proverbial wonders and one day a telephone came--phit! like that.

Directly it had come I suspected a trap somewhere. Nor were my friends behindhand in telling
me of the horrors of gigantic and inexorable bills from which there was no appeal. They said
I must have a coin-box. Excellent idea! I would have a coin-box.

So the great Spring offensive began. In early February I opened a strong barrage upon the main
headquarters (how lovingly these ancient military metaphors come back to one!) and kept up
a little light harassing fire upon the District Agent. The enemy replied with rigid uniformity
upon printed forms--a mean advantage, for I have to type mine myself. But matters progressed.
At the end of the first fortnight I had been advised that the work of installing my coin-box
had been entrusted to no fewer than three groups of engineers, "to whom you should refer in
all cases."

Well, I "referred" for some little time, and then, after a decent interval, made their acquaintance
separately. If anything was calculated to bring back memories of the lighter side of the War
it was the gracious and suave manner in which I despatched and redespatched to other departments.
I might have been the buffest of buff slips the way I was "passed to you, please."

Once again I cancelled all my work in the pursuit of where the rainbow ends. Nor was this renunciation
any great hardship, for I had been writing a book about the Realities of War, and had just
found that all the horrors that ever might have happened had already been set down by one who
saw most of the game, being an onlooker. "But this," I said, as I set out every morning--"this
is the life, pure adventure in every moment of it."

My efforts were rewarded. In late February three people came and left three coin-boxes--in
pieces. Then I must admit that I did a foolish thing. I wrote and said that I only wanted one
box. I was afraid that if I kept them all it would be, a case of "Thr-r-ree pennies, please,"
instead of one. (Mine is a penny district).

It annoyed them all. They came and took all the boxes away again--jealousy, I suppose. So at
the end of February I was back in my old trenches again and visitors were still saying, "Oh,
do you mind if I ring up So-and-so?" and I was listening to myself answering, "Oh, do. No,
of course don't bother about the twopence" (visitors always want calls just outside the radius;
I do myself).

The crisis came in March. It was then that I joined the criminal classes. For many days I had
haunted the telephone dump, taking a melancholy pleasure in watching real engineers come out
with real coin-boxes for other people. No Peri at the golden gate ever looked more wistful.
I know now that it is opportunity that makes the criminal, and one day the opportunity came.
It came in the form of a young and evidently new hand, who emerged from the dump and pitched
upon me--me of all people--to ask, "Can you tell me where this place is?" As he spoke he began
to get out a slip with the address, and in that moment my fate was sealed. One glance showed
me that he was the bearer of a perfectly good coin-box, and in a second I had seized the opportunity.

What he said I have not the slightest idea and it wouldn't have mattered what the address had
been; before he started I had assured him that by a curious coincidence I was going to that
very place, and that by a still more curious coincidence I was the very man who wanted that
coin-box. Curious, wasn't it, how such coincidences happened in real life as well as in books?

