THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

VOL. X, NO. 279.] SATURDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1827. [PRICE 2d.

       *       *       *       *       *

BRAMBLETYE HOUSE.

On the borders of Ashdown Forest, in the county of Sussex, stands the above picturesque ruin
of Brambletye House, whose lettered fame may be dated from the publication of Mr. Smith's novel
of that name, in January, 1826. The ruin has since attracted scores of tourists, as we were,
on our recent visit, informed by the occupier of the adjoining farm-house; which circumstance
coupled with the high literary success of Mr. Smith's novel, has induced us to select Brambletye
House for the illustration of our present number.

Brambletye, or, as it is termed in Doomsday Book, Brambertie House, after the conquest, became
the property of the Earl of Mortain and Cornwall, forming part of the barony then conferred
upon him, and subsequently denominated the honour of the eagle. Passing into possession of
the Andehams, Saint Clares, and several others, it came into the occupation of the Comptons,
towards the beginning of the seventeenth century; and from the arms of that family impaling
those of Spencer, still remaining over the principal entrance, with the date 1631 in a lozenge,
it is conjectured that the old moated edifice (represented in the annexed vignette) which had
hitherto been the residence of the proprietors, was abandoned in the reign of James I., by
Sir Henry Compton, who built the extensive and solid baronial mansion, commonly known by the
name of Brambletye House.

"From their undaunted courage and inflexible loyalty to the Stuarts," says the novelist, "the
Comptons had been heavy sufferers, both in purse and person, during the eventful progress of
the civil wars. The Earl of Northampton, the head of the family, and nephew to Sir Henry, the
presumed builder of Brambletye, had four sons, officers under him, whereof three charged in
the field at the battle of Hopton Heath, and the eldest, Lord Compton, was wounded. The Earl
himself, refusing to take quarter from the rascally Roundheads, as he indignantly termed them,
even when their swords were at his throat, was put to death in the same battle; and the successor
to his title, with one of his brothers, finally accompanied the royal family in their exile.
Sir John Compton, a branch of this family, having preserved much of his property from the committee
of sequestration, displayed rather more splendour than fell to the lot of most of the cavaliers
who took an equally conspicuous part against the parliament armies. Although never capable
of any regular defence, yet the place being hastily fortified, refused the summons of the parliamentarian
colonel, Okey, by whom it Was invested; but it was speedily taken, when sad havoc was committed
by the soldiery, all the armorial bearings, and every symbol of rank and gentility, being wantonly
mutilated or destroyed."

In the time of the commonwealth, Brambletye was the focus of many a cavalier conspiracy. "From
its not being a place of any strength or notice, it was imagined that Brambletye might better
escape the keen and jealous watchfulness, which kept the protector's eye ever fixed upon the
strong holds and defensible mansions of the nobility and gentry; while its proximity to the
metropolis, combined with the seclusion of its situation, adapted it to any enterprize which
required at the same time secrecy, and an easy communication with the metropolis."

In the novel just quoted, which is altogether a pleasant assemblage of historical facts, aided
by the imaginative garniture of the author, the denouement is brought about by the explosion
of a gunpowder vault which destroyed part of the mansion; and on the marriage of his hero and
heroine Brambletye House was abandoned to its fate; "and the time that has intervened since
its desertion," says our author, "combining with the casualty and violence by which it was
originally shattered and dismantled, has reduced it to its present condition of a desolate
and forlorn ruin."

A visit to Brambletye was the immediate object of our journey, and though a distance of thirty-three
miles, we considered ourselves amply requited by the pensive interest of the scene and its
crowded associations. In our childhood we had been accustomed to clamber its ruins and tottering
staircases with delight, not to say triumph; heedless as we then were of the historical interest
attached to them. After a lapse of a score and ---- years, the whole scene had become doubly
attractive. A new road had been formed from East Grinstead to Forest Row, from which a pleasant
lane wound off to Brambletye. We are at a loss to describe our emotions as we approached the
ruin. It was altogether a little struggle of human suffering. Within two hundred years the
mansion had been erected, and by turns became the seat of baronial splendour and of civil feuds,--of
the best and basest feelings of mankind;--the loyalty and hospitality of cavaliers; the fanatic
outrages of Roundheads; and ultimately of wanton desolation! The gate through which Colonel
Lilburne and his men entered, was blocked up with a hurdle; and the yard where his forces were
marshalled was covered with high flourishing grass; the towers had almost become mere shells,
but the vaulted passages, once stored with luxuries and weapons, still retained much of their
original freshness. What a contrast did these few wrecks of turbulent times present with the
peaceful scene by which they were surrounded, viz. a farm and two water-mills--on one side
displaying the stormy conflict of man's passion and petty desolation--and on the other, the
humble attributes of cheerful industry. We strove to repress our feelings as we entered the
principal porch, where by an assemblage of names of visiters scribbled on the walls, and not
unknown to us, we learnt that, we were not the first to sympathize with the fate of Brambletye!

Within these few years, through a sort of barbarous disregard for their associations, the lodge
and the greater part of the wall represented in our engraving, has been pulled down! and the
moated house has lately shared the same fate--for the sake of their materials--cupidity in
which we rejoiced to hear the destroyers were disappointed--their intrinsic worth not being
equal to the labour of removing them: the work of destruction would, however, have extended
to the whole of the ruins had not some guardian hand interfered. It will be seen that the moated
house was furnished with a ponderous drawbridge and other fortifying resources; from the licentious
character of its founders it was consequently haunted many years before its removal.

In East Grinstead we learned that the Comptons were a noble family, and traditions of their
hospitality are current amongst the oldest inhabitants of that town.[1]

    [1] For the loan of the drawing (made in 1780), whence the first
        engraving is copied, we are indebted to the kindness of a
        gentleman of East Grinstead; and for the sketch of the latter
        to an affectionate relative.

       *       *       *       *       *

BATTLE HYMN.

Imitated from the German of Theodore Korner.[2]

(For the Mirror.)

     Father, in mercy hear
     A youthful warrior's prayer.
  Thundering cannons are roaring around me:
  Carnage and death, and destruction surround me;
     God of eternal power.
     Guide me in this dread hour!
     Guide me in this dread hour
     God of eternal power!
  Lead me, base Tyranny manfully braving,
  Onwards to where Freedom's banner is waving--
     To death--or victory;
     I bow to thy decree!
     I bow to thy decree,
     In death or victory!
  'Mid the loud din of the battle's commotion,
  When Nature smiles, or when storms rend the ocean,
     Lord of the brave and just
     In thee I'll put my trust!
     In thee I'll put my trust,
     Lord of the brave and just!
  On thee, the fountain of goodness relying,
  Whatever ills may come--living and dying
     I will thy praise proclaim,
     Blest be thy holy name.
     Blest be thy holy name,
     I will thy praise proclaim,
  'Tis not for worldly ends we're contending,
  Liberty's sacred cause we're defending,
     And by thy might on high,
     We'll conquer--or we'll die!
     We'll conquer--or we'll die
     By the great God on High.
  When life's red stream from my bosom is swelling,
  And the last sigh on my faint lip is dwelling,
     Then Lord in mercy hear
     A youthful warrior's prayer!

J.E.S.

    [2] See "Select Biography," page 199, present Volume of the MIRROR.

       *       *       *       *       *

ENGLAND IN 827, 1827, 2827.

(For the Mirror.)

One thousand years have now elapsed since Egbert laid the foundation of England's glory, by
uniting the kingdoms of the heptarchy. What was England then? what is it now? what will it
be in 2827?

In 827, how confined her empire, how narrow her limits, how few her resources; the lord and
his vassals the only classes of society. In 1827, she may exclaim with the Spanish Philip,
"The sun never sets upon my dominions." How difficult to mention the bounds of her empire,
or to calculate the vastness of her resources! and still more difficult task to enumerate the
gradations of society which modern refinement has produced. Where will this extended sway,
this power, these resources, and these refinements be in 2827?

  "Oh! for the glance of prophet's eye,
  To scan thy depths, futurity."

Judging by the fate of nations, they will have passed away like a morning cloud. Look at the
fame of Nineveh levelled in the dust. Search for the site of Babylon, with its walls and gates,
its hanging gardens and terraces! Contemplate the ghost of the enlightened Athens, stalking
through the ruins of her Parthenon, her Athenaeum, or Acropolis. Examine the shadow of power
which now remains to the mighty Rome, the empress of the world. Even so will it be with England;
ere ten centuries have rolled away, her sun-like splendour will illume a western world. Our
stately palaces and venerable cathedrals, our public edifices and manufactories, our paintings
and sculpture, will be fruitful subjects of conjecture and controversy to the then learned.
And a fragment of a pillar from St. Paul's, or a mutilated statue from Westminster, will be
as valuable to them as a column from the Temple of Belus, or a broken cornice from the Temple
of Theseus, is now to us!

D.A.H.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ROBIN.

(For the Mirror.)

  Hark to the robin--whistling clear--
  The requiem of the dying year--
    Amidst the garden bower.
  He quits his native forest shade,
  Ere ruin stern hath there display'd
    Its desolating power.

  He sings--but not the song of love--
  No,--that is for the quick'ning grove--
    The brightly budding tree.
  And tho' we listen and rejoice;
  In melody that sweet-ton'd voice
    Implores our charity.

  The birds of passage take their flight
  To other lands--of warmth and light--
    Where orient breezes blow.
  While here the little red-breast stays,
  And sweetly warbles out his lays,
    Amidst the chilling snow.

  When the keen North congeals the stream
  That sparkled in the summer-beam--
    Chink--chink--the Robin comes.
  His near approach proclaims a dearth
  Of food upon the ice-bound earth;--
    He whistles for our crumbs.

  But, like the child of want, he hails
  Too oft where avarice prevails--
    Devoid of charity;--
  Where hearts 'neath rich-clad bosoms glow,
  Yet never feel the inspiring throe
    Of tender sympathy.

  Tho' pleas'd with wildly-warbled song,
  The minstrel's life will they prolong
    With food and shelter warm?
  No,--see, to shun the cruel snare,
  Again he wings the frozen air,
    And dies amidst the storm.

  How sweeter far it were to see
  The bird familiar, fond, and free,
    With confidence intrude;--
  To see him to the table come,
  And hear him sing o'er ev'ry crumb
    A song of gratitude.

C. COLE.

       *       *       *       *       *

BUYING AND SELLING THE DEVIL.

(For the Mirror.[3])

"Every thing may be had for money," is an old remark, and perhaps no less true.

There have been also proverbial sayings of buying and selling the devil; but that such a traffic
was actually ever negociated will appear incredible. Blount's "Law Dictionary," under Conventio,
gives an instance of a sale; it is extracted from the court rolls of the manor of Hatfield,
near the isle of Axholme, county of York, where a curious gentleman searched for it and found
it regularly entered. There then followeth an English translation for the benefit of those
who do not understand the original language.

"Curia tenta apud Hatfield die Mercurii Prov post Festum. Anno II Edw. III."

The above is an exact translation of the original Latin; and if this is inserted in your entertaining
work, I will make inquiries respecting the proceedings.

W.H.H.

    [3] Notwithstanding our correspondent's equivocal title to this
        article, we beg to assure our readers, who may suspect us of
        diablerie, that we are not a party to the purchase or sale.
        Could an ejectment in this case be effected by common law?

       *       *       *       *       *

PREVENTION OF EFFLUVIUM.

(To the Editor of the Mirror.)

Sir,--The choruret of lime is recommended for preventing bad smells from water-closets, &c.
Can any of your correspondents oblige me and the public by communicating the least expensive
method of preparing it ready for use, and also to state the proper quantity to be used?

C.C.C.C.

       *       *       *       *       *

NANCY LEWIS,

(A CASTLE BAYNARD LYRIC.)

(For the Mirror.)

  My peace is fled--I cannot rest,--
    The tale I tell most true is;
  My heart's been stolen from my breast,
    By lovely Nancy Lewis.

  Fair is the blossom of the thorn,
    And bright the morning dew is;
  But sweeter than the dewy morn
    The smiles of Nancy Lewis.

  The eye that's sparkling black I love,
    Ay, more than that which blue is;
  And thine are like two stars above,
    And sloe black--Nancy Lewis.

  Alas! alas! their power I feel;
    My bosom pierced right through is:
  In pity, then, my bosom heal,
    My charming Nancy Lewis.

  Oh! bless me with thy heaven of charms,
    And take a heart that true is,
  While circling life my bosom warms
    In thine dear Nancy Lewis.

F. G----N.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NOVELIST

No. CXII.

       *       *       *       *       *

A MOUNTAIN STORY.

In one of the most picturesque parts of the western Highlands of Scotland stands an inn, which
is much frequented by travellers. This inn itself adds considerably to the beauty of the landscape.
It was formerly a manor-house; and the sedate grandeur of its appearance is in such good keeping
with the scenes in its neighbourhood, and so little in accordance with its present appropriation,
that travellers more commonly stop at the gate to inquire the way to the inn, than drive up
at once through the green field which is spread before its windows, and its fine flight of
stone steps. Very few dwellings are to be seen from it; and those few are mere cottages, chiefly
inhabited by the fishermen of the loch. One of these cottages is my dwelling. It stands so
near to the inn, that I can observe all that goes forward there; but it is so over-shadowed
and hidden by trees, that I doubt not the greater proportion of the visiters to the inn are
quite unaware that such a cottage is in existence; and of the thousand sketches which artists
and amateurs have carried away with them, perhaps not one bears any trace of the lowly chimneys,
or the humble porch of my dwelling.

On one fine evening in the month of August, seven years ago, I was depositing my watering-pot
in the tool-house, when I observed a gig drive up to the inn; it contained a young lady and
a gentleman. According to my usual habit of conjecture, I settled in my own mind that they
were husband and wife: bride and bridegroom they could not be, as they were in deep mourning.
They seated themselves by an open window till it grew dark, and I saw no more of them that
night. In my early watch the next morning, I passed them twice, and changed my opinion respecting
them. They were evidently brother and sister: there was a strong resemblance between them,
and a slight difference in years--the young man appearing to be about eighteen, his sister
one or two and twenty. She was not handsome; but the expression of melancholy on her countenance,
and an undefinable air of superiority about her, engaged my attention. The brother was handsome--very
handsome. His features were fine, but their expression was finer still. He had taken off his
hat, and I had a full view of him. What an intellect did that forehead bespeak! what soul was
in those eyes! "Why," thought I, "does she look so melancholy, while leaning on the arm of
such a brother?" But a glance at her dress let me into the cause of her sorrow. A father or
a mother, or perhaps such another brother, has been taken from her. Whatever the cause of their
common grief might be, it seemed only to knit them more closely together; for never did I see
a brother and sister so attached. They were inseparable: and during the many days which they
spent at the inn, the interest of their conversations never seemed to flag. They were always
talking; and always, apparently, with animation and sympathy.

On the fourth day after their arrival, I was sitting at work, at a window which commands a
view of the head of the loch, and of the mountains on the opposite side. It was then between
four and five in the afternoon; the sun was bright, and the weather as fine as possible. The
tide was out, and, as usual, many groups of children were busied in collecting shells and sea-weed.
Among them were my two friends (for so I must call them.) They seemed in gayer spirits than
I had yet seen them; they picked up a basket-full of shells; they set up a mark by which to
watch the receding waters; they entered into conversation with a boatman, and strolled on till
they came to the little bridge which spans a rivulet at the head of the loch. I saw them lean
over the parapet, to watch the gurgling brook beneath. Then they turned, to survey the high
mountains above them; and after awhile, they directed their steps to the base of one of them.
I saw them gradually mount the green slope, turning every now and then to gaze at the scene
below, until I could but indistinctly discern their figures, amidst the shadows which were
beginning to spread over the valley and the lower parts of the mountain. I knew that the mountain
which they were ascending was not often tried either by natives or by strangers, for it was
boggy and pathless; though tempting to the eye by its verdure, and by a fine pile of rocks,
which stood like a crown on the brow of the first grand ascent.

The richest glow of the evening sun was upon the mountain's brow; light crimson clouds were
floating, as it seemed to me, just over the head of the youth, as he mounted higher and higher--springing
from one point to another. I saw his slight form on the very ridge, though lessened almost
to a point by the distance, yet conspicuous by its motion, and by the relief of the glowing
sky behind. He disappeared. I looked for his sister: she was still sitting on her sunny seat,
while all below was wrapped in a deep grey shadow. I laid down my glass, and resumed my work
for awhile. I looked again; she was still there, and alone--but the sun-light was gone! I thought
she looked forlorn; and I wished her brother would return to her. Again the sun burst forth
on the mountain-top--it had only been obscured by a cloud. I saw the lady start from her seat,
and turn round. An eagle had sprung from among the rocks: she was watching its flight--it ascended
into the blue sky, and was lost to sight. She sauntered a few steps on one side of her seat,
then on the other, and looked around her. "I wish her brother would return to her," thought
I again. She shaded her eyes with her hand, and looked up: but vainly! The shadows had crept
apace up the mountain side: her seat was no longer sunny, but she sat down again.

I had by this time become, I knew not why, rather nervous: my hand shook so, that I could not
fix the glass. I laid it down, and went to take a turn in my garden. I came back presently
to the window, and once more turned my glass in the direction of the mountain. The seat was
vacant. "They are coming down together, I hope," thought I. "It is high time they should; it
is becoming dark and chilly!" But I could not trace them. At length I saw something white fluttering
in the breeze. It was so small that I should not have discerned it, if my very power of sight
had not been sharpened by the anxiety I began to feel for these young people. By intently gazing--by
straining my sight to the uttermost, I made out that the young lady was standing on a point
of rock, lower down, and more conspicuous than that on which she had been seated. She had tied
her handkerchief to her parasol, and was waving it, no doubt, as a signal to her brother. My
heart turned sick, and I could see no more. I looked at my watch, and found that it was nearly
three hours since they had begun their ascent. The next consideration was, what I ought to
do. If I had been certain that the brother had lost his way, it was, no doubt, my duty to send
persons from the inn, to find him. But how did I know that any peril existed, excepting in
my own imagination? He might have ascended before, and be perfectly acquainted with the descent;
he might be gone in search of some particular view, and have prepared his sister for the length
of his absence, as she was too much fatigued to accompany him. In this case, any interference
of mine would be impertinent. What should I do? I leaned out of my window, as if in the hope
of seeing some object, which should help me to a decision. Such an object was just before me,
in the person of an old fisherman, a next-door neighbour, and very honest friend of mine. "Come
hither, John," said I; and I stated the case to him. He thought we need not fear any danger.
The mountain was not very high; he knew of no dangerous places on it; and was of opinion that
there would be light enough to guide their steps half an hour longer. He advised me to leave
them alone, for that time at least. I determined to do so, and sat down to my tea-table, on
which I had not yet bestowed a thought. I drew it close to the window, and looked as earnestly
as ever; but it was now too dark to see anything but the indistinct outlines of the mountains,
and the loch gleaming in the twilight. The half-hour passed, and I had not seen them return;
they might have returned without my having seen them; but I could not bear uncertainty any
longer. I sent my servant to the inn, to inquire if they had arrived, and whether they had
ordered tea, or given any expectation as to the time of their retain.

She brought word, that though tea had been ready for an hour past, the lady and gentleman had
not returned; and that the landlady would be glad to know whether I could give her any intelligence
of them.

"Let me pass!" said I, hastily opening the gate.

"Your bonnet, ma'am! shall I fetch your bonnet?" said my maid.

At that moment some one rushed past me. It was the young lady--running, or attempting to run,
but with faltering and unequal steps. I followed her. At the first of the flight of steps before
the inn, she stumbled and fell. She was trembling and sobbing violently; whether from breathlessness
or agony, I could not tell. I raised her, and assisted her to mount the steps. "My brother!
my brother!" she exclaimed incessantly. I could get no words but these from her. No time was
to be lost. I sat down beside her, and took both her hands; and speaking as calmly as I could,
said, "Compose yourself, and tell us what we must do. Have you missed your brother, or has
any accident befallen him before your eyes?"

"He is on the mountain there! He left me, and did not come back. He said he should not be gone
twenty minutes."

"Now I know all," replied I. "I will take some people from the inn with lights, and we will
find him. You must stay and compose yourself, and be patient; he has only missed his way."

She insisted upon going too; and declared that this was necessary, in order to point out the
track which her brother had taken. I explained to her how I had watched their progress, and
was therefore able to direct their search. But she was resolute in her determination to go;
and finding her to be so, I gave up my intention of accompanying the party, believing that
I should only retard their progress.

I arranged with the landlady, that in case of any fatal accident having happened, the young
lady should be brought to my house, where she would be in greater quiet and retirement than
amid the bustle of an inn.

Hour after hour did we wait, listening to every sound, trembling at every breath; and so shaken
and weakened by intolerable suspense, that we were ill-fitted to think and to act as occasion
might require. It was a dark, cloudy, and windy night. We often looked out, but could see nothing,
scarcely even the outline of the mountain. We listened, and our hearts beat thick, when there
was no sound but the rising gust! I dwell on these circumstances too long, because I recoil
from relating the catastrophe, as if it were but recent--as if my thoughts had not been familiarized
with it for years.

It was as we feared; he was found lying at the bottom of a rock, no more than ten feet high--but
lifeless. His neck had been dislocated by the fall. There were no external bruises--no signs
of any struggle--nothing painful in his appearance. I cannot relate every circumstance of that
dreadful night. I thought she was gone too; she was brought in, insensible, and remained so
for hours. She was taken immediately to my house, and put to bed. The body of her brother was
also carried there, for I knew she would not be separated from it. I sat beside her, watching
her faint breathing, anxious for some sign of returning consciousness, but dreading the agony
which must attend it. If she had died, I could hardly have grieved for her; but there might
be parents, brothers, and sisters! Oh, that I knew, that I could bring them to her! Alone,
among strangers! how was she to bear her solitary grief?--how was she to sustain the struggle
which awaited her in the first hour of her awakening? I could not banish the remembrance of
them as I had seen them in the afternoon; happy in each other, and thinking not of separation;
then, as he was when I last saw him, full of life and acuity, and apparently unboundedly happy,
in the contemplation of scenes which a soul like his was fitted to enjoy.

