The practice of artists signing their works with their name appears to be as old as art itself.
The odium excited against Phidias for his alleged impiety in inscribing his name upon the shield
of his celebrated statue of Minerva, is a familiar example, which will occur to every reader;
and there can be no doubt that the usage was also known to the painters of the classic times.
But if we may judge from the Grecian and Roman remains, whether of sculpture, of fresco, of
cameo, or of mosaic, which have come down to our times, the precaution of affixing the name
was by no means universally, or even commonly adopted; and the monogram, properly so called,
appears to have been entirely unknown among them.

It was so also at the first revival of art in the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries. The practice
of using a single letter, or a single combination of letters or arbitrary characters, seems
to have originated with the mediæval architects and other artists in stone. Neither the painters,
nor the engravers, nor the metal-founders, nor the medalists of those ages, availed themselves
of this device, nor do we find it at all general among such artists, till the very close of
the fifteenth and the beginning of the sixteenth century. But, once introduced, it became universal.
Every artist of the sixteenth, and of the greater part of the seventeenth century, has his
monogram, more or less simple according to the taste or caprice of the designer; and to such
a length was the practice carried, that the very excess produced a reaction, and led, for a
time, to the abandonment of monograms altogether. With the painters of the eighteenth century,
they fell into complete disfavour; and although, in the present century, the revival of ancient
forms has led to their re-adoption in the German school, and among the cultivators of Christian
art generally, yet many of the first painters of the present day seem to eschew the use of
monograms, as savouring of transcendentalism, or of some other of the various affectations,
by which modern art is accused of having been disfigured.

Independently altogether of its bearing upon art, the study of monograms has a certain amount
of interest. There is a class of adventurers at the present day who make a livelihood from
the curiosity or credulity of the public, by professing to decipher the peculiarities of an
individual's character, and to read his probable destiny, in any specimen of his handwriting
which may be submitted for their inspection. Without carrying the theory to these absurd lengths,
it is impossible not to feel some interest about the autograph of any celebrated individual,
and some tendency to compare its leading characteristics with our preconceived notions regarding
him. A still wider field for speculation than that which grows out of the handwriting, is afforded
by a device like the monogram, which, being in a great measure arbitrary, may naturally be
expected to exhibit more decidedly the workings of the judgment, the fancy, or perhaps the
caprice, of the artist.

The monogram, as we have seen, is a substitute for the full-length signature of the artist--the
mode of marking their works originally adopted by the ancients. It is found in an almost infinite
number of varieties.

The earliest, as well as the most natural and easy substitute, was a simple contraction of
the name--as, 'augs ca.,' for Augustinus Caraccius; or JVL. ROM., for Julius Romanus. This
contraction, however, cannot properly be called a monogram at all; and the same is to be said
of the form of signature adopted by many of the most eminent painters--the simple, unconnected
initials of the name. The idea of a monogram supposes that the characters, whatever may be
their number considered separately, shall be all connected so as to form one single device.

