Around the foot of Vesuvius lie fair villages and villas garlanded with
roses and flushing with grapes whose juice gains warmth from the breathing
of its subterraneous fires, while just above them rises a region more
awful than can be created by the action of any common causes of sterility.
 There, immense tracts sloping gradually upward show a desolation so
peculiar, so utterly unlike every common solitude of Nature, that one
enters upon it with the shudder we give at that which is wholly unnatural.
On all sides are gigantic serpent convolutions of black lava, their
immense folds rolled into every conceivable contortion, as if, in their
fiery agonies, they had struggled and wreathed and knotted together, and
then grown cold and black with the imperishable signs of those terrific
convulsions upon them.  Not a blade of grass, not a flower, not even the
hardiest lichen, springs up to relieve the utter deathliness of the scene.
 The eye wanders from one black, shapeless mass to another, and there is
ever the same suggestion of hideous monster life,--of goblin convulsions
and strange fiend-like agonies in some age gone by. One's very footsteps
have an unnatural, metallic clink, and one's garments brushing over the
rough surface are torn and fretted by its sharp, remorseless touch,--as if
its very nature were so pitiless and acrid that the slightest contact
revealed it.

The sun was just setting over the beautiful Bay of Naples,--with its enchanted islands, its
jewelled city, its flowery villages, all bedecked and bedropped with strange shiftings and
flushes of prismatic light and shade, as if they belonged to some fairy-land of perpetual festivity
and singing,--when Father Francesco stopped in his toilsome ascent up the mountain, and, seating
himself on ropy ridges of black lava, looked down on the peaceful landscape.

Above his head, behind him, rose the black cone of the mountain, over whose top the lazy clouds
of thin white smoke were floating, tinged with the evening light; around him the desolate convulsed
waste,--so arid, so supernaturally dreary; and below, like a soft enchanted dream, the beautiful
bay, the gleaming white villas and towers, the picturesque islands, the gliding sails, flecked
and streaked and dyed with the violet and pink and purple of the evening sky. The thin new
moon and one glittering star trembled through the rosy air.

The monk wiped from his brow the sweat that had been caused by the toil of his hurried journey,
and listened to the bells of the Ave Maria pealing from the different churches of Naples, filling
the atmosphere with a soft tremble of solemn dropping sound, as if spirits in the air took
up and repeated over and over the angelic salutation which a thousand earthly lips were just
then uttering. Mechanically he joined in the invocation which at that moment united the hearts
of all Christians, and as the words passed his lips, he thought, with a sad, desolate longing,
of the hour of death of which they spake.

"It must come at last," he said. "Life is but a moment. Why am I so cowardly? why so unwilling
to suffer and to struggle? Am I a warrior of the Lord, and do I shrink from the toils of the
camp, and long for the ease of the court before I have earned it? Why do we clamor for happiness?
Why should we sinners be happy? And yet, O God, why is the world made so lovely as it lies
there, why so rejoicing, and so girt with splendor and beauty, if we are never to enjoy it?
If penance and toil were all we were sent here for, why not make a world grim and desolate
as this around me?--then there would be nothing to seduce us. But our path is a constant fight;
Nature is made only to be resisted; we must walk the sharp blade of the sword over the fiery
chasm to Paradise. Come, then!--no shrinking!--let me turn my back on everything dear and beautiful,
as now on this landscape!"

He rose and commenced the perpendicular ascent of the cone, stumbling and climbing over the
huge sliding blocks of broken lava, which grated and crunched beneath his feet with a harsh
metallic ring. Sometimes a broken fragment or two would go tinkling down the rough path behind
him, and sometimes it seemed as if the whole loose black mass from above were about to slide,
like an avalanche, down upon his head;--he almost hoped it would. Sometimes he would stop,
overcome by the toil of the ascent, and seat himself for a moment on a black fragment, and
then his eye would wander over the wide and peaceful panorama below. He seemed to himself like
a fly perched upon some little roughness of a perpendicular wall, and felt a strange airy sense
of pleasure in being thus between earth and heaven. A sense of relief, of beauty, and peacefulness
would steal over him, as if he were indeed something disfranchised and disembodied, a part
of the harmonious and beautiful world that lay stretched out beneath him; in a moment more
he would waken himself with a start, and resume his toilsome journey with a sullen and dogged
perseverance.

At last he gained the top of the mountain,--that weird, strange region where the loose, hot
soil, crumbling beneath his feet, was no honest foodful mother earth, but an acrid mass of
ashes and corrosive minerals. Arsenic, sulphur, and many a sharp and bitter salt were in all
he touched, every rift in the ground hissed with stifling steam, while rolling clouds of dun
sullen smoke, and a deep hollow booming, like the roar of an immense furnace, told his nearness
to the great crater. He penetrated the sombre tabernacle, and stood on the very brink of a
huge basin, formed by a wall of rocks around a sunken plain, the midst of which rose the black
cone of the subterraneous furnace, which crackled and roared and from time to time spit up
burning stones and cinders or oozed out slow ropy streams of liquid fire.

The sulphurous cliffs were dyed in many a brilliant shade of brown and orange by the admixture
of various ores, but their brightness seemed strange and unnatural, and the dizzying whirls
of vapor, now enveloping the whole scene in gloom, now lifting in this spot and now in that,
seemed to magnify the dismal pit to an indefinite size. Now and then there would come up from
the very entrails of the mountain a sort of convulsed sob of hollow sound, and the earth would
quiver beneath his feet, and fragments from the surrounding rocks would scale off and fall
with crashing reverberations into the depth beneath; at such moments it would seem as if the
very mountain were about to crush in and bear him down in its ruins.

Father Francesco, though blinded by the smoke and choked by the vapor, could not be content
without descending into the abyss and exploring the very penetralia of its mysteries. Steadying
his way by means of a cord which he fastened to a firm projecting rock, he began slowly and
painfully clambering downward. The wind was sweeping across the chasm from behind, bearing
the noxious vapors away from him, or he must inevitably have been stifled. It took him some
little time, however, to effect his descent; but at length he found himself fairly landed on
the dark floor of the gloomy inclosure.

The ropy, pitch-black undulations of lava yawned here and there in red-hot cracks and seams,
making it appear to be only a crust over some fathomless depth of molten fire, whose moanings
and boilings could be heard below. These dark congealed billows creaked and bent as the monk
stepped upon them, and burned his feet through his coarse sandals; yet he stumbled on. Now
and then his foot would crush in, where the lava had hardened in a thinner crust, and he would
draw it suddenly back from the lurid red-hot metal beneath. The staff on which he rested was
constantly kindling into a light blaze as it slipped into some heated hollow, and he was fain
to beat out the fire upon the cooler surface. Still he went on half-stifled by the hot and
pungent vapor, but drawn by that painful, unnatural curiosity which possesses one in a nightmare
dream. The great cone in the centre was the point to which he wished to attain,--the nearest
point which man can gain to this eternal mystery of fire. It was trembling with a perpetual
vibration, a hollow, pulsating undertone of sound like the surging of the sea before a storm,
and the lava that boiled over its sides rolled slowly down with a strange creaking; it seemed
the condensed, intensified essence and expression of eternal fire, rising and still rising
from some inexhaustible fountain of burning.

Father Francesco drew as near as he could for the stifling heat and vapor, and, resting on
his staff, stood gazing intently. The lurid light of the fire fell with an unearthly glare
on his pale, sunken features, his wild, haggard eyes, and his torn and disarranged garments.
In the awful solitude and silence of the night he felt his heart stand still, as if indeed
he had touched with his very hand the gates of eternal woe, and felt its fiery breath upon
his cheek. He half-imagined that the seams and clefts which glowed in lurid lines between the
dark billows would gape yet wider and show the blasting secrets of some world of fiery despair
below. He fancied that he heard behind and around the mocking laugh of fiends, and that confused
clamor of mingled shrieks and lamentations which Dante describes as filling the dusky approaches
to that forlorn realm where hope never enters.

"Ah, God," he exclaimed, "for this vain life of man! They eat, they drink, they dance, they
sing, they marry and are given in marriage, they have castles and gardens and villas, and the
very beauty of Paradise seems over it all,--and yet how close by burns and roars the eternal
fire! Fools that we are, to clamor for indulgence and happiness in this life, when the question
is, to escape everlasting burnings! If I tremble at this outer court of God's wrath and justice,
what must be the fires of hell? These are but earthly fires; they can but burn the body: those
are made to burn the soul; they are undying as the soul is. What would it be to be dragged
down, down, down, into an abyss of soul-fire hotter than this for ages on ages? This might
bring merciful death in time: that will have no end."

The monk fell on his knees and breathed out piercing supplications. Every nerve and fibre within
him seemed tense with his agony of prayer. It was not the outcry for purity and peace, not
a tender longing for forgiveness, not a filial remorse for sin, but the nervous anguish of
him who shrieks in the immediate apprehension of an unendurable torture. It was the cry of
a man upon the rack, the despairing scream of him who feels himself sinking in a burning dwelling.
Such anguish has found an utterance in Stradella's celebrated "Pietà, Signore," which still
tells to our ears, in its wild moans and piteous shrieks, the religious conceptions of his
day; for there is no phase of the Italian mind that has not found expression in its music.

When the oppression of the heat and sulphurous vapor became too dreadful to be borne, the monk
retraced his way and climbed with difficulty up the steep sides of the crater, till he gained
the summit above, where a comparatively free air revived him. All night he wandered up and
down in that dreary vicinity, now listening to the mournful roar and crackle of the fire, and
now raising his voice in penitential psalms or the notes of that terrific "Dies Iræ" which
sums up all the intense fear and horror with which the religion of the Middle Ages clothed
the idea of the final catastrophe of humanity. Sometimes prostrating himself with his face
towards the stifling soil, he prayed with agonized intensity till Nature would sink in a temporary
collapse, and sleep, in spite of himself, would steal over him.

So waned the gloomy hours of the night away, till the morning broke in the east, turning all
the blue wavering floor of the sea to crimson brightness, and bringing up, with the rising
breeze, the barking of dogs, the lowing of kine, the songs of laborers and boatmen, all fresh
and breezy from the repose of the past night.

Father Francesco heard the sound of approaching footsteps climbing the lava path, and started
with a nervous trepidation. Soon he recognized a poor peasant of the vicinity, whose child
he had tended during a dangerous illness. He bore with him a little basket of eggs, with a
melon and a fresh green salad.

"Good morning, holy father," he said, bowing humbly. "I saw you coming this way last night,
and I could hardly sleep for thinking of you; and my good woman, Teresina, would have it that
I should come out to look after you. I have taken the liberty to bring a little offering;--it
was the best we had."

"Thank you, my son," said the monk, looking wistfully at the fresh, honest face of the peasant.
"You have taken too much trouble for such a sinner. I must not allow myself such indulgences."

"But your Reverence must live. Look you," said the peasant, "at least your Reverence will take
an egg. See here, how handily I can cook one," he added, striking his stick into a little cavity
of a rock, from which, as from an escape-valve, hissed a jet of hot steam,--"see here, I nestle
the egg in this little cleft, and it will be done in a twinkling. Our good God gives us our
fire for nothing here."

There was something wholesomely kindly and cheerful in the action and expression of the man,
which broke upon the overstrained and disturbed musings of the monk like daylight on a ghastly
dream. The honest, loving heart sees love in everything; even the fire is its fatherly helper,
and not its avenging enemy.

Father Francesco took the egg, when it was done, with a silent gesture of thanks.

"If I might make bold to say," said the peasant, encouraged, "your Reverence should have some
care for yourself. If a man will not feed himself, the good God will not feed him; and we poor
people have too few friends already to let such as you die. Your hands are trembling, and you
look worn out. Surely you should take something more, for the very love of the poor."

"My son, I am bound to do a heavy penance, and to work out a great conflict. I thank you for
your undeserved kindness. Leave me now to myself, and come no more to disturb my prayers. Go,
and God bless you!"

"Well," said the peasant, putting down the basket and melon, "I shall leave these things here,
any way, and I beg your Reverence to have a care of yourself. Teresina fretted all night for
fear something might come to you. The bambino that you cured is grown a stout little fellow,
and eats enough for two,--and it is all of you; so she cannot forget it. She is a busy little
woman, is Teresina; and when she gets a thought in her head, it buzzes, buzzes, like a fly
in a bottle, and she will have it your Reverence is killing yourself by inches, and says she,
'What will all the poor do when he is gone?' So your Reverence must pardon us. We mean it all
for the best."

So saying, the man turned and began sliding and slipping down the steep ashy sides of the mountain
cone with a dexterity which carried him to the bottom in a few moments; and on he went, sending
back after him a cheerful little air, the refrain of which is still to be heard in our days
in that neighborhood. A word or two of the gay song fluttered back on the ear of the monk,--

  "Tutta gieja, tutta festa."

So gay and airy it was in its ringing cadence that it seemed a musical laugh springing from
sunny skies, and came fluttering into the dismal smoke and gloom of the mountain-top like a
very butterfly of sound. It struck on the sad, leaden ear of the monk much as we might fancy
the carol of a robin over a grave might seem, could the cold sleeper below wake one moment
to its perception. If it woke one regretful sigh and drew one wandering look downward to the
elysian paradise that lay smiling at the foot of the mountain, he instantly suppressed the
feeling, and set his face in its old deathly stillness.

CHAPTER XIX.

CLOUDS DEEPENING.

After the departure of her uncle to Florence, the life of Agnes was troubled and harassed from
a variety of causes.

First, her grandmother was sulky and moody, and though saying nothing directly on the topic
nearest her heart, yet intimating by every look and action that she considered Agnes as a most
ungrateful and contumacious child. Then there was a constant internal perplexity,--a constant
wearying course of self-interrogation and self-distrust, the pain of a sensitive spirit which
doubts at every moment whether it may not be falling into sin. The absence of her kind uncle
at this time took from her the strongest support on which she had leaned in her perplexities.
Cheerful, airy, and elastic in his temperament, always full of fresh-springing and beautiful
thoughts, as an Italian dell is of flowers, the charming old man seemed, while he stayed with
Agnes, to be the door of a new and fairer world, where she could walk in air and sunshine,
and find utterance for a thousand thoughts and feelings which at all other times lay in cold
repression in her heart. His counsels were always so wholesome, his sympathies so quick, his
devotion so fervent and cheerful, that while with him Agnes felt the burden of her life insensibly
lifted and carried for her as by some angel guide.

Now they had all come back upon her, heavier a thousand-fold than ever they had been before.
Never did she so much need counsel and guidance,--never had she so much within herself to be
solved and made plain to her own comprehension; yet she thought with a strange shiver of her
next visit to her confessor. That austere man, so chilling, so awful, so far above all conception
of human weaknesses, how should she dare to lay before him all the secrets of her breast, especially
when she must confess to having disobeyed his most stringent commands? She had had another
interview with this forbidden son of perdition, but how it was she knew not. How could such
things have happened? Instead of shutting her eyes and turning her head and saying prayers,
she had listened to a passionate declaration of love, and his last word had called her his
wife. Her heart thrilled every time she thought of it; and somehow she could not feel sure
that it was exactly a thrill of penitence. It was all like a strange dream to her; and sometimes
she looked at her little brown hands and wondered if he really had kissed them,--he, the splendid
strange vision of a man, the prince from fairyland! Agnes had never read romances, it is true,
but she had been brought up on the legends of the saints, and there never was a marvel possible
to human conception that had not been told there. Princes had come from China and Barbary and
Abyssinia and every other strange out-of-the-way place, to kneel at the feet of fair, obdurate
saints who would not even turn the head to look at them; but she had acted, she was conscious,
after a much more mortal fashion, and so made herself work for confession and penance. Yet
certainly she had not meant to do so; the interview came on her so suddenly, so unexpectedly;
and somehow he would speak, and he would not go when she asked him to; and she remembered how
he looked when he stood right before her in the doorway and told her she should hear him,--how
the color flushed up in his cheeks, what a fire there was in his great dark eyes; he looked
as if he were going to do something desperate then; it made her hold her breath even now to
think of it.

"These princes and nobles," she thought, "are so used to command, it is no wonder they make
us feel as if they must have their will. I have heard grandmother call them wolves and vultures,
that are ready to tear us poor folk to pieces; but I am sure he seems gentle. I'm sure it isn't
wicked or cruel for him to want to make me his wife; and he couldn't know, of course, why it
wasn't right he should; and it really is beautiful of him to love me so. Oh, if I were only
a princess, and he loved me that way, how glad I should be to give up everything and go to
him alone! And then we would pray together; and I really think that would be much better than
praying all alone. He said men had so much more to tempt them. Ah, that is true! How can little
moles that grub in the ground know of the dangers of eagles that fly to the very sun? Holy
Mother, look mercifully upon him and save his soul!"

Such were the thoughts of Agnes the day when she was preparing for her confession; and all
the way to church she found them floating and dissolving and reappearing in new forms in her
mind, like the silvery smoke-clouds which were constantly veering and sailing over Vesuvius.

Only one thing was firm and never changing, and that was the purpose to reveal everything to
her spiritual director. When she kneeled at the confessional with closed eyes, and began her
whispered acknowledgments, she tried to feel as if she were speaking in the ear of God alone,--that
God whose spirit she was taught to believe, for the time being, was present in His minister
before whom her inmost heart was to be unveiled.

He who sat within had just returned from his lonely retreat with his mind and nerves in a state
of unnatural tension,--a sort of ecstatic clearness and calmness, which he mistook for victory
and peace. During those lonely days when he had wandered afar from human converse, and was
surrounded only by objects of desolation and gloom, he had passed through as many phases of
strange, unnatural experience as there were flitting smoke-wreaths eddying about him.

There are depths in man's nature and his possibilities which no plummet has ever sounded,--the
wild, lonely joys of fanatical excitement, the perfectly ravenous appetite for self-torture,
which seems able, in time, to reverse the whole human system, and make a heaven of hell. How
else can we understand the facts related both in Hindoo and in Christian story, of those men
and women who have found such strange raptures in slow tortures, prolonged from year to year,
till pain became a habit of body and mind? It is said, that, after the tortures of the rack,
the reaction of the overstrained nerves produces a sense of the most exquisite relief and repose;
and so when mind and body are harrowed, harassed to the very outer verge of endurance, come
wild throbbings and transports, and strange celestial clairvoyance, which the mystic hails
as the descent of the New Jerusalem into his soul.

It had seemed to Father Francesco, when he came down from the mountain, that he had left his
body behind him,--that he had left earth and earthly things; his very feet touching the ground
seemed to tread not on rough, resisting soil, but upon elastic cloud. He saw a strange excess
of beauty in every flower, in every leaf, in the wavering blue of the sea, in the red grottoed
rocks that overhung the shore, with their purple, green, orange, and yellow hangings of flower-and-leaf-tapestry.
The songs of the fishermen on the beach, the peasant-girls cutting flowery fodder for the cattle,
all seemed to him to have an unnatural charm. As one looking through a prism sees a fine bordering
of rainbow on every object, so he beheld a glorified world. His former self seemed to him something
forever past and gone. He looked at himself as at another person, who had sinned and suffered,
and was now resting in beatified repose; and he fondly thought all this was firm reality, and
believed that he was now proof against all earthly impressions, able to hear and to judge with
the dispassionate calmness of a disembodied spirit. He did not know that this high-strung calmness,
this fine clearness, were only the most intense form of nervous sensibility, and as vividly
susceptible to every mortal impression as is the vitalized chemical plate to the least action
of the sun's rays.

When Agnes began her confession, her voice seemed to him to pass through every nerve; it seemed
as if he could feel her presence thrilling through the very wood of the confessional. He was
astonished and dismayed at his own emotion. But when she began to speak of the interview with
the cavalier, he trembled from head to foot with uncontrollable passion. Nature long repressed
came back in a tempestuous reaction. He crossed himself again and again, he tried to pray,
and blessed those protecting shadows which concealed his emotion from the unconscious one by
his side. But he set his teeth in deadly resolve, and his voice, as he questioned her, came
forth cutting and cold as ice crystals.

"Why did you listen to a word?"

"My father, it was so sudden. He wakened me from sleep. I answered him before I thought."

"You should not have been sleeping. It was a sinful indolence."

"Yes, my father."

"See now to what it led. The enemy of your soul, ever watching, seized this moment to tempt you."

"Yes, my father."

"Examine your soul well," said Father Francesco, in a tone of austere severity that made Agnes
tremble. "Did you not find a secret pleasure in his words?"

"My father, I fear I did," said she, with a trembling voice.

"I knew it! I knew it!" the priest muttered to himself, while the great drops started on his
forehead, in the intensity of the conflict he repressed. Agnes thought the solemn pause that
followed was caused by the horror that had been inspired by her own sinfulness.

"You did not, then, heartily and truly wish him to go from you?" pursued the cold, severe voice.

"Yes, my father, I did. I wished him to go with all my soul."

"Yet you say you found pleasure in his being near you," said Father Francesco, conscious how
every string of his own being, even in this awful hour, was vibrating with a sort of desperate,
miserable joy in being once more near to her.

"Ah," sighed Agnes, "that is true, my father,--woe is me! Please tell me how I could have helped
it. I was pleased before I knew it."

"And you have been thinking of what he said to you with pleasure since?" pursued the confessor,
with an intense severity of manner, deepening as he spoke.

"I have thought of it," faltered Agnes.

"Beware how you trifle with the holy sacrament! Answer frankly. You have thought of it with
pleasure. Confess it."

"I do not understand myself exactly," said Agnes. "I have thought of it partly with pleasure
and partly with pain."

"Would you like to go with him and be his wife, as he said?"

"If it were right, father,--not otherwise."

"Oh, foolish child! oh, blinded soul! to think of right in connection with an infidel and heretic!
Do you not see that all this is an artifice of Satan? He can transform himself into an angel
of light. Do you suppose this heretic would be brought back to the Church by a foolish girl?
Do you suppose it is your prayers he wants? Why does, he not seek the prayers of the Church,--of
holy men who have power with God? He would bait his hook with this pretence that he may catch
your soul. Do you believe me?"

"I am bound to believe you, my father."

"But you do not. Your heart is going after this wicked man."

"Oh, my father, I do not wish it should. I never wish or expect to see him more. I only pray
for him that his soul may not be lost."

"He has gone, then?"

"Yes, my father. And he went with my uncle, a most holy monk, who has undertaken the work of
his salvation. He listens to my uncle, who has hopes of restoring him to the Church."

"That is well. And now, my daughter, listen to me. You must root out of your thought every
trace and remembrance of these words of sinful earthly love which he hath spoken. Such love
would burn your soul to all eternity with fire that never could be quenched. If you can tear
away all roots and traces of this from your heart, if by fasting and prayer and penance you
can become worthy to be a bride of your divine Lord, then your prayers will gain power, and
you may prevail to secure his eternal salvation. But listen to me, daughter,--listen and tremble!
If ever you should yield to his love and turn back from this heavenly marriage to follow him,
you will accomplish his damnation and your own; to all eternity he will curse you, while the
fire rages and consumes him,--he will curse the hour that he first saw you."

These words were spoken with an intense vehemence which seemed almost supernatural. Agnes shivered
and trembled; a vague feeling of guilt overwhelmed and disheartened her; she seemed to herself
the most lost and abandoned of human beings.

"My father, I shall think no penance too severe that may restore my soul from this sin. I have
already made a vow to the blessed Mother that I will walk on foot to the Holy City, praying
in every shrine and holy place; and I humbly ask your approval."

This announcement brought to the mind of the monk a sense of relief and deliverance. He felt
already, in the terrible storm of agitation which this confession had aroused within him, that
nature was not dead, and that he was infinitely farther from the victory of passionless calm
than he had supposed. He was still a man,--torn with human passions, with a love which he must
never express, and a jealousy which burned and writhed at every word which he had wrung from
its unconscious object. Conscience had begun to whisper in his ear that there would be no safety
to him in continuing this spiritual dictatorship to one whose every word unmanned him,--that
it was laying himself open to a ceaseless temptation, which in some blinded, dreary hour of
evil might hurry him into acts of horrible sacrilege; and he was once more feeling that wild,
stormy revolt of his inner nature that so distressed him before he left the convent.

This proposition of Agnes' struck him as a compromise. It would take her from him only for
a season, she would go under his care and direction, and he would gradually recover his calmness
and self-possession in her absence. Her pilgrimage to the holy places would be a most proper
and fit preparation for the solemn marriage-rite which should forever sunder her from all human
ties and make her inaccessible to all solicitations of human love. Therefore, after an interval
of silence, he answered,--

"Daughter, your plan is approved. Such pilgrimages have ever been held meritorious works in
the Church, and there is a special blessing upon them."

"My father," said Agnes, "it has always been in my heart from my childhood to be the bride
of the Lord; but my grandmother, who brought me up, and to whom I owe the obedience of a daughter,
utterly forbids me: she will not hear a word of it. No longer ago than last Monday she told
me I might as well put a knife into her heart as speak of this."

"And you, daughter, do you put the feelings of any earthly friend before the love of your Lord
and Creator who laid down His life for you? Hear what He saith:--'He that loveth father or
mother more than me is not worthy of me.'"

"But my poor old grandmother has no one but me in the world, and she has never slept a night
without me; she is getting old, and she has worked for me all her good days;--it would be very
hard for her to lose me."

"Ah, false, deceitful heart! Has, then, thy Lord not labored for thee? Has He not borne thee
through all the years of thy life? And wilt thou put the love of any mortal before His?"

"Yes," replied Agnes, with a sort of hardy sweetness,--"but my Lord does not need me as grandmother
does; He is in glory, and will never be old or feeble; I cannot work for Him and tend Him as
I shall her. I cannot see my way clear at present; but when she is gone, or if the saints move
her to consent, I shall then belong to God alone."

"Daughter, there is some truth in your words; and if your Lord accepts you, He will dispose
her heart. Will she go with you on this pilgrimage?"

"I have prayed that she might, father,--that her soul may be quickened; for I fear me, dear
old grandmamma has found her love for me a snare,--she has thought too much of my interests
and too little of her own soul, poor grandmamma!"

"Well, child, I shall enjoin this pilgrimage on her as a penance."

"I have grievously offended her lately," said Agnes, "in rejecting an offer of marriage with
a man on whom she had set her heart, and therefore she does not listen to me as she is wont to do."

"You have done right in refusing, my daughter. I will speak to her of this, and show her how
great is the sin of opposing a holy vocation in a soul whom the Lord calls to Himself, and
enjoin her to make reparation by uniting with you in this holy work."

Agnes departed from the confessional without even looking upon the face of her director, who
sat within listening to the rustle of her dress as she rose,--listening to the soft fall of
her departing footsteps, and praying that grace might be given him not to look after her: and
he did not, though he felt as if his life were going with her.

Agnes tripped round the aisle to a little side-chapel where a light was always kept burning
by her before a picture of Saint Agnes, and, kneeling there, waited till her grandmother should
be through with her confession.

"Ah, sweet Saint Agnes," she said, "pity me! I am a poor ignorant young girl, and have been
led into grievous sin; but I did not mean to do wrong,--I have been trying to do right; pray
for me, that I may overcome as you did. Pray our dear Lord to send you with us on this pilgrimage,
and save us from all wicked and brutal men who would do us harm. As the Lord delivered you
in sorest straits, keeping soul and body pure as a lily, ah, pray Him to keep me! I love you
dearly,--watch over me and guide me."

In those days of the Church, such addresses to the glorified saints had become common among
all Christians. They were not regarded as worship, any more than a similar outpouring of confidence
to a beloved and revered friend yet in the body. Among the hymns of Savonarola is one addressed
to Saint Mary Magdalen, whom he regarded with an especial veneration. The great truth, that
God is not the God of the dead, but of the living, that all live to Him, was in those ages
with the truly religious a part of spiritual consciousness. The saints of the Church Triumphant,
having become one with Christ as he is one with the Father, were regarded as invested with
a portion of his divinity, and as the ministering agency through which his mediatorial government
on earth was conducted; and it was thought to be in the power of the sympathetic heart to attract
them by the outflow of its affections, so that their presence often overshadowed the walks
of daily life with a cloud of healing and protecting sweetness.

If the enthusiasm of devotion in regard to these invisible friends became extravagant and took
the language due to God alone, it was no more than the fervid Italian nature was always doing
with regard to visible objects of affection. Love with an Italian always tends to become worship,
and some of the language of the poets addressed to earthly loves rises into intensities of
expression due only to the One, Sovereign, Eternal Beauty. One sees even in the writings of
Cicero that this passionate adoring kind of love is not confined to modern times. When he loses
the daughter in whom his heart is garnered up, he finds no comfort except in building a temple
to her memory,--a blind outreaching towards the saint-worship of modern times.

Agnes rose from her devotions, and went with downcast eyes, her lips still repeating prayers,
to the font of holy water, which was in a dim shadowy corner, where a painted window cast a
gold and violet twilight. Suddenly there was a rustle of garments in the dimness, and a jewelled
hand essayed to pass holy water to her on the tip of its finger. This mark of Christian fraternity,
common in those times, Agnes almost mechanically accepted, touching her slender finger to the
one extended, and making the sign of the cross, while she raised her eyes to see who stood
there. Gradually the haze cleared from her mind, and she awoke to the consciousness that it
was the cavalier! He moved to come towards her, with a bright smile on his face; but suddenly
she became pale as one who has seen a spectre, and, pushing from her with both hands, she said
faintly, "Go, go!" and turned and sped up the aisle silently as a sunbeam, joining her grandmother,
who was coming from the confessional with a gloomy and sullen brow.

Old Elsie had been enjoined to unite with her grandchild in this scheme of a pilgrimage, and
received the direction with as much internal contumacy as would a thriving church-member of
Wall Street a proposition to attend a protracted meeting in the height of the business season.
Not but that pilgrimages were holy and gracious works,--she was too good a Christian not to
admit that,--but why must holy and gracious works be thrust on her in particular? There were
saints enough who liked such things; and people could get to heaven without,--if not with a
very abundant entrance, still in a modest way,--and Elsie's ambition for position and treasure
in the spiritual world was of a very moderate cast.

"Well, now, I hope you are satisfied," she said to Agnes, as she pulled her along with no very
gentle hand; "you've got me sent off on a pilgrimage,--and my old bones must be rattling up
and down all the hills between here and Rome,--and who's to see to the oranges?--they'll all
be stolen, every one."

"Grandmother," began Agnes in a pleading voice--

"Oh, you hush up! I know what you're going to say: 'The good Lord will take care of them.'
I wish He may! He has His hands full, with all the people that go cawing and psalm-singing
like so many crows, and leave all their affairs to Him!"

Agnes walked along disconsolate, with her eyes full of tears, which coursed one another down
her pale cheeks.

"There's Antonio," pursued Elsie, "would perhaps look after things a little. He is a good fellow,
and only yesterday was asking if he couldn't do something for us. It's you he does it for,--but
little you care who loves you, or what they do for you!"

At this moment they met old Jocunda, whom we have before introduced to the reader as portress
of the Convent. She had on her arm a large square basket, which she was storing for its practical
uses.

"Well, well, Saint Agnes be praised, I have found you at last," she said. "I was wanting to
speak about some of your blood-oranges for conserving. An order has come down from our dear
gracious lady, the Queen, to prepare a lot for her own blessed eating, and you may be sure
I would get none of anybody but you.--But what's this, my little heart, my little lamb?--crying?--tears
in those sweet eyes? What's the matter now?"

"Matter enough for me!" said Elsie. "It's a weary world we live in. A body can't turn any way
and not meet with trouble. If a body brings up a girl one way, why, every fellow is after her,
and one has no peace; and if a body brings her up another way, she gets her head in the clouds,
and there's no good of her in this world. Now look at that girl,--doesn't everybody say it's
time she were married?--but no marrying for her! Nothing will do but we must off to Rome on
a pilgrimage,--and what's the good of that, I want to know? If it's praying that's to be done,
the dear saints know she's at it from morning till night,--and lately she's up and down three
or four times a night with some prayer or other."

"Well, well," said Jocunda, "who started this idea?"

"Oh, Father Francesco and she got it up between them,--and nothing will do but I must go, too."

"Well, now, after all, my dear," said Jocunda, "do you know, I made a pilgrimage once, and
it isn't so bad. One gets a good deal by it, first and last. Everybody drops something into
your hand as you go, and one gets treated as if one were somebody a little above the common;
and then in Rome one has a princess or a duchess or some noble lady who washes one's feet,
and gives one a good supper, and perhaps a new suit of clothes, and all that,--and ten to one
there comes a pretty little sum of money to boot, if one plays one's cards well. A pilgrimage
isn't bad, after all;--one sees a world of fine things, and something new every day."

"But who is to look after our garden and dress our trees?"

"Ah, now, there's Antonio, and old Meta his mother," said Jocunda, with a knowing wink at Agnes.
"I fancy there are friends there that would lend a hand to keep things together against the
little one comes borne. If one is going to be married, a pilgrimage brings good luck in the
family. All the saints take it kindly that one comes so far to see them, and are more ready
to do a good turn for one when one needs it. The blessed saints are like other folks,--they
like to be treated with proper attention."

This view of pilgrimages from the material stand-point had more effect on the mind of Elsie
than the most elaborate appeals of Father Francesco. She began to acquiesce, though with a
reluctant air.

Jocunda, seeing her words had made some impression, pursued her advantage on the spiritual ground.

"To be sure," she added, "I don't know how it is with you; but I know that I have, one way
and another, rolled up quite an account of sins in my life. When I was tramping up and down
with my old man through the country,--now in this castle and then in that camp, and now and
then in at the sacking of a city or village, or something of the kind,--the saints forgive
us!--it does seem as if one got into things that were not of the best sort, in such times.
It's true, it's been wiped out over and over by the priest; but then a pilgrimage is a good
thing to make all sure, in case one's good works should fall short of one's sins at last. I
can tell you, a pilgrimage is a good round weight to throw into the scale; and when it comes
to heaven and hell, you know, my dear, why, one cannot be too careful."

"Well, that may be true enough," said Elsie,--"though, as to my sins, I have tried to keep
them regularly squared up and balanced as I went along. I have always been regular at confession,
and never failed a jot or tittle in what the holy father told me. But there may be something
in what you say; one can't be too sure; and so I'll e'en school my old bones into taking this
tramp."

That evening, as Agnes was sitting in the garden at sunset, her grandmother bustling in and
out, talking, groaning, and, hurrying in her preparations for the anticipated undertaking,
suddenly there was a rustling in the branches overhead, and a bouquet of rose-buds fell at
her feet. Agnes picked it up, and saw a scrip of paper coiled among the flowers. In a moment
remembering the apparition of the cavalier in the church in the morning, she doubted not from
whom it came. So dreadful had been the effect of the scene at the confessional, that the thought
of the near presence of her lover brought only terror. She turned pale; her hands shook. She
shut her eyes, and prayed that she might not be left to read the paper; and then, summoning
all her resolution, she threw the bouquet with force over the wall. It dropped down, down,
down the gloomy, shadowy abyss, and was lost in the damp caverns below.

The cavalier stood without the wall, waiting for some responsive signal in reply to his missive.
It had never occurred to him that Agnes would not even read it, and he stood confounded when
he saw it thrown back with such apparent rudeness. He remembered her pale, terrified look on
seeing him in the morning. It was not indifference or dislike, but mortal fear, that had been
shown in that pale face.

"These wretches are practising on her," he said, in wrath,--"filling her head with frightful
images, and torturing her sensitive conscience till she sees sin in the most natural and innocent
feelings."

He had learned from Father Antonio the intention of Agnes to go on a pilgrimage, and he longed
to see and talk with her, that he might offer her his protection against dangers which he understood
far better than she. It had never even occurred to him that the door for all possible communication
would be thus suddenly barred in his face.

"Very well," he said to himself, with a darkening brow,--"let them have it their own way here.
She must pass through my dominions before she can reach Rome, and I will find a place where
I can be heard, without priest or grandmother to let or hinder. She is mine, and I will care
for her."

But poor Agnes had the woman's share of the misery to bear, in the fear and self-reproach and
distress which every movement of this kind cost her. The involuntary thrill at seeing her lover,
at hearing from him, the conscious struggle which it cost her to throw back his gift, were
all noted by her accusing conscience as so many sins. The next day she sought again her confessor,
and began an entrance on those darker and more chilly paths of penance, by which, according
to the opinion of her times, the peculiarly elect of the Lord were supposed to be best trained.
Hitherto her religion had been the cheerful and natural expression of her tender and devout
nature according to the more beautiful and engaging devotional forms of her Church. During
the year when her confessor had been, unconsciously to himself, led by her instead of leading,
her spiritual food had been its beautiful old hymns and prayers, which she found no weariness
in often repeating. But now an unnatural conflict was begun in her mind, directed by a spiritual
guide in whom every natural and normal movement of the soul had given way before a succession
of morbid and unhealthful experiences. From that day Agnes wore upon her heart one of those
sharp instruments of torture which in those times were supposed to be a means of inward grace,--a
cross with seven steel points for the seven sorrows of Mary. She fasted with a severity which
alarmed her grandmother, who in her inmost heart cursed the day that ever she had placed her
in the way of saintship.

"All this will just end in spoiling her beauty,--making her as thin as a shadow,"--said Elsie;
"and she was good enough before."

But it did not spoil her beauty,-it only changed its character. The roundness and bloom melted
away,--but there came in their stead that solemn, transparent clearness of countenance, that
spiritual light and radiance, which the old Florentine painters gave to their Madonnas.

It is singular how all religious exercises and appliances take the character of the nature
that uses them. The pain and penance, which so many in her day bore as a cowardly expedient
for averting divine wrath, seemed, as she viewed them, a humble way of becoming associated
in the sufferings of her Redeemer. "Jesu dulcis memoria," was the thought that carried a redeeming
sweetness with every pain. Could she thus, by suffering with her Lord, gain power like Him
to save,--a power which should save that soul so dear and so endangered! "Ah," she thought,
"I would give my life-blood, drop by drop, if only it might avail for his salvation!"

       *       *       *       *       *

THE TRUE HEROINE.

  What was she like? I cannot tell.
  I only know God loved her well.
  Two noble sons her gray hairs blest,--
  And he, their sire, was now at rest.

  And why her children loved her so,
  And called her blessed, all shall know:
  She never had a selfish thought,
  Nor valued what her hand had wrought.

  She could be just in spite of love;
  And cherished hates she dwelt above;
  In sick-rooms they that had her care
  Said she was wondrous gentle there.

  It was a fearful trust, she knew,
  To guide her young immortals through;
  But Love and Truth explained the way,
  And Piety made perfect day.

  She taught them to be pure and true,
  And brave, and strong, and courteous, too;
  She made them reverence silver hairs,
  And feel the poor man's biting cares.

  She won them ever to her side;
  Home was their treasure and their pride:
  Its food, drink, shelter pleased them best,
  And there they found the sweetest rest.

  And often, as the shadows fell,
  And twilight had attuned them well,
  She sang of many a noble deed,
  And marked with joy their eager heed.

  And most she marked their kindling eyes
  When telling of the victories
  That made the Stars and Stripes a name,
  Their country rich in honest fame.

  It was a noble land, she said,--
  Its poorest children lacked not bread;
  It was so broad, so rich, so free,
  They sang its praise beyond the sea;

  And thousands sought its kindly shore,
  And none were poor and friendless more;
  All blessed the name of Washington,
  And loved the Union, every one.

  She made them feel that they were part
  Of a great nation's living heart.--
  So they grew up, true patriot boys,
  And knew not all their mother's joys.

  Sad was the hour when murmurs loud
  From a great black advancing cloud
  Made millions feel the coming breath
  Of maddened whirlwinds, full of death!

  She prayed the skies might soon be bright,
  And made her sons prepare for fight
  Brave youths!--their zeal proved clearly then
  In such an hour youths can be men!

  By day she went from door to door,--
  Men caught her soul, unfelt before;
  By night she prayed, and planned, and dreamed,
  Till morn's red light war's lightning seemed.

  The cry went forth; forth stepped her sons
  In martial blaze of gleaming guns:
  Still striding on to perils dire,
  They turned to catch her glance of fire.

  No fears, no fond regrets she knew,
  But proudly watched them fade from view:
  "Lord, keep them so!" she said, and turned
  To where her lonely hearth-fire burned.

         *       *       *       *       *

JEFFERSON AND SLAVERY.

Any one who feels deeply the truths in which our great men of old founded this Democracy, and
who sees clearly the great lines of political architecture by which alone it shall stand firm
or rise high, finds in the direct plan and work the agency mainly of six men.

These may be set in three groups.

First, three men, who, through a series of earnest thoughts, taking shape sometimes in apt
words, sometimes in bold acts, did most to found the Republic: and these three are Washington,
Adams, and Jefferson.

Secondly, two men, who, as statesmen, by a healthful division between the two great natural
policies, and, as politicians, by a healthful antagonism between the two great natural parties,
did most to build the Republic: and these two are Jefferson and Hamilton.

Thirdly, three men, who, having a clear theory in their heads, and a deep conviction in their
hearts, working on the nation by sermons, epistles, programmes, hints, quips, innuendoes, by
every form of winged word, have done most to get this people into simple trains of humanitarian
thought, and have therefore done most to brace the Republic: and these three men are Franklin,
Jefferson, and Channing.

So, rising above the dust raised in our old quarrels, and taking a broad view over this Democracy,
we see Jefferson firmly placed in each of these groups.

If we search in Jefferson's writings and in the contemporary records to ascertain what that
power was which won him these positions, we find that it was no personal skill in cajoling
friends or scaring enemies. No sound-hearted man ever rose from talk with him with a tithe
of the veneration felt by those who sat at the feet of Washington or Hamilton or Channing.
Neither was his position due to oratory: he could deal neither in sweet words nor in lofty
words. Yet, in spite of these wants, he wrought on the nation with immense power.

The real secret of this power was, first of all, that Jefferson saw infinitely deeper into
the principles of the rising Democracy, and infinitely farther into its future working, than
any other man of his time. Those who earnestly read him will often halt astounded at proofs
of a foresight in him almost miraculous. Even in masses of what men have called his puerility
there are often germs of immense worth,--taking years, perhaps, to show life, but sure to be
alive at last.

Take, as the latest examples of this, three germ-truths which have recently come to full life,
after having been trodden under foot for fifty years.

Early in our national life Jefferson declared against the usurpations of the national judiciary.
Straightway his supporters were divided, mainly between those who sorrowed and those who stood
silent; while his opponents were divided only between those who laughed and those who cursed.
But who laughs now? Jefferson foresaw but too well. The usurpations of the national judiciary
have come in shapes most hideous,--in the obiter dicta of the Dred Scott decision, and in the
use of quibbles to entangle our defenders and set loose our traitors.

Take an example of another kind. In his early career Jefferson gave forth a scheme of harbor-defence
by gun-boats and floating batteries. This was partially carried out, and only partially; so
it failed. On these gun-boats and batteries his enemies never tired of trying their wit, and
certainly seemed to make a brilliant point against his foresight and economy. But, in these
latter years, many Americans besides ourself, visiting Cronstadt during the blockade by the
Allied fleet, saw not only how the Allies failed of a conquest, the first summer, for want
of gun-boats, but how the Russians protected themselves greatly, during the second summer,
by means of them. We were shown, too, that not only could good work be done by those driven
by steam, but that the greater number driven by oarsmen were of much service, not only in vexing
the enemy, but in protecting the whole exposed coast. Here was Jefferson's scheme to the letter.
Here was a despised thought of the past become a proud fact of the present. Here had the Autocrat
reared a monument to our great Democrat,--gaining praise for Jefferson long after his enemies
and their factious laughter had died out forever.

But take what the main body of cultured Americans have thought Jefferson's chronic whimsey,--his
belief that the heart of England must be ever set against all our liberty and prosperity. As
we now breast the terrific storm which English reasonings and taunts had encouraged us to brave,
and hear, swelling above the faint English God-speed, misstatements, gibes, reproofs, malignant
prophecies, who of us shall say that the English character and policy of 1861 were not better
foreknown by Jefferson in 1820 than by ourselves In 1860?

So much for Jefferson's insight and foresight. But there was yet a greater quality which gave
him a place in each of these three great groups,--his faith in Democracy.

At a time when the French Revolution had scared even Burke, and when the British Constitution
was thought by many to have seduced even Washington, Jefferson held fast to his great faith
in the rights and capacities of the people. The only effect on him of the shocks and failures
of that period was to make his anxiety sometimes morbid, and his action sometimes spasmodic.
Hence much that to many men has seemed unjust suspicion of Adams, and persecution of Hamilton,
and disrespect for Washington. Yet all this was but the jarring of that strong mind in the
struggle and crash of his times,--mere spasms of bigotry which prove the vigor of his faith
in Democracy.

Jefferson, then, known of all men not fettered by provincial traditions as invested with this
foresight and this faith, is become to a vast party an idol, and from his writings issue oracles.
But the priests at his shrines, having waxed fat in honors, have at last so befogged his sentiments
and wrested his arguments, that thousands of true men regard him sorrowfully as the promoter
of that Slavery-Despotism which to-day blooms in treason. It is worth our while, therefore,
to seek to know whether Jefferson the god of the Oligarchs is Jefferson the Democrat. Let us,
by the simplest and fairest process possible, try to come at his real opinions on Slavery,--just
as they grew when he did so much to found the Republic,--just as they flourished when he did
so much to build the Republic,--just as they were re-wrought and polished when he did so much
to brace the Republic.

The whole culture of Jefferson's youth was, of all things in the world, least likely to make
him support slavery or apologize for it. The man who did most to work into his mind ideas of
moral and political science was Dr. William Small, a liberal Scotchman; the man who did most
to direct his studies in law, and his grappling with social problems, was George Wythe. To
both of these Jefferson confessed the deepest debt for their efforts to strengthen his mind
and make his footing firm. Now, of all men in this country at that time, these two were least
likely to support pro-slavery theories or tolerate pro-slavery cant. For while to Small's soundness
there is abundance of general testimony, there is to Wythe's soundness testimony the most pointed.
We have but to take the first volume of Jefferson's Works, published by order of Congress,
and we find Jefferson's anti-slavery letter to Dr. Price, written in 1785, urging the Doctor
to work against pro-slavery ideas in the young men, and to exhort the young men of Virginia
to the "redress of the enormity." Incidentally he speaks of Mr. Wythe as already doing great
good in this direction among these same young men, and declares him "one of the most virtuous
of characters, and whose sentiments on the subject of slavery are unequivocal."

So much for the direct influences on Jefferson's early culture.

Studying, next, the indirect influences on his early culture, we see that the reform literature
of that time was coming almost entirely from France. Active, earnest men everywhere were grasping
the theories and phrases of Voltaire and Rousseau and Montesquieu, to wield them against every
tyranny. Terrible weapons these,--often searing and scarring frightfully those who brandished
them,--yet there was not one chance in a thousand that any man who had once made any considerable
number of these ideas his own could ever support slavery. Whoever, at that time, studied the
"Contrat Social," or the defence of Jean Calas, whatever other sins he might commit, was no
more likely to advocate systematic oppression than are they who now read with reverence Dr.
Arnold and Charles Kingsley; and whoever, at that time, read earnestly "The Spirit of the Laws"
was as sure to fight slavery as any man who to-day reveres Channing or Theodore Parker. Those
French thinkers threw such heat and light into Jefferson's young mind, that every filthy weed
of tyrannic quibble or pro-slavery paradox must have been shrivelled.

And the young statesman grew under this influence as we should expect. His whole career in
those years, whether as public man or private man, shows that his hatred of slavery was bitter.
But there was such a press of other work during this founding period, that this hatred took
shape not so much in a steady siege as in a series of pitched battles. The work to be done
was immense, and Jefferson bore the bulk of it. He took upon himself one-third of the revising
and codifying of the Virginia laws, and did even more than this. He undertook, in his own words,
"a distinct series of labors which formed a system by which every fibre would be eradicated
of ancient or future aristocracy." In all this work his keen common sense always cut his way
through questions at which other men stopped or stumbled. Thus, in the discussion on primogeniture,
when Isaac Pendleton proposed, as a compromise, that they should adopt the Hebrew principle
and give a double portion to the eldest son, Jefferson cut at once into the heart of the question.

But such fierceness against the bulwarks of aristocracy, and such keenness in cutting through
its heavy arguments, carried him farther. Logic forced him to pass from the attack on aristocracy
to the attack on slavery, just as logic forces the Confederate oligarchs of to-day to pass
from the defence of slavery to the defence of aristocracy. He was sure to fight this vilest
of tyrannies, and he gave quick thrusts and heavy blows. In 1778 he brought in a bill to prevent
the further importation of slaves into Virginia. Years afterward he wrote as follows:--"I have
sometimes asked myself whether my country is better for my having lived at all: I do not know
that it is. I have been the instrument of doing the following things." Of these things there
were just ten. Just ten great worthy deeds in a life like Jefferson's!--and one of these he
declares "the act prohibiting the importation of slaves."

Close upon this followed a fiercer grapple,--his third great legislative attack on slavery.
In his revision of the Virginia laws he reported "a bill to emancipate all slaves born after
the passing of the act." Attached to this was a plan for the instruction of the young negroes
thus set free.

To follow Jefferson and understand him, we must bear in mind that the Virginia which educated
him was not behind a dozen smaller States in fertility, enterprise, and republican feeling.
Its best men were haters of slavery. The efforts of its leaders were directed to other things
than plans for taxing oysters or filching the gains of free negroes. Forth from the Virginia
of that time were hurled against negro slavery the thrilling invectives of Patrick Henry, the
startling prophecies of Madison, and the declaration of Washington, "For the abolition of slavery
by law my vote shall not be wanting." It proves, that, between the passage of the act of 1782
allowing manumission and the year 1791, more than ten thousand slaves had been set free. One
is tempted to believe that the new Massachusetts school caught its fire from this old Virginia
school; for this friend of Jefferson speaks of "the inconsistency of invoking God for liberty
in our Revolution and imposing on our fellow-men who differ from us in complexion a slavery
ten thousand times more cruel than the grievances and oppressions of which we complained."
Such was the utterance of the Virginia school of statesmanship in which Jefferson was trained.

And his views progressed, as we should expect. On the occasion of a call for instructions to
the first Virginia delegates to Congress respecting an address to the King, Jefferson drew
up a paper, which, though greatly admired, was thought too bold.

These words are hot and bright, but they are mere sparkles compared to the full-flaming orb
of freedom which our statesman gave afterward. For, take the Declaration of Independence, as
it issued from Carpenter's Hall, after slavery-loving planters of the South and money-loving
ship-owners of the North had, as they thought, made it neutral, and we all, North and South,
recognize in it the boldest anti-slavery document extant. Why else do Northern demagogues ridicule
it, and Southern demagogues revile it? Yet Jefferson made it far stronger and sharper against
negro slavery than it is now. Look for a moment at the rich current of internal evidence running
through that rough draught, and through all its erasures, changes, and emphatic markings,--evidence
of the deepest hatred not only of all tyranny, but of all slavery. Thus, after he had written
the passage, "determined to keep open a market where MEN should be bought & sold," the idea
continues hot in his mind; for, after smouldering a few moments, it flames forth again, is
written again in the same phrasing, with the same show of emphasis, before he bethinks himself
to erase it. Then, too, the words Christian and MEN are the only words emphasized by careful
pen-printing in large letters;--and this labored movement of his pen marks the injury which
he deemed the greater; for the largest letters and deepest emphasis are reserved for MEN. Evidently,
that word points out the wrong which, as Jefferson thought, "a candid world" would forever
regard as the supreme wrong.

We have now noted Jefferson's battle against slavery in the founding of the Republic: let us
go on to his work in the building of the Republic.

In 1782 he gave forth the "Notes on Virginia." His opposition to slavery is as fierce here
as of old, but it takes various phases,--sometimes sweeping against the hated system with a
torrent of facts,--sometimes battering it with a hard, cold logic,--sometimes piercing it with
deadly queries and suggestions,--and sometimes, with his blazing hate of all oppression, biting
and burning through every pro-slavery theory.

But in taking up the "Notes," we must understand the relation of Jefferson's way of thinking
to his way of working. In his thinking, the slave system was evidently a violation of the whole
body of good principles, for he calls it an "evil";--a violation of morality, for he calls
it an "enormity";--a violation of justice, for he calls it a "wrong";--a violation of republican
pretensions, for he calls it a "hideous blot";--a violation of the healthy action of our institutions,
for he calls it a "disease";--a violation of our whole public happiness, for he calls it a
"curse." But his way of working was more calm and cool,--often displeasing those whose plans
of action are formed far from any direct entanglement in the slave system.

This union of fervent thought and cool action has, of course, brought upon Jefferson the invectives
of two great classes. One class have looked merely at his thinking, and have distrusted him
as a dreamer. To these he is a dealer in oracles, at second-hand, from Voltaire and Diderot.
The other class have studied his plans of practical philanthropy, with all his shrewd researches
and homely discussions in agriculture, finance, mechanics, and architecture, and have ridiculed
him as a tinker. To such Jefferson seems a grandmotherly sort of person,--riding about in a
gig arranged to register the length of his rides,--walking about in boots arranged to register
the length of his walks,--weatherwise, and profound in dealing with smoky chimneys and sheep-breeding.

But whether men have cavilled at him for a dreamer or laughed at him for a tinker, they have
been mainly foolish, for they have cavilled and laughed at the very combination which made
him powerful. In no other American have been so happily blended highest skill in theory and
highest strength in practice.

The remarks, in the "Notes on Virginia," on the colored race are clear and fair. He studied
carefully and stated fully all that could be learned in his time. On the whole, his examination
greatly encourages those who hope good things for that race. But one distinction must be made.
As to those profound views of the character and destiny of the race which come only by observation
of a long historic development, in a wide range of climate, in great variety of social position,
Jefferson could, as he confesses, know almost nothing,--for the same reason that the keenest
observer of William the Conqueror's Norman robbers and Saxon swineherds would have failed to
foretell the great dominant race which has come from them by free growth and good culture.
But, on the other hand, of all that comes by observation of the daily life of the black race,
as it then was, he knew almost everything.

He declares that the black race is inferior to the white in mind, but not in heart. The poems
of black Phillis Wheatley seem to him to prove not much; but the letters of black Ignatius
Sancho he praises for depth of feeling, happy turn of thought, and ease of style, though he
finds no depth of reasoning.

And shortly after, he declares it "a suspicion only that the blacks are inferior in the endowments
of body or mind,"--that "in memory they are equal to the whites,"--that "in music they are
more generally gifted than the whites with accurate ears for time and tune."

But there is one statement which we especially commend to those in search of an effective military
policy in the present crisis. Jefferson declares of the negroes, that they are "at least as
brave as the whites, and more adventuresome." May not this truth account for the fact that
one of the most daring deeds in the present war was done by a black man? That a change in the
relations in which a man is placed should change his ideas of moral right and wrong is neither
new, nor peculiar to the color of the blacks."

Here Jefferson puts forth that very idea for which Gerrit Smith, a few years ago, was threatened
with the penalties of treason.

The old hot thought blazes forth again in the chapter on "Particular
Manners and Customs." Can men speak against the proclamations of Abolition
Conventions after such fiery words from Jefferson? But generally it is not sufficient. (Here
    fire begins to flicker up around the words.) "And with what
    execration should a statesman be loaded, who, permitting one half
    the citizens" (note the word) "to trample on the rights" (note
    the word) "of the other, transforms those into despots and these
    into enemies, destroys the morals of the one and the amor
    patriae of the other! (Now bursts forth prophecy. For no Abolitionist
ever branded the slave-system with words more fiery.

In 1784 Jefferson drew up the ordinance for the government of the Western Territory.

In Randall's "Life of Jefferson," a work in many respects admirable, this clause is glossed
with the declaration that Jefferson intended merely to prevent an immense new importation of
slaves from Africa to fill the Territory; but Mr. Randall would have shown far greater insight,
had he added to this half-truth, that the idea of legally grasping and strangling this curse
flows from the ideas of the "Notes" as hot metal flows from fiery furnace,--that the Ordinance
of 1784 was but a minting of that true metal drawn from those old glowing thoughts and words.

But Jefferson's hatred of slavery is not less fierce in his letters.

Dr. Price writes a pamphlet in England against slavery, and straightway Jefferson seizes his
pen to urge him to write more, and more clearly for America, and more directly at American
young men, saying, in encouragement,--"Northward of the Chesapeake you may find, here and there,
an opponent to your doctrine, as you may find, here and there, a murderer." He speaks hopefully
of the disposition in Virginia to "redress this enormity,"--calls the fight against slavery
"the interesting spectacle of justice in conflict with avarice and oppression,"--speaks of
the side hostile to slavery as "the sacred side." The date is 1785.

This welcome to Dr. Price's onslaught will serve as antidote to Mr. Randall's poisonous declaration,
that Jefferson was opposed to interference with slave institutions by those living outside
of Slave States.

Here, in Jefferson himself, then, is the source of that venom with which earnest men, throughout
the land, are stinging to death the organization which stole his name to destroy his ideas.

In 1788, Jefferson, being Minister at Paris, receives a note from M. de Warville tendering
him membership in the Society for the Abolition of the Slave-Trade. Jefferson is forced by
his peculiar position to decline, but he takes pains to say,--"You know that nobody wishes
more ardently to see an abolition not only of the trade, but of the condition of slavery."

Here is no non-committalism, no wistful casting about for loop-holes, no sly putting out of
hooks to catch backers, not the feeblest germ of quibble or lie. The man answers more than
he is asked. Is there not, in the present dearth, something refreshing in this old candor?

But some have thought Jefferson's later expressions against slavery wanting in heartiness.
Let us examine.

The whole world knows, that, when a wrong stings a man, making him fierce and loud, his direct
expressions have often small value; but that his parenthetical expressions often have great
value. This is one of the simplest principles in homely every-day criticism, serving truth-seekers,
wherever wordy war rages, whether among statesmen or hackmen.

Now, in Jefferson's letter to Dr. Gordon,--written in 1788,--he is greatly
stirred by his own recital of the shameful ravages on his property by the
British army. Just at the moment when his indignation was at the hottest,
there shot out of his heart, and off his pen, one of these side-thoughts,
one of these fragments of the man's ground-idea, which, at such moments,
truth-seekers always watch for. He
    carried off also about thirty slaves. Had this been to give them
    their freedom, he would have done right."

But we turn to a seeming discrepancy between these thousand earnest declarations of Jefferson
the private citizen, and the cold, formal tone of Jefferson the Secretary of State. In this
high office he reclaims slaves from the Spanish power in Florida, and demands compensation
for slaves carried off by the British at the evacuation of New York. For a moment that transition
from personal warmth to diplomatic coolness is as the Russian plunge from steam-bath to snow-heap.

Yet, if truth-seekers do not stop to moan, they may easily find a complete explanation. As
private citizen, in a State, dealing with his home Government, Jefferson had the right to move
heaven and earth against slavery, and bravely he did it; but, as public servant of the nation,
dealing with foreign Governments, his rights and duties were different, and his tone must be
different. As a private person, writing for man as man, Jefferson forgot readily enough all
differences of nation. He wrote as readily and fully of the hideousness of slavery to Meusnier
and Warville in France, or to Price and Priestley in England, as to any of his neighbors; but,
as public servant of the nation, writing to Hammond or Viar, representatives of foreign powers,
he made no apology for our miseries. England might be ready enough to act the part of Dives,
but Jefferson was not the statesman to put America in the attitude of Lazarus,--begging, and
showing sores.

But we have to note yet another change in Jefferson's modes of work and warfare.

As he wrought and fought in this second period, which, for easy reference, we call the building
period, he was forced into new methods. In the former period we saw him thinking and speaking
and working against every effort to found pro-slavery theories or practices. Eagerness was
then the best quality for work, and quickness the best quality for fight. But now the case
was different. An institution which Jefferson hated had, in spite of his struggles, been firmly
founded. The land was full of the towers of the slave aristocracy. He saw that his mode of
warfare must be changed. His old way did well in the earlier days, for tower-builders may be
driven from their work by a sweeping charge or sudden volley; but towers, when built, must
be treated with steady battering and skilful mining.

In 1797, Jefferson, writing to St. George Tucker, speaks of the only possible emancipation
as "a compromise between the passions, prejudices, and real difficulties, which will each have
their weight in the operation." Afterwards, in his letters to Monroe and Rufus King, he advocates
a scheme of colonization to some point not too distant. But let no man, on this account, claim
Jefferson as a supporter of the do-nothing school of Northern demagogues, or of the mad school
of Southern fanatics who proclaim this ulcerous mass a beauty, and who howl at all who refuse
its infection. For, note, in that same letter to St. George Tucker, the fervor of the Jeffersonian
theory: bitter as Tucker's pamphlet against slavery was, he says,--"You know my subscription
to its doctrines." Note also the vigor of the Jeffersonian practice: speaking of emancipation,
he says,--"The sooner we put some plan under way, the greater hope there is that it may be
permitted to proceed peaceably to its ultimate effect." And now bursts forth prophecy again.
"But if something is not done, and soon done, we shall be the murderers of our own children."

Here is no trace of the theory inflicting a present certain evil on a great white population
in order to do a future doubtful good to a smaller black population. And this has been nowhere
better understood than among the slave oligarchs of his own time. Note one marked example.

In 1801, Jefferson was elected to the Presidency on the thirty-sixth ballot. Thirty-five times
Delaware, Maryland, and South Carolina voted against him. The following year Mr. Rutledge of
South Carolina, feeling an itching to specify to Congress his interests in Buncombe and his
relations to the universe, palavered in the usual style, but let out one truth, for which,
as truth-searchers, we thank him. He said,--

    "Permit me to state, that, beside the objections common to my
    friend from Delaware and myself, there was a strong one which I
    felt with peculiar force. It resulted from a firm belief that the
    gentleman in question [Jefferson] held opinions respecting a
    certain description of property in my State which, should they
    obtain generally, would endanger it."[4]

    [4] Benton's Abridgment, Vol. II. p. 636.

We come now to Jefferson's Presidency. In this there was no great chance to deal an effective
blow at slavery; but some have grown bitter over a story that he favored the schemes to break
the slavery-limitation in Ohio. Such writers have not stopped to consider that it is more probable
that a few Southern members, eager to drum in recruits, falsely claimed the favor of the President,
than that Jefferson broke the slavery-limitation which he himself planned. Then, too, came
the petitions of the abolition societies against slavery in Louisiana; and Hildreth blames
Jefferson for his slowness to assist; but ought we not here to take some account of the difficulties
of the situation? Ought not some weight to be given to Jefferson's declaration to Kerchival,
that in his administration his "efforts in relation to peace, slavery, and religious freedom
were all in accordance with Quakerism"?

We pass now to the third great period, in which, as thinker and writer, he did so much to brace
the Republic.

First of all, in this period we see him revising the translation and arranging the publication
of De Tracy's "Commentaire sur l'Esprit des Lois." He takes endless pains to make its hold
firm on America; engages his old companion in abolitionism, St. George Tucker, to circulate
it; makes it a text-book in the University of Virginia; tells his friend Cabell to read it,
for it is "the best book on government in the world." Now this "best book on government" is
killing to every form of tyranny or slavery; its arguments pierce all their fallacies and crush
all their sophistries. That famous plea which makes Alison love Austria and Palmer love Louisiana--the
plea that a people can be best educated for freedom and religion by dwarfing their minds and
tying their hands--is, in this book, shivered by argument and burnt by invective.

As we approach the last years of Jefferson's life we find several letters of his on slavery.
Some have thought them mere heaps of ashes,--poor remains of the flaming thoughts and words
of earlier years. This mistake is great. Touch the seeming heap of ashes, and those thoughts
and words dart forth, fiery as of old.

In 1814, Edward Coles attacks slavery vigorously, and calls on the great Democrat to destroy
it. Jefferson's approving reply is the complete summary of his matured views on slavery. Take
a few declarations as specimens.[5]

    [5] Randall, Vol. III., Appendix.

    "The sentiments breathed through the whole do honor both to the
    head and heart of the writer. Mine, on the subject of the slavery
    of negroes, have long since been in possession of the public, and
    time has only served to give them stronger proof. The love of
    justice and the love of country plead equally the cause of these
    people, and it is a mortal reproach to us that they should have
    pleaded so long in vain."

    "As to the method by which this difficult work is to be effected,
    if permitted to be done by ourselves, I have seen no proposition
    so expedient, on the whole, as that of emancipation of those born
    after a given day."

    "This enterprise is for the young,--for those who can follow it up
    and bear it through to its consummation. It shall have all my
    prayers."

No wonder that this letter of Jefferson to Coles seems to have been carefully suppressed by
Southern editors of the Jeffersonian writings.

Take also the letters to Mr. Barrows and to Dr. Humphreys of 1815-17. Disappointment is expressed
at the want of a more general anti-slavery feeling among the young men; hope is expressed that
"time will soften down the master and educate the slave"; faith is expressed that slavery will
yield, "because we are not in a world ungoverned by the laws and power of a Supreme Agent."

Entering now the stormy period of the Missouri Debate, we have one declaration from Jefferson
which, at first, surprises and pains us,--the opinion given in a letter to Lafayette, that
spreading slavery will "dilute the evil everywhere, and facilitate the means of getting rid
of it." The mistake is gross indeed. To all of us, with the political knowledge forced upon
us by events since Jefferson's death, it seems atrocious. But unpardonable as such a theory
is now, was it so then?

Jefferson had not before him the experience of these last forty years of weakness and poverty
and barbarism in our new Slave States,--and of that tenacity of life which slavery shares with
so many other noxious growths. Hastily, then, he broached this opinion. Let it stand; and let
the remark on "geographical lines," and the two or three severe criticisms of Northern men,
wrested from him in the excitement of the Missouri struggle, be tied to it and given to the
Oligarchs. These expressions were drawn from him in his old age,--in his vexation at unfair
attacks,--in his depression at the approach of poverty,--in his suffering under the encroachments
of disease. Any one of those bold declarations in the vigor of his manhood will forever efface
all memory of them.

The opinion expressed by Jefferson, at the same period, that "the General Government cannot
interfere with slavery in the States," all our parties now accept--as a peace policy; but if
we are forced into an opposite war policy, let our generals remember Jefferson's declaration
as to the taking of his slaves by Cornwallis: "Had this been to give them their freedom, he
would have done right."

But there is one letter which all Northern statesmen should ponder. It warns them solemnly,
for it was written a very short time before Jefferson's death;--it warns them sharply, for
it struck one whom the North has especially honored. This son of the North had made a well-known
unfortunate speech in Congress, and had sent it to Jefferson. In his answer the old statesman
declares,--

    "On the question of the lawfulness of slavery, that is, of the
    right of one man to appropriate to himself the faculties of
    another without his consent, I certainly retain my early
    opinions. On that, however, of third persons to interfere between
    the parties, and the effect of Constitutional modifications of
    that pretension, we are probably nearer together."

There was a blow well dealt,--though at one now greatly honored. We may refuse the subordinate
idea in the letter, but we will glory in that main confession of political faith, in the last
year of Jefferson's life; and we will not forget that the last of his letters on slavery chastised
the worst sin of Northern statesmanship.

Jefferson, then, in dealing with slavery, was a real political seer and giver of oracles,--always
sure to say something; whereas the "leading men" who in these latter days have usurped his
name are neither political seers nor givers of oracles, but mere political fakirs,--striving,
their lives long, to enter political blessedness by solemnly doing and seeing and saying--nothing.

Jefferson was a true political warrior, and his battle for human rights compares with the Oligarchist
battle against them as the warfare of Cortés compares with Aztec warfare. He is the man full
of strong thought backed by civilization: they, the men trying to keep up their faith in idols,
trying to scare with war-paint, trying to startle with war-whoop, trying to vex with showers
of poor Aztec arrows.

Jefferson was an orator,--not in that he fed petty assemblages with narcotic words to stupefy
conscience, or corrosive words to kill conscience, but in that he gave to the world those decisive,
true words which shall yet pierce all tyranny and slavery.

Jefferson was the founder of a democratic system, strong and full-orbed: "leading men" have
fastened his name to an aristocratic system with mobocratic cries.

This great tree of Liberty which we are all trying to plant will, of course, not grow as we
will, but as God and Nature will. Some branches will be exuberant through too great wealth
of sunshine,--others gnarled and awry through too great fury of storms. We need find no fault
with any growth, but we may admire some branches and prize some fruits more than others. Some
grafts set by noblest hands have often blossomed in bad temper and borne fruit bitter and sour.
Some fruitage has been of that poor Dead-Sea sort,--splendid in coating, but inwardly ashes,--wretched
"protective" schemes and the like. The world may yet see that the limbs of toughest fibre and
fruit of richest flavor have come from grafts set by just such strong men in theory and in
practice as Thomas Jefferson.

       *       *       *       *       *

A STORY OF TO-DAY.

PART IV. She saw Margaret coming up the road. She did not know that it is the color of shams,
and that women like this are the most deadly of shams. He was going to see this Margaret Howth,
tell her what he was going to do. Because he was going to leave a clean record. No one should
accuse him of want of honor. Little Margaret!

She did not answer; her hands worked feebly together.

He came nearer, and held up his arras to where she stood,--the heavy, masterful face pale and wet.

"I need you, Margaret. I shall be nothing without you, now. Come, Margaret, little Margaret!"

She came to him, and put her hands in his.

"No, Stephen," she said.

If there were any pain in her tone, she kept it down, for his sake.

"Never, I could never help you,--as you are. It might have been, once. She moved uneasily;
she dared not trust her resolution.

"You will come?" he said. "It might have been,--it shall be again."

"It may be," she said, humbly. "God is good. And I believe in you, Stephen. I will be yours
some time: we cannot help it, if we would: but not as you are."

"You do not love me?" he said, flinging off her hand. Why, your hair is wet, child!"

"You need not. It was for Lois."

"'Twas fur her I comed back hyur. 'Twas a resk,"--with a dumb look of entreaty at Holmes,--"but
fur her I thort I'd try it.

"I know."

"Ben't that 'n 'xcuse, master, seein' I knowed noght at the beginnin'? Thenk o' that, master.

       *       *       *       *       *

JAMES FENIMORE COOPER.

The publication, now brought to a close, of a new edition of the novels of Cooper[6] gives
us a fair occasion for discharging a duty which Maga has too long neglected, and saying something
upon the genius of this great writer, and, incidentally, upon the character of a man who would
have been a noticeable, not to say remarkable person, had he never written a line. These novels
stand before us in thirty-two goodly duodecimo volumes, well printed, gracefully illustrated,
and, in all external aspects, worthy of generous commendation. With strong propriety, the publishers
dedicate this edition of the "first American novelist" to "the American People." No one of
our great writers is more thoroughly American than Cooper; no one has caught and reproduced
more broadly and accurately the spirit of our institutions, the character of our people, and
even the aspects of Nature in this our Western world. He was a patriot to the very core of
his heart; he loved his country with a fervid, but not an undiscerning love: it was an intelligent,
vigilant, discriminating affection that bound his heart to his native land; and thus, while
no man defended his country more vigorously when it was in the right, no one reproved its faults
more courageously, or gave warning and advice more unreservedly, where he felt that they were
needed.

    [6] We refer to the new edition of the novels of Cooper by Messrs.
        W.A. Townsend & Co., with illustrations by Darley.

This may be one reason why Cooper has more admirers, or at least fewer disparagers, abroad
than at home. On the Continent of Europe his novels are everywhere read, with an eager, unquestioning
delight. His popularity is at least equal to that of Scott; and we think a considerable amount
of testimony could be collected to prove that it is even greater. But the fact we have above
stated is not the only explanation of this. He was the first writer who made foreign nations
acquainted with the characters and incidents of American frontier and woodland life; and his
delineations of Indian manners and traits were greatly superior in freshness and power, if
not in truth, to any which had preceded them. His novels opened a new and unwrought vein of
interest, and were a revelation of humanity under aspects and influences hitherto unobserved
by the ripe civilization of Europe. The taste which had become cloyed with endless imitations
of the feudal and mediaeval pictures of Scott turned with fresh delight to such original figures--so
full of sylvan power and wildwood grace--as Natty Bumppo and Uncas. European readers, too,
received these sketches with an unqualified, because an ignorant admiration. We, who had better
knowledge, were more critical, and could see that the drawing was sometimes faulty, and the
colors more brilliant than those of life.

The acute observer can detect a parallel between the relation of Cooper to America and that
of Scott to Scotland. Scott was as hearty a Scotchman as Cooper an American: but Scott was
a Tory in politics and an Episcopalian in religion; and the majority of Scotchmen are Whigs
in politics and Presbyterians in religion. In Scott, as in Cooper, the elements of passion
and sympathy were so strong that he could not be neutral or silent on the great questions of
his time and place. Thus, while the Scotch are proud of Scott, as they well may be,--while
he has among his own people most intense and enthusiastic admirers,--the proportion of those
who yield to his genius a cold and reluctant homage is probably greater in Scotland than in
any other country in Christendom. "The rest of mankind recognize the essential truth of his
delineations, and his loyalty to all the primal instincts and sympathies of humanity"; but
the Scotch cannot forget that he opposed the Reform Bill, painted the Covenanters with an Episcopalian
pencil, and made a graceful and heroic image of the detested Claverhouse.

The novels of Cooper, in the dates of their publication, cover a period of thirty years: beginning
with "Precaution," in 1820, and ending with "The Ways of the Hour," in 1850. The production
of thirty-two volumes in thirty years is honorable to his creative energy, as well as to the
systematic industry of his habits. But even these do not constitute the whole of his literary
labors during these twenty-nine years. We must add five volumes of naval history and biography,
ten volumes of travels and sketches in Europe, and a large amount of occasional and controversial
writings, most of which is now hidden away in that huge wallet wherein Time puts his alms for
Oblivion. His literary productions other than his novels would alone be enough to save him
from the reproach of idleness. In estimating a writer's claims to honor and remembrance, the
quantity as well as the quality of his work should surely be taken into account; and in summing
up the case of our great novelist to the jury of posterity, this point should be strongly put.

Cooper's first novel, "Precaution," was published when he was in his thirty-first year. It
owed its existence to an accident, and was but an ordinary production, as inferior to the best
of his subsequent works as Byron's "Hours of Idleness" to "Childe Harold." It was a languid
and colorless copy of exotic forms: a mere scale picked from the surface of the writer's mind,
with neither beauty nor vital warmth to commend it. We speak from the vague impressions which
many long years have been busy in effacing; and we confess that it would require the combined
forces of a long voyage and a scanty library to constrain us to the task of reading it anew.

And yet, such as it was, it made a certain impression at the time of its appearance. The standard
by which it was tried was very unlike that which would now be applied to it: there was all
the difference between the two that there is between strawberries in December and strawberries
in June. American literature was then just beginning to "glint forth" like Burns's mountain
daisy, and rear its tender form above the parent earth. The time had, indeed, gone by--which
a friend of ours, not yet venerable, affirms he can well remember--when school-boys and collegians,
zealous for the honor of indigenous literature, were obliged to cite, by way of illustration,
such works as Morse's Geography and Hannah Adams's "History of the Jews"; but it was only a
faint, crepuscular light, that streaked the east, and gave promise of the coming day. Irving
had just completed his "Sketch-Book," which was basking in the full sunshine of unqualified
popularity. Dana, in the thoughtful and meditative beauty of "The Idle Man," was addressing
a more limited public. Percival had just before published a small volume of poems; Halleck's
"Fanny" had recently appeared; and so had a small duodecimo volume by Bryant, containing "The
Ages," and half a dozen smaller poems. Miss Sedgwick's "New England Tale" was published about
the same time. But a large proportion of those who are now regarded as our ablest writers were
as yet unknown, or just beginning to give sign of what they were. Dr. Channing was already
distinguished as an eloquent and powerful preacher, but the general public had not yet recognized
in him that remarkable combination of loftiness of thought with magic charm of style, which
was soon to be revealed in his essays on Milton and Napoleon Bonaparte. Ticknor and Everett
were professors in Harvard College, giving a new impulse to the minds of the students by their
admirable lectures; and the latter was also conducting the "North American Review." Neither
had as yet attained to anything more than a local reputation. Prescott, a gay and light-hearted
young man,--gay and light-hearted, in spite of partial blindness,--the darling of society and
the idol of his home, was silently and resolutely preparing himself for his chosen function
by a wide and thorough course of patient study. Bancroft was in Germany, and working like a
German. Emerson was a Junior in College. Hawthorne, Longfellow, Holmes, Whittier, and Poe were
school-boys; Mrs. Stowe was a school-girl; Whipple and Lowell were in the nursery, and Motley
and the younger Dana had not long been out of it.

"Precaution," though an indifferent novel, was yet a novel; of the orthodox length, with plot,
characters, and incidents; and here and there a touch of genuine power, as in the forty-first
chapter, where the scene is on board a man-of-war bringing her prizes into port. It found many
readers, and excited a good deal of curiosity as to who the author might be.

"Precaution" was published on the 25th of August, 1820, and "The Spy" on the 17th of September,
1821. The second novel was a great improvement upon the first, and fairly took the public by
storm. We are old enough to remember its first appearance; the eager curiosity and keen discussion
which it awakened; the criticism which it called forth; and, above all, the animated delight
with which it was received by all who were young or not critical. Distinctly, too, can we recall
the breathless rapture with which we hung over its pages, in those happy days when the mind's
appetite for books was as ravenous as the body's for bread-and-butter, and a novel, with plenty
of fighting in it, was all we asked at a writer's hands. In order to qualify ourselves for
the task which we have undertaken in this article, we have read "The Spy" a second time; and
melancholy indeed was the contrast between the recollections of the boy and the impressions
of the man. It was the difference between the theatre by gas-light and the theatre by day-light:
the gold was pinchbeck, the gems were glass, the flowers were cambric and colored paper, the
goblets were gilded pasteboard. Painfully did the ideal light fade away, and the well-remembered
scene stand revealed in disenchanting day. With incredulous surprise, with a constant struggle
between past images and present revelations, were we forced to acknowledge the improbability
of the story, the clumsiness of the style, the awkwardness of the dialogue, the want of Nature
in many of the characters, the absurdity of many of the incidents, and the painfulness of some
of the scenes. But with all this, a candid, though critical judgment could not but admit that
these grave defects were attended by striking merits, which pleaded in mitigation of literary
sentence. It was stamped with a truth, earnestness, and vital power, of which its predecessor
gave no promise. Though the story was improbable, it seized upon the attention with a powerful
grasp from the very start, and the hold was not relaxed till the end. Whatever criticism it
might challenge, no one could call it dull: the only offence in a book which neither gods nor
men nor counters can pardon. If the narrative flowed languidly at times, there were moments
in which the incidents flashed along with such vivid rapidity that the susceptible reader held
his breath over the page. The character of Washington was an elaborate failure, and the author,
in his later years, regretted that he had introduced this august form into a work of fiction;
but Harvey Birch was an original sketch, happily conceived, and, in the main, well sustained.
His mysterious figure was recognized as a new accession to the repertory of the novelist, and
not a mere modification of a preëxisting type. And, above all, "The Spy" had the charm of reality;
it tasted of the soil; it was the first successful attempt to throw an imaginative light over
American history, and to do for our country what the author of "Waverley" had done for Scotland.
Many of the officers and soldiers of the Revolutionary War were still living, receiving the
reward of their early perils and privations in the grateful reverence which was paid to them
by the contemporaries of their children and grandchildren. Innumerable traditionary anecdotes
of those dark days of suffering and struggle, unrecorded in print, yet lingered in the memories
of the people, and were told in the nights of winter around the farm-house fire; and of no
part of the country was this more true than of the region in which the scene of the novel is
laid. The enthusiasm with which it was there read was the best tribute to the substantial fidelity
of its delineations. All over the country, it enlisted in its behalf the powerful sentiment
of patriotism; and whatever the critics might say, the author had the satisfaction of feeling
that the heart of the people was with him.

Abroad, "The Spy" was received with equal favor. It was soon translated into most of the languages
of Europe; and even the "gorgeous East" opened for it its rarely moving portals. In 1847, a
Persian version was published in Ispahan; and by this time it may have crossed the Chinese
wall, and be delighting the pig-tailed critics and narrow-eyed beauties of Pekin.

The success of "The Spy" unquestionably determined Cooper's vocation, and made him a man of
letters. But he had not yet found where his true strength lay. His training and education had
not been such as would seem to be a good preparation for a literary career. His reading had
been desultory, and not extensive; and the habit of composition had not been formed in early
life. Indeed, in mere style, in the handling of the tools of his craft, Cooper never attained
a master's ease and power. In his first two novels the want of technical skill and literary
accomplishment was obvious; and the scenery, subjects, and characters of these novels did not
furnish him with the opportunity of turning to account the peculiar advantages which had come
to him from the events of his childhood and youth. In his infancy he was taken to Cooperstown,
a spot which his father had just begun to reclaim from the dominion of the wilderness. Here
his first impressions of the external world, as well as of life and manners, were received.
At the age of sixteen he became a midshipman in the United States navy, and remained in the
service for six years. A father who, in training up his son for the profession of letters,
should send him into the wilderness in his infancy and to sea at sixteen, would seem to be
shooting very wide of the mark; but in this, as in so many things, there is a divinity that
shapes our rough-hewn ends. Had Cooper enjoyed the best scholastic advantages which the schools
and colleges of Europe could have furnished, they could not have fitted him for the work he
was destined to do so well as the apparently untoward elements we have above adverted to; for
Natty Bumppo was the fruit of his woodland experience, and Long Tom Coffin of his sea-faring life.

"The Pioneers" and "The Pilot" were both published in 1823; "Lionel Lincoln" in 1825; and "The
Last of the Mohicans" in 1826. We may put "Lionel Lincoln" aside, as one of his least successful
productions; but the three others were never surpassed, and rarely equalled, by any of his
numerous subsequent works. All the powerful, and nearly all the attractive, qualities of his
genius were displayed in these three novels, in their highest degree and most ample measure.
Had he never written any more,--though we should have missed many interesting narratives, admirable
pictures, and vigorously drawn characters,--we are not sure that his fame would not have been
as great as it is now. From these, and "The Spy," full materials may be drawn for forming a
correct estimate of his merits and his defects. In these, his strength and weakness, his gifts
and deficiencies, are amply shown. Here, then, we may pause, and, without pursuing his literary
biography any farther, proceed to set down our estimate of his claims as a writer. Any critic
who dips his pen in ink and not in gall would rather praise than blame; therefore we will dispose
of the least gracious part of our task first, and begin with his blemishes and defects.

A skilful construction of the story is a merit which the public taste no longer demands, and
it is consequently fast becoming one of the lost arts. The practice of publishing novels in
successive numbers, so that one portion is printed before another is written, is undoubtedly
one cause of this. But English and American readers have not been accustomed to this excellence
in the works of their best writers of fiction; and therefore they are not sensitive to the
want of it. This is certainly not one of Scott's strong points. Fielding's "Tom Jones" is,
in this respect, superior to any of the "Waverley Novels," and without an equal, so far as
we know, in English literature. But, in sitting in judgment upon a writer of novels, we cannot
waive an inquiry into his merits on this point. Are his stories, simply as stories, well told?
Are his plots symmetrically constructed and harmoniously evolved? Are his incidents probable?
and do they all help on the catastrophe? Does he reject all episodical matter which would clog
the current of the narrative? Do his novels have unity of action? or are they merely a series
of sketches, strung together without any relation of cause and effect? Cooper, tried by these
rules, can certainly command no praise. His plots are not carefully or skilfully constructed.
His incidents are not probable in themselves, nor do they succeed each other in a natural and
dependent progression. His characters get into scrapes from which the reasonable exercise of
common faculties should have saved them; and they are rescued by incredible means and impossible
instruments. The needed man appears as unaccountably and mysteriously as if he had dropped
from the clouds, or emerged from the sea, or crept up through a fissure in the earth. The winding
up of his stories is often effected by devices nearly as improbable as a violation of the laws
of Nature. His personages act without adequate motives; they rush into needless dangers; they
trust their fate, with unsuspecting simplicity, to treacherous hands.

In works of fiction the skill of the writer is most conspicuously shown when the progress of
the story is secured by natural and probable occurrences. Many events take place in history
and in common life which good taste rejects as inadmissible in a work of imagination. Sudden
death by disease or casualty is no very uncommon occurrence in real life; but it cannot be
used in a novel to clear up a tangled web of circumstance, without betraying something of a
poverty of invention in the writer. He is the best artist who makes least use of incidents
which lie out of the beaten path of observation and experience. In constructive skill Cooper's
rank is not high; for all his novels are more or less open to the criticism that too frequent
use is made in them of events very unlikely to have happened. He leads his characters into
such formidable perils that the chances are a million to one against their being rescued. Such
a run is made upon our credulity that the fund is soon exhausted, and the bank stops payment.

For illustration of the above strictures we will refer to a single novel, "The Last of the
Mohicans," which everybody will admit to be one of the most interesting of his works,--full
of rapid movement, brilliant descriptions, hair-breadth escapes, thrilling adventures,--which
young persons probably read with more rapt attention than any other of his narratives. In the
opening chapter we find at Fort Edward, on the head-waters of the Hudson, the two daughters
of Colonel Munro, the commander of Fort William Henry, on the shores of Lake George; though
why they were at the former post, under the protection of a stranger, and not with their father,
does not appear. Information is brought of the approach of Montcalm, with a hostile army of
Indians and Frenchmen, from the North; and the young ladies are straightway hurried off to
the more advanced, and consequently more dangerous post, when prudence and affection would
have dictated just the opposite course. Nor is this all. General Webb, the commander of Fort
Edward, at the urgent request of Colonel Munro, sends him a reinforcement of fifteen hundred
men, who march off through the woods, by the military road, with drums beating and colors flying;
and yet, strange to say, the young ladies do not accompany the troops, but set off, on the
very same day, by a by-path, attended by no other escort than Major Heyward, and guided by
an Indian whose fidelity is supposed to be assured by his having been flogged for drunkenness
by the orders of Colonel Munro. The reason assigned for conduct so absurd that in real life
it would have gone far to prove the parties having a hand in it not to be possessed of that
sound and disposing mind and memory which the law requires as a condition precedent to making
a will is, that hostile Indians, in search of chance scalps, would be hovering about the column
of troops, and so leave the by-path unmolested. Certainly, all the sagacity of the fort would
seem to have been concentrated in the person of the Indian. How much of this improbability
might have been avoided, if the action had been reversed, and the young ladies, in view of
the gathering cloud of war, had been sent from the more exposed and less strongly guarded point
of Fort William Henry to the safe fortress of Fort Edward! Then the smallness of the escort
and the risks of the journey would have been explained and excused by the necessity of the
case; and the subsequent events of the novel might have been easily accommodated to the change
we have indicated.

One of the best of Cooper's novels--as a work of art perhaps the very best--is "The Bravo."
But the character of Jacopo Frontoni is a sort of moral impossibility, and the clearing up
of the mystery which hangs over his life and conduct, which is skilfully reserved to the last
moment, is consequently unsatisfactory. He is represented as a young man of the finest qualities
and powers, who, in the hope of rescuing a father who had been falsely imprisoned by the Senate,
consents to assume the character, and bear the odium, of a public bravo, or assassin, though
entirely innocent. This false position gives rise to many most effective scenes and incidents,
and the character is in many respects admirably drawn. But when the end comes, we lay down
the book and say,--"This could never have been: a virtuous and noble young man could not for
years have been believed to be the most hateful of mankind; the laws of Nature and the laws
of the human mind forbid it: so vast a web of falsehood could not have been woven without a
flaw: we can credit much of the organized and pitiless despotism of Venice, but could it work
miracles?"

Further illustrations of this same defect might easily be cited, if the task were not ungracious.
Neither books, nor pictures, nor men and women should be judged by their defects. It is enough
to say that Cooper never wrote a novel in regard to which the reader must not lay aside his
critical judgment upon the structure of the story and the interdependence of the incidents,
and let himself be borne along by the rapid flow of the narrative, without questioning too
curiously as to the nature of the means and instruments employed to give movement to the stream.

In the delineation of character, Cooper may claim great, but not unqualified praise. This is
a vague statement; and to draw a sharper line of discrimination, we should say that he is generally
successful--sometimes admirably so--in drawing personages in whom strong primitive traits have
not been effaced by the attritions of artificial life, and generally unsuccessful when he deals
with those in whom the original characteristics are less marked, or who have been smoothed
by education and polished by society. It is but putting this criticism in another form to say
that his best characters are persons of humble social position. He wields his brush with a
vigorous hand, but the brush itself has not a fine point. Of all the children of his brain,
Natty Bumppo is the most universal favorite,--and herein the popular judgment is assuredly
right. He is an original conception,--and not more happily conceived than skilfully executed.
It was a hazardous undertaking to present the character backwards, and let us see the closing
scenes of his life first,--like a Hebrew Bible, of which the beginning is at the end; but the
author's genius has triumphed over the perils of the task, and given us a delineation as consistent
and symmetrical as it is striking and vigorous. Ignorant of books, simple, and credulous, guileless
himself, and suspecting no evil in others, with moderate intellectual powers, he commands our
admiration and respect by his courage, his love of Nature, his skill in woodland lore, his
unerring moral sense, his strong affections, and the veins of poetry that run through his rugged
nature like seams of gold in quartz. Long Tom Coffin may be described as Leatherstocking suffered
a sea-change,--with a harpoon instead of a rifle, and a pea-jacket instead of a hunting-shirt.
In both the same primitive elements may be discerned: the same limited intellectual range combined
with professional or technical skill; the same generous affections and unerring moral instincts;
the same religious feeling, taking the form at times of fatalism or superstition. Long Tom's
love of the sea is like Leatherstocking's love of the woods; the former's dislike of the land
is like the latter's dislike of the clearings. Cooper himself, as we are told by his daughter,
was less satisfied, in his last years, with Long Tom Coffin than most of his readers,--and,
of the two characters, considered that of Boltrope the better piece of workmanship. We cannot
assent to this comparative estimate; but we admit that Boltrope has not had full justice done
to him in popular judgment. It is but a slight sketch, but it is extremely well done. His death
is a bit of manly and genuine pathos; and in his conversations with the chaplain there is here
and there a touch of true humor, which we value the more because humor was certainly not one
of the author's best gifts.

Antonio, the old fisherman, in "The Bravo," is another very well drawn character, in which
we can trace something of a family likeness to the hunter and sailor above mentioned. The scene
in which he is shrived by the Carmelite monk, in his boat, under the midnight moon, upon the
Lagoons, is one of the finest we know of in the whole range of the literature of fiction, leaving
upon the mind a lasting impression of solemn and pathetic beauty. In "The Chainbearer," the
Yankee squatter, Thousandacres, is a repulsive figure, but drawn with a powerful pencil. The
energy of character, or rather of action, which is the result of a passionate love of money,
is true to human nature. The closing scenes of his rough and lawless life, in which his latent
affection for his faithful wife throws a sunset gleam over his hard and selfish nature, and
prevents it from being altogether hateful, are impressively told, and are touched with genuine
tragic power.

On the other hand, Cooper generally fails when he undertakes to draw a character which requires
for its successful execution a nice observation and a delicate hand. His heroes and heroines
are apt to abuse the privilege which such personages have enjoyed, time out of mind, of being
insipid. Nor can he catch and reproduce the easy grace and unconscious dignity of high-bred
men and women. His gentlemen, whether young or old, are apt to be stiff, priggish, and commonplace;
and his ladies, especially his young ladies, are as deficient in individuality as the figures
and faces of a fashion-print. Their personal and mental charms are set forth with all the minuteness
of a passport; but, after all, we cannot but think that these fine creatures, with hair, brow,
eyes, and lips of the most orthodox and approved pattern, would do very little towards helping
one through a rainy day in a country-house. Judge Temple, in "The Pioneers," and Colonel Howard,
in "The Pilot," are highly estimable and respectable gentlemen, but, in looking round for the
materials of a pleasant dinner-party, we do not think they would stand very high on the list.
They are fair specimens of their class,--the educated gentleman in declining life,--many of
whom are found in the subsequent novels. They are wanting in those natural traits of individuality
by which, in real life, one human being is distinguished from another. They are obnoxious to
this one general criticism, that the author is constantly reminding us of the qualities of
mind and character on which he rests their claims to favor, without causing them to appear
naturally and unconsciously in the course of the narrative. The defect we are adverting to
may be illustrated by comparing such personages of this class as Cooper has delineated with
Colonel Talbot, in "Waverley," Colonel Mannering and Counsellor Pleydell, in "Guy Mannering,"
Monkbarns, in "The Antiquary," and old Osbaldistone, in "Rob Roy." These are all old men: they
are all men of education, and in the social position of gentlemen; but each has certain characteristics
which the others have not: each has the distinctive individual flavor-perceptible, but indescribable,
like the savor of a fruit--which is wanting in Cooper's well-dressed and well-behaved lay-figures.

In the delineation of female loveliness and excellence Cooper is generally supposed to have
failed,--at least, comparatively so. But in this respect full justice has hardly been done
him; and this may be explained by the fact that it was from the heroines of his earlier novels
that this unfavorable judgment was drawn. Certainly, such sticks of barley-candy as Frances
Wharton, Cecilia Howard, and Alice Munro justify the common impression. But it would be as
unfair to judge of what he can do in this department by his acknowledged failures as it would
be to form an estimate of the genius of Michel Angelo from the easel-picture of the Virgin
and Child in the Tribune at Florence. No man ever had a juster appreciation of, and higher
reverence for, the worth of woman than Cooper. Towards women his manners were always marked
by chivalrous deference, blended as to those of his own household with the most affectionate
tenderness. His own nature was robust, self-reliant, and essentially masculine: such men always
honor women, but they understand them better as they grow older. There is so much foundation
for the saying, that men are apt to love their first wives best, but to treat their second
wives best. Thus the reader who takes up his works in chronological order will perceive that
the heroines of his later novels have more spirit and character, are drawn with a more discriminating
touch, take stronger hold upon the interest, than those of his earlier. Ursula Malbone is a
finer girl than Cecilia Howard, or even Elizabeth Temple. So when he has occasion to delineate
a woman who, from her position in life, or the peculiar circumstances into which she is thrown,
is moved by deeper springs of feeling, is obliged to put forth sterner energies, than are known
to females reared in the sheltered air of prosperity and civilization,--when he paints the
heart of woman roused by great perils, overborne by heavy sorrows, wasted by strong passions,--we
recognize the same master-hand which has given us such powerful pictures of character in the
other sex. In other words, Cooper is not happy in representing those shadowy and delicate graces
which belong exclusively to woman, and distinguish her from man; but he is generally successful
in sketching in woman those qualities which are found in both sexes. In "The Bravo," Donna
Violetta, the heroine, a rich and high-born young lady, is not remarkable one way or the other;
but Gelsomina, the jailer's daughter, born in an inferior position, reared in a sterner school
of discipline and struggle, is a beautiful and consistent creation, constantly showing masculine
energy and endurance, yet losing nothing of womanly charm. Ruth, in "The Wept of the Wish-ton-Wish,"
Hetty Hutter, the weak-minded and sound-hearted girl, in "The Deerslayer," Mabel Dunham, and
the young Indian woman, "Dew of June," in "The Pathfinder," are further cases in point. No
one can read the books in which these women are represented and say that Cooper was wanting
in the power of delineating the finest and highest attributes of womanhood,

Cooper cannot be congratulated upon his success in the few attempts he has made to represent
historical personages. Washington, as shown to us in "The Spy," is a formal piece of mechanism,
as destitute of vital character as Maelzel's automaton trumpeter. This, we admit, was a very
difficult subject, alike from the peculiar traits of Washington, and from the reverence in
which his name and memory are held by his countrymen. But the sketch, in "The Pilot," of Paul
Jones, a very different person, and a much easier subject, is hardly better. In both cases,
the failure arises from the fact that the author is constantly endeavoring to produce the legitimate
effect of mental and moral qualities by a careful enumeration of external attributes. Harper,
under which name Washington is introduced, appears in only two or three scenes; but, during
these, we hear so much of the solemnity and impressiveness of his manner, the gravity of his
brow, the steadiness of his gaze, that we get the notion of a rather oppressive personage,
and sympathize with the satisfaction of the Whartons, when he retires to his own room, and
relieves them of his tremendous presence. Mr. Gray, who stands for Paul Jones, is more carefully
elaborated, but the result is far from satisfactory. We are so constantly told of his calmness
and abstraction, of his sudden starts and bursts of feeling, of his low voice, of his fits
of musing, that the aggregate impression is that of affectation and self-consciousness, rather
than of a simple, passionate, and heroic nature. Mr. Gray does not seem to us at all like the
rash, fiery, and dare-devil Scotchman of history. His conduct and conversation, as recounted
in the fifth chapter of the novel, are unnatural and improbable; and we cannot wonder that
the first lieutenant did not know what to make of so melodramatic and sententious a gentleman,
in the guise of a pilot.

Cooper, as we need hardly say, has drawn copiously upon Indian life and character for the materials
of his novels; and among foreign nations much of his reputation is due to this fact. Civilized
men and women always take pleasure in reading about the manners and habits of savage life;
and those in whom the shows of things are submitted to the desires of the mind delight to invest
them with those ideal qualities which they do not find, or think they do not, in the artificial
society around them. Cooper had enjoyed no peculiar opportunities of studying by personal observation
the characteristics of the Indian race, but he had undoubtedly read everything he could get
hold of in illustration of the subject. No one can question the vividness and animation of
his sketches, or their brilliant tone of color. He paints with a pencil dipped in the glow
of our sunset skies and the crimson of our autumn maples. We expect a succession of startling
incidents, and a rapid course of narrative without pauses or languid intervals. We do not object
to his idealizing his Indians: this is the privilege of the novelist, time out of mind. He
may make them swift of foot, graceful in movement, and give them a form like the Apollo's;
he may put as much expression as he pleases into their black eyes; he may tessellate their
speech as freely as he will with poetical and figurative expressions, drawn from the aspects
of the external world: for all this there is authority, and chapter and verse may be cited
in support of it. But we have a right to ask that he shall not transcend the bounds of reason
and possibility, and represent his red men as moved by motives and guided by sentiments which
are wholly inconsistent with the inexorable facts of the case. We confess to being a little
more than skeptical as to the Indian of poetry and romance: like the German's camel, he is
evolved from the depth of the writer's own consciousness. The poet takes the most delicate
sentiments and the finest emotions of civilization and cultivation, and grafts them upon the
best qualities of savage life; which is as if a painter should represent an oak-tree bearing
roses. The life of the North-American Indian, like that of all men who stand upon the base-line
of civilization, is a constant struggle, and often a losing struggle, for mere subsistence.
The sting of animal wants is his chief motive of action, and the full gratification of animal
wants his highest ideal of happiness. The "noble savage," as sketched by poets, weary of the
hollowness, the insincerity, and the meanness of artificial life, is really a very ignoble
creature, when seen in the "open daylight" of truth. He is selfish, sensual, cruel, indolent,
and impassive. The highest graces of character, the sweetest emotions, the finest sensibilities,--which
make up the novelist's stock in trade,--are not and cannot be the growth of a so-called state
of Nature, which is an essentially unnatural state. We no more believe that Logan ever made
the speech reported by Jefferson, in so many words, than we believe that Chatham ever made
the speech in reply to Walpole which begins with, "The atrocious crime of being a young man";
though we have no doubt that the reporters in both cases had something fine and good to start
from. We accept with acquiescence, nay, with admiration, such characters as Magua, Chingachgook,
Susquesus, Tamenund, and Canonchet; but when we come to Uncas, in "The Last of the Mohicans,"
we pause and shake our heads with incredulous doubt. That a young Indian chief should fall
in love with a handsome quadroon like Cora Munro--for she was neither more nor less than that--is
natural enough; but that he should manifest his passion with such delicacy and refinement is
impossible. We include under one and the same name all the affinities and attractions of sex,
but the appetite of the savage differs from the love of the educated and civilized man as much
as charcoal differs from the diamond. The sentiment of love, as distinguished from the passion,
is one of the last and best results of Christianity and civilization: in no one thing does
savage life differ from civilized more than in the relations between man and woman, and in
the affections that unite them. Uncas is a graceful and beautiful image; but he is no Indian.

We turn now to a more gracious part of our task, and proceed to say something of the many striking
excellences which distinguish Cooper's writings, and have given him such wide popularity. Popularity
is but one test of merit, and not the highest,--gauging popularity by the number of readers,
at any one time, irrespective of their taste and judgment. In this sense, "The Scottish Chiefs"
and "Thaddeus of Warsaw" were once as popular as any of the Waverley Novels. But Cooper's novels
have enduring merit, and will surely keep their place in the literature of the language. The
manners, habits, and costumes of England have greatly changed during the last hundred years;
but Richardson and Fielding are still read. We must expect corresponding changes in this country
during the next century; but we may confidently predict that in the year 1962 young and impressible
hearts will be saddened at the fate of Uncas and Cora, and exult when Captain Munson's frigate
escapes from the shoals.

A few pages back we spoke of Cooper's want of skill in the structure of his plots, and his
too frequent recurrence to improbable incidents to help on the course of his stories. But most
readers care little about this defect, provided the writer betrays no poverty of invention,
and succeeds in making his narratives interesting. Herein Cooper never lays himself open to
that instinctive and unconscious criticism, which is the only kind an author need dread, because
from it there is no appeal. It is bad to have a play hissed down, but it is worse to have it
yawned down. But over Cooper's pages his readers never yawn. They never break down in the middle
of one of his stories. The fortunes of his characters are followed with breathless and accumulating
interest to the end. In vain does the dinner-bell sound, or the clock strike the hour of bed-time:
the book cannot be laid down till we know whether Elizabeth Temple is to get out of the woods
without being burned alive, or solve the mystery that hangs over the life of Jacopo Frontoni.
He has in ample measure that paramount and essential merit in a novelist of fertility of invention.
The resources of his genius, alike in the devising of incidents and the creation of character,
are inexhaustible. His scenes are laid on the sea and in the forest,--in Italy, Germany, Switzerland,
and Spain,--amid the refinements and graces of civilization and the rudeness and hardships
of frontier and pioneer life; but everywhere he moves with an easy and familiar tread, and
everywhere, though there may be the motive and the cue for minute criticism, we recognize the
substantial truth of his pictures. In all his novels the action is rapid and the movement animated:
his incidents may not be probable, but they crowd upon each other so thickly that we have not
time to raise the question: before one impression has become familiar, the scene changes, and
new objects enchain the attention. All rapid motion is exhilarating alike to mind and body;
and in reading Cooper's novels we feel a pleasure analogous to that which stirs the blood when
we drive a fast horse or sail with a ten-knot breeze. This fruitfulness in the invention of
incidents is nearly as important an element in the composition of a novelist as a good voice
in that of a singer. A powerful work of fiction may be produced by a writer who has not this
gift; but such works address a comparatively limited public. To the common mind no faculty
in the novelist is so fascinating as this. "Caleb Williams" is a story of remarkable power;
but "Ivanhoe" has a thousand readers to its one.

In estimating novelists by the number and variety of characters with which they have enriched
the repertory of fiction, Cooper's place, if not the highest, is very high. The fruitfulness
of his genius in this regard is kindred to its fertility in the invention of incidents. We
can pardon in a portrait-gallery of such extent here and there an ill-drawn figure or a face
wanting in expression. With the exception of Scott, and perhaps of Dickens, what writer of
prose fiction has created a greater number of characters such as stamp themselves upon the
memory so that an allusion to them is well understood in cultivated society? Fielding has drawn
country squires, and Smollett has drawn sailors; but neither has intruded upon the domain of
the other, nor could he have made the attempt without failure. Some of our living novelists
have a limited list of characters; they have half a dozen types which we recognize as inevitably
as we do the face and voice of an actor in the king, the lover, the priest, or the bandit:
but Cooper is not a mere mannerist, perpetually copying from himself. His range is very wide:
it includes white men, red men, and black men,--sailors, hunters, and soldiers,--lawyers, doctors,
and clergymen,--past generations and present,--Europeans and Americans,--civilized and savage
life. All his delineations are not successful; some are even unsuccessful: but the aberrations
of his genius must be viewed in connection with the extent of the orbit through which it moves.
The courage which led him to expose himself to so many risks of failure is itself a proof of
conscious power.

Cooper's style has not the ease, grace, and various power of Scott's,--or the racy, idiomatic
character of Thackeray's,--or the exquisite purity and transparency of Hawthorne's: but it
is a manly, energetic style, in which we are sure to find good words, if not the best. It has
certain wants, but it has no marked defects; if it does not always command admiration, it never
offends. It has not the highest finish; it sometimes betrays carelessness: but it is the natural
garb in which a vigorous mind clothes its conceptions. It is the style of a man who writes
from a full mind, without thinking of what he is going to say; and this is in itself a certain
kind of merit. His descriptive powers are of a high order. His love of Nature was strong; and,
as is generally the case with intellectual men, it rather increased than diminished as he grew
older. It was not the meditative and self-conscious love of a sensitive spirit, that seeks
in communion with the outward world a relief from the burdens and struggles of humanity, but
the hearty enjoyment of a thoroughly healthy nature, the schoolboy's sense of a holiday dwelling
in a manly breast. His finest passages are those in which he presents the energies and capacities
of humanity in combination with striking or beautiful scenes in Nature. His genius, which sometimes
moves with "compulsion and laborious flight" when dealing with artificial life and the manners
and speech of cultivated men, and women, here recovers all its powers, and sweeps and soars
with victorious and irresistible wing. The breeze from the sea, the fresh air and wide horizon
of the prairies, the noonday darkness of the forest are sure to animate his drooping energies,
and breathe into his mind the inspiration of a fresh life. Here he is at home, and in his congenial
element: he is the swan on the lake, the eagle in the air, the deer in the woods. The escape
of the frigate, in the fifth chapter of "The Pilot," is a well-known passage of this kind;
and nothing can be finer. The technical skill, the poetical feeling, the rapidity of the narrative,
the distinctness of the details, the vividness of the coloring, the life, power, and animation
which breathe and burn in every line, make up a combination of the highest order of literary
merit. It is as good a sea-piece as the best of Turner's; and we cannot give it higher praise.
We hear the whistling of the wind through the rigging, and the roar of the pitiless sea, bellowing
for its prey; we see the white caps of the waves flashing with spectral light through the darkness,
and the gallant ship whirled along like a bubble by the irresistible current; we hold our breath
as we read of the expedients and manoeuvres which most of us but half understand, and heave
a long sigh of relief when the danger is past, and the ship reaches the open sea. A similar
passage, though of more quiet and gentler beauty, is the description of the deer-chase on the
lake, in the twenty-seventh chapter of "The Pioneers." Indeed, this whole novel is full of
the finest expressions of the author's genius. Into none of his works has he put more of the
warmth of personal feeling and the glow of early recollection. His own heart beats through
every line. The fresh breezes of the morning of life play round its pages, and its unexhaled
dew hangs upon them. It is colored throughout with the rich hues of sympathetic emotion. All
that is attractive in pioneer life is reproduced with substantial truth; but the pictures are
touched with those finer lights which time pours over the memories of childhood. With what
spirit and power all the characteristic incidents and scenes of a new settlement are described,--pigeon-shooting,
bass-fishing, deer-hunting, the making of maple-sugar, the turkey-shooting at Christmas, the
sleighing-parties in winter! How distinctly his landscapes are painted,--the deep, impenetrable
forest, the gleaming lake, the crude aspect and absurd architecture of the new-born village!
How full of poetry in the ore is the conversation of Leatherstocking! The incongruities and
peculiarities of social life which are the result of a sudden rush of population into the wilderness
are also well sketched; though with a pencil less free and vivid than that with which he paints
the aspects of Nature and the movements of natural man. As respects the structure of the story,
and the probability of the incidents, the novel is open to criticism; but such is the fascination
that hangs over it, that it is impossible to criticize. To do this would be as ungracious as
to correct the language and pronunciation of an old friend who revives by his conversation
the fading memories of school-boy and college life.

Cooper would have been a better writer, if he had had more of the quality of humor, and a keener
sense of the ridiculous; for these would have saved him from his too frequent practice of introducing
both into his narrative and his conversations, but more often into the latter, scraps of commonplace
morality, and bits of sentiment so long worn as to have lost all their gloss. In general, his
genius does not appear to advantage in dialogue. His characters have not always a due regard
to the brevity of human life. They make long speeches, preach dull sermons, and ventilate very
self-evident propositions with great solemnity of utterance. Their discourse wants not only
compression, but seasoning. They are sometimes made to talk in such a way that the force of
caricature can hardly go farther. For instance, in "The Pioneers," Judge Temple, coming into
a room in his house, and seeing a fire of maple-logs, exclaims to Richard Jones, his kinsman
and factotum,--"How often have I forbidden the use of the sugar-maple in my dwelling! The sight
of that sap, as it exudes with the heat, is painful to me, Richard." And in another place,
he is made to say to his daughter,--"Remember the heats of July, my daughter; nor venture farther
than thou canst retrace before the meridian." We may be sure that no man of woman born, in
finding fault about the burning of maple-logs, ever talked of the sap's "exuding"; or, when
giving a daughter a caution against walking too far, ever translated getting home before noon
into "retracing before the meridian." This is almost as bad as Sir Piercie Shafton's calling
the cows "the milky mothers of the herds."

So, too, a lively perception of the ludicrous would have saved Cooper from certain peculiarities
of phrase and awkwardnesses of expression, frequently occurring in his novels, such as might
easily slip from the pen in the rapidity of composition, but which we wonder should have been
overlooked in the proof-sheet. A few instances will illustrate our meaning. In the elaborate
description of the personal charms of Cecilia Howard, in the tenth chapter of "The Pilot,"
we are told of "a small hand which seemed to blush at its own naked beauties." These are but
trivial faults; and if they had not been so easily corrected, it would have been hypercriticism
to notice them.

Every author in the department of imaginative literature, whether of prose or verse, puts more
or less of his personal traits of mind and character into his writings. This is very true of
Cooper; and much of the worth and popularity of his novels is to be ascribed to the unconscious
expressions and revelations they give of the estimable and attractive qualities of the man.
This is a just tribute; and the impression thus made by a single work is confirmed by all.
Cooper's moral nature was thoroughly sound, and all his moral instincts were right. His writings
show in how high regard he held the two great guardian virtues of courage in man and purity
in woman. In all his novels we do not recall a single expression of doubtful morality. He never
undertakes to enlist our sympathies on the wrong side. If his good characters are not always
engaging, he never does violence to virtue by presenting attractive qualities in combination
with vices which in real life harden the heart and coarsen the taste. We do not find in his
pages those moral monsters in which the finest sensibilities, the richest gifts, the noblest
sentiments are linked to heartless profligacy, or not less heartless misanthropy. He never
palters with right; he enters into no truce with wrong; he admits of no compromise on such
points. How admirable in its moral aspect is the character of Leatherstocking! he is ignorant,
and of very moderate intellectual range or grasp; but what dignity, nay, even grandeur, is
thrown around him from his noble moral qualities,--his undeviating rectitude, his disinterestedness,
his heroism, his warm affections! No writer could have delineated such a character so well
who had not an instinctive and unconscious sympathy with his intellectual offspring. Praise
of the same kind belongs to Long Tom Coffin, and Antonio, the old fisherman. The elements of
character--truth, courage, and affection--are the same in all. Harvey Birch and Jacopo Frontoni
are kindred conceptions: both are in a false relation to those around them; both assume a voluntary
load of obloquy; both live and move in an atmosphere of suspicion and distrust; but in both
the end sanctifies and exalts the means; the element of deception in both only adds to the
admiration finally awakened. The carrying out of conceptions like these--the delineation of
a character that perpetually weaves a web of untruth, and yet through all maintains our respect,
and at last secures our reverence--was no easy task; but Cooper's success is perfect.

Cooper was fortunate in having been born with a vigorous constitution, and in having kept through
life the blessing of robust health. He never suffered from remorse of the stomach or protest
of the brain; and his writings are those of a man who always digested his dinner and never
had a headache. His novels, like those of Scott, are full of the breeze and sunshine of health.
They breathe of manly tastes, active habits, sound sleep, a relish for simple pleasures, temperate
enjoyments, and the retention in manhood of the fresh susceptibilities of youth. His genius
is thoroughly masculine. He is deficient in acute perception, in delicate discrimination, in
fine analysis, in the skill to seize and arrest exceptional peculiarities; but he has in large
measure the power to present the broad characteristics of universal humanity. It is to this
power that he owes his wide popularity. At this moment, in every public and circulating library
in England or America, the novels of Cooper will be found to be in constant demand. He wrote
for the many, and not for the few; he hit the common mind between wind and water; a delicate
and fastidious literary appetite may not be attracted to his productions, but the healthy taste
of the natural man finds therein food alike convenient and savory.

In a manly, courageous, somewhat impulsive nature like Cooper's we should expect to find prejudices;
and he was a man of strong prejudices. Among others, was an antipathy to the people of New
England. His characters, male and female, are frequently Yankees, but they are almost invariably
caricatures; that is, they have all the unamiable characteristics and unattractive traits which
are bestowed upon the people of New England by their ill-wishers. Had he ever lived among them,
with his quick powers of observation and essentially kindly judgment of men and life, he could
not have failed to correct his misapprehensions, and to perceive that he had taken the reverse
side of the tapestry for the face.

Cooper, with a very keen sense of injustice, conscious of inexhaustible power, full of vehement
impulses, and not largely endowed with that safe quality called prudence, was a man likely
to get involved in controversies. It was his destiny, and he never could have avoided it, to
be in opposition to the dominant public sentiment around him. Had he been born in Russia, he
could hardly have escaped a visit to Siberia; had he been born in Austria, he would have wasted
some of his best years in Spielberg. Under a despotic government he would have been a vehement
Republican; in a Catholic country he would have been the most uncompromising of Protestants.
He had full faith in the institutions of his own country; and his large heart, hopeful temperament,
and robust soul made him a Democrat; but his democracy had not the least tinge of radicalism.
He believed that man had a right to govern himself, and that he was capable of self-government;
but government, the subordination of impulse to law, he insisted upon as rigorously as the
veriest monarchist or aristocrat in Christendom. He would have no authority that was not legitimate;
but he would tolerate no resistance to legitimate authority. All his sentiments, impulses,
and instincts were those of a gentleman; and vulgar manners, coarse habits, and want of respect
for the rights of others were highly offensive to him. When in Europe, he resolutely, and at
no little expense of time and trouble, defended America from unjust imputations and ignorant
criticism; and when at home, with equal courage and equal energy, he breasted the current of
public Opinion where he deemed it to be wrong, and resisted those most formidable invasions
of right, wherein the many combine to oppress the one. His long controversy with the press
was too important an episode in his life to be passed over by us without mention; though our
limits will not permit us to make anything more than a passing allusion to it. The opinion
which will be formed upon Cooper's course in this matter will depend, in a considerable degree,
upon the temperament of the critic. Timid men, cautious men, men who love their ease, will
call him Quixotic, rash, imprudent, to engage in a controversy in which he had much to lose
and little to gain; but the reply to such suggestions is, that, if men always took counsel
of indolence, timidity, and selfishness, no good would ever be accomplished, and no abuses
ever be reformed. Cooper may not have been judicious in everything he said and did; but that
he was right in the main, both in motive and conduct, we firmly believe. He acted from a high
sense of duty; there was no alloy of vindictiveness or love of money in the impulses which
moved him. Criticism the most severe and unsparing he accepted as perfectly allowable, so long
as it kept within the limits of literary judgment; but any attack upon his personal character,
especially any imputation or insinuation involving a moral stain, he would not submit to. He
appealed to the laws of the land to vindicate his reputation and punish his assailants. Long
and gallant was the warfare he maintained,--a friendless, solitary warfare,--and all the hydra-heads
of the press hissing and ejaculating their venom upon him,--with none to stand by his side
and wish him God-speed. But he persevered, and, what is more, he succeeded: that, is to say,
he secured all the substantial fruits of success. He vindicated the principle for which he
contended: he compelled the newspapers to keep within the pale of literary criticism; he confirmed
the saying of President Jackson, that "desperate courage makes one a majority."

Two of his novels, "Homeward Bound" and "Home as Found," bear a strong infusion of the feelings
which led to his contest with the press. After the publication of these, he became much interested
in the well-known Anti-Rent agitation by which the State of New York was so long shaken; and
three of his novels, "Satanstoe," "The Chainbearer," and "The Redskins," forming one continuous
narrative, were written with reference to this subject. Many professed novel-readers are, we
suspect, repelled from these books, partly because of this continuity of the story, and partly
because they contain a moral; but we assure them, that, if on these grounds they pass them
by, they lose both pleasure and profit. They are written with all the vigor and spirit of his
prime; they have many powerful scenes and admirably drawn characters; the pictures of colonial
life and manners in "Satanstoe" are animated and delightful; and in all the legal and ethical
points for which the author contends he is perfectly right. In his Preface to "The Chainbearer"
he says,--"In our view, New York is at this moment a disgraced State; and her disgrace arises
from the fact that her laws are trampled under foot, without any efforts--at all commensurate
with the object--being made to enforce them." That any commonwealth is a disgraced State against
which such charges can with truth be made no one will deny; and any one who is familiar with
the history of that wretched business will agree, that, at the time it was made, the charge
was not too strong. Who can fail to admire the courage of the man who ventured to write and
print such a judgment as the above against a State of which he was a native, a citizen, and
a resident, and in which the public sentiment was fiercely the other way? Here, too, Cooper's
motives were entirely unselfish: he had almost no pecuniary interest in the question of Anti-Rentism;
he wrote all in honor, unalloyed by thrift. His very last novel, "The Ways of the Hour," is
a vigorous exposition of the defects of the trial by jury in cases where a vehement public
sentiment has already tried the question, and condemned the prisoner. The story is improbable,
and the leading character is an impossible being; but the interest is kept up to the end,--it
has many most impressive scenes,--it abounds with shrewd and sound observations upon life,
manners, and politics,--and all the legal portion is stamped with an acuteness and fidelity
to truth which no professional reader can note without admiration.

Cooper's character as a man is the more admirable to us because it was marked by strong points
which are not common in our country, and which the institutions of our country do not foster.
He had the courage to defy the majority: he had the courage to confront the press: and not
from the sting of ill-success, not from mortified vanity, not from wounded self-love, but from
an heroic sense of duty. How easy a life might he have purchased by the cheap virtues of silence,
submission, and acquiescence! Booksellers would have enriched him; society would have caressed
him; political distinction would have crowned him: he had only to watch the course of public
sentiment, and so dispose himself that he should seem to lead where he only followed, and all
comfortable things would have been poured into his lap. But he preferred to breast the stream,
to speak ungrateful truths. He set a wholesome example in this respect; none the less valuable
because so few have had the manliness and self-reliance to imitate him. More than twenty years
ago De Tocqueville said,--"I know of no country in which there is so little true independence
of mind and freedom of discussion as in America": words which we fear are not less true to-day
than when they were written. Cooper's dauntless courage would have been less admirable, had
he been hard, cold, stern, and impassive: but he was none of these. He was full of warm affections,
cordial, sympathetic, and genial; he had a woman's tenderness of heart; he was the most faithful
of friends; and in his own home no man was ever more gentle, gracious, and sweet. The blows
he received fell upon a heart that felt them keenly; but he bared his breast none the less
resolutely to the contest because it was not protected by an armor of insensibility.

But we must bring this long paper to a close. We cannot give to it the interest which comes
from personal recollections. We saw Cooper once, and but once. This was the very year before
he died, in his own home, and amid the scenes which his genius has made immortal. It was a
bright midsummer's day, and we walked together about the village, and around the shores of
the lake over which the canoe of Indian John had glided. His own aspect was as sunny as that
of the smiling heavens above us; age had not touched him with its paralyzing finger: his vigorous
frame, elastic step, and animated glance gave promise of twenty years more of energetic life.
His sturdy figure, healthy face, and a slight bluffness of manner reminded one more of his
original profession than of the life and manners of a man of letters. He looked like a man
who had lived much in the open air,--upon whom the rain had fallen, and against whom the wind
had blown. His conversation was hearty, spontaneous, and delightful from its frankness and
fulness, but it was not pointed or brilliant; you remembered the healthy ring of the words,
but not the words themselves. We recollect, that, as we were standing together on the shores
of the lake,--shores which are somewhat tame, and a lake which can claim no higher epithet
than that of pretty,--he said: "I suppose it would be patriotic to say that this is finer than
Como, but we know that it is not." We found a chord of sympathy in our common impressions of
the beauty of Sorrento, about which, and his residence there, he spoke with contagious animation.
Who could have thought that that rich and abundant life was so near its close? Nothing could
be more thoroughly satisfying than the impression he left in this brief and solitary interview.
His air and movement revealed the same manly, brave, true-hearted, warm-hearted man that is
imaged in his books. Grateful are we for the privilege of having seen, spoken with, and taken
by the hand the author of "The Pathfinder" and "The Pilot": "it is a pleasure to have seen
a great man." Distinctly through the gathering mists of years do his face and form rise up
before the mind's eye: an image of manly self-reliance, of frank courage, of generous impulse;
a frank friend, an open enemy; a man whom many misunderstood, but whom no one could understand
without honoring and loving.

       *       *       *       *       *

PER TENEBRAS, LUMINA.

  I know how, through the golden hours
    When summer sunlight floods the deep,
  The fairest stars of all the heaven
    Climb up, unseen, the effulgent steep.

  Orion girds him with a flame;
    And, king-like, from the eastward seas,
  Comes Aldebaran, with his train
    Of Hyades and Pleiades.

  In far meridian pride, the Twins
    Build, side by side, their luminous thrones;
  And Sirius and Procyon pour
    A splendor that the day disowns.

  And stately Leo, undismayed,
    With fiery footstep tracks the Sun,
  To plunge adown the western blaze,
    Sublimely lost in glories won.

  I know, if I were called to keep
    Pale morning watch with Grief and Pain,
  Mine eyes should see their gathering might
    Rise grandly through the gloom again.

  And when the Winter Solstice holds
    In his diminished path the Sun,--
  When hope, and growth, and joy are o'er,
    And all our harvesting is done,--

  When, stricken, like our mortal Life,
    Darkened and chill, the Year lays down
  The summer beauty that she wore,
    Her summer stars of Harp and Crown,--

  Thick trooping with their golden tread
    They come, as nightfall fills the sky,
  Those strong and solemn sentinels,
    To hold their mightier watch on high.

  Ah, who shall shrink from dark and cold,
    Or fear the sad and shortening days,
  Since God doth only so unfold
    The wider glory to his gaze?

  Since loyal Truth, and holy Trust,
    And kingly Strength defying Pain,
  Stern Courage, and sure Brotherhood
    Are born from out the depths again?

  Dear Country of our love and pride!
    So is thy stormy winter given!
  So, through the terrors that betide,
    Look up, and hail thy kindling heaven!

       *       *       *       *       *

LOVE AND SKATES.

IN TWO PARTS.

PART I.

CHAPTER I.

A KNOT AND A MAN TO CUT IT.

Consternation! Consternation in the back office of Benjamin Brummage, Esq., banker in Wall Street.

Yesterday down came Mr. Superintendent Whiffler, from Dunderbunk, up the North River, to say,
that, "unless something be done, at once, the Dunderbunk Foundry and Iron-Works must wind up."
President Brummage forthwith convoked his Directors. And here they sat around the green table,
forlorn as the guests at a Barmecide feast.

Well they might be forlorn! It was the rosy summer solstice, the longest and fairest day of
all the year. But rose-color and sunshine had fled from Wall Street. Noisy Crisis towing black
Panic, as a puffing steam-tug drags a three-decker cocked and primed for destruction, had suddenly
sailed in upon Credit.

As all the green inch-worms vanish on the tenth of every June, so on the tenth of that June
all the money in America had buried itself and was as if it were not. Everybody and everything
was ready to fail. If the hindmost brick went, down would go the whole file.

There were ten Directors of the Dunderbunk Foundry.

Now, not seldom, of a Board of ten Directors, five are wise and five are foolish: five wise,
who bag all the Company's funds in salaries and commissions for indorsing its paper; five foolish,
who get no salaries, no commissions, no dividends,--nothing, indeed, but abuse from the stockholders,
and the reputation of thieves. That is to say, five of the ten are pick-pockets; the other
five, pockets to be picked.

It happened that the Dunderbunk Directors were all honest and foolish but one. He, John Churm,
honest and wise, was off at the West, with his Herculean shoulders at the wheels of a dead-locked
railroad. These honest fellows did not wish Dunderbunk to fail for several reasons. First,
it was not pleasant to lose their investment. Second, one important failure might betray Credit
to Crisis with Panic at its heels, whereupon every investment would be in danger. Third, what
would become of their Directorial reputations? From President Brummage down, each of these
gentlemen was one of the pockets to be picked in a great many companies. Each was of the first
Wall-Street fashion, invited to lend his name and take stock in every new enterprise. Any one
of them might have walked down town in a long patchwork toga made of the newspaper advertisements
of boards in which his name proudly figured. If Dunderbunk failed, the toga was torn, and might
presently go to rags beyond repair. The first rent would inaugurate universal rupture. How
to avoid this disaster?--that was the question.

"State the case, Mr. Superintendent Whiffler," said President Brummage, in his pompous manner,
with its pomp a little collapsed, pro tempore.

Inefficient Whiffler whimpered out his story.

The confessions of an impotent executive are sorry stuff to read. Whiffler's long, dismal complaint
shall not be repeated. He had taken a prosperous concern, had carried on things in his own
way, and now failure was inevitable. He had bought raw material lavishly, and worked it badly
into half-ripe material, which nobody wanted to buy. He was in arrears to his hands. He had
tried to bully them, when they asked for their money. They had insulted him, and threatened
to knock off work, unless they were paid at once. "A set of horrid ruffians," Whiffler said,--"and
his life wouldn't be safe many days among them."

"Withdraw, if you please, Mr. Superintendent," President Brummage requested. "The Board will
discuss measures of relief."

The more they discussed, the more consternation. Nobody said anything to the purpose, except
Mr. Sam Gwelp, his late father's lubberly son and successor.

"Blast!" said he; "we shall have to let it slide!"

Into this assembly of imbeciles unexpectedly entered Mr. John Churm. He had set his Western
railroad trains rolling, and was just returned to town. Now he was ready to put those Herculean
shoulders at any other bemired and rickety no-go-cart.

Mr. Churm was not accustomed to be a Director in feeble companies. He came into Dunderbunk
recently as executor of his friend Damer, a year ago bored to death by a silly wife.

Churm's bristly aspect and incisive manner made him a sharp contrast to Brummage. The latter
personage was flabby in flesh, and the oppressively civil counter-jumper style of his youth
had grown naturally into a deportment of most imposing pomposity.

The Tenth Director listened to the President's recitative of their difficulties, chorused by
the Board.

"Gentlemen," said Director Churm, "you want two things. The first is Money!"

He pronounced this cabalistic word with such magic power that all the air seemed instantly
filled with a cheerful flight of gold American eagles, each carrying a double eagle on its
back and a silver dollar in its claws; and all the soil of America seemed to sprout with coin,
as after a shower a meadow sprouts with the yellow buds of the dandelion.

"Money! yes, Money!" murmured the Directors.

It seemed a word of good omen, now.

"The second thing," resumed the newcomer, "is a Man!"

The Directors looked at each other and did not see such a being.

"The actual Superintendent of Dunderbunk is a dunderhead," said Churm.

"Pun!" cried Sam Gwelp, waking up from a snooze.

Several of the Directors, thus instructed, started a complimentary laugh.

"Order, gentlemen! Orrderr!" said the President, severely, rapping with a paper-cutter.

"We must have a Man, not a Whiffler!" Churm continued. "And I have one in my eye."

Everybody examined his eye.

"Would you be so good as to name him?" said Old Brummage, timidly.

He wanted to see a Man, but feared the strange creature might be dangerous.

"Richard Wade," says Churm. They did not know him. The name sounded forcible.

"He has been in California," the nominator said.

A shudder ran around the green table. They seemed to see a frowzy desperado, shaggy as a bison,
in a red shirt and jackboots, hung about the waist with an assortment of six-shooters and bowie-knives,
and standing against a background of mustangs, monte-banks, and lynch-law.

"We must get Wade," Churm says, with authority. "He knows Iron by heart. He can handle Men.
I will back him with my blank check, to any amount, to his order."

Here a murmur of applause, swelling to a cheer, burst from the Directors.

Everybody knew that the Geological Bank deemed Churm's deposits the fundamental stratum of
its wealth. They lay there in the vaults, like underlying granite. When hot times came, they
boiled up in a mountain to buttress the world.

Churm's blank check seemed to wave in the air like an oriflamme of victory. Its payee might
come from Botany Bay; he might wear his beard to his knees, and his belt stuck full of howitzers
and boomerangs; he might have been repeatedly hung by Vigilance Committees, and as often cut
down and revived by galvanism; but brandishing that check, good for anything less than a million,
every Director in Wall Street was his slave, his friend, and his brother.

"Let us vote Mr. Wade in by acclamation," cried the Directors.

"But, gentlemen," Churm interposed, "if I give him my blank check, he must have carte blanche,
and no one to interfere in his management."

Every Director, from President Brummage down, drew a long face at this condition.

It was one of their great privileges to potter in the Dunderbunk affairs and propose ludicrous
impossibilities.

"Just as you please," Churm continued. "I name a competent man, a gentleman and fine fellow.
I back him with all the cash he wants. But he must have his own way. Now take him, or leave him!"

Such despotic talk had never been heard before in that Directors' Room. They relucted a moment.
But they thought of their togas of advertisements in danger. The blank check shook its blandishments
before their eyes.

"We take him," they said, and Richard Wade was the new Superintendent unanimously.

"He shall be at Dunderbunk to take hold to-morrow morning," said Churm, and went off to notify him.

Upon this, Consternation sailed out of the hearts of Brummage and associates.

They lunched with good appetites over the green table, and the President confidently remarked,--

"I don't believe there is going much of a crisis, after all."

CHAPTER II.

BARRACKS FOR THE HERO.

Wade packed his kit, and took the Hudson-River train for Dunderbunk the same afternoon.

He swallowed his dust, he gasped for his fresh air, he wept over his cinders, he refused his
"lozengers," he was admired by all the pretty girls and detested by all the puny men in the
train, and in good time got down at his station.

He stopped on the platform to survey the land--and water-privileges of his new abode.

"The June sunshine is unequalled," he soliloquized, "the river is splendid, the hills are pretty,
and the Highlands, north, respectable; but the village has gone to seed. Place and people look
lazy, vicious, and ashamed. I suppose those chimneys are my Foundry. The smoke rises as if
the furnaces were ill-fed and weak in the lungs. Nothing, I can see, looks alive, except that
queer little steamboat coming in,--the 'I. Ambuster,'--jolly name for a boat!"

Wade left his traps at the station, and walked through the village. All the gilding of a golden
sunset of June could not make it anything but commonplace. It would be forlorn on a gray day,
and utterly dismal in a storm.

"I must look up a civilized house to lodge in," thought the stranger. "I cannot possibly camp
at the tavern. Its offence is rum, and smells to heaven."

Presently our explorer found a neat, white, two-story, home-like abode on the upper street,
overlooking the river.

"This promises," he thought. "Here are roses on the porch, a piano, or at least a melodeon,
by the parlor-window, and they are insured in the Mutual, as the Mutual's plate announces.
Now, if that nice-looking person in black I see setting a table in the back-room is a widow,
I will camp here."

Perry Purtett was the name on the door, and opposite the sign of an omnium-gatherum country-store
hinted that Perry was deceased. The hint was a broad one. Wade read, "Ringdove, Successor to
late P. Purtett."

"It's worth a try to get in here out of the pagan barbarism around. I'll propose--as a lodger--to
the widow."

So said Wade, and rang the bell under the roses. A pretty, slim, delicate, fair-haired maiden
answered.

"This explains the roses and the melodeon," thought Wade, and asked, "Can I see your mother?"

Mamma came. "Mild, timid, accustomed to depend on the late Perry, and wants a friend," Wade
analyzed, while he bowed. He proposed himself as a lodger.

"I didn't know it was talked of generally," replied the widow, plaintively; "but I have said
that we felt lonesome, Mr. Purtett bein' gone, and if the new minister"--

Here she paused. The cut of Wade's jib was unclerical. He did not stoop, like a new minister.
He was not pallid, meagre, and clad in unwholesome black, like the same. His bronzed face was
frank and bold and unfamiliar with speculations on Original Sin or Total Depravity.

"I am not the new minister," said Wade, smiling slightly over his moustache; "but a new Superintendent
for the Foundry."

"Mr. Whiffler is goin'?" exclaimed Mrs. Purtett.

She looked at her daughter, who gave a little sob and ran out of the room.

"What makes my daughter Belle feel bad," says the widow, "is, that she had a friend,--well,
it isn't too much to say that they was as good as engaged,--and he was foreman of the Foundry
finishin'-shop. But somehow Whiffler spoilt him, just as he spoils everything he touches; and
last winter, when Belle was away, William Tarbox--that's his name, and his head is runnin'
over with inventions--took to spreein' and liquor, and got ashamed of himself, and let down
from a foreman to a hand, and is all the while lettin' down lower."

The widow's heart thus opened, Wade walked in as consoler. This also opened the lodgings to
him. He was presently installed in the large and small front-rooms up-stairs, unpacking his
traps, and making himself permanently at home.

Superintendent Whiffler came over, by-and-by, to see his successor. He did not like his looks.
The new man should have looked mean or weak or rascally, to suit the outgoer.

"How long do you expect to stay?" asks Whiffler, with a half-sneer, watching Wade hanging a
map and a print vis-à-vis.

"Until the men and I, or the Company and I, cannot pull together."

"I'll give you a week to quarrel with both, and another to see the whole concern go to everlasting
smash. And now, if you're ready, I'll go over the accounts with you and prove it."

Whiffler himself, insolent, cowardly, and a humbug, if not a swindler, was enough, Wade thought,
to account for any failure. But he did not mention this conviction.

CHAPTER III.

HOW TO BEHEAD A HYDRA!

At ten next morning, Whiffler handed over the safe-key to Wade, and departed to ruin some other
property, if he could get one to ruin. Wade walked with him to the gate.

"I'm glad to be out of a sinking ship," said the ex-boss. "The Works will go down, sure as
shooting. And I think myself well out of the clutches of these men. They're a bullying, swearing,
drinking set of infernal ruffians. Foremen are just as bad as hands. I never felt safe of my
life with 'em."

"A bad lot, are they?" mused Wade, as he returned to the office. "I must give them a little
sharp talk by way of Inaugural."

He had the bell tapped and the men called together in the main building.

Much work was still going on in an inefficient, unsystematic way.

While hot fires were roaring in the great furnaces, smoke rose from the dusty beds where Titanic
castings were cooling. Great cranes, manacled with heavy chains, stood over the furnace-doors,
ready to lift steaming jorums of melted metal, and pour out, hot and hot, for the moulds to
swallow.

Raw material in big heaps lay about, waiting for the fire to ripen it. Here was a stack of
long, rough, rusty pigs, clumsy as the shillelabs of the Anakim. There was a pile of short,
thick masses, lying higgledy-piggledy, stuff from the neighboring mines, which needed to be
crossed with foreign stock before it could be of much use in civilization.

Here, too, was raw material organized: a fly-wheel, large enough to keep the knobbiest of asteroids
revolving without a wabble; a cross-head, cross-tail, and piston-rod, to help a great sea-going
steamer breast the waves; a light walking-beam, to whirl the paddles of a fast boat on the
river; and other members of machines, only asking to be put together and vivified by steam
and they would go at their work with a will.

From the black rafters overhead hung the heavy folds of a dim atmosphere, half dust, half smoke.
A dozen sunbeams, forcing their way through the grimy panes of the grimy upper windows, found
this compound quite palpable and solid, and they moulded out of it a series of golden bars
set side by side aloft, like the pipes of an organ out of its perpendicular.

Wade grew indignant, as he looked about him and saw so much good stuff and good force wasting
for want of a little will and skill to train the force and manage the stuff. He abhorred bankruptcy
and chaos.

"All they want here is a head," he thought.

He shook his own. The brain within was well developed with healthy exercise. It filled its
case, and did not rattle like a withered kernel, or sound soft like a rotten one. It was a
vigorous, muscular brain. The owner felt that he could trust it for an effort, as he could
his lungs for a shout, his legs for a leap, or his fist for a knock-down argument.

At the tap of the bell, the "bad lot" of men came together. They numbered more than two hundred,
though the Foundry was working short. They had been notified that "that gonoph of a Whiffler
was kicked out, and a new feller was in, who looked cranky enough, and wanted to see 'em and
tell 'em whether he was a damn' fool or not."

So all hands collected from the different parts of the Foundry to see the head.

They came up with easy and somewhat swaggering bearing,--a good many roughs, with here and
there a ruffian. Several, as they approached, swung and tossed, for mere overplus of strength,
the sledges with which they had been tapping at the bald shiny pates of their anvils. Several
wielded their long pokers like lances.

Grimy chaps, all with their faces streaked, like Blackfeet in their warpaint. Their hairy chests
showed, where some men parade elaborate shirt-bosoms. Some had their sleeves pushed up to the
elbow to exhibit their compact flexors and extensors. Some had rolled their flannel up to the
shoulder, above the bulging muscles of the upper arm. They wore aprons tied about the neck,
like the bibs of our childhood,--or about the waist, like the coquettish articles which young
housewives affect. But there was no coquetry in these great flaps of leather or canvas, and
they were besmeared and rust-stained quite beyond any bib that ever suffered under bread-and-molasses
or mud-pie treatment.

They lounged and swaggered up, and stood at ease, not without rough grace, in a sinuous line,
coiled and knotted like a snake.

Ten feet back stood the new Hercules who was to take down that Hydra's two hundred crests of
insubordination.

They inspected him, and he them as coolly. He read and ticketed each man, as he came up,--good,
bad, or on the fence,--and marked each so that he would know him among a myriad.

The Hands faced the Head. It was a question whether the two hundred or the one would be master
in Dunderbunk.

Which was boss? An old question.

It has to be settled whenever a new man claims power, and there is always a struggle until
it is fought out by main force of brain or muscle.

Wade had made up his mind on this subject. He waited a moment until the men were still. He
was a Saxon six-footer of thirty. He stood easily on his pins, as if he had eyed men and facts
before. His mouth looked firm, his brow freighted, his nose clipper,--that the hands could
see. But clipper noses are not always backed by a stout hull. Seemingly freighted brows sometimes
carry nothing but ballast and dunnage. The firmness may be all in the moustache, while the
mouth hides beneath, a mere silly slit. All which the hands knew.

Wade began, short and sharp as a trip-hammer, when it has a bar to shape.

"I'm the new Superintendent. Richard Wade is my name. I rang the bell because I wanted to see
you and have you see me. You know as well as I do that these Works are in a bad way. They can't
stay so. They must come up and pay you regular wages and the Company profits. Every man of
you has got to be here on the spot when the bell strikes, and up to the mark in his work. You
haven't been,--and you know it. You've turned out rotten iron,--stuff that any honest shop
would be ashamed of. Now there's to be a new leaf turned over here. You're to be paid on the
nail; but you've got to earn your money. I won't have any idlers or shirkers or rebels about
me. I shall work hard myself, and every man of you will, or he leaves the shop. Now, if anybody
has a complaint to make, I'll hear him before you all."

The men were evidently impressed with Wade's Inaugural. It meant something. But they were not
to be put down so easily, after long misrule. There began to be a whisper,--

"B'il in, Bill Tarbox! and talk up to him!"

Presently Bill shouldered forward and faced the new ruler.

Since Bill took to drink and degradation, he had been the butt-end of riot and revolt at the
Foundry. He had had his own way with Whiffler. He did not like to abdicate and give in to this
new chap without testing him.

In a better mood, Bill would have liked Wade's looks and words; but today he had a sore head,
a sour face, and a bitter heart from last night's spree. And then he had heard--it was as well
known already in Dunderbunk as if the town-crier had cried it--that Wade was lodging at Mrs.
Purtett's, where poor Bill was excluded. So Bill stepped forward as spokesman of the ruffianly
element, and the immoral force gathered behind and backed him heavily.

Tarbox, too, was a Saxon six-footer of thirty. But he had sagged one inch for want of self-respect.
He had spoilt his color and dyed his moustache. He wore foxy-black pantaloons tucked into red-topped
boots, with the name of the maker on a gilt shield. His red flannel shirt was open at the neck
and caught with a black handkerchief. His damaged tile was in permanent crape for the late
lamented Poole.

"We allow," says Bill, in a tone halfway between Lablache's De profundis and a burglar's bull-dog's
snarl, "that we've did our work as good as need to be did. We 'xpect we know our rights. We
ha'n't ben treated fair, and I'm damned if we're go'n' to stan' it."

"Stop!" says Wade. "No swearing in this shop!"

"Who the Devil is go'n' to stop it?" growled Tarbox.

"I am. Do you step back now, and let some one come out who can talk like a gentleman!"

"I'm damned if I stir till I've had my say out," says Bill, shaking himself up and looking
dangerous.

"Go back!"

Wade moved close to him, also looking dangerous.

"Don't tech me!" Bill threatened, squaring off.

He was not quick enough. Wade knocked him down flat on a heap of moulding-sand. The hat in
mourning for Poole found its place in a puddle.

Bill did not like the new Emperor's method of compelling kotou. Round One of the mill had not
given him enough.

He jumped up from his soft bed and made a vicious rush at Wade. But he was damaged by evil
courses. He was fighting against law and order, on the side of wrong and bad manners.

The same fist met him again, and heavier.

Up went his heels! Down went his head! It struck the ragged edge of a fresh casting, and there
he lay stunned and bleeding on his hard black pillow.

"Ring the bell to go to work!" said Wade, in a tone that made the ringer jump. "Now, men, take
hold and do your duty and everything will go smooth!"

The bell clanged in. The line looked at its prostrate champion, then at the new boss standing
there, cool and brave, and not afraid of a regiment of sledge-hammers.

They wanted an Executive. They wanted to be well governed, as all men do. They wanted disorder
out and order in. The new man looked like a man, talked fair, hit hard. Why not all hands give
in with a good grace and go to work like honest fellows?

The line broke up. The hands went off to their duty. And there was never any more insubordination
at Dunderbunk.

This was June.

Skates in the next chapter.

Love in good time afterward shall glide upon the scene.

CHAPTER IV.

A CHRISTMAS GIFT.

The pioneer sunbeam of next Christmas morning rattled over the Dunderbunk hills, flashed into
Richard Wade's eyes, waked him, and was off, ricochetting across the black ice of the river.

Wade jumped up, electrified and jubilant. He had gone to bed, feeling quite too despondent
for so healthy a fellow. Christmas Eve, the time of family-meetings, reminded him how lonely
he was. He had not a relative in the world, except two little nieces,--one as tall as his knee,
the other almost up to his waist; and them he had safely bestowed in a nook of New England,
to gain wit and virtues as they gained inches.

"I have had a stern and lonely life," thought Wade, as he blew out his candle last night, "and
what has it profited me?"

Perhaps the pioneer sunbeam answered this question with a truism, not always as applicable
as in this case,--"A brave, able, self-respecting manhood is fair profit for any man's first
thirty years of life."

But, answered or not, the question troubled Wade no more. He shot out of bed in tip-top spirits;
shouted "Merry Christmas!" at the rising disk of the sun; looked over the black ice; thrilled
with the thought of a long holiday for skating; and proceeded to dress in a knowing suit of
rough clothes, singing, "Ah, non giunge!" as he slid into them.

Presently, glancing from his south window, he observed several matinal smokes rising from the
chimneys of a country-house a mile away, on a slope fronting the river.

"Peter Skerrett must be back from Europe at last," he thought. "I hope he is as fine a fellow
as he was ten years ago. I hope marriage has not made him a muff, and wealth a weakling."

Wade went down to breakfast with an heroic appetite. His "Merry Christmas" to Mrs. Purtett
was followed up by a ravished kiss and the gift of a silver butter-knife. The good widow did
not know which to be most charmed with. The butter-knife was genuine, shining, solid silver,
with her initials, M.B.P., Martha Bilsby Purtett, given in luxuriant flourishes; but then the
kiss had such a fine twang, such an exhilarating titillation! The late Perry's kisses, from
first to last, had wanted point. They were, as the Spanish proverb would put it, unsavory as
unsalted eggs, for want of a moustache. The widow now perceived, with mild regret, how much
she had missed when she married "a man all shaven and shorn." Her cheek, still fair, though
forty, flushed with novel delight, and she appreciated her lodger more than ever.

Wade's salutation to Belle Purtett was more distant. There must be a little friendly reserve
between a handsome young man and a pretty young woman several grades lower in the social scale,
living in the same house. They were on the most cordial terms, however; and her gift--of course
embroidered slippers--and his to her--of course "The Illustrated Poets," in Turkey morocco--were
exchanged with tender good-will on both sides.

"We shall meet on the ice, Miss Belle," said Wade. "It is a day of a thousand for skating."

"Mr. Ringdove says you are a famous skater," Belle rejoined. "He saw you on the river yesterday
evening."

"Yes; Tarbox and I were practising to exhibit to-day; but I could not do much with my dull
old skates."

Wade breakfasted deliberately, as a holiday morning allowed, and then walked down to the Foundry.
There would be no work done to-day, except by a small gang keeping up the fires. The Superintendent
wished only to give his First Semi-Annual Report an hour's polishing, before he joined all
Dunderbunk on the ice.

It was a halcyon day, worthy of its motto, "Peace on earth, good-will to men." The air was
electric, the sun overflowing with jolly shine, the river smooth and sheeny from the hither
bank to the snowy mountains opposite.

"I wish I were Rembrandt, to paint this grand shadowy interior," thought Wade, as he entered
the silent, deserted Foundry. "With the gleam of the snow in my eyes, it looks deliciously
warm and chiaroscuro. When the men are here and 'fervet opus,'--the pot boils,--I cannot stop
to see the picturesque."

He opened his office, took his Report and began to complete it with ,s, ;s, and .s in the right
places.

All at once the bell of the Works rang out loud and clear. Presently the Superintendent became
aware of a tramp and a bustle in the building. By-and-by came a tap at the office-door.

"Come in," said Wade, and, enter young Perry Purtett.

Perry was a boy of fifteen, with hair the color of fresh sawdust, white eyebrows, and an uncommonly
wide-awake look. Ringdove, his father's successor, could never teach Perry the smirk, the grace,
and the seductiveness of the counter, so the boy had found his place in the finishing-shop
of the Foundry.

"Some of the hands would like to see you for half a jiff, Mr. Wade," said he. "Will you come
along, if you please?"

There was a good deal of easy swagger about Perry, as there is always in boys and men whose
business is to watch the lunging of steam-engines. Wade followed him. Perry led the way with
a jaunty air that said,--

"Room here! Out of the way, you lubberly bits of cast-iron! Be careful, now, you big derricks,
or I'll walk right over you! Room now for Me and My suite!"

This pompous usher conducted the Superintendent to the very spot in the main room of the Works
where, six months before, the Inaugural had been pronounced and the first Veto spoken and enacted.

And there, as six months before, stood the Hands awaiting their Head. But the aprons, the red
shirts, and the grime of working-days were off, and the whole were in holiday rig,--as black
and smooth and shiny from top to toe as the members of a Congress of Undertakers.

Wade, following in the wake of Perry, took his stand facing the rank, and waited to see what
he was summoned for. He had not long to wait.

To the front stepped Mr. William Tarbox, foreman of the finishing-shop, no longer a boy, but
an erect, fine-looking fellow, with no nitrate in his moustache, and his hat permanently out
of mourning for the late Mr. Poole.

"Gentlemen," said Bill, "I move that this meeting organize by appointing Mr. Smith Wheelwright
Chairman. As many as are in favor of this motion, please to say 'Aye.'"

"Aye!" said the crowd, very loud and big. And then every man looked at his neighbor, a little
abashed, as if he himself had made all the noise.

"This is a free country," continues Bill. "Every woter has a right to a fair shake. Contrary
minds, 'No.'"

No contrary minds. The crowd uttered a great silence. Every man looked at his neighbor, surprised
to find how well they agreed.

"Unanimous!" Tarbox pronounced. "No fractious minorities here, to block the wheels of legislation!"

The crowd burst into a roar at this significant remark, and, again abashed, dropped portcullis
on its laughter, cutting off the flanks and tail of the sound.

"Mr. Purtett, will you please conduct the Chairman to the Chair," says Bill, very stately.

"Make way here!" cried Perry, with the manner of a man seven feet high. "Step out now, Mr.
Chairman!"

He took a big, grizzled, docile-looking fellow patronizingly by the arm, led him forward, and
chaired him on a large cylinder-head, in the rough, just hatched out of its mould.

"Bang away with that, and sing out, 'Silence!'" says the knowing boy, handing Wheelwright an
iron bolt, and taking his place beside him, as prompter.

The docile Chairman obeyed. At his breaking silence by hooting "Silence!" the audience had
another mighty bob-tailed laugh.

"Say, 'Will some honorable member state the object of this meeting?'" whispered the prompter.

"Will some honorable mumbler state the subject of this 'ere meetin'?" says Chair, a little
bashful and confused.

Bill Tarbox advanced, and, with a formal bow, began,--

"Mr. Chairman"--

"Say, 'Mr. Tarbox has the floor,'" piped Perry.

"Mr. Tarbox has the floor," diapasoned the Chair.

"Mr. Chairman and Gentlemen"--Bill began, and stopped.

"Say, 'Proceed, Sir!'" suggested Perry, which the senior did, magnifying the boy's whisper
a dozen times.

Again Bill began and stopped.

"Boys," said he, dropping grandiloquence, "when I accepted the office of Orator of the Day
at our primary, and promised to bring forward our Resolutions in honor of Mr. Wade with my
best speech, I didn't think I was going to have such a head of steam on that the walves would
get stuck and the piston jammed and I couldn't say a word.

"But," he continued, warming up, "when I think of the Indian powwow we had in this very spot
six months ago,--and what a mean bloat I was, going to the stub-tail dogs with my hat over
my eyes,--and what a hard lot we were all round, livin' on nothing but argee whiskey, and rampin'
off on benders, instead of makin' good iron,--and how the Works was flat broke,--and how Dunderbunk
was full of women crying over their husbands and mothers ashamed of their sons,--boys, when
I think how things was, and see how they are, and look at Mr. Wade standing there like a"--

Bill hesitated for a comparison.

"Like a thousand of brick," Perry Purtett suggested, sotto voce.

The Chairman took this as a hint to himself.

"Like a thousand of brick," he said, with the voice of a Stentor.

Here the audience roared and cheered, and the Orator got a fresh start.

"When you came, Mr. Wade," he resumed, "we was about sick of putty-heads and sneaks that didn't
know enough or didn't dare to make us stand round and bone in. You walked in, b'ilin' over
with grit. You took hold as if you belonged here. You made things jump like a two-headed tarrier.
All we wanted was a live man, to say, 'Here, boys, all together now! You've got your stint,
and I've got mine. I'm boss in this shop,--but I can't do the first thing, unless every man
pulls his pound. Now, then, my hand is on the throttle, grease the wheels, oil the walves,
poke the fires, hook on, and let's yank her through with a will!'"

At this figure the meeting showed a tendency to cheer. "Silence!" Perry sternly suggested.
"Silence!" repeated the Chair.

"Then," continued the Orator, "you wasn't one of the uneasy kind, always fussin' and cussin'
round. You wasn't always spyin' to see we didn't take home a cross-tail or a hundred-weight
of cast-iron in our pants' pockets, or go to swiggin' hot metal out of the ladles on the sly."

Here an enormous laugh requited Bill's joke. Perry prompted, the Chair banged with his bolt
and cried, "Order!"

"Well, now, boys," Tarbox went on, "what has come of having one of the right sort to be boss?
Why, this. The Works go ahead, stiddy as the North River. We work full time and full-handed.
We turn out stuff that no shop needs to be ashamed of. Wages is on the nail. We have a good
time generally. How is that, boys,--Mr. Chairman and Gentlemen?"

"That's so!" from everybody.

"And there's something better yet," Bill resumed. "Dunderbunk used to be full of crying women.
They've stopped crying now."

Here the whole assemblage, Chairman and all, burst into an irrepressible cheer.

"But I'm making my speech as long as a lightning-rod," said the speaker. "I'll put on the brakes,
short. I guess Mr. Wade understands pretty well, now, how we feel; and if he don't, here it
all is in shape, in this document, with 'Whereas' at the top and 'Resolved' entered along down
in five places. Mr. Purtett, will you hand the Resolutions to the Superintendent?"

Perry advanced and did his office loftily, much to the amusement of Wade and the workmen.

"Now," Bill resumed, "we wanted, besides, to make you a little gift, Mr. Wade, to remember
the day by. So we got up a subscription, and every man put in his dime. Here's the present,--hand
'em over, Perry!

"There, Sir, is THE BEST PAIR OF SKATES to be had in York City, made for work, and no nonsense
about 'em. We Dunderbunk boys give 'em to you, one for all, and hope you'll like 'em and beat
the world skating, as you do in all the things we've knowed you try.

"Now, boys," Bill perorated, "before I retire to the shades of private life, I motion we give
Three Cheers--regular Toplifters--for Richard Wade!"

"Hurrah! Wade and Good Government!" "Hurrah! Wade and Prosperity!" "Hurrah! Wade and the Women's
Tears Dry!"

Cheers like the shout of Achilles! Wielding sledges is good for the bellows, it appears. Toplifters!
Why, the smoky black rafters overhead had to tug hard to hold the roof on. Hurrah! From every
corner of the vast building came back rattling echoes. The Works, the machinery, the furnaces,
the stuff, all had their voice to add to the verdict.

Magnificent music! and our Anglo-Saxon is the only race in the world civilized enough to join
in singing it. We are the only hurrahing people,--the only brood hatched in a "Hurrah's nest."

Silence restored, the Chairman, prompted by Perry, said, "Gentlemen, Mr. Wade has the floor
for a few remarks."

Of course Wade had to speak, and did. He would not have been an American in America else. But
his heart was too full to say more than a few hearty and earnest words of good feeling.

"Now, men," he closed, "I want to get away on the river and see if my skates will go as they
look; so I'll end by proposing three cheers for Smith Wheelwright, our Chairman, three for
our Orator, Tarbox, three for Old Dunderbunk,--Works, Men, Women, and Children; and one big
cheer for Old Father Iron, as rousing a cheer as ever was roared."

So they gave their three times three with enormous enthusiasm. The roof shook, the furnaces
rattled, Perry Purtett banged with the Chairman's hammer, the great echoes thundered through
the Foundry.

And when they ended with one gigantic cheer for IRON, tough and true, the weapon, the tool,
and the engine of all civilization,--it seemed as if the uproar would never cease until Father
Iron himself heard the call in his smithy away under the magnetic pole, and came clanking up,
to return thanks in person.

CHAPTER V.

SKATING AS A FINE ART.

Of all the plays that are played by this playful world on its play-days, there is no play like
Skating.

To prepare a board for the moves of this game of games, a panel for the drawings of this Fine
Art, a stage for the entrechats and pirouettes of its graceful adepts, Zero, magical artificer,
had been, for the last two nights, sliding at full speed up and down the North River.

We have heard of Midas, whose touch made gold, and of the virgin under whose feet sprang roses;
but Zero's heels and toes were armed with more precious influences. They left a diamond way,
where they slid,--a hundred and fifty miles of diamond, half a mile wide and six inches thick.

Diamond can only reflect sunlight; ice can contain it. Zero's product, finer even than diamond,
was filled--at the rate of a million to the square foot--with bubbles immeasurably little,
and yet every one big enough to comprise the entire sun in small, but without alteration or
abridgment. When the sun rose, each of these wonderful cells was ready to catch the tip of
a sunbeam and house it in a shining abode.

Besides this, Zero had inlaid its work, all along shore, with exquisite marquetry of leaves,
brown and evergreen, of sprays and twigs, reeds and grasses. No parquet in any palace from
Fontainebleau to St. Petersburg could show such delicate patterns, or could gleam so brightly,
though polished with all the wax in Christendom.

On this fine pavement, all the way from Cohoes to Spuyten Duyvil, Jubilee was sliding without
friction, the Christmas morning of these adventures.

Navigation was closed. Navigators had leisure. The sloops and schooners were frozen in along
shore, the tugs and barges were laid up in basins, the floating palaces were down at New York,
deodorizing their bar-rooms, regilding their bridal chambers, and enlarging their spittoon
accommodations alow and aloft, for next summer. All the population was out on the ice, skating,
sliding, sledding, slipping, tumbling, to its heart's content.

One person out of every Dunderbunk family was of course at home, roasting Christmas turkey.
The rest were already at high jinks on Zero's Christmas present, when Wade and the men came
down, from the meeting.

Wade buckled on his new skates in a jiffy. He stamped to settle himself, and then flung off
half a dozen circles on the right leg, half a dozen with the left, and the same with either
leg backwards.

The ice, traced with these white peripheries, showed like a blackboard where a school has been
chalking diagrams of Euclid, to point at with the "slow unyielding finger" of demonstration.

"Hurrah!" cries Wade, halting in front of the men, who, some on the Foundry wharf, some on
the deck of our first acquaintance at Dunderbunk, the tug "L Ambuster," were putting on their
skates or watching him, "Hurrah! the skates are perfection! Are you ready, Bill?"

"Yes," says Tarbox, whizzing off rings, as exact as Giotto's autograph.

"Now, then," Wade said, "we'll give Dunderbunk a laugh, as we practised last night."

They got under full headway, Wade backwards, Bill forwards, holding hands. When they were near
enough to the merry throng out in the stream, both dropped into a sitting posture, with the
left knee bent, and each with his right leg stretched out parallel to the ice and fitting compactly
by the other man's leg. In this queer figure they rushed through the laughing crowd.

Then all Dunderbunk formed a ring, agog for a grand show of

SKATING AS A FINE ART.

The world loves to see Great Artists, and expects them to do their duty.

It is hard to treat of this Fine Art by the Art of Fine Writing. Its eloquent motions must be seen.

To skate Fine Art, you must have a Body and a Soul, each of the First Order; otherwise you
will never get out of coarse art and skating in one syllable. So much for yourself, the motive
power. And your machinery,--your smooth-bottomed rockers, the same shape stem and stern,--this
must be as perfect as the man it moves, and who moves it.

Now suppose you wish to skate so that the critics will say, "See! this athlete docs his work
as Church paints, as Darley draws, as Palmer chisels, as Wittier strikes the lyre, and Longfellow
the dulcimer; he is as terse as Emerson, as clever as Holmes, as graceful as Curtis; he is
as calm as Seward, as keen as Phillips, as stalwart as Beecher; be is Garibaldi, he is Kit
Carson, he is Blondin; he is as complete as the steamboat Metropolis, as Steers's yacht, as
Singer's sewing-machine, as Colt's revolver, as the steam-plough, as Civilization." You wish
to be so ranked among the people and things that lead the age;--consider the qualities you
must have, and while you consider, keep your eye on Richard Wade, for he has them all in perfection.

First,--of your physical qualities. You must have lungs, not bellows; and an active heart,
not an assortment of sluggish auricles and ventricles. You must have legs, not shanks. Their
shape is unimportant, except that they must not interfere at the knee. You must have muscles,
not flabbiness; sinews like wire; nerves like sunbeams; and a thin layer of flesh to cushion
the gable-ends, where you will strike, if you tumble,--which, once for all be it said, you
must never do. You must be all momentum, and no inertia. You must be one part grace, one force,
one agility, and the rest caoutchouc, Manila hemp, and watch-spring. Your machine, your body,
must be thoroughly obedient. It must go just so far and no farther. You have got to be as unerring
as a planet holding its own, emphatically, between forces centripetal and centrifugal. Your
aplomb must be as absolute as the pounce of a falcon.

So much for a few of the physical qualities necessary to be a Great Artist in Skating. See
Wade, how be shows them!

Now for the moral and intellectual. Pluck is the first;--it always is the first quality. Then
enthusiasm. Then patience. Then pertinacity. Then a fine aesthetic faculty,--in short, good
taste. Then an orderly and submissive mind, that can consent to act in accordance with the
laws of Art. Circumstances, too, must have been reasonably favorable. That well-known skeptic,
the King of tropical Bantam, could not skate, because he had never seen ice and doubted even
the existence of solid water. Widdrington, after the Battle of Chevy Chace, could not have
skated, because he had no legs,--poor fellow!

But granted the ice and the legs, then if you begin in the elastic days of youth, when cold
does not sting, tumbles do not bruise, and duckings do not wet; if you have pluck and ardor
enough to try everything; if you work slowly ahead and stick to it; if you have good taste
and a lively invention; if you are a man, and not a lubber;--then, in fine, you may become
a Great Skater, just as with equal power and equal pains you may put your grip on any kind
of Greatness.

The technology of skating is imperfect. Few of the great feats, the Big Things, have admitted
names. If I attempted to catalogue Wade's achievements, this chapter might become an unintelligible
rhapsody. A sheet of paper and a pen-point cannot supply the place of a sheet of ice and a
skate-edge. Geometry must have its diagrams, Anatomy its corpus to carve. Skating also refuses
to be spiritualized into a Science; it remains an Art, and cannot be expressed in a formula.

Skating has its Little Go, its Great Go, its Baccalaureate, its M.A., its F.S.D., (Doctor of
Frantic Skipping,) its A.G.D., (Doctor of Airy Gliding,) its N.T.D., (Doctor of No Tumbles,)
and finally its highest degree, U.P. (Unapproachable Podographer).

Wade was U.P.

There were a hundred of Dunderbunkers who had passed their Little Go and could skate forward
and backward easily. A half-hundred, perhaps, were through the Great Go; these could do outer
edge freely. A dozen had taken the Baccalaureate, and were proudly repeating the pirouettes
and spread-eagles of that degree. A few could cross their feet, on the edge, forward and backward,
and shift edge on the same foot, and so were Magistri Artis.

Wade, U.P., added to these an indefinite list of combinations and fresh contrivances. He spun
spirals slow, and spirals neck or nothing. He pivoted on one toe, with the other foot cutting
rings, inner and outer edge, forward and back, He skated on one foot better than the M.A.s
could on both. He ran on his toes; he slid on his heels; he cut up shines like a sunbeam on
a bender; he swung, light as if he could fly, if he pleased, like a wing-footed Mercury; he
glided as if will, not muscle, moved him; he tore about in frenzies; his pivotal leg stood
firm, his balance leg flapped like a graceful pinion; he turned somersets; he jumped, whirling
backward as he went, over a platoon of boys laid flat on the ice;--the last boy winced, and
thought he was amputated; but Wade flew over, and the boy still holds together as well as most
boys. Besides this, he could write his name, with a flourish at the end, like the rubrica of
a Spanish hidalgo. He could podograph any letter, and multitudes of ingenious curlicues which
might pass for the alphabets of the unknown tongues. He could not tumble.

It was Fine Art.

Bill Tarbox sometimes pressed the champion hard. But Bill stopped just short of Fine Art, in
High Artisanship.

How Dunderbunk cheered this wondrous display! How delighted the whole population was to believe
they possessed the best skater on the North River! How they struggled to imitate! How they
tumbled, some on their backs, some on their faces, some with dignity like the dying Caesar,
some rebelliously like a cat thrown out of a garret, some limp as an ancient acrobate! How
they laughed at themselves and at each other!

"It's all in the new skates," says Wade, apologizing for his unapproachable power and finish.

"It's suthin' in the man," says Smith Wheelwright.

"Now chase me, everybody," said Wade.

And, for a quarter of an hour, he dodged the merry crowd, until at last, breathless, he let
himself be touched by pretty Belle Purtett, rosiest of all the Dunderbunk bevy of rosy maidens
on the ice.

"He rayther beats Bosting," says Captain Isaac Ambuster to Smith Wheelwright. "It's so cold
there that they can skate all the year round; but he beats them, all the same."

The Captain was sitting in a queer little bowl of a skiff on the deck of his tug, and rocking
it like a cradle, as he talked.

"Bosting's always hard to beat in anything," rejoined the ex-Chairman. "But if Bosting is to
be beat, here's the man to do it."

       *       *       *       *       *

And now, perhaps, gentle reader, you think I have said enough in behalf of a limited fraternity,
the Skaters.

The next chapter, then, shall take up the cause of the Lovers, a more numerous body, and we
will see whether True Love, which never makes "smooth running," can help its progress by a
skate-blade.

CHAPTER VI.

"GO NOT, HAPPY DAY, TILL THE MAIDEN YIELDS."

Christmas noon at Dunderbunk. Every skater was in galloping glee,--as the electric air, and
the sparkling sun, and the glinting ice had a right to expect that they all should be.

Belle Purtett, skating simply and well, had never looked so pretty and graceful. So thought
Bill Tarbox.

He had not spoken to her, nor she to him, for more than six months. The poor fellow was ashamed
of himself and penitent for his past bad courses. And so, though he longed to have his old
flame recognize him again, and though he was bitterly jealous and miserably afraid he should
lose her, he had kept away and consumed his heart like a true despairing lover.

But to-day Bill was a lion, only second to Wade, the unapproachable lion-in-chief. Bill was
reinstated in public esteem, and had won back his standing in the Foundry. He had to-day made
a speech which Perry Purtett gave everybody to understand "none of Senator Bill Seward's could
hold the tallow to." Getting up the meeting and presenting Wade with the skates was Bill's
own scheme, and it had turned out an eminent success. Everything began to look bright to him.
His past life drifted out of his mind like the rowdy tales he used to read in the Sunday newspapers.

He had watched Belle Purtett all the morning, and saw that she distinguished nobody with her
smiles, not even that coq du village, Ringdove. He also observed that she was furtively watching
him.

By-and-by she sailed out of the crowd, and went off a little way to practise.

"Now," said he to himself, "sail in, Bill Tarbox!"

Belle heard the sharp strokes of a powerful skater coming after her. Her heart divined who
this might be. She sped away like the swift Camilla, and her modest drapery showed just enough
and "ne quid nimis" of her ankles.

Bill admired the grace and the ankles immensely. But his hopes sank a little at the flight,--for
he thought she perceived his chase and meant to drop him. Bill had not bad a classical education,
and knew nothing of Galatea in the Eclogue,--how she did not hide, until she saw her swain
was looking fondly after.

"She wants to get away," he thought "But she sha'n't,--no, not if I have to follow her to Albany."

He struck out mightily. Presently the swift Camilla let herself be overtaken.

"Good morning, Miss Purtett." (Dogged air.)

"Good morning, Mr. Tarbox." (Taken-by-surprise air.)

"I've been admiring your skating," says Bill, trying to be cool.

"Have you?" rejoins Belle, very cool and distant.

"Have you been long on the ice?" he inquired, hypocritically.

"I came on two hours ago with Mr. Ringdove and the girls," returned she, with a twinkle which
said, "Take that, Sir, for pretending you did not see me."

"You've seen Mr. Wade skate, then," Bill said, ignoring Ringdove.

"Yes; isn't it splendid?" Belle replied, kindling.

"Tip-top!"

"But then he does everything better than anybody."

"So he does!" Bill said,--true to his friend, and yet beginning to be jealous of this enthusiasm.
It was not the first time he had been jealous of Wade; but he had quelled his fears, like a
good fellow.

Belle perceived Bill's jealousy, and could have cried for joy. She had known as little of her
once lover's heart as he of hers. She only knew that he stopped coming to see her when he fell,
and had not renewed his visits now that he was risen again. If she had not been charmingly
ruddy with the brisk air and exercise, she would have betrayed her pleasure at Bill's jealousy
with a fine blush.

The sense of recovered power made her wish to use it again. She must tease him a little. So
she continued, as they skated on in good rhythm,--

"Mother and I wouldn't know what to do without Mr. Wade. We like him so much,"--said ardently.

What Bill feared was true, then, he thought. Wade, noble fellow, worthy to win any woman's
heart, had fascinated his landlady's daughter.

"I don't wonder you like him," said he. "He deserves it."

Belle was touched by her old lover's forlorn tone.

"He does indeed," she said. "He has helped and taught us all so much. He has taken such good
care of Perry. And then"--here she gave her companion a little look and a little smile--"he
speaks so kindly of you, Mr. Tarbox."

Smile, look, and words electrified Bill. He gave such a spring on his skates that he shot far
ahead of the lady. He brought himself back with a sharp turn.

"He has done kinder than he can speak," says Bill. "He has made a man of me again, Miss Belle."

"I know it. It makes me very happy to hear you able to say so of yourself." She spoke gravely.

"Very happy"--about anything that concerned him? Bill had to work off his overjoy at this by
an exuberant flourish. He whisked about Belle,--outer edge backward. She stopped to admire.
He finished by describing on the virgin ice, before her, the letters B.P., in his neatest style
of podography,--easy letters to make, luckily.

"Beautiful!" exclaimed Belle. "What are those letters? Oh! B.P.! What do they stand for?"

"Guess!"

"I'm so dull," said she, looking bright as a diamond. "Let me think! B.P.? British Poets, perhaps."

"Try nearer home!"

"What are you likely to be thinking of that begins with B.P.?--Oh, I know! Boiler Plates!"

She looked at him,--innocent as a lamb. Bill looked at her, delighted with her little coquetry.
A woman without coquetry is insipid as a rose without scent, as Champagne without bubbles,
or as corned beef without mustard.

"It's something I'm thinking of most of the time," says he; "but I hope it's softer than Boiler
Plates. B.P. stands for Miss Isabella Purtett."

"Oh!" says Belle, and she skated on in silence.

"You came down with Alonzo Ringdove?" Bill asked, suddenly, aware of another pang after a moment
of peace.

"He came with me and his sisters," she replied.

Yes; poor Ringdove had dressed himself in his shiniest black, put on his brightest patent-leather
boots, with his new swan-necked skates newly strapped over them, and wore his new dove-colored
overcoat with the long skirts, on purpose to be lovely in the eyes of Belle on this occasion.
Alas, in vain!

"Mr. Ringdove is a great friend of yours, isn't he?"

"If you ever came to see me now, you would know who my friends are, Mr. Tarbox."

"Would you be my friend again, if I came, Miss Belle?"

"Again? I have always been so,--always, Bill."

"Well, then, something more than my friend,--now that I am trying to be worthy of more, Belle?"

"What more can I be?" she said, softly.

"My wife."

She curved to the right. He followed. To the left. He was not to be shaken off.

"Will you promise me not to say walves instead of valves, Bill?" she said, looking pretty and
saucy as could be. "I know, to say W for V is fashionable in the iron business; but I don't
like it."

"What a thing a woman is to dodge!" says Bill. "Suppose I told you that men brought up inside
of boilers, hammering on the inside against twenty hammering like Wulcans on the outside, get
their ears so dumfounded that they can't tell whether they are saying valves or walves, wice
or virtue,--suppose I told you that,--what would you say, Belle?"

"Perhaps I'd say that you pronounce virtue so well, and act it so sincerely, that I can't make
any objection to your other words. If you'd asked me to be your vife, Bill, I might have said
I didn't understand; but wife I do understand, and I say"--

She nodded, and tried to skate off. Bill stuck close to her side.

"Is this true, Belle?" he said, almost doubtfully.

"True as truth!"

She put out her hand. He took it, and they skated on together,--hearts beating to the rhythm
of their movements. The uproar and merriment of the village came only faintly to them. It seemed
as if all Nature was hushed to listen to their plighted troth, their words of love renewed,
more earnest for long suppression. The beautiful ice spread before them, like their life to
come, a pathway untouched by any sorrowful or weary footstep. The blue sky was cloudless. The
keen air stirred the pulses like the vapor of frozen wine. The benignant mountains westward
kindly surveyed the happy pair, and the sun seemed created to warm and cheer them.

"And you forgive me, Belle?" said the lover. "I feel as if I had only gone bad to make me know
how much better going right is."

"I always knew you would find it out. I never stopped hoping and praying for it."

"That must have been what brought Mr. Wade here."

"Oh, I did hate him so, Bill, when I heard of something that happened between you and him!
I thought him a brute and a tyrant. I never could get over it, until he told mother that you
were the best machinist he ever knew, and would some time grow to be a great inventor."

"I'm glad you hated him. I suffered rattlesnakes and collapsed flues for fear you'd go and
love him."

"My affections were engaged," she said, with simple seriousness.

"Oh, if I'd only thought so long ago! How lovely you are!" exclaims Bill, in an ecstasy. "And
how refined! And how good! God bless you!"

He made up such a wishful mouth,--so wishful for one of the pleasurable duties of mouths, that
Belle blushed, laughed, and looked down, and as she did so saw that one of her straps was trailing.

"Please fix it, Bill," she said, stopping and kneeling.

Bill also knelt, and his wishful mouth immediately took its chance.

A manly smack and sweet little feminine chirp sounded as their lips met.

Boom! twanging gay as the first tap of a marriage-bell, a loud crack in the ice rang musically
for leagues up and down the river. "Bravo!" it seemed to say. "Well done, Bill Tarbox! Try
again!" Which the happy fellow did, and the happy maiden permitted.

"Now," said Bill, "let us go and hug Mr. Wade!"

"What! Both of us?" Belle protested. "Mr. Tarbox, I am ashamed of you!"

       *       *       *       *       *

LIGHT LITERATURE.

Though the smallest boulder is heavy, and even the merest pebble has a perceptible weight,
yet the entire planet, toward which both gravitate, floats more lightly than any feather. In
literature somewhat analogous may be observed. Here also are found the insignificant lightness
of the pebble and the mighty lightness of the planet; while between them range the weighty
masses, superior to the petty ponderability of the one, and unequal to the firmamental float
of the other. Accordingly, setting out from the mote-and-pebble extreme, you find, that, up
to a certain point, increasing values of thought are commonly indicated by increasing gravity,
by more and more of state-paper weightiness; but beyond this the rule is reversed, and lightness
becomes the sign and measure of excellence. Bishop Butler and Richard Hooker--especially the
latter, the first book of whose "Ecclesiastical Polity" is a truly noble piece of writing--stand,
perhaps, at the head of the weighty class of writers in our language; but going beyond these
to the "Areopagitica" of Milton, or even to the powerful prose of Raleigh, you pass the boundary-line,
and are touched with the buoyant influences of the Muse. Shakspeare and Plato are lighter than
levity; they are lifting forces, and weigh less than nothing. The novelette of the season,
or any finest and flimsiest gossamer that is fabricated in our literary looms, compares with
"Lear," with "Prometheus Bound," with any supreme work, only as cobwebs and thistle-down, that
are easily borne by the breeze, may compare with sparrows and thrushes, that can fly and withal
sing.

There is a call for "light reading," and I for one applaud the demand. A lightening influence
is the best that books or men can bestow upon us. Information is good, but invigoration is
a thousand times better. Cheer, cheer and vigor for the world's heart! It is because man's
hope is so low, and his imaginations so poor, that he is earthly and evil. Wings for these
unfledged hearts! Transformation for these grubs! Give us animation, inspiration, joy, faith!
Give us enlivening, lightsome airs, to which our souls shall, on a sudden, begin to dance,
keeping step with the angels! What else is worth having? Each one of these sordid sons of men--is
he not a new-born Apollo, who waits only for the ambrosia from Olympus, to spring forth in
divineness of beauty and strength?

Nevertheless, I know not of any reading so hopelessly heavy as large portions of that which
claims the name of light. Light writing it may be; but, considered as reading, one would be
unjust to charge upon it any lack of avoirdupois. It is like the bran of wheat, which, though
of little weight in the barrel, is heavy enough in the stomach,--Dr. Sylvester Graham to the
contrary notwithstanding. It is related of an Italian culprit, that, being required, in punishment
of his crime, to make choice between lying in prison for a term of years and reading the history
of Guicciardini, he chose the latter, but, after a brief trial, petitioned for leave to reverse
his election. I never attempted Guicciardini; but I did once attempt Pope's "Dunciad." And
was it really the doom of a generation of readers to find delight in this book? One must suppose
so. There are those in our day whose hard fate it is to read and to like James's and Bulwer's
novels. But greatly mistaken is the scholar who, for relief from severe studies, goes to an
empty or insincere book. It is like saying money, after large and worthy expenditures, by purchasing
at a low price that which is worth nothing,--buying "gold" watches at a mock-auction room.

Indeed, no book, however witty, lively, saltatory, can have the volant effects we covet, if
it want substance and seriousness. Substance, however, is to be widely distinguished from ponderability.
Oxygen is not so ponderous as lead or granite, but it is far more substantial than either,
and, as every one knows, infinitely more serviceable to life. The distinction is equally valid
when applied to books and to men. The "airy nothings" of imagination prove to be the most enduring
somethings of the world's literature; and the last lightness of heart may go with the purest
truth of soul and the most precious virtue of intelligence. All expressions carry the perpetual
savors of their origin; and as brooks that dance and frolic with the sunbeams and murmur to
the birds, light-hearted forever, will yet bear sands of gold, if they flow from auriferous
hills, so any bubble and purl of laughter, proceeding from a wise and wealthy soul, will bear
a noble significance. In point of fact, some of the merriest books in the world are among the
most richly freighted. And as airy and mirthful books may be substantial and serious, so it
is an effect very similar to that of noble and significant mirth that is produced upon us by
the grandest pieces of serious writing. Thus, he who rightly reads the "Phaedon" or "Phaedrus"
of Plato smiles through all the depths of his brain, though no pronounced smile show on his
face; and he who rightly reads the book of Cervantes, though the laughters plunge, as it were,
in cascades from his lips, is earnest at heart, and full of sound and tender meditations.

