It might be said that the Canadian casualties on the Texas flying-fields near Fort Worth during
the winter of 1917-18, when the Royal Air Force occupied two airdromes, were the cause of comment
all over the country. There were fifty fatalities in twenty weeks of flying, and machine after
machine came down in a fatal spinning-nose dive, or tail spin, as the Americans speak of the spin.

Shortly after the Royal Air Force returned to its airdromes in Canada in the middle of April
the Gosport system of flying training, which had been used successfully in England, was begun
on the Curtiss J.N. 4B-type training-plane. The result was an immediate and material decrease
in fatal accidents. In July, 1918, there was one fatality for every 1,760 hours of flying,
and by October fatalities had been reduced to one in every 5,300 hours of flying. That is a
remarkable achievement, as official data from other centers of training show one death in a
flying accident for every 1,170 hours.

Briefly, the Gosport system is a graduated method of flying instruction. The cadet is led by
easy steps through the earlier part of the training, and only after he has passed aerial tests
in the simpler methods of control is he allowed to continue with the rest of his course and
"go solo." The scheme provides that before he goes solo he must have spun, and shown that he
can take his instructor out of a spin. Only then is he considered fit to go on his own.

"Dangerous" and "Safe" as terms to describe flying technique gave way to wrong and right. There
was built up under sound instruction one of the best schools of flying in North America, the
School of Special Flying, at Armour Heights, Ontario. There is no reason why there should not
be established in this country a number of such schools, under men who have had army experience,
to train great numbers of civilian fliers within the next few years. There is going to be a
strong demand for the best flying instruction that can be given. It should be noted that only
the most perfect system of flying instruction should be used, for the best is safest, and the
safest, no matter how expensive, is comparatively cheap.

There is no reason why there should be an extended period of ground instruction for the non-military
pilot of the future. He should be taught the elementary principles of the theory of flight,
should know something about the engine with which he is going to fly, and understand some things
about the rigging of his airplane. The details could come to him in constant association with
the airplane before, during, and after each flight. No time need be spent on such subjects
as artillery observation, machine-gunnery, wireless, bombing, photography, patrol work, and
other subjects of a purely military nature, on which so much stress has been laid in training
army pilots.

"What is an airplane?" Before going ahead with the method of Gosport instruction every pupil
is given a lecture on the ground in which he is asked that question. One definition which was
passed out to us in Canada was, "An airplane is a machine...." At this point the flight sergeant
in charge of rigging would look dreamily into the distance. "An airplane is a machine...."
he would begin again with an air of utter despondency. That was certainly no news to cadets.
They had an idea that it might be a machine, and wanted to know more about it.

"An airplane is a machine with lift-generating surfaces attached to a frame which carries an
engine, fuel, aviator, and devices by which he steers, balances, and controls his craft," the
mournful flight sergeant was finally able to convince them.

Lift-generating surfaces--these are the bases of all flying. Every one knows, for instance,
that a paper dart, instead of falling directly to the floor, sails in a gliding angle for some
distance before crashing. Lift is generated under those plane surfaces moving through the air--and
the lift keeps that paper dart gliding. Little eddies of air are compressed under its tiny
wings. Imagine an engine in the dart, propelling it at some speed. Instead of having to nose
down to get enough speed to generate lift under its wings, the dart would be able to fly on
the level, or even climb a bit.

Just so with an airplane. A gliding airplane about to land with power shut off is that paper
dart on a large scale. The airplane flying is the dart with power. To make the airplane safe
to fly, to give control to the pilot so that he may steer it where he wants to, there is a
rudder, moved by a rudder-bar under the foot of the pilot. It is impossible to turn a swiftly
moving airplane in the air by the rudder alone. It must be banked to prevent skidding, even
as a race-track is banked high on the turns. On its side an airplane will cushion its own bank
of proper degree by the use of ailerons. These ailerons are sections of the wing-tips which
may be moved either up or down. They are counterbalanced so that movement of the left down
gives you the right aileron up. With left aileron down, the lift of the left wing is increased,
and it tips up; at the same time the lift of the right wing is decreased, and it sags down.
In that way the airplane is tipped up for a bank. These ailerons, wing sections, really, are
controlled by a device known as the joy-stick in the cockpit.

We have seen how an airplane is made to tip and turn. Before a machine is under control we
must be able to climb, or come down to the ground for a landing. Vertical control of an airplane
is attained by the use of elevators, flaps on the tail plane acting as horizontal rudders.
A pull-back on the joy-stick lifts the flaps, raises the nose of the machine, and causes it
to gain height. Push the joy-stick forward, the elevators are turned down, and the machine
goes into a dive for the ground. In making many maneuvers all three controls, rudder, ailerons,
and elevators, are used at once and the pilot feels his way with the machine, guiding it with
the stick and the rudder-bar.

After the explanation of the use of these controls, and their demonstration on the machine
as it awaits its turn in the air, the pupil is taken up for his first ride--strictly a joy
ride, and not always joyous for those who take every chance to be seasick. After he has a glimpse
of what the ground looks like from the air, and has recovered from his first breathless sweep
off the ground, the pupil is given a lesson in the demonstration of controls. The instructor
explains through a speaking-tube attached to his helmet the very simple principles. Forward
with the stick to nose down, back to lift it up, left stick tilts the machine over on its left
wing, and right stick banks it to the right. Right stick and right rudder, in proper proportions,
turn the machine to the right, left stick and left rudder to take the machine out of the turn
and fly it straight again.

Then the wonderful moment when the instructor calls through the tube, "All right, now you take
the stick." You clutch it as though it were the one straw in a great ocean. "Not so hard,"
comes the voice. "Now put your feet gently on the rudder-bar. Not so rough; easier, man, easier
on that stick!" For a glorious moment she is yours, you hold her nose up, and you are flying
an airplane tearing over the checkerboard country far below.

Then, like the voice of doom: "Now, do a gentle turn to the left. Don't forget to give her
rudder and stick at the same time. That's right. Begin the motion with your feet and hands
at the same time." The world swings furiously, and down below that left wing-tip a little farm
sways gently.

"Now you are in a gentle turn--feel that breeze on your cheek? We are side-slipping; give her
a touch more of left rudder. Not so much. Now your nose is dropping; pull back on the stick.
Back! Not forward! Back! Now your nose is too high; take us out, and don't forget that opposite
stick and rudder.

"Now fly straight for a few minutes. Your right wing is low--bring it up. Your nose is too
high. Now it is too low. Keep it so that the radiator cap is above the horizon. That's right."

So goes the business of instruction through the lessons on straight flying, gentle turns, misuse
of controls, side-slipping, and approach, take-off, and landing. The trips should average thirty-five
or forty minutes, long enough to teach the lesson, but not long enough to weary the pupil.
Here at take-off and landing the pupil finds himself up against the most difficult part of
his training. He has the problem of stopping a large machine weighing a ton or more, traveling
at a landing speed of forty to fifty miles an hour, with the center of gravity just balanced
over the under-carriage. An error in judgment will pile the machine up on its nose with a crashed
propeller, and perhaps two broken wings and damaged under-carriage. Not a dangerous accident
for the pilot, but very humiliating.

Army practice has shown that a pupil should have about sixty practice landings dual, that is
to say, coached and helped by his instructor. By this time he has a total flying time of six
to twelve hours. At this point, before he goes solo, the Gosport system provides that he shall
be taken to a reasonably safe height for the practice of high maneuvers. At a height of say
two thousand five hundred feet the instructor shows him how a stalled machine falls into a
spin. The question of teaching higher maneuvers to civilian pilots is open to argument.

As soon as the instructor shuts off the engine the machine rapidly loses flying speed. It reaches
a point where there is not enough air passing over the wing surfaces to support the plane in
the air. Her nose begins to drop, and he pulls the stick back. The stick is full back, she
stalls, topples over on her side, and plunges nose first. The instructor kicks on full rudder,
and the world whirls below like a top, and the air whistles, swish, swish, swish, in the wires
at every turn. Stick forward, opposite rudder, and she comes out so fast that your head swims.
That is the spin.

"Now you try it," says the instructor. For there is nothing to a spin unless a machine does
not come out of it--a rare thing if the plane is properly handled. The pupil is now ready to
go solo, and for the first couple of hours' solo flying he does nothing but make circuits around
the field, landing and taking off. Then his instructor takes him dual for forced-landing practice,
business of getting down into a field within gliding range by gliding turns. Then the pupil
tries it solo, throttling down for the practice, a most valuable experience which increases
the confidence of the pilot. He learns to use his own judgment and to gauge height and ground
distance as it appears from the air.

After three or four hours of solo time the pupil is scheduled for another demonstration of
higher maneuvers, spinning and the stall turn. For the stall turn the pilot noses the machine
down to get an air speed of seventy-five miles an hour. A little bank, stick back, she rears
into the air with her nose to the sky and propeller roaring. Full rudder and throttle off.
In silence she drops over on her side into the empty air; blue sky and green fields flash by
in a whirl. She hangs on her back while the passengers strain against the safety belts, and
then her nose plunges. The air shrieks in the wires as the ground comes up at terrific speed.

It is time for the pupil to go up for his solo spin under the plan adopted for army purposes.
Up, up, up the pupil flies, three thousand feet, and the ground below looks soft and green.
Would it be soft to hit in a spin from that height? It would not. Have people ever spun that
far? he wonders. They have. Have machines ever failed to come out of a spin and killed the
pilot? The answer is too obvious. With faith in nothing in particular, and with his mind made
up that one can die but once in a spin, he stalls and spins her--and comes out. He is so surprised
and exhilarated that he tries it again before he loses his nerve. Yet again. The pupil is a
pilot, the air has no terrors, and he has learned the oldest truth of flying, that there is
nothing to a spin unless you don't come out.

The natural result of training a pupil along those lines is that he graduates rapidly into
a good stunting pilot. He realizes that he cannot tempt the devil at three hundred feet and
hope to live, but he takes a good altitude, throws his machine upside down, and knows that,
given enough air, he must come out. He does come out unless he loses complete control of his
mind and body. With fifteen hours of solo flying the pupil has really become a pilot. He is
beginning to show that he can control his machine. From then on it is a question of the polishing
of the nice points, making his forced landings perfect, not side-slipping a foot on his vertical
banks, and coming out of spin so that he always faces the airdrome--all of which distinguish
the good pilot from the poor pilot.

IV

SAFETY IN FLYING

The fatalities on the training-fields of every country during the period of training in war,
and before and after the war, testify only too surely that flying cannot be absolutely safe.
It is no reflection on the future of flying to realize that it has not been safe, and that
it can never, perhaps, be made fool-proof. One or two things must be remembered before we become
despondent over the future safety of flying.

When the United States entered the war the entire personnel of the Signal Corps numbered one
hundred and sixty officers and men. At the time the armistice was signed more than thirty thousand
pilots had been trained. They were trained in great numbers under high pressure. We did not
have the machines to train them in or the instructors to fly with them. We had not the experience
in wholesale training of flying-men, and yet we turned out vast numbers. It was a question
of getting the men through their flying and getting them overseas as quickly as possible. We
had no adequate methods of inspection of machines, and no laid-out course in flying-training.
We had to learn by our own experience, in spite of the fact that England at all times gave
unstinted aid.

The wonder is really that we did not have more flying accidents. There were few men in the
country who really understood what conditions tended toward a flying accident. There were few
who had ever gone into a spin and lived to tell about it. At that time a spinning-nose dive
was a manifestation of hard luck--like a German shell. If you once got into it, it was only
the matter of waiting for the crash and hoping that the hospital might be able to pull you through.

Toward the end, of course, this situation had been largely overcome, the Gosport system of
flying had been tried out, and there was a vast increase in the knowledge of flying among the
instructors and pupils. The spin had been conquered, training was on a sound basis, and accidents
were being rapidly cut down.

One of the most obvious ways to cut down crashes was by making sure that the pilot was in good
condition physically. Flight surgeons assigned to every camp were detailed to make a study
of the very delicate relationship between a sick and stale pilot and the crash. It was discovered,
for instance, that a man who went up not in the best condition multiplied by many times the
ordinary hazards in the air. It became the duty of these surgeons to conduct recreation and
exercises so that pilots would always be in good trim.

Flying for an early solo pupil is the greatest mental strain that a man can experience. Every
moment the fact that he is up in the air, supported only by wood, wires, and fabric, may be
on his mind. He is making desperate efforts to remember everything his instructor has told
him since he started his dual. He tries to keep that nose on the horizon, the wings balanced,
and the machine flying true. He is in fear of stalling and consequent loss of control. He goes
into his turns, hardly knowing whether he is going to come out of them, and noses down for
a landing, mentally giving prayer, perhaps, that he will come out all right. He can't possibly
remember everything he has been told, but he tries to salvage as much knowledge as possible
to make a decent landing.

These experiences tend to bring about two conditions, aerophobia (fear of the air) and brain
fatigue, both resulting in complete loss of head on the part of the pilot and inability to
react to impulses. Nothing is more likely to produce immediate and fatal aerophobia than the
sickening sight from the air of a crash, yellow wings flattened out against the green ground
a thousand feet below. A comrade, a tentmate? The pupil looks at his machine, sees the wires
throbbing, and watches with wonder the phenomenon of rushing through the air--he may let his
imagination dwell too long.

During his first hour's solo a swift stream of hundreds of impulses is borne along the nerve
centers to the brain of a pupil. It is like the pounding of heavy seas against a light sea-wall.
His brain reels under the repeated shocks and the pupil falls into a detached stupor. He waits
while his engine throbs ahead, and lets the machine fly itself. He seems to take no active
participation in the operation, and unless he recovers control of his brain and his machine
it is a crash. Physicians then have the problem of learning from a dazed and perhaps badly
injured man how it happened. He can recall nothing, and seldom knows when he lost control.

These are the things that happened when this country was hastening fliers overseas. As a matter
of national necessity it was essential that as many men as possible be put through their dual
and solo flying and sent across to the other side. It was better for the country at large to
turn out five hundred pilots a month, say, with 5 per cent. of casualties, than one hundred
a month with one-half of 1 per cent. or less of accidents. These figures do not represent the
actual conditions, but they picture the problem.

Now the civilian who would take up flying has just as much time as he wants to spend in learning
to fly. He is paying for his instruction, and he should continue it for perhaps fifteen to
twenty hours of dual instruction. He should fly the machine with an instructor in it, and really
get accustomed to the feel of the air. He should become sensitive enough so that he can differentiate
between the tight, firm touch to a machine flying under complete control and the slack movement
of stick and rudder of a plane very nearly out of control. He should recognize these danger
signs and know how to correct his flying position.

Dual flying should be continued up to the point where the pupil flies without thinking, when
it becomes the natural thing for him to use both stick and rudder to correct a bump, and when
he thinks no more of it than riding over a rut in a road. He should be able to tell by ear,
when volplaning, whether or not he is maintaining sufficient speed to hold it in the air. He
should be acquainted with the principle of spinning, and should have had some experience in
taking a machine out of a spin.

