With increased speed we passed over South Norwood and the village of Shirley, rising higher
and higher as we proceeded on our way. The moon, which was just past the full, had not risen
above the horizon of those upon the earth below us; but we had now attained such an altitude
that it became visible to us, low down on the horizon and far ahead on our left hand. Owing
to our height above the earth it soon became impossible for us to see the places over which
we passed, and as we were moving over an open part of Kent there were very few lights which
we could have seen in any case. As there was nothing of particular interest to attract our
attention which we had not already seen on our trial trips, we entered our general room and
sat down to supper.

The machinery had been set to maintain a speed of 150 miles an hour until we passed beyond
the limits of the earth's atmosphere; for though, no doubt, we might safely have travelled
faster, we did not intend taking any risk of overheating our vessel by the friction of the
atmosphere.

Notwithstanding the speed at which we were travelling we were quite unconscious of any movement
in our vessel. The impression we received was not that we were rushing away from the earth,
but that the earth was rapidly falling away from our position in space.

It may, perhaps, be desirable that I should now give a little information respecting myself
and my friends, together with some explanation of our reasons for embarking upon such a very
long voyage.

CHAPTER II

PERSONAL REMINISCENCES--WHY WE DECIDED ON THE VOYAGE

My name is Wilfrid Poynders, and during the greater part of my lifetime of more than sixty-three
years astronomy has been my favourite study. For the last thirty years the planet Mars has
been an object of special interest to me, and I have devoted much time to observation of the
planet and have endeavoured to make myself fully acquainted with all that has been discovered
or surmised respecting it.

My dear wife had died when I was thirty-six years of age, leaving me with one child, my son
Mark, then about fifteen years old. In my intense sorrow at my bereavement I should probably
have become almost a hermit had it not been for my boy who, having been carefully educated,
was a bright and intelligent lad. I now took him under my special care and made it my constant
endeavour to impart to him such of my own knowledge as seemed likely to be useful or interesting,
hoping to keep him with me for many years as a companion. He soon became imbued with my love
of mechanical pursuits and also with my passion for astronomy and allied sciences, developing
an interest in Mars equal to if not surpassing my own.

His most intimate schoolfellow was John Claxton, and, as there was a very strong friendship
between them, we were so much together that I came to regard him almost as a second son.

When my boy was in his twentieth year I noticed that a great change came over him, for instead
of being cheerful and high-spirited he became very quiet and self-absorbed, and there was often
a faraway look in his eyes which puzzled me very much. One morning I went to call him at his
usual time for rising and found him in a deep sleep from which I was unable to rouse him. After
trying some time without effect his stupor so alarmed me that I immediately sent off for a
doctor, who advised that it would be best to let him lie and he would probably awaken naturally
in a few hours' time. This indeed proved to be the case; and, as soon as he awoke, the doctor
carefully examined him, but could find nothing wrong to account for what had happened. A month
later he had a similar seizure, with the same result, but this time his sleep lasted nearly
thirty hours. On the doctor's advice I then took him to the seaside for several weeks' stay,
and there he soon regained his usual buoyancy of spirits.

