He had married early, and had made, in the estimation of his friends and of the county generally,
an excellent choice of a wife in the person of the eldest daughter of a neighbouring squire.
The marriage was apparently a very happy one; for the bride brought her husband a fair face,
a loving heart, and a good fortune, and entertained his friends with due courtesy and cordiality.
Moreover, she neither thwarted his tastes nor squandered his money; while he, on his part,
pursued his hunting, shooting, and fishing, and his occasional magisterial duties, with due
consideration for his wife's domestic and social engagements, so that their married life ran
its course with as little friction or creaking as could reasonably be expected.  Then there
came, in due time, the children: first, a little girl, the object of her mother's passionate
love, and as dear to her father as the mistake of her not having been a boy would allow her
to be; then, after an interval of three years, came a son.

Now it so happened that at the time of this son's birth there was residing as a guest at the
Manor-house a middle-aged gentleman reputed to be very rich.  His name was Amos Sutterby. 
Mr Huntingdon had met him abroad in the second year after his marriage when taking a tour in
Switzerland with his wife.  Mr Sutterby was an old bachelor, rather bluff in his manners, but
evidently in easy circumstances.  The Huntingdons and himself had met on the Rigi, and the
squire had taken to him at once--in a great measure, it may be, because Mr Amos was a good
listener, and was very ready to ask Mr Huntingdon's opinion and advice. So the squire gave
his new acquaintance a general invitation to Flixworth Manor, which the other cordially accepted:
and in a little while this acquaintanceship ripened into a steady friendship, though by no
means entirely to the satisfaction of Mrs Huntingdon.  The result, however, was that Mr Sutterby
spent several weeks of every year, at the close of the summer and beginning of the autumn,
at the Manor, and was the constant companion of the squire in his field-sports.  Mr Huntingdon
had taken care to satisfy himself that his new friend, though somewhat of an oddity, was a
man of substance.  True, he was only living in bachelor style, and possessed no landed property;
but then he was able at all times to command ready money, and was reputed by persons who had
long known him to be the holder of a large amount in the funds, an impression which seemed
to be justified by some elegant and costly presents of which Mr Sutterby begged his friend's
acceptance, as a token of his esteem and a mark of his appreciation of that kind hospitality
which, as he said, an eccentric old bachelor living in lodgings in London was unable to return
in kind.

Now it was, as has been said, during a visit of Mr Sutterby to Flixworth Manor that a son and
heir was given to the Huntingdons.  Of course there were great rejoicings, and no one seemed
more glad than Mr Sutterby; and when he was asked if he would stand godfather to the child,
he declared that nothing could please him more.  So the christening day was fixed, and now
the question of a name for the child was discussed, as father, mother, and their guest were
sitting round the fire after dinner on the first day of Mrs Huntingdon's appearing downstairs.

"Of course he must be `Walter,' after yourself," said the lady.

"Unless you would like to call him `Amos,' after his godfather," said the squire, laughing.

"Capital!" exclaimed Mr Sutterby, with a roar of merriment.  "In that case, of course, I shall
feel it nothing less than my duty to make him my heir."

Now these words of their guest, though spoken just on the spur of the moment, and probably
only in jest, made an impression on the mind of Mr Huntingdon which he could not get rid of.
Why should not his friend have really meant what he said?  He was rich, and an old bachelor,
and had no near relations, so far as the squire knew; and though Mr Huntingdon's estate and
fortune were large, yet his open-house way of living left him little to spare at the year's
end, so that Mr Sutterby's money would be very acceptable, should he see fit to leave it to
his godson.  He therefore represented this view of the matter to his wife in private; but she
would not hear of such a name as Amos being given to her son.

"Better lose a thousand fortunes, and quarrel with every friend they had or might have, rather
than bring such an odious combination as `Amos Huntingdon' into the family genealogy."  The
squire's temper, however, was roused by this opposition, and he wound up the only sharp altercation
which had occurred between himself and his wife since their marriage by a vehement asseveration
that "Amos" and nothing but "Amos" should be the Christian name of his first-born son.

Sorely against her will, his wife was obliged to yield; for though Mr Huntingdon had his own
secret regrets that he had gone so far, yet he was one of those who, wanting that true greatness
of character which leads its possessor to change a hastily adopted decision for one resulting
from a maturer judgment, abide by what they have said simply because they have said it, and
thus mistake obstinacy for a right-minded firmness.  "Amos," therefore, was the name given,
considerably to the satisfaction of Mr Sutterby, who made his godson handsome presents from
time to time, and often spoke of him playfully as "my godson and heir." His mother, however,
never forgave his name, and it was clear to all that the poor child himself had but a cold
place in that mother's heart.

What wonder, then, that the boy grew up shy and reserved, dreading the sound of his own name,
and shrinking within himself; for seldom was he gladdened by a father's or mother's smile.
Added to this, he was not naturally of a lively temperament, and so never exhibited those boisterous
spirits which might have won for him in a measure his father's heart.  So he was brought up
with all due care, as was suitable for an eldest son, and was sent to a public school as soon
as he could be safely trusted from home.  Indeed, all his wants were supplied but one, and
that one was what his heart craved with a painful intensity-- love.  They gave him no real
love, at least none that came like sunshine to his spirit.  Such love as they did measure out
to him was rather like the feeble sunlight on a cloudy winter day, that seems to chill as it
scarcely struggles through the mists that almost quench it.

Such was Amos Huntingdon in his early childhood.  But the cloud grew darker over him when he
had reached the age of ten.  It was then that the news came one morning that Mr Sutterby had
died, leaving no will, for indeed he had nothing to bequeath except a few small personal effects,
which went to some distant cousin.  The fact was that, having an eye to his own personal comfort
and well-doing, he had sunk a nice little fortune, which he had inherited from a maiden aunt,
in a handsome annuity.  Thus he was able to travel and spend his money like a man of wealth,
and was very glad of the opportunity of making Mr Huntingdon's acquaintance, which gave him
access to a house where he could spend a portion of every year amidst bountiful hospitality
and in good society. He had no deliberate intention of deceiving Mr Huntingdon about his son,
but having once given him the impression that he would leave that son a fortune, he did not
trouble himself to undeceive his friend on the subject; but being a man in whom self-interest
spoke with a louder voice than conscience, he was not sorry to find the conviction strongly
rooted in the squire's mind that Amos was to be his godfather's heir, as this conviction evidently
added to the warmth of the welcome with which he was received at the Manor-house whenever he
chose to take up his quarters there.  And as he had always carefully avoided making any definite
statement of his intentions, and had only thrown out hints from time to time, which might be
either serious or playful, he was content that a state of things should continue which brought
considerable satisfaction to himself, and could not deprive the squire or his son of anything
to which either had a legal claim.  The disgust, however, of Mr Huntingdon, when he found out
how he had, as he considered it, been taken advantage of and imposed upon, was intense in the
extreme.  No one dared refer to Mr Sutterby in his presence, while the very name of the poor
boy Amos was scarcely ever spoken by him except in a tone of bitterness; and even his mother
looked forward to his holidays with more of apprehension than rejoicing.

There was one, however, who felt for that desolate-hearted child, and loved him with a mother's
tenderness.  This was his aunt, Miss Huntingdon, his father's unmarried and only sister.  Half
his holidays would be spent at her house; and oh, what happy days they were for him! Happy,
too, at last in the brightest and fullest sense; for that loving friend was privileged to lead
her nephew gently to Him who says to the shy schoolboy, as much as to the mature man, in his
sorrows, "Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy-laden, and I will give you rest."

In the meanwhile, when Amos was five years old, another son was born at Flixworth Manor.  The
baby was christened Walter, and nearly all the love that was the share of the elder brother
was poured by both father and mother on the younger son.  Years rolled on, and when our story
opens Amos was twenty-two years of age.  He had passed creditably through the university course
at Oxford, but had not settled down to any profession.  Walter was seventeen; his father's
delight and constant companion in his holidays; full of life, energy, and fun, with an unlimited
good opinion of himself, and a very limited good opinion of his brother; while all around who
knew him only a little were loud in his praises, which were not, however, echoed by those who
knew him more thoroughly.  At present he was remaining at home, after completing his school
education, neither his father nor himself being able to make up their minds as to the sphere
in which his abilities would shine the best.

And where was his sister, the eldest of the three, who was now twenty- five years of age? 
Alas! she had grievously disappointed the hopes of both father and mother, having clandestinely
married, when not yet arrived at womanhood, a man altogether beneath her in position.  From
the day of that marriage Mr Huntingdon's heart and house were closed against her.  Not so the
heart of her mother; but that mother pleaded with her husband in vain for a reconciliation,
for permission even to have a single meeting with her erring child.  And so the poor mother's
mind came under partial eclipse, and herself had been some years away from home under private
superintendence, when the accident above recorded occurred to her husband and his sister.

CHAPTER THREE.

A TALK AT THE BREAKFAST-TABLE.

The morning after the accident, Miss Huntingdon, who was now keeping her brother's house, and
had been returning with him the night before after a visit to a friend, appeared as usual at
the breakfast-table, rather to Mr Huntingdon's surprise.

"My dear Kate," he said, "I hardly expected to see you at breakfast, after your fright, and
shaking, and bruising.  Most ladies would have spent the morning in bed; but I am delighted
to see you, and take it for granted that you are not seriously the worse for the mishap."

"Thank you, dear Walter," was her reply; "I cannot say that I feel very brilliant this morning,
but I thought it would be kinder in me to show myself, and so relieve you from all anxiety,
as I have been mercifully preserved from anything worse than a severe shaking, the effects
of which will wear off in a day or two, I have no doubt."

"Well, Kate, I must say it's just like yourself, never thinking of your own feelings when you
can save other people's.  Why, you are almost as brave as our hero Walter, who risked his own
neck to get us out of our trouble last night.--Ah! here he comes, and Amos after him.  Well,
that's perhaps as it should be--honour to whom honour is due."

A cloud rested on Miss Huntingdon's face as she heard these last words, and it was deepened
as she observed a smile of evident exultation on the countenance of her younger nephew, as
he glanced at the flushed face of his elder brother.  But now all seated themselves at the
table, and the previous evening's disaster was the all-absorbing topic of conversation.

"Well," said the squire, "things might have been worse, no doubt, though it may be some time
before the horses will get over their fright, and the carriage must go to the coachmaker's
at once.--By-the-by, Harry," speaking to the butler, who was waiting at table, "just tell James,
when you have cleared away breakfast, to see to that fence at once.  It must be made a good
substantial job of, or we shall have broken bones, and broken necks too, perhaps, one of these
days."

"I hope, Walter," said his sister, "the horses were not seriously injured."

"No, I think not," was his reply; "nothing very much to speak of. Charlie has cut one of his
hind legs rather badly,--that must have been when he flung out and broke away; but Beauty hasn't
got a scratch, I'm pleased to say, and seems all right."

"And yourself, Walter?"

"Oh, I'm all safe and sound, except a few bruises and a bit of a sprained wrist.--And now,
my boy, Walter, I must thank you once more for your courage and spirit.  But for you, your
aunt and myself might have been lying at the bottom of the chalk-pit, instead of sitting here
at the breakfast-table."

Walter laughed his thanks for the praise, declaring that he exceedingly enjoyed getting his
father and aunt on to dry land, only he was sorry for the carriage and horses.  But here the
butler--who was an old and privileged servant in the family, and therefore considered himself
at liberty to offer occasionally a remark when anything was discussed at table in which he
was personally interested--interrupted.

"If you please, sir, I think Master Amos hasn't had his share of the praise.  'Twas him as
wouldn't let us cut the traces, and then stood by Beauty and kept her still.  I don't know
where you'd have been, sir, nor Miss Huntingdon neither, if it hadn't been for Master Amos's
presence of mind."

"Ah, well, perhaps so," said his master, not best pleased with the remark; while Amos turned
red, and motioned to the butler to keep silent.  "Presence of mind is a very useful thing in
its way, no doubt; but give me good manly courage,--there's nothing like that, to my mind.--What
do you say, Kate?"

"Well, Walter," replied his sister slowly and gravely, "I am afraid I can hardly quite agree
with you there.  Not that I wish to take away any of the credit which is undoubtedly due to
Walter.  I am sure we are all deeply indebted to him; and yet I cannot but feel that we are
equally indebted to Amos's presence of mind."

"Oh, give him his due, by all means," said the squire, a little nettled at his sister's remark;
"but, after all, good old English courage for me.  But, of course, as a woman, you naturally
don't value courage as we men do."

"Do you think not, Walter?  Perhaps some of us do not admire courage quite in the same way,
or the same sort of courage most; but I think there can be no one of right feeling, either
man or woman, who does not admire real courage."

"I don't know what you mean, Kate, about `the same sort of courage.' Courage is courage, I
suppose, pretty much the same in everybody who has it."

"I was thinking of moral courage," replied the other quietly; "and that often goes with presence
of mind."

"Moral courage! moral courage!  I don't understand you," said her brother impatiently.  "What
do you mean by moral courage?"

"Well, dear brother, I don't want to vex you; I was only replying to your question.  I admire
natural courage, however it is shown, but I admire moral courage most."

"Well, but you have not told me what you mean by moral courage."

"I will try and explain myself then.  Moral courage, as I understand it, is shown when a person
has the bravery and strength of character to act from principle, when doing so may subject
him, and he knows it, to misunderstanding, misrepresentation, opposition, ridicule, or persecution."

The squire was silent for a moment, and fidgeted on his chair.  Amos coloured and cast down
his eyes; while his brother looked up at his aunt with an expression on his face of mingled
annoyance and defiance.  Then Mr Huntingdon asked, "Well, but what's to hinder a person having
both what I should call old-fashioned courage and your moral courage at the same time?"

"Nothing to hinder it, necessarily," replied Miss Huntingdon.  "Very commonly, however, they
do not go together; or perhaps I ought rather to say, that while persons who have moral courage
often have natural courage too, a great many persons who have natural courage have no moral
courage."

"You mean, aunt, I suppose," said her nephew Walter, rather sarcastically, "that the one's
all `dash' and the other all `duty.'"

"Something of the kind, Walter," replied his aunt.  "The one acts upon a sudden impulse, or
on the spur of the moment, or from natural spirit; the other acts steadily, and from deliberate
conviction."

"Can you give us an example, aunt?" asked the boy, but now with more of respect and less of
irritation in his manner.

"Yes, I can," she replied; "and I will do so if you like, and my example shall be that of one
who combined both natural and moral courage.  My moral hero is Christopher Columbus."

"A regular brick of a man, I allow; but, dear aunt, pray go on."

"Well, then, I have always had a special admiration for Columbus because of his noble and unwavering
moral courage.  Just think of what he had to contend with.  It was enough to daunt the stoutest
heart and wear out the most enduring patience.  Convinced that somewhere across the ocean to
the west there must be a new and undiscovered world, and that it would be the most glorious
of enterprises to find that new world and plant the standard of the Cross among its people,
he never wavered in his one all-absorbing purpose of voyaging to those unknown shores and winning
them for Christ.  And yet, from the very first, he met with every possible discouragement,
and had obstacle upon obstacle piled up in his path.  He was laughed to scorn as a half-mad
enthusiast; denounced as a blasphemer and gainsayer of Scripture truth; cried down as an ignoramus,
unworthy of the slightest attention from men of science; tantalised by half promises; wearied
by vexatious delays: and yet never did his courage fail nor his purpose waver.  At last, after
years of hope deferred and anxieties which made him grey while still in the prime of life,
he was permitted to set sail on what was generally believed to be a desperate crusade, with
no probable issue but death. And just picture him to yourself, Walter, as he set out on that
voyage amidst the sullen murmurs and tears of the people.  His ships were three `caravels,'
as they were called,--that is, something the same as our coasting colliers, or barges,--and
there was no deck in two of them. Besides, they were crazy, leaky, and scarcely seaworthy;
and the crews numbered only one hundred and twenty men, most of them pressed, and all hating
the service.  Nevertheless, he ventured with these into an ocean without any known shore; and
on he went with one fixed, unalterable purpose, and that was to sail westward, westward, westward
till he came to land.  Days and weeks went by, but no land was seen.  Provisions ran short,
and every day's course made return home more hopeless.  But still his mind never changed; still
he plunged on across that trackless waste of waters.  The men mutinied--and one can hardly
blame them; but he subdued them by his force of character,--they saw in his eye that which
told them that their leader was no common man, but one who would die rather than abandon his
marvellous enterprise.  And you remember the end?  The very day after the mutiny, a branch
of thorn with berries on it floats by them.  They are all excitement.  Then a small board appears;
then a rudely-carved stick; then at night Columbus sees a light, and next day lands on the
shores of his new world, after a voyage of more than two months over seas hitherto unexplored
by man, and in vessels which nothing but a special providence could have kept from foundering
in the mighty waters.  The man who could carry out such a purpose in the teeth of such overwhelming
opposition, discouragement, and difficulty, may well claim our admiration for courage of the
highest and noblest order."

No one spoke for a moment, and then Mr Huntingdon said, "Well, Kate, Columbus was a brave man,
no doubt, and deserves the best you can say of him; and I think I see what you mean, from his
case, about the greatness and superiority of moral courage."

"I am glad, Walter, that I have satisfied you on that point," was her reply.  "You see there
was no sudden excitement to call out or sustain his courage.  It was the bravery of principle,
not of mere impulse.  It was so grand because it stood the strain, a daily-increasing strain,
of troubles, trials, and hindrances, which kept multiplying in front of him every day and hour
as he pressed forward; and it never for a moment gave way under that strain."

"It was grand indeed, aunt," said Walter.  "I am afraid my courage would have oozed out of
every part of me before I had been a week on board one of those caravels.  So all honour to
Christopher Columbus and moral courage."

That same morning, when Miss Huntingdon was at work in her own private sitting-room, there
came a knock at the door, followed by the head of Walter peeping round it.

"May I come in, auntie?  I've a favour to ask of you."

"Come in, dear boy."

"Well, Aunt Kate, I've been thinking over what you said at breakfast about moral courage, and
I begin to see that I am uncommonly short of it, and that Amos has got my share of it as well
as his own."

"But that need not be, Walter," said his aunt; "at least it need not continue to be so."

"I don't know, auntie; perhaps not.  But, at any rate, what father calls old-fashioned courage
is more in my line; and yet I don't want to be quite without moral courage as well,--so will
you promise me just two things?"

"What are they, Walter?"

"Why, the first is to give me a bit of a hint whenever you see me--what I suppose I ought to
call acting like a moral coward."

"Well, dear boy, I can do that.  But how am I to give the hint if others are by? for you would
not like me to speak out before your father or the servants."

"I'll tell you, auntie, what you shall do--that is to say, of course, if you don't mind.  Whenever
you see me showing moral cowardice, or want of moral courage, and I suppose that comes much
to the same thing, and you would like to give me a hint without speaking, would you put one
of your hands quietly on the table, and then the other across it--just so--and leave them crossed
till I notice them?"

"Yes, Walter, I can do that, and I will do it; though I daresay you will sometimes think me
hard and severe."

"Never mind that, auntie; it will do me good."

"Well, dear boy, and what is the other thing I am to promise?"

"Why, this,--I want you, the first opportunity after the hint, when you and I are alone together,
to tell me some story--it must be a true one, mind--of some good man or woman, or boy or girl,
who has shown moral courage just where I didn't show it.  `Example is better than precept,'
they say, and I am sure it is a great help to me; for I shan't forget Christopher Columbus
and his steady moral courage in a hurry."

"I am very glad to hear what you say, Walter," replied his aunt; "and it will give me great
pleasure to do what you wish.  My dear, dear nephew, I do earnestly desire to see you grow
up into a truly noble man, and I want to be, as far as God permits me, in the place of a mother
to you."

As Miss Huntingdon uttered these words with deep emotion, Walter flung his arms passionately
round her, and, sinking on his knees, buried his face in her lap, while tears and sobs, such
as he was little accustomed to give vent to, burst from him.

"O auntie!" he said vehemently, when he had a little recovered himself, "I know I am not what
I ought to be, with all my dash and courage, which pleases father so much.  I'm quite sure
that there's a deal of humbug in me after all.  It's very nice to please him, and to hear him
praise me and call me brave; but I should like to please you too.  It would be worth more,
in one way, to have your praise, though father is very kind."

"Well, my dear boy, I hope you will be able to please me too, and, better still, to please
God."  She spoke gently and almost sadly as she said these words, kissing at the same time
Walter's fair brow.

"I'm afraid, auntie," was the boy's reply, "I don't think much about that.  But Amos does,
I know; and though I laugh at him sometimes, yet I respect him for all that, and I believe
he will turn out the true hero after all."

CHAPTER FOUR.

THE CRIPPLED HORSE.

