We cannot, with the traditions and history of the British Empire behind us, either from the
point of view of the United Kingdom, or from the point of view of our self-governing Dominions,
assent for a moment to proposals which are so fatal to the very fundamental conditions on which
our empire has been built up and carried on....  It would impair, if not altogether destroy,
the authority of the United Kingdom in such grave matters as the conduct of foreign policy,
the conclusion of treaties, the maintenance of peace, or the declaration of war, and, indeed,
all those relations with foreign powers, necessarily of the most delicate character, which
are now in the hands of the Imperial Government, subject to its responsibility to the Imperial
Parliament. That authority cannot be shared, and the co-existence side by side with the Cabinet
of the United Kingdom of this proposed body--it does not matter by what name you call it for
the moment--clothed with the functions and the jurisdiction which Sir Joseph Ward proposed
to invest it with, would, in our judgment, be absolutely fatal to our present system of responsible
government....  So far as the Dominions are concerned, this new machine could impose upon the
Dominions by the voice of a body in which they would be in a standing minority (that is part
of the case), in a small minority, indeed, a policy of which they might all disapprove, a policy
which in most cases would involve expenditure, and an expenditure which would have to {296}
be met by the imposition on a dissentient community of taxation by its own government.

Mr Asquith's statement that 'that authority cannot be shared' has sometimes been taken to mean
that the United Kingdom could not and would not admit the Dominions to a share in the control
of foreign policy.  As the context and later action showed, however, it was to sharing control
with a new super-parliament that the prime minister of the United Kingdom, in common with the
prime ministers of every Dominion except New Zealand, expressed his opposition.  Later in the
Conference a further, if far from final, step was taken towards sharing control with the Dominions.
Upon Mr Fisher's demand that the Dominions should be consulted in international agreements
such as the Declaration of London and the conventions of the Hague Conference, it was agreed
unanimously that, at further Hague Conferences and elsewhere when time and subject-matter permitted,
this would be done.  Sir Wilfrid Laurier agreed with this proposal, though stating his view
that in such negotiations the United Kingdom should be given a free hand.  Some greater share
in foreign policy, most nationalists and {297} imperialists alike agreed, the Dominions must
possess.  The real question was, whether they should seek it through a central body in which
they would have a minority representation, and whose functions it was impossible to define
without serious infringement of the existing powers of the Dominions, or whether they were
to secure it along the line so long pursued, of independence in what was overwhelmingly the
prime concern of each separate state, plus co-operation in what was distinctly of common interest.

Hardly had preferential trade as a mooted topic receded into the background when the question
of Canada's share in the defence of the Empire came to the front and took on a new urgency
and a new interest.

The forces of Canada for land defence had been made much more effective since the twentieth
century began.  The permanent militia had been largely increased; engineer, medical, army-service,
and ordnance corps had been organized or extended; rifle associations and cadet corps had been
encouraged; new artillery armament had been provided; reserves of ammunition and equipment
had been built up; a central training-camp had {298} been established; the period and discipline
of the annual drill had been increased; the administration had been thoroughly reorganized.
In 1911 over six times as much was spent upon the militia as in 1896. Though the service was
still very far from ideal efficiency, there was no question that it had been greatly improved.

In Canada as in the other Dominions the problem of bringing the military forces into relation
with the forces of other parts of the Empire was solved without any sacrifice of the principle
of self-government in command or administration.  After 1902 little was heard of the proposal
to give the British War Office control over a section of the troops of each Dominion.  Matters
moved rather in the direction of co-operative action.  In 1907 it was arranged that each of
the larger Dominions should organize a General Staff to act in close touch and to exchange
officers with the newly reorganized Imperial General Staff.  It followed that equipment and
administration became largely uniform.  In 1909, and again in 1911, further steps were taken
to secure effective co-operation between the General Staffs.

Naval defence proved a harder problem to {299} solve.  A beginning was made.  The fishery-cruiser
service was extended.  In 1905 the Dominion took over the garrisons at the naval bases of Halifax
and Esquimalt. The minister of Marine, Mr Prefontaine, took some steps towards the organization
of a Naval Reserve, but with his death (1905) the movement ceased.  The belief in Britain's
unquestioned supremacy, a reluctance to enter 'the vortex of European militarism,' the survival
of passive colonialism, kept the vast majority of Canadians indifferent.  And, though a persistent
minority of enthusiasts called on the country to awake, the unwillingness of the British authorities
to sanction Dominion action along national lines blocked the most promising path.

By much effort all the self-governing colonies except Canada had been induced to send annual
cheques to the Admiralty.  But the total amount was negligible, and no permanent results had
been achieved.  After fifteen years of contribution not a single Australian had been trained
as a sailor.  At last, opinion in the Commonwealth took decided shape and demanded immediate
national action--demanded the creation of a Royal Australian Navy.

{300}

Heretofore Canada had blazed the trail that led from colonialism to nationhood.  Now Australia
took the lead.  The reasons were clear. Canada's chief neighbour was the United States--on
the whole, not a militarist country--and there was little fear of military aggression. But
commercial intercourse with this neighbour, along a frontier of three thousand miles, was close
and constant, making it necessary for Canada to take into her own hands the control of commercial
relations. Australia had no such overshadowing commercial relations with any power, but had
neighbours in the Pacific--the colonies of aggressive European states, first France and later
Germany, and the teeming and awakening powers of Asia--which gave urgency to the question of
defence.  A Commonwealth which ruled a dependency of its own, in Papua, and shared dominion
of the world's second greatest island with imperial Germany (nowhere except in this anomalous,
precedent-defying British Empire could any one have dreamt of 'the colony of a colony'), could
not long remain indifferent to naval defence.  For twenty years discussion of the issue had
gone on in Australia, clarifying and precipitating opinion.  It was no wonder that Canada,
which tried to {301} concentrate the same discussion into four or five years, years of great
economic pressure, proved more confused in opinion and less unanimous in action.

At the Conference of 1907 the Admiralty modified its former policy and suggested that instead
of a money contribution any Dominion might 'provide for local service in the imperial squadrons
the smaller vessels that are useful for defence against possible raids or for co-operation
with a squadron.'  The prime minister of Australia, Mr Deakin, welcomed the proposal as a step
forward, but on his return to Australia it was still found impossible to reconcile the national
aspirations of the Commonwealth and the desire of the Admiralty to control all ships, however
provided, and no definite action followed. Canada for the present remained content, having
extended the fishery service and garrisoned with her own troops Halifax and Esquimalt.  Both
parties in Canada agreed in giving no attention to the question. During the general elections
which followed shortly after the Conference of 1907, neither Sir Wilfrid Laurier nor Mr Borden
said one word about naval defence.  Nothing but a dramatic crisis would rouse the people to
give {302} the support necessary to enable either leader to take a decided stand.

The Kaiser provided the crisis.  During 1908 and 1909 cries of alarm over the growth of the
German navy awoke the United Kingdom and found echoes in Canada.  It appeared that Britain's
margin of safety was being dangerously lessened, that the Mistress of the Seas had been challenged.
The British House of Commons voted eight additional Dreadnoughts and the Admiralty continued
to withdraw ships from the ends of the earth and to concentrate the fleet in the North Sea.

Since the eighties international affairs had shown increasing tension. In Europe the struggle
for national freedom, which marked the previous era, had in many cases been perverted into
an endeavour to impose one nation's will upon another.  Not only did France cherish the memory
of Alsace-Lorraine; not only did Italy dream of her lost provinces; not only did the Balkan
states plot to complete the half-done task of driving out the Turk; but the German Austrian
sought to dominate the Magyar and the Magyar the Slav, while Italy swelled with visions of
the Eastern Mediterranean once more a Roman {303} lake, and Pan-German and Pan-Slav drew and
re-drew the map of Europe to their liking.

But it was not in Europe alone that these nations sought expansion. The belief that empire
overseas was necessary to national greatness, and that sea-power was the means to that end,
spread through Continental Europe.  During the thirty years following 1880 France added three
and a half million square miles to her colonial possessions, Germany a million, and Italy a
quarter-million.  Even the United States was carried away by the current, and Great Britain,
already the greatest of colonial powers, picked up nearly four million square miles more. 
Europe's aggression stirred sleeping Asia, and Japan gave promise of beating her teachers at
their own game.  This hasty parcelling out of the non-white world brought friction and often
threatened war.  For years a conflict with Russia was believed inevitable in England.  Then
France became the inevitable foe.  Next Germany took up the rôle.  Though felt at fewer points,
her rivalry was more serious.  A state with the ideals of mediaeval feudalism and the might
of a modern industrial nation--with all the wealth and organizing power of industry and science
at the disposal {304} of a monarchy based on 'divine right,' and a military aristocracy which
moulded and mastered the nation through control of school and press and army--was a constant
danger to its neighbours.  Germany's aims were more aggressive than those of the western democracies,
and its methods were more efficient than those of other European states of no higher ideals.
True, the democratic and anti-militarist forces were gaining ground in Germany itself, while
elsewhere the folly and waste of militarism were rousing unprecedented efforts towards peace.
But no way out was found. It was clearly impossible for one state to disarm while its neighbours
armed to the teeth.  A few fitful efforts, in which Great Britain took an honourable part,
to bring about a concerted halt came to nothing. The world appeared convinced that the only
statesmanlike way to avert war was for each state or group of states to make itself stronger
than every other state or group.  The war of armaments went on unchecked. Europe slept on a
powder-mine.

In every Dominion the new sense of peril stirred instant response.  If Britain's rivals had
counted on the Dominions holding aloof in the hour of her need, or had held their {305} resources
negligible, they were speedily awakened.  In Australia, in New Zealand, in South Africa, and
in Canada, press and parliament voiced the new realization of danger and the new determination
to face it more effectively.

At first the prospect in Canada of speedy and harmonious action was of the brightest.  Mr Foster
gave notice in the House of Commons of a resolution in favour of Canadian naval preparations,
and the leaders of both parties met in private conference and agreed upon the general course
to be followed.  Late in March 1909 Mr Foster moved his resolution and supported it with powerful
and kindling eloquence.  He dwelt on the burden which Britain bore alone and the urgent need
that Canada should take a more adequate part in naval defence.  He opposed strongly the policy
of a fixed annual contribution.  The certainty of constant friction over the amount, the smack
of tribute, the radical defect that it meant hiring somebody else to do what Canadians themselves
ought to do, the failure of such a plan to strike any roots, were fatal objections.  A Canadian
Naval Service was the only possible solution, though for himself he would agree to vote a Dreadnought
as {306} a preliminary step.  Mr Borden emphasized the need of action, and advocated 'a Canadian
naval force of our own.'  Sir Wilfrid Laurier declared that Canada must realize to the full
both the rights and the obligations of a daughter nation by rising to any sacrifice that might
be needed to maintain unimpaired the power of the British Empire, essential as it was not only
for Canada's safety but for the civilization of the world.  As to the form of action, he opposed
being stampeded into any spectacular policy inconsistent with the principle of self-government,
and closed by moving a series of resolutions, which, with some changes suggested by Mr Borden,
were unanimously accepted by the House.  Mr M'Kenna, while {307} repeating the orthodox Admiralty
view that considerations of strategy favoured a single navy, now recognized that other considerations
had to be taken into account, and that 'room must be found for the expression of national sentiment....
While laying the foundation of future Dominion navies to be maintained in different parts of
the Empire, these forces would contribute immediately and materially to the requirements of
Imperial defence.'  No wonder that the London Times congratulated Australia and Canada 'on
their achievement in having at last educated the Admiralty up to their own point of view.'
Unfortunately the convert was soon to backslide, but for the present hearty and ready aid was
given in establishing the Dominion naval policy.  Australia agreed to form a distinct fleet
unit, consisting of a large armoured cruiser, three unarmoured cruisers, six destroyers and
three submarines, with auxiliary ships.  Canada, not an island like Australia or Great Britain,
had two seaboards to protect, ten thousand miles apart.  The Canadian representatives, therefore,
while agreeing that a second fleet unit in the Pacific would be desirable in the future, requested
suggestions, which were given, for the expenditure, first, of {308} an equivalent and, second,
of a lesser amount on two squadrons.  The bill was passed in March.  In the autumn the cruiser
Niobe (11,000 tons) and the Rainbow (3600 tons), purchased from the Admiralty, reached Canadian
waters, where they were to serve as training-ships. Recruiting for these ships was begun and,
while not speedy, was reported by the department as satisfactory.  The Halifax and Esquimalt
dockyards were taken over.  Early in 1911 a Naval College was opened at Halifax; and in May
tenders were received, ranging from eleven to thirteen millions, from six British and Canadian
firms, for the construction, in Canada, of four Bristol cruisers, one Boadicea cruiser, and
six destroyers.  In June (1911), at the Imperial Conference in London, agreement was reached
as to the boundaries {309} of the Australian and Canadian stations.  The naval services of
the two Dominions were to be 'exclusively under control of their respective governments'; but
in time of war any fleet or ships placed at the disposal of the British Government by the Dominion
authorities would 'form an integral part of the British fleet and remain under the control
of the Admiralty during the continuance of the war.'  Training and discipline were to be generally
uniform.  Dominion ships were to fly the white ensign at the stern as the symbol of the Crown's
authority and the distinctive flag of the Dominion at the jack-staff. Then came the reciprocity
fight, the blocking of supplies by the Conservatives, and the general elections of September,
all intervening before any tender had been finally accepted.

Long before this time, however, the issue had given rise to bitter party controversy.  The
unanimity of parliament in 1909 had not truly reflected the diversity of public opinion.  Mr
Borden was not able to carry his party with him.  In the English-speaking provinces many Conservatives
denounced a Canadian fleet as 'a tinpot navy,' useless, expensive, and separatist, and called
for a gift of Dreadnoughts.  Mr Borden's lieutenant from Quebec, {310} Mr F. D. Monk, came
out strongly against either Canadian navy or contribution, unless approved by popular vote.
So, after a loyal attempt to defend the agreement of 1909, Mr Borden found it necessary to
change his position.  By attacking the Laurier navy as inadequate, and at the same time declaring
that no permanent policy should be adopted without an appeal to the people, he endeavoured
to keep both wings of his party in line. The opposition in Quebec was strengthened by Mr Henri
Bourassa and his following--'Nationalists' in some respects perhaps, but more rightly labelled
Colonialists or Provincialists.  They dealt a shrewd blow in defeating the Government candidate
at a by-election held in November 1910 for Drummond-Arthabaska, Sir Wilfrid's old seat.  And,
though in all the other provinces the general elections of 1911 were fought on the issue of
reciprocity, the navy was made the chief issue in Quebec. Conservatives formed a close working
alliance with the Nationalists, who attacked the prime minister as a tool of the English imperialists,
and pictured to the habitants the horrors of the marine, of conscription and the press-gang.

A little over a year after his accession to {311} power in 1911, Sir Robert Borden brought
down his naval proposals, providing for a gift or loan to Great Britain of three Dreadnoughts
to meet the current emergency, and promised to submit later on his permanent policy to the
electorate.  What that permanent policy would be he did not reveal.  It was stated that the
Government had not definitely decided against a Canadian navy, but the insistence upon the
difficulty of building up a naval organization in Canada, and other remarks, made it appear
that some plan of permanent contribution, with a share in the central controlling body, was
under contemplation.  Sir Wilfrid Laurier vigorously opposed the proposals and adhered to the
policy of a Canadian navy.  And, not to be outdone in bigness, he now advocated two fleet units.
After a prolonged discussion and determined obstruction by the Opposition, the Government introduced
the closure and forced the bill through the Commons, only to see it rejected by the Senate
on the motion of Sir George Ross, 'that this House is not justified in giving its assent to
this bill until it is submitted to the judgment of the country.'

The Government's abrupt change of policy was in part due to the activity of the first {312}
lord of the Admiralty, Mr Winston Churchill.  Whether moved by his own impetuous temperament
or by the advice of others, Mr Churchill threw overboard the M'Kenna memorandum, and endeavoured
once more to revive the contribution policy.  He was not content with laying before the Canadian
prime minister the opinion of experts on the strategic questions involved, and advising on
means to reach the desired end, but sought to influence public opinion in the Dominions by
word and act.  The memoranda sent at Sir Robert Borden's request in January 1913, emphasizing
the difficulty of building battleships in Canada--which was not proposed by the Opposition--and
the difficulty of helping to man the two Canadian fleet units--though at the same time men
were declared to be available for as many as five Dreadnoughts, if contributed--were preceded
by pressure on the Malay States to contribute a battleship, and were followed by Mr Churchill's
announcement of his intention to establish at Gibraltar an Imperial Squadron composed of Dominion
ships, under the Admiralty's control. When Australia suggested that a special Dominion Conference
to discuss the matter should be held in Canada, New Zealand, or Australia, {313} the United
Kingdom would not consent.  It was made emphatically clear that Mr Churchill was in favour
of contribution, not as an emergency but as a permanent policy.  It was his doubtless well-meant--and
invited--intervention in the dispute, ignoring the principles by which imperial harmony had
been secured in the past, which more than anything else stirred up resentment in Canada.

The dispute in Canada turned partly on constitutional, and partly on technical, naval considerations.
A Canadian navy was opposed by some as tending to separation from the Empire, and by others
as involving Canada in a share in war without any corresponding share in foreign policy.  It
was defended as the logical extension of the policy of self-government, which, in actual practice
as opposed to pessimistic prophecy, had proved the enduring basis of imperial union.  The considerations
involved have been briefly reviewed in an earlier section.  It need only be noted here that
the constitutional problem was no more acute in December 1912 than in March 1909.  Whatever
the difficulties, they had been faced and accepted by all the other Dominions.  Australia was
irretrievably and proudly committed to her {314} own navy--'His Majesty's Royal Australian
Navy'; New Zealand announced her dissatisfaction with the original contribution policy; General
Botha declared that South Africa would prefer 'a navy of our own.'  Not contribution therefore,
but local navies, afforded the only basis of uniformity throughout the Empire.  Given this
attitude on the part of all the Dominions, there was little question that forms would soon
follow facts, and each of the Five Nations be given its due place and weight in settling common
issues of policy.

On the more technical issues there was equally wide divergence.  A Canadian navy was attacked
by some as useless even in the long run. Canada could not build up an adequate naval administration
in half a century.  Inefficiency and jobbery would mark the navy's management. The sea was
one and the navy should be one; concentration at the supreme danger point, defence by attack,
were the latest maxims of naval strategy.  On the other hand, it was urged that what Australia
had done Canada could do, and that the German navy itself had been built up in twenty years.
The sea was one, but it was tens of thousands of miles in width; {315} the trade routes required
protection, and the coasts must be guarded against sudden raids.

Greater stress, however, was laid on the 'short-run' arguments.  That there was only one possible
enemy, Germany; that war with her in a few years was inevitable; that when it came Great Britain's
fleet would be overmatched, or perilously equalled, were the insistent contentions of one party.
That the Pacific required watching as well as the North Sea; that relations with Germany, on
Sir Edward Grey's testimony, were improving and war unlikely; that if war came in a few years
the naval power of Britain, to say nothing of that of France and Russia, would be overwhelming,
was the other party's oft-reiterated answer.  It was urged, also, that the Canadian Government's
belief in the seriousness of the emergency must be judged by its acts, not its words.  Had
it believed war imminent and the naval situation so dangerous that its three Dreadnoughts were
required, it would unquestionably have been too patriotic to think for a moment of any other
course but to bring on a general election in 1913 to override the Senate.

That is now ancient history.  The outbreak of the Great War threw the Canadian naval {316}
question, along with so many greater questions, into the melting pot.  The temporary easing
of the international situation after 1912 was followed by acute tension again, and this time
the restraining forces gave way.  The rivalry of Teuton and Slav in the Balkans, where of late
the balance had tilted against the Central Powers because of the defeat of their quasi-ally,
Turkey, provided the setting.  The murder of an Austrian prince by a Servian subject gave the
occasion, and Germany set the fatal drama in motion.  What part was played in her decision
by dreams of world conquest or dread of being hemmed in by ever-stronger foes, what part by
the desire of a challenged autocracy to turn the people from internal reform to external policy,
will not be certain until the chancelleries of Europe have given up their secrets, if certain
then; but, whatever the motive, all the world outside Germany has agreed that had she willed
she could have averted the fatal ending of those tense days of July 1914.

When the intervention of the United Kingdom was made inevitable and practically unanimous by
the brutal attack on Belgium, Canada never hesitated for a moment as to her attitude.  The
rights of the immediate issue {317} were clear; the whole world's liberty was plainly at stake;
the struggle promised to task, if not to overtask, every resource of the mother country.  Sir
Robert Borden acted promptly and effectively, and parliament when called in special session
unanimously backed his actions.  In a few weeks the largest force that had ever crossed the
Atlantic sailed to England, and throughout the war ten thousand upon ten thousand followed.
The Dominions surprised the world, and not least themselves, by the greatness and effectiveness
of the efforts made in the common cause.  At first, distance or over-confidence prevented a
full grasp of the crisis by the general public, and even by the leaders of opinion; but, as
time went on, the sense of the greatness of the issue deepened, resolution hardened, and the
only measures of effort were what the crisis called for and what Canada could give.

The country was united as on few occasions.  Here and there undigested groups of immigrants
from the enemy lands stood out from the common enthusiasm, but gave little overt trouble. 
In Quebec some, but not all, of the Nationalists opposed Canada's participation in the war,
taking either the belated colonial view that it was Britain's part to fight the {318} Empire's
wars, or the more logical but inopportune view that Canada should not fight in a war when she
had had no part in shaping the policy that went before it.  They claimed to stand where practically
all Canadians had stood a generation before.  They forgot that meanwhile the world, and Canada,
had moved forward.

The ordeal of battle put to the test the facts and the theories of empire which had been shaping
in the years which have been reviewed. The splendid response of the whole Empire to the call
of need proved that it was not the weak and crumbling structure that enemies had hoped and
zealous friends had feared.  Of their own free will the Dominions and even India poured out
their treasures of men and money in measure far beyond what any central authority could have
ordained.  Freedom was justified of her children, and the British Empire proved its right to
exist by its very difference from the Prussian Empire.  When General Botha and General Smuts,
after crushing with ease a rebellion which under a different imperial policy would have been
triumphant, led the army of the Crown in triumph against the German dominions to which it had
once been proposed to banish {319} them, they gave a most dramatic proof of the power of the
unseen bonds of confidence and liberty.

Yet, as the war proved, the Empire had not yet reached its final stage. Now that the Dominions
helped to pay the piper, henceforth they would insist on a share in calling the tune.  That
the decision as to peace and war must no longer rest solely with the government of Great Britain,
however wisely that power had been used in this instance, became the conviction of the many
instead of the few.  It was still matter for serious debate how that greater voice could be
attained, and the conflict between the policy of consultation between existing governments
and the policy of creating a new central over-government, which had marked the years before,
bade fair to mark the years after the war as well.

The subsidiary question of naval defence had also its after-lights. Those in Canada who had
urged the contribution policy had the gloomy satisfaction of seeing their prophecy of speedy
war with Germany fulfilled.  Those who had urged the policy of a Canadian navy had the more
cheerful satisfaction of seeing that the only 'emergency' was that which faced the Kaiser's
fleet, bottled up by {320} the vastly superior allied forces.  The battle of the Falkland Islands,
redeeming the defeat at Coronel, proved the wide range of action of fast cruisers based on
European waters, while on the other hand the raids of the Emden proved the need of cruisers
for defence on every sea; and the exploits of the Sydney, sister ship of Canada's unbuilt Bristols,
ended all talk of tin-pot navies.  The lessons of the war as to ships and weapons and strategy
were all important for the reconsideration of the question.  Still more vital for the decision
as to this and weightier matters were the secrets the future held as to the outcome of the
war, as to the future alignment of nations, and, above all, as to the possibility of building
up some barrier against the madness, the unspeakable sufferings, and the blind, chaotic wastes
of war, more adequate than the secret diplomacy, the competitive armaments, and the shifting
alliances of the past.

[1] Report of Annual Meeting, Canadian Manufacturers' Association, in Industrial Canada, 1912,
p. 334.

{321}

CHAPTER XIV

FIFTY YEARS OF UNION

The Dominion of Canada's first fifty years have been years of momentous change.  The four provinces
have grown into nine, covering the whole half-continent.  The three million people have grown
to eight, and the west of the wandering Indian holds cities greater than the largest of the
east at Confederation.  From a people overwhelmingly agricultural they have become a people
almost equally divided between town and country.  The straggling two thousand miles of railways
have been multiplied fifteen-fold, forming great transcontinental systems unmatched in the
United States.  An average wheat crop yields more than ten times the total at Confederation,
and the output of the mine has increased at even a more rapid rate.  Great manufacturing plants
have developed, employing half a million men, and with capital and annual products exceeding
a thousand {322} million dollars.  Foreign trade has mounted to eight times its height of fifty
years ago.  The whole financial and commercial structure has become complex and intricate beyond
earlier imagining.  The changes, even on the material side, have not been all gain.  There
is many a case of reckless waste of resources to lament, many an instance of half-developed
opportunity and even of slipping backwards.  With the millionaire came the slum, and the advantages
of great corporations were often balanced by the 'frenzied finance' and the unhealthy political
influence of those in control. Yet, on the whole, progress, especially in the last twenty years,
has been unquestioned and rarely paralleled.

Political has kept pace with economic change.  The far-flung Dominion is at last being welded
into one, and a Canadian nationality is arising of a distinct character and with conscious
unity.  The average man thinks of himself no longer as first a citizen of Nova Scotia, Ontario,
or Manitoba, an Englishman, a Scotsman, or an Irishman, but as first a Canadian.  Provincial
and racial jealousy, though not passed away, are less intense and less critical than in the
days of old.  There is less bitterness in party {323} conflicts, less personal abuse, and more
of the broader patriotism.  Of jobbery and corruption and low political ideals there are unfortunately
no less, but there is more conscious endeavour to grapple with and overthrow these foes.  The
Dominion has found its place in the family of nations, and has taken its full share in the
transforming and upbuilding of the British Empire.  Fifty years ago, merely colonies of Britain,
looked upon by most men in the mother country as being about to break from the Empire to which
they were now profitless, and to the rest of Europe scarcely a name!  To-day, sending hundreds
of thousands of men across the seas to fight shoulder to shoulder with Britain to maintain
the unity of the Empire, the freedom of Europe and the world!  History has few more striking
transformations than this to show.

Even more striking, but less within the scope of this brief survey, were the changes in the
life and thought, in the manners and the social texture of the nation.  The growth of luxury
and of restless change; the quickening pace of business and the accompanying shortening of
the work-day and the work-week; the transformation effected by railway {324} and steamship,
by telephone and typewriter, by electric light and skyscraper; the coming of the motor-car,
of bridge, and of society columns; the passing of cricket, the rise and fall of lacrosse, the
triumph of baseball and hockey and golf and bowling, the professionalizing of nearly all sport;
the increasing share of women in industry and education; the constant shift of fashion, the
waxing and waning of hats and skirts; the readjustment of theological creeds and the trend
towards church unity; the progress of medical science, the widening of university interests,
the development of advertising and the transformation of the newspaper;--all these and many
more phases of the changing times bulked larger in the daily life of the people than the constitutional
and political issues with which statesmen and politicians had to deal and which historians
have to describe.

Even in the political and economic change no man and no party had a dominating share.  The
Canada of to-day is the creation of millions of hands, of the known or unknown few who toiled
primarily for their country's advancement, and of the many who sought their own private ends
and made national progress as a by-product.  Yet if statesmen {325} are, on the one hand, not
directly responsible for good harvests or bad, on the other, they are not 'flies on the wheel.'
The powers confided to them are great for good or ill.  They may hasten or retard material
progress, and guide, if they cannot create, the current of national destiny.  It is impossible
to imagine what different course the Dominion would have taken had there been no Macdonald
and no Laurier at the helm.

In Sir Wilfrid Laurier's career four guiding principles, four goals of endeavour, have been
steadily kept in view--individual liberty, collective prosperity, racial and religious harmony,
and growth to nationhood.  The end in view was not always reached.  The path followed was not
as ruler-straight as the philosopher or the critic would have prescribed.  The leader of a
party of many shades of opinion, the ruler of a country of widely different interests and prejudices
and traditions, must often do not what is ideally best but what is the most practicable approach
to the ideal.  Yet with rare consistency and steadfast courage these ends were held in view.
Ever an opportunist as to means, Wilfrid Laurier has never been an opportunist as to ends.

{326}

The historic task of Liberalism--the promotion, by negative and positive means alike, of individual
freedom with full opportunity for self-development--has been less urgent in Canada than in
many other lands.  Civil liberty Canadians inherited from their fathers overseas. Political
liberty was the achievement of the generation before the Dominion was formed.  Social liberty,
the assuring for each man genuine equality of opportunity, has in great measure been ensured
by the wide spaces of a virgin continent.  What legislation is required to guarantee it further
falls for the most part within the scope of the provincial legislatures; though one most important
factor in securing equality and keeping open the door of opportunity, the free gift of farm
lands to all who will, has been a federal policy.  But in one important field, liberty of thought
and discussion, the battle has had to be fought in our own day, and has been fought valiantly
and well. In standing for the elementary rights of freedom of speech and political action,
Sir Wilfrid Laurier braved the wrath of powerful forces in the Church he loved and honoured.
He did not deny any church or any churchman the right to take a full part in political discussion.
But he {327} did deny any religious teachers the right to brandish for a political purpose
the weapons of their spiritual armoury; and he urged the inexpediency, in the Church's own
interest, of endeavouring to build up a clerical party.

The promotion of the country's economic welfare has been the chief task of every Canadian Government,
and the one most in discussion.  A tariff marked by stability and by moderate advances towards
freedom of trade, a railway policy reflecting the new-found faith of Canada in its future,
an immigration campaign that opened up the West and laid the foundation for mounting prosperity,
and for a new place in the world's regard, aid to farmer and fisherman and miner--these were
the outstanding features of the Canadian administration after 1896. Mistakes were made, errors
of omission and commission, due now to lack of vision, now to over-confidence, but the accounting
was not to be feared.  'When I am Premier,' declared Mr Laurier in the early nineties, referring
to some dubious statistics used to prove that all was well with the country, 'you will not
have to look up figures to find out whether you are prosperous: you will know by feeling in
your pockets.'

{328}

