At 0540 hours, the chief monitor departed from the Base Camp with a military policeman to monitor
the entire length of Broadway.  They first checked the roadblock at Pennsylvania Avenue and
Broadway.  Next they drove to the roadblock at Vatican Road and Broadway.  Upon the chief monitor's
arrival, the west shelter monitor traveled about nine kilometers west on Vatican Road to monitor
Guard Post 1 so that the military police could reoccupy the post.  The monitoring excursion
to Guard Post 1 continued until the chief monitor had returned from Guard Post 2, located 17
kilometers northwest of the Vatican Road roadblock on Broadway (1; 18).

The chief monitor arrived at Guard Post 2 at about 0550 hours and found the post empty.  He
then continued five kilometers north along Broadway to the foxholes from which the military
police had watched the detonation.  There he found the guards, the five radiological safety
monitors assigned to the evacuation detachment, and the Commanding Officer of the evacuation
detachment (1; 18).

The military policemen refused to return to Guard Post 2, insisting that they had received
orders over their two-way radio from the Base Commander to evacuate their post and head for
San Antonio, New Mexico, a town 28 kilometers northwest of the Guard Post.  The Base Commander
had noted that portions of the cloud were heading northwestward and, fearing that fallout from
the cloud would contaminate Guard Post 2, had ordered the military police to evacuate.  The
chief monitor, however, had found no significant radiation levels anywhere along the northern
part of Broadway nor around Guard Post 2. The Base Commander, after being contacted by the
chief monitor, drove to the foxholes and ordered the guards to return to their post.  This
was the only unplanned incident during the onsite monitoring (1).

After Guard Post 2 was reoccupied, the chief monitor returned to the roadblock at the intersection
of Broadway and the North Shelter Road. The north shelter monitor informed the chief monitor
of the sudden evacuation of the north shelter, whereupon the chief monitor surveyed the north
shelter area and found intensities of only 0.01 and 0.02 roentgens per hour (R/h).  The chief
monitor then contacted the south shelter and informed Dr. Bainbridge that the north shelter
region was safe for those who needed to return, that Broadway was safe from the Base Camp to
Guard Post 2, and that Guard Post 2 was now manned so that personnel leaving for LASL could
be checked out (1).

The chief monitor then returned to the south shelter and assembled the monitors from the three
roadblocks and Guard Post 4 to prepare for entrance into the ground zero area.  The time was
about 0815 hours. The military police at the roadblocks were given radiation meters to survey
the adjoining area.  Broadway from the south shelter to Guard Post 2 was remonitored occasionally
to reassure the military police that there was no radiation problem.  Monitors also surveyed
the Base Camp for 24 hours after the detonation.  No radiation above background levels was
detected there (1).

The following brief description of the radiological environment in the TRINITY test area is
based primarily on the results of the remote gamma recorders situated in the test area and
on results of the road surveys conducted after the detonation (1).

Within about 1,400 meters of ground zero (except to the north), radiation intensities between
0.2 and 1.3 R/h were detected during the first few minutes after the detonation.  These readings
decreased to less than 0.1 R/h within a few hours.  At greater distances to the east, south,
and west, radiation levels above background were not detected (1).

The cloud drifted to the northeast, and higher gamma readings due to fallout were encountered
in this direction.  About five minutes after the detonation, a reading of 3 R/h was recorded
1,400 meters north of ground zero.  Several minutes later, the intensity there had increased
to greater than 7 R/h, and it continued to increase for several more minutes.  Gamma detectors
9,150 meters north of ground zero, however, recorded no radiation above background levels.
This indicated that the cloud had passed over or near the 1,400-meter area and only partially
over the 9,150-meter area where the north shelter was located.  Subsequent ground surveys of
this area found no gamma intensities higher than 0.02 R/h (1).

Gamma radiation levels at and around ground zero were much higher than in other onsite areas
because of induced activity in the soil. Twenty-four hours after the detonation, the gamma
intensity at ground zero was estimated to be 600 to 700 R/h.  This estimate was based on data
provided by the tank crew that drove to ground zero to obtain soil samples.  The intensity
decreased to about 2 R/h at 725 meters from ground zero.  Gamma intensities of 0.1 R/h or more
were confined within a circular area extending about 1,100 meters from ground zero (except
in areas of fallout).  One week after the shot, the gamma intensity at ground zero was about
45 R/h.  After 30 days, intensities at ground zero had decreased to 15 R/h, and intensities
of 0.1 R/h or more were not encountered beyond about 365 meters from ground zero. Gamma intensities
of 3 to 10 R/h were found at ground zero three months after the detonation (1; 19).

3.3 OFFSITE MONITORING GROUP

Four two-man teams and one five-man team supervised by the chief offsite monitor constituted
the Offsite Monitoring Group.  Before the detonation, the four two-man teams established monitoring
posts in towns outside the test area.  These towns were Nogal, Roswell, Fort Sumner, and Socorro,
all in New Mexico.  The five-man team remained at Guard Post 2 to assist in evacuation of nearby
residences if the TRINITY cloud drifted in that direction.  These residences, the Fite house
and the homes in the town of Tokay, were 24 and 32 kilometers northwest of ground zero, respectively.
Since the cloud drifted to the northeast, evacuation was not required.  All offsite monitoring
teams were in radio or telephone contact with personnel at the Base Camp (11).

Offsite monitoring teams in areas northeast of ground zero encountered gamma readings ranging
from 1.5 to 15 R/h two to four hours after the detonation.  Three hours after the detonation,
surveys taken in Bingham, New Mexico (located 30 kilometers northeast of ground zero) found
gamma intensities of about 1.5 R/h.  Radiation readings at the town of White, nine kilometers
southeast of Bingham, were 6.5 R/h three hours after the detonation and 2.5 R/h two hours later.
Another team monitoring in a canyon 11 kilometers east of Bingham found a gamma intensity of
about 15 R/h.  Five hours later, the intensity had decreased to 3.8 R/h.  It was estimated
that peak intensities of gamma radiation from fallout on shot-day were about 7 R/h at an occupied
ranch house in this canyon area (1; 11; 19).

Monitoring teams resurveyed these towns about one month after the TRINITY detonation.  At Bingham,
gamma readings of 0.003 R/h and 0.0001 R/h were found at ground level outdoors and at waist
level inside a building, respectively.  At the town of White, the highest outdoor gamma reading
was 0.008 R/h.  Inside a building, the highest reading was 0.0005 R/h (11).

Surveys taken in the canyon area one month after the detonation indicated that gamma intensities
at ground level had decreased to 0.032 R/h.  The occupied ranch house was also surveyed, both
inside and outside.  The highest reading outdoors was 0.028 R/h, and the highest reading indoors
was 0.004 R/h (11; 19).

Monitoring was also conducted in offsite areas other than those to the north and northeast
of ground zero.  Monitors found no radiation readings above background levels (11).

Significant fallout from the TRINITY cloud did not reach the ground within about 20 kilometers
northeast of ground zero.  From this point, the fallout pattern extended out 160 kilometers
and was 48 kilometers wide.  Gamma intensities up to 15 R/h were measured in this region several
hours after the detonation.  One month later, intensities had declined to 0.032 R/h or less (11).

CHAPTER 4

DOSIMETRY ANALYSIS OF PARTICIPANTS IN PROJECT TRINITY

This chapter summarizes the radiation doses received by participants in various activities
during Project TRINITY.  The sources of this dosimetry information are the safety and monitoring
report for personnel at TRINITY, which includes a compilation of film badge readings for all
participants up to 1 January 1946, and film badge data from the records of the Reynolds Electrical
and Engineering Company, which contain readings through 1946 (1; 16).  These sources list individual
participants with their cumulative gamma radiation exposures.

4.1 FILM BADGE RECORDS

During TRINITY, the film badge was the primary device used to measure the radiation dose received
by individual participants.  The site monitoring plan indicates that film badges were to be
issued to participants.  The film badge was normally worn at chest level on the outside of
clothing and was designed to measure the wearer's exposure to gamma radiation from external
sources.  These film badges were insensitive to neutron radiation and did not measure the amount
of radioactive material that might have been inhaled or ingested (1).

Personnel from the Medical Group had responsibility for issuing, receiving, processing, and
interpreting film badges for Project TRINITY.  The Site Monitoring Group compiled the film
badge records for both onsite and offsite personnel.  Radiological safety personnel and military
police recorded the names and identification numbers of individuals as they entered the test
area.  This information was recorded in an entry logbook and on a personal exposure data card.
Upon leaving the test area, individuals returned their film badges to the check station.  When
the film badges were processed and interpreted, the reading was entered on the individuals
exposure data card.  In this manner, the number of times an individual entered the test area
and his cumulative exposure history were recorded and maintained (1).

4.2 GAMMA RADIATION EXPOSURE

The safety and monitoring report lists film badge readings for about 700 individuals who participated
in Project TRINITY from 16 July 1945 to 1 January 1946 (1).  This list includes both military
and nonmilitary personnel who were involved with the TRINITY operation and postshot activities.
However, records are available for only 44 of the 144 to 160 members of the evacuation detachment
(1).  In addition, some of these film badge listings may be for personnel who were only peripherally
involved with TRINITY activities, such as family members and official guests who visited the site.

According to the safety and monitoring report, by 1 January 1946, 23 individuals had received
cumulative gamma exposures greater than 2 but less than 4 roentgens.  An additional 22 individuals
received gamma exposures between 4 and 15 roentgens.  Personnel who received gamma exposures
exceeding 2 roentgens represent less than six percent of the Project TRINITY participants with
recorded exposures.  As described below, these exposures generally resulted when personnel
approached ground zero several times (1).

