The queen of Edward III., after the battle of Durham, demanded of John Copland, David of Scotland;
on his remonstrance that no one but the king had a right to his prisoner, Edward sent for him
to Calais, and bestowed on him in return for his captive, £500, in land. The Scottish monarch
paid, after an imprisonment of eleven years, 100,000 marks, and was dismissed. Charles de Blois,
at the same period paid 700,000 crowns, and left his two sons as hostages. Michael de la Pole,
Duke of Suffolk, paid £20,000. sterling, when only a simple knight. Duc d'Alençon gave for
his freedom 200,000 crowns, and actually sold part of his estate to the Duc de Bretagne to
pay it. Caprice often caused the detention of men in captivity, from their inability to comply
with the absurd demands of their captors. Louis XI. refused to part with Wolfang Poulain, a
Burgundian officer, unless he would purchase his redemption with some favourite hounds belonging
to the Seigneur de Bossu. As Bossu did not feel sufficiently interested in his friend's welfare
to comply with the king's wishes, and part with his dogs, some time elapsed before any treaty
could be entered into, to restore Poulain to his country.

This practice, though it undoubtedly contributed to soften the horrors of war, often caused
hostilities to be undertaken on the most absurd and frivolous pretences. The English are represented
by Comines as rejoicing in a war with France, from a recollection of the prices they obtained
from the lords and princes they captured. Another bad effect may be traced to it, in the violations
of safe conduct, the seizure of individuals during times of peace, which the middle ages so
constantly exhibit. Oliver de Clisson, the Constable of France, on entering into a castle to
examine its strength, at the request of the Duc de Bretagne, in 1387, was seized, and at first
commanded to be thrown into the sea. The savage Breton afterwards being troubled in conscience,
expressed his joy that his order had not been complied with, and released Clisson on the payment
of 100,000 livres.

During the wars of Edward III. and Philip, many a soldier of fortune amassed considerable opulence
by the ransoming of his prisoners. Croquart, a famous leader of these companies, is related
to have become extremely rich by the money he received from the ransoms of castles and towns.
In the fourteenth century several Knights of Suabia having associated themselves together for
chivalrous engagements, endeavoured to seize a rich Count of Wirtenburg, as a means of procuring
a noble sum of money for the ransom of himself and his family. For this purpose they attacked
him in his castle at Wildbad, but were repulsed. At Poictiers, the King of France was nearly
torn to pieces by the soldiers in disputing for their prize. At the Bridge of Luissac, Carlonnet,
the French commander, fell into the hands of the enemy, who were about to end the quarrel respecting
his possession by putting him to death, when the timely arrival of an English knight rescued
him from their power. At Agincourt, eighteen French gentlemen entered into an agreement to
direct all their attacks against King Henry, most probably with a view of acquiring a fortune
by his capture; hence the contest was the hottest about his person. After the battle of Nanci,
and the death of the Duke of Burgundy, by the sword of Charles de Beaumont, the latter is said
to have died of regret, when he became aware whom it was he had slain, and the loss he had
sustained of a ducal ransom.

Before quitting this subject, it may be observed that the value of a prisoner's liberty was
a regularly transferable property. Coeur de Lion was sold to the emperor Henry; Philip Augustus
bargained for him; and his ransom reduced England, from sea to sea, to the utmost distress.
Louis XI. bought the bastard of Burgundy from Renè, Duc de Lorrain, for 10,000 crowns, and
also William of Chalons, Prince of Orange, for 20,000, from Sieur de Grosté. Joan of Arc was
sold to the English for 10,000 livres, and a pension of 300. In the case of the Earl of Pembroke,
who became the property of Du Guescelin, as part of the purchase-money for some estates in
Spain, he had sold to Henry, King of Castile, the constable lost his expected 120,000 livres
by the death of his prisoner; as this nobleman was in a bad state of health, his bankers at
Bruges wisely declined paying the money until he became sound and in good condition. (Quand
il serait sain, et en bon point.) The earl dying before he left France, Du Guescelin lost both
his estates and money. One of the family of the Blois was presented to his favourite, the Duke
of Ireland, by Richard II., who disposed of his master's bounty to Oliver de Clisson for 120,000
livres. Zizim, the brother of Bajazet, Emperor of the Turks, after being defeated by his brother
in an attempt to seize the throne, fled to the Knights of Rhodes for succour. They, fearing
the vengeance of the Sultan, transferred him to Louis XI. who fulfilled his trust faithfully,
and kept him for the knights, though offered all the relics that the east abounded with, and
even the kingdom of Jerusalem, by Bajazet, for his prisoner. After being given into the custody
of the Pope by Louis, and a six years' residence at Rome, he was sent back to France, as the
king had found out that he might be of service in his engagements with Constantinople; he was,
however, not restored to his brother in the condition which the Flemings had stipulated the
Earl of Pembroke to be restored; for before his redelivery to the French, he is supposed to
have been poisoned.

H.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE EQUESTRIAN STATUE OF PETER THE GREAT.

(To the Editor.)

This stands upon a rock, which was found in a morass near Lachta, in Karelin, at a distance
of eleven versts, or about 41,250 English feet. The dimensions of this stone were found to
be 21 feet by 42 in length, and 34 in breadth; its weight is calculated at 3,200,000 lbs. or
1,600 tons. The mechanism for its conveyance was invented by Count Carbury, who went by the
name of Chevalier Lascuri. A solid road was first made from the stone to the shore; then brass
slips were inserted under the stone to go upon cannon balls of five inches diameter, in metal
grooves, by windlasses worked by 400 men every day, 200 fathoms towards the place of destination.
The water transport was performed by what are called camels in the dockyards of Petersburgh
and Amsterdam.

E.A.B

       *       *       *       *       *

SONNET TO HOPE.

(For The Mirror.)

  As some lone pilgrim through Night's dreary scene,
  With cautious steps scarce venturing on his way,
  Views the chaste orb of Evening's soft-eyed Queen
  Gild the blue east, and scare those mists away
  Which from his sight each faithful light obscur'd,
  And led him wildering, sinking pale with fear!
  Not he more bless'd by Cynthia's light allur'd,
  Onward his course with happier thoughts doth steer,
  Than I, O Hope! blest cheerer of the soul!
  Who, long in Sorrow's darkening clouds involv'd,
  When black despair usurp'd mild Joy's control,
  Saw thee, bright angel, fram'd of heavenly mould,
  Dip thy gay pallet in the rainbow's hue,
  And call each scene of Peace and Mirth to view.

The Author of "A Tradesman's Lays."

       *       *       *       *       *

The income of a Russian metropolitan does not exceed 800l. a-year; that of an archbishop, 600l.;
and of a bishop, 500l.; sums apparently as small as persons of their rank can possibly subsist
on, even in Russia. They are, however, allowed a considerable sum annually for purposes of charity.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SKETCH-BOOK.

       *       *       *       *       *

A SCENE FROM LIFE.

(For the Mirror.)

  Truth is strange--stranger than fiction.
  LORD BYRON.

"And so the Fernlands is to be sold at last," I said, casually meeting Mr. Nibble, our under-sheriff--"Poor
N----, I am grieved for him, he has struggled hard against oppression."

"It is quite true, sir," replied the man of the law, "a horning came down last night, but it
will answer no end--for Messrs. Sharke and Scrapepen, have advertised the whole of the property
for public roup on Tuesday next."

The Fernlands estate had been the family property of the N----s since the conquest for aught
I know. The present representative, after having sent his sons out into the world, as all Scotchmen
do, to fight their way, (one of whom by the by was accumulating a snug fortune in India) got
involved in some commercial speculation, for which he was wholly unfitted, being anything but
a business man. He was a worthy unsuspecting fellow, but at last saw his way clearer, and as
he thought got out, though a very heavy loser. In consequence of this scrape he wrote to his
son in India, to say, that unless he could remit him a large sum, which he named, it would
be impossible to keep his ground at Fernlands.

Very soon afterwards his late partner, who was a good sort of fellow too, failed, and N----
was paralyzed on receiving a letter from the attorney to the assignees to say, that not having
regularly gazetted his retirement from the concern, he had rendered himself legally liable
to the creditors of the late firm of ---- and Co., and unless N---- paid the balance which
remained due after the assets of the bankrupt's estate had been ascertained, that immediate
steps would be resorted to, to compel him. The matter soon got abroad, and all N----'s other
creditors also pressed forward to crush him--well, to make a disagreeable story short, the
end is as I have previously related. Poor N---- is to be ruined to pay another man's debts,
after a vast deal to do with law and lawyers, and much heat on both sides.

I had taken great interest in the matter from the first, and it was with deep feelings of sorrow
that I saw this excellent family likely to be driven from the home of their forefathers, by
the merciless and often unjust hand of the law. N---- was, I believe, generally liked, and
no person in need, in the district where he resided, looked up to the Laird for advice or assistance
in vain. You may judge therefore of the public sensation. While these matters were pending,
N---- looked with the deepest anxiety for the arrival of a letter from his son in India; and
every day did he send his servant express to the little post-office at ----, but in vain.

At last the fatal day of sale arrived. N----, in the depth of his distress had early sent for
me to consult whether even at the eleventh hour something could not be done to avert the calamity.
A sinking man catches at a straw. It wanted less than three hours of the time of sale when
I entered the grounds of Fernlands. The gate was half off its hinges, the posts plastered with
advertisements of the sale; and people, as always happens in such cases, were already pouring
towards the house more from a motive of curiosity than from an intention of purchasing anything.
As I advanced towards the scene of action, I could observe that the shrubberies were injured,
and the rare plants and flowers which both N---- and his wife had valued so much--for they
were fond of the study of nature--exhibited evident tokens of the mischief of the careless
multitude thronging to the show. The day was clear and beautiful, the breeze played through
the leafy wilderness with a joyous effect; the contrast between the peace and harmony of nature,
and the discord and tumult of man and his deeds, was affecting. But such thoughts were soon
chased away from my mind, as I advanced over a portion of the lawn towards the stables, I saw
N----'s favourite mare, and the old pony, Jack, (whom I recollected as the companion of N----'s
boys, and as tractable as a dog,) in the hands of a rascally sheriff's officer, who was showing
them to a horse-dealer from a neighbouring town. The lawn in the front of the house was covered
with straggling groups of people, either discussing the event of the day, or examining some
of the furniture which was strewed there.

"Eh, sirs!" said an old man, brushing a tear from his eye, "I never thoucht to ha' seen the
like o' this day's wark--and my forbears have had a bit o' farm under the laird's a hundred
an' saxteen year, and better nor kinder folk to the puir man never lived."

Mr. Nibble, who was Messrs. Sharke's agent, was bustling about, and I found him engaged with
a fat, pompous little fellow, the auctioneer, from a neighbouring town.

"Sad business this, Mr. ----," said he, "Fernlands is in a sad taking about it, I believe,
but things of this kind will occur, you know; and I always say what can't be cured must be
endured, eh."

I turned with an ill-concealed expression of disgust from this man, and entered the house in
search of my friend, for N---- would not quit the old place to the last. There is something
melancholy in viewing a sale at any time--the disarrangement of the furniture--the cheerless
and chilling aspect of the rooms--the dirt, the bustle, and the heartless indifference one
witnesses to the misfortunes of others--all come home forcibly to the feelings. After stumbling
and striking my shins amongst piles of chairs, and furniture, and carpets, disposed in lots
over the now comfortless apartments, I at last reached the study door where I had spent many
a happy hour with N----. I entered; the room was stripped of part of its furniture, the books
lying dispersed in heaps over the floor or on the massive table, at the side of which N----
was seated on the only chair left in the apartment. He was at first unconscious of my entrance.

"My dear sir, this is kind indeed," he said as I advanced, struggling with his feelings, "but
take a chair," and he glanced round the room with a bitter smile, as he observed there was
none, "my friends are kind you see, they think chairs are useless things...."

The loss of his land affected him more than I can describe. He had been brought up upon it,
and it had become as it were part and parcel of himself; it was not an ordinary loss. The noise
and bustle in the house and sundry interruptions from inquisitive eyes, warned us, as N----
said, that "we must jog." As we were rising, I accidentally inquired whether he had received
his letters that morning. "Good God!" he exclaimed, "I totally forgot, and poor Andrew I fancy
is too much occupied in bemoaning the fate of the horses, to have thought of it; but we can
get them when I return with you this afternoon."

"Delays are dangerous," I replied, "we will not throw a chance away."

We hastened to the stable, and I despatched the servant on my own horse, with the utmost expedition
to the post-office at ----.

N---- sauntered through a private path in the shrubbery towards the entrance of the grounds,
and I made my way through the careless throng, who had no thought what their own fate might
be perhaps to-morrow--to Mr. Nibble, and urged him to delay the sale for an hour, but he said
it was impossible, he would not hurry it for half an hour or so, but that they were already
pressed for time. The landed property was first to be brought to the hammer. I mechanically
followed the steps of N----, and when I overtook him, we saw through a break in the wood, from
the increased density of the mob and the elevation of the auctioneer, that the sale was commencing.

We gave up all for lost. At this moment I fancied I heard the noise of a horse urged to full
gallop. The blood rushed to our hearts; we sprung through the trees towards the road; in another
moment Andrew was in sight, urging his horse to his utmost speed. The instant he saw us he
waved his hat, "A packet from abroad, sir," he sung out as he approached, "from our young master,
I'm sure."

"God be praised, you are saved," was all I could utter; poor N---- was faint with sudden joy
and hope. We tore open the envelope, which contained bills from his son in India to a large
amount. I saw N---- was unable to think, and without more ado, I squeezed his hand, seized
the letter, and put spurs to my horse. The bidding had commenced when I reached the wondering
crowd, who rapidly fell back as they saw me approach. But why should I tire you any longer;
in a couple of hours Fernlands remained unpolluted by one of the mob, or legal harpies who
had invaded it. You may guess the rest....

A friend related the preceding incident to me; the reader may suppose him to be addressing
myself. The leading circumstances are strictly true, the names and some trifling matters alone
being altered. The story is invested with interest from its great similarity to a portion of
the plot of the "Antiquary;" I have the strongest reason to believe, from the intimate acquaintance
the great novelist possessed with the country, that he drew Sir Arthur Wardour's similar escape
from ruin, from a recollection of the event briefly related above.

VYVYAN.

       *       *       *       *       *

SELECT BIOGRAPHY.

       *       *       *       *       *

PAGANINI, THE VIOLINIST.

By aid of the Foreign Quarterly Review, we are enabled to submit to our readers the following
very interesting Memoirs of this eccentric genius.

By the way, we are happy to find that the above work is enabled to maintain the high character
with which it started. It argues well for the literary taste of this country, by cherishing
acquaintance with continental literature, and thus strengthening our resources at home.

Nicolo Paganini was born at Genoa, in February, 1784. We are not informed as to his father's
profession, if indeed he had any: all that we are told is, that his chief pursuit was to improve
his circumstances, which were not the best in the world, by speculating in the lottery, so
that when his little son, Nicolo, began at an unusually early age to give strong indications
of musical talent, it seemed to him as if the wheel of fortune had at last been propitious,
and he accordingly lost no time in setting to work to make the most of his prize. Having some
skill on the violin himself, he resolved to teach him that instrument; and as soon as he could
hold it, put one into his hands, and made him sit beside him from, morning to night, and practise
it. The incessant drudgery which he compelled him to undergo, and the occasional starvation
to which he subjected him, seriously impaired his health, and, as Paganini himself asserts,
laid the foundation of that valetudinarian state which has ever since been his portion, and
which his pale, sickly countenance, and his sunk and exhausted frame so strongly attest. As
his enthusiasm was such as to require no artificial stimulus, this severe system could only
have been a piece of cool and wanton barbarity. He already began to show much promise of excellence,
when a circumstance occurred which not only served to confirm these early prognostications,
but to rouse him to exert all his energies. This was no other than a dream of his mother, Theresa.
An angel appeared to her; she besought him to make her Nicolo a great violin player; he gave
her a token of consent;--and the effect which this dream had upon all concerned, we sober-minded
people can have no idea of. Young Paganini redoubled his perseverance. In his eighth year,
under the superintendence of his father, he had written a sonata, which, however, along with
many other juvenile productions, he lately destroyed; and as he played about three times a
week in the churches and at private musical parties, upon a fiddle nearly as large as himself,
he soon began to make himself known among his townsmen. At this time he received much benefit
from one Francesco Gnecco, who died in 1811, and whom he always speaks highly of.

In his ninth year, being applied to by a travelling singer to join him in a concert, he made
his first public appearance in the great theatre at Genoa, and played the French air "La Carmagnole,"
with his own variations, with great applause.

His father now resolved to place him under the tuition of the well-known composer, Rolla, and
for that purpose took him along with him to Parma. The particulars of their interview afford
a striking proof of the proficiency which he had by this time acquired. As Rolla happened to
be ill and lying in bed, the party were shown into the ante-chamber, when, observing upon the
table one of the composer's newest concertos, the father beckoned to his son to take up his
violin and play it, which he did at sight, in such a way that the sick man immediately started
up, demanded who it was, and could scarcely be prevailed upon to believe that the sounds had
proceeded from a little boy, and his intended pupil; but as soon as he had satisfied himself
that that was really the case, he declined to receive him. "For God's sake," said he, "go to
Paer, your time would be lost with me, I can do nothing for you."

To Paer accordingly they went, who received him kindly, and referred him to his own teacher,
the old and experienced "Maestro di Capella" Giretti, from Naples, who gave him instructions
for six months, three times a-week in counterpoint. During this period he wrote twenty-four
Fugues for four hands, with pen, ink, and paper alone, and without any instrument, which his
master did not allow him, and, assisted by his own inclination, made rapid progress. The great
Paer also took much interest in him, giving him compositions to work out, which he himself
revised: an interest for which Paganini ever afterwards showed himself deeply grateful.

The time was now come when Nicolo was destined, like other youthful prodigies, to be hawked
about the country, to fill the pockets of his mercenary father, who managed to speculate upon
him with considerable success in Milan, Bologna, Florence, Pisa, Leghorn, and most of the upper
and central towns of Italy, where his concerts were always well attended. Young Paganini liked
these excursions well enough, but being now about fifteen years of age, he began to be of opinion
that they would be still more agreeable if he could only contrive to get rid of the old gentleman,
whose spare diet and severe discipline had now become more irksome to him than ever. To accomplish
this desirable object, an opportunity soon offered. It was the custom of Lucca, at the feast
of St. Martin, to hold a great musical festival, to which strangers were invited from all quarters,
and numerous travellers resorted of their own accord; and as the occasion drew near, Nicolo
begged hard to be allowed to go there in company with his elder brother, and after much entreaty,
succeeded in obtaining permission. He made his appearance as a solo player, and succeeded so
well, that he resolved now to commence vagabondizing on his own account--a sort of life to
which he soon became so partial, that, notwithstanding many handsome offers which he occasionally
received to establish himself in several places, as a concerto player or director of the orchestra,
he never could be persuaded to settle any where. At a later period, however, he lived for some
time at the court of Lucca, but soon found it more pleasant and profitable to resume his itinerant
habits. He visited all parts of Italy, but usually made Genoa his head-quarters, where, however,
he preferred to play the part of the dilletante to that of the virtuoso, and performed in private
circles without giving public concerts.

It was not long before he had amassed about 20,000 francs, part of which he proposed to devote
to the maintenance of his parents. His father, however, was not to be put off with a few thousands,
but insisted upon the whole.--Paganini then offered him the interest of the capital, but Signor
Antonio very coolly threatened him with instant death unless he agreed to consign the whole
of the principal in his behalf; and in order to avert serious consequences, and to procure
peace, he gave up the greater part of it.

It was early in 1828 when Paganini arrived at Vienna, where he gave a great many concerts with
a success equal, if not superior, to any which had hitherto attended his exertions. His performance
excited the admiration and astonishment of all the most distinguished professors and connoisseurs
of this critical city. With any of the former all idea of competition was hopeless; and their
greatest violinist, Mayseder, as soon as he had heard him, with an ingenuousness which did
him honour, as we ourselves have reason to know, wrote to a friend in London, that he might
now lock up his violin whenever he liked.

In estimating the labour which it must have cost a performer like Paganini to have arrived
at such transcendent excellence, people are often apt to err in their calculations as to the
actual extent of time and practice which has been devoted to its acquisition. That the perfect
knowledge of the mechanique of the instrument which his performance exhibits, and his almost
incredible skill and dexterity in its management must necessarily have been the result of severe
discipline, is beyond all question; but more, much more, in every case of this kind, is to
be ascribed to the system upon which that discipline has proceeded, and to the genius and enthusiasm
of the artist. The miraculous powers of Paganini in the opinion of his auditors were not to
be accounted for in the ordinary way. To them, it was plain that they must have sprung from
a life of a much more settled and secluded cast than that of an itinerant Italian musical professor.
It was equally clear, from his wild, haggard, and mysterious looks, that he was no ordinary
personage, and had seen no common vicissitudes. The vaults of a dungeon accordingly were the
local habitation which public rumour, in its love of the marvellous, seemed unanimously to
assign to him, as the only place where "the mighty magic" of his bow could possibly have been
acquired. Then, as to the delinquency which led to his incarceration, there were various accounts:
some imputed it to his having been a captain of banditti; others, only a carbonaro; some to
his having killed a man in a duel; but the more current and generally received story was, that
he had stabbed or poisoned his wife, or, as some said, his mistress; although, as fame had
ascribed to him no fewer than four mistresses, it was never very clearly made out which of
his seraglio it was who had fallen the victim of his vengeance. The story not improbably might
have arisen from his having been confounded with a contemporary violin-player of the name of
Duranowski, a Pole, to whom in person he bore some resemblance, and who, for some offence or
other having been imprisoned at Milan, during the leisure which his captivity afforded, had
contrived greatly to improve himself in his art; and when once it was embodied into shape,
the fiction naturally enough might have obtained the more credence, from the fact that two
of his most distinguished predecessors, Tartini and Lolly, had attained to the great mastery
which they possessed over their instrument during a period of solitude--the one within the
walls of a cloister, the other in the privacy and retirement of a remote country village. At
all events, the rumours were universally circulated and believed, and the innocent and much
injured Paganini had for many years unconsciously stood forth in the eyes of the world as a
violator of the laws, and even a convicted murderer--not improbably, to a certain extent, reaping
the golden fruits of that "bad eminence;" for public performers, as we too often see, who have
once lost their "good name," so far from finding themselves, in the words of Iago, "poor indeed,"
generally discover that they have only become objects of greater interest and attraction. How
long he had lived in the enjoyment of this supposed infamy, and all the benefits accruing from
it, we really cannot pretend to say; but he seems never to have been made fully aware of the
formidable position in which he stood until he had reached Vienna, when the Theatrical Gazette,
in reviewing his first concert, dropped some pretty broad hints as to the rumoured misdeeds
of his early life. Whereupon he resolved at once publicly to proclaim his innocence, and to
put down the calumny; for which purpose, on the 10th of April, 1828, there was inserted in
the leading Vienna journals a manifesto, in Italian as well as German, subscribed by him, declaring
that all these widely-circulated rumours were false; that at no time, and under no government
whatever, had he ever offended against the laws, or been put under coercion; and that he had
always demeaned himself as became a peaceable and inoffensive member of society; for the truth
of which he referred to the magistracies of the different states under whose protection he
had till then lived in the public exercise of his profession.

The truth of this appeal (which it is obvious no delinquent would have dared to make) was never
called in question, no one ever ventured to take up the gauntlet which Paganini had thrown
down, and his character as a man thenceforward stood free from suspicion.

His whimsicalities, his love of fun, and many other points of his character, are sometimes
curiously exemplified in his fantasias. He imitates in perfection the whistling and chirrupping
of birds, the tinkling and tolling of bells, and almost every variety of tone which admits
of being produced; and in his performance of Le Streghe (The Witches) a favourite interlude
of his, where the tremulous voices of the old women are given with a truly singular and laughable
effect, his vis comica finds peculiar scope.

His command of the back-string of the instrument has always been an especial theme of wonder
and admiration, and, in the opinion of some, could only be accounted for by resorting to the
theory of the dungeon, and the supposition that his other strings being worn out, and not having
it in his power to supply their places, he had been forced from necessity to take refuge in
the string in question; a notion very like that of a person who would assert, that for an opera
dancer to learn to stand on one leg, the true way would be--to have only one leg to stand upon.
We shall give Paganini's explanation of this mystery in his own words:

"At Lucca, I had always to direct the opera when the reigning family visited the theatre; I
played three times a week at the court, and every fortnight superintended the arrangement of
a grand concert for the court parties, which, however, the reigning princess, Elisa Bacciochi
Princess of Lucca and Piombino, Napoleon's favourite sister, was not always present at, or
did not hear to the close, as the harmonic tones of my violin were apt to grate her nerves,
but there never failed to be present another much esteemed lady, who, while I had long admired
her, bore (at least so I imagined) a reciprocal feeling towards me. Our passion gradually increased;
and as it was necessary to keep it concealed, the footing on which we stood with each other
became in consequence the more interesting. One day I promised to surprise her with a musical
jeu d'esprit, which should have a reference to our mutual attachment. I accordingly announced
for performance a comic novelty, to which I gave the name of 'Love Scene.' All were curiously
impatient to know what this should turn out to be, when at last I appeared with my violin,
from which I had taken off the two middle strings, leaving only the E and the G string. By
the first of these I proposed to represent the lady, by the other the gentleman; and I proceeded
to play a sort of dialogue, in which I attempted to delineate the capricious quarrels and reconciliations
of lovers--at one time scolding each other, at another sighing and making tender advances,
renewing their professions of love and esteem, and finally winding up the scene in the utmost
good humour and delight. Having at last brought them into a state of the most perfect harmony,
the united pair lead off a pas de deux, concluding with a brilliant finale. This musical scena
went off with much eclat. The lady, who understood the whole perfectly, rewarded me with her
gracious looks; the princess was all kindness, overwhelmed me with applause, and, after complimenting
me upon what I had been able to effect upon the two strings, expressed a wish to hear what
I could execute upon one string. I immediately assented--the idea caught my fancy; and as the
emperor's birthday took place a. few weeks afterwards, I composed my Sonata 'Napoleon' for
the G. string, and performed it upon that day before the court with so much approbation that
a cantata of Cimarosa, following immediately alter it upon the same evening, was completely
extinguished, and produced no effect whatever. This is the first and true cause of my partiality
for the G. string; and as they were always desiring to hear more of it, one day taught another,
until at last my proficiency in this department was completely established."

We know no one who has been more cruelly misrepresented than the subject of this notice. In
reality a person of the gentlest and most inoffensive habits, he is any thing rather than the
desperate ruffian he has been described. In his demeanour he is modest and unassuming; in his
disposition, liberal and generous to a fault. Like most artists, ardent and enthusiastic in
his temperament, and in his actions very much a creature of impulse; he is full of that unaffected
simplicity which we almost invariably find associated with true genius. He has an only son,
by a Signora Antonia Bianchi, a singer from Palermo, with whom he lived for several years until
the summer of 1828, when he was under the necessity of separating from her in consequence of
the extreme violence of her temper; and in this little boy all his affections are concentrated.
He is a very precocious child, and already indicates strong signs of musical talent. Being
of a delicate frame of health, Paganini never can bear to trust him out of his sight. "If I
were to lose him," says he, "I would be lost myself; it is quite impossible I can ever separate
myself from him; when I awake in the night, he is my first thought."--Accordingly, ever since
he parted from his mother, he has himself enacted the part of the child's nurse.

       *       *       *       *       *

Why is Mr. Whitbread in his brewery like the Jerusalem coffee-house? Because He-brews drink
therein.

W.G.C.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NATURALIST.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SUSTILLO.

