CHANGE IN THE VILLAGE

BY

GEORGE BOURNE

NEW YORK GEORGE H. DORAN COMPANY 1912

Printed in Great Britain by Billing & Sons, Ltd., Guildford, England

TO

MY SISTERS

CONTENTS

I
                                   PAGE
    I. THE VILLAGE                    3

II

THE PRESENT TIME

   II. SELF-RELIANCE                 21
  III. MAN AND WIFE                  38
   IV. MANIFOLD TROUBLES             50
    V. DRINK                         65
   VI. WAYS AND MEANS                79
  VII. GOOD TEMPER                   97

III

THE ALTERED CIRCUMSTANCES

 VIII. THE PEASANT SYSTEM           115
   IX. THE NEW THRIFT               127
    X. COMPETITION                  143
   XI. HUMILIATION                  151
  XII. THE HUMILIATED               167
 XIII. NOTICE TO QUIT               180

IV

THE RESULTING NEEDS

  XIV. THE INITIAL DEFECT           193
   XV. THE OPPORTUNITY              200
  XVI. THE OBSTACLES                217
 XVII. THE WOMEN'S NEED             229
XVIII. THE WANT OF BOOK-LEARNING    244
  XIX. EMOTIONAL STARVATION         260
   XX. THE CHILDREN'S NEED          272

V

  XXI. THE FORWARD MOVEMENT         289

I

THE VILLAGE

I

THE VILLAGE

If one were to be very strict, I suppose it would be wrong to give the name of "village" to
the parish dealt with in these chapters, because your true village should have a sort of corporate
history of its own, and this one can boast nothing of the kind. It clusters round no central
green; no squire ever lived in it; until some thirty years ago it was without a resident parson;
its church is not half a century old. Nor are there here, in the shape of patriarchal fields,
or shady lanes, or venerable homesteads, any of those features that testify to the immemorial
antiquity of real villages as the homes of men; and this for a very simple reason. In the days
when real villages were growing, our valley could not have supported a quite self-contained
community: it was, in fact, nothing but a part of the wide rolling heath-country--the "common,"
or "waste," belonging to the town which lies northwards, in a more fertile valley of its own.
Here, there was no fertility. Deep down in the hollow a stream, which runs dry every summer,
had prepared a strip of soil just worth reclaiming as coarse meadow or tillage; but the strip
was narrow--a man might throw a stone across it at some points--and on either side the heath
and gorse and fern held their own on the dry sand. Such a place afforded no room for an English
village of the true manorial kind; and I surmise that it lay all but uninhabited until perhaps
the middle of the eighteenth century, by which time a few "squatters" from neighbouring parishes
had probably settled here, to make what living they might beside the stream-bed. At no time,
therefore, did the people form a group of genuinely agricultural rustics. Up to a period within
living memory, they were an almost independent folk, leading a sort of "crofter," or (as I
have preferred to call it) a "peasant" life; while to-day the majority of the men, no longer
independent, go out to work as railway navvies, builders' labourers, drivers of vans and carts
in the town; or are more casually employed at digging gravel, or road-mending, or harvesting
and hay-making, or attending people's gardens, or laying sewers, or in fact at any job they
can find. At a low estimate nine out of every ten of them get their living outside the parish
boundaries; and this fact by itself would rob the place of its title to be thought a village,
in the strict sense.

In appearance, too, it is abnormal. As you look down upon the valley from its high sides, hardly
anywhere are there to be seen three cottages in a row, but all about the steep slopes the little
mean dwelling-places are scattered in disorder. So it extends east and west for perhaps a mile
and a half--a surprisingly populous hollow now, wanting in restfulness to the eyes and much
disfigured by shabby detail, as it winds away into homelier and softer country at either end.
The high-road out of the town, stretching away for Hindhead and the South Coast, comes slanting
down athwart the valley, cutting it into "Upper" and "Lower" halves or ends; and just in the
bottom, where there is a bridge over the stream, the appearances might deceive a stranger into
thinking that he had come to the nucleus of an old village, since a dilapidated farmstead and
a number of cottages line the sides of the road at that point. The appearances, however, are
deceptive. I doubt if the cottages are more than a century old; and even if any of them have
a greater antiquity, still it is not as the last relics of an earlier village that they are
to be regarded. On the contrary, they indicate the beginnings of the present village. Before
them, their place was unoccupied, and they do but commemorate the first of that series of changes
by which the valley has been turned from a desolate wrinkle in the heaths into the anomalous
suburb it has become to-day.

Of the period and manner of that first change I have already given a hint, attributing it indefinitely
to a slow immigration of squatters somewhere in the eighteenth century. Neither the manner
of it, however, nor the period is material here. Let it suffice that, a hundred years ago or
so, the valley had become inhabited by people living in the "peasant" way presently to be described
more fully. The subject of this book begins with the next change, which by and by overtook
these same people, and dates from the enclosure of the common, no longer ago than 1861. The
enclosure was effected in the usual fashion: a few adjacent landowners obtained the lion's
share, while the cottagers came in for small allotments. These allotments, of little use to
their owners, and in many cases soon sold for a few pounds apiece, became the sites of the
first few cottages for a newer population, who slowly drifted in and settled down, as far as
might be, to the habits and outlook of their predecessors. This second period continued until
about 1900. And now, during the last ten years, a yet greater change has been going on. The
valley has been "discovered" as a "residential centre." A water-company gave the signal for
development. No sooner was a good water-supply available than speculating architects and builders
began to buy up vacant plots of land, or even cottages--it mattered little which--and what
never was strictly speaking a village is at last ceasing even to think itself one. The population
of some five hundred twenty years ago has increased to over two thousand; the final shabby
patches of the old heath are disappearing; on all hands glimpses of new building and raw new
roads defy you to persuade yourself that you are in a country place. In fact, the place is
a suburb of the town in the next valley, and the once quiet high-road is noisy with the motor-cars
of the richer residents and all the town traffic that waits upon the less wealthy.

But although in the exactest sense the parish was never a village, its inhabitants, as lately
as twenty years ago (when I came to live here) had after all a great many of the old English
country characteristics. Dependent on the town for their living the most of them may have been
by that time; yet they had derived their outlook and their habits from the earlier half-squatting,
half-yeoman people; so that I found myself amongst neighbours rustic enough to justify me in
speaking of them as villagers. I have come across their like elsewhere, and I am not deceived.
They had the country touch. They were a survival of the England that is dying out now; and
I grieve that I did not realize it sooner. As it was, some years had passed by, and the movement
by which I find myself living to-day in a "residential centre" was already faintly stirring
before I began to discern properly that the earlier circumstances would repay closer attention.

They were not all agreeable circumstances; some of them, indeed, were so much the reverse of
agreeable that I hardly see now how I could ever have found them even tolerable. The want of
proper sanitation, for instance; the ever-recurring scarcity of water; the plentiful signs
of squalid and disordered living--how unpleasant they all must have been! On the other hand,
some of the circumstances were so acceptable that, to recover them, I could at times almost
be willing to go back and endure the others. It were worth something to renew the old lost
sense of quiet; worth something to be on such genial terms with one's neighbours; worth very
much to become acquainted again at first hand with the customs and modes of thought that prevailed
in those days. Here at my door people were living, in many respects, by primitive codes which
have now all but disappeared from England, and things must have been frequently happening such
as, henceforth, will necessitate journeys into other countries if one would see them.

I remember yet how subtly the intimations of a primitive mode of living used to reach me before
I had learnt to appreciate their meaning. Unawares an impression of antiquity would come stealing
over the senses, on a November evening, say, when the blue wood-smoke mounted from a cottage
chimney and went drifting slowly down the valley in level layers; or on still summer afternoons,
when there came up from the hollow the sounds of hay-making--the scythe shearing through the
grass, the clatter of the whetstone, the occasional country voices. The dialect, and the odd
ideas expressed in it, worked their elusive magic over and over again. To hear a man commend
the weather, rolling out his "Nice moarnin'" with the fat Surrey "R," or to be wished "Good-day,
sir," in the high twanging voice of some cottage-woman or other, was to be reminded in one's
senses, without thinking about it at all, that one was amongst people not of the town, and
hardly of one's own era. The queer things, too, which one happened to hear of, the simple ideas
which seemed so much at home in the valley, though they would have been so much to be deprecated
in the town, all contributed to produce the same old-world impression. Where the moon's changes
were discussed so solemnly, and people numbered the "mistis in March" in expectation of corresponding
"frostis in May"; where, if a pig fell sick, public opinion counselled killing it betimes,
lest it should die and be considered unfit for food; where the most time-honoured saying was
counted the best wit, so that you raised a friendly smile by murmuring "Good for young ducks"
when it rained; where the names of famous sorts of potatoes--red-nosed kidneys, magnum bonums,
and so on--were better known than the names of politicians or of newspapers; where spades and
reap-hooks of well-proved quality were treasured as friends by their owners and coveted by
other connoisseurs--it was impossible that one should not be frequently visited by the feeling
of something very old-fashioned in the human life surrounding one.

More pointed in their suggestion of a rustic tradition were the various customs and pursuits
proper to given seasons. The customs, it is true, were preserved only by the children; but
they had their acceptable effect. It might have been foolish and out-of-date, yet it was undeniably
pleasant to know on May Day that the youngsters were making holiday from school, and to have
them come to the door with their morning faces, bringing their buttercup garlands and droning
out the appropriate folk ditty. At Christmastime, too, it was pleasant when they came singing
carols after dark. This, indeed, they still do; but either I am harder to please or the performance
has actually degenerated, for I can no longer discover in it the simple childish spirit that
made it gratifying years ago.

Meanwhile, quite apart from such celebrations, the times and seasons observed by the people
in following their work gave a flavour of folk manners which dignified the life of the parish,
by associating it with the doings of the countryside for many generations. In August, though
one did not see, one heard about, the gangs of men trudging off at night for the Sussex harvest.
In September the days went very silently in the valley, because the cottages were shut up and
the people were all away at the hop-picking; and then, in the gathering dusk, one heard the
buzz and rumour of manifold homecomings--tired children squalling, women talking and perhaps
scolding, as the little chattering groups came near and passed out of earshot to their several
cottages; while, down the hollows, hovering in the crisp night air, drifted a most appetizing
smell of herrings being fried for a late meal. Earlier in the year there was hay-making in
the valley itself. All the warm night was sometimes fragrant with the scent of the cut grass;
and about this season, too, the pungent odour of shallots lying out in the gardens to ripen
off would come in soft whiffs across the hedges. Always, at all times, the people were glad
to gossip about their gardens, bringing vividly into one's thoughts the homely importance of
the month, nay, the very week, that was passing. Now, around Good Friday, the talk would be
of potato-planting; and again, in proper order, one heard of peas and runner-beans, and so
through the summer fruits and plants, to the ripening of plums and apples, and the lifting
of potatoes and carrots and parsnips.

In all these ways the parish, if not a true village, seemed quite a country place twenty years
ago, and its people were country people. Yet there was another side to the picture. The charm
of it was a generalized one--I think an impersonal one; for with the thought of individual
persons who might illustrate it there comes too often into my memory a touch of sordidness,
if not in one connection then in another; so that I suspect myself, not for the first time,
of sentimentality. Was the social atmosphere after all anything but a creation of my own dreams?
Was the village life really idyllic?

Not for a moment can I pretend that it was. Patience and industry dignified it; a certain rough
jollity, a large amount of good temper and natural kindness, kept it from being foul; but of
the namby-pamby or soft-headed sentiment which many writers have persuaded us to attribute
to old-English cottage life I think I have not in twenty years met with a single trace. In
fact, there are no people so likely to make ridicule of that sort of thing as my labouring-class
neighbours have always been. They do not, like the middle classes, enjoy it. It is a commodity
for which they have no use, as may appear in the following pages.

To say this, however, is to say too little. I do not mean that the prevailing temper in the
village was sordid, bitter, cruel, like that, say, of the Norman peasantry in De Maupassant's
short stories. In by far the greater majority the people have usually seemed to me at the worst
a little suspicious, a little callous, a little undemonstrative, and at the best generous and
happy-go-lucky to a fault. Nevertheless, tales as repulsive as any that the French writer has
told of his country-people could have been collected here by anyone with a taste for that sort
of thing. Circumstantial narratives have reached me of savage, or, say, brutish, doings: of
sons ill-treating their mothers, and husbands their wives of fights, and cruelties, and sometimes--not
often--of infamous vice. The likelihood of these tales, which there was no reason to doubt,
was strengthened by what I saw and heard for myself. Drunkenness corrupted and disgraced the
village life, so that good men went wrong and their families suffered miserably. I have helped
more than one drunkard home at night, and seen a wretched woman or a frightened child come
to the door to receive him. Even in the seclusion of my own garden I could not escape the evidences
of mischief going on. For sounds echo up and down the valley as clearly as across the water
of a lake; and sometimes a quiet evening would grow suddenly horrid with distracted noises
of family quarrel in some distant cottage, when women shrilled and clamoured and men cursed,
and all the dogs in the parish fell a-barking furiously. Even in bed one could not be secure.
Once or twice some wild cry in the night--a woman's scream, a man's volley of oaths--has drawn
me hurrying to my window in dread that outrage was afoot; and often the sounds of obscene singing
from the road, where men were blundering homewards late from the public-houses in the town,
have startled me out of my first sleep. Then, besides the distresses brought upon the people
by their own folly, there were others thrust upon them by their economic condition. Of poverty,
with its attendant sicknesses and neglects, there has never been any end to the tales, while
the desolations due to accidents in the day's work, on the railway, or with horses, or upon
scaffoldings of buildings, or in collapsing gravel-quarries, have become almost a commonplace.
In short, there is no room for sentimentality about the village life. Could its annals be written
they would make no idyll; they would be too much stained by tragedy and vice and misery.

Yet the knowledge of all this--and it was not possible to live here long without such knowledge--left
the other impressions I have spoken of quite unimpaired. Disorders were the exception, after
all. As a general rule the village character was genial, steadfast, self-respecting; one could
not but recognize in it a great fund of strength, a great stability; nor could one help feeling
that its main features--the limitations and the grimness, as well as the surprising virtues--were
somehow closely related to that pleasant order of things suggested by the hay-making sounds,
by the smell of the wood-smoke, by the children's May-day garlands. And, in fact, the relationship
was essential. The temper and manners of the older people turned out to have been actually
moulded by conditions of a true village kind, so that the same folk-quality that sounded in
the little garland song reappeared more sternly in my neighbours' attitude towards their fate.
Into this valley, it is true, much had never come that had flourished and been forgotten in
English villages elsewhere. At no time had there been any of the more graceful folk arts here;
at no time any comely social life, such as one reads of in Goldsmith's Deserted Village or
Gray's Elegy; but, as I gradually learnt, the impoverished labouring people I talked to had
been, in many cases, born in the more prosperous conditions of a self-supporting peasantry.

Bit by bit the truth come home to me, in the course of unconcerned gossip, when my informants
had no idea of the significance of those stray scraps of information which they let fall. I
was not alive to it myself for a long time. But when I had heard of the village cows, which
used to be turned out to graze on the heaths, and had been told how fir-timber fit for cottage
roof-joists could be cut on the common, as well as heath good enough for thatching and turf
excellent for firing; and when to this was added the talk of bread-ovens at half the old cottages,
and of little corn-crops in the gardens, and of brewing and wine-making and bee-keeping; I
understood at last that my elderly neighbours had seen with their own eyes what I should never
see--namely, the old rustic economy of the English peasantry. In that light all sorts of things
showed a new meaning. I looked with rather changed sentiments, for example, upon the noisome
pigsties--for were they not a survival of a venerable thrift? I viewed the old tools--hoes
and spades and scythes and fag-hooks--with quickened interest; and I speculated with more intelligence
upon those aged people of the parish whose curious habits were described to me with so much
respect. But of all the details that now gained significance, most to be noted were the hints
of the comparative prosperity of that earlier time. For now some old woman, half starving on
her parish pay, would indicate this or that little cottage, and remark that her grandfather
had built it for her mother to go into when she married. Or now, a decrepit man would explain
that in such and such a puzzling nook in the hillside had once stood his father's cow-stall.
Here, at the edge of the arable strip, a building divided into two poor cottages proved to
have been originally somebody's little hop-kiln; there, on a warm slope given over to the pleasure-garden
of some "resident" like myself, a former villager used to grow enough wheat to keep him in
flour half the winter; and there again, down a narrow by-way gone ruinous from long neglect,
Master So-and-so, whose children to-day go in fear of the workhouse, was wont to drive his
little waggon and pair of horses.

Particulars like these, pointing to a lost state of well-being, accounted very well for the
attraction which, in spite of individual faults, I had felt towards the village folk in general.
The people stood for something more than merely themselves. In their odd ways and talk and
character I was affected, albeit unawares, by a robust tradition of the English countryside,
surviving here when the circumstances which would have explained it had already largely disappeared.
After too many years of undiscernment that truth was apparent to me. And even so, it was but
a gradual enlightenment; even now it is unlikely that I appreciate the facts in their deepest
significance. For the "robust" tradition, as I have just called it, was something more than
simply robust. It was older, by far, than this anomalous village. Imported into the valley--if
my surmise is correct--by squatters two centuries ago, it was already old even then; it already
had centuries of experience behind it; and though it very likely had lost much in that removal,
still it was a genuine off-shoot of the home-made or "folk" civilization of the South of England.
No wonder that its survivals had struck me as venerable and pleasant, when there was so much
vigorous English life behind them, derived perhaps from so many fair English counties.

The perception came to me only just in time, for to-day the opportunities of further observation
occur but rarely. The old life is being swiftly obliterated. The valley is passing out of the
hands of its former inhabitants. They are being crowded into corners, and are becoming as aliens
in their own home; they are receding before newcomers with new ideas, and, greatest change
of all, they are yielding to the dominion of new ideas themselves. At present, therefore, the
cottagers are a most heterogeneous population, presenting all sorts of baffling problems to
those who have to deal with them, as the schoolmaster and the sanitary officer and others find.
In no two families--hardly in two members of the same family--do the old traditions survive
in equal degree. A lath-and-plaster partition may separate people who are half a century asunder
in civilization, and on the same bench at school may be found side by side two children who
come from homes, the one worthy of King George III.'s time, the other not unworthy of King
George V.'s. But the changes which will remove the greatest of these discrepancies are proceeding
very fast; in another ten years' time there will be not much left of the traditional life whose
crumbling away I have been witnessing during the twenty years that are gone.

Some grounds of hope--great hope, too--which begin at last to appear, and are treated of in
the final chapter of this book, save the tale of Change in the Village from being quite a tragedy,
yet still it is a melancholy tale. I have dealt with it in the two sections called respectively
"The Altered Circumstances" and "The Resulting Needs." The earlier chapters, which immediately
follow this one under the heading "The Present Time," are merely descriptive of the people
and their conditions as I know them now, and aim at nothing more than to pave the way for a
clearer understanding of the main subject.

II

THE PRESENT TIME

II

SELF-RELIANCE

There is a chapter in Dickens's Hard Times which tells how it was discovered that somebody
had fallen down a disused mine-shaft, and how the rescue was valiantly effected by a few men
who had to be awakened for that end from their drunken Sunday afternoon sleep. Sobered by the
dangers they foresaw, these men ran to the pit-mouth, pushed straight to the centre of the
crowd there, and fell to work quietly with their ropes and winches. As you read, you seem to
see them, spitting on their great hands while they knot the ropes, listening attentively to
the doctor as to an equal, and speaking in undertones to one another, but regardless of the
remarks of the bystanders. The best man amongst them, says Dickens--and you know it to be true:
Dickens could have told you the men's names and life-history had he chosen--the best man amongst
them was the greatest drunkard of the lot; and when his heroic work was done, nobody seems
to have taken any farther notice of him.

