But I confess that during all the time we were working in the factory I sighed for the possession
of a machine of my own, so that I could be more at home with my mother in her loneliness: for
when we left her in the morning we carried our dinners with us, leaving her to her own thoughts
during the whole day. The grief at my father's loss had by no means been overcome, for with
all of us it was something more than the shadow of a passing cloud. Personally, I cared nothing
for the carrying of a bundle through the streets, even though it made proclamation of my being
a sewing-girl. Then as to exercise or recreation, I could have abundance in the garden. As
it was, I still continued to see it kept in order. Fred was very good in doing all I wanted.
He would rise early before breakfast, and do any digging it required, and in the evening, after
returning from the foundry, would attend to many other things about it as they needed. I was
equally industrious; and now that it was wholly left for me to see to, my fondness for it increased,
while I came to understand its management more thoroughly than when my father was sole director.
The more I had to do, the more I learned. Then there were times when I rose in the morning
feeling so poorly that it was a tax upon both spirits and strength to tramp the long distance
to the factory; yet it would have been no hardship to work at a machine at home, or to do an
hour's gardening. I think my earnings could have been made quite as large as they were at the
factory, as the owner of a machine generally received a little more pay than when working on
one belonging to her employer; and I felt quite sure that there would be no difficulty in obtaining
abundance of work. My doubts on this point had been pretty well settled.

But we had no hundred and thirty or forty dollars to lay out for a machine now, and there was
no prospect of our being able to save enough to purchase one. Hence I never even hinted to
my mother what my wishes were, as it would only be to her a fresh anxiety. I did mention the
subject to my sister, but she did not seem to favor my plans. She was a great favorite at the
factory, and why should not the factory be as great a favorite with her? I have no doubt that
our pastor, who was as wealthy as he was generous and good, would have promptly loaned us,
or even me, the money; but he had heard nothing of the fact that my father's sudden death had
alone prevented my obtaining a machine, nor during his frequent visits to our house did we
ever mention what we had then expected or what I now so much desired. Besides, it would be
a great debt, so large that I should have hesitated about incurring it. We had been a long
while in getting clear of the other, and the apparent hopelessness of discharging one nearly
three times as great, and that, too, from my individual earnings, was such, that in the end
I concluded it would be better for me to avoid the debt by doing without the machine, than
to have it only on condition of buying it on credit.

MEMORIES OF AUTHORS.

A SERIES OF PORTRAITS FROM PERSONAL ACQUAINTANCE.

THEODORE HOOK AND HIS FRIENDS.

Theodore Edward Hook was born in Charlotte Street, Bedford Square, on the 22d of September,
1788. His father was an eminent musical composer, who "enjoyed in his time success and celebrity";
his elder brother James became Dean of Windsor, whose son is the present learned and eloquent
Dean of Chichester; the mother of both was an accomplished lady, and also an author.

His natural talent, therefore, was early nursed. Unfortunately, the green-room was the too
frequent study of the youth; for his father's fame and income were chiefly derived from the
composition of operetta songs, for which Theodore usually wrote the libretti. When little more
than a boy he had produced perhaps thirty farces, and in 1808 gave birth to a novel. Those
who remember the two great actors of a long period, Mathews and Liston, will be at no loss
to comprehend the popularity of Hook's farces: for they were his "props."

In 1812, when his finances were low, and the chances of increasing them limited, and when,
perhaps, also, his constitution had been tried by "excesses," he received the appointment of
Accountant-General and Treasurer at the Mauritius,--a post with an income of two thousand pounds
a year. Hook seems to have derived his qualifications for this office from his antipathy to
arithmetic and his utter unfitness for business.

The result might have been easily foreseen. In 1819 he returned to England: the cause may be
indicated by his very famous pun, when, the Governor of the Cape having expressed a hope that
he was not returning because of ill health, he was "sorry to say they think there is something
wrong in the chest." He was found guilty of owing twelve thousand pounds to the Government:
yet he was "without a shilling in his pocket." If public funds had been abstracted, he was
none the richer, and there was certainly no suspicion that the money had been dishonestly advantageous
to him.

Although kept for years in hot water, battling with the Treasury, it was not until 1823 that
the penalty was exacted,--sometime after the "John Bull" had made him a host of enemies. Of
course, as he could not pay in purse, he was doomed to "pay in person." After spending some
months "pleasantly" at a dreary sponging-house in Shoe Lane, where there was ever "an agreeable
prospect, barring the windows," he was removed to the "Rules of the Bench," residing there
a year, being discharged from custody in 1825.

Hook, while in the Rules, was under very little restraint; he was almost as much in society
as ever, taking special care not to be seen by any of his creditors, who might have pounced
upon him and made the Marshal responsible for the debt. The danger was less in Hook's case
than in that of others, for his principal "detaining creditor" was the King. I remember his
telling me, that, during his "confinement" in the Rules, he made the acquaintance of a gentleman,
who, while a prisoner there, paid a visit to India. The story is this. The gentleman called
one morning on the Marshal, who said,--

"Mr. ----, I have not had the pleasure to see you for a long time."

"No wonder," was the answer; "for since you saw me last I have been to India."

In reply to a look of astonished inquiry, he explained,--

"I knew my affairs there were so intricate and involved that no one but myself could unravel
them; so I ran the risk, and took my chance. I am back with ample funds to pay all my debts,
and to live comfortably for the rest of my days."

Mr. Hook did not say if the gentleman had obtained from his securities a license for what he
had done; but the anecdote illustrates the extreme laxity enjoyed by prisoners in the Rules,
(which extended to several streets,) as compared with the doleful incarceration to which poor
debtors were subjected, who in those days often had their miserable home in a jail for debts
that might have been paid by shillings.

Hook then took up his residence at Putney, from which he afterwards removed to a "mansion"
in Cleveland Street, but subsequently to Fulham, where the remainder of his life was passed,
and where he died. It was a small, detached cottage. It is of this cottage that Lockhart says,
"We doubt if its interior was ever seen by half a dozen people besides the old confidential
worshippers of Bull's mouth."

He resided here in comparative obscurity. It gave him a pleasant prospect of Putney Bridge,
and of Putney on the opposite side of the river. As the Thames flowed past the bottom of his
small and narrow garden, he had a perpetually cheerful and changing view of the many gay passers-by
in small boats, yachts, and steamers. The only room of the cottage I ever saw was somewhat
coarsely furnished: a few prints hung on the walls, but there was no evidence of those suggestive
refinements which substitute intellectual for animal gratifications, in the internal arrangements
of a domicile that becomes necessarily a workshop.

Hook's love of practical joking seems to have commenced early. Almost of that character was
his well-known answer to the Vice-Chancellor at Oxford, when asked whether he was prepared
to subscribe to the Thirty-Nine Articles,--"Certainly, to forty of them, if you please"; and
his once meeting the Proctor dressed in his robes, and being questioned, "Pray, Sir, are you
a member of this University?" he replied, "No, Sir; pray are you?"

In the Memoirs of Charles Mathews by his widow abundant anecdotes are recorded of these practical
jokes; but, in fact, "Gilbert Gurney," which may be regarded as an autobiography, is full of
them. Mr. Barham, his biographer, also relates several, and states, that, when a young man,
he had a "museum" containing a large and varied collection of knockers, sign-paintings, barbers'
poles, and cocked hats, gathered together during his predatory adventures; but its most attractive
object was "a gigantic Highlander," lifted from the shop-door of a tobacconist on a dark, foggy
night. These "enterprises of great pith and moment" are detailed by himself in full. The most
"glorious" of them has been often told: how he sent through the post some four thousand letters,
inviting on a given day a huge assemblage of visitors to the house of a lady of fortune, living
at 54, Berners Street. They came, beginning with a dozen sweeps at daybreak, and including
lawyers, doctors, upholsterers, jewellers, coal-merchants, linen-drapers, artists, even the
Lord Mayor, for whose behoof a special temptation was invented. In a word, there was no conceivable
trade, profession, or calling that was not summoned to augment the crowd of foot-passengers
and carriages by which the street was thronged from dawn till midnight; while Hook and a friend
enjoyed the confusion from a room opposite.[B] Lockhart, in the "Quarterly," states that the
hoax was merely the result of a wager that Hook would in a week make the quiet dwelling the
most famous house in all London. Mr. Barham affirms that the lady, Mrs. Tottenham, had on some
account fallen under the displeasure of the formidable trio, Mr. Hook and two unnamed friends.

His conversation was an unceasing stream of wit, of which he was profuse, as if he knew the
source to be inexhaustible. He never kept it for display, or for company, or for those only
who knew its value: wit was, indeed, as natural to him as commonplace to commonplace characters.
It was not only in puns, in repartees, in lively retorts, in sparkling sentences, in brilliant
illustrations, or in apt or exciting anecdote, that this faculty was developed. I have known
him string together a number of graceful verses, every one of which was fine in composition
and admirable in point, at a moment's notice, on a subject the most inauspicious, and apparently
impossible either to wit or rhyme,--yet with an effect that delighted a party, and might have
borne the test of criticism the most severe. These verses he usually sang in a sort of recitative
to some tune with which all were familiar,--and if a piano were at hand, he accompanied himself
with a gentle strain of music.

Mrs. Mathews relates that she was present once when Hook dined with the Drury-Lane Company,
at a banquet given to Sheridan in honor of his return for Westminster. The guests were numerous,
yet he made a verse upon every person in the room:--"Every action was turned to account; every
circumstance, the look, the gesture, or any other accidental effect, served as occasion for
wit." Sheridan was astonished at his extraordinary faculty, and declared that he could not
have imagined such power possible, had he not witnessed it.

People used to give him subjects the most unpromising to test his powers. Thus, Campbell records
that he once supplied him with a theme, "Pepper and Salt," and that he amply seasoned the song
with both.

I was present when this rare faculty was put to even a more severe test, at a party at Mr.
Jerdan's, at Grove House, Brompton,--a house long since removed to make room for Ovington Square.
It was a large supper-party, and many men and women of mark were present: for the "Literary
Gazette" was then in the zenith of its power, worshipped by all aspirants for fame, and courted
even by those whose laurels had been won. Its editor, be his shortcomings what they might,
was then, as he had ever been, ready with a helping hand for those who needed help: a lenient
critic, a generous sympathizer, who preferred pushing a dozen forward to thrusting one back.

Hook, having been asked for his song, and, as usual, demanding a theme, one of the guests,
either facetiously or maliciously, called out, "Take Yates's big nose." (Yates, the actor,
was one of the party.) To any one else such a subject would have been appalling: not so to
Hook. He rose, glanced once or twice round the table, and chanted (so to speak) a series of
verses perfect in rhythm and rhyme: the incapable theme being dealt with in a spirit of fun,
humor, serious comment, and absolute philosophy, utterly inconceivable to those who had never
heard the marvellous improvisator,--each verse describing something which the world considered
great, but which became small, when placed in comparison with

    "Yates's big nose!"

It was the first time I had met Hook, and my astonishment was unbounded. I found it impossible
to believe the song was improvised; but I had afterwards ample reason to know that so thorough
a triumph over difficulties was with him by no means rare.

I had once a jovial day with him on the Thames,--fishing in a punt on the river opposite the
Swan at Thames-Ditton. Hook was in good health and good spirits, and brimful of mirth. He loved
the angler's craft, though he seldom followed it; and he spoke with something like affection
of a long-ago time, when bobbing for roach at the foot of Fulham Bridge, the fisherman perpetually
raising or lowering his float, according to the ebb and flow of the tide.

A record of his "sayings and doings," that glorious day, from early morn to set of sun, would
fill a goodly volume. It was fine weather, and fishing on the Thames is lazy fishing; for the
gudgeons bite freely, and there is little labor in "landing" them. It is therefore the perfection
of the dolce far-niente, giving leisure for talk, and frequent desire for refreshment. Idle
time is idly spent; but the wit and fun of Mr. Hook that day might have delighted a hundred
by-sitters, and it was a grief to me that I was the only listener. Hook then conceived--probably
then made--the verses he afterwards gave the "New Monthly," entitled "The Swan at Ditton."

The last time I saw Hook was at Prior's Bank, Fulham, where his neighbors, Mr. Baylis and Mr.
Whitmore, had given an "entertainment," the leading feature being an amateur play,--for which,
by the way, I wrote the prologue. Hook was then in his decadence,--in broken health,--his animal
spirits gone,--the cup of life drained to the dregs. It was morning before the guests departed,
yet Hook remained to the last; and a light of other days brightened up his features, as he
opened the piano, and began a recitative. The theme was, of course, the occasion that had brought
the party together, and perhaps he never, in his best time, was more original and pointed.
I can recall two of the lines,--

    "They may boast of their Fulham omnibus,
      But this is the Fulham stage."

There was a fair young boy standing by his side, while he was singing. One of the servants
suddenly opened the drawing-room shutters, and a flood of light felt upon the lad's head: the
effect was very touching, but it became a thousand times more so, as Hook, availing himself
of the incident, placed his hand upon the youth's brow, and in tremulous tones uttered a verse,
of which I recall only the concluding lines,--

    "For you is the dawn of the morning.
      For me is the solemn good-night."

He rose from the piano, burst into tears, and left the room. Few of those who were present
saw him afterwards.[C]

All the evening Hook had been low in spirits. It seemed impossible to stir him into animation,
until the cause was guessed at by Mr. Blood, a surgeon, who was at that time an actor at the
Haymarket. He prescribed a glass of Sherry, and retired to procure it, returning presently
with a bottle of pale brandy. Having administered two or three doses, the machinery was wound
up, and the result was as I have described it.

I give one more instance of his ready wit and rapid power of rhyme. He had been idle for a
fortnight, and had written nothing for the "John Bull" newspaper. The clerk, however, took
him his salary as usual, and on entering his room said, "Have you heard the news? the king
and queen of the Sandwich Islands are dead," (they had just died in England of the small-pox.)
"and," added the clerk, "we want something about them."--"Instantly," cried Hook, "you shall
have it:--

    "'Waiter, two Sandwiches,' cried Death.
    And their wild Majesties resigned their breath."

The "John Bull" was established at the close of the year 1820, and it is said that Sir Walter
Scott, having been consulted by some leader among "high Tories," suggested Hook as the person
precisely suited for the required task. The avowed purpose of the publication was to extinguish
the party of the Queen,--Caroline, wife of George IV.; and in a reckless and frightful spirit
the work was done. She died, however, in 1821, and persecution was arrested at her grave. Its
projectors and proprietors had counted on a weekly sale of seven hundred and fifty copies,
and prepared accordingly. By the sixth week it had reached a sale of ten thousand, and became
a valuable property to "all concerned." Of course, there were many prosecutions for libels,
damages and costs and incarceration for breaches of privilege; but all search for actual delinquents
was vain. Suspicions were rife enough, but positive proofs there were none.

Hook was of course In no way implicated in so scandalous and slanderous a publication! On one
occasion there appeared among the answers to correspondents a paragraph purporting to be a
reply from Mr. Theodore Hook, "disavowing all connection with the paper."

Even now, at this distance of time, few of the contributors are actually known; among them
were undoubtedly John Wilson Croker, and avowedly Haynes Bayly, Barham, and Dr. Maginn.

In 1836, when I had resigned the "New Monthly" into the hands of Mr. Hook, he proposed to me
to take the sub-editorship and general literary management of the "John Bull." That post I
undertook, retaining it for a year. Our "business" was carried on, not at the "John Bull" office,
but at Easty's Hotel, in Southampton Street, Strand, in two rooms on the first floor of that
tavern. Mr. Hook was never seen at the office; his existence, indeed, was not recognized there.
If any one had asked for him by name, the answer would have been that no such person was known.
Although at the period of which I write there was no danger to be apprehended from his walking
in and out of the small office in Fleet Street, a time had been when it could not have been
done without personal peril. Editorial work was therefore conducted with much secrecy, a confidential
person communicating between the editor and the printer, who never knew, or rather was assumed
not to know, by whom the articles were written. In 1836, some years before, and during the
years afterwards, no paragraph was inserted that in the remotest degree assailed private character.
Political hatreds and personal hostilities had grown less in vogue, and Hook had lived long
enough to be tired of assailing those whom he rather liked and respected. The bitterness of
his nature (if it ever existed, which I much doubt) had worn out with years. Undoubtedly much
of the brilliant wit of the "John Bull" had evaporated, in losing its distinctive feature.
It had lost its power, and as a "property" dwindled to comparative insignificance. Mr. Hook
derived but small income from the editorship during the later years of his life. I will believe
that higher and more honorable motives than those by which he had been guided during the fierce
and turbulent party-times, when the "John Bull" was established, had led him to relinquish
scandal, slander, and vituperation, as dishonorable weapons. I know that in my time he did
not use them; his advice to me, on more than one occasion, while acting under him, was to remember
that "abuse" seldom effectually answered a purpose, and that it was wiser as well as safer
to act on the principle that "praise undeserved is satire in disguise." All that was evil in
the "John Bull" had been absorbed by two infamous weekly newspapers, "The Age" and "The Satirist."
They were prosperous and profitable. Happily, no such newspapers now exist; the public not
only would not buy, they would not tolerate, the personalities, the indecencies, the gross
outrages on public men, the scandalous assaults on private character, that made these publications
"good speculations" at the period of which I write, and undoubtedly disgraced the "John Bull"
during the early part of its career.

No wonder, therefore, that no such person as Mr. Theodore Hook was connected with the "John
Bull." He invariably denied all such connection, and perseveringly protested against the charge
that he had ever written a line in it. I have heard it said, that, during the troublous period
of the Queen's trial, Sir Robert Wilson met Hook in the street, and said, in a sort of confidential
whisper,--"Hook, I am to be traduced and slandered in the 'John Bull' next Sunday." Hook, of
course, expressed astonishment and abhorrence. "Yes," continued Wilson, "and if I am, I mean
to horsewhip you the first time you come in my way. Now stop; I know you have nothing to do
with that newspaper,--you have told me so a score of times; nevertheless, if the article, which
is purely of a private nature, appears, let the consequences be what they may, I will horsewhip
you!" The article never did appear. I can give no authority for this anecdote, but I do not
doubt its truth.

