Mr. Darwin's mind, while slow and cautious, had a wonderful perseverance. When he had finished
his work he had not only given a clear account of the process of evolution, but he had foreseen
almost all the valid objections that were afterward to be brought against his theory. Some
of them he had explained quite fully; of others he indicated a possible explanation; of still
other questions he confessed that as yet they were not plain. But the whole theory is so simple
in its fundamental ideas that it has completely revolutionized the whole aspect of modern biology
and, indeed, of modern thinking in many lines.

There are four underlying conceptions, each simple in itself, which must be clearly perceived
before one can understand Mr. Darwin's theory of "Natural Selection." The first of these is
known under the name of Heredity. It is a matter of common observation that every animal or
plant produces offspring after its own kind. Under no conditions would we expect a duck to
lay an egg from which could hatch anything but a duck. No Plymouth Rock chicken mated with
another of her own kind will ever lay an egg that will produce a Rhode Island Red. We may believe
that the dog has descended from some form of wolf, but it is not meant that at any particular
time in the past any wolf mated with a wolf ever produced pups that were anything but wolves.

Why this should be so is one of the most profound problems of biology. Nothing but the fact
that the process has gone on under our eyes for so long a time could blind us to its marvelous
character. To open the egg of a chicken and examine it by the most refined methods known to
science is to find in it absolutely nothing that could be by the widest stretch of the imagination
considered anything like a chicken. The biologist who has examined such eggs before and knows
them in all stages of the process may recognize in an egg which had been incubated for a short
time something which his previous experience tells him will become a chicken. But it has not
the faintest resemblance to a chicken until later in its development. In early spring one may
gather pond snails from any country stream and place them in an aquarium. The change from the
cold water on the outside to the warmer water of the aquarium and the temperate climate of
the room hastens the process which in the stream would not take place until later. In a short
time one may find fastened to the glass side of the aquarium the little mass of transparent
jelly which surrounds and protects the delicate eggs of these creatures. Fastened as they are
it is easy to direct a magnifying glass so as to observe the change which goes on within these
transparent eggs. It is even possible to apply a microscope in such a way as to watch the transformation
under the low power of the glass. At first the eggs are as clear as water, having at the center
a slightly yellowish spot. This central mass divides and subdivides until the separated sections
grow so small and numerous as to lose individuality. Then the mass begins to press out here
and dent in there. After a little while a double line of fine, hairlike projections runs around
the creature. These hairs wave in such fashion as to make the embryo snail revolve slowly in
its egg. A little later and swellings become more pronounced over the surface. One side flattens;
the rotary motion stops; eyes appear at the front of the animal; a hump on the back begins
to be covered with a shell, and the little creatures, pushing from the jelly, start their life
journey on the side of the aquarium. Why did it happen? How did it happen? Here we have seen
creation at work. Here surely the hand of the Creator is working in the only sense in which
the Creator may be properly said to have a hand. How the history of the substance out of which
the egg was produced provides for the future development of that egg no man has yet clearly
said. This is not to say that we shall never know, still less is it to say that this can never
be known. Ralph Waldo Emerson has said that there is no question propounded by the order of
nature which the order of nature will not at some time solve. If he is right, and I believe
he is, we shall at some time know how it is that this egg produces this snail. But, as I said
before, nothing but the frequency with which the process goes on under our eyes could possibly
blind us to the marvel of it.

The regularity with which each animal reproduces its kind is no more surprising than the faithfulness
of that reproduction. Some of our birds have wonderful markings on their plumage. It is astonishing
to see with what fidelity the feather of a bird may reproduce the corresponding feather of
its parent. It will occur to everyone how, in the human family to which he belongs, there is
some little peculiarity which, while not appearing in every member of the family, when it does
appear is remarkably uniform. It may be only the droop of an eyelid, it may be a tendency to
lift one side of the lip more than the other, it may be the peculiar shape of a certain tooth
in the set, and yet when it appears it comes with astonishing similarity in all who possess
it. So much for the principle of Heredity.

The second great underlying idea is known by the name of Variation. We have just been dwelling
on the regularity with which parents produce offspring like themselves. We must now draw attention
to the fact that, while it is true animals must absolutely belong to the same genus or species,
even to the same variety, none the less no animal is exactly like his parents. Furthermore,
in a group of animals produced at the same time from the same parent each one will have at
least some small point in which he differs from every other one in the group. Two animals may
look alike at first to the undiscerning eye, but a keen analysis of the measurements of the
various parts of their bodies will show distinct differences. This is quite as true among lower
animals. A toad may lay a double string of four hundred eggs which may be fertilized by the
same male at the same time. These eggs may develop into tadpoles in the same pool not over
a foot square. Within a few weeks these little toads may have gained their legs, lost their
tails, and all may have left the water and taken to the ground upon the same day. Already the
careful observer will notice differences among them. Some are larger than others, having grown
more rapidly even though their surroundings were exactly the same; others are more skillful
in their peculiar method of throwing the tongue at an insect they wish to catch. Still others
will be differently colored. They might be arranged to show a considerable gradation between
the lightest and the darkest of the group, though there may not be anywhere in the row a considerable
gap. It is variation in animals of the same parentage and same surroundings which in the mind
of Mr. Darwin made evolution possible. He always favored the idea that it was the continuous
accumulation of these small variations that finally produced the profound changes which mark
the new species. He admitted the possibility of the occasional appearance of those more distinct
leaps in variation on which the present school of mutationists so strongly insists; but he
believed them to be less influential, in the general trend of evolution, than the slower but
much more frequent variations.

One of the most complicated and perplexing problems in the biology of to-day is the question
of the origin of these variations. It is quite as hard to understand as is the method by which
animals produce their own kind. No problem is being more earnestly studied. Suppositions we
have in considerable number, and two of these at least may reasonably be mentioned. We will
consider first the less certain theory. There is nothing in the egg that in the remotest degree
resembles its parent. The old idea that every acorn had in it a miniature oak which only needed
to unfold itself, or that the hen's egg had within it a miniature chick which only needed the
warming process in order to make it evident, could not possibly survive the invention of the
microscope. We may not, and we certainly do not, know everything that is in one of these eggs,
but we do know most certainly that what is there has no resemblance to what it will be in time.
The biologist finds in the nucleus or central core of every growing and reproducing cell certain
minute bodies which Weissmann believes do much to determine the growth of the rest of the cell.
He believes also that there are many more such "determinants" than are necessary for the reproduction
of the cell. Each of these determinants may be fitted to produce slightly different results,
but what decides which of them shall have its own way is quite uncertain. It may be that one
determinant happens to be more favorably placed than others in the cell and that it has consequently
secured more of the nourishment that comes to the cell in the blood of its parent. If this
is true it would certainly be favored in the competition. We are becoming quite certain that
whatever variations arise really start in the egg. The simplest conception as to the cause
of variation would seem to be varied experience. One man trains his brain, another his hand;
and in each case the organ so trained develops. But science is strongly of the mind that such
influence does not reach the next generation.

A musician may have taught his fingers to be nimble; may have given them speed of motion and
precision in their action. No child of his born after he acquired this wonderful facility of
execution is any more likely to be a skilled musician than a child born before he had ever
practiced enough to be anything more than a crude performer. Science is nearly certain that
his children are just as likely to be talented along musical lines if he himself never had
become a musician, simply because he had it in him to be a musician. In other words, they may
inherit the talent which he developed, but they inherited it not because he developed it, but
because it was in him to be developed. This is in accordance with the famous principle that
there is no inheritance of acquired characters. We shall touch this question a little more
fully in a later chapter, in speaking of the development of the evolution theory since Darwin's
time.

If we are right in this matter, and we certainly are nearly right, variation must take place
for the most part in the germ. These variations may not show until the animal has grown up,
but they must have taken place among the determinants in the germ cell or they would not reappear
in subsequent generations.

There is another process by which new variations may arise and which is more easily understood.
It is the method of double parentage. The Barred Plymouth Rock chicken had its origin in such
a double ancestry. The one parent was a Black Java whose color has disappeared entirely in
the cross, but whose single comb with its few large points comes out clearly in the newly produced
fowl. The other parent was a Barred Dominique. It is to this parent that the Plymouth Rock
owes the interesting cross markings on its feathers. The comb on the head of the Barred Dominique
is of the type known as the rose-comb, having many rows of slight projections. This has completely
disappeared from the Plymouth Rock fowls. I am told that the skilled chicken fancier can tell,
concerning many points in this fowl, to which of the crossed ancestors each quality is due.
To a certain extent it is undoubtedly true that here we have the secret of the origin of many
of those interesting people whom we are pleased to call geniuses. They may not possess any
qualities not clearly discernible in various of their near ancestors, but in them we find what
we, for the lack of a better understanding, call chance combination in one individual of the
finer qualities of many ancestors, and this individual is so placed in life as to have these
qualities developed and strengthened.

Charles Darwin, humanly speaking, may be accounted for as the happy combination of a double
heredity and a favorable environment. He inherited the scientific inclinations of his grandfather,
Erasmus Darwin, and the patient, sturdy honesty of his other grandfather, Josiah Wedgwood.
These developed under the stimulus of the long five-year voyage, face to face with the world
of nature. This happy complex produced the master biologist. To believe that he came about
purely by chance requires a great stretch of the imagination. "There's a divinity that shapes
our ends."

We have endeavored to make clear two of the basal ideas underlying evolution. One of these
is responsible for the continued production of animals or plants of the same kind, preventing
the world from becoming a wild kaleidoscopic and fantastic dream. Heredity is the conservative
force of nature. The other idea underlies the development of new departures which keep the
world from being a dull, dead, unending repetition of the same monotonous material. Variation
is the progressive tendency in nature.

The third basal idea is that of Multiplication. Animals and plants multiply; they do not simply
increase, they increase in a geometrical ratio. Anyone who has worked out one of these geometrical
ratios knows how wondrously they mount up. There is an old familiar story of the blacksmith
who asked the price at which the stranger would sell the horse he was shoeing. The owner of
the horse replied that, if the blacksmith would give him one penny for the first nail he drove
into the shoe, two for the second, four for the third, and so on, he might have the horse.
No hundred horses in the world taken together have ever brought such a price as the blacksmith
would have had to pay for the animal on which he was working. This is no circumstance to the
awful story of what would happen to the earth if any animal could multiply unrestricted. The
usual number of eggs laid by a mother robin for a single brood is four, and she may produce
two broods in one season. This would mean that the original pair had produced eight offspring,
four times their own number. If we can imagine these mating the next year and producing their
kind in the same proportion; and, if we further suppose that each robin needs a space one hundred
feet square from which to gather his food, we realize the astonishing fact that in fifteen
years every patch one hundred feet square in Pennsylvania and New York would each have its
resident robin, while the following season would find a robin on every similar patch from Maine
to the Carolinas. Of course this could never happen, this is simply what would happen if all
the robins could grow to maturity and reproduce at the normal ratio. But the robin is a comparatively
slow producer.

Our turtles are more prolific. Twenty eggs would probably not be an unusual number. If we could
imagine a turtle to live in the sea and to produce at this rate; and, if each turtle should
need as much room each way as the robin, and a depth of water equal to its width, before the
robins had spread over New York and Pennsylvania the turtles would have filled all the seas
of the globe. Frogs are even more remarkable in this respect. Two hundred eggs is not an uncommon
number. If each frog required a space twenty-five feet square on which to subsist, the entire
earth would be more than covered with them within six years. It is ludicrous to think of such
numbers, especially when we realize the hundreds of thousands of kinds of animals there are
in the world, each of which is also multiplying, and it becomes evident at once that only an
infinitely small proportion of all these creatures can possibly survive. This, then, is multiplication.

Here comes into play the fourth basal idea in Mr. Darwin's explanation. This is the part of
Selection. When man produces new varieties of animals he does it by picking out from his flocks
or his herds such as conform most nearly to his idea of what is desirable. These he mates,
and from their progeny he selects the ones that suit him best. Generation by generation he
gets his domesticated animals to conform more nearly to the standard of his desires. Natural
selection works in exactly similar fashion. Of all the eggs that are produced by the animals
at large in nature an overwhelming proportion never develop at all. They dry up, are eaten
by their enemies, find no suitable place or time for development and decay, or are overtaken
by some other calamity. Of the animals which emerge from the remainder an overwhelming majority
come to an untimely end within the first few days of life. Each has countless enemies which
prey upon him, and these have scarcely devoured him before they themselves become the prey
of some stronger creature. Until Mr. Darwin gave us his elemental idea it was taken for granted
that it was a matter of pure accident which survived and which yielded in the struggle and
cares of life. It was Darwin who showed us that in this tremendous struggle against those of
his own kind in the search for the same food, against the elements, in securing a mate, any
animals possessing a superiority, however slight, must have some little advantage in the battle.
Certainly, where so many must utterly fail, only those could possibly succeed who were well
fitted to the circumstances in which they must live. We used to think animals were destroyed
by the "accidents" of life and no one could foretell accidents. Mr. Darwin made clear that
it was not a question of chance. That which might happen to any individual animal might be
what we, not knowing the process, called accident, and yet there could be no possible doubt
that those who succeeded were better fitted to battle with life than those who failed, and
that their success was due primarily to their being thus advantaged. Consequently, if generation
by generation the so-called accidents of life are constantly eliminating the unfit in overwhelming
proportions, not only must the positively unfit disappear, but even the less fit. The more
keen the struggle, the fewer could survive and the fitter they must be to survive at all. This
is Selection. These, then, are Darwin's four great factors of evolution: Heredity, Variation,
Multiplication, Selection.

From these it results that the animals and plants naturally become better adapted to the situation
in which they are placed. When, as is constantly happening through the history of the earth,
a change occurs in the physical geography of any region, when a plain is lifted to be a plateau,
or a mountain chain is submerged until it becomes a row of small islands, this alteration will
produce uncommon hardships among animals, even though they were well fitted to the old conditions.
Any animal or any species of animals which meets such a calamity has before it only three possible
outcomes of the struggle. First it may be plastic enough and it may vary enough in the right
direction to adjust itself to the changed conditions. In this case it and a favored few like
it will occupy the altered territory. The second possibility is that it may migrate while the
actual change is going on, thus remaining in the sort of situation suited to it and its kind.
The third possibility is the one which overtakes a great majority of animals--they die. Even
the entire line dies out, and the strata of the rocks are filled with the bones, shells, and
teeth of such as have met this fate. They have become extinct.

Thus far in this chapter we have been considering the influences under which it is conceivable
that animals should advance. There is no question whatever that there are too many animals
born, nor is there any possible question that a very large proportion of them must certainly
die. There is equally no doubt that every animal produces after its own kind, and that its
offspring, while they resemble it closely, still vary a little from it and from each other.
This fact is perfectly plain to the most superficial observer who thinks on the matter at all.
It is not so plain, nor is it easily demonstrated, that all of these acting together do surely,
even if slowly, alter the form and behavior of the animal world. It is difficult to prove that
there is going on under our eyes a steady and real improvement in the adaptation of the animals
and plants around us to the situation in which they are placed. As far back as man's memory
runs they seem to have been about what they now are; as far even as man's historical record
runs they seem to have suffered no great alteration. The Egyptian of the old tombs is much
like the Egyptian of the same rank to-day. The African of the tombs has the African features
of to-day. Under such circumstances it is hard to prove that there is a steady and undoubted
advance. For the most part the balance of the animal world is fairly even, and any species
does not ordinarily change rapidly enough or migrate widely enough to show us its new features.
It is difficult to see the struggle which we are so sure is going on. The life of animals is
so hidden in many of its details that their joys and sorrows, if such we may call them, scarcely
fall under our observation. Now and then an opportunity comes to see the process of adaptation
work itself out. The struggle for existence begins anew and is carried on with special vigor,
with victory, temporary or permanent, to one of the participants in the struggle.

The opportunity to observe such a change is presented in the United States by the introduction
of the so-called English sparrow. This little creature, received at first with such joy, soon
became the object of an almost bitter hatred on the part of very many people. This is really
due to the fact that this bird is one of nature's darlings and thoroughly succeeds where it
has an even chance.

The number of birds of any particular species which a region will support seems to be fairly
definite. If a species is especially protected until it becomes unusually abundant, the removal
of the protection commonly brings it down promptly to its original numbers. On the other hand,
an accident of severe character or a special persecution may much diminish the number of the
species, and still it will, within a comparatively few years, return to its previous abundance.

The inhabitants of Florida who own orange groves will never forget the winter of '94-5. A bitter
cold wave swept along the coast and killed such large numbers of orange trees as almost to
cut Florida out of the orange market and to open the gate to California, who was eagerly offering
her fruit. This same frost caught the migrating blue birds and killed them by the thousands.
When spring came bird-lovers throughout the eastern United States found an astonishing scarcity
of these favorites. It was feared that with numbers so small they could not possibly compete
with their enemies and with whatever untoward circumstances should be their lot. But there
is room in this environment for a definite number of bluebirds. When this number was suddenly
reduced the chances to make a bluebird's living were so wondrously multiplied that young bluebirds
had such an opportunity in life as their fellows had not had for many long years. Accordingly
they thrived as never before, and, of their progeny, a larger proportion lived to the following
year. It was only a few years before the number of bluebirds had risen. Now we probably have
as many as we have had for a long time past. I cite this simply to show that a region can support
a certain number of animals of any one particular kind, and that the animal is likely to multiply,
if given a fair chance, until it has reached such proportions. Now to my story of the rapid
development of a newcomer.

In the year 1850 a resident of Brooklyn came home from a trip to Europe. He was a lover of
birds, and while in Europe had been particularly attracted, no one now knows quite why, to
the common House Sparrow, as it should be called. It is no more abundant in England than in
many parts of the continent of Europe. A name that has been used for a long time is very hard
to cast aside, and we shall probably continue to mistakenly call him the English Sparrow to
the end. Our Brooklyn traveler brought home with him from Europe eight of these interesting
little birds and succeeded in inducing his colleagues in a scientific society to share his
interest in them. Not wishing to commit the newcomers suddenly to the rigors of the American
winter, these men built a large cage for the sparrows, meaning to set them free in the spring.
For some reason or other when the winter was over the birds were all dead, and this first attempt
to introduce the sparrow into America failed entirely. The little bird had won so many friends
that his success was now sure. Finding a favorable opportunity, these Brooklyn men dispatched
an order to a man in Europe, asking him to supply them with one hundred English sparrows. The
consignment came in good shape and the birds were liberated on the edge of Brooklyn. This was
the first of a number of introductions. A little later New York City sent for two hundred and
twenty of these interesting creatures and turned them loose in her parks, while Rochester,
with what was then considered great public spirit, purchased one hundred for herself. But the
most progressive city in this respect was Philadelphia. She had long been troubled with the
spanworm on her trees. This detestable larva had the unpleasant fashion of lowering itself
by a long silken thread from the shade trees then so abundant in that beautiful city. The spanworms
traveling around over the clothing of the passersby were so objectionable to everybody that
it was with greatest delight that Philadelphia heard of the new birds which ate the pest. One
wonders why some ornithologist did not look at the bird long enough to see that it had the
sort of a bill characteristic of birds that eat seeds. It is true that most birds feed their
young on insects, hence there is a time when any bird is apt to be insectivorous. But the structure
of the sparrow's bill, like that of all finches, should have warned these bird-lovers that
the sparrow was not to be depended upon to earn his living by catching worms. It is easy, however,
to be wise after the event. Philadelphia believed she was engaging in a particularly advanced
movement when she imported from England one thousand English sparrows, nearly as many as were
liberated by all other cities together. These birds were turned loose among the shady streets
and wide spreading parks of the City of Brotherly Love.

It is a serious matter lightly to disturb the balance of nature by the introduction of a new
species. It is true that the sparrow did eat some spanworms and for a while enthusiastic bird-lovers
hoped that here was the solution of the difficulty. Philadelphians will also remember that,
with the spanworm removed from competition, the tussock moth, whose caterpillar carries on
his back a series of yellow, red, and black paint brushes, at once become the permanent parasite
of the long-suffering shade trees. This caterpillar is covered with bristling hairs, very closely
set. Almost any bird objects to hair in his victuals; and this particular larva has hair more
than ordinarily objectionable, for it irritates wherever it pricks the sensitive skin. This
coating seems to protect the caterpillar from the sparrow, with the result that Philadelphia's
trees were soon nearly defoliated by this comparatively new pest, worse than the spanworm.
With the paving of the city's highways and the consequent shutting off of the air from the
roots, the trees have largely disappeared from the streets of Philadelphia. With them have
gone a fair portion of the tussock worms, but the sparrow holds his own. Here is a new bird
in the field, and the struggle for existence on the part of every other kind of bird is now
more complicated and severe. The sparrow can live where the rest of the birds have no possible
chance. He throve so well in this country that by 1875 he had spread over five hundred square
miles in the neighborhood of our larger Eastern cities. Thus far almost everybody was pleased
with the new introduction. Within the next five years he had spread over more than fifteen
thousand square miles, and wise men were beginning to feel doubtful of the virtues of their
aforetime friend. When by 1885 more than five hundred thousand square miles had been occupied
by the enterprising little fellow, there remained no longer a doubt in the minds of most people
that the sparrow was an unmitigated nuisance and great fears were entertained that he had multiplied
to such an extent as to be a serious menace. Here, then, is a modern instance under our own
eyes of a victory in the struggle. If the sparrow has multiplied rapidly, while all the other
birds have either only held their own or even have diminished in numbers, it is quite evident
he must be better fitted to the conditions than they are. What are his fit points? Why does
he succeed while others fail? The thoughtful bird-lover will have little trouble in understanding
at least some of his victory-winning characteristics. How did he come to be almost the only
bird who can live in large numbers in our great cities, without losing his ability to get along
in less crowded situations?

In the first place this interesting bird is a clannish fellow. He has lost the ordinary sparrow
habit and has come to like to live in crowded groups. Seclusion is not at all to his taste,
and if there are only a few sparrows in the neighborhood those few will most certainly be found
living near each other. One of the early adaptations of the sparrow to his city surroundings
was the ability to find for himself a considerable proportion of his food in the undigested
seed that could be picked up from the droppings of the horses. This naturally led the surplus
sparrows out through the many thoroughfares leading from any large city. Where horses went
sparrows could follow. Accordingly along the great lines of travel this bird found the simple
path by which he could enter new territory. Meanwhile box-cars came into our large cities with
freight. Sometimes they had carried grain, sometimes cattle. In either case it was not unlikely
that a certain amount of grain should be found scattered over the floor of such cars. The sparrow
visited these cars for the grain, and it must have been no infrequent accident that a door
should be shut upon a group of sparrows, especially in inclement weather, when they were apt
to be huddled in a dark corner of the car. These prisoners would be carried to the destination
of the car and there liberated, thus producing a new center of what we are now inclined to
call infestation. By such means the English sparrow has spread over much the larger portion
of the American continent. Few birds are bold enough to visit a railroad car. Of the few who
might be tempted, most are timid enough to fly on the first approach of man. Hence they fail
to gain this chance of spreading. They must remain in the old crowded home. Meanwhile the sparrow,
thus transported, finds a new home with fewer or no sparrows. The struggle is less keen. More
of his kind can live. His boldness has been here a fit quality and has helped him in the race.

Man is only slowly coming to be a city-dwelling animal. Although it is a voluntary process
with him, he still usually visits the country with much enjoyment. He has not as yet learned
to adapt himself thoroughly to the city, for somehow city life kills him. Families that move
into the city gradually have a smaller number of children in each generation until shortly
the family is wiped out. The population of the city must constantly be replenished from the
country. But the English sparrow is more adaptable than are the people. He has made himself
at home in the heart of the biggest city. The Wall Street canyon is not deep enough, nor contracted
enough, nor free enough of food to blot out the life of the English sparrow. At the heart of
the deepest gully among the skyscrapers of our biggest cities we find this little bird hopping
between the horses' feet, darting out from under the wheel of the push-cart, fluttering only
a few yards to a place of safety, to return at once to his scanty meal upon the pavement as
soon as opportunity offers. He is a typical city dweller and has learned to thrive there. Again
in this matter he has distanced other birds to whom the city is more deadly than it is to people.

Another very important element in his fitness for the struggle of life lies in the fact that
he is unafraid of man. He is wary of man; by which I mean he will quickly fly up from in front
of man's feet. It is exceedingly difficult to catch a sparrow in one's hand. It is far easier
to lure a pigeon within reach. But the sparrow, when escaping your hands, comes to rest but
a slight distance away, only to elude you quite as successfully if you try again. If the sparrow
is let severely alone he becomes more and more familiar with men, flies less promptly, and
goes a shorter distance, but any attempt to trap him renders him shy more quickly than almost
any other bird we have. He soon learns to avoid a trap in which his companions have come to
grief. Those who would poison or trap sparrows must change constantly the base of their operations.
This fearlessness of man is a valuable asset to the bird, for it is an important defense against
other foes.

The most serious enemy the birds at large have, after man himself, is the bird of prey. Hawks
and owls capture a large quantity of our smaller birds. Now the hawks and owls are for the
most part shy of man. They have gotten a bad reputation, especially if they are of any size,
because of their more or less pronounced proclivities for seizing our domestic poultry, and
consequently many people will fire upon a hawk or an owl who would probably fire upon no other
bird. By living close to man the sparrow is largely saved from the danger of capture by these
carnivorous creatures, and this is the first and a very important element of the advantage
to the sparrow of living near man. But there is the additional advantage that man scatters
about him, in one way or another, a very considerable amount of waste food. I have suggested
that the seeds in the droppings of the horse form a large proportion of the sparrow's food,
and horses are to be found only with men. In the neighborhood of man's home, unless he has
become sanitary to a degree which has only been attained in recent years, there is usually
more or less garbage, kitchen offal of one sort or another. To this the sparrow has easy access
and from it he makes many a meal. But this fearlessness of man gives him still another advantage
which his competitors fear to use, it provides him with nesting sites.

Man has the faculty of putting up ornamental trimmings on his house, and there is no spot the
sparrow chooses more willingly in which to build his nest than the ornamental quirks and cornices
of man's architecture. A Corinthian column with comely leaves in its capital seems especially
designed for the comfort of the sparrow, and his distinctly untidy nest is the familiar disfigurement
of almost every ornate public building. These are the advantages which come to the sparrow
from his willingness to associate with man, and there are comparatively few birds with whom
he must share them. Few birds select the immediate neighborhood of man's home for their nests.
They may live in the neighboring trees, they may haunt his orchard, but his house, for the
most part, they decline to frequent.

Still another quality which makes for success in this buccaneer is the willingness with which
he will vary his food as occasion requires. It is a not infrequent characteristic of the bird
family that each species should have its own rather restricted diet. Birds are quite particular
eaters, and many of them will come well nigh to starvation before they will use unaccustomed
food. The sparrow, on the contrary, like man, eats almost anything he comes across that could
reasonably be considered edible. He belongs to a group of birds which are structurally adapted
to cracking the hard coats of seeds. This group of birds known as the finches is provided with
the sort of bill familiar in the ordinary canary bird. It is short, heavy at the base, comes
quickly to a point, and is firm and strong. With it the bird readily breaks through the hard
outer coat of most seeds and feeds upon the rich cotyledons that are enclosed within. Nowhere
in its entire structure does the plant crowd so much nourishment in so little space as it does
in the seeds. It is not by chance that the great human food is grain. The sparrow belongs to
the one bird group that makes a specialty of such seeds.

Most of the English sparrow's cousins in this finch group confine themselves rather rigidly
to this diet. Here the variability of the sparrow again gives him the advantage. He may have
the family fondness for seeds, but in their absence he can be content with almost anything
edible. In the early springtime, when the seeds of last year are gone and those of the new
year have not yet been produced, the sparrow is not averse to eating young buds from the trees.
At this time he is not unlikely to eat our sprouting lettuce and peas. It is easy to be severe
on him in this matter; but for a creature like man, who has the same tastes, who eats the enormous
buds of the cabbage, the cauliflower, and the brussels sprouts, or the more tender buds which
he calls heads of lettuce, it seems particularly inappropriate that he should throw stones
at this little creature whose tastes are so similar to his own.

While seeds are more suitable for an elder bird they are altogether too indigestible to be
the food of nestlings. So when the sparrow finds its nest full we know he must sally forth
in search of nourishment more simple of digestion. Now for a few weeks he searches assiduously,
catching insects and caterpillars of various kinds, and feeds them to his young. This taste
passes as his children grow older, especially as shortly the seeds begin to ripen. Now is the
time for the sparrow to fatten. Now he is eating the food for which he was really built. By
the time the wheat is ripe there are sparrows enough about to form quite a flock, and when
these settle down in a wheat, rye, or oats field and feed upon the grain, meanwhile shaking
out upon the ground perhaps as much as they eat, the farmer begins to realize that the sparrow
is not his friend.

