I am the only one in Mother Beckett's confidence--I mean, about her health. Even her husband
doesn't know how this trip strains her endurance, physical and mental. Indeed, he's the very
one who mustn't know. It's agreed between us that, if she feels hopelessly unfit for any excursion,
I shall put on invalid airs and she will stop at home to keep me company. Thus will be avoided
all danger of Father Beckett suspecting the weakness she hides. But you can imagine, Padre,
knowing me as you do, how frightened I was to-day--our morning for Noyon--lest she should give
the signal. I felt I simply couldn't bear to miss Noyon. No use telling myself I shall feel
exactly the same about Soissons to-morrow, and Roye and Ham and Chauny and various others the
day after. My reason couldn't detach itself at that instant from Noyon.

Our daily programme as now arranged is: Me to knock at Mother Beckett's door half an hour before
starting-time. If she's fearing a collapse, she is to exclaim: "My child, how pale you are!"
or some other criticism of my complexion. Then I'm to play up, replying: "I do feel under the
weather." Whereupon it's easy for her to say: "You must stop in the hotel and rest. I'll stay
with you."

To my joy, the greeting this morning was: "My dear, you look fresh as a rose!"

I didn't feel it; for you know I wrote late to you. And at last in bed, I disobeyed your advice
about never worrying: I worried quite a lot over Brian and Dierdre O'Farrell; my having led
him into a trap, when above all things I wanted his happiness and health. I could well have
passed as pale: but I was so pleased with the secret signal that I braced up and bloomed again.

We had to start early, because there was a good deal to do in the day; and we were supposed
to return early, too, for a rest, as there's the great adventure of Soissons before us to-morrow.
The Correspondents' Château wasn't on our list: that was an accident, though now it seems as
if the whole trip would have been worth while if only to lead up to that "accident!"

There were several ways we could have taken to Noyon, but we took the way by Dives and Lassigny.
We shall have chances for other roads, because, to see various places we mean to visit, we
shall go through Noyon again.

Once upon a time, before the Germans came, Dives had a lovely château, part of it very old,
with a round turret under a tall pointed hat; the other part comparatively young--as young
as the Renaissance--and all built of that pale, rose-pink colour which most châteaux of this
forestland, and this Île-de-France used to wear in happy days before they put on smoke-stained
mourning.

Now, instead of its proud château, Dives has a ruin even more lovely, though infinitely sad.

As for Lassigny, it was battered to death: yet I think it was glad to die, because the Germans
had turned it into a fortress, and they had to be shelled out by the French. Poor little Lassigny!
It must have had what the French call "une beauté coquette," and the Germans, it seemed, were
loth to leave. When they found that they must go, and in haste, they boiled with rage. Not
only did they blow up all that was left in the village, but they blew up the trees of the surrounding
orchards. They had not the excuse for this that they needed the trees to bar the way of the
pursuing French army. Such trees as they felled across the road were the big trees of the forest.
Their destruction of the young fruit trees was just a slaughter of innocents; and I've never
hated war, Padre, as I hated it to-day--above all, German methods of making war. Even the countless
graves on the battlefields do not look so sad as those acres of murdered trees: blown-up trees,
chopped-down trees, trees gashed to death with axes, trees that strove with all the strength
of Nature to live, putting forth leaves and blossoms as their life blood emptied from their veins.

The graves of dead soldiers do not, somehow, look utterly sad. Their little flags stir triumphantly
in the breeze, as if waved by unseen hands. The caps that mark the mounds seem to be on the
heads of men invisible, under the earth, standing at the salute, saying to those who pass:
"There is no death! Keep up your hearts, and follow the example we have set." The souls of
those who left their bodies on these battlefields march on, bearing torches that have lit the
courage of the world, with a light that can never fail. But the poor trees, so dear to France,
giving life as a mother gives milk to her child!--they died to serve no end save cruelty.

The sight of them made me furious, and I glared like a basilisk at any German prisoners we
saw working along the good, newly made white road. On their green trousers were large letters,
"P. G." for "Prisonnier de Guerre"; and I snapped out as we passed a group, "It needs only
an I between the P and the G to make it perfect!"

One man must have heard, and understood English, for he glanced up with a start. I was sorry
then, for it was like hitting a fallen enemy. As he had what would have seemed a good face
if he'd been British or French, perhaps he was one of those who wrote home that the killing
of trees in France "will be a shame to Germany till the end of time."

Only a few days ago Brian learned by heart a poem I read aloud, a poem called "Les Arbres Coupés,"
by Edmond Rostand. Teaching Brian, I found I had learned it myself.

    Chacun de nos soldats eut son cri de souffrance
    Devant ces arbres morts qui jonchaient les terrains:
    "Les pêchers!" criaient ceux de l'Île-de-France;
    "Et les mirabelliers!" crièrent les Lorrains.

    Soldats bleus demeures paysans sous vos casques,
    Quels poings noueux et noirs vers le nord vous tendiez!
    "Les cerisiers!" criaient avec fureur les Basques;
    Et ceux du Rousillon criaient: "Les amandiers!"

    Devant les arbres morts de l'Aisne ou de la Somme,
    Chacun se retrouva Breton ou Limousin.
    "Les pommiers!" criaient ceux du pays de la pomme;
    "Les vignes!" criaient ceux du pays raisin.

    Ainsi vous disiez tous le climat dont vous êtes,
    Devant ces arbres morts que vous consideriez,
    --Et moi, voyant tomber tant de jeunes poètes,
    Hélas, combien de fois j'ai crié: "Les lauriers!"

I love it. Yet I don't quite agree with the beautiful turning at the end, because the laurels
of the soldier-poets aren't really dead, nor can they ever die. Even some of the trees which
the Boches meant to kill would not be conquered by Germans or death. Many of them, cut almost
level with the ground, continued to live, spouting leaves close to earth as a fountain spouts
water when its jet has been turned low. All the victims that could be saved have been saved
by the French, carefully, scientifically bandaged like wounded soldiers: and the Becketts talked
eagerly of giving money--much money--to American societies that, with the British, are aiding
France to make her fair land bloom again. Mother Beckett became quite inventive and excited,
planning to start "instruction farms," with a fund in honour of Jim. Seeds and slips and tools
and teachers should all be imported from California. Oh, it would be wonderful! And how thankful
she and Father were that they had Brian and Molly to help make the plan come true! I shouldn't
have liked to catch Julian O'Farrell's eye just then.

All the way was haunted by the tragedy of trees, not only the tragedy of orchards, and of the
roadside giants that once had shaded the straight avenues, but the martyrdom of trees in the
great dark forests--oaks and elms and beeches. At first glance these woods, France's shield
against her enemies--rose still and beautiful, like mystic abodes of peace, against the pale
horizon. But a searching gaze showed how they had suffered. For every trio of living trees
there seemed to be one corpse, shattered by bombs, or blasted by evil gas. The sight of them
struck at the heart: yet they were heroes, as well as martyrs, I said to myself. They had truly
died for France, to save France. And as I thought this, I knew that if I were a poet, beautiful
words would come at my call, to clothe my fancy about the forests.

I wanted the right words so much that it was pain when they wouldn't answer my wish, for I
seemed to hear only a faint, far-off echo of some fine strain of music, whose real notes I
failed to catch.

Always forests have fascinated me; sweet, fairy-peopled groves of my native island, and emerald-lit
beech woods of England. But I never felt the grand meaning of forests as I felt them to-day,
in this ravaged and tortured land. I could have cried out to them: "Oh, you forests of France,
what a part you've played in the history of wars! How wise and brave of you to stand in unbroken
line, a rampart protecting your country's frontiers, through the ages. Forests, you are bands
of soldiers, in armour of wood, and you, too, like your human brothers, have hearts that beat
and veins that bleed for France! You are soldiers, and you are fortresses--Nature's fortresses
stronger than all modern inventions. You are fortresses to fight in; you are shelters from
air-pirates, you hide cannon; you give shelter to your fighting countrymen from rain and heat.
You delay the enemy; you mislead him, you drive him back. When you die, deserted by the birds
and all your hidden furred and feathered children, you give yourselves--give, give to the last!
Your wood strengthens the trenches, or burns to warm the freezing poilus. Brave forests, pathetic
forests! I hear you defy the enemy in your hour of death: Strike us, kill us. Still you shall
never pass!"

We had felt that we knew something of the war-zone after Lorraine; but there the great battles
had all been fought in 1914, when the world was young. Here, it seemed as if the earth must
still be hot from the feet of retreating Germans.

The whole landscape was pitted with shell-holes, and spider-webbed with barbed wire. The three
lines of French trenches we passed might, from their look, have been manned yesterday. Piled
along the neat new road were bombs for aviators to drop; queer, fish-shaped things, and still
queerer cages they had been in. There were long, low sheds for fodder. At each turn was the
warning word, "Convois." The poor houses of such villages as continued to exist were numbered,
for the first time in their humble lives, because they were needed for military lodgings. Notices
in the German language were hardly effaced from walls of half-ruined buildings. They had been
partly rubbed out, one could see, but the ugly German words survived, strong and black as a
stain on one's past. Huge rounds of barbed wire which had been brought, and never used, were
stacked by the roadside, and there were long lines of trench-furniture the enemy had had to
abandon in flight, or leave in dug-outs: rough tables, chairs, rusty cooking-stoves, pots,
pans, petrol tins, and broken dishes: even lamps, torn books, and a few particularly ugly blue
vases for flowers. They must have been made in Germany, I knew!

Wattled screens against enemy fire still protected the road, and here and there was a "camouflage"
canopy for a big gun. The roofs of beautiful old farmhouses were crushed in, as if tons of
rock had fallen on them: and the moss which once had decked their ancient tiles with velvet
had withered, turning a curious rust colour, like dried blood. Young trees with their throats
cut were bandaged up with torn linen and bagging on which German printed words were dimly legible.
It would have been a scene of unmitigated grimness, save for last summer's enterprising grass
and flowers, which autumn, kinder than war, had not killed.

Late roses and early chrysanthemums grew in the gardens of broken, deserted cottages, as if
the flowers yearned to comfort the wounded walls with soft caresses, innocent as the touch
of children. On the burned façades of houses, trellised fruit-trees clung, some dead--mere
black pencillings sketched on brick or plaster--but now and then one was living still, like
a beautiful young Mazeppa, bound to a dead steed.

So we arrived at Noyon, less than two hours by car from Compiègne. The nearness of it to the
heart of France struck me suddenly. I could hear the echo of sad voices curbing the optimists:
"The Germans are still at Noyon!"

Well--they are not at Noyon now. They've been gone for many moons. Yet there's a look on the
faces of the people in the town--a look when they come to the windows or doors of their houses,
or when they hear a sudden noise in the street--which makes those moons seem never to have waned.

Washington has adopted Noyon, so the Becketts could not offer any great public charity, but
they could sprinkle about a few private good deeds, in remembrance of Jim, who loved the place,
as he loved all the Île-de-France. One of Mother Beckett's most valued letters from "Jim-on-his-travels"
(as she always says) is from Noyon, and she was so bent on reading it aloud to us, as we drove
slowly--almost reverently--into the town, that she wouldn't look (I believe she even grudged
our looking!) at the façade of the far-famed Hôtel de Ville, until she'd come to the end of
the last page. She seemed to think that to look up prematurely would be like wanting to see
the stage before the curtain rose on the play!

I loved her for it--we all loved her--and obeyed as far as possible. But one couldn't shut
one's eyes to the Stars and Stripes that flapped on the marvellously ornate front of the old
building--flapped like the wings of the American Eagle that has flown across the Atlantic to
help save France.

Jim--a son of the Eagle--who gave his life for this land and for liberty, would have felt proud
of that flag, I think, if he could have seen it to-day: for because she is the adopted child
of Washington, Noyon "stars" the emblem of her American mother. She hangs out no other flag--not
even that of France--on the Hôtel de Ville. Maybe she'll give her own colours a place there
later, but at this moment the Star Spangled Banner floats alone in its glory.

No nice, normal-minded person could remember, or morbidly want to remember, the name unkindly
given by Julius Cæsar to Noyon, when he had besieged it. I can imagine even Charlemagne waving
that cumbrous label impatiently aside, though Noyon mixed with Laon was his first capital.
"Noviodunum Belgarum it may have been" (I dare say he said). "But I'm going to call it Noyon!"

He was crowned king of Austria in Noyon cathedral--an even older one than the cathedral of
to-day, which the Germans have generously omitted to destroy, merely stealing all its treasures!
But I feel sure he doesn't feel Austrian in these days, if he is looking down over the "Blessed
Damosel's" shoulder, to see what's going on here below. He belonged really to the whole world.
Why, didn't that fairy-story king, Haroun al Raschid, send him from Bagdad the "keys of the
tomb of Christ," as Chief of the Christian World? They say his ghost haunts Noyon, and was
always there whenever a king was crowned, or elected--as Hugh Capet was. Perhaps it may have
been Charlemagne in the spirit who persuaded the Germans to their great retreat from the Noyon
front this last spring of 1917!

Coming into the Place, and stopping in front of the Hôtel de Ville, gave me the oddest sense
of unreality, because, when we were in Paris the other day, I saw the scene in a moving picture:
the first joyful entry of the French soldiers into the town, when the Germans had cleared out.
I could hardly believe that I wasn't just a figure flickering across a screen, and that the
film wouldn't hurry me along somewhere else, whether I wanted to go or not.

There were the venerable houses with the steep slate roofs, and singularly intelligent-looking
windows, whose bright panes seemed to twinkle with knowledge of what they had seen during these
dreadful eighteen months of German occupation. There were the odd, unfinished towers of the
cruciform cathedral--quaint towers, topped with wood and pointed spirelets--soaring into the
sky above the gray colony of clustered roofs. There was the cobbled pavement, glittering like
masses of broken glass, after a shower of rain just past; and even more interesting than any
of these was the fantastically carved façade of the Hôtel de Ville, which has lured thousands
of tourists to Noyon in days of peace. Who knows but they have been coming ever since 1532,
when it was finished?

At first sight, we should never have guessed what Noyon had suffered from the Germans. It was
only after wandering through the splendid old cathedral of Notre-Dame, stripped of everything
worth stealing, and going from street to street (we paused a long time in the one where Calvin
was born, a disagreeable, but I suppose useful, man!) that we began to realize the slow torture
inflicted by the Germans. Of course, "lessons" had to be taught. Rebellious persons had to
be "punished." Nothing but justice had been done upon the unjust by their just conquerors.
And oh, how thorough and painstaking they were in its execution!

As they'd destroyed all surrounding cities and villages, they had to put the "evacuated" inhabitants
somewhere (those they couldn't use as slaves to work in Germany), so they herded the people
by the thousand into Noyon. That place had to be spared for the Germans themselves to live
in, being bigger and more comfortable than others in the neighbourhood; so it was well to have
as many of the conquered as possible interned under their own sharp eyes. Noyon was "home"
to six thousand souls before the war. After the Germans marched in, it had to hold ten thousand.
But a little more room in the houses was thriftily obtained by annexing all the furniture,
even beds. Tables and chairs they took, too, and stoves, and cooking utensils, which left the
houses conveniently empty, to be shared by families from Roye, and Nesle, and Ham, and Chauny--oh,
so many other towns and hamlets, that one loses count in trying to remember!

How the people lived, they hardly know now, in looking back, some of them told us, as we walked
about with a French officer who was our guide. Eighteen months of it! Summer wasn't quite so
bad. One can always bear hardships when weather, at least, is kind. But the winters! It is
those winters that scarcely bear thinking of, even now.

No lights were allowed after dark. All doors must be left open, for the German military police
to walk in at any hour of the night, to see what mischief was brewing in the happy families
caged together. There was no heating, and often no fire for cooking, consequently such food
as there was had to be eaten cold. No nose must be shown out of doors unless with a special
permit, so to speak, displayed on the end of it. Not that there was much incentive to go out,
as all business was stopped, and all shops closed. Without "le Comité Américain," thousands
would have starved, so it was lucky for Noyon that the United States was neutral then!

