GULLIVER’S TRAVELS
                               INTO SEVERAL
                       REMOTE NATIONS OF THE WORLD

                         BY JONATHAN SWIFT, D.D.,
                      DEAN OF ST. PATRICK’S, DUBLIN.

                      [First published in 1726–7.]

THE PUBLISHER TO THE READER.

                  [As given in the original edition.]

The author of these Travels, Mr. Lemuel Gulliver, is my ancient and intimate friend; there
is likewise some relation between us on the mother’s side.  About three years ago, Mr. Gulliver
growing weary of the concourse of curious people coming to him at his house in Redriff, made
a small purchase of land, with a convenient house, near Newark, in Nottinghamshire, his native
country; where he now lives retired, yet in good esteem among his neighbours.

Although Mr. Gulliver was born in Nottinghamshire, where his father dwelt, yet I have heard
him say his family came from Oxfordshire; to confirm which, I have observed in the churchyard
at Banbury in that county, several tombs and monuments of the Gullivers.

Before he quitted Redriff, he left the custody of the following papers in my hands, with the
liberty to dispose of them as I should think fit.  I have carefully perused them three times.
The style is very plain and simple; and the only fault I find is, that the author, after the
manner of travellers, is a little too circumstantial.  There is an air of truth apparent through
the whole; and indeed the author was so distinguished for his veracity, that it became a sort
of proverb among his neighbours at Redriff, when any one affirmed a thing, to say, it was as
true as if Mr. Gulliver had spoken it.

By the advice of several worthy persons, to whom, with the author’s permission, I communicated
these papers, I now venture to send them into the world, hoping they may be, at least for some
time, a better entertainment to our young noblemen, than the common scribbles of politics and
party.

This volume would have been at least twice as large, if I had not made bold to strike out innumerable
passages relating to the winds and tides, as well as to the variations and bearings in the
several voyages, together with the minute descriptions of the management of the ship in storms,
in the style of sailors; likewise the account of longitudes and latitudes; wherein I have reason
to apprehend, that Mr. Gulliver may be a little dissatisfied.  But I was resolved to fit the
work as much as possible to the general capacity of readers.  However, if my own ignorance
in sea affairs shall have led me to commit some mistakes, I alone am answerable for them. 
And if any traveller hath a curiosity to see the whole work at large, as it came from the hands
of the author, I will be ready to gratify him.

As for any further particulars relating to the author, the reader will receive satisfaction
from the first pages of the book.

                                                          RICHARD SYMPSON.

A LETTER FROM CAPTAIN GULLIVER TO HIS COUSIN SYMPSON.

                        WRITTEN IN THE YEAR 1727.

I hope you will be ready to own publicly, whenever you shall be called to it, that by your
great and frequent urgency you prevailed on me to publish a very loose and uncorrect account
of my travels, with directions to hire some young gentleman of either university to put them
in order, and correct the style, as my cousin Dampier did, by my advice, in his book called
“A Voyage round the world.”  But I do not remember I gave you power to consent that any thing
should be omitted, and much less that any thing should be inserted; therefore, as to the latter,
I do here renounce every thing of that kind; particularly a paragraph about her majesty Queen
Anne, of most pious and glorious memory; although I did reverence and esteem her more than
any of human species.  But you, or your interpolator, ought to have considered, that it was
not my inclination, so was it not decent to praise any animal of our composition before my
master Houyhnhnm: And besides, the fact was altogether false; for to my knowledge, being in
England during some part of her majesty’s reign, she did govern by a chief minister; nay even
by two successively, the first whereof was the lord of Godolphin, and the second the lord of
Oxford; so that you have made me say the thing that was not.  Likewise in the account of the
academy of projectors, and several passages of my discourse to my master Houyhnhnm, you have
either omitted some material circumstances, or minced or changed them in such a manner, that
I do hardly know my own work.  When I formerly hinted to you something of this in a letter,
you were pleased to answer that you were afraid of giving offence; that people in power were
very watchful over the press, and apt not only to interpret, but to punish every thing which
looked like an innuendo (as I think you call it).  But, pray how could that which I spoke so
many years ago, and at about five thousand leagues distance, in another reign, be applied to
any of the Yahoos, who now are said to govern the herd; especially at a time when I little
thought, or feared, the unhappiness of living under them?  Have not I the most reason to complain,
when I see these very Yahoos carried by Houyhnhnms in a vehicle, as if they were brutes, and
those the rational creatures?  And indeed to avoid so monstrous and detestable a sight was
one principal motive of my retirement hither.

Thus much I thought proper to tell you in relation to yourself, and to the trust I reposed in you.

I do, in the next place, complain of my own great want of judgment, in being prevailed upon
by the entreaties and false reasoning of you and some others, very much against my own opinion,
to suffer my travels to be published.  Pray bring to your mind how often I desired you to consider,
when you insisted on the motive of public good, that the Yahoos were a species of animals utterly
incapable of amendment by precept or example: and so it has proved; for, instead of seeing
a full stop put to all abuses and corruptions, at least in this little island, as I had reason
to expect; behold, after above six months warning, I cannot learn that my book has produced
one single effect according to my intentions.  I desired you would let me know, by a letter,
when party and faction were extinguished; judges learned and upright; pleaders honest and modest,
with some tincture of common sense, and Smithfield blazing with pyramids of law books; the
young nobility’s education entirely changed; the physicians banished; the female Yahoos abounding
in virtue, honour, truth, and good sense; courts and levees of great ministers thoroughly weeded
and swept; wit, merit, and learning rewarded; all disgracers of the press in prose and verse
condemned to eat nothing but their own cotton, and quench their thirst with their own ink.
These, and a thousand other reformations, I firmly counted upon by your encouragement; as indeed
they were plainly deducible from the precepts delivered in my book.  And it must be owned,
that seven months were a sufficient time to correct every vice and folly to which Yahoos are
subject, if their natures had been capable of the least disposition to virtue or wisdom. Yet,
so far have you been from answering my expectation in any of your letters; that on the contrary
you are loading our carrier every week with libels, and keys, and reflections, and memoirs,
and second parts; wherein I see myself accused of reflecting upon great state folk; of degrading
human nature (for so they have still the confidence to style it), and of abusing the female
sex.  I find likewise that the writers of those bundles are not agreed among themselves; for
some of them will not allow me to be the author of my own travels; and others make me author
of books to which I am wholly a stranger.

I find likewise that your printer has been so careless as to confound the times, and mistake
the dates, of my several voyages and returns; neither assigning the true year, nor the true
month, nor day of the month: and I hear the original manuscript is all destroyed since the
publication of my book; neither have I any copy left: however, I have sent you some corrections,
which you may insert, if ever there should be a second edition: and yet I cannot stand to them;
but shall leave that matter to my judicious and candid readers to adjust it as they please.

I hear some of our sea Yahoos find fault with my sea-language, as not proper in many parts,
nor now in use.  I cannot help it.  In my first voyages, while I was young, I was instructed
by the oldest mariners, and learned to speak as they did.  But I have since found that the
sea Yahoos are apt, like the land ones, to become new-fangled in their words, which the latter
change every year; insomuch, as I remember upon each return to my own country their old dialect
was so altered, that I could hardly understand the new.  And I observe, when any Yahoo comes
from London out of curiosity to visit me at my house, we neither of us are able to deliver
our conceptions in a manner intelligible to the other.

If the censure of the Yahoos could any way affect me, I should have great reason to complain,
that some of them are so bold as to think my book of travels a mere fiction out of mine own
brain, and have gone so far as to drop hints, that the Houyhnhnms and Yahoos have no more existence
than the inhabitants of Utopia.

Indeed I must confess, that as to the people of Lilliput, Brobdingrag (for so the word should
have been spelt, and not erroneously Brobdingnag), and Laputa, I have never yet heard of any
Yahoo so presumptuous as to dispute their being, or the facts I have related concerning them;
because the truth immediately strikes every reader with conviction.  And is there less probability
in my account of the Houyhnhnms or Yahoos, when it is manifest as to the latter, there are
so many thousands even in this country, who only differ from their brother brutes in Houyhnhnmland,
because they use a sort of jabber, and do not go naked?  I wrote for their amendment, and not
their approbation. The united praise of the whole race would be of less consequence to me,
than the neighing of those two degenerate Houyhnhnms I keep in my stable; because from these,
degenerate as they are, I still improve in some virtues without any mixture of vice.

Do these miserable animals presume to think, that I am so degenerated as to defend my veracity?
Yahoo as I am, it is well known through all Houyhnhnmland, that, by the instructions and example
of my illustrious master, I was able in the compass of two years (although I confess with the
utmost difficulty) to remove that infernal habit of lying, shuffling, deceiving, and equivocating,
so deeply rooted in the very souls of all my species; especially the Europeans.

I have other complaints to make upon this vexatious occasion; but I forbear troubling myself
or you any further.  I must freely confess, that since my last return, some corruptions of
my Yahoo nature have revived in me by conversing with a few of your species, and particularly
those of my own family, by an unavoidable necessity; else I should never have attempted so
absurd a project as that of reforming the Yahoo race in this kingdom: But I have now done with
all such visionary schemes for ever.

April 2, 1727

PART I.  A VOYAGE TO LILLIPUT.

CHAPTER I.

The author gives some account of himself and family.  His first inducements to travel.  He
is shipwrecked, and swims for his life.  Gets safe on shore in the country of Lilliput; is
made a prisoner, and carried up the country.

CHAPTER II.

The emperor of Lilliput, attended by several of the nobility, comes to see the author in his
confinement.  The emperor’s person and habit described.  Learned men appointed to teach the
author their language.  He gains favour by his mild disposition.  His pockets are searched,
and his sword and pistols taken from him.

When I found myself on my feet, I looked about me, and must confess I never beheld a more entertaining
prospect.  The country around appeared like a continued garden, and the enclosed fields, which
were generally forty feet square, resembled so many beds of flowers.  These fields were intermingled
with woods of half a stang, {301} and the tallest trees, as I could judge, appeared to be seven
feet high.  I viewed the town on my left hand, which looked like the painted scene of a city
in a theatre.

I had been for some hours extremely pressed by the necessities of nature; which was no wonder,
it being almost two days since I had last disburdened myself.  I was under great difficulties
between urgency and shame.  The best expedient I could think of, was to creep into my house,
which I accordingly did; and shutting the gate after me, I went as far as the length of my
chain would suffer, and discharged my body of that uneasy load.  But this was the only time
I was ever guilty of so uncleanly an action; for which I cannot but hope the candid reader
will give some allowance, after he has maturely and impartially considered my case, and the
distress I was in.  From this time my constant practice was, as soon as I rose, to perform
that business in open air, at the full extent of my chain; and due care was taken every morning
before company came, that the offensive matter should be carried off in wheel-barrows, by two
servants appointed for that purpose.  I would not have dwelt so long upon a circumstance that,
perhaps, at first sight, may appear not very momentous, if I had not thought it necessary to
justify my character, in point of cleanliness, to the world; which, I am told, some of my maligners
have been pleased, upon this and other occasions, to call in question.

When this adventure was at an end, I came back out of my house, having occasion for fresh air.
The emperor was already descended from the tower, and advancing on horseback towards me, which
had like to have cost him dear; for the beast, though very well trained, yet wholly unused
to such a sight, which appeared as if a mountain moved before him, reared up on its hinder
feet: but that prince, who is an excellent horseman, kept his seat, till his attendants ran
in, and held the bridle, while his majesty had time to dismount.  When he alighted, he surveyed
me round with great admiration; but kept beyond the length of my chain.  He ordered his cooks
and butlers, who were already prepared, to give me victuals and drink, which they pushed forward
in a sort of vehicles upon wheels, till I could reach them.  I took these vehicles and soon
emptied them all; twenty of them were filled with meat, and ten with liquor; each of the former
afforded me two or three good mouthfuls; and I emptied the liquor of ten vessels, which was
contained in earthen vials, into one vehicle, drinking it off at a draught; and so I did with
the rest.  The empress, and young princes of the blood of both sexes, attended by many ladies,
sat at some distance in their chairs; but upon the accident that happened to the emperor’s
horse, they alighted, and came near his person, which I am now going to describe.  The ladies
and courtiers were all most magnificently clad; so that the spot they stood upon seemed to
resemble a petticoat spread upon the ground, embroidered with figures of gold and silver. 
His imperial majesty spoke often to me, and I returned answers: but neither of us could understand
a syllable.  There were several of his priests and lawyers present (as I conjectured by their
habits), who were commanded to address themselves to me; and I spoke to them in as many languages
as I had the least smattering of, which were High and Low Dutch, Latin, French, Spanish, Italian,
and Lingua Franca, but all to no purpose.  After about two hours the court retired, and I was
left with a strong guard, to prevent the impertinence, and probably the malice of the rabble,
who were very impatient to crowd about me as near as they durst; and some of them had the impudence
to shoot their arrows at me, as I sat on the ground by the door of my house, whereof one very
narrowly missed my left eye.  But the colonel ordered six of the ringleaders to be seized,
and thought no punishment so proper as to deliver them bound into my hands; which some of his
soldiers accordingly did, pushing them forward with the butt-ends of their pikes into my reach.
I took them all in my right hand, put five of them into my coat-pocket; and as to the sixth,
I made a countenance as if I would eat him alive.

Towards night I got with some difficulty into my house, where I lay on the ground, and continued
to do so about a fortnight; during which time, the emperor gave orders to have a bed prepared
for me.  Six hundred beds of the common measure were brought in carriages, and worked up in
my house; a hundred and fifty of their beds, sewn together, made up the breadth and length;
and these were four double: which, however, kept me but very indifferently from the hardness
of the floor, that was of smooth stone.  By the same computation, they provided me with sheets,
blankets, and coverlets, tolerable enough for one who had been so long inured to hardships.

As the news of my arrival spread through the kingdom, it brought prodigious numbers of rich,
idle, and curious people to see me; so that the villages were almost emptied; and great neglect
of tillage and household affairs must have ensued, if his imperial majesty had not provided,
by several proclamations and orders of state, against this inconveniency.  He directed that
those who had already beheld me should return home, and not presume to come within fifty yards
of my house, without license from the court; whereby the secretaries of state got considerable
fees.

In the mean time the emperor held frequent councils, to debate what
course should be taken with me; and I was afterwards assured by a
particular friend, a person of great quality, who was as much in the
secret as any, that the court was under many difficulties concerning me.
They apprehended my breaking loose; that my diet would be very expensive,
and might cause a famine.  Sometimes they determined to starve me; or at
least to shoot me in the face and hands with poisoned arrows, which would
soon despatch me; but again they considered, that the stench of so large
a carcass might produce a plague in the metropolis, and probably spread
through the whole kingdom.  In the midst of these consultations, several
officers of the army went to the door of the great council-chamber, and
two of them being admitted, gave an account of my behaviour to the six
criminals above-mentioned; which made so favourable an impression in the
breast of his majesty and the whole board, in my behalf, that an imperial
commission was issued out, obliging all the villages, nine hundred yards
round the city, to deliver in every morning six beeves, forty sheep, and
other victuals for my sustenance; together with a proportionable quantity
of bread, and wine, and other liquors; for the due payment of which, his
majesty gave assignments upon his treasury:—for this prince lives chiefly
upon his own demesnes; seldom, except upon great occasions, raising any
subsidies upon his subjects, who are bound to attend him in his wars at
their own expense.  An establishment was also made of six hundred persons
to be my domestics, who had board-wages allowed for their maintenance,
and tents built for them very conveniently on each side of my door.  It
was likewise ordered, that three hundred tailors should make me a suit of
clothes, after the fashion of the country; that six of his majesty’s
greatest scholars should be employed to instruct me in their language;
and lastly, that the emperor’s horses, and those of the nobility and
troops of guards, should be frequently exercised in my sight, to accustom
themselves to me.  All these orders were duly put in execution; and in
about three weeks I made a great progress in learning their language;
during which time the emperor frequently honoured me with his visits, and
was pleased to assist my masters in teaching me.  We began already to
converse together in some sort; and the first words I learnt, were to
express my desire “that he would please give me my liberty;” which I
every day repeated on my knees.  His answer, as I could comprehend it,
was, “that this must be a work of time, not to be thought on without the
advice of his council, and that first I must lumos kelmin pesso desmar
lon emposo;” that is, swear a peace with him and his kingdom.  However,
that I should be used with all kindness.  And he advised me to “acquire,
by my patience and discreet behaviour, the good opinion of himself and
his subjects.”  He desired “I would not take it ill, if he gave orders to
certain proper officers to search me; for probably I might carry about me
several weapons, which must needs be dangerous things, if they answered
the bulk of so prodigious a person.”  I said, “His majesty should be
satisfied; for I was ready to strip myself, and turn up my pockets before
him.”  This I delivered part in words, and part in signs.  He replied,
“that, by the laws of the kingdom, I must be searched by two of his
officers; that he knew this could not be done without my consent and
assistance; and he had so good an opinion of my generosity and justice,
as to trust their persons in my hands; that whatever they took from me,
should be returned when I left the country, or paid for at the rate which
I would set upon them.”  I took up the two officers in my hands, put them
first into my coat-pockets, and then into every other pocket about me,
except my two fobs, and another secret pocket, which I had no mind should
be searched, wherein I had some little necessaries that were of no
consequence to any but myself.  In one of my fobs there was a silver
watch, and in the other a small quantity of gold in a purse.  These
gentlemen, having pen, ink, and paper, about them, made an exact
inventory of every thing they saw; and when they had done, desired I
would set them down, that they might deliver it to the emperor.  In the large pocket, on the right side of his middle
    cover” (so I translate the word ranfulo, by which they meant my
    breeches,) “we saw a hollow pillar of iron, about the length of a
    man, fastened to a strong piece of timber larger than the pillar; and
    upon one side of the pillar, were huge pieces of iron sticking out,
    cut into strange figures, which we know not what to make of.  In the
    left pocket, another engine of the same kind.  In the left pocket were two black pillars irregularly
    shaped: we could not, without difficulty, reach the top of them, as
    we stood at the bottom of his pocket.  One of them was covered, and
    seemed all of a piece: but at the upper end of the other there
    appeared a white round substance, about twice the bigness of our
    heads.  Within each of these was enclosed a prodigious plate of
    steel; which, by our orders, we obliged him to show us, because we
    apprehended they might be dangerous engines.  He took them out of
    their cases, and told us, that in his own country his practice was to
    shave his beard with one of these, and cut his meat with the other.
    There were two pockets which we could not enter: these he called his
    fobs; they were two large slits cut into the top of his middle cover,
    but squeezed close by the pressure of his belly.  Out of the right
    fob hung a great silver chain, with a wonderful kind of engine at the
    bottom.  He called it his oracle, and said, it pointed
    out the time for every action of his life.  From the left fob he took
    out a net almost large enough for a fisherman, but contrived to open
    and shut like a purse, and served him for the same use: we found
    therein several massy pieces of yellow metal, which, if they be real
    gold, must be of immense value.

    “Having thus, in obedience to your majesty’s commands, diligently
    searched all his pockets, we observed a girdle about his waist made
    of the hide of some prodigious animal, from which, on the left side,
    hung a sword of the length of five men; and on the right, a bag or
    pouch divided into two cells, each cell capable of holding three of
    your majesty’s subjects.  In one of these cells were several globes,
    or balls, of a most ponderous metal, about the bigness of our heads,
    and requiring a strong hand to lift them: the other cell contained a
    heap of certain black grains, but of no great bulk or weight, for we
    could hold above fifty of them in the palms of our hands.

    “This is an exact inventory of what we found about the body of the
    man-mountain, who used us with great civility, and due respect to
    your majesty’s commission.  Signed and sealed on the fourth day of
    the eighty-ninth moon of your majesty’s auspicious reign.

                                          CLEFRIN FRELOCK, MARSI FRELOCK.”

When this inventory was read over to the emperor, he directed me, although in very gentle terms,
to deliver up the several particulars.  He first called for my scimitar, which I took out,
scabbard and all.  In the mean time he ordered three thousand of his choicest troops (who then
attended him) to surround me at a distance, with their bows and arrows just ready to discharge;
but I did not observe it, for mine eyes were wholly fixed upon his majesty.  He then desired
me to draw my scimitar, which, although it had got some rust by the sea water, was, in most
parts, exceeding bright.  I did so, and immediately all the troops gave a shout between terror
and surprise; for the sun shone clear, and the reflection dazzled their eyes, as I waved the
scimitar to and fro in my hand.  His majesty, who is a most magnanimous prince, was less daunted
than I could expect: he ordered me to return it into the scabbard, and cast it on the ground
as gently as I could, about six feet from the end of my chain.  The next thing he demanded
was one of the hollow iron pillars; by which he meant my pocket pistols.  I drew it out, and
at his desire, as well as I could, expressed to him the use of it; and charging it only with
powder, which, by the closeness of my pouch, happened to escape wetting in the sea (an inconvenience
against which all prudent mariners take special care to provide,) I first cautioned the emperor
not to be afraid, and then I let it off in the air.  The astonishment here was much greater
than at the sight of my scimitar.  Hundreds fell down as if they had been struck dead; and
even the emperor, although he stood his ground, could not recover himself for some time.  I
delivered up both my pistols in the same manner as I had done my scimitar, and then my pouch
of powder and bullets; begging him that the former might be kept from fire, for it would kindle
with the smallest spark, and blow up his imperial palace into the air.  I likewise delivered
up my watch, which the emperor was very curious to see, and commanded two of his tallest yeomen
of the guards to bear it on a pole upon their shoulders, as draymen in England do a barrel
of ale.  He was amazed at the continual noise it made, and the motion of the minute-hand, which
he could easily discern; for their sight is much more acute than ours: he asked the opinions
of his learned men about it, which were various and remote, as the reader may well imagine
without my repeating; although indeed I could not very perfectly understand them.  I then gave
up my silver and copper money, my purse, with nine large pieces of gold, and some smaller ones;
my knife and razor, my comb and silver snuff-box, my handkerchief and journal-book.  My scimitar,
pistols, and pouch, were conveyed in carriages to his majesty’s stores; but the rest of my
goods were returned me.

I had as I before observed, one private pocket, which escaped their search, wherein there was
a pair of spectacles (which I sometimes use for the weakness of mine eyes,) a pocket perspective,
and some other little conveniences; which, being of no consequence to the emperor, I did not
think myself bound in honour to discover, and I apprehended they might be lost or spoiled if
I ventured them out of my possession.

CHAPTER III.

The author diverts the emperor, and his nobility of both sexes, in a very uncommon manner.
The diversions of the court of Lilliput described.  The author has his liberty granted him
upon certain conditions.

My gentleness and good behaviour had gained so far on the emperor and his court, and indeed
upon the army and people in general, that I began to conceive hopes of getting my liberty in
a short time.  I took all possible methods to cultivate this favourable disposition.  The natives
came, by degrees, to be less apprehensive of any danger from me.  I would sometimes lie down,
and let five or six of them dance on my hand; and at last the boys and girls would venture
to come and play at hide-and-seek in my hair.  I had now made a good progress in understanding
and speaking the language.  The emperor had a mind one day to entertain me with several of
the country shows, wherein they exceed all nations I have known, both for dexterity and magnificence.
I was diverted with none so much as that of the rope-dancers, performed upon a slender white
thread, extended about two feet, and twelve inches from the ground.  Upon which I shall desire
liberty, with the reader’s patience, to enlarge a little.

This diversion is only practised by those persons who are candidates for great employments,
and high favour at court.  They are trained in this art from their youth, and are not always
of noble birth, or liberal education.  When a great office is vacant, either by death or disgrace
(which often happens,) five or six of those candidates petition the emperor to entertain his
majesty and the court with a dance on the rope; and whoever jumps the highest, without falling,
succeeds in the office. Very often the chief ministers themselves are commanded to show their
skill, and to convince the emperor that they have not lost their faculty. Flimnap, the treasurer,
is allowed to cut a caper on the straight rope, at least an inch higher than any other lord
in the whole empire.  I have seen him do the summerset several times together, upon a trencher
fixed on a rope which is no thicker than a common packthread in England.  My friend Reldresal,
principal secretary for private affairs, is, in my opinion, if I am not partial, the second
after the treasurer; the rest of the great officers are much upon a par.

