We must notice a few of the details. The three guards are foremost in the picture, and in merit;
the struggle in their countenances between discipline and a sense of the ludicrous scene before
them is admirably represented; as well as the little urchin with his tin sword. The centre
figure of the High Sheriff, with his tattered and faded finery of office, is equally clever;
but the skill with which the artist has contrived to express his forced mirth, and mopstick
bravado, is still more forcible. The troubled countenance of the Lord Mayor is an excellent
portrait of the indignation of little authority when perturbed by men of greater place. The
faces of the turnkey and the sergeant are likewise admirable; and that of the soldier looking
towards the latter for orders, is like an excellent piece of byplay in the farce. The drunken
patriot, behind the High Sheriff, is well entitled to the attention which the artist, in his
explanation, suggests; but the spectator must not dwell too long on this sorrowful wreck of
fallen nature. The group in the foreground of the right hand corner, is an episode which must
not be omitted, for it corresponds with the fine portrait in the same situation in the "Election"
picture. The reckless dissipation of the fine, young fox-hunter, the half intoxicated chuckle
with which he holds the bottle, the grief of his daughter and wife, and the little shoeless
boy with his hoop, are finely contrasted with the rich humour and extravagant burlesque of
all around them. The slyness of the Head Constable, in the left hand corner, half smothered
in his mock robes, is expressively told; and the painter is a capital likeness.

From the success of Mr. Haydon in the particular line of art requisite for scenes of real humour,
it is not unlikely that his execution of the first picture, the "Election" may prove one of
the most fortunate events in his professional career, and turn out to be one of the "sweet
uses of adversity," by eliciting talent which he probably did not believe himself to possess.
Much as we admire this style of art, we can but deplore that purchasers cannot be found for
such pictures as his Entry into Jerusalem, and Judgment of Solomon, both which, with two others,
are exhibited in the room with the Chairing of the Members. Out of the scores of new churches
which are yearly completed, surely some altar-pieces might be introduced with propriety; and
when we consider the peculiar influence which such scenes as those chosen by Mr. Haydon are
known to possess over the human heart, we do not think their entire exclusion from modern churches
contributes to their devotional character.

Such pictures are intended for better purposes than mere seclusion in large galleries and mansions,
of which there are but comparatively few in England; and it is always with regret that we see
these noble efforts of art in such profitless situations. Occasionally a nobleman, or parochial
taste, introduces a valuable painted window, and sometimes an altarpiece into a church; but
we wish the practice were more general.

       *       *       *       *       *

RETROSPECTIVE GLEANINGS

       *       *       *       *       *

ENGLAND IN THE DAYS OF GOOD "QUEEN BESS."

The misery and mendicity which prevailed in this country before the provisions of the poor
laws in the time of Elizabeth became duly enforced, might be proved by the following extract
from a curious old pamphlet, which describes, in very forcible language, the poverty and idleness
which prevailed in one of the fairest and most fertile districts of the kingdom, viz.--

The Golden Vale in Herefordshire, (being ye pride of al that country,) being the richest yet
(for want of employment) the plentifullest place of poore in the kingdom--yielding two or three
hundred folde; the number so increasing (idleness having gotten the upper hand;) if trades
bee not raised--beggery will carry such reputation in my quarter of the country, as if it had
the whole to halves.

There bee, says this author, within a mile and a halfe from my house every waye, five hundred
poore habitations; whose greatest meanes consist in spinning flaxe, hemp, and hurdes. They
dispose the seasons of the yeare in this manner; I will begin with May, June, and July, (three
of the merriest months for beggers,) which yield the best increase for their purpose, to raise
multitudes: whey, curdes, butter-milk, and such belly provision, abounding in the neighbourhood,
serves their turne. As wountes or moles hunt after wormes, the ground being dewable, so these
idelers live intolerablie by other meanes, and neglect their painfull labours by oppressing
the neighbourhood. August, September, and October, with that permission which the Lord hath
allowed the poorer sorte to gather the eares of corne, they do much harme. I have seen three
hundred leazers or gleaners in one gentleman's corn-field at once; his servants gathering and
stouking the bound sheaves, the sheaves lying on the ground like dead carcases in an overthrown
battell, they following the spoyle, not like souldiers (which scorne to rifle) but like theeves
desirous to steale; so this army holdes pillaging, wheate, rye, barly, pease, and oates; oates,
a graine which never grew in Canaan, nor AEgypt, and altogether out of the allowance of leazing.

Under colour of the last graine, oates, it being the latest harvest, they doe (without mercy
in hotte bloud) steale, robbe orchards, gardens, hop-yards, and crab trees; so what with leazing
and stealing, they doe poorly maintaine themselves November, December, and almost all January,
with some healpes from the neighbourhood.

The last three moneths, February, March, and Aprill, little labour serves their turne, they
hope by the heat of the sunne, (seasoning themselves, like snakes, under headges,) to recover
the month of May with much poverty, long fasting, and little praying; and so make an end of
their yeares travel in the Easter holy days.

       *       *       *       *       *

BEGGARS.

In the earlier periods of their history, both in England and Scotland, beggars were generally
of such a description as to entitle them to the epithet of sturdy; accordingly they appear
to have been regarded often as impostors and always as nuisances and pests. "Sornares," so
violently denounced in those acts, were what are here called "masterful beggars," who, when
they could not obtain what they asked for by fair means, seldom hesitated to take it by violence.
The term is said to be Gaelic, and to import a soldier. The life of such a beggar is well described
in the "Belman of London," printed in 1608--"The life of a beggar is the life of a souldier.
He suffers hunger and cold in winter, and heate and thirste in summer; he goes lowsie, he goes
lame; he is not regarded; he is not rewarded; here only shines his glorie. The whole kingdome
is but his walk; a whole cittie is but his parish. In every man's kitchen is his meate dressed;
in every man's sellar lyes his beere; and the best men's purses keepe a penny for him to spend."

       *       *       *       *       *

CURIOUS MANORIAL CUSTOM.

At King's Hill, about half a mile north-east of Rocford Church, Essex, is held what is called
the Lawless Court, a whimsical custom, the origin of which is not known. On the Wednesday morning
next after Michaelmas day, the tenants are bound to attend upon the first cock-crowing, and
to kneel and do their homage, without any kind of light, but such as heaven will afford. The
steward of the court calls all such as are bound to appear, with as low a voice as possible,
giving no notice when he goes to execute his office; however, he that does not give an answer
is deeply amerced. They are all to whisper to each other, nor have they any pen and ink, but
supply that deficiency with a coal; and he that owes suit and service, and appears not, forfeits
to the lord of the manor double his rent every hour he is absent.

A tenant, some years ago, forfeited his land for non attendance, but was restored to it, the
lord taking only a fine.

HALBERT H.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PET DOG. Mag.

       *       *       *       *       *

FROM THE ROMAIC.

  When we were last, my gentle Maid,
    In love's embraces twining,
  'Twas Night, who saw, and then betray'd!
    "Who saw?" Yon Moon was shining.
  A gossip Star shot down, and he
  First told our secret to the Sea.

  The Sea, who never secret kept,
    The peevish, blustering railer!
  Told it the Oar, as on he swept;
    The Oar informed the Sailor.
  The Sailor whisper'd it to his fair,
  And she--she told it every where!

New Monthly Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES OF A READER.

       *       *       *       *       *

EELS.

The problem of the generation of eels is one of the most abstruse and curious in natural history;
but we have been much pleased, and not a little enlightened, by some observations on the subject
in Sir Humphrey Davy's delightful little volume, Salmonia, of which the following is the substance:--

Although the generation of eels occupied the attention of Aristotle, and has been taken up
by the most distinguished naturalists since his time, it is still unsolved. Lacepède, the French
naturalist, asserts, in the most unqualified way, that they are viviparous; but we do not remember
any facts brought forward on the subject. Sir Humphrey then goes on to say--This is certain,
that there are two migrations of eels--one up and one down rivers, one from and the other to
the sea; the first in spring and summer, the second in autumn or early winter. The first of
very small eels, which are sometimes not more than two or two and a half inches long; the second
of large eels, which sometimes are three or four feet long, and which weigh from 10 to 15,
or even 20 lbs. There is great reason to believe that all eels found in fresh water are the
results of the first migration; they appear in millions in April and May, and sometimes continue
to rise as late even as July and the beginning of August. I remember this was the case in Ireland
in 1823. It had been a cold, backward summer; and when I was at Ballyshannon, about the end
of July, the mouth of the river, which had been in flood all this month, under the fall, was
blackened by millions of little eels, about as long as the finger, which were constantly urging
their way up the moist rocks by the side of the fall. Thousands died, but their bodies remaining
moist, served as the ladder for others to make their way; and I saw some ascending even perpendicular
stones, making their road through wet moss, or adhering to some eels that had died in the attempt.
Such is the energy of these little animals, that they continue to find their way, in immense
numbers, to Loch Erne. The same thing happens at the fall of the Bann, and Loch Neagh is thus
peopled by them; even the mighty Fall of Shaffausen does not prevent them from making their
way to the Lake of Constance, where I have seen many very large eels. There are eels in the
Lake of Neufchatel, which communicates by a stream with the Rhine; but there are none in the
Lake of Geneva, because the Rhone makes a subterraneous fall below Geneva; and though small
eels can pass by moss or mount rocks, they cannot penetrate limestone rocks, or move against
a rapid descending current of water, passing, as it were, through a pipe. Again: no eels mount
the Danube from the Black Sea; and there are none found in the great extent of lakes, swamps,
and rivers communicating with the Danube--though some of these lakes and morasses are wonderfully
fitted for them, and though they are found abundantly in the same countries, in lakes and rivers
connected with the ocean and the Mediterranean. Yet, when brought into confined water in the
Danube, they fatten and thrive there. As to the instinct which leads young eels to seek fresh
water, it is difficult to reason; probably they prefer warmth, and, swimming at the surface
in the early summer, find the lighter water warmer, and likewise containing more insects, and
so pursue the courses of fresh water, as the waters from the land, at this season, become warmer
than those from the sea. Mr. J. Couch, in the Linnaean Transactions, says the little eels,
according to his observation, are produced within reach of the tide, and climb round falls
to reach fresh water from the sea. I have sometimes seen them in spring, swimming in immense
shoals in the Atlantic, in Mount Bay, making their way to the mouths of small brooks and rivers.
When the cold water from the autumnal flood begins to swell the rivers, this fish tries to
return to the sea; but numbers of the smaller ones hide themselves during the winter in the
mud, and many of them form, as it were, masses together. Various authors have recorded the
migration of eels in a singular way; such as Dr. Plot, who, in his History of Staffordshire,
says they pass in the night across meadows from one pond to another; and Mr. Arderon, in the
Philosophical Transactions, gives a distinct account of small eels rising up the flood-gates
and posts of the water-works of the city of Norwich; and they made their way to the water above,
though the boards were smooth planed, and five or six feet perpendicular. He says, when they
first rose out of the water upon the dry board, they rested a little--which seemed to be till
their slime was thrown out, and sufficiently glutinous--and then they rose up the perpendicular
ascent with the same facility as if they had been moving on a plane surface.--There can, I
think, be no doubt that they are assisted by their small scales, which, placed like those of
serpents, must facilitate their progressive motion; these scales have been microscopically
observed by Lewenhoeck. Eels migrate from the salt water of different sizes, but I believe
never when they are above a foot long--and the great mass of them are only from two and a half
to four inches. They feed, grow, and fatten in fresh water. In small rivers they seldom become
very large; but in large, deep lakes they become as thick as a man's arm, or even leg; and
all those of a considerable size attempt to return to the sea in October or November, probably
when they experience the cold of the first autumnal rains. Those that are not of the largest
size, as I said before, pass the winter in the deepest parts of the mud of rivers and lakes,
and do not seem to eat much, and remain, I believe, almost torpid. Their increase is not certainly
known in any given time, but must depend upon the quantity of their food; but it is probable
they do not become of the largest size from the smallest in one or even two seasons; but this,
as well as many other particulars, can only be ascertained by new observations and experiments.
Block states, that they grow slowly, and mentions that some had been kept in the same pond
for fifteen years. As very large eels, after having migrated, never return to the river again,
they must (for it cannot be supposed that they all die immediately in the sea) remain in salt
water; and there is great probability that they are then confounded with the conger, which
is found from a few ounces to one hundred pounds in weight.

       *       *       *       *       *

