Slaves........................... 41,817

Troops and prisoners.............. 1,730

Total........................... 358,836

This year shows an increase in the proportion of the slave population over the free population
since 1815, due to the free introduction of slaves and the slaves brought by the immigrants.

A statistical commission for the island of Puerto Rico was created in 1845. The census taken
under its auspices in the following year may be considered reliable. The total figures are:

Whites........................... 216,083

Free colored......................175,791

Slaves............................ 51,265

Total............................ 443,139

In 1855 cholera morbus raged throughout the island, especially among the colored population,
and carried off 9,529 slaves alone.

The next census shows the progressive increase of inhabitants. It was conducted by royal decree
of September 30,1858, on the nights of December 25 and 26, 1860. The official memorial gives
the following totals:

Whites................................ 300,430 Free colored..........................     
341,015 Slaves................................  41,736 Unclassified..........................
127

Total.............................     583,308

or 1,802.2 inhabitants per square league; one of the densest populations on the globe, and
the densest in the Antilles at the time except Barbados.

The annual increase of population in Puerto Rico, according to the calculations of Colonel
Flinter, was:

  From 1778-1802 ... 24 years ... 5-12 per cent per annum.
    "  1802-1812 ... 10   "   ... 1-15       "        "
       1812-1820 ...  8   "   ... 3-14       "        "
    "  1820-1830 ... 10   "   ... 4           "        "
    "  1830-1846 ... 16   "   ... 3-15       "        "
    "  1846-1860 ... 14   "   ... 3.72        "        "

or an average annual increase of a little less than 4 per cent in a period of eighty-two years.

From 1860 to 1864 the increase was small, but from that year to the end of Spanish domination
the percentage of increase was larger than in any of the preceding periods.

The treaty of Paris brought 894,302 souls under the protection of the American flag. They consisted
of 570,187 whites, 239,808 of mixed race, and 75,824 negroes.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 68: Flinter.]

CHAPTER XXXIII

AGRICULTURE IN PUERTO RICO

After the cessation of the gold produce, when the colonists were forced by necessity to dedicate
themselves to agriculture, they met with many adverse conditions:

The incursions of the Caribs, the hurricanes of 1530 and 1537, the emigration to Peru and Mexico,
the internal dissensions, and last, but not least, the heavy taxes. The colonists had found
the soil of Puerto Rico admirably adapted to sugar-cane, which they brought from Santo Domingo,
where Columbus had introduced it on his second voyage, and the nascent sugar industry was beginning
to prosper and expand when a royal decree imposing a heavy tax on sugar came to strangle it
in its birth. Bishop Bastidas called the Government's attention to the fact in a letter dated
March 20, 1544, in which he says: " ... The new tax to be paid on sugar in this island, as
ordained by your Majesty, will still further reduce the number of mills, which have been diminishing
of late. Let this tax be suspended and the mills in course of construction will be finished,
while the erection of others will be encouraged."

The prelate's efforts seem to have produced a favorable effect. Treasurer Castellanos, in 1546,
loaned 6,000 pesos for the Government's account, to two colonists for the erection of two sugar-cane
mills. In 1548 Gregorio Santolaya built, in the neighborhood of the capital, the first cane-mill
turned by water-power, and two mills moved by horse-power. Another water-power mill was mounted
in 1549 on the estate of Alonzo Perez Martel with the assistance of 1,500 pesos lent by the
king. Loans for the same purpose continued to be made for years after.

But if the Government encouraged the sugar industry with one hand, with the other it checked
its development, together with that of other agricultural industries appropriate to the island,
by means of prohibitive legislation, monopolies, and other oppressive measures. The effects
of this administrative stupidity were still patent a century later. Bishop Fray Lopez de Haro
wrote in 1644: " ... The only crop in this island is ginger, and it is so depreciated that
nobody buys it or wants to take it to Spain.... There are many cattle farms in the country,
and 7 sugar mills, where the families live with their slaves the whole year round."

Canon Torres Vargas, in his Memoirs, amplifies the bishop's statement, stating that the principal
articles of commerce of the island were ginger, hides, and sugar, and he gives the location
of the above-mentioned 7 sugar-cane mills. The total annual produce of ginger had been as much
as 14,000 centals, but, with the war and excessive supply, the price had gone down, and in
the year he wrote (1646) only 4,000 centals had been harvested. He informs us, too, that cacáo
had been planted in sufficient quantity to send ship-loads to Spain within four years. The
number of hides annually exported to Spain was 8,000 to 10,000. Tobacco had begun to be cultivated
within the last ten years, and its exportation had commenced. He pronounces it better than
the tobacco of Havana, Santo Domingo, and Margarita, but not as good as that of Barinas.

The cultivation of tobacco in Puerto Rico was permitted by a special law in 1614, but the sale
of it to foreigners was prohibited under penalty of death and confiscation of property.[69]
These and other stringent measures dictated in 1777 and 1784 by their very severity defeated
their own purpose, and the laws, to a great extent, remained a dead letter.

The cultivation of cacáo in Puerto Rico did not prosper for the reason that the plant takes
a long time in coming to maturity, and during that period is exceedingly sensible to the effects
of strong winds, which, in this island, prevail from July to October. The first plantations
being destroyed by hurricanes, few new plantations were made.

Of the other staple products of Puerto Rico, the most valuable, coffee, was first planted in
Martinique in 1720 by M. Declieux, who brought the seeds from the Botanical Garden in Paris.
The coco-palm was introduced by Diego Lorenzo, a canon in the Cape de Verde Islands, who also
brought the first guinea-fowls; and, possibly, the plantain species known in this island under
the name of "guinéo" came from the same part of the world. According to Oviedo, it was first
planted in Santo Domingo in 1516 by a monk named Berlangas.

Abbad gives the detailed agricultural statistics of the island in 1776, from which it appears
that the cultivation of the new articles introduced was general at the time, and that, under
the influence of climate and abundant pastures, the animal industry had become one of the principal
sources of wealth for the inhabitants.

There were in that year 5,581 farms, and 234 cattle-ranches (hatos).

On the farms or estates there were under cultivation:

     Sugar-cane              3,156 cuerdas[70]
     Plantains               8,315    "
     Coffee-trees        1,196,184
     Cotton-plants         103,591

On the cattle-ranches there were:

     Head of horned cattle          77,384
     Horses                         23,195
     Mules                           1,534
     Asses, swine, goats, and sheep 49,050

This was a comparatively large capital in stock and produce for a population of 80,000 souls,
but the reverend historian severely criticizes the agricultural population of that day, and
says of them: " ... They scarcely know what implements are; ... they bring down a tree, principally
by means of fire; with a saber, which they call a 'machete,' they clear the jungle and clean
the ground; with the point of this machete, or a pointed stick, they dig the holes or furrows
in which they set their plants or sow their seeds. Thus they provide for their subsistence,
and when a hurricane or other mishap destroys their crops, they supply their wants by fishing
or collect edible roots.

"Indolence, rather than want of means, makes them confine their cultivation to the level lands,
which they abandon as soon as they perceive that the fertility of the soil decreases, which
happens very soon, because they do not plow, nor do they turn over the soil, much less manure
it, so that the superficies soon becomes sterile; then they make a clearing on some mountainside.
Neither the knowledge of the soil and climate acquired during many years of residence, nor
the increased facilities for obtaining the necessary agricultural implements, nor the large
number of cattle they possess that could be used for agricultural purposes, nor the Government's
dispositions to improve the system of cultivation, have been sufficient to make these islanders
abandon the indolence with which they regard the most important of all arts, and the first
obligation imposed by God on man--namely, the cultivation of the soil. They leave this to the
slaves, who are few and ill-fed, and know no more of agriculture than their masters do; ...
their great laziness, together with a silly, baseless vanity, makes them look upon all manual
labor as degrading, proper only for slaves, and so they prefer poverty to doing honest work.
To this must be added their ambition to make rapid fortunes, as some of them do, by contraband
trading, which makes good sailors of them but bad agriculturists.

"These are the reasons why they prefer the cultivation of produce that requires little labor.
Most proprietors have a small portion of their land planted with cane, but few have made it
their principal crop, because of the expense of erecting a mill and the greater number of slaves
and implements required; yet this industry alone, if properly fostered, would soon remove all
obstacles to their progress.

"It is useless, therefore, to look for gardens and orchards in a country where the plow is
yet unknown, and which has not even made the first step in agricultural development."

       *       *       *       *       *

Under the royal decree of 1815 commerce, both foreign and inland, rapidly developed.

From the official returns made to the Government in 1828 to 1830, Colonel Flinter drew up the
following statement of the agricultural wealth of the island in the latter year (1830):

     Wooden sugar-cane mills       1,277
     Iron sugar-cane mills           800
     Coffee estates with machinery   148
     Stills for distilling rum       340
     Brick ovens                      80
     Lime kilns                       45

Land under Cultivation

     Cane          14,803 acres.
     Plantains     30,706 "
     Rice          14,850 "
     Maize         16,194 "
     Tobacco        2,599 "
     Manioc         1,150 "
     Sweet potatoes 1,224 "
     Yams           6,696 "
     Pulse          1,100 "
     Horticulture      31 "

    Coffee-plants  16,750 acres      16,992,857
    Cotton-trees    3,079 "           3,079,310
    Coco-palms      2,402 "              60,050
    Orange-trees    3,430 "              85,760
    Aguacate-trees  2,230 "              55,760
    Pepper or chilli or aji trees           500

The live stock of the island in the same year consisted of:

     Cows         42,500 head.
     Bulls         6,720 "
     Oxen         20,910 "
     Horses       25,760 "
     Mares        27,210 "
     Asses           315 "
     Mules         1,112 "
     Sheep         7,560 "
     Goats         5,969 "
     Swine        25,087 "
     Turkeys       8,671 "
     Other fowls 838,454 "

This agricultural wealth of the island, houses, lands, and slaves not included, was valued
at $37,993,600, and its annual produce at $6,883,371, half of which was exported. These statistics
may be considered as only approximately correct, as the returns made by the proprietors to
the Government, in order to escape taxation, were less than the real numbers existing.

The natural wealth of Puerto Rico may be divided into agricultural, pastoral, and sylvan. According
to the Spanish Government measurements the island's area is 2,584,000 English acres. Of these,
there were

     Under cultivation in 1830, as above
       detailed                          117,244 acres.
     In pastures                         634,506   "
     In forests                          728,703   "
                                       ------------
     Total tax-paying lands     1,480,453   "

The pasture lands on the north and east coasts are equal to the best lands of the kind in the
West Indies for the breeding and fattening of cattle. On the south coast excessive droughts
often parch the grass, in which case the cattle are fed on cane-tops at harvest time. There
are excellent and nutritive native grasses of different species to be found in every valley.
The cattle bred in the island are generally tame.

From 1865 to 1872 was the era of greatest prosperity ever experienced in Puerto Rico under
Spanish rule. The land was not yet exhausted, harvests were abundant, labor cheap, the quality
of the sugar produced was excellent, prices were high, contributions and taxes were moderate.
There were no export duties, and although, during this period, the growing manufacture of beet-root
sugar was lowering the price of "mascabado" all over the world, no effect was felt in Puerto
Rico, because it was the nearest market to the United States, where the civil war had put an
end to the annual product by the Southern States of half a million bocoyes,[71] or about 675,000,000
gallons; and the abolition of all import duties on sugar in England also favored the maintenance
of high prices for a number of years.

However, the production of beet-root sugar and the increase of cane cultivation in the East[72]
caused the fall in prices which, in combination with the numberless oppressive restrictions
imposed by the Spanish Government, brought Puerto Rico to the verge of ruin.

"The misfortunes that afflict us," says Mr. James McCormick to the Provincial Deputation in
his official report on the condition of the sugar industry in this island in 1880, "come under
different forms from different directions, and every inhabitant knows what causes have contributed
to reduce this island, once prosperous and happy, to its actual condition of prostration and
anguish."

That condition he paints in the following words: "Mechanical arts and industries languish because
there is no demand or profitable market for its products; commerce is paralyzed by the obstacles
placed in its way; the country never has had sufficient capital and what there is hides itself
or is withdrawn from circulation; foreign capital has been frightened away; Puerto Rican landowners
are looked upon with special disfavor and credit is denied them, unfortunately with good reason,
seeing the lamentable condition of our agriculture. The production of sugar scarcely amounts
to half of what it was in former years. From the year 1873 a great proportion of the existing
sugar estates have fallen to ruin; in 8 districts their number has been reduced from 104 to
38, and of these the majority are in an agonizing condition. In other parts of the island many
estates, in which large capitals in machinery, drainage, etc., have been invested, have been
abandoned and the land is returning to its primitive condition of jungle and swamp. Ten years
ago the island exported 100,000 tons of sugar annually, the product of 553 mills; during the
last three years (1878-1880) the average export has been 60,000 tons, the product of 325 mills
that have been able to continue working. Everywhere in this province the evidences of the ruin
which has overtaken the planters meet the eye, and nothing is heard but the lamentations of
proprietors reduced to misery and desperation."

This state of things continued notwithstanding the representations made before the "high spheres
of Government" by the leading men in commerce and agriculture, by the press of all political
colors, and by Congress. The Minister of Ultramar in Madrid recognized the gravity of the situation,
and it is said that the lamentations of the people of Puerto Rico found an echo even at the
foot of the throne.

And there they died. Nothing was done to remedy the growing evil, and the writer of the pamphlet,
not daring openly to accuse the Government as the only cause of the island's desperate situation,
counsels patience, and timidly expresses the hope that the exorbitant taxes and contributions
will be lowered; that economy in the Government expenditures will be practised; that monopolies
will be abolished, and odious, oppressive practises of all kinds be discontinued.

Such was the condition of Puerto Rico in 1880. The Government's oppressive practises, and they
only, were the causes of the ruin of this and all the other rich and beautiful colonies that
destiny laid at the feet of Ferdinand and Isabel four centuries ago.

The following statement of the proportion of sugar to each acre of land under cane cultivation
in the Antilles, compared with Puerto Rico, may be of interest.

The computation of the average sugar produce per acre, according to the best and most correct
information from intelligent planters, who had no motives for deception, was, in 1830:[73]

     For Jamaica    10 centals per acre.
     Dominica       10  "           "
     Granada        15  "           "
     St. Vincent    25  "           "
     Tobago         20  "           "
     Antigua         7-12  "       "
     Saint Kitts    20  "           "
     Puerto Rico    30  "           "

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 69: Leyes de Indias, Ley IV, Libro IV, Titulo XVIII.]

[Footnote 70: The actual cuerda is a square of 75 varas each side, about one-tenth less than
an acre. Abbad understood by a cuerda a rectangle of 75 varas front by 1,500 varas depth, that
is, 20 cuerdas superficies of those actually in use.--Acosta.]

[Footnote 71: The bocoy in Puerto Rico, equal from 12 to 20 centals of sugar, according the
quality.]

[Footnote 72: British India produced about that time over 1,500,000 tons of cane-sugar per annum.]

[Footnote 73: Colonel Flinter, An Account of the Island of Puerto Rico. London, 1834]

CHAPTER XXXIV

COMMERCE AND FINANCES

Until the year 1813 the captains-general of Puerto Rico had the superintendence of the revenues.
The capital was the only authorized port open to commerce. No regular books were kept by the
authorities. A day-book of duties paid and expended was all that was considered necessary.
Merchandise was smuggled in at every part of the coast,[74] the treasury chest was empty, and
the Government officers and troops were reduced to a very small portion of their pay.

The total revenues of the island, including the old-established taxes and contributions, produced
70,000 pesos, and half of that sum was never recovered on account of the abuses and dishonesty
that had been introduced in the system of collection.

An intendancy was deemed necessary, and the Home Government appointed Alexander Ramirez to
the post in February, 1813. He promptly introduced important reforms in the administration,
and caused regular accounts to be kept. He made ample and liberal concessions to commerce,
opened five additional ports with custom-houses, freed agriculture from the trammels that had
impeded its development, and placed labor, instruments, seeds, and modern machinery within
its reach. He printed and distributed short essays or manuals on the cultivation of different
products and the systems adopted by other nations, promoted the immigration of Canary Islanders,
founded the Royal Economic Society of Friends of the Country, and edited the Diario Económico
de Puerto Rico, the first number of which appeared February 28, 1814.

The first year after the establishment of these improvements, notwithstanding the abolition
of some of the most onerous taxes, the revenues of the capital rose to $161,000, and the new
custom-houses produced $242,842.

Having placed this island's financial administration on a sound basis, Ramirez was called upon
by the Government to perform the same valuable services for Cuba. Unfortunately, his successors
here soon destroyed the good effects of his measures by continual variations in the system,
and in the commercial tariffs. They attempted to prevent smuggling by increasing the duties,
the very means of encouraging contraband trade, and the old mismanagement and malversations
in the custom-houses revived. One intendant, often from a mere spirit of innovation, applied
to the court for a decree canceling the regulations of his predecessor, so that, from the concurring
effects of contraband and mismanagement, commerce suffered, and the country became once more
impoverished.

The revenues fell so low and the malversation of public money reached such a height that the
captain-general found it necessary in 1825 to charge the military commanders of the respective
districts with the prevention of smuggling. He placed supervisors of known intelligence and
probity in each custom-house to watch and prevent fraud and peculation. These measures almost
doubled the amount of revenue in the following year (1826).

As late as 1810 the imports in Puerto Rico exceeded three times the sum of the produce exported.
The difference was made up by the "situados," or remittances in cash from Mexico, which began
early in the seventeenth century, when the repeated attacks on the island by French and English
privateers forced the Spanish Government to choose between losing the island or fortifying
it. The king chose the latter, and made an assignment on the royal treasury of Mexico of nearly
half a million pesos per annum. With these subsidies all the fortifications were constructed
and the garrison and civil and military employees were paid, till the insurrection in Mexico
put a stop to the fall of this pecuniary manna.

It was fortunate for Puerto Rico that it ceased. The people of the island had become so accustomed
to look to this supply of money for the purchase of their necessities that they entirely neglected
the development of the rich resources in their fertile soil. When a remittance arrived in due
time, all was joy and animation; when it was delayed, as was often the case, all was gloom
and silence, and recourse was had to "papeletas," a temporary paper currency or promises to pay.

With the cessation of the "situados" the scanty resources of the treasury soon gave out. The
funds of the churches were first requisitioned; then the judicial deposits, the property of
people who had died in the Peninsula, and other unclaimed funds were attached; next, donations
and private loans were solicited, and when all these expedients were exhausted, the final resort
of bankrupt communities, paper money, was adopted (1812).

Then Puerto Rico's poverty became extreme. In 1814 there was at least half a million paper
money in circulation with a depreciation of 400 per cent. To avoid absolute ruin, the intendant
had recourse to the introduction of what were called "macuquinos," or pieces of rudely cut,
uncoined silver of inferior alloy, representing approximately the value of the coin that each
piece of metal stood for. With these he redeemed in 1816 all the paper money that had been
put in circulation; but the emergency money gave rise to agioist speculation and remained the
currency long after it had served its purpose. It was not replaced by Spanish national coin
till 1857.

The royal decree of 1815, and the improvements in the financial situation, as a result of the
new administrative system established by Ramirez, gave a strong impulse to foreign commerce.
Though commerce with the mother country remained in a languishing condition, because the so-called
"decree of graces" had fixed the import duty on Spanish merchandise at 6 per cent ad valorem,
while the valuations which the custom-house officials made exceeded the market prices to such
an extent that many articles really paid 8 per cent and some 10, 12, and even 15 per cent.

An estimate of the commerce of this island about the year 1830 divides the total imports and
exports which, in that year, amounted to $5,620,786 among the following nations:

                                    Per cent.      Per cent.

     West Indian Islands imports      53-12 Exports  26
     United States imports            27-14    "     49
     Spanish imports                  12-18    "      7
     English imports                   2-34    "      6-12
     French imports                    2-58    "      6-58
     Other nations' imports            1-34    "      8-34

The American trade at that time formed nearly one-third of the whole of the value of the imports
and nearly half of all the exports.

An American consul resided at the capital and all the principal ports had deputy consuls. The
articles of importation from the United States were principally timber, staves for sugar-casks,
flour and other provisions, and furniture.[75]

       *       *       *       *       *

The financial history of Puerto Rico commences about the middle of the eighteenth century.
In 1758 the revenues amounted to 6,858 pesos. In 1765, to 10,814, and in 1778 to 47,500. Their
increase up to 1,605,523 in 1864 was due to the natural development of the island's resources,
which accompanied the increase of population; yet financial distress was chronic all the time,
and not a year passed without the application of the supposed panacea of royal decrees and
ordinances, without the expected improvement.

From 1850 to 1864, for the first time in the island's history, there happened to be a surplus
revenue. The authorities wasted it in an attempt to reannex Santo Domingo and in contributions
toward the expenses of the war in Morocco. The balance was used by the Spanish Minister of
Ultramar, the Government being of opinion that surpluses in colonial treasuries were a source
of danger. To avoid a plethora of money contributions were asked for in the name of patriotism,
which nobody dared refuse, and which were, therefore, always liberally responded to. Of this
class was a contribution of half a million pesos toward the expenses of the war with the Carlists
to secure the succession of Isabel II, and Sunday collections for the benefit of the Spanish
soldiers in Cuba, for the sufferers by the inundations in Murcia, the earthquakes in Andalusia,
etc. From 1870 to 1876 a series of laws and ordinances relating to finances were promulgated.
February 22d, a royal decree admitted Mexican silver coin as currency. December 3, 1880, another
royal decree reformed the financial administration of the island. This was followed in 1881
by instructions for the collection of personal contributions. In 1882 the Intendant Alcázar
published the regulations for the imposition, collection, and administration of the land tax;
from 1882 to 1892 another series of laws, ordinances, and decrees appeared for the collection
and administration of different taxes and contributions, and October 28, 1895, another royal
decree withdrew the Mexican coin from circulation. In the same year (March 15th) the reform
laws were promulgated, which were followed in the next year by the municipal law.[76]

In the meantime commerce languished. The excessively high export duties on island produce imposed
by Governor Sanz in 1868 to 1870 brought 600,000 pesos per annum into the treasury, but ruined
agriculture, and this lasted till the end of Spanish rule.

The directory of the Official Chamber of Commerce, Industry, and Navigation of San Juan, at
the general meeting of members in 1895, reported that it had occupied itself during that year,
through the medium of the island's representative in Cortes, with the promised tariff reform,
but without result. Nor had its endeavors to obtain the exchange of the Mexican coin still
in circulation for Peninsular money been successful on account of the opposition of those interested
in the maintenance of the system. The abolition of the so-called "conciertos" of matches and
petroleum had also occupied them, and in this case successfully; but the directors complained
of the apathy and the indifference of the public in general for the objects which the Chamber
of Commerce was organized to advocate and promote, and they state that within the last year
the number of associates had diminished.

The Directors' report of January, 1897, was even more gloomy. They complain of the want of
interest in their proceedings on the part of many of the leading commercial houses, of the
lamentable condition of commerce, of the inattention of their "mother," Spain, to the plausible
pretentions of this her daughter, animated though she was by the most fervent patriotism.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 74: Rafael Conty, subdelegate of the treasury of Aguadilla, sailed round the island
in a sloop in 1790 and confiscated eleven vessels engaged in smuggling.]

[Footnote 75: For commercial statistics of Puerto Rico from 1813 to 1864, see Señor Acosta's
interesting notes to Chapter XXVIII of Abbad's history.]

[Footnote 76: Vide Reseña del Estado Social, Económico é Industrial de la Isla de Puerto Rico
por el Dr. Cayetano Coll y Toste, 1899.]

CHAPTER XXXV

EDUCATION IN PUERTO RICO

In Chapter XXIII of this history we gave an extract from his Excellency Alexander O'Reilly's
report to King Charles IV, wherein, referring to the intellectual status of the inhabitants
of Puerto Rico in 1765, he informs his Majesty that there were only two schools in the whole
island and that, outside of the capital and San German, few knew how to read.

In the mother country, at that period, even primary instruction was very deficient. It remained
so for a long time. As late as 1838 reading, writing, and arithmetic only were taught in the
best public schools of Spain. The other branches of knowledge, such as geography, history,
physics, chemistry, natural history, could be studied in a few ecclesiastical educational establishments.[77]
The illiteracy of the inhabitants of this, the least important of Spain's conquered provinces,
was therefore but natural, seeing that the conquerors who had settled in it belonged to the
most ignorant classes of an illiterate country in an illiterate age. Something was done in
Puerto Rico by the Dominican and Franciscan friars in the way of preparatory training for ecclesiastical
callings. They taught Latin and philosophy to a limited number of youths; the bishop himself
gave regular instruction in Latin.

A few youths, whose parents could afford it, were sent to the universities of Carácas and Santo
Domingo, where some of them distinguished themselves by their aptitude for study. One of these,
afterward known as Father Bonilla, obtained the highest academic honors in Santo Domingo.

From 1820 to 1823, under the auspices of a constitutional government, intellectual life in
Puerto Rico really began. A Mr. Louis Santiago called public attention to the necessity of
attending to primary education. "The greatest evil," he said, "that which demands the speediest
remedy, is the general ignorance of the art of reading and writing. It is painful to see the
signatures of the alcaldes to public documents." He wrote a pamphlet of instructions in the
art of teaching in primary schools, which was printed and distributed through the interior
of the island. The governor, Gonzalo Arostegui, addressed an official note to the Provincial
Deputation charging that body to propose to him "without rest or interruption, and as soon
as possible," the means to establish primary schools in the capital and in the towns of the
interior; to the municipalities he sent a circular, dated September 28, 1821, recommending
them to facilitate the coming to the capital of the teachers in their respective districts
who wished to attend, for a period of two months, a class in the Lancasterian method of primary
teaching, to be held in the Normal School by Ramon Carpegna, the political secretary. A certain
amount of instruction, talent, and disposition for magisterial work was required of the pupils,
and those who already had positions as teachers could assist at the two months' course without
detriment to their salaries.

The fall of the constitutional government in Spain, brought about by French intervention and
the reaction that followed, extinguished the light that had just begun to shine, and this unfortunate
island was again plunged into the intellectual darkness of the middle ages. Persecution became
fiercer than ever, and the citizens most distinguished for their learning and liberal ideas
had to seek safety in emigration.

For the next twenty years the education of the youth of Puerto Rico was entirely in the hands
of the clergy. With the legacies left to the Church by Bishop Arizmendi and other pious defuncts,
Bishop Pedro Gutierrez de Cos founded the Conciliar Seminary in 1831, and appointed as Rector
Friar Angel de la Concepción Vazquez, a Puerto Rican by birth, educated in the Franciscan Convent
of Carácas.

In the same year there came to Puerto Rico, as prebendary of the cathedral, an ex-professor
of experimental physics in the University of Galicia, whose name was Rufo Fernandez. He founded
a cabinet of physics and a chemical laboratory, and invited the youth of the capital to attend
the lectures on these two sciences which he gave gratis.

Fray Angel, as he was familiarly called, the rector of the seminary, at Dr. Rufo's suggestion,
asked permission of the superior ecclesiastical authorities to transfer the latter's cabinet
and laboratory to the seminary for the purpose of adding the courses of physics and chemistry
to the curriculum, but failed to obtain it, the reasons given for the adverse decision being,
"that the science of chemistry was unnecessary for the students, who, in accordance with the
dispositions of the Council of Trent, were to dedicate themselves to ecclesiastical sciences
only." The rector, while expressing his regret at the decision, adds: "I can not help telling
you what I have always felt--namely, that there is some malediction resting on the education
of youth in this island, which evokes formidable obstacles from every side, though there are
not wanting generous spirits ready to make sacrifices in its favor." [78]

