"This is so kind of you," she said. He gave himself the usual rub of vexation as he bowed his
head, but said nothing. She saw the state of his mind, but was determined to persevere. Though
he was a man plain to look at, he was known to be the very pillar and support of his order.
No man in England was so wedded to the Conservative cause,--to that cause which depends for
its success on the maintenance of those social institutions by which Great Britain has become
the first among the nations. No one believed as did Lord Llwddythlw in keeping the different
classes in their own places,--each place requiring honour, truth, and industry. The Marchioness
understood something of his character in that respect. Who therefore would be so ready to see
the bitterness of her own injuries, to sympathize with her as to the unfitness of that son
and daughter who had no blood relationship to herself, to perceive how infinitely better it
would be for the "order" that her own little Lord Frederic should be allowed to succeed and
to assist in keeping the institutions of Great Britain in their proper position? She had become
absolutely dead to the fact that by any allusion to the probability of such a succession she
was expressing a wish for the untimely death of one for whose welfare she was bound to be solicitous.
She had lost, by constant dwelling on the subject, her power of seeing how the idea would strike
the feelings of another person. Here was a man peculiarly blessed in the world, a man at the
very top of his "order," one who would be closely connected with herself, and on whom at some
future time she might be able to lean as on a strong staff. Therefore she determined to trust
her sorrows into his ears.

"Won't you have a cup of tea?"

"I never take any at this time of the day."

"Perhaps a cup of coffee?"

"Nothing before dinner, thank you."

"You were not at Castle Hautboy when Hampstead and his sister were there?"

"I have not been at Castle Hautboy since the spring."

"Did you not think it very odd that they should have been asked?"

"No, indeed! Why odd?"

"You know the story;--do you not? As one about to be so nearly connected with the family, you
ought to know it. Lady Frances has made a most unfortunate engagement, to a young man altogether
beneath her,--to a Post Office clerk!"

"I did hear something of that."

"She behaved shockingly here, and was then taken away by her brother. I have been forced to
divorce myself from her altogether." Lord Llwddythlw rubbed his head; but on this occasion
Lady Kingsbury misinterpreted the cause of his vexation. He was troubled at being made to listen
to this story. She conceived that he was disgusted by the wickedness of Lady Frances. "After
that I think my sister was very wrong to have her at Castle Hautboy. No countenance ought to
be shown to a young woman who can behave so abominably." He could only rub his head. "Do you
not think that such marriages are most injurious to the best interests of society?"

"I certainly think that young ladies should marry in their own rank."

"So much depends upon it,--does it not, Lord Llwddythlw? All the future blood of our head families!
My own opinion is that nothing could be too severe for such conduct."

"Will severity prevent it?"

"Nothing else can. My own impression is that a father in such case should be allowed to confine
his daughter. But then the Marquis is so weak."

"The country would not stand it for a moment."

"So much the worse for the country," said her ladyship, holding up her hands. "But the brother
is if possible worse than the sister."

"Hampstead?"

"He utterly hates all idea of an aristocracy."

"That is absurd."

"Most absurd," said the Marchioness, feeling herself to be encouraged;--"most absurd, and abominable,
and wicked. He is quite a revolutionist."

"Not that, I think," said his lordship, who knew pretty well the nature of Hampstead's political
feelings.

"Indeed he is. Why, he encourages his sister! He would not mind her marrying a shoeblack if
only he could debase his own family. Think what I must feel, I, with my darling boys!"

"Is not he kind to them?"

"I would prefer that he should never see them!"

"I don't see that at all," said the angry lord.

But she altogether misunderstood him. "When I think of what he is, and to what he will reduce
the whole family should he live, I cannot bear to see him touch them. Think of the blood of
the Traffords, of the blood of the Mountressors, of the blood of the Hautevilles;--think of
your own blood, which is now to be connected with theirs, and that all this is to be defiled
because this man chooses to bring about a disreputable, disgusting marriage with the expressed
purpose of degrading us all."

"I beg your pardon, Lady Kingsbury; I shall be in no way degraded."

"Think of us; think of my children."

"Nor will they. It may be a misfortune, but will be no degradation. Honour can only be impaired
by that which is dishonourable. I wish that Lady Frances had given her heart elsewhere, but
I feel sure that the name of her family is safe in her hands. As for Hampstead, he is a young
man for whose convictions I have no sympathy,--but I am sure that he is a gentleman."

"I would that he were dead," said Lady Kingsbury in her wrath.

"Lady Kingsbury!"

"I would that he were dead!"

"I can only say," said Lord Llwddythlw, rising from his chair, "that you have made your confidence
most unfortunately. Lord Hampstead is a young nobleman whom I should be proud to call my friend.
A man's politics are his own. His honour, his integrity, and even his conduct belong in a measure
to his family. I do not think that his father, or his brothers, or, if I may say so, his stepmother,
will ever have occasion to blush for anything that he may do." With this he bowed to the Marchioness,
and stalked out of the room with a grand manner, which those who saw him shuffling his feet
in the House of Commons would hardly have thought belonged to him.

The dinner on that day was very quiet, and Lady Kingsbury retired to bed earlier even than
usual. The conversation at the dinner was dull, and turned mostly on Church subjects. Mr. Greenwood
endeavoured to be sprightly, and the parson, and the parson's wife, and the parson's daughter
were uncomfortable. Lord Llwddythlw was almost dumb. Lady Amaldina, having settled the one
matter of interest to her, was simply contented. On the next morning her lover took his departure
by an earlier train than he had intended. It was, he said, necessary that he should look into
some matters at Denbigh before he made his speech. He contrived to get a compartment to himself,
and there he practised his lesson till he felt that further practice would only confuse him.

"You had Fanny at the Castle the other day," Lady Kingsbury said the next morning to her niece.

"Mamma thought it would be good-natured to ask them both."

"They did not deserve it. Their conduct has been such that I am forced to say that they deserve
nothing from my family. Did she speak about this marriage of hers?"

"She did mention it."

"Well!"

"Oh, there was nothing. Of course there was much more to say about mine. She was saying that
she would be glad to be a bridesmaid."

"Pray don't have her."

"Why not, aunt?"

"I could not possibly be there if you did. I have been compelled to divorce her from my heart."

"Poor Fanny!"

"But she was not ashamed of what she is doing?"

"I should say not. She is not one of those that are ever ashamed."

"No, no. Nothing would make her ashamed. All ideas of propriety she has banished from her,--as
though they didn't exist. I expect to hear that she disregards marriage altogether."

"Aunt Clara!"

"What can you expect from doctrines such as those which she and her brother share? Thank God,
you have never been in the way of hearing of such things. It breaks my heart when I think of
what my own darlings will be sure to hear some of these days,--should their half-brother and
half-sister still be left alive. But, Amaldina, pray do not have her for one of your bridesmaids."
Lady Amaldina, remembering that her cousin was very handsome, and also that there might be
a difficulty in making up the twenty titled virgins, gave her aunt no promise.

CHAPTER XX.

THE SCHEME IS SUCCESSFUL.

When the matter was mentioned to George Roden by his mother he could see no reason why she
should not dine at Hendon Hall. He himself was glad to have an opportunity of getting over
that roughness of feeling which had certainly existed between him and his friend when they
parted with each other on the road. As to his mother, it would be well that she should so far
return to the usages of the world as to dine at the house of her son's friend. "It is only
going back to what you used to be," he said.

"You know nothing of what I used to be," she replied, almost angrily.

"I ask no questions, and have endeavoured so to train myself that I should care but little
about it. But I knew it was so." Then after a pause he went back to the current of his thoughts.
"Had my father been a prince I think that I should take no pride in it."

"It is well to have been born a gentleman," she said.

"It is well to be a gentleman, and if the good things which are generally attendant on high
birth will help a man in reaching noble feelings and grand resolves, so it may be that to have
been well born will be an assistance. But if a man derogates from his birth,--as so many do,--then
it is a crime."

"All that has to be taken for granted, George."

"But it is not taken for granted. Though the man himself be knave, and fool, and coward, he
is supposed to be ennobled because the blood of the Howards run in his veins. And worse again:
though he has gifts of nobility beyond compare he can hardly dare to stand upright before lords
and dukes because of his inferiority."

"That is all going away."

"Would that it could be made to go a little faster. It may be helped in its going. It may be
that in these days the progress shall be accelerated. But you will let me write to Hampstead
and say that you will come." She assented, and so that part of the little dinner-party was
arranged.

After that she herself contrived to see the Quaker one evening on his return home. "Yes," said
Mr. Fay; "I have heard thy proposition from Marion. Why should the young lord desire such a
one as I am to sit at his table?"

"He is George's intimate friend."

"That thy son should choose his friend well, I surely believe, because I see him to be a prudent
and wise young man, who does not devote himself over-much to riotous amusements." George did
occasionally go to a theatre, thereby offending the Quaker's judgment, justifying the "overmuch,"
and losing his claim to a full measure of praise. "Therefore I will not quarrel with him that
he has chosen his friend from among the great ones of the earth. But like to like is a good
motto. I fancy that the weary draught-horse, such as I am, should not stable himself with hunters
and racers."

"This young man affects the society of such as yourself and George, rather than that of others
nobly born as himself."

"I do not know that he shows his wisdom the more."

"You should give him credit at any rate for good endeavours."

"It is not for me to judge him one way or the other. Did he ask that Marion should also go
to his house?"

"Certainly. Why should not the child see something of the world that may amuse her?"

