Next is the grey pyramidal Tomb of Caius Cestius, in the fields called Prati del Popolo Romano,
on the western side of the Aventine Hill. This ancient monument remains entire, an advantage
which it owes partly to its form, well calculated to resist the action of the weather, and
partly to its situation, as it is joined to the walls of the city, and forms part of the fortification.
Its base is about 90 feet square, and it rises, according to Eustace, about 120 feet in height.
It is formed, or at least encrusted, with large blocks of white marble; a door in the base
opens into a gallery terminating in a small room, ornamented with paintings on the stucco,
in regular compartments. In this chamber of the dead, once stood a sarcophagus that contained
the remains of Cestius. "At the base of the pyramid stand two marble columns, which were found
beneath the ground, and re-erected by some of the popes. One foot, which is all that remains
of the colossal statue in bronze of Caius Cestius, that formerly stood before his tomb, is
now in the Museum of the Capitol."[19]

    [19] Rome, &c., vol. ii.--From the monument we learn that he
         was the contemporary of Caesar and Augustus, but his name
         does not appear in the annals, or the literature of that
         eventful and enlightened period; of his wealth, and of
         his pride, this magnificent tomb is a sufficient record:
         but of his merits or his virtues, no trace remains. The
         inscription only tells us he was one of the seven
         Epulones, whose office was to furnish and to eat the
         sacred banquets offered to Jupiter and the Gods.

The situation of this tomb is one of melancholy picturesqueness. The meadows in which it stands
are planted with mulberry-trees. They were, as implied by their name, formerly a resort of
the Roman people in hours of gladness: they are no longer devoted to the enjoyment of the living,
but to the repose of the dead; "bright and beautiful in the first days of the year was the
verdure that covered the meadows of the Roman people."[20] They are now the burial-place of
Protestants, and consequently, of foreigners only: by far the greatest part of the strangers
interred here are English.

    [20] Rome, &c., vol. ii.

Time has changed the colour and defaced the polish of the marble pyramid. The grey lichen has
crept over it, and wild evergreens hang from its crevices. But, what it has lost in splendour
it has gained in picturesque beauty; and there are few remains of antiquity within the bounds
of the Eternal City, that the eye rests upon with such unwearying admiration as this grey pyramid.

Lastly is the reputed Tomb of the Horatii and Curatii.

Its identity has been much controverted, and the Cut shows it to be a ruinous pile capped with
luxuriant foliage. It will, nevertheless, serve to illustrate the stupendous character of the
ancient Roman tombs.

The theatre of the celebrated combat between the Horatii and Curatii lies about five miles
from the city of Rome. Several tombs stand on the side of the hillock that borders these fields,
but no one in particular is there pointed out as belonging to the unhappy champions. The monuments,
however, existed in Livy's time, and Eustace supposes that "as their forms and materials were
probably very plain and very solid, they must have remained for many ages after, and may be
some of the many mounds that still stand in clusters about the very place where they fell."
This explanation will not, however, refer to the above engraving, as the buildings in the distance
will show.

       *       *       *       *       *

NEW BOOKS.

       *       *       *       *       *

BOYHOOD AND EDUCATION OF JAMES THE FIRST.

(From Lives of Scottish Worthies, vol. 2.)

[James I. king of Scotland was born in 1394. In 1405, he was sent by his father, Robert III.,
to France to escape the danger to which he was exposed by the ambition of his uncle, but being
taken by an English squadron, he and his whole suite were carried prisoners to the Tower of
London. Here he received an excellent education from Henry IV. of England, who placed him under
the care of Sir John de Pelham, constable of Pevensey Castle, to which the youthful and royal
captive was conducted. Pelham was a man of note, both as a statesman and a warrior, and on
all occasions, Henry appears to have manifested for him a high esteem and consideration. The
youthful portrait of James is thus drawn by Mr. Tytler in the above-named work.]

He had just reached the age of eleven years, when the young candidate for knighthood was usually
taken out of the hands of the women to whom his infancy and extreme boyhood had been intrusted
and when it was thought proper for him to commence his education in earnest. It was at this
age that the parents selected some veteran and able soldier of noble family, under whose roof
their son was placed, and in whose castle, commencing his services in the capacity of a page,
he received his instruction in the exercises and accomplishments befitting his condition. Thus
Edward the Black Prince delivered his young son Richard, afterwards Richard II., to Sir Guiscard
d'Angle as his military tutor; esteeming him one of the most experienced and distinguished
knights in his service. We read also that Henry IV. intrusted the education of his son Henry,
afterwards the great Henry V., to Sir Thomas Percy, a brave and veteran warrior, afterwards
Earl of Worcester; and on the same principle the English king, although, for reasons of state,
he determined to retain the King of Scotland in his own hands, generously selected for him
a military governor, whose character was a guarantee for his being brought up in a manner suitable
to his royal rank.

It was soon seen that the pupil was not unworthy of the master. In all athletic and manly exercises,
in the use of his weapons, in his skill in horsemanship, his speed in running, his strength
and dexterity as a wrestler, his firm and fair aim as a jouster and tourneyer, the young king
is allowed by all contemporary writers to have arrived at a pitch of excellence which left
most of the competitors of his own age behind him; and, as he advanced to maturity, his figure,
although not so tall as to be majestic or imposing, was, from its make, peculiarly adapted
for excellence in such accomplishments. His chest was broad and full, his arms somewhat long
and muscular, his flanks thin and spare, and his limbs beautifully formed; so as to combine
elegance and lightness with strength. In throwing the hammer, and propelling, or, to use the
Scottish phrase, "putting" the stone, and in skill in archery, we have the testimony of an
ancient chronicler, that none in his own dominions could surpass him; so that the constable
of Pevensey appears to have done ample justice to his youthful charge.

But this formed only one division of his education. To skill in these warlike exercises, every
youthful candidate for honour and for knighthood was expected to unite a variety of more pacific
and elegant accomplishments, which were intended to render him a delightful companion in the
hall, as the others were calculated to make him a formidable enemy in the field. The science
of music, both instrumental and vocal; the composition and recitation of ballads, roundelays,
and other minor pieces of poetry; an acquaintance with the romances and the writings of the
popular poets of the times; were all essential branches in the system of education which was
then adopted in the castle of every feudal chief; and from Pelham, who had himself been brought
up as the squire of the Duke of Lancaster, we may be confident that the Scottish king received
every advantage which could be conferred by skilful instructors, and by the most ample opportunities
of cultivation and improvement. Such lessons and exhibitions, however, might have been thrown
away upon many; but James had been born with those natural capacities which fitted him to excel
in them. He possessed a fine and correct musical ear; a voice which was rich, flexible, and
sufficiently powerful for chamber music; and an enthusiastic delight in the art, which, unless
controlled by strong good sense, and a feeling of the higher destinies to which he was called,
might have led to a dangerous devotion to it. The peril of such over-cultivation of this fascinating
art does not appear to have been so common in those days as in our own. The brave and accomplished
military leader, Sir John Chandos, sang sweetly, and solaced his master, Edward III., on a
voyage, by his ballads; the same veteran soldier did not think himself demeaned by introducing
a new German dance into England; and the Count de Foix frequently requested his secretaries,
in the intervals of severer occupation to recreate themselves by chanting songs and roundelays.[21]

    [21] Archaeologia, vol. xx. p. 59.

Cut off for a long and tedious period from his crown and his people, James could afford to
spend many hours in each tedious day of his captivity in the cultivation of accomplishments
to which, under other circumstances, it would have been criminal to have given up so much of
his time. And this will easily account for that high musical excellence to which he undoubtedly
attained, and will explain the great variety of instruments upon which he performed. Besides,
to use the words of a learned and amusing writer, it is well known that "music constituted
a part of the quadrivium, a branch of their system of education, and it was more or less cultivated
by persons of all conditions;"--churchmen studied it by profession; and the students at the
Inns of Court learned singing and all kinds of music. Richard II. understood something of the
practical part of it; for, on the day of his departure for Ireland, he assisted at divine service;
with the canons of St. George, and chanted a collect. An old annalist, enumerating the qualifications
of Henry IV., describes him as of shining talents in music [in musica micans]; whilst Stow
says of Henry V., "he delighted in songs, meeters, and musical instruments."[22] These examples
appear amply sufficient to defend King James from any imputation of over-refinement or effeminacy
in the cultivation of an art which was the favourite amusement of such monarchs as Henry IV.
and his illustrious son.

    [22] Ibid pp. 60, 61.

