Then succeeded the victory of Slavery, and the reduction to hopeless bondage of multitudes
who had been for generations free, on claim of pretended descendants of imaginary owners, by
the decision of petty government-officials, without trial or real examination. More than five
hundred persons, some of them recent fugitives, but mostly men born free, were thus reduced
to slavery at a cost to us all of forty millions of dollars, or eighty thousand dollars for
each recovered slave! Then comes their removal to the Cherokee lands, west of Arkansas, under
the pledge of the faith of the nation, plighted by General Jessup, its authorized agent, that
they should be sent to the West, and settled in a village separate from the Seminole Indians,
and that, in the mean time, they should be protected, should not be separated, "nor any of
them be sold to white men or others." This, however, was not a legitimate issue of a war waged
solely for the reduction of these exiles to slavery; and so the doubts of President Polk as
to the construction of this treaty were solved by Mr. John Y. Mason, of Virginia, who was sandwiched
in between two Free-State Attorney-Generals for this single piece of dirty work, (of which
transaction see a most curious account, pp. 328-9 of this book,) and who enlightened the Presidential
mind by the information, that, though the exiles were entitled to their freedom, under the
treaty, and had a right to remain in the towns assigned to them, "the Executive could not in
any manner interfere to protect them!"

The bordering Creeks, who by long slave-holding had sunk to the level of the whites around
them, longed to seize on these valuable neighbors, and, indeed, they claimed rights of property
in them as fugitives in fact from themselves. The exiles were assured by the President that
they "had the right to remain in their villages, free from all interference or interruption
from the Creeks." Trusting to the plighted word of the Head of the Nation, they built their
huts and planted their ground, and began again their little industries and enjoyments.

But the sight of so many able-bodied negroes, belonging only to themselves, and setting an
evil example to the slaves in the spectacle of an independent colony of blacks, was too tempting
and too irritating to be resisted. A slave-dealer appeared amongst the Creeks and offered to
pay one hundred dollars for every Floridian exile they would seize and deliver to him,--he
taking the risk of the title. Two hundred armed Creek warriors made a foray into the colony
and seized all they could secure. They were repulsed, but carried their prisoners with them
and delivered them to the tempter, receiving the stipulated pieces of silver for their reward.
The Seminole agent had the prisoners brought before the nearest Arkansas judge by Habeas Corpus,
and the whole matter was reviewed by this infamous magistrate, who overruled the opinion of
the Attorney-General as to their right to reside in their villages, overrode the decision of
the President, repealed the treaty-stipulations, pronounced the title of the Creek Indians,
and consequently that of their vendee, legal and perfect, and directed the kidnapped captives
to be delivered up to the claimant! We regret that Mr. Giddings has omitted the name of this
wretch, and we hope that in a future edition he will tell the world how to catalogue this choice
specimen in its collection of judicial monsters.

Then comes the last scene of this drama of exile. Finding that there was no rest for the sole
of their foot in the United States, these peeled and hunted men resolved to turn their backs
upon the country that had thus cruelly entreated them, and to seek a new home within the frontiers
of Mexico. The sad procession began its march westward by night, the warriors keeping themselves
always in readiness for an attack. The Creeks, finding that their prey had escaped them, went
in pursuit, but were bravely repulsed and fled, leaving their dead upon the field,--the greatest
disgrace that can befall, according to the code of Indian honor. The exiles then pursued their
march into Mexico without further molestation. There, in a fertile and picturesque region,
they have established themselves and resumed the pursuits of peaceful life. But they have not
been permitted to live in peace even there. At least one marauding party, in 1853, was organized
in Texas, and went in search of adventures towards the new settlement. Of the particulars of
the expedition we have no account. Only, it is known that it returned without captives, and,
as the Texan papers announcing the fact admitted, "with slightly diminished numbers." How long
they will be permitted to dwell unmolested in their new homes no one can say. Complaints are
already abroad that the escape of slaves is promoted by the existence of this colony, which
receives and protects them. And when the Government shall be ordered by its Slave-holding Directory
to add another portion of Mexico to the Area of Freedom, these "outrages" will be sure to be
found in the catalogue of grievances to be redressed. Then they will have to dislodge again
and fly yet farther from before the face of their hereditary oppressors.

Mr. Giddings has done his task admirably well. It is worthy to be the crowning work of his
long life of public service. His style is of that best kind which is never remarked upon, but
serves as a clear medium through which the events he portrays are seen without distortion or
exaggeration. He has done his country one more service in entire consistency with those that
have filled up the whole course of his honorable and beneficent life. We have said that this
is fit to be the crowning work of Mr. Giddings's life; but we trust that it is far from being
the last that he will do for his country. A winter such as rounds his days is fuller of life
and promise than a century of vulgar summers. He has won for himself an honorable and enduring
place in the hearts and memories of men by the fidelity to principle and the unfaltering courage
of his public course. Of the ignoble hundreds who have flitted through the Capitol, since he
first took his place there,

  "Heads without name, no more remembered,"

his is one of the two or three that are household words on the lips of the nation. And it will
so remain and be familiar in the mouths of posterity, with a fame as pure as it is noble. The
ear that hath not heard him shall bless him, and the eye that hath not seen him shall give
witness to him.

       *       *       *       *       *

OBITUARY.

The conductors of "The Atlantic" have the painful duty of announcing to their readers the death
of CALVIN W. PHILLEO, author of "Akin by Marriage," published in the earlier numbers of this
magazine. The plot of the story was sketched at length, and in the brain of the writer it was
complete; but no hand save his own could give it life and form: it must remain an unfinished
work. The mind of Mr. Philleo was singularly clear, his observation of nature and character
sharp and discriminating, and his feeling for beauty, in its more placid forms, was intense
and pervading. His previous work, "Twice Married," and the various sketches of New England
life, with which the readers of magazine literature are familiar, are sufficient to give him
a high place among novelists. He was warm in his friendships, pure in life, and his early death
will be lamented by a wide circle of friends. In pace!