We spent hours seeing things, and talking to people--old people, and children, and soldiers--each
one with a new side of the great story to tell, as if each had been weaving a few inches of
some wonderful, historic piece of tapestry, small in itself, but essential to the pattern.
Then we started for home--I mean Compiègne--by a different way; the way of Carlepont, named
after Charlemagne, because it is supposed that he was born there.

The forest was even more lovable than before, a younger forest: fairy-like in beauty as a rainbow,
in its splashed gold and red, and green and violet and orange of autumn. The violet was "atmosphere,"
but it was as much a part of the forest as the leaves, or the delicate trunks dim as ghosts
in shadow, bright as organ-pipes where sun touched them. Out from the depths came sweet, mysterious
breaths, and whispers like prophecies of peace. But to this region of romance there were sharp
contrasts. Not even dreams have sharper ones! German trenches, chopped into blackened wastes
that once were farmlands, and barbed wire wriggling like snake-skeletons across dreary fields.

We got out of our cars, and went into the trenches, thinking thoughts unspeakable. Long ago
as the Germans had vanished, and every corner had been searched, our officer warned us not
to pick up "souvenirs." Some infernal machine might have been missed in the search and nothing
was to be trusted--no, not even a bit of innocent-looking lead pencil.

They were trenches made to live in, these! They had been walled with stones from ruined farmhouses.
The "dug-outs" were super-dug-outs. We saw concealed cupolas for machine-guns, and "les officiers
boches" had had a neat system of douches.

There was no need to worry that Brian might stumble or fall in the slippery labyrinths we travelled,
for he had Dierdre O'Farrell as guide. I'm afraid I knew what it was to be jealous: and this
new gnawing pain is perhaps meant to be one of my punishments. Of course it's no more than
I deserve. But that Brian should be chosen as the instrument, all unknowingly, and happily--that
hurts!

It was just as we were close to Compiègne, not twenty minutes (in motor talk) outside the town,
that the "accident" happened.

CHAPTER XXII

At first it seemed an ordinary, commonplace accident. A loud report like a pistol shot: a flat
tire down on our car: that was all.

We stopped, and the little taxi-cab, tagging on behind like a small dog after a big one, halted
in sympathy. Julian O'Farrell jumped out to help Morel, our one-legged chauffeur, as he always
does if anything happens, just to remind the Becketts how kind and indispensable he is. We
knew that we should be hung up for a good twenty minutes, so the whole party, with the exception
of Mother Beckett and me, deserted the cars. Brian was with Dierdre. He had no need of his
sister; so I was free to stop with the little old lady, who whispered in my ear that she was tired.

Father Beckett and Julian watched Morel, giving him a word or a hand now and then. Dierdre
and Brian sauntered away, deep in argument over Irish politics (it's come to that between them:
and Dierdre actually listens to Brian!). Mother Beckett drifted into talk of Jim, as she loves
to do with me, and I wandered, hand in hand with her, back into his childhood. Blue dusk was
falling like a rain of dead violets--just that peculiar, faded blue; and as I was absorbed
in the tale of a nursery fire (Jim, at six, playing the hero) I had no eyes for scenery. I
was but vaguely aware that not far off loomed a gateway, adorned with a figure of the Virgin.
A curving avenue led to shadowy, neglected lawns, dimly suggesting some faded romance of history.

Presently, from between the open gates came a man in khaki, accompanied by a tall, slim, and
graceful dog. It was he, not the man, that caught my eye and for an instant snatched my thought
from Little Boy Jim rescuing a rocking-horse at the risk of his life. He was a police dog with
the dignity of a prince and the lightness of a plume.

"Lovely creature!" I said to myself, as he and the khaki man swung toward us down the road.
And I wished that Brian could see him, for the dog Brian loved and lost at the Front was a
Belgian police dog.

Perhaps, Padre, Brian wrote you about his wonderful pet, that he thought worthy to name after
the dog-star Sirius. I've forgotten to ask if he did write; but I seldom had a letter from
him from the trenches that didn't mention Sirius. Everyone seemed to adore the dog, which developed
into a regimental mascot. What his early history was can never be known: but Brian rescued
him from a burning château in Belgium, just as Jim rescued the rocking-horse of Mother Beckett's
nursery story, though with rather more risk! It was a château where some hidden tragedy must
have been enacted, because the Germans took possession of it with the family still there--such
of the family as wasn't fighting: two young married women, sisters, wives of brothers. But
when the Germans ran before the British, and fired the château as they went, not a creature
living or dead was left in the house--except the dog--and nothing has ever been heard of the
sisters.

The fire was raging so fiercely when Brian's regiment arrived that no one would have ventured
into the house if a dog hadn't been heard to howl. You know how Brian loves dogs. When he found
that the sound came from a certain room on the ground floor, he determined to get in somehow.
Masses of ivy cloaked that side of the château. It was beginning to crackle with fire that
flamed out from other windows, but Brian climbed the thick, rope-like stems, hundreds of years
old, and smashed his way through the window. The room was filling with smoke. The dog's voice
was choked. Brian's eyes streamed, but he wouldn't give up. Only by crawling along the floor
under the smoke curtain could he get at the dog. Somebody had meant to murder the animal, for
he had been chained to the leg of a table.

Brian wrote that the dog realized his danger, and was grateful as a human being to his rescuer.
His worship of Brian was pathetic. He seemed to care for no one else, though he was too fine
a gentleman not to be polite to all--all, that is, except Germans. They never dared let him
loose when prisoners were about. The sight of a gray-green uniform was to that dog what a red
rag is to a bull. For him some horror was associated with it--a horror which must remain a
mystery for us.

The day Brian lost his eyesight he lost Sirius. When he came back to consciousness, only to
learn that he was blind, his first thought was of his friend. No one knew what had happened
to the dog. The chances seemed to be that the shell which had buried Brian had buried Sirius,
too; but Brian wouldn't believe this. Somehow the dog would have contrived to escape. I had
to promise that, whenever I happened to see a dark gray, almost black Belgian police dog of
beautiful shape, I would call "Sirius" to see if he answered.

More than once since this trip began I've called "Sirius!" to police dogs, not knowing whether
they were Belgian, German, or Dutch, and they have answered only with glances of superb scorn.
This time I hesitated. The mental picture I saw of myself--a vague young woman, seated in an
automobile stranded by the roadside, trying to lure away the dog of a strange man--was disconcerting.
While I debated whether to break my promise or behave like a wild school girl, the animal paused
in his listless trot. He stopped, as if he'd been struck by an unseen bullet, quivered all
over, and shot past us like a torpedo. A minute later I heard a tumultuous barking--a barking
as if the gates of a dog's heaven had suddenly opened.

I sprang up in the car, and turning round, knelt on the seat to see what was going on behind
us. Far away were Brian and Dierdre. And oh, Padre, I can never dislike that girl again! I
apologize for everything I ever said against her. She saw that great police dog making for
blind Brian. And you know, a police dog can look formidable as a panther. She took no time
to think, though the idea might have sprung to her mind that the creature was mad. She simply
threw herself in front of Brian. It was an offer of her life for his.

I could do nothing, of course. I was too far off. I'm not a screaming girl, but I'm afraid
I did give a shriek, for Mother Beckett started up, and cried out: "What's the matter?"

I didn't answer her. I hardly heard. I forgot everyone except Brian and that girl. It was only
when the thing was over, and we were all talking at once, that I realized how the others had
shared my fright.

Perhaps Brian recognized the dog's bark at a distance, for he says a dog's voice is individual
as a man's. Or his instinct--made magically keen by his blindness--told him in a flash of inspiration
what his eyes couldn't see. Anyhow, he knew that Dierdre was in danger, and almost flung her
behind him. He was just in time to save her from being thrown down by the dog, who hurled himself
like a young avalanche at Brian. To those who had no clue to the truth, it must have seemed
that the animal was mad. Julian, and Father Beckett, and the khaki man rushed to the rescue,
only to see the dog and Brian in each other's arms, the creature licking Brian's face, laughing
and crying at the same time--which you know, Padre, a dog frantic with joy at sight of a long-lost
master can do perfectly well! It seems too melodramatic to be true, but it is true: the dog
was Sirius.

You'll think now that this is the "astonishing thing" which would--I said--have made this whole
trip worth while. But no: the thing I meant has little or nothing to do with the finding of Sirius.

Even Mother Beckett could sit still no longer. She had to be helped out of the car by me to
join the group round Brian and the dog. She took my arm, and I matched my steps to her tiny
trot, though I pined to sprint! We met Father Beckett coming back with apologies for his one
minute of forgetfulness. The first time in years, I should think, that he had forgotten his
wife for sixty whole seconds!

"It's like something in a story or a play," he panted, out of breath. "This is Brian's lost
dog. You've heard him talk of Sirius, my dear. There can be no doubt it's the same animal!
The man who thought he was its master admits that. And guess who he is--the man, not the dog."

Mother Beckett reminded her husband that never had she succeeded in a guess. But she was saved
trying by the arrival of the man in khaki who, having abandoned his dog--or being abandoned
by it--had followed Mr. Beckett.

"Why, Jack Curtis!" gasped the little old lady. "It can't be you!"

"I guess it's nobody else," laughed a soldierly fellow, with the blackest eyes and whitest
teeth imaginable. "I'm doing the war for the New York Record--staying here at the château of
Royalieu with the British correspondents for the French front."

I longed to get to Brian and be introduced to Sirius, but Mother Beckett caught my arm. "Mary,
dear," she cooed, "I'd like you and Mr. Curtis to meet. Jack, this is Miss O'Malley, who would
have been our Jim's wife if he'd lived. And Mary, this is one of Jim's classmates at college;
a very good friend."

The khaki young man (American khaki) held out his hand and I put mine into it. He stared at
me--a pleasant, sympathetic, and not unadmiring stare--peering nearsightedly through the twilight.

"So Jim found you again, after all?" he asked, in a quiet, low voice, not utterly unlike Jim's
own. Men of the same university do speak alike all over the world.

"I--don't quite understand," I stammered. When any sudden question about Jim is flung at me
before his parents, I'm always a little scared!

"Jim and I had a bet," Mr. Curtis explained, "that he couldn't travel incog., through Europe
for a given length of time, in a big auto, doing himself well everywhere, without his real
name coming out. He won the bet, but he told me--after he got over a bad dose of typhoid--that
he'd lost the only girl he'd ever loved or could love--lost her through that da--that stupid
bet. He described the girl. I guess there aren't two of her on earth!"

"That's a mighty fine compliment, Molly!" said Father Beckett.

Just then Brian called, and I wasn't sorry, for I couldn't find the right answer for the man
who had separated Jim Beckett from me. It was all I could do to get my breath.

"Why, of course, that's your brother! I might have known by the likeness. Gee, but it's great
about the dog! No wonder it despised the name of 'Sherlock.' Rather a come-down from a star!
There's a big story in this. Your party will have to dine with us correspondents, and talk
things over. The crowd will be delighted. Say yes, Mrs. Beckett!"

I heard no more, for I was on my way to Brian. But by the time I'd thanked Dierdre, been slightly
snubbed by her, and successfully presented to Sirius, it was settled that we should spend our
evening at Royalieu with the correspondents. The Beckett auto was ready, but the dog's joy
was too big for the biggest car, so Brian and I walked to the château, and Jack Curtis with
us, to exchange stories of le grand chien policier, late "Sherlock."

Matching the new history on to the early mystery was like fitting in the lost bits of a jigsaw
puzzle--bits which, when missing, left the picture void. Between Brian and the war correspondent
the pattern came to life: but there's one piece in the middle which can never be restored.
Only one person could supply that: a German officer, and he is no longer in this world.

Jack Curtis found the police dog, badly wounded, at a place near Paschendaele, where the Germans
had temporary headquarters and had been driven out after a fierce struggle. One of the dog's
legs was broken, and blood had dried on his glossy coat, but he "registered delight" (as moving
picture people say) when he limped out of a half-ruined house to welcome the rush of British
khaki. The few inhabitants who had lived in the village through the German occupation, knew
the dog as "Siegfried," to which name he had obstinately refused to answer. His German master,
a captain, whom he obeyed sullenly, always dragged him about in leash, as he never willingly
kept at heel. Everyone wondered why the officer, who was far from lenient with his men, showed
patience with the dog. But his orderly explained that Captain von Busche had picked up the
starving animal weeks before, wandering about No Man's Land. The creature was valuable, and
his dislike of the gray-green uniform had puzzled Von Busche. His failure to win the dog's
affection piqued him, and in his blundering way he persevered. The people of the village were
more successful. They made friends with "Siegfried," to Von Busche's annoyance; and a day or
two before the hurried German retreat under bombardment, the dog was beaten for deserting his
master to follow a little boy. The boy, too, was punished for his "impudence" in calling the
dog. People were indignant, and there were secret murmurings about revenge.

That night, however, Fate took the matter in hand. Precisely what happened is the bit that
must remain missing in the puzzle. The dog slept in the room with his master, in a house where
several young officers lived close to headquarters. All of them had been out playing cards
at a tavern. Von Busche returned earlier than the rest. He was seen in the street the worse
for drink. He went into the house, and must have gone to his room, where the police dog had
been shut up for hours in disgrace. A moment later there was a yell, then a gurgling shriek.
The neighbours listened--and shrugged their shoulders. The parents of the child who had been
beaten by Von Busche lived next door. They heard sounds of a scuffle; furniture falling; faint
groans and deep growls. Lips dared not speak, but eyes met and said: "The dog's done what we
couldn't do."

Silence had fallen long before Von Busche's fellow officers came home; such silence as that
town knew, where bombardment ceased not by day or night. Before dawn, a bomb fell on the roof
of the house, which till then had never been touched, and the officers all scuttled out to
save themselves; all but Von Busche. Whether in the confusion he was forgotten, or whether
it was thought he had not come home, no one could tell. He was not seen again till after the
Germans had packed up in haste and decamped, which they did a few hours later, leaving the
townsfolk to shelter in cellars. It was only when the British arrived, and Siegfried limped
out from the battered house, that the dog's existence was recalled--and the sounds in the night.
Then the house was searched, and Von Busche's body found, half buried under fallen tiles and
plaster. There were wounds in his throat, however, not to be accounted for by the accident.
The dog's broken leg was also a mystery. "I had the poor boy mended up by a jolly good surgeon,"
Jack Curtis finished his story. "He's as sound as ever now. He attached himself to me from
the first, as if he knew he had to thank me for his cure, but he wasn't enthusiastic. I couldn't
flatter myself that I was loved! I had the idea I wasn't what he wanted--that he'd like to
tell me what he did want, and politely bid me good-bye forever."

"You don't know where Von Busche got hold of the dog, do you?" Brian asked.

"Only what his orderly told people, that it was in Flanders, close to some ruined, burnt-up
château that he could hardly be forced to leave, though he was starving."

"I thought he'd get back there!" Brian said. "As for Von Busche--I wonder--but no! If it had
been he the first time, would the dog have waited all those weeks for his revenge?"

"I don't understand," said the war correspondent.

"I don't myself," answered Brian. "But maybe the dog will manage to make me, some day. I was
thinking--how I found him, tied to a table in a burning room. If Von Busche---- But anyhow,
Sirius, you're no assassin! At worst, you're an avenger."

The dog leaped upon Brian at sound of the remembered name. Odd that three of his names, chosen
by different men, should begin with "S"!

He's going to be an exciting passenger for the Becketts' car I foresee. But Brian can make
him do anything, even to keeping quiet. And the trip can't go on a step without him now!

I felt that Jack Curtis had been hoping for a chance to speak with me alone--about Jim. But
there was no such chance then. We were met by two of the British correspondents, and a French
officer with a very high and ancient title, who was playing host (for France) to the newspaper
men in this old château, once a convent. You see, the two cars had shot past as we walked;
and by the time we reached the door preparations were being made for an impromptu party.

Never was a dinner so good, it seemed, and never was talk so absorbing. Some of it concerned
an arch of honour or a statue to be placed over the spot where the first men of the American
army fell in France: at Bethelmont; some concerned a road whose construction is being planned--a
sacred road through Belgium and France, from the North Sea to Alsace; a road to lead pilgrims
past villages and towns destroyed by Germany. This, according to the correspondents who were
full of the idea, doesn't mean that the devastation isn't ultimately to be repaired. The proposal
is, to leave in each martyred place a memorial for the eyes of coming generations: a ruined
church; a burned château; the skeleton of an hôtel de ville, or a wrecked factory; a mute appeal
to all the world: "This was war, as the Germans made it. In the midst of peace, Remember!"

Beneath my interest in the talk ran an undercurrent of my own private thought, which was not
of the future, but of the past. I'd begun to wonder why I had been afraid of Jack Curtis. Instead
of dreading words with him alone, I wished for them now.

After dinner I had but a few minutes to wait. When I'd refused coffee, he, too, refused, and
made an excuse to show me a room of which the correspondents were fond--a room full of old
trophies of the forest hunt.

"Did you notice at dinner how I kept trying to get a good look at your left hand?" Curtis asked.

"No," I answered, "I didn't notice that."

"I'm glad. I was scared you'd think me cheeky. Yet I couldn't resist. I wanted to see whether
Jim had given you the ring."

"The ring?" I echoed.

"The ring of our bet, the year before the war: the bet you knew about, that kept you two apart
till Jim came over to France this second time."

"Yes--I knew about the bet," I said, "but not the ring. I--I haven't an engagement ring."

"Queer!" Jack Curtis puzzled out aloud. "It was a race between Jim and me which should get
that ring at an antique shop, when we both heard of its history. He could afford to bid higher,
so he secured it. Not that he was selfish! But he said he wanted the ring in case he met his
ideal and got engaged to her. If he'd lost the bet the ring would have been mine. If he didn't
give it to you, I wonder what's become of the thing? Perhaps his mother knows. Did she ever
speak to you about Jim bringing home a quaint old ring from France, that time after his fever--a
ring supposed to have belonged to the most beautiful woman of her day, the Italian Countess
Castiglione, whom Louis Napoleon loved?"

"No," I said. "He can't have given the ring to his mother, or she would have told me about
it, I'm sure. She's always talking of him."

"Perhaps it was stolen or lost," Curtis reflected. "Yet I don't feel as if that had happened,
somehow! I trust my feelings a good deal--especially since this war, that's made us all a bit
psychic--don't you?"

"I have too many feelings to trust half of them!" I tried to laugh.

"Have you ever had one, I wonder, like mine, about Jim? Dare I speak to you of this?"

"Why not?"

"Well--I wouldn't dare to his mother. Or even to the old man."

"You must speak now, please, Mr. Curtis, to me!"

"It's this; have you ever had the feeling that Jim may be alive?"

We were standing. I caught at the back of a chair. Things whirled for an instant. Then I gathered
my wits together. "I haven't let myself feel it," I said. "And yet, in a way, I always feel
it. I mean, I seem to feel--his thoughts round us. But that's because we speak and think of
him almost every moment of the day, his father and mother and I. There can be no doubt--can there?"

"Others have come back from the dead since this war. Why not Jim Beckett?"

"They said they had--found his body."

"Oh, they said! Germans say a lot of things. But for the Lord's sake, Miss O'Malley, don't
let's upset those poor old people with any such hope. I've only my feeling--and other people's
stories of escape--to go upon. I spoke to you, because I guess you've got a strong soul, and
can stand shocks. Besides, you told me I must speak. I had to obey."

"Thank you for obeying," I said. And just then someone came into the room.

       *       *       *       *       *

Now, Padre, I have told you the great thing. What does it matter what happens to me, if only
Jack Curtis's "feeling" comes true?

CHAPTER XXIII

It is two days since I wrote, Padre; and I have come back to Compiègne from a world of unnatural
silence and desolation. Day before yesterday it was Roye and Nesle; the Château of Ham; Jussy,
Chauny and Prince Eitel Friedrich's pavilion. To-morrow we hope to start for Soissons.

Yesterday we rested, because Mother Beckett had a shocking headache. (Oh, it was pathetic and
funny, too, what she said when we slipped back into Compiègne at night! "Isn't it a comfort,
Molly, to see a place again where there are whole houses?") After Soissons we shall return
to Compiègne and then go to Amiens with several of the war correspondents, who have their own
car. Women aren't allowed, as a rule, to see anything of the British front, but it's just possible
that Father Beckett can get permission for his wife to venture within gazing distance. Of course,
she can't--or thinks she can't--stir without me!

We took still another road to Noyon (one must pass through Noyon going toward the front, if
one keeps Compiègne for one's headquarters) and the slaughter of trees was the wickedest we'd
seen: a long avenue of kind giants murdered, and orchards on both sides of it. The Germans,
it seems, had circular saws, worked by motors, on purpose to destroy the large trees in a hurry.
They didn't protect their retreat by barring the road with the felled trunks. They left most
of the martyrs standing, their trunks so nearly sawed through that a wind would have blown
them down. The pursuing armies had to finish the destruction to protect themselves. Farms were
exterminated all along the way; and little hamlets--nameless for us--were heaps of blackened
brick and stone, mercifully strewn with flowers like old altars to an unforgotten god.

Roye was the first big place on our road. It used to be rich, and its 4,000 inhabitants traded
in grain and sugar. How the very name brought back our last spring joy in reading news of the
recapture! "Important Victory. Roye Retaken." It was grandly impressive in ruin, especially
the old church of St. Pierre, whose immense, graceful windows used to be jewelled with ancient
glass that people came from far away to see.

Jim had written his mother about that glass, consequently she would get out of the car to climb
(with my help and her husband's) over a pile of fallen stones like a petrified cataract, which
leads painfully up to the desecrated and pillaged high altar. I nearly sprained my ankle in
getting to one of the windows, under which my eyes had caught the glint of a small, sparkling
thing: but I had my reward, for the sparkling thing was a lovely bit of sapphire-blue glass
from the robe of some saint, and the little lady was grateful for the gift as if it had been
a real jewel--indeed, more grateful. "I'll keep it with my souvenirs of Jim," she said, "for
his eyes have looked on it: and it's just the colour of yours which he loved. He'd be pleased
that you found it for me." (Ah, if she knew! I can't help praying that she never may know,
though such prayers from me are almost sacrilege.)

A little farther on--as the motor, not the crow, flies--we came to Nesle, or what once was
Nesle. The ghost of the twelfth-century church looms in skeleton form above one more Pompeii
among the many forced by the Germans upon France: but save for that towering relic of the past
there's little left of this brave town of the Somme, which was historic before the thirteenth
century. It gave its name to a famous fighting family of feudal days: and through the last
heiress of the line--a beauty and a "catch"--a certain Seigneur de Nesle became Regent of France,
in the second Crusade of Louis XII--"Saint Louis." Later ladies of the line became dear friends
of another Louis, fifteenth of the name, who was never called saint. Not far from Nesle, Henry
V of England crossed the Somme and won the Battle of Agincourt. But now, the greatest dramatic
interest is concentrated in the cemetery!

We had heard of it at Compiègne and the wild things that had happened there: so after a look
at the ruined church, and the once charming Place, we went straight to the town burial-place,
and our unofficial guide was the oldest man I ever saw. He had lurked rather than lived, through
months of German barbarity at Nesle, guarding a bag of money he'd hidden underground. An officer
from Noyon was with us; but he had knowledge of the ancient man--a great character--and bade
him tell us the tale of the graveyard. He obeyed with unction and with gestures like lightning
as it flashes across a night sky. The looks his old eyes darted forth as he talked might have
struck a live German dead.

"The animals! What do you think they did when they were masters here?" he snarled. "Ah, you
do not know the Boches as we learned to know them, so you would never guess. They opened our
tombs, the vaults of distinguished families of France. They broke the coffins and stole the
rings from skeleton fingers. They left the bones of our ancestors, and of our friends whose
living faces we could remember, scattered over the ground, as if to feed the dogs. In our empty
coffins they placed their own dead. On the stone or marble of monuments they cut away the names
of those whose sacred sleep they had disturbed. Instead, they inscribed the disgusting names
of their Boche generals and colonels. Where they could not change the inscriptions they destroyed
the tombstones and set up others. You will see them now. But wait--you have not heard all yet.
Far from that! When the Tommies came to Nesle--your English Tommies--they did not like what
the Boches had done to our cemetery. They said things--strong things! And while they were hot
with anger they knocked the hideous new monuments about. They could not bear to see them mark
the stolen graves. The little crosses that showed where simple soldiers lay, those they did
not touch. It was only the officers' tombs they spoiled. I will show you what they did."

We let him hobble ahead of us into the graveyard. He led us past the long rows of low wooden
crosses with German names on them, the crosses with British names--(good, sturdy British names:
"Hardy," "Kemp," "Logan," "Wilding," planted among flowers of France)--and paused in the aristocratic
corner of the city of the dead. Once, this had been the last earthly resting-place of old French
families, or of the rich whose relatives could afford expensive monuments. But the war had
changed all that. German names had replaced the ancient French ones on the vaults, as German
corpses had replaced French bodies in the coffins. Stone and marble monuments had been recarved,
or new ones raised. There were roughly cut figures of German colonels and majors and captains.
This rearrangement was what the "Tommies" had "not liked." They liked it so little that they
chopped off stone noses and faces; they threw red ink, brighter than blood, over carved German
uniforms, and neatly chipped away the counterfeit presentment of iron crosses. In some cases,
also, they purified the vaults of German bones and gave back in exchange such French ones as
they found scattered. They wrote in large letters on tombstones, "Boch no bon," and other illiterate
comments unflattering to the dead usurpers; all of which, our old man explained, mightily endeared
the Atkinses to the returning inhabitants of Nesle.

"Those brave Tommies are gone now," he sighed, "but they left their dead in our care. You see
those flowers on their graves? It is we who put them there, and the children tend them every
day. If you come back next year, it will be the same. We shall not forget."

"A great statesman paid us a visit not long after Nesle was liberated," our officer guide took
up the story. "He had heard what the Tommies did, and he was not quite sure if they were justified.
'After all, German or not German, a tomb is a tomb, and the dead are dead,' he argued. But
when he saw the cemetery of another place not far away, where the bodies of Frenchmen--yes,
and women and little babies!--still lay where Germans had thrown them in stealing their graves,
the grand old man's blood rushed to his head. He was no longer uncertain if the Tommies were
right. He was certain they had done well; and in his red rage he, with his own hands, tore
down thirty of the lying tombstones."

Oh, the silence of these dead towns that the Germans have killed with bombs and burning! You
know what it is like, Padre, because you have passed behind the veil and have knowledge beyond
our dreaming: but to me it is a triste révélation. I never realized before what the words "dead
silence" could mean. It is a silence you hear. It cries out as the loudest voice could not
cry. It makes you listen--listen for the pleasant, homely sounds you've always associated with
human habitations: the laughter of girls, the shouts of schoolboys, the friendly barking of
dogs. But you listen in vain. You wonder if you are deaf--if other people are hearing what
you cannot hear: and then you see on each face the same blank, listening look that must be
on your own. I think a night at Chauny, or Jussy, might drive a weak woman mad. But--I haven't
come to Chauny or Jussy yet! After Nesle we arrived at Ham, with its canal and its green, surrounding
marshes.

Ham has ceased to be silent. There are some houses left, and to those houses people have come
back. Shops have reopened, as at Noyon, where the French Government has advanced money to the
business men. We drove into the town of Ham (what is left of it!) just as we were hating ourselves
for being hungry. It is sordid and dreadful to be hungry in the midst of one's rage and grief
and pity--to want to eat in a place like Ham, where one should wish to absorb nothing but history;
yet our officer guide, who has helped make a good deal of history since 1914, seemed to think
lunching quite as important as sightseeing. In a somewhat battered square, busy with reopening
shops (some of them most quaint shops, with false hair as a favourite display!) was a hotel.
The Germans had lived in it for months. They had bullied the very old, very vital landlady
who welcomed us. Their boots had worn holes in the stair carpet, going up and down in a goose-step.
Their elbows had polished the long table in the dining room, and--oh, horror!--their mouths
had drunk beer from glasses in which the good wine of France was offered to us!

"Ah, but I have scrubbed the goblets since with a fortune's worth of soda," the woman volubly
explained. "They are purified. If I could wash away as easily the memories behind my eyes and
in my ears! Of them I cannot get rid. Whenever I see an automobile, yes, even the most innocent
automobile, I live again through a certain scene! We had here at Ham an invalid woman, whose
husband the Boches took out and shot. When she heard the news, she threw herself under one
of their military cars and was killed. If a young girl passes my windows (alas, it is seldom!
the Germans know why) I see once more a procession of girls lined up to send into slavery.
God knows where they are now, those children! All we know is, that in this country there is
not a girl left of an age between twelve and twenty, unless she was hidden or disguised when
the Boches took their toll. If I hear a sound of bells, I see our people being herded into
church--our old, old church, with its proud monuments!--so their houses might be burned before
the Germans had to run. They stayed in the church for days and nights, waiting for the château
to be blown up. What a suspense! No one knew if the great shock, when it came, might not kill
everyone!"

As she exploded reminiscences, the old lady fed us with ham and omelette salted with tears.
We had to eat, or hurt her feelings, but it was as if we swallowed the poor creature's emotion
with our food, and the effect within was dynamic. I never had such a volcanic meal! Our French
officer was the only calm one among us, but--he had been stationed in this liberated region
for months. It's an old story for him.

After luncheon we staggered away to see the great sight of Ham, the fortress-château which
has given it history and fame for centuries. The Germans blew up the citadel out of sheer spite,
as the vast pink pile long ago ceased to be of military value. They wished to show their power
by ruining the future of the town, which lived on its monument historique: but (as often happens
with their "frightfulness") that object was just the one they failed in. I can't believe that
the castle of Ham was as striking in its untouched magnificence as now in the rose-red splendour
of its ruin!

To be sure, the guardians can never again show precisely where Joan of Arc was imprisoned,
or the rooms where Louis Napoleon lived through his six years of captivity, or the little garden
he used to cultivate, or the way he passed to escape over the drawbridge, dressed as a mason,
with a plank on his shoulder. But the glorious old tower or donjon still stands, one hundred
feet high and one hundred feet wide. German gunpowder was too weak to bring it down, and so
perhaps the prophecy of the Comte de St. Pol, builder of the fortress, may be fulfilled--that
while France stands, the tower of Ham's citadel will stand. Thousands more pilgrims will come
in a year, after the war, to see what the Germans did and what they failed to do, than ever
came in the mild, prosperous days before 1914, when Ham's best history was old. They will come
and gaze at the massive bulk--red always as if reflecting sunset light--looming against the
blue; they will peer down into dusky dungeons underground: and the new guardian (a mutilated
soldier he'll be, perhaps, decorated with the croix de guerre) will tell them about the girl
of Ham who lured a German officer to a death-trap in a secret oubliette, "where 'tis said his
body lies to-day." Then they will stand under the celebrated old tree in the courtyard, unhurt
by the explosion, and take photographs of the château the Germans have unwittingly made more
beautiful than before.

"Mon mieux" was the motto St. Pol carved over the gateway; "Our worst" is the taunt the Germans
have flung. But the combination of that best and worst is glorious to the eye.

From Ham we spun on to Jussy, along the new white road which is so amazing when one thinks
that every yard of it had to be created out of chaos a few months ago. (They say that some
sort of surface was given for the army to pass over in three days' work!) At Jussy we came
close to the real front--closer than we've been yet, except when we went to the American trenches.
The first line was only three miles away, and the place is under bombardment, but this was
what our guide called a "quiet day," so there was only an occasional mumble and boom. The town
was destroyed, wiped almost out of existence, save for heaps of rubble which might have been
houses or hills. But there were things to be seen which would have made Jussy worth a long
journey. It had been a prosperous place, with one of the biggest sugar refineries in France,
and the wrecked usine was as terrible and thrilling as the moon seen through the biggest telescope
in the world.

Not that it looked like the moon. It looked more like a futurist sketch, in red and brown,
of the heart of a cyclone; or of the inside of a submarine that has rammed a skeleton ship
on the stocks. But the sight gave me the same kind of icy shock I had when I first saw the
moon's ravaged face through a huge telescope. You took me, Padre, so you'll remember.

If you came to Jussy, and didn't know about the war, you'd think you had stumbled into hell--or
else that you were having a nightmare and couldn't wake up. I shall never forget a brobdingnagian
boiler as big as a battle tank, that had reared itself on its hind-legs to peer through a cheval
de frise of writhing girders--tortured girders like a vast wilderness of immense thorn bushes
in a hopeless tangle, or a pit of bloodstained snakes. The walls of the usine have simply melted,
and it's hard to realize that it as a building, put up by human hands for human uses, ever
existed. There is a new Jussy, though, created since the German retreat; and seeing it, you
couldn't help knowing that there was a war! The whole landscape is full of cannon, big and
little and middle-sized. Queer mushroom buildings have sprung up, for officers' and soldiers'
barracks and canteens. Narrow plank walks built high above mud-level--"duck boards," I think
they're called--lead to the corrugated iron, tin, and wooden huts. There are aerodromes and
aerodromes like a vast circus encampment, where there are not cannon; and the greenish canvas
roofs give the only bit of colour, as far as the eye can see--unless one counts the soldiers'
uniforms. All the rest is gray as the desert before a dust-storm. Even the sky, which had been
blue and bright, was gray over Jussy, and the grayest of gray things were the immense "saucisses"--three
or four of them--hanging low under the clouds like advertisements of titanic potatoes, haughtiest
of war-time vegetables.

Dierdre O'Farrell inadvertently called the big bulks "saucissons," which amused our officer
guide so much that he laughed to tears. The rest of us were able to raise only a faint smile,
and we felt his disappointment at our lack of humour.

"Ah, but it is most funny!" he said. "I will tell everyone. In future they shall for us be
'saucissons' forever. I suppose it is not so funny for you, because the sight of these dead
towns has made you sad. I am almost afraid to take you on to Chauny. You will be much sadder
there. Chauny is the sight most pitiful of all. Would you perhaps wish to avoid it?"

"What about you, Mother?" Father Beckett wanted to know.

But Mother had no wish to avoid Chauny. She was not able to believe that anything could be
sadder than Roye, or Nesle, or Ham, or more grim than Jussy.

"He doesn't want to take us to Chauny," Brian whispered to me. We were all grouped together
near the cars, with Sirius, a quiet, happy dog. "He's trying to think up a new excuse to get
out of it."

I glanced at our guide. It was like Brian to have guessed what we hadn't seen! Now I was on
the alert, the clear-cut French face did look nonplussed; and a nervous brown hand was tugging
at a smart black moustache.

"Is there any reason why you think it would be better for us not to go there?" I decided to
ask frankly.

"It's getting rather late," he suggested, in his precise English. "You have also the Pavilion
of Prince Eitel Fritz before you. If it grows too dark, you cannot see St. Quentin well, in
the distance, and the glasses will be of no use for Soissons."

"But we're going to Soissons day after to-morrow!" said Father Beckett.

"And there'll be a moon presently," added Dierdre. She had heard of the ruined convent at Chauny
and was determined not to miss it.

"Yes, there'll be a moon," reluctantly admitted Monsieur le Lieutenant.

"Is there still another reason?" I tried to help him.

"Well, yes, there is one, Mademoiselle," he blurted out. "I had meant not to mention it. But
perhaps it is best to tell, and then you may all choose whether you go to Chauny or not. There
is a certain risk at this time of day, or a little later. You know we are close to the front
here, and enemy aeroplanes fly nearly every afternoon over Chauny toward dusk. They hope to
catch some important personage, and they come expressly to 'spot' automobiles. The road through
the ruined town is white and new, and the gray military cars in which we bring visitors to
the front stand out clearly, especially as twilight falls. I'm afraid we have lingered too
long in some of these places. If we were a party of men, I should say nothing, but with three
ladies----"

"I can answer for all three, Monsieur," said Mother Beckett, with a pathetically defiant tilt
of her small chin.

"My son, you know, was a soldier. We have come to this part of the world to see what we can
do for the people in honour of his memory. So we mustn't leave Chauny out."

"Madame, there are no people there, for there are no houses. There are but a few soldiers with
an anti-aircraft gun."

"We must see what can be done about building up some of the houses so the people can come back,"
persisted the old lady, with that gentle obstinacy of hers.

The French officer made no more objections; and knowing his wife, I suppose Father Beckett
felt it useless to offer any. We started at once for Chauny: in fact, we flew along the road
almost as fast--it seemed--as enemy aeroplanes could fly along the sky if they pursued. But
we had a long respite still before twilight.

CHAPTER XXIV

Our guide was right. Chauny was sadder than the rest, because there had been more of beauty
to ruin. And it was ruined cruelly, completely! Even Gerbéviller, in Lorraine, had been less
sad than this--less sad because of Soeur Julie, and the quarter on the hill which her devotion
saved; less sad, because of the American Red Cross reconstruction centre, for the fruit trees.
Here there had been no Soeur Julie, no reconstruction centre yet. The Germans, when they knew
they had to go, gave three weeks to their wrecking work. They sent off, neatly packed, all
that was worth sending to Germany. They measured the cellars to see what quantity of explosives
would be needed to blow up the houses. Then they blew them up, making their quarters meanwhile
at a safe distance, in the convent. As for that convent--you will see what happened there when
the Boches had no further use for it!

In happy days before the war, whose joys we took comfortably for granted, Chauny had several
châteaux of beauty and charm. It had pretty houses and lots of fine shops and a park. It was
proud of its mairie and church and great usine (now a sight of horror), and the newer parts
of the town did honour to their architects. But--Chauny was on the direct road between Cologne
and Paris. Nobody thought much about this fact then, except that it helped travel and so was
good for the country. It is only now that one knows what a price Chauny paid for the advantage.
Instead of a beautiful town there remains a heap of cinders, with here and there a wrecked
façade of pitiful grace or broken dignity to tell where stood the proudest buildings.

The sky was empty of enemy 'planes; but our guide hurried us through the town, where the new
road shone white in contrast with our cars; and having hidden the autos under a group of trees
outside, led us on foot toward the convent. The approach was exquisite: a long, long avenue
of architectural elms, arbour-like in shade, once the favourite evening promenade of Chauny.
That tunnel of emerald and gold would have been an interlude of peace between two tragedies--tragedy
of the town, tragedy of the convent--if the ground hadn't been strewn with torn papers, like
leaves scattered by the wind: official records flung out of strong boxes by ruthless German
hands, poor remnants no longer of value, and saved from destruction only by the kindly trees,
friends of happy memories. "The Boches didn't take time to spoil this avenue," said our officer.
"They liked it while they lived in the convent; and they left in a hurry."

Just beyond the avenue lies the convent garden; and though it is autumn, when we stepped into
that garden we stepped into an oasis of old-fashioned, fragrant flowers, guarded by delicate
trees, gentle as the vanished Sisters and their flock of young girl pupils; sweet, small trees,
bending low as if to shield the garden's breast from harm.

I wish when Chauny is rebuilt this convent might be left as a monument historique, for, ringed
by its perfumed pleasance, it is a glimpse of "fairylands forlorn."

One half believes there must have been some fairy charm at work which kept the fire-breathing
German dragon from laying this garden waste when he was forced out of his stolen lair in the
convent! Little remains of the house, and in the rubbish heap of fallen walls and beams and
plaster, narrow iron bedsteads, where nuns slept or young girls dreamed, perch timidly among
stones and blackened bricks. But in the garden all is flowery peace: and the chapel, though
ruined, is a strange vision of beauty framed in horror.

Not that the Germans were merciful there. They burned and blew up all that would burn or blow
up. The roof fell, and heaped the floor with wreckage; but out of that wreckage, as out of
a troubled sea, rise two figures: St. Joseph, and an almost life-size, painted statue of the
Virgin. There the two stand firmly on their pedestals, their faces raised to God's roof of
blue, which never fails. Because their eyes are lifted, they do not see the flotsam and jetsam
of shattered stained glass, burnt woodwork, smashed benches, broken picture-frames and torn,
rain-blurred portraits of lesser saints. They seem to think only of heaven.

Though I'm not a Catholic, the chapel gave me such a sense of sacredness and benediction that
I felt I must be there alone, if only for a moment. So when our officer led the others out
I stayed behind. A clear ray of late sunshine slanted through a broken window set high in a
side wall, to stream full upon the face of the Virgin. Someone had crowned her with a wreath
of fresh flowers, and had thrust a few white roses under the folded hands which seemed to clasp
them lovingly, with a prayer for the peace of the world. The dazzling radiance brought face
and figure to life; and it was as if a living woman had taken the statue's place on the pedestal.
The effect was so startling that, if I were a Catholic, I might have believed in a miracle.
Protestant as I am, I had the impulse to pray: but--(I don't know, Padre, if I have ever told
you this)--I've not dared to pray properly since I first stole the Becketts' love for Brian
and me. I've not dared, though never in my life have I so needed and longed for prayer.

This time I couldn't resist, unworthy as I am. The smile of peace and pardon on the statue's
illumined face seemed to make all sin forgivable in this haunt of holy dreams. "God forgive
me, and show me how to atone," I sent my plea skyward. Suddenly the conviction came that I
should be shown a way of atonement, though it might be hard. I felt lighter of heart, and went
on to pray that Jack Curtis's hope might be justified: that, no matter what happened to me,
or even to Brian, Jim Beckett might be alive, in this world, and come back safely to his parents.

While I prayed, a sound disturbed the deep silence. It was a far-away sound, but quickly it
grew louder and drew nearer: at first a buzzing as of all the bees in France mobilized in a
bee-barrage. Then the buzzing became a roar. I knew directly what it was: enemy aeroplanes.

I could not see them yet, but they must be close. If they were flying very low, to search Chauny
for visitors, I might be seen if I moved. Those in the garden were better off than I, for they
were screened by the trees, but trying to join them I might attract attention to myself.

As I thought this, I wondered why I didn't decide upon the thing most likely to solve all my
problems at once. If I were killed, Brian would grieve: but he had the Becketts to love and
care for him, and--he had Dierdre: no use disguising that fact from my intelligence, after
the episode of the dog! What a chance for me to disappear, having done for Brian all I could
do! Oh, why didn't I add another prayer to my last, and beg God to let me die that minute?

I'll tell you why I did not pray this, Padre, and why, instead of trying to expose my life,
I wished--almost unconsciously--to save it. I hardly realized why then, but I do realize now.
It is different in these days from that night in Paris, when I wished I might be run over by
a motor-car. At that time I should have been glad to die. Now I cling to life--not just because
I'm young and strong, and people call me beautiful, but because I feel I must stay in the world
to see what happens next.

I kept as still as a frightened mouse. I didn't move. I scarcely breathed. Presently an aeroplane
sailed into sight directly overhead, and flying so low that I could make out its iron cross,
exactly like photographs I'd seen. Whether the men in it could see me or not I can't tell;
but if they could, perhaps they mistook me for one of the statues they knew existed in the
ruined chapel, and thought I wasn't worth bombing.

In that case it was St. Joseph and the Virgin who protected me!

In a second the big bird of prey had swept on. I was sick with fear for a moment lest it should
drop an "egg" on to the garden, and kill Brian or the Becketts, or the lieutenant who had wished
to spare us this danger. Even the O'Farrells I didn't want hurt; and I was pleased to find
out that about myself, because they are a far more constant danger for me than all the aeroplanes
along the German front; and when I came face to face with realities in my own soul, I might
have discovered a wicked desire for them to be out of the way at any price. But since Dierdre
proved herself ready to die for Brian, I do admire if I don't like her. As for Julian--would
it be possible, Padre, to miss a person you almost hate? Anyhow, when I tried to imagine how
I should feel if I went back to the garden and saw him dead, I grew quite giddy and ill. How
queer we are, we human things!

But no one was hurt. The whole party hid under the trees; and as the cars were also hidden
at a distance, the German fliers turned tail, disappointed; besides, the anti-aircraft gun
which we'd been told about, and had seen on our way to the convent, was potting away like mad,
so it wasn't healthful for aeroplanes to linger merely "on spec."

Mother Beckett was pale and trembling a little, but she said that she had been too anxious
about me, in my absence, to think of herself, which was perhaps a good thing. I noticed, when
I joined them in the garden, after the roar had changed again to a buzz, that Dierdre stood
close to Brian, and that his hand was on her shoulder, her hand on Sirius's beautiful head.
Yet I felt too strangely happy to be jealous. I suppose it must have been through my prayer--or
the answer to it.

       *       *       *       *       *

When all was clear and the danger over (our guide said that the "birds" never made more than
one tour of inspection in an afternoon) we started off again. Father Beckett suggested that
his wife had better go home and rest, but she wouldn't hear of it. And when we reached a turning
of the road which would lead us to Coucy-le Château, it was she who begged our lieutenant to
let us run along that way, "just far enough for a glimpse, a tiny glimpse."

"My son wrote me it was the most wonderful old château in France," she pleaded. "I've got in
my pocket now a snapshot he sent me."

The Frenchman couldn't resist. You know how charming the French are to old ladies. "It isn't
as safe as--as the Bank of England!" he laughed. "Sometimes they keep this road rather hot.
But to-day, I have told you, things are quiet all along. We will take what Madame calls a tiny
glimpse."

Orders were given to our chauffeur. Brian was with the O'Farrells, coming on behind, and of
course the Red Cross taxi followed at our heels like a faithful dachshund. Our big car flew
swiftly, and the little one did its jolting best to keep up the pace, for time wouldn't wait
for us--and these autumn days are cutting themselves short.

Presently we saw a thing which proved that the road was indeed "hot" sometimes: a neat, round
shell-hole, which looked ominously new! We swung past it with a bump, and flashed into sight
of a ruin which dwarfed all others we had seen--yes, dwarfed even cathedrals! A long line of
ramparts rising from a high headland of gray-white chalk-ramparts crowned with broken, round
towers, which the sun was painting with heraldic gold: the stump of a tremendous keep that
reared its bulk like a giant in his death struggle, for a last look over his shield of shattered
walls. This was what German malice had made of Coucy, pride of France, architectural masterpiece
of feudal times!

"This is as far as I dare go!" our lieutenant said, with a brusque gesture which bade the chauffeur
stop. But before the car turned, he gave us a moment to take in the picture of grandeur and
unforgivable cruelty. Yes, unforgivable! for you know, Padre, there was no military motive
in the destruction. The only object was to deprive France forever of the noblest of her castles,
which has helped in the making of her history since a bishop of Rheims began to build it in 920.

    "Roi ne suis
    Ne prince, ne duc, ne comte aussy.
    Je suys le Sire de Coucy."

The beautiful old boast in beautiful old French sang in my head as I gazed through tears at
the new ruin of ancient grandeur.

Some of those haughty Sires de Coucy may have deserved to have their stronghold destroyed,
for they seem--most of them--to have been as bad as they were vain. I remember there was one,
in the days of Louis XII, who punished three little boys for killing a few rabbits in his park,
by ordering the children to be hanged on the spot; and St. Louis was so angry on hearing of
the crime that he wished to hang the Sire de Coucy on the same tree. There were others I've
read of, just as wicked and high-handed: but their castle was not to blame for its master's
crimes! Besides, the last of the proud Enguerrands and Thomases and Raouls, Seigneurs of the
line, was son-in-law to Edward III of England; so all their sins were expiated long ago.

"The Boches were jealous of our Coucy," said the Frenchman, with a sigh. "They have nothing
to compare with it on their side of the Rhine. If they could have packed up the château and
carted it across the frontier they would--if it had taken three years. As they couldn't do
that, they did what Cardinal Mazarin wasn't able to do with his picked engineers; they blew
it up with high explosives. But all they could steal they stole: carvings and historic furniture.
You know there was a room the guardian used to show before the war--the room where César de
Bourbon was born, the son of Henri Quatre of Navarre and Gabrielle d'Estrées? That room the
Boches emptied when they first came in August, 1914. Not a piece of rich tapestry, not a suit
of armour, not even a chair, or a table, or lamp did they leave. Everything was sent to Germany.
But we believe we shall get it all again some day. And now we must go, for the Boches shell
this road whenever they think of it, or have nothing better to do!"

The signal was given. We turned and tore along the road by which we'd come, our backs feeling
rather sensitive and exposed to chance German bombs, until we'd got round the corner to a "safe
section." Our way led through a pitiful country of crippled trees to a curious round hill.
A little castle or miniature fortress must have crowned it once, for the height was entirely
circled by an ancient moat. On top of this green mound Prince Eitel Fritz built for himself
the imitation shooting-lodge which was our goal and viewpoint. And, Padre, there can't be another
such German-looking spot in martyred France as he has made of the insulted hillock!

I don't know how many fair young birch trees he sacrificed to build a summer-house for himself
and his staff to drink beer in, and gaze over the country, at St. Quentin, at Soissons and
a hundred conquered towns and villages! Now he's obliged to look from St. Quentin at the summer-house--and
how we pray that it may not be for long!

Over one door of the building a pair of crossed swords carved heavily in wood form a stolid
German decoration; and still more maddeningly German are the seats outside the house, made
of cement and shaped like toadstools. In the sitting room are rough chairs, and a big table
so stained with wine and beer that I could almost see the fat figures of the prince and his
friends grouped round it, with cheers for "Wein, Weib, und Gesang."

Close down below us, in sloping green meadows, a lot of war-worn horses en permission were
grazing peacefully. Our guide said that some were "Americans," and I fancied them dreaming
of Kentucky grasslands, or the desert herbs of the Far West, which they will never taste again.
Also I yearned sorrowfully over the weary creatures that had done their "bit" without any incentive,
without much praise or glory, and that would presently go back to do it all over again, until
they died or were finally disabled. I remembered a cavalry-man I nursed in our Hôpital des
Épidémies telling me how brave horses are. "The only trouble with them in battle," he said,
"is when their riders are killed, to make them fall out of line. They will keep their places!"

Both Father Beckett and the French officer had field-glasses, but we hardly needed them for
St. Quentin. Far away across a plain slowly turning from bright blue-green to dim green-blue
in the twilight, we saw a dream town built of violet shadows--Marie Stuart's dowry town. Its
purple roofs and the dominating towers of its great collegiate church were ethereal as a mirage,
yet delicately clear, and so beautiful, rising from the river-bank, that I shuddered to think
of the French guns, forced to break the heart of Faidherbe's brave city.

It was a time of day to call back the past, for in the falling dusk modern things and old things
blended lovingly together. For all one could see of detail, nothing had changed much since
the plain of Picardy was the great Merovingian centre of France, the gateway through which
the English marched, and went away never to return until they came as friends. Still less had
the scene changed since the brave days when Marguerite de Valois rode through Picardy with
her band of lovely ladies and gallant gentlemen. It was summer when she travelled; but on just
such an evening of blue twilight and silver moonshine might she have had her pretended carriage
accident at Catelet, as an excuse to disappoint the Bishop of Cambrai, and meet the man best
loved of all her lovers, Duc Henri de Guise. It was just then he had got the wound which gave
him his scar and his nickname of "Le Balafré"; and she would have been all the more anxious
not to miss her hero.

I thought of that adventure, because of the picture Brian painted of the Queen on her journey,
the only one of his which has been hung in the Academy, you know, Padre; and I sat for Marguerite.
Not that I'm her type at all, judging from portraits! However, I fancied myself intensely in
the finished picture, and used to hope I should be recognized when I strolled into the Academy.
But I never was.

Looking down over the plain of Picardy, I pretended to myself that I could see the Queen's
procession: Marguerite (looking as much as possible like me!) in her gold and crystal coach,
lined with rose-coloured Spanish velvet, jewel-broidered: the gentlemen outriders trying to
stare through the thick panes obscured with designs and mottoes concerning the sun and its
influence upon human fate; the high-born girls chattering to each other from their embroidered
Spanish saddles, as they rode on white palfreys, trailing after the glittering coach; and the
dust rising like smoke from wheels of jolting chariots which held the elder women of the Court.

Oh, those were great days, the days of Henry of Navarre and his naughty wife! But, after all,
there wasn't as much chivalry and real romance in Picardy then, or in the time of St. Quentin
himself, as war has brought back to it now. No deeds we can find in history equal the deeds
of to-day!

       *       *       *       *       *

We got lost going home, somehow taking the wrong road, straying into a wood, plunging and bumping
down and down over fearful roads, and landing--by what might have been a bad accident--in a
deep ravine almost too strange to be true.

Even our French officer couldn't make out what had happened to us, or whither we'd wandered,
until we'd stopped, and our blaze of acetylene had lighted up a series of fantastic caverns
in the rock (caverns improved up to date by German cement) and in front of that honeycombed
gray wall a flat, grassy lawn that was a graveyard.

"Mon Dieu, c'est le Ravin de Bitry!" he cried. "Let us get out of it! I would never have brought
you here of my own free will."

"But why--why?" I insisted. "It isn't the only graveyard we have seen, alas! and there are
only French names on the little crosses."

"I know," he said. "After we chased the Germans out of this hole, we lived here ourselves,
in their caves--and died here, as you see, Mademoiselle. But the place is haunted, and not
by spirits of the dead--worse! Put on your hats again, Messieurs! The dead will forgive you.
And, ladies, wrap veils over your faces. If it were not so late, you would already know why.
But the noise of our autos, and the lights may stir up those ghosts!"

Then, in an instant, before the cars could turn, we did know why. Flies!... such flies as I
had never seen ...nightmare flies. They rose from everywhere, in a thick black cloud, like
the plague of Egypt. They were in thousands. They were big as bees. They dropped on us like
a black jelly falling out of a mould. They sat all over us. It was only when our cars had swayed
and stumbled up again, over that awful road, out of the haunted hole in the deep woods, and
risen into fresh, moving air, that the horde deserted us. Julian O'Farrell had his hands bitten,
and dear Mother Beckett was badly stung on the throat. Horrible!... I don't think I could have
slept at night for thinking of the Ravin de Bitry, if we hadn't had such a refreshing run home
that the impression of the lost, dark place was purified away.

Forest fragrance sprayed into our faces like perfume from a vaporizer. We seemed to pass through
endless halls supported by white marble pillars, which were really spaces between trees, magically
transformed by our blazing headlight. Always in front of us hovered an archway of frosted silver,
moving as we moved, like a pale, elusive rainbow; and when we put on extra speed for a long,
straight stretch, poplars carelessly spared by the Boches spouted up on either side of us like
geysers. Then, suddenly, across a stretch of blackness palely shone Compiègne, as Venice shines
across the dark lagoon.

CHAPTER XXV

Little did I think, Padre, to write you from Soissons! When last I spoke to you about it, we
were gazing through field-glasses at the single tower of the cathedral, pointing out of purple
shadows toward the evening star of hope. Then we lost ourselves in the Ravin de Bitry, and
arrived thankfully at Compiègne two hours later than we had planned. We expected to have part
of a day at Soissons, but--I told you of the dreadful flies in that ravine of death, and how
Mother Beckett was stung on the throat. The next day she had a headache, but took aspirin,
and pronounced herself well enough for the trip to Soissons. Father Beckett let her go, because
he's in the habit of letting her do whatever she wants to do, fancying (and she fancies it,
too) that he is master. You see, we thought it was only a fatigue-headache. Foolishly, we didn't
connect it with the sting, for Julian O'Farrell was bitten, too, and didn't complain at all.

Well, we set out for Soissons yesterday morning (I write again at night) leaving all our luggage
at the hotel in Compiègne. It was quite a safe and uneventful run, for the Germans stopped
shelling Soissons temporarily some time ago, when they were obliged to devote their whole attention
to other places. The road was good, and the day a dream of Indian summer, when war seemed more
than ever out of place in such a world. If Mother Beckett looked ill, we didn't notice, because
she wore her dust-veil. The same officer was with us who'd been our guide last time, and we
felt like friends, as he explained, with those vivid gestures Frenchmen have, just how the
Germans in September, 1914, marched from Laon upon Soissons--marched fast, singing, yelling,
wild to take a city so important that the world would be impressed. Why, it would be--they
thought--as if the whole Île-de-France were in their grasp! The next step would be to Paris,
goal of all Germanic invasions since Attila.

It's an engaging habit of Mother Beckett's to punctuate exciting stories like this with little
soft sighs of sympathy: but the graphic war descriptions given by our lieutenant left her cold.
Even when we came into the town, and began to go round it in the car, she was heavily silent,
not an exclamation! And we ought to have realized that this was strange, because Soissons nowadays
is a sight to strike the heart a hammer-blow.

Of course the place isn't older than Rheims. It's of the same time and the same significance.
But its face looks older in ruin--such features as haven't been battered out of shape. There's
the wonderful St. Jean-des-Vignes, which should have interested the little lady, because the
great namesake of her family St. Thomas à Beckett, lived there, when it was one of Soissons'
four famous abbeys. There's the church of St. Léger, and the grand old gates of St. Médard,
to say nothing of the cathedral itself. And then there's the history, which goes back to the
Suessiones who owned twelve towns, and had a king whose power carried across the sea, all the
way to Britain. If Mother Beckett doesn't know much about history, she loves being in the midst
of it, and hearing talk of it. But when our Frenchman told us a story of her latest favourite,
King Clovis, she had the air of being asleep behind her thick blue veil. It was quite a good
story, too, about a gold vase and a bishop. The gold vase had been stolen in the sack of the
churches, after the battle of Soissons, when Roman rule was ended in France. St. Remi begged
Clovis to give the vase back. But the booty was being divided, and the soldier who had the
vase refused to surrender it to a mere monarch. "You'll get what your luck brings you, like
the rest of us!" said he, striking the vase so hard with his battle-axe that it was dented,
and its beauty spoiled. Clovis swallowed the insult, that being the day of soldiers, not of
kings: but he didn't forget; and he kept watch upon the man. A year later, to the day, the
excuse he'd waited for came. The soldier's armour was dirty, on review; Clovis had the right
as a general to reproach and punish him, so snatching the man's battle-axe, the king crushed
in the soldier's head. "I do to you with the same weapon what you did to the gold vase at Soissons!"
he said.

It wasn't until we had seen everything, and had spent over an hour looking at the martyred
cathedral, from every point of view, inside and out, that Mother Beckett confessed her suffering.
"Oh, Molly!" she gasped, leaning on my arm, "I'm so glad there's only one tower, and not two!
That is, I'm glad, as it was always like that."

"Why," I exclaimed, "how odd of you, dearest! I know it's considered one of the best cathedrals
in France, though it isn't a museum of sculpture, like Rheims. But the single tower worries
me, it looks so unfinished. I'm not glad there's only one!"

"You would be if you felt like I do," she moaned. "If there was another tower, we'd have to
spend double time looking at it, and in five minutes more I should have to faint! Oh no, I've
stood everything so far, not to disappoint any one, but I couldn't see another tower!"

With that, she did faint, or nearly, then came to herself, and apologized for bothering us!
Father Beckett hardly spoke, but his face was gray-white with fear, and he held the fragile
creature in his arms as if she were his last link with the life of this world.

We got her back into the car; and the man who had shown us the cathedral said that there was
an hotel within five minutes' motoring distance. It was not first rate, he explained, but officers
messed there and occasionally wives and mothers of officers stayed there. He thought we might
be taken in and made fairly comfortable; and to be sure we didn't miss the house, he rode on
the step of the car, to show us the way.

It was a sad way, for we had to pass hillocks of plaster and stone which had once been streets,
but we had eyes only for Mother Beckett's face, Father Beckett and I: and even Brian seemed
to look at her. Sirius, too, for he would not go into the Red Cross taxi with the others! Brian,
whom in most things the dog obeys with a pathetic eagerness, couldn't get him to do that: and
when I said, "Oh, his eyes are tragic. He thinks you're going to send him away, never to see
you again!" Brian didn't insist. So the dog sat squeezed in among us, knowing perfectly well
that we were anxious about the little lady who patted him so often, and unpatriotically saved
him lumps of sugar. He licked her small fingers, clasped by her husband, and attracting Mother
Beckett's attention perhaps kept her from fainting again.

Well, we got to the hotel, which was really more of a pension than an hotel, and Madame Bornier,
the elderly woman in deep mourning who was la patronne, was kind and helpful. Her best room
had been made ready for the wife of an officer just coming out of hospital, but there would
be time to prepare another. Our dear invalid was carried upstairs in her husband's arms, and
I put her to bed while a doctor was sent for. Of course, we had no permission to spend a night
at Soissons, but I began to foresee that we should have to stay unless we were turned out by
the military authorities.

When the doctor came--a médecin major fetched from a hospital by our officer-guide--he said
that Madame was suffering from malarial symptoms; she must have been poisoned. So then of course
we remembered the sting on her throat. He examined it, looked rather grave, and warned Father
Beckett that Madame sa femme would not be able to travel that day. She had a high temperature,
and at best must have a day or two of repose, with no food save a little boiled milk.

Soissons seemed the last place in France to hope for milk of any description, but the doctor
promised it from the hospital if it couldn't be got elsewhere, and added with pride that Soissons
was not without resources. "When the Germans came three years ago," he said, "most of the inhabitants
had fled, taking what they could carry. Only seven hundred souls were left, out of fifteen
thousand, but many have come back: we have more than two thousand now, and some of them behaved
like heroes and heroines. Oh yes, we may almost say that life goes on normally! You shall have
all the milk you need for Madame."

When she had taken some medicine, and smiled at him, Father Beckett left his wife in my care,
and rushed off to arrange about permission to stop. The médecin major and our officer-guide
were useful. After telephoning from the military hospital to headquarters, everything was arranged;
and we were authorized to remain in Soissons, at our own risk and peril. Madame Bornier prepared
rooms for us all; but there weren't enough to go round, so Brian and Julian O'Farrell were
put together, and Dierdre and I! She, by the way, is in bed at this moment, whether asleep
or not I don't know; but if not she is pretending. Her lashes are very long, and she looks
prettier than I ever saw her look before. But that may be because I like her better. I told
you, that after what she did for Brian I could never dislike that girl again: but there has
been another incident since then, about which I will tell you to-morrow. You know, I'm not
easily tired, but this is our second night at Soissons. I sat up all last night with Mother
Beckett, and oh, how glad I was, Padre, that Fate had forced me to train as a nurse! I've been
glad--thankful--ever since the war: but this is the first time my gladness has been so personal.
Brian's illness was in hospital. I could do nothing for him. But you can hardly think what
it has meant to me, to know that I've been of real use to this dear woman, that I've been able
to spare her suffering. Before, I had no right to her love. I'd stolen it. Now, maybe I am
beginning to earn a little of the affection which she and Father Beckett give me.

I was all "keyed up" when I began to write to you to-night, Padre; but I was supposed to spend
my three hours "off" in sleep. One hour is gone. Even if I can't sleep, I shall pass the other
two trying to rest, in my narrow bed, which is close to Dierdre's.

CHAPTER XXVI

This is the next day. Mother Beckett is better, and I've been praised by the médecin major
for my nursing. We've got our luggage from Compiègne, and may be here for days. We shall miss
the pleasure of travelling to Amiens with the war correspondents, who must go without us, and
we women will get no glimpse of the British front!

Now I'm going to tell you about the incident which has made me almost love Dierdre O'Farrell--a
miracle, it would have seemed two weeks ago, when my best mental pet name for her was "little cat!"

When I wrote last night, I mentioned that the room Mother Beckett has in this little hotel
had been intended for the wife of a French officer coming out of hospital. Another room was
prepared for that lady, and it happened to be the one next door to Mother Beckett's. Through
the thin partition wall I heard voices, a man's and a woman's, talking in French. I couldn't
make out the words--in fact, I tried not to!--but the woman's tones were soft and sweet as
the coo of a dove. I pictured her beautiful and young, and I was sure from her way of speaking
that she adored her husband. The two come into my story presently, but I think it should begin
with a walk that Brian and Dierdre (and Sirius, of course) took together.

With me shut up in Mother Beckett's room, my blind brother and Julian O'Farrell's sister were
thrown more closely together even than before. I'm sure Julian saw to that, eliminating himself
as he couldn't do when travelling all three in the Red Cross taxi! Perhaps Dierdre and Brian
had never been alone in each other's company so long; and Brian found the chance he'd wished
for, to get at the real girl, behind her sulky "camouflage."

He has repeated the whole conversation to me, because he wanted me to know Dierdre as he has
learned to know her; and I shall write everything down as I remember it, though the words mayn't
be precisely right. Never was there any one like Brian for drawing out confidences from shut-up
souls (except you, Padre!) if he chooses to open his own soul, for that end; and apparently
he thought it worth while in the case of Dierdre. He began by telling her things about himself--his
old hopes and ambitions and the change in them since his blindness. He confessed to the girl
(as he confessed to me long ago) how at first he wished desperately to die, because life without
eyesight wasn't life. He has so loved colour, and beauty, and success in his work had been
so close, that he felt he couldn't endure blindness.

"I came near being a coward," he said. "A man who puts an end to his life because he's afraid
to face it is a coward. So I tried to see if I could readjust the balance. I fell back on my
imagination--and it saved me. Imagination was always my best friend! It took me by the hand
and led me into a garden--a secret sort of garden that belongs to the blind, and to no one
else. It's the place where the spirits of colour and the spirits of flowers live--the spirit
of music, too--and all sorts of beautiful strange things which people who've never been blind
can't see--or even hear. They're not 'things,' exactly. They're more like the reality behind
the things: God's thoughts of things as they should be, before He created them; artists' thoughts
of their pictures; musicians' thoughts of their compositions--all better than the things resulting
from the thoughts. Nothing in the outside world is as wonderful as what grows in that garden!
I couldn't go on being unhappy there. Nobody could--once he'd found the way in."

"It must be hard finding the way in!" Dierdre said.

"It is at first--alone, without help. That's why, if I can, I want to help my fellow blind
men to get there."

"Only men? Not women, too?"

"I've never met a blind woman. Probably I never shall."

"You're talking to one this minute! When I'm with you, I always feel as if I were blind, and
you could see."

"You're unjust to yourself."

"No, but I'm unjust to you--I mean, I have been. I must tell you before we go on, because you're
too kind, too generous. I'm blind about lots of things, but I do see that, now. I see how good
you are. I used to think you were too good to be true--that you must be a poseur. I was always
waiting for the time when you'd give yourself away--when you'd show yourself on the same level
with my brother and me."

"But I am on the same level."

"Don't say it! I don't feel that horrid, bitter wish now. I'm glad you're higher than we are.
It makes me better to look up to the place where you are. But I wish I could get nearer."

"You are very near. We're friends, aren't we? You don't really mind because I'm from the North
and you from the South, and because we don't quite agree about politics?"

"I'd forgotten about politics between you and me! But there are other distances. Do take me
into your garden. You say it belongs only to blind people; but if I am blind--with a different
kind of blindness, and worse--can't I get there with you? I need such a garden, dreadfully.
I'm so disappointed in life."

"Tell me how you're unhappy, and how you've been disappointed," said Brian. "Then perhaps we
can find the right flowers to cure you, in the garden."

So she told him what Julian had told me: about trying to get on the stage, and not succeeding,
and realizing that she couldn't act; feeling that there was no vocation, no place for her anywhere.
To comfort the girl, Brian opened the gate of his garden of the blind, and gave her its secrets,
as he has given them to me. He explained to her his trick of "seeing across far spaces," with
the eyes of his mind, and heart: saying aloud, to himself, names of glorious places--"Athens--Rome--Venice,"
and going there in the airship of imagination; calling up visions of rose-sunset light on the
yellowing marble of the Acropolis, or moonlight in the Pincian gardens, with great umbrella-pines
like blots of ink on steel, or the opal colours shimmering deep down, under the surface of
the Grand Canal. He made Dierdre understand his way of "listening to a landscape," knowing
by the voice of the wind what trees it touched; the buzz of olive leaves bunched like hives
of silver bees against the blue; the sea-murmur of pines; the skeleton swish of palms; the
gay, dancing rustle of poplars. And he showed her how he gathered beauty and colour from words,
which made pictures in his brain.

"I never thought of all these things when I could see pictures with my eyes--and paint them
with my hands," he said. And perhaps he gave a sigh for the past, which touched Dierdre's heart
as the wind, in his fancy, touched the trees. "Couldn't you use your old knowledge, and learn
to paint without seeing?" she asked. "You might have a line for the horizon, and with someone
to mix your colours under your directions--someone who'd tell you where to find the reds, where
the greens, and so on, someone to warn you if you went wrong. You might make wonderful effects."

"I've thought of that," said Brian. "I've hoped--it might be. Sometime, when this trip is over,
I may ask my sister's help----"

"Oh, your sister's!" Dierdre broke in. "But she may marry. Or she may go back to nursing again.
I wish I could help you. It would make me happy. It would be helping myself, more than you!
And we could begin soon. I could buy you paints from a list you'd give me. If we succeeded,
you could surprise your sister and the Becketts. It would be splendid."

Brian agreed that it would be splendid, but he said that his sister must be "in" it, too. He
wouldn't have secrets from her, even for the pleasure of a surprise.

"She won't let me help you," Dierdre said. "She'll want to do everything for you herself."

Brian assured the girl that she was mistaken about his sister. "She's mistaken about you, too,"
he added. "You'll see! Molly'll be grateful to you for inventing such a plan for me. She'll
want you to be the one to carry it out."

No argument of his could convince the girl, however. They came back to the hotel at last, after
a walk by the river, closer friends than before, but Dierdre depressed, if no longer sulky.
She seemed in a strange, tense mood, as though there were more she wished to say--if she dared.

Dusk was falling (this was evening of the day we arrived, you must realize, Padre) and Brian
admitted that he was tired. He'd taken no such walk since he came out of hospital, weeks and
weeks ago.

"Let's go and sit in the salon, to rest a few minutes and finish our talk," he proposed. "We're
almost sure to have the room to ourselves."

But for once Brian's intuition was at fault. There were two persons in the little salon, a
lady writing letters at a desk by the window, and a French officer who had drawn the one easy
chair in the room in front of a small wood fire. This fire had evidently not existed long,
as the room was cold, with the grim, damp chill of a place seldom occupied or opened to the air.

As Dierdre led Brian in, the lady at the desk glanced up at the newcomers, and the officer
in the big chair turned his head. The woman was young and very remarkable looking, with the
pearl-pale skin of a true Parisian, large dark eyes under clearly sketched black brows, and
masses of prematurely white hair.

For a second, Dierdre thought this beautiful hair must be blonde, as the woman could not be
more than twenty-eight; but the light from the window fell full upon the silver ripples, blanching
them to dazzling whiteness.

"What a lovely creature," the girl thought. "What can have happened to turn her hair white?"

As for the man, Dierdre took an instant dislike to him, for his selfishness. His face was burned
a deep, ruddy brown, and his eyes, lit by the red glow of the fire, were bright with a black,
bead-like brightness. They stared so directly, so unblinkingly at Brian, that Dierdre was vexed.
She was his chosen friend, his confidante, his champion now! Not even Sirius could be more
fiercely devoted than she, who had to atone for her past injustice. She was angry that blind
Brian should be thus coldly stared at, and that a man in better health than he should calmly
sprawl in the best chair, screening the fire.

By this time, Padre, you will have learned enough about Dierdre O'Farrell to know what her
temper is! She forgot that a stranger might not realize Brian's blindness at first sight in
a room where the dusk was creeping in, and she spoke sharply, in her almost perfect French.

"There's quite a nice fire," she said, "and I should have thought there was room for everybody
to enjoy it, but it seems there's only enough for one! We'd better try the salle à manger,
instead, I suppose."

Brian, puzzled, paused at the door, his hand on Sirius's head, Dierdre standing in front of
them both like a ruffled sparrow.

The French officer straightened up in his chair with an astonished look, but did not rise.
It was the woman by the window (Dierdre had not connected her with the man by the fire) who
sprang to her feet. "Mademoiselle," she said quietly, in a voice of exquisite sweetness, "my
husband would be the first one in the world to move, and give his place to others, if he had
known that he was monopolizing the fire. But he did not know. It was I who placed him there.
Those eyes of his which look so bright are made of crystal. He lost his sight at the Chemin
des Dames."

As she spoke, choking on the last words, the woman with white hair crossed the room swiftly,
and caught the hand of her husband, which was stretched out as if groping for hers. He stumbled
to his feet, and she stood defending him like a gentle creature of the woods at bay.

Perhaps at no other moment of her life would Dierdre O'Farrell have been struck with such poignant
repentance. That she, who had just been shown the secret, inner heart of one blind man, should
deliberately wound another, seemed more than she could bear, and live.

Brian remained silent, partly because he was still confused, and partly to give Dierdre the
chance to speak, which he felt instinctively she would wish to seize.

She took a step forward, then stopped, with a sob, shamed tears stinging her eyes. "Will you
forgive me?" she begged. "I would rather have died than hurt a blind man, or--or any one who
loves a blind man. Lately I've been finding out how sacred blindness is. I ought to have guessed,
Madame, that you were with him--that you were his wife. I ought to have known that only a great
grief could have turned your wonderful hair white--you, so young----"

"Her hair white!" cried the blind officer. "No, I'll not believe it. Suzanne, tell this lady
she's mistaken. I remember, in some lights, it was the palest gold, almost silver--your beautiful
hair that I fell in love with----"

His voice broke. No one answered. There fell a dead silence, and Dierdre had time to realize
what she had done. She had been cruel as the grave! She had accused a helpless blind man of
selfishness; and not content with that, on top of all she had given away the secret that a
brave woman's love had hidden.

"Suzanne--you don't speak!"

"Oh!" the trembling woman tried to laugh. "Of course, Mademoiselle is mistaken. That goes without
saying."

"Yes--I--of course," Dierdre echoed. "It was the light--deceived me."

"And now," said the blind man slowly, "you are trying to deceive me--you are both trying! Suzanne,
why did you keep it from me that your hair had turned white with grief? Didn't you know I'd
love you more, for such a proof of love for me?"

"Indeed, I--oh, you mustn't think----" she began to stammer. "I loved your dear eyes as you
loved my hair. But I love it twice as much now. I----"

He cut her short. "I don't think. I know. Chérie, you need have had no fear. I shall worship
you after this."

"She could never have been so lovely before. Her hair is like spun glass," Dierdre tried to
atone. "People would turn to look at her in the street. Monsieur le Capitaine, you should be
proud of such a beautiful wife."

"I am," the man answered, "proud of her beauty, more proud of her heart."

"But it is I who am proud!" the woman caught him up. "He has lost his dear eyes that all women
admired, yet he has won honours such as few men have. What does it matter about my poor hair?
You can see by the ribbons on his breast, Mademoiselle, what he is--what he has done for his
country. You also, Monsieur, you see----"

"I don't see, Madame, because I, too, am blind," said Brian. "But I feel--I feel that your
husband has won something which means more than his eyes, more than all his honours and decorations:
a great love."

"You are blind!" exclaimed the Frenchwoman. "I should never have guessed. Ah, Madame, it is
I who must now ask your pardon! I called you 'Mademoiselle.' Already I had forgiven you what
you said in error. But I did not understand, or the forgiveness would have been easier. Your
first thought was for your husband--your blind husband--just as my thought always is and will
be for mine! You wanted him to have a place by the fire. Your temper was in arms, not for yourself,
but for him--his comfort. How well I understand now! Madame, you and I have the same cross
laid upon us. But it's a cross of honour. It is le croix de guerre!"

"I wish I had a right to it!" Dierdre broke out. "I haven't, because he is not my husband.
He doesn't care for me--except maybe, as a friend. But to atone to him for injustice, to punish
myself for hurting you, I'll confess something. I'd marry him to-morrow, blind as he is--perhaps
because he is blind!--and be happy and proud all my life--if he would have me. Only,--I know
he won't."

"My child! I care too much for you," Brian answered, after an instant of astonished silence,
"far too much to take you at your word. Some men might--but not I! Monsieur le Capitaine here,
and Madame, were husband and wife before their trouble came. That is different----"

"No!" cried the woman whose name was Suzanne. "It is not different. My husband's the one man
on earth for me. If we were not married--if he had lost his legs and arms as well as his eyes,
I'd still want to be his wife--want it more than a kingdom."

"You hear, Monsieur," her husband said, laughing a little, and holding her close, with that
perfect independence of onlookers which the French have when they're thoroughly in love.

"I hear, Madame," said Brian. "But you, Monsieur le Capitaine--you would not have accepted
the sacrifice----"

"I'm not sure I could have resisted," the Frenchman smiled.

"You love her!--that is why," Dierdre said. "My friend--doesn't love me. He never could. I'm
not worthy. No one good could love me. If he knew the worst of me, he'd not even be my friend.
And I suppose, after this, he won't be. If, by and by, I'm not ashamed of myself for what I've
said, he'll be ashamed for me, because----"

"Don't!" Brian stopped her. "You know I mustn't let myself love you, Dierdre. And you don't
really love me. It's only pity and some kind of repentance--for nothing at all--that you feel.
But we'll be greater friends than ever. I understand just why you spoke, and it's going to
help me a lot--like a strong tonic. You must have known it would. And if Monsieur and Madame
have forgiven us----"

"Us? What have you done? If they've forgiven me----"

"They have, indeed, forgiven," said the blind Frenchman. "They even thank you. If possible
you've drawn them closer together than before."

Brian searched for Dierdre's hand, and found it. "Let us go now, and leave them," he whispered.

So they went away, and Brian softly shut the door of the little salon.

"I did mean every word I said!" the girl blurted out, turning upon him in the hall. "But--I
shouldn't have dared say it if I hadn't been sure you didn't care. And even if you did care--or
could--your sister wouldn't let you. She knows me exactly as I am."

"She shall know you as you are--my true and brave little friend!" Brian said.

He can find his way about wonderfully, even in a house with which he is merely making acquaintance:
besides, Sirius was with him. But he felt an immense tenderness for Dierdre after that desperate
confession. He didn't wish the girl to fancy that he could get on without her just then, or
that he thought she had any reason for running away from him. He asked if she would take him
to his room, so that he might rest there, alone, remembering an exquisite moment of his life.

"It's wonderful to feel that for a beautiful girl like you--blind as I am, I am a man!" he
said. "Thank you with all my heart--for everything."

"Who told you I was beautiful?" Dierdre flung the question at him.

"My sister Mary told me," Brian answered. "Besides--I felt it. A man does feel such things--perhaps
all the more if he is blind."

"Your sister Mary?" the girl echoed. "She doesn't think I'm beautiful. Or if she does, it's
against her will."

"It won't be, after this."

"Why not? You won't tell her----"

"I'll tell her to love you, and--to help me not to!"

It was just then they came to Brian's door, and Dierdre fled, Sirius staring after her in dignified
surprise.

But Dierdre herself came to me at once, and told me everything, with a kind of proud defiance.

"I do love your brother," she boasted. "I would marry him if he'd have me. I don't care what
you think of me, or what you say!"

"Why, I love you for loving him," I threw back at her. "That's what I think of you--and that's
what I say."

I was sincere, Padre. Yet I don't see how they can ever marry, even if Brian should learn to
love the girl enough. Neither one has a penny--and--Brian is blind. Who can tell if he will
ever get his sight again? I wish Dierdre hadn't come into our lives in just the way she did
come! I wish she weren't Julian O'Farrell's sister! I hope she won't be pricked by that queer
conscience of hers to tell Brian any secrets which concern me as well as Julian and herself.
And I hope--whatever happens!--that I shan't be mean enough to be jealous. But--with such a
new, exciting "friendship" for Brian's prop, it seems as if, for me--Othello's occupation would
be gone!

CHAPTER XXVII

We're at Amiens, where we came by way of Montdidier and Moreuil; and nearly two weeks have
dragged or slipped away since I wrote last. Meanwhile a thousand things have happened. But
I'll begin at the beginning and write on till I am called by Mother Beckett.

We stopped at Soissons three more days after I told you about Dierdre and Brian, and Captain
Devot and his wife. Not only did they forgive Dierdre--those two--but they took her to their
hearts, perhaps more for Brian's sake than her own. I was introduced to them, and they were
kind to me, too. Of the blind man I have a beautiful souvenir. I must tell you about it, Padre!

The evening before we left Soissons (when the doctor had pronounced Mother Beckett well enough
for a short journey) I had an hour in the stuffy little salon with Dierdre and Brian and the
Devots. We sat round the fire--plenty of room for us all, in a close circle--and Captain Devot
began to talk about his last battle on the Chemin des Dames. Suddenly he realized that the
story was more than his wife could bear--for it was in that battle he lost his eyes! How he
realized what she was enduring, I don't know, for she didn't speak, or even sigh, and Brian
sat between them; so he couldn't have known she was trembling. It must have been some electric
current of sympathy between the husband and wife, I suppose--a magnetic flash to which a blind
man would be more sensitive than others. Anyhow, he suddenly stopped speaking of the fight,
and told us instead about a dream he had the night before the battle--a dream where he saw
the ladies for whom "The Ladies' Way" was made, go riding by, along the "Chemin des Dames."

    "In silks and satins the ladies went
    Where the breezes sighed and the poplars bent,
    Taking the air of a Sunday morn
    Midst the red of poppies and gold of corn--
    Flowery ladies in gold brocades,
    With negro pages and serving maids,
    In scarlet coach or in gilt sedan,
    With brooch and buckle and flounce and fan,
    Patch and powder and trailing scent,
    Under the trees the ladies went,
    Lovely ladies that gleamed and glowed,
    As they took the air of the Ladies' Road."

That verse came from Punch, not from Captain Devot. I happen to remember it because it struck
my fancy when I read it, and added to the romance of the road made for Louis XV's daughters--daughters
of France, where now so many sons of France have died for France! But the ladies of Captain
Devot's dream were like that, travelling with a gorgeous cavalcade, and as they rode, they
were listening to a song about the old Abbey of Vauclair on the plateau of the Craonne. When
they came to a place where the poppies clustered thickest, the three princesses insisted on
stopping--Princess Adelaide, Princess Sophia, Princess Victoire. They wished to gather the
flowers to take with them to the Château de Bove, where they were going to visit their dame
d'honneur, Madame de Narbonne, but their guards argued that already it was growing late: they
had better hurry on. At this the girls laughed silvery laughter. What did time matter to them?
This was their road, made and paved for their pleasure! They would not be hurried along it.
No indeed; to show that time as well as the road was theirs, to do with as they liked, they
would get down and make a chain of poppies long enough to stretch across the whole plateau
before it dipped to the valley of the Aillette!

So, in Captain Devot's dream, the princesses descended, and they and all their pretty ladies
began weaving a chain of poppies. As they wove, the flower-chain fell from their little white
fingers and trailed along the ground in a crimson line. The sun dropped toward the west, and
thunder began to roll: still they worked on! Their gentlemen-in-charge begged them to start
again, and at last they rose up petulantly to go; but they had stayed too late. The storm burst.
Lightning flashed; thunder roared; rain fell in torrents; and--strange to see--the poppy petals
melted, so that the long chain of flowers turned to a liquid stream, red as a river of blood.
The princesses were frightened and began to cry. Their tears fell into the crimson flood. Captain
Devot, who seemed in his dream to be one of the ladies' attendants, jumped from his horse to
pick up the princesses' tears, which turned into little, rattling stones as they fell. With
that, he waked. The princesses were gone--"all but Victoire," he said, smiling, "she shall
stay with us! The thunder was the thunder of German guns. The poppies were there--and the blood
was there. So also were the stones that had been the princesses' tears. They lie all along
the Chemin des Dames to this day. I gathered some for my wife, and if you like she will give
a few to you, ladies--souvenirs of the Ladies' Way!"

Of course we did like; so Dierdre and I each have a small, glistening gray stone, with a faint
splash of red upon it. I would not sell mine for a pearl!

       *       *       *       *       *

Father Beckett proposed to take his wife back to Paris; but while she rested after the fever,
industriously she built up another plan. You remember, Padre, my telling you that the Becketts
were negotiating for a château, before they arrived in France to visit their son? When they
heard that Jim had fallen, they no longer cared to live in this château (which was to let,
furnished), nevertheless, they felt bound in honour to stick to their bargain. Well, at Soissons,
Mother Beckett had it "borne in upon her" that Jim would wish his father and mother to stay
at the old house he had loved and coveted for himself.

"I can't go back across the sea and settle down at home while this war goes on!" she said.
"Home just wouldn't be home. It's too far away from Jim. I don't mean from his body," she went
on. "His body isn't Jim, I know! I've thought that out, and made myself realize the truth of
it. But it's Jim's spirit I'm talking about, Father. I guess his soul--Jim himself--won't care
to be flitting back and forth, crossing the ocean to visit us, while his friends are fighting
in France and Belgium, to save the world. I know my boy well enough to be sure he's too strong
to change much just because he is what some folks call 'dead'; and he'd like us to be near.
Paris won't do for me. No city would. I'd be too restless there. Do, do let's go and live till
the end of the war in Jim's château! That's what he's wanting. I feel it every minute."

I was in the room when she made this appeal to her husband, and I longed to put into their
hearts the thought Jack Curtis had put into mine. But, of course, I dared not. It would have
been cruel. Jack Curtis had nothing to go upon except his impression--the same impression I
myself have at times, of Jim's vital presence in the midst of life. I have it often, though
never quite so strongly as that night in Paris, when he would not let me kill myself.

It wasn't difficult to make Father Beckett consent to the new plan. He told me afterward that
his own great wish was to find Jim's grave, when the end of the war would make search possible.
Beckett interests were being safeguarded in America. They would not suffer much from his absence.
Besides, business no longer seemed vitally important to him as of old. Money mattered little
now that Jim was gone.

He would have abandoned his visit to the British front, since Mother Beckett could not have
the glimpse half promised by the authorities. But she would not let him give it up. "Molly"
would take good care of her. When she could move, we would all go to Amiens. There she and
I could be safely left for a few days, while Brian and Father Beckett were at the front. As
for Julian O'Farrell and Dierdre, at first it appeared as if the little lady had left them
out of her calculations. But I might have known--knowing her--that she wouldn't do that for long.

She believed implicitly in their Red Cross mission, which, ever since the little car joined
the big one, has been constantly aided with Beckett money and Beckett influence. Julian would,
she supposed, wish to "carry on his good work," when our trip came to an end. But as he had
no permission for the British front (he hadn't cared to make himself conspicuous to the British
authorities by asking for it!) he and Dierdre might like to keep us two women company at Amiens.
By the time we wanted to leave, Mother Beckett confidently expected "Jim's château" to be ready
for occupation, and Dierdre must visit "us" there indefinitely, while her brother dutifully
continued distributing supplies to hospitals and refugees. ("Us," according to Mother Beckett,
meant Brian and me, Father Beckett and herself, for we now constituted the "family"!) Telegrams
had given the Paris house-letting agency carte blanche for hasty preparations at the Château
d'Andelle, where several old servants had been kept on as caretakers: and being a spoiled American
millionairess, the little lady was confident that a week would see the house aired, warmed,
staffed, and altogether habitable.

"You wouldn't object to having that poor little girl stay with us, would you, dear?" Mother
Beckett asked me, patting my hand when she had revealed her ideas concerning the O'Farrells.

"Oh, no," I answered, looking straight into her inquiring eyes, and trying not to change colour.
"But you shouldn't speak as if I had any right----"

"You have every right!" she cut me short. "Aren't you our daughter?"

"I love you and Father Beckett enough to be your daughter," I said. "But that gives me no right----"

"It does. Your love for us, and ours for you. I don't believe we could have lived through our
sorrow if it hadn't been for you and Brian. He saved our reason by showing us what Jim would
want us to do for the good of others. And he taught us what we couldn't seem to realize fully,
through religion, that death doesn't count. Now, since I've been ill, I guess you've saved
my life. And much as I want to see Jim, I want even more to live for Father. He needs me--and
we both need you and Brian. You two belong to us, just as if you'd been given to us by Jim.
We want to do what's best for you both. I thought, for Brian, it would be good perhaps to have
Dierdre----"

"Perhaps," I murmured, when she paused.

"You're not sure? I wasn't at first. I mean, I wasn't sure she was good enough. But since the
night when she threw herself in front of him to keep off the dog, I saw she cared. Maybe she
didn't know it herself till then. But she's known ever since. You've only to see the way she
looks at him. And she's growing more and more of a woman--Brian's influence, and the influence
of her love--such a great influence, dear! It might be for his happiness, if----"

"I don't think Brian would marry Dierdre or any girl, unless his sight came back," I said.
"He's often told me he wouldn't marry."

"Was that before he went to Paris with the O'Farrells? Things have been rather different since
then--and a good deal different since the night we met Jack Curtis with Sirius."

"I know," I admitted. "But if Brian wanted to change his mind about marrying, he couldn't.
Neither he nor Dierdre O'Farrell have a penny----"

"Brian's got as much as we have," the dear woman assured me.

"Do you think he'd take your money to marry on? No, dearest! Brian's very unworldly. So far,
he hasn't worried about finances for the present. The future is different. If he doesn't get
back his sight----"

"But he will--he must!" she urged. "That great specialist you saw in Paris gave him hope. And
then there's the other one that your doctor friend recommended----."

"He's somewhere at the front. We can't get at him now."

"We'll get at him later," Mother Beckett persisted. "In the meantime--let's give those two
hearts the chance to draw together, if it's best for them."

I could not go on objecting. One can't, for long, when that little angel of a woman wants a
thing--she who never wants anything for herself, only for others! But I thought Fate might
step between Brian and Dierdre--Fate, in the shape of Puck. I wasn't at all sure that Julian
O'Farrell could be contented to leave his sister and continue his own wanderings. The Red Cross
taxi had in truth been only a means to an end. I didn't fancy that his devotion to duty would
carry him far from the Château d'Andelle while Dierdre was comfortably installed in it. Unless
he were invited to embusquer himself there, in our society, I expected a crash. Which shows
how little I knew my Julian!

When the plan was officially suggested to him, he agreed as if with enthusiasm. It was only
when he'd consented to Dierdre's visit at the château on the other side of the Somme, and promised
to drop in now and then himself on his way somewhere else, that he allowed himself a second
thought. To attract attention to it, he started, ran his hand through his hair, and stopped
in the middle of a sentence. "I am heaven's own fool!" he exclaimed.

Of course Father Beckett wanted to know why. (This was two days before we started for Amiens.)
Julian "registered reluctance." Father Beckett persisted, and drew forth the information that
Julian might have to cut short his career as a ministering Red Cross angel. "If it hadn't been
for you," he said, "my funds and my supplies would have run short before this. You've helped
me carry on. But I'm getting pretty close to the bone again now, I'm afraid. A bit closer and
I shall have to settle down and give music lessons. That's all I'm fit for in future! And Dierdre
wouldn't want me to set up housekeeping alone. While I'm on this Red Cross job it's all right,
but----"

Of course Father Beckett broke in to say that there was no question of not carrying on. Money
should be forthcoming for supplies as long as Julian felt inclined to drive the Red Cross taxi
from one scene of desolation and distress to another. Holidays must be frequent, and all spent
at the Château d'Andelle. Let the future decide itself!

So matters were settled--on the surface. Julian was ready to pose before an admiring audience
as the self-sacrificing hero, giving all his time and energy to a noble cause. Only his sister
and I knew that he was the villain of the piece, and for different reasons neither of us could
explain the mistake about his rôle. He was sure of us both; impudently, aggravatingly, yet
(I can't help it, Padre!) amusingly sure of me. He tried to "isolate" me, as if I'd been a
microbe while we were still at Soissons, and again just after Father Beckett and Brian went
away from Amiens in the big gray car. There was something, something very special that he wished
to say to me, I could tell by his eyes. But I contrived to thwart him. I never left Mother
Beckett for a moment!

The first day at Amiens it was easy to keep out of his way altogether, for I was nurse as well
as friend, and my dear little invalid was worn out after the journey from Soissons. She asked
nothing better than to stop in her room. The next day, however, exciting news acted upon her
like a tonic. The Amiens address had been wired to Paris, and in addition to a mass of letters
(mostly for Father Beckett) there was a telegram from the Château d'Andelle, despatched by
an agency messenger, who had been sent to Normandy. All was going well. The house would be
ready on the date named. Two large boxes from the Ritz had safely arrived by grande vitesse.

"Darling Jimmy's own things!" Mother Beckett explained to me. "Do you remember my telling you
we'd brought over to France the treasures out of his den at home?"

I did remember. (Do I ever forget anything she says about Jim?)

"They were to be a surprise for him when he came to see us," his mother went on, tears misting
the blueness of her eyes. "Not furniture, you know, but just the little things he loved best
in his rooms: some he had when he was a child, and others when he was growing up--and the picture
your brother painted. When we heard--the news--and knew we shouldn't see our boy again in this
world, I couldn't bear to open the boxes--though I was longing to cry over his dear treasures.
They've been stored at the Ritz ever since. But the first thing I asked Father to do when we
decided the other day to live in Jim's château, after all--was to wire for the boxes to be
sent there. I didn't suppose they'd arrive so soon--in war time. Dear me, I can hardly wait
to start, now! I feel as strong as a girl."

To prove this--or because she was restless--she begged to be taken out in a cab to see the
town, especially the cathedral, which Brian had told her was the largest in Europe except St.
Peter's in Rome, St. Sophia in Constantinople, and something in Cologne which she didn't want
to remember! Julian O'Farrell and his sister must go with us, of course. It wouldn't be kind
to leave them to do their sightseeing alone. Besides, Julian was so good-natured, and said
such funny things it would be pleasant to have his society.

This arrangement made it difficult for me to glue myself to Mother Beckett's side. Now and
then she insisted upon getting out of the cab to try her strength, and Dierdre would obediently
have taken her in tow, in order to hand me over to "Jule," if I hadn't been mulishly obstinate.
I quite enjoyed manoeuvring to use my dear little invalid as a sort of standing barrage against
enemy attacks, and even though Brian and I were parted for the first time since his blindness,
I felt almost absurdly cheerful. It was so good to know that Mother Beckett was out of danger,
and that it was I who had helped to drag her out! Besides, after all the stricken towns that
have saddened our eyes, it was enlivening to be in one (as Mother Beckett said at Compiègne)
with "whole houses." In contrast, good St. Firmin's ancient city looks almost as gay as Paris.
Our hotel with its pleasant garden and the fine shops--(where it seems you can still buy every
fascinating thing from newest jewellery and oldest curiosities, to Amiens' special "roc" chocolates)--the
long, arboured boulevards, the cobbled streets, the quaint blue and pink houses of the suburbs,
and the poplar-lined walk by the Somme, all, all have the friendliest air! Despite the crowds
of soldiers in khaki and horizon blue who fill the streets and cafés, the place seems outside
war. Even the stacked sandbags walling the west front and the side portals of the grandest
cathedral in France suggest comfortable security rather than fear. The jackdaws and pigeons
that used to be at home in the carvings, camp contentedly among the bags, or walk in the neglected
grass where sleep the dead of long ago. I didn't want to remember just then, or let any one
else remember, that twenty miles away were the trenches and thousands of the dead of to-day!

Never can Amiens have been such a kaleidoscope of colourful animation since Henri II of France
and Edward VI of England signed the treaty of peace here, with trains of diplomatists and soldiers
of church and state and dignified rejoicings!

It wasn't until we were inside the cathedral that I forgot my manoeuverings. The soft, rich
light gave such a bizarre effect to the sandbags protecting the famous choir carvings, that
I was all eyes for a moment: and during that moment Julian must have signed to his sister to
decoy Mother Beckett away from me. When I hauled my soul down from the soaring arches as one
strikes a flag, there was Puck at my side and there were Mother Beckett and Dierdre disappearing
behind sandbag-hillocks, in the direction of the celebrated Cherub.

"I suppose you want me jolly well to understand," said Puck, smiling, "that even if your brother
Brian and my sister Dare are fools over each other, you won't be fooled into forgiving a poor,
broken-voiced Pierrot?"

"I've nothing to forgive you for, personally," I said. "Only----"

"Only, you don't want to be friends?"

"No, I don't want to be friends," I echoed. "Why can't you be content with being treated decently
before people, instead of following me about, trying always to bring upon yourself----"

"A lamp might ask that question of a moth."

I laughed. "You're less like a moth than any creature I ever met!"

"You don't believe I'm sincere."

"Do moths specialize in sincerity in the insect world?"

"Yes," Puck said, more gravely than usual. "Come to think of it, that's just what they do.
They risk their lives for the light they love. I 'follow you about,' as you put it, because
I love you and want to persuade you that we're birds of a feather, made for each other by nature
and fate and our mutual behaviour. We belong together in life."

"Do you really believe you can blackmail me into a partnership?" I turned at bay. "You must
have seen that I wanted to keep out of your way----"

"Oh, I saw all right. You thought that I thought Amiens would be my great chance, and you made
up your mind it shouldn't be if you could help it. Well, you won't be able to help it much
longer, because I've got something you want, and you can't get it except through me."

"I doubt very much that I could want anything you have," I said.

"Give your imagination wings."

"You are always teasing me to guess things I don't care to guess!"

"Here comes Dierdre back with Mrs. Beckett so I won't worry you to guess. I've got a message
from the Wandering Jew. Do you want it, or don't you?"

CHAPTER XXVIII

If Julian had suddenly popped down an apple on the top of my head, à la Gessler and the son
of William Tell, and thereupon proceeded to shoot it off, I could have been no more amazed.
For once he outflanked me, caught me completely off my guard! I saw by the impish gleam in
his eye how delighted he was with himself.

"Yes or no, please; quick!" he fired the next volley as I stood speechless.

"Yes!" I gasped. "I do want the message--if it's for me. But why should he send word through you?"

"He didn't. I caught it as I might catch a homing carrier-pigeon. You know, my motto is 'All's
fair in love and war.' In my case, both exist--your fault! Besides, what I did was for your good."

"What did you do--what did you dare to do?"

"Dare!" Puck mimicked my foolish fury. "'Dare' is such a melodramatic word from you to me.
I can't tell you now what I did, or the message--no time. But I'm in as much of a hurry as
you are. When can I see you alone?"

I hesitated, because it would be like him to cheat me with some trick, and chuckle at my rage.
I couldn't see how a message from Paul Herter for me had reached Julian O'Farrell, unless he'd
intercepted a letter. It seemed far more likely that Puck was romancing, yet I felt in my bones
and heart and solar plexus that he wasn't! I simply had to know--and in a flurry, before Mother
Beckett and Dierdre were upon us, I said, "This afternoon, at three, when Mrs. Beckett is having
her nap. I'll meet you in the garden of the hotel."

Though I dash along with this story of mine, Padre, as if I went straight on describing the
scene between Julian and me from beginning to end, without a break, it isn't really so. I've
been interrupted more than once, and may be again; but I shall tell you everything that's happened
since we came to Amiens, as if I wrote consecutively. You can understand better in that way,
and help me with your strength and love, through your understanding, as I feel you do help,
whenever I make you my confessions. Since I've begun to write you, as in old days when you
were in the flesh, I've felt your advice come to me in electric flashes. I'm sure I don't just
imagine this. It's real, dear Padre, and makes all the difference to me that a rope flung out
over dark waters would make to a drowning man.

At three o'clock I was in the garden. It was cold, but I didn't care. Besides, I was too excited
to feel the chill. I wanted to be out of doors because there would be people about, and no
chance for Julian to try and kiss my hand--no vulgar temptation for me to box his ears!

He was already waiting, strolling up and down, smoking a cigarette which he threw away at sight
of me. Evidently he'd decided on this occasion not to be frivolous!

I selected a seat safely commanded by many windows. "Now!" I said, sitting down close to one
end of the bench.

Julian took the other end, but sat gazing straight at me without a word. There was an odd expression
on his face. I didn't know how to read it, or to guess what was to come. But there was nothing
Puckish about the enemy at that moment. He looked nervous--almost as if he were afraid. I thought
of something you told me when I was quite small, Padre: how the Romans of old used to send
packets of good news bound with laurel, or of bad news, tied with the plumes of ravens. I stared
into Julian O'Farrell's stare, and wished that he'd stuck a green leaf or a black feather in
his buttonhole to prepare my mind.

"Yes--now!" he echoed at last, as if he'd suddenly waked up to my challenge. "Well, a man blew
into this hotel last night--a lame Frenchman with a face like a boiled ghost. I was writing
an important telegram (I'll tell you about that later), when I heard this person ask the concierge
if a Miss Mary O'Malley was staying in the house. That made me open my eyes--because he was
of the lower bourgeois class, and hadn't the air of being--so to speak--in your set. It seemed
as if 'twas up to me to tackle him; so I did. I introduced myself as a friend of Miss O'Malley's,
travelling with her party. I explained that Miss O'Malley was taking care of an old lady who'd
been ill and was tired after a long journey. I asked if he'd like to give a message. He said
he would. But first he began to explain who he was: an Alsatian by birth, named Muller, corporal
in an infantry regiment; been a prisoner in Germany, I forget how long--taken wounded; leg
amputated; and fitted with artificial limb in a Boche hospital; just exchanged for a grand
blessé Boche, and repatriated; been in Paris on important business, apparently with the War
Office--sounded more exciting than he looked! After I'd prodded the chap tactfully, he came
back to the subject of the message: asked me if I knew Doctor Paul Herter. I said I did know
him. Herter mended up my sister after an air raid. I inquired politely where Herter was, but
Muller evaded that question. He led me to suppose he'd seen Herter in Paris; but putting two
and two together, I got a different idea--altogether different."

Julian paused on those words, and tried piercingly to read my thoughts. But I made my face
expressionless as the front of a shut-up house, with "to let unfurnished" over the door.

"I expect you've guessed what my idea was, and I bet you know for a fact whether I was on the
right track," he ventured.

"The only thing so far which I know for a fact," I said, "is that you had no right to talk
to the man at all. You should have sent for me at once."

"You couldn't have come if I had. Dierdre had told me about five minutes before that you were
putting Mrs. Beckett to bed, and giving her a massage treatment with a rub-down of alcohol."

"Why didn't you ask the man to wait?"

"I did ask him if he could wait, and he said he couldn't. He'd stopped at Amiens on purpose
to deliver his message, and he had to catch a train on to Allonville, to where it seems his
people have migrated."

"You asked him that because you hoped he couldn't wait--and if he could, you'd have found some
reason for not letting me meet him. You thought you saw a way of getting a new hold over me!"

"Some such dramatic idea may have flitted through my head. I've often warned you, I am dramatic!
I enjoy dramatizing life for myself and others! But honestly, he couldn't wait for you to finish
with Mrs. Beckett. I know too well how devoted you are to think you'd have left the old lady
before you'd soothed her off to sleep."

"Where is the message?" I snatched Julian back to the point.

"In my brain at present."

"You destroyed the letter?"

"There wasn't a letter. Oh, make grappling hooks of your lovely eyes if you like! You can't
drag anything out of me that doesn't exist. Herter's message to you was verbal for safety.
That was one thing set me thinking the men hadn't met in Paris. Muller admitted going to a
bank to get your address. The people there didn't want to give it, but when he explained that
it was important, and mentioned where he was going, they saw that he might have time to meet
you at Amiens on his way home. So they told him where you were. Now, there's no good your being
cross with me. What's done is done, and can't be undone. I acted for the best--my best; and
in my opinion for your best. Listen! Here's the message, word for word. You'll see that a few
hours' delay for me to think it over could make no difference to any one concerned. Paul Herter,
from somewhere--but maybe not 'somewhere in France'--sends you a verbal greeting, because it
was more sure of reaching you--not coming to grief en route. He reminds you that he asked for
an address in case he had something of interest to communicate. He hoped to find the grave
of a man you loved. Instead, he thinks he has found that there is no grave--that the man is
above ground and well. He isn't sure yet whether he may be deceived by a likeness of names.
But he's sure enough to say: 'Hope.' If he's right about the man, you may get further news
almost any minute by way of Switzerland or somewhere neutral. That's all. Yet it's enough to
show you what danger you're in. If Herter hadn't been practically certain, he wouldn't have
sent any message. He'd have waited. Evidently you made him believe that you loved Jim Beckett,
so he wanted to prepare your mind by degrees. I suppose he imagined a shock of joy might be
dangerous. Well, you ought to thank Herter just the same for sparing you a worse sort of shock.
And I thank him, too, for it gives me a great chance--the chance to save you. Mary, the time's
come for you and me to fade off the Beckett scene--together."

I listened without interrupting him once: at first, because I was stunned, and a thousand thoughts
beat dully against my brain without finding their way in, as gulls beat their wings against
the lamp of a lighthouse; at last, because I wished to hear Julian O'Farrell to the very end
before I answered. I fancied that in answering I could better marshal my own thoughts.

He misunderstood my silence--I expected him to do that, but I cared not at all--so, when he
had paused and still I said nothing, he went on: "Of course I--for the best of reasons--know
you didn't love Jim Beckett, and couldn't love him."

Hearing those words of his, suddenly I knew just what I wanted to say. I'd been like an amateur
actress wild with stage fright, who'd forgotten her part till the right cue came. "There you're
mistaken," I contradicted him. "I did love Jim Beckett."

Julian gave an excited, brutal laugh. "Tell that to the Marines, my child, not to yours truly!
You never set eyes on Jim Beckett. He never went near your hospital. You never came near the
training-camp. You seem to have forgotten that I was on the spot."

"I met him before the war," I said.

"What's that?" Julian didn't know whether to believe me or not, but his forehead flushed to
the black line of his low-growing hair.

"I never told you, because there was no need to tell," I went on. "But it's true. I fell in
love with Jim Beckett then, and--he cared for me."

For the first time I realized that Julian O'Farrell's "love" wasn't all pretence. His flush
died, and left him pale with that sick, greenish-olive pallor which men of Latin blood have
when they're near fainting. He opened his lips, but did not speak, because, I think, he could
not. If I'd wanted revenge for what he made me suffer when he first thrust himself into my
life, I had it then; but to my own surprise I felt no pleasure in striking him. Instead I felt
vaguely sorry, though very distant from his plans and interests.

"You--you weren't engaged to Beckett, anyhow. I'm sure you weren't, or you'd have had nothing
to worry about when Dierdre and I turned up," he faced me down.

"No, we weren't engaged," I admitted. "I--was just as much of a fraud as you meant Dierdre
to be with Father and Mother Beckett. I've no excuse--except that it was for Brian's sake.
But that's no excuse really, and Brian would despise me if he knew."

"There you are!" Julian burst out, with a relieved sigh, a more natural colour creeping back
to his face. "If Jim Beckett let you go before the war without asking you to marry him, I'm
afraid his love couldn't have been very deep--not deep enough to make him forgive you after
all this time for deceiving his old father and mother the way you have. My God, no! In spite
of your beauty, he'd have no mercy on you!"

"That's what I think," I said. "My having met him, and his loving me a little, makes what I've
done more shameful than if I'd never met him at all."

"Then you see why you must get away as quick as you can!" urged Julian, his eyes lighting as
he drew nearer to me on the garden bench. "Oh, wait, don't speak yet! Let me explain my plan.
There's time still. You're thinking of Brian before yourself, maybe. But he's safe. The Becketts
adore him. They say he 'saved their reason.' He makes the mysticism they're always groping
for seem real as their daily bread. He puts local colour into the fourth dimension for them!
They can never do without Brian again. All that's needed is for him to propose to Dierdre.
I know--you think he won't, no matter how he feels. But he'll have missed her while he's away.
She's a missable little thing to any one who likes her, and she can tempt him to speak out
in spite of himself when he gets back. I'll see to it that she does. The Becketts will be enchanted.
The old lady's a born match-maker. We can announce our engagement at the same time. While they
think Jim's dead, they won't grudge your being happy with another man, especially with me.
They're fond of me! And you're young. Your life's before you. They're too generous to stand
in your way. They look on you as a daughter, and Brian as a son. They'll give each of you a
handsome wedding present, and I don't doubt they'll ask Brian to live with them, or near them,
if he's to be blind all his life. He'll have everything you wanted to win for him. Even when
they get into communication with Jim, and find out the truth about you, why I bet anything
they'll hide it from Brian to keep him happy! Meanwhile you and I will be in Paris, safely
married. An offer came to me yesterday from Jean De Letzski--forwarded on. He's getting old.
He wants me to take on some of his pupils, under his direction. I telegraphed back my acceptance.
That's the wire I was sending when Herter's man turned up last night. There was a question
last summer of my getting this chance with De Letzski, but I hardly dared hope. It's a great
stroke of luck! In the end I shall stand in De Letzski's shoes, and be a rich man--almost as
rich as if I'd kept my place as star tenor in opera. Even at the beginning you and I won't
be poor. I count on a wedding gift from the Becketts to you of ten thousand dollars at least.
The one way to save our reputations is to marry or die brilliantly. We choose the former. We
can take a fine apartment. We'll entertain the most interesting set in Paris. With your looks
and charm, and what's left of my voice, we----"

"Oh, stop!" I plunged into the torrent of his talk. "You are making me--sick. Do you really
believe I'd accept money from Jim Beckett's parents, and--marry you?"

He stared, round-eyed and hurt, like a misunderstood child. "But," he blundered on, "don't
you see it's the only thing you can do--anyhow, to marry me? If you won't accept money, why
it's a pity and a waste, but I want you enough to snap you up without a franc. You must marry
me, dear. Think what I gave up for you!"

I burst out laughing. "What you gave up for me!"

"Yes. Have you forgotten already? If I hadn't fallen in love with you at first sight, and sacrificed
myself and Dierdre for your good, wouldn't my sister have been in your place now, and you and
your brother Lord knows where--in prison as impostors, perhaps?"

"According to you, my place isn't a very enviable one at present," I said. "But I'd rather
be in prison for life than married to you. What a vision--what a couple!"

"Oh, I know having you for my wife would be a good deal like going to heaven in a strong mustard
plaster; but I'd stand the smart for the sake of the bliss. If you won't marry me and if you
won't take money from the Becketts, what will become of you? That's what I want to know! You
can't stay on with them. You daren't risk going to their Château d'Andelle, as things are turning
out. Herter's certainly in Germany--ideal man for a spy! If he runs across Jim Beckett, as
he's trying to do, he'll move heaven and earth to help him escape. He must have influence,
and secret ways of working things. He may have got at Jim before this for all we can tell.
Muller let it leak out that he left Herter--somewhere--a week ago. A lot can happen in a week--to
a Wandering Jew. The ground's trembling under your feet. You'll have to skip without Brian,
without money, without----"

"I shall not stir," I said. "I can't leave Mrs. Beckett, I won't leave her! The only way I
can atone even a little bit, is to stop and take care of her while she needs me, no matter
what happens. When she finds out, she won't want me any longer. Then I'll go. But not before."

We glared at each other like two fencers through the veil of falling dusk. Suddenly I sprang
up from the bench, remembering that, at least, I could escape from Julian, if not from the
sword of Damocles. But he caught my dress, and held me fast.

"What if I tell the old birds the whole story up to date?" he blustered. "I can, you know."

"You can. Please give me fair warning if you're going to--that's all I ask. I'll try to prepare
Mrs. Beckett's mind to bear the shock. She's not very strong, but----"

"If I don't tell, it won't be because of her. It will be for you--always, everything, for you!
But I haven't decided yet. I don't know what I shall do yet. I must think. You'll have to make
the best of that compromise unless you change your mind."

"I shall not change my mind," I said.

CHAPTER XXIX

Later, Padre, when I'd broken away from Julian, I wondered if he had made up the whole story.
The cruel trick would be impishly characteristic! But I went straight to the concierge to ask
about Muller. He said that a man of that name had called the night before, inquiring for me,
and had talked with "the Monsieur who looked like an Italian." This practically convinced me
that Julian hadn't lied.

If only I could get direct advice from you! Do try to send me an inspiration of what to do
for the best.

My first impulse was to give Mother Beckett a faint hint of hope. But I dared not run the risk.
If Paul Herter proved to be mistaken, it would be for her like losing her son a second time,
and the dear one's strength might not be equal to the strain. After thinking and unthinking
all night, I decided to keep silent until our two men returned from the British front. Then,
perhaps, I might tell Brian of the message from Doctor Paul, and ask his opinion about speaking
to Father Beckett. As for myself, I resolved not to make any confession, unless it were certain
that Jim lived. And I'm not sure, Padre, whether that decision was based on sheer, selfish
cowardice, or whether I founded it partly on the arguments I presented to myself. I said in
my mind: "If it's true that everything you did in the beginning was for Brian's good, why undo
it all at the most critical hour of his life, when perhaps there may never be any reason to
speak?" Also I said: "Why make it impossible for yourself to give Mother Beckett the care she
needs, and can hardly do without yet? Every day counts with her now. Why not wait unless you
hear again more definitely?"

The annoying part of a specious argument is that there's always some truth in it, and it seems
like kind advice from wise friends!

Anyhow, I did wait. Julian made no further appeal to me, and I felt sure that he said nothing
to Dierdre. If he had taken her into his confidence, I should have known by her manner; because,
from the shut-up, night-flower of a girl that she was, she has rather pathetically opened out
for me into a daylight flower. All this since she came of her own free will and told me of
the scene in the chill boarding house salon at Soissons. I used to think her as secret as the
grave--and deeper. She used to make me "creep" as if a mouse ran over mine, by the way her
eyes watched me: still as a cat's looking into the fire. If we had to shake hands, she used
to present me with a limp little bunch of cold fingers, which made me long to ask what the
deuce she wanted me to do with them? Now, because I'm Brian's sister, and because I'm human
enough to love her love of him, the flower-part of her nature sheds perfume and distils honey
for me: the cat-part purrs; the girl-part warms. The creature actually deigns to like me! It
could not now conceal its anxiety for Brian and Brian's kith and kin, if it knew what Julian knows.

I waited until our last day at Amiens, and Father Beckett, Brian, and Sirius are back from
the British front. Perhaps I forgot to tell you that Sirius went. He wasn't on the programme,
but he knew somehow that his master was planning a separation, and refused to fall in with
the scheme. He was discovered in the motor-car when it was ready to start, looking his best,
his dear face parted in the middle with an irresistible, ingratiating smile. When Brian tried
to put him out he flattened himself, and clung like a limpet. By Father Beckett's intercession,
he was eventually taken, trusting to luck for toleration by the British Army. Of course he
continued to smile upon all possible arbiters of his fate; and the drama of his history, combined
with the pathos of his blind master who fought on these battlefields of Flanders, which now
he cannot see, made Brian's Sirius and Sirius's Brian personæ gratæ everywhere.

"I should have been nobody and nothing without them!" modestly insisted the millionaire philanthropist
for whom all the privileges of the trip had been granted.

To me, with the one thought, the one word "Jim--Jim--Jim!" repeating in my head it was strange,
even irrelevant to hear Jim's unsuspecting father and my blind brother discoursing of their
adventures.

We all assembled in Mother Beckett's sitting room to listen to the recital, she on a sofa,
a rug over her feet, and on her transparent face an utterly absorbed, tense expression rather
like a French spaniel trying to learn an English trick.

Father Beckett appointed Brian as spokesman, and then in his excitement broke in every instant
with: "Don't forget this! Be sure to remember that! But so-and-so was the best!" Or he jumped
up from his chair by the sofa, and dropped his wife's hand to point out something on the map,
spread like a cloth over the whole top of a bridge-table.

It was his finger that sketched for our eyes the sharp triangle which the road-journey had
formed: Amiens to Albert: Albert to Péronne: Péronne to Bapaume: Bapaume to Arras: Arras to
Bethune, and so on to Ypres: his finger that reminded Brian of the first forest on the road--a
forest full of working German prisoners.

At Pont-Noyelles, between Amiens and Albert, they were met by an officer who was to be their
guide for that part of the British front which they were to visit. He was sent from headquarters,
but hadn't been able to afford time for Amiens. However, Pont-Noyelles was the most interesting
place between there and Albert. A tremendous battle was fought on that spot in '70, between
the French under famous General Faidherbe and the Germans under Manteuffel--a perfect name
for a German general of these days, if not of those! There were two monuments to commemorate
the battle--one high on a hill above the village; and the officer guide (with the face of a
boy and the grim experience of an Old Contemptible) was well up in their history. He turned
out to be a friend of friends of Brian and knew the history of Sirius as well as that of all
the war-wasted land. He and Brian, though they'd never met, had fought near each other it seemed,
and he could describe for the blind eyes all the changes that had come upon the Somme country
since Brian's "day." The roads which had been remade by the British over the shell-scarred
and honeycombed surface of the land; the aerodromes; the training-camps; the tanks; the wonderful
new railways for troops and ammunition: the bands of German prisoners docilely at work.

When the great gray car stopped, throbbing, at special view-points here and there, it was Brian
who could listen for a lark's message of hope among the billowing downs, or draw in the tea-rose
scent of earth from some brown field tilled by a woman. It was Father Beckett who saw the horrors
of desolation--desolation more hideous even than on the French front; because, since the beginning,
here had burned the hottest furnace of war: here had fallen a black, never-ceasing rain of
bombardment, night and day, day and night, year after year.

It was the cherubic Old Contemptible who could tell each detail of war-history, when the car
reached Albert. It was Brian who knew the ancient legend of the place, and the modern story
of the spy, which, together, double the dramatic interest of the Bending Virgin. In the eleventh
century a shepherd boy discovered, in a miraculous way, a statue of the Virgin. There was a
far-off sound of music at night, when he was out in search of strayed sheep, and being young
he forgot his errand in curiosity to learn whence came the mysterious chanting, accompanied
by the silver notes of a flute. The boy wandered in the direction of the delicate sounds, and
to his amazement found all the lost flock grazing round a statue which appeared to have risen
from the earth. On that spot was built the basilica of Notre-Dame de Brébières, which became
a place of pilgrimage. The Virgin of the Shepherds was supposed to send her blessings far,
far over the countryside, and her gilded image, with the baby Christ in her arms, was a flaming
beacon at sunrise and sunset. Thus on her high tower the golden Lady stood when the war began.
Albert was pitilessly bombarded, and with a startling accuracy which none could understand:
yet the church itself, with its temptingly high tower, remained intact. Through October, 1914,
the shining figure blazed against the sky, while houses fell in all quarters of the town: but
on November 1st, three bombs struck the church. They were the first heavy drops of rain in
a thunderstorm. The roof crashed in: and presently the pedestal of the Virgin received a shattering
blow. This was on the very day when Albert discovered why for so long the church had been immune.
A spy had been safely signalling from the tower, telling German gunners how and where to strike
with the most damage to the town. When all the factories which gave wealth to Albert, and the
best houses, had been methodically destroyed, the spy silently stole away: and the Virgin of
the Shepherds then bent over, face down, to search for this black sheep of the fold. Ever since
she with the sacred Child in her arms has hung thus suspended in pity and blessing over mountainous
piles of wreckage which once composed the market-place. She will not crash to earth, Albert
believes, till the war is over. But so loved is she in her posture of protection that the citizens
propose to keep her in it for ever to commemorate the war-history of Albert, when Albert is
rebuilt for future generations.

From there the gray car ran on almost due east to Péronne, out of the country of Surrey-like,
Chiltern-like downs, into a strange marshy waste, where the river Somme expands into vast meres,
swarming with many fish. It looked, Father Beckett said, "Like a bit of the world when God
had just begun to create life out of chaos."

Poor Péronne! In its glorious days of feudal youth its fortress-castle was invincible. The
walls were so thick that in days before gunpowder no assaults could hope to break through them.
Down in its underground depths was a dungeon, where trapped enemy princes lay rotting and starving
through weary years, never released save by death, unless tortured into signing shameful treaties.
The very sound of the name, "Péronne," is an echo of history, as Brian says. Hardly a year-date
in the Middle Ages could be pricked by a pin without touching some sensational event going
on at that time at Péronne. I remember this from my schooldays; and more clearly still from
"Quentin Durward," which I have promised to read aloud to Mother Beckett. I remember the Scottish
monks who were established at Péronne in the reign of Clovis. I remember how Charles the Bold
of Burgundy (who died outside Nancy's gates) imprisoned wicked Louis XI in a strong tower of
the château, one of the four towers with conical roofs, like extinguishers of giant candles
and kingly reputations! I remember best of all the heroine of Péronne, Catherine de Poix, "la
belle Péronnaise," who broke with her own hand the standard of Charles's royal flag, in the
siege of 1536, threw the bearer into the fosse, and saved the city.

When Wellington took the fortress in 1814, he did not desecrate or despoil the place: it was
left for the Germans to do that, just a century later in the progress of civilization! My blood
grew hot as I heard from our two men the story of what the new Vandals had done. Just for a
moment I almost forgot the secret burning in my heart. The proud pile of historic stone brought
to earth at last, like a soldier-king, felled by an axe in his old age: the statue of Catherine
thrown from its pedestal, and replaced in mockery by a foolish manikin--this as a mean revenge
for what she did to the standard-bearer, most of Charles's men in the siege being Germans,
under Henry of Nassau.

    "Toujours Francs-Péronnais
    Auront bon jour,
    Toujours et en tout temps
    Francs-Péronnais auront bon temps,"

the girls used to sing in old days as they wove the wonderful linens and tissues of Péronne,
or embroidered banners of gorgeous colours to commemorate the saving of the Picard city by
Catherine: as Brian repeated to Father Beckett wandering through the ruins redeemed last spring
for France by the British. And though Brian's eyes could not see the rubbish-heap where once
had soared the citadel he saw through the mystic veil of his blindness many things which others
did not see.

It seems that above these marshy flats of the Somme, where the river has wandered away from
the hills and disguised itself in shining lakes, gauzy mists always hover. Brian had seen them
with bodily eyes, while he was a soldier. Now, with the eyes of his spirit he saw them again,
gleaming with the delicate, indescribable colours which only blind eyes can call up to lighten
darkness. He saw the fleecy clouds streaming over Péronne like a vast, transparent ghost-banner.
He saw on their filmy folds, as if traced in blue and gold and royal purple, the ever famous
scene on the walls when Catherine and her following beat back Nassau's men from the one breach
where they might have captured the town. And this mystic banner of the spirit Germans can never
capture or desecrate. It will wave over Péronne--what was Péronne, and what will again be Péronne--while
the world goes on making history for free men.

After Péronne, Bapaume: the battered corpse of Bapaume, murdered in flame that reddened all
the skies of Picardy before the British came to chase the Germans out!

In old times, when a place was destroyed the saying was, "Not one stone is left upon another."
But in this war, destruction means an avalanche of stones upon each other. Bapaume as Father
Beckett saw it, is a Herculaneum unexcavated. Beneath lie buried countless precious things,
and still more precious memories; the feudal grandeur of the old château where Philippe-Auguste
married proud Isabelle de Hainaut, with splendid ceremony as long ago as 1180: the broken glory
of ancient ramparts, where modern lovers walked till the bugles of August 2, 1914, parted them
for ever; the arcaded Town Hall, old as the domination of the Spaniards in Picardy; the sixteenth-century
church of St. Nicolas with its quaint Byzantine Virgin of miracles: the statue of Faidherbe
who beat back the German wave from Bapaume in 1871: all, all burned and battered, and mingled
inextricably with débris of pitiful little homes, nobles' houses, rich shops and tiny boutiques,
so that, when Bapaume rises from the dead, she will rise as one--even as France has risen.

Of the halting places on this pilgrimage along the British front, I should best have liked
to be with Brian and Father Beckett at Arras. Brian and I were there together you know, Padre,
on that happy-go-lucky tramping tour of ours--not long before I met Jim. We both loved Arras,
Brian and I, and spent a week there in the most fascinating of ancient hotels. It had been
a palace; and I had a huge room, big enough for the bedchamber of a princess (princesses should
always have bedchambers, never mere bedrooms!) with long windows draped like the walls and
stiff old furniture, in yellow satin. I was frightened when an aged servant with the air of
a pontiff ushered me in; for Brian and I were travelling "on the cheap." But Arras, though
delicious in its quaint charm, never attracted hordes of ordinary tourists. Consequently one
could have yellow satin hangings without being beggared.

Oh, how happy we were in that hotel, and in the adorable old town! While Brian painted in the
Grande Place and the Petite Place, and sketched the Abbey of St. Waast (who brought Christianity
to that part of the world) I wandered alone. I used to stand every evening till my neck ached,
staring up at the beautiful belfry, to watch the swallows chase each other back and forth among
the bells, whose peal was music of fairyland. And I never tired of wandering through the arcades
under the tall old Flemish houses with their overhanging upper storeys, or peeping into the
arcades' cool shadows, from the middle of the sunlit squares.

There were some delightful shops in those arcades, where they sold antique Flemish furniture,
queer old pictures showing Arras in her proud, treaty-making days (you know what a great place
she was for treaty-making!) and lovely faded tapestries said to be "genuinely" of the time
when no one mentioned a piece of tapestry save as an "arras." But the shop I haunted was a
cake-shop. It was called "Au Coeur d'Arras," because the famous speciality of Arras was a heart-shaped
cake; but I wasn't lured there so much by the charm of les coeurs as by that of the person
who sold them.

I dare say I described her to you in letters, or when I got back to England after that trip.
The most wonderful old lady who ever lived! She didn't welcome her customers at all. She just
sat and knitted. She had an architectural sort of face, framed with a crust of snow--I mean,
a frilled cap! And if one furtively stared, she looked at one down her nose, and made one feel
cheap and small as if one had snored, or hiccupped out aloud in a cathedral! But it seems I
won her esteem by enquiring if "les coeurs d'Arras" had a history. Nobody else had ever shown
enough intelligence to care! So she gave me the history of the cakes, and of everything else
in Arras; also, before we went away, she escorted Brian and me into a marvellous cellar beneath
her shop. It went down three storeys and had fireplaces and a well! The earth under La Grande
Place was honeycombed with such souterrains, she said. They'd once been quarries, in days so
old as to be forgotten--quarries of "tender stone" (what a nice expression!), and the people
of Arras had cemented and made them habitable in case of bombardment. They must have been useful
in 1914!

As for the cakes, they were invented by an abbess who was sent to Spain. Before reluctantly
departing, she gave the recipe to her successor, saying she "left her heart in Arras." According
to the legend (the old shop-lady assured me) a girl who had never loved was certain to fall
in love within a month after first eating a Heart of Arras. Well, Padre, I ate almost a hundred
hearts, and less than a month after I met Jim!

You may believe that I asked Brian and Father Beckett a dozen questions at once about dear
Arras. But alas, alas! all the answers were sad.

The beautiful belfry? Only a phantom remaining. The Hôtel de Ville? Smashed. La Grande Place--La
Petite Place? Stone quarries above ground as well as below, the old Flemish façades crumbled
like sheets of barley sugar. The arcades? Ruined. The charming old shops? Vanished. The seller
of Hearts? Dead. But the Hearts--they still existed! The children of Arras who have come back
"since the worst was over" (that is their way of putting it!) would not feel that life was
life without the Arras Hearts. Besides, Arras without the Hearts would be like the Altar of
the Vestal Virgins without the ever-burning lamp. So they are still baked, and still eaten,
those brave little Hearts of Arras--and Brian asked Father Beckett to bring me a box.

They bought it of a cousin of my old woman, an ancient man who had lurked in a cellar during
the whole of the bombardment. He said that all Arras knew, in September, 1914, how the Kaiser
had vowed to march into the town in triumph, and how, when he found the place as hard to take
"as quicksilver is to grasp," he revenged himself by destroying its best-beloved treasures.
He must have rejoiced that July day of 1915, when Wolff's Agency was able to announce at last,
that the Abbey of St. Waast and its museum were in flames!

As the gray car bumped on to Bethune, Vimy Ridge floated blue in the far distance, to the right
of the road, and Father Beckett and Brian took off their hats to it. Still farther away, and
out of sight lay Lens, in German possession, but practically encircled by the British. The
Old Contemptible had been there, and described the town as having scarcely a roof left, but
being an "ant heap" of Boches, who swarm in underground shelters bristling with machine guns.
Between Lens and the road stood the celebrated Colonne de Condé, showing where the prince won
his great victory over Spain; and farther on, within gun-sound distance though out of sight,
lay Loos, on the Canal de l'Haute Deule. Who thinks nowadays of its powerful Cistercian Abbey,
that dominated the country round? Who thinks twice, when travelling this Appian Way which Germany
has given France, of any history which began or ended before the year 1914?

Bethune they found still existing as a town. It has been bombarded often but not utterly destroyed,
and from there they ran out four miles to Festubert, because the little that the Germans have
left of the thirteenth-century church and village, burns with an eternal flame of interest.

Bethune itself was a famous fortress once, full of history and legend: but isn't the whole
country in its waste and ruin, like a torn historic banner, crusted with jewels--magic jewels,
which cannot be stolen by enemy hands?

On the way to Ypres--crown and climax of the tour--the car passed Lillers and Hazebrouck, places
never to be forgotten by hearts that beat in the battles of Flanders. Then came the frontier
at Steenwoorde; and they were actually in Belgium, passing Poperinghe to Ypres, the most famous
British battleground of the war.

When Brian was fighting, and when you were on earth, Padre, everyone talked about the "Ypres
Salient." Now, though for soldiers Ypres will always be the "salient" since the battle of Wytschaete
Ridge, the material salient has vanished. Yet the same trenches exist, in the same gray waste
which Brian used to paint in those haunting, impressionist war sketches of his that all London
talked about, after the Regent Street exhibition that he didn't even try for leave to see!
The critics spoke of the mysterious, spiritual quality of his work, which gave "without sentimentality"
picturesqueness to the shell-holes and mud, the shattered trees and wooden crosses, under eternally
dreaming skies.

Well, Brian tells me that going back as a blind man to the old scenes, he had a strange, thrilling
sense of seeing them--seeing more clearly than before those effects of mysterious beauty, hovering
with prophecy above the squalor of mud and blood, hovering and mingling as the faint light
of dawn mingles, at a certain hour, with the shadows of night. People used to call his talent
a "blend of vision with reality." Now, all that is left him is "vision"--vision of the spirit.
But with help--I used to think it would be my help: now I realize it will be Dierdre's--who
knows what extraordinary things my blind Brian may accomplish? His hope is so beautiful, and
so strong, that it has lit an answering flame of hope in me.

He and I were in Ypres for a few days, just about the time I was wondering why "Jim Wyndham"
didn't keep his promise to find me again. It was in Ypres, I remember, that I came across the
box of "Coeurs d'Arras" I'd brought with me. Opening it, I recalled the legend about a girl
who has never loved, falling in love within a month after first eating an Arras Heart. It was
then I said to myself, "Why, it has come true! I have fallen in love with Jim Wyndham--and
he has forgotten me!"

Oh, Padre, how that pain comes back to me now, in the midst of the new pain, like the "core
of the brilliance within the brilliance!" Which hurt is worse, to love a man, and believe oneself
forgotten, or to love and know one has been loved, and then become unworthy? I can't be sure.
I can't even be sure that, if I could, I would go back to being the old self before I committed
the one big sin of my life, which gave me Jim's father and mother, and the assurance that he
had cared. For a while, after Mother Beckett told me about Jim's love for "The Girl," in spite
of my wickedness I glowed with a kind of happiness. I felt that, through all the years of my
life--even when I grew old--Jim would be mine, young, handsome, gay, just as I had seen him
on the Wonderful Day: that I could always run away from outside things and shut the gate of
the garden on myself and Jim--that rose-garden on the border of Belgium. Now, when I know--or
almost know--that he will come back in the flesh to despise me, and that the gate of the garden
will be forever shut--why, I shall be punished as perhaps no woman has ever been punished before.
Still--still I can't be sure that I would escape, if I could, by going back to my old self!

It is writing of Belgium, and my days there with Brian while I still hoped to see Jim, that
brings all these thoughts crowding so thickly to my mind, they seem to drip off my pen!

But what a different Ypres Father Beckett has now seen, and Brian felt, from that dear, pleasant
Ypres into which we two drove in a cart, along a cobbled causeway as straight as a tight-drawn
string! Tourists who loved the blue, and yellow, and red bath-houses on the golden beach of
Ostend, didn't worry to motor over the bumpy road, through the Flemish plain to Ypres. The
war was needed to bring its sad fame to "Wipers!" But Brian and I interrupted our walking tour
with that cart, because we knew that the interminable causeway would take us deep into the
inner quaintness of Flanders. We adored it all: and at every stopping-place on the twenty-mile
road, I had the secret joy of whispering; "Perhaps it is here that He will suddenly appear,
and meet us!"

There was one farmhouse on the way, where I longed to have him come. I wanted him so much that
I almost created him! I was listening every moment, and through every sound, for his car. It
never came. But because I so wished the place to be a background for our meeting I can see
the two large living-rooms of the old house, with the black-beamed ceilings, the Flemish stoves,
the tall, carved sideboards and chests with armorial bearings, the deep window-seats that were
flower-stands and work-tables combined, and the shelves of ancient pottery and gleaming, antique
brass. There was a comfortable fragrance of new-baked bread, mingling with the spicy scent
of grass-pinks, in that house: and the hostess who gave us luncheon--a young married woman--had
a mild, sweet face, strongly resembling that of St. Geneviève of Brabant, as pictured in a
coloured lithograph on the wall.

St. Geneviève's story is surely the most romantic, the most pathetic of any saint who ever
deigned to tread on earth!--and her life and death might serve as an allegory of Belgium's
martyrdom, poor Belgium, the little country whose patron she is. Since that day at the farmhouse
on the road to Ypres, I've thought often of the gentle face with its forget-me-not eyes and
golden hair; and of Golo the dark persecutor who--they say now--was a real person and an ancestor
of the Hohenzollerns through the first Duc de Bavière.

At Ypres, Brian painted for me a funny "imagination picture" imitating earliest Flemish work.
It showed Ypres when there was no town save a few tiny houses and a triangular stronghold,
with a turret at each corner, built on a little island in the river Yperlee. He named the picture
"The Castle of the Three Strong Towers," and dated it in the year 900. A thousand years have
passed since then. Slowly, after much fighting (the British fought as hard to take Ypres once,
as they fight to save it now), the town grew great and powerful, and became the capital of
Flanders. The days of the rough earthen stockades and sharp thorn-bush defences of "Our Lady
of the Enclosures" passed on to the days of casemates and moats; and still on, to the days
when the old fortifications could be turned into ornamental walks--days of quaintly beautiful
architecture, such as Brian and I saw before the war, when we spent hours in the Grand' Place,
admiring the wonderful Cloth Hall and the Spanish-looking Nieuwerck. The people of Ypres told
us proudly that nothing in Bruges itself, or anywhere in Flanders, could compare with those
noble buildings massed together at the west end of the Grand' Place, each stone of which represented
so much wealth of the richest merchant kings of Europe.

And now, the work of those thousand busy years has crumbled in a few monstrous months, like
the sand-houses of children when the tide comes in! What Father Beckett saw of Ypres after
three years' bombardment, was not much more than that shown in Brian's picture, dated 900!
A blackened wall or two and a heap of rubble where stood the Halle des Drapiers--pride of Ypres
since the thirteenth century--its belfry, its statues, its carvings, its paintings, all vanished
like the contours and colours of a sunset cloud. The cathedral is a skeleton. Hardly a pointed
gable is left to tell where the quaint and prosperous houses once grouped cosily together.
Ypres the town is a mourner draped in black with the stains of fire which killed its beauty
and joy. But there is a glory that can never be killed, a glory above mere beauty, as a living
soul is above the dead body whence it has risen. That glory is Ypres. She is a ghost, but she
is an inspiration, a name of names, a jewel worth dying for--"worth giving a man's eyes for,"
Brian says!

"Has your brother told you about the man we met at the Visitors' Château?" asked Father Beckett,
when between the two men--and my reminiscences--the story of the tour was finished with those
last words of Brian's.

"No, I haven't told her yet," Brian answered for me.

My nerves jumped. I scarcely knew what I expected to hear. "Not Doctor Paul Herter?" I exclaimed--and
was surprised to hear on my own lips the name so constantly in my mind.

"Well, that's queer she should speak of him, isn't it, Brian? How did you come to think of
Herter?" Father Beckett wanted to know.

"Was it he?" I insisted.

"No. But--you'd better tell her, Brian. I guess you'll have to."

"There isn't much to tell, really," Brian said. "It was only that oculist chap Herter told
you about--Dr. Henri Chrevreuil. He's been working at the front, as you know: lately it's been
the British front; and they'd taken him in at the château for a few days' rest. We met him
there and talked of his friend--your friend, Molly--Doctor Paul."

"What did he say about your eyes?" Dierdre almost gasped. (I should not have ventured to put
the question suddenly, and before people. I should have been too afraid of the answer. But
her nickname is "Dare!") "He must have said something, or Mr. Beckett wouldn't have spoken
so. He did look at your eyes--didn't he? He would, for Herter's sake."

"Yes, he did look at them," Brian admitted. "He didn't say much."

"But what--what?"

"He said: 'Wait, and--see.'"

"And see!" Dierdre echoed.

The same thought was in all our minds. As I gazed mutely at Brian, he gave me the most beautiful
smile of his life. He must have felt that I was looking at him, or he would not so have smiled.
Let Jim hate and--punish me when he comes back, and drive me out of Paradise! Wherever I may
go, there will be the reflection of that smile and the thought behind it. How can I be unhappy,
if Brian need only wait, to see?

CHAPTER XXX

Padre, my mind is like a thermometer exposed every minute to a different temperature, but always
high or low--never normal.

To tell, or not to tell, Father Beckett what the man I didn't see said about Jim--or rather,
what Julian O'Farrell said that he said! This has been the constant question; but the thermometer
invariably flies up or down, far from the answer-point.

When our men came back to Amiens, I almost hoped that Puck would do his worst--carry out his
threat and "give me away" to Father Beckett. In that case I should at least have been relieved
from responsibility. But Puck didn't. In my heart I had known all along that he would not.

If I could have felt for a whole minute at a time that it would be fair to wake hopes which
mightn't be fulfilled, out would have burst the secret. But whenever I'd screwed up my courage
to speak, Something would remind me: "Herter sent word that there might be a message from Switzerland.
Better wait till it comes, for he wasn't sure of his facts. He may have been misled." Or, when
I'd decided not to speak, another Something would say: "Jim is alive. You know he is alive!
Herter is helping him to escape. Don't let these dear old people suffer a minute longer than
they need."

But--well--so far I have waited. A week has passed since I wrote at Amiens. We have arrived
at Jim's château--the little, quaint, old Château d'Andelle, with thick stone walls, black-beamed
ceilings, and amusing towers, set in the midst of an enchanted forest of Normandy. No wonder
he fell in love with the place before the war, and wanted to live there! It must have seemed
an impossible dream at the time, for the owners (the château has been in the same family for
generations) had money in those days, and wouldn't have let their home to strangers. The war
has made all the difference. They couldn't afford to keep up the place, and were eager to let.
Beckett money is a boon to them, so everyone is satisfied. The agents in Paris secured two
or three extra servants to help the old pair left in the house as caretakers; and there is
a jewel of a maid for Mother Beckett--a Belgian refugette. I shall give her some training as
a nurse, and by and by I shall be able to fade away in peace. Already I'm beginning to prepare
my dear lady's mind for a parting. I talk of my hospital work, and drop hints that I'm only
on leave--that Brian's hopes and Father Beckett's splendid new-born plan for him, will permit
me to take up duty again soon.

The plan developed on the trip: but I'm sure the first inspiration came from Mother Beckett.
While she was ill, she did nothing but lie and think of things to do for other people. And
she was determined to make it possible for Brian to have a love story of his own, provided
he wanted one. It only needed Father Beckett's practical brain and unlimited purse to turn
her vague suggestion into a full-grown plan. A whole block of buildings on the outskirts of
Paris, let as apartment houses, is to be bought by Mr. Beckett, for the use of blinded soldiers.
Already his agents have got the refusal of the property for him; and with a few changes such
as knocking down inner walls and putting in doors where doors don't exist, the houses will
become one big mansion, to accommodate five or six hundred men. Each will have his own bedroom
or cubicle. There'll be a gymnasium, with a Swedish instructor, and every trade or profession
in which a blind man could possibly engage will be taught by experts. There will be a big dining
hall with a musicians' gallery, and a theatre. The library will be supplied with quantities
of books for the blind. There'll be a garden where the men will be taught to grow flowers and
vegetables. They will have a resident doctor, and two superintendents. One of these two will
himself be a blind man taught by his own experience how to teach others. Of course, Padre,
you know that this blind teacher is already chosen, and that the whole scheme centers round him!

In a way Brian realizes that, if it were not for him, it would never have been thought of.
In a way. But--it is his way. He doesn't torture himself, as I probably should in his place,
by thinking: "All these immense sums of money being spent as an excuse to provide for me in
life! Ought I to let it be done? Ought I to accept?"

Brian's way is not that. He says: "Now I understand why I lost my eyesight, and it's worth
it a thousand times. This wonderful chance is to be given me to help others, as I never could
have helped if I hadn't been blind. If sight comes back, I shall know what it is to be blind,
and I can give counsel and courage to others. I am glad, glad to be blind. It's a privilege
and a mission. Even if I never see again, except with my spirit's eyes, I shall still be glad!"

He doesn't worry at all because carrying out the plan will cost Father Beckett one or more
of his millions. What is money for, except to be spent? What pleasure is like spending to do
good? He finds it quite natural that Father Beckett wants to do this thing; and though he's
immensely grateful, he takes it blithely for granted that the benefactor should be happy and proud.

Travelling back from Ypres to Amiens they seem to have settled all the details between them,
though they told us their adventures before even mentioning the Plan. Brian is to be guide,
philosopher, and friend to the inmates and students of the James Wyndham Beckett College for
the Blind. Also he is to give lectures on art and various other subjects. If he can learn to
paint his blind impressions (as he believes he can, with Dierdre's promised help) he will be
able to teach other blind artists to follow his example. And he is to have a salary for his
services--not the big one Father Beckett wished: Brian wouldn't hear of that--but enough to
live on. And Dierdre and Julian are offered official positions and salaries too. It's suggested
that they should take a flat near by the College, within easy walking distance. Dierdre is
to entertain the blind men with recitations, and teach the art of reciting to those who wish
to learn. Julian is to sing and play for the men in the house-theatre, once or twice a week,
as he can spare time from his work with De Letzski. Also he will give one lesson a week in
singing and voice production.

Both the O'Farrells are to be well paid (no trouble in persuading Julian to accept generous
proposals for himself and his sister; for him the labourer is indeed worthy of his hire): and
with American dash and money the scheme is expected to be in working order by next June. It's
now well into November. But after seeing how other schemes have worked, and how this Château
d'Andelle business has been rushed through, I have the most sublime faith in Beckett miracles.

They are astonishing, these Becketts! Father, the simplest, kindest man, with the air of liking
his fireside better than any adventure: Mother, a slip of a creature--"a flower in a vase to
be kept by her menfolk on a high shelf," as I told myself when I first saw her. Yet what adventures
they have had, and what they have accomplished since the day Brian proposed this pilgrimage,
two months ago! Not a town on our route that, after the war won't have cause to bless them
and the son in whose name their good works have been done--cause to bless Beckett kindness,
Beckett money for generations in the future! Yet now they have added this most ambitious plan
of all to the list, and I know it will be carried out to perfection.

You see now, Padre, from what I've told you, how easy it is being made for me to slip out of
this circle. Brian, beaming with happiness, and on the point of opening his heart to Dierdre's
almost worshipping love: Mother Beckett slowly getting back a measure of frail, flower-like
health, in this lovely place which she calls Jim's: Father Beckett more at ease about her,
and intensely interested in his scheme: the small, neat Belgian refugette likely to prove at
least a ministering mouse if not a ministering angel: above all, hope if not certainty that
Jim will one day return--not only in spirit but in body--to his château and his family. If
I am needed anywhere on earth, it isn't here, but down in the south at my poor Hôpital des
Épidémies. Would it be cowardly in me to fly, as soon as I've persuaded the Becketts to spare
me, and throw the responsibility I haven't dared decide to take, upon my brave, blind Brian?

Ah, I don't mean telling him about myself and my sins. I shouldn't have the courage for that,
I fear! I mean, shall I tell him about Doctor Paul's message--or supposed message? It has just
occurred to me that I might do this, and let Brian decide whether Father Beckett ought to know,
even if no further news comes through Switzerland. You see, if I were gone, and Jim came, I
could trust the new Dierdre to do her best for me with Brian. He could never respect me, never
love me in the old way--but he might forgive, because of Dierdre herself--and because of the
great Plan. Hasn't my wickedness given them both to him?

Writing all this to you has done me good, Padre. I see more clearly ahead. I shall decide before
morning what to do. I feel I shall this time! And I think it a good idea to speak to Brian.
He will agree, though he doesn't know my secret need to escape, that it's right for me to take
up hospital work again. But, Padre, I can't go--I won't go--until I've helped Mother Beckett
arrange Jim's treasures in the room to be called his "den." She has been living for that, striving
to grow strong enough for that. And I--oh, Padre!--I want to be the one to unpack his things
and to touch each one with my hands. I want to leave something of myself in that room where,
if he's dead, his spirit will surely come: where, if he lives, his body will come. If I leave
behind me thoughts of love, won't they linger between those walls like the scent of roses in
a vase? Mayn't those thoughts influence Jim Beckett not to detest me as I deserve?

CHAPTER XXXI

Five days later.

I did talk to Brian, Padre, and he said, better wait and give the letter from Switzerland a
fair chance to arrive, before telling Father Beckett about Doctor Paul's messenger at Amiens.

Now I have had a letter, but not from Switzerland. I shall fold it up between the pages of
this book of my confessions. I believe you will read it, Padre.

It came to-day. It explains itself. The envelope, postmarked Paris, was addressed to me in
typewriting. If Mother Beckett had not had a slight relapse from working too hard in the den,
I might perhaps have been gone before the letter came. Then it would have had to be forwarded.
It's better that I stayed. You will see why. But--oh, Padre, Padre!

  THE LETTER

  "MISS O'MALLEY,

  "Once I met a lady whose name, as I understood it, was not
  unlike yours now, given me by Doctor Paul Herter. I cannot
  think that you and she are one. That lady, I'd swear, would be
  incapable of--let me say, placing herself in a false position.

  "Though you will not recognize my handwriting, I've said
  enough for you to guess that James Wyndham Beckett is your
  correspondent. I have had the address typed because, for my
  parents' sake and to spare them distress, it seems that you and I
  must reach some understanding before I venture to let them
  know that I'm alive.

  "If you are worthy to be called 'friend' by such a man as Paul
  Herter, you will wish to atone for certain conduct, by carrying
  out the request I make now. I must trust you to do so. But
  first let me relieve my mind of any fear for yourself. I have not
  contradicted the story you told Herter about our engagement.
  What I shall say to my parents when I meet them, as I hope soon
  to do, depends upon circumstances. Till you and I have had a
  private conversation, you will oblige me by letting things remain
  as they are. I have strong reasons for this wish. One of
  them--the only one I need explain now, is that it will seem
  natural to them I should write to my fiancée--a young, strong
  girl able to bear the shock of a great surprise--asking her to break
  the news gently and tactfully to my father and mother. I do
  ask you to do this. How to do it I must leave to you. But
  when you've told my parents that I'm alive, that I've escaped,
  that I'm in Paris with Herter, that as soon as my official business
  of reporting myself is finished, I'll get leave, you may put into
  their hands the following pages of this letter. They will not
  think it strange that the girl I am engaged to should keep the
  first part for her own eyes. Thus, without your being compromised,
  they will learn my adventures without having to
  wait until I come. But there's just room enough left on this
  first sheet to reiterate that, when Herter found me, and gave
  me the somewhat disconcerting news of my engagement to
  his friend, a Miss O'Malley travelling with my parents, I--simply
  listened. Rather than excite his suspicions I did not even
  yield to curiosity, and try to draw out a description. I could
  not be sure then that I should ever see you, or my people, for
  escape was difficult and there were more chances against than
  for my getting out of Germany alive. Now, in all human certainty
  I shall arrive at the Château d'Andelle (I got the address
  at the bank), and you owe it to me to remain on the spot till we
  can thrash out our affair together. I will begin on a new sheet
  the story of the last few months since my capture. You must
  forgive me if it bores you. In reality it is for my parents, when
  you have prepared their minds, and I don't think it will bore
  them....

  "We came a bad cropper. I was thrown clear of the machine,
  but knew nothing until I waked up, feeling like a bag of broken
  bones. It was night, and I saw a huge fountain of red flame and
  a lot of dark figures like silhouettes moving between it and me.
  That brought me out of my stupor. I knew my plane must have
  taken fire as it crashed down, and I was pretty sure the silhouettes
  were Germans. I looked around for my observer, and
  called to him in a low voice, hoping the Bosch wouldn't hear,
  over the noise of the fire. Nobody answered. Later I found out
  that the poor chap had been caught under the car. I pray he
  died before the flames reached him!

  "As I got my wits back, I planned to try and hide myself under
  some bushes I could see not far off, till the coast was clear; but I
  couldn't move. I seemed to be thoroughly smashed up, and
  began to think it was the end of things ici-bas for me. After
  a while I must have fainted. By and by I had a dream of jolting
  along through a blazing desert, on the back of a lame camel. It
  was rather fierce, that jolting! It shook me out of my faint, and
  when I opened my eyes it was to find myself on a stretcher
  carried by fellows in German gray. They took me to a field
  hospital, and I guessed by the look of things that it was close to
  the first lines. It made me sick to think how near I must be to
  our own front--yet so far!

  "Well, I won't be long-winded about what happened next.
  I can go into details when we meet. It turned out that I had
  a leg, an arm, and some ribs smashed. The Bosch surgeon
  wasn't half bad, as Bosches go, but he was a bit brusque. I
  heard him say right out to the anæsthetist, it seemed a pity
  to waste good ether on me, as there wasn't one chance in five
  to save my life. Still, I'd be an experiment! Before I went
  off under the stuff I told them who I was, for I'd heard they were
  sometimes fairly decent to enemy aviators, and I hoped to get a
  message through to my people. I was feeling as stupid as an
  owl, but I did think I saw a change come over the men's faces
  when they heard my name. Later, putting two and two together,
  I concluded that Germany was just the kind of business
  nation to know all about the dear old Governor. I might have
  realized that, out of sheer spite against the United States for
  bursting into the war, they'd enjoy letting a man of James Beckett
  Senior's importance go on believing his son was dead. I bet
  they put my name over the grave of my poor, burned pal, Hank
  Lee! It would be the thoroughgoing sort of thing they do, when
  they make up their minds to create an impression.

  "I didn't die, though! Spite for spite, I got well. But it
  took some time. One of my lungs had been damaged a bit
  by a broken rib, and the doctors prescribed an open-air cure,
  after I'd begun to crawl again. I was put with a lot of T. B.'s,
  if you know what that means, in a camp hospital. Not far
  off was a huge 'camouflaged' aerodrome and a village of hangars.
  I heard that flying men were being trained there. I used to think
  I'd give my head to get to the place, but I never hoped to do it--till
  Herter came.

  "Now I will tell you how he came--which I can freely do,
  as we are both safe in Paris, having come from somewhere
  near Compiègne. One of the first things Herter said about you
  was that you must have guessed where he was going, and more
  or less for what purpose. For that purpose he was the ideal
  man: a Lorrainer of Germanized Lorraine; German his native
  tongue--(though he hates it)--and clever as Machiavelli. He
  "escaped" from France into Germany, told a tale about killing
  a French sentry and creeping across No Man's Land at night, in
  order to get to the German lines. It was a big risk, but Herter
  is as brave and resourceful a man as I ever met. He got the
  Bosches to believe that he was badly ill in Paris when the war
  broke out and couldn't slip away, otherwise he'd have sprung to
  do his loyal duty to the Fatherland. He persuaded them that
  his lot being cast in France for the time, he'd resolved to serve
  Germany by spying, until he could somehow bolt across the
  frontier. He spun a specious tale about pretending to the French
  to have French sympathies, and winning the confidence of
  high-up men, by serving as a surgeon on several fronts. To
  prove his German patriotism he had notes to show, realistically
  made on thin silk paper, and hidden inside the lining of his
  coat.

  "Herter's mission in Boschland isn't my business or yours;
  but I'm allowed to say that it was concerned with aeroplanes.
  There was something he had to find out, and he has found it
  out, or he wouldn't be back on this side of the lines. Because he
  hoped to be among German flying-men, he hinted to you that
  he might be able to do you some service. It occurred to him
  that he might learn where my grave was and let you know.
  Nothing further was in his thoughts then--or until he happened
  to draw out a piece of unexpected information in a roundabout
  way.

  "His trick of getting across to the flying-men was smart, like
  all his tricks. The valuable (?) notes he'd brought into Germany
  mostly concerned new French and American inventions in that
  line. That was his 'speciality.' And when he had handed the
  notes over with explanations, he continued his programme by
  asking for a job as surgeon in a field hospital. (You see, he hoped
  to get back to France before the worthlessness of his notes was
  discovered.) When he'd proved his qualifications, he got his
  job like a shot. They were only too glad of his services. Pretending
  to have been in American training-camps, it was easy
  to bring up my name in a casual way. Laughing that rather
  sinister laugh of his, which you will remember, Herter told a
  couple of flying chaps he had promised a girl to find Jim Beckett's
  grave. One of the fellows laughed too, and made a remark
  which set Herter thinking. Later, he was able to refer to
  the subject again, and learned enough to suspect that there was
  something fishy about the Bosch announcement of my death and
  burial. He tells me that, at this point, he was able to send you a
  verbal message by a consumptive prisoner about to be repatriated.
  Whether you got that message or not who knows?

  "His idea was to send another (in a way he won't explain
  even to me) when he'd picked up further news. But as things
  turned out, there was no time. Besides, it wasn't necessary.
  It looked hopeful that we might be our own carrier pigeons, or
  else--cease to exist.

  "What happened was that Herter heard I was alive and in a
  hospital not far behind the lines. Just at this time he had got
  hold of the very secret he'd come to seek. The sooner he could
  make a dash for home the better: but if possible, he wished to
  take me with him. He had the impression that to do so would
  please his friend Miss O'Malley! How it was to be worked he
  didn't see until an odd sort of American bombing machine fell,
  between an aerodrome it had attempted to destroy, and Herter's
  hospital. They knew it was American, only because of its two
  occupants, both killed. The machine was considerably smashed
  up, but experts found traces of something amazingly novel, which
  they couldn't understand. Herter was called to the scene, because
  he had pretended to be up in the latest American flying
  'stunts.' The minute he saw the wreckage an inspiration
  jumped into his head.

  "He confessed himself puzzled by the mysterious details,
  thought them important, and said: 'It seems to me this
  resembles the engine and wings of the James Beckett invention
  I heard so much about. But I didn't know it was far enough
  ahead yet to be in use. A pity the inventor was killed. He
  might have come in handy.

  "Well, they put those words in their pipes and smoked them--knowing,
  of course, that I was very much alive and almost
  within a stone's throw.

  "I had always pretended not to understand German: thought
  ignorance of the language might serve my plans some day or
  other. The chap they sent to fetch me dropped a few words to a
  doctor in my hearing. And so, though I wasn't told where I was
  being taken or why I was to go, I'd about caught on to the fact
  that I was supposed to have invented the plans for a new bombing
  biplane. That made me wonder if a friend was at work under
  the rose: and I was ready for anything when I got to the scene
  of the smash.

  "Fortunately, none of the Bosches on the spot could speak
  English fluently, and I appeared more of a fool at French than
  German. Herter--entirely trusted by his German pals--was
  told off to talk English with me; and a flash of his eye said, here
  was the friend! It was only a flash, and I couldn't be sure, but
  it put me on the qui vive. I noticed that in asking me the
  question he was told to ask, he emphasized certain words which
  needed no emphasis, and spoke them slowly, with a look that
  made me determine to fix each one in my mind. This I did, and
  putting them together when I got the chance, I made out, 'I
  want to get you home. Say you invented this model, and could
  put the thing in working trim.'

  "That was a big order! If I said it and could keep my word,
  would it be a patriotic job to present the enemy with a
  perfectly good machine, of a new make, in the place of a wreck they
  didn't understand? This was my first thought. But the
  second reminded me of a sentence I'd constructed with some of
  the emphasized words; 'I want to get you home.' How did he
  expect to get me home--if not by air?

  "With that I caught a glimpse of the plan, as one sometimes
  catches sight of the earth through a break in massed
  clouds when flying. If the man meant to help me, I would help
  him. If he turned out a fraud, the Germans shouldn't profit
  by his treachery I'd stop that game at the last moment, if I died
  for it!

  "You will know nothing about the new and curious bombing
  biplane of super-speed invented by Leroy Harman of Galbraith,
  Texas. But Father knows as much as any one not an expert in
  aeronautics can know. When the Government wouldn't believe
  in Harman, Father financed him by my advice. I left home for
  France before the trial machine that was to convince officialdom
  had come into being; and I didn't even know whether it had
  made good. But the minute I saw what lay on the ground,
  surrounded by a ring of Germans, I said to myself; 'Good old
  Leroy!'

  "I'd seen so much of his plans that they remained printed on
  my brain, and I could--if I would--set that biplane on its wings
  again almost as easily as if I had invented it.

  "Odd that the Bosches and I both trusted Herter, seeing he
  must be false to one side or other! But he's that sort of man.
  And I always take a tip from my own instinct before listening to
  my reason. Maybe that's why I didn't do badly in my brief
  career as a flier. Anyhow, I played up to Herter; and I got the
  job of superintending the reconstruction of poor Harman's
  damaged machine. It was a lovely job for a prisoner, though
  they watched me as a German cat would watch an Allied mouse.
  Herter was nearly always on the spot, however, for he'd made
  himself responsible for me. Also, he'd offered to pump me about
  what was best in the air world on my side of the water: how
  many aeroplanes of different sorts America could turn out in
  six months, etc. We contrived a cypher on diagrams I made.
  It was a clever one, but the credit was Herter's.

  "The Bosches were waiting impatiently for my work to be
  done, in order to try out the machine, and if satisfactory, spawn
  a brood of their own on the same model. I was equally impatient.
  I hoped to fly off with the biplane before they had time
  to copy it!

  "A wounded Ace of theirs, Anton Hupfer, was for ever hanging
  round. He was to take up the 'plane when it was ready.
  But Herter industriously chummed with him, and not for nothing.
  To Herter was due the 'discovery' of the inventor;
  and as he boasted experience in flying, he asked the privilege
  of being Hupfer's companion on the trial trip.

  "The success of this trip would depend even more on the
  machine's worth as a bomber than on her speed and climbing
  qualities. It was, therefore, to be undertaken at night, with a
  full complement of real bombs to drop upon headquarters at
  Compiègne. Herter had suggested this. Daylight wouldn't
  have suited for a start.

  "An hour before the appointed time he dashed in upon Hupfer
  to confide that a sudden suspicion concerning me was troubling
  him. He had noticed a queer expression on my face as I gave
  the engine a last look over! If I had done some obscure damage
  to this so new type of machine, the mechanics might not detect
  its nature. Herter didn't wish to harm me, if his suspicion
  was unfounded, he explained, but he proposed a drastic proof
  of my good faith. I was to be hauled out of bed, and hurried
  without warning to look at the biplane in her hangar. The
  mechanics were to be sent outside, there to wait for a signal to
  open the doors: this to avoid gossip if I was honest after all.
  Hupfer was to spring it on me that he'd decided to take me up
  instead of Herter. My face was to be watched as this news was
  flung at me. If I showed the slightest trace of uneasiness, it
  would be a sign that I had played a trick and feared to fall its
  victim. In that case the 'third degree' was to be applied until I
  owned up, and could be haled away for punishment.

  "There was just time to carry out this programme, and
  Hupfer fell for it. Herter had put me wise beforehand, and
  I knew what to expect. His real plan was to stand behind
  Hupfer, the Bosch Ace, and bash him on the head with a
  spanner, while his (Hupfer's) whole attention was fixed on
  me. We would then undress the fellow. I would take his
  clothes, and we'd put him into mine. Hupfer's body (stunned,
  not dead, we hoped) we would lay behind a pile of petrol tins. I
  acting as pilot, would trust to my disguise and the darkness of
  night not to be spotted when the two mechanics threw open the
  hangar doors.

  "Everything happened as we'd arranged, without a hitch--again,
  all credit to Herter! When we'd hidden the limp Ace,
  trussed up in my prison rig, Herter yelled to the waiting men, in a
  good imitation of Hupfer's voice. We ran smoothly out of the
  hangar, and were given a fine send off. How soon the Bosches
  found out how they'd been spoofed, I don't know. It couldn't
  have been long though, as my prison guard was in attendance.
  The great thing was, we went up in grand style. Otherwise--but
  we needn't now think of the 'otherwise'!

  "Our next danger lay in taking the wrong direction, getting
  farther back in Boschland instead of over the frontier. I kept
  my wits, fortunately, so that turned out all right. Still, there
  remained the chance of being shot down by the French, and
  blown with our own bombs into kingdom come. But, by good
  luck it was a clear night. No excuse for getting lost! And
  when I was sure we were well over the French lines, I planed
  down to alight in a field.

  "The alert was out for us, of course, and a fierce barrage put
  up, but I flew high till I was ready for a dive. We'd hardly landed,
  when the poilus swarmed like bees, but that was what we
  wanted. You must imagine the scene that followed, till I
  can tell you by word of mouth!

  "I shall have made my report, and have been given leave
  to start for a visit to my family by to-morrow I hope.

    "Yours till the end,

               "JIM."

"Yours till the end!" Rather a smart, cynical way of winding up those "exhibition pages" was
it not, Padre? The secret translation of that signature is: "Yours, you brute, till I can get
rid of you with least damage to my parents' susceptibilities!"

I shall obey, and wait for the interview. It's like waiting to be shot at dawn!

CHAPTER XXXII

I persuaded Brian to tell Father Beckett. I wasn't worthy. But the dear old man came straight
to me, transfigured, to make me go with him to his wife, even before he had finished reading
the letter.

"You must come," he said--and when Father Beckett says "must," in a certain tone, one does.
It's then that the resemblance, more in expression than feature, between him and his son shines
out like a light. "It will save mother the trouble of asking for you," he went on, dragging
me joyously with him, his arm round my waist. "She'd do that, first thing, sure! Why, do you
suppose we forget Jim's as much to you as to us? Haven't you shown us that, every day since
we met?"

What answer could I give? I gave none.

Mother Beckett had been lying down for the afternoon nap which by my orders she takes every
day. She'd just waked, and was sitting up on the lounge, when her husband softly opened the
door to peep in. The only light was firelight, leaping in an open grate.

"Come in, come in!" she greeted us in her silver tinkle of a voice. "Oh, you didn't disturb
me. I was awake. I thought I'd ring for tea. But I didn't after all. I'd had such a beautiful
dream, I hated to come out of it."

"I bet it was a dream about Jim!" said Father Beckett. He drew me into the room, and the little
lady pulled me down beside her on the wide, cushiony lounge. Her husband's special arm-chair
was close by, but he didn't subside into it as usual at this cosy hour of the afternoon. Instead,
he knelt stiffly down on one knee, and took the tiny, ringed hand held out to him. "You wouldn't
think a dream beautiful, unless Jim was in it!"

"Yes I would, if you were in it, dear," she reproached him. "Or Molly. But Jim was in this
dream. I saw him as plainly as I see you both. He walked in at the door, the way he used to
do at home, saying: 'Hello, Mother, I've been looking for you everywhere!' You know, Father
how you and Jimmy used to feel injured if you called me and I couldn't be found in a minute.
In this dream though, we didn't seem to be back home. I wasn't sure where we were: only--I
was sure----" She stopped, with a catch in her voice. But Father Beckett took up the sentence
where she let it drop. "Sure of Jim?"

"Yes. He was so real!"

"Well then, Mother darling, I guess the dream ought not to have been back home, but here, in
this very house. For here's where Jim will come."

"Oh, I do feel that!" she agreed, trying to "camouflage" a tear with a smile. "Jim's with me
all the time."

"Not yet," said Father Beckett, with a stolid gentleness. "Not yet. Not the real Jim. But he'll
come."

"You mean, when Molly and I've finished putting out all his treasures in the den, just as he'd
like to see them?"

"He might come before you get the den ready. He might come--any day now--even to-morrow." The
gnarled brown hand smoothed the small, shrivelled white one with nervous strokes and passes.

"Father!" she sat up suddenly, straight and rigid among her cushions. "You've heard--you're
trying to break something to me. Tell me right out. Jim's alive!"

She snatched her hand free, and bending forward, flung both arms round the old man's neck before
he could answer. I sprang up to give them room. I thought they had forgotten me. But no. Out
came Father Beckett's big hand to snatch my dress.

"This child got the news--a letter," he explained. "The boy was afraid of the shock for us.
He thought she----"

"A shock of joy--why, that gives life--not death!" sobbed and laughed Mother Beckett. "But
it was right to let Molly know first. She's more to him than we are now. Oh, Father--Father--our
Jim's alive--alive! I think in my soul I knew it all the time. I never felt he was gone. He
must have sent me thoughts. Dear ones, I want to pray. I want to thank God--now, this instant,
before I hear more--before I read the letter. We three together--on our knees!"

Padre, when I was on my knees, with the thin little arm of Jim's mother thrilling my shoulder,
my face hidden in the cushions, I could only say: "God, forgive!" and echo the thanksgiving
of those two loving hearts. I didn't pray not to be punished. I almost want to be punished--since
Brian is safe, and my punishment can't spoil his future.

       *       *       *       *       *

The patriotic Becketts have given up the big gray car, now they've settled down at the Château
d'Andelle: and our one-legged soldier-chauffeur has departed, to conduct a military motor.
For the moment there's only the O'Farrell Red Cross taxi, not yet gone about its legitimate
business; so it was Julian who took Father Beckett to the far-off railway station, to meet
Jim Beckett the next day but one--Julian--of all people on earth!

Father Beckett begged me to be of the party, and Mother Beckett--too frail still for so long
and cold a drive--piled up her persuasions. But I was firm. I didn't like going to meet trains,
I said. It was prosaic. I was allowed to stop at home, therefore, with my dear little lady:
the last time, I told myself, that she would ever love and "mother" me. Once Jim and I had
settled our affairs in that "interview" I was ordered to wait for, I should be the black sheep,
turned out of the fold.

There was just one reason why I'd have liked to be in the car to bring Jim back from the station.
Knowing Julian-Puck, I was convinced that despite Father Beckett's presence he'd contrive a
chance to thrust some entering wedge of mischief into Jim Beckett's head. Not that it was needed!
If he'd read the first pages of Jim's letter--the secret pages--he would have known that. But
the night the great news came to the château, he whispered into my ear: "You seem to be taking
things easy. Sure you won't change your mind and bolt with me?--or do you count on your invincible
charm, "über alles"?"

I didn't even answer. I merely looked. Perhaps he took it for a defiant look, though Heaven
knows it wasn't. I was past defiance. In any case, such as the look was, it shut him up. And
after that the brooding storm behind his eyes made me wonder (when I'd time to think of it)
what coup he was meditating. There would never be a chance like the chance at the station before
Jim had met me. Julian was sharp enough, dramatic enough to see that. I pictured him somehow
corralling Jim for an instant, while Father Beckett carried on a conversation of signs with
a worried porteuse. Julian would be able to do in an instant as much damage to a character
as most men could do in an hour!

A little added disgust for me on Jim's part, however, what could it matter? I tried to argue.
When a thing is already black, can it be painted blacker?

Still, I was foolish enough to wish that our good old one-legged soldier might have stayed
to bring Jim home.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mother Beckett would have compelled me to be with her at the open door to meet "our darling
boy," but that I could not bear. It would be as trying for him as for me, and I had to spare
him the ordeal at any price.

"Don't make me do that," I begged, with real tears in my voice. "I--I've set my heart on seeing
Jim for the first time alone. He wants it too--I know he does."

She gazed at me for some long seconds, with the clear blue eyes which seemed--though only seemed!--to
read my soul. In reality she saw quite another soul than mine. The darling crystallizes to
radiant beauty all souls of those she loves, as objects are crystallized by frost, or by sparkling
salt in a salt mine.

"Well, you must have a good and loving reason, I'm sure. And probably your love has taught
you to know better than I can, what Jim would want you to do," she said. "It shall be just
as you wish, dear. Only you must grant one little favour in return to please me. You are to
wait for Jim in the den. When his Father and I have hugged and kissed him a few times, and
made certain he's not one of my dreams, we'll lead him up to that door, and leave him outside.
It shall be my hand that shuts the door when he's gone in. And I shan't tell him one word about
the den. It shall be a surprise. But he won't notice a thing until--until you and he have been
together for a while, I guess--not even the hobby-horse! He'll see nothing except you, Molly--you!"

I implored--I argued--in vain. The making of the den had been her inspiration. It was monstrous
that I should have to greet her son there. The pleasure of the den-surprise would be for ever
spoilt for Jim. But I couldn't explain that to his mother. I had to yield at last, tongue-tied
and miserable beyond words.

I haven't described the den to you, Padre. I will do it now, in the pause, the hush, before
the storm.

It's a quaint room, with a little round tower in each of the two front corners. One of these
Mother Beckett has turned into a refuge for broken-down toys, all Jim's early favourites, which
he'd never let her throw away: the famous spotted hobby-horse starred in the centre of the
stage: oh, but a noble, red-nostrilled beast, whose eternal prance has something of the endless
dignity of the Laocoön! The second tower is a miniature library, whose shelves are crowded
with the pet books of Jim's boyhood--queer books, some of them, for a child to choose: "Byron,"
"Letters of Pliny," Plutarch's "Lives," Gibbon's "Rome," "Morte d'Arthur," Maeterlinck's "Life
of the Bee," Kingsland's "Scientific Idealism," with several quite learned volumes of astronomy
and geology, side by side with Gulliver and all kinds of travel and story-books which we have
most of us adored. It was I who had the task of sorting and arranging this motley collection,
and I can hardly tell you, Padre, how I loved doing it!

The room isn't large, so the ten or twelve pictures on the walls are not lost in a desert of
bare spaces. These pictures, the toys, the books, tennis-rackets, golf-clubs and two lovely
old Persian prayer-rugs are all of Jim's treasures brought to France. He must have been a boy
of individual, independent nature, for it seems he disliked the idea of killing things for
pleasure, and was never a hunter or even a fisherman. Consequently, there are no monster fish
under glass, or rare birds or butterflies, or stuffed animals. He must have loved wild creatures
though, for five of the beloved pictures are masterly oil-paintings by well-known artists,
of lions and tigers and stags, chez eux, happy and at home, not being hunted, or standing agonized
at bay. Oh, getting this den in order has taught me more about the real Jim than a girl can
learn about a man in ordinary acquaintance in a year! But then I had a wonderful foundation
to begin building upon: that day in the rose-arbour--the red-rose day of my life.

Well, when the car was expected back from the station, bringing Jim home to his mother, I went
by her command to the den. Even that was better than having to meet him in the presence of
those two dear souls who trusted and loved me only second to him. And yet everything in the
den which had meant something in Jim's life, seemed to cry out at me, as I shut the door and
stood alone with them--and my pounding heart--to wait.

I didn't know how to make the time pass. I was too restless to sit down. I wouldn't let myself
look out of the window to see the car come along the drive. I dared not walk up and down like
the caged thing I was, lest the floor should creak, for the tower-room--the den--is over the
entrance-hall. I felt like a hunted animal--I, the one creature to whom Jim Beckett deliberately
meant to be cruel! I, in this room which was a tribute to his kindness of heart, his faithfulness,
his loyalty! But why should it not be so? I had no right to call upon these qualities of his.

The horn of the little Red Cross taxi! It must be turning in at the gate. How well I knew its
gay, conceited tootle! An eighth of a mile, and the car would reach the house. Even the poor
worn-out taxi couldn't be five minutes doing that!...

If I ran to the window between the towers I could see! No, I wouldn't; I couldn't. I should
scream--or faint--or do something else idiotic, if I saw Jim Beckett getting out of the car,
and his mother flying to meet him. I had never felt like this in my whole life--not in any
suspense, not in any danger.

Instinctively I walked as far from the window as I could. I sought sanctuary under Brian's
cathedral picture--the picture that had introduced me to Jim. Yes, sanctuary I sought, for
in that room my brother's work was my one excuse to intrude!

By this time the car must have arrived. The front door must have flown open in welcome. Now
Mother Beckett must be crying tears of joy in the arms of her son, Father Beckett gazing at
the blessed sight, speechless with ecstasy!

What should I be doing at this moment, if I had yielded to their wish and stopped downstairs
with them? Just how far would Jim have gone in keeping up the tragic farce? Would he have kissed
me? Would he----?

The vision was so blazing bright that I covered my eyes to shut it out. Not that I hated it.
Oh no, I loved it too well!

So, for a while, I stood, my hands pressed over my eyes, my ears strained to catch distant
sounds--yet wishing not to hear. Suddenly, close by, there came the click of a latch. My hands
dropped like broken clock weights. I opened my eyes. Jim Beckett was in the room, and the door
was shut.

CHAPTER XXXIII

I stared, fascinated. Here was Jim-of-the-rose-arbour, and a new Jim-of-the-war--a browner,
thinner, sterner Jim, a Jim that looked at me with a look I could not read. It may have been
cruel, but it was not cold, and it pierced like a hot sword-blade through my flesh into my soul.

"You--after all!" he said. The remembered voice I had so often heard in dreams, struck on my
nerves like a hand on the strings of a harp. I felt the vibration thrill through me.

"Yes--it's I." The answer came in a whisper from dry lips. "I'm sorry!"

"What are you sorry for? Because you are you?"

"It wouldn't be--quite so horrible if--I'd been a stranger."

"You think not?"

"I--it seems as if I took advantage of--oh, that's just what I did! I'm not asking you to forgive
me----"

"It isn't so much a question of forgiving, as putting things straight. We must put them straight----"

"I'll do whatever you wish," I promised. "Only--let me go soon."

"Are you afraid of me?" There was sharpness in his tone.

"Not afraid. I am--utterly humiliated."

"Why did you do this--thing? Let's have that out first."

"The thought came into my head when I was at my wits' end--for my brother. Not that that's
an excuse!"

"I'm not worrying about excuses. It's explanations I need, I had my own theories--thinking
it all over--and wondering--whether it would be you or a stranger I should find. The name was
the one thing I had to go on: 'O'Malley' and its likeness to Ommalee. That was the way I heard
your name pronounced, you know, when we met. I was coming back to see you and make sure. But
I was laid up in Paris with an attack of typhoid. Perhaps Mother told you?"

"Yes. But please, let us not talk of that! There isn't much time. You'll have to go back to
Fath--to Mr. and Mrs. Beckett. Tell me quickly what you want me to do."

"I was forgetting for a minute. You look very pale, Miss O'Malley. Hadn't you better sit down?"

"No, thank you. I like standing--where I am."

"Ah!" he gave a sudden exclamation. At last he had seen Brian's sketch. He had not noticed
it, or any of the "den treasures," before. He had looked only at me.

"Why--it's the picture! And--Gee!"--his eyes travelled round the room--"all my dear old things!
What a mother I've got!" He gazed about during a full minute of silence, then turned abruptly
back to me. "You love her--don't you?"

"Who could help loving her?"

"And the dear old Governor--you're fond of him?"

"I should be even worse than I am, if I didn't adore them both. They have been--angels to me
and my brother."

"I'm told that you and he have been something of the same sort to them."

"Oh, they would speak kindly of us, of course!--They're so noble, themselves, they judge----"

"It was another person who told me the particular thing I'm thinking of now."

"Another person? Doctor Paul, I suppose."

"You must guess again, Miss O'Malley."

"I can't think of any one else who would----"

"What about your friend, Mr. O'Farrell?"

"He's not my friend!" I cried. "Oh, I knew he'd somehow contrive a chance to talk to you alone,
about me!"

"He certainly did. And what he said impressed me a good deal."

"Most likely it's untrue."

"Too likely! I'm very anxious to find out from headquarters if it's true or not."

"If you ask me, I'll answer honestly. I can't and won't lie to you."

"I'll take you at your word and ask you--in a minute. You may be angry when I do. But--it will
save time. It'll clear up all my difficulties at one fell swoop."

"Why wait a minute, then?" I ventured, with faint bitterness, because his "difficulties" seemed
so small compared with mine. He was in the right in everything. This was his home. The dear
Becketts were his people. All the world was his.

"I wait a minute, because something has to be told you before I can ask you to answer any more
questions. When I didn't know who or what my--er--official fiancée would turn out to be, this
was the plan I made, to save my parents' feelings--and yours. I thought that, when we'd had
the interview I asked you to give me, we could manage to quarrel, or discover that we didn't
like each other as well as before. We could break off our engagement, and Father and Mother
need never know--how it began."

"A very generous idea of yours!" I cried, the blood so hot in my cheeks that it forced tears
to my eyes. "It had occurred to me, too, that for their sakes we might manage that way. Thank
you, Mr. Beckett, for sparing me the pain--I deserve. I couldn't have dared hope for such a
happy solution----"

"Couldn't you?"

"No. I----"

"Well, I'm hoping for an even happier one--a lot happier. But of course it depends on what
you say to Mr. O'Farrell's--accusation."

"He--made an accusation?"

"Listen, and tell me what you'd call it. He said you told him at Amiens, when he asked you
to marry him, that--you loved me."

"Oh!"

"Is it true?"

"Yes, I did tell him that----"

"I mean, is it true that you've loved me?"

"Mr. Beckett, after all, you are cruel! You're punishing me very hard."

