 JERUMKY JERUM in the Chair?

       *       *       *       *       *

SONG OF THE BELLS OF RICHMOND.--"Turn again, WHITTAKER, First Mayor of Richmond." Approach
delayed by action of CAMERON; House been Counted Out on Friday; necessary for Government to
set up Supply again; formal Motion made by JACKSON; CAMERON objects; deeply distressed to think
that Government should have fallen so low as to permit Count Out. "It's really shocking," he
said, "Here we are brought from our peaceful homes to London at this inclement season, to do
the work of the nation. Assembled as usual on a Friday night; important business on; Ministers
and their friends go off to dinner; and, it being found there are not Forty Members present,
House is Counted Out at half-past eight. Night absolutely lost; Sitting criminally chucked away."

"Ah!" I said, sympathetically; "must have been very hard upon you, sternly attending to your
duty whilst others gambolled in the shade. And then to be suddenly Counted Out! How many of
you were there when the Count was made?"

"Well--er--you see, TOBY," said CAMERON, almost blushing; "the fact is I wasn't there myself,
though that, of course, does not deter me from invoking censure on Ministers. Indeed I am not
sure that the circumstance doesn't place me in a more favourable position. Outsiders, you know,
see most of game. I was outside; had, in fact, comfortably gone off to dinner, expecting other
people would stop to make House. But they didn't, and I feel I'm just the man to make it hot
for OLD MORALITY and his friends, who ought to have been here."

Other people didn't seem to see it in quite that light. Condemnatory Motion negatived by 184
Votes against 42.

House thereupon took up Naval Estimates. Instantly Commodore HARCOURT appeared in offing; landed
on Front Opposition Bench, diffusing unwonted smell of stale mussels and seaweed. Commodore
looked very imposing pacing down quarter-deck towards Mace, with telescope under his arm, sou'wester
pulled well over his ears, and unpolished square-toed boots rising above his knees. A blizzard
outside; snow and wind; bitterly cold; but the Commodore soon made it hot all round. Fell upon
JOKIM spars and sails, stem and starn. "Regularly claw-hammered him," as GEORGE HAMILTON said,
drawing on naval resources for adequate adjective. Accused him of making a speech that would
have become CHARLES THE FIRST. Talked about levying Ship Money; threatened a revolution; hinted
at HAMPDEN, and, unrebuked by the SPEAKER, called unoffending Prince ARTHUR the "youthful STRAFFORD."

Splendid performance, only wanting an audience. But the storm inside House burst as suddenly
as the blizzard without. Nobody knew that the Commodore was close-hauled, and meant business.
Few present to witness the perturbed scene on the Treasury Bench:--OLD MORALITY huddled up
against GEORGIE HAMILTON, who was nervously tearing sheet of paper into measured strips; JOKIM
shaking in every limb, and white to the lips; Prince ARTHUR most successful of the group in
maintaining his self-possession, though evidently not liking the reference to STRAFFORD. The
Commodore, looking in his tarpaulins considerably more than six foot high, stormed and raged
what time the snow and sleet beat a wild accompaniment on the melancholy windows.

Business done.--Commodore HARCOURT goes again on the rampage.

Tuesday.--HOWARD VINCENT rather staggered to-night. Favoured by fortune and the ballot, had
secured first place for Motion on Friendly Societies. Useful thing for coming General Election
to be remembered as advocate of cause of Working Man. Bestowed much care on terms of Resolution;
invited Government to encourage more general voluntary provision for sickness and old age.
Then adroitly dragged in the axiom that "Sound principles of provident Insurance should be
included in the subjects prescribed by the Education Code for instruction in elementary schools."
That meant to draw OLD MORALITY; succeeded à merveille.

"TOBY, dear boy," he said to me, half closing his eyes, and folding his arms, whilst a far-away
look melted into newer softness his kindly countenance, "that reminds me of old days. Many
a time have I written out in my copybook, 'Take care of your Neighbour's Pence, and your own
Pounds will Take Care of Themselves.' 'Borrow an Umbrella, and put it away for a Rainy Day.'
'Half a Currant Bun is better than No Bread'; 'A Bird in a Pigeon Pie is better than three
in the Bush.' Got heaps of copy-books filled with these and similar words of wisdom. HOWARD
VINCENT is quite right. If there was more of this in our elementary schools, there would be,
if I may say so, more men like me. You remember what Who's-This said, 'Let me write their copy-book
headings, and I don't care who makes their laws.' HOWARD VINCENT is on the right tack; think
we shall accept his Resolution."

So it would have been, if that eminent strategist had foregone his speech. If he had laid Resolution
on the table, and said, "There you are," Government would have accepted it, and he would have
had a night of triumph. But he would speak. Spoke for an hour, and utterly ruined chances of
the Resolution he recommended.

HERBERT MAXWELL, put up from Treasury Bench to reply for Government, did his work admirably.
After fearful fiasco with CHAPLIN last Friday, OLD MORALITY checked disposition to give young
Ministers opportunity of distinguishing themselves. If MAXWELL made a mull of this, following
on Friday week's catastrophe with CHAPLIN, it would be serious. MAXWELL won more than negative
credit of not making mistake. He delivered excellent speech, showing complete mastery of subject.

Business done.--House Counted Out again.

Thursday.--An Irish night at last, Quite a long time since we talked of the distressful country.
Wouldn't guess that Ireland was to the fore by looking at the Irish quarter. Usual when Prince
ARTHUR is on his feet expounding and defending his policy for Irish camp to be bristling with
contradiction and contumely. To-night only five there, including BRER RABBIT. BRER FOX promised
to come, but hasn't turned up. Understood to be engaged in composition of new Manifesto. Towards
midnight Prince ARTHUR, wearied of the quietude, observed that he didn't believe there was
a single Irish Member present. Whereupon NOLAN, waking from sleep, under shadow of Gallery,
indignantly shouted out, "What?" TANNER, just come in, roared, "Oh!" "Ah!" said Prince ARTHUR,
and the conversation terminated.

Explanation of singular abstention is, that business under discussion is Vote on account of
Relief of Distress in Ireland. Prince ARTHUR asks for £55,000 for that purpose; wouldn't do
for Irish Members to obey their first instinct, and oppose Vote moved by Chief Secretary. If
they were there, they might be expected to say, "Thank you;" so they stay away, one or two
just looking in to contradict T.W. RUSSELL--"Roaring" RUSSELL, SARK calls him--when he gave
an account of what he saw during a recent visit to Ireland.

Business done.--Relief voted for Irish Distress.

Friday Night.--Lo! a strange thing happened. Fell asleep just now, amid deadly dulness, depth
of which no one outside House can comprehend. Woke up, hearing familiar voice. 'Twas the voice
of Prince ARTHUR, I heard him complain; something about Ground-rents in London. Not, quite
his subject; voice, too, didn't seem to come from Treasury Bench. But no mistaking it; same
tone; same inflection. Now I come to think of it, more like way he used to talk before he came
to govern Ireland. Opened eyes; looked down; behold! it was brother GERALD, opposing STUART's
Motion on Land Tax. Very odd; think I'll go to sleep again.

Business done.--Slept.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SONG OF THE BACILLUS.

    [Not a week passes without our hearing of a fresh agent to
    destroy the Bacillus.]

  Once I flourished unmolested, now my troubles never cease:
  Man, investigating monster, will not let me rest in peace.
  I am ta'en from friends and kindred, from my newly-wedded bride,
  And exposed--it's really shameless--on a microscopic slide.
  Sure some philbacillic person a Society should start
  For Protection of Bacilli from the Doctor's baleful art.

  KOCH the evil game first started, and his lymph came squirming in.
  But, 'twixt you and me, Bacilli did not care a single pin.
  We went elsewhere in the body, and it only made us roam,
  But it's hard, you must admit it, to be worried from your home,
  And methinks the hapless patient had much rather we had rest,
  When he finds us wildly rushing up and down his tortured breast.

  Then came BERNHEIM and his dodges; his specific is to flood
  All the circulation freely with injections of goat's blood,
  That is really rather soothing, and it doesn't seem to hurt,
  Though they lacerate your feelings with an automatic squirt;
  Time will show if it's effective, but 'twill be revenge most sweet
  If the patients take to butting every single soul they meet.

  Next fierce LIEBRIECH, quite a savage, has declared that we shall die
  Shattered and exacerbated by attacks of Spanish fly.
  We should like to ask the patient if he thinks he'll live at ease,
  With his system impregnated with that vile cantharides?
  We perchance may fall before it, waging an unequal strife,
  But it's any odds the patient will be blistered out of life.

  Therefore, O my friends, take heart, and these indignities endure,
  Although every week brings news of an indubitable cure;
  We have lived and flourished freely ever since the world began,
  And our lineage is as ancient surely as is that of man;
  While I'll venture the prediction, as a wind-up to my song,
  That, despite these dreadful Doctors, we may haply live as long.

       *       *       *       *       *

BLONDEL UP TO DATE.

(A FRAGMENT FROM A HISTORY OF THE FUTURE.)

And so it happened that the King was taken and imprisoned, no one knew whither. His followers,
saving one, treated the matter very calmly. The exception, who was supposed to be wanting in
his wits (he played on the barrel-organ), determined to do his best to rescue his Royal Master;
and an idea occurred to him. He had noticed that when he performed on his musical instrument
those who, perforce, were obliged to listen to him acted strangely. Some of his audiences had
frowned, others had shaken their fists at him, and all had gone quickly away. Only once had
a loiterer stayed behind, smiling a sweet smile, as if he were enjoying the music. To his regret,
BLONDEL subsequently ascertained that the apparently charmed listener was stone deaf. So he
argued that if his music had so great an effect upon the population of his native village it
would work marvels in the wide world without. And thus, with a heart full of hope and courage,
he started on his travels.

He wandered, turning the handle of his organ, for many a weary mile. He passed through towns,
hamlets, and cities; the people put their heads out of their windows, and urged him imperiously
to be gone; and as he hurried away he gazed at their faces, hoping to have seen the King, his
Master, but without avail. He felt, that were His Majesty to hear his music, there would be
a farther supply of language savouring rather of the dicing-house than the cathedral. But,
alas! his search was in vain. At length, he reached London, and found it as silent as the grave!
There were no German bands, no Niggers, not even a hurdy-gurdy! Greatly surprised, BLONDEL
asked a policeman the meaning of this strange, this unlooked-for quietude!

