"In proportion as the article is viewed on an enlarged plan and permanent scale, its importance
to us magnifies. Who can say how far British colonization may spread southward and down the
west side of the Mississippi, northward and westward into the vast interior regions towards
the Pacific ocean?... In this large view of the subject, the fur trade, which has made a very
prominent figure in the discussion, becomes a point scarcely visible. Objects of great variety
and magnitude start up in perspective, eclipsing the little atoms of the day, and promising
to grow and mature with time."

Such was not the attitude of Great Britain. To her the Northwest was desirable on account of
its Indian commerce. By a statement of the Province of Upper Canada, sent with the approbation
of Lieutenant-General Hunter to the Duke of Kent, Commander-in-Chief of British North America,
in the year 1800, we are enabled to see the situation through Canadian eyes:[187]

"The Indians, who had loudly and Justly complained of a treaty [1783] in which they were sacrificed
by a cession of their country contrary to repeated promises, were with difficulty appeased,
however finding the Posts retained and some Assurances given they ceased to murmur and resolved
to defend their country extending from the Ohio Northward to the Great Lakes and westward to
the Mississippi, an immense tract, in which they found the deer, the bear, the wild wolf, game
of all sorts in profusion. They employed the Tomahawk and Scalping Knife against such deluded
settlers who on the faith of the treaty to which they did not consent, ventured to cross the
Ohio, secretly encouraged by the Agents of Government, supplied with Arms, Ammunition, and
provisions they maintained an obstinate & destructive war against the States, cut off two Corps
sent against them.... The American Government, discouraged by these disasters were desirous
of peace on any terms, their deputies were sent to Detroit, they offered to confine their Pretensions
within certain limits far South of the Lakes. if this offer had been accepted the Indian Country
would have been for ages an impassible Barrier between us. twas unfortunately perhaps wantonly
rejected, and the war continued."

Acting under the privileges accorded to them by Jay's treaty, the British traders were in almost
as complete possession of Wisconsin until after the war of 1812 as if Great Britain still owned
it. When the war broke out the keys of the region, Detroit and Michillimackinac, fell into
the British hands. Green Bay and Prairie du Chien were settlements of French-British traders
and voyageurs. Their leader was Robert Dickson, who had traded at the latter settlement. Writing
in 1814 from his camp at Winnebago Lake, he says: "I think that Bony [Bonaparte] must be knocked
up as all Europe are now in Arms. The crisis is not far off when I trust in God that the Tyrant
will be humbled, & the Scoundrel American Democrats be obliged to go down on their knees to
Britain."[188] Under him most of the Wisconsin traders of importance received British commissions.
In the spring of 1814 the Americans took Prairie du Chien, at the mouth of the Wisconsin river,
whereupon Col. M'Douall, the British commandant at Michillimackinac, wrote to General Drummond:[189]
... "I saw at once the imperious necessity which existed of endeavoring by every means to dislodge
the American Genl from his new conquest, and make him relinquish the immense tract of country
he had seized upon in consequence & which brought him into the very heart of that occupied
by our friendly Indians, There was no alternative it must either be done or there was an end
to our connection with the Indians for if allowed to settle themselves by dint of threats bribes
& sowing divisions among them, tribe after tribe would be gained over or subdued, & thus would
be destroyed the only barrier which protects the great trading establishments of the North
West and the Hudson's Bay Companys. Nothing could then prevent the enemy from gaining the source
of the Mississippi, gradually extending themselves by the Red river to Lake Winnipic, from
whense the descent of Nelsons river to York Fort would in time be easy."

The British traders, voyageurs and Indians[190] dislodged the Americans, and at the close of
the war England was practically in possession of the Indian country of the Northwest.

In the negotiations at Ghent the British commissioners asserted the sovereignty of the Indians
over their lands, and their independence in relation to the United States, and demanded that
a barrier of Indian territory should be established between the two countries, free to the
traffic of both nations but not open to purchase by either.[191] The line of the Grenville
treaty was suggested as a basis for determining this Indian region. The proposition would have
removed from the sovereignty of the United States the territory of the Northwest with the exception
of about two-thirds of Ohio,[192] and given it over to the British fur traders. The Americans
declined to grant the terms, and the United States was finally left in possession of the Northwest.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 161: Va. Hist. Colls., N.S., II, 329.]

[Footnote 162: N.Y. Col. Docs., V., 726.]

[Footnote 163: Indian relations had a noteworthy influence upon colonial union; see Lucas,
Appendiculae Historicae, 161, and Frothingham, Rise of the Republic, ch. iv.]

[Footnote 164: Parkman, Montcalm and Wolfe, I., 59; Sparks, Washington's Works, II., 302.]

[Footnote 165: Parkman, Montcalm and Wolfe, I., 21.]

[Footnote 166: Ibid. II., 403.]

[Footnote 167: Bigelow, Franklin's Works, III., 43, 83, 98-100.]

[Footnote 168: Wis. Hist. Colls., I., 26-38.]

[Footnote 169: Parkman, Pontiac, I., 185. Consult N.Y. Col. Docs., VI., 635, 690, 788, 872, 974.]

[Footnote 170: Wis. Hist. Colls., I., 26.]

[Footnote 171: Carver, Travels.]

[Footnote 172: Porlier Papers, Wis. Pur Trade MSS., in possession of Wis. Hist. Soc.; also
Wis. Hist. Colls., III., 200-201.]

[Footnote 173: Henry, Travels.]

[Footnote 174: Canadian Archives, 1888, p. 61 ff.]

[Footnote 175: Sparks, Franklin's Works, IV., 303-323.]

[Footnote 176: Wis. Hist. Colls., XI.]

[Footnote 177: Ibid.]

[Footnote 178: Jay, Address before the N.Y. Hist. Soc. on the Treaty Negotiations of 1782-3,
appendix; map in Narr. and Crit. Hist. Amer., VII., 148.]

[Footnote 179: But Vergennes had a just appreciation of the value of the region for settlement
as well. He recognized and feared the American capacity for expansion.]

[Footnote 180: Hansard, XXIII., 377-8, 381-3, 389, 398-9, 405, 409-10, 423, 450, 457, 465.]

[Footnote 181: American State Papers, Foreign Relations, I., 190.]

[Footnote 182: Ibid. 487.]

[Footnote 183: As early as 1794 the company had established a stockaded fort at Sandy lake.
After Jay's treaty conceding freedom of entry, the company dotted this region with posts and
raised the British flag over them. In 1805 the center of trade was changed from Grand Portage
to Fort William Henry, on the Canada side. Neill, Minnesota, 239 (4th edn.). Bancroft, Northwest
Coast, I., 560. Vide ante, p. 20, and post, p. 55.]

[Footnote 184: Amer. State Papers, For. Rels., I., p. 509.]

[Footnote 185: Treaties and Conventions, etc., 1776-1887, p. 380.]

[Footnote 186: Lodge, Hamilton's Works, IV., 514.]

[Footnote 187: Michigan Pioneer Colls., XV., 8; cf. 10, 12, 23 and XVI., 67.]

[Footnote 188: Wis. Fur Trade MSS., 1814 (State Hist. Soc.).]

[Footnote 189: Wis. Hist. Colls., XL, 260. Mich. Pioneer Colls., XVI., 103-104.]

[Footnote 190: Wis. Hist. Colls., XL, 255. Cf. Mich. Pioneer Colls., XVI., 67. Rolette, one
of the Prairie du Chien traders, was tried by the British for treason to Great Britain.]

[Footnote 191: Amer. State Papers, For. Rels., III., 705.]

[Footnote 192: Amer. State Papers, Ind. Affs., L, 562. See map in Collet's Travels, atlas.]

THE NORTHWEST COMPANY.

The most striking feature of the English period was the Northwest Company.[193] From a study
of it one may learn the character of the English occupation of the Northwest.[194] It was formed
in 1783 and fully organized in 1787, with the design of contesting the field with the Hudson
Bay Company. Goods were brought from England to Montreal, the headquarters of the company,
and thence from the four emporiums, Detroit, Mackinaw, Sault Ste. Marie, and Grand Portage,
they were scattered through the great Northwest, even to the Pacific ocean.

Toward the end of the eighteenth century ships[195] began to take part in this commerce; a
portion of the goods was sent from Montreal in boats to Kingston, thence in vessels to Niagara,
thence overland to Lake Erie, to be reshipped in vessels to Mackinaw and to Sault Ste. Marie,
where another transfer was made to a Lake Superior vessel. These ships were of about ninety-five
tons burden and made four or five trips a season. But in the year 1800 the primitive mode of
trade was not materially changed. From the traffic along the main artery of commerce between
Grand Portage and Montreal may be learned the kind of trade that flowed along such branches
as that between the island of Mackinaw and the Wisconsin posts. The visitor at La Chine rapids,
near Montreal, might have seen a squadron of Northwestern trading canoes leaving for the Grand
Portage, at the west of Lake Superior.[196]

The boatmen, or "engagés," having spent their season's gains in carousal, packed their blanket
capotes and were ready for the wilderness again. They made a picturesque crew in their gaudy
turbans, or hats adorned with plumes and tinsel, their brilliant handkerchiefs tied sailor-fashion
about swarthy necks, their calico shirts, and their flaming worsted belts, which served to
hold the knife and the tobacco pouch. Rough trousers, leggings, and cowhide shoes or gaily-worked
moccasins completed the costume. The trading birch canoe measured forty feet in length, with
a depth of three and a width of five. It floated four tons of freight, and yet could be carried
by four men over difficult portages. Its crew of eight men was engaged at a salary[197] of
from five to eight hundred livres, about $100 to $160 per annum, each, with a yearly outfit
of coarse clothing and a daily food allowance of a quart of hulled corn, or peas, seasoned
with two ounces of tallow.

The experienced voyageurs who spent the winters in the woods were called hivernans, or winterers,
or sometimes hommes du nord; while the inexperienced, those who simply made the trip from Montreal
to the outlying depots and return, were contemptuously dubbed mangeurs de lard,[198] "pork-eaters,"
because their pampered appetites demanded peas and pork rather than hulled corn and tallow.
Two of the crew, one at the bow and the other at the stern, being especially skilled in the
craft of handling the paddle in the rapids, received higher wages than the rest. Into the canoe
was first placed the heavy freight, shot, axes, powder; next the dry goods, and, crowning all,
filling the canoe to overflowing, came the provisions--pork, peas or corn, and sea biscuits,
sewed in canvas sacks.

The lading completed, the voyageur hung his votive offerings in the chapel of Saint Anne, patron
saint of voyageurs, the paddles struck the waters of the St. Lawrence, and the fleet of canoes
glided away on its six weeks' journey to Grand Portage. There was the Ottawa to be ascended,
the rapids to be run, the portages where the canoe must be emptied and where each voyageur
must bear his two packs of ninety pounds apiece, and there were the décharges, where the canoe
was merely lightened and where the voyageurs, now on the land, now into the rushing waters,
dragged it forward till the rapids were passed. There was no stopping to dry, but on, until
the time for the hasty meal, or the evening camp-fire underneath the pines. Every two miles
there was a stop for a three minutes' smoke, or "pipe," and when a portage was made it was
reckoned in "pauses," by which is meant the number of times the men must stop to rest. Whenever
a burial cross appeared, or a stream was left or entered, the voyageurs removed their hats,
and made the sign of the cross while one of their number said a short prayer; and again the
paddles beat time to some rollicking song.[199]

    Dans mon chemin, j'ai rencontré
    Trois cavalières, bien montées;
    L'on, lon, laridon daine,
    Lon, ton, laridon dai.

    Trois cavalières, bien montées,
    L'un à cheval, et l'autre à pied;
    L'on, lon, laridon daine,
    Lon, ton, laridon dai.

Arrived at Sault Ste. Marie, the fleet was often doubled by newcomers, so that sometimes sixty
canoes swept their way along the north shore, the paddles marking sixty strokes a minute, while
the rocks gave back the echoes of Canadian songs rolling out from five hundred lusty throats.
And so they drew up at Grand Portage, near the present northeast boundary of Minnesota, now
a sleepy, squalid little village, but then the general rendezvous where sometimes over a thousand
men met; for, at this time, the company had fifty clerks, seventy interpreters, eighteen hundred
and twenty canoe-men, and thirty-five guides. It sent annually to Montreal 106,000 beaver-skins,
to say nothing of other peltries. When the proprietors from Montreal met the proprietors from
the northern posts, and with their clerks gathered at the banquet in their large log hall to
the number of a hundred, the walls hung with spoils of the chase, the rough tables furnished
with abundance of venison, fish, bread, salt pork, butter, peas, corn, potatoes, tea, milk,
wine and eau de vie, while, outside, the motley crowd of engages feasted on hulled corn and
melted fat--was it not a truly baronial scene? Clerks and engagés of this company, or its rival,
the Hudson Bay Company, might winter one season in Wisconsin and the next in the remote north.
For example, Amable Grignon, a Green Bay trader, wintered in 1818 at Lac qui Parle in Minnesota,
the next year at Lake Athabasca, and the third in the hyperborean regions of Great Slave Lake.
In his engagement he figures as Amable Grignon, of the Parish of Green Bay, Upper Canada, and
he receives $400 "and found in tobacco and shoes and two doges," besides "the usual equipment
given to clerks." He afterwards returned to a post on the Wisconsin river. The attitude of
Wisconsin traders toward the Canadian authorities and the Northwestern wilds is clearly shown
in this document, which brings into a line Upper Canada, "the parish of Green Bay," and the
Hudson Bay Company's territories about Great Slave Lake![200]

How widespread and how strong was the influence of these traders upon the savages may be easily
imagined, and this commercial control was strengthened by the annual presents made to the Indians
by the British at their posts. At a time when our relations with Great Britain were growing
strained, such a power in the Northwest was a serious menace.[201] In 1809 John Jacob Astor
secured a charter from the State of New York, incorporating the American Fur Company. He proposed
to consolidate the fur trade of the United States, plant an establishment in the contested
Oregon territory, and link it with Michillimackinac (Mackinaw island) by way of the Missouri
through a series of trading posts. In 1810 two expeditions of his Pacific Fur Company set out
for the Columbia, the one around Cape Horn and the other by way of Green bay and the Missouri.
In 1811 he bought a half interest in the Mackinaw Company, a rival of the Northwest Company
and the one that had especial power in Wisconsin and Minnesota, and this new organization he
called the Southwest Company. But the war of 1812 came; Astoria, the Pacific post, fell into
the hands of the Northwest Company, while the Southwest Company's trade was ruined.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 193: On this company see Mackenzie, Voyages; Bancroft, Northwest Coast, I., 378-616,
and citations; Hunt's Merch. Mag., III., 185; Irving, Astoria; Ross, The Fur Hunters of the
Far West; Harmon, Journal; Report on the Canadian Archives, 1881, p. 61 et seq. This fur-trading
life still goes on in the more remote regions of British America. See Robinson, Great Fur Land,
ch. xv.]

[Footnote 194: Wis. Hist. Colls., XI., 123-5.]

[Footnote 195: Mackenzie, Voyages, xxxix. Harmon, Journal, 36. In the fall of 1784, Haldimand
granted permission to the Northwest Company to build a small vessel at Detroit, to be employed
next year on Lake Superior. Calendar of Canadian Archives, 1888, p. 72.]

[Footnote 196: Besides the authorities cited above, see "Anderson's Narrative," in Wis. Hist.
Colls., IX., 137-206.]

[Footnote 197: An estimate of the cost of an expedition in 1717 is given in Margry, VI., 506.
At that time the wages of a good voyageur for a year amounted to about $50. Provisions for
the two months' trip from Montreal to Mackinaw cost about $1.00 per month per man. Indian corn
for a year cost $16; lard, $10; eau de vie, $1.30; tobacco, 25 cents. It cost, therefore, less
than $80 to support a voyageur for one year's trip into the woods. Gov. Ninian Edwards, writing
at the time of the American Fur Company (post, p. 57), says: "The whole expense of transporting
eight thousand weight of goods from Montreal to the Mississippi, wintering with the Indians,
and returning with a load of furs and peltries in the succeeding season, including the cost
of provisions and portages and the hire of five engages for the whole time does not exceed
five hundred and twenty-five dollars, much of which is usually paid to those engages when in
the Indian country, in goods at an exorbitant price." American State Papers, VI., 65.]

[Footnote 198: This distinction goes back at least to 1681 (N.Y. Col. Docs., IX., 152). Often
the engagement was for five years, and the voyageur might be transferred from one master to
another, at the master's will.

The following is a translation of a typical printed engagement, one of scores in the possession
of the Wisconsin Historical Society, the written portions in brackets:

"Before a Notary residing at the post of Michilimakinac, Undersigned; Was Present [Joseph Lamarqueritte]
who has voluntarily engaged and doth bind himself by these Presents to M[onsieur Louis Grignion]
here present and accepting, at [his] first requisition to set off from this Post [in the capacity
of Winterer] in one of [his] Canoes or Bateaux to make the Voyage [going as well as returning]
and to winter for [two years at the Bay].

"And to have due and fitting care on the route and while at the said [place] of the Merchandise,
Provisions, Peltries, Utensils and of everything necessary for the Voyage; to serve, obey and
execute faithfully all that the said Sieur [Bourgeois] or any other person representing him
to whom he may transport the present Engagement, commands him lawfully and honestly; to do
[his] profit, to avoid anything to his damage, and to inform him of it if it come to his knowledge,
and generally to do all that a good [Winterer] ought and is obliged to do; without power to
make any particular trade, to absent himself, or to quit the said service, under pain of these
Ordinances, and of loss of wages. This engagement is therefore made, for the sum of [Eight
Hundred] livres or shillings, ancient currency of Quebec, that he promises [and] binds himself
to deliver and pay to the said [Winterer one month] after his return to this Post, and at his
departure [an Equipment each year of 2 Shirts, 1 Blanket of 3 point, 1 Carot of Tobacco, 1
Cloth Blanket, 1 Leather Shirt, 1 Pair of Leather Breeches, 5 Pairs of Leather Shoes, and Six
Pounds of Soap.]

"For thus, etc., promising, etc., binding, etc., renouncing, etc.

"Done and passed at the said [Michilimackinac] in the year eighteen hundred [Seven] the [twenty-fourth]
of [July before] twelve o'clock; & have signed with the exception of the said [Winterer] who,
having declared himself unable to do so, has made his ordinary mark after the engagement was
read to him.

                              his
                    "JOSEPH X LAMARQUERITTE. [SEAL]
                              mark.
                                  Louis GEIGNON. [SEAL]
"SAML. ABBOTT,
  Not. Pub."

Endorsed--"Engagement of Joseph Lamarqueritte to Louis Grignon."]

[Footnote 199: For Canadian boat-songs see Hunt's Merch. Mag., III., 189; Mrs. Kinzie, Wau
Bun; Bela Hubbard, Memorials of a Half-Century; Robinson, Great Fur Land.]

[Footnote 200: Wis. Fur Trade MSS. (Wis. Hist. Soc.). Published in Proceedings of the Thirty-Sixth
Annual Meeting of the State Hist. Soc. of Wis. 1889, pp. 81-82.]

[Footnote 201: See Mich. Pioneer Colls., XV., XVI., 67, 74. The government consulted the Northwest
Company, who made particular efforts to "prevent the Americans from ever alienating the minds
of the Indians." To this end they drew up memoirs regarding the proper frontiers.]

AMERICAN INFLUENCES.

Although the Green Bay court of justice, such as it was, had been administered under American
commissions since 1803, when Reaume dispensed a rude equity under a commission of Justice of
the Peace from Governor Harrison,[202] neither Green Bay nor the rest of Wisconsin had any
proper appreciation of its American connections until the close of this war. But now occurred
these significant events:

1. Astor's company was reorganized as the American Fur Company, with headquarters at Mackinaw
island.[203]

2. The United States enacted in 1816 that neither foreign fur traders, nor capital for that
trade, should be admitted to this country.[204] This was designed to terminate English influence
among the tribes, and it fostered Astor's company. The law was so interpreted as not to exclude
British (that is generally, French) interpreters and boatmen, who were essential to the company;
but this interpretation enabled British subjects to evade the law and trade on their own account
by having their invoices made out to some Yankee clerk, while they accompanied the clerk in
the guise of interpreters.[205] In this way a number of Yankees came to the State.

3. In the year 1816 United States garrisons were sent to Green Bay and Prairie du Chien.[206]

4. In 1814 the United States provided for locating government trading posts at these two places.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 202: Reaume's petition in Wis. Fur Trade MSS. in possession of Wisconsin Historical
Society.]

[Footnote 203: On this company consult Irving, Astoria; Bancroft, Northwest Coast, I., ch.
xvi.; II., chs. vii-x; Mag. Amer. Hist. XIII., 269; Franchere, Narrative; Ross, Adventures
of the First Settlers on the Oregon, or Columbia River (1849); Wis. Fur Trade MSS. (State Hist.
Sec.).]

[Footnote 204: U.S. Statutes at Large, III., 332. Cf. laws in 1802 and 1822.]

[Footnote 205: Wis. Hist. Colls., I., 103; Minn. Hist. Colls., V., 9. The Warren brothers,
who came to Wisconsin in 1818, were descendants of the Pilgrims and related to Joseph Warren
who fell at Bunker Hill; they came from Berkshire, Mass., and marrying the half-breed daughters
of Michael Cadotte, of La Pointe, succeeded to his trade.]

[Footnote 206: See the objections of British traders, Mich. Pioneer Colls., XVI., 76 ff. The
Northwest Company tried to induce the British government to construe the treaty so as to prevent
the United States from erecting the forts, urging that a fort at Prairie du Chien would "deprive
the Indians of their 'rights and privileges'", guaranteed by the treaty.]

GOVERNMENT TRADING HOUSES.

The system of public trading houses goes back to colonial days. At first in Plymouth and Jamestown
all industry was controlled by the commonwealth, and in Massachusetts Bay the stock company
had reserved the trade in furs for themselves before leaving England.[207] The trade was frequently
farmed out, but public "truck houses" were established by the latter colony as early as 1694-5.[208]
Franklin, in his public dealings with the Ohio Indians, saw the importance of regulation of
the trade, and in 1753 he wrote asking James Bowdoin of Massachusetts to procure him a copy
of the truckhouse law of that colony, saying that if it had proved to work well he thought
of proposing it for Pennsylvania.[209] The reply of Bowdoin showed that Massachusetts furnished
goods to the Indians at wholesale prices and so drove out the French and the private traders.
In 1757 Virginia adopted the system for a time,[210] and in 1776 the Continental Congress accepted
a plan presented by a committee of which Franklin was a member,[211] whereby £140,000 sterling
was expended at the charge of the United Colonies for Indian goods to be sold at moderate prices
by factors of the congressional commissioners.[212] The bearing of this act upon the governmental
powers of the Congress is worth noting.

In his messages of 1791 and 1792 President Washington urged the need of promoting and regulating
commerce with the Indians, and in 1793 he advocated government trading houses. Pickering, of
Massachusetts, who was his Secretary of War with the management of Indian affairs, may have
strengthened Washington in this design, for he was much interested in Indian improvement, but
Washington's own experience had shown him the desirability of some such plan, and he had written
to this effect as early as 1783.[213] The objects of Congressional policy in dealing with the
Indians were stated by speakers in 1794 as follows:[214] 1. Protection of the frontiersmen
from the Indians, by means of the army. 2. Protection of the Indians from the frontiersmen,
by laws regulating settlement. 3. Detachment of the Indians from foreign influence, by trading
houses where goods could be got cheaply. In 1795 a small appropriation was made for trying
the experiment of public trading houses,[215] and in 1796, the same year that the British evacuated
the posts, the law which established the system was passed.[216] It was to be temporary, but
by re-enactments with alterations it was prolonged until 1822, new posts being added from time
to time. In substance the laws provided a certain capital for the Indian trade, the goods to
be sold by salaried United States factors, at posts in the Indian country, at such rates as
would protect the savage from the extortions of the individual trader, whose actions sometimes
provoked hostilities, and would supplant British influence over the Indian. At the same time
it was required that the capital stock should not be diminished. In the course of the debate
over the law in 1796 considerable laissez faire sentiment was called out against the government's
becoming a trader, notwithstanding that the purpose of the bill was benevolence and political
advantage rather than financial gain.[217] President Jefferson and Secretary Calhoun were friends
of the system.[218] It was a failure, however, and under the attacks of Senator Benton, the
Indian agents and the American Fur Company, it was brought to an end in 1822. The causes of
its failure were chiefly these:[219] The private trader went to the hunting grounds of the
savages, while the government's posts were fixed. The private traders gave credit to the Indians,
which the government did not.[220] The private trader understood the Indians, was related to
them by marriage, and was energetic and not over-scrupulous. The government trader was a salaried
agent not trained to the work. The private trader sold whiskey and the government did not.
The British trader's goods were better than those of the government. The best business principles
were not always followed by the superintendent. The system was far from effecting its object,
for the Northwestern Indians had been accustomed to receive presents from the British authorities,
and had small respect for a government that traded. Upon Wisconsin trade from 1814 to 1822
its influence was slight.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 207: Mass. Coll. Recs., I., 55: III., 424.]

[Footnote 208: Acts and Resolves of the Prov. of Mass. Bay, I., 172.]

[Footnote 209: Bigelow, Franklin's Works, II., 316, 221. A plan for public trading houses came
before the British ministry while Franklin was in England, and was commented upon by him for
their benefit.]

[Footnote 210: Hening, Statutes, VII., 116.]

[Footnote 211: Journals of Congress, 1775, pp. 162, 168, 247.]

[Footnote 212: Ibid., 1776, p. 41.]

[Footnote 213: Ford's Washington's Writings, X., 309.]

[Footnote 214: Annals of Cong., IV., 1273; cf. ibid., V., 231.]

[Footnote 215: Amer. State Papers, Ind. Affs., I., 583.]

[Footnote 216: Annals of Cong., VI., 2889.]

[Footnote 217: Annals of Congress, V., 230 ff., 283; Abridgment of Debates, VII., 187-8.]

[Footnote 218: Amer. State Papers, Ind. Affs., I., 684; II., 181.]

[Footnote 219: Amer. State Papers, VI., Ind. Affs., II., 203; Ind. Treaties, 399 et seq.; Wis.
Hist. Colls., VII., 269; Washington Gazette, 1821, 1822, articles by Ramsay Crooks under signature
"Backwoodsman," and speech of Tracy in House of Representatives, February 23, 1821; Benton,
Thirty Years View; id., Abr. Deb., VII., 1780.]

[Footnote 220: To understand the importance of these two points see post, pp. 62-5.]

WISCONSIN TRADE IN 1820.[221]

The goods used in the Indian trade remained much the same from the first, in all sections of
the country.[222] They were chiefly blankets, coarse cloths, cheap jewelry and trinkets (including
strings of wampum), fancy goods (like ribbons, shawls, etc.), kettles, knives, hatchets, guns,
powder, tobacco, and intoxicating liquor.[223] These goods, shipped from Mackinaw, at first
came by canoes or bateaux,[224] and in the later period by vessel, to a leading post, were
there redivided[225] and sent to the various trading posts. The Indians, returning from the
hunting grounds to their villages in the spring,[226] set the squaws to making maple sugar,[227]
planting corn, watermelons, potatoes, squashes, etc., and a little hunting was carried on.
The summer was given over to enjoyment, and in the early period to wars. In the autumn they
collected their wild rice, or their corn, and again were ready to start for the hunting grounds,
sometimes 300 miles distant. At this juncture the trader, licensed by an Indian agent, arrived
upon the scene with his goods, without which no family could subsist, much less collect any
quantity of furs.[228] These were bought on credit by the hunter, since he could not go on
the hunt for the furs, whereby he paid for his supplies, without having goods and ammunition
advanced for the purpose. This system of credits,[229] dating back to the French period, had
become systematized so that books were kept, with each Indian's account. The amount to which
the hunter was trusted was between $40 and $50, at cost prices, upon which the trader expected
a gain of about 100 per cent, so that the average annual value of furs brought in by each hunter
to pay his credits should have been between $80 and $100.[230] The amount of the credit varied
with the reputation of the hunter for honesty and ability in the chase.[231] Sometimes he was
trusted to the amount of three hundred dollars. If one-half the credits were paid in the spring
the trader thought that he had done a fair business. The importance of this credit system can
hardly be overestimated in considering the influence of the fur trade upon the Indians of Wisconsin,
and especially in rendering them dependent upon the earlier settlements of the State.

The system left the Indians at the mercy of the trader when one nation monopolized the field,
and it compelled them to espouse the cause of one or other when two nations contended for supremacy
over their territory. At the same time it rendered the trade peculiarly adapted to monopoly,
for when rivals competed, the trade was demoralized, and the Indian frequently sold to a new
trader the furs which he had pledged in advance for the goods of another. When the American
Fur Company gained control, they systematized matters so that there was no competition between
their own agents, and private dealers cut into their trade but little for some years. The unit
of trade was at first the beaver skin, or, as the pound of beaver skin came to be called, the
"plus."[232] The beaver skin was estimated at a pound and a half, though it sometimes weighed
two, in which case an allowance was made. Wampum was used for ornament and in treaty-making,
but not as currency. Other furs or Indian commodities, like maple sugar and wild rice, were
bought in terms of beaver. As this animal grew scarcer the unit changed to money. By 1820,
when few beaver were marketed in Wisconsin, the term plus stood for one dollar.[233] The muskrat
skin was also used as the unit in the later days of the trade.[234] In the southern colonies
the pound of deer skin had answered the purpose of a unit.[235]

The goods being trusted to the Indians, the bands separated for the hunting grounds. Among
the Chippeways, at least, each family or group had a particular stream or region where it exclusively
hunted and trapped.[236] Not only were the hunting grounds thus parcelled out; certain Indians
were apportioned to certain traders,[237] so that the industrial activities of Wisconsin at
this date were remarkably systematic and uniform. Sometimes the trader followed the Indians
to their hunting grounds. From time to time he sent his engagés (hired men), commonly five
or six in number, to the various places where the hunting bands were to be found, to collect
furs on the debts and to sell goods to those who had not received too large credits, and to
the customers of rival traders; this was called "running a deouine."[238] The main wintering
post had lesser ones, called "jack-knife posts,"[239] depending on it, where goods were left
and the furs gathered in going to and from the main post. By these methods Wisconsin was thoroughly
visited by the traders before the "pioneers" arrived.[240]

The kind and amount of furs brought in may be judged by the fact that in 1836, long after the
best days of the trade, a single Green Bay firm, Porlier and Grignon, shipped to the American
Fur Company about 3600 deer skins, 6000 muskrats, 150 bears, 850 raccoons, besides beavers,
otters, fishers, martens, lynxes, foxes, wolves, badgers, skunks, etc., amounting to over $6000.

None of these traders became wealthy; Astor's company absorbed the profits. It required its
clerks, or factors, to pay an advance of 81-1/2 per cent on the sterling cost of the blankets,
strouds, and other English goods, in order to cover the cost of importation and the expense
of transportation from New York to Mackinaw. Articles purchased in New York were charged with
15-1/3 per cent advance for transportation, and each class of purchasers was charged with 33-1/3
per cent advance as profit on the aggregate amount.[241]

I estimate, from the data given in the sources cited on page 63, note, that in 1820 between
$60,000 and $75,000 worth of goods was brought annually to Wisconsin for the Indian trade.
An average outfit for a single clerk at a main post was between $1500 and $2000, and for the
dependent posts between $100 and $500. There were probably not over 2000 Indian hunters in
the State, and the total Indian population did not much exceed 10,000. Comparing this number
with the early estimates for the same tribes, we find that, if the former are trustworthy,
by 1820 the Indian tribes that remained in Wisconsin had increased their numbers. But the material
is too unsatisfactory to afford any valuable conclusion.

After the sale of their lands and the receipt of money annuities, a change came over the Indian
trade. The monopoly held by Astor was broken into, and as competition increased, the sales
of whiskey were larger, and for money, which the savage could now pay. When the Indians went
to Montreal in the days of the French, they confessed that they could not return with supplies
because they wasted their furs upon brandy. The same process now went on at their doors. The
traders were not dependent upon the Indian's success in hunting alone; they had his annuities
to count on, and so did not exert their previous influence in favor of steady hunting. Moreover,
the game was now exploited to a considerable degree, so that Wisconsin was no longer the hunter's
paradise that it had been in the days of Dablon and La Salle. The long-settled economic life
of the Indian being revolutionized, his business honesty declined, and credits were more frequently
lost. The annuities fell into the traders' hands for debts and whiskey. "There is no less than
near $420,000 of claims against the Winnebagoes," writes a Green Bay trader at Prairie du Chien,
in 1838, "so that if they are all just, the dividend will be but very small for each claimant,
as there is only $150,000 to pay that."[242]

By this time the influence of the fur trader had so developed mining in the region of Dubuque,
Iowa, Galena, Ill., and southwestern Wisconsin, as to cause an influx of American miners, and
here began a new element of progress for Wisconsin. The knowledge of these mines was possessed
by the early French explorers, and as the use of firearms spread they were worked more and
more by Indians, under the stimulus of the trader. In 1810 Nicholas Boilvin, United States
Indian agent at Prairie du Chien, reported that the Indians about the lead mines had mostly
abandoned the chase and turned their attention to the manufacture of lead, which they sold
to fur traders. In 1825 there were at least 100 white miners in the entire lead region,[243]
and by 1829 they numbered in the thousands.

Black Hawk's war came in 1832, and agricultural settlement sought the southwestern part of
the State after that campaign. The traders opened country stores, and their establishments
were nuclei of settlement.[244] In Wisconsin the Indian trading post was a thing of the past.

The birch canoe and the pack-horse had had their day in western New York and about Montreal.
In Wisconsin the age of the voyageur continued nearly through the first third of this century.
Colls., XI., 377. Compare the articles used by Radisson, ante, p. 29. For La Salle's estimate
of amount and kind of goods needed for a post, and the profits thereon, see Penna. Archives,
2d series, VI., 18-19. Brandy was an important item, one beaver selling for a pint. For goods
and cost in 1728 see a bill quoted by E.D. Neill, on p. 20, Mag. West. Hist., Nov., 1887, Cf.
4 Mass. Hist. Colls., III., 344; Byrd Manuscripts, I., 180 ff.; Minn. Hist. Colls., II., 46;
Senate Doc. No. 90, 22d Cong., 1st Sess., II., 42 ff.]

