No need of Canada has been greater, none has lain nearer Sir Wilfrid Laurier's heart, than
the lessening of misunderstanding and hostility between the men of the different races and
tongues and creeds that make up the Dominion.  It is a task which has been the more difficult
because not merely was there a difference of races, but one race was of the same blood as the
people of the United Kingdom and the other of its hereditary foe.  It was always easy for politicians
of the baser sort, or for well-meaning but rigid and doctrinaire extremists on either side,
to stir up prejudice and passion.  It was a statesman's task to endeavour to bridge the gulf,
to work for better feeling between Britain and France, to emphasize the future which all Canadians
hold in common, to urge the men of each race to seek that knowledge of the other which is the
first and longest step towards harmony.  In training and temperament Sir Wilfrid Laurier was
uniquely fitted for the task of interpreting each race to the other, and though it was a task
that was never completed, he had the satisfaction of achieving a marked advance.

The share of Canadian statesmen in working out the unique political achievement which {329}
we call the British Empire has not yet been fully recognized.  When the history of its upbuilding
comes to be written, it may well be that the names of Baldwin and LaFontaine and Howe, of Brown
and Galt, of Tupper and Blake, of Macdonald and Laurier, will stand, in this regard, higher
than those of Peel and Disraeli, Gladstone and Salisbury, and even Durham and Elgin.  Some
in England opposed the grant of self-government, believing that it led to separation.  Some,
reconciled to separation, urged it.  Canadians, though not always seeing the path clear, both
demanded self-government and trusted it would make union all the firmer.  It fell to Sir Wilfrid
Laurier's lot to carry out this traditional Canadian policy through an exceptionally critical
era of development.  He steadfastly asserted Canada's right to full nationhood, and as steadily
faced each new responsibility that came with added rights.  He often incurred the hostility
of ultra-imperialist and of colonialist alike, going too slow for the one and too fast for
the other.  Many autonomists failed to recognize how manfully and how effectively he had stood
at the London Conferences for self-government, until at last practically all the Dominions
{330} swung into line.  Many imperialists failed to recognize how hard he had struggled to
bring Quebec into harmony with the rest of the Dominion on imperial issues and particularly
on the naval question. A wise opportunism, that met each issue as it arose and dealt with it
in the light of long-held principles, kept the nation advancing steadily and advancing abreast.

{331}

BIBLIOGRAPHICAL NOTE

The primary sources to which any student of the period covered in this work must refer are
too numerous to specify here.  Foremost come Hansard and the Sessional Papers.  Such autobiographies
as those of Sir Richard Cartwright, Reminiscences, Sir George Ross, Getting Into Parliament
and After, Sir Charles Tupper, Recollections of Sixty Years in Canada, and Charles Langelier,
Souvenirs Politiques, are as few as they are valuable.  For the years since 1901 see Castell
Hopkins, The Canadian Annual Review of Public Affairs.  This work, now in its fourteenth volume,
is a mine of orderly information.

