Advertisements are presented as in the original--several
      before the text with the remainder after the text.

MY PET RECIPES TRIED and TRUE

CONTRIBUTED BY THE LADIES AND FRIENDS OF ST. ANDREW'S CHURCH QUEBEC

     *     *     *     *     *     *

    BY APPOINTMENT FURRIERS TO THE QUEEN.

    HOLT, RENFREW & Co.

    QUEBEC and TORONTO.

    THE ..
    LARGEST

    Manufacturers of
    FINE FURS in Canada

    Exclusive Designs in Ladies' Persian
    Lamb and Sealskin Coats

    FINE HUDSON BAY AND
      RUSSIAN SABLE SKINS,
        SILVER, WHITE AND
          BLUE FOX SKINS.

    RECIPES
    ARE USELESS

    Unless you have the ingredients to
    demonstrate them.

    This Is Where We Shine

    We carry the very best of groceries
    in Quebec. We make a specialty
    of the choicest goods. Everything
    is fresh and appetizing. If you are
    among our customers you are aware
    of these facts. If not give us a
    trial order.

    A. GRENIER

    Family Grocer and Wine
    Merchant

    92 & 94 St. John Street

    .. TELEPHONE 241 ..

    ESTABLISHED 1842

    GLOVER, FRY & CO.

    ... IMPORTERS OF ...

    FANCY DRY GOODS

    NOVELTIES RECEIVED WEEKLY

    DRESS AND MANTLE DEPARTMENTS Under
    First Class Modistes. Special Orders
    Executed Promptly

    LATEST NOVELTIES IN MILLINERY,
            STRAW, CHIP and FELT HATS
                        ... NEW SHAPES.

    GENTLEMEN'S CLOTHING Made To Order Within
    12 Hours. First Class Fit and Workmanship
    Guaranteed

    All Goods Marked in Plain Figures.

    One Price Only.

    GLOVER, FRY & Co.

    24 & 26 Fabrique Street,

    Quebec.

    Under the distinguished patronage of H. R. H. Princess Louise,
    H. E. Lady Stanley of Preston, also Her Excellency Lady Aberdeen.
    For Ladies Tailor made Garments.

    D. MORGAN,
    PLACE D'ARMES  -  QUEBEC.

    Ladies Costumes

    Of all descriptions in Cloth made to order on short
    notice, also Cloaks, Ulsters, etc., etc.

    Medicine ..

    When you need medicine you want the best.
    That is natural. A man may be contented
    with an $18.00 overcoat even though he knows
    some other men wear coats that cost $45.00.
    A woman may wear $1 gloves and see the $2
    kind without being disturbed. IT IS DIFFERENT
    WITH MEDICINE. Everyone wants the
    highest quality; and that is the only kind
    we keep. We are particular in selecting and
    buying our drugs; careful in making our
    medicines and exact in compounding prescriptions.

    WE SOLICIT YOUR TRADE ON THESE ASSURANCES.

    HENRY WILLIS,
    CHEMIST and DRUGGIST
    4 St. John Street, - - - Quebec.

    S. J. SHAW & Co.

    13 St. John Street,

    ... AND ...

    Corner Mountain Hill
    and Notre-Dame St.

    House Furnishing
    HARDWARE
    FANCY MOULDS
    AND SLICERS.

    Telephones  {UPPER TOWN,      573
                {LOWER TOWN,       44

    THE BEST IN THE UNIVERSE.

    THE ...

    MAGI CALEDONIA
    MINERAL WATERS

    Are famous for the relief afforded in Rheumatism,
    Indigestion, Dyspepsia, Liver, Kidney and Bladder
    troubles, Blood and Skin diseases, Female Complaints,
    etc. Surpassing in the cures the most
    celebrated European Spas. At the World's Columbian
    Exhibition, the highest distinction was
    awarded the

    MAGI CALEDONIA SPRINGS WATERS

    over all competitors--Medal and Diploma.

    M. TIMMONS & SON,

    SOLE AGENTS & BOTTLERS,

    90-92 COTE D'ABRAHAM, QUEBEC.

Quebec "Daily Telegraph" Printing House 1900

Rhymes to Remember...

        "Always have lobster sauce with salmon,
        And put mint sauce your roasted lamb on.
    In dressing salad mind this law
    With two hard yolks use one raw.
        Roast pork, sans apple sauce, past doubt
        Is Hamlet with the Prince left out.
    Broil lightly your beefsteak--to fry it
    Argues contempt of christian diet.
        It gives true epicures the vapors
        To see boiled mutton minus capers.
    Boiled turkey, gourmands know, of course
    Is exquisite with celery sauce.
        Roasted in paste, a haunch of mutton
        Might make ascetics play the glutton.
    To roast spring chickens is to spoil them,
    Just split them down the back and broil them,
    Shad, stuffed and baked is most delicious,
    T'would have electrified Apicius.
        Roast veal with rich stock gravy serve,
        And pickled mushrooms too, observe,
    The cook deserves a hearty cuffing
    Who serves roast fowl with tasteless stuffing.
        But one might rhyme for weeks this way,
        And still have lots of things to say;
    And so I'll close, for reader mine,
    This is about the hour to dine."

SOUP. A little butter is always needed in tomato soup. In making stock, use a quart of water
for every pound of meat and bone. Cut the meat in pieces, crack the bones, place all in the
kettle, pour over it the proper quantity of cold water; let it soak a while on the back of
the range before cooking. Let soup boil slowly, never hard, (an hour for each pound of meat)
strain through a sieve or coarse cloth. Never let the fat remain on your soup. Let get cold
and lift it off, or skim it off hot."

BROWN STOCK.

MRS. W. COOK.

Four pounds shin of beef, or other meats and bones--four carrots, four onions, one turnip,
one small head of celery, one half tablespoonful of salt, one half teaspoonful of peppercorns,
six cloves, five pints of cold water. Cut up the meat bone and place it in a large saucepan,
pour over the water, skim when boiling, prepare the vegetables, add them to the saucepan; cover
closely and boil slowly four hours. The spice should be added with the vegetables.

CREAM OF CELERY SOUP.

MRS. ERNEST F. WURTELE.

One quart chicken or veal broth; one quart milk; one half cupful rice; one teaspoonful salt;
one head celery; seasoning. Use for this soup a quart of chicken or veal broth and about a
quart of milk; pick over and wash the rice, rinse it well in cold water, and put it in a thick
saucepan over the fire with a pint of milk and a teaspoonful of salt; wash a head of celery
and grate the white stalks, letting the grated celery fall into milk enough to cover it; put
the grated celery with the rice and gently simmer them together until the rice is tender enough
to rub through a sieve with a potato masher, adding more milk if the rice absorbs what has
first been put with it. After the rice has been rubbed through the sieve, return it to the
saucepan, place it again over the fire, and gradually stir with it the quart of stock or broth;
if this quantity of stock does not dilute the soup to a creamy consistency, add a little milk;
let the soup get scalding hot, season it with salt, white pepper, and a very little grated
nutmeg, and serve at once.

CELERY SOUP.

MRS. STOCKING.

Four large potatoes, three large onions, six or eight stalks of celery. Chop all the vegetables
very fine, and place in an earthern kettle and cover with boiling water, stir often till cooked,
then add one quart of milk and let boil; add butter, pepper and salt to taste. This receipt
will serve six persons.

CHICKEN CREAM SOUP.

MRS. DUNCAN LAURIE.

Take the carcase of a roast chicken or turkey, break the bones, and cover with a quart of cold
water and simmer for two hours adding boiling water, to keep the original quantity. Strain
and return to kettle, add one chopped onion, two grated raw potatoes, one half small turnip
grated, and one half cup rice. Boil until rice is very soft. Strain again, and return to kettle
and let boil, and add one pint milk, one teaspoon cornstarch rubbed smooth in a tablespoon
butter and a little salt and pepper, serve hot.

CONSOMME À LA TOLEDO--CLEAR SOUP.

MISS STEVENSON.

One quart stock, two eggs, two gherkins, a little red and green colouring, two tablespoonfuls
cream, whites and shells of two eggs, one wine glass of sherry, and a little nutmeg. Beat the
two whole eggs, pour over them the cream (hot.) Season the custard with pepper, salt and nutmeg,
colour half red and half green, pour both parts into buttered tins, poach in hot water until
firm. Beat the whites and shells of eggs with a little cold water, add them to the stock, pour
it into a saucepan and whisk over the fire till boiling; draw on one side and simmer ten minutes.
Cut the custard in shapes, rinse then in warm water, shred the gherkins, strain the soup, add
the wine and garnishing just before serving.

CAULIFLOWER SOUP.

One cauliflower, two yolks of egg, one half pint of cream, one quart chicken stock. Boil together
the stock and cauliflower, for twenty minutes, take out the cauliflower, put aside some of
the best parts, pass remainder through a sieve, mix together the yolks and cream, add them
to the soup, put all in a saucepan and stir over the fire until it begins to thicken, put the
pieces of cauliflower into a tureen and pour the soup over them; the stock used in this soup
is better without any other vegetables.

FISH SOUP.

Two pounds of raw fish, one tablespoonful parsley, one and one half ounces butter, one ounce
flour of rice, one half pint milk, one quart of water, pepper, and salt. Boil together the
bones and skin of fish for half an hour. Strain, melt butter in a saucepan, stir into it the
flour, add strained water from the pan. Cut up the fish into small pieces, add it, also salt
and pepper, boil slowly ten minutes, add parsley at last minute.

GIBLET SOUP.

MISS BEEMER.

Giblets from two or three fowls; two quarts of water; one of stock; two tablespoons of butter,
ditto of flour; salt, pepper, and onion if desired. Put giblets on to boil in the water and
boil gently till reduced to one quart (about two hours); take out the giblets, cut off tough
parts and chop fine the remainder. Return to the liquor and add stock. Cook butter and flour
together until a rich brown, and add to the soup; season, cook gently half an hour; stir in
half a cup of bread crumbs and in a few minutes serve hot.

KIDNEY SOUP.

MISS STEVENSON.

One ox kidney, one quart second stock or water, one tablespoon Hardy sauce, one tablespoon
mushroom ketchup, one ounce butter, one ounce rice flour, pepper, salt and cayenne. Wash and
dry the kidney, cut into thin slices; mix together the flour, pepper and salt and roll the
kidney in it. Brown them quickly in the butter, pour over the stock, skim when boiling. Add
sauce and simmer slowly two hours.

LENTIL SOUP.

MRS. THEOPHILUS OLIVER.

One half pound of lentils, one carrot, one onion, one ounce dripping, salt, pepper corns, one
quart of water, one tablespoon of flour. Soak the lentils all night, wash well, scrape carrot,
and onion cut up. Put the dripping into a saucepan, when warm, put in vegetables, lentils and
flour. Stir for five minutes until all fat is absorbed, add the water warm, some herbs tied
in a bit of muslin. Boil for an hour or more. Rub through a sieve, return to saucepan. Reheat
and serve.

OX TAIL SOUP.

MRS. W. COOK.

