"Why you should call him a recreant knight, I cannot for the life of me understand," she said.
"But it seems that Sir Francis, who is not exactly in his first youth, is supposed to be as
attentive as a young turtle dove."

"I always used to think," said Miss Altifiorla gravely, "that a gentleman was bound to keep
his promise."

"Oh heavens, how grave you all are! A gentleman and his promise! Do you mean to assert that
Sir Francis is no gentleman, and does not keep his promises? Because if so I shall be angry."
Then there was an end of that conversation.

But she was stirred to absolute anger by what took place with Mrs. Green, though she was unable
to express her anger. Mrs. Green's manner to her had always been that of a somewhat humble
friend,--of one who lived in lodgings in the High Street, and who accepted dinners without
returning them. And since this engagement with Sir Francis had become a fact, her manner had
become perhaps a little more humble. She used to say of herself that of course she was poor;
of course she had nothing to give. Her husband was only a Minor Canon, and had married her,
alas, without a fortune. It is not to be supposed that on this account Cecilia was inclined
to ill-treat her friend; but the way of the world is such. People are taken and must be taken
in the position they frame for themselves. Mrs. Green was Cecilia Holt's humble friend, and
as such was expected to be humble. When, therefore, she volunteered a little advice to Cecilia
about her lover, it was not taken altogether in good part. "My dear Cecilia," she said, "I
do really think that you ought to say something to Sir Francis."

"Say something!" answered Cecilia sharply. "What am I to say? I say everything to him that
comes in my way."

"I think, my dear, he is just a little inattentive. I have gone through it all, and of course
know what it means. It is not that he is deficient in love, but that he allows a hundred little
things to stand in his way."

"What nonsense you do talk!"

"But, my dear, you see I have gone through it all myself, and I do know what I am talking about."

"Mr. Green--! Do you mean to liken Mr. Green to Sir Francis?"

"They are both gentlemen," said Mrs. Green with a slight tone of anger. "And though Sir Francis
is a baronet, Mr. Green is a clergyman."

"My dear Bessie, you know that is not what I meant. In that respect they are both alike. But
you, when you were engaged, were about three years younger than the man, and I am nearly twenty
years younger than Sir Francis. You don't suppose that I can put myself altogether on the same
platform with him as you did with your lover. It is absurd to suppose it. Do you let him go
his way, and me go mine. You may be sure that not a word of reproach will ever fall from my
lips."--"Till we are married," Cecilia had intended to say, but she did not complete the sentence.

But the words of her comforters had their effect, as no doubt was the case with Job. She had
complained to no one, but everybody had seen her condition. Her poor dear old mother, who would
have put up with a very moderate amount of good usage on the part of such a lover as Sir Francis,
had been aware that things were not as they should be. Her three friends, to whom she had not
opened her mouth in the way of expressing her grievance, had all seen her trouble. That Maude
Hippesley and Miss Altifiorla had noticed it did not strike her with much surprise, but that
Mrs. Green should have expressed herself so boldly was startling. She could not but turn the
matter over in her own mind and ask herself whether she were ill-treated. And it was not only
those differences which the ladies noticed which struck her as ominous, but a certain way which
Sir Francis had when talking to herself which troubled her.