When Frisbie applied, under the provisions of the act of Congress, for a patent to the land,
a man named Whitney, one of the squatters, protested against its issue, on the ground that
under the pre-emption laws he, Whitney, having settled upon the land, had acquired a vested
right, of which Congress could not deprive him. But the Land Department took a different view
of the matter and issued the patent to Frisbie. Whitney thereupon commenced a suit against
Frisbie in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia to have him declared a trustee of
the land thus patented, and to compel him, as such trustee, to execute a conveyance to the
complainant. The Supreme Court of the District of Columbia decided the case in favor of Whitney,
and ordered Frisbie to execute a conveyance; but on appeal to the Supreme Court the decision
was reversed; and it was held that a pre-emptioner did not acquire any vested right as against
the United States by making his settlement, nor until he had complied with all the requirements
of the law, including the payment of the purchase-money; and that until then Congress could
reserve the land from settlement, appropriate it to the uses of the government, or make any
other disposition thereof which it pleased. The court, therefore, adjudged that the Suscol
act was valid, that the purchasers from Vallejo had the first right of entry, and that Frisbie
was accordingly the owner of the land purchased by him. Soon after the decision was rendered
Julian rose in his seat in the House of Representatives and denounced it as a second Dred Scott
decision, and applied to the members of the court remarks that were anything but complimentary.
It so happened that previous to this decision a similar suit had been decided in favor of Frisbie
by the Supreme Court of California, in which a very able and elaborate opinion was rendered
by the Chief Justice. I did not see the opinion until long after it was delivered, and had
nothing whatever to do with it; but in some way or other, utterly inexplicable to me, it was
rumored that I had been consulted by the Chief Justice with respect to that case, and that
the decision had been made through my instrumentality. With this absurd rumor Hastings, after
he had been disbarred by Judge Hoffman, went on to Washington. There he joined Julian; and
after concocting a long series of charges against Judge Hoffman and myself, he placed them
in Julian's hands, who took charge of them with alacrity. The two worthies were now to have
their vengeance--Hastings for his supposed personal grievances and Julian for the Suscol decision
which injured his pocket.

These charges on being signed by Hastings were presented to Congress by Julian; and at his
request they were referred to the Judiciary Committee. That committee investigated them, considered
the whole affair a farce, and paid no further attention to it. But the next year Mr. Holman,
of Indiana, who succeeded Julian, the latter having failed of a re-election, re-introduced
Hastings' memorial at Julian's request and had it referred to the Judiciary Committee, with
express instructions to report upon it. Hastings appeared for the second time before that committee
and presented a long array of denunciatory statements, in which Judge Hoffman, myself, and
others were charged with all sorts of misdemeanors. The committee permitted him to go to any
length he pleased, untrammelled by any rules of evidence; and he availed himself of the license
to the fullest extent. There was hardly an angry word that had been spoken by a disappointed
or malicious litigant against whom we had ever decided, that Hastings did not rake up and reproduce;
and there was hardly an epithet or a term of villification which he did not in some manner
or other manage to lug into his wholesale charges. As a specimen of his incoherent and wild
ravings, he charged that "the affairs of the federal courts for the District of California
were managed principally in the interests of foreign capitalists and their co-conspirators,
and that the judges thereof appeared to be under the control of said foreign capitalists, and
that the said courts and the process thereof were being used or abused to deprive the government
of the United States and the citizens thereof of the property that legally and equitably belonged
to them respectively, and to transfer the same, in violation of law and through a perversion
of public justice, to said foreign capitalists and their confederates and co-conspirators,
and that nearly the whole of the sovereign powers of the State were under the control and management
of said foreign capitalists and their confederates and co-conspirators;" and he alleged that
he "was aware of the existence in the United States of a well-organized, oath-bound band of
confederated public officials who are in league with the subjects of foreign powers, and who
conspire against the peace, prosperity, and best interests of the United States, and who prey
upon and plunder the government of the United States and the city and county governments thereof,
and also upon private citizens, and who now are carrying into practice gigantic schemes of
plunder through fraud, usurpation, and other villainy, in order to enrich themselves, bankrupt
the nation, and destroy our government, and that their power is so great that they can and
do obstruct the administration of public justice, corrupt its fountains, and paralyze to some
extent the sovereign powers of the government of the United States and the people thereof."
The Judiciary Committee after having patiently listened to this rigmarole, absurd and ludicrous
as it was, unanimously reported that Hastings' memorial should be laid upon the table and the
committee discharged from any further consideration of the subject. The House adopted the report,
and, so far as Congress was concerned, there the matter dropped. But in the meanwhile it had
been telegraphed all over the country that articles of impeachment were pending against the
judges, and sensational newspaper articles appeared in different parts of the country. Some
expressed regret that the conduct of the judges had been of a character to necessitate such
proceedings. Others said it was not to be wondered at that the judicial ermine should be soiled
in a country of such loose morals as California. Still others thought it no more than proper
to impeach a few of the judges, in order to teach the remainder of them a salutary lesson.
These articles were paraded in large type and with the most sensational headings.

When the action of the House on the memorial was announced, Hastings and Julian became furious.
It then appeared that the only charge which had made any impression upon the minds of the committee
was that relating to Moulin, the Frenchman. Three, indeed, of the members, (Messrs. Voorhees,
of Indiana, Potter, of New York, and Peters, of Maine,) said it was a shame and disgrace that
such ridiculous and monstrous twaddle should be listened to for a moment; but a majority considered
it their duty, under the order of reference, to hear the matter patiently. They had, therefore,
allowed Hastings the widest latitude and listened to everything that his malice could invent.

As a comical conclusion to these extraordinary proceedings, Hastings commenced a suit in the
U.S. Circuit Court for the State of New York against the Judiciary Committee for dismissing
his memorial. Being a non-resident he was required by that court to give security for costs,
and as that was not given the action was dismissed. This result was so distasteful to him that
he presented a petition to the Chief Justice of the U.S. Supreme Court, stating that Judge
Hunt had too much to do with churches, banks, and rings, and asking that some other judge might
be appointed to hold the court. The petition was regarded as unique in its character, and caused
a great deal of merriment. But the Chief Justice sent it back, with an answer that he had no
jurisdiction of the matter. After this Hastings took up his residence in New York, and at different
times worried the judges there by suits against them--Judge Blatchford, among others--generally
charging in his peculiar way a conspiracy between them and others to injure him and the rest
of mankind.

       *       *       *       *       *

The above was written upon my dictation in the summer of 1877. In November of that year Hastings
again appeared at Washington and applied to a Senator to move his admission to the Supreme
Court. The Senator inquired if he was acquainted with any of the Judges, and was informed in
reply of that gentleman's proceedings against myself; whereupon the Senator declined to make
the motion. Hastings then presented to the House of Representatives a petition to be relieved
from his allegiance as a citizen of the United States. As illustrative of the demented character
of the man's brain, some portions of the petition are given. After setting forth his admission
to the Supreme Court of California as an attorney and counsellor-at-law, and his taking the
oath then required, he proceeded to state that on the 6th of November, 1877, he entered the
chamber of the Supreme Court of the United States to apply for admission as an attorney and
counsellor of that court; that he was introduced by a friend to a Senator, with a request that
the Senator would move his admission; that the Senator asked him if he knew a certain Justice
of the Supreme Court, and upon being informed that he did, and that his relations with said
Justice were not friendly, as he had endeavored to get him impeached, and that the damaging
evidence he produced against such Justice had been secreted and covered up by the Judiciary
Committee of the House, whom he had accordingly sued, the petition continued as follows: "Whereupon
said Senator replied, I have a cause to argue as counsel before this court this morning, and
I would, therefore, prefer not to move your admission. Said Senator then and there arose and
took his seat in front of the bench of said court; and your petitioner remained in said U.S.
Supreme Court until one application for admission was made and granted on motion of one S.P.
Nash, of Tweed-Sweeney Ring settlement fame [thereby demonstrating poetic injustice], and until
the Chief Justice of the United States--shadow not shade of Selden--called the first case on
the docket for that day, and a moment or two after the argument of said cause commenced, your
petitioner arose and left the court-room of said United States Supreme Court, (to which the
genius of a Marshall and a Story has bid a long farewell,) and as your petitioner journeyed
towards his hotel, your petitioner soliloquized thus: 'Senator W---- is evidently afraid of
Justice ----, with whom I have had a difficulty, and he possesses neither the manly independence
of a freeman, nor moral nor physical courage, and he is, therefore, an improper person (possibly
infamous) for such a high and responsible position, and my rights as a citizen are not safe
in the keeping of such a poltroon and conniving attorney, and he is probably disqualified to
hold the high and responsible office of Senator of the United States--that he improperly accepts
fees from clients, possibly in part for the influence which his exalted position as Senator
gives him as counsel for parties having cases before the U.S. Supreme Court, and which practice
is wholly inconsistent with the faithful, impartial performance of his sworn duty as such Senator;
and by thus accepting fees he has placed himself in a position where his personal interests
conflict with the obligations of his oath of office; while the Justices of the Supreme Court
are, I conceive, derelict in the performance of their sworn duty, for permitting such practices
to be inaugurated and continued.'

"Cowardice taints the character with moral turpitude; and I believe the facts related above
show that said Senator is a coward; at all events he lacks moral courage, and is afraid of
the Justices of the United States Supreme Court, whose judge the Senator-attorney of the court
becomes in case of trial of any of said Justices by impeachment; surely this is one unclean
body incestuously holding illicit commerce with another unclean body, and both become interchangeably
soiled, and too impure to touch the spotless robes of the judicial ermine; still, as this government
has ceased to be a government of law and justice, and has become a foul and unclean machine
of corrupt compromises, carried on by colluding and conniving shyster bartering attorneys,
the practice of said Supreme Court of the United States, above referred to, is strictly in
accord therewith."

The petition continued in a similar strain, and wound up by asking the passage of a concurrent
resolution of the Houses releasing him from his allegiance to the United States!

[1] See Exhibit L, in Appendix.

APPENDIX.

EXHIBIT A.

[From the New York Evening Post of November 13th, 1849.]

Among the passengers leaving in the Crescent City to-day is Stephen J. Field, Esq., of this
city, brother and late law-partner of D.D. Field, Esq., one of the Commissioners of the Code
of Practice.

Mr. Field is on his way to San Francisco, where he proposes to practise his profession, and
take up his future residence. If he should realize either the hopes or the expectations of
the numerous friends he leaves behind, he will achieve an early and desirable distinction in
the promising land of his adoption.

       *       *       *       *       *

EXHIBIT B.

Mr. William H. Parks, of Marysville, has always asserted that my election as Alcalde was owing
to a wager for a dinner made by him with a friend. He was at the time engaged in transporting
goods to the mines from the landing at Nye's Ranch on the Yuba River, called Yubaville, and
arriving at the latter place whilst the election was going on he made the wager that I would
be elected, and voted all his teamsters, numbering eleven, for me. As I had a majority of only
nine, he claims that he had the honor of giving me my first office. The claim must be allowed,
unless the person with whom he wagered offset this number, or at least some of the teamsters,
by votes for my opponent.

After the election Mr. Parks introduced himself to me, and from that time to this he has been
a warm and steadfast friend. He afterwards settled in Sutter County, but now resides in Marysville.
He has amassed a handsome fortune, and takes an interest in all public affairs. He has represented
his county as a Senator in the Legislature of the State. He is a gentleman of high character
and has the confidence and respect of the community.

My opponent for the office of Alcalde was Mr. C.B. Dodson, from Illinois. I afterwards met
him only once or twice in California, and knew little of his history. But when I was a member
of the Electoral Commission, in February of this year (1877), a copy of a paper published in
Geneva, Illinois--the Republican, of the 10th of that month--was sent to me, containing the
following account of him, from which it appears that he, too, has lived a life of strange vicissitudes
and stirring adventure:

REMINISCENCES.

