Stone's sheep, which was described by Dr. Allen in 1897, came from the head of the Stickine
River, and two years after its description Dr. J.A. Allen quotes Mr. A.J. Stone, the collector,
as saying: "I traced the Ovis stonei, or black sheep, throughout the mountainous country of
the headwaters of the Stickine, and south to the headwaters of the Nass, but could find no
reliable information of their occurrence further south in this longitude. They are found throughout
the Cassiar Mountains, which extend north to 61 degrees north latitude and west to 134 degrees
west longitude. How much further west they may be found I have been unable to determine. Nor
could I ascertain whether their range extends from the Cassiar Mountains into the Rocky Mountains
to the north of Francis and Liard River. But the best information obtained led me to believe
that it does not. They are found in the Rocky Mountains to the south as far as the headwaters
of the Nelson and Peace rivers in latitude 56 degrees, but I proved conclusively that in the
main range of the Rocky Mountains very few of them are found north of the Liard River. Where
this river sweeps south through the Rocky Mountains to Hell's Gate, a few of these animals
are founds as far north as Beaver River, a tributary of the Liard. None, however, are found
north of this, and I am thoroughly convinced that this is the only place where these animals
may be found north of the Liard River.

"I find that in the Cassiar Mountains and in the Rocky Mountains they everywhere range above
timber line, as they do in the mountains of Stickine, the Cheonees, and the Etsezas.

"Directly to the north of the Beaver River, and north of the Liard River below the confluence
of the Beaver, we first meet with Ovis dalli."

A Stony Indian once told me that in his country--the main range of the Rocky Mountains--there
were two sorts of sheep, one small, dark in color, and with slender horns, which are seldom
broken, and another sort larger and pale in color, with heavy, thick horns that are often broken
at the point. He went on to say that these small black sheep are all found north of Bow River,
Alberta, and that on the south side of Bow River the big sheep only occur. The country referred
to all lies on the eastern slope of the Rocky Mountains. The hunting ground of the Stonies
runs as far north as Peace River, and it is hardly to be doubted that they know Stone's sheep.
The Brewster Bros., of Banff, Alberta, inform me that Stone's sheep is found on the head of
Peace River.

A dozen or fifteen years ago one of the greatest sheep ranges that was at all accessible was
in the mountains at the head of the Ashnola River, in British Columbia, and on the head of
the Methow, which rises in the same mountains and flows south into Washington. This is a country
very rough and without roads, only to be traversed with a pack train.

Mr. Lew Wilmot writes me that there are still quite a number of sheep ranging from Mt. Chapacca,
up through the Ashnola, and on the headwaters of the Methow. Indeed, it is thought by some
that sheep are more numerous there now than they were a few years ago. In Dyche's "Campfires
of a Naturalist" a record is given of sheep in the Palmer Lake region, at the east base of
the Cascade range in Washington.

The Rev. John McDougall, of Morley, Alberta, wrote me in 1899, in answer to inquiries as to
the mountain sheep inhabiting the country ranged over by the Stony Indians, "that it is the
opinion of these Indians that the sheep which frequent the mountains from Montana northward
as far as our Indians hunt, are all of one kind, but that in localities they differ in size,
and somewhat in color.

"They say that from the 49th parallel to the headwaters of the Saskatchewan River, sheep are
larger than those in the Selkirks and coast ranges; and also that as they go north of the Saskatchewan
the sheep become smaller. As to color, they say that the more southerly and western sheep are
the lighter; and that as you pass north the sheep are darker in color. These Stonies report
mountain sheep as still to be found in all of the mountain country they roam in. Their hunting
ground is about 400 miles long by 150 broad, and is principally confined to the Rocky Mountain
range."

In an effort to establish something of the range of the mountain sheep, during the very last
years of the nineteenth century, I communicated with a large number of gentlemen who were either
resident in, or travelers through, portions of the West now or formerly occupied by the mountain
sheep, and the results of these inquiries I give below:

Prof. L.V. Pirsson, of Yale University, who has spent a number of years in studying the geology
of various portions of the northern Rocky Mountains, wrote me with considerable fullness in
1896 concerning the game situation in some of the front ranges of the Rockies, where sheep
were formerly very abundant. In the Crazy Mountains he says he saw no sheep, and that while
it was possible they might be there, they must certainly be rare. In 1880 there were many sheep
there. In the Castle Mountains none were seen, nor reported, nor any traces seen. The same
is true of the Little Belt, Highwood, and Judith Mountains. He understood that sheep were still
present in the bad lands; immediately about the mountains and east of them the country was
too well settled for any game to live. Earlier, however, in the summer of 1890, passing through
the Snowy Mountains, which lie north of the National Park, sheep were seen on two occasions;
a band of ten ewes and lambs on Sheep Mountain, and a band of seven rams on the head of the
stream known as the Buffalo Fork of the Lamar River. In 1893 an old ram was killed on Black
Butte, at the extreme eastern end of the Judith Mountains, near Cone Butte, and it is quite
possible that this animal had strayed out of the bad lands on the lower Musselshell, or on
the Missouri. Even at that time there were said to be no sheep on the Little Rockies, Bearpaws,
or Sweetgrass Hills.

All the ranges spoken of were formerly great sheep ranges, and on all of them, many years ago,
I saw sheep in considerable numbers.

There are a very few sheep in the Wolf Mountains of Montana.

There are still mountain sheep among the rough bad lands on both sides of the Missouri River,
between the mouth of the Musselshell and the mouth of Big Dry. It is hard to estimate the number
of these sheep, but there must be many hundreds of them, and perhaps thousands. As recently
as August, 1900, Mr. S.C. Leady, a ranchman in this region, advised me that he counted in one
bunch, coming to water, forty-nine sheep.

Mr. Leady further advised me that in his country, owing to the sparse settlement, the game
laws are not at all regarded, and sheep are hunted at all times of the year. The settlers themselves
advocate the protection of the game, but there is really no one to enforce the laws. Recent
advices from this country show that the conditions there are now somewhat improved.

It is probable that in suitable localities in the Missouri River bad lands sheep are still
found in some numbers all the way from the mouth of the Little Missouri to the mouth of the
Judith River.

Mr. O.C. Graetz, now, or recently, of Kipp, Montana, advised me, through my friend, J.B. Monroe,
that in 1894, in the Big Horn Mountains, Wyo., on the head of the Little Horn River, in the
rough and rolling country he saw a band of eleven sheep. The same man tells me that also in
1894, in Sweetwater county, in Wyoming, near the Sweetwater River, south of South Pass, on
a mountain known as Oregon Butte, he twice saw two sheep. The country was rolling and high,
with scattering timber, but not much of it. In this country, and at that time, the sheep were
not much hunted.

Mr. Elwood Hofer, one of the best known guides of the West, whose home is in Gardiner, Park
county, Mont., has very kindly furnished me with information about the sheep on the borders
of the Yellowstone National Park. Writing in May, 1898, he says: "At this time sheep are not
numerous anywhere in this country, compared with what they were before the railroad (Northern
Pacific Railroad) was built in 1881. In summer they are found in small bands all through the
mountains, in and about the National Park. I found them all along the divide, and out on the
spurs, between the Yellowstone and Stinking Water rivers, and on down between the Yellowstone
and Snake rivers, on one side, and the south fork of Stinking Water River and the Wind River
on the east. I found sheep at the extreme headwaters of the Yellowstone, and of the Wind River,
and the Buffalo Fork of Snake River. There are sheep in the Tetons, Gallatin-Madison range,
and even on Mount Holmes. I have seen them around Electric Peak, and so on north, along the
west side of the Yellowstone as far as the Bozeman Pass; but not lately, for I have not been
in those mountains for a number of years. All along the range from the north side of the Park
to within sight of Livingston there are a few sheep.

"On the Stinking Water, where I used to see bands of fifteen to twenty sheep, now we only see
from three to five. Of late years I have seen very few large rams, and those only in the Park.
Last summer Mr. Archibald Rogers saw a large ram at the headwaters of Eagle Creek, very close
to the Park. In winter there are usually a few large rams in the Gardiner Canyon. I hear that
there are a few sheep out toward Bozeman, on Mt. Blackmore, and the mountains near there.

"I believe that some of the reasons for the scarcity of mountain sheep in this country are
these: First, the settlement of the plains country close to the mountains, prevents their going
to their winter ranges, and so starves them; secondly, the same cause keeps them in the mountains,
where the mountain lions can get at them; and thirdly, the scab has killed a good many. I do
not think that the rifle has had much to do with destroying the sheep."

Sheep were formerly exceedingly abundant in all the bad lands along the Yellowstone and Missouri
rivers, and in the rough, broken country from Powder River west to the Big Horn. The Little
Missouri country was a good sheep range, and also the broken country about Fort Laramie. In
the Black Hills of Dakota they were formerly abundant, and also along the North Platte River,
near the canons of the Platte, in the Caspar Mountain, and in all the rough country down nearly
to the forks of the Platte.

The easternmost locality which I have for the bighorn is the Birdwood Creek in Nebraska. This
lies just north of O'Fallon Station on the Union Pacific Railroad and flows nearly due south
into the North Platte River. It is in the northwestern corner of Lincoln county, Nebraska,
just west of the meridian of 101 degrees. Here, in 1877, the late Major Frank North, well known
to all men familiar with the West between the years 1860 and 1880, saw, but did not kill, a
male mountain sheep. The animal was only 100 yards from him, was plainly seen and certainly
recognized. Major North had no gun, and thought of killing the sheep with his revolver, but
his brother, Luther H. North, who was armed with a rifle, was not far from him, and Major North
dropped down out of sight and motioned his brother to come to him, so that he might kill it.
By the time Luther had come up, the sheep had walked over a ridge and was not seen again, but
there is no doubt as to its identification. It had probably come from Court House Rock in Scott's
Bluff county, Nebraska, where there were still a few sheep as recently as twenty-five years ago.

These animals were also more or less abundant along the Little Missouri River as late as the
late '80's, and perhaps still later. This had always been a favorite range for them, and in
1874 they were noticed and reported on by Government expeditions which passed through the country,
and the hunters and trappers who about that time plied their trade along that river found them
abundant. Mr. Roosevelt has written much of hunting them on that stream.

The low bluffs of the Yellowstone River--in the days when that was a hostile Indian country,
and only the hunter who was particularly reckless and daring ventured into it--were a favorite
feeding ground for sheep. They were reported very numerous by the first expeditions that went
up the river, and a few have been killed there within five or six years, although the valley
is given over to farming and the upper prairie is covered with cattle. This used to be one
of the greatest sheep ranges in all the West; the wide flats of the river bottom, the higher
table lands above, and the worn bad lands between, furnishing ideal sheep ground. The last
killed there, so far as I know, were a ram and two ewes, which were taken about forty miles
below Rosebud Station, on the river, in 1897 or 1898.

Of Wyoming, Mr. Wm. Wells writes: "I have only been up here in northwestern Wyoming for a year,
but from what I have seen, sheep are holding their own fairly well, and may be increasing in
places. In 1897, Mr. H.D. Shelden, of Detroit, Mich., and myself were hunting sheep just west
of the headwaters of Hobacks River. There was a sort of knife-edge ridge running about fifteen
miles north and south, the summit of which was about 2,000 feet above a bench or table-land.
The ridge was well watered, and in some places the timber ran nearly up to the top of the ridge.
On this ridge there were about 100 sheep, divided into three bands. Each band seemed to make
its home in a cup-like hollow on the east side of the ridge, about 500 feet below the crest,
but the members of the different bands seemed to visit back and forth, as the numbers were
not always the same.

"We could take our horses up into either one of the three hollows, and some of the sheep were
so tame that we have several times been within fifty yards in plain sight, and had the sheep
pay very little attention to us. In one instance two ewes and lambs went on ahead of us at
a walk for several hundred yards, often stopping to look back; and in another a sheep, after
looking at us, two horses and two dogs, across a canyon 200 yards wide, pawed a bed in the
slide rock and lay down. In another case I drove about thirty head of ewes and lambs to within
thirty-five yards of Mr. Shelden, and when he rose up in plain sight, they stood and looked
at him. When he saw that there was no ram there, he yelled at them, upon which they ran off
about 400 yards, and then stood and looked at us.

"I do not think that these sheep had been hunted, until this time, for several years. As nearly
as I could tell, they ranged winter and summer on nearly the same ground. At the top of the
range, facing the east, were overhanging ledges of rock, and under these the dung was two feet
or more deep.

"Either during the winter or early spring the sheep had been down in the timber on the east
side of the ridge, as I found the remains of several, in the winter coat, that had been killed
by cougars."

Mr. D.C. Nowlin, of Jackson, Wyo., was good enough to write me in 1898, concerning the sheep
in the general neighborhood of Jackson's Hole; that is to say, in the ranges immediately south
of the National Park, a section not far from that just described. He says: "In certain ranges
near here sheep are comparatively plentiful, and are killed every hunting season.

