In front marched Ali-Ninpha, preceded by a numerous band of shrieking and twanging minstrels.
As he entered the apartment, Suphiana arose, drew his sword, and embracing the stranger with
his left arm, waved the shining blade over his head, with the other. This peculiar accolade
was imitated by each member of the royal council; while, in the centre of the square, the war-drum,--a
hollowed tree, four feet in diameter, covered with hides,--was beaten by two savages with slung-shot,
until its thundering reverberations completely deafened us.

You may imagine my joy and comfort when I saw the Mandingo take a seat near the prince, as
a signal for the din's cessation. This, however, was only the commencement of another prolonged
ceremonial; for now began the royal review and salute in honor of the returned commander. During
two hours, an uninterrupted procession of all the warriors, chiefs, and head-men of Jallica,
defiled in front of the ancient drum-major; and, as each approached, he made his obeisance
by pointing a spear or weapon at my landlord's feet. During this I remained on horseback without
notice or relief from the authorities. Ali-Ninpha, however, saw my impatient discomfort, and
once or twice despatched a sly message to preserve my good humor. The ceremony was one of absolute
compulsion, and could not be avoided without discourtesy to the prince and his countrymen.
As soon as he could escape, however, he hastened over the court-yard to assist me in dismounting;
and dashing the rude crowd right and left, led me to his kinsman Suphiana. The prince extended
his royal hand in token of amity; Ali-Ninpha declared me to be his "son;" while the long string
of compliments and panegyrics he pronounced upon my personal qualities, moral virtues, and
wealth, brought down a roar of grunts by way of applause from the toad-eating courtiers.

       *       *       *       *       *

Jallica was a fairer town than any I had hitherto encountered in my travels. Its streets were
wider, its houses better, its people more civil. No one intruded on the friend of Ali-Ninpha,
and guest of Suphiana. I bathed without visits from inquisitive females. My house was my castle;
and, when I stirred abroad, two men preceded me with rattans to keep my path clear from women
and children.

After lounging about quietly for a couple of days, wearing away fatigue, and getting rid of
the stains of travel, I thought it advisable to drop in one morning, unannounced, after breakfast,
at Suphiana's with the presents that are customary in the east. As the guest,--during my whole
journey,--of the Ali-Mami, or King of Footha-Yallon, I was entirely exempt by customary law
from this species of tax, nor would my Fullah protector have allowed me to offer a tribute
had he known it;--yet, I always took a secret opportunity to present a voluntary gift, for
I wished my memory to smell sweet along my track in Africa. Suphiana fully appreciated my generosity
under the circumstances, and returned the civility by an invitation to dinner at the house
of his principal wife. When the savory feast with which he regaled me was over, female singers
were introduced for a concert. Their harps were triangles of wood, corded with fibres of cane;
their banjoes consisted of gourds covered with skin pierced by holes, and strung like the harps;
but, I confess, that I can neither rave nor go into ecstasies over the combined effect which
saluted me from such instruments or such voices. I was particularly struck, however, by one
of their inventions, which slightly resembles the harmonica I have seen played by children
in this country. A board, about two feet square, was bordered by a light frame at two ends,
across which a couple of cane strings were tightly stretched.