Through their interest, he had been appointed to the office of power and trust in which I made
his acquaintance. John was one of my earliest friends, though the remnant of his name was never
heard nor inquired after by me. The great town has now grown much nearer his toll-house, which
then stood alone on the country road, with no building in sight but the school, at which I,
and some two score of the surrounding juveniles, were supposed to be trained in wisdom's ways,
by the elder brother of our parish minister. A painstaking, kindly teacher he was; but the
toll-house was a haunt more pleasant to our young fancies than his seminary. John was the general
friend and confidant of all the boys; he settled our disputes, made the best tops and balls
for us, taught us a variety of new tricks in play, and sometimes bestowed upon us good advices,
which were much sooner forgotten. John never married. He had a conviction, which was occasionally
avowed, that all women were troublesome; and whether this evidence be considered pro or con,
he was a man of rough sense and rustic piety, of a most fearless, and, what the Germans call,
a self-standing nature--for solitude or society came all alike to John. You would as soon expect
a pine-tree to be out of sorts, as his hard, honest face, and muscular frame. John was never
sick, or disturbed in any way; he performed his own domestic duties with a neatness and regularity
known to few housekeepers, and was a faithful and most uncompromising guardian of the toll-bar.
I well remember how our young imaginations were impressed with the fact, that no man could
pass, without, as it were, paying tribute to him; and George IV., though he appeared on the
coppers with which we bought apples, cast by no means so mighty a shadow on our minds as English
John. Before this glory waned, I was removed from his neighbourhood, being sent to cheer the
heart and secure the legacy of a certain uncle who was a writer to the Signet in Edinburgh,
and believed to be in profitable practice and confirmed bachelorhood. The worthy man has long
ago married his landlady's daughter, and been blessed with a family sufficient to fill a church-pew.
My own adventures--how I grew from garment to garment, how I became a law-student, and at length
a writer myself--have little to do with the present narrative, and are therefore spared the
reader in detail; but the first startling intelligence I received from home was, that English
John had resigned his important office at the toll-house, and gone, nobody knew whither!

Years had passed; my professional studies were finished, and I had occasion to visit a Fife
laird near the East Neuk. The gentleman was notable for his taste in kitchen-gardening; and
having a particularly fine bed of Jerusalem artichokes which I must see, he conducted me to
the scene of his triumphs, when, hard at work with the rake and hoe, whom should I find as
the much esteemed gardener, but my old friend English John! His hair had grown quite gray,
and his look strangely grave, since last I saw him: time had altered me still more; nevertheless,
John knew me at once--he had always a keen eye--but I perceived it was his wish not to be recognised
at all in presence of the laird. That worthy was one of those active spirits who extend their
superintendence to every department. He commanded in the pantry as well as on the farm; and
while expatiating over the artichokes, a private message from his lady summoned him back to
the house, as I sincerely believe, on some matter connected with the dinner; and he left me,
with an understood permission to admire the artichokes, and the garden in general, as long
as I pleased. Scarcely was he fairly out of sight, till I was at the gardener's side. 'John,
my old fellow,' cried I, grasping his hand, 'I'm glad to see you once again. How has the world
behaved to you these many years?'

'Pretty well, Master Willie,' said John, heartily returning my shake; 'and I'm glad to see
you too; but your memory must be uncommon good, for many a one of the boys has passed me by
on street and highway. How have they all turned out?' And he commenced a series of inquiries
after schoolmates and old neighbours, to which my answers were as usual in such cases--some
were dead, some were married, and some gone far away.

'But, John,' said I at last, determined to make out the mystery which had so long puzzled me
and the entire parish--'in exchange for all my news, tell me why you left the toll-house? It
was surely a better place than this?'

'You know what the old proverb says, Master Willie: "Change is lightsome,"' said John, beginning
to dig, as if he would fain stave off the explanation.

'Ha, John, that wont do!' said I; 'your mind was never so unsteady. Tell me the truth, for
old times' sake; and if there is anything in the story that should not be made public, you
know I was always a capital secret-keeper. Maybe it was a love-matter, John: are you married yet?'

'No, Master Willie,' cried my old friend, with a look of the most sincere self-gratulation
I ever saw. 'But it's a queer story, and one I shouldn't care for telling; only, you were always
a discreet boy, and it rather presses on my mind at times. The master won't be back for awhile;
he'll have the roast to try, and the pudding to taste--not to talk of seeing the table laid
out, for there are to be some half-dozen besides yourself to-day at dinner. That's his way,
you see. And I'll tell you what took me from the toll-house--but mind, never mention it, as
you would keep peace in the west country.'

This is John's story, as nearly in his own words as I can call them to mind:--

       *       *       *       *       *

The family in whose service I was brought up lived on their estate in Dumbartonshire, which
came through the mistress of the mansion, who had been heiress of entail, and a lady in her
own right; we called her Lady Catherine, and a prouder woman never owned either estate or title.
Her father had been a branch of the Highland family to whom the property originally belonged.
Her mother was sprung from the old French nobility, an emigrant of the first Revolution, and
she had been brought up in England, and married in due time to an Honourable Mr ---- there.
When she first came to the estate, her husband had been some years dead, and Lady Catherine
brought with her a son, who was to be heir--at that time a boy like myself--and two handsome
grown-up daughters. The castle was a great fabric, partly old and partly new. It stood in the
midst of a noble park, with tall trees and red deer in it. Its last possessor had been a stingy
old bachelor; but after Lady Catherine's coming, the housekeeping was put on a grand scale.
There was a retinue of English servants, and continual company. I remember it well, for just
then my poor mother died. She had been a widow, living in a low cottage hard by the park-wall,
with me and a gray cat for company, and her spinning-wheel for our support. I was but a child
when she died; and having neither uncle nor aunt in the parish, they took me, I think, by her
ladyship's order, into the castle, to run small errands, and help in the garden; from which
post, in process of time, I rose to that of footman. Lady Catherine was in great odour with
the country gentry for her high-breeding, her fashionable connections, and her almost boundless
hospitality. She was popular with the tenantry too, for there was not a better managed estate
in the west, and the factor had general orders against distress and ejectment.

They said her ladyship had been reckoned a beauty in London drawing-rooms, and our parish thought
her wonderfully grand for the gay dresses and rich jewellery she wore. Doubtless, these were
but the cast-offs of the season, for regularly every spring she and the family went up to London,
where they kept a fine house, and what is called the best society. How much the gay dresses
had to do with the beauty is not for me to say, but Lady Catherine was a large, stately woman,
with a dark complexion, and very brilliant red, which the servants whispered was laid on in
old court fashion. Her manner to her equals was graceful, and to her inferiors, gracious; but
there was a look of pride in her dark gray eyes, and a stern resolution about the compressed
lips, which struck my childish mind with strange fear, and kept older hearts in awe. Her daughters,
Florence and Agnes, were pictures of their mother--proud, gay ladies, but thought the flower
of the county. Their portions were good, and they would have been co-heiresses but for their
brother Arthur. He was the youngest, but so different from his mother and sisters, that you
wouldn't have thought him of the same family. His fair face and clear blue eyes, his curly
brown hair and merry look, had no likeness to them, though he was not a whit behind them in
air or stature. At eighteen, there was not a finer lad in the shire; and he had a frank, kindly
nature, which made the tenantry rejoice in the prospect of his being their future landlord.

Near the castle there stood a farmhouse, occupied by an old man whose great-grandfather had
cultivated the same fields. He was not rich, but much respected by his neighbours for an honest,
upright life. His wife was as old as himself. They had been always easy-living people, and
had no child but one only daughter. Menie was a delicately pretty girl, a little spoiled, perhaps,
in her station, for both father and mother made a queen of her at home. She was never allowed
to do any rough work, was always dressed, and her neighbours said, kept in the parlour. Menie
had a great many admirers, but her parents thought her too good for everybody, and had a wonderful
belief of their own, that she was somehow to get a great match, and be made a lady. There was
a strange truth in that notion, as things turned out, for we servants at the castle began to
remark how often the young master was seen going and coming about the farmhouse. Maybe the
old farmer and his wife encouraged him, for they had a story concerning their own descent from
some great chief of the western Highlands, and a family of wild proud cousins, who lived up
among the hills; but of this I know nothing more, only that the farmer's daughter was the prettiest
girl in the parish. Master Arthur was beginning his nineteenth year, and there was a storm
up stairs, such as had never been heard before in the castle, when Lady Catherine found out
what was going on, as I think through our minister, who considered it his duty to let her know
what every one talked of, but nobody else would dare to mention in her presence. Whether the
tempest was more than Master Arthur could stand, or whether Lady Catherine, in her fury--for
she had no joke of a tongue and temper--said something of Menie which drove the boy to finish
the business in his own way, was long a disputed point in the servants' hall; but next morning
he was missed in the castle, and in the course of my duties the same forenoon, I brought a
letter from the village post-office, the reading of which sent the young ladies off in hysterics,
and made Lady Catherine retire to her room--for it announced that her heir of entail and the
farmer's daughter were gone to get married in Glasgow.

The young ladies recovered in about two hours, and her ladyship came out, but only to prepare
for a journey to Paris; and quick work she made of it. Within twenty-four hours from the receipt
of that letter, she and her daughters were off in the family carriage; the best part of the
servants despatched to live at their town-house on board-wages; all the good rooms locked up,
and nobody but the gardener, a kitchen-girl, and myself left with the old housekeeper at the
castle. The next news we heard was, that the old farmer and his wife had set out to bring home
their daughter and son-in-law, saying--poor people, in their pride or folly--that Menie and
her husband could live with them till Providence cleared their way to the estate, which nobody
could keep from them. I believe it was that speech, coming to her ears by some busy tongue
or other, that made Lady Catherine so bitter afterwards; but Master Arthur and his bride came
home to the farmhouse, where the parlour and the best bedroom were set apart for their use;
and the poor old father and mother were proud to serve and entertain them. They were a young
pair; for, as I have said, he was in his nineteenth, and she in her seventeenth year--a handsome
pair, too, and more alike than one would have supposed from the difference of their birth.
Menie had a genteel, quiet carriage, and really looked like a lady in the church-pew beside
our young master, whom we seldom saw but at a distance--for his spirit was too high to come
near the castle--and though it wasn't just told us, we all knew that going to the farmhouse
would be reckoned the full value of our places.

It was the fall of the year when Lady Catherine left us--all that winter she spent in Paris;
and when the spring again came round, we heard of her opening house with even more than usual
gaiety in London. That was a great season with her ladyship. In its course, she got her daughters
both married to her mind. The one wedded a baronet, and the other a right honourable; but scarcely
had the newspapers fully announced his sisters' wedding-breakfasts, and how the happy pairs
set out, when Master Arthur was seized with sudden sickness. He had been fishing in a mountain-lake,
and got drenched to the skin by the rain of a thunder-storm, overexerted himself in walking
home, and caught a pleurisy. The whole parish felt for the poor young man, who had been so
hardly used by his mother, and many were the inquiries made for him at the farmhouse. There
was wild wo there, for every day he got worse; and within the week, Menie was left a widow.
Lady Catherine had gone back to Paris at the close of the season; one of her married daughters
was in Italy, and the other in Switzerland; but two cousins of their father were to be found
in England; and Master Arthur was laid in the family vault, under our old parish church, before
the intelligence reached them. Lady Catherine came back in deep mourning, and alone, but not
a whit subdued in spirit: she had been heard to say, that her son was better dead than disgraced;
and her estate was at least safe from being shared by peasants. Of her daughter-in-law, she
never took the slightest notice. People said, the poor young widow's heart was broken, for
she had thought more of Arthur than of his rank and property, and kept well out of the proud,
hard woman's way. Her ladyship did not seem to like living at the castle; she stayed only to
regulate matters with the factor at Martinmas, and went back again to London. Before she went,
a report began to rise, that poor Menie had drooped and pined into a real sickness. They said
it was a rapid decline, and a dog would have pitied the father and mother's grief. How strangely
they strove to keep that only child, asking the prayers of the congregation, and sending for
the best doctors; but all was in vain, for Menie died some days before Christmas. The girl
had a simple wish to rest beside Arthur. It was the last words she spoke; and her relations
believed that, being his wife, she had a right to a place in the vault without asking anybody's
leave. So they laid her quietly beside her husband, no one about the castle caring to interfere,
except the factor, who thought it incumbent on him to let her ladyship know.

By way of answer to his letter, down came Lady Catherine herself, one dark, wintry morning;
and, without so much as changing her travelling dress, she sent for four labourers, took them
with her to the church, and saying her family burying-place was never intended for a peasant's
daughter, made them take out Menie's coffin, and leave it at her parents' door. They said that
the old pair never got over that sight; and the mother, in her bitterness of heart, declared
that Providence had many a way to punish pride, and the woman who had disturbed her dead child,
would never be suffered to keep her own grave in peace.

The story made a marvellous stir in our parish, and grand as Lady Catherine was, she did not
escape blame from all quarters. There was a great gathering of Highland relatives and Lowland
friends to a second funeral, when they laid poor Menie among her humble kindred in the church-yard.
It was but a little way from the park gate, and I stood there to see the crowd scatter off
in that frosty forenoon. Many a sad and angry look was cast in the direction of the castle;
but my attention was particularly drawn to an old man and two boys, who stood gazing on the
place. He was close on the threescore-and-ten--they were little more than children; but all
three had the same gaunt, yet powerful frames; dark-red hair, which in the old man was but
slightly sprinkled with gray; almost swarthy complexions; and a fierce, hard look in the deep-set
eyes. By after inquiries, I learned that these were the father of the Highland cousin family,
and his two youngest sons. There were three elder brothers, but they were married, and settled
on rough sheep-farms; and the old man intended to maintain the ancient honours of his house,
by putting his younger boys into some of the learned professions.

The married sisters, now heiresses of entail, never visited the castle again in my time. Lady
Catherine came regularly at the terms from London, where she lived constantly; but her stay
was no longer than the rent-roll required, and her maid said she rested but badly at night.
So years passed on, and I rose in the service. On one of her visits, Lady Catherine thought
I would do for a footman, which she happened to want, and sent me to be trained at the house
in London. What great and gay doings I saw there needn't be told just now. Lady Catherine kept
the best and most fashionable company, and she was never at home an evening that the house
was not full. There was money to be made, and plenty of all things; but I did not like it;
and having saved a trifle, one of her ladyship's sons-in-law--he was the best of the two--got
me the place at the toll-bar.

You remember me there, Master Willie, and what great times we had on Saturday afternoons. You
may recollect, too, how many foot-passengers used to come and go. It was my amusement to watch
them when I had nothing better to do; but of all who passed my window, there were none took
my attention so completely as two young men, who always walked arm-in-arm, and seemed to be
brothers. I thought I had seen their strongly-marked Highland faces before, and by degrees
learned that they were none other than the old man's two sons, who had been at poor Menie's
last funeral, but were now grown up, and studying for the medical profession at the college
in Glasgow. Their father evidently kept them on short allowance, judging from their coarse
tartan clothes, and continual munching of oaten cakes: but I was told they were hard students,
and particularly clever in the anatomy class. One dark, dreary morning, about the Christmas-time,
I noted that Lady Catherine and her family had been in my dreams all night--their grand house,
and gay goings-on in London, mingling strangely with the old story of Master Arthur and the
farmer's daughter. When the newspaper, which I shared with the schoolmaster, came, judge of
my astonishment to read that her ladyship had died suddenly in a fit of apoplexy, which came
upon her at the whist-table, and her remains had been conveyed to the family vault in Dumbartonshire.
There was a lesson on the uncertainty of life! and it is my trust that I found in it a use
of warning; but the continual news and strangers at the toll-bar, the exact gathering in of
the dues, which was not always an easy task, and your own merry schoolmates, Master Willie,
had in a manner shuffled it out of my mind before the second evening.

It had been a dark, foggy day, and I went early to sleep, there being few travellers; but in
the dead of night, between twelve and one, I was roused by a thundering summons at the toll-bar.
The night was calm and starless, a mass of heavy clouds covered the sky, broken at times by
gusts of moaning wind from the west, and broad bursts of moonlight. I threw on my coat, lit
my lantern, and hurried out. There stood a large gig with three persons. They must have been
tightly packed in it, and I never saw a more impatient horse. There was some delay in getting
out the silver, and I had time to see that the two men who sat, one on each side, were the
Highland brothers. There was a woman between them, in a dingy cloak and bonnet, with a thick
black veil. She neither moved nor spoke, though the toll somehow puzzled the students. I was
determined to have it any way, and one of them saying something to his companion in Gaelic,
reached a half-crown to me. I knew I had no change, and told him so. 'I'll call in the morning,'
said he; but the horse gave a bound, and the silver flew out of his fingers. Both the brothers
looked down after it. I had a strange curiosity about their companion, and that instant a gust
of wind blew back the veil, and the moonlight shone clear and full upon the face: it was the
dead visage of Lady Catherine! I saw but one glance of it; the next moment the heavy veil had
fallen. 'Get the silver yourself, and keep it all,' cried the two men, as I opened for them
without a word: and from that day to this, no one has ever heard the story from me. I put the
half-crown in the poor's-box next Sabbath. But, Master Willie, after that night I never cared
for keeping the toll-bar. The sound of wheels coming after dark had always a strange effect
on me, and I could never see a gig pass without shivering. So I gave up my situation, and took
to the old trade of gardening again. The pleasant plants and flowers bring no dark stories
to one's mind. But yonder's the laird: dinner will be ready by this time.

       *       *       *       *       *

And John was right; for it was ready, with a jovial party to despatch it. But I never saw my
old friend after. He emigrated to Canada with his managing master in the following spring;
and, having at least kept the real names with enjoined secrecy, it seems at this distance of
time no breach of trust to repeat the toll-keeper's story.

CARDINAL MEZZOFANTI.

Among the lions of Rome during the last twenty years, not the least attractive, especially
for literary visitors, was the celebrated Cardinal Mezzofanti. Easy of access to foreigners
of every condition, simple, unpretending, cheerful, courteous even to familiarity, he never
failed to make a most favourable impression upon his visitors; and marvellous as were the tales
in circulation concerning him, the opportunity of witnessing more closely the exercise of his
almost preternatural powers of language, served but to deepen the wonder with which he was
regarded. The extent, the variety, and the solidity of his attainments, and, still more, his
complete and ready command, for the purposes of conversation, of all the motley stores which
he had laid up, were so far beyond all example, whether in ancient or modern times, as not
only to place him in the very first rank of the celebrities of our generation, but to mark
him out as one of the most extraordinary personages recorded in history.

Giuseppe (Joseph) Mezzofanti was born at Bologna in 1774, of an extremely humble family. His
father was a poor carpenter; and the eminence to which, by his own unassisted exertions, Mezzofanti,
without once leaving his native city, attained in the exercise of the faculty of language--which
is ordinarily cultivated only by the arduous and expensive process of visiting and travelling
in the different countries in which each separate language is spoken--is not the least remarkable
of the many examples of successful 'pursuit of knowledge under difficulties,' which literary
history supplies. He was educated in one of the poor schools of his native city, which was
under the care of the fathers of the celebrated Congregation of the Oratory; and the evidence
of more than ordinary talent which he exhibited, early attracted the notice of one of the members
of the order, to whose kind instruction and patronage Mezzofanti was indebted for almost all
the advantages which he afterwards enjoyed. This good man--whose name was Respighi, and to
whose judicious patronage of struggling genius science is also indebted for the eminent success
of the distinguished naturalist Ranzani, the son of a Bolognese barber, and a fellow-pupil
of Mezzofanti--procured for his young protégé the instruction of the best masters he could
discover among his friends. He himself, it is believed, taught him Latin; Greek fell to the
share of Father Emmanuel da Ponte, a Spanish ex-Jesuit--the order had at this time been suppressed;
and the boy received his first initiation into the great Eastern family of languages from an
old Dominican, Father Ceruti, who, at the instance of his friend Respighi, undertook to teach
him Hebrew. Beyond this point, Mezzofanti's knowledge of languages was almost exclusively the
result of his own unassisted study.

From a very early age, he was destined for the church, and he received holy orders about the
year 1797. During the period of his probationary studies, however, he obtained, through the
kindness of his friend F. Respighi, the place of tutor in the family of the Marescalchi, one
of the most distinguished among the nobility of Bologna; and the opportunities for his peculiar
studies afforded by the curious and valuable library to which he thus enjoyed free access,
may probably have exercised a decisive influence upon his whole career.

His attainments gradually attracted the notice of his fellow-citizens. In the year 1797, he
was appointed professor of Arabic in the university; a few years later, he was named assistant-librarian
of the city library; and in 1803, he succeeded to the important chair of Oriental Languages.
This post, which was most congenial to his tastes, he held, with one interruption, for a long
series of years. In 1812, he was advanced to a higher place in the staff of the library; and
in 1815, on the death of the chief librarian, Pozetti, he was appointed to fill his place.
When it is considered how peculiarly engrossing the study of languages is known to be, and
especially how attractive for an enthusiastic scholar like Mezzofanti, it might be supposed
that for him the office of librarian could have been little more than a nominal one. But the
library of Bologna to the present day bears abundant evidence that it was far otherwise. The
admirable order in which the Greek and Oriental manuscripts are arranged, the excellent catalogue
raisonné of these manuscripts, and the valuable additions to the notices of them by Assemani
and Talmar which it contains, are all the fruit of Mezzofanti's labour as librarian.

During his occupancy of this office, too, he continued to hold his professorship of Oriental
languages, and, for a considerable part of the time, that of Greek literature in addition.
Nor was he exempt from those domestic cares and anxieties which are often the most painful
drawback upon literary activity. The death of a brother, which threw upon him the care of an
unprovided family of eleven children, was the severest trial sustained in Mezzofanti's otherwise
comparatively quiet career; and by driving him to the ordinary expedient of distressed scholars--that
of giving private lectures--it tended more than all his public occupations to trench upon his
time, and to abridge his opportunities of application to his favourite study.

Perhaps, indeed, of all who have ever attained to the same eminence in any department which
Mezzofanti reached in that of languages, there hardly ever was one who had so little of the
mere student in his character. In the midst of these varied and distracting occupations, he
was at all times most assiduous in his attendance upon the sick in the public hospitals, of
which he acted as the chaplain. There was another also of his priestly duties, for the zealous
discharge of which he was scarcely less distinguished, and which became subsidiary, in a very
remarkable way, to his progress in the knowledge of languages. In the absence, up to the present
time, of any regular memoir of him, it is impossible to fix with precision the history of his
progress in the acquisition of the several languages. But it is well known, that at a very
early period he was master of all the leading European languages, and of those Oriental tongues
which are comprised in the Semitic family. Very early, therefore, in Mezzofanti's career, he
was marked out among the entire body of the Bolognese clergy as in an especial manner the 'foreigners'
confessor' (confessario dei forestieri). In him, visitors from every quarter of the globe had
a sure and ready resource; and in several cases, it was to the very necessity thus created
he was indebted for the acquisition, or at least the rudimentary knowledge, of a new language.
More than once, it occurred that a foreigner, introduced to the confessario dei forestieri,
for the purpose of being confessed, found it necessary to go through the preliminary process
of instructing his intended confessor. For Mezzofanti's marvellous and almost instinctive power
of grasping and systematising the leading characteristics even of the most original language,
the names of a few prominent ideas in the new idiom sufficed to open a first means of communication.
His prodigious memory retained with iron tenacity every word or phrase once acquired; his power
of methodising, by the very exercise, became more ready and more perfect with each new advance
in the study; and, above all, a faculty which seemed peculiar to himself, and which can hardly
be described as other than instinctive, of seizing and comprehending by a single effort the
general outlines of the grammatical structure of a language from a few faint indications--as
a comparative anatomist will build up an entire skeleton from a single bone--enabled him to
overleap all the difficulties which beset the path of ordinary linguists, and to attain, almost
by intuition, at least so much of the required language as enabled him to interchange thought
with sufficient freedom and distinctness for the purposes of this religious observance, which
is so important in the eyes of Catholics. And he used to tell, that it was in this way he acquired
more than one of his varied store of languages. For it will hardly be believed, that this prodigy
of the gift of tongues had never, till his forty-eighth year, travelled beyond the precincts
of his native province; and that, up to the period of his death, his most distant excursion
from Rome, in which city he had fixed his residence in 1832, did not exceed a hundred miles--namely,
to Naples, for the purpose of visiting the Chinese College which is there established.

It is true that at the period of which we speak, Bologna lay upon the high-road to Rome, and
that travellers more frequently rested for a space upon their journey, than in these days of
steam-boat and railway communication. But, even then, the opportunities of intercourse with
foreign-speaking visitors in Bologna were few and inconsiderable compared with the prodigious
advances which, under all his disadvantages, Mezzofanti contrived to make. The ordinary European
languages presented but little difficulty; the frequent passings and repassings of the allied
forces during the later years of the war, afforded him a full opportunity of acquiring Russian;
and the occasional establishment of Austrian troops in Bologna, brought him into contact with
the motley tongues of that vast empire--the Magyar, the Czechish, the Servian, the Walachian,
and the Romani; but beyond this, even his spirit of enterprise had no vent in his native city;
and all his further conquests were exclusively the result due to his own private and unassisted
study.

His fame, nevertheless, began to extend to foreign countries. Among many distinguished foreigners
to whose acquaintance his extraordinary faculties as a linguist became a passport, was the
celebrated Russian general, Suwarrow; and with him Mezzofanti long maintained the most friendly
relations. From the Grand-Duke of Tuscany he received a pressing invitation to fix himself
at Florence; and Napoleon himself, with that engrossing spirit which desired to make Paris
the centre of all that is great in science, in art, and in literature, offered him a most honourable
and lucrative appointment, on condition of his removing to the French capital. But Mezzofanti
declined both the invitations, and continued to reside in his native city, till the year 1832.
At the close of those political disturbances, of which Bologna was the centre, in the early
part of the pontificate of Gregory XVI., it was resolved to send a deputation to Rome on the
part of the citizens. Of this deputation, Mezzofanti, as the chief celebrity of the city, was
naturally a leader; and the pope, who had long known him, and who, before his elevation to
the pontificate, had frequently corresponded with him on philological subjects, urged him so
earnestly to remain at Rome, that with all his love of Bologna he was induced to consent. He
was immediately appointed, in 1832, a canon of St Peter's; and on the translation of the celebrated
Angelo (now Cardinal) Mai to the office of secretary of the Propaganda, he was named to succeed
him in the honourable post of librarian of the Vatican.

In this office Mezzofanti continued till the year 1840, when, in conjunction with the distinguished
scholar just named, he was raised to the cardinalate. During the interval since his fixing
his residence at Rome, he had enjoyed the confidence and friendship of Gregory XVI.; and although
his narrow resources were utterly unequal to the very considerable expense which the state
of a cardinal entails, Gregory, in acknowledgment of his distinguished merit, himself settled
the necessary income upon the humble Bolognese; and even, with characteristic delicacy, supplied
from his own means the equipage and other appurtenances which a new cardinal is obliged to
provide on entering upon his office.

