THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

VOL. XX, NO. 583.] SATURDAY, DECEMBER 29, 1832. [PRICE 2d.

       *       *       *       *       *

NATURAL TUNNEL, IN VIRGINIA.

Rock Bridges occupy the same pre-eminence amongst the sublimities of nature, that artificial
bridges maintain amidst the labours of man. Both alike inspire us with admiration, though we
are enabled to obtain but unequal results as to their respective origins. The bridge, built
by human hands, is, indeed, a triumph of the perfection of skilful contrivance; the strength
and beauty of the arch are among the most simple yet exquisite results of science, wonderful
as they may appear to the untaught beholder: but how shall we explain the formation of stupendous
rock-arches across deep ravines and rolling torrents, in countries where none but the wild
and picturesque forms of nature rise to gladden the eye and heart of the inquiring traveller?
Of the latter description are the natural bridges which abound in the State of Virginia; as
Rockbridge, which gives name to the county in which it is situated, and the wild and fantastic
bridges of Icognozo; all of which are more extensively recognised among the wonders of creation
than the specimen here presented to the reader.

This Tunnel is in Scott county, Virginia; but was so little known beyond its immediate neighbourhood,
as to induce Lieut.-Col. Long, (U.S. Army,) to communicate its description to Mr. Featherstonhaugh's
American Journal of Geology and Natural Science; and the following narrative of the Colonel's
Excursion will be read with interest:--

"During the past summer, I visited a remarkable natural bridge in Scott county, Virginia, to
which I have given the name of Natural Tunnel, on account of its striking resemblance to artificial
structures of that kind.

"The immediate locality of this tunnel is upon a small stream called Buck-eye, or Stock Creek.
This last name owes its origin to its valley having been resorted to by the herdsmen of the
country, for the attainment of a good range, or choice pasture-ground, for their cattle. The
creek rises in Powell's mountain, and is tributary to Clinch river, which it enters at the
distance of between two and three miles below the tunnel. The aspect of the surrounding country,
and especially of that to the northward of the tunnel, and constituting the southerly slope
of the mountain just mentioned, is exceedingly diversified, and broken by elevated spurs and
ridges, separated from each other by deep chasms, walled with cliffs and mural precipices,
often presenting exceedingly narrow passes, but occasionally widening into meadows or bottoms
of considerable extent. The mural precipices just mentioned occur very frequently, bounding
the valleys of the streams generally in this part of the country, and opposing ramparts of
formidable height, and in many places utterly insurmountable. Such are the features peculiarly
characteristic of Wild Cat Valley, the Valley of Copper Creek, of Powell's and Clinch rivers,
and of numerous other streams of less note, all of which are situated within a few miles of
the Natural Tunnel.

"To form an adequate idea of this remarkable and truly sublime object, we have only to imagine
the creek to which it gives a passage, meandering through a deep, narrow valley, here and there
bounded on both sides by walls, or revetements, of the character above intimated, and rising
to the height of two or three hundred feet above the stream; and that a portion of one of these
chasms, instead of presenting an open, thorough cut from the summit to the base of the high
grounds, is intercepted by a continuous unbroken ridge, more than three hundred feet high,
extending entirely across the valley, and perforated transversely at its base, after the manner
of an artificial tunnel, and thus affording a spacious subterranean channel for the passage
of the stream.

"The entrance to the Natural Tunnel on the upper side of the ridge is imposing and picturesque
in a high degree; but on the lower side the grandeur of the scene is greatly heightened by
the superior magnitude of the cliffs, which exceed in loftiness, and which rise perpendicularly--and,
in some instances, in an impending manner--two or three hundred feet; and by which the entrance
on this side is almost environed, as it were, by an amphitheatre of rude and frightful precipices.

"The observer, standing on the brink of the stream, at the distance of about one hundred yards
below the debouchure of the Natural Tunnel, has, in front, a view of its arched entrance, rising
seventy or eighty feet above the water, and surmounted by horizontal stratifications of yellowish,
white, and grey rocks, in depth nearly twice the height of the arch. On his left, a view of
the same mural precipice, deflected from the springing of the arch in a manner to pass thence
in a continuous curve quite to his rear, and towering in a very impressive manner above his
head. On his right, a sapling growth of buck-eye, poplar, linden, &c., skirting the margin
of the creek, and extending obliquely to the right, and upward, through a narrow, abrupt ravine,
to the summit of the ridge, which is here and elsewhere crowned with a timber-growth of pines,
cedars, oaks, and shrubbery of various kinds. On his extreme right is a gigantic cliff, lifting
itself up, perpendicularly from the water's edge, to the height, of about three hundred feet,
and accompanied by an insulated cliff, called the Chimney, of about the same altitude, rising,
in the form of a turret, at least sixty feet above its basement, which is a portion of the
imposing cliff just before mentioned.

"Desirous of illustrating this paper by a front view of the Natural Tunnel where the creek
issues from it, I have, with the assistance of a particular friend in this city--to whom I
am indebted for the accompanying drawing[1]--been enabled to furnish a sketch which very faithfully
represents some of the appearances I have described. The embellishments last mentioned, however,
viz. the chimney and its accompaniments, could not be comprised in the landscape.

"The following passages are from my own private journal:--

"Saturday, Aug. 13, 1831. Having ascended Cove ridge, we turned aside from our route to visit
the natural bridge, or tunnel, situated on Buck-eye, or Stock creek, about a mile below the
Sycamore camp,[2] and about one and a half miles from a place called Rye cove, which occupies
a spacious recess between two prominent spurs of Powell's mountain, the site of the natural
tunnel being included within a spur of Cove ridge, which is one of the mountain spurs just
alluded to. Here is presented one of the most remarkable and attractive curiosities of its
kind, to be witnessed in this or any other country. The creek, which is about seven yards wide,
and has a general course about S. 15 W., here passes through a hill elevated from two to three
hundred feet above the surface of the stream, winding its way through a huge subterraneous
cavern, or grotto, whose roof is vaulted in a peculiar manner, and rises from thirty to seventy
or eighty feet above its floor. The sides of this gigantic cavern rise perpendicularly in some
places to the height of fifteen or twenty feet, and, in others, are formed, by the springing
of its vaulted roof immediately from its floor. The width of the tunnel varies from fifty to
one hundred and fifty feet. Its course is that of a continuous curve, resembling the letter
S; first winding to the right as we enter on the upper side, then to the left, again to the
right, and then again to the left on arriving at the entrance on the lower side. Such is its
peculiar form, that an observer, standing at a point about midway of its subterranean course,
is completely excluded from a view of either entrance, and is left to grope in the dark through
a distance of about twenty yards, occupying an intermediate portion of the tunnel. When the
sun is near the meridian, and his rays fall upon both entrances, the light reflected from both
extremities of the tunnel contributes to mollify the darkness of this interior portion into
a dusky twilight.

"The extent of the tunnel, from its upper to its lower extremity, following its meanders, is
about 150 yards; in which distance the stream falls about ten feet, emitting, in its passage
over a rocky bed, an agreeable murmur, which is rendered more grateful by its reverberations
upon the roof and sides of the grotto. The discharge of a musket produces a crash-like report,
succeeded by a roar in the tunnel; which has a deafening effect upon the ear.

"The hill through which this singular perforation leads, descends in a direction from east
to west, across the line of the creek, and affords a very convenient passage for a road which
traverses it at this place, having a descent in the direction just mentioned of about four degrees.

"The rocks found in this part of the country are principally sandstone and limestone, in stratifications
nearly horizontal, with occasional beds of clay slate. A mixture of the two former frequently
occurs among the alternations presented by these rocks. A variety of rock resembling the French
burr occurs in abundance on Butcher's-fork of Powell's river, about twenty miles northwardly
of the Natural Tunnel. Fossils are more or less abundant, in these and other rocks. Fossil
bones, of an interesting character, have been found in several places. Saltpetre caves are
numerous. Coves, sinks, and subterranean caverns, are strikingly characteristic, not only of
the country circumjacent to the Natural Tunnel, but of the region generally situated between
the Cumberland mountain, and the Blue ridge or Apalachian mountain. Bituminous coal, with its
usual accompaniments, abounds in the northerly parts of this region; and in the intermediate
and southerly portions, iron, variously combined, often magnetic, together with talcose rocks,
&c. &c. are to be met with in great abundance.

"The mountains in this vicinity--long. 82° to 84° W. from Greenwich, lat. 35° to 36° N.--are
among the most lofty of the Allegheny range. Several knobs[3] in this part of the range, among
which may be enumerated the Roan, the Unaka, the Bald, the Black, and Powell's mountains, rise
to the height of at least four thousand five hundred feet above tide."

Mr. Featherstonhaugh remarks, that the Natural Tunnel has not been worn through the rock by
the long-continued action of running water is evident, not from the cavernous structure alone
of the general country, but from the form of Powell's mountain, in a spur of which the Tunnel
passes transversely.

Mr. Featherstonhaugh further concludes the Tunnel to be a natural cavity in the rock, for,
if such had not been the case, "it is evident that the stream would have been deflected from
its line; would have followed the base of the hill, and have turned the extreme point."

Little is known of the geology of the country in which this Tunnel is situate, notwithstanding
the popularity of the natural bridges of the State. The rock before us would appear to belong
to that class which geologists commonly term Perforated Mountains, which some suppose to have
been bored through, in part, at least, by the persevering industry of man. "Such phenomena,"
observes Maltebrun, "are, however, mere eccentricities of nature, and differ from caverns only
from the circumstance of having a passage entirely through them. The Pierre-Pertuise in Mount
Jura, and Pausilippo, near Naples, are instances of this kind. The Torghat, in, Norway, is
pierced by an opening 150 feet high, and 3,000 long. At certain seasons of the year, the sun
can be seen darting its rays from one extremity to the other of this vault. Near New Zealand
is a rocky arch through which the waves of the sea pass at high water."[4] The latter, one
of the Piercy Islands, will be found engraved and described in The Mirror, vol. xix. p. 145.

    [1] See the Cut.

    [2] This designation has been given to a spot in the Valley of the
        creek, where formerly stood a hollow sycamore (platanus
        occidentalis) tree of an enormous size, the remains of which
        are still to be seen, and in the cavity of which, whilst it
        stood, fifteen persons are said to have encamped at the same
        time together.

    [3] Out-liers of any particular ridge.

    [4] Physical Geography, book viii.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE LATE SIR WALTER SCOTT.

(From the Note Book of a Tourist.)

In the summer of 1829, I made a Tour of the Borders. On the 16th of August, I arrived in Melrose.
I came on the top of the coach from Jedburgh, in company with two intelligent fellows, a young
Englishman of fortune (apparently,) and a Russian nobleman. We put up at the George, where
we found about five tourists, redolent of sketch and note books, drinking toddy and lying in
wait to catch a sight of the lion of the neighbourhood, Sir Walter. The voracity with which
they devoured any anecdotes of him was amusing. In the evening it came on a peppering storm.
I had foreseen this on our route from Jeddart. The Eildons had mounted their misty cap, always
a sure prognostic of rain; in fact they are the barometer of the district. I then prevailed
on my two companions to forego their visit to the Abbey that night. We therefore had in old
Davidson, the landlord of the Inn, and my companions submitted him to an interrogatory of three
long hours' duration. One little anecdote of fresh occurrence struck me as possessing some
interest. I will record it. About a month before, a poor maniac presented herself at the gates
of Abbotsford. She desired to see Sir Walter. The servant denied her admittance, but such was
the earnestness of the poor creature, that auld Saunders, on her pressing application, went
and informed his master, "that a puir demented lassie was at the gett (gate) greetin' like
a bairn." Sir Walter had the kindest of hearts; "O admit her puir thing," he said. The woman
no sooner entered than she fell on her knees in reverential awe before Sir Walter. Her story
was simply this. She belonged to Aberdeen; she was married to a young farmer in that neighbourhood
and had not long before given birth to a beautiful infant, the first pledge of their loves.
The pains of birth had injured her mental equanimity, and eluding the vigilance of her keepers
she set forward one evening in search of the great enchanter, whose works had in happier hours
beguiled her with their beauty. She travelled for a week; the distance from Aberdeen to Abbotsford
was about a hundred and fifty miles. She had walked every step. Sir Walter did what he could
to soothe her distracted mind, and get her wasted frame recruited. But after some time he deemed
it advisable to exercise his judicial power and put her in a place of security, until definite
intelligence could be procured of her friends and relations. Jedburgh is the county town of
Roxburgh; and thither all wanderers of this and a less gentle race are sent. A post-chaise
was sent for from old Davidson, of the George, and when it was at the door of Abbotsford, Sir
Walter induced the poor girl to enter it, promising to accompany her "out a ridin'." She entered--looking
for him to follow. The door was instantly closed, and the post-boy lashing and spurring his
horses, darted off in a second. She gave a piercing shriek, looked wildly round her, and abandoned
herself to the most agonizing despair; exclaiming in a tone of the utmost pathos, "ah! deceitfu'
man, hae ye beguiled me too!"--and then she sunk back in the carriage, and buried herself in
the deepest silence. * *

18th August. Set out to view the ruins of Dryburgh Abbey. Called on Capt. (now Sir David) Erskine,
from whom I received the politest attention. His housekeeper acted as my cicerone, and conducted
me over the venerable pile. These time-worn ruins stand on the north bank of the Tweed, by
which they are almost surrounded, and are backed by hills covered with wood, of the richest
foliage. The abbey as well as the modern mansion house of the proprietor, is completely embosomed
in wood. Around this sylvan spot the Tweed winds in a beautiful crescent form, and the scene
is extremely interesting, embracing both wood and water, mountain and rock scenery. The whole
gives rise to sentiments of the most pleasing, devotional tranquillity. The place, however,
at which I paused, was St. Mary's Aisle: "here," I said to myself, "will the mighty minstrel
sleep, when his harp shall be silent!"--and here I offered the votive tribute in anticipation,
which thousands will follow me in, now that he is, too truly, alas! no more. At the little
iron palisading I stood, and said, "here Scott will sleep:" in this, fate has not deceived
me. He rests there now. Peace to his manes!

August 20. Down at the Abbey this night. It would be absolute folly to note down what I saw
or thought of this most remarkable monastic structure. Every album possesses it, in all the
beauty of its fairy architecture; its tabernacles, its niches and canopies, and statues, pinnacles,
pediments, spires, and the tracery of its vaultings.

The decorated work is most exquisitely executed. The mouldings are still so sharp, that they
seem as lately from the chisel of the mason. The south transept window and door are the most
perfect of the ruins. The day light of the window is twenty-four feet by sixteen, divided by
four mullions. The tracery and cuspings are all of the decorated style of the Gothic. It is
furnished with crotchets and creeping foliage. There are a number of niches, canopies, and
tabernacles, on the south transept; and the corbels that support the statues, are carved with
grotesque figures; some representing monks with cowls upon their heads, others musicians playing
upon different kinds of instruments; some are most hideous to look at. Sir Walter procured
casts of many of these grotesque figures, which on a visit to Abbotsford, I observed placed
in the ceiling of the hall. He has clothed them in a new dress, more suited to the social scene
of their present locality. But, I always ramble into the shop, when I get on architecture.
Let me narrate the occurrence of this night. As I was pacing the great aisle of the abbey,
a carriage drove up to the gate. "Sir Walter Scott!" said the keeper, brushing past me to receive
him. A lady alighted. I heard "good night!" responded by a person in the carriage, who drove
off with it. Who can this be, thought I to myself. It was dusk--the lady advanced with a stately
step. I moved aside. "In these deep solitudes and awful cells!" methought I heard her say.
She ascended to the bell-tower. "Who is that lady?" said I to the keeper when he entered. "That,
sir," said he, "is Mistress Hemmins, the poet writer, wha is on a visit to Maistre Lockhart,
and she cam just noo in Sir Walter's carriage, and she wants to be alane, sir, by hersel."
I took the hint, and made for the George and my glass of toddy, unwilling to deprive the world
of those lays, which Melrose, the rush of the Tweed, and midnight would, no doubt, inspire
in the fair authoress.

August 23. At Galashiels, a semi-rural demi-manufacturing town on the banks of the "braw, braw
Gala water." Not having the good fortune to get to Abbotsford from Melrose, I started over
the hill which looks down on Galashiels, towards that destination. Abbotsford I need not render
an account of. But my approach to it was not deficient in interest.

On arriving at the summit of the hill overlooking the Tweed, it burst upon my sight. I looked
down on the grounds in which it is settled, as on a map. The skill and industry of Sir Walter
is not more remarkable in his literary than in his rural works. The house stands in a bare,
barren corner of Selkirkshire, (I think) but by admirable management, he has enclosed it with
fine, hardy young wood, and quite altered its appearance.

At the bottom of the hill I took the boat at the ferry, and resting in the middle of the stream,
the Tweed, and looked around me. I saw a person on the opposite bank appearing and disappearing
in the wood which comes down to the water's edge. I drew near. He was dressed in a short, green
coat and cap, and was amusing himself with the antics of a large dog. The place--the time--the
air--the gait--every thing conspired: "Who's that, lassie?" said I to my little boat rower;
"That, sir? that's himsel, that's the shirra" (sheriff.) Yes, it was the man--he himself--the
pride of Scotland--her boast--the intellectual beacon of her hills--it was Sir Walter Scott!

Sept. 3. At Selkirk. At Mitchell's Inn, where I was introduced to the celebrated Jamie Hogg,
the Ettrick Shepherd. He had come, I think, from a fair held at the Eildons. We got over a
jug of toddy. Our conversation turned on the church service of the kirk of Scotland, and we
rambled into poetry in conversing on the psalms. I pointed out to the shepherd, that a fair
fame might be achieved by arranging the Psalms of David, and superseding the barbarities of
Sternhold and Hopkins. James maintained that the present edition in use in Scotland, could
not be improved. He said that the question had been agitated in the General Assembly, and Sir
Walter Scott was applied to, to furnish an improved versification, but he answered, stating
that it would be a more difficult matter to get the people to adopt them, than to furnish the
same. Any alteration in this respect would be looked upon as little better than sacrilege,
and he therefore advised that the present form should be continued in. "Watty's a sensible
chap," said the shepherd, speaking familiarly of Sir Walter, "and if he laid a finger on o'or
venerable psalmody, I wad pitch a louse at him, wha hae ever loved the man as my ain brether."

       *       *       *       *       *

During the last years of Sir Walter's life, he visited in the counties of Berwick, Roxburgh,
and Selkirk, the various scenes which his graphic pen has delineated and incorporated in his
minstrelsy and romance. The summer when the preceding notes were made, I happened to be in
Kelso, and took ride one day to visit the worthy minister of a neighbouring parish, in which
the celebrated border keep Smailholme tower is situated, the scene of the fearful legend embodied
in the poem "The Eve of St. John."

We rode over to it: it is situated on a crag or ridge of rock, high in the north range of hills,
the Lammer-muir, which spring from the splendid vale of Teviot and Tweed, commanding an unbounded
prospect on the east and west; the south is terminated by the Cheviots and the English border.

We found the Tower in possession of a party, and the Rev. Mr. C---- rode forward to report,
in case we should be deemed intruders. He came back shortly, and it was no other than Sir Walter
himself, with several members of his family, who had accompanied him to bid a final farewell
to Smaillum keep. As I afterwards heard, he was in the highest spirits, and repeated the poem
for the gratification of his party, in that impressive manner for which he was remarkable,
in giving the necessary effect to his own compositions. The party brought a cold collation
with them: before leaving, Sir Walter surveyed the beautiful prospect at his feet, the Tweed
and Teviot meeting in sisterly loveliness, and joining their waters in the valley, with the
golden fields of England in the distance; when filling a glass of wine he drank with fervour,
in which all joined him, "baith sides of the Tweed."

I.

       *       *       *       *       *

OLD ENGLISH ARMOUR.

(From a Correspondent.)

Previous to the time of Edward I., the body-armour may be distinguished by the appellations
of trelliced, ringed, rustred, mascled, scalad, tegulated, single-mailed, and banded. The trelliced
method has not been properly ascertained: it probably consisted of leather thongs, crossed,
and so disposed as to form large squares placed angularly, with a round knob or stud in the
centre of each. The ringed consisted of flat rings of steel, placed contiguous to each other,
on quilted linen. The rustred was nothing more than one row of flat rings, about double the
size of those before used, laid half over the other, so that two in the upper partially covered
one below. Mascled; the hauberk composed of several folds of linen, covered with diamond-shaped
pieces of steel touching each other, and perforated: so called from their resemblance to the
meshes of a net. Scaled; formed of small pieces of steel like the scales of fish, partially
overlaying each other. This species was used only during the reigns of Henry II and Richard
I. The tegulated consisted of little square plates, partly covering one another, like tiles.

Single Mail was composed of rings set edgeways on quilted linen. It came into use about the
close of John's reign, and continued to be partially worn till that of Edward I. At the commencement
of Henry III.'s reign, it covered not only the head, but hands, legs, and feet. It was very
heavy, and likewise the rings were liable to be cut off by the blow of a sword; which latter
circumstance, perhaps, introduced the contrivance of banded armour, which was composed of parallelogramic
pieces of metal, sown on linen, so placed as to fold perpendicularly over each other, like
palings, and kept in their places by bandy or hoops of leather.

We now come to the Double-chain Mail, consisting of interlaced rings, which made its first
appearance in the triumphant reign of Edward I. It is said to be of Asiatic invention, and
was composed of four rings within a fifth, each of which was rivetted. Single-chain mail was
worn by the Crusaders, in Henry III's time; and when the number of rings was doubled, it became
double-chain mail. Its great advantages were compactness and pliability. Horses were now clothed
in mail.

In the latter part of Edward III.'s reign, the double-chain mail became so covered with pieces
of steel as to cause them in a little time to supersede it altogether. This, therefore, was
termed mixed. The double-chain hauberk had been found, owing to its weight, to press injuriously
upon the chest; to remedy which, a breastplate of steel was contrived, which being placed underneath,
kept the mail from pressing upon the stomach. The throat was protected by a chain-covering
that surrounded the neck, and hung down to the shoulders like a tippet.

We now come to Plate Armour. In Henry IV.'s reign, the adoption of the mixed armour soon pointed
out, by experience, the inutility of retaining the ringed hauberk. The thighs and legs were
no longer covered with double-chain mail, and the arms only partially. A back-plate was added,
which, with the breast-plate, formed a cuirass. During the use of mixed armour, the arms, thighs,
knees, and legs were covered with plates of metal; and for the hands were invented gloves of
plate, with fingers, called gauntlets.

From the Conquest to the time of Richard III., the fashion was to ride with the toes down;
after which period, the heel was dropped, and the toe raised. Spurs were not screwed to the
armour before the time of Henry V.

No higher degree of perfection was ever attained in armour than during the reign of Richard
III. The outline of the suit was most elegant, the workmanship most elaborate, and the choice
of ornaments full of taste.

       *       *       *       *       *

MANNERS AND CUSTOMS.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHRISTMAS AT HEREFORD.

In the county of Hereford, some of the Romish and feudal ceremonies are yet practised.

After which the verse is chanted in chorus by all present. This is the commencement of the
rural feast, which is generally prolonged till the following morning.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHRISTMAS IN MEXICO.

"Christmas is in Guadalaxara," says Mr. Hardy, "a season of great diversion. The portales (colonades),
which are much better than those of the city of Mexico, and infinitely more numerous, are all
well lighted up with candles, surrounded by coloured paper shades, standing on little tables,
which display a great assortment of sweetmeats and fruits. The ladies and gentlemen walk about,
finely dressed, under the portale, and convert it into a fashionable promenade.--From seven
till ten, there is not perhaps a single family in the whole town which has not taken a few
turns in their gayest dresses, to witness the sweetmeat exhibition--to see and to be seen.
It may be well to give the traveller a gentle hint with respect to the 25th of December: nothing
borrowed on that day is ever returned. It is, in short, to the Mexicans, who call it. 'La noche
buena,' what April fool-day is to us. Therefore, traveller, beware! It is the occasion of much
frolic and amusement."

W.G.C.

       *       *       *       *       *

NEW YEAR'S GIFTS.

The custom of New-year's Gifts is very ancient, and was formerly carried to a great extent.
The sovereign used to accept gifts from his courtiers and principal favourites, and was also
in the habit of making presents to certain individuals; the prince, however, always taking
care that the presents he received greatly exceeded in value those which he gave. It is recorded
of Bishop Latimer, that on one occasion he presented to his master, Henry VIII., instead of
a sum in gold for a New-year's Gift, a New Testament, with the leaf folded down at Hebrews,
ch. xiii., v. 4.--on reference to which the king found a text well suited as an admonition
to himself. Queen Elizabeth supplied herself with wardrobe and jewels principally from new
year's gifts. Dr. Drake has given a list of some of these presents;--amongst the items we find
the following: "Most of the peers and peeresses of the realm, the bishops, the chief officers
of state, her majesty's household, even as low as the master of the pantry and head cook, all
gave her majesty a Christmas-box,--consisting either of a sum of money, jewels, trinkets, or
wearing apparel. The Archbishop of Canterbury usually gave 40l., the Archbishop of York 30l.,
and the other prelates from 10l. to 20l. The peers gave in the same proportion;--whilst the
peeresses presented rich gowns petticoats, shifts, stockings, garters, &c. Her physician presented
her with a box of foreign sweetmeats; and from her apothecary she received a box of ginger-candy
and a box of green ginger. Ambroise Lupo gave her a box of lute-strings; and Smith, the royal
dustman, presented her majesty with two bolts of cambric."

W.G.C.

       *       *       *       *       *

SUMPTUARY LAWS.

These laws were made to restrain excess in apparel, costly furniture, eating, &c.

Zaleucus, the ancient philosopher and legislator of Greece, ordained that no woman should go
attended with more than one maid in the street, except she was drunk. He prohibited the use
of wine, otherwise than as a medicine, &c.

Among the Romans there were sumptuary laws to restrain the number of guests at feasts;--not
only the master of the feast, but all the guests too, were liable to the penalty. It was also
enacted, that more than ten asses should not be spent at any ordinary feast. Ten asses was
the price of a sheep.

Luxury was restricted in England in 1337; wherein the prelates and nobility were confined to
two courses every meal, and two kinds of food in every course, except on great festivals. All
who did not enjoy a fee estate of 100l. per annum were also prohibited from wearing furs, skins,
or silk; and the use of foreign cloth was confined to the royal family alone--to all others
it was prohibited. An edict was issued by Charles VI. of France, which says, "Let no one presume
to treat with more than a soup and two dishes," 1340.

Sumptuary laws were made in England, in former times, against picked shoes, short doublets,
and long coats. The dandies of ancient days wore the beaks or points of their shoes so long,
that they encumbered themselves in their walking, and were forced to tie them up to their knees;
the fine gentlemen fastened theirs with chains of silver, or silver gilt, and others with laces.
This ridiculous custom was in vogue from the year 1382; but was prohibited, on the forfeiture
of 20s. and the pain of cursing by the clergy, 1467.

In the reign of King Henry IV., Camden says--Pride was got so much into the foot, that it was
proclaimed that no man should wear shoes above six inches broad at the toes; and other garments
were so short, that it was enacted, under Edward IV., that no person under the condition of
a lord wear any mantle or gown, unless of such length.

P.T.W.

       *       *       *       *       *

MARRIAGE CUSTOM.

The following singular, though highly useful custom, formerly existed in England: viz.--"There
was usually carried before the mayde, when she shoulde be married, and came to dwell in hir
husbande's house, a distaffe, charged with flaxe, and a spyndle hanging at it, to the intente
shee might bee myndeful to lyve by hir labour." The foregoing is extracted from "A Treatise
wherein dicing dauncing, vaine plays, or enterludes; with other idle pastimes, commonly used
on the Sabbath-day, are proved by the authoritie of the word of God, and ancient writers; by
John Northbrook, minister and preacher of the word of God."

JUVENIS.

       *       *       *       *       *

NATIONAL CAPRICES.

WALTER E.C.

       *       *       *       *       *

RETROSPECTIVE GLEANINGS.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE POST OFFICE.

In the year 1635, Charles I. directed his postmaster to open a communication between London
and Edinburgh, &c. &c. In 1653-4, the revenues of the Post-office were farmed by the Council
of State and Protector, at 10,000l. per annum. Some idea of their progressive increase may
be gained by the perusal of the following:--

  1664     £21,000
  1674      43,000
  1685      65,000
  1688      76,318
  1697      90,505
  1710     111,467
  1715     145,227
  1744     235,492
  1775     345,321
  1785     463,753
  1793     607,268
  1814   2,005,987

Since 1814, Mr. Macculloch considers the revenue of the Post-office to have been about stationary.

ANTIQUARES.

       *       *       *       *       *

BEDE'S CHAIR.

