As the rulers of democratic nations are almost always exposed to the suspicion of dishonorable
conduct, they in some measure lend the authority of the Government to the base practices of
which they are accused. They thus afford an example which must prove discouraging to the struggles
of virtuous independence, and must foster the secret calculations of a vicious ambition. If
it be asserted that evil passions are displayed in all ranks of society, that they ascend the
throne by hereditary right, and that despicable characters are to be met with at the head of
aristocratic nations as well as in the sphere of a democracy, this objection has but little
weight in my estimation. The corruption of men who have casually risen to power has a coarse
and vulgar infection in it which renders it contagious to the multitude. On the contrary, there
is a kind of aristocratic refinement and an air of grandeur in the depravity of the great,
which frequently prevent it from spreading abroad.

The people can never penetrate into the perplexing labyrinth of court intrigue, and it will
always have difficulty in detecting the turpitude which lurks under elegant manners, refined
tastes, and graceful language. But to pillage the public purse, and to vend the favors of the
State, are arts which the meanest villain may comprehend, and hope to practice in his turn.

In reality it is far less prejudicial to witness the immorality of the great than to witness
that immorality which leads to greatness. In a democracy private citizens see a man of their
own rank in life, who rises from that obscure position, and who becomes possessed of riches
and of power in a few years; the spectacle excites their surprise and their envy, and they
are led to inquire how the person who was yesterday their equal is to-day their ruler. To attribute
his rise to his talents or his virtues is unpleasant; for it is tacitly to acknowledge that
they are themselves less virtuous and less talented than he was. They are therefore led (and
not unfrequently their conjecture is a correct one) to impute his success mainly to some one
of his defects; and an odious mixture is thus formed of the ideas of turpitude and power, unworthiness
and success, utility and dishonor.

Efforts Of Which A Democracy Is Capable

The Union has only had one struggle hitherto for its existence--Enthusiasm at the commencement
of the war--Indifference towards its close--Difficulty of establishing military conscription
or impressment of seamen in America--Why a democratic people is less capable of sustained effort
than another.

I here warn the reader that I speak of a government which implicitly follows the real desires
of a people, and not of a government which simply commands in its name. Nothing is so irresistible
as a tyrannical power commanding in the name of the people, because, whilst it exercises that
moral influence which belongs to the decision of the majority, it acts at the same time with
the promptitude and the tenacity of a single man.

It is difficult to say what degree of exertion a democratic government may be capable of making
a crisis in the history of the nation. But no great democratic republic has hitherto existed
in the world. To style the oligarchy which ruled over France in 1793 by that name would be
to offer an insult to the republican form of government. The United States afford the first
example of the kind.

The American Union has now subsisted for half a century, in the course of which time its existence
has only once been attacked, namely, during the War of Independence. At the commencement of
that long war, various occurrences took place which betokened an extraordinary zeal for the
service of the country. *p But as the contest was prolonged, symptoms of private egotism began
to show themselves. No money was poured into the public treasury; few recruits could be raised
to join the army; the people wished to acquire independence, but was very ill-disposed to undergo
the privations by which alone it could be obtained. "Tax laws," says Hamilton in the "Federalist"
(No. 12), "have in vain been multiplied; new methods to enforce the collection have in vain
been tried; the public expectation has been uniformly disappointed and the treasuries of the
States have remained empty. The popular system of administration inherent in the nature of
popular government, coinciding with the real scarcity of money incident to a languid and mutilated
state of trade, has hitherto defeated every experiment for extensive collections, and has at
length taught the different legislatures the folly of attempting them."

[Footnote p: One of the most singular of these occurrences was the resolution which the Americans
took of temporarily abandoning the use of tea. Those who know that men usually cling more to
their habits than to their life will doubtless admire this great though obscure sacrifice which
was made by a whole people.]

The United States have not had any serious war to carry on ever since that period. In order,
therefore, to appreciate the sacrifices which democratic nations may impose upon themselves,
we must wait until the American people is obliged to put half its entire income at the disposal
of the Government, as was done by the English; or until it sends forth a twentieth part of
its population to the field of battle, as was done by France. *q

[Footnote q: [The Civil War showed that when the necessity arose the American people, both
in the North and in the South, are capable of making the most enormous sacrifices, both in
money and in men.]]

In America the use of conscription is unknown, and men are induced to enlist by bounties. The
notions and habits of the people of the United States are so opposed to compulsory enlistment
that I do not imagine it can ever be sanctioned by the laws. What is termed the conscription
in France is assuredly the heaviest tax upon the population of that country; yet how could
a great continental war be carried on without it? The Americans have not adopted the British
impressment of seamen, and they have nothing which corresponds to the French system of maritime
conscription; the navy, as well as the merchant service, is supplied by voluntary service.
But it is not easy to conceive how a people can sustain a great maritime war without having
recourse to one or the other of these two systems. Indeed, the Union, which has fought with
some honor upon the seas, has never possessed a very numerous fleet, and the equipment of the
small number of American vessels has always been excessively expensive.

I have heard American statesmen confess that the Union will have great difficulty in maintaining
its rank on the seas without adopting the system of impressment or of maritime conscription;
but the difficulty is to induce the people, which exercises the supreme authority, to submit
to impressment or any compulsory system.

It is incontestable that in times of danger a free people displays far more energy than one
which is not so. But I incline to believe that this is more especially the case in those free
nations in which the democratic element preponderates. Democracy appears to me to be much better
adapted for the peaceful conduct of society, or for an occasional effort of remarkable vigor,
than for the hardy and prolonged endurance of the storms which beset the political existence
of nations. The reason is very evident; it is enthusiasm which prompts men to expose themselves
to dangers and privations, but they will not support them long without reflection. There is
more calculation, even in the impulses of bravery, than is generally attributed to them; and
although the first efforts are suggested by passion, perseverance is maintained by a distinct
regard of the purpose in view. A portion of what we value is exposed, in order to save the
remainder.

But it is this distinct perception of the future, founded upon a sound judgment and an enlightened
experience, which is most frequently wanting in democracies. The populace is more apt to feel
than to reason; and if its present sufferings are great, it is to be feared that the still
greater sufferings attendant upon defeat will be forgotten.

Another cause tends to render the efforts of a democratic government less persevering than
those of an aristocracy. Not only are the lower classes less awakened than the higher orders
to the good or evil chances of the future, but they are liable to suffer far more acutely from
present privations. The noble exposes his life, indeed, but the chance of glory is equal to
the chance of harm. If he sacrifices a large portion of his income to the State, he deprives
himself for a time of the pleasures of affluence; but to the poor man death is embellished
by no pomp or renown, and the imposts which are irksome to the rich are fatal to him.

This relative impotence of democratic republics is, perhaps, the greatest obstacle to the foundation
of a republic of this kind in Europe. In order that such a State should subsist in one country
of the Old World, it would be necessary that similar institutions should be introduced into
all the other nations.

I am of opinion that a democratic government tends in the end to increase the real strength
of society; but it can never combine, upon a single point and at a given time, so much power
as an aristocracy or a monarchy. If a democratic country remained during a whole century subject
to a republican government, it would probably at the end of that period be more populous and
more prosperous than the neighboring despotic States. But it would have incurred the risk of
being conquered much oftener than they would in that lapse of years.

Self-Control Of The American Democracy

The American people acquiesces slowly, or frequently does not acquiesce, in what is beneficial
to its interests--The faults of the American democracy are for the most part reparable.

The difficulty which a democracy has in conquering the passions and in subduing the exigencies
of the moment, with a view to the future, is conspicuous in the most trivial occurrences of
the United States. The people, which is surrounded by flatterers, has great difficulty in surmounting
its inclinations, and whenever it is solicited to undergo a privation or any kind of inconvenience,
even to attain an end which is sanctioned by its own rational conviction, it almost always
refuses to comply at first. The deference of the Americans to the laws has been very justly
applauded; but it must be added that in America the legislation is made by the people and for
the people. Consequently, in the United States the law favors those classes which are most
interested in evading it elsewhere. It may therefore be supposed that an offensive law, which
should not be acknowledged to be one of immediate utility, would either not be enacted or would
not be obeyed.

In America there is no law against fraudulent bankruptcies; not because they are few, but because
there are a great number of bankruptcies. The dread of being prosecuted as a bankrupt acts
with more intensity upon the mind of the majority of the people than the fear of being involved
in losses or ruin by the failure of other parties, and a sort of guilty tolerance is extended
by the public conscience to an offence which everyone condemns in his individual capacity.
In the new States of the Southwest the citizens generally take justice into their own hands,
and murders are of very frequent occurrence. This arises from the rude manners and the ignorance
of the inhabitants of those deserts, who do not perceive the utility of investing the law with
adequate force, and who prefer duels to prosecutions.

Someone observed to me one day, in Philadelphia, that almost all crimes in America are caused
by the abuse of intoxicating liquors, which the lower classes can procure in great abundance,
from their excessive cheapness. "How comes it," said I, "that you do not put a duty upon brandy?"
"Our legislators," rejoined my informant, "have frequently thought of this expedient; but the
task of putting it in operation is a difficult one; a revolt might be apprehended, and the
members who should vote for a law of this kind would be sure of losing their seats." "Whence
I am to infer," replied I, "that the drinking population constitutes the majority in your country,
and that temperance is somewhat unpopular."

When these things are pointed out to the American statesmen, they content themselves with assuring
you that time will operate the necessary change, and that the experience of evil will teach
the people its true interests. This is frequently true, although a democracy is more liable
to error than a monarch or a body of nobles; the chances of its regaining the right path when
once it has acknowledged its mistake, are greater also; because it is rarely embarrassed by
internal interests, which conflict with those of the majority, and resist the authority of
reason. But a democracy can only obtain truth as the result of experience, and many nations
may forfeit their existence whilst they are awaiting the consequences of their errors.

The great privilege of the Americans does not simply consist in their being more enlightened
than other nations, but in their being able to repair the faults they may commit. To which
it must be added, that a democracy cannot derive substantial benefit from past experience,
unless it be arrived at a certain pitch of knowledge and civilization. There are tribes and
peoples whose education has been so vicious, and whose character presents so strange a mixture
of passion, of ignorance, and of erroneous notions upon all subjects, that they are unable
to discern the causes of their own wretchedness, and they fall a sacrifice to ills with which
they are unacquainted.

I have crossed vast tracts of country that were formerly inhabited by powerful Indian nations
which are now extinct; I have myself passed some time in the midst of mutilated tribes, which
witness the daily decline of their numerical strength and of the glory of their independence;
and I have heard these Indians themselves anticipate the impending doom of their race. Every
European can perceive means which would rescue these unfortunate beings from inevitable destruction.
They alone are insensible to the expedient; they feel the woe which year after year heaps upon
their heads, but they will perish to a man without accepting the remedy. It would be necessary
to employ force to induce them to submit to the protection and the constraint of civilization.

The incessant revolutions which have convulsed the South American provinces for the last quarter
of a century have frequently been adverted to with astonishment, and expectations have been
expressed that those nations would speedily return to their natural state. But can it be affirmed
that the turmoil of revolution is not actually the most natural state of the South American
Spaniards at the present time? In that country society is plunged into difficulties from which
all its efforts are insufficient to rescue it. The inhabitants of that fair portion of the
Western Hemisphere seem obstinately bent on pursuing the work of inward havoc. If they fall
into a momentary repose from the effects of exhaustion, that repose prepares them for a fresh
state of frenzy. When I consider their condition, which alternates between misery and crime,
I should be inclined to believe that despotism itself would be a benefit to them, if it were
possible that the words despotism and benefit could ever be united in my mind.

Conduct Of Foreign Affairs By The American Democracy

Direction given to the foreign policy of the United States by Washington and Jefferson--Almost
all the defects inherent in democratic institutions are brought to light in the conduct of
foreign affairs--Their advantages are less perceptible.

We have seen that the Federal Constitution entrusts the permanent direction of the external
interests of the nation to the President and the Senate, *r which tends in some degree to detach
the general foreign policy of the Union from the control of the people. It cannot therefore
be asserted with truth that the external affairs of State are conducted by the democracy.

[Footnote r: "The President," says the Constitution, Art. II, sect. The reader is reminded
that the senators are returned for a term of six years, and that they are chosen by the legislature
of each State.]

The policy of America owes its rise to Washington, and after him to Jefferson, who established
those principles which it observes at the present day.

The political conduct of Washington was always guided by these maxims. He succeeded in maintaining
his country in a state of peace whilst all the other nations of the globe were at war; and
he laid it down as a fundamental doctrine, that the true interest of the Americans consisted
in a perfect neutrality with regard to the internal dissensions of the European Powers.

Jefferson went still further, and he introduced a maxim into the policy of the Union, which
affirms that "the Americans ought never to solicit any privileges from foreign nations, in
order not to be obliged to grant similar privileges themselves."

These two principles, which were so plain and so just as to be adapted to the capacity of the
populace, have greatly simplified the foreign policy of the United States. As the Union takes
no part in the affairs of Europe, it has, properly speaking, no foreign interests to discuss,
since it has at present no powerful neighbors on the American continent. The country is as
much removed from the passions of the Old World by its position as by the line of policy which
it has chosen, and it is neither called upon to repudiate nor to espouse the conflicting interests
of Europe; whilst the dissensions of the New World are still concealed within the bosom of
the future.

The Union is free from all pre-existing obligations, and it is consequently enabled to profit
by the experience of the old nations of Europe, without being obliged, as they are, to make
the best of the past, and to adapt it to their present circumstances; or to accept that immense
inheritance which they derive from their forefathers--an inheritance of glory mingled with
calamities, and of alliances conflicting with national antipathies. The foreign policy of the
United States is reduced by its very nature to await the chances of the future history of the
nation, and for the present it consists more in abstaining from interference than in exerting
its activity.

It is therefore very difficult to ascertain, at present, what degree of sagacity the American
democracy will display in the conduct of the foreign policy of the country; and upon this point
its adversaries, as well as its advocates, must suspend their judgment. As for myself I have
no hesitation in avowing my conviction, that it is most especially in the conduct of foreign
relations that democratic governments appear to me to be decidedly inferior to governments
carried on upon different principles. Experience, instruction, and habit may almost always
succeed in creating a species of practical discretion in democracies, and that science of the
daily occurrences of life which is called good sense. Good sense may suffice to direct the
ordinary course of society; and amongst a people whose education has been provided for, the
advantages of democratic liberty in the internal affairs of the country may more than compensate
for the evils inherent in a democratic government. But such is not always the case in the mutual
relations of foreign nations.

Foreign politics demand scarcely any of those qualities which a democracy possesses; and they
require, on the contrary, the perfect use of almost all those faculties in which it is deficient.
Democracy is favorable to the increase of the internal resources of the State; it tends to
diffuse a moderate independence; it promotes the growth of public spirit, and fortifies the
respect which is entertained for law in all classes of society; and these are advantages which
only exercise an indirect influence over the relations which one people bears to another. But
a democracy is unable to regulate the details of an important undertaking, to persevere in
a design, and to work out its execution in the presence of serious obstacles. It cannot combine
its measures with secrecy, and it will not await their consequences with patience. These are
qualities which more especially belong to an individual or to an aristocracy; and they are
precisely the means by which an individual people attains to a predominant position.

If, on the contrary, we observe the natural defects of aristocracy, we shall find that their
influence is comparatively innoxious in the direction of the external affairs of a State. The
capital fault of which aristocratic bodies may be accused is that they are more apt to contrive
their own advantage than that of the mass of the people. In foreign politics it is rare for
the interest of the aristocracy to be in any way distinct from that of the people.

The propensity which democracies have to obey the impulse of passion rather than the suggestions
of prudence, and to abandon a mature design for the gratification of a momentary caprice, was
very clearly seen in America on the breaking out of the French Revolution. It was then as evident
to the simplest capacity as it is at the present time that the interest of the Americans forbade
them to take any part in the contest which was about to deluge Europe with blood, but which
could by no means injure the welfare of their own country. Nevertheless the sympathies of the
people declared themselves with so much violence in behalf of France that nothing but the inflexible
character of Washington, and the immense popularity which he enjoyed, could have prevented
the Americans from declaring war against England. And even then, the exertions which the austere
reason of that great man made to repress the generous but imprudent passions of his fellow-citizens,
very nearly deprived him of the sole recompense which he had ever claimed--that of his country's
love. The majority then reprobated the line of policy which he adopted, and which has since
been unanimously approved by the nation. *s If the Constitution and the favor of the public
had not entrusted the direction of the foreign affairs of the country to Washington, it is
certain that the American nation would at that time have taken the very measures which it now
condemns.

[Footnote s: See the fifth volume of Marshall's "Life of Washington." In a government constituted
like that of the United States, he says, "it is impossible for the chief magistrate, however
firm he may be, to oppose for any length of time the torrent of popular opinion; and the prevalent
opinion of that day seemed to incline to war. In fact, in the session of Congress held at the
time, it was frequently seen that Washington had lost the majority in the House of Representatives."
The violence of the language used against him in public was extreme, and in a political meeting
they did not scruple to compare him indirectly to the treacherous Arnold. Nor will this be
a subject of wonder when we recollect that nothing in the world has so absolute a fixity of
purpose as an aristocracy. The mass of the people may be led astray by ignorance or passion;
the mind of a king may be biased, and his perseverance in his designs may be shaken--besides
which a king is not immortal--but an aristocratic body is too numerous to be led astray by
the blandishments of intrigue, and yet not numerous enough to yield readily to the intoxicating
influence of unreflecting passion: it has the energy of a firm and enlightened individual,
added to the power which it derives from perpetuity.

Chapter XIV: Advantages American Society Derive From Democracy--Part I

What The Real Advantages Are Which American Society Derives From The Government Of The Democracy

Before I enter upon the subject of the present chapter I am induced to remind the reader of
what I have more than once adverted to in the course of this book. The political institutions
of the United States appear to me to be one of the forms of government which a democracy may
adopt; but I do not regard the American Constitution as the best, or as the only one, which
a democratic people may establish. In showing the advantages which the Americans derive from
the government of democracy, I am therefore very far from meaning, or from believing, that
similar advantages can only be obtained from the same laws.

General Tendency Of The Laws Under The Rule Of The American Democracy, And Habits Of Those
Who Apply Them

Defects of a democratic government easy to be discovered--Its advantages only to be discerned
by long observation--Democracy in America often inexpert, but the general tendency of the laws
advantageous--In the American democracy public officers have no permanent interests distinct
from those of the majority--Result of this state of things.

The defects and the weaknesses of a democratic government may very readily be discovered; they
are demonstrated by the most flagrant instances, whilst its beneficial influence is less perceptibly
exercised. A single glance suffices to detect its evil consequences, but its good qualities
can only be discerned by long observation. The laws of the American democracy are frequently
defective or incomplete; they sometimes attack vested rights, or give a sanction to others
which are dangerous to the community; but even if they were good, the frequent changes which
they undergo would be an evil. How comes it, then, that the American republics prosper and
maintain their position?

In the consideration of laws a distinction must be carefully observed between the end at which
they aim and the means by which they are directed to that end, between their absolute and their
relative excellence. If it be the intention of the legislator to favor the interests of the
minority at the expense of the majority, and if the measures he takes are so combined as to
accomplish the object he has in view with the least possible expense of time and exertion,
the law may be well drawn up, although its purpose be bad; and the more efficacious it is,
the greater is the mischief which it causes.

Democratic laws generally tend to promote the welfare of the greatest possible number; for
they emanate from the majority of the citizens, who are subject to error, but who cannot have
an interest opposed to their own advantage. The laws of an aristocracy tend, on the contrary,
to concentrate wealth and power in the hands of the minority, because an aristocracy, by its
very nature, constitutes a minority. It may therefore be asserted, as a general proposition,
that the purpose of a democracy in the conduct of its legislation is useful to a greater number
of citizens than that of an aristocracy. This is, however, the sum total of its advantages.

Aristocracies are infinitely more expert in the science of legislation than democracies ever
can be. They are possessed of a self-control which protects them from the errors of temporary
excitement, and they form lasting designs which they mature with the assistance of favorable
opportunities. Aristocratic government proceeds with the dexterity of art; it understands how
to make the collective force of all its laws converge at the same time to a given point. Such
is not the case with democracies, whose laws are almost always ineffective or inopportune.
The means of democracy are therefore more imperfect than those of aristocracy, and the measures
which it unwittingly adopts are frequently opposed to its own cause; but the object it has
in view is more useful.

Let us now imagine a community so organized by nature, or by its constitution, that it can
support the transitory action of bad laws, and that it can await, without destruction, the
general tendency of the legislation: we shall then be able to conceive that a democratic government,
notwithstanding its defects, will be most fitted to conduce to the prosperity of this community.
This is precisely what has occurred in the United States; and I repeat, what I have before
remarked, that the great advantage of the Americans consists in their being able to commit
faults which they may afterward repair.

An analogous observation may be made respecting public officers. It is easy to perceive that
the American democracy frequently errs in the choice of the individuals to whom it entrusts
the power of the administration; but it is more difficult to say why the State prospers under
their rule. In the first place it is to be remarked, that if in a democratic State the governors
have less honesty and less capacity than elsewhere, the governed, on the other hand, are more
enlightened and more attentive to their interests. As the people in democracies is more incessantly
vigilant in its affairs and more jealous of its rights, it prevents its representatives from
abandoning that general line of conduct which its own interest prescribes. In the second place,
it must be remembered that if the democratic magistrate is more apt to misuse his power, he
possesses it for a shorter period of time. But there is yet another reason which is still more
general and conclusive. It is no doubt of importance to the welfare of nations that they should
be governed by men of talents and virtue; but it is perhaps still more important that the interests
of those men should not differ from the interests of the community at large; for, if such were
the case, virtues of a high order might become useless, and talents might be turned to a bad
account. I say that it is important that the interests of the persons in authority should not
conflict with or oppose the interests of the community at large; but I do not insist upon their
having the same interests as the whole population, because I am not aware that such a state
of things ever existed in any country.

No political form has hitherto been discovered which is equally favorable to the prosperity
and the development of all the classes into which society is divided. These classes continue
to form, as it were, a certain number of distinct nations in the same nation; and experience
has shown that it is no less dangerous to place the fate of these classes exclusively in the
hands of any one of them than it is to make one people the arbiter of the destiny of another.
When the rich alone govern, the interest of the poor is always endangered; and when the poor
make the laws, that of the rich incurs very serious risks. The advantage of democracy does
not consist, therefore, as has sometimes been asserted, in favoring the prosperity of all,
but simply in contributing to the well-being of the greatest possible number.

