Of these "the cow pastures" rank first in point of proximity. This tract of land has hitherto
been reserved for the use of the wild cattle; although these animals have for some time past
disappeared, either from having found an outlet into the interior, through the surrounding
mountains, or what is a still more probable conjecture, from the exterminating incursions of
the numerous poor settlers, who have farms in the neighbourhood, and who, considering their
general poverty, it is easy to believe, would not suffer the want of animal food, so long as
they could take their dogs and guns, and kill a cow or calf at their option. These wild cattle
were the progeny of a few tame ones, which strayed away from the settlement shortly after the
period of its foundation, and were not discovered till about fifteen years afterwards, when
they had multiplied to several thousands. On their discovery they immediately attracted the
attention of his majesty's ministers, and orders were dispatched from this country, prohibiting
the governor and his successors from granting away the land, on which they had fixed themselves.
This they soon overspread, and on the occasion of the severe droughts that were experienced
in the colony in the years 1813, 1814, and 1815, great numbers of them perished from the want
of water and pasturage. Where thousands then existed, there are scarcely hundreds to be found
at present, and these chiefly consist of bulls. A cow or calf can very rarely be met with.
There can consequently be very little doubt that they have disappeared in the manner I have
conjectured, and that their numbers have been thus considerably reduced by the depredations
of the poorer settlers, which it was for a long time thought beyond the power of the colonial
courts to restrain; since, although it was notorious that these wild cattle were originally
purchased by the crown, still the cattle of individuals had subsequently, at various times,
intermixed with them, and prevented that identification of property, which the late judge advocate
considered essential to the conviction of the offenders. His opinion, however, has been overruled
by his successor, and several persons have been lately tried for and found guilty of this offence;
and although they were not punished capitally for it, there can be no doubt that their conviction
will greatly diminish such depredations for the future. Not that I consider the preservation
of these wild herds will be attended with any advantages to the colony. On the contrary, it
is my belief, that their total destruction ought to be effected; since the increase of them
is of mere negative importance, compared with the positive disadvantage that attends their
occupation of one of the most fertile districts in the colony, which it is to be hoped will
be soon covered with numerous flocks of fine wooled sheep, for the pasture of which the greater
part of it is so admirably adapted. This tract of land is about thirty miles distant from Sydney:
it is bounded on the east by the river Nepean, on the west by the Blue Mountains, of which
this river, on the north side of the cow pastures washes the base, so that they together form
the northern boundary, and on the south by a thick barren brush of about ten miles in breadth,
which these cattle have never been able to penetrate. This fine tract of country is thus surrounded
by natural boundaries, which form it into an enclosure somewhat in the shape of an oblong spheroid.
It contains about one hundred thousand acres of good land, a considerable portion of which
is flooded, and equal to any on the banks of the Hawkesbury.

FIVE ISLANDS.

The next considerable tract of unappropriated land is the district called the Five Islands.
It commences at the distance of about forty miles to the southward of Sydney, and extends to
Shoal Haven river. This tract of land lies between the coast and a high range of hills which
terminate at the north side abruptly in the sea, and form its northern and western boundary:
the ocean is its eastern boundary, and Shoal Haven river its southern. The range that surrounds
this district on the north and west is a branch of the Blue Mountains; and the only road at
present known to it, is down a pass so remarkably steep, that unless a better be discovered,
the communication between it and the capital by land, will always be difficult and dangerous
for waggons. This circumstance is a material counterpoise to its extraordinary fertility, and
is the reason why it is at present unoccupied by any but large stockholders. Those parts, however,
which are situated near Shoal Haven river, are highly eligible for agricultural purposes; since
this river is navigable for about twenty miles into the country for vessels of seventy or eighty
tons burden; a circumstance which holds out to future colonists the greatest facilities for
the cheap and expeditious conveyance of their produce to market. The land on the banks of this
river is of the same nature, and possesses equal fertility with the banks of the Hawkesbury.
There are several streams in different parts of this district, which issue from the mountain
behind, and afford an abundant supply of pure water. In many places there are large prairies
of unparalleled richness, entirely free from timber, and consequently prepared by the hand
of nature for the immediate reception of the ploughshare. These advantages, combined with its
proximity to Sydney, have already begun to attract the tide of colonization to it, and will
no doubt render it in a few years one of the most populous, productive, and valuable of all
the districts. The soil is in general a deep fat vegetable mould. The surface of the country
is thinly timbered, with the exception of the mountain which boundsit to the Northward and
Westward. This is covered with a thick brush, but is nevertheless extremely fertile up to the
very summit, and peculiarly adapted both from its eastern aspect and mild climate for the cultivation
of the vine. This large tract of country was only discovered about four years since, and has
not yet been accurately surveyed. Its extent, therefore, is not precisely known; but it without
doubt contains several hundred thousand acres, including the banks of the Shoal Haven river.
These produce a great abundance of fine cedar, and other highly valuable timber, for which
there is an extensive and increasing demand at Port Jackson.

COAL RIVER.

The next tract of unappropriated country which I shall describe, is the district of the Coal
River. The town of Newcastle is situated at the mouth of this river, and is about sixty miles
to the northward of Port Jackson. Its population by the last census forwarded to this country,
was five hundred and fifty souls. These, with the exception of a few free settlers, established
on the upper banks of this river, amounting with their families perhaps to thirty souls, and
about fifty troops, are all incorrigible offenders, who have been convicted either before a
bench of magistrates, or the Court of Criminal Judicature, and afterwards re-transported to
this place, where they are worked in chains from sunrise to sunset, and profitably employed
in burning lime and procuring coals and timber, as well for carrying on the public works at
Port Jackson, as for the private purposes of individuals, who pay the government stipulated
prices for these different articles. This settlement was, in fact, established with the two-fold
view of supplying the public works with these necessary articles, and providing a separate
place of punishment for all who might be convicted of crimes in the colonial courts.

The coal mines here are considerably elevated above the level of the sea, and are of the richest
description. The veins are visible on the abrupt face of the cliff, which borders the harbour,
and are worked by adits or openings, which serve both to carry off the water and to wheel away
the coals. The quantity procured in this easy manner is very great, and might be increased
to any extent. So much more coals indeed are thus obtained than are required for the purposes
of the government, that they are glad to dispose of them to all persons who are willing to
purchase, requiring in return a duty of two shillings and six pence per ton, for such as are
intended for home consumption, and five shillings for such as are for exportation.

The lime procured at this settlement is made from oyster shells, which are found in prodigious
abundance. These shells lie close to the banks of the river, in beds of amazing size and depth.
How they came there has long been a matter of surprise and speculation to the colonists. Some
are of opinion that they have been gradually deposited by the natives in those periodical feasts
of shell fish, for the celebration of which they still assemble at stated seasons in large
bodies: others have contended, and I think with more probability, that they were originally
large natural beds of oysters, and that the river has on some occasion or other, either changed
its course or contracted its limits, and thus deserted them.

These beds are generally five or six feet above high-water mark. The process of making lime
from them is extremely simple and expeditious. They are first dug up and sifted, and then piled
over large heaps of dry wood, which are set fire to, and speedily convert the superincumbent
mass into excellent lime. When thus made it is shipped for Sydney, and sold at one shilling
per bushel.

The timber procured on the banks of this river is chiefly cedar and rose wood. The cedar, however,
is becoming scarce in consequence of the immense quantities that have been already cut down,
and cannot be any longer obtained without going at least a hundred and fifty miles up the river.
At this distance, however, it is still to be had in considerable abundance, and is easily floated
down to the town in rafts. The government dispose of this wood in the same manner as the coals,
at the price of £3 for each thousand square feet, intended for home consumption, and £6 for
the same quantity if exported.

This settlement is placed under the direction of a commandant, who is selected out of the officers
of the regiment stationed in the colony, and is allowed, as has been noticed, about fifty fire-locks
to maintain his authority. He is always appointed to the magistracy previously to his obtaining
this command, and is entrusted with the entire controul of the prisoners, whom he punishes
or rewards as their conduct may appear to him to merit.

The harbour at the mouth of this river is tolerably secure and spacious, and contains sufficient
depth of water for vessels of three hundred tons burden. The river itself, however, is only
navigable for small craft of thirty or forty tons burden, and this only for about fifty miles
above the town. Just beyond this distance there are numerous flats and shallows, which only
admit of the passage of boats over them. This river has three branches; they are called the
upper, the lower, and the middle branch: the two former are navigable for boats for about a
hundred and twenty miles, the latter for upwards of two hundred miles. The banks of all these
branches are liable to inundations equally terrific with those at the Hawkesbury, and from
the same causes; because they are receptacles for the rain that is collected by the Blue Mountains,
which form the western boundary of this district, and divide it as well as the districts of
Port Jackson, from the great western wilderness. The low lands within the reach of these inundations
is if possible of still greater exuberancy than the banks of the Hawkesbury and Nepean, and
of four times the extent. The high-land, or to give it the colonial appellation, the forest
land, is very thinly studded with timber, and equal for all the purposes of agriculture and
grazing to the best districts of Port Jackson. The climate too is equally salubrious, and on
the upper banks of the middle branch, it is generally believed, that the summer heats are sufficient
for the production of cotton; the cultivation of which would become an inexhaustible source
of wealth to the growers, and would afford a valuable article of export to the colony.

In fact, under every point of view this district contains the strongest inducements to colonization.
It possesses a navigable river, by which its produce may be conveyed to market at a trifling
expence, and the inhabitants of its most remote parts may receive such articles of foreign
or domestic growth and manufacture as they may need, at a moderate advance: it surpasses Port
Jackson in the general fertility of its soil, and at least rivals it in the salubrity of its
climate: it contains in the greatest abundance coal, lime, and many varieties of valuable timber
which are not found elsewhere, and promise to become articles of considerable export: it has
already established in an eligible position, a small nucleus of settlers to which others may
adhere, and thus both communicate and receive the advantages of society and protection; and
it has a town which affords a considerable market for agricultural produce, and of which the
commanding localities must rapidly increase the extent and population.

COUNTRY WEST OF THE BLUE MOUNTAINS.

The country to the westward of the Blue Mountains ranks next in contiguity to Sydney, and claims
pre-eminence not so much from any superiority of soil in those parts of it which have been
explored, as from its amazing extent, and great diversity of climate. These mountains, where
the road has been made over them, are fifty-eight miles in breadth; and as the distance from
Sydney to Emu Ford, at which place this road may be said to commence, is about forty miles,
the beginning of the vast tract of country to the westward of them, it will be seen, is ninety-eight
miles distant from the capital.

The road which thus traverses these mountains is by no means difficult for waggons, until you
arrive at the pass which forms the descent into the low country. There it is excessively steep
and dangerous; yet carts and waggons go up and down it continually: nor do I believe that any
serious accident has yet occurred in performing this very formidable undertaking.

Still the discovery of a safer and more practicable pass would certainly be attended with a
very beneficial influence on the future progress of colonization in this great western wilderness.
Every attempt, however, to find such a one has hitherto proved abortive; and should the future
efforts which may be made with this view prove equally so, there can be little doubt, that
the communication between the eastern and western country will be principally maintained by
means of horses and mules with packs and panniers.

The elevation of these mountains above the level of the sea, has not yet been determined; but
I should imagine that it cannot exceed four thousand feet. For the first ten or twelve miles
they are tolerably well clothed with timber, and produce occasionally some middling pasture;
but beyond this they are excessively barren, and are covered generally with a thick brush,
interspersed here and there with a few miserable stunted gums. They bear, in fact, a striking
similarity, both in respect to their soil and productions, to the barren wastes on the coast
of Port Jackson. They are very rocky, but they want granite, the distinguishing characteristic
of primitive mountains. Sandstone thickly studded with quartz and a little freestone, are the
only varieties which they offer; a circumstance the more singular, as the moment you descend
into the low country beyond them, granite is the only sort of stone that is to be met with
for upwards of two hundred miles.

For the whole of this distance to the westward of these mountains, the country abounds with
the richest herbage, and is upon the whole tolerably well supplied with running water. In the
immediate vicinity of them there is a profusion of rivulets, which discharge themselves into
the western river; or, as it is termed by the natives, the Warragambia, the main branch, as
I have before observed, of the Hawkesbury. From the moment, however, that the streams begin
to take a western course, the want of water becomes more perceptible, and increases as you
proceed into the interior, particularly in a south-west direction.

This large and fertile tract of country, is in general perfectly free from underwood; and in
many places, is without any timber at all. Bathurst Plains, for instance, where there is a
commandant, a military depot, and some few settlers established, have been found by actual
admeasurement, to contain upwards of sixty thousand acres, upon which there is scarcely a tree.
The whole of this western country, indeed, is much more open and free from timber than the
best districts to the eastward of the Blue Mountains.

The depot at Bathurst Plains, is 180 miles distant from Sydney; and the road to it presents
no impediment to waggons, but the descent from the mountains into the low country; and even
this does not prevent the inhabitants from maintaining a regular intercourse with that town,
and receiving from it all the supplies which they require. The difficulty, however, of thus
communicating with the capital, is such as to preclude this vast tract of country from assuming
an agricultural character; except in as far as the raising of grain for a scanty population
of shepherds and herdsmen, may entitle it to this denomination; since there are no navigable
rivers, at all events for many hundred miles into the interior, and the difficulty and expence
of a land-carriage across the Blue Mountains, will always prevent the inhabitants of that part
of this vast western wilderness, which is at present explored, from entering into a competition
with the colonists in the immediate vicinity of Port Jackson. By way, however, of set-off against
the anifest superiority, which the districts to the eastward of the mountains possess in this
respect over the country to the westward of them; this latter is certainly much better adapted
for all the purposes of grazing and rearing cattle. The herbage is sweeter and more nutritive,
and there is an unlimited range for stock, without any danger of their committing trespass.
There is besides, for the first two hundred miles, a constant succession of hill and dale,
admirably suited for the pasture of sheep, the wool of which will without doubt eventually
become the principal export of this colony, and may be conveyed across these mountains at an
inconsiderable expense.

The discovery of this vast and as yet imperfectly known tract of country, was made in the year
1814, and will doubtless be hereafter productive of the most important results. It has indeed
already given a new aspect to the colony, and will form at some future day, a memorable era
in its history. Nothing is now wanting to render this great western wilderness the seat of
a powerful community, but the discovery of a navigable river communicating with the western
coast. That such exists, although the search for it has hitherto proved ineffectual, there
can be no doubt, if we may be allowed to judge from analogy; since in the whole compass of
the earth, there is no single instance of so large a country as New Holland, not possessing
at least one great navigable river. To ascertain this point has been one of the leading objects
of Governor Macquarie's administration, ever since the discovery of the pass across the mountains.
Several unsuccessful expeditions have been fitted out with this view from Sydney, both by sea
and land. The last of which we have learned the result, was conducted by Mr. Oxley, the surveyor-general,
and is most worthy of notice, as well from the extent of country which he traversed, as from
the probability that the river which he discovered, discharges itself into the ocean on some
part of the western coast. The summary of this journey is contained in the following letter,
addressed by him to the governor on his return from this expedition to Bathurst Plains. On
this course I continued until the 23d of June, when we again fell in with a stream, which we
had at first some difficulty to recognise as the Lachlan, it being little larger than one of
the marshes of it, where it was quitted on the 17th of May. I most respectfully beg leave to
recommend them to your Excellency's favourable notice.

The course and direction of this river is the object of two expeditions, of which we may shortly
expect to learn the result. One is by land, and conducted by the same gentleman; the other
by sea, and under the command of Lieutenant King, R.N.; whose father, Captain King, was formerly
Lieutenant Governor of Norfolk Island, and afterwards Governor in Chief of New South Wales.
In this event its influence in promoting the progress of population in this fifth continent,
will be prodigious, and in all probability before the expiration of many years, give an entirely
new impulse to the tide of population: and here it may not be altogether irrelevant, to enter
into a short disquisition on the natural superiority possessed by those countries which are
most abundantly intersected with navigable rivers. That such are most favourable for all the
purposes of civilized man, the history of the world affords the most satisfactory proof There
is not, in fact, a single instance on record of any remarkable degree of wealth and power having
been attained by any nation which has not possessed facilities for commerce, either in the
number or size of its rivers, or in the spaciousness of its harbours, and the general contiguity
of its provinces to the sea. The Mediterranean has given rise to so many great and powerful
nations, only from the superior advantages which it afforded for commerce during the long infancy
of navigation. The number and fertility of its islands, the serenity of its climate, the smoothness
of its waters, the smallness of its entrance, which although of itself sufficient to indicate
to the skilful pilot the proximity of the ocean, is still more clearly defined by the Pillars
of Hercules, towering on each side of it, and forming land-marks not to be mistaken by the
timid, the inexperienced, or the bewildered. Such are the main causes why the Mediterranean
continued until the discovery and application of the properties of the magnet, the seat of
successive empires so superior to the rest of the world in affluence and power. It is indeed
almost impossible to conceive, how any considerable degree of wealth and civilization can be
acquired without the aid of navigation. From the moment savages abandon the hunter state, and
resign themselves to the settled pursuits of agriculture, the march of population must inevitably
follow the direction of navigable waters; since in the infancy of societies these furnish the
only means of indulging that spirit of barter which is co-existent with association, is the
main spring of industry, and the ultimate cause of all civilization and refinement. In such
situations the rude canoe abundantly suffices to maintain the first necessary interchanges
of the superfluities of one individual for those of another. Roads, waggons, etc. are refinements
entirely unknown in the incipient stages of society. They are the gradual results of civilization,
and consequent only on the accumulation of wealth and the attainment of a certain point of
maturity. Canals are a still later result of civilization, and are undoubtedly the greatest
efforts for the encouragement of barter, and the developement of industry, to which human power
and ingenuity have yet given birth. But after all, what are these artificial channels of communication,
these ne plus ultras of human contrivance, compared with those natural mediums of intercourse,
those mighty rivers which pervade every quarter of the globe? What are they to the Danube,
the Nile, the Ganges, the Mississippi, or the Amazon? What are they, in fact, compared even
with those infinite minor navigable streams, of which scarcely any country, however circumscribed,
is entirely destitute? What! but mere pigmy imitations of nature, which wherever there is a
sufficient number of rivers, will never be resorted to, unless it be for the purpose of connecting
them together, or of avoiding those long and tedious sinuosities to which they are all more
or less subject.

Viewing therefore this newly discovered river only in the light of a river of the first magnitude,
it must be evident that this important discovery will have an incalculable influence on the
future progress of colonization; but to be enabled fully to estimate the beneficial consequences
of which it will be productive; it is essential to take into the estimate, the probable direction
of its course, and the point of its confluence with the ocean. Assuming, therefore, that the
source of this river is in the direction thus generally supposed, it will be seen that it will
surpass all the rivers in the world in variety of climate; since reckoning merely from the
spot where Mr. Oxley discovered it to its conjectural embouchure, there will be a difference
of latitude of twenty degrees. Even omitting, then, to take into computation the probable length
of its course from the place where it first becomes navigable, to the point where that gentleman
fell in with it, (and it was there running from the south, and must have already been navigable
for a considerable distance, if we may judge from its size,) the world does not afford any
parallel of a river traversing so great a diversity of climate. The majority indeed of the
rivers, which may be termed "rivers of the first magnitude," run from west to east, or from
east to west, and consequently vary their climate only in proportion to their distance from
the sea, to the elevation of their beds, and to the extent of country traversed by such of
their branches as run at right angles with them. Of this sort are the St. Lawrence, in North
America, the Oronoko and Amazon, in South America; the Niger, Senegal and Gambia, in Africa;
the Danube and Elbe, in Europe; and the Hoang Ho, and Kiang Keou in Asia. It must indeed be
admitted, that every quarter of the globe furnishes some striking exceptions to this rule,
such as the Mississippi and River Plate in America; the Nile, in Africa; the Rhine, the Dniester,
the Don, and the Volga, in Europe; and the Indus and Ganges, in Asia; all of which certainly
run from north to south, or south to north, and consequently command a great variety of climate.

In this respect, however, none of them will be worthy of comparison with this newly discovered
river, if the point of its confluence with the ocean should happily be where it is conjectured.
And yet we find that all the countries through which the above-named rivers pass, either have
been, or promise to be, the seats of much more wealthy and powerful nations than the countries
through which those rivers pass whose course is east or west. The cause of this superiority
of one over the other, is to be traced to the greater diversity of productions, which will
necessarily be raised on the banks and in the vicinity of those rivers whose course is north
or south, a circumstance that is alone sufficient to ensure the possessors of them, under Governments
equally favourable to the extension of industry, a much greater share of commerce and wealth
than can possibly belong to the inhabitants of these rivers whose course is in a contrary direction:
and this for the simplest reason; because rivers of the former description contain within themselves,
many of those productions which the latter can only obtain from abroad. In the one, therefore,
there is not only a necessity for having recourse to foreign supply, which does not exist in
the other, but also a great prevention to internal navigation, arising from the sameness of
produce, and the consequent impediment to barter, which must prevail in a country where all
have the same commodities to dispose of, where all wish to sell and none to buy. To this manifest
superiority which rivers runningon a meridian claim over those running on a parallel, there
is no counterpoise, since they both contain equal facilities for exporting their surplus productions,
and receiving in exchange the superfluities of other countries. It may, indeed, here be urged,
that there is, upon the whole, no surplus produce in the world; and that, as the surplus, whatever
may be its extent, of one country, may be always exchanged for that of another, as great a
variety of luxuries may be thus obtained by the inhabitants of rivers that run in an eastern
or western direction as can possibly be raised by the inhabitants of rivers that run in a northern
or southern; and that consequently the same stimulus to an inland navigation will be created
by the eventual distribution of the various commodities procured by foreign commerce, as if
they had been the products of the country itself. To this it may be replied, that although
a much greater variety of products may undoubtedly be imported from foreign countries, than
can possibly be raised within the compass of any one navigable river, such products cannot
afterwards be sold at so cheap a rate. In all countries, therefore, where such products are
imported from abroad, the increase in their price must occasion a proportionate diminution
in their consumption, and in so far inevitably operate as a check to internal navigation.

This variety of production, and the additional encouragement thus afforded by it, to what is
well known to be one of the main sources of national wealth, is sufficient to account for the
superior degree of civilization, affluence, and power, which have in general characterized
those countries whose rivers take a northern or southern course. Some few nations, indeed,
which do not possess such great natural advantages, have supplied the want of them by their
own skill and industry, and have in the end triumphed over the efforts of nature to check their
progress. Of a people who have thus overstepped these natural barriers opposed to their advancement,
and in spite of them attained the summit of wealth and civilization, China perhaps furnishes
the most remarkable example. The two principal rivers of that country, the Hoang Ho, or Yellow
River, and the Kiang Keou, or Great River, runs from west to east; yet by means of what is
termed by way of eminence, "The Great Canal," the Chinese have not only joined these two mighty
streams together, but have also extended the communication to the northward, as far as the
main branch of the Pei Ho, and to the southward as far as the mouth of the Ningapo: thus establishing
by the intervention of this stupendous monument of human industry and perseverance, and the
various branches of the four rivers which it connects, an inland navigation between the great
cities of Peking and Nanking, and affording every facility for the transport of the infinite
products raised within the compass of a country containing from twelve to fifteen degrees difference
of latitude, and about the same difference of longitude; or, in other words, a surface of about
five hundred and eighteen thousand four hundred square miles.

This instance, however, of equal or superior civilization thus attained by a nation, notwithstanding
the principal rivers of their country run from west to east, does not at all militate against
the natural superiority which has been conceded to those countries whose rivers run in a contrary
direction: it only shews what may be effected by a wise and politic government averse to the
miseries of war, and steadily bent on the arts of peace. The very attempts, indeed, of this
enlightened people to supply the natural deficiencies of their country by canals, are the strongest
commendations that can be urged in favour of a country where no such artificial substitutes
are necessary; where nature, of her own lavish bounty has created facilities for the progress
of industry and civilization, which it would require the labour and maturity of ages imperfectly
to imitate.

How far, indeed, these mighty contrivances of the all-bounteous Creator, for the promotion
and developement of industry, outstrip all human imitation, the occurrences of the passing
hour furnish the most satisfactory and conclusive evidence. The vast tide of emigration which
is incessantly rolling along the banks of the Mississippi, and of its tributary streams, and
the numberless cities, towns, and settlements, that have sprung up as if it were by the agency
of magic, in what but a few years back was one boundless and uninterrupted wilderness, speak
a language not to be mistaken by the most ignorant or prejudiced. The western territory, which
though a province but of yesterday, soon promises to rival the richest and most powerful members
of the American union, affords an instance of rapid colonization, of which, the history of
the world cannot produce a parallel, and offers an incontestable proof of the natural superiority
which countries, whose rivers run in a northern or southern course, possess over all others.

But this fact is not merely established by the experience of the present day, it is equally
authenticated by the testimony of past ages. What was the reason why Egypt was for so many
centuries the seat of affluence and power, but the Nile? that India is still rich and populous,
but the Indus and Ganges? These countries, indeed, are no longer the great and powerful empires
they were, although the natural advantages of their situations are still unchanged. But what
mighty ravages will not a blood-thirsty and overwhelming despotism effect? What health and
vigor can belong to that body politic which is forced to inhale the nauseous effluvia of tyranny?
Prosperity is a plant that can only flourish in an atmosphere fauned by the wholesome breath
of freedom. The highest fertility of soil, the greatest benignity of climate, the most commanding
superiority of position, will otherwise be unavailing. Freedom may in the end convert the most
barren and inhospitable waste into a paradise; but the inevitable result of tyranny is desolation.

The probable course of this newly discovered river, being thus in every respect so decidedly
favourable for the foundation of a rich and powerful community, there can be little doubt that
the government of this country will immediately avail itself of the advantages which it presents,
and establish a settlement at its mouth. What a sublime spectacle will it then be for the philosopher
to mark the gradual progress of population from the two extremities of this river; to behold
the two tides of colonization flowing in opposite directions, and constantly hastening to that
junction, of which the combined waters shall overspread the whole of this fifth continent!

What a cheering prospect for the philanthropist to behold what is now one vast and mournful
wilderness, becoming the smiling seat of industry and the social arts; to see its hills and
dales covered with bleating flocks, lowing herds, and waving corn; to hear the joyful notes
of the shepherd, and the enlivening cries of the husbandman, instead of the appalling yell
of the savage, and the plaintive howl of the wolf; and to witness a country which nature seems
to have designed as her master-piece, at length fulfilling the gracious intentions of its all-bounteous
Author, by administering to the wants and contributing to the happiness of millions.

What a proud sight for the Briton to view his country pouring forth her teeming millions to
people new hives, to see her forming in the most remote parts of the earth new establishments
which may hereafter rival her old; and to behold thousands who would perish from want within
her immediate limits, procuring an easy and comfortable subsistence in those which are more
remote; and instead of weakening her power and diminishing her resources, effectually contributing
to the augmentation of both, and forming monuments which may descend to the latest posterity,
indestructible records of her greatness and glory.

SYSTEM OF AGRICULTURE.

The system of agriculture pursued in this colony, does not materially differ from that which
prevails in this country. During the earlier stages of these settlements, the hoe-husbandry
was a necessary evil; but the great increase in the stock of horses and cattle, has at last
almost completely superseded it; and the plough-husbandry is now, and has been for many years
past, in general practice. In new lands, indeed, the hoe is still unavoidably used during the
first year of their cultivation, on account of the numerous roots and other impediments to
the plough, with which lands in a state of nature invariably abound; but excepting these occasions,
and the instances of settlers who are unable to purchase horses or oxen, and consequently adhere
to the original mode of cultivation from necessity, the hoe-husbandry is completely exploded.
Until the year 1803, eighteen years after the foundation of this colony, the plough-husbandry
was confined to a few of the richest cultivators, from the exorbitant price of cattle. At that
period, however, the government herds had so considerably multiplied, that the then governor
(King) recommended the adoption of the plough-husbandry in general orders, and tendered oxen
at £28 per head, to be paid either in produce or money, at the end of three years, to all such
settlers as were inclined to purchase them. This custom has been followed by all his successors;
but as no abatement has been made in the price of them, and as they can be obtained at one-third
the amount elsewhere, such only of the colonists now avail themselves of this indulgence, as
have no ready means of purchase, and are allured by the length of the credit.

Wheat, maize, barley, oats, and rye, are all grown in this colony; but the two former are most
cultivated. The climate appears to be rather too warm for the common species of barley and
oats; but the poorer soils produce them of a tolerably good quality. The skinless barley, or
as it is termed by some, the Siberian wheat, arrives at very great perfection, and is in every
respect much superior to the common species of barley; but the culture of this grain is limited
to the demand which is created for it by the colonial breweries; the Indian corn, or maize,
being much better adapted for the food of horses, oxen, pigs, and poultry. The produce too
is much more abundant than that of barley and oats; and the season for planting it being two
months later than for any other sort of grain, the settler has every motive for giving it the
preference. Wheat may be sown any time from February to July, and even as late as August, if
that month happens to be moist; but the best months are April, May, and June. The creeping
wheat, however, may be sown in the commencement of February; as should it become too rank,
it can easily be kept down by sheep, which are found to do this sort of wheat no manner of
injury. To the farmer, therefore, who keeps large flocks of sheep, the cultivation of the creeping
wheat is highly advantageous; since in addition to its yielding as great a crop as any other
species of wheat, it supersedes the necessity of growing turnips or other artificial food for
the support of his stock during the severity of the winter, when the natural grasses become
scanty and parched up by the frost. The red and white lammas, and the Cape or bearded wheat,
are the species generally cultivated. June is the best month for sowing barley and oats, but
they may be sown till the middle of August with a fair prospect of a good crop. Indian corn
or maize may be planted from the end of September to the middle of December; but October is
the best month. It is, however, a very common practice among the settlers on the fertile banks
of the Hawkesbury and Nepean, to plant what is called stubble corn; that is, to plant it among
the wheat, barley, and oat stubbles, as soon as the harvest is over, without ploughing or breaking
up the ground. Maize is frequently planted in this way until the middle of January, and if
the season proves sufficiently moist, yields a very abundant crop. The usual manner of planting
it is in holes about six feet apart: five grains are generally put in each of these holes.
The average produce of this grain on rich flooded lands, is from eighty to a hundred bushels
per acre. Wheat in the same situations yields from thirty to forty bushels; and barley and
oats, about fifty bushels an acre. On forest lands, however, the crops are not so productive,
unless the ground be well manured; but the wheat, barley and oats, grown on this land, are
much heavier and superior in quality. The difference of the weight of wheat grown in forest
and flooded lands, is upon an average not less than 8 lbs. per bushel. The former sort weighing
64 lbs. and the latter only 56 lbs.

The wheat harvest commences partially about the middle of November, and is generally over by
Christmas. The maize, however, is not ripe until the end of March, and the gathering is not
complete throughout the colony before the middle of May.

Potatoes*, cabbages, carrots, parsnips, turnips, pease, beans, cauliflowers, brocoli, asparagus,
lettuces, onions, and in fact every species of vegetables known in this country, are produced
in this colony; many of them attain a much superior degree of perfection, but a few also degenerate.
To the former class belong the cauliflower and brocoli, and the different varieties of the
pea; to the latter the bean and potatoe. For the bean, in particular, the climate appears too
hot, and it is only to be obtained in the stiffest clays and the dampest situations. The potatoe,
however, is produced on all soils in the greatest abundance, but the quality is not nearly
as good as in this country. In this respect, however, much depends on the nature of the soil.
In stiff clays the potatoes are invariably watery and waxy, but in light sands and loams, they
are tolerably dry and mealy. Manure also deteriorates their quality, and in general they are
best when grown on new lands. Potatoes are in consequence very commonly planted in the fields,
as a first crop, and are found to pulverize land just brought from a state of nature into cultivation
more than other root. An abundant crop of wheat, barley, or oats, may be safely calculated
to succeed them; more particularly if a light covering of manure be applied at the time of
their planting.

[* For the Colonial Garden, see Appendix.]

The colony is justly famed for the goodness and variety of its fruits: Peaches, apricots, nectarines,
oranges, grapes, pears, plums, figs, pomegranates, raspberries, strawberries, and melons of
all sorts, attain the highest degree of maturity in the open air; and even the pineapple may
be produced merely by the aid of the common forcing glass. The climate, however, of Port Jackson,
is not altogether congenial to the growth of the apple, currant, and gooseberry; although the
whole of these fruits are produced there, and the apple, in particular, in very great abundance;
but it is decidedly inferior in quality to the apple of this country. These fruits, however,
arrive at the greatest perfection in every part of Van Diemen's Land; and as the climate of
the country to the westward of the Blue Mountains, is equally cold, they will without doubt
attain there an equal degree of perfection; but the short period which has elapsed since the
establishment of a settlement beyond these mountains, has not allowed the nltramontanians to
make the experiment.

Of all the fruits which I have thus enumerated as being produced in this colony, the peach
is the most abundant and the most useful. The different varieties which have been already introduced,
succeed one another in uninterrupted succession from the middle of November to the latter end
of March: thus filling up an interval of more than four months, and affording a wholesome and
nutritious article of food during one-third of the year. This fruit grows spontaneously in
every situation, on the richest soils, as on the most barren; and its growth is so rapid that
if you plant a stone, it will in three years afterwards bear an abundant crop of fruit. Peaches
are, in consequence, so plentiful throughout the colony, that they are every where given as
food to hogs; and when thrown into heaps, and allowed to undergo a proper degree of fermentation,
are found to fatten them very rapidly. Cider also is made in great quantities from this fruit,
and when of sufficient age, affords a very pleasant and wholesome beverage. The lees, too,
after the extraction of the juice, possess the same fattening properties, and are equally calculated
as food for hogs.

REARING OF CATTLE, ETC.

The system of rearing and fattening stock in this colony is simple and economical. Horses,
in consequence of their rambling nature, are almost invariably kept in enclosures. In the districts
immediately contiguous to Port Jackson, horned cattle are followed by a herdsman during the
day, in order to prevent them from trespassing on the numerous uninclosed tracts of land that
are in a state of tillage, and they are confined during the night in yards or paddocks. In
the remoter districts, however, which are altogether devoid of cultivation, horned cattle are
subjected to no such restraints, but are permitted to range about the country at all times.
The herds too are generally larger; and although a herdsman is still required as well to prevent
them from separating into straggling parties, as to protect them from depredation, the expence
of keeping them in this manner is comparatively trifling, and the advantages of allowing them
this uncontrouled liberty to range, very great; since they are found during the heat of summer
to feed more in the night than in the day. This, therefore, is the system which the great stockholders
almost invariably pursue. Few of them possess sufficient land for the support of their cattle;
and as their estates too, however remote the situation in which they may have been selected,
have for the most part become surrounded by small cultivators, who seldom or ever inclose their
crops, they generally recede with their herds from the approach of colonization, and form new
establishments, where the liability to trespass does not exist. They thus become the gradual
explorers of the country, and it is to their efforts to avoid the contact of agriculture, that
the discovery of the best districts yet known in the colony is ascribable.

The management of sheep is in some respects different. They are never permitted to roam during
the night, on account of the native dog, which is a great enemy to them, and sometimes during
the day, makes great ravages among them, even under the eye of the shepherd. In every part
of the country, therefore, they are kept by night either in folds or yards. In the former case
the shepherd sleeps in a small moveable box, which is shifted with the folds, and with his
faithful dog, affords a sufficient protection for his flock, against the attempts of these
midnight depredators. In the latter the paling of the yards is always made so high, that the
native dog cannot surmount it; and the safety of the flock is still further ensured by the
contiguity of the shepherd's house, and the numerous dogs with which he is always provided.

The natural grasses of the colony are sufficiently good and nutritious at all seasons of the
year, for the support of every description of stock, where there is an adequate tract of country
for them to range over. But in consequence of the complete occupation of the districts which
are in the more immediate vicinity of Port Jackson, and from the settlers in general possessing
more stock than their lands are capable of maintaining, the raising of artificial food for
the winter months, has of late years become very general among such of them as are unwilling
to send their flocks and herds into the uninhabited parts in the interior. This is a practice
which must necessarily gain ground; since it has been observed, that the coldness of the climate
keeps pace with the progress of agriculture. In the more contiguous and cultivated districts,
the natural grass becomes consequently every year more affected by the influence of frost,
and the necessity of raising some artificial substitute for the support of stock, during the
suspension of vegetation, more pressing and incumbent. It is from this increase in the severity
of the winters, that the custom of making hay has begun to be adopted; and should the future
augmentation of cold be, as there is every reason to believe, proportionate to the past, this
custom will, before the expiration of many years, become generally prevalent. It is indeed,
rather a matter of surprise than otherwise, that so salutary a precaution has been so long
in disuse; since such is the luxuriance of the natural grass during the summer, that it is
the general practice after the seeds wither away, to set fire to it, and thus improvidently
consume what, if mown and made into hay, would afford the farmer a sufficiency of nutritious
food for his stock during the winter, and altogether supersede the subsequent necessity for
his having recourse to artificial means of remedying so palpable a neglect of the bounteous
gifts of nature.

This custom of setting fire to the grass, is most prevalent during the months of August and
January, i.e. just before the commencement of spring and autumn, when vegetation is on the
eve of starting from the slumber which it experiences alike during the extremes of the winter's
cold as of the summer's heat. If a fall of rain happily succeed these fires, the country soon
presents the appearance of a field of young wheat; and however repugnant this practice may
appear to the English farmer, it is absolutely unavoidable in those districts which are not
sufficiently stocked; since cattle of every description refuse to taste the grass the moment
it becomes withered.

The artificial food principally cultivated in the colony are turnips, tares, and Cape barley;
and for those settlers in particular who have flocks of breeding sheep, the cultivation of
them is highly necessary, and contributes materially to the growth and strength of the lambs.
On those also who keep dairies, this practice of raising artificial food, is equally incumbent;
the natural grasses being quite insufficient to keep milch cows in good heart during the winter,
when there is the greatest demand for butter. Good meat, too, is then only to be had with difficulty,
and this difficulty is increasing every year. There cannot, therefore, be any doubt that it
would answer the purposes even of the grazier to have recourse to artificial means of fattening
his stock at that season; since it is then that he would be enabled to obtain the readiest
and highest price for his fat cattle.

PRICE OF CATTLE, ETC.

The price of all manner of stock is almost incredibly moderate, considering the short period
which has elapsed since the foundation of the colony. A very good horse for the cart or plough
may be had from £10 to £15, and a better saddle or gig horse, from £20 to £30, than could be
obtained in this country for double the money. Very good milch-cows may be bought from £5 to
£10; working oxen for about the same price; and fine young breeding ewes from £1 to £3, according
to the quality of their fleece. Low as these prices may appear they are in a great measure
fictitious; since there is confessedly more stock of all sorts in the colony, than is necessary
for its population. It accordingly frequently happens, particularly at sales by public auction,
that stock are to be bought for one-half, and even one-third of the above prices; and there
is every probability that before the expiration of ten years, their value will be still more
considerably diminished. To be convinced of the truth of this conjecture, we have only to look
back a little into the annals of the colony, and see how prodigiously cattle of every description
have multiplied. By a census taken at the end of the year 1800, (twelve years after the institution
of the colony) the number of horses and mares was only 163; of horned cattle, 1024; and of
sheep, 6124. At the end of 1813, the horses and mares had increased to 1891; the horned cattle
to 21,513, and the sheep to 65,121: and in the month of November, 1817, the last year of which
we have received the census, the numbers were as follow: horses and mares, 3072; horned cattle,
44,753; sheep, 170,420. Thus it will be perceived, that in the space of seventeen years, the
stock of horses and mares has increased from 163, their highest number for the first twelve
years, to 3072; the stock of horned cattle, from 1044 to 44,753; and the stock of sheep from
6124 to 170,920. This is of itself an increase great beyond all ordinary computation; and it
would appear still more surprising if we could add to it the immense numbers of cattle and
sheep that have been slaughtered in the same period, for the supply of the king's stores, and
for general consumption.

From the foregoing statement is will be evident, that the future increase in the stock will
be still more prodigious, and still more considerably outstrip the advance of population. The
price therefore of cattle, great and rapid as has been its past declension, must annually experience
a still further diminution. Of what will be their probable value in ten years more, it may
enable us to form no very inaccurate estimate, by referring to what it was ten years back.
In 1808, a cow and calf were sold by public auction for £105, and the price of middling cattle
was from £80 to £100. A breeding mare was at the same period worth from 150 to 200 guineas,
and ewes from £10 to £20.

These immense prices, however, were the result of monopoly, and consequently in a great measure
fictitious; for in 1810, two years after this, a herd of fine cattle were sold for £13 per
head. This almost incredible reduction in the value of cattle in so short a period, was occasioned
by the supercession of this monopoly by the governor, who in the year 1808, was induced, from
the considerable increase that had taken place in the public herds, to issue cows at £28 per
head, payable in agricultural produce, to all indiscriminately who chose to purchase them.
Hundreds of them, therefore, at this epoch, were distributed among the settlers, and their
extreme value insured that degree of care and attention from their owners, which was naturally
followed by a rapid increase, and produced in the short lapse of two years, that declension
of price which would at first sight appear so astonishing.

Thus it may be perceived, that within the last ten years, stock of all sorts have decreased
in price, from £700 to £1,000 per cent. and it is not unreasonable to conclude, that in ten
years hence, they will have experienced at least a similar reduction. Should this conjecture
be verified, they will be of as little value in the remote parts of the colony, as the horses
and cattle on the plains of Buenos Ayres, where any person may make what use he pleases of
the carcase, provided he leaves behind him the hide.

PRICE OF LABOUR.

The price of labour is at present very low, and is still further declining in consequence of
the demand for it not equalling the supply. Upon the establishment of the Colonial Bank, and
the consequent suppression of that vile medium of circulation, termed the colonial currency,
between which and British sterling there used to be a difference of value of from £50 to £100
per cent. the price of labour was fixed at the rates contained in the following general order,
dated the 7th of December, 1816:

"In consequence of the recent abolition of all colonial currency, and the introduction and
establishment of a sterling circulation and consideration in all payments, dealings, transactions,
contracts, and agreements, within this territory and its dependencies, his Excellency the Governor
having deemed it expedient to take into consideration the general rates and prices of labour
and wages within the same, as affected by the alteration of the mode of payments at a sterling
rate, or value, and of the degree, measure, and sterling amount of the same, upon a fair and
equitable proportion and modus; and having also adopted such measures in that respect as seemed
best calculated to fix and make known the same, is pleased hereby to declare, order, and direct,
that in addition to the rations according to and equal with the government allowance, the sum
of ten pounds sterling per annum to a man convict, and seven pounds sterling to a woman convict,
as including the value of the slops allowed, and the sum of seven pounds or five pounds ten
shillings exclusive of such slops; computed at three pounds per man, and one pound ten shillings
per woman, shall be allowed, claimed, or demandable, or such part or proportion of such sum
or sums as shall be equal and according to the period and continuance of actual service, and
no more in respect of yearly wages, and in the same manner as yearly wages for the extra work
and service of any such male or female convict respectively, duly assigned to any person or
persons, by or upon the authority of Government.

"His Excellency is also pleased further to declare, order and direct, that in consideration
of the premises, the undermentioned sums, amounts, and charges, and no more with regard to
and upon the various denominations of work, labour and services, described and set forth, shall
be allowed, claimed, or demandable within this territory and its dependencies in respect thereof".

                                                             £   s.  d.

For falling forest timber, per acre,                         0   8   0
Burning off ditto, per ditto,                                1   0   0
Rooting out, and burning stumps on forest ground, per ditto, 1  10   0
Falling timber on brush ground, per ditto,                   0  12   0
Burning off ditto, per ditto,                                1  10   0
Rooting out and burning stumps on ditto, per ditto,          1  17   6
Breaking up new ground, per ditto,                           1   0   0
Breaking up stubble in corn ground, per ditto,               0  10   0
Chipping in wheat, per ditto,                                0   6   0
Reaping ditto, per ditto,                                    0  10   0
Threshing and cleaning wheat, per bushel,                    0   0   8
Holeing and planting corn, per acre,                         0   5   0
Chipping and shelling corn, per ditto,                       0   6   8
Pulling and husking ditto, per bushel,                       0   0   4
Splitting pales, (six feet long) per hundred,                0   3   0
Ditto, (five feet long) per ditto,                           0   2   6
Shingle splitting, per thousand,                             0   7   6
Preparing and putting up morticed railing, five bars, with
 two pannels to a rod, and posts sunk two feet in the ground,0   3   0
Ditto, ditto, ditto, four bars,                              0   2   6
Ditto, ditto, ditto, three bars,                             0   2   0
Ditto, ditto, ditto, two bars,                               0   1   9

The rates limited in this order are pretty well proportioned to the present state of the colony;
but the attempt to reduce the value of labour to a permanent standard, further than regards
the convicts, must evidently be abortive; since labour, like merchandize, will rise and fall
with the demand which may exist for it in the market where it is disposable;--and although
the above order might prevent the labourer from recovering in the colonial courts, a greater
price for his labour than is stipulated in the foregoing schedule, still the moment it becomes
the interest of the employer to give higher wages, he will do so, and the discredit attached
to the non-performance of a deliberate contract will always prevent him from having recourse
to the courts for avoiding the fulfilment of it. The above rates, it will be seen, only refer
to the various species of labour immediately attached to agriculture. The wages of artificers,
particularly of such as are most useful in infant societies, are considerably higher: a circumstance
which is principally to be attributed to the practice of selecting from among the convicts
all the best mechanics for the government works. Carpenters, stone-masons, brick-layers, wheel
and plough-wrights, black-smiths, coopers, harness-makers, sawyers, shoe-makers, cabinet-makers;
and in fact all the most useful descriptions of handicrafts, are consequently in very great
demand, and can easily earn from eight to ten shillings per day.

The price of land is entirely regulated by its situation and quality. So long as four years
back, a hundred and fifty acres of very indifferent ground, about thre equarters of a mile
from Sydney, were sold by virtue of an execution, in lots of twelve acres each, and averaged
£14 per acre. This, however, is the highest price that has yet been given for land not situated
in a town. The general value of unimproved forest land, when it is not heightened by some advantageous
locality, as proximity to a town or navigable river, cannot be estimated at more than five
shillings per acre. Flooded land will fetch double that sum. But on the banks of the Hawkesbury,
as far as that river is navigable, the value of land is considerably greater; that which is
in a state of nature being worth from £3 to £5 per acre, and that which is in a state of cultivation,
from £8 to £10. The latter description rents for twenty and thirty shillings an acre.

The price of provisions, particularly of agricultural produce, is subject to great fluctuations,
and will unavoidably continue so until proper measures are taken to counteract the calamitous
scarcities at present consequent on the inundations of the Hawkesbury and Nepean. In the year
1806, the epoch of the great flood, the old and new stacks on the banks of those rivers were
all swept away; and before the commencement of the following harvest, wheat and maize attained
an equal value, and were sold at £5 and £6 per bushel. Even after the last overflow of these
rivers, in the month of March, 1817, wheat rose towards the close of the year, to 31s. per
bushel, and maize to 20s., and potatoes to 32s. 6d. per cwt. although a very considerable supply
(about 20,000 bushels) was immediately furnished by the Derwent and Port Dalrymple. But for
this speedy and salutary succour, the price of grain would have been very little short of what
it was in the year 1806; since the whole stock on hand appears, from the muster taken between
the 6th of October and the 25th of November, to have only been as follows: wheat, 2405 bushels;
maize, 1506. This was all the grain that remained in the various settlements of New South Wales
and its dependencies, about a month before any part of the produce of the harvest could be
brought to market; and when it is considered that this was to administer to the support of
20,379 souls during that period, it will appear truly astonishing that the prices continued
so moderate.

By way, however, of counterpoise to these lamentable scarcities, which in general follow the
inundations of the principal agricultural settlements, provisions are very abundant and cheap
in years when the crops have not suffered from flood or drought. In such seasons, wheat upon
an average sells for 9s. per bushel; maize for 3s. 6d.; barley for 5s.; oats for 4s. 6d. and
potatoes for 6s. per cwt.

The price of meat is not influenced by the same causes, but is on the contrary experiencing
a gradual and certain diminution. By the last accounts received from the colony, good mutton
and beef were to be had for 6d. per pound, veal for 8d. and pork for 9d. Wheat was selling
in the market at 8s. 8d. per bushel; oats at 4s.; barley at 5s.; maize at 5s. 6d.; potatoes
at 8s. per cwt.; fowls at 4s. 6d. per couple; ducks at 6s. per ditto; geese at 5s. each; turkies
at 7s. 6d. each; eggs at 2s. 6d. per dozen; and butter at 2s. 6d. per pound. The price of the
best wheaten bread was fixed by the assize at 51/4d. for the loaf, weighing 2 lbs.

The progress which this colony has made in manufactures has perhaps never been equalled by
any community of such recent origin. It already contains extensive manufactories of coarse
woollen cloths, hats, earthenware and pipes, salt, candles, and soap. There are also extensive
breweries, and tanneries, wheel and plough-wrights, gig-makers, black-smiths, nail-makers,
tinmen, rope-makers, saddle and harness-makers, cabinet-makers, and indeed all sorts of mechanics
and artificers that could be required in an infant society, where objects of utility are naturally
in greater demand than articles of luxury. Many of these have considerable capitals embarked
in their several departments, and manufacture to a considerable extent. Of the precise amount,
however, of capital invested in the whole of the colonial manufactories, I can give no authentic
account; but I should imagine it cannot be far short of £50,000.

The colonists carry on a considerable commerce with this country, the East Indies, and China;
but they have scarcely any article of export to offer in return for the various commodities
supplied by those countries. The money expended by the government for the support of the convicts,
and the pay and subsistence of the civil and military establishments, are the main sources
from which they derive the means of procuring those articles of foreign growth and manufacture
which are indispensable to civilized life. They have, however, at last a staple export, which
is rapidly increasing, and promises in a few years to suffice for all their wants, and to render
them quite independent of the miserable pittance which is thus afforded them by the expenditure
of the government: I mean the fleeces of their flocks, the best of which are found to combine
all the qualities that constitute the excellence of the Saxon and Spanish wools. The sheep-holders
in general have at length become sensible of the advantage of directing their attention to
the improvement of their flocks; and if their exertions be properly seconded by the countenance
and encouragement of the local government, there can be no doubt that the supply of fine wool,
which the parent country will before long receive from the colony, will amply repay her for
the care and expence she has bestowed on it during the protracted period of its helpless infancy.
The exportation of this highly valuable raw material, is as yet but very limited: last year
it only amounted to about £8000; but when it is considered that in the year 1817, there were
170,420 sheep in the colony and its dependent settlements on Van Diemen's Land, and that the
majority of the sheep-holders are actively employed in crossing their flocks with tups of the
best Merino breed, it may easily be conceived what an extensive exportation of fine wool may
be effected in a few years.

The whole annual income of the colonists inhabiting the various settlements in New Holland,
cannot be estimated at more than £125,000, and the following sub-divisions of it may be taken
as a very close approximation to the truth:

Money expended by the government for the pay and
subsistence of the civil and military establishments,
and for the support of such of the convicts as are
victualled from the king's stores,                     £ 80,000
Money expended by shipping not belonging to the
colonial merchants,                                    £ 12,000
Various articles of export collected from the adjacent
seas and islands, by the colonial craft, consisting
principally of seal skins, right whale, and elephant
oils, and sandal wood,                                 £ 15,000
Wool grown in the colony,                              £  8,000
Sundries,                                              £ 20,000
                                                       --------
Total                                                  £125,000
                                                       --------

The imports levied by the authority of the local government form two distinct funds, one of
which, as has been already casually mentioned, is called the "Orphan Fund," and the other "the
Police Fund." The former, it has been seen, contains one-eighth of the colonial revenue, and
is devoted solely to the promotion of education among the youth of the colony; the latter contains
the other seven-eighths, and is appropriated to various purposes of internal economy; such
as the construction and repair of roads and bridges, the erection of public edifices, the maintenance
of the police, the cost of criminal prosecutions, and the pay of various officers, principally
in subordinate capacities, who are not borne on the parliamentary estimate of the civil establishment.
These two funds amounted in the year 1817 to the sum of £20,272 6s. 2½d. which was derived
from the following sources:

*Duties collected by the naval officer,  17,240  0  7¼ Market, toll, and slaughtering duties,
872  5  7¼ 67 Spirit Licences,                       2,010  0  0 10 Beer ditto,           
50  0  0 4 Brewing ditto,                            100  0  0

Total                                   £20,272  6  2½

[* For a list of these Duties, see the Appendix.]

If we add to this £907 6s. 9¼d. which is the amount of the naval officer's commission on the
duties collected by him, we have a grand total of £21,179 12s. 11¾d.; or, in other words, about
one-sixth of the whole income of the colony, absorbed by an illegal taxation. This is an enormous
sum to be levied in such an infant community; and it will appear the more so if it be recollected
that nineteen-twentieths of it are collected from the duty which has been imposed on spirituous
liquors, and from licences to keep public-houses for the retail of them.

STATISTICAL ACCOUNT OF THE SETTLEMENTS IN VAN DIEMEN'S LAND.

Van Diemen's Land is situated between 40 degrees 42', and 43 degrees 43' of south latitude,
and between 145 degrees 31' and 148 degrees 22' of east longitude. The honour of the discovery
of this island also belongs to the Dutch; but the survey of it has been principally effected
by the English.

The aborigines of this country are, if possible, still more barbarous and uncivilised than
those of New Holland. They subsist entirely by hunting, and have no knowledge whatever of the
art of fishing. Even the rude bark canoe which their neighbours possess, is quite unknown to
them; and whenever they want to pass any sheet of water, they are compelled to construct a
rude raft for the occasion. Their arms and hunting implements also indicate an inferior degree
of civilization. The womera, or throwing stick, which enables the natives of Port Jackson to
cast their spears with such amazing force and precision, is not used by them. Their spears,
too, instead of being made with the bulrush, and only pointed with hard wood, are composed
entirely of it, and are consequently more ponderous. In using them they grasp the center; but
they neither throw them so far nor so dexterously as the natives of the parent colony. This
circumstance is the more fortunate, as they maintain the most rancorous and inflexible hatred
and hostility towards the colonists. This deep rooted enmity, however, does not arise so much
from the ferocious nature of these savages, as from the inconsiderate and unpardonable conduct
of our countrymen shortly after the foundation of the settlement on the river Derwent. At first
the natives evinced the most friendly disposition towards the new comers; and would probably
have been actuated by the same amicable feeling to this day, had not the military officer entrusted
with the command, directed a discharge of grape and canister shot to be made among a large
body who were approaching, as he imagined, with hostile designs; but as it has since been believed
with much greater probability, merely from motives of curiosity and friendship. The havoc occasioned
among them by this murderous discharge, was dreadful; and since then all communication with
them has ceased, and the spirit of animosity and revenge, which this unmerited and atrocious
act of barbarity has engendered, has been fostered and aggravated to the highest pitch by the
incessant rencontres which have subsequently taken place between them and the settlers. These,
wherever and whenever an occasion offers, destroy as many of them as possible, and they in
their turn never let slip an opportunity of retaliating on their blood-thirsty butchers. Fortunately,
however, for the colonists, they have seldom or never been known to act on the offensive, except
when they have met some of their persecutors singly. Two persons armed with muskets may traverse
the island from one end to the other in the most perfect safety.

Van Diemen's Land has not so discouraging and repulsive an appearance from the coast as New
Holland. Many fine tracts of land are found on the very borders of the sea, and the interior
is almost invariably possessed of a soil admirably adapted to all the purposes of civilized
man. This island is upon the whole mountainous, and consequently abounds in streams. On the
summits of many of the mountains there are large lakes, some of which are the sources of considerable
rivers. Of these the Derwent, Huon, and Tamar, rank in the first class.

There is perhaps no island in the world of the same size which can boast of so many fine harbours:
the best are the Derwent, Port Davy, Macquarie Harbour, Port Dalrymple, and Oyster Bay: the
first is on its southern side, the second and third on its western, the fourth on its northern,
and the fifth on its eastern, so that it has excellent harbours in every direction. This circumstance
cannot fail to be productive of the most beneficial effects, and will most materially assist
the future march of colonization.

There is almost a perfect resemblance between the animal and vegetable kingdoms of this island
and of New Holland. In their animal kingdoms in particular, there is scarcely any variation.
The native dog, indeed, is unknown here; but there is an animal of the panther tribe in its
stead, which, though not found in such numbers as the native dog is in New Holland, commits
dreadful havoc among the flocks. It is true that its ravages are not so frequent; but when
they happen they are more extensive. This animal is of considerable size, and has been known
in some few instances, to measure six feet and a half from the tip of the nose to the extremity
of the tail; still it is cowardly, and by no means formidable to man: unless, indeed, when
taken by surprise, it invariably flies his approach.

In the feathered tribes of the two islands, there is scarcely any diversity; of this the wattle
bird, which is about the size of a snipe, and considered a very great delicacy, is the only
instance which I can cite.

Like New Holland it has many varieties of poisonous reptiles, but they are neither so venomous
nor so numerous as in that island.

Its rivers and seas too, abound with the same species of fish. Oysters are found in much greater
perfection, though not in greater abundance. The rocks that border the coasts and harbours
are literally covered with muscles, as the rocks at Port Jackson are with oysters.

There is not so perfect a resemblance in the vegetable kingdoms of the two islands; but still
the dissimilarity, where it exists, is chiefly confined to their minor productions. In the
trees of the forest there is scarcely any difference. Van Diemen's Land wants the cedar, mahogany,
and rose wood; but it has very good substitutes for them in the black wood and Huon pine, which
is a species of the yew tree, and remarkable for its strong odoriferous scent and extreme durability.

The principal mineralogical productions of this island are, iron, copper, alum, coals, slate,
limestone, asbestus, and basaltes; all of which, with the exception of copper, are to be had
in the greatest abundance.

HOBART TOWN.

Hobart Town, which is the seat of the Lieutenant-Governor of Van Diemen's Land, stands nine
miles up the river Derwent. It was founded only fifteen years since, and indeed the rudeness
of its appearance sufficiently indicates the recency of its origin. The houses are in general
of the meanest description, seldom exceeding one story in height, and being for the most part
weather-boarded without, and lathed and plastered within. Even the government house is of very
bad construction. The residences, indeed, of many individuals far surpass it. The population
may be estimated at about one thousand souls.

This town is built principally on two hills, between which there is a fine stream of excellent
water, that issues from the Table Mountain, and falls into Sullivan's Cove. On this stream
a flour mill has been erected, and there is sufficient fall in it for the erection of two or
three more. There are also within a short distance of the town, several other streams which
originate in the same mountain, and are equally well adapted to similar purposes. This is an
advantage not possessed by the inhabitants of Port Jackson; since there is not in any of the
cultivated districts to the eastward of the Blue Mountains a single run of water which can
be pronounced in every respect eligible for the erection of mills. Windmills are in consequence
almost exclusively used for grinding corn in Sydney; but in the inland towns and districts,
the colonists are in a great measure obliged to have recourse to hand mills, as the winds during
the greater part of the year, are not of sufficient force to penetrate the forest and set mills
in motion.

The elevation of the Table Mountain, which is so called from the great resemblance it bears
to the mountain of the same name at the Cape of Good Hope, has not been determined; but it
is generally estimated at about six thousand feet above the level of the sea. During three-fourths
of the year it is covered with snow, and the same violent gusts of wind blow from it as from
this, its mountain name-sake; but no gathering clouds on its summit give notice of the approaching
storm. The fiery appearance, however, of the heavens, affords a sufficient warning to the inhabitants
of the country. These blasts are happily confined to the precincts of the mountain, and seldom
last above three hours; but nothing can exceed their violence for the time. In the year 1810,
I happened to be on board of a vessel which was bound to Hobart Town: in consequence of the
winds proving scanty, we were obliged to anchor during the night in D'Entrecasteaux's Channel.
The following morning we got under weigh, expecting that the sea breeze would set in by the
time the anchor was hove up. The seamen had no sooner effected this and set all sail, than
we were assailed with one of these mountain hurricanes. In an instant the vessel was on her
beam-ends, and in another, had not all the sheets and halyards been let go, she would either
have upset or carried away her masts. The moment the sails were clued up we brought to again;
and as we were in a harbour perfectly land-locked and very narrow, the vessel easily rode out
this blast. It only lasted about two hours; but the sea breeze did not succeed it that day.
The next morning, however, it set in as usual.

During the continuance of this mountain tornado, the waters of the harbour were terribly agitated,
and taken up in the same manner as dust is collected by what are called whirlwinds in this
country. So great indeed was its fury, that it required us to hold on by the ropes with all
our force, in order to enable us to keep our footing.

The harbour at and conducting to the river Derwent, yields to none in the world; perhaps surpasses
every other. There are two entrances to this river, which are separated by Pitt's Island; one
is termed D'Entrecasteaux's Channel, the other, Storm Bay. D'Entrecasteaux's Channel, from
Point Collins up to Hobart Town, a distance, following the course of the water, of thirty-seven
miles, is one continued harbour, varying in breadth from eight to two miles, and in depth from
thirty to four fathoms. The river Derwent itself has three fathoms water for eleven miles above
the town, and is consequently navigable thus far for vessels of the largest burthen. Reckoning
therefore from Point Collins, there is a line of harbour in D'Entrecasteaux's Channel and the
Derwent, together of forty-eight miles, completely land-locked, and affording the best anchorage
the whole way.

The entrance, however, by Storm Bay, does not offer the same advantages; for it is twenty-two
miles broad from Maria's Islands to Penguin Island, and completely exposed to the winds from
south to south-east. This bay consequently does not afford the same excellent anchorage as
D'Entrecasteaux's Channel. It contains, however, some few nooks, in which vessels may take
shelter in case of necessity. The best of these is Adventure Bay, which is shut in from any
winds that can blow directly from the ocean, but is nevertheless exposed to the north-east
winds, which have a reach of twenty miles from the opposite side of the bay. There is consequently,
when these winds prevail, a considerable swell here; but the force of the sea is in a great
measure broken by Penguin Island; and vessels having good anchors and cables have nothing to fear.

Storm Bay, besides thus forming one of the entrances to the river Derwent, leads to another
very good harbour, called North Bay. This harbour is about sixteen miles long, and in some
places six miles and a half broad. The greater part of it is perfectly land-locked, and affords
excellent anchorage in from two to fifteen fathoms water. That part in particular called Norfolk
Bay, forms a very spacious harbour of itself, being about three miles in breadth and nine in
length. This bay, besides being better sheltered than the rest of the harbours, contains the
greatest depth of water, having in no place less than four fathoms.

All the bays and harbours which have been just described, abound with right whale at a particular
season of the year. These leviathans of the deep quit the boisterous ocean, and seek the more
tranquil waters of these harbours, when they are on the point of calving. This happens in November,
and they remain there with their young between two and three months. During this period there
are generally every year a few of the colonial craft employed in the whale fishery; but the
duties which are levied in this country on all oils procured in vessels not having a British
register, amount to a prohibition, and completely prevent the colonists from prosecuting this
fishery further than is necessary for their own consumption, and for the supply of the East
India market. Between two and three hundred tons annually suffice for both these purposes.

The whales frequently go up the river Derwent as far as the town; and it is no uncommon sight
for its inhabitants to behold the whole method of taking them, from the moment they are harpooned
until they are finally killed by the frequent application of the lance. This sight indeed has
been occasionally witnessed by the inhabitants of Sydney; since it has sometimes occurred that
a stray fish has entered the harbour of Port Jackson, while some of the South Sea whalers have
been lying there, and that these have lowered their boats and killed it.

All the bays and harbours in Van Diemen's Land, and most of those likewise which are in Bass's
Straits, and on the southern coast of New Holland, abound with these fish at the same season.
If the colonists, therefore, were not thus restricted from this fishery, it would soon become
an immense source of wealth to them; and I have no doubt that they would be enabled to export
many thousand tons of oil annually to this country. But it is in vain that nature has been
thus lavish of her bounties to them; in vain do their seas and harbours invite them to embark
in these inexhaustible channels of wealth and enterprize. Their government, that government
which ought to be the foremost in developing their nascent efforts, and fostering them to maturity,
is itself the first to check their growth and impede their advancement. What a miserly system
of legislation is it, which thus locks up from its own subjects, a fund of riches that might
administer to the wants, and contribute to the happiness of thousands! What barbarous tantalization
to compel them to thirst in the midst of the waters of abundance!

PORT DALRYMPLE.

This port, which was discovered by Flinders, in 1798, lies thirty degrees E. S. E. of Three
Hammock Island. The town of Launceston stands about thirty miles from its entrance, at the
junction of the North Esk, and the South with the river Tamar. It is little more than an inconsiderable
village, the houses in general being of the humblest description. Its population is between
three and four hundred souls. The tide reaches nine or ten miles up the river Esk, and the
produce of the farms within that distance, may be sent down to the town in boats. But the North
Esk descends from a range of mountains, by a cataract immediately into the river Tamar, and
is consequently altogether inaccessible to navigation.

The Tamar has sufficient depth of water as far as Launceston, for vessels of a hundred and
fifty tons burthen; but the navigation of this river is very intricate, by reason of the banks
and shallows with which it abounds, and it has been at length prudently resolved to remove
the seat of government nearer the entrance of Port Dalrymple. A town called George Town, has
been for the last three years in a state of active preparation; and it is probable that the
commandant, and indeed the entire civil and military establishments* of this settlement, have
by this time removed to it. In this case the greater part of the population of Launceston will
soon follow. This desertion of its inhabitants will considerably diminish the value of landed
property in that town, and consequently be productive of great loss to them; but there can
be no doubt that the change of the seat of government will in the event materially contribute
to the prosperity of the settlement in general. This abandonment, therefore, or rather intended
abandonment of the old town, has been dictated by the soundest principles of policy and justice;
but although the equity of the maxim that the interests of the few should cede to the good
of the many, is incontrovertible, it is nevertheless to be hoped, that some means will be contrived
of indemnifying the inhabitants of Launceston for the great injury which they will suffer from
the removal of the seat of government to George Town.

Within a few miles of Launceston, there is the most amazing abundance of iron. Literally speaking,
there are whole mountains of this ore, which is so remarkably rich, that it has been found
to yield seventy per cent. of pure metal. These mines have not yet been worked; the population,
indeed, of the settlement would not allow it; but there can be no doubt that they will at no
very remote period become a source of considerable wealth to its inhabitants.

There is a communication by land between Launceston and Hobart Town, which are about one hundred
and thirty miles distant from each other in a straight line, and about one hundred and sixty,
following the windings of the route at present frequented. No regular road has been constructed
between these towns, but the numerous carts and droves of cattle and sheep, which are constantly
passing from one to the other, have rendered the track sufficiently distinct and plain. In
fact, the making a road is a matter of very great ease, both here and in Port Jackson. The
person whoever he may be that wants to establish a cart-road to any place, marks the trees
in the direction he wishes it to take, and these marks serve as a guide to all such as require
to travel on it. In a very short time the tracks of the horses and carts that have passed along
it become visible, the grass is gradually trod down, and finally disappears, and thus a road
is formed; not, indeed, so good as one of the usual construction, but which answers all the
purposes of those who have occasion to make use of it. Wherever there happens to be a stream,
or river that is not fordable, it is customary to cut down two or three trees in some spot
on its banks, where it is seen that they will reach to the other side of it. Across these,
the boughs that are lopped off themselves, or smaller trees felled for the purpose, are laid
close together, and over all a sufficient covering of earth.

Of this description are all the roads and bridges in Van Diemen's Land, and many of them, even
in Port Jackson; but in this respect it will be recollected that the latter is much in advance
of the former. The reason why the settlements on this island are so much behind the parent
colony, is not to be traced so much to the greater recency of their origin, as to the circumstance
of their inhabitants being for the most part established along the banks of navigable waters.
At Port Dalrymple, the majority of the settlers have fixed themselves on the banks of the North
Esk, within the navigable reach of that river. The Derwent too, it has been seen, is navigable
for vessels of the largest burden for twenty miles from its entrance. A little higher up, indeed,
there are falls in it which interrupt its navigation; but it is hardly yet colonized beyond
these falls, and whenever that shall be the case, it may be easily rendered navigable for boats
by the help of ferries for a considerable distance further. Such of the agriculturists as have
not settled on the banks of this river, have selected their farms in the district of Pitt Water;
which extends along the northern side of that spacious harbour, called "North Bay." These have
consequently the same facilities as those on the banks of the Derwent for sending their produce
to market by water, and they naturally prefer this, the cheapest mode of conveyance. It may,
therefore, be perceived that the superior advantages which are thus presented by an inland
navigation, are the main causes why the construction of regular roads has been so much neglected
in these settlements. So far, indeed, is this want of roads from being an inconvenience to
the inhabitants of them, that the facilities afforded by this inland navigation for the transport
of all sorts of agricultural produce to market, is the principal point of superiority which
they can claim over their brethren at Port Jackson.

ADMINISTRATION OF JUSTICE.

In the two settlements on this island, there is but one court of justice established by charter.
This is termed the Lieutenant-Governor's Court, and consists of the deputy judge advocate,
and two of the respectable inhabitants appointed from time to time by the lieutenant-governor.
The jurisdiction of this court is purely civil, and only extends to pleas where the sum at
issue does not exceed £50; but no appeal lies from its decisions. All causes for a higher amount,
and all criminal offences beyond the cognizance of the bench of magistrates, are removed, the
former before the Supreme Court, and the latter before the Court of Criminal Judicature at
Port Jackson.

STATE OF DEFENCE, ETC.

These settlements are in a very bad state of defence, having but two companies of troops for
the garrison and protection of them both. They have consequently been infested for many years
past, by a banditti of run-away convicts, who have endangered the person and property of every
one that has evinced himself hostile to their enormities. These wretches, who are known in
the colony by the name of bush-rangers, even went so far as to write threatening letters to
the lieutenant-governor and the magistracy. In this horrible state of anarchy a simultaneous
feeling of insecurity and dread, naturally pervaded the whole of the inhabitants; and the most
respectable part of the agricultural body with one accord betook themselves to the towns, as
the only certain means of preserving their lives, gladly abandoning their property to prevent
the much greater sacrifice with which the defence of it would have been attended. There is
no species of outrage and atrocity, in which these marauders did not indulge: murders, incendiaries,
and robberies were their ordinary amusements, and have been for many years past the leading
events in the annals of these unfortunate settlements. Every measure that could be devised
was taken for the capture and punishment of these wretches. They were repeatedly outlawed,
and the most alluring rewards were set upon their heads; but the insufficiency of the military
force, the extent of the island, their superior local knowledge, and the abundance of game,
which enabled them to find an easy subsistence, and rendered them independent, except for an
occasional supply of ammunition, with which some unknown persons were base enough to furnish
them in exchange for their ill acquired booty; all these circumstances conspired to baffle
for many years every attempt that was made for their apprehension. This long impunity served
only to increase their cruelty and temerity; and it was at last deemed expedient by Lieutenant
Governor Davy to declare the whole island under the operation of martial law. This vigorous
exertion of authority was zealously seconded by the respectable inhabitants, many of whom joined
the military in the pursuit of these miscreants, and fortunately succeeded by their joint exertions
in apprehending the most daring of their ringleaders, who were instantly tried by a court martial
and hanged in chains. This terrible, though necessary example, was followed by a proclamation
offering a general amnesty to all the rest of these delinquents who should surrender themselves
before a certain day; excepting, however, such of them as had been guilty of murder. The proclamation
had the desired effect: all who were not excluded by their crimes availed themselves of the
pardon thus offered them. But strange to say, they were allowed to remain in the island; and
whether they were enamoured of the licentious life they had been so long leading, or whether
they distrusted the sincerity of the oblivion promised them, and became apprehensive of eventual
punishment, in a few months afterwards they again betook themselves to the woods, and rejoined
those who had been excluded from the amnesty. After this, they rivalled their former atrocities,
and a general feeling of consternation was again excited among the well disposed part of the
community. And here, as it may not be uninteresting to many of my readers to be acquainted
with some of the specific outrages of these monsters, I subjoin the following extracts from
the Sydney Gazette of the 25th Jan. 1817.

The accounts of robberies by the banditti of bush-rangers on Van Diemen's Land, presents a
melancholy picture of the distresses to which the more respectable classes of inhabitants are
constantly exposed from the daring acts of those infamous marauders, who are divided into small
parties, and are designated by the name of the principal ruffian at their head, of whom one
Michael Howe appears to be the most alert in depredation. The accounts received by the Kangaroo,
which commence from the beginning of November, state that on the 7th of that month, the house
and premises of Mr. David Rose at Port Dalrymple, were attacked and plundered of a considerable
property, by Peter Sefton and his gang. The delinquents were pursued by the commandant at the
head of a strong detachment of the 46th regiment; but returned after a five days hunt through
the woods, without being able to discover the villains, among whom is stated to have been a
free man, named Denis M'Caig, who went from hence to Port Dalrymple in the Brothers.

On the night of the 17th of November, the premises of Mr. Thomas Hayes, at Bagdad, were attacked
at a time when Mr. Stocker and wife, and Mr. Andrew Whitehead (the former on their route from
Hobart Town to Port Dalrymple, with a cart containing a large and valuable property) had unfortunately
put up at the house for the night. Michael Howe was the chief of this banditti, which consisted
of eight others. The property of which they plundered Mr. and Mrs. Stocker on this occasion,
was upwards of £300 value, among which were two kegs of spirits. One of these, a member of
the gang wantonly wasted, by firing a pistol-ball through the head of the keg, which contained
eleven gallons. They set their watches by Mr. Whitehead's, which they afterwards returned;
but took Mr. Stocker's away with their other plunder. Mr. Wade, chief constable of Hobart Town,
had stopped with the others at Mr. Hayes's; but hearing a noise, which he considered to denote
the approach of bush-rangers, he prudently attended to the admonition, and escaped their fury,
which it was concluded would have fallen heavily upon him, as they are at variance with all
conditions in life that are inimical to their crimes. On the morning of the 2d instant, Mr.
William Maum, of Hobart Town, sustained the loss of three stacks of wheat by fire at his farm
at Clarence Plains, owing to the act of an incendiary.

On the 14th of November a large body, consisting of fourteen men and two women, were unwelcomely
fallen in with by a single man on horseback, at Scantling's Plains. Howe and Geary were the
most conspicuous: they compelled him to bear testimony to the swearing in of their whole party,
to abide by some resolutions dictated in a written paper, which one of them finished writing
in the traveller's presence. After a detention of about three quarters of an hour, he was suffered
to proceed under strong injunctions to declare what he had been an eye-witness of; and to desire
Mr. Humphrey, the magistrate, and Mr. Wade, the chief constable, to take care of themselves,
as they were bent on taking their lives, as well as to prevent them from growing grain, or
keeping goods of any kind. And by the information of a person upon oath, it appears that they
had about the same period, forced away two government servants from their habitations, to a
distant place, on which the crimes of these wretches have stamped the appellation of murderer's
plains, (by themselves facetiously called the tallow-chandler's shop) where they kept them
to work three days in rendering down beef-fat. How they could afterwards appropriate so great
a quantity of rendered fat and suet, is truly a question worthy to be demanded; for it is far
more likely it should be taken off their hands by persons in or near the settlements, who are
leagued with them, in the way of bartering one commodity for another, than that the bush-rangers
should either keep it for their own use, or bestow so much trouble on the preparation of an
article that would soon spoil in their hands. The caftle that were in this instance so devoted,
were the property of Stones and Tray, who declare that out of three hundred head, one hundred
and forty have lately disappeared".

All the outrages above enumerated, it will be seen, were perpetrated within the short period
of ten days; and these settlements continued the scene of similar enormities until the July
following, an interval of nearly eight months. On the serious injury which the industrious
and deserving of all classes, must have experienced in that time, from the inability of the
government to afford them protection, it would be useless here to dilate. It must be evident,
that such extremes of anarchy could not be of any long duration; and that one or other of these
two events became inevitable; either that the exertions and enterprizes of the colonists should
be brought to a stand, or that these disturbers of the general tranquillity, should suffer
condign punishment. Fortunately the cause of public justice triumphed, and the majority of
these monsters either fell victims to common distrust, or to the violated laws of their country.
And here, after detailing some few of their excesses, I cannot refrain from giving in turn
the account of the measures that led to their discomfiture and apprehension, as extracted from
the Sydney Gazette of the 4th October, 1817.

A meeting of public officers and principal inhabitants and settlers, was convened at Hobart
Town, by sanction of his honour, Lieutenant-Governor Sorrel, (the successor of Colonel Davy)
on the 5th of July, for the purpose of considering the most effectual measures for suppressing
the banditti; when the utmost alacrity manifested itself to support the views of government
in promoting that desirable object, and a liberal subscription was immediately entered into
for the purpose. The following proclamation was immediately afterwards issued by the Lieutenant-Governor.

Whereas, the armed banditti, who have for a considerable time infested the interior of this
island, did on the 10th ultimo, make an attack upon the store at George Town, which being left
unprotected, they plundered, taking away two boats, which they afterwards cast ashore at the
entrance of Port Dalrymple; and whereas, the principal leader in the outrages which have been
committed by this band of robbers, is Peter Geary, a deserter from his Majesty's 73d regiment,
charged also with murder and various other offences; and whereas, the undermentioned offenders
have been concerned with the said Peter Geary in most of these enormities; the following rewards
will be paid to any person or persons, who shall apprehend these offenders, or any of them:

Peter Geary--One Hundred Guineas. Peter Septon, John Jones, Richard Collyer--Eighty Guineas
each. Thomas Coine, Brown or Brune, a Frenchman--Fifty Guineas each.

And whereas, George Watts, a prisoner, who absented himself from the Coal River, previous to
the expiration of his sentence, and who stands charged with various robberies and crimes, is
now at large: it is hereby declared, that a reward of eighty guineas will be paid to any person
or persons, who shall apprehend the said George Watts.

And all magistrates and commanders of military stations, and parties, and all constables and
others of his majesty's subjects, are enjoined to use their utmost efforts to apprehend the
criminals above named.

On the 10th of July, a division of the banditti proceeded to George Town, and seizing upon
the government boats, induced five of the working people to abscond with them; upon representation
whereof to the Lieutenant-Governor, a proclamation was issued requiring the return of those
persons, under the assurance of forgiveness, if so returning within twenty days, from the consideration
that the settlement of George Town had been for some days without command or controul; the
causes of which will be found in our supplement of this day; wherein Mr. Superintendent Leith,
has, in his testimony upon the murder of the chief constable of the settlement, declared his
necessary absence to Launceston at that express period.

The gang of bush-rangers appeared in the vicinity of Black Brush on Saturday, and were tracked
on the following morning by Serjeant M'Carthy, of the 46th, with his party. On Monday the bush-rangers
were at a house at Tea-tree Brush, where they had dined, and about three o'clock Serjeant M'Carthy
with his party came up. The bush-rangers ran out of the house into the woods, and being eleven
in number, and well covered by timber and ground, the eight soldiers could not close with them.
After a good deal of firing, Geary the leader was wounded, and fell; two others were also wounded.
The knapsacks of the whole and their dogs were taken. Geary died the same night, and his corpse
was brought into town on Tuesday, as were the two wounded men.

The remaining eight bush-rangers were seen in the neighbourhood of the Coal River on Wednesday;
but, as they must have been destitute of provisions and ammunition, sanguine hopes were entertained
of their speedy fall.

Dennis Currie and Matthew Kiegan, two of the original bush-rangers, surrendered on the Monday
following.

On Wednesday, a coroner's inquest was held on the body of James Geary, who died of the wound
received in the affair at Tea-tree Brush. Verdict, Homicide in furtherance of public justice.

Jones, a principal of the banditti, was shot in the beginning of August, in the neighbourhood
of Swanport, which is on the eastern shore. For some days they had not been heard of; but by
the extraordinary exertions of Serjeant M'Carthy and his party of the 46th regiment, were tracked
and overtaken at the above place; on which occasion Jones was killed on the spot by a ball
through the head. A prisoner of the name of Holmes was by the bush-ranger's fire, wounded in
two places, but we do not hear mortally.

On the Sunday evening after the above affair, some of the villains effected a robbery at Clarence
Plains; but became so excessively intemperate from intoxication as to quarrel among themselves;
the consequence was, that another of the gang of the name of Rollards, having been most severely
bruised and beaten by his associates fell into the hands of a settler, and was by him taken
a prisoner into Hobart Town. White and Johnson, two others of the gang, were apprehended by
Serjeant M'Carthy's party, on Thursday the 14th of August, being conducted to their haunts
by a native woman, distinguished by the name of Black Mary, and another girl.

After the above successes in reducing the number of these persons, some of them still continued
out, on the 16th of August, as appears from a report published: of the old bush-rangers, Septon,
Collyer, Coine, and Brune, also Watts, who kept separate from the rest, and Michael Howe, who
had before delivered himself up, and after remaining some weeks in Hobart Town, took again
to the woods, from a dread, as was imagined, of ultimately being called to answer for his former
offences. At this period also, there were two absentees from George Town, Port Dalrymple; a
number of the working hands having gone from that settlement shortly before, all of whom had
returned to their duty but these two. White, Rollards, and Peck, were about this time under
a reward of sixty guineas for their apprehension, for an attempt to commit a robbery at Clarence
Plains: Peck was a freeman, the other two prisoners.

By the 6th of September, nearly the whole of the absentees of whatever description had either
surrendered or been apprehended; and upon this day a proclamation was issued offering the following
rewards: for the apprehension of Michael Howe, one hundred guineas; for George Watts, eighty
guineas; and for Brune, the Frenchman, fifty guineas; and in consequence of these prompt and
efficacious arrangements, additional captures had been made, which placed it nearly beyond
a doubt that Howe is almost, if not the only individual of the desperate gangs now at large.

This latter assertion, however, does not appear to have been correct; for in a Sydney Gazette
of the 25th of October, of the same year, we have the following account of the apprehension
and surrender of some others of this banditti, and of an unsuccessful attempt to take Michael
Howe, which will tend to elucidate the desperate character of this ruffian.

Several persons have arrived as witnesses on the prosecution of offenders transmitted for trial
by the Pilot; two of whom are charged with wilful murder, viz. Richard Collyer, as a principal
in the atrocious murder of the late William Carlisle and James O'Berne, who were shot by a
banditti of bush-rangers at the settlement of New Norfolk, on the 24th of April, 1815; the
particulars whereof were published in the Sydney Gazette of the 20th of the following May.
The other prisoner for murder is John Hilliard, who was also one of the banditti of bush-rangers;
but being desirous of giving himself up, determined previously by force or guile, to achieve
some exploit, that might place the sincerity of his contrition beyond doubt. Accident soon
brought the above Collyer, together with Peter Septon, another of the banditti, within his
power. He attacked and killed Septon, and wounded Collyer, who nevertheless got away, but was
soon apprehended. It is for the killing of Septon, he is therefore to be tried. Four of the
prisoners sent by this vessel are for sheep stealing. Another of the late banditti, George
Watts, is come up also, but under no criminal charge, as we are informed, he having been desperately
wounded by Michael Howe, in an attempt assisted by William Drew, to take him into Hobart Town
a prisoner; but in which exertion Drew was shot dead by that desperate offender, and the survivor
Watts nearly killed also.

* * *

I have been thus copious in extracts from the Sydney Gazette, to shew the lamentable state
of danger and anarchy in which the colonists on Van Diemen's Land have been kept by an inconsiderable
banditti; who, from the imbecility of the local government, have been enabled to continue for
many years in a triumphant career of violence and impunity. This iniquitous and formidable
association may, indeed, be considered as crushed for the moment, although the most desperate
member of it is still at large. But what pledge have the well disposed part of the inhabitants,
that a band equally atrocious will not again spring up, and endanger the general peace and
security? What guarantee, in fact, have they that this very ruffian, the soul and center of
the late combination, will not serve as a rallying point to the profligate, and again collect
around him a circle of robbers and murderers as desperate and bloody as the miscreants who
have been annihilated? And can the pursuits of industry quietly proceed under the harassing
dread which this constant liability to outrage and depredation must inspire? There is no principle
less controvertible than that the subject has the same claims on the government for support
and protection, as they have on him, for obedience and fidelity. The compact is as binding
on the one party, as on the other; and it is really discreditable to the established character
of this country, that any part of its dominions should have continued for so long a period,
the scene of such flagrant enormities, merely from the want of a sufficient military force
to ensure the due administration of the laws, and to maintain the public tranquillity.

CLIMATE, ETC.

The climate of this island is equally healthy, and much more congenial to the European constitution,
than that of Port Jackson. The north-west winds, which are there productive of such violent
variations of temperature, are here unknown; and neither the summers, nor winters, are subject
to any great extremes of heat, or cold. The frosts, indeed, are much more severe, and of much
longer duration; and the mountains with which this island abounds, are covered with snow during
the greater part of the year; but in the vallies it never lingers on the ground more than a
few hours. Upon an average, the mean difference of temperature, between these settlements and
those on New Holland, (I speak of such as are to the eastward of the Blue Mountains; for the
country to the westward of them, it has been already stated, is equally cold with any part
of Van Diemen's Land,) may be estimated at ten degrees of Fahrenheit, at all seasons of the year.

The prevailing diseases are the same as at Port Jackson: i. e. phthisis, and dysentery; but
the former is not so common. Rheumatic complaints, however, which are scarcely known there,
exist here to a considerable extent.

SOIL, ETC.

In this island, as in New Holland, there is every diversity of soil, but certainly in proportion
to the surface of the two countries, this contains, comparatively, much less of an indifferent
quality. Large tracts of land perfectly free from timber or underwood, and covered with the
most luxuriant herbage, are to be found in all directions; but more particularly in the environs
of Port Dalrymple. This sort of land is invariably of the very best description, and millions
of acres still remain unappropriated, which are capable of being instantly converted to all
the purposes of husbandry. There the colonist has no expence to incur in clearing his farm:
he is not compelled to a great preliminary out-lay of capital, before he can expect a considerable
return; he has only to set fire to the grass, to prepare his land for the immediate reception
of the plough-share; so that, if he but possess a good team of horses, or oxen, with a set
of harness, and a couple of substantial ploughs, he has the main requisites for commencing
an agricultural establishment, and for ensuring a comfortable subsistence for himself and family.

To this great superiority which these southern settlements may claim over the parent colony,
may be superadded two other items of distinction, which are perhaps of equal magnitude and
importance. First, The rivers here have sufficient fall in them to prevent any excessive accumulation
of water, from violent or continued rains; and are consequently free from those awful and destructive
inundations to which all its rivers are perpetually subject. Here, therefore, the industrious
colonist may settle on the banks of a navigable river, and enjoy all the advantages of sending
his produce to market by water, without running the constant hazard of having the fruits of
his labour, the golden promise of the year, swept away in an hour by a capricious and domineering
element. Secondly, The seasons are more regular and defined, and those great droughts which
have been so frequent at Port Jackson, are altogether unknown. In the years 1813, 1814, and
1815, when the whole face of the country there was literally burnt up, and vegetation completely
at a stand still from the want of rain, an abundant supply of it fell here, and the harvests,
in consequence, were never more productive. Indeed, since these settlements were first established,
a period of fifteen years, the crops have never sustained any serious detriment from an insufficiency
of rain; whereas, in the parent colony, there have been in the thirty-one years that have elapsed
since its foundation, I may venture to say, half a dozen dearths, occasioned by drought, and
at least as many arising from floods.

The circumstance, therefore, of Van Diemen's Land being thus exempt from those calamitous consequences,
which are so frequent in New Holland, from a superabundance of rain in the one instance, and
a deficiency of it in the other, is a most important point of consideration, for all such as
hesitate in their choice betwixt the two countries; and is well worthy the most serious attention
of those who are desirous of emigrating to one or the other of them, with a view to become
mere agriculturists.

In the system of agriculture pursued in the two colonies, there is no difference, save that
the Indian corn, or maize, is not cultivated here, because the climate is too cold to bring
this grain to maturity. Barley and oats, however, arrive at much greater perfection, and afford
the inhabitants a substitute, although by no means an equivalent, for this highly valuable
product. The wheat, too, which is raised here, is of much superior description to the wheat
grown in any of the districts at Port Jackson, and will always command in the Sydney market,
a difference of price sufficiently great to pay for the additional cost of transport. The average
produce, also, of land here, is greater, although it does not exceed, perhaps not equal the
produce of the rich flooded lands on the banks of the Hawkesbury and Nepean. A gentleman who
resided many years at Port Dalrymple, estimates the average produce of the crops at that settlement
as follows: Wheat, thirty bushels per acre; barley, forty-five bushels per ditto; oats, he
does not know, but say sixty bushels per ditto. This estimate is not at all calculated to impress
the English farmer with as favourable an opinion of the fertility of this settlement as it
merits; but if he only witnessed the slovenly mode of tillage which is practised there, he
would be surprised not that the average produce of the crops is so small, but that it is so
great. If the same land had the benefit of the system of agriculture that prevails throughout
the county of Norfolk, it may be safely asserted that its produce would be doubled. The land
on the upper banks of the river Derwent and at Pitt-water, is equally fertile; but the average
produce of the crops on the whole of the cultivated districts belonging to this settlement,
is at least one-fifth less than at Port Dalrymple.

These settlements do not contain either such a variety or abundance of fruit as the parent
colony. The superior coldness of their climate sufficiently accounts for the former deficiency,
and the greater recency of their establishment for the latter. The orange, citron, guava, loquet,
pomegranate, and many other fruits which attain the greatest perfection at Port Jackson, cannot
be produced here at all without having recourse to artificial means; while many more, as the
peach, nectarine, grape, etc. only arrive at a very inferior degree of maturity. On the other
hand, as has been already noticed, the apple, currant, gooseberry, and indeed all those fruits
for which the climate of the parent colony is too warm, are raised here without difficulty.

The system of rearing and fattening cattle is perfectly analogous to that which is pursued
at Port Jackson. The natural grasses afford an abundance of pasturage at all seasons of the
year, and no provision of winter provender, in the shape either of hay or artificial food,
is made by the settler for his cattle; yet, notwithstanding this palpable omission, and the
greater length and severity of the winters, all manner of stock attain there a much larger
size than at Port Jackson. Oxen from three to four years old average here about 700 lbs. and
wethers from two to three years old, from 80 to 90 lbs.; while there oxen of the same age,
do not average more than 500 lbs. and wethers not more than 40 lbs. At Port Dalrymple it is
no uncommon occurrence for yearly lambs to weigh from 100 to 120 lbs. and for three year old
wethers to weigh 150 lbs. and upwards; but this great disproportion of weight arises in some
measure from the greater part of the sheep at this settlement, having become, from constant
crossing, nearly of the pure Teeswater breed. Still the superior richness of the natural pastures
in these southern settlements, is without doubt the main cause of the increased weight at which
both sheep and cattle arrive; since there is both a kindlier and larger breed of cattle at
Port Jackson, which nevertheless, neither weighs as heavy, nor affords as much suet as the
cattle there. This is an incontrovertible proof that the natural grasses possess much more
nutritive and fattening qualities in this colony than in the other; and the superior clearness
of the country is quite sufficient to account for this circumstance, without taking into the
estimate the additional fact, that up to a certain parallel of latitude, to which neither the
one nor the other of the countries in question extends, the superior adaptation of the colder
climate for the rearing and fattening of stock, is quite unquestionable.

The price of provisions is about on a par in the two colonies, or if there be any difference,
it is somewhat lower here. Horses three or four years back were considerably dearer than at
Port Jackson; but large importations of them have been made in consequence, and it is probable
that their value is before this time completely equalized.

The wages of ordinary labourers are at least thirty per cent. higher, and of mechanics, fifty
per cent. higher than in the parent colony; a disproportion solely attributable to the very
unequal and injudicious distribution that has been made of the convicts.

The progress made by these settlements in manufactures, is too inconsiderable to deserve notice,
further than as it affords a striking proof in how much more flourishing and prosperous a condition
they are than the parent colony.

The commerce carried on by the colonists is of the same nature as that which is maintained
by their brethren at Port Jackson. Like these, they have no staple export to offer in exchange
for the various commodities which they import from foreign countries, and are obliged principally
to rely on the expenditure of the government for the means of procuring them. Their annual
income may be taken as follows:

Money expended by the government for the pay and subsistence
of the civil and military, and for the support of such of
the convicts as are victualled from the king's stores,        £30,000
Money expended by foreign shipping,                             3,000
Wheat, etc. exported to Port Jackson,                           4,000
Exports collected by the merchants of the settlement,           5,000
Sundries,                                                       2,000
                                                               ------
Total,                                                        £44,000
                                                               ------

The duties collected in these southern settlements, are exactly on the same scale as at Port
Jackson, and amount to about £5,000 annually, inclusive of the per centage allowed the collectors
of them.

Acres in Wheat                           18,462
         Ground prepared for Maize       11,714
         Barley                             856½
         Oats                               156¾
         Pease and Beans                    204¼
         Potatoes                           559
         Garden and Orchard                 863
         Cleared ground                  47,564¼
         Total held                     235,003¼

Horses                                    3,072 Horned cattle                            44,753
Sheep                                   170,920 Hogs                                     17,842
Bushels of Wheat                         24,05 [sic] Bushels of Maize                     
1,506

N. B. Total Number of Inhabitants in the Colony, including Van Diemen's Land, 20,379.

It is generally considered a matter of astonishment that the colony of New South Wales, situated
as it is, in a climate equal to that of the finest parts of France, of Spain, and of Italy,
and possessing a soil of unbounded fertility, should have made so little progress towards prosperity
and independence. The causes, however, which have contributed to its retardment, are the same,
as have been attended with similar effects in all ages. Not only the records of the years that
are no more, but the experience also of the present day, concur in proving that the prosperity
of nations is not so much the result of the fertility of their soil, and the benignity of their
climate, as of the wisdom and policy of their institutions. Decadence, poverty, wretchedness,
and vice, have been the invariable attendants of bad governments; as prosperity, wealth, happiness,
and virtue, have been of good ones. Rome, once the glory of the world; now a bye-word among
the nations: once the seat of civilization, of affluence, and of power; now the abode of superstition,
poverty, and weakness, is a lasting monument of the truth of this assertion. Her greatness
was founded on freedom, and rose with her consulate; her decadence may be said to have commenced
with her first emperor, and was completed under his vicious and despotic dynasty: her climate
and soil still remain; but the freedom which raised her to the empire of the world has passed
away with her institutions.

If we search still further back into antiquity, we shall find that all the great nations which
have at various times preponderated over their neighbours, attained their utmost force and
vigour, during the period of their greatest freedom and virtue; and that their decadence and
ultimate annihilation were the work of a succession of vicious and tyrannical rulers. The empires
of Persia and of Greece, were successively established by the superior freedom and virtue of
their citizens; and it was only when the institutions, which were the source of this freedom
and virtue, were no longer reverenced and enforced, that each in its turn became the prey of
a freer and more virtuous people.

The experience of modern times is still more conclusive on this subject; because no part of
the chain of events which have contributed to the aggrandisement or impair of existing nations,
lies hid in the mist of ages. If we regard the unprecedented wealth and power of our own country,
we shall be convinced that her present pre-eminent position is not so much the effect of her
soil and climate, since in these respects she is confessedly behind many of the nations of
Europe, as of the superior freedom of her laws, which have engendered her a freer, more virtuous,
and more warlike race of people. It is to her superior polity alone that she is indebted for
a dominion, unparalleled in the history of the world; and it is to its rigid maintenance and
enforcement that she must look for its durability.

While England has been thus assiduously attentive to her own immediate internal prosperity,
she has not in general been neglectful of those external possessions, which she has gradually
acquired by colonization, by conquest, or by cession. On the most distant branches of her empire,
she has engrafted, as far as circumstances would in general admit, those institutions which
have been the main cause of her own internal happiness and prosperity. In the West Indies,
in Canada, and lately in the Ionian Islands, she has introduced the elective franchise, and
established that mixed counterpoising form of government, whose three component parts, though
essentially different in their natures, so admirably coalesce and form one combined harmonious
whole. It has, in fact, been one of the leading maxims of her political conduct, and undoubtedly
one of the chief causes of her present greatness, to attach the people who have been embodied
into her empire, or who have emigrated from her shores only to colonise new countries, and
thus to extend her limits and increase her resources, by an equality of rights and privileges
with her subjects at home. The navigation act, indeed, militates in some degree, against the
liberal view here taken of her colonial policy; but the existence of this single act, which,
however its wisdom may be at present canvassed, there can be no doubt has proved the basis
of her commercial and maritime ascendancy, will not invalidate the claim to liberality, of
which her colonial system is in other respects deserving. The conduct of her government has
undoubtedly been in most instances liberal and enlightened; and if they have occasionally deviated
from their ordinary enlarged policy of establishing the representative system, and leaving
to the colonies, themselves, the liberty of framing laws adapted to their several circumstances
and wants, it has been principally in those cases where the ancient inveterate habits of the
people, their difference of religion, and inferior civilization, have rendered such deviations
unavoidable. India furnishes the principal example of such exception to her general policy;
yet, even in her remote possessions in that country, the sixty millions who are subject to
her sway, enjoy a security of person and property unknown to them while under the government
of their native princes. It is on this amelioration in their condition, and not on the strength
and number of her armies, that her dominion in that part of the world is founded; and after
all, what government is so stable as that which is bottomed on opinion, and depends for its
existence on general utility, and the consent of the governed? Dominion may, indeed, be acquired,
and continued by force and terror; but if it have no other props to support it, it is at best
but precarious, and must, sooner or later, fall, either by the resistance of those whom it
would hold in subjection, or by undermining their moral and physical energies, and thus rendering
them unfit even for the vile purposes of despotism itself.

The colony of New South Wales, is, I believe, the only one of our possessions exclusively inhabited
by Englishmen, in which there is not at least the shadow of a free government, as it possesses
neither a council, a house of assembly, nor even the privilege of trial by jury. And although
it must be confessed that the strange ingredients of which this colony was formed, did not,
at the epoch of its foundation, warrant a participation of these important privileges, it will
be my endeavour in this essay to prove that the withholding of them up to the present period,
has been the sole cause why it has not realized the expectations which its founders were led
to form of its capabilities.

It is not difficult to conceive that the same causes, which in the lapse of centuries have
sufficed to undermine and eventually ingulph vast empires, should be able to impede the progress
of smaller communities, whether they be kingdoms, states, or colonies. Arbitrary governments,
indeed, are so generally admitted to impair the moral and physical energies of a people, that
it would be superfluous to enter into an elaborate disquisition, in order to demonstrate the
truth of a position, which has been confirmed by the experience of ages. Whoever is convinced
that he has no rights, no possessions that are sacred and inviolable, is a slave, and devoid
of that noble feeling of independence which is essential to the dignity of his nature, and
the due discharge of his functions. This noble assurance that he is in the path of duty and
security, so long as he refrain from the violation of those laws which may have been framed
for the good of the community of which he is a member, is the main spring of all industry and
improvement. But this dignified feeling cannot exist in any society which is subject to the
arbitrary will of an individual; and although the governor of this colony does not exactly
possess the unlimited authority of an eastern despot, since he may be ultimately made accountable
to his sovereign and the laws, for the abuse of the power delegated to him, I may be allowed
to ask, should he invade the property, and violate the personal liberty of those whom he ought
to govern with justice and impartiality, where are the oppressed to seek for retribution? Is
it in this country, situated at sixteen thousand miles from the seat of his injustice and oppression?
To tell a poor man that he may obtain redress in the court of King's Bench, what is it but
a cruel mockery, calculated to render the pang more poignant, which it would pretend to alleviate?

I am not here amusing myself with the supposition of contingencies that may never occur. I
am alluding to outrages that have been actually perpetrated, and of which the bare recital
would fill the minds of a British jury with the liveliest sentiments of compassion and sympathy
for the oppressed, and of horror and indignation against the oppressor. Leaseholds cancelled,
houses demolished without the smallest compensation, on the plea of public utility, but in
reality from motives of private hatred and revenge; freemen imprisoned on arbitrary warrants
issued without reference to the magistracy, and even publicly flogged in the same illegal and
oppressive manner: such were the events that crowded the government of a wretch, whom it would
be as superfluous to name, as it is needless to hold him up to the execration of posterity*
If such an immortality were, as it appears to have been, the object of his pursuit, he has
completely attained it. Almost at his very offset in life, he acquired a notoriety which has
increased through all the subsequent sinuosities of his career. Not content with pushing the
discipline of the service to which he belonged, in itself sufficiently severe, to its extreme
verge, by an excess of vexatious brutality, he goaded into mutiny a crew of noble-minded fellows,
the greater part of whom it has been since discovered, pined away their existence on a desolate
island, lost to their country and themselves, the sad victims of an unavailing remorse. Yet
there is one of them still living, who has since fully evinced his devotedness for his country's
glory, and has been deservedly raised to that elevated rank in her service, which but for him
many more might have lived to attain. Despised by his equals in his profession, and detested
by his inferiors, he was contradistinguished from other worthy officers of the same name, by
prefixing to his that of the vessel which was the scene of this act of insubordination, in
the event the grave of many a noble spirit, that might otherwise have proved an honour to themselves
and a credit to their country. The brutal tyranny that characterised his conduct on this occasion,
would have alone sufficed to brand him with the imputation of "coward," had it been even unconnected
with the many subsequent acts of oppression which have stamped his career, and of which it
is to be hoped for the prevention of future monsters, that the infamy will long survive the
records. The 26th of January, 1808, the memorable day when, by the spontaneous impulse of a
united colony, he was arrested; and fortunate for the cause of humanity is it that he was then
arrested, for ever** in the perpetration of the most atrocious outrages that ever disgraced
the representative of a free government, has substantiated his claim to this character beyond
the possibility of doubt. Dreading the resentment of the people whom he had so often and so
wantonly oppressed, and having on his back that uniform which was never so dishonoured before,
he skulked under a servant's bed in an obscure chamber of his house, but was at length discovered
in this disgraceful hole, and conducted pale, trembling, and covered with flue,*** before the
officer who had commanded his arrest; nor could this gentleman's repeated assurances that no
violence should be offered his person, convince him for a considerable time that his life was
in safety from the vengeance of the populace: so conscious was he of the enormity of his conduct,
and of the justice of an immediate and exemplary retaliation.

[* The following anecdote, for the authenticity of which I pledge myself, will afford a better
illustration of this monster's character, than whole pages of general declamation and invective.
At the period of his government cattle were very scarce in the colony, and the stockholders
were very tenacious of allowing their cows to be milked, from the injury which it did the calves.
Milk was in consequence a great rarity; but as the governor, naturally enough, did not choose
to forego any of the good things of this life, particularly whenever it was in his option to
obtain them without any expence, he had always a number of cattle from the government herds,
to furnish a supply of it for his household. The surplus he generously distributed among his
favourites. One of these was a gentleman belonging to the medical staff, who used in common
with all those permitted the same indulgence, to send his servant daily for his share of this
precious fluid. This unfortunate wight happened to go one morning a little too late; and whether
the person charged with the distribution of this milk had been a little too liberal in his
donations to such of the gentlemen's servants as had attended in due time, or whether the cows
did not give their usual quantity that morning, there was not a drop left for him on his arrival.
Not reflecting that this disappointment was occasioned by his own negligence, he ventured to
make some remarks, such as "he did not know why his master should not have his share as well
as another gentleman, etc. etc." which proved so highly disagreeable to the feelings of the
great man who administered this highly important office, that he immediately went and complained
to the still greater man who had invested him with it. This august personage not only feelingly
participated in the insult which had been offered his faithful domestic, but also vowed that
he should have the most ample satisfaction. He accordingly ordered the complainant to send
the offending party into his presence on the following morning; strictly enjoining him before
hand, to take especial care that he should remain ignorant of the chastisement which was in
petto for him. The next morning when the poor fellow came as usual for his master's quota of
milk, he was told by the great man whom he had the day before unwittingly offended, that the
governor desired to speak to him. Wondering that so distinguished a personage should even know
that so humble a being as himself was in existence, and at a loss to conjecture what could
be his gracious will and pleasure, he was ushered trembling into his dread presence. In an
instant his alarms were quieted. The governor told him with a condescending smile, that as
the chief constable's house was in his way home, he had merely sent for him to be the bearer
of a letter to that person, from a desire to spare his dragoon the trouble of carrying it.
The poor fellow, of course, delivered the letter with all haste, little imagining what were
its contents. When the chief constable perused it, he ordered out the triangles; the poor wretch
was instantly tied up to them, and in a stupor of surprise and consternation underwent the
punishment, (whether twenty-five or fifty lashes I am not sure) which was ordered to be given
him, without any explanation till after its infliction, of the reasons why he received it.
Was not this a refinement of cruelty worthy the most atrocious monster of antiquity?]

[** When I wrote this part of the present work the person to whom it has reference was living;
and the only alteration which I have made in it since his death, has been the necessary changes
in the tenses of the verbs. My assertions have been scrupulously regulated by truth; but I
am still aware that they might have been pronounced libellous in a court of justice; and I
have been advised by some of my friends to cancel them, on the ground that the recollection
of injuries should not be prolonged beyond the grave. The applicability, however, of this principle
to private resentments is not more evident, than its inapplicability to public. The tomb which
ought to be the goal of the one, is the starting-post of the other. It is the legitimate province,
nay, more, one of the most sacred duties of the annalist to speak of public characters after
their deaths, with that severity of reprobation or of praise, to which their conduct in public
life may have entitled them. Have not all impartial biographers and historians acted on this
principle? And shall I be deterred from following so just and salutary an example? If when
death has set his seal upon a man's actions, and when the evil which he has committed is irremediable,
the voice of censure is still to be silent, when, I may ask, ought it to be heard? Had such
an ill-judged forbearance been practised by historians, would the world have known that any
tyrants, except those who may exist at the present epoch, or who may have existed within the
reach of memory or of tradition, ever infested the earth? Would not the enormities of the Dionysii,
of Caligula, and of Nero, have been long since forgotten? And would not many of those princes
who have merited and obtained the appellations of "great," of "good," and of "just," have become
as atrocious monsters as these were, but from the dread of being held up as objects of similar
execration to posterity? The tyrant, indeed, whose conduct I would stamp with merited detestation,
moved, fortunately for the interests of mankind, in a humbler sphere, and therefore, his atrocities
have a greater tendency to sink into premature oblivion. But is it a less sacred duty to take
all such steps as may be calculated to deter his successors from treading in his footsteps;
because they will only have thousands to trample upon instead of millions? Ought not oppression
in every community, whether great or small, to be discouraged by every possible means? And
what means are so likely to effect this end, and to prevent these secondary tyrants from sneaking
out of the pages of record and recollection, as to project their memories red-hot from the
sun of public indignation, with a long fiery train of inextinguishable ignominy, which may
serve to point out their tracks; and to render them for ever glaring objects of dread and execration,
not only to the planet of which they may have proved the bane, but to the whole system encircled
by their orbits? In persevering, therefore, in the remarks which I made on this man's actions
when he was living, it is my conscientious belief that I have only acquitted myself of an imperative
duty; and that I should have been guilty of a gross dereliction of it, had I done otherwise.
On this conviction, unalloyed by any baser impulse, I rest the defence of my conduct; should
there be any of my readers, who may be inclined to view it in the same unjustifiable light
as it is regarded by some few of my friends.]

[*** See Lieutenant-Colonel Johnstone's court-martial.]

The instance of this man's conduct, is, I am willing to allow, an aggravated one, and such
as it is to be hoped for the honour of our species would be rarely repeated. That it has occurred
is, however, sufficient to demonstrate the impropriety of confiding unlimited power to any
individual in future. The mere possession, indeed, of such vast authority, is calculated to
vitiate the heart, and to engender tyranny; nor are examples wanting in history of persons,
who though models of virtue and moderation in private stations, yet became the most bloody
and atrocious tyrants on their elevation to supreme power. So great, indeed, is the fallibility
of human nature, that the very best of us are apt to deviate from that just mean, in the adherence
to which consists virtue. All governments, therefore, should provide against this capital defect;
they should be so constituted as not only to have in view what should happen, but also what
might; possibilities should be contemplated as well as probabilities. The power to do good
should if possible be unlimited: the ability to do evil, followed with the highest responsibility,
and restrained by a moral certainty of punishment. An authority such as the governor of this
colony possesses, might be tolerated under a despotic government; but it is a disgrace to one
that piques itself on its freedom. What plea can be urged for encouraging excesses in our possessions
abroad, that would be visited with condign punishment in our courts at home? Are those who
quit the habitations of their fathers, to extend the limits and resources of the empire, deserving
of no better recompence than a total suspension of the rights and liberties which their ancestors
have bequeathed them? Are they on their arrival in these remote shores, to meet with no one
of the institutions, which they have been taught to cherish and to reverence? If the want,
indeed, of these institutions, of which so many centuries have attested the wisdom, had as
yet been productive of no evil, there might be some excuse offered for the withholding of them;
but after such a scandalous abuse of authority, the colonists expected, and had a right to
expect, that no subsequent governor would have been appointed without the intervention of some
controlling power, which, while it should tend to strengthen the execntive in the due discharge
of its functions, might at the same time protect the subject in the legitimate exercise and
enjoyment of his private and personal rights. Never was there a period since the foundation
of the colony, when the impolicy of its present form of government was so strikingly manifest;
and never, perhaps, will there be an occasion, when the establishment of a house of assembly,
and of trial by jury, would have been hailed with such enthusiastic joy and gratitude: and
accordingly the disappointment of the colonists was extreme, when on the arrival of Governor
Macquarie, it was found that the same unwise and unconstitutional power, which had been the
cause of the late confusion and anarchy was continued in all its pristine vigor; and that he
was uncontrolled even by the creation of a council.

I would here have it most distinctly understood that I do not mean to cast the slightest imputation
on the conduct of this gentleman, whom his majesty's ministers selected with so much discrimination
in this delicate and embarrassing conjuncture. The manner in which he has discharged, during
a period of more than nine years, the important functions confided to him, has completely justified
the high opinion that was formed of his moderation and ability. He has fully proved that he
had no need of any controlling power,* to keep him in the path of honour and duty; and has
raised the colony, by his single prudence and discretion, to as high a pitch of prosperity,
as it perhaps could have attained, in so short a period, under such a paralysing form of government.
But it has not been in his power to benefit the colony to the extent which he has contemplated
and desired; many of the projects which he has submitted to the consideration of his majesty's
ministers, have not obtained their approval. It would appear, indeed, that the very parent,
to whom this strange unconstitutional monster owes its birth and existence, is distrustful
of her hideous progeny; and that by way of securing the people whom she has suffered it to
govern against the unlimited devastations which it might be tempted to commit, she has prohibited
it from moving out of certain bounds, without her previous concurrence and authority. The wisdom
of this precaution has been sufficiently manifested by the terrible excesses which it has committed
within the sphere of this circumscribed jurisdiction. If its conduct, with the possession of
this imperfect degree of liberty has been atrocious, it cannot be difficult to conceive to
what lengths an unlimited power of action might have tempted it to proceed. Still there can
be no doubt that this state of restraint, on the one hand so salutary and provident, has on
the other occasioned much injury, and prevented the adoption of many measures of the highest
urgency and importance to the welfare of the colony. Among these the failure of Governor Macquarie's
attempt to procure the sanction of his majesty's ministers for the erection of distilleries,
is perhaps the most justly to be deplored.

[* Since I wrote this encomium on Governor Macquarie's administration, a petition from some
few individuals, complaining of and enumerating several acts of oppression, said to have been
committed towards them by this gentleman, has been presented to the House of Commons by Mr.
Brougham. The honourable and learned member did not, however, choose to pledge himself for
the correctness of the allegations set forth in this petition; and therefore, until they are
substantiated, the gentleman whose conduct has been thus impeached, ought to be considered
as innocent of the charges preferred against him. If the event, however, should prove that
they are founded in truth, the fact will only afford an additional proof of the demoralizing
influence of arbitrary authority on the minds of those who possess it, and of the impolicy
of suffering the present form of government to continue in force a single hour beyond the period
necessary for its supercession. Never was there a more humane and upright man than Governor
Macquarie; and if the power with which he has been for so many years intrusted, has indeed
at length propelled him beyond the bounds of moderation and justice, it may be safely asserted
that there are but very few men in existence whom it would not have tempted to commit a similar
indiscretion.]

From the period* at which this colony was able to raise a sufficiency of grain for its consumption,
the adoption of this measure has been imperatively called for by the wants and circumstances
of its inhabitants; and it is to so palpable an omission, that the constant succession of abundance
and scarcity, which, to the astonishment of many inquiring persons, has for the last fifteen
years alternately prevailed there, is mainly ascribable. So long as the necessities of the
government were greater than the means of the colonists to administer to them, the productive
powers of this settlement developed themselves with a degree of rapidity which furnishes the
surest criterion of its fertility and importance. But from the moment this impulse was checked,
from the instant the supply exceeded the demand, the colony may be said to have continued stationary,
with respect to its agriculture; producing in favourable seasons, somewhat more than enough
grain for its consumption, but in unfavourable ones, whether arising from drought, or flood,
falling so greatly deficient in its supply, that recourse has been invariably had to India,
in order to guarantee its inhabitants from the horrors of famine, which have so often stared
them in the face; and to which, but for such salutary precaution, the majority of them must
have long ago fallen victims. These dreadful deficiencies have been the natural and inevitable
result of a want of market; since no person will expend his time and means in producing that
which will not ensure him an adequate return for his pains. So long, therefore, as other channels
of industry, yielding a more certain compensation for labour, were open, the colonist would
naturally prefer such more profitable occupation, to the comparatively precarious and unproductive
culture of his land; and it was accordingly found, that many, who had till then devoted their
sole attention to agriculture, abandoned at this period all tillage but such as was necessary
for the support of their households, and employed the funds which they had acquired by the
former successful cultivation of their farms, in the purchase and rearing of cattle, which
continued a certain lucrative employment, long after agricultural produce had become of a depreciated
and precarious value. The reason why these two branches of husbandry did not keep pace in this
as in other countries, is obvious, from the remoteness of its situation, which rendered the
conveyance of cattle thither so extremely difficult and expensive, that but a very limited
supply of them was furnished, in comparison with its necessities. The increase, therefore,
of these cattle could only be proportionate to their number; while no bounds were as yet assigned
to the extension of agriculture, but, on the contrary, the whole combined energies of the colonists
directed to this single channel, by the great demand which existed for their produce. Not but
that the rearing of cattle was from the commencement equally, and indeed far more profitable
than the cultivation of the land; but their exorbitant price excluded all but a few great capitalists
from embarking in so profitable an undertaking; while, on the contrary, a stock of provisions
with a few axes and hoes, and a good pair of hands to wield them, were the principal requisites
for an agricultural establishment; and, indeed, in the early period of this settlement, all
these essentials were supplied the colonists by the liberality of the government, till sufficient
time had elapsed for the application of the produce of their farms to their own support.

[* This epoch may be dated so far back as 1804: the harvest of that year was so abundant, and
the surplus of grain so extensive, that no sale could be had for more than one half of the
crop. During the greater part of the following year, wheat sold at prices scarcely sufficient
to cover the expence of reaping, thrashing, and carrying it to market; pigs and other stock
were fed upon it; and these two years of such extraordinary abundance involved the whole agricultural
body in the greatest distress; grain was then their only property, and it was of so little
value that it was invariably rejected by their creditors in payment of their debts. The consequence
was that it was wasted and neglected in the most shocking manner; scarcely any person would
give it house room, and had the harvest of the following year proved equally abundant, the
majority of the settlers must have abandoned their farms, and sought for other employment.
Fortunately, however, for the agricultural interests, the great flood of 1806 intervened to
prevent the impending desertion; the old and the new stocks on the banks of the Hawkesbury
and Nepean were all swept away, and thus for a few years afterwards the supply of grain was
pretty nearly kept on a level with the demand for it.]

But to return to the epoch when the supply of corn became too great for the demand, and when,
as has been already noticed, some part of those who till then had been exclusively engaged
in agriculture, turned their attention to the more beneficial occupation of rearing cattle;
still the secession of these, who formed but a very inconsiderable member of the agricultural
body, in consequence of the enormous price of cattle even at that period, and the great capital
which it consequently required to become a stock-holder to any extent, afforded but a very
trivial relief to those who adhered from necessity to their original employment. In this conjuncture,
therefore, many of the next richer class abandoned their farms, and with the funds which they
were enabled to collect, set up shops or public-houses in Sydney. This town was at that time
the more favourable to such undertakings, in consequence of the brisk commerce carried on with
China, by means of American and India-built vessels, that were in part owned by the colonial
merchants, and procured sandal wood in the Fegee Islands, at a trifling expense, which they
carried direct to China, and bartered for return cargoes of considerable value. The Seal Islands
too, which were discovered to the southward of the colony, furnished about the same period,
an extensive and lucrative employment for the colonial craft, and contributed not less than
the sandal wood trade to the flourishing condition of this port. It was also about this time
that the valuable whale fisheries, which the adjacent seas afford, were first attempted; but
repeated experiment has proved that the duties which are levied, as well in this country as
in the colony, on oil procured in colonial vessels, amount to a complete prohibition. Many
of the merchants, whose enterprising spirit prompted them to repeated efforts, in order to
bear up against the overwhelming weight of these duties, have found to their cost, that they
are an insuperable obstacle to the successful prosecution of these fisheries, which would otherwise
prove an inexhaustible source of wealth to the colony, and provide a permanent outlet for its
redundant population. These two branches of commerce, so long as they were followed, afforded
a support to great numbers of the colonists, and rendered the shock which the agricultural
body had sustained, less sensible and alarming. I say these two, because the third has never
been prosecuted but with loss; and has, in fact, proved a vortex which has devoured a great
part of the profits which the othertwo yielded. For some years, however, these two channels
have been so completely drained, that they are only at present pursued by desperate adventurers,
who seldom or never obtain a return commensurate with the risk they run, and the capital they
employ. But even during the period of their utmost productiveness, the number of persons who
were immediately engaged in them, or who abandoned the plough to place themselves behind the
counter, was far from providing a remedy for the disease of the agricultural body: because
in the former instance these two branches of commerce were only capable of affording employment
to a limited population; and in the latter a capital was necessary, not so great indeed as
had been required to enter successfully on the grazing system, but yet far more considerable
than it was in the ability of the majority of the colonists to raise. By these migrations,
therefore, the pressure and embarrassment of the agricultural body, which by this time had
gradually lost the richest and most respectable portion of its members, was but little, if
indeed at all alleviated; and some other expedient became everyday more and more necessary
to be adopted by those who remained. In this exigency many abandoned their farms altogether,
and hired themselves as servants to such richer individuals as had occasion for their services;
while others, and undoubtedly the greater part of them, cultivated but a small portion of their
land, and afterwards travelled in search of labour till harvest time, at which period they
returned, reaped, threshed, and disposed of their crops, and after recultivating the same spot,
sought, during the rest of the year, employment as before, wherever it could be found. This
is the mode of life which a great number of the poor settlers pursue to this day.

But the effect of these entire, or partial secessions from the agricultural body, was not so
extensively beneficial as might at first be imagined. All this time the population was in a
state of rapid progression, both from the daily influx of people from without, and from the
amazing fecundity of the colonists within. The distress, therefore, of the colony continued
increasing in proportion to its increasing population. And although it may appear strange,
that while it was a subject of such notoriety, that the settlers were already too numerous
for the occasions of the colony, fresh volunteers should crowd to enrol themselves under their
banners; this surprise will cease when it is stated, that the settling of new lands was for
many years a matter of traffic between the government and the colonists, by which, as it is
natural to conclude, the former were no great gainers. It was their policy, and undoubtedly
necessary in the early stages of the settlement, and even at present under proper restrictions,
to encourage the extension of agriculture generally, but more particularly in the inland districts,
that are not subject to flood; and to this end it was customary to support new settlers with
their wives, families, and servants, for eighteen months, at the expense of the crown. The
natural consequence was, that all who had become free, either by the expiration of their servitude,
by conditional emancipation, or by absolute pardon, and who had no means of support, embraced
this offer of the government, which assured them a subsistence that enabled them to seek at
their leisure for a more lucrative occupation elsewhere. Nor are these poor creatures who thus
profited by the liberality of the government with an intention to abuse it, to be too harshly
condemned: still less so are those who, arriving strangers in the colony, and having in most
instances wives and families, the support of whom in inactivity would be daily consuming their
little all, embraced this the only immediate mode of subsistence that occurred to them. These
people, as soon as the helping hand of the government was withdrawn, and it became incumbent
on them to depend on their own proper resources, would be immediately subject to the same privation
and misery which pressed on their body, and would consequently be under the necessity of resorting
to the same expedients for relief. The great increase which has taken place of late years to
the cleared lands in the colony, has been the result of this system, and not the gradual progressive
operation of a flourishing agriculture. This assertion I consider fully borne out by a comparison
between the quantity of land cleared, and the quantity in cultivation. By the last return from
the colony, taken so late as November, 1817, it appears that there are 47,564 acres of cleared
land, out of which only 32,814 are cropped; 14,750 acres, therefore, (or nearly one-half of
what is in cultivation) are lying waste: a circumstance which can only be accounted for in
this manner, since the system of fallowing land is not in practice. It must therefore be evident,
that the clearing of so great a portion of land over and above what is required by the situation
and wants of the colonists, must have been effected by unnatural means. The increase of produce
has not, indeed, outstepped the growth of population, but it has kept pace with it, and all
the cleared land which is not employed in the raising of this produce, has evidently been a
useless expenditure of labour.

Thus this copious afflux of new colonists into the uninhabited districts in the interior, which
had hitherto been exclusively occupied by the flocks and herds of the graziers, did not produce
that permanent advantage which the enormous expense incurred by the government in their outfit,
ought to have insured. At the same time it was of the most undoubted injury to the stock-holders,
by preventing them from allowing their cattle to roam at large during the night, from the danger
of trespass and poundage, which the indiscriminate dispersion of small agricultural establishments
over the whole face of the country, without fences of any description to protect them, every
where occasioned. To be sure, the colonists will have derived this very material advantage
from the great quantity of cleared land, now lying waste; that whenever the pernicious policy,
which has paralysed their energies, and blasted the general prosperity, shall be relinquished,
and a judicious system of encouragement substituted in its stead, they will instantly be prepared
to profit by the capabilities which the wisdom and justice of the parent government shall have
at length afforded them.

But the future increase in the cleared lands will not be proportioned to the past, because
directions have of late been transmitted from this country, to allow future colonists only
six months provisions from the king's stores, for themselves and their households, instead
of eighteen months, as heretofore. This very material diminution in the measure of encouragement
held out to future colonization, will clearly be attended with a threefold operation. It will
be a grievous disadvantage to such respectable persons as emigrate from this country, with
a real intention, but with funds scarcely adequate to a permanent settlement in the colony;
it will still further discourage the existing agriculturist and grazier, by lessening the demand
of the government for their produce; and it will increase the general embarrassment, both by
narrowing this channel of employment, which was supplied by the liberality of the government,
and by curtailing the means of the colonists at large to provide labour for that part of the
population, which will be thus turned loose on them twelvemonths sooner than usual.

To the credit of the present governor it must be allowed that he has done all that a benevolent
heart and a sagacious head could dictate, to counteract the growing distress and misery. He
has exhausted all the means in his power to give employment to the large portion of unoccupied
labour, which it has not been within the compass of individual enterprize to absorb. He has
effected the greatest improvements in the capital, by enlarging and straightening the streets,
and by erecting various public edifices of the highest utility and ornament. The same superintending
hand is visible throughout all the inferior towns and townships, many of which indeed are of
his own foundation. He has made highways to every cultivated district, thus affording the inhabitants
of them the greatest facilities for the cheap and expeditious conveyance of their produce to
market. In fine, throughout every part of the colony and its dependent settlements at the Derwent
and Port Dalrymple, he has effected improvements which will long continue monuments of the
wisdom and liberality of their author. But it cannot be denied, however beneficial these and
other improvements of the same nature which are in progress may be, either with respect to
their immediate or more remote consequences, that they are but mere temporary sources of alleviation,
whose benignant supply will cease with the discharge of the great body of workmen whom they
at present maintain in activity. This, indeed, as well as all the other expedients which I
have already enumerated, as having been practised in order to find outlets for the superabundant
labour, have been productive of no permanent result.

This assertion is satisfactorily substantiated by the present unnatural efforts of the colonists
in the establishment of various manufactories, particularly those of cloth and hats. I say
unnatural, because in the common course of things, the origin of such establishments ought
to be coeval only with an entire occupation of the soil, and redundancy of population. And
this chiefly for two reasons: because a greater capital is required in their foundation, and
a greater degree of skill and dexterity in their developement. It is on this account that in
Canada, and our colonies in the West Indies, which are in a great measure left to the guidance
of their native legislatures, and which it is therefore to be presumed, adopt that line of
policy at once most consistent with their own interests, and with those of the parent country,
since in the persons of her representatives, she approves or annuls their proceedings, we find
that manufactures have been altogether neglected, while their agriculture and plantations,
while, in fine, the exportation of raw materials, whether the natural or artificial productions
of these colonies, has been promoted in every possible manner. That this is the system which
ought to have been pursued, we have a still more forcible proof in the instance of the United
States of America, and of many of the ancient nations of Europe; which, unfettered by any dependence
whatever on any foreign power, and having consequently adopted that policy, which has been
found the most consistent with their respective interests, have made but very little progress
in manufactures, and are therefore still under the necessity of having recourse for manufactured
commodities to other countries. If then the promotion of agriculture be more politic in many
independent states, which have not yet attained the same maturity of growth and civilization,
that characterize the principal manufacturing nations of the world, by how much more prudent
must the encouragement of it be in a dependent colony like this; possessed as it is of all
the requisites for an unlimited extension of its agriculture in the fertility of its soil,
the benignity of its climate, and the extent of its territory, and wanting all the essentials
for the production of manufactures, skill, capital, and population?

The existing state of things, therefore, is not only contrary to the welfare of the colony
itself, but also in diametrical opposition to the interests of the parent country. A great
manufacturing nation herself, it is her undoubted policy, and that which on every occasion
I believe but the present she has pursued, to augment in her colonies, at one and the same
time, the consumption of her own manufactures, and the growth of such productions as she has
found essential to her own use, or to the supply of other nations. The toleration, therefore,
of a system so averse to her acknowledged interests, can only be attributed to ignorance, or
inadvertence. But it is not in the forcible abolition of these manufactories, created by necessity,
and still rendered indispensable by the same irresistible law, that the condition of the colony
is to be ameliorated or redressed. So long as the same pernicious disabilities which have already
reduced the colonists to beggary and despair, and rendered unavailing the resources of a country
that might rival in the number and value of its exports, the most favoured of the globe are
enforced, this manufacturing system is a lamentable but necessary evil. After putting it out
of their power to purchase the more costly clothing of the mother country, it would be an intolerable
exercise of authority to prevent them from having recourse to the homely products of their
own industry and ingenuity. Under existing circumstances, indeed, there is no alternative between
permitting them the use of their own manufactures, and compelling them to go naked, or to clothe
themselves like the aborigines of the country in the skins of animals. There is but one remedy
for the disease of the colony: it is to give due encouragement to agriculture, and to promote
the growth of exportable commodities, which its inhabitants may offer in exchange for the productions
of other countries. The manufacturing system which has begun to take root, will then wither
away of its own accord; since it will then be the least productive manner in which capital
and labour can be employed.

Happy would it have been for the colonists, if these repeated efforts, these distressing and
embarrassing expedients to supply their wants, had been the only injurious consequences resulting
from the stagnation of agriculture. The day when their wretched situation shall have at length
awakened the commiseration of the parent country, would then have witnessed the term and bounds
of their sufferings. Alas! far different will be the case. Like a ruined merchant, who would
defer, to the utmost length, the disgrace of bankruptcy, in the daily hope of some prosperous
adventure to retrieve his fortune and restore his credit, the settlers have gone on contracting
debts, which have accumulated with the increasing embarrassments of the community. The engagements
of the majority of the cultivators, thus swelled in a few years to a bulk, which they had no
longer any chance of reducing: pressed on all sides by their creditors, the mortgage or sale
of their farms became inevitable; and even these sacrifices have, in general, been far from
cancelling their bonds; so that they not only have ceased to be proprietors, but also still
continue debtors to a large amount. Their creditors, in many instances, a set of rapacious,
unprincipled dealers, availing themselves of the power which the law would give them over the
personal liberty of these, their debtors, immediately took that advantage of their own commanding
position, which might have been expected from their characters. They engaged, or more properly
speaking, constrained, these poor wretches to cultivate as tenants, the same soil which lately
belonged to them, and exacted from them in return, a rent too exorbitant to be paid. Every
succeeding year, therefore, has but tended to increase their obligations, and they are, at
present, identified with the soil, and reduced to all intents and purposes, except in name,
to as complete a state of vassalage as the serfs of Russia. If they should be in need of any
trifling supply, it is to their proprietors, and to them only, that they dare have recourse,
though they would be able to obtain the same articles a hundred per cent. cheaper elsewhere.
To their granaries the whole produce of their industry is conveyed: and, in spite of all their
toil and privation, far from discharging their original debts, they find themselves every day
more deeply involved. The more they struggle, the more complicated and firm becomes their entanglement.
Lamentable as undoubtedly must be such a hopeless state of servitude, it still appears to them
preferable to the precincts of a prison. They respire the free invigorating air of their plains,
and can still traverse them at their option, or at least when the season arrives which closes
their daily task. But this privilege, it must be confessed, is purchased at its uttermost value.
We have philanthropists among us, who justly commiserate the condition of that unoffending
race of people, who dragged from the scenes of their nativity, and the habitations of their
fathers, have been consigned by a gang of merciless kidnappers to perpetual slavery themselves,
and to the still more intolerable necessity of bequeathing an existence of similar endurement
and degradation to their offspring. After years of strenuous indefatigable exertion these friends
of humanity, these noble champions of liberty have succeeded, if not in emancipating those,
who had already been consigned to this unmerited doom, at least in preventing the further extension
of this infernal traffic. Would it not be an effort worthy the same philanthropy, which has
thus secured the protection and deliverance of unoffending Africa, to procure the emancipation
of suffering Australasia? to raise her from the abject state of poverty, slavery, and degradation,
to which she is so fast sinking, and to present her a constitution, which may gradually conduct
her to freedom, prosperity, and happiness?

It must be admitted that this state of slavery, so galling to the subjects of a free country,
has been in some measure imposed on the colonists by their own imprudent extravagance. Already
but too much inclined by their early habits of irregularity to licentious indulgence, the prosperous
state of their affairs during the first fifteen years after the foundation of the settlement,
presented the strongest inducements to a revival of their ancient propensities, which had been
repressed, but not subdued. Imagining that the same unlimited market, which was then offered
for their produce, would always continue, they only thought of consuming the fruits of their
industry; not doubting that the same fields, which thus lavishly administered to the gratification
of their desires, would amply suffice for the more moderate enjoyments of their offspring.
But when once their produce began to exceed the demand of the government, and when in a short
time afterwards from the want of due encouragement, all the various avenues of industry that
lay open were successively filled, and the means of occupation eithergreatly circumscribed,
or entirely exhausted, these people, so long habituated to unrestrained indulgence, found it
difficult to support that privation, which became incumbent on their condition; and in order
to procure those luxuries of which they so severely felt the want, exhausted their credit,
and ended by alienating their possessions. There can be but little doubt if the colonists,
instead of expending, had providently accumulated the money which they so profusely acquired
during the period of their agricultural prosperity, that their actual situation would have
been far preferable; for, though the gradual retrogradation, which I should imagine it must
at present be sufficiently evident, that the colony has been undergoing for these last fifteen
years, would by this time have greatly diminished, if not have totally absorbed their former
savings, still their lands would have remained to them, nor would they have been reduced to
that state of vassalage and misery, which they are this day enduring. Lamentable therefore,
as is their condition, the consideration that it has thus far been occasioned by their own
imprudence, is apt to detract from that unbounded commiseration which it would otherwise excite:
if, on the other hand, we do not reflect in extenuation of their thoughtlessness and extravagance,
that their former increased means of indulgence, were the result of their industry; that this
industry was in the first instance called into activity by the encouragement of the government;
that it has since been paralysed by a concatenation of unwise and unjust disabilities imposed
by the same power; and that consequently their present wretched and degraded situation is not
so much to be ascribed to their former improvidence as to the actual impolicy and injustice
of their rulers. If we furthermore consider the short period in which this great change in
their circumstances has been effected, we shall feel convinced that so sudden a transition
from affluence to poverty could not be patiently endured, and that every method of rendering
so unexpected and galling a burthen more supportable, would be naturally and inevitably resorted
to. To prove still more satisfactorily that this state of slavery to which so large a proportion
of the original settlers are reduced, has not been so much the result of their own imprudence
as of the impolicy of their government, numerous instances might be adduced of persons, not
indeed skilled in the arts of husbandry, whose habits have always been regular and moderate,
who have been for many years stockholders as well as agriculturists, and who, notwithstanding
this two-fold advantage, aided by an undeviating economy, have been unable to keep themselves
free from the embarrassments in which the bare cultivators of the soil are so generally involved.
To what end then, has their frugality been directed, if a few years more will engulph their
possessions, and reduce them to the same state of vassalage and degradation, to which their
less provident brethren are already subjected? They have, indeed, in the prospective some short
period of unexpired freedom; but I doubt much whether the gradual approach of inevitable slavery
be scarcely more enviable than slavery itself.

The great concussion which the agricultural interests thus sustained at the epoch when the
productive powers of the colony exceeded the consumptive, and the continued shocks to which
they have been exposed ever since, have not unfortunately affected the agricultural prosperity
alone, but have shaken to the foundation the commercial edifice also. Unluckily both the agricultural
and commercial classes seem to have been alike ignorant of the death-blow which had been struck
at their welfare. The settler continued in the same career of thoughtless extravagance which
his circumstances when they were even in their most flourishing state had scarcely permitted,
and the merchant went on without hesitation, advancing him goods in the hope of extricating
his old customer from difficulties which he only imagined to be of temporary pressure; never
for a moment suspecting that they were the forerunners of deeper embarrassment and ultimate
ruin. Need I state the consequences. The extended credits which the first merchants thus gave
the settlers on the strength of the progressive increase of their produce, rendered them at
last unable to fulfil the engagements which they had contracted with British and East India
houses, and they were eventually involved in the destruction which had so suddenly overwhelmed
the great mass of their debtors, on whom they were necessarily dependent for support. All of
them who had been distinguished by their equitable dealings, and by their liberality of conduct,
received at this moment so rude a shock in their affairs that they have been unable amidst
the increasing decadence of the community at large to re-establish their credit, and after
disposing of the scattered wrecks of their fortune, have not only been reduced to penury, but
are still indebted to their correspondents in the amount perhaps of £100,000. These gentlemen
thus driven from the commercial circle by their liberality, unwillingly inflicted a deadly
wound on the credit of the colony. Foreign merchants would no longer have any account dealings
with their successors; and generally ever since the commercial intercourse with England and
the East Indies has been maintained without any confidence on the part of the merchants of
these two countries; the money has been received in one hand, and the goods delivered in the
other. This cautious system has given birth to another race of merchants, much more prudent
than their predecessors, but also much less serviceable to the colony, and much less adapted
to its emergencies. These in their dealings have been forced to observe the same circumspection
which had been adopted towards themselves, and have given no credit but to those whose means
of payment were unquestionable. As the majority of the colonists have been always in the back
ground, since the epoch which I have just described, and have in consequence been unable to
produce ready money, a subordinate class of traders, but still superior in their circumstances
and the extent of their transactions to those little inferior dealers, who are to be found
in all countries, started up, and have since acted as intermediary agents between the importers
and the great body of consumers. The object of this class has been, and continues to be, not
so much to realize large fortunes in money, which indeed under existing circumstances would
be scarcely possible, as to acquire immense landed possessions: and their system, which, in
fact, is the natural consequence of this policy, is to require of the settlers mortgage securities
anterior to the supply of such articles as they may be in need of. As they are frequently unable
punctually to comply with the conditions of these mortgages, their creditors eagerly embrace
the opportunity, whenever it offers, of foreclosing them, and are thus gradually becoming proprietors
of the finest estates in the colony; estates which whenever its capabilities shall be called
into unrestrained action will ensure them and their posterity fortunes of a colossal magnitude.
While this class of traders are thus becoming the most considerable landholders in this settlement,
they have not only taken care not to give credit to such an extent as might occasion a diminution
in their trading capital, but have even contrived to increase it very materially. This system,
therefore, of buying goods, and afterwards selling them at an almost arbitrary profit, the
greater part of which is thus converted into landed property, is daily gaining ground, and
will infallibly in the end, unless proper measures be speedily taken to counteract it, reduce
the great majority of the agricultural body to the same state of vassalage which a large proportion
of its members are already enduring. And what renders the increasing wealth and power of the
small number who thus profit by the embarrassments of the settlers, and make themselves masters
of their persons and properties, still more odious and galling, is the consideration that in
most instances they are the least deserving, and yet the only class of the community to whom
the present order of things is favourable. While all the rest of the population are groaning
under the aggravated pressure of toil, privation, and despair, they are fattening on the surrounding
misery, and every day making rapid strides towards the attainment of immense riches, under
the propitious shelter of a system which would appear to have been expressly contrived for
their especial aggrandisement, at the expence of the freedom, prosperity and happiness of the
whole social body besides. Like vultures, that in the midst of combats soar in safety above
the destruction raging beneath, but descend at its close and tranquilly devour the mangled
carcases which the exterminating engines of war have laid prostrate for their repast, these
men out of the influence of the oppressive disabilities which are overwhelming all but themselves,
eagerly watch the progress of the surrounding misery, and impatiently await its completion;
more cruel than vultures, since covered with the aegis that has unnerved the force and paralysed
the energies of their neighbours, they introduce themselves into the midst of the havoc of
their own species, and prey upon the living victims who are sinking around them.

And here, it may not be inexpedient to reconcile the existence of so much distress, with so
large an income, and so small a population as the colony and its dependent settlements are
known to possess. The former, it has been seen, may be estimated in round numbers at £170,000,
the latter at 20,000 souls: so that if the annual income were equally divided among the entire
population, and they were all agriculturists, and could furnish themselves with food, (I make
this supposition, because it is at their option to become agriculturists, and it is consequently
a legitimate inference, that it is not the interest of such as have not embraced this alteration
to do so) they would each have man, woman, and child, 8l. 10s. yearly for the purchase of articles
of foreign growth and manufacture alone. This I am ready to allow, is comparatively a much
larger sum than could be appropriated by the inhabitants of this country to similar purposes;
and it would therefore appear on the first view, incompatible with the doleful picture of distress
which I have drawn. If, however, the remoteness of the colony from England, India, and China,
the three principal supplying countries, be duly considered, and the great expence of freight
and insurance unavoidably attached to so long a navigation, an expence which in the first of
these instances, is augmented in a two-fold degree, by the entire absence of return cargoes;
if it be stated that these local disadvantages alone, render it impossible for the importers
to dispose of their merchandize for less than fifty per cent. on the prime cost to their immediate
purchasers, and that at least three fourths of the population are obliged from the want of
ready money, to buy on long credits of these secondary agents, who fashion their prices according
to the nature and extent of their customers' embarrassments, sometimes contenting themselves
with a second advance of fifty per cent.; but more frequently affixing to their goods a profit
of a hundred, a hundred and fifty, and two hundred per cent.: if it be recollected how far
these grievous exactions are aggravated by the system of vassalage just described, a system
which places all the unfortunate wretches who are reduced to it at the absolute mercy of their
rapacious landlords; if the profligate and improvident habits and disposition of the generality
of the colonists be taken into the estimate, and their total disregard of order and economy
in their domestic arrangements; but above all, if their unfortunate propensity to the excessive
use of spirituous liquors be superadded; a propensity which like Aaron's rod swallows up every
other passion, and for the momentary gratification of which they willingly sacrifice every
prospect of present enjoyment, and deliberately entail on themselves and their families lasting
privation and want; I say if due consideration be given to all these circumstances, it will
be no difficult matter to believe in the sad reality of the general wretchedness and penury
which I have depicted. But it must be further evident that this equal division of the colonial
revenue has been assumed merely by way of exemplification, and that it is a fiction, the realization
of which is beyond the extreme verge of possibility: a fiction which never has been and never
can be verified. In this colony as in every other community, there is a regular gradation of
property, and perhaps there is no country on the face of the earth, except Russia, where it
is so partially distributed. If then I have reconciled the probability of the wretched condition
of the colonists, with the assumption of an equality of wealth, when there is, in fact, the
greatest inequality, it must be evident that the picture which I have drawn, pregnant and glowing
as it is with distress, is far from surcharged, and still requires both colouring and expression
to convey a perfect representation of the scene.

Of the whole colonial income about £100,000 annually may be considered as arising from the
labours of the agricultural body. This is undoubtedly that portion of the colonial wealth which
gets into most general circulation; but even it is far from undergoing that minute subdivision
and universal diffusion which are requisite for the maintenance of a constant internal circulating
medium. Created in the first instance by the government in payment of the grain, meat, etc.
furnished by the settlers, it is immediately handed over by them to the traders to whom they
may be indebted, and from these again passes to the importing merchants, on whom they may be
dependent for their supplies of merchandize, who in their turn eventually transmit it to their
foreign correspondents. It may consequently be perceived that the purchases and sales which
must be incessantly occurring, besides those to which this part of the colonial income is thus
devoted, such as the sales of provisions in the markets, the payment of wages, and, in fine,
the infinite transactions to which the wants or the whims of society are eternally giving birth,
and to which a common medium of determinate value is essential are but little, if indeed at
all facilitated by a sum of money, which after passing through a few hands, disappears from
the colony for ever. To prevent, therefore, the interchanges and activity of the community
from being brought to a stand, it became necessary to create some other circulating medium;
and as the government took no part in this highly important affair, the whole burden of the
arrangement fell upon the inhabitants. The arrangement itself was, in consequence, such as
might have been expected from their circumstances and situation: the whole of them who had
any real, or apparent pretensions to responsibility, became with one accord bankers; issuing
small promissory notes to provide for their minuter occasions, merely on the strength of their
credit, and frequently in anticipation of their means. This "Colonial currency," as it was
termed, soon experienced that depreciation in the market, compared with the government, or
sterling money, which it was natural to expect from the doubtful circumstances of many of its
issuers. In a short time government money could not be had for it under a discount of fifty
per cent.; still the drawers of these promissory notes were compelled by the decisions of the
court of civil jurisdiction to pay them at par, whenever they were presented; so that all the
persons of real responsibility, who had been induced in the first instance from necessity to
adopt this system, withdrew their bills from the market, and naturally preferred purchasing
with government money the notes of others at this depreciated rate, to the issuing at the same
rate notes of their own, which they would be eventually obliged to take up at par. The consequence
was that all the subsequent issuers of these notes were needy adventurers, who possessing little
or no property adopted this method of supplying their extravagance, or entering into desperate
speculations that could hardly succeed, in violation of every principle of honesty, and at
the expence of the industrious and responsible part of the community. This subsequent currency,
therefore, encountered a still further depreciation; and when government money could be at
all obtained for it, it was only at a discount of 100, 150, and even 200 per cent. Such, however,
has been the necessity for a circulating medium of some sort or other, that the public, as
if by a general implied consent, without any expressed convention, have permitted the existence
and increase of this worthless substitute, and have thus affixed a kind of nominal value to
that which is in reality worth nothing.

To any one, who has not fully considered the difficulty attending the exchange of one commodity
for another, and the impossibility of apportioning at all times, what one man may have to dispose
of to the exact value of what another man may have to offer in return, an impossibility that
would frequently prevent the exchange altogether, and thus subject the parties to mutual inconvenience
and distress, the rude system of barter would appear preferable to so vile a common standard
of value as the existing currency. Its badness, indeed, has been the means of introducing the
system of barter as far as it was practicable; but as the entire introduction of this system
would be hardly compatible with the first imperfect elements of society, the civilization of
the colonists has imposed a limit to it, and prescribed a necessity for the toleration of the
present circulating medium, which nothing but the creation of a better can supersede. Two attempts
were made to remedy this evil, but they both in the event proved abortive; the richer class
of the inhabitants on these occasions formed combinations and entered into resolutions not
to receive in payment the bills of any individuals who had not been admitted into their society.
To prevent a recurrence of the loss, which the original responsible issuers of currency had
sustained by its depreciation in the market, they affixed to it themselves a specific depreciation,
promising in the body of their notes to pay them on demand in government money at a discount,
in the first of these instances, of twenty-five per cent., and in the last of fifty per cent.
But it must be evident that a currency of this nature, payable on demand, became of equal value
with the sterling money of the government, to those who took it at the stipulated depreciation;
and it was accordingly no sooner in circulation, than it got into the hands of the importing
merchants, and was presented to the drawers for payment. It was thus too good for its intended
purpose; and the old worthless currency, which had been for a while proscribed, gradually returned
into circulation. The present governor, sensible of the advantage which the colony would derive
from its supercession, and from the substitution of another of intrinsic value in its stead,
caused ten thousand pounds worth of dollars to be sent from India, and had a piece struck out
of the middle of each, to which he affixed by proclamation, the value of fifteen pence, and
to the remainder that of five shillings, making the whole dollar worth six shillings and three
pence. This money he caused to be given in payment of the various articles of internal produce
received into the king's stores; but as they were exchanged every month, if presented to the
commissariat department, for bills on the lords of the treasury, in the same manner as the
government receipts had been exchanged previously, they have not realized the hopes of abolishing
the currency, with which they were issued. Some few of them, indeed, have from time to time
eluded the grasp of the merchants and traders, and got in consequence of the minuteness of
their separate value into temporary circulation; but the use of the original currency has neither
been superseded nor diminished.

That the colonists should have been thus forced during so long a period, in spite of all their
efforts, and contrary to the desire of their government, to tolerate a medium of circulation
possessing no intrinsic value whatever, and dependent solely on a general, constrained, and
tacit consent for its support and duration, is, I should apprehend, one of the most forcible
proofs which it is in the nature of things to adduce, in illustration of their present poverty
and wretchedness. It is impossible to offer a more satisfactory demonstration of the inferiority
of their means to their necessities. Important under every point of view as is the establishment
of a safe currency, such is the irresistible pressure of their debts, so much is their expenditure
superior to their revenue, that they can devote no portion of it to the most urgent purpose
of domestic economy: the whole is absorbed, and does not suffice to procure those articles
of foreign supply, which are absolutely indispensable to civilized life.

By the last intelligence from the colony it appears, indeed, that a company has undertaken
the establishment of a colonial bank, and obtained a charter for this purpose from the governor;
but I should imagine they cannot possibly succeed in creating a permanent medium of circulation.
The constant run that their bills will have on them for payment, in consequence of the imports
of the colony being so much greater than its income, will soon occasion them to exchange the
whole of their capital for the mortgage securities on which they at present issue it; and although
this circumstance will not perhaps detract from the profits of this institution, it will render
the toleration of the existing currency, if not of undiminished, still of indispensable necessity.*
The introduction, therefore, of a safe and sufficient medium of circulation may be still pronounced
a desideratum, and one of the first importance to the general prosperity of the colonists.
The government in their present distressed situation, is perhaps the only power competent to
the accomplishment of this beneficial object, and it is to be hoped that they will no longer
delay effecting such a great and substantial amelioration.

[* This is an event which the colonists do not appear to anticipate. It is the general belief
that the colonial currency has been crushed for ever; but I am greatly mistaken if that vile
medium of circulation will not again revive before the expiration of another twelve-month,
unless either the capital of the bank be greatly increased, or its operations be in future
confined to the discounting of bills at a short date, to the utter exclusion of the system
of advancing money on mortgage securities.]

Amidst the numerous deplorable consequences that have been attendant on this constant state
of embarrassment, none perhaps is more deeply to be lamented than the great check which this
difficulty of finding a profitable occupation for labour has proved to the progress of population.
Mr. Malthus, who has immortalized himself by his essay on this branch of political economy,
has so satisfactorily shewn that the increase of population is proportioned to the facility
of procuring subsistence, and administering to the various wants of a family, that it is quite
unnecessary for me to repeat arguments with which every one ought to be familiar, to prove
that this colony has not been exempt from the destructive influence of causes whose operation
has been steady and invariable in all ages and in all countries. The inference that this difficulty
has been a preventive to marriage, and to the consequent progress of population is self-evident:
to be understood it only requires to be stated. But the numerical increase of the colony has
been checked in a still greater degree, perhaps by the constant returns from its shores which
are daily occasioned by the same causes. What inducement, in fact, exists for any person to
remain there who has the power of quitting it? Who would voluntarily become an inhabitant of
a country where he has no rights, no possessions, that are sacred and inviolable? And where
to this insecurity of person and property are superadded the greatest impediments to the extension
of industry? A country of this kind, it may be easily imagined, possesses no allurements for
those who have ever breathed a freer atmosphere; and it is not to be wondered at, that hundreds
of convicts on the expiration of their several terms of transportation should be continually
leaving a country, where the freeman and the slave are alike subjected to the uncontrolled
authority of an individual; where the trial by jury is unknown, and an odious military tribunal
substituted in its stead; and where there is no representative body to protect them in the
enjoyment of their rights, and to secure them either from the imposition of arbitrary and destructive
taxes, or from the influence of unjust and impolitic laws.

How far these two great checks to population which I have just mentioned, have operated, may
be best ascertained from the last census taken in the colony in the month of November 1817.
At that time it appears that the population of all the settlements, whether in New Holland
or Van Diemen's Land, amounted only to twenty thousand three hundred and seventy-nine souls.
It is not in my power to obtain returns of all the convicts who have been landed at various
times in this colony; but as it is now about thirty years since the period of its foundation,
very little doubt can be entertained that the total of them must have nearly equalled the amount
of the actual population.* The number transported thither for some years past cannot be estimated
at less than two thousand annually; yet notwithstanding this vast yearly numerical accession,
notwithstanding the unparalleled salubrity of the climate, and the consequent small proportion
which the number of deaths bears to the number of births, the population of the colony has
been found to advance at a comparatively slow pace. It cannot be supposed that it could ever
have been in the intention of the government, that those persons whom the sentence of the law
had exiled to these remote shores, should thus be incessantly returning to those scenes, which
had witnessed their former irregularities and condemnation. However sincere their reformation,
it must be evident that with a blemished character, the difficulty of obtaining employment
and procuring an honest livelihood, would be almost insuperable. It has been accordingly found
that these unfortunate persons have generally renewed their ancient habits, and ended their
career either by falling sacrifices on the scaffold to the often violated laws of their country,
or by imposing on the government a necessity for the second, and in many instances for the
third time of re-transporting them to this colony, where, if sufficient encouragement and protection
had been afforded them in the first instance, they would have gladly remained, and have continued
good and useful members of society.

[* This conjecture has been verified by a publication which has lately appeared from the pen
of the Honourable Henry Grey Bennet, M. P. intituled, "A Letter to Lord Viscount Sidmouth on
the Transportation Laws; the State of the Hulks, and of the Colonies in New South Wales." From
this it appears that from May, 1787, to January, 1817, the number of convicts transported thither
amounted to seventeen thousand; so that the entire increase which has taken place in the population
in the course of thirty years, both from emigration and births, cannot be estimated at more
than four thousand souls, so numerous have been the returns of convicts after the expiration
of their sentences.]

It is here but candid to confess, that one of the leading causes why so many of this class
are continually quitting the colony, has been their desire to rejoin their wives and families.
This motive, however, no longer exists; since in a dispatch from the noble secretary of state
for the colonial department, to Governor Macquarie, of which the receipt has been for some
time past acknowledged, it was directed that "returns should be occasionally sent home of such
convicts as may have applied for permission for their wives to join them; and that it should
be therein stated whether such persons have the means of maintaining their wives and families,
in the event of their being allowed to proceed to the colony." Measures have been already taken
to carry the humane intention here manifested by his majesty's government into effect; and
many hundreds who would otherwise have quitted the colony, will now remain there, and thus
both the permanency of their reformation will be guaranteed, and the march of colonization
greatly accelerated. Generous Britain, not more renowned in arts and arms, than in mercy and
benevolence; may thy supremacy be coeval with thy humanity! Or if that be impossible; if thou
be doomed to undergo that declension and decay, from which no human institutions, no works
of man appear to be exempt, may the records of thy philanthropy hold the world in subject awe
and admiration, long after the dominion of thy power shall have passed away! May they soften
the hearts of future nations, and be a shining sun that shall illuminate both hemispheres,
and chase from every region of the earth the black reign of barbarism and cruelty for ever!

While the existing system of government is thus rapidly undermining the general prosperity
and freedom, and presenting the greatest checks to the progress of colonization, it is but
natural to conclude from the pertinacity with which it is maintained, that it is at least productive
of some beneficial results to the power to which it owes its origin and existence. It were
a species of political anomaly to suppose that any order of things diametrically opposite to
the interests of the governed, should be persisted in, unless it were attended with some positive
advantage to the governors. Ridiculous, however, as in every case perhaps but the present such
a supposition would be, it is verified in the instance of this colony; since the system pursued
there, is not only destructive of the vital interests of the inhabitants at large, but at the
same time, burdensome to this country, and contraventory of the very intentions with which
this settlement was established. This assertion I shall shortly prove, and then leave it to
more sagacious politicians than myself, to demonstrate the consistency of what appears to me
the most absurd and incongruous paradox that is to be met with in the history of governments.
And first that the present system is burdensome to this country, and what is worse, must become
every year still more so, is evident from the gradually progressive augmentation which has
taken place in the expenditure of this colony. From 1788 to 1797, the total expence was £1,037,230,
or £86,435 per annum; from 1798 to 1811, it amounted to £1,634,926, or £116,709 per annum;
and from 1812 to 1815, both inclusive, to £793,827, or £198,456 per annum. In 1816, the expence
was £193,775 10s. 8¾d. and in 1817 it was £229,152 6s. 3¼d. being nearly treble the annual
amount in the year 1797. This estimate, indeed, includes the cost of transportation; and the
rapid increase that has taken place of late years in the sum total, has been in a considerable
degree occasioned by the great increase in the number of criminals sent out to the colony;
but still that there has been a regularly progressive augmentation to the internal expenditure
is quite incontrovertible.

It requires no great portion of discernment to foretel that while the present prohibitory system
remains in force; while the colony is alike prevented from profiting by its natural productions,
and from calling into life the artificial ones of which it is capable, that it must continue
an increasing burthen and expence to the power on which it is dependent for support, and which
thus unwisely restrains its exertions. If the consideration of the benefits which this country
might eventually derive from encouraging the growth and exportation of such products as this
colony might furnish; if the prospect of finding at no very remote period in a part of our
own dominions, various raw materials essential to the fabrication of some of our staple manufactures,
and for which we are at present wholly dependent on foreigners; if, in fine, the certainty
of extending, instead of destroying, a market for the consumption of those manufactures themselves,
be not motives of sufficient weight and cogency to draw the attention of his majesty's ministers
to the impolitic and destructive order of things, which prevents the accomplishment of these
desirable ends; it is at least to be hoped in these times of universal embarrassment, when
the cry of distress is resounding from one end of the kingdom to the other, that the desire
of effecting a retrenchment in this part of the public expenditure, which has swelled to so
enormous an amount, solely from ignorance and mismanagement, will at length excite inquiry,
and give rise to a system that will unfetter the colonists, and by gradually enabling them
to support themselves, no longer render them an unproductive and increasing burden to this
country. It is useless, and indeed absurd, for the government to be sending out incessant injunctions
for economy, and to be eternally insisting upon the necessity of effecting retrenchments, which
their own impolitic restrictions render impossible. The addition which is annually made to
the population of the colony must occasion a corresponding expenditure on the part of the colonial
government. The convicts, who are transported thither, were maintained at a great expence while
in this country, and cannot be supported without cost there. So long as the avenues to industry
and enterprize are closed, it is ridiculous to imagine that the colonists can undertake the
maintenance of a body of men, for whose labour they can find no profitable occupation. The
expence, therefore, of supporting the great mass of convicts who are constantly arriving in
this colony, must necessarily increase in spite of all the exhortations of the government,
and all the efforts of the governor, whoever he may be, to carry them into effect. The present
governor, indeed, has contrived in some measure to comply with these recommendations of retrenchment
with which he has been harrassed; but his obedience has been attended with the adoption of
a most pernicious and indefensible system, that of granting too promiscuously tickets of leave
to convicts, before sufficient time had elapsed for ascertaining the reality of their reformation,
and their title to so important an indulgence. This privilege, which exempts them from the
public works, and enables them to seek employment in every direction throughout the colony,
it may be perceived, turns loose a set of men, who had been solemnly pronounced to be improper
and dangerous members of society; and affords them an unrestrained opportunity of preying upon
the industrious and deserving, and of committing fresh enormities, before they have made the
atonement affixed to their original offences, and required not more to uphold the distinction
which ought always to be drawn between virtue and vice, than from a due regard to their future
welfare and regeneration. It is principally to the introduction of the ticket of leave system
that the considerable reductions which have been effected of late years in the expences of
the colony are to be ascribed. How far this most pernicious and immoral system has been carried,
may be seen by reference to the colonial expenditure for the four years anterior to 1816. In
1812 it amounted to £176,781; in 1813 to £235,597; in 1814 to £231,362; and in 1815 it had
fallen to £150,087. In the two following years, indeed, it has been seen that there has been
a considerable increase of expenditure; but still such has been the extension of the ticket
of leave system that notwithstanding four thousand six hundred and fifty-nine convicts were
transported between January, 1812, and January, 1817, the expences of the colony for this latter
year were £6445 less than for the year 1813; those of 1817 only amounting to £229,152, while
those of the year 1813 were £235,597. This violent and unjustifiable mode of retrenchment,
however, has not been put into such extensive practice with impunity: it has been attended
with its natural and inevitable results, a proportionate increase of demoralization and crime.
The proof of this assertion I shall rest on the following government order:--

"Sydney, 30th August, 1817. In consequence of the frequent robberies which have been of late
committed between Sydney and Paramatta; his Excellency the Governor deems it expedient earnestly
to recommend to persons in general to travel only during the day time, and particularly to
those who have the charge of loaded carts, to set out from Sydney and Paramatta respectively
so early after sun-rise as to be enabled to reach the place of their destination before sun-set.
And with a view to afford all possible protection to travellers, his Excellency directs the
principal superintendant of police at Sydney from and after Wednesday the 3d of September next,
to order two constables from thence to patrole the road every night between Sydney and Powell's
Half-way House; and in like manner the principal magistrate at Paramatta to order two constables
from that place to patrole the road every night between Paramatta and Powell's Half-way House.
The duty of such constables to commence at sun-set and cease at sun-rise, until further orders.
"The magistrates are particularly enjoined not to grant passes to convicts either having tickets
of leave or otherwise, excepting on actual duty, or in cases of real emergency where the object
is satisfactorily explained to the magistrate."

This injunction to the magistrates not to grant the ticket of leave-men passes except under
particular circumstances would afford the public very little additional security against their
depredations; since their total exemption from public or individual employment, places them
out of all restraint except such as may arise from the surveillance of the police, which even
in Sydney is badly organized, because not sufficiently numerous, and to which in the interior
towns and districts it would be a farce to apply the name of "Police" at all.

I am aware that the governor has been induced to this measure in compliance with positive instructions,
rather than in conformity with his own judgment. But a system in such direct violation of every
principle of justice, morality, and expediency, can never be long tolerated. Its continuance,
in fact, would soon annihilate all industry, and convert the colony into a den of thieves and
murderers, unfit for the abode of virtue and honesty, and dangerous to the government itself
which had authorized it.--It is an extreme which cannot endure, and which is of so violent
a nature that it will beget a remedy for itself, and compel the government to recal into its
employment, and reduce under salutary restraint, a set of persons, who ought never to have
been freed from it till the expiration of their sentences, or, at most, till they had given
the clearest proof of a sincere reformation. This system, therefore, of granting tickets of
leave to convicts shortly after their arrival, though undoubtedly attended with a considerable
saving to the government, is of too immoral and dangerous a tendency to be carried to any considerable
extent; so that the expences of the colony great, unnecessarily great as they are, must infallibly
increase with the progress of transportation, so long as the grievous disabilities and impolitic
restrictions under which the colonists are groaning, remain unrepealed.

Having thus shewn that this colony has hitherto been an increasing burthen to this country,
and that it must necessarily continue so under its present unwise constitution, I proceed in
the next place to prove that its existing system of government is also contraventory of the
philanthropic intentions which gave rise to its foundation. The principal object which the
government of this country had in view was undoubtedly the reformation of the thousands exiled
to these distant shores. The punishment which it thus inflicted, in banishing them from their
native country, and separating them from their friends and connexions, was not the end itself,
but the means which it employed to effect this humane and laudable purpose. Has then the colony
in any one point of view realized this comprehensive and philanthropic scheme of morality and
regeneration? It has, indeed, proved a receptacle for those whose crimes rendered them unfit
for the community which rejected them from its bosom, and in so far has been of some utility
to the public; but have the restraints to which they have been subjected; has the system, in
fact, by which they have been governed during their exile, generally revived that morality
and virtue, the absence of which propelled them in the first instance to the commission of
crime, and will always continue them in the same career of vice and punishment? Have those,
who have expiated their original offence, by undergoing the penalty which the law annexed to
it, experienced a reformation in their principles and conduct? And are they generally qualified
either to return to the country that banished them, or to become good and useful citizens in
the one by which they have been adopted; and which, since it has constantly witnessed their
deportment, can best appreciate the reality and extent of their merits? The records of the
several courts of criminal judicature are the surest criterion by which to judge of this important
particular, and will be found decidedly confirmatory of the alarming augmentation of immorality
and crime, which distinguishes every succeeding year, and that too in a proportion far exceeding
what would be naturally consequent on the increase in the population.

On reference to the Sydney Gazattes for the year 1817, I find that there were in all ninety-two
persons tried by the criminal court. The offences with which they were charged were as follow:
1st, For murder eleven; four of whom were convicted and executed: two were adjudged only guilty
of manslaughter; and five were acquitted. 2dly, For burglaries, eight, five of whom were capitally
convicted, but their sentences afterwards commuted into transportation to the Coal River for
life; five were transported thither for fourteen years, one for seven years, and one was acquitted.
3dly, For highway robbery, one, who was transported to Newcastle for fourteen years. 4thly,
One incendiary, transported for life. 5thly, One for cutting and maiming, acquitted. 6thly,
Nine for cattle stealing; of whom two were capitally convicted, their sentence afterwards commuted
into transportation for life; five were originally sentenced to the same punishment, one transported
for fourteen years, and one was acquitted. 6thly, Three for sheep stealing; all capitally convicted,
but their sentences commuted into transportation for life. 7thly, Two for horse stealing; one
of whom was capitally convicted but not executed, the other sentenced to solitary confinement.
8thly, One for rape, but acquitted. 9thly, Twenty-seven for privately stealing in dwelling
and out-houses; two of whom were transported for fourteen years, nine for seven years, one
for four years, four for three years, two for two years, one sentenced to solitary confinement,
and six acquitted. 10thly, Two for forgery, found guilty, but sentence deferred. 11thly, Two
for receiving stolen goods, one of whom was sentenced to the pillory and to four years transportation,
and the other to transportation alone for the same period. 12thly, Five for pig stealing; of
whom two were transported to Newcastle for fourteen years, one was flogged and put in the pillory,
one transported to Newcastle for two years, and one acquitted. Lastly, Nineteen for petty larceny;
of whom one was sent to Newcastle for four years, one for three years, fourteen were sentenced
to various terms of solitary confinement, and three acquitted.

From this statement, therefore, it appears that during the year 1817, out of the ninety-two
persons who were tried for various offences, which it will be seen were for the most part of
a heinous nature, no fewer than seventy-three were convicted, fifteen capitally, four of whom
were executed, the remaining eleven had their sentences commuted into transportation to the
Coal River for life; that there were six others originally sentenced to the same punishment;
that there were five transported for fourteen years, ten for seven years, and that the remaining
thirty-seven were either transported for terms under seven years, or were punished by solitary
confinement. Appalling, however, as this catalogue of crime must be acknowledged, when compared
with that which could be produced in any other community of similar extent, it would still
appear on the first view to argue well in favour of the reformatory influence of this colony:
since Governor Bligh in his examination before the committee of the House of Commons, in the
year 1812, presented a document purporting to be a list of criminals tried between August,
1806, and August, 1807, from which it appears that one hundred and seventeen* persons were
arraigned before the criminal court during this interval. If we were therefore to abide by
the records of the criminal court alone, we should draw the most satisfactory conclusions with
respect to the progress of reformation in the morals and habits of the people since that period.
The comparison, indeed, between the catalogue of crime in the years 1806 and 1817, would be
most gratifying; as notwithstanding that the population of the colony rather more than doubled
itself since the former year, the latter presents a decrease in the number of criminals of
twenty-five, or in other words, crimes would appear to have diminished in the ratio of about
9/4 to 1. If the records, therefore, of the criminal court were decisive on the subject, it
would be impossible not to confess that the system pursued in this colony has fully answered
the humane intentions for which it was founded. But unhappily these records are no standard
by which to judge of the reformatory tendency of the system. During Governor Bligh's administration,
all offenders except those who were charged with the most trifling misdemeanors, were tried
by the criminal court. He was a second Draco, who considered the smallest offence deserving
of death: and wo to the wretch whom the criminal court doomed to this punishment, for he invariably
carried its sentence into execution. His successor, however, has acted on more merciful principles;
and, besides, crimes have so rapidly multiplied of late years, that the judge advocate would
not have sufficient time for presiding in the two civil courts of which he is the head, were
he obliged to dispose of all the culprits that might be arraigned in the criminal court. But
it is well known to those who are at all conversant with the state of the colony, that but
a very small portion of the offences which are committed there, are now brought under the jurisdiction
of this court. The majority of the criminals who are now tried by it are either free persons,
or such as have obtained emancipations; i.e. those whom the various governors have made free
in the colony, but who are not at liberty to quit it. The benches of magistrates, and the superintendent
of police, are delicate of deciding on charges in which the members of these two free classes
are implicated; but they dispose of offenders already under the sentence of the law in a summary
manner, either by transporting them to the Coal River, by putting them in the gaol gangs, by
sending them (if they happen to be females) to the factory, or by simply ordering them corporal
punishment, unless they are charged with murder, or some capital felony; and even in this latter
case they frequently inflict some summary punishment. With respect to the first of these summary
modes of punishment, transportation to the Coal River, it has already been stated that the
population of this settlement amounted in the year 1817, to five hundred and fifty souls: of
these not more than one hundred, including the civil and military establishments, and the settlers
and their families on the upper banks of the river, were free. The remaining four hundred and
fifty, therefore, were persons who had been convicted of crimes either by the criminal court
or by the magistracy, and retransported thither for various periods. Those few, it has been
seen, who are condemned to this punishment by the criminal court, are for the most part sentenced
to long terms of transportation; but as nine-tenths of the criminals at this settlement are
sent thither either by the benches of magistrates, or by the superintendent of police, who
seldom transport for a longer period than two years, and more frequently for one year, or six
months, the population may at a very moderate calculation be considered as undergoing a complete
change every two years, or in other words, it may be concluded that two hundred and twenty-five
persons are annually transported thither by way of punishment. We must therefore add this number
to the culprits convicted before the court of criminal judicature, and we shall then have a
total of three hundred and eighteen persons annually convicted of crimes in the colony. This
is of itself an alarming sum of criminality; but we must not stop here, since it only conducts
us to the second of the summary modes of punishment which I have enumerated; viz. the gaol
gangs. There are upon an average about fifty persons in the gaol gang at Sydney, and about
the same number in the gaol gangs belonging to the other towns and districts in the colony.
These are criminals convicted of smaller offences than those who are transported to the Coal
River; they are worked from sunrise to sun-set, and are locked up in the prisons during the
night. This mode of punishment is seldom inflicted for a longer term than four months. It may
therefore be safely computed that these gaol gangs are changed once in this period, or in other
words, that three hundred persons annually pass through this ordeal. This further addition
to the formidable catalogue of crimes already made out, increases the total to six hundred
and eighteen persons, yet only leads us to the third mode of summary punishment, viz. labour
at the factory at Paramatta. The number of women sentenced to this mode of punishment may be
averaged at one hundred and fifty, and as the average term of their sentences does not exceed
six months, we have a farther number of three hundred to add to the above estimate. This increases
it to nine hundred and eighteen persons; but we have still one other mode of punishment in
petto, corporal punishment simply; and I have no doubt that the numbers on whom it is annually
inflicted will at least swell the grand total of persons convicted of various criminal offences
during the year 1817, either by the criminal courts, by the benches of magistrates, by the
superintendent of police, or by the district magistrates to one thousand. We may now draw some
sort of a comparison between the amount of crime in the years 1806 and 1817. I should imagine,
on the highest calculation, that not more than one hundred persons in addition to those tried
by the criminal court during that year, could, from the system then in practice, have been
summarily dealt with by the magistracy; but allowing even that there were two hundred, and
that the whole number of persons stated by Governor Bligh to have been tried by that court
were found guilty, a most improbable supposition, the year 1806 will only then give a total
of three hundred and sixteen offenders, i.e. not one third the amount of those who were convicted
in the year 1817. Crime therefore has been trebled, while the population has only been doubled,
or in other words, the increase of the former has been to the increase of the latter as three
to two.

[* Page 42 Appendix to the Report of the House of Commons in 1812.]

What else, indeed, could be expected from a system which is every day enlarging the circle
of poverty and distress? Is it within the possibility of belief that people should become more
honest as they become more necessitous? That they should scrupulously refrain from making inroads
on the possessions of their richer neighbours, while they themselves are suffering under the
influence of progressive penury? Under such circumstances it would be the very height of absurdity
to expect an increase of virtue and honesty. Wherever it is not within the compass of industry
to provide for its wants, a recourse to crime in order to make up the deficiency is inevitable
to a certain extent even in a moral country. What then must be the result of this inability
in a felon population, long habituated to theft, and naturally predisposed to criminality?
In such a community as this, the government are doubly bound to neglect no measures which may
be calculated to repress this vicious propensity. If they adopt the contrary line of conduct;
if they administer stimulants to vice instead of anodynes; if they, in fact, create incitements
to dishonesty too potent even for virtuous misery to withstand, are not they the authors of
a system thus impregnated with corruption, virtually the parent of the monstrous litter to
which it gives birth? And though according to the inflexible principles of justice, any violation
of the property of another is not to be exculpated, humanity will always pity the distressed
delinquent, and wish that she had the power of substituting the primary author of the crime
in the place of the condemned criminal. How would the world be reformed, if the framers of
the unjust and impolitic laws, which are every where the bane of mankind, and the cause of
so much misery and vice, were arraigned at the bar of justice, and compelled to answer for
all the depravity that might be traced to the demoralizing influence of their measures?

The picture of the colony which I have presented, aggravated as it is, faithfully delineates
the different descending gradations by which it has sunk to its present abyss of misery, and
is of itself sufficiently demonstrative of the radical defect that there is in its polity,
and of the necessity for an alteration in it: nevertheless, it may not be altogether inexpedient
to dive a little into futurity, and to view through the mirror of the imagination the further
results which the experience of the past may convince us that a perseverance in the same course
of restriction and disability will infallibly lead to. It requires not the gift of divination
to foresee that the manufacturing system, which has already taken such deep root, and so rapidly
shot up towards maturity, will still further confirm and consolidate itself with the increasing
poverty of the community. For several years the importation of British manufactures, particularly
of cottons, has been comparatively speaking on the decline, in consequence of the competition
occasioned by large importations of those articles from India; which though in general of inferior
quality, have been more adapted to the circumstances of the colonists from their inferior price.
The consumption of hats and woollen cloths has also been diminished, but not to the same considerable
extent by the colonial manufactures of the same denomination, which are likewise much inferior
to the British, but have the two-fold advantage of being cheaper, and to be obtained for wool,
grain, meat, etc. without the intervention of money, which it is generally out of the power
of the consumers to furnish.

This system of barter, which has materially favoured their growth, and must necessarily still
further encourage and extend it, is not, as might at first be imagined, prejudicial to the
manufacturer; since the wool which he thus receives in exchange for his commodity is the raw
material required for its reproduction, and therefore saves him the trouble of seeking it in
other quarters; and the meat, grain, etc. are distributed among his workmen at the market prices
of the day, and free him from the necessity of paying the full value of their labour in money,
which under existing circumstances would most probably be impracticable. The system itself,
therefore, seems to have been engendered by events, and to be peculiarly adapted to the present
state of poverty and wretchedness, to which the great mass of the colonists are reduced. And
although in other countries, and even in this, if its agricultural powers were unfettered,
the workmen employed in the fabrication of these manufactures would not perhaps consent to
receive this mixed compensation for their labour, yet amidst the actual difficulties of procuring
a subsistence, and possessed as they are of trades, for which till lately there was no demand
whatever, and for which at the present moment there is far from an active competition, they
are not only glad to accept this mode of payment, but would even submit to much harder conditions.
We may therefore perceive, that if the manufacturer can sell for ready money as much of this
commodity as is requisite to the payment of the residue of their wages, and at the same time
equivalent to the profit which he may derive from his concern, it is all that he need absolutely
require. This manufacturing system being thus not only suited to the increasing poverty of
the community at large, but also favourable to the interests of all the parties concerned in
it, whether the proprietors or the workmen, cannot but gain ground. A few years, in fact, will
completely put it out of the power of at least seven-eighths of the population to have recourse
to the manufactures of this country: the expences of the colony will, indeed, as I have satisfactorily
proved, continue to increase, but still only in proportion to the augmentation in the body
of convicts and others, maintained at the charge of the government; while, on the contrary,
the population of the colony, in spite of all the checks imposed on it, will be extending itself
more rapidly within, than by transportation and emigration from without. Its revenue, therefore,
will be every year to be divided among a number of competitors increasing much more rapidly
than itself. Thus their ability to purchase the more perfect and expensive commodities of this
country, will become daily more circumscribed, till at length the use of them will be entirely
superseded, or at best confined to the higher orders of society; who, it is probable, may be
induced in the long run both by the growing perfection of their native manufactures, and by
patriotism, to abjure the consumption of all goods that may have a tendency to augment the
prosperity of their common oppressor. The colonists, in fact, have only to advance a few steps
further in the manufacturing system to be completely independent of foreign supply. Already
fabricating to a considerable extent their own cloth, the first perhaps of manufactures in
utility and importance; already furnishing in a great measure their own hats, leather, soap,
candles, and earthenware, they have only to provide their own linen, and to erect iron founderies,
to become possessed of all that can be termed strictly necessary to their subsistence and even
comfort. And these two objects will doubtless be soon effected by the active agency of the
same powerful necessity, which has so rapidly given rise to the various manufactures already
mentioned. It is, indeed, rather a matter of surprise than otherwise, that attempts have not
been already made to establish manufactories of these two highly important articles; since
the colony, on the one hand, is peculiarly adapted to the growth of flax, and on the other
abounds, as it has been seen, with iron ore of the richest quality.

To what feelings, then, to what conduct, it may be asked, will this independence in the resources
of the colonists, the bitter fruit of so much privation and misery, give birth? Will this,
the painful result of so many years' injustice and oppression, tend to strengthen the bond
of union between the colony and this country? Or will it not be the crisis that will sever
it for ever? England, placed as she is at present on the pinnacle of glory, and reposing in
security on the basis of that commercial and maritime greatness, from which the gigantic efforts
of united Europe have not been able to remove her, may laugh to scorn the presumption of any
colony, however powerful, that might attempt to shake off her authority. Like Jupiter on Olympus,
she has only to stretch out her hand and overthrow the united force of all her colonies with
the chain to which she has bound their destinies. No one can doubt, that such an attempt would
be preposterous at the present moment, nor would the most strenuous advocate for colonial independence,
the most violent enemy to the supremacy of this country, dream of its immediate execution.
Still let her not lull herself into a false security; let her not measure the forbearance of
the colony by its own impotency and insignificance. Despair always begets resources, and inspires
an unnatural vigor. The enmity of the most feeble becomes formidable, when it has justice ranged
under its banners, and ought not to be excited without necessity. Besides, is it worthy the
character of a nation, who has evinced herself the determined enemy of tyrants, and the avenger
of the freedom of the world, to become the oppressor of her own subjects, and that too for
the mere sake of oppression, in subversion alike of their interests and of her own? Has she
not, and will she not always have external enemies enow to contend with, without thus creating,
unnecessarily creating, domestic ones? Let her from the midst of the glory with which she is
environed compare her situation, brilliant and imposing as it is, with what it might have been:
let her look at the consequences of her former injustice. Is not the most formidable on the
list of her enemies, a nation, which might have this day been the most attached and faithful
of her friends? A nation which, instead of watching every occasion to circumscribe her power,
would, if its rights had been respected, have been still embodied with her empire and confirmatory
of her strength? Will this terrible lesson have no influence on the regulation of her future
conduct? Will not this dear bought experience teach her wisdom? Or has she yet to learn that
the reign of injustice and tyranny involves in its very constitution the germ of its duration
and punishment? Let her ask herself, "what would have been the consequence if, during the late
war with America, the ports of this colony had been open to the vessels of that nation?" How
many hundreds of the valuable captures, which the Americans made in the Indian seas and on
the coast of Peru, might have safely awaited there the termination of the war, which were recaptured
by her cruisers in view of the ports of their country? How many hundreds of their own vessels,
that shared the same fate, would have still belonged to their merchants? And is there no probability,
that a perseverance in the present system of injustice and oppression, may on some future occasion,
urge the colonists to shake off this intolerable yoke, and throw themselves into the arms of
so powerful a protector? May they not by these means acquire independence long before the epoch
when they would have obtained it by their own force and maturity? Or at least may they not
place themselves under the government of more just and considerate rulers? How would this country
repent her folly, if she should thus become the instrument of her own abasement; if she should
herself be the cause of establishing a power already the most formidable rival of her commercial
and maritime ascendency, in the very heart of her most valuable possessions, at the main external
source of her wealth and prosperity?

To those who are acquainted with the local situation of this colony; who have traversed the
formidable chain of mountains by which it is bounded from north to south; who have viewed the
impregnable natural positions, that the only connecting ridge by which a passage into the interior
can be effected, every where presents; to those who are aware that this ridge is in many places
not more than thirty feet in width, and have beheld the terrific chasms by which it is bounded,
chasms inaccessible to the most agile animal of the forest, and that will for ever defy the
approach of man; to those, I say, who are acquainted with all these circumstances, the independence
of this colony, should it be goaded into rebellion, appears neither so problematical nor remote,
as might be otherwise imagined. Of what avail would whole armies prove in these terrible defiles,
which only five or six men could approach abreast? What would be the effect of artillery on
advancing columns crowded into so narrow a compass? A few minutes exposure to such a dreadful
carnage, would annihilate the assailing army; or at best only preserve its scattered remnants
from destruction by raising an intervening barrier of the carcases of its slaughtered martyrs.
If the colonists should prudently abandon the defence of the sea-coast, and remove with their
flocks and herds into the fertile country behind these impregnable passes, what would the force
of England, gigantic as it is, profit her? She might, indeed, if they were unassisted in their
efforts by any foreign power, cut off their communication for awhile with the coast; but her
armies entirely dependent on external supply, and at so great a distance from the centre of
their resources, would gradually moulder away, as well by the incessant operation of a partisan
warfare, as by defection to their adversaries, whom her troops would be led to combat only
with regret. They would not enter into a war of this description with the same animosity and
desire of vengeance that might actuate their leaders. They would behold in their opponents,
Britons, or the descendants of Britons, placed in hostile array against them unwillingly, and
not from any ancient and inveterate spirit of hatred and rivality, but from constrained resistance
to tyranny, and in vindication of their most sacred and indubitable rights. Nor would they
in the midst of their disgust for so unjust and unnatural a contest, behold the beauty and
fertility of the country without drawing a comparison between their condition, and what it
would be, were they to quit the ranks of oppression, and become the champions of that independence,
which they were destined to repress. Such will be the consequences of the impolitic and oppressive
system of government pursued in this colony; such the probable results of the contest to which
it must eventually give rise. If I have been unqualified in expressing my reprobation of such
unwise and unjust measures; if I have evinced myself the fearless assertor of the rights of
my compatriots; and if I have spoke without reserve of the resistance which the violation and
suppression of those rights will in the end occasion, I must nevertheless protest against being
classed among those who are the sworn enemies of all authority, and who place the happiness
of communities in a freedom from those restraints which the wisdom of ages has established,
and demonstrated to be salutary and essential. I hope, therefore, that my principles will not
be mistaken, and that I shall not be exposed to the hue and cry which have been justly raised
against those persons who are inimical to all existing institutions. There is not a more sincere
friend to established government and legitimacy than he who mildly advocates the cause of reform,
and points out with decency the excrescences that will occasionally rise on the political body,
as well from an excess of liberty as of restraint: such a person may prevent anarchy; he can
never occasion it.

These are the views by which I have been actuated in writing this essay. If my hopes should
be realized, if I should happily be the means of averting the thunder cloud of calamity and
destruction which is even now gathering on the horizon of my country, and threatens at no very
remote period to burst over its head, and to scatter death and desolation in its bosom, it
is all the recompence I seek. If my efforts should unfortunately prove abortive; if I should
fail to rouse the friends of peace and humanity to its succour and relief, I shall have experienced
a sufficient mortification, without undergoing the additional one of being classed with a band
of ruffian levellers, who under the specious pretext of salutary reform seek, like the jacobin
revolutionists of France, the subversion of all order, and the substitution in its stead, of
a reign of terror, anarchy, and rapine, amidst the horrors of which they may satiate their
avarice, and glut their revenge. Let then the purity of my motives be unimpeached, if I should
be defeated in the accomplishment of my object. But why should I despair of success, when I
have every support that ought to ensure it? Right, reason, expediency, morality, religion,
are all on the side of my oppressed country, and must eventually procure the termination of
her sufferings. The disabilities, indeed, under which she has been so long groaning, grounded
as they are in no motives of policy, but averse to them all, ought rather to be ascribed to
inadvertence than design. Engaged as this country has been in a tremendous conflict, on the
dubious issue of which her very existence as a nation was staked, she has had little or no
leisure for attending to the internal economy of her colonies: in the midst of her own unparalleled
sufferings and sacrifices, theirs have been disregarded or forgotten. It is the knowledge of
this circumstance that has shed a ray of hope and consolation athwart the gloom which has been
thickening year after year around the colony. It is this consideration that has enabled its
inhabitants to support burdens which would otherwise have been found intolerable. Let then
their just expectations be at length fulfilled, and let them not continue the only portion
of the king's subjects, who have no personal reason to rejoice at the happy termination of
this long and arduous contest. Their moderation and forbearance under their grievances, have
given them an additional claim to redress, scarcely less forcible than the existence of the
grievances themselves. Yet already years have elapsed, since the consolidation of general peace
and tranquillity, and no attention has been paid to their situation and remonstrances. Already,
therefore, the spirit of discontent so long repressed by hope, but reviving with the progress
of this unnecessary, this unaccountable delay, has begun to manifest itself, and will soon
assume a determinate shape and form. Let the government repress this feeling of hostility,
while they have yet the power: a few years further inattention will render it hereditary and
rivet it for ever. It is in the tendency of colonies to overstep even legitimate restraint;
they will never long wear the fetters of injustice and oppression. I am aware that it is not
one of the least difficult proofs of legislative wisdom to frame regulations adapted to each
progressive stage of colonization, and that this difficulty increases with the maturity which
the colony in question may have attained; but although the treatment of colonies upon their
arrival at that degree of ascendency, when the enforcement of ancient restrictions, founded
on the interests, or supposed interests of the parent country, but contraventory of the prosperity
of the colonies themselves, becomes dangerous or impracticable, is, it must be allowed, a point
of extreme delicacy and tenderness; there can at no time be any doubt entertained of the propriety
of abandoning a system founded upon error and injustice, and productive of detriment, as well
to those who have imposed it, as to those who are suffering under its baneful operation. It
is therefore to be hoped that so unwise and unjust a system will no longer be continued; that
his majesty's government will at length allow the colonists to use freely the natural productions
of their country, and to increase to the utmost its artificial ones; that they will, permit
them to call their own energies, their own resources, into life and action, and no longer impoverish
them by rendering them the prey of richer colonies, and what is still more absurd and vexatious,
of foreigners; that they will, in fine, grant them the free unrestricted enjoyment of those
privileges which the bounty of the Creator has extended to them, and which it is not in any
human authority to withhold, consistently with the eternal, immutable principles of right and
equity.

These privileges consist in the removal of certain agricultural and commercial restraints,
which I shall separately enumerate; and in a free government, under the protecting shade of
which, the colonists may fearlessly exercise and enjoy their personal and private rights, without
molestation or hindrance.

PART III.

VARIOUS ALTERATIONS SUGGESTED IN THE PRESENT POLICY OF THIS COLONY.

Of all the steps that could be taken for the relief of the colony, none certainly would prove
of such immediate efficacy, as the creation of distilleries, and the imposition of so high
a duty on the importation of spirits from abroad, as would amount to a prohibition. The advantages
that would be attendant on this measure may, perhaps, be most forcibly illustrated by a short
review of the actual loss which the colonists have sustained during the last fifteen years,
from the want of its adoption. The spirits imported during this period may be safely estimated
on an average at the annual value of £10,000, amounting in fifteen years to the sum of £150,000:
and if we add to this £100,000 more, which it may be calculated that the government have expended
in this interval, in the importation of corn, flour, rice, etc. from other countries, we have
a grand total of £250,000, that would have been saved to the colony by the erection of distilleries.
The application of so large a sum to the immediate encouragement of agriculture, would have
imparted life and vigor into the whole community, and would have effectually prevented that
increasing poverty, and the black train of evils consequent on it, which I have already depicted.
And although from the increased demand for foreign luxuries, which so great an addition to
the colonial income would have naturally occasioned, but a small part perhaps of this sum would
have eventually continued in general circulation, still the means of the colonists would have
at least been brought to a level with their wants; and a sterling circulating medium would
have remained sufficient for all the purposes of domestic economy. Under such circumstances
there can be little doubt that the active and enterprizing spirit of our countrymen would have
long since effected the establishment of an export trade, which would have freed the colony
from future embarrassment, and the mother country from the enormous expence which she is annually
forced to incur in its support. But the continual and amazing fluctuations which have taken
place in the price of corn, have been a death-blow to the success of every effort that has
been directed to this most important object. At least but one out of all the numerous attempts
that have been made by individuals, (for none have been made by the government,) to raise various
articles of export, has realized the expectations of its sagacious author, and promises to
become eventually of permanent relief and importance to the colony. But it will be more in
the order of the arrangement which I have marked out for myself, to treat of this very important
subject hereafter: I recur, therefore, to the conclusion which I was about to draw from the
foregoing premises; that to the perfect success of every enterprize of a manual nature, it
is essential that the price of provisions in general, but of corn in particular, should be
reduced to such a point as to afford a fair profit to the grower; and at the same time that
it should not be subject to any such extraordinary rise as to superinduce a proportionate increase
in the price of labour. To keep the value of corn in this just mean, it is necessary that the
growth of it should be encouraged to a pitch far beyond the sphere of the ordinary demand;
and this is to be effected generally in two ways, by augmenting the internal consumption by
artificial means, as by breweries, distilleries, etc. and by permitting a free exportation
of the surplus. But the colony is at present unable from the smallness of its resources and
its remoteness from Europe, the great mart for the surplus corn of other countries, to become
a competitor with them in this branch of commerce: it follows, therefore, that the constant
abundance of corn indispensable to the establishment and maintenance of an export trade, can
only be guaranteed by the enforcement of all such measures as have a tendency to increase internal
consumption; and of these I again repeat that the erection of distilleries, etc. is the most
easy and the most efficacious.

Independent of this general reasoning, which is equally applicable to all countries, the colony
can unhappily furnish particular grounds of argument in the unfortunate localities of its agricultural
settlements, which render the adoption of this measure of still more imperative necessity.
Allured to the banks of the river Hawkesbury, both by the superiority of the soil, and the
facilities which the navigation of this river afforded for the conveyance of produce to market,
a circumstance of material advantage even at this moment, but of incalculable importance at
a period, when as yet there were few or no cattle for the purposes of land carriage, the first
colonists were encouraged by Governor Phillip to establish themselves on this low fertile tract
of country, not so much perhaps from choice as necessity. His successors, influenced in part
by the same considerations, followed his example in directing the current of colonization into
the same channel, till in the lapse of about fifteen years the whole of the fertile lands on
the banks of this river were completely appropriated. Thus unfortunately for the colony, its
principal agricultural establishment was formed in a situation subject to the inundations of
a river, whose waters frequently rise seventy or eighty feet above its ordinary level.

The present governor, to his lasting honour be it mentioned, has done all that prudence could
effect with the limited means confided to him, for the prevention of the calamities invariably
consequent on these destructive inundations. He has placed the great mass of the colonists,
who have been settled during his administration, in districts that are not subject to flood;
thus securing to themselves and the community at large the fruits of their industry. He has
also established townships on the high grounds, which generally at the distance of a mile or
two from the river border its low fertile banks, and has held out various encouragements, in
order to induce the settlers to remove their houses and stacks to them. The richer class have
in most instances been alive to their own interests, and have abandoned their ancient abodes
on the verge of the river: so that the destruction occasioned by future floods will be infinitely
less extensive. But, still, a great part of the poorer class adhere to their ancient habitations,
impelled by the double motive of avoiding the cost of carrying their crops to these townships,
and from thence back again to the river, in order to send them to market by the boats, which
ply on it for this purpose. And to such as have not horses and carts of their own, and would
consequently be obliged to hire them, a residence on the banks of the river is a saving of
greater magnitude than might be at first imagined.

The greatest obstacle to the complete realization of the governor's project, arises from the
extreme poverty of the great body of the settlers, occasioned, as I have already noticed, by
the limited and precarious market afforded for their produce. To build a house, however small,
is an undertaking in this colony as every where else, which can only be effected with adequate
means; and if the colonists do not resort in crowds to these townships, it is not because they
are insensible to the advantages which they would derive from a removal to these seats of security,
but because their penury chains them to their present dangerous and miserable hovels, and compels
them in spite of their better reason to hold their lives and property on the most precarious
of all tenures, the caprice of the elements. But could the governor succeed in this, his project
to the utmost, could he induce every settler on the banks of the Hawkesbury to remove to these
townships, he would be still far from guaranteeing the colony from the calamitous effects of
these inundations; since they are not periodical, like the risings of the Nile, but happen
at all times, as well when the crops are in stack as when growing, when they are in the infancy
of vegetation, as when they have attained maturity and are fit for the sickle. Some other expedient,
therefore, would still be necessary to guard against those inundations which may happen at
such disastrous periods; and there is but one that will be found sufficient at all times and
under all circumstances. It is to encourage by artificial means, the growth of corn so far
beyond what is necessary for the bare purposes of food, that in years of scarcity, whether
arising from flood or drought, these artificial channels of consumption may be stopped, and
the whole of the corn in the colony appropriated to the supply of the inhabitants. And this
encouragement would be amply afforded by the establishment of distilleries; since allowing
the colony to require sixty thousand gallons of spirits annually, twenty thousand bushels of
grain would be expended in distillation, the whole of which, when necessity required, might
be diverted from its ordinary course of consumption, and directed to the purposes of subsistence.

These advantages, great as they must be allowed to be, are not the only ones that would follow
the erection of distilleries. This measure would still further promote the prosperity of the
agricultural body, by creating in the market a competition with the government for the purchase
of grain, and would thus destroy the maximum, that has been hitherto arbitrarily assigned as
an equivalent for their produce generally, without reference to the state of the crops, whether
they have been productive or otherwise. The prejudicial operation of this maximum was noticed
in the Report of the Select Committee of the House of Commons made in the year 1812, and the
propriety of devising some remedy for this evil strongly enforced; but this recommendation
has hitherto been disregarded, from the want, perhaps, of information sufficiently precise
to enable the government of this country to attend to it.

I close the catalogue of arguments which I adduce in support of this measure with the last
and most powerful of them all, its beneficial influence on the morality of the rising generation.
I do not so much take into calculation its probable bearing on the existing race of colonists,
the greater part of whom are and will, perhaps, always be more or less addicted to the pernicious
habits contracted in their early days of riot and debauchery, as on their posterity, who will
necessarily soon form the majority of this colony, and whose amelioration or reformation all
legislative measures should have principally in view. With those the immoderate use of spirituous
liquors is a long contracted disease, which it is perhaps past the skill of legislation to
cure. It is like an old inveterate ulcer, whose roots have penetrated into the seats of vitality,
and are so intimately interwoven with the very principles of existence, that the knife cannot
be applied to the extirpation of the one, without occasioning the destruction of the other.
But though this gangrene can never be entirely eradicated, the experience of late years has
shewn that it may be prevented from increasing, and even considerably reduced. Drunkenness
has been observed to be less frequent since the unlimited importation of spirits was permitted,
even among that class who were most addicted to this vice during the long period when the importation
was in a great measure restricted, the price of liquor exorbitantly enhanced, and the consequent
difficulty of obtaining it much more considerable. Great, therefore, as are the present facilities
to the indulgence of this propensity, they should be still further extended, and this would
be effected by internal distillation; for although the importation of spirits from other countries
has been for many years past subject to no restriction, but the payment of a certain duty,
which would be equally levied on all spirits made in the colony, still the expence of freight,
insurance, etc. would be avoided, the price proportionably abated, and the means of indulgence
increased in the same ratio.

The immediate effect of this free circulation of spirits having been so beneficial, we may
easily infer what would be its remote consequences; and it is to these, to the gradual developement
of moral perfection, that all laws which are framed with a reference to this end, should be
directed, and not to sudden and violent reformations, which are seldom or never attended with
the desired results. It was, indeed, natural to expect that this pernicious drug would be depreciated,
in the estimation of its consumers, in exact proportion to its superabundance; and although
the removal of all restriction to the importation of spirits, might in its immediate beneficial
operation on the morals of the existing generation, so long curtailed in the use of them, and
so long habituated to excess, whenever occasion offered, have been a matter of serious speculation,
before this experiment was tried, its immediate result has far out-stripped the expectations
of its most sanguine supporters. The present influence of this measure having been so satisfactory,
there cannot be a doubt that the effect of internal distillation on the morality of future
generations will be still more salutary and decisive. It is well known that in the countries
that are celebrated for the production of wines and spirits, as France, Spain, Italy, etc.
so great is the sobriety of the people, that a drunken person is an object of contempt, and
a sight which is but very seldom witnessed. This sobriety, therefore, can only be the consequence
of a steady, equable supply, which induces moderate enjoyment, without holding out any temptation
to excessive indulgence. And however strange or unaccountable this fact may at first appear,
the reason of it may be traced to the nature of man, the same inconsistent creature in all
ages and in all countries. Intervening obstacles to enjoyment, far from repressing his desires,
serve but to stimulate and inflame them; and so perverse and capricious is he in his conduct,
that he despises, or at best holds in but secondary estimation, the real substantial good that
is within his grasp; while remote or unattainable objects fire his ambition, and swell into
fanciful and preposterous proportions the treacherous illusions of a fertile imagination, which
possession alone can dissipate and reduce to their proper standard and value. It is thus that
lofty mountains seem to connect themselves with the heavens by enveloping clouds; but stripped
of their deceptious covering, they stand reduced to their primitive dimensions, the blue vault
towers far above their heads, and the eye sees and defines their just limits and magnitude.

