"Thank you!" said the Harvester. "But it is! Some day I'll tell you of a very solemn oath I've
had to keep. It hasn't been easy. You wouldn't understand, at least not now. If the day ever
comes when I think you will, I'll tell you. Just now I can express it by that one word. I didn't
dare fail or I felt I would be lost as my father was before me. So I remained away from the
city and its temptations and men of my age, and worked in the woods until I was tired enough
to drop, read books that helped, tinkered with the carving, and sometimes I had an idea, and
I went into that little building behind the dry-house, took out my different herbs, and tried
my hand at compounding a new cure for some of the pains of humanity. It isn't bad work, Ruth.
It keeps a fellow at a fairly decent level, and some good may come of it. Carey is trying several
formulae for me, and if they work I'll carry them higher. If you want money, Girl, I know how
to get it for you."

"Don't you want it?"

"Not one cent more than I've got," said the Harvester emphatically. "When any man accumulates
more than he can earn with his own hands, he begins to enrich himself at the expense of the
youth, the sweat, the blood, the joy of his fellow men. I can go to the city, take a look,
and see what money does, as a rule, and it's another thing I'm afraid of. You will find me
a dreadful coward on those two points. I don't want to know society and its ways. I see what
it does to other men; it would be presumption to reckon myself stronger. So I live alone. As
for money, I've watched the cross cuts and the quick and easy ways to accumulate it; but I've
had something in me that held me to the slow, sure, clean work of my own hands, and it's yielded
me enough for one, for two even, in a reasonable degree. So I've worked, read, compounded,
and carved. If I couldn't wear myself down enough to sleep by any other method, I went into
the lake, and swam across and back; and that is guaranteed to put any man to rest, clean and
unashamed."

"Six years," said the Girl softly, as she studied him. "I think it has set a mark on you. I
believe I can trace it. Your forehead, brow, and eyes bear the lines and the appearance of
all experience, all comprehension, but your lips are those of a very young lad. I shouldn't
be surprised if I had that kiss ready for you, and I really believe I can make it worth while."

"Oh good Lord!" cried the Harvester, turning a backward somersault over the railing and starting
in big bounds up the drive toward the stable. He passed around it and into the woods at a rush
and a few seconds later from somewhere on the top of the hill his strong, deep voice swept
down, "Glory, glory hallelujah!"

He sang it through at the top of his lungs, that majestic old hymn, but there was no music
at all, it was simply a roar. By and by he came soberly to the barn and paused to stroke Betsy's
nose.

"Stop chewing grass and listen to me," he said. "She's here, Betsy! She's in our cabin. She's
going to remain, you can stake your oats on that. She's going to be the loveliest and sweetest
girl in all the world, and because you're a beast, I'll tell you something a man never could
know. Down with your ear, you critter! She's going to kiss me, Betsy! This very night, before
I lay me, her lips meet mine, and maybe you think that won't be glorious. I supposed it would
be a year, anyway, but it's now! Ain't you glad you are an animal, Betsy, and can keep secrets
for a fool man that can't?"

He walked down the driveway, and before the Girl had a chance to speak, he said, "I wonder
if I had not better carry those things into your room, and arrange your bed for you."

"I can," she said.

"Oh no!" exclaimed the Harvester. "You can't lift the mattress and heavy covers. Hold the door
and tell me how."

