] her 'Breviary';
her 'Whitsunday'; [Footnote: See Skeat, s. v.] the derivation of 'Mass' itself not being lifted
above all question. [Footnote: Two at least of the ecclesiastical terms above mentioned are
no longer perplexing, and are quite lifted above dispute: ember in 'Ember Days' represents
Anglo-Saxon ymb-ryne, literally 'a running round, circuit, revolution, anniversary'; see Skeat
(s. v.); and Whitsunday means simply 'White Sunday,' Anglo-Saxon hwita Sunnan-daeg.] As little
can any one inform us why the Roman military standard on which Constantine inscribed the symbols
of the Christian faith should have been called 'Labarum.' And yet the inquiry began early.
A father of the Greek Church, almost a contemporary of Constantine, can do no better than suggest
that 'labarum' is equivalent to 'laborum,' and that it was so called because in that victorious
standard was the end of labour and toil (finis laborum)! [Footnote: Mahn, Elym. Untersuch.
p. 65; cf. Kurtz, Kirchen-geschichte, 3rd edit. p. 115.] The 'ciborium' of the early Church
is an equal perplexity; [Footnote: The word is first met in Chrysostom, who calls the silver
models of the temple at Ephesus (Acts xix, 24) [Greek: mikra kiboria]. [A primary meaning of
the Greek [Greek: kiborion] was the cup-like seed-vessel of the Egyptian water- lily, see Dict.
of Christian Antiquities, p. 65.]] and 'chapel' (capella) not less. All later investigations
have failed effectually to dissipate the mystery of the 'Sangraal.' So too, after all that
has been written upon it, the true etymology of 'mosaic' remains a question still.

And not in Church matters only, but everywhere, we meet with the same oblivion resting on the
origin of words. The Romans, one might beforehand have assumed, must have known very well why
they called themselves 'Quirites,' but it is manifest that this knowledge was not theirs. Why
they were addressed as Patres Conscripti is a matter unsettled still. They could have given,
one would think, an explanation of their naming an outlying conquered region a 'province.'
Unfortunately they offer half a dozen explanations, among which we may make our choice. 'German'
and 'Germany' were names comparatively recent when Tacitus wrote; but he owns that he has nothing
trustworthy to say of their history; [Footnote: Germania, 2.] later inquirers have not mended
the matter, [Footnote: Pott, Etymol. Forsch. vol. ii. pt. 2, pp. 860-872.]

The derivation of words which are the very key to the understanding of the Middle Ages, is
often itself wrapt in obscurity. On 'fief' and 'feudal' how much has been disputed. [Footnote:
Stubbs, Constitutional History of England, vol. i. p. 251.] 'Morganatic' marriages are recognized
by the public law of Germany, but why called 'morganatic' is unsettled still. [Footnote: [There
is no mystery about this word; see a good account of the term in Skeat's Diet. (s. v.).]] Gypsies
in German are 'zigeuner'; but when this is resolved into 'zichgauner,' or roaming thieves,
the explanation has about as much scientific value as the not less ingenious explanation of
'Saturnus' as satur annis, [Footnote: Cicero, Nat. Deor. ii. 25.] of 'severitas' as saeva veritas
(Augustine); of 'cadaver' as composed of the first syllables of caro data, vermibus. [Footnote:
Dwight, Modern Philology, lst series, p. 288.] Littre has evidently little confidence in the
explanation commonly offered of the 'Salic' law, namely, that it was the law which prevailed
on the banks of the Saal. [Footnote: For a full and learned treatment of the various derivations
of 'Mephistopheles' which have been proposed, and for the first appearance of the name in books,
see Ward's Marlowe's Doctor Faustus, p. 117.]

And the modern world has unsolved riddles innumerable of like kind. Why was 'Canada' so named?
And whence is 'Yankee' a title little more than a century old? having made its first appearance
in a book printed at Boston, U.S., 1765. Is 'Hottentot' an African word, or, more probably,
a Dutch or Low Frisian; and which, if any, of the current explanations of it should be accepted?
[Footnote: See Transactions of the Philological Society, 1866, pp. 6-25.] Shall we allow Humboldt's
derivation of 'cannibal,' and find 'Carib' in it? [Footnote: See Skeat, s. v.] Whence did the
'Chouans,' the insurgent royalists of Brittany, obtain their title? When did California obtain
its name, and why? Questions such as these, to which we can give no answer or a very doubtful
one, might be multiplied without end. Littre somewhere in his great Dictionary expresses the
misgiving with which what he calls 'anecdotal etymology' fills him; while yet it is to this
that we are continually tempted here to have recourse.

But consider now one or two words which have not lost the secret of their origin, and note
how easily they might have done this, and having once lost, how unlikely it is that any searching
would have recovered it. The traveller Burton tells us that the coarse cloth which is the medium
of exchange, in fact the money of Eastern Africa, is called 'merkani.' The word is a native
corruption of 'American,' the cloth being manufactured in America and sold under this name.
But suppose a change should take place in the country from which this cloth was brought, men
little by little forgetting that it ever had been imported from America, who then would divine
the secret of the word? So too, if the tradition of the derivation of 'paraffin' were once
let go and lost, it would, I imagine, scarcely be recovered. Mere ingenuity would scarcely
divine the fact that a certain oil was so named because 'parum affinis,' having little affinity
which chemistry could detect, with any other substance.

So, too, it is not very probable that the derivation of 'licorice,' once lost, would again
be recovered. It would exist, at the best, but as one guess among many. There can be no difficulty
about it when we find it spelt, as we do in Fuller, 'glycyrize or liquoris.'

Those which I cite are but a handful of examples of the way in which words forget, or under
predisposing conditions might forget, the circumstances of their birth. Now if we could believe
in any merely arbitrary words, standing in connexion with nothing but the mere lawless caprice
of some inventor, the impossibility of tracing their derivation would be nothing strange. Indeed
it would be lost labour to seek for the parentage of all words, when many probably had none.
But there is no such thing; there is no word which is not, as the Spanish gentleman loves to
call himself, an 'hidalgo,' or son of something. [Footnote: The Spanish hijo dalgo, a gentleman,
means a son of wealth, or an estate; see Stevens' Dict. (s. v.)] All are embodiments, more
or less successful, of a sensation, a thought, or a fact; or if of more fortuitous birth, still
they attach themselves somewhere to the already subsisting world of words and things, [Footnote:
J. Grimm, in an interesting review of a little volume dealing with what the Spaniards call
'Germania' with no reference to Germany, the French 'argot,' and we 'Thieves' Language,' finds
in this language the most decisive evidence of this fact (Kleine Schrift. vol. iv. p. 165):
Der nothwendige Zusammenhang aller Sprache mit Ueberlieferung zeigt sich auch hier; kaum ein
Wort dieser Gaunermundart scheint leer erfunden, und Menschen eines Gelichters, das sich sonst
kein Gewissen aus Luegen macht, beschaemen manchen Sprachphilosophen, der von Erdichtung einer
allgemeinen Sprache getraeumt hat. Van Helmont indeed, a sort of modern Paracelsus, is said
to have invented the word 'gas'; but it is difficult to think that there was not a feeling
here after 'geest' or 'geist,' whether he was conscious of this or not.] and have their point
of contact with it and departure from it, not always discoverable, as we see, but yet always
existing. [Footnote: Some will remember here the old dispute--Greek I was tempted to call it,
but in one shape or another it emerges everywhere--whether words were imposed on things [Greek:
thesei] or [Greek: physei], by arbitrary arrangement or by nature. We may boldly say with Bacon,
Vestigia certe rationis verba sunt, and decide in favour of nature. If only they knew their
own history, they could always explain, and in most cases justify, their existence. See some
excellent remarks on this subject by Renan, De l'Origine du Langage, pp. 146-149; and an admirable
article on 'Slang' in the Times, Oct. 18, 1864.] And thus, when a word entirely refuses to
tell us anything about itself, it must be regarded as a riddle which no one has succeeded in
solving, a lock of which no man has found the key--but still a riddle which has a solution,
a lock for which there is a key, though now, it may be, irrecoverably lost. And this difficulty--
it is oftentimes an impossibility--of tracing the genealogy even of words of a very recent
formation, is, as I observed, a strong argument for the birth of the most notable of these
out of the heart and from the lips of the people. Had they first appeared in books, something
in the context would most probably explain them. Had they issued from the schools of the learned,
these would not have failed to leave a recognizable stamp and mark upon them.

There is, indeed, another way in which obscurity may rest on a new word, or a word employed
in a new sense. It may tell the story of its birth, of the word or words which compose it,
may so bear these on its front, that there can be no question here, while yet its purpose and
intention may be hopelessly hidden from our eyes. The secret once lost, is not again to be
recovered. Thus no one has called, or could call, in question the derivation of 'apocryphal'
that it means 'hidden away.' When, however, we begin to inquire why certain books which the
Church either set below the canonical Scriptures, or rejected altogether, were called 'apocryphal'
then a long and doubtful discussion commences. Was it because their origin was hidden to the
early Fathers of the Church, and thus reasonable suspicions of their authenticity entertained?
[Footnote: Augustine (De Civ. Dei, xv. 23): Apocrypha nuncupantur eo quod eorum occulta origo
non claruit Patribus. Cf. Con. Faust, xi. 2.] Or was it because they were mysteriously kept
out of sight and hidden by the heretical sects which boasted themselves in their exclusive
possession? Or was it that they were books not laid up in the Church chest, but hidden away
in obscure corners? Or were they books worthier to be hidden than to be brought forward and
read to the faithful? [Footnote: For still another reason for the epithet 'apocryphal' see
Skeat's Etym. Dict.]--for all these explanations have been offered, and none with such superiority
of proof on its side as to have deprived others of all right to be heard. In the same way there
is no question that 'tragedy' is the song of the goat; but why this, whether because a goat
was the prize for the best performers of that song in which the germs of Greek tragedy lay,
or because the first actors were dressed like satyrs in goatskins, is a question which will
now remain unsettled to the end. [Footnote: See Bentley, Works, vol. i. p. 337.] You know what
'leonine' verses are; or, if you do not, it is very easy to explain. They are Latin hexameters
into which an internal rhyme has forced its way. The following, for example, are all 'leonine':

     Qui pingit florem non pingit floris odorem:
     Si quis det mannos, ne quaere in dentibus annos.
     Una avis in dextra melior quam quattuor extra.

The word has plainly to do with 'leo' in some shape or other; but are these verses leonine
from one Leo or Leolinus, who first composed them? or because, as the lion is king of beasts,
so this, in monkish estimation, was the king of metres? or from some other cause which none
have so much as guessed at? [Footnote: See my Sacred Latin Poetry, 3rd edit. p. 32.] It is
a mystery which none has solved. That frightful system of fagging which made in the seventeenth
century the German Universities a sort of hell upon earth, and which was known by the name
of 'pennalism,' we can scarcely disconnect from 'penna'; while yet this does not help us to
any effectual scattering of the mystery which rests upon the term. [Footnote: See my Gustavus
Adolphus in Germany, p. 131. [Pennal meant 'a freshman,' a term given by the elder students
in mockery, because the student in his first year was generally more industrious, and might
be often seen with his pennal or pen-case about him.]] The connexion of 'dictator' with 'dicere',
'dictare,' is obvious; not so the reason why the 'dictator' obtained his name. 'Sycophant'
and 'superstition' are words, one Greek and one Latin, of the same character. No one doubts
of what elements they are composed; and yet their secret has been so lost, that, except as
a more or less plausible guess, it can never now be recovered. [Footnote: For a good recapitulation
of what best has been written on 'superstitio' see Pott, Etym. Forschungen, vol. ii. p. 921.]

But I must conclude. I may seem in this present lecture a little to have outrun your needs,
and to have sometimes moved in a sphere too remote from that in which your future work will
lie. And yet it is in truth very difficult to affirm of any words, that they do not touch us,
do not in some way bear upon our studies, on what we shall hereafter have to teach, or shall
desire to learn; that there are any conquests which language makes that concern only a select
few, and may be regarded indifferently by all others. For it is here as with many inventions
in the arts and luxuries of life; which, being at the first the exclusive privilege and possession
of the wealthy and refined, gradually descend into lower strata of society, until at length
what were once the elegancies and luxuries of a few, have become the decencies, well-nigh the
necessities, of all. Not otherwise there are words, once only on the lips of philosophers or
theologians, of the deeper thinkers of their time, or of those directly interested in their
speculations, which step by step have come down, not debasing themselves in this act of becoming
popular, but training and elevating an ever-increasing number of persons to enter into their
meaning, till at length they have become truly a part of the nation's common stock, 'household
words,' used easily and intelligently by nearly all.

I cannot better conclude this lecture than by quoting a passage, one among many, which expresses
with a rare eloquence all I have been labouring to utter; for this truth, which many have noticed,
hardly any has set forth with the same fulness of illustration, or the same sense of its importance,
as the author of The Philosophy of the Inductive Sciences. In this way the influence of preceding
discoveries upon subsequent ones, of the past upon the present, is most penetrating and universal,
although most subtle and difficult to trace. The most familiar words and phrases are connected
by imperceptible ties with the reasonings and discoveries of former men and distant times.
Their knowledge is an inseparable part of ours: the present generation inherits and uses the
scientific wealth of all the past. And this is the fortune, not only of the great and rich
in the intellectual world, of those who have the key to the ancient storehouses, and who have
accumulated treasures of their own, but the humblest inquirer, while he puts his reasonings
into words, benefits by the labours of the greatest. When he counts his little wealth, he finds
he has in his hands coins which bear the image and superscription of ancient and modern intellectual
dynasties, and that in virtue of this possession acquisitions are in his power, solid knowledge
within his reach, which none could ever have attained to, if it were not that the gold of truth
once dug out of the mine circulates more and more widely among mankind.'

LECTURE VI.

ON THE DISTINCTION OF WORDS.

Synonyms, and the study of synonyms, with the advantages to be derived from a careful noting
of the distinction between them, constitute the subject with which in my present Lecture I
shall deal. But what, you may ask, is meant when, comparing certain words with one another,
we affirm of them that they are synonyms? We imply that, with great and essential resemblances
of meaning, they have at the same time small, subordinate, and partial differences--these differences
being such as either originally, and on the strength of their etymology, were born with them;
or differences which they have by usage acquired; or such as, though nearly or altogether latent
now, they are capable of receiving at the hands of wise and discreet masters of language. Synonyms
are thus words of like significance in the main; with a large extent of ground which they occupy
in common, but also with something of their own, private and peculiar, which they do not share
with one another. [Footnote: The word 'synonym' only found its way into the English language
about the middle of the seventeenth century. Its recent incoming is marked by the Greek or
Latin termination which for a while it bore; Jeremy Taylor writing 'synonymon,' Hacket 'synonymum,'
and Milton (in the plural) 'synonyma.' Butler has 'synonymas.' On the subject of this chapter
see Marsh, Lectures on the English Language, New York, 1860, p. 571, sqq.]

So soon as the term 'synonym' is defined thus, it will be at once perceived by any acquainted
with its etymology, that, strictly speaking, it is a misnomer, and is given, with a certain
inaccuracy and impropriety, to words which stand in such relations as I have just traced to
one another; since in strictness of speech the terms, 'synonyms' and 'synonymous' applied to
words, affirm of them that they cover not merely almost, but altogether, the same extent of
meaning, that they are in their signification perfectly identical and coincident; circles,
so to speak, with the same centre and the same circumference. The term, however, is not ordinarily
so used; it evidently is not so by such as undertake to trace out the distinction between synonyms;
for, without venturing to deny that there may be such perfect synonyms, words, that is, with
this absolute coincidence of the one with the other, yet these could not be the objects of
any such discrimination; since, where no real difference exists, it would be lost labour and
the exercise of a perverse ingenuity to attempt to draw one out.

There are, indeed, those who assert that words in one language are never exactly synonymous,
or in all respects commensurate, with words in another; that, when they are compared with one
another, there is always something more, or something less, or something different, in one
as compared with the other, which hinders this complete equivalence. And, those words being
excepted which designate objects in their nature absolutely incapable of a more or less and
of every qualitative difference, I should be disposed to consider other exceptions to this
assertion exceedingly rare. 'In all languages whatever,' to quote Bentley's words, 'a word
of a moral or of a political significance, containing several complex ideas arbitrarily joined
together, has seldom any correspondent word in any other language which extends to all these
ideas.' Nor is it hard to trace reasons sufficient why this should be so. For what, after all,
is a word, but the enclosure for human use of a certain district, larger or smaller, from the
vast outfield of thought or feeling or fact, and in this way a bringing of it under human cultivation,
a rescuing of it for human uses? But how extremely unlikely it is that nations, drawing quite
independently of one another these lines of enclosure, should draw them in all or most cases
exactly in the same direction, neither narrower nor wider; how almost inevitable, on the contrary,
that very often the lines should not coincide--and this, even supposing no moral forces at
work to disturb the falling of the lines.

How immense and instructive a field of comparison between languages does this fact lay open
to us; while it is sufficient to drive a translator with a high ideal of the task which he
has undertaken well- nigh to despair. For indeed in the transferring of any matter of high
worth from one language to another there are losses involved, which no labour, no skill, no
genius, no mastery of one language or of both can prevent. The translator may have worthily
done his part, may have 'turned' and not 'overturned' his original (St. Jerome complains that
in his time many versiones deserved to be called eversiones rather); he may have given the
lie to the Italian proverb, 'Traduttori Traditori,' or 'Translators Traitors,' men, that is,
who do not 'render' but' surrender' their author's meaning, and yet for all this the losses
of which I speak will not have been avoided. Translations, let them have been carried through
with what skill they may, are, as one has said, belles infideles at the best.

How often in the translation of Holy Scripture from the language wherein it was first delivered
into some other which offers more words than one whereby some all-important word in the original
record may be rendered, the perplexity has been great which of these should be preferred. Not,
indeed, that there was here an embarrassment of riches, but rather an embarrassment of poverty.
Each, it may be, has advantages of its own, but each also its own drawbacks and shortcomings.
There is nothing but a choice of difficulties anyhow, and whichever is selected, it will be
found that the treasure of God's thought has been committed to an earthen vessel, and one whose
earthiness will not fail at this point or at that to appear; while yet, with all this, of what
far- reaching importance it is that the best, that is, the least inadequate, word should be
chosen. Thus the missionary translator, if he be at all aware of the awful implement which
he is wielding, of the tremendous crisis in a people's spiritual life which has arrived, when
their language is first made the vehicle of the truths of Revelation, will often tremble at
the work he has in hand; he will tremble lest he should permanently lower or confuse the whole
spiritual life of a people, by choosing a meaner and letting go a nobler word for the setting
forth of some leading truth of redemption; and yet the choice how difficult, the nobler itself
falling how infinitely below his desires, and below the truth of which he would make it the bearer.

Even those who are wholly ignorant of Chinese can yet perceive how vast the spiritual interests
which are at stake in China, how much will be won or how much lost for the whole spiritual
life of its people, it may be for ages to come, according as the right or the wrong word is
selected by our missionaries there for designating the true and the living God. As many of
us indeed as are ignorant of the language can be no judges in the controversy which on this
matter is, or was lately, carried on; but we can all feel how vital the question, how enormous
the interests at stake; while, not less, having heard the allegations on the one side and on
the other, we must own that there is only an alternative of difficulties here. Nearer home
there have been difficulties of the same kind. At the Reformation, for example, when Latin
was still more or less the language of theology, how earnest a controversy raged round the
word in the Greek Testament which we have rendered 'repentance'; whether 'poenitentia' should
be allowed to stand, hallowed by long usage as it was, or 'resipiscentia,' as many of the Reformers
preferred, should be substituted in its room; and how much on either side could be urged. Not
otherwise, at an earlier date, 'Sermo' and 'Verbum' contended for the honour of rendering the
'Logos' of St. John; though here there can be no serious doubt on which side the advantage
lay, and that in 'Verbum' the right word was chosen.

But this of the relation of words in one language to words in another, and of all the questions
which may thus be raised, is a sea too large for me to launch upon now; and with thus much
said to invite you to have open eyes and ears for such questions, seeing that they are often
full of teaching, [Footnote: Pott in his Etymol. Forschungen, vol. v. p. lxix, and elsewhere,
has much interesting instruction on the subject. There were four attempts to render [Greek:
eironeia], itself, it is true, a very subtle word. They are these: 'dissimulatio' (Cicero);
'illusio' (Quintilian); 'simulatio' and 'irrisio.'] I must leave this subject, and limit myself
in this Lecture to a comparison between words, not in different languages, but in the same.

Synonyms then, as the term is generally understood, and as I shall use it, are words in the
same language with slight differences either already established between them, or potentially
subsisting in them. They are not on the one side words absolutely identical, for such, as has
been said already, afford no room for discrimination; but neither on the other side are they
words only remotely similar to one another; for the differences between these last will be
self-evident, will so lie on the surface and proclaim themselves to all, that it would be as
superfluous an office as holding a candle to the sun to attempt to make this clearer than it
already is. It may be desirable to trace and fix the difference between scarlet and crimson,
for these might easily be confounded; but who would think of so doing between scarlet and green?
or between covetousness and avarice; while it would be idle and superfluous to do the same
for covetousness and pride. They must be words more or less liable to confusion, but which
yet ought not to be confounded, as one has said; in which there originally inhered a difference,
or between which, though once absolutely identical, such has gradually grown up, and so established
itself in the use of the best writers, and in the instinct of the best speakers of the tongue,
that it claims to be openly recognized by all.

But here an interesting question presents itself to us: How do languages come to possess synonyms
of this latter class, which are differenced not by etymology, nor by any other deep-lying cause,
but only by usage? Now if languages had been made by agreement, of course no such synonyms
as these could exist; for when once a word had been found which was the adequate representative
of a thought, feeling, or fact, no second one would have been sought. But languages are the
result of processes very different from this, and far less formal and regular. Various tribes,
each with its own dialect, kindred indeed, but in many respects distinct, coalesce into one
people, and cast their contributions of language into a common stock. Thus the French possess
many synonyms from the langue d'Oc and langue d'Oil, each having contributed its word for one
and the same thing; thus 'atre' and 'foyer,' both for hearth. Sometimes different tribes of
the same people have the same word, yet in forms sufficiently different to cause that both
remain, but as words distinct from one another; thus in Latin 'serpo' and 'repo' are dialectic
variations of the same word; just as in German, 'odem' and 'athem' were no more than dialectic
differences at the first. Or again, a conquering people have fixed themselves in the midst
of a conquered; they impose their dominion, but do not succeed in imposing their language;
nay, being few in number, they find themselves at last compelled to adopt the language of the
conquered; yet not so but that a certain compromise between the two languages finds place.
One carries the day, but on the condition that it shall admit as naturalized denizens a number
of the words of the other; which in some instances expel, but in many others subsist as synonyms
side by side with, the native words.

These are causes of the existence of synonyms which reach far back into the history of a nation
and a language; but other causes at a later period are also at work. When a written literature
springs up, authors familiar with various foreign tongues import from one and another words
which are not absolutely required, which are oftentimes rather luxuries than necessities. Sometimes,
having a very sufficient word of their own, they must needs go and look for a finer one, as
they esteem it, from abroad; as, for instance, the Latin having its own expressive 'succinum'
(from 'succus'), for amber, some must import from the Greek the ambiguous 'electrum.' Of these
thus proposed as candidates for admission, some fail to obtain the rights of citizenship, and
after longer or shorter probation are rejected; it may be, never advance beyond their first
proposer. Enough, however, receive the stamp of popular allowance to create embarrassment for
a while; until, that is, their relations with the already existing words are adjusted. As a
single illustration of the various quarters from which the English has thus been augmented
and enriched, I would instance the words 'wile,' 'trick,' device,' finesse,' 'artifice,' and
'stratagem.' and remind you of the various sources from which we have drawn them. Here 'wile,'
is Old-English, 'trick' is Dutch, 'devise' is Old-French, 'finesse' is French, 'artificium'
is Latin, and '[Greek: stratagema]' Greek.

By and by, however, as a language becomes itself an object of closer attention, at the same
time that society, advancing from a simpler to a more complex condition, has more things to
designate, more thoughts to utter, and more distinctions to draw, it is felt as a waste of
resources to employ two or more words for the designating of one and the same thing. Men feel,
and rightly, that with a boundless world lying around them and demanding to be catalogued and
named, and which they only make truly their own in the measure and to the extent that they
do name it, with infinite shades and varieties of thought and feeling subsisting in their own
minds, and claiming to find utterance in words, it is a wanton extravagance to expend two or
more signs on that which could adequately be set forth by one--an extravagance in one part
of their expenditure, which will be almost sure to issue in, and to be punished by, a corresponding
scantness and straitness in another. Some thought or feeling or fact will wholly want one adequate
sign, because another has two. [Footnote: We have a memorable example of this in the history
of the great controversy of the Church with the Arians, In the earlier stages of this, the
upholders of the orthodox faith used [Greek: ousia] and [Greek: hypostasis] as identical in
force and meaning with one another, Athanasius, in as many words, affirming them to be such.
As, however, the controversy went forward, it was perceived that doctrinal results of the highest
importance might be fixed and secured for the Church through the assigning severally to these
words distinct modifications of meaning. This, accordingly, in the Greek Church, was done;
while the Latin, desiring to move pari passu did yet find itself most seriously embarrassed
and hindered in so doing by the fact that it had, or assumed that it had, but the one word,
'substantia,' to correspond to the two Greek.] Hereupon that which has been well called the
process of 'desynonymizing' begins--that is, of gradually discriminating in use between words
which have hitherto been accounted perfectly equivalent, and, as such, indifferently employed.
It is a positive enriching of a language when this process is at any point felt to be accomplished;
when two or more words, once promiscuously used, have had each its own peculiar domain assigned
to it, which it shall not itself overstep, upon which others shall not encroach. This may seem
at first sight only as a better regulation of old territory; for all practical purposes it
is the acquisition of new.

This desynonymizing process is not carried out according to any prearranged purpose or plan.
The working genius of the language accomplishes its own objects, causes these synonymous words
insensibly to fall off from one another, and to acquire separate and peculiar meanings. The
most that any single writer can do, save indeed in the terminology of science, is to assist
an already existing inclination, to bring to the clear consciousness of all that which already
has been obscurely felt by many, and thus to hasten the process of this disengagement, or,
as it has been well expressed, 'to regulate and ordinate the evident nisus and tendency of
the popular usage into a severe definition'; and establish on a firm basis the distinction,
so that it shall not be lost sight of or brought into question again. Thus long before Wordsworth
wrote, it was obscurely felt by many that in 'imagination' there was more of the earnest, in
'fancy' of the play, of the spirit, that the first was a loftier faculty and power than the
second. The tendency of the language was all in this direction. None would for some time back
have employed 'fancy' as Milton employs it, [Footnote: Paradise Lost, v. 102-105 5 so too Longinus,
De Subl. 15.] ascribing to it operations which we have learned to reserve for 'imagination'
alone, and indeed subordinating 'imaginations' to fancy, as a part of the materials with which
it deals. Yet for all this the words were continually, and not without injury, confounded.
Wordsworth first, in the Preface to his Lyrical Ballads, rendered it impossible for any, who
had read and mastered what he had written on the matter, to remain unconscious any longer of
the essential difference between them. [Footnote: Thus De Quincey (Letters to a Young Man whose
Education has been neglected): 'All languages tend to clear themselves of synonyms, as intellectual
culture advances; the superfluous words being taken up and appropriated by new shades and combinations
of thought evolved in the progress of society. And long before this appropriation is fixed
and petrified, as it were, into the acknowledged vocabulary of the language, an insensible
clinamen (to borrow a Lucretian word) prepares the way for it. Thus, for instance, before Mr.
Wordsworth had unveiled the great philosophic distinction between the powers of fancy and imagination,
the two words had begun to diverge from each other, the first being used to express a faculty
somewhat capricious and exempted from law, the other to express a faculty more self-determined.
When, therefore, it was at length perceived, that under an apparent unity of meaning there
lurked a real dualism, and for philosophic purposes it was necessary that this distinction
should have its appropriate expression, this necessity was met half way by the clinamen which
had already affected the popular usage of the words.' Compare what Coleridge had before said
on the same matter, Biogr. Lit. vol. i. p. 90; and what Ruskin, Modern Painters part 3, Section
2, ch. 3, has said since. It is to Coleridge that we owe the word 'to desynonymize' (Biogr.
Lit. p. 87)--which is certainly preferable to Professor Grote's 'despecificate.' Purists indeed
will object that it is of hybrid formation, the prefix Latin, the body of the word Greek; but
for all this it may very well stand till a better is offered. Coleridge's own contributions,
direct and indirect, in this province are perhaps more in number and in value than those of
any other English writer; thus to him we owe the disentanglement of 'fanaticism' and 'enthusiasm'
(Lit. Rem. vol. ii. p. 365); of 'keenness' and 'subtlety' (Table-Talk, p. 140); of 'poetry'
and 'poesy' (Lit. Rem. vol. i. p. 219); of 'analogy' and 'metaphor' (Aids to Reflection, 1825,
p. 198); and that on which he himself laid so great a stress, of 'reason' and 'understanding.']
This is but one example, an illustrious one indeed, of what has been going forward in innumerable
pairs of words. Thus in Wiclif's time and long after, there seems to have been no difference
recognized between a 'famine' and a 'hunger'; they both expressed the outward fact of a scarcity
of food. It was a genuine gain when, leaving to 'famine' this meaning, by 'hunger' was expressed
no longer the outward fact, but the inward sense of the fact. Other pairs of words between
which a distinction is recognized now which was not recognized some centuries ago, are the
following: 'to clarify' and 'to glorify'; 'to admire' and 'to wonder'; 'to convince' and 'to
convict'; 'reign' and 'kingdom'; 'ghost' and 'spirit'; 'merit' and 'demerit'; 'mutton' and
'sheep'; 'feminine' and 'effeminate'; 'mortal' and 'deadly'; 'ingenious' and 'ingenuous'; 'needful'
and 'needy'; 'voluntary' and 'wilful.' [footnote: For the exact difference between these, and
other pairs or larger groups of words, see my Select Glossary.]

A multitude of words in English are still waiting for a similar discrimination. Thus how real
an ethical gain would it be, how much clearness would it bring into men's thoughts and actions,
if the distinction which exists in Latin between 'vindicta' and 'ultio,' that the first is
a moral act, the just punishment of the sinner by his God, of the criminal by the judge, the
other an act in which the self-gratification of one who counts himself injured or offended
is sought, could in like manner be fully established (vaguely felt it already is) between our
'vengeance' and 'revenge'; so that 'vengeance' (with the verb 'to avenge') should never be
ascribed except to God, or to men acting as the executors of his righteous doom; while all
retaliation to which not zeal for his righteousness, but men's own sinful passions have given
the impulse and the motive, should be termed 'revenge.' As it now is, the moral disapprobation
which cleaves, and cleaves justly, to 'revenge,' is oftentimes transferred almost unconsciously
to 'vengeance'; while yet without vengeance it is impossible to conceive in a world so full
of evil-doing any effectual assertion of righteousness, any moral government whatever.

The causes mentioned above, namely that our modern English, Teutonic in its main structure,
yet draws so large a portion of its verbal wealth from the Latin, and has further welcomed,
and found place for, many later accessions, these causes have together effected that we possess
a great many duplicates, not to speak of triplicates, or of such a quintuplicate as that which
I adduced just now, where the Teutonic, French, Italian, Latin, and Greek had each yielded
us a word. Let me mention a few duplicate substantives, Old-English and Latin: thus we have
'shepherd' and 'pastor'; 'feeling' and 'sentiment'; 'handbook' and 'manual'; 'ship' and 'nave';
'anger' and 'ire'; 'grief' and 'sorrow'; 'kingdom,' 'reign,' and 'realm'; 'love' and 'charity';
'feather' and 'plume'; 'forerunner' and 'precursor'; 'foresight' and 'providence'; 'freedom'
and 'liberty'; 'bitterness' and 'acerbity'; 'murder' and 'homicide'; 'moons' and 'lunes.' Sometimes,
in theology and science especially, we have gone both to the Latin and to the Greek, and drawn
the same word from them both: thus 'deist' and 'theist'; 'numeration' and 'arithmetic'; 'revelation'
and 'apocalypse'; 'temporal' and 'chronic'; 'compassion' and 'sympathy'; 'supposition' and
'hypothesis'; 'transparent' and 'diaphanous'; 'digit' and 'dactyle.' But to return to the Old-English
and Latin, the main factors of our tongue. Besides duplicate substantives, we have duplicate
verbs, such as 'to whiten' and 'to blanch'; 'to soften' and 'to mollify'; 'to unload' and 'to
exonerate'; 'to hide' and 'to conceal'; with many more. Duplicate adjectives also are numerous,
as 'shady' and 'umbrageous'; 'unreadable' and 'illegible'; 'unfriendly' and 'inimical'; 'almighty'
and 'omnipotent'; 'wholesome' and 'salubrious'; 'unshunnable' and 'inevitable.' Occasionally
our modern English, not adopting the Latin substantive, has admitted duplicate adjectives;
thus 'burden' has not merely 'burdensome' but also 'onerous,' while yet 'onus' has found no
place with us; 'priest' has 'priestly' and 'sacerdotal'; 'king' has 'kingly,' 'regal,' which
is purely Latin, and 'royal,' which is Latin distilled through the French. 'Bodily' and 'corporal,'
'boyish' and 'puerile,' 'fiery' and 'igneous,' 'wooden' and 'ligneous,' 'worldly' and 'mundane,'
'bloody' and 'sanguine,' 'watery' and 'aqueous,' 'fearful' and 'timid,' 'manly' and 'virile,'
'womanly' and 'feminine,' 'sunny' and 'solar,' 'starry' and 'stellar,' 'yearly' and 'annual,'
'weighty' and 'ponderous,' may all be placed in the same list. Nor are these more than a handful
of words out of the number which might be adduced. You would find both pleasure and profit
in enlarging these lists, and, as far as you are able, making them gradually complete.

If we look closely at words which have succeeded in thus maintaining their ground side by side,
and one no less than the other, we shall note that in almost every instance they have little
by little asserted for themselves separate spheres of meaning, have in usage become more or
less distinct. Thus we use 'shepherd' almost always in its primary meaning, keeper of sheep;
while 'pastor' is exclusively used in the tropical sense, one that feeds the flock of God;
at the same time the language having only the one adjective, 'pastoral,' that is of necessity
common to both. 'Love' and 'charity' are used in our Authorized Version of Scripture promiscuously,
and out of the sense of their equivalence are made to represent one and the same Greek word;
but in modern use 'charity' has come predominantly to signify one particular manifestation
of love, the ministry to the bodily needs of others, 'love' continuing to express the affection
of the soul. 'Ship' remains in its literal meaning, while 'nave' has become a symbolic term
used in sacred architecture alone. 'Kingdom' is concrete, as the 'kingdom' of Great Britain;
'reign' is abstract, the 'reign' of Queen Victoria. An 'auditor' and a 'hearer' are now, though
they were not once, altogether different from one another. 'Illegible' is applied to the handwriting,
'unreadable' to the subject-matter written; a man writes an 'illegible' hand; he has published
an 'unreadable' book. 'Foresight' is ascribed to men, but' providence' for the most part designates,
as pronoia also came to do, the far-looking wisdom of God, by which He governs and graciously
cares for his people. It becomes boys to be 'boyish,' but not men to be 'puerile.' 'To blanch'
is to withdraw colouring matter: we 'blanch' almonds or linen; or the cheek by the withdrawing
of the blood is 'blanched' with fear; but we 'whiten' a wall, not by withdrawing some other
colour, but by the superinducing of white; thus 'whited sepulchres.' When we 'palliate' our
own or other people's faults, we do not seek 'to cloke' them altogether, but only to extenuate
the guilt of them in part.

It might be urged that there was a certain preparedness in these words to separate off in their
meaning from one another, inasmuch as they originally belonged to different stocks; and this
may very well have assisted; but we find the same process at work where original difference
of stock can have supplied no such assistance. 'Astronomy' and 'astrology' are both words drawn
from the Greek, nor is there any reason beforehand why the second should not be in as honourable
use as the first; for it is the reason, as 'astronomy' the law, of the stars. [footnote: So
entirely was any determining reason wanting, that for some while it was a question which word
should obtain the honourable employment, and it seemed as if 'astrology' and 'astrologer' would
have done so, as this extract from Bishop Hooper makes abundantly plain (Early Writings, Parker
Society, p. 331): 'The astrologer is he that knoweth the course and motions of the heavens
and teacheth the same; which is a virtue if it pass not its bounds, and become of an astrologer
an astronomer, who taketh upon him to give judgment and censure of these motions and courses
of the heavens, what they prognosticate and destiny unto the creature.'] But seeing there is
a true and a false science of the stars, both needing words to utter them, it has come to pass
that in our later use, 'astrology' designates always that pretended science of imposture, which
affecting to submit the moral freedom of men to the influences of the heavenly bodies, prognosticates
future events from the position of these, as contrasted with 'astronomy' that true science
which investigates the laws of the heavenly bodies in their relations to one another and to
the planet upon which we dwell.

As these are both from the Greek, so 'despair' and 'diffidence' are both, though the second
more directly than the first, from the Latin. At a period not very long past the difference
between them was hardly appreciable; one was hardly stronger than the other. If in one the
absence of all hope, in the other that of all faith, was implied. In The Pilgrim's Progress,
a book with which every English schoolmaster should be familiar, 'Mistress Diffidence' is 'Giant
Despair's' wife, and not a whit behind him in deadly enmity to the pilgrims; even as Jeremy
Taylor speaks of the impenitent sinner's 'diffidence in the hour of death,' meaning, as the
context plainly shows, his despair. But to what end two words for one and the same thing? And
thus 'diffidence' did not retain that energy of meaning which it had at the first, but little
by little assumed a more mitigated sense, (Hobbes speaks of 'men's diffidence,' meaning their
distrust 'of one another,') till it has come now to signify a becoming distrust of ourselves,
a humble estimate of our own powers, with only a slight intimation, as in the later use of
the Latin 'verecundia,' that perhaps this distrust is carried too far.

Again, 'interference' and 'interposition' are both from the Latin; and here too there is no
anterior necessity that they should possess those different shades of meaning which actually
they have obtained among us;--the Latin verbs which form their latter halves being about as
strong one as the other. [Footnote: The word interference is a derivative from the verb ferire
to strike, which is certainly stronger in meaning than ponere, to place.] And yet in our practical
use, 'interference' is something offensive; it is the pushing in of himself between two parties
on the part of a third, who was not asked, and is not thanked for his pains, and who, as the
feeling of the word implies, had no business there; while 'interposition' is employed to express
the friendly peace-making mediation of one whom the act well became, and who even if he was
not specially invited thereunto, is still thanked for what he has done. How real an increase
is it in the wealth and efficiency of a language thus to have discriminated such words as these;
and to be able to express acts outwardly the same by different words, according as we would
praise or blame the temper and spirit out of which they sprung. [Footnote: If in the course
of time distinctions are thus created, and if this is the tendency of language, yet they are
also sometimes, though far less often, obliterated. Thus the fine distinction between 'yea'
and 'yes,' 'nay' and 'no,' once existing in English, has quite disappeared. 'Yea' and 'Nay,'
in Wiclif s time, and a good deal later, were the answers to questions framed in the affirmative.
'Will he come?' To this it would have been replied, 'Yea' or 'Nay,' as the case might be. But
'Will he not come?'--to this the answer would have been, 'Yes,' or 'No.' Sir Thomas More finds
fault with Tyndale, that in his translation of the Bible he had not observed this distinction,
which was evidently therefore going out even then, that is in the reign of Henry VIII., and
shortly after it was quite forgotten.]

Take now some words not thus desynonymized by usage only, but having a fundamental etymological
distinction,--one, however, which it would be easy to overlook, and which, so long as we dwell
on the surface of the word, we shall overlook; and try whether we shall not be gainers by bringing
out the distinction into clear consciousness. Here are 'arrogant,' 'presumptuous,' and 'insolent';
we often use them promiscuously; yet let us examine them a little more closely, and ask ourselves,
as soon as we have traced the lines of demarcation between them, whether we are not now in
possession of three distinct thoughts, instead of a single confused one. He is 'arrogant' who
claims the observance and homage of others as his due (ad rogo); who does not wait for them
to offer, but himself demands all this; or who, having right to one sort of observance, claims
another to which he has no right. Thus, it was 'arrogance' in Nebuchadnezzar, when he required
that all men should fall down before the image which he had reared. He, a man, was claiming
for man's work the homage which belonged only to God. But one is 'presumptuous' who takes things
to himself before he has acquired any title to them (prae sumo); as the young man who already
usurps the place of the old, the learner who speaks with the authority of the teacher. By and
by all this may very justly be his, but it is 'presumption' to anticipate it now. 'Insolent'
means properly no more than unusual; to act 'insolently' is to act unusually. The offensive
meaning which 'insolent' has acquired rests upon the sense that there is a certain well-understood
rule of society, a recognized standard of moral and social behaviour, to which each of its
members should conform. The 'insolent' man is one who violates this rule, who breaks through
this order, acting in an unaccustomed manner. The same sense of the orderly being also the
moral, is implied in 'irregular'; a man of 'irregular' is for us a man of immoral life; and
yet more strongly in Latin, which has but one word (mores) for customs and morals.

Or consider the following words: 'to hate,' 'to loathe,' 'to detest,' 'to abhor'. It would
be safe to say that our blessed Lord 'hated' to see his Father's house profaned, when, the
zeal of that house consuming Him, He drove forth in anger the profaners from it (John ii. 15);
He 'loathed' the lukewarmness of the Laodiceans, when He threatened to spue them out of his
mouth (Rev. iii. 16); He 'detested' the hypocrisy of the Pharisees and Scribes, when He affirmed
and proclaimed their sin, and uttered those eight woes against them (Matt, xxiii.); He 'abhorred'
the evil suggestions of Satan, when He bade the Tempter to get behind Him, shrinking from him
as one would shrink from a hissing serpent in his path.

Sometimes words have no right at all to be considered synonyms, and yet are continually used
one for the other; having through this constant misemployment more need than synonyms themselves
to be discriminated. Thus, what confusion is often made between 'genuine' and 'authentic';
what inaccuracy exists in their employment. And yet the distinction is a very plain one. A
'genuine' work is one written by the author whose name it bears; an 'authentic' work is one
which relates truthfully the matters of which it treats. For example, the apocryphal Gospel
of St. Thomas is neither 'genuine' nor 'authentic.' It is not 'genuine' for St. Thomas did
not write it; it is not 'authentic,' for its contents are mainly fables and lies. The History
of the Alexandrian War, which passes under Caesar's name, is not 'genuine,' for he did not
write it; it is 'authentic,' being in the main a truthful record of the events which it professes
to relate. Thiers' History of the French Empire, on the contrary, is 'genuine,' for he is certainly
the author, but very far indeed from 'authentic '; while Thucydides' History of the Peloponnesian
War is both 'authentic' and 'genuine.' [Footnote: On this matter see the New English Dictionary
(s. v. authentic). It will there be found that the prevailing sense of 'authentic' is reliable,
trustworthy, of established credit; it being often used by writers on Christian Evidences in
contradistinction to 'genuine.' However, the Dictionary shows us that careful writers use the
word in the sense of 'genuine,' of undisputed origin, not forged, or apocryphal: there is a
citation bearing witness to this meaning from Paley. The Greek [Greek: authentikos] meant 'of
firsthand authority, original.']

You will observe that in most of the words just adduced, I have sought to refer their usage
to their etymologies, to follow the guidance of these, and by the same aid to trace the lines
of demarcation which divide them. For I cannot but think it an omission in a very instructive
little volume upon synonyms edited by the late Archbishop Whately, and a partial diminution
of its usefulness, that in the valuation of words reference is so seldom made to their etymologies,
the writer relying almost entirely on present usage and the tact and instinct of a cultivated
mind for the appreciation of them aright. The accomplished author (or authoress) of this book
indeed justifies this omission on the ground that a work on synonyms has to do with the present
relative value of words, not with their roots and derivations; and, further, that a reference
to these often brings in what is only a disturbing force in the process, tending to confuse
rather than to clear. But while it is quite true that words will often ride very slackly at
anchor on their etymologies, will be borne hither and thither by the shifting tides and currents
of usage, yet are they for the most part still holden by them. Very few have broken away and
drifted from their moorings altogether. A 'novelist,' or writer of new tales in the present
day, is very different from a 'novelist' or upholder of new theories in politics and religion,
of two hundred years ago; yet the idea of newness is common to them both. A 'naturalist' was
once a denier of revealed truth, of any but natural religion; he is now an investigator, often
a devout one, of nature and of her laws; yet the word has remained true to its etymology all
the while. A 'methodist' was formerly a follower of a certain 'method' of philosophical induction,
now of a 'method' in the fulfilment of religious duties; but in either case 'method' or orderly
progression, is the central idea of the word. Take other words which have changed or modified
their meaning--'plantations,' for instance, which were once colonies of men (and indeed we
still 'plant' a colony), but are now nurseries of trees, and you will find the same to hold
good. 'Ecstasy' was madness; it is intense delight; but has in no wise thereby broken with
the meaning from which it started, since it is the nature alike of madness and of joy to set
men out of and beside themselves.

And even when the fact is not so obvious as in these cases, the
etymology of a word exercises an unconscious influence upon its uses,
oftentimes makes itself felt when least expected, so that a word, after
seeming quite to have forgotten, will after longest wanderings return
to it again. And one main device of great artists in language, such as
would fain evoke the latent forces of their native tongue, will very
often consist in reconnecting words by their use of them with their
original derivation, in not suffering them to forget themselves and
their origin, though they would. How often and with what signal effect
does Milton compel a word to return to its original source, 'antiquam
exquirere matrem'; while yet how often the fact that he is doing this
passes even by scholars unobserved. [Footnote: Everyone who desires, as
he reads Milton, thoroughly to understand him, will do well to be ever
on the watch for such recalling, upon his part, of words to their
primitive sense; and as often as he detects, to make accurate note of
it for his own use, and, so far as he is a teacher, for the use of
others. Take a few examples out of many: 'afflicted' (P. L. i. 186);
'alarmed' (P. L. iv. 985); 'ambition' (P. L. i. 262; S. A. 247);
'astonished' (P. L. i. 266); 'chaos' (P. L. vi. 55); 'diamond' (P.
L. vi. 364); 'emblem' (P. L. iv. 703); 'empiric' (P. L. v. 440);
'engine' (P. L. i. 750); 'entire' (= integer, P. L. ix. 292);
'extenuate' (P. L. x. 645); 'illustrate' (P. L. v. 739); 'implicit'
(P. L. vii. 323); 'indorse' (P. R. iii. 329); 'infringe' (P. R. i.
62); 'mansion' (Com. 2); 'moment' (P. L. x. 45); 'oblige' (P. L.
ix. 980); 'person' (P. L. x. 156); 'pomp' (P. L. viii. 61);
'sagacious' (P. L. x. 28l); 'savage' (P. L. iv. l72); 'scene' (P.
L. iv. 140;) 'secular' (S. A. 1707); 'secure' (P. L. vi. 638);
'seditious' (P. L. vi. 152); 'transact' (P. L. vi. 286); 'voluble'
(P. L. ix. 436). We may note in Jeremy Taylor a similar reduction of
words to their origins; thus, 'insolent' for unusual, 'metal' for mine,
'irritation' for a making vain, 'extant' for standing out (applied to a
bas-relief), 'contrition' for bruising ('the contrition of the
serpent'), 'probable' for worthy of approval ('a probable doctor').
The author of the excellent Lexique de la Langue de Corneille claims
the same merit for him and for his great contemporaries or immediate
successors: Faire rendre aux mots tout ce qu'ils peuvent donner, en
varier habilement les acceptions et les nuances, les ramener a leur
origine, les retremper frequemment a leur source etymologique,
constituait un des secrets principaux des grands ecrivains du dix-
septieme siecle. It is this putting of old words in a new light, and to
a new use, though that will be often the oldest of all, on which Horace
sets so high a store:
        Dixeris egregie, notum si callida verbum
        Reddiderit junctura novum; and not less Montaigne: 'The
handling and utterance of fine wits is that which sets off a language;
not so much by innovating it, as by putting it to more vigorous and
various service, and by straining, bending, and adapting it to this.
They do not create words, but they enrich their own, and give them
weight and signification by the uses they put them to.']

Moreover, even if all this were not so, yet the past history of a word, a history that must
needs start from its derivation, how soon soever this may be left behind, can hardly be disregarded,
when we are seeking to ascertain its present value. What Barrow says is quite true, that 'knowing
the primitive meaning of words can seldom or never determine their meaning anywhere, they often
in common use declining from it'; but though it cannot 'determine,' it can as little be omitted
or forgotten, when this determination is being sought. A man may be wholly different now from
what once he was; yet not the less to know his antecedents is needful, before we can ever perfectly
understand his present self; and the same holds good with words.

There is a moral gain which synonyms will sometimes yield us, enabling us, as they do, to say
exactly what we intend, without exaggerating or putting more into our speech than we feel in
our hearts, allowing us to be at once courteous and truthful. Such moral advantage there is,
for example, in the choice which we have between the words 'to felicitate' and 'to congratulate,'
for the expressing of our sentiments and wishes in regard of the good fortune that may happen
to others. To 'felicitate' another is to wish him happiness, without affirming that his happiness
is also ours. Thus, out of that general goodwill with which we ought to regard all, we might
'felicitate' one almost a stranger to us; nay, more, I can honestly 'felicitate' one on his
appointment to a post, or attainment of an honour, even though I may not consider him the fittest
to have obtained it, though I should have been glad if another had done so; I can desire and
hope, that is, that it may bring all joy and happiness to him. But I could not, without a violation
of truth, 'congratulate' him, or that stranger whose prosperity awoke no lively delight in
my heart; for when I 'congratulate' a person (congratulor), I declare that I am sharer in his
joy, that what has rejoiced him has rejoiced also me. We have all, I dare say, felt, even without
having analysed the distinction between the words, that 'congratulate' is a far heartier word
than 'felicitate,' and one with which it much better becomes us to welcome the good fortune
of a friend; and the analysis, as you perceive, perfectly justifies the feeling. 'Felicitations'
are little better than compliments; 'congratulations' are the expression of a genuine sympathy
and joy.

Let me illustrate the importance of synonymous distinctions by another example, by the words,
'to invent' and 'to discover'; or 'invention' and 'discovery.' How slight may seem to us the
distinction between them, even if we see any at all. Yet try them a little closer, try them,
which is the true proof, by aid of examples, and you will perceive that they can by no means
be indifferently used; that, on the contrary, a great truth lies at the root of their distinction.
Thus we speak of the 'invention' of printing, of the 'discovery' of America. Shift these words,
and speak, for instance, of the 'invention' of America; you feel at once how unsuitable the
language is. And why? Because Columbus did not make that to be, which before him had not been.
America was there, before he revealed it to European eyes; but that which before was, he showed
to be; he withdrew the veil which hitherto had concealed it; he 'discovered' it. So too we
speak of Newton 'discovering' the law of gravitation; he drew aside the veil whereby men's
eyes were hindered from perceiving it, but the law had existed from the beginning of the world,
and would have existed whether he or any other man had traced it or no; neither was it in any
way affected by the discovery of it which he had made. But Gutenberg, or whoever else it may
be to whom the honour belongs, 'invented' printing; he made something to be, which hitherto
was not. In like manner Harvey 'discovered' the circulation of the blood; but Watt 'invented'
the steam-engine; and we speak, with a true distinction, of the 'inventions' of Art, the 'discoveries'
of Science. In the very highest matters of all, it is deeply important that we be aware of
and observe the distinction. In religion there have been many 'discoveries,' but (in true religion
I mean) no 'inventions.' Many discoveries--but God in each case the discoverer; He draws aside
the veils, one veil after another, that have hidden Him from men; the discovery or revelation
is from Himself, for no man by searching has found out God; and therefore, wherever anything
offers itself as an 'invention' in matters of religion, it proclaims itself a lie,--as are
all self-devised worships, all religions which man projects from his own heart. Just that is
known of God which He is pleased to make known, and no more; and men's recognizing or refusing
to recognize in no way affects it. They may deny or may acknowledge Him, but He continues the same.

As involving in like manner a distinction which cannot safely be lost sight of, how important
the difference, the existence of which is asserted by our possession of the two words, 'to
apprehend' and 'to comprehend' with their substantives 'apprehension' and 'comprehension.'
For indeed we 'apprehend' many truths, which we do not 'comprehend.' The great mysteries of
our faith--the doctrine, for instance, of the Holy Trinity, we lay hold upon it, we hang on
it, our souls live by it; but we do not 'comprehend' it, that is, we do not take it all in;
for it is a necessary attribute of God that He is incomprehensible; if He were not so, either
He would not be God, or the Being that comprehended Him would be God also (Matt, xi. 27). But
it also belongs to the idea of God that He may be 'apprehended' though not 'comprehended' by
his reasonable creatures; He has made them to know Him, though not to know Him all, to 'apprehend'
though not to 'comprehend' Him. We may transfer with profit the same distinction to matters
not quite so solemn. Thus I read Goldsmith's Traveller, or one of Gay's Fables, and I feel
that I 'comprehend' it;--I do not believe, that is, that there was anything stirring in the
poet's mind or intention, which I have not in the reading reproduced in my own. But I read
Hamlet, or King Lear: here I 'apprehend' much; I have wondrous glimpses of the poet's intention
and aim; but I do not for an instant suppose that I have 'comprehended,' taken in, that is,
all that was in his mind in the writing; or that his purpose does not stretch in manifold directions
far beyond the range of my vision; and I am sure there are few who would not shrink from affirming,
at least if they at all realized the force of the words they were using, that they 'comprehended
'Shakespeare; however much they may 'apprehend' in him.

How often 'opposite' and 'contrary' are used as if there was no difference between them, and
yet there is a most essential one, one which perhaps we may best express by saying that 'opposites'
complete, while 'contraries' exclude one another. Thus the most 'opposite' moral or mental
characteristics may meet in one and the same person, while to say that the most 'contrary'
did so, would be manifestly absurd; for example, a soldier may be at once prudent and bold,
for these are opposites; he could not be at once prudent and rash, for these are contraries.
We may love and fear at the same time and the same person; we pray in the Litany that we may
love and dread God, the two being opposites, and thus the complements of one another; but to
pray that we might love and hate would be as illogical as it would be impious, for these are
contraries, and could no more co-exist together than white and black, hot and cold, in the
same subject at the same time. Or to take another illustration, sweet and sour are 'opposites,'
sweet and bitter are 'contraries,' [Footnote: See Coleridge, Church and State, p. 18.] It will
be seen then that there is always a certain relation between 'opposites'; they unfold themselves,
though in different directions, from the same root, as the positive and negative forces of
electricity, and in their very opposition uphold and sustain one another; while 'contraries'
encounter one another from quarters quite diverse, and one only subsists in the exact degree
that it puts out of working the other. Surely this distinction cannot be an unimportant one
either in the region of ethics or elsewhere.

It will happen continually, that rightly to distinguish between two words will throw a flood
of light upon some controversy in which they play a principal part, nay, may virtually put
an end to that controversy altogether. Thus when Hobbes, with a true instinct, would have laid
deep the foundations of atheism and despotism together, resolving all right into might, and
not merely robbing men, if he could, of the power, but denying to them the duty, of obeying
God rather than man, his sophisms could stand only so long as it was not perceived that 'compulsion'
and 'obligation,' with which he juggled, conveyed two ideas perfectly distinct, indeed disparate,
in kind. Those sophisms of his collapsed at once, so soon as it was perceived that what pertained
to one had been transferred to the other by a mere confusion of terms and cunning sleight of
hand, the former being a physical, the latter a moral, necessity.

There is indeed no such fruitful source of confusion and mischief as this--two words are tacitly
assumed as equivalent, and therefore exchangeable, and then that which may be assumed, and
with truth, of one, is assumed also of the other, of which it is not true. Thus, for instance,
it often is with 'instruction' and 'education,' Cannot we 'instruct' a child, it is asked,
cannot we teach it geography, or arithmetic, or grammar, quite independently of the Catechism,
or even of the Scriptures? No doubt you may; but can you 'educate' without bringing moral and
spiritual forces to bear upon the mind and affections of the child? And you must not be permitted
to transfer the admissions which we freely make in regard of 'instruction,' as though they
also held good in respect of 'education.' For what is 'education'? Is it a furnishing of a
man from without with knowledge and facts and information? or is it a drawing forth from within
and a training of the spirit, of the true humanity which is latent in him? Is the process of
education the filling of the child's mind, as a cistern is filled with waters brought in buckets
from some other source? or the opening up for that child of fountains which are already there?
Now if we give any heed to the word 'education,' and to the voice which speaks therein, we
shall not long be in doubt. Education must educe, being from 'educare,' which is but another
form of 'educere'; and that is to draw out, and not to put in. 'To draw out' what is in the
child, the immortal spirit which is there, this is the end of education; and so much the word
declares. The putting in is indeed most needful, that is, the child must be instructed as well
as educated, and 'instruction' means furnishing; but not instructed instead of educated. He
must first have powers awakened in him, measures of value given him; and then he will know
how to deal with the facts of this outward world; then instruction in these will profit him;
but not without the higher training, still less as a substitute for it.

It has occasionally happened that the question which out of two apparent synonyms should be
adopted in some important state-document has been debated with no little earnestness and passion;
as at the great English Revolution of 1688, when the two Houses of Parliament were at issue
whether it should be declared of James II, that he had 'abdicated,' or had 'deserted,' the
throne. This might seem at first sight a mere strife about words, and yet, in reality, serious
constitutional questions were involved in the debate. The Commons insisted on the word 'abdicated,'
not as wishing to imply that in any act of the late king there had been an official renunciation
of the crown, which would have been manifestly untrue; but because 'abdicated' in their minds
alone expressed the fact that James had so borne himself as virtually to have entirely renounced,
disowned, and relinquished the crown, to have forfeited and separated himself from it, and
from any right to it for ever; while 'deserted' would have seemed to leave room and an opening
for a return, which they were determined to declare for ever excluded; as were it said of a
husband that he had 'deserted' his wife, or of a soldier that he had 'deserted' his colours,
this language would imply not only that he might, but that he was bound to return. The speech
of Lord Somers on the occasion is a masterly specimen of synonymous discrimination, and an
example of the uses in highest matters of state to which it may be turned. As little was it
a mere verbal struggle when, at the restoration a good many years ago of our interrupted relations
with Persia, Lord Palmerston insisted that the Shah should address the Queen of England not
as 'Maleketh' but as 'Padischah,' refusing to receive letters which wanted this superscription.

Let me press upon you, in conclusion, some few of the many advantages
to be derived from the habit of distinguishing synonyms. These
advantages we might presume to be many, even though we could not
ourselves perceive them; for how often do the greatest masters of style
in every tongue, perhaps none so often as Cicero, the greatest of all,
[Footnote: Thus he distinguishes between 'voluntas' and 'cupiditas';
'cautio' and 'metus' (Tusc. iv. 6); 'gaudium,' 'laetitia,' 'voluptas'
(Tusc. iv. 6; Fin. ii. 4); 'prudentia' and 'sapientia' (Off. i.
43); 'caritas' and 'amor' (De Part. Or. 25); 'ebrius' and 'ebriosus,'
'iracundus' and 'iratus,' 'anxietas' and 'angor' (Tusc. iv. 12);
'vitium,' 'morbus,' and 'aegrotatio' (Tusc. iv. 13); 'labor' and
'dolor' (Tusc. ii. 15); 'furor' and 'insania' (Tusc. iii. 5);
'malitia' and 'vitiositas' (Tusc. iv. 15); 'doctus' and 'peritus'
(Off. i. 3). Quintilian also often bestows attention on synonyms,
observing well (vi. 3. 17): 'Pluribus nominibus in eadem re vulgo
utimur; quae tamen si diducas, suam quandam propriam vim ostendent;' he
adduces 'salsum,' 'urbanum,' 'facetum'; and elsewhere (v. 3) 'rumor'
and 'fama' are discriminated happily by him. Among Church writers
Augustine is a frequent and successful discriminator of words. Thus he
separates off from one another 'flagitium' and 'facinus' (De Doct.
Christ, iii. 10); 'aemulatio' and 'invidia' (Expl. ad Gal. x. 20);
'arrha' and 'pignus' (Serm. 23. 8,9); 'studiosus' and 'curiosus' (De
Util. Cred. 9); 'sapientia' and 'scientia' (De Div. Quaes. 2, qu.
2); 'senecta' and 'senium' (Enarr. in Ps. 70. l8); 'schisma' and
'haeresis' (Con. Cresc. 2. 7); with many more (see my Synonyms of
the N.T. Preface, p. xvi). Among the merits of the Grimms'
Woerterbuch is the care which they, and those who have taken up their
work, bestow on the discrimination of synonyms; distinguishing, for
example, 'degen' and 'schwert'; 'feld,' 'acker' and 'heide'; 'aar' and
'adler'; 'antlitz' and 'angesicht'; 'kelch,' 'becher' and 'glas';
'frau' and 'weib'; 'butter,' 'schmalz' and 'anke'; 'kopf' and 'haupt';
'klug' and 'weise'; 'geben' and 'schenken'; 'heirath' and 'ehe.']
pause to discriminate between the words they are using; how much care
and labour, how much subtlety of thought, they have counted well
bestowed on the operation; how much importance they avowedly attach to
it; not to say that their works, even where they do not intend it, will
afford a continual lesson in this respect: a great writer merely in the
precision and accuracy with which he employs words will always be
exercising us in synonymous distinction. But the advantages of
attending to synonyms need not be taken on trust; they are evident. How
large a part of true wisdom it is to be able to distinguish between
things that differ, things seemingly, but not really, alike, is very
remarkably attested by our words 'discernment' and 'discretion'; which
are now used as equivalent, the first to 'insight,' the second to
'prudence'; while yet in their earlier usage, and according to their
etymology, being both from 'discerno,' they signify the power of so
seeing things that in the seeing we distinguish and separate them one
from another. [Footnote: L'esprit consiste a connaitre la ressemblance
des choses diverses, et la difference des choses semblables
(Montesquieu). Saint-Evremond says of a reunion of the Precieuses at
the Hotel Rambouillet, with a raillery which is not meant to be
disrespectful--
    'La se font distinguer les fiertes des rigueurs,
     Les dedains des mepris, les tourments des langueurs;
     On y sait demeler la crainte et les alarmes,
     Discerner les attraits, les appas et les charmes.'] Such were
originally 'discernment' and 'discretion,' and such in great measure
they are still. And in words is a material ever at hand on which to
train the spirit to a skilfulness in this; on which to exercise its
sagacity through the habit of distinguishing there where it would be so
easy to confound. [Footnote: I will suggest here a few pairs or larger
groups of words on which those who are willing to exercise themselves
in the distinction of synonyms might perhaps profitably exercise their
skill;--'fame,' 'popularity,' 'celebrity,' 'reputation,' 'renown';--
'misfortune,' 'calamity,' 'disaster';--'impediment,' 'obstruction,'
'obstacle,' 'hindrance';--'temerity,' 'audacity,' 'boldness';--
'rebuke,' 'reprimand,' 'censure,' 'blame';--'adversary,' 'opponent,'
'antagonist,' 'enemy';--'rival,' 'competitor';--'affluence,'
'opulence,' 'abundance,' 'redundance';--'conduct,' 'behaviour,'
'demeanour,' 'bearing';--'execration,' 'malediction,' 'imprecation,'
'anathema';--'avaricious,' 'covetous,' 'miserly,' 'niggardly';--
'hypothesis,' 'theory,' 'system' (see De Quincey, Lit. Rem. American
ed. p.229);--'masculine,' 'manly';--'effeminate,' 'feminine';--
'womanly,' 'womanish';--'malicious,' 'malignant';--'savage,'
'barbarous,' 'fierce,' 'cruel,' 'inhuman';--'low, 'mean,' 'abject,'
'base';--'to chasten,' 'to punish,' 'to chastise';--'to exile,' 'to
banish';--'to declare,' 'to disclose,' 'to reveal,' 'to divulge';--'to
defend,' 'to protect,' 'to shelter';--'to excuse,' 'to palliate';--'to
compel,' 'to coerce,' 'to constrain,' 'to force.'] Nor is this habit
of discrimination only valuable as a part of our intellectual training;
but what a positive increase is it of mental wealth when we have
learned to discern between things which really differ, and have made
the distinctions between them permanently our own in the only way
whereby they can be made secure, that is, by assigning to each its
appropriate word and peculiar sign.

In the effort to trace lines of demarcation you may little by little be drawn into the heart
of subjects the most instructive; for only as you have thoroughly mastered a subject, and all
which is most characteristic about it, can you hope to trace these lines with accuracy and
success. Thus a Roman of the higher classes might bear four names: 'praenomen,' 'nomen,' 'cognomen,'
'agnomen'; almost always bore three. You will know something of the political and family life
of Rome when you can tell the exact story of each of these, and the precise difference between
them. He will not be altogether ignorant of the Middle Ages and of the clamps which in those
ages bound society together, who has learned exactly to distinguish between a 'fief' and a
'benefice.' He will have obtained a firm grasp on some central facts of theology who can exactly
draw out the distinction between 'reconciliation,' 'propitiation,' 'atonement,' as used in
the New Testament; of Church history, who can trace the difference between a 'schism' and a
'heresy.' One who has learned to discriminate between 'detraction' and 'slander,' as Barrow
has done before him, [Footnote: 'Slander involveth an imputation of falsehood, but detraction
may be couched in truth, and clothed in fair language. It is a poison often infused in sweet
liquor, and ministered in a golden cup.' Compare Spenser, Fairy Queen, 5. 12. 28-43.] or between
'emulation' and 'envy,' in which South has excellently shown him the way, [Footnote: Sermons,
1737, vol. v. p. 403. His words are quoted in my Select Glossary, s. v 'Emulation.'] or between
'avarice' and 'covetousness,' with Cowley, will have made no unprofitable excursion into the
region of ethics.

How effectual a help, moreover, will it prove to the writing of a good English style, if instead
of choosing almost at hap-hazard from a group of words which seem to us one about as fit for
our purpose as another, we at once know which, and which only, we ought in the case before
us to employ, which will prove the exact vesture of our thoughts. It is the first characteristic
of a well-dressed man that his clothes fit him: they are not too small and shrunken here, too
large and loose there. Now it is precisely such a prime characteristic of a good style, that
the words fit close to the thoughts. They will not be too big here, hanging like a giant's
robe on the limbs of a dwarf; nor too small there, as a boy's garments into which the man has
painfully and ridiculously thrust himself. You do not, as you read, feel in one place that
the writer means more than he has succeeded in saying; in another that he has said more than
he means; in a third something beside what his precise intention was; in a fourth that he has
failed to convey any meaning at all; and all this from a lack of skill in employing the instrument
of language, of precision in knowing what words would be the exactest correspondents and aptest
exponents of his thoughts. [Footnote: La propriete des termes est le caractere distinctif des
grands ecrivains; c'est par la que leur style est toujours au niveau de leur sujet; c'est a
cette qualite qu'on reconnait le vrai talent d'ecrire, et non a l'art futile de deguiser par
un vain coloris les idees communes. So D'Alembert; but Caesar long before had said, Delectus
verborum, eloquentiae origo.]

What a wealth of words in almost every language lies inert and unused; and certainly not fewest
in our own. How much of what might be as current coin among us, is shut up in the treasure-house
of a few classical authors, or is never to be met at all but in the columns of the dictionary,
we meanwhile, in the midst of all this riches, condemning ourselves to a voluntary poverty;
and often, with tasks the most delicate and difficult to accomplish,--for surely the clothing
of thought in its most appropriate garment of words is such,--needlessly depriving ourselves
of a large portion of the helps at our command; like some workman who, being furnished for
an operation that will challenge all his skill with a dozen different tools, each adapted for
its own special purpose, should in his indolence and self-conceit persist in using only one;
doing coarsely what might have been done finely; or leaving altogether undone that which, with
such assistances, was quite within his reach. And thus it comes to pass that in the common
intercourse of life, often too in books, a certain restricted number of words are worked almost
to death, employed in season and out of season--a vast multitude meanwhile being rarely, if
at all, called to render the service which they could render far better than any other; so
rarely, indeed, that little by little they slip out of sight and are forgotten nearly or altogether.
And then, perhaps, at some later day, when their want is felt, the ignorance into which we
have allowed ourselves to fall, of the resources offered by the language to satisfy new demands,
sends us abroad in search of outlandish substitutes for words which we already possess at home.
[Footnote: Thus I observe in modern French the barbarous 'derailler,' to get off the rail;
and this while it only needed to recall 'derayer' from the oblivion into which it had been
allowed to fall.] It was, no doubt, to avoid so far as possible such an impoverishment of the
language which he spoke and wrote, for the feeding of his own speech with words capable of
serving him well, but in danger of falling quite out of his use, that the great Lord Chatham
had Bailey's Dictionary', the best of his time, twice read to him from one end to the other.

And let us not suppose the power of exactly saying what we mean, and
neither more nor less than we mean, to be merely a graceful mental
accomplishment. It is indeed this, and perhaps there is no power so
surely indicative of a high and accurate training of the intellectual
faculties. But it is much more than this: it has a moral value as well.
It is nearly allied to morality, inasmuch as it is nearly connected
with truthfulness. Every man who has himself in any degree cared for
the truth, and occupied himself in seeking it, is more or less aware
how much of the falsehood in the world passes current under the
concealment of words, how many strifes and controversies,
     'Which feed the simple, and offend the wise,'
find all or nearly all the fuel that maintains them in words carelessly
or dishonestly employed. And when a man has had any actual experience
of this, and at all perceived how far this mischief reaches, he is
sometimes almost tempted to say with Shakespeare, 'Out, idle words,
servants to shallow fools'; to adopt the saying of his clown, 'Words
are grown so false I am loathe to prove reason with them.' He cannot,
however, forego their employment; not to say that he will presently
perceive that this falseness of theirs whereof he accuses them, this
cheating power, is not of their proper use, but only of their abuse;
he will see that, however they may have been enlisted in the service of
lies, they are yet of themselves most true; and that, where the bane is,
there the antidote should be sought as well. If Goethe's Faust
denounces words and the falsehood of words, it is by the aid of words
that he does it. Ask then words what they mean, that you may deliver
yourselves, that you may help to deliver others, from the tyranny of
words, and, to use Baxter's excellent phrase, from the strife of 'word-
warriors.' Learn to distinguish between them, for you have the authority
of Hooker, that 'the mixture of those things by speech, which by nature
are divided, is the mother of all error.' [Footnote: See on all this
matter in Locke's Essay on Human Understanding, chapters 9, 10 and 11
of the 3rd book, certainly the most remarkable in the Essay; they bear
the following titles: Of the Imperfection of Words, Of the Abuse of
Words, Of the Remedies of the Imperfection and Abuse of Words.] And
although I cannot promise you that the study of synonyms, or the
acquaintance with derivations, or any other knowledge but the very highest
knowledge of all, will deliver you from the temptation to misuse this or
any other gift of God--a temptation always lying so near us--yet I am sure
that these studies rightly pursued will do much in leading us to stand in
awe of this gift of speech, and to tremble at the thought of turning it to
any other than those worthy ends for which God has endowed us with a
faculty so divine.

LECTURE VII.

THE SCHOOLMASTER'S USE OF WORDS.

At the Great Exhibition of 1851, there might be seen a collection, probably by far the completest
which had ever been got together, of what were called the material helps of education. There
was then gathered in a single room all the outward machinery of moral and intellectual training;
all by which order might be best maintained, the labour of the teacher and the taught economized,
with a thousand ingenious devices suggested by the best experience of many minds, and of these
during many years. Nor were these material helps of education merely mechanical. There were
in that collection vivid representations of places and objects; models which often preserved
their actual forms and proportions, not to speak of maps and of books. No one who is aware
how much in schools, and indeed everywhere else, depends on what apparently is slight and external,
would lightly esteem the helps and hints which such a collection would furnish. And yet it
would be well for us to remember that even if we were to obtain all this apparatus in its completest
form, at the same time possessing the most perfect skill in its application, so that it should
never encumber but always assist us, we should yet have obtained very little compared with
that which, as a help to education, is already ours. When we stand face to face with a child,
that spoken or unspoken word which the child possesses in common with ourselves is a far more
potent implement and aid of education than all these external helps, even though they should
be accumulated and multiplied a thousandfold. A reassuring thought for those who may not have
many of these helps within their reach, a warning thought for those who might be tempted to
put their trust in them. On the occasion of that Exhibition to which I have referred, it was
well said, 'On the structure of language are impressed the most distinct and durable records
of the habitual operations of the human powers. In the full possession of language each man
has a vast, almost an inexhaustible, treasure of examples of the most subtle and varied processes
of human thought. Much apparatus, many material helps, some of them costly, may be employed
to assist education; but there is no apparatus which is so necessary, or which can do so much,
as that which is the most common and the cheapest--which is always at hand, and ready for every
need. Every language contains in it the result of a greater number of educational processes
and educational experiments, than we could by any amount of labour and ingenuity accumulate
in any educational exhibition expressly contrived for such a purpose.'

Being entirely convinced that this is nothing more than the truth, I shall endeavour in my
closing lecture to suggest some ways in which you may effectually use this marvellous implement
which you possess to the better fulfilling of that which you have chosen as the proper task
of your life. You will gladly hear something upon this matter; for you will never, I trust,
disconnect what you may yourselves be learning from the hope and prospect of being enabled
thereby to teach others more effectually. If you do, and your studies in this way become a
selfish thing, if you are content to leave them barren of all profit to others, of this you
may be sure, that in the end they will prove not less barren of profit to yourselves. In one
noble line Chaucer has characterized the true scholar:--

'And gladly would he learn, and gladly teach.'

Print these words on your remembrance. Resolve that in the spirit of this line you will work
and live.

But take here a word or two of warning before we advance any further. You cannot, of course,
expect to make any original investigations in language; but you can follow safe guides, such
as shall lead you by right paths, even as you may follow such as can only lead you astray.
Do not fail to keep in mind that perhaps in no region of human knowledge are there such a multitude
of unsafe leaders as in this; for indeed this science of words is one which many, professing
for it an earnest devotion, have done their best or their worst to bring into discredit, and
to make a laughing-stock at once of the foolish and the wise. Niebuhr has somewhere noted 'the
unspeakable spirit of absurdity' which seemed to possess the ancients, whenever they meddled
with this subject; but the charge reaches others beside them. Their mantle, it must be owned,
has in after times often fallen upon no unworthy successors.

What is commoner, even now, than to find the investigator of words and their origin looking
round about him here and there, in all the languages, ancient and modern, to which he has any
access, till he lights on some word, it matters little to him in which of these, more or less
resembling that which he wishes to derive? and this found, to consider his problem solved,
and that in this phantom hunt he has successfully run down his prey. Even Dr. Johnson, with
his robust, strong, English common-sense, too often offends in this way. In many respects his
Dictionary will probably never be surpassed. We shall never have more concise, more accurate,
more vigorous explanations of the actual meaning of words, at the time when it was published,
than he has furnished. But even those who recognize the most fully this merit, must allow that
he was ill equipped by any preliminary studies for tracing the past history of words; that
in this he errs often and signally; sometimes where the smallest possible amount of knowledge
would have preserved him from error; as for instance when he derives the name of the peacock
from the peak, or tuft of pointed feathers, on its head! while other derivations proposed or
allowed by him and others are so far more absurd than this, that when Swift, in ridicule of
the whole band of philologers, suggests that 'ostler' is only a contraction of oat-stealer,
and 'breeches' of bear-riches, these etymologies are scarcely more ridiculous than many which
have in sober earnest, and by men of no inconsiderable reputation, been proposed.

Oftentimes in this scheme of random etymology, a word in one language is derived from one in
another, in bold defiance of the fact that no points of historic contact or connexion, mediate
or immediate, have ever existed between the two; the etymologist not caring to ask himself
whether it was thus so much as possible that the word should have passed from the one language
to the other; whether in fact the resemblance is not merely superficial and illusory, one which,
so soon as they are stripped of their accidents, disappears altogether. Take a few specimens
of this manner of dealing with words; and first from the earlier etymologists. Thus, what are
men doing but extending not the limits of their knowledge but of their ignorance, when they
deduce, with Varro, 'pavo' from 'pavor,' because of the fear which the harsh shriek of the
peacock awakens; or with Pliny, 'panthera' from [Greek: pan thaerion], because properties of
all beasts meet in the panther; or persuade themselves that 'formica,' the ant, is 'ferens
micas,' the grain-bearer. Medieval suggestions abound, as vain, and if possible, vainer still.
Thus Sirens, as Chaucer assures us, are 'serenes' being fair-weather creatures only to be seen
in a calm. [Footnote: Romaunt of the Rose, 678.] 'Apis,' a bee, is [Greek: apous] or without
feet, bees being born without feet, the etymology and the natural history keeping excellent
company together. Or what shall we say of deriving 'mors' from 'amarus,' because death is bitter;
or from 'Mars,' because death is frequent in war; or 'a morsu vetiti pomi,' because that forbidden
bite brought death into the world; or with a modern investigator of language, and one of high
reputation in his time, deducing 'girl' from 'garrula,' because girls are commonly talkative?
[Footnote: Menage is one of these 'blind leaders of the blind,' of whom I have spoken above.
With all their real, though not very accurate, erudition, his three folio volumes, two on French,
one on Italian etymologies, have done nothing but harm to the cause which they were intended
to further. Genin (Recreations Philologiques, pp. 12-15) passes a severe but just judgment
upon them. Menage, comme tous ses devanciers et la plupart de ses successeurs, semble n'avoir
ete dirige que par un seul principe en fait d'etymologie. Le voici dans son expression la plus
nette. Tout mot vient du mot qui lui ressemble le mieux. Cela pose, Menage, avec son erudition
polyglotte, s'abat sur le grec, le latin, l'italien, l'espagnol, l'allemand, le celtique, et
ne fait difficulte d'aller jusqu'a l'hebreu. C'est dommage que de son temps on ne cultivat
pas encore le sanscrit, l'hindotistani, le thibetain et l'arabe: il les eut contraints a lui
livrer des etymologies francaises. Il ne se met pas en peine des chemins par ou un mot hebreu
ou carthaginois aurait pu passer pour venir s'etablir en France. Il y est, le voila, suffit!
L'identite ne peut etre mise en question devant la ressemblance, et souvent Dieu sait quelle
ressemblance! Compare Ampere, Formation de la Langue Francaise, pp. 194, 195.]

All experience, indeed, proves how perilous it is to etymologize at random, and on the strength
of mere surface similarities of sound. Let me illustrate the absurdities into which this may
easily betray us by an amusing example. A clergyman, who himself told me the story, had sought,
and not unsuccessfully, to kindle in his schoolmaster a passion for the study of derivations.
His scholar inquired of him one day if he were aware of the derivation of 'crypt'? He naturally
applied in the affirmative, that 'crypt' came from a Greek word to conceal, and meant a covered
place, itself concealed, and where things which it was wished to conceal were placed. The other
rejoined that he was quite aware the word was commonly so explained, but he had no doubt erroneously;
that 'crypt,' as he had now convinced himself, was in fact contracted from 'cry-pit'; being
the pit where in days of Popish tyranny those who were condemned to cruel penances were plunged,
and out of which their cry was heard to come up--therefore called the 'cry-pit,' now contracted
into 'crypt'! Let me say, before quitting my tale, that I would far sooner a schoolmaster made
a hundred such mistakes than that he should be careless and incurious in all which concerned
the words which he was using. To make mistakes, as we are in the search of knowledge, is far
more honourable than to escape making them through never having set out in this search at all

But while errors like his may very well be pardoned, of this we may be sure, that they will
do little in etymology, will continually err and cause others to err, who in these studies
leave this out of sight for an instant--namely, that no amount of resemblance between words
in different languages is of itself sufficient to prove that they are akin, even as no amount
of apparent unlikeness in sound or present form is sufficient to disprove consanguinity. 'Judge
not according to appearances,' must everywhere here be the rule. One who in many regions of
human knowledge anticipated the discoveries of later times, said well a century and a half
ago, 'Many etymologies are true, which at the first blush are not probable'; [Footnote: Leibnitz
(Opp. vol. v. p. 61): Saepe fit ut etymologiae verae sint, quae primo aspectu verisimiles non
sunt.] and, as he might have added, many appear probable, which are not true. This being so,
it is our wisdom on the one side to distrust superficial likenesses, on the other not to be
repelled by superficial differences. Have no faith in those who etymologize on the strength
of sounds, and not on that of letters, and of letters, moreover, dealt with according to fixed
and recognized laws of equivalence and permutation. Much, as was said so well, is true, which
does not seem probable. Thus 'dens' [Footnote: Compare Max Muller, Chips from a German Workshop,
vol. iv. p. 25; Heyse, System der Sprachwissenschaft, p. 307.] and 'zahn' and 'tooth' are all
the same word, and such in like manner are [Greek: chen], 'anser,' 'gans,' and 'goose;' and
again, [Greek: dakru] and 'tear.' Who, on the other hand, would not take for granted that our
'much' and the Spanish 'mucho,' identical in meaning, were also in etymology nearly related?
There is in fact no connexion between them. Between 'vulgus' and 'volk' there is as little.
'Auge' the German form of our 'eye,' is in every letter identical with a Greek word for splendour
([Greek: auge]); and yet, intimate as is the connexion between German and Greek, these have
no relation with one another whatever. Not many years ago a considerable scholar identified
the Greek 'holos' ([Greek: holos]) and our 'whole;' and few, I should imagine, have not been
tempted at one stage of their knowledge to do the same. These also are in no way related. Need
I remind you here of the importance of seeking to obtain in every case the earliest spelling
of a word which is attainable? [Footnote: What signal gains may in this way be made no one
has shown more remarkably than Skeat in his Etymological Dictionary.]

Here then, as elsewhere, the condition of all successful investigation is to have learned to
disregard phenomena, the deceitful shows and appearances of things; to have resolved to reach
and to grapple with the things themselves. It is the fable of Proteus over again. He will take
a thousand shapes wherewith he will seek to elude and delude one who is determined to extort
from him that true answer, which he is capable of yielding, but will only yield on compulsion.
The true inquirer is deceived by none of these. He still holds him fast; binds him in strong
chains; until he takes his proper shape at the last; and answers as a true seer, so far as
answer is possible, whatever question may be put to him. Nor, let me observe by the way, will
that man's gain be small who, having so learned to distrust the obvious and the plausible,
carries into other regions of study and of action the lessons which he has thus learned; determines
to seek the ground of things, and to plant his foot upon that; believes that a lie may look
very fair, and yet be a lie after all; that the truth may show very unattractive, very unlikely
and paradoxical, and yet be the very truth notwithstanding.

To return from a long, but not unnecessary digression. I need hardly tell you that the fundamental
idea of this is that all words should be spelt as they are sounded, that the writing should,
in every case, be subordinated to the speaking. [Footnote: I do not know whether the advocates
of phonetic spelling have urged the authority and practice of Augustus as being in their favour.
Suetonius, among other amusing gossip about this Emperor, records of him: Videtur eorum sequi
opinionem, qui perinde scribendum ac loquamur, existiment (Octavius. c. 88).] This, namely
that writing should in every case and at all costs be subordinated to speaking, which is everywhere
tacitly assumed as not needing any proof, is the fallacy which runs through the whole scheme.
There is, indeed, no necessity at all for this. Every word, on the contrary, has two existences,
as a spoken word and a written; and you have no right to sacrifice one of these, or even to
subordinate it wholly, to the other. A word exists as truly for the eye as for the ear; and
in a highly advanced state of society, where reading is almost as universal as speaking, quite
as much for the one as for the other. That in the written word moreover is the permanence and
continuity of language and of learning, and that the connexion is most intimate of a true orthography
with all this, is affirmed in our words, 'letters,' 'literature,' 'unlettered,' as in other
languages by words exactly corresponding to these. [Footnote: As [Greek: grammata, agrammatos],
litterae, belles-lettres.] The gains consequent on the introduction of such a change in our
manner of spelling would be insignificantly small, the losses enormously great. There would
be gain in the saving of a certain amount of the labour now spent in learning to spell. The
amount of labour, however, is absurdly exaggerated by the promoters of the scheme. I forget
how many thousand hours a phonetic reformer lately assured us were on an average spent by every
English child in learning to spell; or how much time by grown men, who, as he assured us, for
the most part rarely attempted to write a letter without a Johnson's Dictionary at their side.
But even this gain would not long remain, seeing that pronunciation is itself continually changing;
custom is lord here for better and for worse; and a multitude of words are now pronounced in
a manner different from that of a hundred years ago, indeed from that of ten years ago; so
that, before very long, there would again be a chasm between the spelling and the pronunciation
of words;--unless indeed the spelling varied, which it could not consistently refuse to do,
as the pronunciation varied, reproducing each of its capricious or barbarous alterations; these
last, it must be remembered, being changes not in the pronunciation only, but in the word itself,
which would only exist as pronounced, the written word being a mere shadow servilely waiting
upon the spoken. When these changes had multiplied a little, and they would indeed multiply
exceedingly on the removal of the barriers to change which now exist, what the language before
long would become, it is not easy to guess.

This fact however, though sufficient to show how ineffectual the scheme of phonetic spelling
would prove, even for the removing of those inconveniences which it proposes to remedy, is
only the smallest objection to it. The far more serious charge which may be brought against
it is, that in words out of number it would obliterate those clear marks of birth and parentage,
which they bear now upon their fronts, or are ready, upon a very slight interrogation, to reveal.
Words have now an ancestry; and the ancestry of words, as of men, is often a very noble possession,
making them capable of great things, because those from whom they are descended have done great
things before them; but this would deface their scutcheon, and bring them all to the same ignoble
level. Words are now a nation, grouped into tribes and families, some smaller, some larger;
this change would go far to reduce them to a promiscuous and barbarous horde. Now they are
often translucent with their inner thought, lighted up by it; in how many cases would this
inner light be then quenched! They have now a body and a soul, the soul quickening the body;
then oftentimes nothing but a body, forsaken by the spirit of life, would remain. These objections
were urged long ago by Bacon, who characterizes this so-called reformation, 'that writing should
be consonant to speaking,' as 'a branch of unprofitable subtlety;' and especially urges that
thereby 'the derivations of words, especially from foreign languages, are utterly defaced and
extinguished.' [Footnote: The same attempt to introduce phonography has been several times
made, once in the sixteenth century, and again some thirty years ago in France. What would
be there the results? We may judge of these from the results of a partial application of the
system. 'Temps' is now written 'tems,' the p having been ejected as superfluous. What is the
consequence? at once its visible connexion with the Latin 'tempus,' with the Spanish 'tiempo,'
with the Italian 'tempo,' with its own 'temporel' and 'temporaire,' is broken, and for many
effaced. Or note the result from another point of view. Here are 'poids' a weight, 'poix' pitch,
'pois' peas. No one could mark in speaking the distinction between these; and thus to the ear
there maybe confusion between them, but to the eye there is none; not to say that the d in
poids' puts it for us in relation with 'pondus,' the x in 'poix' with 'pux,' the s in 'pois'
with the Low Latin 'pisum.' In each case the letter which these reformers would dismiss as
useless, and worse than useless, keeps the secret of the word. On some other attempts in the
same direction see in D'Israeli, Amenities of Literature, an article On Orthography and Orthoepy;
and compare Diez, Romanische Sprache, vol. i. p. 52. [In the form poids we have a striking
example of a wretchedly bad spelling which is due to an attempt to make the spelling etymological.
Unfortunately the etymology is erroneous: the French word for weight has nothing in the world
to do with Latin pondus; it is the phonetic representative of the Latin pensum, and should
be spelt pois.]]

From the results of various approximations to phonetic spelling, which at different times have
been made, and the losses thereon ensuing, we may guess what the loss would be were the system
fully carried out. Of those fairly acquainted with Latin, it would be curious to know how many
have seen 'silva' in 'savage,' since it has been so written, and not 'salvage,' as of old?
or have been reminded of the hindrances to a civilized and human society which the indomitable
forest, more perhaps than any other obstacle, presents. When 'fancy' was spelt 'phant'sy,'
as by Sylvester in his translation of Du Bartas, and other scholarly writers of the seventeenth
century, no one could doubt of its identity with 'phantasy,' as no Greek scholar could miss
its relation with phantasia. Spell 'analyse' as I have sometimes seen it, and as phonetically
it ought to be, 'annalize,' and the tap-root of the word is cut. How many readers will recognize
in it then the image of dissolving and resolving aught into its elements, and use it with a
more or less conscious reference to this? It may be urged that few do so even now. The more
need they should not be fewer; for these few do in fact retain the word in its place, from
which else it might gradually drift; they preserve its vitality, and the propriety of its use,
not merely for themselves, but also for the others that have not this knowledge. In phonetic
spelling is, in fact, the proposal that the learned and the educated should of free choice
place themselves under the disadvantages of the ignorant and uneducated, instead of seeking
to elevate these last to their own more favoured condition.

On this subject one observation more. The multitude of difficulties of every sort and size
which would beset the period of transition, and that no brief period, from our present spelling
to the very easiest form of phonetic, seem to me to be almost wholly overlooked by those who
are the most eager to press forward this scheme: while yet it is very noticeable that so soon
as ever the 'Spelling Reform' approaches, however remotely, a practical shape, the Reformers,
who up to this time were at issue with all the rest of the world, are at once at issue among
themselves. At once the question comes to the front, Shall the labour-pangs of this immense
new-birth or transformation of English be encountered all at once? or shall they be spread
over years, and little by little the necessary changes introduced? It would not be easy to
bring together two scholars who have bestowed more thought and the results of more laborious
study on the whole subject of phonetic spelling than Mr. Ellis and Dr. Murray have done, while
yet at the last annual meeting of the Philological Society (May 20, 1881) these two distinguished
scholars, with mutual respect undiminished, had no choice but to acknowledge that, while they
were seeking the same objects, the means by which they sought to attain them were altogether
different, and that, in the judgment of each, all which the other was doing in setting forward
results equally dear to both was only tending to put hindrances in the way, and to make the
attainment of those results remoter than ever. [Footnote: [For arguments in defence of phonetic
spelling the student is referred to Sweet's Handbook of Phonetics (Appendix); Skeat's Principles
of English Etymology, p. 294; Max Muller's Lectures on the Science of Language, ii. 108.]]

But to return. Even now the relationships of words, so important for our right understanding
of them, are continually overlooked; a very little matter serving to conceal from us the family
to which they pertain. Thus how many of our nouns are indeed unsuspected participles, or are
otherwise most closely connected with verbs, with which we probably never think of putting
them in relation. And yet with how lively an interest shall we discover those to be of closest
kin, which we had never considered but as entire strangers to one another; what increased mastery
over our mother tongue shall we through such discoveries obtain. Thus 'wrong' is the perfect
participle of 'to wring' that which has been 'wrung' or wrested from the right; as in French
'tort,' from 'torqueo,' is the twisted. The 'brunt' of the battle is its heat, where it 'burns'
the most fiercely; [Footnote: The word brunt is a somewhat difficult form to explain. It is
probably of Scandinavian origin; compare Danish brynde, heat. For the dental suffix -t, see
Douse, Gothic, p. 101. The suffix is not participial.] the 'haft' of a knife, that whereby
you 'have' or hold it.

This exercise of putting words in their true relation and connexion with one another might
be carried much further. Of whole groups of words, which may seem to acknowledge no kinship
with one another, it will not be difficult to show that they had the same parentage, or, if
not this, a cousinship in common. For instance, here are 'shore,' 'share,' 'shears'; 'shred,'
'sherd'; all most closely connected with the verb 'to sheer.' 'Share' is a portion of anything
divided off; 'shears' are instruments effecting this process of separation; the 'shore' is
the place where the continuity of the land is interrupted by the sea; a 'shred' is that which
is shorn from the main piece; a 'sherd,' as a pot-'sherd,' (also 'pot-share,' Spenser,) that
which is broken off and thus divided from the vessel; these not all exhausting this group or
family of words, though it would occupy more time than we can spare to put some other words
in their relation with it.

But this analysing of groups of words for the detecting of the bond of relationship between
them, and their common root, may require more etymological knowledge than you possess, and
more helps from books than you can always command. There is another process, and one which
may prove no less useful to yourselves and to others, which will lie more certainly within
your reach. You will meet in books, sometimes in the same book, and perhaps in the same page
of this book, a word used in senses so far apart from one another that at first it will seem
to you absurd to suppose any bond of connexion between them. Now when you thus fall in with
a word employed in these two or more senses so far removed from one another, accustom yourselves
to seek out the bond which there certainly is between these several uses. This tracing of that
which is common to and connects all its meanings can only be done by getting to its centre
and heart, to the seminal meaning, from which, as from a fruitful seed, all the others unfold
themselves; to the first link in the chain, from which every later one, in a direct line or
a lateral, depends. We may proceed in this investigation, certain that we shall find such,
or at least that such there is to be found. For nothing can be more certain than this (and
the non-recognition of it is a serious blemish in Johnson's Dictionary), that a word has originally
but one meaning, that all other uses, however widely they may diverge from one another and
recede from this one, may yet be affiliated to it, brought back to the one central meaning,
which grasps and knits them all together; just as the several races of men, black, white, and
yellow and red, despite of all their present diversity and dispersion, have a central point
of unity in that one pair from which they all have descended.

Let me illustrate this by two or three familiar examples. How various are the senses in which
'post' is used; as 'post'-office; 'post'-haste; a 'post' standing in the ground; a military
'post'; an official 'post'; 'to post' a ledger. Is it possible to find anything which is common
to all these uses of 'post'? When once we are on the right track, nothing is easier. 'Post'
is the Latin 'positus,' that which is placed; the piece of timber is 'placed' in the ground,
and so a 'post'; a military station is a 'post,' for a man is 'placed' in it, and must not
quit it without orders; to travel 'post,' is to have certain relays of horses ''placed' at
intervals, that so no delay on the road may occur; the 'post '-office avails itself of this
mode of communication; to 'post' a ledger is to 'place' or register its several items.

Once more, in what an almost infinite number of senses 'stock' is employed; we have live 'stock,'
'stock' in trade or on the farm, the village 'stocks,' the 'stock' of a gun, the 'stock'-dove,
the 'stocks,' on which ships are built, the 'stock' which goes round the neck, the family 'stock,'
the 'stocks,' or public funds, in which money is invested, with other 'stocks' besides these.
What point in common can we find between them all? This, that being all derived from one verb,
they cohere in the idea of fixedness which is common to them all. Thus, the 'stock' of a gun
is that in which the barrel is fixed; the village 'stocks' are those in which the feet are
fastened; the 'stock' in trade is the fixed capital; and so too, the 'stock' on the farm, although
the fixed capital has there taken the shape of horses and cattle; in the 'stocks' or public
funds, money sticks fast, inasmuch as those who place it there cannot withdraw or demand the
capital, but receive only the interest; the 'stock' of a tree is fast set in the ground; and
from this use of the word it is transferred to a family; the 'stock' is that from which it
grows, and out of which it unfolds itself. And here we may bring in the 'stock'-dove, as being
the 'stock' or stirps of the domestic kinds. I might group with these, 'stake' in both its
spellings; a 'stake' is stuck in the hedge and there remains; the 'stakes' which men wager
against the issue of a race are paid down, and thus fixed or deposited to answer the event;
a beef-'steak' is a portion so small that it can be stuck on the point of a fork; and so forward.
[Footnote: See the Instructions for Parish Priests, p. 69, published by the Early English Texts
Society.] When we thus affirm that the divergent meanings of a word can all be brought back
to some one point from which, immediately or mediately, they every one proceed, that none has
primarily more than one meaning, it must be remembered that there may very well be two words,
or, as it will sometimes happen, more, spelt as well as pronounced alike, which yet are wholly
different in their derivation and primary usage; and that, of course, between such homonyms
or homographs as these no bond of union on the score of this identity is to be sought. Neither
does this fact in the least invalidate our assertion. We have in them, as Cobbett expresses
it well, the same combination of letters, but not the same word. Thus we have 'page,' the side
of a leaf, from 'pagina,' and 'page,' a small boy; 'league,' a treaty (F. ligue), from 'ligare,'
to bind, and 'league' (O. F. legue), from leuca, a Celtic measure of distance; 'host' (hostis),
an army, 'host' (O. F. hoste), from the Latin hospitem, and 'host' (hostia), in the Roman Catholic
sacrifice of the mass. We have two 'ounces' (uncia and Pers. yuz); two 'seals' (sigillum and
seolh); two 'moods' (modus and mod); two 'sacks' (saccus and sec); two 'sounds' (sonus and
sund); two 'lakes' (lacus and lacca); two 'kennels' (canalis and canile); two 'partisans' (partisan
and partegiana); two 'quires' (choeur and cahier); two 'corns' (corn and cornu); two 'ears'
(ohr and aehre); two 'doles' (deuil and theil); two 'perches' (pertica and perca); two 'races'
(raes and the French race); two 'rocks,' two 'rooks,' two 'sprays,' two 'saws,' two 'strains,'
two 'trunks,' two 'burrows,' two 'helms,' two 'quarries'; three 'moles,' three 'rapes' (as
the 'rape' of Proserpine, the 'rape' of Bramber, 'rape'-seed); four 'ports,' three 'vans,'
three 'smacks.' Other homonyms in the language are the following: 'ash,' 'barb,' 'bark,' 'barnacle,'
'bat,' 'beam,' 'beetle,' 'bill,' 'bottle,' 'bound,' 'breeze,' 'bugle,' 'bull,' 'cape,' 'caper,'
'chap,' 'cleave,' 'club,' 'cob,' 'crab,' 'cricket,' 'crop,' 'crowd,' 'culver,' 'dam,' 'elder,'
'flag,' 'fog,' 'fold,' 'font,' 'fount,' 'gin,' 'gore,' 'grain,' 'grin,' 'gulf,' 'gum,' 'gust,'
'herd,' 'hind,' 'hip,' 'jade,' 'jar,' 'jet,' 'junk,' 'lawn,' 'lime,' 'link,' 'mace,' 'main,'
'mass,' 'mast,' 'match,' 'meal,' 'mint,' 'moor,' 'paddock,' 'painter,' 'pernicious,' 'plot,'
'pulse,' 'punch,' 'rush,' 'scale,' 'scrip,' 'shingle,' 'shock,' 'shrub,' 'smack,' 'soil,' 'stud,'
'swallow,' 'tap,' 'tent,' 'toil,' 'trinket,' 'turtle.' You will find it profitable to follow
these up at home, to trace out the two or more words which have clothed themselves in exactly
the same outward garb, and on what etymologies they severally repose; so too, as often as you
suspect the existence of homonyms, to make proof of the matter for yourselves, gradually forming
as complete a list of these as you can. [Footnote: For a nearly complete list of homonyms in
English see List of Homonyms at the end of Skeat's Etym. Dict.; Kock's Historical Grammar of
the English Language, vol. i. p. 223; Maetzner's Engl. Grammatik, vol. i. pp. 187-204; and
compare Dwight's Modern Philology, vol. ii. p. 311.] You may usefully do the same in any other
language which you study, for they exist in all. In them the identity is merely on the surface
and in sound, and it would, of course, be lost labour to seek for a point of contact between
meanings which have no closer connexion with one another in reality than they have in appearance.

Let me suggest some further exercises in this region of words. There are some which at once
provoke and promise to reward inquiry, by the evident readiness with which they will yield
up the secret, if duly interrogated by us. Many, as we have seen, have defied, and will probably
defy to the end, all efforts to dissipate the mystery which hangs over them; and these we must
be content to leave; but many announce that their explanations cannot be very far to seek.
Let me instance 'candidate.' Does it not argue an incurious spirit to be content that this
word should be given and received by us a hundred times, as at a contested election it is,
and we never ask ourselves, What does it mean? why is one offering himself to the choice of
his fellows called a 'candidate'? If the word lay evidently beyond our horizon, we might acquiesce
in our ignorance; but resting, as manifestly it does, upon the Latin 'candidus,' it challenges
inquiry, and a very little of this would at once put us in possession of the Roman custom for
which it witnesses--namely, that such as intended to claim the suffrages of the people for
any of the chief offices of the State, presented themselves beforehand to them in a white toga,
being therefore called 'candidati.' And as it so often happens that in seeking information
upon one subject we obtain it upon another, so will it probably be here; for in fully learning
what this custom was, you will hardly fail to learn how we obtained 'ambition,' what originally
it meant, and how Milton should have written--

     'To reign is worth ambition, though in hell.

Or again, any one who knows so much as that 'verbum' means a word, might well be struck by
the fact (and if he followed it up would be led far into the relation of the parts of speech
to one another), that in grammar it is not employed to signify any word whatsoever, but restricted
to the verb alone; 'verbum' is the verb. Surely here is matter for reflection. What gives to
the verb the right to monopolize the dignity of being 'the word'? Is it because the verb is
the animating power, the vital principle of every sentence, and that without which understood
or uttered, no sentence can exist? or can you offer any other reason? I leave this to your
own consideration.

We call certain books 'classics.' We have indeed a double use of the word, for we speak of
the Greek and Latin as the 'classical' languages, and the great writers in these as 'the classics';
while at other times you hear of a 'classical' English style, or of English 'classics.' Now
'classic' is connected plainly with 'classis.' What then does it mean in itself, and how has
it arrived at this double use? 'The term is drawn from the political economy of Rome. Such
a man was rated as to his income in the third class, such another in the fourth, and so on;
but he who was in the highest was emphatically said to be of the class, "classicus"--a class
man, without adding the number, as in that case superfluous; while all others were infra classem.
Hence, by an obvious analogy, the best authors were rated as "classici," or men of the highest
class; just as in English we say "men of rank" absolutely, for men who are in the highest ranks
of the state.' The mental process by which this title, which would apply rightly to the best
authors in all languages, came to be restricted to those only in two, and these two to be claimed,
to the seeming exclusion of all others, as the classical languages, is one constantly recurring,
making itself felt in all regions of human thought; to which therefore I would in passing call
your attention, though I cannot now do more.

There is one circumstance which you must by no means suffer to escape your own notice, nor
that of your pupils--namely, that words out of number, which are now employed only in a figurative
sense, did yet originally rest on some fact of the outward world, vividly presenting itself
to the imagination; which fact the word has incorporated and knit up with itself for ever.
If I may judge from my own experience, few intelligent boys would not feel that they had gained
something, when made to understand that 'to insult' means properly to leap as on the prostrate
body of a foe; 'to affront,' to strike him on the face; that 'to succour' means by running
to place oneself under one that is falling; 'to relent,' (connected with 'lentus,') to slacken
the swiftness of one's pursuit; [Footnote: 'But nothing might relent his hasty flight,' Spenser
F. Q. iii. 4.] 'to reprehend,' to lay hold of one with the intention of forcibly pulling him
back; 'to exonerate,' to discharge of a burden, ships being exonerated once; that 'to be examined'
means to be weighed. They would be pleased to learn that a man is called 'supercilious,' because
haughtiness with contempt of others expresses itself by the raising of the eyebrows or 'supercilium';
that 'subtle' (subtilis for subtexilis) is literally 'fine-spun'; that 'astonished' (attonitus)
is properly thunderstruck; that 'sincere' is without wax, (sine cera,) as the best and finest
honey should be; that a 'companion,' probably at least, is one with whom we share our bread,
a messmate; that a 'sarcasm' is properly such a lash inflicted by the 'scourge of the tongue'
as brings away the flesh after it; with much more in the same kind.

'Trivial' is a word borrowed from the life. Mark three or four persons standing idly at the
point where one street bisects at right angles another, and discussing there the idle nothings
of the day; there you have the living explanation of 'trivial,' 'trivialities,' such as no
explanation not rooting itself in the etymology would ever give you, or enable you to give
to others. You have there the 'tres viae,' the 'trivium'; and 'trivialities' properly mean
such talk as is holden by those idle loiterers that gather at this meeting of three roads.
[Footnote: But 'trivial' may be from 'trivium' in another sense; that is, from the 'trivium,'
or three preparatory disciplines,--grammar, arithmetic, and geometry,--as distinguished from
the four more advanced, or 'quadrivium'; these and those together being esteemed in the Middle
Ages to constitute a complete liberal education. Preparatory schools were often called 'trivial
schools,' as occupying themselves with the 'trivium.'] 'Rivals' properly are those who dwell
on the banks of the same river. But as all experience shows, there is no such fruitful source
of contention as a water-right, and these would be often at strife with one another in regard
of the periods during which they severally had a right to the use of the stream, turning it
off into their own fields before the time, or leaving open the sluices beyond the time, or
in other ways interfering, or being counted to interfere, with the rights of their neighbours.
And in this way 'rivals' came to be applied to any who were on any grounds in unfriendly competition
with one another.

By such teaching as this you may often improve, and that without turning play-time into lesson-time,
the hours of relaxation and amusement. But 'relaxation,' on which we have just lighted as by
chance, must not escape us. How can the bow be 'relaxed' or slackened (for this is the image),
which has not been bent, whose string has never been drawn tight? Having drawn tight the bow
of our mind by earnest toil, we may then claim to have it from time to time 'relaxed.' Having
been attentive and assiduous then, but not otherwise, we may claim 'relaxation' and amusement.
But 'attentive' and 'assiduous' are themselves words which will repay us to understand exactly
what they mean. He is 'assiduous' who sits close to his work; he is 'attentive,' who, being
taught, stretches out his neck that so he may not lose a word. 'Diligence' too has its lesson.
Derived from 'diligo,' to love, it reminds us that the secret of true industry in our work
is love of that work. And as truth is wrapped up in 'diligence,' what a lie, on the other hand,
lurks in 'indolence,' or, to speak more accurately, in our present employment of it! This,
from 'in' and 'doleo,' not to grieve, is properly a state in which we have no grief or pain;
and employed as we now employ it, suggests to us that indulgence in sloth constitutes for us
the truest negation of pain. Now no one would wish to deny that 'pain' and 'pains' are often
nearly allied; but yet these pains hand us over to true pleasures; while indolence is so far
from yielding that good which it is so forward to promise, that Cowper spoke only truth, when,
perhaps meaning to witness against the falsehood I have just denounced, he spoke of

    'Lives spent in indolence, and therefore sad,'

not 'therefore glad,' as the word 'indolence' would fain have us to believe.

There is another way in which these studies I have been urging may be turned to account. Doubtless
you will seek to cherish in your scholars, to keep lively in yourselves, that spirit and temper
which find a special interest in all relating to the land of our birth, that land which the
providence of God has assigned as the sphere of our life's task and of theirs. Our schools
are called 'national,' [Footnote: This was written in England, and in the year 1851.] and if
we would have them such in reality, we must neglect nothing that will foster a national spirit
in them. I know not whether this is sufficiently considered among us; yet certainly we cannot
have Church-schools worthy the name, least of all in England, unless they are truly national
as well. It is the anti-national character of the Roman Catholic system which perhaps more
than all else offends Englishmen; and if their sense of this should ever grow weak, their protest
against that system would soon lose much of its energy and strength. But here, as everywhere
else, knowledge must be the food of love. Your pupils must know something about England, if
they are to love it; they must see some connexion of its past with its present, of what it
has been with what it is, if they are to feel that past as anything to them.

And as no impresses of the past are so abiding, so none, when once attention has been awakened
to them, are so self-evident as those which names preserve; although, without this calling
of the attention to them, the most broad and obvious of these foot-prints which the past time
has left may continue to escape our observation to the end of our lives. Leibnitz tells us,
and one can quite understand, the delight with which a great German Emperor, Maximilian I.,
discovered that 'Habsburg,' or 'Hapsburg,' the ancestral name of his house, really had a meaning,
one moreover full of vigour and poetry. This he did, when he heard it by accident on the lips
of a Swiss peasant, no longer cut short and thus disguised, but in its original fulness, 'Habichtsburg,'
or 'Hawk's- Tower,' being no doubt the name of the castle which was the cradle of his race.
[Footnote: Opp. vol. vi. pt. 2. p. 20.] Of all the thousands of Englishmen who are aware that
Angles and Saxons established themselves in this island, and that we are in the main descended
from them, it would be curious to know how many have realized to themselves a fact so obvious
as that this 'England' means 'Angle-land,' or that in the names 'Essex,' 'Sussex,' and 'Middlesex,'
we preserve a record of East Saxons, South Saxons, and Middle Saxons, who occupied those several
portions of the land; or that 'Norfolk' and 'Suffolk' are two broad divisions of 'northern'
and 'southern folk,' into which the East Anglian kingdom was divided. 'Cornwall' does not bear
its origin quite so plainly upon its front, or tell its story so that every one who runs may
read. At the same time its secret is not hard to attain to. As the Teutonic immigrants advanced,
such of the British population as were not either destroyed or absorbed by them retreated,
as we all have learned, into Wales and Cornwall, that is, till they could retreat no further.
The fact is evidently preserved in the name of 'Wales', which means properly 'The foreigners,'--the
nations of Teutonic blood calling all bordering tribes by this name. But though not quite so
apparent on the surface, this fact is also preserved in 'Cornwall', written formerly 'Cornwales',
or the land inhabited by the Welsh of the Corn or Horn. The chroniclers uniformly speak of
North Wales and Corn-Wales. [Footnote: See Anglo-Saxon Chronicle, year 997, where mention is
made of the Cornwealas, the Cornish people.] These Angles, Saxons, and Britons or Welshmen,
about whom our pupils may be reading, will be to them more like actual men of flesh and blood,
who indeed trod this same soil which we are treading now, when we can thus point to traces
surviving to the present day, which they have left behind them, and which England, as long
as it is England, will retain.

The Danes too have left their marks on the land. We all probably, more or less, are aware how
much Danish blood runs in English veins; what large colonies from Scandinavia (for as many
may have come from Norway as from modern Denmark), settled in some parts of this island. It
will be interesting to show that the limits of this Danish settlement and occupation may even
now be confidently traced by the constant recurrence in all such districts of the names of
towns and villages ending in 'by,' which signified in their language a dwelling or single village;
as Netherby, Appleby, Derby, Whitby, Rugby. Thus if you examine closely a map of Lincolnshire,
one of the chief seats of the Danish settlement, you will find one hundred, or well nigh a
fourth part, of the towns and villages to have this ending, the whole coast being studded with
them--they lie nearly as close to one another as in Sleswick itself; [Footnote: Pott, Etym.
Forsch. vol. ii. pt. 2, p.1172] while here in Hampshire 'by' as such a termination, is utterly
unknown. Or again, draw a line transversely through England from Canterbury by London to Chester,
the line, that is, of the great Roman road, called Watling Street, and north of this six hundred
instances of the occurrence of the same termination may be found, while to the south there
are almost none. 'Thorpe,' equivalent to the German 'dorf' as Bishopsthorpe, Althorp, tells
the same tale of a Norse occupation of the soil; and the terminations, somewhat rarer, of 'thwaite,'
'haugh,' 'garth,' 'ness,' do the same no less. On the other hand, where, as in this south of
England, the 'hams' abound (the word is identical with our 'home'), as Buckingham, Egham, Shoreham,
there you may be sure that not Norsemen but West Germans took possession of the soil. 'Worth,'
or 'worthy,' tells the same story, as Bosworth, Kingsworthy; [Footnote: See Sweet's Oldest
English Texts (index).] the 'stokes' in like manner, as Basingstoke, Itchenstoke, are Saxon,
being (as some suppose) places stockaded, with stocks or piles for defence. You are yourselves
learning, or hereafter you may be teaching others, the names and number of the English counties
or shires. What a dull routine task for them and for you this may be, supplying no food for
the intellect, no points of attachment for any of its higher powers to take hold of! And yet
in these two little words, 'shire' and 'county,' if you would make them render up even a small
part of their treasure, what lessons of English history are contained! One who knows the origin
of these names, and how we come to possess such a double nomenclature, looks far into the social
condition of England in that period when the strong foundations of all that has since made
England glorious and great were being laid; by aid of these words may detect links which bind
its present to its remotest past; for of lands as of persons it may be said, 'the child is
father of the man,' 'Shire' is connected with 'shear,' 'share,' and is properly a portion 'shered'
or 'shorn' off. [Footnote: It must be confessed that there are insuperable difficulties in
the way of connecting Anglo-Saxon scir with the verb sceron, to shear, and of explaining it
as equivalent to 'shorn off.' The derivation of 'shire' has not yet been ascertained.] When
a Saxon king would create an earl, it did not lie in men's thoughts, accustomed as they were
to deal with realities, that such could be a merely titular creation, or exist without territorial
jurisdiction; and a 'share' or 'shire' was assigned him to govern, which also gave him his
title. But at the Conquest this Saxon officer was displaced by a Norman, the 'earl' by the
'count'--this title of 'count,' borrowed from the later Roman empire, meaning originally 'companion'
(comes), one who had the honour of being closest companion to his leader; and the 'shire' was
now the 'county' (comitatus), as governed by this 'comes.' In that singular and inexplicable
fortune of words, which causes some to disappear and die out under the circumstances apparently
most favourable for life, others to hold their ground when all seemed against them, 'count'
has disappeared from the titles of English nobility, while 'earl' has recovered its place;
although in evidence of the essential identity of the two titles, or offices rather, the wife
of the earl is entitled a 'countess'; and in further memorial of these great changes that so
long ago came over our land, the two names 'shire' and 'county' equally survive as in the main
interchangeable words in our mouths.

A large part of England, all that portion of it which the Saxons occupied, is divided into
'hundreds'. Have you ever asked yourselves what this division means, for something it must
mean? The 'hundred' is supposed to have been originally a group or settlement of one hundred
free families of Saxon incomers. If this was so, we have at once an explanation of the strange
disproportion between the area of the 'hundred' in the southern and in the more northern counties--the
average number of square miles in a 'hundred' of Sussex or Kent being about four and twenty;
of Lancashire more than three hundred. The Saxon population would naturally be far the densest
in the earlier settlements of the east and south, while more to west and north their tenure
would be one rather of conquest than of colonization, and the free families much fewer and
more scattered. [Footnote: Kemble, The Saxons in England, vol. i. p. 420; Stubbs, Constitutional
History of England, p. 98.] But further you have noticed, I dare say, the exceptional fact
that the county of Sussex, besides the division into hundreds, is divided also into six 'rapes';
thus the 'rape' of Bramber and so on. [This 'rape' is connected by Lappenberg, ii. 405 (1881),
with the Icel. hreppr, which according to the Gragas was a district in which twenty or more
peasants maintained one poor person].

Let us a little consider, in conclusion, how we may usefully bring our etymologies and other
notices of words to bear on the religious teaching which we would impart in our schools. To
do this with much profit we must often deal with words as the Queen does with the gold and
silver coin of the realm. When this has been current long, and by often passing from man to
man, with perhaps occasional clipping in dishonest hands, has lost not only the clear brightness,
the well- defined sharpness of outline, but much of the weight and intrinsic value which it
had when first issued from the royal mint, it is the sovereign's prerogative to recall it,
and issue it anew, with the royal image stamped on it afresh, bright and sharp, weighty and
full, as at first. Now to a process such as this the true mint-masters of language, and all
of us may be such, will often submit the words which they use. Where use and custom have worn
away their significance, we too may recall and issue them afresh. With how many it has thus
fared!--for example, with one which will be often in your mouths. You speak of the 'lessons'
of the day; but what is 'lessons' here for most of us save a lazy synonym for the morning and
evening chapters appointed to be read in church? But realize what the Church intended in calling
these chapters by this name; namely, that they should be the daily instruction of her children;
listen to them yourselves as such; lead your scholars to regard them as such, and in this use
of 'lessons' what a lesson for every one of us there may be! [Footnote: [Still etymologically
lessons mean simply 'readings, the word representing French lecons = Latin lectiones.]] 'Bible'
itself, while we not irreverently use it, may yet be no more to us than the verbal sign by
which we designate the written Word of God. Keep in mind that it properly means 'the book'
and nothing more; that once it could be employed of any book (in Chaucer it is so), and what
matter of thought and reflection lies in this our present restriction of 'bible' to one book,
to the exclusion of all others! So strong has been the sense of Holy Scripture being 'the Book,'
the worthiest and best, that book which explains all other books, standing up in their midst,--like
Joseph's kingly sheaf, to which all the other sheaves did obeisance,-- that this name of 'Bible'
or 'Book' has been restrained to it alone: just as 'Scripture' means no more than 'writing';
but this inspired Writing has been acknowledged so far above all other writings, that this
name also it has obtained as exclusively its own.

Again, something may be learned from knowing that the 'surname,' as distinguished from the
'Christian' name, is the name over and above, not 'sire'-name, or name received from the father,
as some explain, but 'sur'-name (super nomen). There was never, that is, a time when every
baptized man had not a Christian name, the recognition of his personal standing before God;
while the surname, the name expressing his relation, not to the kingdom of God, but to a worldly
society, is of much later growth, super-added to the other, as the word itself declares. What
a lesson at once in the growing up of a human society, and in the contrast between it and the
heavenly Society of the Church, might be appended to this explanation! There was a period when
only a few had surnames; had, that is, any significance in the order of things temporal; while
the Christian name from the first was the possession of every baptized man. All this might
be brought usefully to bear on your exposition of the first words in the Catechism.

There are long words from the Latin which, desire as we may to use all plainness of speech,
we cannot do without, nor find their adequate substitutes in homelier parts of our language;
words which must always remain the vehicles of much of that truth whereby we live. Now in explaining
these, make it your rule always to start, where you can, from the derivation, and to return
to that as often as you can. Thus you wish to explain 'revelation.' How much will be gained
if you can attach some distinct image to the word, one to which your scholars, as often as
they hear it, may mentally recur. Nor is this difficult. God's 'revelation' of Himself is a
drawing back of the veil or curtain which concealed Him from men; not man finding out God,
but God discovering Himself to man; all which is contained in the word. Or you wish to explain
'absolution.' Many will know that it has something to do with the pardon of sins; but how much
more accurately will they know this, when they know that 'to absolve' means 'to loosen from':
God's 'absolution' of men being his releasing of them from the bands of those sins with which
they were bound. Here every one will connect a distinct image with the word, such as will always
come to his help when he would realize what its precise meaning may be. That which was done
for Lazarus naturally, the Lord exclaiming, 'Loose him, and let him go,' the same is done spiritually
for us, when we receive the 'absolution' of our sins.

Tell your scholars that 'atonement' means 'at-one-ment'--the setting at one of those who were
at twain before, namely God and man, and they will attach to 'atonement' a definite meaning,
which perhaps in no way else it would have possessed for them; and, starting from this point,
you may muster the passages in Scripture which describe the sinner's state as one of separation,
estrangement, alienation, from God, the Christian's state as one in which he walks together
with God, because the two have been set 'at one.' Or you have to deal with the following, 'to
redeem,' 'Redeemer,' 'redemption.' Lose not yourselves in vague generalities, but fasten on
the central point of these, that they imply a 'buying,' and not this merely, but a 'buying
back'; and then connect with them, so explained, the whole circle of statements in Scripture
which rest on this image, which speak of sin as a slavery, of sinners as bondsmen of Satan,
of Christ's blood as a ransom, of the Christian as one restored to his liberty.

Many words more suggest themselves; I will not urge more than one; but that one, because in
it is a lesson more for ourselves than for others, and with such I would fain bring these lectures
to a close. How solemn a truth we express when we name our work in this world our 'vocation,'
or, which is the same in homelier Anglo-Saxon, our 'calling.' What a calming, elevating, ennobling
view of the tasks appointed us in this world, this word gives us. We did not come to our work
by accident; we did not choose it for ourselves; but, in the midst of much which may wear the
appearance of accident and self-choosing, came to it by God's leading and appointment. How
will this consideration help us to appreciate justly the dignity of our work, though it were
far humbler work, even in the eyes of men, than that of any one of us here present! What an
assistance in calming unsettled thoughts and desires, such as would make us wish to be something
else than that which we are! What a source of confidence, when we are tempted to lose heart,
and to doubt whether we shall carry through our work with any blessing or profit to ourselves
or to others! It is our 'vocation,' not our choosing but our 'calling'; and He who 'called'
us to it, will, if only we will ask Him, fit us for it, and strengthen us in it.