In the summer months our evergreens are greatly less noticeable. They are overshadowed and
eclipsed by the rich and exuberant foliage of our common but noble forest trees; but their
beauty is not, even then, lost. They give variety of hues to the forests which they fringe
or help to form; variety of shapes, and always exquisite, spicy, and healthful odors. But when
the autumn comes, with its infinitely varied tintings of orange and vermilion; when the frost
works its wonders, and the wooded hills are clothed with splendor--then the rich groups of
our native evergreens rise in their immortality of freshness. How exquisitely their bright
unfading green sets off and contrasts with the rich golds, glowing scarlets, russet browns,
purples, and crimsons, in all their delicate shades and evanescent hues! The forest leaves
grow sere and fall from their stems, sailing down singly or in groups, like bevies of frightened
birds, until the hickory, oak, maple, and elm stand uncrowned, disrobed, lifting their bare
arms to the winter skies; then higher and ever higher rises, as the gloom of winter deepens,
the glory of evergreen shrub and tree.

The fields are dull russet, the forests are black, each tree seems a skeleton; all nature,
save the evergreen, looks dead. But our mountains of firs, our hills of pine, our groves of
cedar, our thickets of holly, our cliffs crowned with laurel, full of life, and covered with
unchangeable verdure, keep eternally fresh and beautiful. Then come the great white silent
snowflakes, sailing round and falling gently down, alighting on trunk, branch, and leaf, and
covering and draping the hills, until they are pure and fair as the hills of Beulah. There
is a dreamlike beauty in an evergreen forest mantled with snow. What words could tell the purity
of coloring, the gracefulness of form of the pine boughs bending under their white burden of
feathery crystals? Especially is this true of the young and pliant trees in hedgerows and thickets,
and such as are everywhere springing up over the waste and wornout lands of Virginia.

The old monarch pine stands out like a sculptured column of ebony against the blue sky. Its
umbel top, crowned with white, makes a fitting capital for a shaft so noble. It is a picture,
in and of itself. The shrubs and young trees, so rich in leaves and verdure, so pliant to the
lines and curves of grace, when happily and picturesquely grouped, are almost bewilderingly
beautiful. Yet perhaps that which contains in itself the greatest number of the elements of
beauty, is the medium-sized pyramidal tree, be it of spruce, Norway pine, or balsam fir. It
unites at once, in its pyramidal shape, the strength and majesty of the old, and in its gracefully
curved limbs and abundant leaves, the beauty and freshness of the young tree. When loaded down
with a spotless burden of snow until its limbs are almost ready to break, no pyramid of art,
no monument chiselled by human hands, can hope to approach its pure and model beauty.

The evergreen itself, however, seems to know no season but spring. In none other does it appear
to change, and even then it casts not off the old--it only puts on the new in tenderer and
fresher beauty! The new growth of the spruce and fir, the pale yellowish-green tips set in
the dark old background, are exquisitely lovely; nor are the light green shoots of the white,
yellow, and pitch pine much, less beautiful.

Later comes the glory of the laurel bloom, the most beautiful woodflower in our climate. As
the other trees put on their leaves successively, the tinting of light, dark, and yellowish
green are infinitely varied and pleasing.

