IMPORTANCE OF RODENT GROUPS.

As the serious character of the depredations by harmful rodents is recognized, State, Federal,
and private expenditures for their control increase year by year. These depredations include
not only the attacks by introduced rats and mice on food materials stored in granaries, warehouses,
commercial establishments, docks, and private houses, but also, particularly in the Western
States, the ravages of several groups of native ground squirrels and other noxious rodents
in grain and certain other field crops. Nor is this all, for it has been found that such rodents
as prairie dogs, pocket gophers, marmots, ground squirrels, and rabbits take appreciable and
serious toll of the forage on the open grazing range; in fact, that they reduce the carrying
capacity of the range to such an extent that expenditures for control measures are amply justified.
Current estimates place the loss of goods due to rats and mice in warehouses and stores throughout
the United States at no less than $200,000,000 annually, and damage to the carrying capacity
of the open range and to cultivated crops generally by native rodents in the Western States
at $300,000,000 additional; added together, we have an impressive total from depredations of
rodents.

The distribution and life habits of rodents and the general consideration of their relation
to agriculture, forestry, and grazing, with special reference to the carrying capacity of stock
ranges, is a subject that has received attention for many years from the Biological Survey
of the United States Department of Agriculture. As a result of the investigations conducted
much has been learned concerning the economic status of most of the more important groups,
and the knowledge already gained forms the basis of the extensive rodent-control work already
in progress, and in which many States are cooperating with the bureau. If the work is to be
prosecuted intelligently and the fullest measure of success achieved, it is essential that
the consideration largely of groups as a whole be supplemented by more exhaustive treatment
of the life histories of individual species and of their place in the biological complex. The
present report is based upon investigations, chiefly in Arizona, of the life history, habits,
and economic status of the banner-tailed kangaroo rat, Dipodomys spectabilis spectabilis Merriam
(Pl. I).

INVESTIGATIONAL METHODS.

Some 18 years ago (in 1903) a tract of land 49.2 square miles in area on the Coronado National
Forest near the Santa Rita Mountains, Pima County, southern Arizona, was closed to grazing
by arrangement between the Forest Service and the Agricultural Experiment Station of the University
of Arizona. Since that time another small tract of nearly a section has been inclosed (Griffiths,
1910, 7[1]). This total area of approximately 50 square miles is known as the United States
Range Reserve, and is being devoted to a study of grazing conditions in this section and to
working out the best methods of administering the range (Pl. II, Fig. 1).

For some years an intensive study of the forage and other vegetative conditions of this area
has been made, the permanent vegetation quadrat, as proposed by Dr. F. E. Clements (1905, 161-175),
being largely utilized. During the autumn of 1917 representatives of the Carnegie Institution
and the Arizona Agricultural Experiment Station visited the Reserve and were impressed with
the evidence of rodent damage to the grass cover. Accordingly, the Biological Survey, the Agricultural
Experiment Station of the University of Arizona, the Carnegie Institution of Washington, and
the U. S. Forest Service have undertaken a study of the relation of the more important rodents
to the forage crop of the Range Reserve in Arizona.

The present paper is a first step in this larger investigation.[2] In this work the authors
have made no attempt to deal with the taxonomic side of the kangaroo rat problem. It is not
unlikely that intensive studies will show that the form now known as Dipodomys spectabilis
spectabilis is made up of a number of local variants, some of them perhaps worthy of recognition
as additional subspecies. But it is felt that the conclusions here reached will be little,
if at all, affected by such developments.

Color descriptions are based on Ridgway's Color Standards and Color Nomenclature published in 1912.

    [Footnote 1: References in parentheses are to the Bibliography, p.
    40 (the last figure being to the page of the publication).
    References to authorities where no citation of literature is
    appended relate for the most part to manuscript notes in the files
    of the Biological Survey or the University of Arizona Agricultural
    Experiment Station.]

    [Footnote 2: In addition to assistance rendered by officials of the
    Biological Survey and the University of Arizona, which is hereby
    acknowledged, the authors are indebted to the following persons for
    helpful suggestions and assistance: G. S. Miller and J. W. Gidley,
    of the U. S. National Museum; Dr. Frederic E. Clements and Gorm
    Loftfield, of the Carnegie Institution; Morgan Hebard, of the
    Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia; James T. Jardine and
    R. L. Hensel, both formerly connected with the U. S. Forest Service;
    and R. R. Hill, of the Forest Service. They are also indebted to
    William Nicholson, of Continental, Ariz., for many courtesies
    extended in connection with work on the Reserve.]

IDENTIFICATION.

There are only three groups of mammals in the Southwest having external cheek pouches. These
are (a) the pocket gophers (Geomyidæ), which have strong fore feet, relatively weak hind feet,
and short tail, as compared with weak fore feet, relatively strong hind feet, and long tail
in the other two; (b) the pocket mice (Perognathus), which are considerably smaller than the
kangaroo rats and lack the conspicuous white hip stripe possessed by all the latter; and (c)
the kangaroo rats (Dipodomys).

Dipodomys spectabilis spectabilis Merriam requires comparison with three other forms of kangaroo
rats in the same general region, namely, D. deserti Stephens, of approximately the same size,
and D. merriami Mearns and D. ordii Woodhouse, the last two of decidedly smaller size. The
range of deserti lies principally to the west of that of spectabilis, and the two do not, so
far as known, overlap. On the other hand, merriami and ordii, and subspecies, occur over a
large part of the range of spectabilis, living in very close proximity to its burrows; merriami
is even suspected of pillaging the stores of spectabilis. The range of merriami, however, is
much more extensive than that of spectabilis (Fig. 1), which argues against a definite ecological
dependence or relationship. Separation of the four forms mentioned may be easily accomplished
by the following key:

Key to Species of Dipodomys in Arizona.

a^1. Size much larger (hind foot and greatest length of skull more than 42 millimeters); tail
tipped with white.

     b^1. Upper parts dark brownish buffy; tail dark brownish or
     blackish with more sharply contrasted white tip; interparietal
     broader, distinctly separating mastoids (range in Arizona mainly
     southeastern part)                          =Dipodomys spectabilis.=

     b^2. Upper parts light ochraceous-buffy; tail pale brownish with
     less sharply contrasted white tip; interparietal narrower, reduced
     to mere spicule between mastoids (range in Arizona mainly
     southwestern part)                              =Dipodomys deserti.=

a^2. Hind foot with four toes                =Dipodomys merriami.=

     b^2. Hind foot with five toes                   =Dipodomys ordii.=

On account of the small size, merriami and ordii do not require detailed color comparison with
the other two. The general color of the upperparts of spectabilis is much darker than that
of deserti; whereas spectabilis is ochraceous-buff or light ochraceous-buff grizzled with blackish,
deserti is near pale ochraceous-buff and lacks the blackish.

The color of the upperparts alone amply suffices to distinguish spectabilis and deserti; but
the different coloration of the tail is the most obvious diagnostic feature. The near black
of the middle portion of the tail, the conspicuous white side stripes, and the pure white tip
make the tail of spectabilis stand in rather vivid contrast to the pale-brown and whitish tail
of deserti.

The dens of the two larger species of Dipodomys--spectabilis and deserti--can be distinguished
at a glance from those of the two smaller--merriami and ordii--by the fact that the mounds
of the former are usually of considerable size and the burrow mouths are of greater diameter.
On the Range Reserve merriami erects no mounds, but excavates its burrows in the open or at
the base of Prosopis, Lycium, or other brush. The mounds of spectabilis are higher than those
of deserti, the entrances are larger, and they are located in harder soil (Pl. III, Fig. 1).
The dens of deserti are usually more extensive in surface area than those of spectabilis, and
have a greater number of openings (Pl. III, Fig. 2).

DESCRIPTION.

GENERAL CHARACTERS.

Size large; ears moderate, ear from crown (taken in dry skin) 9 or 10 millimeters; eyes prominent;
whiskers long and sensitive; fore feet short and weak; hind feet long and powerful, provided
with four well-developed toes; tail very long, usually 30 to 40 per cent longer than the body.
Cranium triangular, the occiput forming the base and the point of the nose the apex of the
triangle, much flattened, auditory and particularly mastoid bullae conspicuously inflated.

COLOR.

General color above, brownish buffy, varying in some specimens to lighter buffy tints, grizzled
with black; oblique hip stripes white; tail with dark-brown or blackish stripes above and below,
running into blackish about halfway between base and tip, and with two lateral side stripes
of white to a point about halfway back; tail tipped with pure white for about 40 millimeters
(Pl. I). Underparts white, hairs white to bases, with some plumbeous and buffy hairs about
base of tail; fore legs and fore feet white all around; hind legs like back, brown above, hairs
with gray bases, becoming blackish (fuscous-black or chætura-black) about ankles, hairs on
under side white to bases; hind feet white above, dark-brown or blackish (near fuscous) below.

Color variations in a series of 12 specimens from the type locality and points widely scattered
through the range of spectabilis consist in minor modifications of the degree of coloration,
length of white tip of tail, and length of white lateral tail stripes. In general the color
pattern and characters are remarkably uniform. Young specimens, while exhibiting the color
pattern and general color of adults, are conspicuously less brown, and more grayish.

There appears to be little variation in color with season. In the series at hand, most specimens
taken during the fall, winter, and spring are very slightly browner than those of summer, suggesting
that the fresh pelage following the fall molt is a little brighter than is the pelage after
being worn all winter and into the following summer. But at most the difference is slight.

OIL GLAND.

Upon separating the hairs of the middle region of the back about a third of the distance between
the ears and the rump, one uncovers a prominent gland, elliptical in outline, with long axis
longitudinal and about 9 millimeters in length. The gland presents a roughened and granular
appearance, and fewer hairs grow upon it than elsewhere on the back. The hairs in the vicinity
are frequently matted, as if with a secretion. In worn stage of pelage the gland may be visible
from above without separating the hairs. Bailey has suggested that this functions as an oil
gland for dressing the fur, and our observations bear out this view. Kangaroo rats kept in
captivity without earth or sand soon come to have a bedraggled appearance, as if the pelage
were moist. When supplied with fine, dusty sand, they soon recover their normal sleek appearance.
Apparently the former condition is due to an excess of oil, the latter to the absorption of
the excess in a dust bath. The oil is doubtless an important adjunct to the preservation of
the skin and hair amid the dusty surroundings in which the animal lives.

MEASUREMENTS AND WEIGHTS.

External measurements include: Total length, from tip of nose to tip of tail without hairs,
measured before skinning; tail vertebræ, length of tail from point in angle when tail is bent
at right angles to body to tip of tail without hairs; and hind foot, from heel to tip of longest
claw.

The following are measurements of a series from the U. S. Range Reserve:

Average measurements of 30 adult specimens of both sexes: Total length, 326.2 millimeters (349-310);
tail vertebræ, 188.4 (208-180); hind foot, 49.5 (51-47); the average weight of 29 adult specimens
of both sexes was 114.5 grams (131.9-98.0).

Averages for 17 adult females: Total length, 326.4 millimeters (349-310); tail vertebræ, 188.8
(208-179); weight (16 individuals), 113.7 (131.9-98.0); excluding pregnant females, 13 individuals
averaged 112.9 grams (131.9-98.0).

Averages for 13 adult males: Total length, 326 millimeters (345-311); tail vertebræ, 187.8
(202-168); weight, 116.8 grams (129-100).

There appears to be no significant difference in the measurements and weights of males and
females, with the possible exception of the comparison of adult males and adult nonpregnant
females.

OCCURRENCE.

GENERAL DISTRIBUTION.

Dipodomys spectabilis spectabilis is found in southeastern Arizona, in northwestern, central,
and southern New Mexico, in extreme western Texas, in northern Sonora, and in northern and
central Chihuahua (Fig. 1). A subspecies, D. s. cratodon Merriam, has been described from Chicalote,
Aguas Calientes, Mexico, the geographic range of which lies in central Mexico in portions of
the States of Zacatecas, San Luis Potosi, and Aguas Calientes.

HABITAT.

In the Tucson region spectabilis is typically a resident of the Lower Sonoran Zone. This is
perhaps the principal zone inhabited over its entire range, but the animal is often found in
the Upper Sonoran also, and in the Gallina Mountains of New Mexico Hollister found it invading
the yellow pine Transition where the soil was dry and sandy and the pine woods of open character.
The same observer found it common in grassy and weed-grown parks among the large junipers,
pinyons, and scattering yellow pines of the Bear Spring Mountains, N. Mex. Bailey calls attention
to the fact that the animal apparently does not inhabit the lower half of the Lower Sonoran
Zone, as it extends neither into the Rio Grande Valley of Texas nor the Gila Valley of Arizona.
In extreme western Texas it is common at the upper edge of the arid Lower Sonoran Zone, and
in this region does not enter the Upper Sonoran to any extent.

In July, 1914, Goldman found this kangaroo rat common on the plain at 4,600 feet altitude,
near Bonita, Graham County, Ariz., and noted a few as high as 5,000 feet altitude on the warm
southwestern slopes of the Graham Mountains, near Fort Grant. Apparently spectabilis reaches
its upper altitude limit in the Burro Mountains, N. Mex., where Bailey has found it sparingly
on warm slopes up to 5,700 feet, and at the western base of the Sandia Mountains, east of Albuquerque,
N. Mex., where dens occur at approximately 6,000 feet.

About Tucson it is undoubtedly more common in the somewhat higher portions of the Lower Sonoran
Zone, above the Covillea association, than elsewhere (Pl. IV, Figs. 1 and 2). A few scattered
dens are to be seen in the Covillea belt, but as one rises to altitudes of 3,500 to 4,000 feet,
and the Covillea is replaced by the cat's-claws (Acacia sp. and Mimosa sp.) and scattered mesquite
(Prosopis), with the Opuntia becoming less abundant, kangaroo rat mounds come more and more
in evidence. Here is to be found the principal grass growth supporting the grazing industry,
and the presence of a more luxuriant grass flora is probably an important factor in the greater
abundance of kangaroo rats, both spectabilis and merriami. In this generally preferred environment
the desert hackberry (Celtis pallida) is one of the most conspicuous shrubs; clumps of this
species are commonly accompanied by kangaroo rat mounds.

In order to ascertain whether the banner-tailed kangaroo rat has any marked preference for
building its mounds under Celtis or some other particular plant, all the observable mounds
were counted in a strip about 20 rods wide and approximately 4 miles long, an area of approximately
160 acres, particular note being taken of the kind of shrub under which each mound was located.
Of 300 mounds in this area, 96 were under Prosopis, 95 under Acacia, 65 under Celtis, 11 under
Lycium, 31 in the open, 1 about a "cholla" cactus (Opuntia spinosior), and 1 about a prickly
pear (Opuntia sp.). There is apparently no strongly marked preference for any single species
of plant. While both desert hackberry and the cat's-claws afford a better protection than mesquite--since
cattle more often seek shade under the latter, and in so doing frequently trample the mounds
severely--it appears that the general protection of a tree or shrub of some sort is sought
by kangaroo rats, rather than the specific protection of the thickest or thorniest species.

A. Brazier Howell notes that spectabilis occurs in harder soil than does deserti. This observation
is confirmed by others, and seems to afford a conspicuous habitat difference between the two,
for deserti is typically an animal of the shifting aeolian sands.

Usually, as on the Range Reserve, the rodents are widely distributed over a considerable area.
Occasionally, as in the vicinity of Rio Alamosa, N. Mex., as reported by Goldman, they occur
only in small colonies.

HABITS.

EVIDENCE OF PRESENCE.

MOUNDS.

One traveling over territory thickly occupied by the banner-tailed kangaroo rat is certain
to note the numerous and conspicuous mounds so characteristic of the species, particularly
if the region is of the savannah type, grassy rather than brushy. These low, rounded mounds
occupy an area of several feet in diameter, and rise to varying heights above the general surface
of the surrounding soil, the height depending rather more upon the character of the soil and
the location of the mound as to exposure or protection than upon the area occupied by the burrow
system which lies within and is the reason for the mound.

A den in sandy soil in the open may be of maximum size in area occupied and yet scarcely present
the appearance of a mound in any sense, due probably both to the fact that the sandy soil will
not heap up to such a height over a honeycomb of tunnels as will a firmer or rocky soil, and
also to its greater exposure to the leveling action of rains and the trampling of animals.
These mounds are in themselves large enough to attract some attention, but their conspicuousness
is enhanced by the fact that they are more or less completely denuded of vegetation and are
the centers of cleared areas often as much as 30 feet in diameter (Pl. V, Fig. 1); and further
that from 3 to 12 large dark openings loom up in every mound. The larger openings are of such
size as to suggest the presence of a much larger animal than actually inhabits the mound. Add
to the above the fact that the traveler by day never sees the mound builder, and we have the
chief reasons why curiosity is so often aroused by these habitations.

On the Range Reserve the mounds are usually rendered conspicuous by the absence of small vegetation,
but Nelson writes that in the vicinity of Gallego, Chihuahua, they can be readily distinguished
at a distance because of a growth of weeds and small bushes over their summits, which overtop
the grass. In the vicinity of Albuquerque, N. Mex., Bailey reports (and this was recently confirmed
by Vorhies) that the mounds about the holes of spectabilis are often hardly noticeable. Hollister
writes that in the yellow-pine forests of the Gallina Mountains the burrows are usually under
the trunk of some fallen pine, both sides of it in some cases being taken up with holes, there
being some eight or ten entrances along each side, the burrows extending into the ground beneath
the log. In the vicinity of Blanco, N. Mex., Birdseye says that occasionally spectabilis makes
typical dens but more often lives in old prairie-dog holes (Cynomys), or in holes which look
more like those of D. ordii.

RUNWAYS AND TRACKS.

Still other features add to the interest in the dwelling places of spectabilis. Radiating in
various directions from some of the openings of the mounds well-used runways are to be seen,
some of them fading out in the surrounding vegetation, but others extending 30, 40, or even
50 or more yards to neighboring burrows or mounds (Pl. V, Fig. 2; Pl. VI, Fig. 1). These runways
and the entrances to the mounds are well worn, showing that the inhabitants are at home and
are at some time of day very active. The worn paths become most conspicuous in the autumnal
harvest season, when they stand out in strong contrast to surrounding grass. One usually finds
not far distant from the main habitation one or more smaller burrows, each with from one to
three typical openings, connected by the trail or runway system with the central den, and these
we have called "subsidiary burrows" (Pl. VI, Fig. 2). These will be again referred to in discussing
the detailed plan of the entire shelter system.

Examination of the runways and of the denuded area about a mound discloses an abundance of
almost indecipherable tracks. The dust or sand is ordinarily much too dry and shifting to record
clear footprints, and there are no opportunities to see footprints of this species recorded
in good impressionable soil. Very characteristic traces of kangaroo rats may be readily observed
in the dust about the mounds, however, and these are long, narrow, sometimes curving, furrows
made by the long tails as the animals whisk about their work or play.

SIGNALS.

If a scratching or tapping sound be made at the mouth of a burrow, even in the daytime, one
is likely to hear a muffled tapping in response, and this may at times be heard while one is
engaged in excavating a mound. It has a chirring or fluttering quality, described by Fisher
as resembling the noise of a quail flying. Bailey (1905, 148) is of the opinion that it is
used as a signal of alarm, call note, or challenge, a view which the present authors believe
to be correct. During the winter of 1920-21, however, both Bailey and Vorhies discovered that
this sound, or a very similar one, is made by the rapid action of the forefeet in digging.
On one occasion in the laboratory the sound was given by one of a pair and was responded to
at once by the other, the two being in separate but contiguous cages. This observation, however,
could not be repeated. (Vorhies MS.)

One evening, while working in the vicinity of the Burro Mountains, N. Mex., Goldman heard a
kangaroo rat near camp making this thumping noise. Taking a lantern, he approached the den,
very cautiously, until within 10 feet. The kangaroo rat was just outside the entrance of one
of its burrows, and though moving about more or less restlessly at first showed little fear,
and kept up the thumping or drumming at intervals. When making the noise the animal was standing
with the forefeet on the ground and the tail lying extended. The noise seemed to be made with
the hind feet only, and the vibration of the feet could be seen. The tapping was kept up for
a second or two at a time, the sounds coming close together and being repeated rhythmically
after a very short interval, suggesting the distant galloping of a horse. After continuing
in this way for a short time, the animal turned quickly about, with its head in the opposite
direction, and began tapping. It appeared to pay little attention to the light, but finally
gave a sudden bound and entered one of its holes about 4 feet from the one in front of which
it had been standing.

Vorhies has repeatedly noted when watching for the appearance of a kangaroo rat at night that
this sound invariably precedes the rodent's first emergence into the open, and often its appearance
after an alarm, though when the storage season has begun and the kangaroo rat is carrying loads
of grass heads or other material into its den, it regularly comes out without preliminary signaling.
Vorhies has also observed it making the sound while on top of the mound, and certainly not
digging, but was unable to see how it was made.

VOICE.

No data concerning any call notes or sounds other than those described above are at hand, with
the following exception: Price (in Allen, 1895, 213), who studied the habits of the animal
in the moonlight, at Willcox, Ariz., says that a low chuckle was uttered at intervals; and
Vorhies has had one captive female that would repeatedly utter a similar chuckle in a peevish
manner when disturbed by day, and one captive male which, when teased into a state of anger
and excitement, would squeal much like a cornered house rat. Vorhies has spent many moonlight
hours observing kangaroo rats, but without ever hearing a vocal sound uttered by free individuals.

DAILY AND SEASONAL ACTIVITY.

The kangaroo rat is strictly nocturnal. An observer watching patiently by a den in the evening
for the animal's first appearance is not rewarded until darkness has fallen completely, and
unless the moon is shining the animal can hardly be seen. Were it not for the white tail-brush
of spectabilis and its white belly when upright on the hind legs and tail, one could not as
a rule see the animal at all when it makes its first evening appearance. With the first streak
of dawn activity usually ceases completely and much more abruptly than it began with the coming
of darkness, but on a recent occasion Vorhies observed that a kangaroo rat which did not appear
until near morning remained above ground until quite light, but not fully daylight. On removal
of the plug from the mouth of a kangaroo rat burrow, one may sometimes see a fresh mass of
earth and refuse shoved into the opening from within. As often as not, however, even this unwelcome
attention does not elicit any response by day, the great majority of the burrow openings of
this species, as observed by the authors, remaining permanently open.

The ordinary activities of the kangaroo rat in southern Arizona can scarcely be said to show
any true seasonal variation. The animals are active all the year in this region, there being
neither hibernation nor estivation, both perhaps being rendered unnecessary by the storage
habit, to be discussed in full later (pp. 15-16), and by the mildness of the winter climate.
On any particular night that the weather is rainy, or the ground too wet and cold, activity
is confined to the interior of the burrow system, and for this reason one has no opportunity
to see a perfect imprint of the foot in freshly wet soil or in snow. On two or three of the
comparatively rare occasions on which there was a light fall of snow on the Range Reserve a
search was made for tracks in the snow. At these times, however, as on rainy nights, the only
signs of activity were the pushing or throwing out of fresh earth and food refuse from within
the burrow. This is so common a sight as to be complete evidence that the animals are active
within their dens during stormy weather but do not venture outside. Trapping has again and
again proved to be useless on rainy nights, unless the rain is scant and a part of the night
favorable, in which case occasional individuals are taken. These statements apply to the Range
Reserve particularly; the facts may be quite different where the animals experience more winter,
as at Albuquerque, N. Mex., although in November, 1921, Vorhies noted no indications of lessened
activity in that region.

PUGNACITY AND SOCIABILITY.

So far as their reactions toward man are concerned, kangaroo rats are gentle and make confiding
and interesting pets; this is especially the case with merriami. This characteristic is the
more surprising in view of the fact that they will fight each other so readily and so viciously,
and yet probably it is explained in part by their method of fighting. They do not appear to
use their teeth toward each other, but fight by leaping in the air and striking with the powerful
hind feet, reminding one most forcibly of a pair of game cocks, facing each other and guarding
in the same manner. Sometimes they carry on a sparring match with their fore feet. Biting,
if done at all, is only a secondary means of combat. When taken in hand, even for the first
time, they will use their teeth only in the event that they are wounded. The jaws are not powerful,
and though the animals may lay hold of a bare finger, with the apparent intention of biting,
usually they do not succeed in drawing blood. As Bailey says (1905, 148), they are gentle and
timid, and, like rabbits, depend upon flight and their burrows for protection.

The well-traveled trails elsewhere described (p. 10) indicate a degree of sociability difficult
to explain in connection with their pugnacity toward each other. While three or four individuals
may sometimes be trapped at a single mound, more than two are seldom so caught, and most often
only one in one night. Trapping on successive nights at one mound often yields the larger number,
yet in some cases the number is explained by the fact that two or three nearly mature young
are taken, and the capture of several individuals at a single mound can not be taken to indicate
that all are from the one den. Our investigations tend strongly to the conclusion that only
one adult occupies a mound, except during the period when the young are in the parental (or
maternal) den. In the gassing and excavating of 25 or more mounds we have never found more
than one animal in a den, except in one instance, and then the two present were obviously young
animals.

SENSE DEVELOPMENTS.

