Seldom has a volume of poems been received with more general applause. Their renown spread
rapidly through their native land; constantly increasing demand for copies rendered needful
frequent new editions, to which at divers times were added by the author freshly-created poems;
and the interest is still alive, now nearly quarter of a century after their first appearance,
when they have passed their fiftieth edition. They have been at one time or other translated
into most of the modern tongues of Europe; and that they have never gained popularity with
us is due probably to the fact that in those which have been translated into our tongue neither
the essence nor the form of the original has been preserved. By the title no mystification
was ever designed: it came, as it were, of itself, and the purport of the narrative through
which the main songs were interwoven being well known, it was never, supposed that a doubt
concerning the authorship could arise. Nevertheless, the critics accepted them as translations
from the Persian, and sharp lines of distinction were drawn between the poet, Mirza-Schaffy,
and his translator, Friedrich Bodenstedt, not precisely to the advantage of the latter. Many
a hearty laugh did Bodenstedt indulge in on reading in one or another learned dissertation
that he was the possessor of a very neat poetic talent, and frequently reminded one in his
original compositions of the works of his genial teacher, Mirza-Schaffy, of which he had given
admirable translations, though without attaining to the excellence of the original. Now, a
poet, in the wildest flights of his imagination, could not hope for a more brilliant success
for the poetic fiction of his own creation than to have it accepted by the world as a living
reality. In this he would naturally delight, even though his own personality were for a time
thrust into the background, precisely like a loving father whose children meet with better
fortune in life than himself. Sundry renditions into foreign tongues were even announced as
direct translations from the Persian.

After the death of the real Mirza-Schaffy in 1852, which was duly announced by the press, sundry
efforts were made by Eastern travelers to visit his grave in Tiflis and gain those particulars
concerning him and his writings which Bodenstedt was supposed to have selfishly withheld from
the public. Of these, one of the most prominent was Professor H. Brugsch, secretary of the
Prussian embassy to Persia in 1860, who in his book of travels thus descants on his futile
efforts: "No one could inform us where the last earthly remains of a certain Mirza-Schaffy
were laid to rest. We consoled ourselves with the reflection that neither mounds nor monuments
are requisite to preserve a poet's fame, but that through his songs is his name transmitted
to posterity. Yet even here we were doomed to disappointment. No one whom we encountered knew
aught of the songs of the jovial, genial Mirza-Schaffy which in our German Fatherland have
penetrated to the very life of the people."

Some years later the Russian imperial state counselor Bergé, while chief of educational institutions
in Caucasus, also made the matter a subject of investigation, and in the year 1870 gave the
history thereof to the world in the Journal of the German Oriental Society. He tells of his
vain efforts to learn something of the genius of Mirza-Schaffy in his own land, and the amusement
he created by his queries concerning possible posthumous works, and finally settles the question
beyond dispute concerning the authorship of the poems.

After this, Bodenstedt yielded to the solicitations of friends to give in the pages of the
popular German magazine Daheim a correct version of the whole affair.

Let the reader present to his mind's eye a picture of the Eastern scribe, clad in the apparel
before described, seated on the comfortable divan, with legs crossed after the fashion of the
country, the long tschibuq caressingly held in one hand, the other uplifted, and with finger
pointed to his brow, haranguing the German man of letters at his side on the advantages to
be enjoyed under his tuition, and on the idle pretensions of those who call themselves learned
without so much as comprehending the sacred languages. He cherished, however, the pious hope
that in the course of time, thanks to his efforts, the enlightenment of the East might take
effect in the West, which hope was strengthened by the encouraging fact that Bodenstedt was
the fifth scholar who had felt the need of migrating to Tiflis to profit by his instructions.
In his excess of national modesty the wise man of Gjändsha only styled himself the first wise
man of the East, but since the children of the West dwelt under a dark cloud of unbelief, it
resulted as a matter of course that he must be the wisest of all men.

"I, Mirza-Schaffy," said he to his pupil, "am the first wise man of the East, consequently
thou, as my disciple, art the second. But misunderstand me not. I have a friend, Omar Effendi,
an extremely wise man, who verily is not third among the learned scribes of the land. Did not
I live, and were Omar Effendi thy teacher, he would be first, and thou the second wise man."

On being asked what he should do if told that the wise men of the West would consider him as
deficient in enlightenment as he did them, he rejoined, "What could I do but be amazed at their
folly? What new thing can I learn from their opinions when they merely repeat my own?" Hence
the song:

  Shall I laugh or fall to wailing
    That the most of men so dumb are,
  Ever borrowed thoughts retailing,
    And in mother-wit so mum are?

  No: thanksgiving heavenward rise
    That fools so crowd this generation,
  Else the wisdom of the wise
    Would be lost to observation.

Numerous rivals envied Mirza-Schaffy his lessons, for each of which he was paid a whole silver
ruble--an unusually high tuition-fee. Most formidable among these was Mirza-Jussuf (Joseph),
the wise man of Bagdad, who called one day on Bodenstedt and boldly informed him that the revered
Mirza-Schaffy was an Ischekj ("an ass") among the bearers of wisdom--that he could not write
properly, and could not sing at all. "And what is wisdom without song?" he exclaimed. "What
is Mirza-Schaffy compared with me?" With bewildering eloquence he set forth his own superior
accomplishments, dwelling largely on his name, which had been exalted by the Hebrew poet Moses
as well as by the Persian poet Hafiz, and exerting himself to prove that the significance of
a great name must be transmitted to all future bearers thereof. He was still speaking when
a measured tread was heard in the ante-chamber, and Mirza-Schaffy himself drew near. He appeared
to comprehend intuitively the cause of the guest's presence, for he cast on Jussuf, who had
become suddenly stricken with modesty, a glance of withering contempt, and was about giving
vent to his emotions when Bodenstedt interposed with the words, "Mirza-Schaffy, wise man of
Gjändsha, what have my ears heard? You undertake to instruct me, and you can neither write
nor sing! You are an Ischekj among the bearers of wisdom: thus sayeth Mirza-Jussuf, the wise
man of Bagdad."

Without deigning a word of reply, Mirza-Schaffy clapped his hands, a sign at which the servant
usually brought him a fresh pipe, but this time he demanded his thick-soled slippers. With
one of these he proceeded to so unmercifully belabor the wise man of Bagdad that the latter
besought mercy with the most appealing words and gestures. But the chastiser was inexorable.
"What?" said he. "I cannot sing, dost thou say? Wait, I will make music for thee! And I cannot
write, either? Let it be, then, on thy head!" Whimpering and writhing beneath the blows accompanying
these words, the wise man of Bagdad staggered toward the door and vanished from sight.

More calmly than might have been anticipated did Mirza-Schaffy return from the contest of wisdom,
and promptly taking his usual seat on the divan, he began to exhort his German disciple to
lend no ear to such false teachers as Jussuf and his fellows, whose name, he said, was legion,
whose avarice was greater than their wisdom, and whose aim was to plunder, not teach, their pupils.

Later, Jussuf strove to win Bodenstedt by repeated messages, accompanied by songs in the most
exquisite handwriting. Mirza-Schaffy's opinion concerning these compositions is embodied in
quite a number of songs, of which space must be found for one:

  Forsooth! is Mirza-Jussuf a very well-read man!
  Now searcheth he Hafiz, now searcheth the Koran,
  Now Dshamy and Chakany, and now the Gülistan.
  Here stealeth he a symbol, and there doth steal a flower,
  Here robbeth precious thoughts, and there a true word's power.
  He giveth as his own what has been said before,
  Transplanted! the whole world into his tedious lore;
  And proudly decketh he his prey with borrowed plumes,
  Then flauntingly that this is poetry assumes.

  How differently lives and sings Mirza-Schaffy!
  A glowing star his heart to lighten paths of gloom,
  His mind a blooming garden, filled with sweet perfume,
  And in his rich creations no plagiarist is he:
  His songs are full of beauty, and perfect as can be.

Mirza-Schaffy himself was a miracle of skill in chirography: none could equal him in wielding
the kalem. His aim was not to impart a precise regularity to the characters, but to indicate
by the writing the matter and style. Proverbs or utterances of wisdom were indited by him in
a firm, bold hand with unadorned simplicity; love-songs with delicate, clear-cut lines, attractive
capricious curves, enigmatical, almost illegible minuteness, designed to set forth the type
of female character. The chirography of the songs to wine and earthly pleasure is full of fire
and flourish--that of the songs of lamentation neat, legible and unadorned. To impart this
skill to his pupil was one of his most earnest endeavors.

One day, when inspired by choice wine and soothed by the fragrant fumes of his tschibuq, Mirza-Schaffy
was moved to tell of the love his heart had cherished--love such as man had never before known.
The object of his adoration was Zuléikha, daughter of Ibrahim, the chan of Gjändsha. Her eyes,
darker than the night, shone with a brighter glow than the stars of heaven: passing description
were the graceful loveliness of her form, the dainty perfection of hands and feet, her soft
hair long as eternity, and the sweet mouth whose breath was more fragrant than the roses of
Schiraz. He who was destined to be her slave had watched her daily for six months--as she sat
on the housetop at midday with her companions, or on moonlight evenings when she amused herself
with the dancing of her slaves--before he received so much as a sign that she deemed him worthy
of her regard. He rejoiced in the splendor of her countenance, but dared no more approach her
than the sun in whose warm rays he might bask. By day he was compelled to exercise the utmost
caution, as his life would have been in jeopardy had Ibrahim Chan descried him casting loving
looks at Zuléikha, but in the evening he was safe to draw attention to himself, as after eight
o'clock the old man never crossed his threshold. Then the flames of the lover's heart burst
into song, and he gave utterance to a ghazel now of Hafiz, now of Firdusa, while still more
frequently he sang his own songs.

