And cold did run the blood of the adventurous damsel when, on opening one of the room doors,
she found it filled with the dead bodies of murdered persons, chiefly women. Just then they
heard a noise, and on looking out of the window saw Bloody Baker and his servant bringing in
the murdered body of a lady. Nearly dead with fear, they concealed themselves in a recess under
the staircase.

As the murderers with their dead burden passed by them, the hand of the unfortunate murdered
lady hung in the baluster of the stairs; with an oath Bloody Baker chopped it off, and it fell
into the lap of one of the concealed ladies. He came, suspecting nothing, and then the lady
told him all she had seen, pretending it was a dream. "Fair lady," said he, "dreams are nothing:
they are but fables." "They may be fables," said she; "but is this a fable?" and she produced
the hand and ring. Upon this the constables rushed in and took him; and the tradition further
says, he was burnt, notwithstanding Queen Mary tried to save him, on account of the religion
he professed.

F. L.

Cure for Warts.--Steal a piece of meat from a butcher's stall or his basket, and after having
well rubbed the parts affected with the stolen morsel, bury it under a gateway, at a four lane
ends, or, in case of emergency, in any secluded place. All this must be done so secretly as
to escape detection: and as the portion of meat decays the warts will disappear. This practice
is very prevalent in Lancashire and some parts of Yorkshire; and two of my female acquaintances
having tried the remedy, stoutly maintain its efficacy.

T. T. W.

Burnley.

Another Charm for Warts.--Referring to EMDEE'S charm for warts, which appeared in Vol. ii.,
p. 19., I may state that a very similar superstition prevails in the neighbourhood of Manchester:--Take
a piece of twine, making upon it as many knots as there are warts to be removed; touch each
wart with the corresponding knot; and bury the twine in a moist place, saying at the same time,
"There is none to redeem it besides thee." As the process of decay goes on, the warts gradually
disappear.

H.

Charm for the Cure of the King's Evil.--Acting on the advice of your able correspondent EMDEE
(Vol. i., p. 429.), I beg to forward the following curious and cruel charm for the cure of
the king's evil, extracted from a very quaint old work by William Ellis, farmer of Little Gaddesden,
near Hempstead, Herts, published at Salisbury in 1750:--

    "A girl at Gaddesden, having the evil in her Feet from her Infancy, at
    eleven years old lost one of her toes by it, and was so bad that she
    could hardly walk, therefore was to be sent to a London Hospital in a
    little time. But a Beggar woman coming to the Door and hearing of it,
    said, that if they would cut off the hind leg, and the fore leg on the
    contrary side of that, of a toad, and she wear them in a silken bag
    about her neck, it would certainly cure her; but it was to be observed,
    that on the toad's losing its legs, it was to be turned loose abroad,
    and as it pined, wasted, and died, the distemper would likewise waste
    and die; which happened accordingly, for the girl was entirely cured by
    it, never having had the evil afterwards. Another Gaddesden girl having
    the evil in her eyes, her parents dried a toad in the sun, and put it
    in a silken bag, which they hung on the back part of her neck; and
    although it was thus dried, it drawed so much as to raise little
    blisters, but did the girl a great deal of service, till she carelessly
    lost it."

DAVID STEVENS.

Godalming.

Fig-Sunday.--One of my Sunday-school boys, in reply to my question "What particular name was
there for the Sunday before Easter?" answered "Fig-Sunday."

Can you give any authentic information as to the origin of this name? It most probably alludes
to our Saviour's desire to eat fruit of the fig-tree on his way from Bethany on the Monday
following.

Hone mentions that at a village in Hertfordshire, more figs are sold in that week than at any
other period of the year; but assigns no reason for the custom. If you have met with any satisfactory
explanation of this name, I shall feel obliged by your making it public.

B. D.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTE ON A PASSAGE IN HUDIBRAS.

Butler, in his description of Hudibras, says (Part I. c. i. line 453.) that the knight

         "----wore but one Spur,
  As wisely knowing, cou'd he stir
  To active Foot one side of 's Horse,
  The other wou'd not hang an A----."

Gray, the most copious annotator on the poem, passes these lines in silence; and it is probable,
therefore, that the description is taken by readers {69} in general as an original sketch.
I find, however, in a volume entitled Gratiæ Ludentes: Jests from the Universitie, by H. L.,
Oxen. [sic], London, 1638, the following, which may have been in Butler's mind:--

     "One that wore but one Spurre.

    "A scholler being jeer'd on the way for wearing but one Spurre, said,
    that if one side of his horse went on, it was not likely that the other
    would stay behinde."

As compilers of jest-books do nothing but copy from their predecessors, it is likely that this
joke may be found elsewhere, though I have not met with it in any other collection. At all
events, the date of the vol. from which I quote is in favour of Butler's intimacy with its
contents; and as it is interesting, even in so trivial a matter, to trace the resources of
our popular authors, you may perhaps think it worth while to include the above in a number
of the "NOTES."

DESCONOCIDO.

       *       *       *       *       *

COFFEE, BLACK BROTH.

The idea has been suggested in the "NOTES AND QUERIES," but I do not know how to refer to the
places[3], or recollect what authorities were given. Probably that of Howell was not, as it
occurs in a very scarce volume; and, on the chance of its not having been met with by your
readers, I send it. It is contained in a letter addressed "To his highly esteemed Friend and
Compatriot, Judge Rumsey, upon his Provang, or rare pectorall Instrument, and his rare experiments
of Cophie and Tobacco." This letter is prefixed to the learned Judge's Organon Salutis: an
Instrument to cleanse the Stomach, as also divers New Experiments of the Virtue of Tobacco
and Coffee, &c. London, 1657, 8vo.

Of Judge Rumsey and his Provang (which was a flexible whalebone from two to three feet long,
with a small linen or silk button at the end, which was to be introduced into the stomach to
produce the effect of an emetic), the reader may find some account in Wood's Athen. (Bliss's
edit., vol. iii. p. 509.), and this is not the place to speak of them except as they had to
do with coffee; on that point a few more words may be allowed.

Besides the letter of Howell already quoted, two others are prefixed to the book; one from
the author to Sir Henry Blount, the other Sir Henry's reply. In the former the Judge says,--

    "I lately understood that your discovery, in your excellent book of
    travels, hath brought the use of the Turkes Physick, of Cophie, in
    great request in England, whereof I have made use, in another form than
    is used by boyling of it in Turkie, and being less loathsome and
    troublesome," &c.

And Sir Henry, after a fervent panegyric on coffee, replies:--

    "As for your way of taking both Cophie and Tobacco, the rarity of the
    invention consists in leaving the old way: For the water of the one and
    the smoke of the other may be of inconvenience to many; but your way in
    both takes in the virtue of the Simples without any additionall
    mischief."

