The cheerful old woman went on nimbly up the stairs to the first floor, and Trottle followed,
with his eyes and ears wide open.  He had seen nothing out of the common in the front-parlour,
or up the staircase, so far.  The House was dirty and dreary and close-smelling--but there
was nothing about it to excite the least curiosity, except the faint scraping sound, which
was now beginning to get a little clearer--though still not at all loud--as Trottle followed
his leader up the stairs to the second floor.

Nothing on the second-floor landing, but cobwebs above and bits of broken plaster below, cracked
off from the ceiling.  Benjamin's mother was not a bit out of breath, and looked all ready
to go to the top of the monument if necessary.  The faint scraping sound had got a little clearer
still; but Trottle was no nearer to guessing what it might be, than when he first heard it
in the parlour downstairs.

On the third, and last, floor, there were two doors; one, which was shut, leading into the
front garret; and one, which was ajar, leading into the back garret.  There was a loft in the
ceiling above the landing; but the cobwebs all over it vouched sufficiently for its not having
been opened for some little time.  The scraping noise, plainer than ever here, sounded on the
other side of the back garret door; and, to Trottle's great relief, that was precisely the
door which the cheerful old woman now pushed open.

Trottle followed her in; and, for once in his life, at any rate, was struck dumb with amazement,
at the sight which the inside of the room revealed to him.

The garret was absolutely empty of everything in the shape of furniture. It must have been
used at one time or other, by somebody engaged in a profession or a trade which required for
the practice of it a great deal of light; for the one window in the room, which looked out
on a wide open space at the back of the house, was three or four times as large, every way,
as a garret-window usually is.  Close under this window, kneeling on the bare boards with his
face to the door, there appeared, of all the creatures in the world to see alone at such a
place and at such a time, a mere mite of a child--a little, lonely, wizen, strangely-clad boy,
who could not at the most, have been more than five years old.  He had a greasy old blue shawl
crossed over his breast, and rolled up, to keep the ends from the ground, into a great big
lump on his back.  A strip of something which looked like the remains of a woman's flannel
petticoat, showed itself under the shawl, and, below that again, a pair of rusty black stockings,
worlds too large for him, covered his legs and his shoeless feet.  A pair of old clumsy muffetees,
which had worked themselves up on his little frail red arms to the elbows, and a big cotton
nightcap that had dropped down to his very eyebrows, finished off the strange dress which the
poor little man seemed not half big enough to fill out, and not near strong enough to walk
about in.

But there was something to see even more extraordinary than the clothes the child was swaddled
up in, and that was the game which he was playing at, all by himself; and which, moreover,
explained in the most unexpected manner the faint scraping noise that had found its way down-stairs,
through the half-opened door, in the silence of the empty house.

It has been mentioned that the child was on his knees in the garret, when Trottle first saw
him.  He was not saying his prayers, and not crouching down in terror at being alone in the
dark.  He was, odd and unaccountable as it may appear, doing nothing more or less than playing
at a charwoman's or housemaid's business of scouring the floor.  Both his little hands had
tight hold of a mangy old blacking-brush, with hardly any bristles left in it, which he was
rubbing backwards and forwards on the boards, as gravely and steadily as if he had been at
scouring-work for years, and had got a large family to keep by it.  The coming-in of Trottle
and the old woman did not startle or disturb him in the least.  He just looked up for a minute
at the candle, with a pair of very bright, sharp eyes, and then went on with his work again,
as if nothing had happened.  On one side of him was a battered pint saucepan without a handle,
which was his make-believe pail; and on the other a morsel of slate-coloured cotton rag, which
stood for his flannel to wipe up with. After scrubbing bravely for a minute or two, he took
the bit of rag, and mopped up, and then squeezed make-believe water out into his make-believe
pail, as grave as any judge that ever sat on a Bench.  By the time he thought he had got the
floor pretty dry, he raised himself upright on his knees, and blew out a good long breath,
and set his little red arms akimbo, and nodded at Trottle.

"There!" says the child, knitting his little downy eyebrows into a frown. "Drat the dirt! 
I've cleaned up.  Where's my beer?"

Benjamin's mother chuckled till Trottle thought she would have choked herself.

"Lord ha' mercy on us!" says she, "just hear the imp.  You would never think he was only five
years old, would you, sir?  Please to tell good Mr. Forley you saw him going on as nicely as
ever, playing at being me scouring the parlour floor, and calling for my beer afterwards. 
That's his regular game, morning, noon, and night--he's never tired of it.  Only look how snug
we've been and dressed him.  That's my shawl a keepin his precious little body warm, and Benjamin's
nightcap a keepin his precious little head warm, and Benjamin's stockings, drawed over his
trowsers, a keepin his precious little legs warm.  He's snug and happy if ever a imp was yet.
'Where's my beer!'--say it again, little dear, say it again!"

If Trottle had seen the boy, with a light and a fire in the room, clothed like other children,
and playing naturally with a top, or a box of soldiers, or a bouncing big India-rubber ball,
he might have been as cheerful under the circumstances as Benjamin's mother herself.  But seeing
the child reduced (as he could not help suspecting) for want of proper toys and proper child's
company, to take up with the mocking of an old woman at her scouring-work, for something to
stand in the place of a game, Trottle, though not a family man, nevertheless felt the sight
before him to be, in its way, one of the saddest and the most pitiable that he had ever witnessed.

"Why, my man," says he, "you're the boldest little chap in all England. You don't seem a bit
afraid of being up here all by yourself in the dark."

"The big winder," says the child, pointing up to it, "sees in the dark; and I see with the
big winder."  He stops a bit, and gets up on his legs, and looks hard at Benjamin's mother.
"I'm a good 'un," says he, "ain't I?  I save candle."

Trottle wondered what else the forlorn little creature had been brought up to do without, besides
candle-light; and risked putting a question as to whether he ever got a run in the open air
to cheer him up a bit.  O, yes, he had a run now and then, out of doors (to say nothing of
his runs about the house), the lively little cricket--a run according to good Mr. Forley's
instructions, which were followed out carefully, as good Mr. Forley's friend would be glad
to hear, to the very letter.

As Trottle could only have made one reply to this, namely, that good Mr. Forley's instructions
were, in his opinion, the instructions of an infernal scamp; and as he felt that such an answer
would naturally prove the death-blow to all further discoveries on his part, he gulped down
his feelings before they got too many for him, and held his tongue, and looked round towards
the window again to see what the forlorn little boy was going to amuse himself with next.

The child had gathered up his blacking-brush and bit of rag, and had put them into the old
tin saucepan; and was now working his way, as well as his clothes would let him, with his make-believe
pail hugged up in his arms, towards a door of communication which led from the back to the
front garret.

"I say," says he, looking round sharply over his shoulder, "what are you two stopping here
for?  I'm going to bed now--and so I tell you!"

With that, he opened the door, and walked into the front room.  Seeing Trottle take a step
or two to follow him, Benjamin's mother opened her wicked old eyes in a state of great astonishment.

"Mercy on us!" says she, "haven't you seen enough of him yet?"

"No," says Trottle.  "I should like to see him go to bed."

Benjamin's mother burst into such a fit of chuckling that the loose extinguisher in the candlestick
clattered again with the shaking of her hand.  To think of good Mr. Forley's friend taking
ten times more trouble about the imp than good Mr. Forley himself!  Such a joke as that, Benjamin's
mother had not often met with in the course of her life, and she begged to be excused if she
took the liberty of having a laugh at it.

Leaving her to laugh as much as she pleased, and coming to a pretty positive conclusion, after
what he had just heard, that Mr. Forley's interest in the child was not of the fondest possible
kind, Trottle walked into the front room, and Benjamin's mother, enjoying herself immensely,
followed with the candle.

There were two pieces of furniture in the front garret.  One, an old stool of the sort that
is used to stand a cask of beer on; and the other a great big ricketty straddling old truckle
bedstead.  In the middle of this bedstead, surrounded by a dim brown waste of sacking, was
a kind of little island of poor bedding--an old bolster, with nearly all the feathers out of
it, doubled in three for a pillow; a mere shred of patchwork counter-pane, and a blanket; and
under that, and peeping out a little on either side beyond the loose clothes, two faded chair
cushions of horsehair, laid along together for a sort of makeshift mattress.  When Trottle
got into the room, the lonely little boy had scrambled up on the bedstead with the help of
the beer-stool, and was kneeling on the outer rim of sacking with the shred of counterpane
in his hands, just making ready to tuck it in for himself under the chair cushions.

"I'll tuck you up, my man," says Trottle.  "Jump into bed, and let me try."

"I mean to tuck myself up," says the poor forlorn child, "and I don't mean to jump.  I mean
to crawl, I do--and so I tell you!"

With that, he set to work, tucking in the clothes tight all down the sides of the cushions,
but leaving them open at the foot.  Then, getting up on his knees, and looking hard at Trottle
as much as to say, "What do you mean by offering to help such a handy little chap as me?" he
began to untie the big shawl for himself, and did it, too, in less than half a minute.  Then,
doubling the shawl up loose over the foot of the bed, he says, "I say, look here," and ducks
under the clothes, head first, worming his way up and up softly, under the blanket and counterpane,
till Trottle saw the top of the large nightcap slowly peep out on the bolster. This over-sized
head-gear of the child's had so shoved itself down in the course of his journey to the pillow,
under the clothes, that when he got his face fairly out on the bolster, he was all nightcap
down to his mouth.  He soon freed himself, however, from this slight encumbrance by turning
the ends of the cap up gravely to their old place over his eyebrows--looked at Trottle--said,
"Snug, ain't it?  Good-bye!"--popped his face under the clothes again--and left nothing to
be seen of him but the empty peak of the big nightcap standing up sturdily on end in the middle
of the bolster.

"What a young limb it is, ain't it?" says Benjamin's mother, giving Trottle a cheerful dig
with her elbow.  "Come on! you won't see no more of him to-night!"

"And so I tell you!" sings out a shrill, little voice under the bedclothes, chiming in with
a playful finish to the old woman's last words.

If Trottle had not been, by this time, positively resolved to follow the wicked secret which
accident had mixed him up with, through all its turnings and windings, right on to the end,
he would have probably snatched the boy up then and there, and carried him off from his garret
prison, bed-clothes and all.  As it was, he put a strong check on himself, kept his eye on
future possibilities, and allowed Benjamin's mother to lead him down-stairs again.

"Mind them top bannisters," says she, as Trottle laid his hand on them. "They are as rotten
as medlars every one of 'em."

"When people come to see the premises," says Trottle, trying to feel his way a little farther
into the mystery of the House, "you don't bring many of them up here, do you?"

"Bless your heart alive!" says she, "nobody ever comes now.  The outside of the house is quite
enough to warn them off.  Mores the pity, as I say. It used to keep me in spirits, staggering
'em all, one after another, with the frightful high rent--specially the women, drat 'em.  'What's
the rent of this house?'--'Hundred and twenty pound a-year!'--'Hundred and twenty? why, there
ain't a house in the street as lets for more than eighty!'--Likely enough, ma'am; other landlords
may lower their rents if they please; but this here landlord sticks to his rights, and means
to have as much for his house as his father had before him!'--'But the neighbourhood's gone
off since then!'--'Hundred and twenty pound, ma'am.'--'The landlord must be mad!'--'Hundred
and twenty pound, ma'am.'--'Open the door you impertinent woman!'  Lord! what a happiness it
was to see 'em bounce out, with that awful rent a-ringing in their ears all down the street!"

She stopped on the second-floor landing to treat herself to another chuckle, while Trottle
privately posted up in his memory what he had just heard.  "Two points made out," he thought
to himself: "the house is kept empty on purpose, and the way it's done is to ask a rent that
nobody will pay."

"Ah, deary me!" says Benjamin's mother, changing the subject on a sudden, and twisting back
with a horrid, greedy quickness to those awkward money- matters which she had broached down
in the parlour.  "What we've done, one way and another for Mr. Forley, it isn't in words to
tell!  That nice little bit of business of ours ought to be a bigger bit of business, considering
the trouble we take, Benjamin and me, to make the imp upstairs as happy as the day is long.
If good Mr. Forley would only please to think a little more of what a deal he owes to Benjamin
and me--"

"That's just it," says Trottle, catching her up short in desperation, and seeing his way, by
the help of those last words of hers, to slipping cleverly through her fingers.  "What should
you say, if I told you that Mr. Forley was nothing like so far from thinking about that little
matter as you fancy?  You would be disappointed, now, if I told you that I had come to-day
without the money?"--(her lank old jaw fell, and her villainous old eyes glared, in a perfect
state of panic, at that!)--"But what should you say, if I told you that Mr. Forley was only
waiting for my report, to send me here next Monday, at dusk, with a bigger bit of business
for us two to do together than ever you think for?  What should you say to that?"

The old wretch came so near to Trottle, before she answered, and jammed him up confidentially
so close into the corner of the landing, that his throat, in a manner, rose at her.

"Can you count it off, do you think, on more than that?" says she, holding up her four skinny
fingers and her long crooked thumb, all of a tremble, right before his face.

"What do you say to two hands, instead of one?" says he, pushing past her, and getting down-stairs
as fast as he could.

What she said Trottle thinks it best not to report, seeing that the old hypocrite, getting
next door to light-headed at the golden prospect before her, took such liberties with unearthly
names and persons which ought never to have approached her lips, and rained down such an awful
shower of blessings on Trottle's head, that his hair almost stood on end to hear her.  He went
on down-stairs as fast as his feet would carry him, till he was brought up all standing, as
the sailors say, on the last flight, by agravating Benjamin, lying right across the stair,
and fallen off, as might have been expected, into a heavy drunken sleep.

The sight of him instantly reminded Trottle of the curious half likeness which he had already
detected between the face of Benjamin and the face of another man, whom he had seen at a past
time in very different circumstances.  He determined, before leaving the House, to have one
more look at the wretched muddled creature; and accordingly shook him up smartly, and propped
him against the staircase wall, before his mother could interfere.

"Leave him to me; I'll freshen him up," says Trottle to the old woman, looking hard in Benjamin's
face, while he spoke.

The fright and surprise of being suddenly woke up, seemed, for about a quarter of a minute,
to sober the creature.  When he first opened his eyes, there was a new look in them for a moment,
which struck home to Trottle's memory as quick and as clear as a flash of light.  The old maudlin
sleepy expression came back again in another instant, and blurred out all further signs and
tokens of the past.  But Trottle had seen enough in the moment before it came; and he troubled
Benjamin's face with no more inquiries.

"Next Monday, at dusk," says he, cutting short some more of the old woman's palaver about Benjamin's
indisgestion.  "I've got no more time to spare, ma'am, to-night: please to let me out."

With a few last blessings, a few last dutiful messages to good Mr. Forley, and a few last friendly
hints not to forget next Monday at dusk, Trottle contrived to struggle through the sickening
business of leave- taking; to get the door opened; and to find himself, to his own indescribable
relief, once more on the outer side of the House To Let.

LET AT LAST

"There, ma'am!" said Trottle, folding up the manuscript from which he had been reading, and
setting it down with a smart tap of triumph on the table.  "May I venture to ask what you think
of that plain statement, as a guess on my part (and not on Mr. Jarber's) at the riddle of the
empty House?"

For a minute or two I was unable to say a word.  When I recovered a little, my first question
referred to the poor forlorn little boy.

"To-day is Monday the twentieth," I said.  "Surely you have not let a whole week go by without
trying to find out something more?"

"Except at bed-time, and meals, ma'am," answered Trottle, "I have not let an hour go by.  Please
to understand that I have only come to an end of what I have written, and not to an end of
what I have done.  I wrote down those first particulars, ma'am, because they are of great importance,
and also because I was determined to come forward with my written documents, seeing that Mr.
Jarber chose to come forward, in the first instance, with his.  I am now ready to go on with
the second part of my story as shortly and plainly as possible, by word of mouth.  The first
thing I must clear up, if you please, is the matter of Mr. Forley's family affairs.  I have
heard you speak of them, ma'am, at various times; and I have understood that Mr. Forley had
two children only by his deceased wife, both daughters.  The eldest daughter married, to her
father's entire satisfaction, one Mr. Bayne, a rich man, holding a high government situation
in Canada.  She is now living there with her husband, and her only child, a little girl of
eight or nine years old.  Right so far, I think, ma'am?"

"Quite right," I said.

"The second daughter," Trottle went on, "and Mr. Forley's favourite, set her father's wishes
and the opinions of the world at flat defiance, by running away with a man of low origin--a
mate of a merchant-vessel, named Kirkland.  Mr. Forley not only never forgave that marriage,
but vowed that he would visit the scandal of it heavily in the future on husband and wife.
Both escaped his vengeance, whatever he meant it to be.  The husband was drowned on his first
voyage after his marriage, and the wife died in child-bed.  Right again, I believe, ma'am?"

"Again quite right."

"Having got the family matter all right, we will now go back, ma'am, to me and my doings. 
Last Monday, I asked you for leave of absence for two days; I employed the time in clearing
up the matter of Benjamin's face. Last Saturday I was out of the way when you wanted me.  I
played truant, ma'am, on that occasion, in company with a friend of mine, who is managing clerk
in a lawyer's office; and we both spent the morning at Doctors' Commons, over the last will
and testament of Mr. Forley's father.  Leaving the will-business for a moment, please to follow
me first, if you have no objection, into the ugly subject of Benjamin's face.  About six or
seven years ago (thanks to your kindness) I had a week's holiday with some friends of mine
who live in the town of Pendlebury.  One of those friends (the only one now left in the place)
kept a chemist's shop, and in that shop I was made acquainted with one of the two doctors in
the town, named Barsham.  This Barsham was a first- rate surgeon, and might have got to the
top of his profession, if he had not been a first-rate blackguard.  As it was, he both drank
and gambled; nobody would have anything to do with him in Pendlebury; and, at the time when
I was made known to him in the chemist's shop, the other doctor, Mr. Dix, who was not to be
compared with him for surgical skill, but who was a respectable man, had got all the practice;
and Barsham and his old mother were living together in such a condition of utter poverty, that
it was a marvel to everybody how they kept out of the parish workhouse."

"Benjamin and Benjamin's mother!"

