Synonym--Siemens' Old Armature--Girder Armature--H Armature.

Fig. 32. SHUTTLE OR H ARMATURE.

Armature, Spherical. An armature of a dynamo which is wound on a spherical core, so as to be
almost a sphere. It is employed in the Thomson-Houston dynamo, being enclosed in a cavity nearly
fitting it, formed by the pole pieces.

Armature, Stranded Conductor. A substitute for bar-armatures in which stranded copper wire
conductors are substituted for the solid bar conductors, to avoid Foucault currents. (See Armature,
Bar.)

50   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Armature, Unipolar. An armature of a unipolar dynamo. (See Dynamo Unipolar.)

Armor of Cable. The metal covering, often of heavy wire, surrounding a telegraph or electric
cable subjected to severe usage, as in submarine cables.

Synonym--Armature of Cable.

Arm, Rocker. An arm extending from a rocker of a dynamo or motor, to which arm one of the brushes
is attached. (See Rocker.) Ordinarily there are two arms, one for each brush.

Articulate Speech. Speech involving the sounds of words. It is a definition which has acquired
importance in the Bell telephone litigations, one contention, concerning the Bell telephone
patent, holding that the patentee did not intend his telephone to transmit articulations, but
only sound and music.

Astatic. adj. Having no magnetic directive tendency due to the earth's magnetism. Examples
are given under Astatic Needle; Circuit, Astatic; and Galvanometer Astatic.

Fig. 33. NOBILI'S PAIR.

FIG. 34. VERTICAL PAIR ASTATIC COMBINATION.

Astatic Needle. A combination of two magnetic needles so adjusted as to have as slight directive
tendency as possible. Such a pair of needles when poised or suspended will hardly tend to turn
more to one point of the compass than another. The combination is generally made up of two
needles arranged one above the other, with their poles in opposite directions. This combination
is usually called Nobili's pair. If of equal strength and with parallel magnetic axes of equal
length they would be astatic. In practice this is very rarely the case. A resultant axis is
generally to be found which may even be at right angles to the long axis of the magnets, causing
them to point east and west. Such a compound needle requires very little force to turn it one
way or the other. If one of the needles is placed within a coil of insulated wire a feeble
current will act almost as strongly to deflect the system as if the other was absent, and the
deflection will only be resisted by the slight directive tendency of the pair of needles. This
is the basis of construction of the astatic galvanometer. Sometimes coils wound in opposite
directions and connected in series, or one following the other, surround both needles, thus
producing a still greater effect of deflection.

Other astatic needles are shown in the cuts below. [Figures 33 to 35.]

51  STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

FIG. 35. SIMPLE ASTATIC NEEDLE.

Asymptote. A line continuously approached by a curve, but which the curve, owing to its construction
or nature of curvature, can never touch, be tangent to, or intersect.

Atmosphere. (a) A term applied to the atmospheric pressure as a practical unit of pressure
equal to 15 lbs. to the square inch as generally taken. It is really about 14.7 lbs. per square
inch, or 1,033 grams per square centimeter.

(b) Air, q. v.

Atmosphere Residual. The atmosphere left in a vessel after exhaustion. The term may be applied
to any gas. In an incandescent lamp after flashing the residual atmosphere consists of hydro-carbons.

Atmospheric Electricity. The electricity of the atmosphere, rarely absent, but often changing
in amount and sign. Benjamin Franklin, in a memoir published in 1749, indicated the method
of drawing electricity from the clouds by pointed conductors. In June, 1752, he flew a kite
and by its moistened cord drew an electric spark from the clouds, confirming his hypothesis
that lightning was identical with the disruptive discharge of electricity. To observe electricity
in fine weather a gold-leaf or other electroscope may be connected to the end of a long pointed
insulated conductor. The electricity during thunderstorms can be shown by a similar arrangement,
or burning alcohol or tinder gives an ascending current of warm air that acts as a conductor.
Quite elaborate apparatus for observing and recording it have been devised. Atmospheric electricity
is usually positive, but occasionally negative. When the sky is cloudless it is always positive,
increasing with the elevation and isolation of the place. In houses, streets, and under trees
no positive electricity can be found. In the Isle of Arran, Scotland, a rise of 24 to 48 volts
per foot of increase in elevation was found by Sir William Thomson. At sunrise the electrification
of the air is feeble, it increases towards noon and decreases again to reach a second maximum
a few hours after sunset. It increases with the barometric pressure generally. In cloudy weather
it is sometimes negative and the sign often changes several times in the same day. In a thunderstorm
the changes in sign and potential are very rapid. The cause of atmospheric electricity is far
from clear. Tait attributes it to a contact effect between air and water vapor, Solmeke to
friction of water vesicles against ice particles in the upper atmosphere, he first showing
that the two may coexist. The cause of the enormous increase of potential producing lightning
is attributed to the decreased capacity due to the change of water from cloud vesicles to drops,
thus diminishing the electrostatic capacity of the water in question. (See Lightning.)

52   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Atom. The ultimate particle or division of an elementary substance; the smallest part that
can exist in combination, and one which cannot exist alone. An elementary substance is composed
of molecules just as truly as a compound one, but the atoms in the molecule of an elementary
substance are all precisely alike. Hence atoms are the units of chemistry, they have to do
with combinations, but the physical unit, the smallest particle of matter that can have an
independent existence, is the molecule. The two are often confounded, especially by writers
of a few years ago, so that by "atom" the molecule is often meant. There is nothing to be said
of their size or mass. All such calculations refer to the molecule, q. v., often spoken of
and called the atom.

Atomic Attraction. The attraction of atoms for each other, in virtue of which they combine
into molecules; chemical affinity, q. v., treats principally of this, although molecular attraction
also plays a part in it.

Atomic Heat. The product of the atomic weight of a substance by its specific heat. This product
is approximately the same, 6.4; this approximation is so close that it is of use in determining
the valency and atomic weights of substances. The atomic weight of a substance therefore represents
the approximate number of gram-calories required to raise one gram-atom, q. v., of such substance
through 1° C. (1.8° F.)

Atomicity. The quantivalence or valency of the atoms; the number of combination bonds, or bonds
of affinity, possessed by the atoms of any substance. Thus two atoms of hydrogen combine with
one atom of oxygen, and three of oxygen with one of sulphur, forming saturated compounds. Therefore,
taking hydrogen as of single atomicity or a monad, oxygen is of double atomicity or a dyad,
and sulphur is of six-fold atomicity, or a hexad. The elements are thus classified into seven
orders of atomicities, thus:

  1, Monads or Univalent elements,   Hydrogen, etc.
  2, Dyads or Bivalent        "      Oxygen, etc.
  3, Triads or Trivalent      "      Nitrogen, etc.
  4, Tetrads or Quadrivalent  "      Lead, etc.
  5, Pentads or Quinquivalent "      Phosphorous, etc.
  6, Hexads or Sexivalent     "      Chromium, etc.
  7, Heptads or Septivalent   "      Chromium, etc.

The same element often possesses several atomicities. Barium is generally a dyad, sometimes
a tetrad; nitrogen acts as a monad, dyad, triad, tetrad and pentad. The familiar electrolysis
of water, giving two volumes of hydrogen to one of oxygen, is one of the illustrations of the
theory indicating that two atoms of hydrogen are combined with one of oxygen.

53  STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Atomic Weight. The number expressing the relative weight of the atom of any substance, that
of hydrogen being generally taken as unity. This is the universal system, although any other
element might be taken as the basis of the system. The whole theory of atomic weights is based
on the indivisibility of the atom and on the theory of atomicity, q. v. (See Equivalents.)

Attraction. The tendency to approach and adhere or cohere, shown by all forms of matter. It
includes gravitation, cohesion, adhesion, chemical affinity and other forms, and is opposed
by repulsion, and is sometimes overcome by it, although it may be assumed to be always present.
See the different kinds of attractions under their titles: Atomic Attraction, Electro-magnetic
Attraction and Repulsion, Electro Static Attraction and Repulsion, Electro-dynamic Attraction
and Repulsion; Magnetic Attraction and Repulsion; Molar Attraction.

Audiometer. An apparatus for obtaining a balance of induction from two coils acting upon a
third. The third is placed between the other two and is free to move towards either. A scale
is provided to show the extent of its movement. A varying or interrupted current being passed
through the two outer coils, the preponderating current will produce the most induction if
the central coil is equidistant. It can always be moved to such a point that there will be
no inductive effect, one counteracting the other. Thus its position measures the relative induction.
A telephone is in circuit with the intermediate coil and is used to determine when its position
is such that no current is induced in it. It is sometimes used as a direct test of hearing.
(See Hughes' Induction Balance.)

Synonym--Acoutemeter.

Aura, Electrical. The blast of air produced at highly electrified points.

Aurora. A luminous display seen in the northern heavens in the northern hemisphere, where it
is the Aurora Borealis, and seen in the southern heavens in the southern hemisphere, where
it is called Aurora Australis, or indifferently for either, the Aurora Polaris. It takes the
form of pale luminous bands, rays and curtains varying in color. Near the poles they are very
numerous. A French commission observed 150 auroras in 200 days. Their height is variously estimated
at from 90 to 460 miles; they are most frequent at the equinoxes and least so at the solstices.
There is a secular variation also, they attain a maximum of occurrence every 11 years together
with sun spots, with a minimum 5 or 6 years after the maximum. There is also a period of 60
years, coincident with disturbances in the earth's magnetism. Various attempts have been made
to account for them. They have a constant direction of arc with reference to the magnetic meridian
(q. v.) and act upon the magnetic needle; in high latitudes they affect telegraph circuits
violently. There is a strong probability that they represent electric currents or discharges.
De la Rive considers them due to electric discharges between the earth and atmosphere, which
electricities are separated by the action of the sun in equatorial regions. According to Balfour
Stewart, auroras and earth currents.(q. v.) may be regarded as secondary currents due to small
but rapid changes in the earth's magnetism. The subject is very obscure. Stewart treats the
earth as representing the magnetic core of an induction coil, the lower air is the dielectric,
and the upper rarefied and therefore conducting atmosphere is the secondary coil. This makes
the aurora a phenomenon of induced currents. Then the sun may be regarded as the instigator
of the primary changes in the earth's lines of force representing the primary of an induction coil.

54   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Austral Pole. The north pole of the magnet is thus called sometimes in France; the austral
pole of a magnet is the one which points towards the north polar regions As unlike magnetic
poles attract each other, it is but rational to call the north-seeking pole of the magnet the
south or Austral Pole. In the same nomenclature the south pole of a magnet, or the south-seeking
pole, is called the Boreal Pole.

A. W. G. Abbreviation for American Wire Gauge, q. v.

Axis, Electric. The electric axis of a pyroelectric crystal, such as a tourmaline crystal;
the line connecting the points of greatest pyroelectric excitability.

Axis of Abscissa. In a system of rectilinear, or right angle co-ordinates, the horizontal axis.
(See Co-ordinates.)

Synonym--Axis of X.

Axis of Ordinates. In a system of rectilinear right angle co-ordinates, the vertical axis.
(See Co-ordinates.)

Synonym--Axis of Y.

Azimuth. The angle between the plane of the meridian and the plane of an azimuth circle, q. v.

Azimuth Circle. A great circle, whose plane passes through the zenith or point of the heavens
directly overhead; any great circle in whose plane the vertical at the point of observation
is included.

Each celestial body has or determines an azimuth circle.

55  STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

B. (a) Abbreviation for Baumé, a hydrometer scale. (See Baumé.) Thus 10º B. means "ten degrees
Baumé."

(b) Symbol for the coefficient of induced magnetization, or the number of lines per square
centimeter induced in a magnetic circuit or in any specified part of it.

B. A. Abbreviation for British Association. It is prefixed to standards fixed by the committee
of the British Association for the Advancement of Science. Thus the B. A. ohm means the British
Association ohm, a measure of resistance which is equal to the resistance of a column of mercury
104.9 centimeters long and one square millimeter area of cross-section. (See Ohm.)

Back Induction. A demagnetizing force produced in a dynamo armature when a lead is given the
brushes. The windings by such setting of the brushes are virtually divided into two sets, one
a direct magnetizing set, the other a cross magnetizing set. The latter have a component due
to the obliqueness of the neutral line, which component is demagnetizing in its action.

Back Shock or Stroke of Lightning. A lightning stroke received after the main discharge of
the lightning, and caused by a charge induced in neighboring surfaces by the main discharge.
The discharge affects the evenness of distribution of surrounding surfaces so that a species
of secondary discharge is required to make even the distribution, or to supply charge where
needed to bind an opposite one. The effects are much lese severe as a rule than those of the
main charge, although the back stroke has caused death. The back stroke is sometimes felt a
considerable distance from the place of the original lightning stroke.

Synonym--Return Stroke.

Back Stroke. (a) In telegraphy the return stroke of the lever in a telegraph sounder, striking
the end of the regulating screw with a sound distinct from that which it produces on the forward
stroke as it approaches the magnet poles. It is an important factor in receiving by ear or
sound reading.

(b) See Back Shock or Stroke of Lightning.

Balance. (a) Wheatstone's Bridge, q. v., is sometimes termed the Electric Balance.

(b) A suspension or torsion balance is one which includes a filament or pair of filaments to
whose lower end or ends are attached a horizontal indicator often called a needle, or a magnetic
needle. (See Torsion Balance.)

(c) See Induction Balance, Hughes'.

(d) For Thermic Balance, see Bolometer.

(e) See Balance, Ampere.

56   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Balance, Ampere. A class of electrical measuring instruments due to Sir William Thomson may
be grouped under this head.

The instrument is a true balance or scales such as used for weighing. It is supported by a
torsional wire support in place of knife edges. At each end it carries a circle of wire through
which the current to be tested is passed. The torsional wire support enables the current to
be carried to these wire rings. Above and below each of these rings are two similar rings,
also connected so as to receive the current. They are so connected that the current shall go
through them in opposite senses. When a current passes, therefore, one of these rings repels
and one attracts the balanced ring.

The extent of this action measures the intensity of the current. A sliding weight moving along
a graduated scale on the balance is used to bring the balance beam into equilibrium when the
current is passing. The degree of displacement of this weight gives the strength of the current
in amperes.

These balances are made for different currents. Thus there is a centi-ampere balance, deka-ampere
balance and others, as well as an ampere balance.

Balata. A gum used as an insulating material. It is the inspissated juice of a sapotaceous
tree, the bullet tree, Mimusops globosa, of tropical America, from the Antilles to Guiana.
It is intermediate in character between caoutchouc and gutta percha. It is superior to gutta
percha in some respects, being very slightly acted on by light.

Synonym--Chicle.

B. & S.. W. G. Abbreviation for Brown & Sharpe Wire Gauge; the regular American Wire Gauge.
(See Wire Gauge, American.)

Barad. An absolute or fundamental unit of pressure, equal to one dyne per square centimeter.

Barometer. An apparatus for measuring the pressure exerted by the atmosphere. It consists,
in the mercurial form, of a glass tube, over 31 inches long, closed at one end, filled with
mercury and inverted, with its open end immersed in a cistern of mercury. The column falls
to a height proportional to the pressure of the atmosphere from 30 to 31 inches at the sea
level. The "standard barometer" is a height of the mercury or of the "barometric column" of
30 inches or 760 centimeters, measured from the surface of the mercury in the cistern.

The column of mercury is termed the barometric column. Above it in the tube is the Torricellian
vacuum.

Bars of Commutators. The metal segments of a commutator of a dynamo or motor. They are made
of bars of copper, brass or bronze insulated from one another. (See Commutator.)

Synonyms--Segments, Commutator Segments, Commutator Bars.

57 STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Bath. (a) In electro-plating the solution used for depositing metal as contained in a vat or
tank; as a silver, copper, or nickel bath used for plating articles with silver, copper, or
nickel respectively.

(b) In electro-therapeutics a bath with suitable arrangements, electrodes and connections for
treating patients with electricity. It is termed an electric bath or electro-therapeutic bath.

Bath, Bipolar Electric. In electro-therapeutics a bath in which the electrodes are both immersed
in the water. The patient placed between them receives part of the discharge. The electrodes
are large copper plates, termed shovel electrodes.

Bath, Electric Shower. An electro-medical shower bath. The patient is placed on a metallic
stove or support connected to one of the electric terminals. Water slightly alkaline is showered
upon him. The other electrode is in connection with the water. The rain of drops and streamlets
is the conductor of the current or discharge.

Bath, Multipolar Electric. An electro-medical bath with a number of electrodes instead of two.

Bath, Stripping. In electro-plating a solution used for dissolving and thus removing the plating
from any object. The stripping bath is of the same general type as the plating bath for the
same metal as the one to be dissolved. The object to be "stripped" is made the anode of a plating
circuit, and as the current acts the old plating is attacked and dissolves, leaving the body
of the article bare. It is simply the operation of plating reversed. The same term is applied
to baths acting by simple solution. Stripping baths are described under the different metals
as Silver Bath, Stripping--Gold Bath, Stripping.

Bath, Unipolar Electric. An electro-medical bath, in which only one electrode connects with
the water of the bath. The second electrode is supported above the bath. The patient touches
this while in the water whenever electric action is desired.

FIG. 36. THREE WIRE MOULDING OR BATTEN.

FIG. 37. TWO WIRE MOULDING OR BATTEN.

58   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Batten. A strip of wood grooved longitudinally for holding wires in wiring apartments for electric
light or power. In use they are fastened to the wall, grooves inward, or else grooves outward,
with the wires lying in the grooves and covered with the covering strip. For two wire work
each batten contains two grooves; for the three wire system it contains three grooves.

Synonym--Moulding.

Battery. A combination of parts or elements for the production of electrical action. The term
is principally applied to voltaic batteries, but there are also magnetic batteries, batteries
of Leyden jars, and other combinations, described in their places, which come under this category.

Battery, Acetic Acid. A battery whose active solution or excitant is acetic acid or vinegar.
This acid has been used by Pulvermacher in his medical battery, as being a substance found
in every household in the form of vinegar. It is now but little used.

Battery, Alum. A battery using as excitant a solution of alum. This battery has had some application
for electric clocks, but only to a limited extent.

Fig. 38. BALLOON OR FLASK BATTERY.

Battery, Aluminum. A battery in which aluminum is the negative plate and aluminum sulphate
the excitant. It is mounted like the gravity battery. Its electro-motive force is 0.2 volt.

59  STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Battery, Bagration. A battery with zinc and carbon electrodes immersed in earth sprinkled with
sal ammoniac (ammonium chloride). The copper is preferably first immersed in sal ammoniac solution
and dried, until a green layer is formed on its surface.

The battery is highly praised for its constancy by De la Rive, but may be regarded as obsolete.

Battery, Balloon. A form of gravity battery into whose centre a globular flask, B, is inverted,
which is filled before inversion with copper sulphate, of which 2 lbs. are used, and water,
so as to remain full. This acts as a reservoir of copper sulphate, which it constantly supplies.
The glass jar is closed with a perforated wooden cover.

Battery, Banked. (a) A battery arranged to feed a number of separate circuits.

(b) A battery connected in parallel or in multiple arc.

Battery, Bichromate. A battery with amalgamated zinc and carbon plates, with an exciting fluid
composed of sulphuric acid, water, and potassium bichromate. For formula of such solutions
see Electropoion Fluid--Kookogey's Solution--Poggendorff's Solution--Trouvé's Solution--Delaurier's
Solution, and others. (See Index.)

