Staplegrove, a parish which is virtually a suburb of Taunton. Of the church the only ancient
part is the tower (on the S. side). The rest of the fabric has undergone restoration, though
it retains a hagioscope and two piscinas.

Stavordale, a small hamlet 3-1/2 m. N.E. of Wincanton. Here an Augustinian priory was founded
in 1263 by R. Lovel, the existing conventual church being built in 1443. The remains are now
converted into a private residence. The shell of the church is intact, and a small bell-cot
will be seen marking the division between the chancel and the nave. The roof of the chancel
is unusually flat. On the N. is a projecting chapel containing a fan-traceried roof of considerable
merit, but the interior of the building is not now on view.

Stawell, a parish 3-1/2 m. S.W. of Edington Station. Its church (restored in 1874) has a low
gabled tower, and once had an aisle, the piers of the arcade being still visible; but it has
been restored, and its early features lost.

Stawley, a village on the Tone, 3 m. S.E. of Venn Cross station. The church is a small E.E.
building with a W. tower, on the face of which is a series of twelve panels bearing the inscription,
Pray for the souls of Henry Hine and Agnes his wyffe, A.D. 1522.

Stockland Bristol, which derives its name from the fact that it formed part of the endowment
of Gaunt's Hospital, in Bristol, is a parish 7 m. N.W. from Bridgwater. Its church has been
entirely rebuilt (1865), but retains its Perp. font.

Stocklinch, a village 2-1/2 m. N.E. of Ilminster. Its small church has no tower. The E. window
is Dec.; there is a sun-dial of 1612, and an ancient font.

Stogumber, 5 m. S. by E. of Watchet, with a station about a mile away. It is a large village
at the foot of the Brendons, and preserves in its name the memory of its Norman lord, Stogumber
being a corruption of Stoke Gomer (cp. Stogursey). A spring on the hillside has medicinal qualities,
and the water is used for brewing a particular kind of ale. The church, in the main Perp.,
is an interesting structure, with a tower at the S.W. corner. The tower arches, pointed and
recessed, are supported on chamfered piers without capitals, and two piers of the S. arcade
have only rude capitals, and are constructed of different stone from other parts of the church.
They are presumably much older than the rest of the building. There are two porches and two
chapels, the N. chapel having been built by Cardinal Beaufort, whose manor-house (Halsway)
is at the foot of the Quantocks (see Bicknoller). Note (1) the squint, passing through two
piers (very exceptional); (2) the seat-ends, one with arms and motto, Tyme tryeth troth; (3)
the tomb of Sir George Sydenham (d. 1664), with his two wives beside him, and three infants
(swaddled) and their nurse at his feet; (4) the brass on the N. wall to Margery Windham (d.
1585). On the exterior of the building there are some very good animal gargoyles, and two curious
figures on the gables of the S. chapel. The churchyard cross is modern. Combe Sydenham, 2 m.
away, was the seat of the Sydenham family, one of whose members became the wife of Sir Francis
Drake.

Stogursey or Stoke Courcy, a village 9 m. N.W. of Bridgwater. It derives its name from the
Norman family of De Courcy, and is a place of much interest. Its spacious church, originally
cruciform in plan, with a central tower surmounted by a lead-covered spire of disproportionate
size, is remarkable for its series of Norm. arches (in parts restored) which lead into the
chancel, transepts, and chapels. The pier-capitals exhibit great variety of carving, some having
rough volutes of a classical type, whilst several of the arches have the "tooth" ornament.
The font is also Norm. The body of the church dates from the 15th cent. The W. window deserves
notice, the upper lights representing the six days of creation, with Our Lord as Creator. The
N. transept was dedicated to St Erasmus, the S. to "Our Lady of Pity." The chapel of the latter
contains two tombs (1) of Sir Ralph Verney (d. 1352); (2) of Sir John Verney (d. 1461): note
on the shield of the second the ferns or "verns." Other features of interest in the church
are (1) the three piscinas, (2) carved seat-ends, (3) chamber over vestry, (4) door leading
from S. transept to neighbouring Priory. Of this Priory (which was attached to the Benedictine
Abbey of Lonlay, in Normandy) all that remains is the dove-cot, the circular building in the
farmyard near the church.

The De Courcys had a castle here, of which there are a few fragmentary remains, including the
base of two round towers. In the course of its history it underwent many changes of ownership,
finally passing into the hands of 1457, during the Wars of the Roses, by Lord Bonville, brother-in-law
of the Earl of Warwick.

In the village street is the base of an ancient cross; whilst a bell on some alms-houses, which
rings at six every morning and evening, is said to date from the reign of Henry V.

Stoke, East (or Stoke-sub-Hamdon), 1-1/2 m. W. from Montacute. It has a remarkably interesting
church, exhibiting an exceptional combination of various styles of architecture. At present
it is cruciform in plan, with a tower on the N. (cp. Tintinhull) the basement of which constitutes
the N. transept; but originally it consisted of a Norm. nave and chancel only. Of the Norm.
church note (1) N. porch, with quadripartite groining, supported on quaint corbels; (2) N.
doorway, with carved tympanum exhibiting the zodiacal figure Sagittarius aiming at a lion,
with the Agnus Dei above (King Stephen is said to have assumed Sagittarius on his badge because
he obtained the kingdom when the sun was in that sign); (3) S. doorway, now blocked; (4) two
very small windows in nave, one displaying outside a rude representation of St Michael and
the Dragon; (5) recessed chancel arch; (6) round-headed window in chancel, visible only on
the outside; (7) corbels under chancel roof; (8) flat buttresses at W. end; (9) font with cable
and lozenge mouldings. To this Norm. building an E.E.N. transept was added, with a tower above
(the groining supported on beautifully-carved corbels) which has two lancets on each face.
In the Dec. period there was added the S. transept; foliated lancets were inserted in the nave
and chancel walls (those in the nave breaking the splays of the Norm. slits); a large window
(with reticulated tracery) was placed at the W. end, and a second with flowing tracery introduced
into the ribbed chamber over the N. porch. Still later, Perp. windows were inserted in the
E. and S. walls. Other noteworthy features are (1) the piscinas, one (double) being under a
massive canopy at the S.E. corner of the chancel, a second in the S. transept, and a third
(for the rood-loft altar) on the E. pier of the transept; (2) Perp. stone screen under the
tower (obviously not in its original position); (3) squints; (4) effigies, one (in the chancel)
of a knight under a Renaissance canopy, the other (in the S. transept) of an ecclesiastic;
(5) Jacobean pulpit; (6) stand for an hour glass; (7) low side windows in the chancel.

At the hamlet of West Stoke is Parsonage Farm, originally a chantry house, where should be
noticed the Tudor gateway, the hall, a gabled room surmounted by a bell-cot, and a circular
columbarium. The chantry which was served by the priests who resided here, no longer exists.

Above the village is Hamdon Hill, an eminence 426 ft. above sea level. It consists of inferior
oolite, which furnishes excellent building stone, and the hill in consequence is honeycombed
with quarries. On the summit is a very extensive British camp covering 2O0 acres, part of which
was subsequently occupied by the Romans in order to command the ford where the Fosseway (which
runs near) crossed the Parrett. The rampart is nearly 3 m. in circumference. Near the N. side
of the camp is a hollow called the "Frying-pan," which is thought to have been an amphitheatre;
but it looks too small to have served for this.

Stoke, North, a small village 5 m. N.W. of Bath (nearest stat. Kelston, 1-1/2 m.). The church
has a low tower originally Norm. The tower arch is round-headed, without mouldings, whilst
the chancel arch is pointed and probably rather later than that of the tower. There is a very
massive rectangular font, said to be Saxon; note the roughly carved heads at the corners. A
very fine view of the neighbourhood may be obtained by proceeding from the village to the Lansdowne
golf links.

Stoke Pero a parish on the edge of Exmoor, 3-1/2 m. S. of Porlock. Its little church, with
its gable tower, lies under a spur of Dunkery, and is interesting more for its isolated situation
than for anything else. It may be reached either by the Horner woods and Cloutsham, or from
Porlock by a path that crosses Ley Hill. The wooden N. doorway is ascribed to the 14th cent.

Stoke, Rodney, a village prettily situated at the foot of the Mendips, 5 m. N.W. from Wells
(nearest stat. Draycott, 1 m.). Its little Perp. church (St Leonard) is principally noteworthy
for a mortuary N. chapel, containing several tombs and monuments of the Rodney family. One
of these--that of Sir Thomas Rodney--dates from the 15th cent.; the others are later. Other
features which deserve attention are (1) large stoup in N. porch; (2) ancient font (late Norm.),
with its cover; (3) screen (1624, given by Sir Edward Rodney whose monument is among those
referred to above); (4) carved pulpit.

Stoke St Gregory, a parish 2 m. S. of Athelney Station. It has an interesting church, which,
like that of its neighbour North Curry, is cruciform with a central octagonal tower. The oldest
parts are E.E. (note in particular the E. windows of the S. transept, of which the piers have
E.E. capitals as bases, and the base of the tower). The rest of the building was reconstructed
in Perp. times. The figures (of Apostles) on the outside of the tower are modern, though the
pedestals are ancient. There is a little ancient glass in one of the N. windows; but the most
noteworthy features of the church are the carved Jacobean pulpit, a cupboard in the vestry
made from the former reading-desk, and the carved bench ends. The pulpit has five figures in
relief which should be compared with similar ones at Thurloxton and North Newton. They represent
Time, Faith, Hope, Charity, and (probably) the Virgin and Child. There are also five carved
figures on the vestry cupboard, which are possibly the five Wise Virgins. The W. door is closed
by a bar inserted in the wall. Note the niched figure in the S. porch. At Slough Farm is an
old moated manor house.

Stoke St Mary, a parish 2 m. E. of Thorne Falcon Station. Its church (restored) is prettily
situated, but contains nothing to interest the antiquarian.

Stoke St Michael (or Stoke Lane), a compact but uninteresting village, 3 m. N. of Cranmore
Station. Its church is an instructive example of architectural depravity, but internally has
been much improved. The tower is ancient but poor. About a mile E. of the village are the ruins
of a villa once owned by the notorious Duke of Buckingham.

Stoke, South, a parish 2-1/2 m. S. of Bath. The church has a fine Norm. doorway, with carved
tympanum and pillars, and zigzag and other mouldings round the arch.

Stoke Trister is a small hamlet of mean appearance, 2 m. E. of Wincanton. It has a modern church
(1841).

Ston Easton, a small wayside village, 2-1/2 m. S. of Hallatrow station. The church is an unpretentious
little Perp. building, with a rather fine Norm. chancel arch, and has been well restored. Ston
Easton House stands in a well-wooded park, and possesses an old carved oak ceiling and an ancient
staircase.

Stowell, a very small parish 1 m. W. of Templecombe, which probably gets its name from the
spring seen near the church. The church itself was originally built in the 15th cent., but
only the tower arch belongs to this date. The nave is quite modern (1834), but it preserves
a Norm. font.

Stowey, a parish 2 m. W. of Clutton. It has a small church, noteworthy for the irregularity
of its windows (the small one in the S. wall was originally the S. door). It has a 14th cent.
font (note the cockle-shell); and an interesting bit of sculpture is built into the exterior
N. wall of the chancel. Near it is an incised pair of shears (a woolstaplers' mark). Not far
from the church is an old manor house, half of which has been destroyed. Within the parish
is Sutton Court (Sir E. Strachey), a house which has historical associations, for here Bishop
Hooper found an asylum during the Marian persecution. The mansion is of considerable antiquity,
parts of it dating from the reign of Edward II., and others from Tudor times.

Stowey, Nether, a village 9 m. W. from Bridgwater (from which place there is a motor service).
It owes its interest to having been the residence of S.T. Coleridge from 1796 to 1798: his
cottage, marked by a tablet, is at the end of the village on the Minehead road. Both "Christabel"
and "The Ancient Mariner," as well as several of his shorter poems, are said to have been partly
written in this neighbourhood. Here he must have entertained Wordsworth, Charles Lamb, William
Hazlitt, and many others of his literary friends. A movement has been recently started to purchase
the cottage for the nation. The church contains nothing of note except a mural tablet in memory
of Thomas Poole, described as the friend of "Wordsworth and Davy (i.e. Sir Humphrey), Southey,
and Coleridge": his tomb is on the W. side of the S. door. The two painted mitres beneath the
roof-beams commemorate two vicars who became bishops (Majendie of Chester and Fisher of Exeter).

Near the church is Stowey Court, a 15th cent. mansion which was garrisoned in the Civil War.
There are three fish ponds in the grounds, and a curious summer-house (called the "Gazébo")
overlooking the road (cp. Montacute). On Castle hill (take road to left where the highway from
Bridgwater forks at the sign-post) are the foundations and ramparts of a castle, the last owner
of which, James, Lord Audley, was executed for supporting Perkin Warbeck. The site is worth
visiting for the prospect alone.

Stowey, Over, a parish 9 m. W. of Bridgwater, situated on the slopes of the Quantocks. Its
church has some carved bench ends of an ordinary type, but otherwise contains little of interest.
Quantock Lodge (E.J. Stanley) is in the parish.

Stratton on the Fosse, a village standing (as its name implies) on the old Roman road, 1 m.
S.E. from Chilcompton Station. The parish church (ded. to St Vigor) is entirely overshadowed
by its Roman neighbour, Downside Abbey. It is a poor little building, with a debased tower;
but preserves one or two remnants of Norm. work (e.g. a S. doorway and a fragment of the original
apse). Within is a small 15th cent. stone pulpit, and a Norm. font.

Street, a populous village 1 m. S. from Glastonbury Station. It spreads itself at considerable
length along the Bridgwater road, and is a busy and stirring place, devoted chiefly to the
manufacture of boots and shoes. It also possesses some large lias quarries which have been
prolific in fossils. The church is a disappointing building standing well back from the village
street, mainly Perp., with a rather poor Dec. chancel; and is made still more depressing by
the addition of a very debased modern N. aisle. There is a piscina and double sedilia in the
chancel. The village is furnished with a good modern Institute, which contains a large assembly
hall and a small museum of local geological specimens.

Stringston, a small village 6 m. E. of Williton. Its little church has a broach spire of red
tiles, a great rarity in this part of the country, and retains its piscina and the fragments
of a stoup. Its most interesting possession is its cross (14th cent.), with carvings supposed
to represent (1) the Crucifixion; (2) the Virgin and Child; (3) a knight; (4) a bishop.

Sutton Bingham, a small parish on the Dorset border, 3-1/2 m. S. from Yeovil, with a station
on the L. & S.W. main line. The church is of considerable interest and should be visited. It
is a 12th-cent. building standing on rising ground on the farther side of the station, and
shows traces of the Norm., E.E., and Dec. styles. It has no tower or projecting bell-cot, but
a couple of bells are let into the W. gable. A good Norm. arch, only 6 ft. wide, with zigzag
ornament, divides the aisleless nave from the chancel; and other indications of Norm. workmanship
are found in the N. porch and in two windows of the nave. The chancel is E.E. and is lighted
by lancets. Round the walls and in the splays of the windows are a series of 14th-cent. frescoes,
representing the Coronation of the Virgin, and a number of bishops, saints, and virgins. A
figure in the splay of the E. window has been carefully erased by some "conscientious objector."
Note (1) E.E. piscina in chancel; (2) late Norm. font. In the churchyard is a curious cross,
consisting of a headless shaft mounted on a raised slab, seemingly a tombstone.

Sutton, Long, a village 3 m. S. of Somerton, said to have been the quarters of Goring before
the Battle of Langport. Its church (Perp.) will repay inspection. The tower is unusually lofty,
and has triple belfry windows; but in workmanship it is inferior to most of its class, too
much space being left between the windows and the parapet. The most interesting feature of
the church is its woodwork. The nave roof is very good, having embattled tie-beams, ornamented
with angels, and open Perp. tracery above. There is a rich painted and gilded Perp. screen,
with loft carrying the organ, and a highly decorated wooden pulpit of the same period (restored
1868). Note also (1) stoup outside W. door; (2) fine niche in N. porch; (3) piscinas on N.
chancel pier and in chancel; (4) blocked squints; (5) sedilia (resembling those at Shepton
Beauchamp). In the churchyard is the carved socket of a cross.

Sutton Mallet, a hamlet near the base of the Polden Hills, 4 m. S. of Edington Station. Its
church, of "debased" character, is of no interest.

Sutton Montis, a parish 2 m. S.E. of Sparkford, lying under the S. side of Cadbury Hill (hence
its name). Its church has a low W. tower, with a massive belfry staircase and a most incongruous
"classical" porch attached to the S. door (cp. Queen Camel). Inside is a good Norm. chancel
arch, Dec. chancel windows (restored), and a large piscina (restored). One of the bells is
of pre-Reformation date.

Swainswick, a village 3 m. N.N.E. of Bath, reached by a lane from the Cheltenham road. Its
name is perhaps connected with the Danish chief Swegen (Sweyn); and it was the birthplace of
William Prynne (b. 1600). The church has a gable-topped tower, and retains some ancient features.
The S. door is Norm. (note the stoup), whilst the tower arch seems E.E. A window in the S.
wall has flowing tracery with an ogee moulding. Note (1) in N. chapel a piscina; (2) in chancel
a brass (said to have once been on an altar-tomb) of the date 1439.

Swell, a parish 4 m. S.W. of Langport. It has a small Perp. church (very dilapidated) which
retains a Norm. door. Note in the interior (1) piscina and niches; (2) fragments of ancient
glass; (3) pulpit and reading-desk of 1634.

Tatworth, a parish 2 m. S. of Chard. The church is modern, but a Baptist place of worship,
a plain, thatched building at South Chard, is supposed to have been an ancient chapel. It is
locally known as St Margaret's, and over the doorway is an empty niche. For a curious custom
of holding a sale by candlelight, see under Chedzoy.

TAUNTON, county town on the Tone (whence its name), 163 m. from London, and 44-1/2 S.W. from
Bristol; pop. 21,000. A spacious station on the G.W.R. main line, Bristol to Exeter, forms
a junction for the Yeovil, Chard, Minehead, and Barnstaple branches. The town is commodious,
and its railway facilities make it an excellent centre. The streets are spacious and well-built,
and converge upon a triangular market place which is rather spoilt by an ugly market hall in
its centre. Though Taunton wears a prosperous and progressive air, it has behind it a very
venerable history which is not without a flavour of stirring times. It finds a place in our
national annals on four notable occasions. (1) In 710 King Ina of Wessex pushed the West Welsh
beyond the Tone and erected a castle at Taunton as a barrier against their return. The site
was subsequently fortified afresh by the Normans. (2) In 1497 Perkin Warbeck, in his dash for
the throne, seized the town, but fled in terror at the approach of the Royal forces. (3) During
the Civil War it was alternately occupied by the Royalists and Parliamentarians, and in 1643
Blake successfully withstood here attacks from Hopton and Goring; and the town was punished
at the Restoration for this robust resistance by the demolition of its fortifications and the
loss of its charter. (4) In 1685 the sentiments of the place were again enthusiastically "agin
the government," and Monmouth was accorded here a royal ovation and was proclaimed king in
the market-place. But this coup de théâtre was only an introductory farce to the grim tragedy
which followed. When Monmouth's hopes of sovereignty were rudely shattered by the mêlée at
Sedgemoor the town was handed over for pacification to the tender mercies of Kirke and the
brutal justice of Jeffreys. The rebels got short shrift from both. Kirke, without preliminary
inquiry, swung the culprits from the sign-board of his lodgings, and Jeffreys' law was notorious
for its despatch. So numerous were the executions that Bishop Ken complained to the king that
"the whole diocese was tainted with death." The name Tangier still attaches to the district
where Kirke penned his "lambs," and the old "White Hart" (now a shop) at the corner of Fore
Street marks the Colonel's own quarters. Jeffreys' lodgings have been demolished, perhaps under
the impression that nothing was needed to keep alive the memory of the "Bloody Assize." The
ecclesiastical interests of Taunton were from early days associated with the see of Winchester,
and the establishment of a priory here early in the 12th cent. was the see's acknowledgment
of its obligations. Nothing of this benefaction now remains but the monastic barn near St James's
Church.

The parish church of St Mary Magdalene, though far the finest church in Taunton, was originally
only a subordinate chapel-of-ease to the monastery. It is a spacious building, noteworthy for
its imposing tower and quadruple aisles. Its probable designer was Sir R. Bray, Henry VII.'s
architect, and the king is supposed to have contributed to its erection. The present tower
is claimed to be a conscientious reproduction of the original fabric, removed in 1858 as dangerous.
It is a lofty and ornate structure of four storeys, decorated with a triple tier of double
windows, and divided at the stages by bands of quatrefoils. A crown of elaborate tabernacle
work--a perfect medley of battlements and pinnacles--forms the cresting. The general design,
though highly artificial, is well balanced. Note (1) the stoups on either side of the W. doorway;
(2) the carvings (part of the original fabric) in the spandrels above. The S. porch--a very
successful and noteworthy feature of the church--is dated 1508, The rest of the building must
be nearly contemporaneous. The interior is rich, but somewhat devoid of interest. Note (1)
the four aisles--an unusual arrangement, occurring also at Manchester Cathedral and St Michael's,
Coventry; (2) the E.E. piers to N. aisle; (3) the fine oak roof of nave; (4) canopied figure
(modern) of St Mary Magdalene on one of the nave piers; (5) monument of Robert Gray, with a
laudatory and rhyming epitaph in N. wall; (6) figures of apostles between clerestory lights
(cp. Bruton). St James's Church has a good tower with turret and spirelet--likewise rebuilt.
The interior is well proportioned and gains an air of great spaciousness from an unusually
lofty chancel. The most noteworthy feature of the church is its splendid font, richly adorned
with figures of apostles and ecclesiastics. The pulpit is dated 1633. Hard by, and in close
proximity to the county cricket ground, is the Priory Barn, the only remnant of Taunton's once
considerable and wealthy priory: note the windows--perhaps insertions from other fragments
of the monastic buildings. The Castle, after centuries of complete neglect, underwent a well-intentioned
but unfortunate restoration by Sir B. Hammet, but is now in the appropriate possession of the
Somerset Archaeological Society, who have transformed it into a museum. The buildings, as they
now stand, include (1) an outer gateway--the Castle Bow--now incorporated with Clarke's Hotel
(note the portcullis groove); (2) a rectangular block consisting of Edwardian additions to
an original Norm. keep and a great hall (fee for entrance, 2d.). Note (1) the arms of Bishop
Langton, of Winchester, and Henry VII. over central gateway; (2) the drum tower (now the committee-room
and library) at S.W. corner; (3) the immense thickness of the walls of the keep with its Norm.
buttresses, and the lighter superstructure, with its Dec. windows, above; (4) the Great Hall,
the scene of the Bloody Assize--a remarkably spacious chamber built by Bishop Horne, 1577.
The shelves of the museum are stocked with a large collection of antiquities add natural-history
specimens: the case containing the relics from Sedgemoor is of special interest. The exhibition
as a whole would gain in point by being confined to objects connected with the county.

Other things worthy of attention in Taunton are (1) the old Grammar School in Corporation Street,
now incorporated with the Municipal Buildings, (2) the two fine old houses opposite the Market
Hall, (3) Gray's and Pope's alms-houses in East Street, (4) the old thatched alms-houses (originally
a lepers' hospital) at the E. extremity of the town, in East Reach, bearing on the wall Abbot
Bere's monogram and arms. A visit should be paid to Vivary Park at the end of High Street,
a tastefully laid-out public recreation ground on the site of the old monastic fishponds. The
Shire Hall, in Shuttern, a somewhat pretentious modern building, contains a number of busts
of Somerset worthies. A rough lane striking off to the R. from the Trull road leads to an old
Roman causeway crossing a narrow, one-arched bridge locally known as Ramshorn Bridge.

Tellisford, a small village 1 m. S. of Farleigh Hungerford. Its church has a passing likeness
to that at Farleigh; it preserves within the porch a stoup and a fair Trans. doorway.

Templecombe (or Abbas Combe), an inconsiderable village at the S.E. extremity of the county,
with an important station on the S. & D. and L. & S.W. lines. The church is ancient but uninteresting,
and seems to have been considerably altered. It contains a curious E.E. font. The tower is
somewhat peculiar, and forms the S. porch. On the rising ground at the S. of the village are
the remains of a preceptory of the Knights Templars, founded in the 12th cent. by Serlo Fitz-Odo.
From this foundation the place takes its name. A long building, which was perhaps once the
refectory, but which is now used as a barn, will be noticed abutting on a farm-house along
the road to Milborne Port. In an orchard at the back of the farm are the ruins of a small chapel.

Thorne (or Thorne Coffin), a parish 2-1/2 m. N.W. of Yeovil. Its small church (without a tower)
contains nothing of interest except a pulpit of the date 1624 (cp. Chilthorne Domer).

Thorne St Margaret, a village 3 m. W. of Wellington. Its church has been rebuilt, and the only
object of interest that it retains is a small brass (affixed to the W. wall) with an inscription
in Latin and English, of a punning character, to a person called Worth.

Thornfalcon, a parish 3-1/2 m. E. of Taunton, with a station on the Taunton and Chard line.
Its Perp. church preserves some good bench-ends dated 1542. There is a holy-water stoup inside
the S. door, and an ancient font. Not far from the church, at a spot where four ways meet,
is a roadside cross.

Thurlbear, a parish 3-1/2 m. S.E. of Taunton. It has a small church which is remarkable for
having fine Norm. arcades N. and S., it being one of a very small number of churches in the
immediate neighbourhood of Taunton that retain much Norm. work. The squint is peculiar, and
there is an early font under the belfry.

Thurloxton, a parish half way between Taunton and Bridgwater (lying a little off the main road),
and 3 m. N.W. of Durston Station. The small church of St Giles is noteworthy for (1) the carved
oak screen, which has rests for books attached to it, (2) the fine oak pulpit (dated 1634),
with four figures in relief, three apparently representing Faith, Hope, and Charity (cp. Stoke
St Gregory), (3) the W. door, made of one solid block of wood; over the entrance is the date
1500. Observe, too, the piscina and the old tub font.

Tickenham, a village 4 m. E. from Clevedon and 3 m. from Nailsea Station. Its church, dedicated
to SS. Quiricus and Julietta, is interesting. The tower (as at Wraxall and Brislington) is
characterised by having niches on each face rising above the parapet between the pinnacles,
and containing effigies. Externally, there should be observed (1) the square sanctus-bell cot,
(2) the E.E. porch. The interior is very plain. The square piers of the arcades have no capitals,
and are possibly Norm., though one has at two of its angles small pilasters with carved capitals.
The chancel arch is round-headed, probably early Norm., without mouldings. In the N. aisle
there are three life-sized effigies (two knights in full armour and a lady), assigned to the
13th cent., and supposed to be members of the Berkeley family. Note (1) font, (2) ancient glass.

A neighbouring farm contains some remains of an old 15th-cent. house, once the residence of
the Berkeleys.

Above Tickenham on the N. lies Cadbury Camp, covering about 7 acres. It is protected by double
ramparts and ditches, the former consisting of piled limestone fragments, now almost entirely
covered with turf. Roman coins have been found within it. The position commands a fine view,
both landward and seaward.

Timberscombe, a small wayside village, 3 m. S.W. of Dunster on the Dulverton road. The church
(Perp.) has an unimposing tower (rebuilt 1708) with slate pyramidal spire. Within is a small
coloured rood-screen resembling that at Carhampton, but with staircase intact. Note (1) piscinas
in chancel and aisle, (2) old wooden door to N. entrance, (3) Devonshire foliage on one of
the arcade piers (cp. Luccombe). In the churchyard is a restored cross. Half a mile beyond
the village is the manor house of Bickham, one wing of which was originally a chapel.

Timsbury, one of the colliery villages near Radstock, 1 m. N.W. from Camerton. Like its neighbour
Paulton it stands high, but it is both more attractive and more pleasantly situated, commanding
a pretty prospect towards Camerton, which it overlooks. The church was rebuilt in 1826, but
the chancel was added later from designs by Sir G. Scott.

Tintinhull (formerly Tyncnell), a village 1-1/2 m. N. from Montacute Station, preserving some
old houses and possessing an interesting church. The latter appears to be E.E. with Dec. and
Perp. insertions and additions. The massive tower is unusually placed on the N. side, and has
in the basement a blocked squint. Features of the church which deserve notice are (1) the S.
porch, which has a ribbed roof, and supports on its gable an odd kind of sundial (cp. Middle
Chinnock), (2) stone base of rood screen, on which is a mutilated piscina, (3) double piscina
(E.E.) in chancel, (4) bench-ends (1511), with the old seats hinged to them, (5) ancient tiles
(14th cent.), (6) Jacobean pulpit; (7) brasses, one to John Stone (d. 1416), and another, with
effigy, to John Heth (d. 1464). At one end of the churchyard is a gate-post with an inscription;
and not far away is the former rectory (now called the Court House). In the village, beneath
a magnificent elm, are the ancient stocks.

Tolland, a village 4 m. N. by E. of Wiveliscombe. Its small church contains little of interest,
except some ancient tiles and some carved woodwork. In the parish is an old manor house called
Gaulden Farm, with a large hall decorated with a fine plaster ceiling, with pendant and cornice,
but inspection of it is not easily obtained. James Turberville, Bishop of Exeter, is said to
have lived here in seclusion, when deprived of his see in 1559.

Treborough, a small village 6 m. S.W. of Williton. The district is hilly, and the church small.

Trull, a village 2 m. S.W. of Taunton, on the Honiton road. Its church is of no great architectural
interest, but is remarkable for its woodwork--rood-screen, pulpit, and seat ends. The screen
is very good: note above it the tympanum, projecting below the chancel arch and formerly joined
to the rood-loft by an oak addition. The pulpit has five figures in high relief, which seem
to represent an apostle, a pope, a cardinal, and two bishops (or perhaps a bishop and a mitred
abbot). Among the bench-ends are panels representing figures in a religious procession, including
(1) a boy with a cross, (2) a man with a candle, (3) a man with a reliquary, (4) and (5) two
ecclesiastics (or perhaps choristers) with books. The artist's name (Simon Warman) and the
date of his work (1560) are engraved at the W. end of the N. aisle. There is also some excellent
ancient glass in the E. and S. windows of the chancel. In the churchyard, under a tree, are
preserved the parish stocks.

Twerton, a populous working-class suburb on the W. side of Bath, with a station on the G.W.R.
main line to Bristol. The name of the place (the town at the weir) betrays its Saxon origin,
but the only thing known of its early history is that the Bath monks had a cloth mill here.
A large clothing factory, which is one of the chief industries of the place, after a fashion
perpetuates the tradition. The old village and church lie on the S. side of the railway embankment,
and may be found by passing under the station archway. The church has more than once been entirely
rebuilt, but still retains a commonplace Perp. tower. A photograph in the vestry shows a curious
inscription on one of the battlements. A good Norm. doorway, now built into the N. porch, and
a Norm. font, are relics of the original church. Henry Fielding lodged in one of the houses
in the village and penned a portion of "Tom Jones" here.

Ubley, a village 2 m. S.E. of Blagdon. The church tower has rather an odd appearance, as in
addition to a low spire, it has a prominent stair turret with pyramidal cap. Within, the N.
arcade has been pushed out of the perpendicular by the weight of the roof. At the entrance
of the S. chapel is a chained copy of Erasmus' Paraphrase of the Gospels, 1522 (cp. Bruton).
The pulpit is Jacobean, and the altar bears date 1637. The churchyard is beautifully kept,
and a very handsome restored cross stands on a little "green" fronting at the churchyard gate.

Uphill, a village at the mouth of the Axe, 2 m. S. of Weston-super-Mare. It is an unattractive
collection of cottages without any present-day interest. Somewhere, however, in the neighbourhood
once existed the old Roman seaport of Axium, where the lead dug from the Mendips was shipped
for export. The church is early Victorian Gothic, with a new chancel. The old ruined church
on the hill is a conspicuous landmark from Weston. It is a Norm. building, altered in Perp.
times, with a low central tower. Note (1) the restored Norm. N. doorway; (2) three-faced gargoyle
on S. side of tower. Near the church is the shell of a watch-tower. The old Roman road which
ran across the Mendips from Old Sarum had its terminus here. Uphill was once notable for a
bone cavern, but this has now been destroyed by the encroachments of a quarry. The contents,
which included many valuable remains of extinct animals, have been scattered amongst neighbouring
museums.

Upton, a village on the Haddeo, 6 m. E.N.E. of Dulverton. The neighbourhood is very picturesque.
The church has been removed to a more convenient position at Rainsbury, but the tower of the
old fabric, which has been allowed to remain, marks the original site.

Upton Noble, a parish 2-1/2 m. S.W. of Witham Friary. The church has a small gable-roofed tower,
and preserves in the E. wall of a S. chapel a defaced crucifix within a nimbus. The font is early.

Vallis, 1 m. N.W. from Frome--a prettily-wooded bottom, through which flows a stream pleasantly
margined by a strip of pasture. The vale is sufficiently romantic to make it a favourite trysting-place
with the neighbouring townsfolk, but it is being rapidly ruined by extensive quarrying operations.
The rocks, however, are geologically of much interest, as upon the edge of the upturned strata
of mountain limestone will be noticed horizontal layers of oolite. On the side of the defile
is the old manor-house of the Leversedges, now applied to farm purposes. The ruins of the original
banqueting-hall (temp. Henry VII.) will repay investigation. The pedestrian should approach
the vale from Frome across the Lees, and may either return to the town by following the course
of a tributary brook to Egford, or may prolong his walk along the banks of the main stream
to Elm and Mells.

Venn Cross, a rural station on the G.W.R. line to Barnstaple. It stands on the very border
of the county, and serves a number of neighbouring villages.

Vobster, a small village 2 m. S. of Mells Road Station. Its uncouth name is said to be derived
from some Dutch weavers who once worked a mill on the banks of the neighbouring stream. The
church is a neat little modern building.

Walton, a village 3 m. S.W. of Glastonbury. The church is modern. At the W. end of it is a
thatched 15th cent. parsonage with some ecclesiastical windows, now a farm. From the hill behind
the village (marked by a windmill) an excellent view of the full extent of Sedgemoor may be
obtained.

Walton-in-Gordano, a village 1 m. N. of Clevedon, very prettily situated near the Channel.
Of the church, the only ancient part is the base of the tower (15th cent.), under which a few
fragments of carved stones are preserved. The present building is said to be modelled on the
style of the old.

Wanstrow, a village 6 m. S.W. of Frome, with a station on the G.W.R. branch to Wells. The church
is ancient, but without interest.

Washford, a large hamlet in the parish of Old Cleeve, with a station (on the G.W.R. branch
to Minehead) which affords easy access to Cleeve Abbey.

WATCHET, a small port of some 2000 inhabitants, situated on the Bristol Channel. It has always
been of some trading importance, as giving access to the valley between the Brendons and Quantocks,
and has seen some history. In Saxon times it was more than once raided by the Danes, and on
the road to Williton is a spot called "Battle Gore," which may preserve the memory of a fight
with the invaders. Its church, St Decuman's, on the way to Williton, is interesting. It has
a good tower, with a figure of the saint on the S. face. There is a stoup outside the W. door,
and remains of another in the S. porch. It will be seen that the chancel roof is a continuation
of that of the nave. In the interior note (1) the group of four bishops, and St George (or
St Michael) with the Dragon on some of the arcade piers; (2) the oak roof, pulpit and cornice;
(3) the screen (which, however, is mostly modern). There are two chapels, Holy Cross on the
S. and St Peter's on the N. The latter is filled with tombs and brasses of the Wyndham family,
chiefly 16th and 17th cent. In the churchyard is a restored cross. The farm-house of Kentisford,
near the church, was once a manor-house, and preserves the name of St Keyne.

Wayford is a village 3 m. S.W. of Crewkerne Station. Its church occupies an elevated position,
and displays several ancient features. Its windows are E.E. or Dec., some having the interior
arch foliated. There is a good double piscina under a foliated canopy, and an old octagonal font.

Weare, a large village near the Axe, 3 m. S.W. of Axbridge. It is said to have been a borough
in the early part of the 14th cent., sending two members to Parliament. The church has a good
tower, rather deficient in height, with triple belfry windows. The treatment of the belfry
staircase is unusual, and deserves notice. The interior of the church contains comparatively
little of antiquarian interest. In one of the N. windows are some fragments of ancient glass,
bearing seemingly the initials of Thomas Beckington. Note (1) piscina and small brass (late
15th cent.) in the sanctuary, (2) square Norm. font, (3) Jacobean pulpit (1617). There is a
cross in the churchyard.

Wedmore, a large village 4 m. S. of Cheddar, situated on rising ground, which affords a good
view of part of the Mendips and of the hamlets resting upon their slopes. The place is famous
as the scene of Guthrum's "chrisom-loosing" after his baptism at Aller, and of his treaty with
Alfred (see p. 13). Its church (Perp.) is an interesting building. The tower is central (as
at Axbridge, Yatton, etc.), with triple windows in the belfry; and as it has no pinnacles,
it presents a very plain outline (cp. Yeovil). The original cruciform plan of the church is
disguised by the N. and S. aisles and chapels. The oldest parts are the tower arches and the
S. doorway, which are late Trans.; the S. chapel has a Dec. window; the rest of the structure
is Perp. Note (1) gallery or parvise over the porch; (2) groined vaulting under tower; (3)
wooden roof of N. chapel; (4) sedile, piscina, and squint; (5) fine Jacobean pulpit; (6) mural
brasses to Thomas and George Hodges (1583 and 1630). There appear to be traces of a double
rood-loft (as at Axbridge and Crewkerne). There is a cross in the churchyard, and a second
(with defaced sculptures) in a garden on the L. hand of the Glastonbury road.

At Mudgeley, a hamlet 1-1/2 m. away, King Alfred is believed to have had a palace, and the
foundation of walls have been discovered in the course of recent excavations.

WELLINGTON, a market town 7 m. S.W. from Taunton, with a station on the main G.W. line to Exeter.
Population, 7283. No one seems to know why the hero of Waterloo chose to immortalise this quiet
little west-country town: he does not appear to have had any original connection with it. The
reputation of Wellington, made by war, is now maintained by woollens. The town is girdled by
large cloth and serge mills. In general appearance the place is not unprepossessing. The streets
are wide and airy, and their arrangement compact, but the shops are poor, and create an impression
of dullness. The only object of more than passing interest is the Parish Church, inconveniently
situated at the E. extremity of the town. It is chiefly remarkable for a good Perp. W. tower,
distinguished by the local peculiarity of a stair turret carried up the centre of its S. face.
The interior--Perp. throughout, with the exception of an E.E. east window--is lofty, but not
particularly impressive, and has an unusually high chancel. The fragments of an elaborately
carved reredos which the building once possessed are now in Taunton Museum. There are two monuments
of note: (1) fine Jacobean tomb with canopy and effigies of Lord Chief-Justice Popham and wife
(1607); (2) defaced effigy of ecclesiastic in recess at E. end of N. chapel. The other features
to be observed are (1) old carved reading-desk and pulpit; (2) very fine piscina in chancel;
(3) crucifix on mullion of E. window of S. chapel, now obscured by the organ.

The Wellington Monument, a conspicuous landmark on the summit of one of the Blackdowns, is
nearly 3 m. S. of the town. It is a triangular column, erected by public subscription to commemorate
the Iron Duke, and was originally intended to be surmounted by his statue. The site commands
an extensive prospect in the direction of the Quantocks, Brendons, and Exmoor.

Wellow, a largish but somewhat declining village, lying in a valley 6 m. S. from Bath, with
a station on the S. & D. line. St Julian's Church is a fine specimen of early Perp. architecture
(1372). It is interesting within and imposing without. The tower is severe but dignified, and
a good effect is obtained by a small octagonal turret over the rood-loft staircase. The chancel
is new (1890). Within note (1) the good bossed and panelled roof, (2) dark oak screen, (3)
old benches, (4) the E.E. font attached to one of the pillars and furnished with a book rest,
(5) effigy of a priest with an incised chalice on breast (cp. Minehead), (6) piscina on splay
of S. sanctuary window. The Hungerford chapel--now filled by an organ--is an interesting little
chamber, with a gaily coloured roof and an effigy of some Lady Hungerford under an Elizabethan
canopy. At the bottom of a ditch in a cottage garden to the E. of the church is the site of
St Julian's well, said to have been the trysting-place of the Hungerford family ghost. A flat
stone is now the only indication of this once uncanny fountain. Opposite the school is a grim-looking
gabled farmhouse, once a manorial residence of the Hungerfords. It is said to contain an oak
room and some fine carving, but the occupants do not encourage visitors. Half a mile to the
W. of the village, in a field nearly opposite the cemetery, the foundations of a Roman villa
were unearthed in 1685. Four upright stones at the top of the field mark the site, and portions
of the tessellated pavement are still said to lie beneath the sod. Another antiquity of great
interest will be found in the centre of a sloping field nearly a mile S.S.W. of the village.
This is Stoney Littleton, a large Celtic tumulus composed of masonry, but now entirely overgrown
with brushwood. The mound is easily observable (call for key at neighbouring farm-house). An
inscription at the entrance claims that at a restoration in 1858 everything was replaced as
found. A low passage gives access to a number of small chambers constructed of flagstones.
Skeletons are said to have been found within when these were first opened.

WELLS, a cathedral city of some 5000 people, 20 m. S.W. from Bath, 20 m. S. from Bristol, 20
m. E. from Bridgewater, 32 m. N.E. from Taunton. Geographically the situation of Wells is fairly
central, but it is neither easy of approach by road nor particularly accessible by rail. To
reach the city from the N.E. the pedestrian or cyclist has to clamber over the Mendips; and
though two railways (S. & D. and G.W.R.) have stations here, the connection is indirect and
the service leisurely. Wells has been enthusiastically described as "one of the most beautiful
things on earth," and though a cold-blooded visitor may be disposed to cavil at the extravagance
of the praise, yet it will be universally admitted that this "city of waters," picturesquely
planted at the foot of the hills, with its antiquities mellowed but unimpaired by age, is possessed
of peculiar charm. There are other cities with cathedrals, but the ecclesiastical atmosphere
of Wells is almost unique. It is a cathedral city pure and simple. It has come down to us from
the Middle Ages practically unchanged. Here may be seen the machinery of a great mediaeval
ecclesiastical foundation in actual working order. Wells probably owes its immunity from change
to the secular character of its church, in consequence of which it escaped the upheaval that
overthrew religious houses like its neighbour Glastonbury. Apart from its cathedral life, Wells
has had few interests. It is an unenterprising little town. Bishop Goodwin once described it
as a place of "little antiquity." It has less history. Its civil annals are short and simple.
It gave a loyal welcome to Henry VII. on his return from stamping out Perkin Warbeck's fatuous
rebellion; and Monmouth's troops, as an interlude in their inglorious campaign, found uproarious
diversion by stabling their horses in the canons' stalls, and holding a wild carousal in the
sanctuary. The peculiar interest of Wells lies not only in the cathedral itself, but in its
entourage. Secular chapters were communities for the purposes of worship only. They had no
"common life." Their only common room was the chapter-house, where they met for the transaction
of business. The canons had their own separate establishments, and their residences remain
for the most part intact to-day. This secular character was stamped upon the cathedral from
the first. King Ina founded it as a secular church, and though Bishop Giso, the last of the
Saxon bishops, made an attempt to reconstitute the chapter on "regular" lines, and is said
to have actually built a refectory and dormitory, the foundation soon reverted to its original
ideals, and the monastic offices were removed as unnecessary. Like most cathedrals, Wells has
been the composition of many hands, and is carried out in many different styles. Roughly, the
work may be classified as follows: Norm. perhaps even Pre-Norm. font; Trans. Norm. N. porch,
nave and transepts: E.E. W. front; Dec. lady chapel and chapter-house, central tower and choir;
Perp. W. towers, cloisters, gate-houses, chain gateway, and remains of destroyed cloister chapel.
A casual glance will show that the cathedral occupies the centre of a gated close, with deanery
and canons' houses to N., and bishop's palace to S. The attention is first arrested, as was
no doubt intended, by the view from the spacious green. Here the spectator not only has before
him the finest W. front in England, but finds spread out for his study a mediaeval historical
picture-book. The statuary is not only designed to enhance the general architectural effect
of the building, but is a genuine attempt to teach the unlearned the rudiments of ecclesiastical
and secular history. The idea, however, is so artistically carried out that the didactic purpose
of the sculpture is completely disguised. Quite in keeping with the usual mediaeval notion,
Church and State are regarded as two separate kingdoms, and the events of sacred and profane
history are kept distinct. The S. half is assigned to the ecclesiastics, and the N. occupied
by the royalties. The figures and medallions have suffered considerably from time and fanaticism,
and are too distant to be now easily deciphered. If, however, they are studied from photographs
(some of which are exhibited in a photographer's show-case in the Square), their rare grace
and workmanship, which caught the eye of Flaxman and secured the admiration of Ruskin, will
be at once discerned. This unrivalled façade was the work of Bishop Joceline, brother of Hugh
of Lincoln, in 1232, and is in the purest style of E.E. Joceline's design ended on the N. and
S. with the string courses above the top groups of statuary. The towers, which add immensely
to the general impressiveness of the whole, were an afterthought. They are Perp. work. The
S. tower was built by Bishop Harewell in 1366-86, and its fellow did not follow till 1407-24,
when it was constructed by the executors of Bishop Bubwith. The latter differs from its companion
only in the possession of two canopied niches let into the buttresses. To study the church
historically the visitor should enter the N. porch, the oldest part of the present building.
It is E.E., but was executed before the style had divested itself of its Norm. traditions (observe
the zig-zag ornament). This exceedingly beautiful porch is considered by some to be the gem
of the cathedral. Note (1) foliaged weather-moulding, (2) the square bas-reliefs on either
side of entrance, (3) deeply-recessed double arcading, (4) sculptured capitals, (5) parvise.
If on entering the church the visitor will at once take his stand beneath the central tower,
and looking N. and S. down the transepts, E. as far as the throne, and W. to the porch by which
he entered, can picture the E. end closed by an apse and the church lighted by narrow lancets,
and can further imagine the absence of the organ-screen and the unsightly inverted arches,
he will have a very fair idea of what the church looked like when it left the hands of its
first builder, Bishop Robert, in 1166. The nave was carried westwards to its present limits
in 1174-91 by his successor, Bishop Reginald, and to this Bishop Joceline added the W. front,
built the E. cloister, and consecrated the whole edifice in October 1239. The architecture
of the nave has been aptly described as "improved Norman." Its peculiarities are assigned to
the idiosyncrasies of local builders. The general effect is a certain monotonous severity,
and the absence of vaulting shafts gives the building a tunnel-like appearance. The inverted
arches are disguised struts inserted in 1338 to prevent the collapse of the central tower.
They give, it is true, character to the interior, but their effect is ungainly. Bishop Robert's
work can be distinguished from his successor's by the larger stones employed, the transverse
tooling (as if done by an adze), and the existence of grotesques in the tympanum of the arches
of the triforium. Note in nave (1) humorous figures on capitals of arcade, (2) cinque cento
glass in central light of W. window (an importation), (3) the Perp. arches on each side of
tower archway, (4) the beautiful chantries, on N. of Bishop Bubwith, on S. of Hugh Sugar (the
details will repay study), (5) chapels under W. towers, (6) ugly pulpit, given by Bishop Knight
in 1540, (7) above S. arcade, Perp. minstrels' gallery and projecting heads of a king with
a falling lad and a bishop with children. They may have been the support of a small organ,
but the local wiseacres were accustomed to declare that they were intended as prophecies of
the evil days which should befall the church when a king should have a weakling for his heir
and Wells should receive as its bishop a married man. These predictions were held to be fulfilled
when Henry VIII., whose heir was Edward VI., nominated to the see Bishop Barlow. In N. transept
note curious astronomical clock, which strikes the hours by a clumsy representation of a tournament.
It was originally constructed for Glastonbury Abbey by P. Lightfoot, one of the monks. In S.
transept note (1) vigorous grotesques on capitals, (2) font, perhaps pre-Norm. The visitor
should now pay the customary 6d. and seek admission to the choir. Historically, both lady chapel
and chapter house preceded the present choir; but the custodian's custom is to show the choir
first. As it stands it was the work of Bishop Ralph in 1329-63, who reconstructed Bishop Robert's
choir, removed the apse, and extended the building three bays eastwards. Bishop Ralph's contribution
to the fabric may be distinguished within by the tall vaulting shafts running up from basement
to roof, and without by the flying buttresses. It is a stately example of late Dec. work, verging
on exuberance. The furniture of the choir with the exception of the throne (15th cent.), and
a few misereres in the second row of stalls, is modern. Note fine old glass in E. window. The
lady chapel at the E. is justly considered one of the finest extant examples of the more chaste
Dec. style. Its builder was Bishop Drokensford, 1326. The structural design is cunningly contrived.
An octagonal chamber is transformed within into a pentagonal apse by the simple device of resting
the three western sides on piers, and thus throwing it into one building with the retrochoir,
thereby considerably enhancing the general artistic effect. The glass in the windows is ancient,
but is merely a medley of fragments. Before examining the Chapter House the visitor should
dive through the doorway in the N. choir-aisle, and take a look at the so-called crypt. It
is really only the basement of the chapter house, and was used as the cathedral Treasury. It
is an octagonal chamber with a low vault supported on cylindrical columns. It now contains
an assortment of mediaeval odds and ends, from a fine 14th-cent. wooden door to an urn that
once contained a human heart. Note, besides other things, (1) stone lantern, (2) piscina with
carved dog and bone. The chapter house is reached by a flight of stone steps leading out of
the N. transept aisle (turn to the R.). Note, in passing, the corbels with conventual figures.
The Chapter House is an octagonal chamber of spacious dimensions. The walls are indented with
a recessed arcade, and carry a bench table. The vaulting springs from single shafts, and is
supported in the centre by a massive clustered column. The building is a finely-executed example
of geometric Dec., and dates from the episcopate of William de Marchia (1293-1319). Note (1)
the excellent tracery of the windows, and the fragments of old glass; (2) carved heads in arcading
of wall, (3) double archway of door. Before returning to the nave the visitor should make an
examination of the Monuments in the transepts and choir aisles. Their identity will best be
discovered from a glance at the plan provided by the verger. Here mention will only be made
of the most notable. In S. transept, against S. wall (1) William de Marchia (1319), builder
of the chapter house; (2) Viscountess Lisle, with coloured canopy (14th cent.). In Chapel of
St Calixtus (1) shrine of Bishop Beckington, unhappily detached from its original position
over his tomb; (2) Treasurer Husee (1309); observe panel with representation of the Trinity.
In S. choir aisle (1) incised slab (said to be one of the earliest in England) of Bishop Bytton,
junior (1274), to touch which was once held to be an infallible remedy for toothache (see grotesque
on a capital in S. transept); (2) modern recumbent effigy of Bishop Hervey (d. 1894); (3) Bishop
Beckington (1464), with skeleton beneath (cp. Frome); (4) Bishop Harewell (1386), builder of
S.W. tower; observe hare at his feet (cp. sugar loaves in Sugar's chantry). In the Chapel of
St John the Evangelist--a sort of choir transept--(1) Dean Gunthorpe (1475), builder of the
Deanery; observe Dec. piscina in E.