The rumor was true that the Indians had first carried Mrs. Grey and her little daughter to
Kittanning, but afterward, for greater security, they were given over to the French commander
at Fort Duquesne. They were confined there for a time, then carried into Canada. About a year
later Mrs. Grey had a chance to escape. She concealed herself among the skins in the sledge
of a fur-trader, and was thus able to elude pursuit. She left her child behind her in captivity,
and after passing through a variety of adventures returned to Tuscarora Valley, and, finding
her husband dead, proved his will and took possession of her half of his property. Grey's sister
was disposed to assert her claim to the other portion, but Mrs. Grey always maintained that
her little daughter Jane was alive, and would sooner or later, after the French and Indian
wars were ended, be released and sent back. In 1764 a treaty was made with the Indians enforcing
a general surrender of all their white captives. A number of stolen children were brought to
Philadelphia to be identified by their friends and relations, and Mrs. Grey (who in the mean
time had married a Mr. Williams) made the journey to this city in the hope of claiming her
little daughter Jane. Seven years had passed since Mrs. Williams had seen the child, who might
be expected to have grown out of her remembrance. But, even taking this into consideration,
there seemed at first to be none of the children who in the least respect answered the description
of the lost girl. Mrs. Grey probably longed to find her daughter for affection's sake. But
there was besides a powerful motive to induce her, inasmuch as she wished to get possession
of the other half of her husband's property, which must otherwise be forfeited to his sister,
Mrs. James Grey. One of the captive children, apparently about the same age as the lost Jane,
had found no one to recognize her. Mrs. Williams determined to take this girl and substitute
her for her own, and put an end to Mrs. James Grey's claim. She did so, and brought up the
stranger for her own child. The Grey property thus passed wholly into the possession of Mrs.
Williams. The girl grew up rough, awkward and ugly, incapable of refinement and even gross
in her morals. She finally married a minister by the name of Gillespie.

Meanwhile, the heirs of Mrs. James Grey had gained some sort of information which led them
to suspect that the returned girl was no relation of their uncle John Grey, and in 1789 they
brought a lawsuit to recover their mother's half of the property. By this time endless complications
had arisen. Mrs. Williams was dead: her half of her first husband's farm had been bequeathed
to her second husband's kindred, and was now in part held by them and in part had been bought
by half a dozen others. The supposed daughter, Mrs. Gillespie, had died, as had her husband,
and their share had passed to his relations. It had become almost impossible for the most astute
lawyers to find beginning, middle or end to the claims which were set forth. Plenty of evidence
was collected to show that Mrs. Williams had substituted a stranger for her own child, and
the decision finally rested on this, and the property was given up to the heirs of Mrs. James
Grey. This did not happen, however, until 1834, when few or none of the original litigants
remained.

The real little Jane Grey, so it was said, was brought up in a good family who adopted her,
and afterward married well and had children, residing near Sir William Johnson's place in Central
New York.--L.W.

THE MISERIES OF CAMPING OUT.

