We carried out the corpse on three cheers (that joke was not intentional and I do not endorse
it), and then the President, throned behind a cable locker with a national flag spread over
it, announced the "Reader," who rose up and read that same old Declaration of Independence
which we have all listened to so often without paying any attention to what it said; and after
that the President piped the Orator of the Day to quarters and he made that same old speech
about our national greatness which we so religiously believe and so fervently applaud.  Now
came the choir into court again, with the complaining instruments, and assaulted "Hail Columbia";
and when victory hung wavering in the scale, George returned with his dreadful wild-goose stop
turned on and the choir won, of course. A minister pronounced the benediction, and the patriotic
little gathering disbanded.  The Fourth of July was safe, as far as the Mediterranean was concerned.

At dinner in the evening, a well-written original poem was recited with spirit by one of the
ship's captains, and thirteen regular toasts were washed down with several baskets of champagne.
The speeches were bad --execrable almost without exception.  In fact, without any exception
but one.  Captain Duncan made a good speech; he made the only good speech of the evening.  He said:

"LADIES AND GENTLEMEN:--May we all live to a green old age and be prosperous and happy.  Steward,
bring up another basket of champagne."

It was regarded as a very able effort.

The festivities, so to speak, closed with another of those miraculous balls on the promenade
deck.  We were not used to dancing on an even keel, though, and it was only a questionable
success.  But take it all together, it was a bright, cheerful, pleasant Fourth.

Toward nightfall the next evening, we steamed into the great artificial harbor of this noble
city of Marseilles, and saw the dying sunlight gild its clustering spires and ramparts, and
flood its leagues of environing verdure with a mellow radiance that touched with an added charm
the white villas that flecked the landscape far and near.  [Copyright secured according to law.]

There were no stages out, and we could not get on the pier from the ship. It was annoying.
We were full of enthusiasm--we wanted to see France! Just at nightfall our party of three contracted
with a waterman for the privilege of using his boat as a bridge--its stern was at our companion
ladder and its bow touched the pier.  We got in and the fellow backed out into the harbor.
I told him in French that all we wanted was to walk over his thwarts and step ashore, and asked
him what he went away out there for.  He said he could not understand me.  I repeated.  Still
he could not understand.  He appeared to be very ignorant of French.  The doctor tried him,
but he could not understand the doctor.  I asked this boatman to explain his conduct, which
he did; and then I couldn't understand him.  Dan said:

"Oh, go to the pier, you old fool--that's where we want to go!"

We reasoned calmly with Dan that it was useless to speak to this foreigner in English--that
he had better let us conduct this business in the French language and not let the stranger
see how uncultivated he was.

"Well, go on, go on," he said, "don't mind me.  I don't wish to interfere.  Only, if you go
on telling him in your kind of French, he never will find out where we want to go to.  That
is what I think about it."

We rebuked him severely for this remark and said we never knew an ignorant person yet but was
prejudiced.  The Frenchman spoke again, and the doctor said:

"There now, Dan, he says he is going to allez to the douain.  Means he is going to the hotel.
Oh, certainly--we don't know the French language."

This was a crusher, as Jack would say.  It silenced further criticism from the disaffected
member.  We coasted past the sharp bows of a navy of great steamships and stopped at last at
a government building on a stone pier.  It was easy to remember then that the douain was the
customhouse and not the hotel.  We did not mention it, however.  With winning French politeness
the officers merely opened and closed our satchels, declined to examine our passports, and
sent us on our way.  We stopped at the first cafe we came to and entered.  An old woman seated
us at a table and waited for orders.  The doctor said:

"Avez-vous du vin?"

The dame looked perplexed.  Let me try her.  Madame, avez-vous du vin?--It isn't any use, Doctor--take
the witness."

"Madame, avez-vous du vin--du fromage--pain--pickled pigs' feet--beurre --des oeufs--du boeuf--horseradish,
sauerkraut, hog and hominy--anything, anything in the world that can stay a Christian stomach!"

She said:

"Bless you, why didn't you speak English before?  I don't know anything about your plagued French!"

The humiliating taunts of the disaffected member spoiled the supper, and we dispatched it in
angry silence and got away as soon as we could.  Here we were in beautiful France--in a vast
stone house of quaint architecture--surrounded by all manner of curiously worded French signs
--stared at by strangely habited, bearded French people--everything gradually and surely forcing
upon us the coveted consciousness that at last, and beyond all question, we were in beautiful
France and absorbing its nature to the forgetfulness of everything else, and coming to feel
the happy romance of the thing in all its enchanting delightfulness--and to think of this skinny
veteran intruding with her vile English, at such a moment, to blow the fair vision to the winds!
It was exasperating.

We set out to find the centre of the city, inquiring the direction every now and then.  We
never did succeed in making anybody understand just exactly what we wanted, and neither did
we ever succeed in comprehending just exactly what they said in reply, but then they always
pointed--they always did that--and we bowed politely and said, "Merci, monsieur," and so it
was a blighting triumph over the disaffected member anyway.  He was restive under these victories
and often asked:

"What did that pirate say?"

"Why, he told us which way to go to find the Grand Casino."

"Yes, but what did he say?"

"Oh, it don't matter what he said--we understood him.  These are educated people--not like
that absurd boatman."

"Well, I wish they were educated enough to tell a man a direction that goes some where--for
we've been going around in a circle for an hour. I've passed this same old drugstore seven times."

We said it was a low, disreputable falsehood (but we knew it was not). It was plain that it
would not do to pass that drugstore again, though --we might go on asking directions, but we
must cease from following finger-pointings if we hoped to check the suspicions of the disaffected
member.

A long walk through smooth, asphaltum-paved streets bordered by blocks of vast new mercantile
houses of cream-colored stone every house and every block precisely like all the other houses
and all the other blocks for a mile, and all brilliantly lighted--brought us at last to the
principal thoroughfare.  On every hand were bright colors, flashing constellations of gas burners,
gaily dressed men and women thronging the sidewalks --hurry, life, activity, cheerfulness,
conversation, and laughter everywhere!  We found the Grand Hotel du Louvre et de la Paix, and
wrote down who we were, where we were born, what our occupations were, the place we came from
last, whether we were married or single, how we liked it, how old we were, where we were bound
for and when we expected to get there, and a great deal of information of similar importance--all
for the benefit of the landlord and the secret police.  We hired a guide and began the business
of sightseeing immediately.  That first night on French soil was a stirring one.  I cannot
think of half the places we went to or what we particularly saw; we had no disposition to examine
carefully into anything at all--we only wanted to glance and go--to move, keep moving!  The
spirit of the country was upon us.  We sat down, finally, at a late hour, in the great Casino,
and called for unstinted champagne.  It is so easy to be bloated aristocrats where it costs
nothing of consequence!  There were about five hundred people in that dazzling place, I suppose,
though the walls being papered entirely with mirrors, so to speak, one could not really tell
but that there were a hundred thousand.  Young, daintily dressed exquisites and young, stylishly
dressed women, and also old gentlemen and old ladies, sat in couples and groups about innumerable
marble-topped tables and ate fancy suppers, drank wine, and kept up a chattering din of conversation
that was dazing to the senses.  There was a stage at the far end and a large orchestra; and
every now and then actors and actresses in preposterous comic dresses came out and sang the
most extravagantly funny songs, to judge by their absurd actions; but that audience merely
suspended its chatter, stared cynically, and never once smiled, never once applauded! I had
always thought that Frenchmen were ready to laugh at any thing.