At one of the islands belonging to Juan de Ampues, the pilot ran away. Cifuentes and his crew,
all equally ignorant of navigation, made sail for San Domingo, were dismasted in a gale of
wind, and driven in the night upon the "Serrana" shoals; the crew, a flask of powder and steel,
were saved, but nothing else. They found sea-calves and birds upon the island, and were obliged
to eat them raw, and drink their blood, for there was no water. After some weeks, they made
a raft with fragments of the wreck, lashed together with calf-skin thongs: three men went off
upon it, and were lost. Two, and a boy, staid upon the island--one of whom, Moreno, died four
days afterwards raving mad, having gnawed the flesh off his arms: the survivors, Master John
and the boy, dug holes in the sand with tortoise-shells, and lined them with calf-skins to
catch the rain. Where the vessel was wrecked, they found a stone which served them for a flint;
this invaluable prize enabled them to make a fire. Two men had been living upon another island
two leagues from them, in similar distress, for five years; these saw the fire, and upon a
raft joined their fellow sufferers. They now built a boat with the fragments of the wreck,
made sails of calf-skins, and caulked her with their fat, mixed with charcoal: one man and
the boy went away in her: Master John, and one whose name has not been preserved, would not
venture in her: they made themselves coracles with skins, and coasted round the shoals, which
they estimated at twelve leagues long. At low water there were seventeen islands, but only
five which were not sometimes overflowed. Fish, turtle, sea-calves, birds, and a root like
purslane, was their food. The whites of turtle-eggs, when dried and buried for a fortnight,
turned to water, which they found good drink: five months in the year these eggs were their
chief food. They clothed themselves and covered their huts with calf-skins, and made an enclosure
to catch fish, twenty-two fathoms long, with stones brought out of the sea--and raised two
towers in the same laborious way, sixteen fathoms in circumference at the base, and four in
height, at the north and south extremities of the island: upon these they made fires as signals.
To avoid the crabs and snails which tormented them at night, they slept in the day time.

Three years after the other went way, John's sufferings began to affect his reason: in a fit
of despair, he applied to the devil for that relief his prayers had failed to bring; and, rising
in the dark, he fancied the devil was close to the hut. John awakened his companion, and taking
a crucifix for protection, ran praying to the other end of the island. About a fortnight afterwards,
John thought he heard his visiter again, but did not see him. And it now pleased God to relieve
them: they saw a ship, and made a great smoke upon their tower, which was seen. John and his
companion were carried to the Havannah, where their appearance and story attracted great attention.
John was twice sick during the eight years, both times in August, and both times bled himself.--Southey's
Chronological History of the West Indies.

       *        *        *        *        *

FIRST APPEARANCES OF MISS STEPHENS AND MR. KEAN.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GATHERER.

  "I am but a Gatherer and disposer of other men's stuff."--Wotton.

       *       *       *       *       *

INSANITY.

A French physician, in a recent work on the moral and physical causes of insanity, noticing
the influence of professions in promoting this affliction, brings forward a curious table,
showing the relative proportion of different professions in a mass of 164 lunatics. It runs
thus:--merchants, 50; military men, 33; students, 25; administrateurs et employés, 21; advocates,
notaries, and men of business, 10; artists, 8; chemists, 4; medical practitioners, 4; farmers,
4; sailors, 3; engineers, 2. Total 164.

Never were the afflictions of Insanity more vividly portrayed than in the following lines from
Churchill's Epistle to Hogarth:--

  Sure 'tis a curse which angry fates impose,
  To mortify man's arrogance, that those
  Who're fashioned of some better sort of clay,
  Must sooner than the common herd decay.
  What bitter pangs must humble genius feel,
  In their last hour to view a Swift and Steele!
  How must ill-boding horrors fill their breast,
  When she beholds men, mark'd above the rest
  For qualities most dear, plung'd from that height,
  And sunk, deep sunk, in second childhood's night!
  Are men indeed such things? and are the best
  More subject to this evil than the rest,
  To drivel out whole years of idiot breath,
  And sit the monuments of living death?
  O galling circumstance to human pride!

       *        *        *        *        *

MACADAMIZATION.

  The cost of converting Regent-street,
  Whitehall-place, and Palace-yard, into
  broken stone roads, has been               £ 6,055 8s. 3d.

  Value of old pavement taken up and
  broken for that purpose                    £ 6,787 7s. 0d.

                                             ------------
                                             £12,842 15 3
                                             ------------

Parliamentary Papers.

       *        *        *        *        *

SILK

According to a late statement of Mr. Huskisson, the silk manufacture of England now reaches
the enormous amount of fourteen millions sterling per annum, and is consequently after cotton,
the greatest staple of the country.

       *        *        *        *        *

NEW LAMP.

At a recent meeting of the Royal Institution an ornamental lamp was placed on the library table,
the elegant transparent paintings and spiral devices of which were kept in rotary motion by
the action of the current of heated air issuing from the chimneys of the lamp, which contrivance
is well adapted to a number of purposes of ornamental illumination.

       *       *       *       *       *

First and last there have been 120,000 copies printed of "Domestic Cookery, by a Lady," (Mrs.
Rundell;) and 50,000 "Receipt Book," by the same authoress.

       *        *        *        *        *

Printed and Published by J. LIMBIRD, 143, Strand, (near Somerset-house,) and sold by all Newsmen
and Booksellers.

       *        *        *        *        *