She turned back from the river into the clearing, where the superstitious natives stood aside
to let her pass. One of them seized her as she was passing, and asked her what she was going
to do. She said: "I am going inside; I cannot escape you, you are too many for me. Leave me
to myself for a short time." The man brandished a spear in her face, and said: "See, that is
the blood of your friends; yours will soon cover it." But she did not falter, and the savages
probably left her untouched for this reason. They are very superstitious, and must have thought
that there was something supernatural about her. Shortly after this she heard the tramp of
feet outside, and an English voice calling to ask if there was anybody inside; running out,
she found that the British commissioner and a large force had arrived. And with them she made
her escape.

When the Americans arrived at Freetown, a large force of volunteers had been concentrated,
and it is hoped that the uprising will soon be at an end.

       *       *       *       *       *

          In our previous number we mentioned the name of
          one of the missionaries killed at the massacre as
          "Kane"; it should have been "Cain."

       *       *       *       *       *

One of our subscribers has asked why the flag of Hawaii has eight stripes and three crosses.
There is a very interesting story told in reference to this peculiar flag. It seems that about
twenty-five years ago, when the country was still a monarchy, it was quite frequently visited
by war-ships of different nations. It is said that one morning the King discovered a French
war-ship anchored safely in the harbor of Honolulu, and fearing that the French were there
for purpose of seizing the island, sent for his Prime Minister, who advised him to raise a
flag, and in this way advise the visitors that the islands belonged to some one. But the island
did not possess a flag of its own; the only one the King could find at first was an old British
flag. This he had run up to the top of the highest flag-pole. The flag had hardly been raised,
when one of his chief advisers came running to him, and told him he must take the flag down
immediately, for a British man-of-war was expected, and would be sure to claim ownership of
the islands if the British flag was seen flying over the palace. So the King started on another
flag hunt. This time he found an American flag, and, with great ingenuity, took the two flags,
cut them up, and made a combination. Therefore the first Hawaiian flag had thirteen red and
white stripes, and the English jack in the corner. Later, it was decided that eight stripes,
to represent the eight islands of the nation, would be more appropriate; therefore the extra
stripes were cut off, and now the flag has eight stripes, four red and four white, and still
carries the St. George's, St. Andrew's, and St. Patrick's crosses, the same as the English flag.

The superstitious natives believe that the ascendency of the white people over the colored
is due to the fact that the white stripe was left uppermost on the flag. They have frequently
tried to have the flag changed for this reason, for they believe that, if the red is given
prominence, the natives will again have the ascendency.

       *       *       *       *       *

