 San Lorenzo.--25°28',
102°12'. San Marcos.--26°41', 102°07'. San Miguel.--29°14', 101°22'. San Pedro de las Colonias
(San Pedro).--25°45', 102°58'. Santa Teresa.--26°27', 101°21'. Tanque Alvarez.--27°56', 102°38'.
Torreón.--25°33', 103°27'. Villa Acuña.--29°19', 100°56'.

For mountain ranges, the approximate center of the highland of each range is used as the point
of reference.

Pico de Jimulco.--25°08', 103°16'. Sierra del Carmen.--29°00', 102°30'. Sierra de la Encantada.--28°25',
102°30'. Sierra de Guadalupe.--25°13', 101°32'. Sierra del Pino.--28°15', 103°03'. Sierra de
la Madera.--27°03', 102°30'.

DISTRIBUTION OF THE KNOWN BREEDING BIRDS OF COAHUILA

Topography and Climate

Coahuila lies in the broad northern end of México, immediately east of the center of the continental
mass. The mountains of Coahuila, which are part of the Rocky Mountain-Sierra Madre Oriental
Axis, extend in a north-south direction and divide the lower lands into two areas, a larger
one, a part of the Central Plateau, to the westward and a smaller one, a part of the Gulf Coastal
Plain, to the northeastward. Most of the mountains of Coahuila do not exceed 6000 feet in elevation.
A few peaks such as in the Sierra del Carmen, Sierra del Pino, Sierra de la Madera, Sierra
Encarnación, and Sierra de Guadalupe, are more than 9000 feet high, and some more than 10,000
feet in elevation occur near the southeastern border of the State in the Sierra Madre Oriental.
The Gulf Coastal Plain of northeastern Coahuila ranges from 700 feet to 1800 feet. The desert
plains of the Mesa del Norte to the west of the Sierra Madre Oriental Axis are higher, more
rugged, and more dissected than those of the Coastal Plain and are marked by scattered desert
ranges, buttes, low hills, and knobs.

Most of Coahuila is arid. Rainfall is moderate on the Coastal Plain and is low west of the
central mountains. Baker (1956:128-132) and Muller (1947:35-38) give good summary discussions
of the topography and climate of Coahuila, and the reader is referred to these for further details.

Biotic Communities

Baker (1956:132) stated that "the biotic communities of Coahuila might be divided in accordance
with the three physiographic areas of the State: the Gulf Coastal Plain, the mountains, and
the desert plains of the Mesa del Norte." Goldman and Moore (1945:348-349) listed three biotic
provinces in Coahuila: the Chihuahua-Zacatecas Biotic Province, in the western half of the
State; the Tamaulipas Biotic Province, in the northeastern part of the State; and the Sierra
Madre Oriental Biotic Province, in the southeastern part of the State. Merriam (1898) noted
that definable portions of the Lower Sonoran Life-zone, the Upper Sonoran Life-zone, the Transition
Life-zone, and the Canadian Life-zone can be distinguished in Coahuila. In my study of the
distribution of the avifauna of Coahuila, I found that the three biotic provinces listed by
Goldman and Moore (op. cit.) as major headings and Merriam's life-zones as supplements are
the most satisfactory divisions.

The Tamaulipas Biotic Province.--This province consists of lowland plains and a few isolated
ranges of low mountains. The average rainfall is 23 inches (Baker, 1956:130), considerably
more than the 10 inches falling in the western part of the State. In the northeastern section
of the State, the moderate amount of rain, mesic vegetation, and close proximity to the eastern
migration pathway importantly influence the types of birds found.

In Coahuila, the Coastal Plain and the Río Grande Plain lie in the path of the northernmost
trade winds; they account for the more humid eastern slopes of the mountains of the northeastern
part of the State (Muller, 1947:38). Nevertheless, the northeastern section of the State is
semi-arid and can be placed in the Lower Sonoran Life-zone. The vegetation consists mainly
of thorny shrubs and small trees with a liberal admixture of yuccas, agaves, and cacti, and
closely resembles that of southern Texas, northern Nuevo León, and northern Tamaulipas (Goldman
and Moore, 1945:354).

Migrant birds from the eastern flyway and less commonly migrants from western North America
pass through northeastern Coahuila. The following breeding birds seem to be associated with
this province: Harris' Hawk, Bobwhite (C. v. texanus), Scaled Quail (C. s. castanogastris),
Yellow-billed Cuckoo, Groove-billed Ani, Green Kingfisher, Golden-fronted Woodpecker, Hairy
Woodpecker (D. v. intermedius), Ladder-backed Woodpecker (D. s. symplectus), Vermilion Flycatcher
(P. r. mexicanus), Cave Swallow, Gray-breasted Martin, Black-crested Titmouse (P. a. atricristatus),
Carolina Wren, Long-billed Thrasher, Curve-billed Thrasher (T. c. oberholseri), Blue-gray Gnatcatcher
(P. c. caerulea), Hutton's Vireo (V. h. carolinae), Bell's Vireo (V. b. medius), Yellow-throated
Vireo, Red-eyed Vireo, Summer Tanager (P. r. rubra), Olive Sparrow, Cassin's Sparrow, and Black-throated
Sparrow (A. b. bilineata).

The Sierra Madre Oriental Biotic Province.--Southeastern Coahuila is in this province that
includes mountains in southern Nuevo León, southwestern Tamaulipas, and eastern San Luis Potosí.
Areas classifiable as Canadian, Transition, Upper Sonoran, and Lower Sonoran in life-zone are
found in this province. This region of Coahuila receives the highest rainfall; this is evidenced
by the luxuriant growth of boreal plants living in the higher places there (Baker, 1956:131).
Spruce, pine, and aspen occur at higher elevations and oaks, thorny shrubs, and grasslands
are present lower down.

Birds of central or southern México reach the southern part of Coahuila; the Thick-billed Parrot,
Hooded Yellowthroat, and Rufous-capped Atlapetes are examples. A boreal forest on the higher
slopes of the mountains of southeastern Coahuila is suitable for certain northern birds such
as Goshawks, Pine Siskins, and Brown Creepers. Some species of birds ordinarily associated
with western North America are present in Coahuila only in its southeastern part; striking
examples of disjunction in range thus occur. Probably sometime in the past these birds were
distributed throughout most of Coahuila. When this area became arid, these species disappeared
from all of Coahuila except from the high mountains in the southeastern part. For example,
Steller's Jay and the Scrub Jay are absent in the Sierra del Carmen of northwestern Coahuila
but do occur in southeastern Coahuila.

Migrants of the eastern flyway as well as migrants associated with western North America pass
through this section of Coahuila. The following breeding birds are associated with this province:
Goshawk, Band-tailed Pigeon, Thick-billed Parrot, Golden-fronted Woodpecker, Ladder-backed
Woodpecker (D. s. giraudi), Pine Flycatcher, Buff-breasted Flycatcher, Vermilion Flycatcher
(P. r. mexicanus), Steller's Jay, Scrub Jay, Mexican Chickadee, Black-crested Titmouse (P.
a. atricristatus), Cactus Wren (C. b. guttatus), Robin, Blue-gray Gnatcatcher (P. c. amoenissima),
Hutton's Vireo (V. h. stephensi), Bell's Vireo (V. b. medius), Hartlaub's Warbler, Summer Tanager
(P. r. cooperi), Pine Siskin, Rufous-capped Atlaptes, and Black-throated Sparrow (A. b. grisea).

The Chihuahua-Zacatecas Biotic Province.--This province in Coahuila covers the arid, interior,
western desert area; it consists of rolling plains with mountains that rise islandlike above
the general surface. Some of the mountains, such as in the Sierra del Carmen and the Sierra
del Pino, are more than 9000 feet high. The major part of this biotic area lies within the
Lower Sonoran Life-zone. Areas of the Transition and Canadian life-zones are present on some
of the higher mountains; their discontinuity results in a discontinuous distribution of the
conifer-dependent avifauna.

The large desert restricts the movement of birds considerably. Major results of this include
isolation of certain populations and absence of others in the boreal islands. For example,
Miller (1955a:157) noted that the "dispersal of conifer-belt birds to and from the Sierra del
Carmen, although not as difficult as to well separated islands [such as off the coast of Baja
California], is nevertheless a formidable matter to accomplish across the great deserts of
Texas, Chihuahua, and Coahuila." Miller (loc. cit.) noted also that the avifauna of the Sierra
del Carmen, due to its insularity, is unbalanced and stated that "as a consequence of unbalance,
species that are present show ecologic extension and unusual numerical relations." At least
in this type of environment, an extension or expansion of the ecologic habits of the related
types takes place when some species are absent.

This isolation influences local variation among some of the birds found in Coahuila. Niches
elsewhere usually occupied by certain species, absent here, are occupied by other species.
These other species thus enjoy an ecologic freedom and can expand their niches in the absence
of related types of similar ecologic scope. For example, Miller (1955a:158-159) reported that
Hairy Woodpeckers occurred only casually in the Sierra del Carmen and that the Ladder-backed
Woodpecker has spread out and seems to occupy the niche or niches usually characteristic of
the Hairy Woodpecker. Changes usually thought of as of subspecific character seem to be taking
place between the Ladder-backed Woodpeckers of the Sierra del Carmen and of other areas, possibly
because the Ladder-backed Woodpecker in the Sierra del Carmen is extending its ecologic sphere
more than in areas where the Hairy Woodpecker exists. Restriction in dispersal due to geographic
isolation has probably hindered gene flow, thus allowing rapid local adaptation, recognizable
in variation at the infraspecific level. Miller (loc. cit.) listed other birds that have expanded
their ecologic scope; his work should be referred to for further details.

The following birds are associated with this province: Black Vulture, Scaled Quail (C. s. pallida),
Turkey, Elf Owl, Green Kingfisher, Hairy Woodpecker (D. v. icastus), Ladder-backed Woodpecker
(D. s. cactophilus), Wied's Crested Flycatcher, Buff-breasted Flycatcher, Vermilion Flycatcher
(P. r. flammeus), Black-crested Titmouse (P. a. dysleptus), Cactus Wren (C. b. couesi), Curve-billed
Thrasher (T. c. celsum), Blue-gray Gnatcatcher (P. c. amoenissima), Hutton's Vireo (V. h. carolinae),
Summer Tanager (P. r. cooperi), and Black-throated Sparrow (A. b. opuntia). Several kinds of
birds, such as the Band-tailed Pigeon, occur in the "pine islands" in this province rather
than on the desert floor.

There remain several kinds of birds that are not especially associated with any one or two
of the above-named provinces. These birds are widely distributed and vary geographically without
corresponding to the Biotic Provinces. Examples of these species are: Black Phoebe (S. n. semiatra
in northern Coahuila; S. n. nigricans in southern Coahuila), Violet-green Swallow (T. t. lepida
in northwestern Coahuila; T. t. thalassina in southeastern Coahuila), Black-eared Bushtit (P.
m. lloydi in northern Coahuila; P. m. iulus in southeastern Coahuila), White-breasted Nuthatch
(S. c. nelsoni in northern Coahuila; S. c. mexicana in southern Coahuila), Brown-throated Wren
(T. b. cahooni in northern Coahuila; T. b. compositus in southern Coahuila), Crissal Thrasher
(T. d. dorsale in northern Coahuila; T. d. dumosum in southern Coahuila), and Rufous-crowned
Sparrow (A. r. tenuirostris in northern Coahuila; A. r. boucardi in southern Coahuila).

Some representatives of the avifauna of the central and southern sections of the Central Plateau
reach southwestern Coahuila. The subspecies squamata of the Scaled Quail and eurhyncha of the
Blue Grosbeak are examples. Each in Coahuila seems to be at the northern limit of its range.

In summary, there are three associations of vegetation in Coahuila and
each has characteristic birds. Gross climate and topography, through
their influence on vegetation, are the prime factors in the distribution
 and kinds of birds in the State. Some birds of central and southern
 México reach southeastern and southwestern Coahuila. Representatives
 of the Gulf Coastal Plain in Tamaulipas and Nuevo León as well as
 migrants of the eastern flyway occur in northeastern Coahuila. Most of
 the species that occur in Coahuila seem to be associated with western
 North America. The aridity of western Coahuila restricts, to a large
 extent, the diversity of the breeding populations of its avifauna.
 Xeric conditions surrounding some of the higher mountains are barriers
 to movement of some species.

ORIGIN OF BREEDING BIRDS OF COAHUILA

Probably beginning in the late Pliocene and ending in the Ice Age (Griscom, 1950:379) the refrigeration
of climate in the Northern Hemisphere initiated a period of southward withdrawal of birds from
the northern part of North America. Some members of the avifauna of Coahuila probably reached
the State in this time. When the continental deserts were formed, or reformed, many tropical
and subtropical Middle American species were forced to leave Coahuila. Species associated with
arid conditions found their way there. Many representatives of the Old World element also seem
to have found their way to the State during the refrigeration of climate in the Northern Hemisphere.
The separation of North and South America in the greater part of the Tertiary (Mayr, 1946:9)
that deterred mammals from intercontinental colonization seemingly did not hinder birds. Some
South American species moved northward into México, all the way north to Coahuila.

The avifauna of Coahuila today is a mixture of the several mentioned elements. Of the breeding
populations, 43 per cent breed in the western rather than the eastern United States, 6 per
cent breed in the eastern rather than the western United States, 30 per cent breed in both
the eastern and western United States, 20 per cent are restricted to the Republic of México,
and the southern parts of Arizona, New Mexico, and Texas, and 1 per cent (Aztec Thrush and
Rufous-capped Atlapetes) is endemic to the Republic of México.

It is instructive to consider also the origin of avifaunal elements at the level of Family.
According to Mayr (1946:11) most North American families and subfamilies clearly originated
in the Old World, in South America, or from a North American element that developed in the
partial isolation of North America in the Tertiary. Three other elements, the Panboreal, the
Pan-American, and the Pantropical are represented by some North American families and subfamilies.
Because of the obscurity of the place of origin of certain groups, an additional unanalyzed
element must be recognized.

The Caprimulgidae and Picidae probably originated in North America (Mayr, 1946:26). Although
the Psittacidae are Pantropical in distribution, indications are that they probably originated
in the Old World (Mayr, 1946:17). The Phasianidae, Turdidae (Myadestes-Hylocichla group), and
Sylviidae (Polioptilinae) seem to have originated in the Old World (Mayr, 1946:27). However,
Mayr considered these groups to have had a secondary center of proliferation in North America,
and I thus consider these groups to have a North American origin. Mayr (1946:27) considered
the Trochilidae, Tyrannidae, and Icteridae Pan-American in distribution; however, he suggested
that they probably originated in South America, and I here treat them as South American in
origin. No representatives of the Pan-American element that probably originated in North America
have been recorded from Coahuila nor have members of the Panboreal element (Mayr, 1946:11)
been recorded in the State. According to my analysis, representatives of families of birds
known to breed in Coahuila and those that probably breed there thus seem to have been derived
historically from the following sources:

    Old World           24.7%
    North America       37.0%
    South America       24.0%
    Unanalyzed          14.3%

Mayr (1946:28-29) gave examples of analysis by geographic origin of the breeding species of
several districts of North America. For instance, at Yakutat Bay in southeastern Alaska the
South American element of breeding passerine species was 3 per cent, the North American element
39 per cent, and the Old World element 58 per cent whereas at Sonora, México, the South American
element of breeding passerine species was 27 per cent, the North American element 52 per cent,
and the Old World element 21 per cent. The breeding avifauna of Coahuila is thus in line with
Mayr's analysis, resembling that of Sonora to a considerable degree at the taxonomic level
of Family.

ACCOUNTS OF SPECIES

**Podiceps caspicus (Hablizl).--On March 31, 1952, Olmstead saw "many Eared Grebes" on a pond
10 mi. E Hacienda La Mariposa. This is the first record of the Eared Grebe in Coahuila.

[Pelecanus erythrorhynchos Gmelin.--The White Pelican is uncommon, if not rare; Friedmann,
Griscom, and Moore (1950:21) list it.]

Anhinga anhinga (Linnaeus).--On March 31, 1952, Olmstead noted an Anhinga perched on a submerged
fence post in a lake 10 mi. E Hacienda La Mariposa. This is the first record of the Anhinga
in Coahuila.

**Ardea herodias Linnaeus.--Two subspecies of the Great Blue Heron, treganzai and wardi, have
been recorded from Coahuila. Friedmann, Griscom, and Moore (1950:27) listed A. h. treganzai
from the State; presumably this subspecies occurs widely in low density. They (loc. cit.) remarked
also that a record of A. h. wardi from Coahuila "cannot be allocated subspecifically."

Dickerman saw two Great Blue Herons in a marshy area at San Marcos (=20 mi. S Cuatro Ciénegas)
on May 4, 1954. Van Tyne and Sutton (1937:12) noted the Great Blue Heron "near Boquillas [Texas],
along the Río Grande, on May 10 and 15...."

**Butorides virescens (Linnaeus).--Olmstead saw a Green Heron at Boquillas, 700 feet, on March
10, 1952. Findley reported seeing Green Herons 2 mi. W Jiménez, 850 feet, on June 19, 1952,
and 2 mi. S and 3 mi. E San Juan de Sabinas on June 22, 1952.

**Casmerodius albus egretta (Gmelin).--The Common Egret is an uncommon migrant in Coahuila.
Friedmann, Griscom, and Moore (1950:30) recorded C. a. egretta from the "extreme northern part"
of Coahuila. Van Tyne and Sutton (1937:12) saw the Common Egret "along the Río Grande on the
Graham ranch just west of Boquillas," Texas, on May 16, which might well be the locality to
which Friedmann, Griscom, and Moore referred. Olmstead saw a Common Egret at Don Martín on
March 22, 1952.

**Nycticorax nycticorax hoactli (Gmelin).--This subspecies of the Black-crowned Night Heron
was listed from the "extreme north" section of Coahuila by Friedmann, Griscom, and Moore (1950:32).
Van Tyne and Sutton (1937:14) saw three Black-crowned Night Herons along the Río Grande about
two miles west of Boquillas, Texas, on May 16. This record probably represents the locality
to which Friedmann, Griscom, and Moore (op. cit.) referred.

