The Icelanders believe Seals to be the offspring of Pharaoh and his host; who, they assert,
were changed into these animals when overwhelmed in the Red Sea. The Grampus, Porpoise, and
Dolphin, have each from the earliest ages been the subject of numerous superstitions and fables,
particularly the latter, which was believed to have a great attachment to the human race, and
to succour them in accidents by sea; it is a perfectly straight fish, yet even painters have
promulgated a falsity respecting it, by representing it from the curved form in which it appears
above water, bent like the letter S reversed. "The inhabitants of Pesquare," says Dr. Belon,
"and of the borders of Lake Gourd are firmly persuaded that the Carp of those lakes are nourished
with pure gold; and a great portion of the people in the Lyonnois are fully satisfied that
the fish called humble and ernblons eat no other food than gold. There is not a peasant in
the environs of the Lake of Bourgil who will not maintain that the Laurets, a fish sold daily
in Lyons, feed on pure gold alone. The same is the belief of the people of the Lake Paladron
in Savoy, and of those near Lodi. But," adds the Doctor, "having carefully examined the stomachs
of these several fishes, I have found that they lived on other substances, and that from the
anatomy of the stomach it is impossible that they should be able to digest gold." This fable,
therefore, with that of the Chameleon living on air only, and some others which we shall have
occasion to mention, may be regarded amongst those exploded by science.

The fable of the Kraken has been referred to imperfect and exaggerated accounts of monstrous
Polypi infesting the northern seas; how far may not the Cuttle-fish have given rise to this
fiction? In hot countries (our readers will remember that in a late paper, Mirror, vol. xvii.
pp. 282-299, we directed their attention to the similarity of superstitions in every country
of the world, hence infering a common, and most probably oriental origin for all)--in hot countries
cuttle-fish are found of gigantic dimensions; the Indians affirm that some have been seen two
fathoms broad over their centre; and each arm (for this kind is the eight-armed cuttle-fish)
nine fathoms long!!! Lest these animals should fling their arms over the Indians' light canoes,
and draw them and their owners into the sea, they fail not to be provided with an axe to chop
them off.

The ancients believed that the oil of the Grayling obliterated freckles and small-pox marks.
The adhesive qualities of the Remora, or Sucking-fish, and its habit of darting against and
fixing itself to the side of a vessel, caused the ancients to believe that the possessors of
it had the power of arresting the progress of a ship in full sail.

Some Catholics, in consequence of the John Doree having a dark spot, like a finger-mark, on
each side of the head, believe this to have been the fish, and not the Haddock, from which
the Apostle Peter took the tribute-money, by order of our Saviour. The modern Greeks denominate
it "the fish of St. Christopher," from a legend which relates that it was trodden on by that
saint, when he bore his divine burden across an arm of the sea. Some species of Echini, fossilized,
and seen frequently in Norfolk, are termed by the ignorant peasantry, and considered, Fairy
Loaves, to take which, when found, is highly unlucky.

The Amphisbaena, from its faculty of moving backwards or forwards at pleasure, has been thought
to have a head at either extremity of its reptile body, but close inspection proves this opinion
false. The fascinating power of the Rattlesnake, of which so many stories have in times past
been related, and which was asserted to exist in its glittering eyes, has been of late years
resolved into that extreme nervous terror of its victim (at sight of so certain a foe) which
deprives it of the power of motion, and causes it to fall, an unresisting prey, into the reptile's
jaws. We may here pause to observe, en passant, that the antipathy which people of all ages
and nations have felt against every reptile of the serpent tribe, from the harmless worm to
the hosts of deadly "dragons" which infest the torrid zone, and the popular opinion that all
are venomous, often in spite of experience, seems to be not so much superstition, as a terror
of the species, implanted, since the fall, in our bosoms, by the same Divine Being who at that
period pronounced the serpent to be the most accursed beast of the field.

(To be continued.)

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.

TAIT'S EDINBURGH MAGAZINE.

Nothing if not political appears to be the order of the new magazine and other literary enterprises
of the present day. Is this good policy in itself? it may be so from the vivifying aid it lends
to the springs of imaginative writing. We have therefore no right to complain of the leaven
of Mr. Tait's Magazine: it is anything but dull: e.g. the life and jauntiness of the following
paper is very pleasant, shrewd, and clever:

The Martinet.

The "Martinet" is the name of a genus, not of a species; the title of a race variously feathered,
but having specific qualities in common. There is your military martinet, your clerical martinet,
your legal martinet, and the martinet of common life, ("Gallicrista fastidiosa communis," Linnaeus
would class him,) who is to the others what the house-sparrow is to the rest of his tribe.
It is with him alone we have to do. The "martinet" is a person who is all his life violently
busied in endeavouring to be a perfect gentleman, and who almost succeeds. He misses the point
by over-stepping it. He is like one of those greyhounds which outrun the hare fleetly enough,
but cannot "take" her when they have done so. They have a little too much speed, and a little
too little tact. The martinet is always bent upon thinking, saying, doing, and having, every
thing after a nicer fashion than other people, until his nicety runs into downright mannerism;
all his ideas become "clipped taffeta," and all his eggs are known to have "two yolks." He
rarely comes of age or is thoroughly ripe till near forty, before which he may be a little
of the precise fop, and after which he changes to the somewhat foppish precisian, which is
the best definition of him. He would be an excellent member of society were he not a little
too nice for its every-day work, which, to speak a truth in metaphor, will not always admit
of white gloves. He is remarkably consistent in all his proceedings, however, and the outward
man is a perfect and complete type of the inward, and vice versa. His soul is never out of
pumps and silk stockings, and picks its way amidst the little mental puddles and cross-roads
of this world with a chariness of step, which is at once edifying and amusing. Of inward show
he is not less "elaborate" than of outward; and, though a descendant of Eve, takes equal care
of the clothing of both mind and body.

Were his tailor to be abandoned enough to attempt to palm upon him a coat of the very best
Yorkshire, instead of the very best Wiltshire broad-cloth, (an enormity of which--horresco
referens--he was once very near being the victim,) the one would be sure to lose, if discovered,
the best of his customers, and the other the best of a month's sleep. If he wears a wig, his
expenditure with his peruquier is never less than five-and-twenty guineas a-year. His cigars,
though he smokes little, cost him nearly as much. His hat is water-proof; his stop-watch and
repeater are of a scapement that never varies more than six seconds in the twelve months from
the time-piece at the Observatory at Greenwich, where he has a friend, who is so good as sometimes
to compare notes with him. By the advice of his boot-maker--who, by the way, has some knowledge
of the length of his foot--he never puts on a new pair until they are at least a year old;
and he parted with his last footboy because he one day discovered a perceptible difference
between the polish of the right and left foot. In winter, he wears and recommends cork soles.
His toilet is no sinecure; and on the table are always to be found, besides his dressing-box,
which contains an assortment of combs, scissors, tweezers, pomades, and essences, not easily
equalled, a bottle of "Eau de Cologne, veritable," a Packwood and Criterion strop; a case of
gold-mounted razors, (the best in England,) which he bought, nearly thirty years ago, of the
successor of "Warren," in the Strand, and a silvered shaving-pot, upon a principle of his own,
redolent of Rigges' "patent violet-scented soap." His net-silk purse is ringed with gold at
one end, and with silver at the other; and although not much of a snuff-taker, he always carries
a box, on the lid of which smiles the portrait of the once celebrated and beautiful, though
now somewhat forgotten, Duchess of D----, or the equally resplendent Lady Emily M----.

His table is of the same finish with his wardrobe. If he sat down to dinner, even when alone,
in boots, that visitation which Quin ascribed to the prevalent neglect of "pudding on a Sunday"--an
earthquake might be expected to follow. His spoons and silver forks are marked with his crest;
and he omits no opportunity to inform his friends, that the right of the family to the arms
was proved at Herald's College by his great uncle John. He has receipts for mulligatawny and
oyster soups, not to be equalled; and another for currie-powder, which a friend of his obtained,
as the greatest of favours, from Sir Stamford Raffles, and which, though bound in honour not
to make known, he means to leave to his son by will, under certain injunctions. His cookery
of a "French rabbit," provided the claret be first-rate, is superb; and on very particular
occasions, he condescends to know how to concoct a bowl of punch, especially champagne punch,
for the which he has a formula in rhyme, the poetry of which never, as is its happy case, losing
sight of correctness and common-sense, comes, as well as its subject matter, home to "his business
and his bosom." His "caviar" is, through the kindness of a commercial friend, imported from
the hand of the very Russian cuisinier, who prepares it (unctuous relish!) for the table of
the Emperor himself. His cheese is Stilton or Parmesan.

Like "Mrs. Diana Scapes," he is also "curious in his liquors," and, in despite of Beau Brummell,
patronizes "malt," as far as to take one glass of excellent "college ale,"--which he gets through
his friend Dr. Dusty of All Souls--between pastry and Parmesan. After cheese, he can relish
one, and only one, glass of port--all the better if of the "Comet vintage," or of some vintage
ten years anterior to that. His drink, however, is claret, old hock, Madeira, and latterly,
since it has become a sort of fashion, old sherry. In these he is a connoisseur not to be sneezed
at; and if asked his opinion, makes it a rule never to give it upon the first glass, invariably
observing, that "if he would he couldn't, and if he could he wouldn't!" He produces anchovy
toast as an indispensable in a long evening, after dinner, and to it he recommends a liqueur-glass
of cherry-brandy, which he believes is of that incomparable recipe, of which the late King
was so fond. If he be a bachelor, he has, in his dining-room, a cellaret, in which repose this,
and other similar liquid rarities, and beneath his sideboard stands a machine, for which he
paid twelve guineas, for producing ice extempore.

His literary tastes bear a certain resemblance to, and have a certain analogy with, his gustatory--proving
the truth of that intimate connexion between the stomach and the head, upon which physiologists
are so delighted to dwell. In poetry the heresies and escapades of Lord Byron are too much
for him, although as a Peer and a gentleman he always speaks well and deferentially of him.
Shelley he can make nothing of, and therefore says, which is the strict truth in one sense
at least, that he has never read him. He praises Campbell, Crabbe, and Rogers, and shakes his
head at Tom Moore; but Pope is his especial favourite; and if anything in verse has his heart,
it is the "Rape of the Lock." Peter Pindar he partly dislikes, but Anstey, the "Bath Guide,"
is high in his estimation; and with him "Gray's Odes" stand far above those of Collins'. Of
the "Elegy in a Country Church" he thinks, as he says, "like the rest of the world." "Shenstone's
Pastorals" he has read. Burns he praises, but in his heart thinks him a "wonderful clown,"
and shrugs his shoulders at his extreme popularity. He says as little about Shakespeare as
he can, and has by heart some half dozen lines of Milton, which is all he really knows of him.
In the drama he inclines to the "unities;" and of the English Theatre "Sheridan's School for
Scandal," and Otway's "Venice Preserved," or Rowe's "Fair Penitent," are what he best likes
in his heart. John Kemble is his favourite actor--Kean he thinks somewhat vulgar. In prose
he thinks Dr. Johnson the greatest man that ever existed, and next to him he places Addison
and Burke. His historian is Hume; and for morals and metaphysics he goes to Paley and Dr. Reid,
or Dugald Stewart, and is well content. For the satires of Swift he has no relish. They discompose
his ideas; and he of all things detests to have his head set a spinning like a tetotum, either
by a book or by anything else. Bishop Berkeley once did this for him to such a tune, that he
showed a visible uneasiness at the mention of the book ever after. In Tristram Shandy, however,
he has a sort of suppressed delight, which he hardly likes to acknowledge, the magnet of attraction
being, though he knows it not, in the characters of Uncle Toby, Corporal Trim, and the Widow
Wadman. His religious reading is confined to "Blair's Sermons," and the "Whole Duty of Man,"
in which he always keeps a little slip of double gilt-edged paper as a marker, without reflecting
that it is a sort of proof that he has never got through either. His Pocket Bible always lies
upon his toilet table. He knows a little of Mathematics in general, a little of Algebra, and
a little of Fluxions, which is principally to be discovered from his having Emmerson, Simpson,
and Bonnycastle's works in his library. In classical learning he confesses to having "forgotten"
a good deal of Greek; but sports a Latin phrase upon occasion, and is something of a critic
in languages. He prefers Virgil to Homer, and Horace to Pindar, and can, upon occasion, enter
into a dissertation on the precise meaning of a "Simplex munditiis." He also delights in a
pun, and most especially in a Latin one; and when applied to for payment of paving-rate, never
fails to reply "Paveant illi, non paveam ego!" which, though peradventure repeated for the
twentieth time, still serves to sweeten the adieu between his purse and its contents. He is
also an amateur in etymologies and derivatives, and is sorry that the learned Selden's solution
of the origin of the term "gentleman" seems to include in it something not altogether complimentary
to religion. This is his only objection to it. He speaks French; and his accent is, he flatters
himself, an approximation to the veritable Parisian. Modern novels he does not read, but has
read "Waverley" and "Pelham."

His library is not large, but select; and as he does not sit in it excepting very occasionally,
the fire grate is a movable one, and can be turned at will from parlour to library and vice
versa,--a whim of his old acquaintance Dr. Trifle of Oxford. In it are his library table and
stuffed chair; a bust of Pitt and another of Cicero; a patent inkstand and silver pen; an atlas,
and maps upon rollers; a crimson screen, an improved "Secretaire;" a barometer and a thermometer.
Upon the shelves may be found almost for certain Boswell's Johnson; Encyclopaedia Britannica;
Peptic Precepts and Cook's Oracle; the Miseries of Human Life; Prideaux' Connexion of the Old
and New Testament; Dr. Pearson's Culina Famulatrix Medecinae; Soame Jenyn's Essays; the Farrier's
Guide; Selden's Table-talk; Archbishop Tillotson's Sermons; Henderson on Wines; Boscawen's
Horace; Croker's Battles of Talavera and Busaco; Dictionary of Quotations; Lord Londonderry's
Peninsular Campaigns; the Art of Shaving, with directions for the management of the Razor;
Todd's Johnson's Dictionary; Peacham's Complete Gentleman; Harris' Hermes; Roget on the Teeth;
Memoirs of Pitt; Jokeby, a Burlesque on Rokeby; English Proverbs; Paley's Moral Philosophy;
Chesterfield's Letters; Buchan's Domestic Medicine; Debrett's Peerage; Colonel Thornton's Sporting
Tour; Court Kalendar; the Oracle, or Three Hundred Questions explained and answered; Gordon's
Tacitus an Elzevir Virgil; Epistolae obscurorum virorum; Martial's Epigrams; Tully's Offices;
and Henry's Family Bible.

His general character for nicety is excellent, both in a moral and religious point of view:
and he holds himself to have done a questionable thing in looking into a number of Harriette
Wilson, in which a gay quondam friend of his figured. When he marries, the ceremony is performed
by the Honourable and very Reverend the Dean of some place, to whom he claims a distant relationship.
He takes his wine in moderation; never bets, nor plays above guinea points, and always at whist.
He goes to church regularly; his pew is a square one, with green curtains. He dines upon fish
on Good Friday, and declines visiting during Passion week in mixed parties. If he ever had
any peccadilloes of any kind, they are buried in a cloud as snug as that which shrouded the
pious Eneas when he paid his first visit to Queen Dido.

He dies, aged fifty-seven, of a pleuritic attack, complicated with angina pectoris; and having
left fifty pounds to each of the principal charitable institutions of his neighbourhood, and
fifty pounds to the churchwardens of his parish, to be distributed amongst the poor professing
the religion of the Church of England, he is buried in his "family vault," and his last wish
fulfilled,--that is to say, his epitaph is composed in Latin, and the inscription put up under
the especial care and inspection of his friend Dr. Dusty of Oxford. Requiescat.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE VILLAGE CEMETERY.

In the New Monthly Magazine, just published is a powerful poem--the Splendid Village, by the
author of "Corn-law Rhymes." from which we extract the following passage:

  I sought the churchyard where the lifeless lie,
  And envied them, they rest so peacefully.
  "No wretch comes here, at dead of night." I said,
  "To drag the weary from his hard-earn'd bed;
  No schoolboys here with mournful relics play,
  And kick the 'dome of thought' o'er common clay;
  No city cur snarls here o'er dead men's bones;
  No sordid fiend removes memorial stones.
  The dead have here what to the dead belongs,
  Though legislation makes not laws, but wrongs."
  I sought a letter'd stone, on which my tears
  Had fall'n like thunder-rain, in other years,
  My mother's grave I sought, in my despair,
  But found it not! our grave-stone was not there!
  No we were fallen men, mere workhouse slaves,
  And how could fallen men have names or graves?
  I thought of sorrow in the wilderness,
  And death in solitude, and pitiless
  Interment in the tiger's hideous maw:
  I pray'd, and, praying, turn'd from all I saw;
  My prayers were curses! But the sexton came;
  How my heart yearn'd to name my Hannah's name!
  White was his hair, for full of days was he,
  And walk'd o'er tombstones, like their history.
  With well feign'd carelessness I rais'd a spade,
  Left near a grave, which seem'd but newly made,
  And ask'd who slept below? "You knew him well,"
  The old man answer'd, "Sir, his name was Bell.
  He had a sister--she, alas! is gone,
  Body and soul. Sir! for she married one
  Unworthy of her. Many a corpse he took
  From this churchyard." And then his head he shook,
  And utter'd--whispering low, as if in fear
  That the old stones and senseless dead would hear--
  A word, a verb, a noun, too widely famed,
  Which makes me blush to hear my country named.
  That word he utter'd, gazing on my face,
  As if he loath'd my thoughts, then paus'd a space.
  "Sir," he resumed, "a sad death Hannah died;
  Her husband--kill'd her, or his own son lied.
  Vain is your voyage o'er the briny wave,
  If here you seek her grave--she had no grave!
  The terror-stricken murderer fled before
  His crime was known, and ne'er was heard of more.
  The poor boy died, sir! uttering fearful cries
  In his last dreams, and with his glaring eyes,
  And troubled hands, seem'd acting, as it were,
  His mother's fate. Yes, Sir, his grave is there." To gratify this curiosity, Mr. Murray has
considerately enough, printed their Journal in three volumes of the
Family Library, and to say that they are, in interest, equal if not
superior to any of the Series would be praise inadequate to their merits.
The simple, unvarnished style of the Narrative is just suitable for a
family fireside. We intend to quote a few scenes: at present

An African Horse-Race,

at Kiáma, in the kingdom of Borgoo from the first volume.

"A few naked boys, on ponies without saddles, then rode over the course, after which the second
and last heat commenced. This was not by any means so good as the first, owing to the greater
anxiety which the horsemen evinced to display their skill in the use of the spear and the management
of their animals.

"We have here endeavoured, to the best of our ability, to describe an African horse-race, but
it is impossible to convey a correct idea of the singular and fantastic appearance of the numerous
groups of people that met our view on all sides, or to describe their animation and delight;
the martial equipment of the soldiers and their noble steeds, and the wild, romantic, and overpowering
interest of the whole mass. Singing and dancing have been kept up all night, and the revellers
will not think of retiring to rest till morning."

       *       *       *       *       *

FINE ARTS.

MR. HAYDON'S EXHIBITION.

Mr. Haydon has completed his Xenophon and the 10,000 first seeing the Sea from Mount Thèches--a
brilliantly glowing page of Grecian heroism, and a splendid specimen of the highest order of
historical painting. It represents the celebrated retreat of the 10,000 valorous Greeks, with
Xenophon at their head, whose only hope of release from one of the most perilous situations--was
to reach the sea. The action of the picture is thus described by the artist:

"This, of course, was accepted--they altered their course, and, while the army was in full
march over Mount Thèches, the advanced guard, in coming to the top, came suddenly in view of
a magnificent valley, with the SEA in the extreme distance, glittering along an extended coast,
and mingling with the hazy horizon!

