The cardinal's smile had changed from one of benignity to one of guile.

"Why, I will answer you. Out of their terror they will be moved to revolt against you, unless
you relieve them of the ban. Thus, Lord Prince, I hold you in check. You make submission or
else you are destroyed."

Affonso Henriques considered him a moment. "You answer me indeed," said he, and then his voice
swelled up in denunciation. "But this is statecraft, not religion. And when a prince has no
statecraft to match that which is opposed to him, do you know what follows? He has recourse
to force, Lord Cardinal. You compel me to it; upon your own head the consequences."

The legate almost sneered. "What is the force of your poor lethal weapons compared with the
spiritual power I wield? Do you threaten me with death? Do you think I fear it?" He rose in
a surge of sudden wrath, and tore open his scarlet robe. "Strike here with your poniard. I
wear no mail. Strike if you dare, and by the sacrilegious blow destroy yourself in this world
and the next."

The Infante considered him. Slowly he sheathed his dagger, smiling a little. Then he beat his
hands together. His men-at-arms came in.

"Seize me those two Roman whelps," he commanded, and pointed to Giannino and Pierlulgi. "Seize
them, and make them fast. About it!"

"Lord Prince!" cried the legate in a voice of appeal, wherein fear and anger trembled.

It was the note of fear that heartened Affonso Henriques. "About it!" he cried again, though
needlessly, for already his men-at-arms were at grips with the Cardinal's nephews. In a trice
the kicking, biting, swearing pair were overpowered, deprived of arms, and pinioned. The men
looked to their prince for further orders. In the background Moniz and Nunes witnessed all
with troubled countenances, whilst the Cardinal, beyond the table, white to the lips, demanded
in a quavering voice to know what violence was intended, implored the Infante to consider,
and in the same breath threatened him with dread consequences of this affront.

Affonso Henriques, unmoved, pointed through the window to a stalwart oak that stood before the inn.

"Take them out there, and hang them unshriven," he commanded.

The Cardinal swayed, and almost fell forward. He clutched the table, speechless with terror
for those lads who were as the very apple of his eye, he who so fearlessly had bared his own
breast to the steel.

The two comely Italian youths were dragged out writhing in their captors' hands.

At last the half-swooning legate found his voice. "Lord Prince," he gasped. "Lord Prince...
you cannot do this infamy! You cannot! I warn you that... that..." The threat perished unuttered,
slain by mounting terror. "Mercy! Have mercy, lord! as you hope for mercy!"

"What mercy do you practice, you who preach a gospel of mercy in the world, and cry for mercy
now?" the Infante asked him.

"But this is an infamy! What harm have those poor children done? What concern is it of theirs
that I have offended you in performing my sacred duty?"

Swift into that opening flashed the home-thrust of the Infante's answer.

"What harm have my people of Coimbra done? What concern is it of theirs that I have offended
you? Yet to master me you did not hesitate to strike at them with the spiritual weapons that
are yours. To master you I do not hesitate to strike at your nephews with the lethal weapons
that are mine. When you shall have seen them hang you will understand the things that argument
could not make clear to you. In the vileness of my act you will see a reflection of the vileness
of your own, and perhaps your heart will be touched, your monstrous pride abated."

Outside, under the tree, the figures of the men-at-arms were moving. Expeditiously, and with
indifference, they went about the preparations for the task entrusted to them.

The Cardinal writhed, and fought for breath. "Lord Prince, this must not be!" He stretched
forth supplicating hands. "Lord Prince, you must release my nephews."

"Lord Cardinal, you must absolve my people."

"If... if you will first make submission. My duty... to the Holy See... Oh God! Will nothing
move you?"

"When they have been hanged you will understand, and out of your own affliction learn compassion."
The Infante's voice was so cold, his mien so resolute that the legate despaired of conquering
his purpose. Abruptly he capitulated, even as the halters went about the necks of his two cherished
lads.

"Stop!" he screamed. "Bid them stop! The curse shall be lifted."

Affonso Henriques opened the window with a leisureliness which to the legate seemed to belong
to the realm of nightmare.

"Wait yet a moment," the Infante called to those outside, about whom by now a little knot of
awe-stricken villagers had gathered. Then he turned again to Cardinal Corrado, who had sunk
to his chair like a man exhausted, and sat now panting, his elbows on the table, his head in
his hands. "Here," said the prince, "are the terms upon which you may have their lives: Complete
absolution, and Apostolic benediction for my people and myself this very night, I on my side
making submission to the Holy Father's will to the extent of releasing my mother from duress,
with the condition that she leaves Portugal at once and does not return. As for the banished
bishop and his successor, matters must remain as they are; but you can satisfy your conscience
on that score by yourself confirming the appointment of Don Zuleyman. Come, my lord, I am being
generous, I think. In the enlargement of my mother I afford you the means of satisfying Rome.
If you have learnt your lesson from what I here proposed, your conscience should satisfy you
of the rest."

"Be it so," the Cardinal answered hoarsely. "I will return with you to Coimbra and do your will."

Thereupon, without any tinge of mockery, but in completest sincerity in token that the feud
between them was now completely healed, Affonso Henriques went down upon his knees, like the
true and humble son of Holy Church he accounted himself, to ask a blessing at the Cardinal's
hands. It came at a time when already there was enough to distract his mind; for although the
table before him was spread and equipped as became an emperor's, the gaunt spectre of famine
stalked outside in the streets of Moscow, and men and women were so reduced by it that cannibalism
was alleged to be breaking out amongst them.

Alone, save for the ministering pages, sat Boris Godunov under the iron lamps that made of
the table, with its white napery and vessels of gold and silver plate, an island of light in
the gloom of that vast apartment. The air was fragrant with the scent of burning pine, for
although the time of year was May, the nights were chill, and a great log-fire was blazing
on the distant hearth. To him, as he sat there, came his trusted Basmanov with those tidings
which startled him at first, seeming to herald that at last the sword of Nemesis was swung
above his sinful head.

Basmanov, a flush tinting the prominent cheek-bones of his sallow face, an excited glitter
in his long eyes, began by ordering the pages out of earshot, then leaning forward quickly
muttered forth his news.

At the first words of it, the Tsar's knife clashed into his golden platter, and his short,
powerful hands clutched the carved arms of his great gilded chair. Quickly he controlled himself,
and then as he continued to listen he was moved to scorn, and a faint smile began to stir under
his grizzled beard.

