But he did resolve as he reached his own hall door that he would make one more passionate appeal
to Mary herself before she started for Cheltenham, and that he would not make it out on a public
path, or in the Masters' family parlour before all the Masters' family;-- but that he would
have her secluded, by herself, so that he might speak out all that was in him, to the best
of his ability.

CHAPTER XX

There are Convenances

Before the Monday came the party to Rufford Hall had become quite a settled thing and had been
very much discussed. On the Saturday the Senator had been driven to the meet, a distance of
about ten miles, on purpose that he might see Lord Rufford and explain his views about Goarly.
Lord Rufford had bowed and stared, and laughed, and had then told the Senator that he thought
he would "find himself in the wrong box." "That's quite possible, my Lord. I guess, it won't
be the first time I've been in the wrong box, my Lord. Sometimes I do get right. But I thought
I would not enter your lordship's house as a guest without telling you what I was doing." Then
Lord Rufford assured him that this little affair about Goarly would make no difference in that
respect. Mr. Gotobed again scrutinised the hounds and Tony Tuppett, laughed in his sleeve because
a fox wasn't found in the first quarter of an hour, and after that was driven back to Bragton.

The Sunday was a day of preparation for the Trefoils. Of course they didn't go to church. Arabella
indeed was never up in time for church and Lady Augustus only went when her going would be
duly registered among fashionable people. Mr. Gotobed laughed when he was invited and asked
whether anybody was ever known to go to church two Sundays running at Bragton. "People have
been known to refuse with less acrimony," said Morton. "I always speak my mind, sir," replied
the Senator. Poor John Morton, therefore, went to his parish church alone.

There were many things to be considered by the Trefoils. There was the question of dress. If
any good was to be done by Arabella at Rufford it must be done with great despatch. There would
be the dinner on Monday, the hunting on Tuesday, the ball, and then the interesting moment
of departure. No girl could make better use of her time; but then, think of her difficulties!
All that she did would have to be done under the very eyes of the man to whom she was engaged,
and to whom she wished to remain engaged,--unless, as she said to herself, she could "pull
off the other event." A great deal must depend on appearance. As she and her mother were out
on a lengthened cruise among long-suffering acquaintances, going to the De Brownes after the
Gores, and the Smijthes after the De Brownes, with as many holes to run to afterwards as a
four-year-old fox,-- though with the same probability of finding them stopped,--of course she
had her wardrobe with her. To see her night after night one would think that it was supplied
with all that wealth would give. But there were deficiencies and there were make-shifts, very
well known to herself and well understood by her maid. She could generally supply herself with
gloves by bets, as to which she had never any scruple in taking either what she did win or
did not, and in dunning any who might chance to be defaulters. On occasions too, when not afraid
of the bystanders, she would venture on a hat, and though there was difficulty as to the payment,
not being able to give her number as she did with gloves, so that the tradesmen could send
the article, still she would manage to get the hat,--and the trimmings. It was said of her
that she once offered to lay an Ulster to a sealskin jacket, but that the young man had coolly
said that a sealskin jacket was beyond a joke and had asked her whether she was ready to "put
down" her Ulster. These were little difficulties from which she usually knew how to extricate
herself without embarrassment; but she had not expected to have to marshal her forces against
such an enemy as Lord Rufford, or to sit down for the besieging of such a city this campaign.
There were little things which required to be done, and the lady's-maid certainly had not time
to go to church on Sunday.

But there were other things which troubled her even more than her clothes. She did not much
like Bragton, and at Bragton, in his own house, she did not very much like her proposed husband.
At Washington he had been somebody. She had met him everywhere then, and had heard him much
talked about. At Washington he had been a popular man and had had the reputation of being a
rich man also; but here, at home, in the country he seemed to her to fall off in importance,
and he certainly had not made himself pleasant. Whether any man could be pleasant to her in
the retirement of a country house,--any man whom she would have no interest in running down,--
she did not ask herself. An engagement to her must under any circumstances be a humdrum thing,--to
be brightened only by wealth. But here she saw no signs of wealth. Nevertheless she was not
prepared to shove away the plank from below her feet, till she was sure that she had a more
substantial board on which to step. Her mother, who perhaps did not see in the character of
Morton all the charms which she would wish to find in a son-in-law, was anxious to shake off
the Bragton alliance; but Arabella, as she said so often both to herself and to her mother,
was sick of the dust of the battle and conscious of fading strength. She would make this one
more attempt, but must make it with great care. When last in town this young lord had whispered
a word or two to her, which then had set her hoping for a couple of days; and now, when chance
had brought her into his neighbourhood, he had gone out of his way,-- very much out of his
way,--to renew his acquaintance with her. She would be mad not to give herself the chance;
but yet she could not afford to let the plank go from under her feet.

But the part she had to play was one which even she felt to be almost beyond her powers. She
could perceive that Morton was beginning to be jealous,--and that his jealousy was not of that
nature which strengthens a tie but which is apt to break it altogether. His jealousy, if fairly
aroused, would not be appeased by a final return to himself. She had already given him occasion
to declare himself off, and if thoroughly angered he would no doubt use it. Day by day, and
almost hour by hour, he was becoming more sombre and hard, and she was well aware that there
was reason for it. It did not suit her to walk about alone with him through the shrubberies.
It did not suit her to be seen with his arm round her waist. Of course the people of Bragton
would talk of the engagement, but she would prefer that they should talk of it with doubt.
Even her own maid had declared to Mrs. Hopkins that she did not know whether there was or was
not an engagement,--her own maid being at the time almost in her confidence. Very few of the
comforts of a lover had been vouchsafed to John Morton during this sojourn at Bragton and very
little had been done in accordance with his wishes. Even this visit to Rufford, as she well
knew, was being made in opposition to him. She hoped that her lover would not attempt to ride
to hounds on the Tuesday, so that she might be near the lord unseen by him,--and that he would
leave Rufford on the Wednesday before herself and her mother. At the ball of course she could
dance with Lord Rufford, and could keep her eye on her lover at the same time.

She hardly saw Morton on the Sunday afternoon, and she was again closeted on the Monday till
lunch. They were to start at four and there would not be much more than time after lunch for
her to put on her travelling gear, Then, as they all felt, there was a difficulty about the
carriages. Who was to go with whom? Arabella, after lunch, took the bull by the horns. "I suppose,"
she said as Morton followed her out into the hall, "mamma and I had better go in the phaeton."

"I was thinking that Lady Augustus might consent to travel with Mr. Gotobed and that you and
I might have the phaeton."

"Of course it would be very pleasant," she answered smiling.

"Then why not let it be so?"

"There are convenances."

"How would it be if you and I were going without anybody else? Do you mean to say that in that
case we might not sit in the same carriage?"

"I mean to say that in that case I should not go at all. It isn't done in England. You have
beer in the States so long that you forget all our old-fashioned ways."

"I do think that is nonsense." She only smiled and shook her head. "Then the Senator shall
go in the phaeton, and I will go with you and your mother."

"Yes,--and quarrel with mamma all the time as you always do. Let me have it my own way this time."

"Upon my word I believe you are ashamed of me," he said leaning back upon the hall table. He
had shut the dining-room door and she was standing close to him.

"What nonsense!"

"You have only got to say so, Arabella, and let there be an end of it all."

"If you wish it, Mr. Morton."

"You know I don't wish it. You know I am ready to marry you to-morrow."

"You have made ever so many difficulties as far as I can understand."

"You have unreasonable people acting for you, Arabella, and of course I don't mean to give
way to them."

"Pray don't talk to me about money. I know nothing about it and have taken no part in the matter.
I suppose there must be settlements?"

"Of course there must"

"And I can only do what other people tell me. You at any rate have something to do with it
all, and I have absolutely nothing."

"That is no reason you shouldn't go in the same carriage with me to Rufford."

"Are you coming back to that, just like a big child? Do let us consider that as settled. I'm
sure you'll let mamma and me have the use of the phaeton." Of course the little contest was
ended in the manner proposed by Arabella.

"I do think," said Arabella, when she and her mother were seated in the carriage, "that we
have treated him very badly."

"Quite as well as he deserves! What a house to bring us to; and what people! Did you ever come
across such an old woman before! And she has him completely under her thumb. Are you prepared
to live with that harridan?"

"You may let me alone, mamma, for all that. She won't be in my way after I'm married, I can
tell you."

"You'll have something to do then."

"I ain't a bit afraid of her."

"And to ask us to meet such people as this American!"

"He's going back to Washington and it suited him to have him. I don't quarrel with him for
that. I wish I were married to him and back in the States."

"You do?"

"I do."

"You have given it all up about Lord Rufford then?"

"No;--that's just where it is. I haven't given it up, and I still see trouble upon trouble
before me. But I know how it will be. He doesn't mean anything. He's only amusing himself."

"If he'd once say the word he couldn't get back again. The Duke would interfere then."

"What would he care for the Duke? The Duke is no more than anybody else nowadays. I shall just
fall to the ground between two stools. I know it as well as if it were done already. And then
I shall have to begin again! If it comes to that I shall do something terrible. I know I shall."
Then they turned in at Lord Rufford's gates; and as they were driven up beneath the oaks, through
the gloom, both mother and daughter thought how charming it would be to be the mistress of
such a park.

CHAPTER XXI

The first Evening at Rufford Hall

The phaeton arrived the first, the driver having been especially told by Arabella that he need
not delay on the road for the other carriage. She had calculated that she might make her entrance
with better effect alone with her mother than in company with Morton and the Senator. It would
have been worth the while of any one who had witnessed her troubles on that morning to watch
the bland serenity and happy ease with which she entered the room. Her mother was fond of a
prominent place but was quite contented on this occasion to play a second fiddle for her daughter.
She had seen at a glance that Rufford Hall was a delightful house. Oh,--if it might become
the home of her child and her grandchildren,--and possibly a retreat for herself! Arabella
was certainly very handsome at this moment. Never did she look better than when got up with
care for travelling, especially as seen by an evening light. Her slow motions were adapted
to heavy wraps, and however she might procure her large sealskin jacket she graced it well
when she had it. Lord Rufford came to the door to meet them and immediately introduced them
to his sister. There were six or seven people in the room, mostly ladies, and tea was offered
to the new-comers. Lady Penwether was largely made, like her brother; but was a languidly lovely
woman, not altogether unlike Arabella herself in her figure and movements, but with a more
expressive face, with less colour, and much more positive assurance of high breeding. Lady
Penwether was said to be haughty, but it was admitted by all people that when Lady Penwether
had said a thing or had done a thing, it might be taken for granted that the way in which she
had done or said that thing was the right way. The only other gentleman there was Major Caneback,
who had just come in from hunting with some distant pack and who had been brought into the
room by Lord Rufford that he might give some account of the doings of the day. According to
Caneback, they had been talking in the Brake country about nothing but Goarly and the enormities
which had been perpetrated to the U.R.U. "By-the-bye, Miss Trefoil," said Lord Rufford, "what
have you done with your Senator?"

"He's on the road, Lord Rufford, examining English institutions as he comes along. He'll be
here by midnight."

"Imagine the man coming to me and telling me that he was a friend of Goarly's. I rather liked
him for it. There was a thorough pluck about it. They say he's going to find all the money."

"I thought Mr. Scrobby was to do that?" said Lady Penwether.

"Mr. Scrobby will not have the slightest objection to have that part of the work done for him.
If all we hear is true Miss Trefoil's Senator may have to defend both Scrobby and Goarly."

"My Senator as you call him will be quite up to the occasion."

"You knew him in America, Miss Trefoil?" asked Lady Penwether.

"Oh yes. We used to meet him and Mrs. Gotobed everywhere. But we didn't exactly bring him over
with us;--though our party down to Bragton was made up in Washington," she added, feeling that
she might in this way account in some degree for her own presence in John Morton's house. "It
was mamma and Mr. Morton arranged it all."

"Oh my dear it was you and the Senator," said Lady Augustus, ready for the occasion.

"Miss Trefoil," said the lord, "let us have it all out at once. Are you taking Goarly's part?"

"Taking Goarly's part!" ejaculated the Major. Arabella affected to give a little start, as
though frightened by the Major's enthusiasm. "For heaven's. sake let us know our foes," continued
Lord Rufford. "You see the effect such an announcement had upon Major Caneback. Have you made
an appointment before dawn with Mr. Scrobby under the elms? Now I look at you I believe in
my heart you're a Goarlyite,--only without the Senator's courage to tell me the truth beforehand."

"I really am very much obliged to Goarly," said Arabella, "because it is so nice to have something
to talk about."

"That's just what I think, Miss Trefoil," declared a young lady, Miss Penge, who was a friend
of Lady Penwether. "The gentlemen have so much to say about hunting which nobody can understand!
But now this delightful man has scattered poison all over the country there is something that
comes home to our understanding. I declare myself a Goarlyite at once, Lord Rufford, and shall
put myself under the Senator's leading directly he comes."

During all this time not a word had been said of John Morton, the master of Bragton, the man
to whose party these new-comers belonged. Lady Augustus and Arabella clearly understood that
John Morton was only a peg on which the invitation to them had been hung. The feeling that
it was so grew upon them with every word that was spoken,--and also the conviction that he
must be treated like a peg at Rufford. The sight of the hangings of the room, so different
to the old-fashioned dingy curtains at Bragton, the brilliancy of the mirrors, all the decorations
of the place, the very blaze from the big grate, forced upon the girl's feelings a conviction
that this was her proper sphere. Here she was, being made much of as a new-comer, and here
if possible she must remain. Everything smiled on her with gilded dimples, and these were the
smiles she valued. As the softness of the cushions sank into her heart, and mellow nothingnesses
from well-trained voices greeted her ears, and the air of wealth and idleness floated about
her cheeks, her imagination rose within her and assured her that she could secure something
better than Bragton. The cautions with which she had armed herself faded away. This, this was
the kind of thing for which she had been striving. As a girl of spirit was it not worth her
while to make another effort even though there might be danger? Aut Caesar aut nihil. She knew
nothing about Caesar; but before the tardy wheels which brought the Senator and Mr. Morton
had stopped at the door she had declared to herself that she would be Lady Rufford. The fresh
party was of course brought into the drawing-room and tea was offered; but Arabella hardly
spoke to them, and Lady Augustus did not speak to them at all, and they were shown up to their
bedrooms with very little preliminary conversation.

It was very hard to put Mr. Gotobed down;--or it might be more correctly said, as there was
no effort to put him down,--that it was not often that he failed in coming to the surface.
He took Lady Penwether out to dinner and was soon explaining to her that this little experiment
of his in regard to Goarly was being tried simply with the view of examining the institutions
of the country. "We don't mind it from you," said Lady Penwether, "because you are in a certain
degree a foreigner." The Senator declared himself flattered by being regarded as a foreigner
only "in a certain degree." "You see you speak our language, Mr. Gotobed, and we can't help
thinking you are half-English."

"We are two-thirds English, my lady," said Mr. Gotobed; "but then we think the other third
is an improvement."

"Very likely."

"We have nothing so nice as this;" as he spoke he waved his right hand to the different corners
of the room. "Such a dinner-table as I am sitting down to now couldn't be fixed in all the
United States though a man might spend three times as many dollars on it as his lordship does."

"That is very often done, I should think."

"But then as we have nothing so well done as a house like this, so also have we nothing so
ill done as the houses of your poor people."

"Wages are higher with you, Mr. Gotobed"

"And public spirit, and the philanthropy of the age, and the enlightenment of the people, and
the institutions of the country all round. They are all higher."

"Canvas-back ducks," said the Major, who was sitting two or three off on the other side.

"Yes, sir, we have canvas-back ducks."

"Make up for a great many faults," said the Major.

"Of course, sir, when a man's stomach rises above his intelligence he'll have to argue accordingly,"
said the Senator.

"Caneback, what are you going to ride to-morrow?" asked the lord who saw the necessity of changing
the conversation, as far at least as the Major was concerned.

"Jemima;--mare of Purefoy's; have my neck broken, they tell me."

"It's not improbable," said Sir John Purefoy who was sitting at Lady Penwether's left hand.
"Nobody ever could ride her yet."

"I was thinking of asking you to let Miss Trefoil try her," said Lord Rufford. Arabella was
sitting between Sir John Purefoy and the Major.

"Miss Trefoil is quite welcome," said Sir John. "It isn't a bad idea. Perhaps she may carry
a lady, because she has never been tried. I know that she objects strongly to carry a man."

"My dear," said Lady Augustus, "you shan't do anything of the kind." And Lady Augustus pretended
to be frightened.

"Mamma, you don't suppose Lord Rufford wants to kill me at once."

"You shall either ride her, Miss Trefoil, or my little horse Jack. But I warn you beforehand
that as Jack is the easiest ridden horse in the country, and can scramble over anything, and
never came down in his life, you won't get any honour and glory; but on Jemima you might make
a character that would stick to you till your dying day."

"But if I ride Jemima that dying day might be to-morrow. I think I'll take Jack, Lord Rufford,
and let Major Caneback have the honour. Is Jack fast?" In this way the anger arising between
the Senator and the Major was assuaged. The Senator still held his own, and, before the question
was settled between Jack and Jemima, had told the company that no Englishman knew how to ride,
and that the only seat fit for a man on horseback was that suited for the pacing horses of
California and Mexico. Then he assured Sir John Purefoy that eighty miles a day was no great
journey for a pacing horse, with a man of fourteen stone and a saddle and accoutrements weighing
four more. The Major's countenance, when the Senator declared that no Englishman could ride,
was a sight worth seeing.

That evening, even in the drawing-room, the conversation was chiefly about horses and hunting,
and those terrible enemies Goarly and Scrobby. Lady Penwether and Miss Penge who didn't hunt
were distantly civil to Lady Augustus of whom of course a woman so much in the world as Lady
Penwether knew something. Lady Penwether had shrugged her shoulders when consulted as to these
special guests and had expressed a hope that Rufford "wasn't going to make a goose of himself."
But she was fond of her brother and as both Lady Purefoy and Miss Penge were special friends
of hers, and as she had also been allowed to invite a couple of Godolphin's girls to whom she
wished to be civil, she did as she was asked. The girl, she said to Miss Penge that evening,
was handsome, but penniless and a flirt. The mother she declared to be a regular old soldier.
As to Lady Augustus she was right; but she had perhaps failed to read Arabella's character
correctly. Arabella Trefoil was certainly not a flirt. In all the horsey conversation Arabella
joined, and her low, clear, slow voice could be heard now and then as though she were really
animated with the subject. At Bragton she had never once spoken as though any matter had interested
her. During this time Morton fell into conversation first with Lady Purefoy and then with the
two Miss Godolphins, and afterwards for a few minutes with Lady Penwether who knew that he
was a county gentleman and a respectable member of the diplomatic profession. But during the
whole evening his ear was intent on the notes of Arabella's voice; and also, during the whole
evening, her eye was watching him. She would not lose her chance with Lord Rufford for want
of any effort on her own part. If aught were required from her in her present task that might
be offensive to Mr. Morton,--anything that was peremptorily demanded for the effort,--she would
not scruple to offend the man. But if it might be done without offence, so much the better.
Once he came across the room and said a word to her as she was talking to Lord Rufford and
the Purefoys. "You are really in earnest about riding to-morrow."

"Oh dear, yes. Why shouldn't I be in earnest?"

"You are coming out yourself I hope," said the Lord.

"I have no horses here of my own, but I have told that man Stubbings to send me something,
and as I haven't been at Bragton for the last seven years I have nothing proper to wear. I
shan't be called a Goarlyite I hope if I appear in trowsers."

"Not unless you have a basket of red herrings on your arm," said Lord Rufford. Then Morton
retired back to the Miss Godolphins finding that he had nothing more to say to Arabella.

He was very angry,--though he hardly knew why or with whom. A girl when she is engaged is not
supposed to talk to no one but her recognised lover in a mixed party of ladies and gentlemen,
and she is especially absolved from such a duty when they chance to meet in the house of a
comparative stranger. In such a house and among such people it was natural that the talk should
be about hunting, and as the girl had accepted the loan of a horse it was natural that she
should join in such conversation. She had never sat for a moment apart with Lord Rufford. It
was impossible to say that she had flirted with the man,--and yet Morton felt that he was neglected,
and felt also that he was only there because this pleasure-seeking young Lord had liked to
have in his house the handsome girl whom he, Morton, intended to marry. He felt thoroughly
ashamed of being there as it were in the train of Miss Trefoil. He was almost disposed to get
up and declare that the girl was engaged to marry him. He thought that he could put an end
to the engagement without breaking his heart; but if the engagement was an engagement he could
not submit to treatment such as this, either from her or from others. He would see her for
the last time in the country at the ball on the following evening,--as of course he would not
be near her during the hunting,--and then he would make her understand that she must be altogether
his or altogether cease to be his. And so resolving he went to bed, refusing to join the gentlemen
in the smoking-room.

"Oh, mamma," Arabella said to her mother that evening, "I do so wish I could break my arm tomorrow."

"Break your arm, my dear!"

"Or my leg would be better. I wish I could have the courage to chuck myself off going over
some gate. If I could be laid up here now with a broken limb I really think I could do it."

CHAPTER XXII

Jemima

As the meet on the next morning was in the park the party at Rufford Hall was able to enjoy
the luxury of an easy morning together with the pleasures of the field. There was no getting
up at eight o'clock, no hurry and scurry to do twenty miles and yet be in time, no necessity
for the tardy dressers to swallow their breakfasts while their more energetic companions were
raving at them for compromising the chances of the day by their delay. There was a public breakfast
down-stairs, at which all the hunting farmers of the country were to be seen, and some who,
only pretended to be hunting farmers on such occasions. But up-stairs there was a private breakfast
for the ladies and such of the gentlemen as preferred tea to champagne and cherry brandy. Lord
Rufford was in and out of both rooms, making himself generally agreeable. In the public room
there was a great deal said about Goarly, to all of which the Senator listened with eager ears,--for
the Senator preferred the public breakfast as offering another institution to his notice. "He'll
swing on a gallows afore he's dead," said one energetic farmer who was sitting next to Mr.
Gotobed,--a fat man with a round head, and a bullock's neck, dressed in a black coat with breeches
and top-boots. John Runce was not a riding man. He was too heavy and short-winded;--too fond
of his beer and port wine; but he was a hunting man all over, one who always had a fox in the
springs at the bottom of his big meadows, one to whom it was the very breath of his nostrils
to shake hands with the hunting gentry and to be known as a staunch friend to the U.R.U. A
man did not live in the county more respected than John Runce, or who was better able to pay
his way. To his thinking an animal more injurious than Goarly to the best interests of civilisation
could not have been produced by all the evil influences of the world combined. "Do you really
think," said the Senator calmly, "that a man should be hanged for killing a fox?" John Runce,
who was not very ready, turned round and stared at him. "I haven't heard of any other harm
that he has done, and perhaps he had some provocation for that." Words were wanting to Mr.
Runce, but not indignation. He collected together his plate and knife and fork and his two
glasses and his lump of bread, and, looking the Senator full in the face, slowly pushed back
his chair and, carrying his provisions with him, toddled off to the other end of the room.
When he reached a spot where place was made for him he had hardly breath left to speak. "Well,"
he said, "I never--!" He sat a minute in silence shaking his head, and continued to shake his
head and look round upon his neighbours as he devoured his food.

Up-stairs there was a very cosy party who came in by degrees. Lady Penwether was there soon
after ten with Miss Penge and some of the gentlemen, including Morton, who was the only man
seen in that room in black. Young Hampton, who vas intimate in the house, made his way up there
and Sir John Purefoy joined the party. Sir John was a hunting man who lived in the county and
was an old friend of the family. Lady Purefoy hunted also, and came in later. Arabella was
the last,--not from laziness, but aware that in this way the effect might be the best. Lord
Rufford was in the room when she entered it and of course she addressed herself to him. "Which
is it to be, Lord Rufford, Jack or Jemima?"

"Which ever you like."

"I am quite indifferent. If you'll put me on the mare I'll ride her,--or try."

"Indeed you won't," said Lady Augustus.

"Mamma knows nothing about it, Lord Rufford. I believe I could do just as well as Major Caneback."

"She never had a lady on her in her life," said Sir John.

"Then it's time for her to begin. But at any rate I must have some breakfast first" Then Lord
Rufford brought her a cup of tea and Sir John gave her a cutlet, and she felt herself to be
happy. She was quite content with her hat, and though her habit was not exactly a hunting habit,
it fitted her well. Morton had never before seen her in a riding dress and acknowledged that
it became her. He struggled to think of something special to say to her, but there was nothing.
He was not at home on such an occasion. His long trowsers weighed him down, and his ordinary
morning coat cowed him. He knew in his heart that she thought no thing of him as he was now.
But she said a word to him,--with that usual smile of hers. "Of course, Mr. Morton, you are
coming with us."

"A little way perhaps."

"You'll find that any horse from Stubbings can go," said Lord Rufford. "I wish I could say
as much of all mine."

"Jack can go, I hope, Lord Rufford." Lord Rufford nodded his head. "And I shall expect you
to give me a lead." To this he assented, though it was perhaps more than he had intended. But
on such an occasion it is almost impossible to refuse such a request.

At half-past eleven they were all out in the park, and Tony was elate as a prince having been
regaled with a tumbler of champagne. But the great interest of the immediate moment were the
frantic efforts made by Jemima to get rid of her rider. Once or twice Sir John asked the Major
to give it up, but the Major swore that the mare was a good mare and only wanted riding. She
kicked and squealed and backed and went round the park with him at a full gallop. In the park
there was a rail with a ha-ha ditch, and the Major rode her at it in a gallop. She went through
the timber, fell in the ditch, and then was brought up again without giving the man a fall.
He at once put her back at the same fence, and she took it, almost in her stride, without touching
it. "Have her like a spaniel before the day's over," said the Major, who thoroughly enjoyed
these little encounters.

Among the laurels at the bottom of the park a fox was found, and then there was a great deal
of riding about the grounds. All this was much enjoyed by the ladies who were on foot,--and
by the Senator who wandered about the place alone. A gentleman's park is not always the happiest
place for finding a fox. The animal has usually many resources there and does not like to leave
it. And when he does go away it is not always easy to get after him. But ladies in a carriage
or on foot on such occasions have their turn of the sport. On this occasion it was nearly one
before the fox allowed himself to be killed, and then he had hardly been outside the park palings.
There was a good deal of sherry drank before the party got away and hunting men such as Major
Caneback began to think that the day was to be thrown away. As they started off for Shugborough
Springs, the little covert on John Runce's farm which was about four miles from Rufford Hall,
Sir John asked the Major to get on another animal. "You've had trouble enough with her for
one day, and given her enough to do." But the Major was not of that way of thinking. "Let her
have the day's work," said the Major. "Do her good. Remember what she's learned." And so they
trotted off to Shugborough.

While they were riding about the park Morton had kept near to Miss Trefoil. Lord Rufford, being
on his own place and among his own coverts, had had cares on his hand and been unable to devote
himself to the young lady. She had never for a moment looked up at her lover, or tried to escape
from him. She had answered all his questions, saying, however, very little, and had bided her
time. The more gracious she was to Morton now the less ground would he have for complaining
of her when she should leave him by-and-by. As they were trotting along the road Lord Rufford
came up and apologized. "I'm afraid I've been very inattentive, Miss Trefoil; but I dare say
you've been in better hands."

"There hasn't been much to do;--has there?"

"Very little. I suppose a man isn't responsible for having foxes that won't break. Did you
see the Senator? He seemed to think it was all right. Did you hear of John Runce?" Then he
told the story of John Runce, which had been told to him.

"What a fine old fellow! I should forgive him his rent"

"He is much better able to pay me double. Your Senator, Mr. Morton, is a very peculiar man."

"He is peculiar," said Morton, "and I am sorry to say can make himself very disagreeable."

"We might as well trot on as Shugborough is a small place, and a fox always goes away from
it at once. John Runce knows how to train them better than I do. Then they made their way on
through the straggling horses, and John Morton, not wishing to seem to be afraid of his rival,
remained alone. "I wish Caneback had left that mare behind," said the lord as they went. "It
isn't the country for her, and she is going very nastily with him. Are you fond of hunting,
Miss Trefoil?"

"Very fond of it," said Arabella who had been out two or three times in her life.

"I like a girl to ride to hounds," said his lordship. "I don't think she ever looks so well."
Then Arabella determined that come what might she would ride to hounds.

At Shugborough Springs a fox was found before half the field was up, and he broke almost as
soon as he was found. "Follow me through the hand gates," said the lord, "and from the third
field out it's fair riding. Let him have his head, and remember he hangs a moment as he comes
to his fence. You won't be left behind unless there's something out of the way to stop us."
Arabella's heart was in her mouth, but she was quite resolved. Where he went she would follow.
As for being left behind she would not care the least for that if he were left behind with
her. They got well away, having to pause a moment while the hounds came up to Tony's horn out
of the wood. Then there was plain sailing and there were very few before them. "He's one of
the old sort, my lord," said Tony as he pressed on, speaking of the fox. "Not too near me,
and you'll go like a bird," said his lordship. "He's a nice little horse, isn't he? When I'm
going to be married, he'll be the first present I shall make her."

"He'd tempt almost any girl," said Arabella.

It was wonderful how well she went, knowing so little about it as she did. The horse was one
easily ridden, and on plain ground she knew what she was about in a saddle. At any rate she
did not disgrace herself and when they had already run some three or four miles Lord Rufford
had nearly the best of it and she had kept with him. "You don't know where you are I suppose,"
he said when they came to a check.

"And I don't in the least care, if they'd only go on," said she eagerly.

"We're back at Rufford Park. We've left the road nearly a mile to our left, but there we are.
Those trees are the park."

"But must we stop there?"

"That's as the fox may choose to behave. We shan't stop unless he does." Then young Hampton
came up, declaring that there was the very mischief going on between Major Caneback and Jemima.
According to Hampton's account, the Major had been down three or four times, but was determined
to break either the mare's neck or her spirit. He had been considerably hurt, so Hampton said,
in one shoulder, but had insisted on riding on. "That's the worst of him," said Lord Rufford.
"He never knows when to give up."

Then the hounds were again on the scent and were running very fast towards the park. "That's
a nasty ditch before us," said the Lord. "Come down a little to the left. The hounds are heading
that way, and there's a gate." Young Hampton in the meantime was going straight for the fence.
"I'm not afraid," said Arabella.

"Very well. Give him his head and he'll do it"

Just at that moment there was a noise behind them and the Major on Jemima rushed up. She was
covered with foam and he with dirt, and her sides were sliced with the spur. His hat was crushed,
and he was riding almost altogether with his right hand. He came close to Arabella and she
could see the rage in his face as the animal rushed on with her head almost between her knees.
"He'll have another fall there," said Lord Rufford.

Hampton who had passed them was the first over the fence, and the other three all took it abreast.
The Major was to the right, the lord to the left and the girl between them. The mare's head
was perhaps the first. She rushed at the fence, made no leap at all, and of course went headlong
into the ditch. The Major still stuck to her though two or three voices implored him to get
off. He afterwards declared that he had not strength to lift himself out of the saddle. The
mare lay for a moment;--then blundered out, rolled over him, jumped on to her feet, and lunging
out kicked her rider on the head as he was rising. Then she went away and afterwards jumped
the palings into Rufford Park. That evening she was shot.

