Early in the morning of the next day we left for Johannesburg. The line proved most interesting,
especially after passing the almost historical British frontier town, Koomati Poort. It winds
like a serpent round the mountains, skirting precipices, and giving one occasional peeps of
lovely fertile valleys. During a greater part of the way the Crocodile River follows its sinuous
course in close proximity to the railway, while above tower rocky boulders. To describe their
height and character, I can only say that the steepest Scotch mountains we are familiar with
fade into insignificance beside those barren, awe-inspiring ranges, and one was forced to wonder
how the English soldiers--not to speak of heavy artillery--could have safely negotiated those
narrow and precipitous passes. For the best part of twelve hours our train slowly traversed
this wild and magnificent scenery, and evening brought us to Waterfall Onder, where, at the
station restaurant, kept by a Frenchman, we had a most excellent dinner, with a cup of coffee
that had a flavour of the Paris boulevards. This stopping-place was adjacent to Noitgedacht,
whose name recalled the unpleasant association of having been the home, for many weary weeks,
of English prisoners, and traces of high wire palings which had been their enclosure were still
to be seen. From Waterfall Onder the train puffed up a stupendous hill, the gradient being
one foot in twenty, and to assist its progress a cogwheel engine was attached behind. In this
fashion a two-thousand-feet rise was negotiated, the bright moonlight enhancing the beauty
of the sudden and rocky ascent by increasing the mystery of the vast depths below. We then
found ourselves at Waterfall Boven, in a perfectly cool atmosphere, and also, as regards the
landscape, in a completely different country, which latter fact we only fully appreciated with
the morning light, as we drew near to Pretoria. The stranger landing at Delagoa Bay, and travelling
through those bleak and barren mountains, might well ask himself the reason of the late prolonged
and costly war; but as he approaches the Rand, and suddenly sees the rows and rows of mining
shafts and chimneys, which are the visible signs of the hidden wealth, the veil is lifted and
the recent events of history are explained. At that time, owing to the war, there were no signs
of agriculture, and in many districts there appeared to be absolute desolation.

At Johannesburg we stayed at Sunnyside, as the guests of Lord Milner. This residence is small
and unpretentious, but exceedingly comfortable, and has the advantage of commanding wide views
over the surrounding country. Our host was then engrossed in his difficult task of satisfying
the wants and desires of many communities and nationalities, whose countless differences of
opinion seemed wellnigh irreconcilable. During our stay the visit of the Right Hon. J. Chamberlain
was announced as likely to take place during the next few months, and the advent of this distinguished
Colonial Minister was a subject of great satisfaction to the harassed High Commissioner. As
at Cape Town, his staff was composed of charming men, but all young and with no administrative
experience. Among its members were included Colonel W. Lambton, who was Military Secretary;
Captain Henley and Lord Brooke, A.D.C.'s; and Mr. Walrond.

The Golden City itself was, to all outward appearances, as thriving as ever, with its busy
population, its crowded and excellent shops, and its general evidences of opulence, which appeared
to overbalance--or, in any case, wish to conceal--any existing poverty or distress. Among many
friends we met was a French lady, formerly the Marquise d'Hervé, but who had married, as her
second husband, Comte Jacque de Waru. This enterprising couple were busy developing some mining
claims which had been acquired on their behalf by some relatives during the war. In spite of
having been deserted at Cape Town by all the servants they had brought from Paris, this clever
lady, nothing daunted, had replaced them by blacks, and one night she and her husband offered
us, at the small tin-roofed house where they were residing, a sumptuous dinner which was worthy
of the best traditions of Parisian hospitality. Notwithstanding the fact of her having no maid,
and that she had herself superintended most of the cooking of the dinner, our hostess was charmingly
attired in the latest Paris fashion, with elaborately dressed hair, and the pleasant company
she had collected, combined with an excellent cuisine, helped to make the entertainment quite
one of the pleasantest we enjoyed during our stay. Among the guests was General "Bully" Oliphant,
who had just been recalled to England to take up an important appointment, much to the regret
of his Johannesburg friends, with whom he had made himself exceedingly popular; and the witty
conversation of this gentleman kept the whole dinner-table convulsed with laughing, to such
an extent that his colleague-in-arms, our quondam Mafeking commander, General Baden-Powell,
who was also of the party, was reduced to mere silent appreciation. This impromptu feast, given
under difficulties which almost amounted to siege conditions, was again an evidence of the
versatility and inherent hospitality of the French nation, and the memory of that pleasant
evening lingers vividly in my recollections.

The duration of our two months' holiday was rapidly approaching its close. My sister was recalled
to England by social and other duties, and was so much better in health that we were deluded
into thinking the wonderful air and bracing climate had effected a complete cure. After a short
but very interesting visit to the Natal battle-fields, whither we were escorted by General
Burn-Murdoch and Captain Henry Guest, we journeyed to Cape Town, and, regretfully turning our
backs on warmth and sunshine, we landed once more in England on a dreary December day.

FOOTNOTES:

[42] Lieutenant the Hon. C.W.H. Cavendish, 17th Lancers, was killed at Diamond Hill, June 11, 1900.

[43] Peace had been declared in the previous June. I should like to have the spray of the
     water over the carriages."--Letter from the Right Hon. C.J.
     Rhodes to E.S. Grogan, Esq., September 7, 1900.[45]

These words came to my mind as I sat under the verandah of one of the newly thatched huts which
formed the camp of the Native Commissioner at Livingstone, Victoria Falls, on a glorious morning
early in July, 1903, gazing at one of the fairest landscapes to be seen on God's earth. I was
ostensibly occupied with my mail home, but the paper lay in all its virgin whiteness before
me, while my eyes feasted on the marvellous panorama stretching away to the south, east, and
west. My heart sank as I realized how difficult--nay, impossible--it would be for anyone with
only a very limited vocabulary and very moderate powers of description to convey to those far
away even a limited idea of this glorious vision--of these vivid colourings intensified by
the lonely grandeur of the whole scene and the absence of human habitations.

"Constitution Hill," as the aforesaid camp had been christened, was situated on high ground,
four miles to the north of the then drift of the Zambesi River, which, again, was several miles
above the actual falls themselves. With the advent of the railway and of the magnificent bridge
now spanning the mighty river, that drift has actually fallen into disuse, but at the time
of our visit it was the scene of much activity, and quite a nest of stores, houses, and huts,
had sprung up near the rough landing-stage on the north side. As transport, not only for individuals
and for every ounce of food required by the vast country stretching away to the north, but
also for the huge and valuable machinery, boilers, boats in sections, etc., destined for the
various mining companies, the only means of maintaining communication with the struggling but
promising new colony were one very rickety steam-launch and one large rowing-boat, beside a
few canoes and native dug-outs. A fine steam-barge, which would greatly have facilitated the
passage of all kinds of merchandise, had most disastrously slipped its moorings during one
stormy night of last wet season, and had not since been seen, the presumption being that the
relentless stream had carried it to the mighty cataract, which, like a huge ogre, had engulfed
it for all time. But this disaster had not caused anything like consternation among the small
community to whom it meant so much, and the thought occurred to one how remarkable are the
qualities of dogged perseverance, calm disregard of drawbacks and of any difficult task before
them, which makes Englishmen so marvellously successful as pioneers or colonists. The precious
barge for which they had waited many weary months had disappeared, and there was nothing more
to be said. Such means as remained were made the most of.

Owing to this calamity, however, the stores on the north bank were wellnigh run out of their
usual stock, but I was amazed to find such luxuries of life as eau de Cologne, scented soaps,
ladies' boots and shoes, and brightly coloured skirts. Leaving the small river township--the
embryo Livingstone--we followed a very sandy road uphill till we reached the summit of Constitution
Hill, already mentioned. There our buggy and two small, well-bred ponies swept into a smartly-kept
compound surrounded by a palisade, the feature of the square being a flagstaff from which the
Union Jack was proudly fluttering. As a site for a residence Constitution Hill could not well
be surpassed, and many a millionaire would cheerfully have given his thousands to obtain such
a view as that which met our eyes from the humble huts, and held me enthralled during the whole
of my stay. It must be remembered we had been travelling, since leaving the rail-head, eighty
miles north of Bulawayo, through a thickly wooded and mountainous country where any extensive
views were rare. Even when nearing the Zambesi, with the roar of the Falls in one's ears, so
little opening-up had hitherto been done that only an occasional peep of coming glories was
vouchsafed us; hence the first glimpse of a vast stretch of country was all the more striking.
I must ask my readers to imagine the bluest of blue skies; an expanse of waving grass of a
golden hue, resembling an English cornfield towards the harvest time, stretching away till
it is lost in far-distant tropical vegetation of intense green, which green clearly marks the
course of the winding Zambesi; again, amid this emerald verdure, patches of turquoise water,
wide, smooth, unruffled, matching the heavens in its hue, are to be seen--no touch of man's
hand in the shape of houses or chimneys to mar the effect of Nature and Nature's colouring.
If you follow with your eyes this calm, reposeful river, now hiding itself beneath its protecting
banks with their wealth of branching trees, tall cocoanut palms, and luxuriant undergrowth,
now emerging like a huge blue serpent encrusted with diamonds, so brightly does the clear water
sparkle in the sun, you note that it finally loses itself in a heavy, impenetrable mass of
green forest. And now for a few moments the newcomer is puzzled to account for a dense white
cloud, arisen apparently from nowhere, which is resting where the forest is thickest and most
verdant, now larger, then smaller, anon denser or more filmy, but never changing its place,
never disappearing, while the distant thunder, to which you had almost got accustomed, strikes
upon your ear and gives the explanation you are seeking.

Yes, that white cloud has been there for centuries, and will be there while the world lasts,
in spite of trains, bridges, etc. It marks the Victoria Falls, and is a landmark for many miles
round. How amazed must the great Livingstone and his intrepid followers have been to see this
first sign of their grand discovery after their weary march through a country of dense forests
and sandy wastes, the natural features of which could not in the least have suggested such
marvels as exist in the stupendous river and the water-power to which it gives birth! When
mentioning that great explorer--whose name in this district, after a lapse of nearly fifty
years, remains a household word among the natives, handed down from father to son--it is a
curious fact, and one that should prove a lesson to many travellers from the old world as well
as from the new, that only on one tree is he believed to have cut his initials in Africa, and
that tree stands on the island in the centre of the Zambesi, the island that bears his name,
and that absolutely overhangs and stems the centre of the awe-inspiring cataract.

I must now try in a few words to give a short account of what we saw at the Victoria Falls
in July, 1903, when the breath of civilization had scarcely touched them. To-day they are easy
of access, and the changes that have been wrought have come so swiftly that, no doubt, recent
visitors will scarcely recognize the localities of which I write. I must first ask such to
be lenient with me, and to follow me down the sandy road leading from the Constitution Hill
Compound to the Controller's Camp on the bank of the river, about two miles nearer the Falls.
There were to be seen a collection of huts and offices, where the Controller conducted his
important business of food-purveyor to the community, and a Government inspector of cattle
had equally arduous duties to perform. I must mention that, owing to disease in the south,
cattle were then not allowed to cross the Zambesi, and horses and dogs had to be disinfected
before they were permitted to leave the south bank. Their troubles were not even then over,
as they had to be swum across the river, and, owing to its enormous width, the poor horses
were apt to become exhausted halfway over, and had to be towed the rest of the way, their heads
being kept out of the water--an operation attended with a certain amount of risk. It followed
that very few horses were crossed over at all, and that these animals in North-Western Rhodesia
were at a premium.

From the Controller's Camp I had another opportunity to admire the river itself, just as wonderful
in its way as the Falls, and I remember thinking of the delights that might be derived from
boating, sailing, or steaming, on its vast surface. Since that day the enterprising inhabitants
have actually held regattas on the mighty stream, in which some of the best-known men in the
annals of rowing in England have taken part. But seven years ago our river trip was attended
with mild excitements; the small skiff, carrying our party of six, was an excessively leaky
canoe, which had to be incessantly baled out to keep it afloat, and wherein, notwithstanding
our efforts, a deep pool of water accumulated, necessitating our sitting with feet tucked under
us in Oriental fashion. Hence I cannot say we realized to the full the enjoyments of boating
as we know it at home in far less beautiful surroundings, or as others know it there at the
present time.

The principal features that struck me were, first, the colossal width of the river. As we gazed
across the translucent surface, reflecting as in a looking-glass the fringe of trees along
the edge, the first impression was that your eyes actually perceived the opposite bank; but
we were undeceived by one of the residents, who observed that was only an island, and that
there were several such between us and the north side. Secondly, we marvelled at the clearness
of the water, reflecting the blueness above; and, thirdly, at the rich vegetation and the intense
green of the overhanging foliage, where the graceful and so rarely seen palms of the Borassus
tribe were growing to an immense height. All was enhanced by the most intense solitude, which
seemed to accentuate the fact that this scene of Nature was indeed as God left it. These reflections
were made as we floated on in our rickety canoe to a creek, where we landed to walk to the
actual Falls. A new path had just been cut in the wooded part of the north bank, and we were
almost the first visitors to profit by it. Formerly the enterprising sight-seers had to push
their way through the scrubby undergrowth, but we followed a smooth track for two miles, the
roar of the cataract getting louder and louder, with only occasional peeps of the river, which
was fast losing its calm repose and degenerating into restless rapids hurrying on to their
bourne. Now and then a buck would dance across our path, pause affrighted for an instant at
the unusual sight of man, and bound away again into the thickness beyond; and once three fine
wart-hogs almost stumbled into our party, only to gallop away again like greyhounds, before
the rifles, which were carried by the black boys behind, could be made use of.

At last we emerged suddenly, without any warning, on the northern extremity of the cataract,
which at this point measures over a mile from bank to bank, but of which only about a quarter
of that distance is visible, owing to the blinding spray. It is wellnigh impossible to describe
a scene of such wonder, such wildness. It is awe-inspiring, almost terrible in its force and
majesty, and the accompanying din prevents speech from being heard. Standing on a point flush
with the river before it makes its headlong leap, we gazed first on the swirling water losing
itself in snowy spray, which beat relentlessly on face and clothes, while the great volume
was nosily disappearing to unknown and terrifying depths. The sight-seer tries to look across,
to strain his eyes and to see beyond that white mist which obscures everything; but it is an
impossible task, and he can but guess the width of the Falls, slightly horseshoe in shape,
from the green trees which seem so far away on the opposite bank, and are only caught sight
of now and then as the wind causes the spray to lift. At the same time his attention is fixed
by a new wonder, the much-talked-of rainbow. Never varying, never changing, that perfect-shaped
arc is surely more typical of eternity there than anywhere else. Its perfection of colours
seems to be reflected again and yet again in the roaring torrent, and to be also an emblem
of peace where all is turmoil. We were hurried away to remove our wet rainproof coats and to
dry our hats and faces in the brilliant sunshine. It seemed as if the Falls guard their beauties
jealously, and do not allow the spectator to gaze on them without paying the price of being
saturated by their spray. For the next two hours we were taken from one point of vantage to
the other, and yet felt we had not seen half of even what is known as the north side. We were
shown the barely commenced path leading right away down to the edge of the foaming, boiling
gorge, which is to be known as "The Lovers' Walk," and from its steepness it occurred to me
that these same lovers will require to possess some amount of endurance. We examined from afar
the precipitous Neck jutting right out opposite the main cataract, its sides running sheer
down to unfathomable depths of water, which has caused this rocky formation to be called "The
Knife's Edge," and along which, up to the date of our visit, only two men had ventured. We
saw the actual site for the existing railway-bridge, which site had only been finally selected
a few days before by two of the party who were with us.[46] The travellers over this great
work now see all we saw on that long morning, and a great deal more besides, while the carriage
windows are soused by the all-pervading spray, thus carrying out one of Mr. Rhodes's cherished
sentiments. Finally--musing at the marvellous and confusing twists and turns of the river,
changing in character and appearance so as to be wellnigh unrecognizable--we walked on a hundred
yards, and came upon a deep, deep gorge, rocky, barren, and repelling, at the bottom of which,
sluggish and dirty in colour, a grey stream was winding its way, not a hundred yards wide,
but of unfathomable depths; and this represented the Zambesi after it has taken its great leap,
when, bereft of all life and beauty, it verily looks tired out. This gorge continues for forty
miles, and so desolate is the surrounding country, that not only is it uninhabited by man,
but even game cannot live there. The shadows were lengthening and the day was approaching its
close. Early on the morrow we were to leave for the northern hunting grounds. We regained our
canoe, and paddled away to our temporary camp.

Again we were delighted with the calm beauty of that river scene, and found it difficult to
decide when it was most beautiful--whether the morning light best gilded its glories or whether
the evening lent additional calm. We passed island after island in bewildering succession.
Away towards the drift three huge black masses were splashing in the water, which we easily
made out to be hippopotami taking their evening bath, and as we glided along a sleepy crocodile
slipped back into the water from a muddy eminence where it had been basking in the sun. Then
our canoe ran into a creek where leaves and ferns grew in delightful confusion, and we landed
in soft marshy ground just as the sun was sinking like a red ball into the river, and giving
way to the sovereignty of a glorious full moon, which soon tinged everything with a silver
light, making glades of palms look delightfully romantic.

Civilization has since found its way to Livingstone. Engines are whistling and trains are rumbling
where then the only tracks were made by the huge hippos and the shy buck, but they can never
efface the grandeur of the river in its size and calmness; the incomparable magnificence of
the cataract itself; the rainbow, which one cannot see without retaining a lasting impression
of its beauty; and, lastly, that cloud of white spray, seemingly a sentinel to watch over the
strength and might of the huge river, for so many ages undiscovered.

Many who knew the Falls in their pristine solitude have gladly welcomed there the advent of
twentieth-century developments, of sign-posts, of advertisements, of seats, of daily posts
and papers; but others, some of the older pioneers, still, perchance, give a passing sigh for
the days when they paddled about the river in a leaky canoe, and letters and telegrams were
not events of everyday occurrence.

In spite of the railway constructed since our visit, few people, comparatively, have been to
North-Western Rhodesia, and yet it is a country of over 400,000 square miles. It was in October,
1897, that the then administrator of the country,[47] with five policemen, crossed the Zambesi
and declared the territory to be under the protection of Her Late Gracious Majesty, Queen Victoria.
For many years previously the natives, who are not of a particularly warlike disposition, had
been decimated, and the country laid waste, by the fierce Matabele, who were in the habit of
making periodical raids into this fair land, and of killing the old men and the young warriors,
who made but a slight resistance; of annexing the attractive ladies as wives and the fat cattle
as prized booty, and then of retreating again south of the mighty river without fear of reprisals.
For this reason there was, in 1903, a very meagre population for many hundreds of miles north
of the Zambesi in this direction; and of cattle, for which there is pasture in abundance, there
was hardly one to be seen. One has to travel much farther north and west to find the densely
populated valleys, whose inhabitants own Lewanika, Chief of the Barotse, as their ruler, who
look to the great white British King as their protector, and to the Chartered Company as the
immediate purveyor of their wants.

Of these natives the chief tribes are, first, the Barotse themselves, who are the most numerous,
and who inhabit the low-lying country along the Zambesi Valley north of Sesheke, and up to
Lia-Lui, their capital.

The second in importance are the Mushukulumbwe, which, translated literally, means "naked people."
This designation was given them as a reproach by their friends, as the male element wear no
clothes; and should they possess a blanket, they would only throw it round their shoulders
whilst standing still or sitting down. When remonstrated with by the well-meaning missionaries
on the absence of any attire, they are wont to reply: "Are we women or children, that we should
fear the cold? Our fathers needed no clothes, nor do we." They are keen hunters and trackers,
essentially a warlike people, tall and good-looking, while the women also are of more than
average height, and gracefully made. What the men lack in clothes they make up for in their
head-dress, which has been so often illustrated, and which is sometimes 5 feet in height. It
is the result of much care and trouble, and the cause of great pride to the wearer. Ruled over
by a number of small chiefs, they mostly own Lewanika as their paramount chief, and to him
they pay tribute. They are withal a curious, wild kind of people, but are now becoming less
afraid of, and in consequence less hostile to, the white man, the first of whose race they
saw in 1888, when Mr. Selous[48] penetrated into their country, and very nearly lost his life
at their hands. Now they are well-disposed, and it is safe to travel through their land with
a comparatively small escort.

Thirdly, the Batokas. These are, and always have been, a servile race. They are lazy in disposition,
for the most part of unprepossessing appearance, and their country has the Kafue River on the
east, and the Zambesi on the south, as natural boundaries. As carriers they do fairly well,
and, while also owning Lewanika's authority, they are well aware of the fact that this chief
only rules in virtue of the support of the "Great King" in a far-off land, whom they often
hear of, but can never hope to see.

In consequence of having lived for so many generations in terror of being raided by their more
bellicose neighbours, all these tribes acclaimed with joy the advent of their English protectors,
and their demeanour is strikingly expressive of gratitude and respect. This is evinced by their
native greeting, which consists of sitting down and clapping their hands together in a slow
rhythm whenever a white man passes. Sometimes a traveller hears this clapping proceeding out
of the immensely high and thick grass which encloses the road, and he is by this sound alone
made aware of the presence of a human being. Their food consists entirely of grain, which they
greatly prefer to meat, even when this is offered to them. They boil this grain, which resembles
millet or canary seed, into a sort of porridge, which they eat with the greatest gusto, and
one meal a day seems to suffice them.

And now to describe the fatherland of these natives, just emerging as it is from darkness and
strife to prosperity, peace, and, quite possibly, riches beyond the dreams of avarice, but
in any case riches, sufficiently proved to enable it to take its place ere long among the treasure-producing
territories of God's earth. Once north of the Zambesi, and with the thunder of those magnificent
Falls still ringing in one's ears, two things were evident even to the most casual traveller--viz.,
the changed aspect of the country and of its inhabitants. Of the latter and of their quaint
greeting I have already spoken. And as regards the road itself and the surrounding landscape
there is a still greater change. Instead of a track of deep sand blocked with huge stones or
by veritable chasms of soft, crumbling earth, one finds there good roads, while numerous streams
of clear running water constantly intersect the highway. In England it is difficult to realize
the inestimable boon this plentiful supply of water is to the traveller and his beasts, who
are thereby saved the very serious necessity of frequently having to push on, weary and thirsty,
another stretch of eight or ten miles, simply because of the oft-heard cry, "No water." The
scenery itself is fair and restful to the eye; there are no huge mountains, no precipitous
dongas, yet an ever-changing kaleidoscope which prevents any monotony. Now the road winds for
several miles through woods and some small trees; again, these are left behind, and the traveller
emerges on plains of yellow waving grass (so high as to hide both horse and rider), resembling
from afar an English barleyfield, and broken up by clumps of symmetrically arranged trees.
In these clumps the tropical euphorbia sends up its long and graceful shoots, reminding one
of Gargantuan candelabra, and the huge "baobab," of unwieldy bulk, seems to stand as the sentinel
stretching out its bare arms to protect those who shelter beneath. These trees are the great
feature of the country, owing to the enormous size they attain, and to the fact that, being
the slowest-growing trees known, their ages can only be reckoned by thousands of years. Except
these kings of the forest, the trees indigenous to the land are somewhat dwarfed, but cacti
of all kinds flourish, clinging to and hanging from the branches of the mahogany and of the
"m'pani" trees, looking now and then for all the world like long green snakes. The "m'hoba-hoba"
bush, with its enormous leaves, much loved by the elephant, forms patches of vivid green summer
and winter. This shrub is supposed to have been introduced by the Phoenicians, when these wonderful
people were occupied with their mineral workings in this land, the remains of which are to
be seen in many places. In the grass itself, and round the edge of these groups so artistically
assorted by the hand of Nature, lies slyly hidden the "wait-a-bit" bush,[49] according to the
literal translation from the Dutch, whose thorny entanglements no one can gauge unless fairly
caught.

During July and August, which is mid-winter, the grass plains are set on fire, in parts purposely,
but sometimes accidentally. They are usually left intact near the road, for transport oxen
find plenty of pasture in the coarse high grass which no other animal will touch; but the seeker
after game will burn miles and miles of this grass when it is sufficiently dry at the roots.
It has acted as a sheltering mantle for its four-footed population for many months, and now
the "hunters' moon" is fairly risen and the buck must beware. Therefore, if one leaves the
road for two or three miles to the right or left, vast black plains are discovered, on which
only about a fortnight after burning a very vivid green, and, it is said, a very sweet, grass
springs up, which game of all sorts greatly love. Here they graze in herds morning and evening,
and here probably they meet their death--but of this more anon. It took our party ten days
to reach Kalomo,[50] then the capital of North-Western Rhodesia. This included a six days'
halt in quest of game on a rocky kopje eight miles off the road--a veritable Spion Kop, rising
from a flat country and commanding views for miles round.

As regards travelling, I can only say it was very comfortable as we did it. Riding ourselves,
our baggage (divided into loads each weighing about 30 pounds) was carried by natives, who
generally preceded us out of camp. The day's journey was divided as follows: Up before the
sun, and dressing by the uncertain light of a candle lantern. It was cold enough to render
no dawdling possible, and one hurried one's toilet in order to get to the already brightly
burning fire and steaming hot coffee. The sun would just then be showing its red head in the
far east, and already the camp was in commotion; tents were being struck, bedding rolled up,
while a certain amount of scrambling would be going on amongst the cunning blacks, each wishing
to possess himself of the lightest load. To prevent shirking, one or two of the native police
who accompanied us watched the proceeding with lynx-like eyes, and, amid much arguing, chattering,
and apparent confusion, a long line of carriers would emerge like a black snake from the camping-ground
into an orderly string--quaint figures, some of them wrapped in gaudy blankets, and even then
shivering in the keen morning air; some with their load on their heads, others carrying it
on long sticks, all with the inevitable native vessel, fashioned from a gourd, containing their
daily ration of grain. As a supplement to these carriers, we were also accompanied by the (in
Africa) familiar "Scotch cart." In other words, this is a strong cart on two wheels, drawn
by bullocks, and its usual pace is about two and a half miles an hour. It apparently possesses
the delightful qualification of being able to travel on any road, no matter how rough, without
breaking down or turning over; in fact, when travelling by road in Africa, it facilitates matters
as much as the employment of a charwoman oils the wheels in an English household, and it is
therefore as much to be recommended.

We ride for an hour or so with coats tightly buttoned up, blue noses, and frozen fingers--for
the hoar-frost still lingers on the ground--but the air is delightfully exhilarating, and we
know that we shall not have to complain of the cold long. By degrees the sun makes itself felt,
and we discard first one wrap and then another, till by ten o'clock even light overcoats are
not required. And now it is time to "off-saddle" and breakfast. The carriers straggle in more
or less in the order they left, but they gladly "dump" down their loads, and before many minutes
the fire is burning and the breakfast frizzling. After breakfast comes the midday rest of two
or three hours, beguiled by some ancient newspapers or some dust-begrimed book. It is remarkable
that, when far away from home, the date of a newspaper is of little import, while none are
voted dull, and one finds oneself reading the most obscure publications, and vaguely wondering
how or why they reached this distant land. At two o'clock marching orders come again. This
is the hot trek, but there is generally a cool breeze to temper the fierce rays of the winter's
sun; and when that sun gets low down on to the horizon, and becomes a crimson ball, tingeing
the world with its rosy hue, we look about for our evening resting-place. During our journey
to Kalomo, as well as on our southward route a month later, we enjoyed the light of a glorious
moon, whose assistance to the traveller cannot be exaggerated when the short twilight is remembered.
By the moon we frequently made our camp, by the moon we dined. Those were never-to-be-forgotten
evenings, spent on that lonely veldt all bathed in silver light. We also had excitements--much
lions' spoor on the roads by day, many scares of lions round the camps by night, when the danger
is that the horses may be taken while the camp is asleep. Every evening our animals were put
into a "skerm," or high palisade, constructed of branches by the ubiquitous carriers with marvellous
rapidity.

One dark night before the moon had risen, just as we had finished dinner and were sitting round
the fire listening to thrilling stories of sport and adventure, a terrific noise suddenly disturbed
our peaceful circle--a noise which proceeded from a dark mass of thick bush not 200 yards away,
and recalled one's childish recollections of "feeding-time" at the Zoo. Not one, but five or
six lions, might have been thus near to us from the volume of growls and snarls, varied by
short deep grunts, which broke the intense stillness of the night in this weird fashion. Each
man rushed for his rifle, but it was too dark to shoot, and gradually the noise died away.
The natives opined it was a slight difference of opinion between some wolves and a lion, which
animals, curiously enough, very often hunt in company, the lion doing the killing, and the
wolf prowling along behind and picking up the scraps. It was but an incident, but it served
as an uncanny reminder of the many eyes of the animal world, which, though unseen, are often
watching travellers in these solitudes. Another night, when we were encamped in the very heart
of a rumoured "lion country," ourselves and our beasts securely protected by an unusually high
and thick "skerm," we were, to our regret, left undisturbed; but the aforementioned Scotch
cart, which rumbled away from the sleeping camp about midnight, had a series of adventures
with Leo felis. Sniffing the fat oxen, no less than three lions followed the waggon all night,
charging close up at times, and finally causing the oxen to stampede, in consequence of which,
instead of finding the precious vehicle, containing grain for carriers and forage for horses,
at the next outspan, we did not come up with it till evening, nearly thirty miles farther on,
when we learnt the adventures it had had.

The truth regarding lion-shooting in these parts is, that the animals are exceedingly difficult
to locate, and the finding of them is a matter of pure luck. The traveller may, of course,
meet a lion on the road by broad daylight; but many experienced hunters, who count their slain
lions by the dozen, will tell you they were years in the country before they ever saw the kings
of beasts, and these are men who do not belittle the danger incurred in hunting them. One old
hunter is supposed to have said to an enthusiastic newcomer, who had heard of a lion in the
vicinity, and immediately asked the old stager if he were going after it: "I have not lost
any lions, therefore I am not looking for any"; but, all the same, to kill one or more fine
specimens will ever remain the summit of the ambition of the hunter, and unquestionably the
spice of danger is one of the attractions.

At the time of which I write the township of Kalomo consisted of about twenty white people,
including the Administrator, his secretary and staff; the Chancellor of the Exchequer, or Accountant,
who controlled the purse; a doctor, whose time was fairly well taken up; an aspiring light
of the legal profession, who made and interpreted the laws; and, finally, the gallant Colonel
and officers of the North-Western Rhodesia Native Police, a smart body of 380 natives, officered
by eleven or twelve Englishmen. To Colonel Colin Harding, C.M.G., was due the credit of recruiting
and drilling this smart corps, and it was difficult to believe that these soldierly-looking
men, very spruce in their dark blue tunics and caps, from which depend enormous red tassels,
were only a short time ago idling away their days in uninviting native kraals.

I was much impressed in a Kalomo house with the small details of a carefully arranged dinner-table,
adorned with flowers and snowy linen; the cooking was entirely done by black boys, and of these
the "Chinde" boys from the Portuguese settlements are much sought after, and cannot be excelled
as cooks or servants, so thoroughly do the Portuguese understand the training of natives. The
staple meat was buck of all kinds; sheep were wellnigh unknown, oxen were scarce and their
meat tough; but no one need grumble at a diet of buck, wild-pig, koran,[51] guinea-fowl, and
occasionally wild-duck. As regards other necessities of life, transport difficulties were enormous;
every ounce of food besides meat, and including precious liquids, had then to be dragged over
nearly 250 miles of indifferent roads; and not only groceries, but furniture, roofs of houses,
clothes--all had to be ordered six to eight months before they were required, and even then
disappointments occurred in the way of waggons breaking down, of delays at the rail-head and
at the crossing of the river. To us who are accustomed to the daily calls of the butcher, the
baker, and the grocer, the foresight which had to be exercised is difficult to realize, and
with the best management in the world great philosophy was required to put up with the minor wants.

As to the climate of North-Western Rhodesia in the dry season--which lasts from April or May
to November, or even later--it is ideal. Never too hot to prevent travelling or doing business
in the heat of the day, it is cold enough morning and evening to make fur coats by no means
superfluous; rain is unknown, and of wind there is just enough to be pleasant, although now
and then, especially towards sunset or before dawn, a very strong breeze springs up from a
cloudless horizon, lasts about thirty minutes, making the trees bend and tents flap and rattle,
and then dies away again as suddenly as it has come. Sometimes, in the early morning, this
breeze is of an icy coldness, and might be blowing straight from the South Pole. During the
dry season the traveller should not contract fever, unless he happens to have the germs in
his system, and in this case he may have been immune the whole wet season, and then the first
cold weather brings out the disease and lays him low.

I must now devote a few words to the veldt and to its animal life as we learnt to know it during
some delightful weeks spent in camp eight miles from the township, where game was then still
abundant. There we lived in comfortable tents, and our dining-room was built of grass held
in place by substantial sticks. The delight of those days is fresh in my memory. Up and on
our horses at dawn, we would wander over this open country, intersected with tracks of forest.
The great charm was the uncertainty of the species of game we might discover. It might be a
huge eland, or an agile pig, or a herd of beautiful zebra. Now and then a certain amount of
stalking was required, and on one occasion a long ride round brought us to the edge of a wood,
from whence we viewed at twenty yards a procession of wildebeeste--those animals of almost
mythical appearance, with their heads like horses and their bodies like cattle--roan antelope,
and haartebeeste; but as a rule, the game having been so little shot at, with an ordinary amount
of care the hunter can ride to within shooting distance of the animal he would fain lay low.
Should they take fright and be off, we found to gallop after them was not much use, owing to
the roughness of the veldt and the smallness of the ponies. Occasionally we had to pursue a
wounded animal, and one day we had an exciting chase after a wildebeeste, the most difficult
of all bucks to kill, as their vitality, unless absolutely shot through the heart, is marvellous.
When we at last overtook and finished off the poor creature, we had out-distanced all our "boys,"
and it became necessary for my fellow-sportsman to ride off and look for them (as the meat
had to be cut up and carried into camp), and for me to remain behind to keep the aas-vogels
from devouring the carcass. These huge birds and useful scavengers, repulsive as they are to
look at, always appear from space whenever a buck is dead, and five minutes suffices for a
party of them to be busily employed, while a quarter of an hour later nothing is left but the
bones. Therefore I was left alone with the dead wildebeeste and with the circling aas-vogels
for upwards of two hours, and I realized, as I had never done before, the intense loneliness
of the veldt, and something of what the horror must be of being lost on it. Even residents
have to dread this danger.

At that season the veldt boasted of few flowers, but birds were plentiful, especially the large
ones I have mentioned as forming a valuable addition to the daily menu, and flocks of guinea-fowl,
which run along the ground making a peculiar chuckling noise, rarely flying, but very quick
at disappearing in the long grass. The quaint secretary-bird was often to be seen stalking
majestically along, solitary and grotesque, with its high marching action. Then the honey-birds
must not be forgotten. They give voice to their peculiar note as soon as they see a human being,
whom they seem to implore to follow them; and if they succeed in attracting attention, they
fly from tree to tree reiterating their call, till they lead the man whose assistance they
have sought to the spot where the honey is hidden, but which they cannot reach unaided. As
a rule, it is the natives who take the trouble to obey their call and turn it to account.

The weeks slipped by all too quickly, and it was soon time to bid farewell to Kalomo and its
game-haunted flats, over which the iron horse now winds its prosaic course on its way to the
dim, mysterious North, bringing noise and bustle in its train. In consequence the hunter and
the animal-lover have to travel farther on, but there will always be room for all on that vast
continent.

No matter what paths of life it may be the fortune of my readers to tread, let me recommend
those wearied with social bustle and the empty amenities of present-day existence to pass a
few weeks in the comparative solitude of several pleasant companions "under the stars" in North-Western
Rhodesia, where they can still catch a glimpse of the elusive zebras, with coats shining in
the sun like burnished steel, and hear the persistent call of the honey-bird. At night the
roar of lions may now and then cause them to turn in their sleep, and in their dreams they
may have visions of the animals that have charmed them during the day--the stately eland, the
graceful roan and sable antelopes, the ungainly wildebeeste, and the funny old wart-hog, trotting
along with high action and tail erect. Besides gaining health and experiencing the keenest
enjoyment, they will know some of the pleasures vouchsafed to those of their countrymen whose
fate it is to live, and sometimes to die, in far-off climes--men who have helped to make England
famous, and are now, step by step, building up our mighty Empire. Curious are the lives these
men, and many like them, lead, cut off as it were from the bustling, throbbing world. A handful
of white men, surrounded by thousands of blacks, with calm complacency they proceed, first
to impress on the natives the importance, the might, and the justice, of the great Empire which
they represent in their various capacities; then to establish beyond question their own dignity
and wisdom; and finally to make themselves as comfortable, and their surroundings as attractive
and homelike, as possible, with such means as they can command. They are to be seen superintending
a court of justice, looked up to and trusted by the natives, who have quickly found out that
the "boss" is just, firm, and that he will not believe a falsehood. The blacks have their native
names for all these officials, most of them showing great discernment, and some of quite an
affectionate nature.

The Commissioners, whose work is entirely among the native population, requiring the greatest
tact and patience, besides a perfect knowledge of the language, lead, perhaps, the most arduous,
as well as the most lonely, existences. Most of the year is occupied in making tours of inspection
through their vast districts; they live continually in the open, in constant contact with Nature,
and for weeks together they never see a white man. Almost unattended, they move fearlessly
in little-known places, among an uncivilized if friendly people, and to some extent they have
their lives in their hands. And yet they do not regard their solitary existence as anything
to occasion surprise or admiration; they realize the importance of their mission, and wet seasons,
bad attacks of fever, and impaired health, do not quench their energy or their keenness for
the great work of development. It is true, indeed, that one and all live in anticipation of
the biennial holiday, of the seven months spent "at home," and that all events in their lives
are dated from those precious days in England; and then, when the time comes to return to duty,
they probably depart without a murmur, and very few, if any, would exchange a life in an office,
or that of any ordinary profession in England, for the one, untrammelled and free, they lead
in the wilds of Africa. As distractions in this life which they love, they can only look to
the weekly mail and the goodly supply of illustrated papers from home, the attentive perusal
of which has made them almost as conversant as the veriest Cockney with all the people of note
and the fair women of the time, besides giving them an intimate knowledge of passing events.
As hosts they are perfection, and all they have is at their guests' disposal. Their incentive
to the great work for ever going on, not only in their district, but in so many far-away localities
where the Union Jack flies, is the knowledge that the dark clouds of oppression, plunder, and
crime, are, in consequence of their efforts, rolling away as mists disappear before the rising sun.

FOOTNOTES:

[44] Some parts of this chapter appeared in the Christmas number of the Pall Mall Magazine,
1903, and in the Bulawayo Chronicle of the same date.

[45] Introduction to Mr. Grogan's work, "From the Cape to Cairo."

[46] Sir Charles Metcalfe, Bart., consulting engineer of the Chartered Company, and Mr. G.
Pauling, contractor for the same company.

[47] R.T. Coryndon, Esq.

[48] "Life and Adventures in South-East Africa," by F.C. Selous.

[49] Wacht-een-bietze.

[50] The seat of government has since been transferred to Livingstone, on the Zambesi.

[51] A kind of pheasant.

APPENDIX I

MAFEKING RELIEF FUND

Distribution Committee.

LIEUTENANT-COLONEL C.B. VYVYAN, Commandant of Mafeking.

MR. C.G. BELL, Resident Magistrate.

MR. A.H. FREND, Mayor.

The "Rainy Day Fund," formed from the balance of the Relief Fund, still exists, and though
the amount now in it is small, it is sufficient to enable the Trustees (Mayor of Mafeking and
Civil Commissioner) to make occasional grants in cases of distress among those who suffered
during the siege, or who have fallen on evil days since.

MAFEKING FUND, 1900.

                                                                   £
     Collected by Lady Georgiana Curzon                         24,000
     Collected by Colonel Baden-Powell's school comrades
       at Charterhouse (in addition to gifts in kind)            1,150
     Collected by Lady Snagge (£643) and Birmingham
       Argus (£350) for sending nurses, women, and children,
       to seaside                                                  993
     The following sent over £100 each:
         Conservative Club, Liverpool.
         Melbourne Club.
         Luton.
         Mr. Butler, of Wellington, New Zealand.
         Tunbridge Wells Imperial Association.
         Right Hon. C.J. Rhodes.
         Swansea, Wales.
         Salisbury, Mashonaland.
         Mr. J. Garlick, of Cape Town.
         Mayor of Brighton.
         Raleigh Club, London.
         Ilfracombe.
         Mr. William Nicol.
     Sent by Lord Mayor of London from Mansion House
       Fund                                                        200

Mr. Leonard Rayne, theatrical impresario, of South Africa, inaugurated the "Rayney Day Fund,"
with a view to ultimate calls for relief by members of the garrison in years to come.

APPENDIX II

IMPERIAL YEOMANRY HOSPITALS, 1900-1902.

December 29, appeal signed by Lady Georgiana Curzon and Lady Chesham sent from Blenheim Palace.

President: THE QUEEN.

Vice-Presidents: THE PRINCESS OF WALES and DUCHESS OF CONNAUGHT.

Chairman of Committee: COUNTESS HOWE.

Vice-Chairmen of Committee: COUNTESS OF WARWICK and VISCOUNTESS VALENTIA.

Hon. Secretary: EARL HOWE.

Treasurer: LUDWIG NEUMANN, ESQ.

Military Adviser: MAJOR-GENERAL LORD CHEYLESMORE.

Hon. Civilian Director and Treasurer in South Africa: J.G. HAMILTON, ESQ.

                                                         £  s. d.
     Subscriptions received between issue of first
     appeal and issue of interim report in April,
     1900, £127,000.

When the staff returned to England, medals were presented to them at Devonshire House by the Queen.

DEELFONTEIN BASE HOSPITAL: Opened March 5, 1900; closed March 31, 1901. Originally with 500
beds, subsequently increased to 1,000 beds. 6,093 in-patients, including 351 officers, were
treated there.

MACKENZIE'S FARM, MAITLAND CAMP, BASE HOSPITAL: Opened August 2, 1900; closed March 31, 1901.
Originally with 100 beds, subsequently increased to 150. 1,066 patients treated.

EASTWOOD, PRETORIA, BASE HOSPITAL: Opened August 18, 1900; closed September 30, 1901. Originally
with 400 beds, subsequently increased to 564 beds. 5,227 in-patients, including 466 officers,
and 1,095 out-patients, treated.

ELANDSFONTEIN BASE HOSPITAL: Opened June 29, 1901; closed December 19, 1901. Originally with
50 beds, subsequently increased to 138 beds. 823 in-patients, including 27 officers, and 900
out-patients, treated.

CHESHAM CONVALESCENT HOME AT JOHANNESBURG (for Officers only): Opened March 1, 1901; closed
October 10, 1901. 8 beds. 79 patients received.

FIELD-HOSPITAL AND BEARER COMPANY, with 100 beds, left England in March, 1900; opened at the
seat of war in South Africa on April 12, 1900; closed April 1, 1901, having remained three
months longer than was originally arranged for. Subsidy of £3,000 received from Government
for this purpose.

IMPERIAL YEOMANRY HOSPITALS.

     General Committee:
      Ninety ladies, whose names are given in the first volume
      of the Imperial Yeomanry Hospitals Report.

     General Working Committee:
       Lady Georgiana Curzon (Chairman).
       Adeline, Duchess of Bedford.
       The Duchess of Marlborough.
       The Countess of Dudley.
       The Countess of Essex.
       The Ladies Tweedmouth and Chesham (went to Deelfontein
         in early days of Imperial Yeomanry Hospitals).
       Mrs. S. Neumann.
       Mrs. A.G. Lucas.
       Mrs. Blencowe Cookson.
       Mrs. Julius Wernher (now Lady Wernher).
       Madame von Andre.

     Finance Committee:
       Viscount Curzon, M.P. (now Earl Howe).
       Mr. Ludwig Neumann.
       Adeline, Duchess of Bedford.
       Lady Chesham.
       Lady Georgiana Curzon.

     Press Committee:
       The Countess of Dudley.
       The Countess of Essex.
       Madame von Andre.
       The Duchess of Marlborough.
       Lady Georgiana Curzon.

     Transport Committee:
       Lady Tweedmouth.         }
       Mrs. Julius Wernher.     }  Assisted by Major Haggard
       Mrs. S. Neumann.         }  and General Eaton.
       Mrs. A.G. Lucas.         }
       Lady Georgiana Curzon.   }

     Gifts and Purchase Committee:
       The Countess of Essex.    }
       Lady Tweedmouth.          }  Assisted by General
       Mrs. A. G. Lucas.         }  Eaton, Colonel Sloggett
       Mrs. S. Neumann.          }  and Mr. Fripp, and
       Lady Georgiana Curzon.    }  Mr. Oliver Williams.

     Medical, Nursing, and General Staffs Committee:
       The Duchess of Marlborough.     }
       Adeline, Duchess of Bedford.    }  Assisted by General
       The Countess of Warwick.        }  Eaton, Colonel Sloggett
       Lady Chesham.                   }  and Mr. A. Downing
       Madame von Andre.               }  Fripp.
       Lady Georgiana Curzon.          }

The chief workers in Ireland were: The Countess of Longford, Lady Annette La Touche, and Mrs.
Pirrie; but they were only on the General Committee, not on any of the subcommittees.

THE END