Pantomime! Pantomime!! The only DRURIOLANUS, and the only Pantomime in the Tame West. Therefore,
it is almost a duty, let alone a pleasure, on the part of Parents and Guardians to take the
young gentlemen from school, schools public and private, and the young ladies freed awhile
from their Governesses, to see Beauty and the Beast at Drury Lane. "Is it a good Pantomime
this year?" "That," as Hamlet once observed, though at that particular moment he was not thinking
of Pantomimes, nor even of his own capital little drawing-room drama for distinguished amateurs,
entitled The Mousetrap, "that is the question." And Mr. Punch's First Commissioner of Theatres
can conscientiously answer, "Yes, a decidedly good Pantomime." If pressed farther by those
who "want to know" as to whether it's the best Pantomime he ever saw, the First Commissioner
answers, "No, it is not Beauty and the Best," and he is of opinion that he must travel, in
a train of thought on the line of Memory, back to the PAYNES and the VOKESES in the primest
of their prime, if he would recall two or three of the very best, mind you, the very best,
Pantomimes ever seen in the Tame West. For real good rollicking fun, the Pantomimes at the
Surrey and the Grecian used to be worth the trouble of a pilgrimage; but it was a trouble,
for the show used to commence early and end late, and indigestion was the consequence of a
disturbed dinner and the unaccustomed heartiness of a most enjoyable supper.

Drury Lane Pantomime commences at 7.30, and is not over till 11.30, and yet in these four hours
there rarely comes over you any sense of weariness, except perhaps when the ballets are too
long. From first to last the audience is expecting something, and is ready to accept every
transition from one scene to another as a change for the better. Mr. HARRY NICHOLLS and Mr.
HERBERT CAMPBELL are, of course, funny to look at as the conventional proud sisters; only,
as they admit in one of their duets, "it's been done before," in Cinderella, for example; and,
by the way, in choosing this subject of Beauty and the Beast, all resemblance between the two
stories should have been got rid of, as, up to the Ball Scene, except for the absence of the
Pumpkin and the Mice, it is difficult to distinguish between the two fairy tales. But, when
last I saw Cinderella, wasn't ROSINA VOKES the sprightly heroine, and her brother with the
wonderful legs the Baron? I think so: but I will not be too much of a laudator temporis acti,
and will be thankful that one of the youthful Commissioners thoroughly enjoyed this Pantomime,
though he was not absolutely certain as to what might be the effect of ghosts and skeletons
on his very little brother, aged five or six, if he were brought to see this show. For my part,
had I at an early age seen these skeletons which pervade the piece, and of whom two become
elongated ghosts, I should have lain awake o' nights, seen horrible reproductions on the wall
by the glimmer of the fire-light (spectral rush-lights were used when I was a small boy), screamed
for help, and perhaps given my own private and practical version of the Ghost Scene in Richard
the Third by not leaping out of bed and shouting, "Give me another horse!" (there was only
one in the nursery, and that was a towel-horse), but by putting my head under the bed-clothes
and shivering with fear till my nurse returned from her supper. Such on me, your present brave
First Commissioner of Theatres, was the effect of merely seeing the interior of the Blue Chamber
in Skelt's Scenes and Characters, with which I used to furnish my small theatre on the nursery
table.

Well, this is all private and personal, and not much about the Drury Lane Pantomime, it is
true; but, as everyone will see "The Only Pantomime" (we have reached the era of the "Onlys"),
and be only too delighted, what need I say more than that the libretto is written by Mr. BILL-OF-THE-PLAY
YARDLEY conjointly with Mr. DRURIOLANUS AUCTOR, and I daresay it was very witty and rhythmical
and poetical, though I didn't catch much of it, and the songs were neither particularly well
sung, nor remarkably humorous,--one, introduced by Miss VESTA TILLY (and, therefore, for this
our joint authors are not responsible, except for permitting it to be done), being a distinct
mistake, and utterly out of character with the part of the Prince, as written, which she was
representing. And, à propos of songs, the music of this Pantomime lacks "go." WAGNER borrowed
from pantomime his notion of dramatic music to carry on the action and tell the story of serious
opera; but we don't want our Pantomimes to become Wagnerian; or, at all events, as the lamented
GEORGE HODDER would have said, "Let's have plenty of the 'Wag,' and none of the 'nerian.'"
What he would have exactly meant by this nobody would have known, but everyone would have laughed,
as he was one of those self-patented jesters at whose witticisms the company laughed first
and wondered afterwards.

DRURIOLANUS MAGNUS, not content with his own special pantomime-pie and a Drama at Covent Garden,
has had a finger,--only a little one, perhaps, and not the thumb, with which JOHANNES HORNERIUS
extracted the plum,--in the Christmas pie at the Prince of Wales's Theatre, of which the Manager
is HORATIUS SEDGERIUS.

Now, Ladies and Gentlemen, patres et matres, et tutores, if you want to know what to take your
little children, your bigger children, your boys and girls to see, and what you yourselves,
familiar with your THACKERAY as I take you to be, would enjoy seeing, I say emphatically and
distinctly, without any evasion, reservation, or mental equivocation, "Go and see, and take
them all to see, The Rose and the Ring, written by SAVILE CLARKE, with music composed for it
by WALTER SLAUGHTER, put on the stage by Les deux Ajax CAROLUS and AUGUSTUS HARRIS,--Christmas
CAROLUS being facile princeps at this difficult business."

There is an excellent orchestra here, playing the musical game of "follow my leader" to perfection,
and kept together, as sheep, by a CROOK. Mr. HARRY MONKHOUSE is very droll in the little he
has to do. Mr. SHALE's speech as the Court Painter is capitally given, but there isn't enough
of it. A touch more, a few more good lines, and the speech, as a showman's speech, would have
been encored. Mr. S. SOLOMON as Jenkins, the Hall Porter, is made up so as to be the very fac-simile
of THACKERAY's own illustration, and to reproduce that Master's sketches with more or less
exactitude has evidently been the aim of all the actors; but Jenkins has been peculiarly successful,
as has also Prince Bulbo, of whom more anon. As Polly in Act the First, and General Punchikoff
in the Second, Miss EMPSIE BOWMAN was delightful, and her elder sister, Miss ISA BOWMAN, made
every sharp point tell, and into the gold, of which success the name of BOWMAN is of good omen:
and this is almost a rhyme. The part of Prince Giglis, in the absence of Miss VIOLET CAMERON,
was satisfactorily rendered by Miss FLORENCE DARLEY. Miss MAUD HOLLAND looked and acted prettily
as the Princess Angelica, and Madame AMADI was quite Thackerayan in her make-up as Countess
Gruffanuff. Miss ATTALIE CLAIRE entered fully into the spirit of the merry piece; her rendering
of a song with the refrain "Ah! well-a-day!" being deservedly encored.

I must not forget, indeed, I cannot forget, Mr. LE HAY as Bulbo, who, not only on account of
his make-up being an exact reproduction of THACKERAY's sketch, gave us as good a grotesque
performance as I've seen for some considerable time. To see him on the ground after the fight,
tearing his hair out in handfulls, is something that will shake the sides of the most sedate
or blasé, and among the audience that will crowd to see this juvenile show, there will be very
few sedate (I hope) and still fewer (I am sure) blasé. It is an excellent performance throughout.
But, my dear Mr. CAROLUS HARRIS, one word,--when you had that capitally-arranged and highly
effective scene of Bulbo going to be beheaded, why did you not carry it a bit further, and
make Bulbo on the point of kneeling down, and the burlesque axe poised in the air, and then,
but not till then, the moment which, like the present winter, is "critical,"--then, I say,
enter the Princess with the reprieve? As it is, the effect of this dramatically grouped scene
is lessened by the absence of action, and Bulbo is off the scaffold ere the majority of the
audience realise the peril in which his life has been placed.

I must not forget the army of children appearing from time to time as courtiers, cooks, fairies,
soldiers, who will be the source of the greatest pleasure to children of all ages, from "little
Trots" upwards. Nothing in this genuinely Christmas Piece is there which can do aught but delight
and amuse the young people for whom primarily it was written. Let "all concerned in this" excellent
piece of Christmas merriment accept the congratulations and best wishes for crowded houses--which
they are sure to be for all the Matinées--from theirs truly, MR. P.'S FIRST COMMISSIONER.

       *       *       *       *       *

GREAT DISAPPOINTMENT.--Sir FRANCIS SANDFORD has created a profound feeling of disappointment
among all classes of society by not having added, "and Merton," to his title. "Lord SANDFORD
OF SANDFORD" is weak; but "Lord SANDFORD-AND-MERTON" would have been truly noble.

       *       *       *       *       *

SIR JULIAN PAUNCEFOTE's reply to President BLAINE: "The point o' this here observation lies
in the Behring of it." (Captain Cuttle adapted.)

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

I tried Criss-Cross Lovers the other day, a Novel, in two or three vols., I don't remember
which; but those may ascertain who are not choked off in the first hundred pages, as was the
unfortunate Baron de B.-W. He had the presence of mind to put it down in time, and, after a
few moments of refreshing repose, was, like Richard, "himself again," and able to tackle quite
another novel.

In the English Illustrated Magazine, for this month, I have just read a most interesting account
of a visit paid by the Very Rev. Dean of Gloucester to the Trappist Monastery of La Grande
Chartreuse, which, thanks to the marvellous spirit of the Order known as Chartreuse Verte or
Chartreuse Jaune, is one of the Religious Confraternities not suppressed by the Anti-monkical
majority in the French Government. The Baron--the umble individual who now addresses you--has
himself entered within these Monastic walls, inspected the buildings, seen all the monastic
practical jokes, known as "regular cells," and has come away the better for the visit, with
much food for reflection and refection en route in the voiture, and with spirituous comfort
in green and yellow bottles. This paper, in the New Illustrated, is well worth reading.

The Baron has for some weeks had on his table, Golden Lines; The Story of a Woman's Courage,
by FREDERICK WICKS. The Baron being, as he is bound to admit, almost human, was warned off
the book by its title, which seems to suggest something in the tract line. The Publishers'
name (BLACKWOOD) is, however, an invariable stamp of good metal. So the Baron picked up the
book, was attracted by the remarkably clever illustrations, and finally, beginning at the beginning,
he read to the end. It is a novel, and one of the best published this season; and all the better
for being in one stout handsomely-printed volume. The plot is constructed with rare skill,
the writing is good, and the people all alive. If it is WICKS's first work (and the Baron never
heard of FREDERICK before) he should go on making candles of the same kind. Their illuminating
power is rare.

"What shall we play at, and how shall we play it?" The satisfactory answer to these two questions,
specially important at Christmas time, will be found in Professor HOFFMANN's Encyclopædia of
Card and Table Games, published by ROUTLEDGE. Here you will learn the mysteries of "Go-Bang,"
"Reverse,"--and after learning the latter, you, if Nature has blessed you with a tuneful voice,
will be able to sing with GEORGE GROSSMITH (if he'll let you), "See me Reverse." The motto
for the Professor's book should have been the emphatic exclamation of the street Arab, "My
heye! such games!"

This is the sixth year of Hazell's Annual. Whatever information you require it will be difficult
not to find in Hazell, clearly and not at all Hazelly expressed. A youthful friend whose pun,
says the Baron, I hereby nail to the counter, on seeing this book on my desk, observed, "Yes,
I'm nuts on HAZELL." The Baron frowned, and the youth withered away, as ALICE did--not the
one who went to Wonderland, but an elder ALICE, whom our old friend "BEN BOLT" remembers.

SAMPSON LOW, & CO. publish "Wild Life on a Tidal Water," by P.H. EMERSON, who gives the adventures
of a house-boat and her crew on Breydon Water in Norfolk; the photo-etchings are by EMERSON
and GOODALL, "and therefore," says the Baron, "All-good."

Look into Harper's for January; among the harpers, listen to M. DE BLOWITZ harping on the journalistic
string--good; and, his talent having served him to a pretty tune, 'tis well he should harp
on it in Harper's. The Baron hopes that M. DE B. has spent a Harpy Christmas. Allow the B.
DE B.-W. to draw his friends' attention to "A Military Incident," and two other short papers,
in The Cornhill. BARON DE BOOK-WORMS.

P.S.--The Baron says he is not going to be let in for a disquisition on the merits of various
Pocket-books; but, if asked which he affectionates most as a genuine book of pockets, and for
pockets, he puts his finger to the side of his nose, and wisely replies--"Walker."

       *       *       *       *       *

SURVIVAL OF THE FITTEST.

(AT A TRIAL FOR MURDER.)

  Oh, dainty product of the March of Progress,
    Oh, glorious outcome of the Course of Time,--
  The watchful, well-attired Old Bailey ogress,
    Still finding sweetest stimulus in--Crime!

       *       *       *       *       *

SEASONABLE GREETING FOR SPIRITUALISTS.--I wish you a rappy New Year!

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

BUMBLE AT HOME;

OR, THE WINTER OF OUR DISCONTENT.

Mr. Bumble, loquitur:--

  GR-R-R-R!!! Old-fashioned Winter, indeed! Well, I 'ope them
          as talks on it relishes it!
  The City seems give up to snow; which I can't say it greatly
          embellishes it.
  But, really, of all the dashed imperence,--s'posing of course as
        they meant it,--
  The greatest is that of the Papers appealing to Me to pervent it!

  Ah! it's a hinsolent Hage, and without no respect for Authority.
  The cry of them demmycrat 'owlers is all for low In-fe-ri-or-ity.
  Things is about bottom uppards, as far as I judges, already,
  And if the porochial dignity's floored, what is left to stand
          steady?

  Progressists, indeed! Ah, I'd "progress" 'em, pack o'
          perposterous hasses,
  A regular pollyglot lot, breeding strife 'twixt the classes and
          masses.
  The masses is muck; that's my motter, as who should have learnt
          it more betterer?
  BUMBLE could hopen the heyes of them BOOTHSES, JOHN BURNSES,
          ancetterer.
  Snow? Is it me brings the snow, and the hice, and the
          peasoupy slushiness,
  Making the subbubs one slough? No! The Age is give over to
          gushiness.
  Parties as writes to the Papers is snivellers, yus, every one of 'em,
  Barring the few as cracks jokes, though I own as I can't see the
          fun of 'em.
  Look at "UCALEGON," now, him as writes to a cheap daily journal,
  Along o' the '"Orrors of 'Ampstead," as he calls hy--wot's
          it?--"hybernal,"
  (Wotever that crackjaw may mean) or that fellow, "INFELIX THE"--
          blow it.
  Sech names you can't write nor yet spell, if you're not a School
          Board or a Poet.
  Talks of our "hard hide," does, "INFELIX," I'd like to lay hands
          upon hisn!
  All becos Upper 'Ampstead, it seems, is a sort of a dark ice-bound
          prison.
  No 'busses, no trams, and no cabs, no grub, and no gas, and no water!
  Ha! ha! Pooty picter it is, and thanks be I don't dwell in that
          quarter!
  But wot's it to do with poor Me? If he wants it himproved he had
          best try
  Them proud County-Councillor coves, not come wallopping into the
          Westry.
  Wot use, too, to talk of Wienna? Don't know where that is, and
          don't wanter,
  But, 'cording to "SNOWBOUND," their style of snow-clearing beats
          ourn in a canter.
  Ratepayers' Defencers may rave, and the scribblers may scold or
          talk funny,
  But clean streets in Winter mean this,--you must plank down a
          dollup more money!

  Me up and be doing meanwhile? No, not if I jolly well knows it.
  I likes my own fireside too well to go snow-clearing, don't you
          suppose it.
  A choice between slither and slush may come 'ard on the Mighty
          Metrolopus,
  But Westrydom ain't on the job, 'owsomever they worry and wallop us.
  Bless yer, we've stood it before, and can stand it agen, all this
          fussing.
  My game's a swig and a smoke; as for them--they can go on
          "discussing."

    [Shuts door, and retires to his snuggery for spirituous
    solace.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE COMPOSER COMING.

We are looking forward to Ivanhoe, by Sir ARTHUR S. SULLIVAN, Mus. Doc. From what our Musical
Critic has seen of the score, he is able to wink his eye wisely but not too well, and to hint
that as Mr. Guppy says, "There are chords"; and to make these chords in combination, the strings
are admirably fitted. There is one chord (will it be recognised as belonging to Box?) which--
But, as Sir ARTHUR says, "Where will be the surprise, if your Musical Critic tells everything
beforehand?" He is right, quite right, and, thank goodness, he is quite well, and not ; but
the Composer is in the playfullest of humours, and laughs over his recent row with ; in fact,
he was in such good spirits, that, when I wanted to hear all about it, and I told him he could
either sing it or play it to me, he replied, "You !" Exactly like him, which neither of these
two  is. However, I'm not offended, as I said to him, or rather said and sang to him, by way
of reply. My Name's , and So it is.

       *       *       *       *       *

A SEMI-OFFICIAL INTRODUCTION.

    [BERRY was introduced in a semi-official way, and at once
    said, "Good morning, Ma'am."--See Daily Papers on Mrs.
    Pearcy's execution.]

  KING DEATH has a great Ambassador who journeys through all the land,
  With a cap, and a strap, and a slip-noosed rope all ready to his hand.
  He's a genial man with a joke for all, and a smile on his jovial face,
  And a grip of the hand that is frank and free when he comes to the
        trysting place.
  And, oh, when the gloomy winter night is fading into the day,
  He comes to the cell and is introduced in a semi-official way;
  With a jolly "Good morning, Ma'am," he comes, and as quick as a morning
        dream
  He has corded his living parcel and flung it across the stream.

  The stream flows silently onward, and the flood seems deep and strong,
  And some of us pause on the hither-bank slow-footed, and linger long.
  But early or late we must plunge in and battle across the tide,
  Though the beckoning shapes look dark and grim that wait on the farther
        side.
  But they whom the King's Ambassador, or ever their race be run,
  Has summoned, must leave at the moment the sight of the friendly sun.
  He's a kindly man, with a cheerful voice, but he never brooks delay
  When once he has come and been introduced in a semi-official way.

  And, ah, how lightly the minutes fly, that once seemed heavy as lead,
  And the sleeper is fitfully tossing, alone on her prison bed.
  At the hour of eight must the journey be, when the passing bell doth toll,
  And God, it may be, who is merciful, will pity a sinful soul,
  "Arise," they say, "for you know full well who waits at the outer gate,
  With sheriffs to do his bidding, behold he is come in state.
  The time is short, and the minutes fly, but ere we forget it, stay,
  We must introduce the Ambassador in a semi-official way."

       *       *       *       *       *

POLITE JUDGMENT.--A correspondence has been going on in the St. James's Gazette as to what
six Gentlemen seated in a first class railway carriage ought to do if a Lady insists on thrusting
herself upon them. Truth says, let her stand, unless she has been invited, and adds, that anyhow
she, as an extra person, is a nuisance. Mr. Punch agrees with a difference, and says that the
uninvited intruder who becomes a standing nuisance ought to be put down--by somebody giving
her a seat.

       *       *       *       *       *

COMPENSATION.

(SOLILOQUY OF SMELFUNGUS WHILST LOOKING AT THE PICTORIAL PAPERS.)

  Yes, it's an ill-wind that blows nobody good,
    Discomfort could hardly be greater,
  For home-staying fogies of mollyish mood,
    But think of the joy of the Skater!
  Gr-r-r-r-! Nose-nipped antiquity squirms in the street,
    When the North-Easter sounds its fierce slogan;
  But oh, the warm flush and the ecstasy fleet
    Of the fellow who rides a toboggan!
  FISH SMART's on the job in the ice-covered fens,
    And at Hampstead and Highgate they're "sleighing."
  There is plenty of stuff for pictorial pens,
    And boyhood at snowballs is playing.
  To sit by the fire and to grumble and croak
    At "young fools," I presume is improper,
  Yet (chuckle!) the Skater sometimes has a "soak,"
    The Sleigher sometimes comes a cropper! [Left sniggering.

       *       *       *       *       *

LOST IN THE MIST OF AGES.

(EXTRACTS FROM A CRITIQUE ON AN EXHIBITION TO SUCCEED THE GUELPHIAN, IN 19--.)

No. 76. Portrait of a Warrior. This picture is described in the Catalogue as the Duke of WELLINGTON,
who, it will be remembered, won, in the early part of the last century, the Battle of Waterloo,
and invented a new kind of boots. The face is adorned with long black whiskers and moustaches,
and an eyeglass not unlike the traditional portrait of the great W.E. GLADSTONE, Second Earl
of BEACONSFIELD, as depicted by a now nearly forgotten artist, called DUNDREARY SOTHERN, or
SOTHERN DUNDREARY. The Duke (if, indeed, it be the Duke) is wearing the uniform of the 3rd
Middlesex Artillery Volunteers, a corps that was raised some ten years after His Grace's death,
a fact that would argue that the painting was either a posthumous work, or intended to represent
someone else. Accepting the alternative suggestion, the picture may hand down to posterity
the features of BURDETT COUTTS (husband of the Baroness of that name), J.L. TOOLE, the popular
Comedian, HENRY IRVING (his friend), the Rev. C.H. SPURGEON, or (and this is the most likely
hypothesis) PRINCE GEORGE of Wales.

No. 102. Miniature of a Lady Unknown. It is impossible at this lapse of time to identify the
original of this portrait. No doubt she belonged to a short-lived and somewhat degraded class
known as "professional beauties." In one hand she holds an instrument called an opera-glass,
which was used in the last century at trials for murder at the Old Bailey. The hair she wears
on her head is evidently false, and has been supplied from some foreign peasantry. Her hat
is adorned with a stuffed bird, suggestive of the cruelty of her nature. As she holds in her
other hand a book labelled, "The Art of Nursing," it may be conjectured that she is a frequent
visitor to the Dissecting-Room, or the Accident Ward of a London Hospital. On the whole, perhaps,
it is fortunate that her name has not been preserved by succeeding generations. She must, indeed,
have been a contrast to her angelic descendants of the present day.

No. 2478. An Utensil Made of Brass. This strange-looking object may have been used by our ancestors
as a helmet, or perhaps as a fish-kettle. It is, perhaps, rather large for the first, and a
little too thick for the second. The Catalogue describes the exhibit as "a coal-scuttle." It
is impossible to verify this assertion, as coal is now only found in specimen cases at museums,
and a sketch of a coal-scuttle has not been seen for the last fifty years. It is, however,
interesting as suggestive of a time when the world was not heated by volcanic hot water.

       *       *       *       *       *

SEASONABLE REPLY (By Our Own Politest Letter-Writer.)--This is a model for a cautious answer
at this time of year to an invitation to witness an out-of-door ceremony, the laying of a first
stone, &c, &c, returning to London same day:--"Dear A----, if I am (1) alive, (2) well, (3)
with no urgent business, (4) in London, and if the weather is (i.) fine, (ii.) fairly warm,
(iii.) likely to last so, (iv.) wind S.W., (v.) no remains of sloshy thaw, (vi.) no frost;
if there are comfortable conveyances to and from station; if there is a perfectly dry spot
for me to stand on, and see and hear everything, and no draughts, and if there is a good lunch
in a comfortable, dry, well-aired, and warmed room, with not too many guests, and plenty of
good waiters, also with dry champagne,--say Pommery '80 or '84, for choice,--then you may expect
me, and I accept, with the greatest possible pleasure.

Yours ever, D. DASH."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

"HONOURS EASY!"

(OMITTED FROM THE NEW YEAR'S LIST LAST WEEK.)

Sir F. LEIGHTON, Bart., P.R.A., to be raised to the Peerage as the Earl of BURLINGTON, in order
to adorn the House of Lords.

Mr. HENRY IRVING, to be Lord LYCÆUM, to please Baron BEEFSTEAK.

Mr. J.L. TOOLE, to be Baron BEEFSTEAK, to satisfy Lord LYCÆUM.

Miss FLORENCE NIGHTINGALE, to be Lady REDCROSS OF GENEVA; because she earned it nearly forty
years ago.

"General" BOOTH, to be Viscount BOOMON, to collect subscriptions in the House of Lords.

Sir WILFRID LAWSON, Bart., will take the title of Lord DRINKWATER. N.B.--He will always have
to appear in Court suit with pumps.

Viscount WOLSELEY will he made F.R.S., F.S.A., F.R.G.S., M.D., in order to add to his collection,
if he hasn't them already.

Professor NORMAN LOCKYER will receive The Garter, to place among his Stars.

Lord TENNYSON, a Second Pension from the Civil List, to augment the one granted half a century
or so ago.

The Donkey of the Brothers GRIFFITHS, the Order of the Thistle.

       *       *       *       *       *

Some More of Them.--THE QUEEN has been further pleased to confer the dignity of a Peerage of
the United Kingdom upon--

Mr. Sheriff AUGUSTUS HARRIS, who will, on taking his seat in the Upper House, assume the title
of Lord AUGUSTUS DRURIOLANUS OF LONG ACRE.

Mr. S.B. BANCROFT, who will take that of Lord HAYMARKET.

Mr. WILLIAM BLACK, who will in future be known as Lord SHEILA OF THULE.

Messrs. SWAN AND EDGAR, who will assume the dignity, respectively, under the titles of Lords
PICCADILLY and REGENT's CIRCUS, and the

BEADLE OF THE BURLINGTON ARCADE, who will accept the honour with the style and title of Lord
BURLINGTON OF ARCADIA.

HER MAJESTY has also been further pleased to confer the dignity of a Baronetcy of the United
Kingdom on the following Gentlemen; viz., Messrs. ENO, SCOTT, BEECHAM, CARTER, LAMPLOUGH, and
COCKLE.

HER MAJESTY has further been pleased to confer the honour of Knighthood on several Gentlemen
greatly distinguished for their services respectively to Art, Literature, and Science, whose
names, however, it is not necessary to mention, but whose labours, had they been rewarded with
that financial success that attends the efforts of a pushing and advertising tradesman would,
doubtless, have earned them the more becoming dignity of a Peerage.

Her MAJESTY has further been pleased to confer the dignity of a Full Knight Grand Commander
of the First Class of the most exalted Order of the Sceptre of India, on--

JOHN JAMES SMITH, Esq., THOMAS JENKINS ROBINSON, Esq., and JAMES WALLOP BROWN, Esq., of the
Bengal Civil Service.

And also that of an equal dignity of the same exalted Order, on His Royal Highness, GINGEREE
BABIHOY, JABBERJEEHOY, the Reigning Jam of Jollipore.*

*JOHN JAMES SMITH, Esq., educated at Harrow, Commissioner of Gunenjore, 1878; Collector of
Poojah, 1880; Acting-Deputy at Boorgipore, 1887, &c., &c.

THOMAS JENKINS ROBINSON, Author of The Paper Rupee. What is its Commercial Value? Sat on the
Puttialah Commission in 1870. Suspended for insubordination, 1882. Removed to Gallichuddah,
1888. Part Author of The Governor-General's Goose, and who is to Cook It?

JAMES WALLOP BROWN, Esq., son of JOHN WALLOP BROWN, Esq., of The Nut-crackers, Upper Putney.
Author of Brown's Digest of Synthetical Illusions! Collector of Naggerpore, 1886; Boorafoola,
1885; Chourmgee, 1886, &c., &c.

H.R.H. the Jam of JOLLIPORE, the 29th descendant in direct line from GINGER KHAN, the conqueror
of the Moguls. Gave 100,000 Rupees to the foundation of the New Indian Hospital in the Mile
End Road. Translator of SHAKSPEARE into the Puttialah dialect, &c., &c. Founder of the European
University of Jollipore.

       *       *       *       *       *

Latest Additions.--Messrs. A. & F. PEARS. To be Companions of the Bath.

"General" BOOTH. To be Knight Commander of the Bath. To enable him to deal more effectually
with the "Submerged Tenth."

ZADKIEL and Old MOORE. The Most Distinguished Order of The Tinsel Star. For eminent services
to Astronomy.

Mr. W.H. STEAD. The Most Honourable Order of the Golden Scoop. For his enterprise in reviewing
Reviews, and gallantry in storming Magazines.

Mr. MACDOUGALL. The Order of the Free Pass. For services to Morality. Mr. O'BRIEN. The Order
of Retreat. For a short period.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

AT THE END OF THE YEAR.

THE FRIEND'S REPLY.

  I thought your lines a great success,
    (You always did write rather neatly)
  Although I must at once confess
    I can't agree with you completely.

  Of course I recollect quite well
    How long we sat and smoked together,
  And how our conversation fell
    (As fall it will) upon the weather.

  Our prospects then seemed bright and fair,
    (Our language certainly got stronger)
  We built our castles in the air,
    And by degrees our drinks grew longer.

  Yes--in the game of law BEN wins,
    And many guineas in he's picking,
  But have you heard his wife has twins,
    And both of them alive and kicking?

  And pompous JOE, now JOE, M.P.,
    Is doubtless pleased at growing raucous
  Through speaking, since he's proud to be
    The Member for a Tory Caucus.

  Yet I'm afraid for his poor brain,
    That such success will surely turn it,
  For every speech means so much strain,
    Since off by heart he has to learn it!

