For good or evil Germany has been convinced for nearly two decades that the balance of power
in Europe was an obstacle to her world future. Furthermore, she believed that the balance imposed
fetters upon her which only mighty armaments could break. All Germany's energies in the domain
of diplomacy have been set in motion to make the balance of power a mere figment of the imagination.

In pursuing this end it has suited her purpose to declare all attempts at maintaining the outward
appearances of equality between the Powers of Europe to be Machiavellian schemes against her
existence; or to cite the Kaiser's own words, "to deprive Germany of her place in the sun."

Britain's entente policy was the only one calculated to preserve our own existence, and to
restrain Germany from establishing a hegemony in Europe. She was completely convinced that
the domination of Europe belonged to her by right of mental, moral and military superiority
over her neighbours. Not in vain have Germany's educational institutions inculcated the belief
in her population that the British Empire is an effete monstrosity with feet of clay; France
a rotten, decaying empire, and Russia a barbarian Power with no new Kultur to offer Europe
except the knout.

Inspired by such conceptions, together with an astoundingly exaggerated idea of Germany's peerlessness
in order, discipline, obedience, morality, genius and other ethical values, as well as an unshaken
belief in Germany's invincibility by land and sea--the entire nation, from Kaiser to cobbler,
has long since held that by right of these virtues--by right of her absolute superiority over
all other nations--Germany could and must claim other rights and powers than those which fell
to her under an antiquated balance of European power.

In few words that is the gospel of Deutschland, Deutschland, über alles. These are the motives
which inspired Germany's naval expansion and forbade her to accept a compromise. The same ideals
led to her endeavours to shatter the ententes, and it is alone the general acceptance of this
gospel, which explains the remarkable unanimity with which the German nation has stood behind
the Kaiser's Government in each trial of strength. They have learned to consider all attempts
of the lesser peoples (Britain, France and Russia included) to maintain themselves against
the Teutonic onset as impudent attacks on sacred Germany, which also illuminates the fact that
Germans call the present struggle--"Germany's holy, sacred war."

German statesmen were quite clear as to the national course at least fifteen years ago. Hence
they have persistently pursued a policy of no compromise and no agreements. A compromise recognizes
and perpetuates, in part at least, the very thing which stands in the way. An agreement with
Britain in regard to naval armaments would have perpetuated British naval supremacy, as well
as recognized its necessity. Likewise an agreement, or the shadow of an understanding with
France on the question of Alsace-Lorraine would have been a recognition of French claims. Hence
on these two questions--which are merely given as examples illustrative of German mentality--every
attempt at an agreement has been a failure.

A cardinal point in Germany's programme has been the consistent manner in which she has tried
to separate her European neighbours from Britain in order to deal with them separately or alone.
That her endeavours ended in failure is due to the instinct of self-preservation which has
drawn Germany's opponents closer together, in exact proportion to the increasing force of her
efforts. Both in peace and war, Germany desired and endeavoured to switch off Britain's influence
in Europe.

The diplomatic battles of 1905, 1908 and 1911 were a few of the efforts to dislodge Great Britain
from her ententes, while her repeated attempts to buy this country's neutrality, down to the
eve of war, are proof that Germany wanted a free hand in Europe.[192] If she had succeeded
in her purpose, it is exceedingly doubtful whether any Power could have prevented her from
exercising a free hand in the whole world.

[Footnote 192: Professor Schiemann: "Wie England eine Verständigung mit Deutschland verhinderte"
("How England prevented an Understanding with Germany"). Berlin, 1915; pp. 20-21: "From the
very commencement Berlin was convinced that the probability of a combined Franco-Russian attack
was exceedingly small, if England's entrance to this Germanophobe combination could be prevented.
Therefore we endeavoured to secure England's neutrality in case of war (1909), that is, if
an Anglo-German alliance could not be achieved--an alliance which would have guaranteed the
world's peace." (Schiemann's insinuation that Germany desired an alliance is an instance of
suggestio falsi. Germany had decided in 1902 never to conclude an alliance with this country.--Author.)]

Coming down to the last trial of diplomatic power, we are confronted by the immovable fact,
that it too was a challenge on the part of the Central Empires. The conditions seemed peculiarly
favourable to them, for the British Ambassador declared to the Russian Government on July 24th,
1914, that Britain would never draw the sword on a purely Serbian question. Moreover, in the
preceding year, a British minister, says Professor Schiemann, had given what we may style a
remarkable semi-official promise that Great Britain would never go to war with Germany.

"On February 18th, 1913, Mr. Charles Trevelyan, M.P., paid me a visit, and assured me with
the greatest certainty that England would under no circumstances wage war on Germany. A ministry
which made preparations for war, would be immediately overthrown."[193]

[Footnote 193: Ibid., p. 27. In the light of this revelation it would be interesting to know
what was the real motive which induced Mr. Trevelyan to resign his office when war broke out.
Either he was conscious of having seriously compromised his position as a Minister of the Crown,
or he conscientiously believed that Britain was drawing the sword in an unjust cause. Unfortunately
a section of the British public accepted the latter interpretation. In any case, Mr. Trevelyan's
indiscretion affords overwhelming proof that he had an utterly false conception of Germany.--Author.]

Professor Schiemann affirms that his good impression was strengthened by a visit to London
during March and April, 1914, and reports a conversation which he had with Lord Haldane when
dining privately with the latter in London. After returning to Berlin, he says he received
a letter from Lord Haldane dated April 17th, 1914, but from Schiemann's quotation it is not
evident whether the following is an extract or the entire letter:

"It was a great pleasure to see you and to have had the full and unreserved talk we had together.
My ambition is like yours, to bring Germany and Great Britain into relations of ever-closer
intimacy and friendship. Our two countries have a common work to do for the world as well as
for themselves, and each of them can bring to bear on this work special endowments and qualities.
May the co-operation which I believe is now beginning become closer and closer.[194]

[Footnote 194: Lord Haldane has stated during the war that his visit to Berlin in 1912 had
filled his mind with doubt and suspicion in regard to Germany.--Author.]

"Of this I am sure, the more wide and unselfish the nations and the groups questions make her
supreme purposes of their policies, the more will frictions disappear, and the sooner will
the relations that are normal and healthy reappear.[195] Something of this good work has now
come into existence between our two peoples. We must see to it that the chance of growth is
given."[196]

[Footnote 195: A word or phrase appears to have been dropped in this sentence.--Author.]

[Footnote 196: Professor Schiemann's book, pp. 27-8.]

It is not difficult to conceive that such utterances, on the part of two British ministers,
would raise hopes in the German mind, for it would be useless to imagine that Professor Schiemann
would keep them secret for his own private edification. And it is possible that they led the
German Government into a false reckoning as to what this country would do under certain circumstances,
and so encouraged Germany into taking up an irreconcilable attitude in the crisis of July, 1914.

Whatever Germany expected must, however, for the present, remain a matter of conjecture. Schiemann's
comment on the above letter leaves no doubt that he expected Lord Haldane[197] to resign. "When
one remembers that Lord Haldane belonged to the inner circle of the Cabinet, and was therefore
privy to all the secret moves of Sir Edward Grey, it is hard to believe in the sincerity of
the sentiments expressed in this letter. Besides, he did not resign like three other members
of the Cabinet (Lord Morley, Burns and Charles Trevelyan) when Sir Edward's foul play lay open
to the world on August 4th."

[Footnote 197: Lord Haldane seems to have injured his reputation both in Great Britain and
Germany. Professor Oncken designates him: "the one-time friend of Germany, the decoy-bird of
the British cabinet." Vide "Deutschland und der Weltkrieg," p. 561.]

The most regrettable side of the whole incident is that the resignation of the above gentlemen
has been proclaimed by innumerable German writers as proof of Sir Edward Grey's double dealing,
and proof that Britain is waging an unjust war. Still, it may console these gentlemen to know
that the nation which wages war on women and children acclaims them to-day "all honourable
men," and doubtless without the Shakespearian intonation.

By reason of the above incidents, and more of a similar nature, Germans accuse the late Liberal
Government with perfidy of the basest kind. The author is not in the least inclined to admit
the charge, but thinks, rather, that the Government in question--individually and collectively--was
astonishingly ignorant of European conditions and problems, especially those prevailing in
the Germanic Empires.

To what a degree Germany was obsessed by the idea that Britain was trying to strangle her by
an encircling policy, is apparent in a diplomatic document quoted by Professor Oncken. Its
author's name is not given, and it was doubtless a secret report sent to the German Foreign
Office in 1912; its freedom from bias is also questionable. Moreover, it is probable that it
belongs to the same category of documents as those quoted in the French Yellow Book--reports
intended to exercise due influence on the mind of the Emperor.

"French diplomacy is succeeding more and more in entangling England in the meshes of her net.
The encouragement which England gives, directly or indirectly, to French chauvinism may one
day end in a catastrophe in which English and French soldiers must pay with their blood on
French battlefields for England's encircling policy. The seeds sown by King Edward are springing
up."

Another link in the chain of proof of Britain's guilt, is found in the documents seized by
the Germans in Brussels. The enemy seems to attach great importance to them, for they are being
employed in much the same way that parliamentary candidates use pamphlets during an election.
Yet they do not contain a particle of proof that Britain had hostile intentions against Germany,
but only confirm the presence of the German menace.

The documents[198] in question are reports sent by the Belgian Legation Secretaries in London,
Paris and Berlin to the Minister for Foreign Affairs in Brussels. These gentlemen held opinions
identical with those expressed again and again in German newspapers, and even in some British
and French organs. Messieurs Comte de Lalaing (London), Greindl (Berlin), Leghait (Paris),
evidently believed that the activities of the Triple Alliance and the Triple Entente endangered
the peace of Europe.

[Footnote 198: Published by the Berlin Government as supplements to the Nord-deutsche Allgemeine
Zeitung, July 29th and 31st; August 4th, 8th and 12th, 1915.]

Further they believed the latter constellation to be the more aggressive of the two, and formally
reported these convictions to the Belgian Government. If read as a modern edition of "Pepys'
Diary" they form entertaining literature, but by no stretch of the imagination could they be
classed as historical sources. A gentleman who reports to his Government that King Edward took
breakfast in company with M. Delcassé and that the Press had neglected to chronicle the incident,
can hardly rank as an historian.

Moreover, it is by no means clear why the German Press should laud M. Greindl as a gentleman
of German origin. If this be true it would probably explain everything which deserves explanation
in the said documents, and would probably account for the intimate, confidential treatment
which M. Greindl received at the hands of German officials.

German newspapers are gloating over the fact that the British Government has not deigned to
reply to these "revelations." There is really nothing to which it can reply; three observers
expressed their opinion on contemporaneous happenings during the years 1905-1911. But a brutal
sequence of events in 1914 showed them--if they had not been convinced during the preceding
three years--that they had drawn false conclusions from their observations.

To return to the last trial of strength between the two groups of European Powers, it is interesting
to note that Professor Oncken denies German participation in formulating the ultimatum to Serbia,
or that Germany was aware of its contents. Germany merely left Austria a free hand in the matter.
Oncken endeavours to show that Austria's demands were not excessive, and expresses astonishment
that the opposing Powers found them exorbitant. He does not mention the fact that a large section
of the German nation held the same opinion on July 25th, 1914.

His comment on Sir Edward Grey's efforts for peace is characteristic: "England claims that
she did everything possible to preserve the peace. It cannot be denied that Grey made a series
of mediation proposals. But mere good-will is not everything. It is much more important to
weigh their practical importance, and the goal at which they aimed: Whether they were intended
to preserve the world's peace under conditions honourable for all parties, or calculated to
obtain for the Entente a one-sided diplomatic victory which would have established its future
predominance."[199]

[Footnote 199: "Deutschland und der Weltkrieg," p. 544.]

"Grey considered the moment suitable for a mediation proposal. On the evening of July 26th,
after obtaining Russia's consent, he proposed to the Governments of France, Germany and Italy
that their London ambassadors should meet in London to confer on a peaceful solution of the
conflict.

"The proposal was unacceptable to Austria, because it would have been an indirect recognition
on her part of Russia's interest in the conflict.

"Only those who had followed the growing intimacy of the mutual obligations between the Entente
Powers, and their organization to a 'London Centre' during the summer of 1914, are able to
estimate the role--to say nothing of Italy--which Russia's two comrades would have played in
the conference. During its course Russia would have continued her military preparations, while
Germany would have had to pledge herself not to mobilize.

"Finally, no unprejudiced observer would dare assert that the man (Sir Edward Grey) who was
ready to transform himself at a suitable opportunity into an ally of Russia, would have been
an impartial chairman in a conference held under the pressure of a Russian mobilization. The
more one thinks about this mediation proposal the more convinced one becomes, that it would
at least have worked for a diplomatic victory for the Entente Powers.

"Grey put the whole machinery of the Triple Entente in motion in order to force back Germany
and Austria-Hungary along the whole line."[200]

[Footnote 200: Ibid., p. 545 et seq.]

An analysis of Professor Oncken's theses gives the following results: First, Britain's efforts
to preserve peace are admitted, but he fails to mention any friendly advances to meet them.
Secondly, the fundamental principle underlying the Germanic attitude is again exposed, viz.,
that Russia had no right to intervene in a question affecting the balance of power in the Balkans
and in Europe (vide, p. 63). Thirdly, a diplomatic struggle was in progress along the whole
line, between the two groups of Powers.

In weighing the second point it would be wrong to assume that the Central Empires were not
fully aware of the presence of a far more vital question behind the Austro-Serbian conflict.
They knew it from the very beginning and had already expressed threats in St. Petersburg, hoping
to achieve the same effect as in the Bosnian crisis. If Austria had been allowed to destroy
Serbia's military power the material forces of Europe would have been seriously disturbed;
the ineffectiveness of the Triple Entente finally established, and its dissolution the inevitable
consequence.

If these considerations are correct then the statement attributed by M. de L'Escaille (see
p. 281) to Sir George Buchanan that Britain would never draw the sword could only have served
to strengthen the resolution of the Germanic Powers in enforcing their point Germany above
all desired that the balance of power theory should be finally smashed, and it may be safely
assumed that an Austro-Serbian conflict seemed to her a most fitting opportunity to realize
her purpose.

The third point suggests two questions. Who provoked the diplomatic conflict, and who would
have benefited most by a diplomatic victory? A reply to the first question is superfluous,
and the answer to the second is obvious from the preceding line of reasoning. Germany would
have reached the goal towards which she had striven for more than a decade--the removal of
all diplomatic hindrances to the unlimited assertion of her will in Europe. It may even be
doubted whether the Dual Alliance would have survived the shock.

Another phase of Professor Oncken's work is the open attack on Sir Edward Grey. Only three
years ago this statesman was acclaimed in Germany as a man of peace--the man who had prevented
the Balkan War from becoming a European conflagration. To-day he is accused by the same nation
of being the originator of the world war.

Oncken[201] goes back to the year 1905 and states that Sir Edward Grey initiated only two members
of the Cabinet--Mr. Asquith and Lord Haldane--into the details of the agreement with France,
and these three gentlemen he refers to as the "inner circle." King Edward, and afterwards Sir
Edward Grey in continuing the late King's policy, succeeded in harnessing the revanche idée
and the spirit of Russian aggression to the chariot of British Imperialism. All offers of friendship
made by this country were insincere. (The professorial pleader does not say so, but he leaves
his readers to infer that sincerity is a German monopoly.) Concerning the British Minister's
declaration in Parliament that no secret treaty existed with France, Oncken remarks: "The declaration
was just as true formally as it was a lie in essentials."

[Footnote 201: The authorities (?) most frequently cited by Professor Oncken in making out
his case are Messrs. Morel, Macdonald, Hardie, G. B. Shaw and the Labour Leader.--Author.]

Following the development of events after the conference proposal had been dropped, Oncken
writes: "Meanwhile the Russian Government endeavoured to persuade England's leading statesman
that the opinion prevailed in Germany and Austria, that England would remain neutral in every
case, in consequence of this delusion the Central Powers were obdurate. England could only
dispel the danger of war by destroying this false conception, i.e., openly joining Russia and
France.

"It is noteworthy how quickly Grey assimilated this train of thought. Disregarding the suggestions
of the British Ambassador in St. Petersburg, he did nothing to exercise a moderating influence
upon Russia and thereby further the success of the conversations between Vienna and St. Petersburg.
On the other hand, he proceeded to take steps which probably in his opinion, were calculated
to damp the supposed desire for war on the part of Germany. Practically, the result of all
his actions was to exercise one-sided pressure upon Germany and Austria and simultaneously,
through unmistakable declarations concerning England's eventual attitude, to encourage Paris
and St. Petersburg to energetic measures.

"But all hopes for peace were destroyed at a single blow by Russia. On the evening of July
30th after the conversations with Austria-Hungary had been resumed, Sasonow increased his demands--and
in truth with England's co-operation--to such a degree that their acceptance would have meant
the complete submission of the Dual Monarchy.

"And as if this were insufficient, a few hours later, before a reply had been received and
while negotiations were proceeding in Vienna, Russia suddenly broke off the communications
with a momentous decision (mobilization). The certainty which she had gained from the moves
of English diplomacy, that in case of war she was sure of France's support and with it England's,
turned the scale--against peace.

"That this calculation was decisive for Russia's change of front is confirmed by a witness
whose impartiality even our opponents will admit."[202]

[Footnote 202: "Deutschland und der Weltkrieg," pp. 553-4.]

Professor Oncken then supports his argument with quotations from a letter written by the Belgian
Legation Secretary in St. Petersburg to his Government. The letter was doubtless stolen while
in transit by the Berlin postal authorities. Monsieur B. de l'Escaille wrote the letter on
July 30th, despatched it by courier to Berlin, where it was posted on the following day. The
outside envelope was addressed to Madame Costermans, 107 Rue Froissard, Bruxelles; inside was
a letter addressed to M. Darignon, Minister for Foreign Affairs. German writers state that
no letters were forwarded to foreign countries after martial law was proclaimed on July 31st
(a statement which is untrue), thus it fell into their hands.

Overwhelming importance is attached to this document by German war writers. The more important
passages of the despatch run as follows: "The last two days have passed in the expectation
of events which are bound to follow[203] upon Austria-Hungary's declaration of war against
Serbia. The most contradictory reports were in circulation, without any possibility of confirming
their truth or falsity.

[Footnote 203: Thus the impartial witness whom Germans quote to prove their innocence definitely
states that Russia had no other course left open to her by Austria's actions.--Author.]

"One thing is, however, indisputable, viz., that Germany has done everything possible both
here and in Vienna[204] to find a means of avoiding a general conflict, but has only been met
with the determination of the Vienna cabinet, on the one hand, not to yield a single step,
and on the other hand Russian distrust of Vienna's declaration that they merely intend a punitive
expedition against Serbia.

[Footnote 204: How could M. de l'Escaille know what had passed in Vienna?--Author.]

"One must really believe that everybody wants war, and is only anxious to postpone the declaration
in order to gain time. At first England gave out, that she would not allow herself to be drawn
into a conflict. Sir George Buchanan said that definitely. But to-day they are firmly convinced
in St. Petersburg, indeed they have received an assurance, that England will stand by France.
This support is of extraordinary importance, and has contributed not a little to the war-party
gaining the upper hand.

"In the cabinet sitting held yesterday, there were differences of opinion, and the mobilization
order was postponed. This morning at four o'clock mobilization was ordered.

"The Russian army feels itself strong, and is full of enthusiasm. The reorganization of the
navy is still so incomplete that it would be out of the count in case of war. For that reason
England's assurance of help was of the greatest consequence."[205]

[Footnote 205: "Kriegs-Depeschen, 1914" ("German War-Telegrams, 1914"). Berlin, 1914; p. 96
et seq.]

If Professor Oncken is correct in stating that Sir Edward Grey's measures were calculated to
exercise a pressure on Germany and Austria, then he merely confirms what this country has hitherto
believed--Sir Edward Grey acted rightly. Where else should he have exerted pressure except
in the quarter from whence a provocative, insolent challenge had proceeded?

With regard to the assertion that Russia--stiffened by England--took a "momentous decision"
on the evening of July 30th, Professor Oncken is guilty of distortion. The decision to mobilize
had been taken earlier, and as M. de l'Escaille wrote, was made public at four o'clock on the
morning of July 30th.

Whether Russia had increased her demands ("peremptorily sharpened" are Oncken's words) the
reader can judge for himself by comparing the two texts.

              I                            II
  "If Austria, recognizing      "If Austria agrees to
  that the Austro-Serbian        stay the advance of her
  question has                   troops on Serbian territory,
  assumed the character          and if, recognizing
  of a European question,        that the Austro-Serbian
  declares herself ready to      dispute has assumed the
  eliminate from her ultimatum   character of a question
  the points which               of European interest, she
  infringe the sovereign         admits that the Great
  rights of Serbia, Russia       Powers shall examine
  engages to stop her            the satisfaction which
  military preparations."        Serbia might give to
  (Russian Orange Book,          the Austro--Hungarian
  No. 60.)                       Government without
                                 affecting her sovereign
                                 rights and independence,
                                 Russia undertakes
                                 to maintain her waiting
                                 attitude." (French
                                 Yellow Book, No. 113.)

Oncken, in making this comparison, comments: "It is most remarkable that the original formula
chosen by Sasonow had been peremptorily sharpened (einschneidend verschärft) on July 31st at
the request of the British Ambassador. This interference by England in the formulation of the
proposal must arouse the gravest doubt regarding the peaceful tendencies of England's policy.
Sasonow had every reason to thank Grey 'for the firm, amicable tone which he has employed in
his pourparlers with Germany and Austria.'"[206]

[Footnote 206: "Deutschland und der Weltkrieg," p. 553. Oncken's quotation in the last lines
taken from the Russian Orange Book, No. 69.]

Sir Edward Grey had proposed five days earlier (July 26th) that all military measures should
cease pending a settlement. Hence the introduction of this clause is not a new demand. Moreover,
in the meantime Russia and Germany--in spite of the latter's denial--had commenced to mobilize;
Austria had mobilized and commenced hostilities against Serbia. Thus there were far more urgent
reasons to include the cessation of military measures on July 31st than before. Lastly, it
was the only acceptable pledge of Austrian sincerity which Russia could accept. Whether the
formula would have met with Austria's approval cannot be determined, for Austria was saved
from what Oncken terms "complete submission" by Germany's ultimatum to Russia, despatched on
the same day, July 31st.

It is impossible to get rid of the suspicion that Germany thought Austria might accept the
proposal; in any case, Germany deliberately shattered the last chance of a settlement by her
demand that Russia should demobilize.

If Germany outwardly worked for peace in St. Petersburg, as M. de l'Escaille states, it would
be quite in harmony with the methods of German diplomacy. But, as the same gentleman testifies:
"Austria would not yield a step"--the conclusion must be drawn that Germany had ordered her
to stand firm. Austria did not yield a single inch, and so it is a matter of indifference as
to the sincerity or otherwise of Germany's peace endeavours.

Oncken further mentions Britain's refusal to remain neutral in return for a promise that French
territory should not be annexed, but he omits the question of French colonies. His analysis
of the Belgian question deserves quotation: "Grey was seeking an excuse for war, and he found
one in the question of Belgian neutrality. It was just such a reason as he required in order
to carry away the Cabinet, Parliament and public opinion. And since then that reason has been
much discussed, accompanied by appeals to international law and humanity, by England's and
the world's Press.

"But there is more than one irrefutable proof at hand, to show that this reason for war, was
merely a veil covering the real ones. Anticipating Grey's intentions, before the German Government
had finally declared themselves on the subject,[207] Prince Lichnowsky put the question to
Sir Edward Grey on August 1st, as to whether England would remain neutral if Germany undertook
to respect the neutrality of Belgium.

[Footnote 207: Britain had asked Germany a day or two before, whether she would respect Belgium's
neutrality.--Author.]

"Grey, however, refused to give the pledge with which he could--if he was really concerned
about Belgium--have spared that unhappy land its terrible fate. But by these means the trump
card of Belgian neutrality had been taken from our opponent's hand in advance. Yet Grey actually
considered it permissible to conceal this offer from the British Cabinet. Yes, he dared even more.

"After the matter had been mentioned by Ramsay Macdonald in the Labour Leader, Keir Hardie
asked a question in the House of Commons on August 27th, as to whether Lichnowsky's proposal
had been submitted to the Cabinet, and why the same had not been made the basis of peaceful
negotiations with Germany. Grey made a weak attempt to discriminate between official proposals
made by a government, and a private question asked by an ambassador.

"When the inconvenient questioner asked for further information, he was cried down. The Oxford
theologian Conybeare gained the impression from this Parliamentary incident: 'That all Sir
Edward Grey's answers to Mr. Keir Hardie's questions are examples of suppressio veri and suggestio
falsi.' His later revocation of this judgment does not alter its value as objective evidence.

"After Grey's refusal, Prince Lichnowsky pressed him to formulate England's conditions for
her neutrality. At the same time the Ambassador increased his offer of July 29th by proposing
to guarantee the integrity of France and her colonies in return for England's neutrality. Grey
suppressed this proposal too before the Cabinet, as any negotiation on this basis would have
thwarted his pre-conceived plans. Only an immovable determination for war can explain this
behaviour.

"Even before he could assume that Belgian neutrality was in danger, he pledged English policy
to the wishes of France. On the afternoon of the same August 1st, he gave the French Ambassador--who
was anxiously pressing for a decision--reason to believe that he would be able to give a formal
promise on the following day. At the Cabinet meeting on August 2nd--the same in which he suppressed
Germany's offer!--he got a motion accepted empowering him to assure Cambon that if Germany
attacked the French coast, England would intervene."

It is necessary to return to Germany's proposal in regard to Belgian neutrality. In simple
language it means that Germany wanted to sell her pledged word, given in 1839, for British
neutrality in 1914. In view of the fact that Professor Oncken looked upon this as a legitimate
bargain, one wonders in silence at his standard of morality and honour. Is he not a scoundrel
who first gives his word of honour and afterwards tries to strike a bargain with the same?
Stripped of all verbiage that is Germany's proposal in its naked immorality, and the author
chronicles with pleasure that the House of Commons cried down even its discussion. It recalls
to his memory the fact, that the Reichstag--Germany's highest legislative assembly--cheered
to the echo Bethmann-Hollweg's announcement that German armies, in violating the dictates of
moral and international law, by breaking Germany's word of honour, had occupied Luxembourg
and entered Belgium. The two incidents are drastic, concrete illustrations of the gulf which
separates British and German conceptions of right and wrong.

Furthermore, there are two questions of a disciplinary nature arising out of this incident
which "the man in the street" has a perfect right to raise. Assuming that Sir Edward Grey exercised
his discretion and concealed the "infamous proposal" from the Cabinet, which of his colleagues
afterwards betrayed the fact and from what source--German or English--did he obtain his information?

Full knowledge on these points would probably be of great assistance in destroying the "trail
of the serpent" (i.e., German influence and intrigues) in the political and national life of
Great Britain.

Professor Oncken praises German disinterestedness in offering to guarantee the integrity of
French continental and colonial territories in case Germany gained a victory in the war. Sir
Edward Grey's refusal to guarantee British neutrality in return for this promise, the professor
considers supreme and final proof that Britain was bent on war. The nation has rightly approved
of this policy and the point need not be argued in this place; but Professor Oncken in the
seclusion of his German study would do well to weigh two problems:

If Germany had gained a victory--and in August, 1914, she was absolutely convinced that France
and Russia would succumb if they faced her alone--then Germany would have obtained the long
sought upper and "free hand" in Europe. What earthly powers could have compelled her in that
moment to respect her promise in regard to French territories? Certainly Germany's sense of
honour could not be counted upon to do so.

The second problem refers to the bull and the china-shop. Presuming that the bull could talk,
would Professor Oncken advise the guardian of the proverbial china-shop to accept the bull's
promise to respect the status quo ante of his property, before letting him (the bull) run amock
amongst the china?

Lastly, readers are advised when studying the German "case" to remember that Germany never
offered to respect the integrity of French territories and, the neutrality of Belgium. Although
German writers--with malice aforethought--seek to give that impression. Yet, had this combined
offer been made, the author submits that in spite of such a promise, it would still have been
ruinous to British interests to stand aside and see Germany gain the upper and "free hand"
in Europe. Having obtained that, all else would have followed to the desire of Germany's heart.

CHAPTER XII

THE LITERATURE OF HATE

"The English are wretched scoundrels."--Frederick the Great.

"It must come to this, that not even a German dog will accept a piece of bread from an Englishman."--Heinrich
von Treitschke.

"England, the Vampire of Europe," by Count Reventlow.

"Down with England," by Admiral Valois.

"England, our Enemy in the Past, Present and Future," by Erich von Kabler.

"A German Victory, Ireland's Hope," by Dr. Hans Rost.

"England, the Scourge of Humanity," by Germanicus.

"The Poisonous Press," by Germanicus.

"England against England," by Mathieu Schwann.

"A Woman's War Letters," by L. Niessen-Deiters.

"Albion's Death Struggle," by Eugen Detmolder.[208]

[Footnote 208: Written by Detmolder (a Belgian) during the Boer War.--Author.]

"How John Bull recruits his Hirelings," by Dr. Herbert Hirschberg.

"Advance on England! The Destruction of Britain's World Power," Anonymous.

"In English Captivity," by Heinrich Norden, late missionary.

"British versus German Imperium," by an Irish-American. Introduction by Sir Roger Casement.

"Lousyhead goes on Lying." The latest war news of Messrs. Grandebouche (France), Lousyhead
(Russia), and Plumpudding (England), by Karl Ettlinger.

"England and Germany," by Houston Stewart Chamberlain.

"Cable Warfare and the Campaign of Lies," by Dr. Meister, Professor in Münster University.

"England and Continental Interests," by Captain H. Schubart.

"The Annihilation of England's World Power," Essays by twenty-three different authors, including
Professors Haeckel, Eucken and Lamprecht; State Secretary Dr. Dernburg; Dr. Sven Hedin, etc.

"German Misery in London," by Carl Peters.

"The English Face," by six university professors; Frischeisen-Köhler (Berlin); Jastrow (Berlin);
von der Goltz (Greifswald); Roloff (Giessen); Valentin (Freiburg); von Liszt (Berlin).

"Starvation, England's Latest Ally," by Friedrich Simon.

"England and the War," by Professor Lujo Brentano.

"Against France and Albion," by A. Fendrich.

"The Land of Unlimited Hypocrisy," by Spiridion Gopevi.[209]

[Footnote 209: Probably the most scurrilous and vulgar work of its type; but the writer of
it is not a German.--Author.]

"England"; "England and America," Süddeutsche Monatshefte (South German Review) for January
and May, 1915.

"England's Tyranny and former Supremacy of the Seas," by Admiral Kirchoff.

"England's Blood-Guilt against the White Peoples," by Woldemar Schütze.

"The Greatest Criminal against Humanity; King Edward VII. of England. A Curse-pamphlet," by
Lieut.-Col. R. Wagner.

"England, tremble!" by J. Bermbach.

"England as Sea-Pirate State," by Dr. Ernst Schultze.

"In the Pillory! Our Enemies' Campaign of Lies," by Reinhold Anton.

"London's Lie Factory: Renter's Office," by A. Brand.

"England's Wicked Deeds in the World's History," by A. Kuhn.

"Our Settlement with England," by Professor Hermann Oncken.

"England's Betrayal of Germany," by M. Wildgrube.

"England's Guilt," by Gaston von Mallmann.

"English Character," by Professor Arnold Schröer.

"England and We," by Dr. J. Riessner, President of the Hanseatic League.

"How England prevented an Understanding with Germany," by Professor Th. Schiemann.

"God Punish England," published by Simplicissimus.

"Perfidious Albion," by Alfred Geiser.

"Our Enemies among Themselves," Caricatures from 1792-1900 collected by Dr. Paul Weiglin.

"Words in Season," Poems, including the "Hymn of Hate," by Ernst Lissauer.

About sixty-five other titles might be added to those given above, but the author has restricted
the list to books in his possession. Some of them are scurrilous and obscene, deserving no
further attention than a record of their existence. Yet the fundamental idea running through
these works is identical, differing only in the mode of expression.

Hate in itself is a confession of weakness, to a certain extent an admission of defeat. The
presence of hate in a nation or an individual may be explained as resulting from the desire
to remove or destroy an obstacle, which has proved to be immovable and indestructible. A healthy,
well-balanced mind admits defeat and endeavours to make a compromise--to adjust itself to the
inevitable.

But assuming other conditions--a false sense of honour, a morbid conception of self-importance--then
hate seems to be a natural, although unhealthy result. Unfortunately there is evidence that
these factors influence modern Germany. One of the roots of tragedy is to be found in the inequality
between the will and power to perform. In its helplessness the will recoils upon itself, turning
to gall and bitterness, or seeks a solution in self-destruction.

It is noteworthy that some thirteen thousand individuals commit suicide every year in Germany.
Unwilling or unable to adjust themselves to the phenomena of life, they choose death in preference
to the compromise--life. A leaning towards the tragic characterizes the German of to-day; an
inclination not to compromise, not to admit defeat, thereby admitting the "will" to be incapable
of transformance into actuality.

Between Germany and Britain fate has placed such a rock of destiny, i.e., this country's position
in the world, above all, her naval supremacy. Germany has held that this rock hinders, even
endangers, her just and historical development in the world. With wonderful energy, perseverance,
self-sacrifice and heroism, Germany has endeavoured to surmount or destroy the obstacle. The
united will of the nation was expressed in the momentum of the onslaught--in vain. And as no
reconciling influences are at work, no tendency to accept the inevitable--Germany hates.

Outside Germany there is, probably, no one who doubts the invincibility of the British Navy
and the unchangeable will of the British (strengthened by the danger of the past year) to maintain
its supremacy. Yet even to-day responsible Germans are appealing to their nation to fight till
"modern Carthage" is finally destroyed.

"In spite of the publications of our enemies, we in Germany, from the highest to the lowest,
will believe unto all eternity that this war was caused by England alone. All Germany replied
to England's declaration of war with a cry of indignation. The hate for the hypocritical island
kingdom was so bitter that it took the form of demonstrations against the British Embassy,
while the representatives of the other enemy countries were able to depart unharmed.[210]

[Footnote 210: Admiral Valois appears to be unaware that both ladies and gentlemen from the
Russian Embassy were beaten with sticks, fists and umbrellas before leaving Berlin.--Author.]

"Up till then political England was little known in Germany, but now the bitter hate which
reigns throughout the land characterizes her as the incarnation of all that is base and vile.
It brings back to our minds the saying of the old Hanseatic towns:

  'England, thou land of shame,
  Why hast thou, Satansland,
  The name of Angel-land?'

"No sacrifice and no effort will be too great, for us to drag her from her imagined height
into the dust. By force of arms, starvation and the power of lies, they hoped to force us back
to unimportance, and now the issue is: Whether the categoric imperative of the East Prussian
Kant, or the hypocrisy of British cant, shall gain the victory.

"We are unalterably convinced that England is our mortal enemy, and that all endeavours to
find a modus vivendi will be in vain. Still our present naval forces are unequal to the task
of overthrowing her. This will make it easy for the German Government to obtain even the greatest
sums from the Reichstag in order to increase our fleet. Every other aim--no matter what it
is--must be laid aside, till this one is attained: Down with England!

"It is to be hoped that this attempt on England's part to get rid of a competitor will be the
last. We Germans anticipate the future with an unshakable belief in victory. Possibly sooner
or later, England's present allies will see that in reality they are serving English interests.
When this unnatural alliance has crumbled to pieces under the might of our blows, then we shall
at last stand face to face with England--alone!

"Our life-work will then begin--to settle up with the pioneers of hypocrisy so that they shall
never again cross our path! If at any time this high endeavour seems to slacken, then think
of East Prussia! Remember that a third of the province was laid waste; that men, women and
children were murdered and violated; that the lists of the missing contained the names of nearly
fifty thousand fellow-countrymen. And all this had to happen so that every Englishman might
become a few pounds richer.

"Think of it as long as you live, and pass it on to your descendants as an inheritance. Give
all your strength and your last farthing to increase our fleet and any other necessary means
to attain our goal: Down with England!"[211]

[Footnote 211: Admiral Valois: "Nieder mit England!" ("Down with England!") p. 5 et. seq.]

"Truly it is no longer necessary either in this assembly or in all Germany to create popular
opinion for the cry 'Nieder mit England!' It re-echoes daily from the lips of every German.
But still we must continue to point out its necessity--it is a commandment which must banish
every weak inclination to yield, and make us strong to hold out to the bitter end.

"To some it may appear 'one-sided,' but yet it is a moral duty to emphasize and strengthen
our hate for England. Not only because we will hate, but because we must. Hatred ennobles when
it is directed with full force against the evil and bad. And what is the evil? For an answer
consider how the English pedlar-spirit with cunning and lies, has subjugated the world and
holds it in bondage.

"Even in the upper classes (English), ignorance reigns supreme. In their famous schools, e.g.,
Eton College, the young people--besides sports and so-called gentlemanlike behaviour--learn
exceedingly little. Except in regard to purely English affairs most Englishmen possess an almost
inconceivable ignorance of history and geography. The view held by so many Germans that the
majority of the English nation, especially the so-called 'upper ten,' have enjoyed a thorough
education--is utterly false. But in spite of this, English conceit and unexampled pride leaves
little to be desired."[212]

[Footnote 212: Vice-Admiral Kirchhoff: "England's Willkur" ("England's Tyranny"), p. 1 et seq.]

All German naval writers whine in unison concerning the "protection of private property in
naval warfare." The shoe appears to pinch at that point, but the complaints sound hollow when
made by a nation which has shown so little respect for private property in land warfare.

"Turkey was compelled to hand over Cyprus; in return she received an assurance of protection
from England. What the latter understands by 'protection' we have learned from her recent actions.
The behaviour of England's last naval commission in Constantinople speaks volumes. The very
men who were in Turkey's pay, destroyed the weapons (ships, i.e., cannon, machinery, etc.)
entrusted to their care."[213]

[Footnote 213: Ibid., p. 31.]

Besides Kirchhoff, several other writers charge the British naval officers who were in Turkey's
service before the outbreak of war, with acts of sabotage. Another writer (Heinrich Norden,
late missionary in Duala, German Cameroons) sinks a little lower and states that English officers
were guilty of thieving when Duala was captured.

"Indeed, it is not saying too much when I maintain that the true historical purpose of this
war, is only half fulfilled if we do not bring England to her knees--cost what it may in blood
and treasure. That much we owe to our children and their children. We will not only be victorious,
victory is only half the work; we must annihilate the power of our enemy.

"All our dearly-bought victories in East and West will be of no avail if, at the conclusion
of peace, we have not conquered and compelled England to accept our terms. There can never
be justice or morality on earth, or keeping of treaties, or recognition of moral international
obligations, till the power of the most faithless, hypocritical nation which ever existed,
has been finally broken and lies prostrate on the ground. So long ago as 1829 Goethe said to
Förster: 'In no land are there so many hypocrites and sanctimonious dissemblers as in England.'

"We must wait in patience and with confidence in our leaders for the final settlement which
the future will bring. The men in our navy are burning to imitate the deeds of their comrades
on land. Whenever an opportunity has arisen, they have shown themselves equal to the enemy.
Our navy knows, and that is a consolation for the men during inactivity, that the lofty task
of breaking England's power will fall to their share. The men know that the final purpose of
this world war can only be attained with their help, they know what is before them, and that
the enormous stake demands and deserves all they have to give.

"In this time of trial we can best help by waiting in patience. The fleet's turn will come;
the fleet created by our Kaiser will fulfil its mission. Everyone of us recognizes that a well-thought-out
plan is behind all this; even the enemy has premonitions of it.

"In regard to England's downfall there can, may, and must be only one opinion. It is the very
highest mission of German Kultur. Our war, too, is a 'holy war.' For the first time England's
despotic power is opposed by an enemy possessing power, intelligence and will."[214]

[Footnote 214: Ibid., p. 37 et seq.]

Another of the fundamental reasons for German hate must be sought in the different conceptions
of life and its duties in the two nations. In its chief results this has found expression in
two totally different beings. Professor Engel (Berlin) once wrote that from the cradle to the
grave, the German is "on the line," or, in other words, the State directs his every action.

Probably it would be more correct to look upon the German State as a Teutonic Nirvana--with
this distinction, that it is a negation of personal individuality, but at the same time a huge,
collective positive. The individual German fulfils his life's mission by absorption into Nirvana
and by having all his activities transformed in the collective whole for the benefit of the
State. The will of the State is supreme; individuals exist in, through, and for, the whole.
And, above all, the State's motto has been thoroughness and efficiency in every department
of its manifold life; knowledge and power its aims.

Britain's development has been along other lines; the widest possible room has been left to
the individual, and the ties binding him to the whole have been loose in the extreme. German
discipline is replaced by British liberty, with its advantages to the individual and corresponding
disadvantages for the State. Liberty implies the right to rise by honest endeavour, but does
not exclude the possibility of a wilful surrender to slothful inactivity, e.g., the human flotsam
and jetsam of British cities, the casual ward and similar institutions. These and other phenomena
of life in our islands have aroused bitter contempt among Germans. Contempt has been succeeded
by envy and hatred. Rightly or wrongly the German has argued that the people who prefer sport
to knowledge, self-will to a sense of duty to the community, selfishness to sacrifice,[215]
wire-pulling and patronage to efficiency--this people is no longer worthy of the first place
among the nations. By right of merit, morality and efficient fitness--that place belongs to
Germany.

[Footnote 215: An article by the present writer on "Some German Schools" in the Times Educational
Supplement, October 5th, 1915, gives some faint idea of the unprecedented sacrifices made by
German schools. During the war all classes of the population have voluntarily renounced a part
of their earnings for war charities. In the Fränkischer Kurier for October 13th, 1915, the
Burgomaster of Nuremberg announced that the voluntary reduction of salaries agreed to by the
municipal officials of that city had resulted in 264,000 marks (£13,000) going to charitable
funds. The author could cite dozens of similar instances, but it would interest him most of
all to know whether any town in the British Isles can show a better record than Nuremberg,
with a population of 350,000.]

Unfortunately the present war has brought many proofs that there is no small amount of truth
in this indictment, and most unfortunate of all, neutral countries too accept Germany's version
that Britain is unorganized, self-interested, inefficient and effete. And to just the same
degree they are convinced that Germany is thorough. They love Britain's humanitarian idea,
but admire German efficiency--although they fear the latter's militarism.

Still when they are driven to choose to whom they shall confide their vital interests, i.e.,
future existence, they prefer to lean on successful German thoroughness, than on Britain's
humanitarianism unsupported by the strong arm. At the moment of writing there is wailing and
gnashing of teeth throughout the British Empire at the diplomatic failure in Bulgaria and the
previous fiasco in Turkey. Sir Edward Grey has dealt with the question in Parliament, but he
has not mentioned the true reason.

The true reason is that this country has fallen into the habit of sending diplomatic representatives
abroad who have not been keen enough to obtain a mastery of the language, or a full knowledge
of the feelings and national aspirations of the peoples to whom they were accredited. Instead
of being living ambassadors of the British idea, they have often been concrete examples before
foreign eyes of British inefficiency. An example of the language question which came under
the author's personal notice, deserves mention.

In the spring of 1914 there seemed to be a danger that a German would be appointed British
Consul in Nuremberg, and in order to prevent this the author wrote to a British Minister stationed
in Munich. He was greatly surprised to receive a reply--the latter, of course, was in English--addressed
on the outside to:

  "Dr. T. Smith,
  "On the top of the University of Erlangen."

That is to say, the German preposition auf was employed instead of an. A mistake which even
an elementary knowledge of German should have made impossible. In the British Legation at Munich
there was a German-British Consul--a Munich timber-merchant. If readers imagine that Munich
was an unimportant city in the diplomatic sense, then they are recommended to study the French
Yellow Book, which contains final proof that an efficient French Minister was able to make
important discoveries at the Bavarian Court.

British prestige, confidence in British efficiency and power among neutrals has gravitated
dangerously in the direction of zero, while admiration for Germany has correspondingly risen.
That there is only too much reason for the change, the course of the war has given ample proof,
and therein lies the hope of Britain's future. The war will reveal to the British both their
strength and weakness, and if the war does not destroy the dry rot in the land, then it is
merely the precursor of Britain's final downfall.

There can be no greater mistake than closing one's eyes to the good points in a resolute enemy.
As far as this war is concerned they can be summarized under two heads: (1.) The German Board
of Education, which has developed and mobilized the last ounce of German brains and directed
them into the service of the Fatherland.[216] (2.) The German War Office, which has mobilized
Germany's physical and technical forces.

[Footnote 216: Five years ago the present author wrote in the September number, 1910, of Macmillan's
School World:--"Educational reforms and plans must come from the schoolmen; they never spring
of themselves from out of the people; and this is perhaps the most deplorable admission of
all, that modern England has no great educationist or statesman capable of formulating a national
system of schools which shall develop the intellectual material of the nation to its highest
powers, and direct those powers into the best channels. For several decades school inspectors,
etc., have visited continental countries to study their educational systems, and have returned
home with innumerable fads--but no system. Everything of the fantastic has been copied, but
no foundations have been laid; with the result that England's educational system to-day resembles
a piece of patchwork containing a rich variety of colours and a still greater variety of stuff-quality.
It were better for us to have done with educationists who preach about 'the rigid uniformity
of system which is alien both to the English temperament and to the lines on which English
public schools have developed.' The said public schools have hopelessly failed to meet the
necessity of a national system of education, or to form the nucleus from which such a system
could or can develop itself. That the Falls of Niagara, however, dissipate untold natural forces
is just as true as that England wastes immeasurable intellectual force because her forces are
allowed to dissipate through not being disciplined and bridled by a fitting educational mechanism.
Therefore let England turn to the prosaic work of organising!"]

No other State possesses institutions to compare with them. They are the foundation of Germany's
strength, and the present author's only regret is, that the overwhelming forces obtained by
bridling the Teutonic Niagara of brains and muscle, have been directed by a false patriotism
into the wrong channels. Still that is what Britain is up against, and Britain can only secure
an honourable victory by surpassing them. And this much may be admitted even at this stage
of the struggle: one part of the "German idea" is certain of complete victory along the whole
line--German thoroughness and self-sacrifice.

Because only by adopting that ideal is it possible for Germany's enemies to beat her. Political
intrigues, hunger caused by blockade, cant, wire-pulling, hiding the truth, etc., etc., will
break down before the German onslaught like waves break upon a rock. Britain has got to hark
back to Strafford's watchword "thorough" and season it with the spirit of Cromwell's Ironsides.

To-day Germans are seriously discussing measures by which Britain's financial supremacy--and
therewith her naval supremacy--can be overthrown, after the present war. One writer proposes
a return to Napoleon's Continental system, and concludes his plea:

"The British Empire can and must be overthrown, so that the Continent of Europe may flourish
and develop according to the dictates of Europe's will. According to Herbert Spencer's view,
Europe must exercise the highest ethics, viz., 'give the highest possible total of human beings,
life, happiness and above all harmony of work.'

"England has never comprehended what 'the harmony of work' means. Her entire heroism consisted
in brutally suppressing the weaker, and avaricious exploitation of everything foreign by means
of cunning treaties and business tricks. Even an Englishman, Sir J. Seeley, in his book, 'The
Growth of British Policy,' has defied this characteristic with objective clearness.

"For sixty years England struggled against Holland--after which the latter lay prostrate before
her. Now England's battle against her greatest and mightiest rival has commenced--against Germany.
This struggle will last sixty years and longer if Great Britain does not succumb before. Every
peace will only mean preparation for new battles, till the final result is attained; English
history affords proof of this.

"Shall Germany, the latest rival, be broken too? Or shall it be her mission to awaken Europe
to war against greed and avarice, hypocrisy and theft, robbery and violence? Lands which have
slept and dreamed for centuries, do not easily awake. And a part of Europe still dreams deeply
under the hypnotic influence of English cant and altruism, or at least of her God-ordained
hegemony.

"This must be the goal of German statecraft and German diplomacy. The dream must be dispelled,
and the mask torn from the hypocrite's face. If Germany desires to exist, then the weak, faltering
expediency-policy of the German Empire must be at an end. Our one and only aim must be: Down
with England!

"Germany, however, may not strive to enter into England's heritage--that must fall to the Continent.
England's heir shall be Europe, which will then be able to progress and develop as history
intended."[217]

[Footnote 217: Captain H. Schubart: "England und die Interessen des Kontinents" ("England and
Continental Interests"), p. 50.]

German hate has been fed by stories of British atrocities, ill-treatment of German civilians,
the alleged use of dum-dum bullets by British soldiers, and the employment of coloured troops
from India etc. A book has been published under the style of "The Black Book of Atrocities
committed by our Enemies."[218] The charges concerning the use of dum-dum bullets by the British
are dealt with on pp. 39-43.

[Footnote 218: "Das Schwarzbuch der Schandtaten unserer Feinde." Berlin, 1915.]

In spite of the fact that von Treitschke advocates the employment of all available troops,
irrespective of colour, by a State at war, and in spite of the fact that Germany has herself
employed native troops in this war (Cameroons, etc.), their employment by Britain has aroused
a wave of bitter hatred in Germany. As a justification for this indignation the Black Book
quotes Earl Chatham's speech against the employment of Red Indians in the war with the American
colonies.

It is impossible to suppose that some of the charges of ill-treatment of Germans by the British
are more than the squeals of the bully on feeling the pinch. Carl Peters' book "Das deutsche
Elend in London" ("German Misery in London") must certainly be dismissed as belonging to the
squeals. Another booklet[219] may perhaps be quoted, though with all reserve, because it involves
the charge of endangering the white man--above all, the honour of white women--in Africa.

[Footnote 219: "In Englischer Gefangenschaft" ("In English Captivity"), by Heinrich Norden,
late missionary in Duala, Cameroons.]

"In declaring my willingness to relate our experiences during the defence and surrender of
Duala and my experiences in English captivity, my motive was not to add fuel to the fires of
hate against England. But it would be an injustice if we were silent concerning English outrages.
Thousands of our brother Germans lie in English prisoners' camps; their hands are tied and
their mouths closed by the force of circumstances. But with inward wrath they endure in silence.
Yet their position demands that we, who have suffered with them and have luckily escaped, should
speak for them.

"It is our bounden duty to the Fatherland to reveal the truth about English atrocities, and
I am all the more conscious of that duty because some circles betray a certain amount of mistrust
concerning the reports of English horrors.

"On Sunday, September 27th, after all the necessary preparations had been made, the white flag
was hoisted. In a few hours the town was teeming with black and white English and French landing
parties, who were received with indescribable joy by the natives. The latter followed the soldiers
about like dogs, and in real dog-manner began to show their teeth (against the Germans).

"Everything remained quiet on Sunday, but on the following day robbery and plundering began
in a way which we had never believed possible. Still less were we prepared for the brutal treatment
which the English practised on us defenceless Germans. At first they made sure of those who
had borne arms; with lies and deceit they were enticed into a trap. They were requested to
give in their names, whereupon they would be set at liberty. However, when the English thought
that the majority had been collected, the victims were driven on to a steamer which took them
to French Dahomey.

"During the months of our imprisonment I had ample opportunity to observe how the Germans have
been ill-treated by the blacks. The English incited them like a pack of hounds to worry their
own race--and looked on with a laugh. Yet the Germans bore all this degradation with proud
calm, and with the consolation that a day will come when all this shame will be wiped out.

"On the way to the harbour I met about twenty Germans; our company increased from hour to hour.
Women were weeping who did not know the fate of their husbands, but this had not the faintest
effect on the brutal hearts of the English. At last night fell; we were tortured by hunger
and burning thirst. We were in anguish as to what would become of us. Why were our enemies
so inconceivably bitter?[220] Why did they tell us no word of truth? They declared openly that
everything German was to be destroyed, German thrones overthrown and the German devils driven out.

[Footnote 220: Norden has had ample opportunities to learn the story of Belgium, but he and
all other Germans writers, in apparently holy innocence, look upon all bitterness against their
nation as a cruel injustice.--Author.]

"Albion's heroic sons were only able to capture the Cameroons with the aid of native treachery.
The blacks showed them the ways, betrayed the German positions, and murdered Germans in cold
blood wherever opportunity occurred. The English even paid a Judas reward of twenty to fifty
shillings for every German, living or half-dead, who was brought in by the natives.

"Later I met various prisoners whose evidence corroborated the inhuman tortures which they
had endured. Herr Schlechtling related how he was attacked at Sanaga by natives with bush-knives,
just as he was aiming at an English patrol. Herr Nickolai was captured by blacks and his clothes
torn from his body and numerous knife wounds inflicted on his body. The natives took him to
an English steamer whose captain paid them twenty shillings.

"Another German, Herr Student,[221] was compelled to look on while the natives drowned his
comrade (Herr Nickstadt) in a river, while he himself was afterwards delivered up to the English.
Yet another, Herr Fischer, was surprised while taking a meal, bound hand and foot, beaten and
then handed over to the English."[222]

[Footnote 221: Four of these men are still in British captivity. Another Teuton who has sent
blood-curdling tales to Germany may be found in the person of Martin Trojans, prisoner on Rottnest
Island. It would be good to give these men an opportunity of making statements in London before
a commission of neutral diplomatists.--Author.]

[Footnote 222: "In englischer Gefangenschaft," pp. 1-30.]

After all, the picture does not seem so terrible as this good missionary would make out. In
any case he has failed to make out a case which will bear comparison with that already proved
against the German army in Europe, or even so bad as the treatment dealt out by German civilians
to their fellow-countrymen during August, 1914. Furthermore it may be safely assumed that the
bitterness of the natives is to be ascribed to German tyranny, which culminated, as Norden
relates on p.16 of his book, in the strangling of a number of natives, including chiefs of
tribes just before the advent of the British.

Still his book has had due influence on German public opinion. A German lady in a book full
of hysterical hate[223] has based a foul charge upon Norden's statements (besides publishing
his experiences the missionary has delivered many public lectures), that the English and French
left German women to the mercies of the natives!

[Footnote 223: Louise Niessen-Deiters: "Kriegsbriefe einer Frau" ("The War Letters of a Woman"),
p. 56.]

"In the hearts of all those Germans who in this great time, are banished from the Fatherland
and who do not know how things really stand, there burns a great hate, hate for England and
the ardent desire to fight against her--the basest and most hated of all our enemies.

"I have come to the end of my report, which contains only a fraction of the outrages committed
by Albion. And this nation talks of German atrocities! If all the lies spread by the English
Press were true, even then England would have every reason to be dumb. Only he who has felt
the effects of English hate upon his own person can understand the brutal deeds perpetrated
recently on Germans in London and Liverpool. There, England's moral depth is revealed only
too clearly, and before the world she seeks to drag us down to the same level."[224]

[Footnote 224: Norden's book, p. 43 et seq.]

Considering that the total number of Germans captured in the Cameroons is only equal to the
number of civilians murdered or wounded in British towns by Zeppelin bombs, at a cost of hundreds
of thousands of pounds to the German Government, one begins to wonder whether Norden and his
countrymen possess any sense of proportion. Germans are assiduous students of Shakespeare,
but have seemingly overlooked the comedy: Much ado about Nothing.

Ireland is another text for long and windy sermons of German hate, but the conclusion of one
of these tirades[225] will suffice to show Germany's real motive.

[Footnote 225: Dr. Hans Rost: "Deutschland's Sieg, Irland's Hoffnung" ("Germany's Victory,
Ireland's Hope"), p. 25 et seq.]

"At present the direction of the Irish revolutionary movement is in the hands of Professor
Evin MacNeill, Mac O'Rahilly and, above all, Sir Roger Casement. The final acceptance of the
'Constitution of Irish Volunteers' was carried on Sunday, October 25th, 1914, in Dublin. At
that congress of Irish volunteers--who to-day number more than 300,000 well-armed men--special
stress was laid on the fact that the volunteers are Irish soldiers and not imperialistic hirelings.

"Further the members of the organization have engaged not to submit under any circumstances
to the Militia Ballot Act, a kind of national service law which, remarkable to say, is only
enforced in Ireland.

"The Irishmen are thronging to join the movement, and pamphlets are being distributed, and
appeals made on all sides. Besides which, weapons are being gathered and money collected. The
entire episcopacy of Ireland has warned the young men against enlisting in English regiments
on the ground that they will be placed in regiments to which no Catholic priest is attached.
The warning has been most successful in hindering recruiting. In order to break the opposition
of the bishops, England has appointed a special representative to the Vatican.

"When the German Emperor took steps to appoint Catholic priests in the prisoners' camps where
Irish soldiers are interned, the English at once appointed forty-five Catholic priests with
officer's rank, to the British army in France. Even this measure, as well as the sudden diplomatic
activity at the Vatican, is little calculated to extinguish the hate for England in the Irish mind.

"On November 24th (1914) James Larkin began a propaganda in America. He appealed to all Irishmen
to send gold, weapons, and ammunition to Ireland, for the day of reckoning with England. 'We
will fight,' said Larkin, 'for the destruction of the British Empire and the foundation of
an Irish republic; we will fight to deliver Ireland from that foul heap of ruins called England.'
The assembly broke into enthusiastic applause.

"At that moment the curtain was raised, and on the stage a company of Irish volunteers and
a number of German uhlans were revealed. The officers commanding the companies crossed swords
and shook hands while the assembly sang the 'Wacht am Rhein' and 'God save Ireland.'

"Sir Roger Casement has long been a thorn in the side of the English Government, therefore
the latter has not shrunk from making a murderous conspiracy against the life of this distinguished
Irish leader. In agreement with Sir Edward Grey, the British Minister in Christiania, Mr. Findlay,
tried to bribe Casement's companion--named Christensen--to murder Sir Roger. The attempted
murder did not succeed, but the original documents are in the possession of the German Foreign
Office, so that all doubt is excluded as to the English Government's participation--with their
most honourable Grey at the head--in this Machiavellian plan."

This colossal Germanism concerning a plan to murder Sir Roger Casement has been assiduously
spread throughout the German Press. The Berlin Government allows the German people to believe
that incriminating documents are in their possession, and the vilest statements to blacken
Mr. Findlay's character were printed in German newspapers when that gentleman was appointed
to the Bulgarian Court in Sofia.

There are so few utterances in German war literature, which display reason or even moderation,
that the author feels glad to be in a position to cite two. In the May number of the Süddeutsche-Monatshefte,
Professor Wilhelm Franz (Tübingen) reviewed one of the hate-books, viz., a work entitled "Pedlars
and Heroes" by a German named Sombart. A few passages will suffice to show that Germany is
not quite devoid of straight-forward men, who dare to castigate hate.

"Towards the end of his book, Sombart solemnly assures the English that 'they need not fear
us as a colonizing power; we (the Germans) have not the least ambition to conquer half-civilized
and barbarian peoples in order to fill them with German spirit (Geist). But the English can
colonize and fill such peoples with their spirit--for they have none, or at least only a pedlar's.'

"It would never occur to any sane man to refute effusions of this kind, for they cannot be
taken seriously. Still I cannot but wish that an angry English journalist with his clever and
fiery pen, would fall upon Sombart's book and give its author a sample of English spirit. The
work teems with unjust, incorrect opinions; is full of crass ignorance and grotesque exaggerations,
which lead the unlearned astray, injure Germany's cause, and annoy those who know better--so
far as they do not excite ridicule.

"What is one to think when Sombart asks his readers: 'What single cultural work has emerged
from the great shop, England, since Shakespeare--except that political abortion the English State?'

"If I had to answer Sombart I should say, the great shop has given the English State practically
everything which makes for internal peace, solidarity and national health. It has enabled the
nation to exercise tolerance within, and develop splendour and power without, which in their
turn have made Britannia the mistress of the world's waterways, and the British the first colonial
nation in the world.

"England's cultural development has brought all these since Shakespeare's time; energy, willpower,
united with high endeavour to realize great aims and overcome mighty resistance. And the basis
of this splendid progress which compels the admiration of all other States, was what Sombart
presumes to call an 'abortion.'"

The other is taken from "Der englische Gedanke in Deutschland" ("The English Idea in Germany,")
by Ernst Müller-Holm, p. 72. "It is not true that all Englishmen are scoundrels. It is not
true that there is nothing but pedlar's spirit in England, and because it is not true it should
not be said, not even in these times when war passions run high.

"The fatherland of Shakespeare, Byron and Thackeray; the home of Newton, Adam Smith, Darwin
and Lyell will ever remain a land of honour to educated Germans. Where would it end if I were
to count up the heroes of English intellect whose names are written in letters of gold in humanity's
great book?"

It is well to conclude this chapter of hate with two quotations which breathe respect. The
author does not believe that German hate will be so long-enduring as the hate-mongers would
have us think. Rather, he is convinced that mutual interest will force the two nations together
within one or two decades. Preparatory for that day, it is Britain's duty to compel Germany's
respect.

There are good, even magnificent forces in the German nation; there are still noble-minded,
high-thinking Germans who yearn to work in the great civilizing world enterprises. But--and
therein lies the tragedy--"the good, the true, the pure, the just" are not to-day the predominating
powers. They must work out their own salvation; but if the time ever comes when the finest
and best German thought directs Germany's destinies, then there will be no lack of sympathizers
in this country, who will hail the day as the advent of a new world era. For the present, all
mutual jealousies, all the burning ambitions, all quarrels and hate, are submitted to the arbitrament
of the sword. If Britain only wields her sword so well and honourably, as to gain unstinted
victory, that will prove to be the firmest basis for future respect and enduring peace.

CHAPTER XIII

"MAN TO MAN AND STEEL TO STEEL" Scott.

Mention has already been made of German disrespect, even contempt for England and the English.
One of the reasons for this contempt was the smallness of the British army, and the fact that
our soldiers are paid servants of the country. Germans apparently never could comprehend why
a man should receive payment for serving his country by bearing arms, and that fact appeared
to them to afford overwhelming evidence of the pedlar-soul (Krämergeist). The second conclusion
drawn, has generally been that the Britisher is devoid of all sense of duty and self-sacrificing
patriotism. Probably the flocking of several million men to arms in defence of the Empire,
and in defence of British conceptions of right and wrong has done something to convince Germans
that the premises of the syllogism, were not so self-evident as they had imagined.

"Among all the great European Powers, England is the only one which has not introduced national
service and remained true to the principle of keeping an army of paid soldiers. Hence, when
in all other lands at the outbreak of war, the entire people stands ready to defend the national
honour, England is compelled to beat the recruiting drums before she can wage war."[226]

[Footnote 226: Dr. H. Hirschberg: "Wie John Bull seine Söldner wirbt" ("How John Bull recruits
his Mercenaries"), p. 3. Hirschberg reproduces in facsimile a large number of the recruiting
placards which have decorated the British Isles since the outbreak of war. "Your King and Country
need you" is also given (English and German) with music.]

"England wages war on business lines. It is not the sons of the land who bleed for Britannia's
honour; mercenaries from the four corners of the world--including blacks--carry on the war
as a trade for England's business world and nobility. England might well smirk as she uttered
blessings on the Triple Entente, for has she not borne the brand of perfidy for centuries?
Her breast conceals the meanest pedlar's spirit in the, world.

"Every battle which Russia loses is a victory for England, and every defeat which France suffers
means profit for England. She can afford to wait till her allies are beaten and then take over
their business. 'First come, first served' does not hold good in England's case; for her motto
is, the last to come gets the prize.

"Twelve Powers declared war on Germany. Then Japan, the thirteenth, poked out her yellow face
and demanded Kiau Chou. A hyena had smelt corpses, but the blackmailing Mongol received no
reply to his ultimatum. Grim laughter was heard in Germany--booming, bitter laughter at the
band of thieves who hoped to plunder us. And in the wantonness of their righteous wrath, German
soldiers scribbled on the barrack walls an immortal sentence: 'Declarations of war thankfully
received!'"[227]

[Footnote 227: A. Fendrich: "Gegen Frankreich und Albion" ("Against France and Albion"). Stuttgart,
1915; pp. 11-12.]

"How wickedly the war was forced upon Germany! A ring of enemies surrounded her. Envy and ill-will
were their motives, but they lacked the right measure for Germany's greatness. Our people stand
invincible, united, staking life and everything they have--till the last enemy lies in the dust.

"Not much longer and the goal will be attained; the many-sided attack has been smashed and
the war carried into enemy lands. Shining glory has been won by Germany's armies. The passionate
élan of our soldiers, their death-despising bravery and one-minded strength, have gained victory
after victory.

"Revenge begins to glow against the originator of the world-conflagration--against false England!
Mute and astonished the world saw her baseness--wondering at her greatness and her sin. Envy
and ill-will inspired her to cast the lives of millions into the scales, to open the flood-gates
of blood, to spread pain and unspeakable misery--herself coldly smiling.

"What are men's lives to England? She pays for them. Her army of mercenaries which was to force
her yoke on Europe, is paid with the gold of blackmailers. She sends hirelings into the field
to defend the inheritance of her ancestors; paid mercenaries fight for her most sacred possessions,
while those who pay the blood-money throng to see the masterly exponents of football. And England
is proud of her splendid sons who prefer this intellectual game to stern battle with the enemy.

"How different it is with our men! With shouts of joy they march forth to meet the foe, offering
their lives in a spirit of glad sacrifice for the highest and best which the world has to offer
humanity. Storming forwards with the song, 'Deutschland, Deutschland über alles,' our youthful
hosts, greeting death with a smile, hurl themselves upon the enemy. Truly, wherever and so
long as men are men, the glory of our warriors will find remembrance in brave hearts."[228]

[Footnote 228: J. Bermbach: "Zittere, England!" ("England, tremble!"). Weimar, 1915; p. 5 et seq.]

"It would be neither right nor just to accuse English soldiers of a want of courage. They have
fought everywhere, by land and sea, with respect-inspiring gallantry--for mercenaries! But
the warlike virtues of England's armies cannot atone for the cowardice with which she has conducted
the struggle for naval supremacy. Albion means England's rulers. And this England of Messrs.
Grey and Churchill, has covered herself with shame for all time by the manner of her warfare
on sea.

"Albion has not changed. She has hidden her battleships in the bays of northern Ireland, and
conducts war on sea--not against our ships and soldiers, but against those at home, German
women and children! 'The pinch of hunger makes the heart weak,' said the noble-minded Churchill."[229]

[Footnote 229: Fendrich: "Gegen Frankreich und Albion," p. 152 et seq.]

"According to its composition the English army is an army of mercenaries. On that account,
however, it would be a great mistake to despise the quality of the soldiers or to cherish contempt
for them. The standard of physical fitness demanded of the recruits was--at least up till a
short time ago--more severe than that imposed in other lands. There is no doubt, our German
brothers who have met the English on the field of battle, admit that they fight not only with
valour but with unyielding stubbornness.

"This results not so much from barrack-yard drill and field manoeuvres, as from the practical
experience of warfare gained in many campaigns. England is occupied almost uninterruptedly,
in warlike enterprises in some part of the world or other. Further, the officers--belonging
mostly to the upper circles--have distinguished themselves in the field by a rash bravery which
was marked perhaps, not so much by military as sportsmanlike behaviour.

"All in all the strategic value of the English army in regard to leadership, training, discipline
and the spirit of the troops, cannot compare with the conscript armies of other lands--especially
the German army. Yet the contempt which has been expressed for it in the Press as an army of
hirelings, is just as little merited to-day as it was in the past when it added many a glorious
page to England's history.

"These remarks are intended as a refutation to the reproaches made against the English army.
It is true, those unjust criticisms did not originate with experts, or they would imply a dangerous
under-estimation of the enemy. But in consequence of the widespread acceptance among the masses
they unjustly feed the fires of hate."[230]

[Footnote 230: Dr. G. Landauer: "England." Vienna; 1915, pp. 74-5.]

"For the last ten days we have been resting to the west of Lille not far from Armentières;
an English army is opposed to us. My battery is one of the links in the long chain of growlers[231]
which daily pour fire and iron on to the enemy. We gave up counting the days and fights, for
every day has its battle. Besides the English there are Indian troops, and a few French batteries
in front of us.

[Footnote 231: The Germans call their big guns "Brummer," i.e., growler.--Author.]

"Every day confirms our experience that we are faced by an enemy with incomparable powers of
resistance and endurance. An enemy who can hardly be shaken by the sharpest rifle-fire or the
most awful rain of shell and shrapnel. We gain ground slowly, exceedingly slowly, and every
step of soil has to be paid for dearly.

"In the trenches taken by storm the English dead lie in rows, just like men who had not winced
or yielded before the bayonets of the stormers. From the military point of view it must be
admitted that such an enemy deserves the greatest respect. The English have adapted the experiences
gained in their colonial wars to European conditions in a particularly clever manner.

"Every attempt to cross the canal was thwarted by artillery fire and in many places the enemy
was more advantageously situated than our men. His trenches were at least dry while ours were
flooded with water. I went into the front trenches by Dixmude and found them lined half a yard
deep with faggots and wood, yet at every step our feet sank into the water and slush.

"On the other bank of the Yser lay the enemy and fired continuously. Anyone who saw our soldiers
under these conditions and heard their jokes will never forget the sight. All the folk at home
who grumbled at the slow progress ought to have been sent for a single day and night into that
mud-swamp!

"In those fields and canals, in this endless morass--made impassable by flooding--many, many
brave German soldiers have sacrificed their lives. During the autumn and winter months of 1914
the whole Yser domain was transformed into a vast graveyard.

"The battle-front was determined by the nature of the land. It stretched from the sea through
Ramscapelle, Dixmude, Roulers, Paschendaal to Ypres and the rage of battle swayed like a tossing
ship in ocean storm. Even now Germany does not know the greatness and terror of the battles
fought there. Only names are known, such as Middelkerke, Zonnebeeke, Warneton, etc.

"The Belgians fought with the courage of despair. Their battle-cry was 'Louvain!' and 'Termonde!'
Highlanders, Indians, Sikhs, Ghurkas, Zouaves, Turkos, Canadians, Belgians, French and English
were thrown into the line, and ever-new regiments landed at Calais. Houses and villages were
taken and re-taken at the point of the bayonet, as many as seven times. Towns and bridges were
conquered and lost often eight times in succession, accompanied by heavy artillery duels and
incredible losses."[232]

[Footnote 232: Heinrich Binder: "Mit dem Hauptquartier nach Westen," p. 123 et seq.]

"We[233] have just gone into billets. Not far off are the positions of the enemy--the English.
There will be a battle to-morrow and everybody is serious. Mostly by the evening, we are too
tired to think, but it is not so to-day.

[Footnote 233: Extracts from the diary of a German soldier, published in "Der Weltkrieg" ("The
World War"). Leipzig, 1915; p. 632 et seq.]

"Again and again I arrive at the same conclusion--war is too great a thing to comprehend. Now
we are going into battle with the black-white-gold band on our breasts. Greetings to you all
at home, above all to you, father. I have your blessing, haven't I?

"October 24th.--We are lying before the road from Ypres to Paschendaal. The Lt. Colonel has
just told us that 'the losses cannot go on at this rate.' By the side of the brook, on this
side the road, English sharpshooters are in hiding. They shoot damned straight. Our artillery
is not yet up; the reason for our heavy losses yesterday.

"The infantry advance with a rush towards the windmill, but we no sooner top the hill than
the English machine guns begin to rattle. Our front ranks are mown down. Every attempt to advance
fails. The order was given to lie down and there we remained for four hours. Then we rush one
after the other through a hedge. When darkness fell we had nearly reached the English trenches,
but were recalled and spent the night in our trench.

"The next morning passed quietly, except for rifle-fire. Captain von K. was hit, and rolled
over in front of the trench. Three comrades crept out one after the other to fetch him--all
three fell. At last our wounded captain was still too--killed by a second bullet. Being compelled
to watch this scene without power to help, was the beginning of our day.

"Just after mid-day the music began. Crash! a shell lands in our trench on the right. A short
pause, and crash follows crash as the shells are dropped into our trench at distances of four
yards. Death walks slowly up the trench towards us. We know that he is coming, we see him.
Everybody is lying flat on the ground. We are waiting for 'our' shell.

"If we had a communication trench we could escape--but there isn't one. We reckon the distance:
twenty-five yards away another direct hit. Crash! only twenty yards. Fifteen yards! We have
only five minutes to live. Thoughts of God and home and parents rush through the mind; yet
they are only numb feelings. Crash! ten yards; one more and then comes 'ours.' But no, the
next boom was in the trench behind, and in the same manner that trench was cleared from end to end.

"'Lieutenant T. killed, Lieutenant K. takes command' was passed along. We have hardly left
the trench when bullets begin to whistle round our heads. Man after man remains behind. At
last night sinks and hides the horrors of the day. I have lost my company and spend the night
in the open with a few others.

"The next morning the sun shone brightly; the morning wind blows coldly over the furrows and
over the dead. I have no words to describe what I saw--but my heart bled! Near Paschendaal
I found my company. Altogether there are thirty of us--out of two hundred and fifty."

German war literature affords a complete picture of the transformation of German contempt for
the British army into profound respect. As witness the following:

"It cannot be denied that the English have supported Joffre's offensive with valour, strength
and vigour. The battles which have raged since the end of September on the front between Givenchy
la Gobelle and Armentières, have confirmed the deadly seriousness of the English. And if they
have not obtained great successes, still, in this gigantic grapple, they have displayed desperate
courage which compels the admiration of their opponents.

"The Commander of a division, with whom I spent the last few days, said to me in a tone of
deep conviction: 'Nobody must talk lightly of English soldiers in my presence. Their bravery
and the extraordinary courage of English officers compels my admiration. Regimental commanders
and staff officers advanced in the first line of their troops. They fight and fall by the side
of their men. I saw several high officers killed myself.' Besides, I have heard his Excellency's
words confirmed by many of his officers."[234]

[Footnote 234: Julius Hirsch; War Correspondent with the German Army, in the Fränkischer Kurier,
October 22nd, 1915.]

In a previous work the author has expressed the opinion that Great Britain must employ all
her strength in this, the greatest of all wars, and in concluding this work he repeats that
warning still more emphatically. Only a true realization of the inevitable fact that British
democracy is on trial by battle--"man to man and steel to steel"--will give the necessary courage,
endurance, faith and hope to bring the issue to a victorious end.

THE END

INDEX

Alleged Ill-Treatment of Germans in Belgium Appreciation, a German, of England Atrocities Attack
on Liége by a Zeppelin Attitude of Germany and Austria Austrian mobilization

Battle of the Marne
Belgian kindness to Germans
Belgrade during the crisis
Bethmann-Hollweg falsely accuses Russia of causing the war
Bismarck
Britain's position in the world
British
  accused of plundering
  Army
  General Staff's guide-books to Belgium
  inefficiency
  Navy
  Socialists
Brutal treatment of foreigners in Germany

Courage of British Army

Demonstrations in Favour of War Diplomatic battles

England's Attitude
  heir
  neutrality, German offers for
Excitement in Germany

French Airmen, Alleged Attack near Nuremberg
  alleged attack on Frankfort

German Brutality towards Germans
  Chancellor's speech in the Reichstag
  comment on the conference proposal
  Crown Prince
  frontiers, alleged violation by the French
  General Staff, did it conspire to bring about war?
German efficiency
  invasion of France
  losses
  methods
  mobilization
  nerves
  opinion of England
  plundering
  Press plays Germany a foul trick
  provocation to Belgians before the war
  State, a Nirvana
German Socialists
  and conscription
  and universal peace
  cheer the announcement that Germany had invaded two neutral countries
  help Kaiser's government
  support the war
  vote for a war of aggression
  why they supported the war
German Socialists' attitude to England
  campaign against Russia
  class-war
  peace programme
  proclamation on August 1st, 1914,
German troops enter Belgium and Luxembourg
  unity
  war against civilians
German White Book on atrocities by the Belgians
Germans charge French with looting
  enter Brussels
  invade Belgium
Germany declares war on France
  declares war on Russia
  made peace impossible
  rejects British friendship
Germany's alleged efforts  for peace
  case
  case against Belgian civilians
  hunt for phantom gold
  hunt for spies
  re-birth
  ultimatum to Russia
Grey, Sir Edward
Grey's, Sir Edward, conference proposal

Haldane Lord Hate literature Heligoland prepared for war

Ill-treatment, alleged, of Germans by British Ireland and Germany Iron Crosses Italian Socialists
condemn their German comrades

Japan

Kaiser's return to Berlin
  threat
  threat to England
Königin Luise starts to lay mines round the English coast

Lassalle's opinion of Austria Last protest against war Legend of gouged-out eyes Letter of
Belgian Legation Secretary Louvain Lying, a foundation-stone of German policy

Macdonald, Mr. Ramsay Martial law proclaimed in Germany Militarism, spirit of

Necessity knows no law Neutrality of Belgium "Now there are only Germans"

Oncken, Professor Hermann Opinion in France at the outbreak of war

Peace, did Germany work for? Poisoned water-supply scare Press, German, condemns the Austrian
ultimatum Prince Heinrich's telegram to King George Proclamation of the Social Democrats, July
25th, 1914 Propaganda for the annexation of Belgium

Reconciliation with Germany
Roman Catholic Church refutes German atrocity legends
Russia ignores the German ultimatum
Russia's attitude during the crisis
  military measures
  right to intervene

Secret Belgian documents seized in Brussels Social Democratic demonstrations against war Social
Democrats' report on Belgium Socialists, German, vote for war Spy scare and its results Status
of German professors Swiss Neutral on Belgian neutrality

Terms of Triple Alliance Treatment of Belgian civilians Trevelyan's, Mr. Charles, remarkable
promise Tricks of the German Press

Unprepared Condition of the Franco-Belgian Frontier

Violation of Belgian Neutrality Volksstaat (People's State)

War Delirium Warsaw citadel blown up Wolff's News Agency