In 1823, Mr. Williams began a series of missionary voyages.  The events of these have almost
too much sameness for description, though full of interest in detail.  The people, when taken
on their right side, were almost always ready to admit teachers, and adopt certain externals,
though the true essentials of Christianity were of much slower growth. Our limits prevent us
from giving much of detail of his intercourse with these isles.  Raiatea was his first home,
Rarotonga his second.  There he placed his family, which long consisted of his one boy, John,
born in Tahiti, all Mrs. Williams's subsequent babes scarcely living to see the light, until,
in the sixteenth year of her Polynesian life, another son rejoiced her.  She became a centre
and pattern of domestic life, and instructed the women in feminine habits, and she patiently
encountered the anxieties and perils, chiefly from storm and hurricane, that beset her life.
The chief troubles that Mr. Williams encountered at Raiatea, were the vices that civilization
brought.  After old Tamatoa's death, his son allowed a distillery to be established, and drunkenness
threatened to overthrow the habits so diligently taught.  May be, the Puritanical form of religion
and the acquired tastes of the London tradesman did not allow brightness and beauty enough
to these children of the South, and tempted them by proscribing things innocent, but there
is no telling: nothing but strictness seemed a sufficient protection from the foul rites of
idolatry, and all that his judgment or devotion could devise for these people Williams and
his fellows did.

The Samoan group of islands was one of those where the people showed the most intelligence.
They were already great cultivators of the toilette. A Samoan beau glistened from the head
to the hips with sweet-scented oil, and was tastefully tattooed from the hips to the knees;
he wore a bandage of red leaves oiled and shining, a head-dress formed of a pearly disk of
nautilus-shell, and a string of small white shells round each arm.  His lady was not tattooed,
but spotted all over, and when in full attire, wore a beautiful white silky mat at her waist,
a wreath of sweet flowers round her head, rows of large blue beads round her neck, and the
upper part of her person was tinged with turmeric rouge.

These Samoans, though they deified many animals, had no temples, idols, priests, nor sacrifices,
and thus were more than usually amenable to Christian ideas; and on Mr. Williams's second visit
to the island, he had a numerous congregation, but so arranged that he could hardly keep his
countenance.  Some had their long hair greased and stiffened into separate locks, standing
erect like quills upon the fretful porcupine; while others wore it cultivated into one huge
bush, stiffened with coral line, diversified with turmeric.  Indeed, there is no rest for such
heads as these--none of their wearers dares to sleep without a little stool to support his
neck, so as not to crush his chevelure against the ground.

These fine gentlemen had a readiness and intelligence about them that warmed to the first rays
of light.  They listened eagerly, and their attachment to the missionary was expressed in a
song sung in what they called a "heavenly dance" of the ladies in his honour, when he had remained
with them long enough to plant the good seed of a growing church.

      "Let us talk of Viriamu,
      Let cocoa-nuts glow in peace for months;
   When strong the east winds blow, our hearts forget him not.
   Let us greatly love the Christian land of the great white chief.
   All victors are we now, for we all have one God.
   No food is sacred now.  All kinds of fish we catch and eat,
         Even the sting-ray.

      The birds are crying for Viriamu,
         His ship has sailed another way.
      The birds are crying for Viriamu,
         Long time is he in coming.
            Will he ever come again?
            Will he ever come again?"

It was some time before he could come again; for, after eighteen years of unremitting labour
in the isles of Raiatea and Rarotonga, and of voyages touching on many other isles, he had
made up his mind to visit England.

He came home in 1834, and remained about four years, doing much for his cause by his personal
narratives and vivid accounts of the people to whom he had devoted his life.  Curiously enough,
his son, now a youth of twenty, was introduced to Earl Fitzwilliam's gardener, who proved to
have been one of the mission party who had been captured in the Duff on the second voyage,
and who was delighted to hear of the wonderful progress of the cause from which he himself
had been turned back.

A subscription was raised for the purchase of a mission ship, exceeding in size and suitability
such craft as could be purchased or hired in Australia; and the Camden, a vessel admirably
fitted for the purpose, was obtained and equipped at a cost of 2,600l., the command of her
given to Captain Morgan, who was well experienced in the navigation of the Polynesian seas,
and had, moreover, such a reputation for piety, that the natives termed his vessel "the praying
ship."

In this vessel a large reinforcement of missionaries was taken out, including a married pair
for Samoa, and likewise young John Williams, who had found himself an English wife; but his
little brother was left at home for education.  The intention of Williams was to station the
missionaries upon the friendly isles, and himself circulate among them in the Camden, breaking
fresh ground in yet unvisited isles, and stationing first native and then English teachers,
as they were prepared for them.

Among the Samoans he remained a good while.  He estimated the population at 60,000, of whom
nearly 50,000 were under instruction.  Several places of worship were opened with feasts, at
which huge hecatombs of swine were consumed--1,370 at one festival.  One young chief under
instruction became so good a preacher, that Williams called him the Whitfield of Samoa; and
these islands have, under the training then set on foot, furnished many a missionary and even
martyr to the isles around, and are, to the present day, one of the happiest specimens of the
effects of missionary labour.

The want of extended views in good Mr. Williams was shown in his manner of regarding the expected
arrival of some Roman Catholic priests in the Polynesian seas.  He set to work to translate
Foxe's "Book of Martyrs," and begged that a present offered him for his people might be expended
in slides illustrating it for a beautiful magic lantern which he already possessed, and whose
Scripture scenes drew tears from the natives.  He had not Church knowledge enough to rise above
the ordinary popular view of "Popery," and did not understand its Christianity enough to see
the evils of sowing the bitterest seeds of the Protestant controversy among scarcely reclaimed
heathens.

On their side, the Roman Catholics would have done better to enter on untrodden ground, of
which there was such an infinity, than to force themselves where, if they did not find their
Church, at least they found faith in the Saviour.  But the Society Isles were coveted, for
political reasons, by the existing French Government, and the struggle was there beginning,
of which Mr. Williams was not destined to see the unfortunate conclusion.

