VOLUME II

Dublin Printed by J. Williams, (No. 21.) Skinner-Row.

M,DCC,LXXVII.

A

JOURNEY, &c.

LETTER XXXIV.

NISMES

SIR,

I am very certain that a man may travel twice through Spain, and half through France, before
he sees a woman of so much beauty, elegance, and breeding, as the mistress of the house I lodge
in near this city. I was directed to the house, and recommended to the lady, as a lodger; but
both were so fine, and superior in all respects to any thing I had seen out of Paris, that
I began to suspect I had been imposed upon. The lady who received me appeared to be (it was
candle-light) about eighteen, a tall, elegant figure, a beautiful face, and an address inferior
to none: I concluded she was the daughter, till she informed me, that Mons. Saigny, her husband,
was gone to Avignon. What added, perhaps, to this lady's beauty in my eyes, or rather ears,
was her misfortune,--she could not speak louder than a gentle whisper. After seeing her sumptuous
apartments, I told her I would not ask what her price was, but tell her what I could afford
only to give; and observed, that as it was winter, and the snow upon the ground, perhaps she
had better take my price than have none. She instantly took me by the hand and said, she had
so much respect for the English nation, that my price was her's; and with a still softer whisper,
and close to my ear, said, I might come in as soon as I pleased--"Quand vous voudrez, Monsieur,"
said she. We accordingly took possession of the finest apartments, and the best beds I ever
lay on. The next day, I saw a genteel stripling about the house, in a white suit of cloaths,
dressed en militaire, and began to suspect the virtue of my fair hostess, not perceiving for
some hours that it was my hostess herself; in the afternoon she made us a visit in this horrid
dress,--(for horrid she appeared in my eyes)--her cloaths were white, with red cuffs and scarlet
lappels; and she held in her straddling lap a large black muff, as big as a porridge-pot. By
this visit she lost all that respect her superlative beauty had so justly entitled her to,
and I determined she should visit me no more in man's apparel. When I went into the town I
mentioned this circumstance, and there I learnt, that the real wife of Mons. Saigny had parted
from him, and that the lady, my hostess, was his mistress. The next day, however, the master
arrived; and after being full and finely dressed, he made me a visit, and proffers of every
attention in his power: he told me he had injured his fortune, and that he was not rich; but
that he had served in the army, and was a gentleman: he had been bred a protestant, but had
just embraced the true faith, in order to qualify himself for an employment about the court
of the Pope's Legate at Avignon. After many expressions of regard, he asked me to dine with
him the next day; but I observed that as he was not rich, and as I paid but a small rent in
proportion to his noble apartments, I begged to be excused; but he pressed it so much, that
I was obliged to give him some other reasons, which did not prove very pleasing ones, to the
lady below. This fine lady, however, continued to sell us wood, wine, vinegar, sallad, milk,
and, in short, every thing we wanted, at a very unreasonable price. At length, my servant,
who by agreement made my soup in their kitchen, said something rude to my landlord, who complained
to me, and seemed satisfied with the reprimand I had given the man; but upon a repetition of
his rudeness, Mons. Saigny so far forgot himself as to speak equally rude to me: this occasioned
some warm words, and so much ungovernable passion in him, that I was obliged to tell him I
must fetch down my pistols; this he construed into a direct challenge, and therefore retired
to his apartments, wrote a card, and sent it to me while I was walking before the door with
a priest, his friend and visitor, and in sight of the little female captain his second, and
all the servants of the house; on this card was wrote, "Sir, I accept your proposition;" and
before I could even read it, he followed his man, who brought it in the true stile of a butler,
rather than a butcher, with a white napkin under his arm. You may be sure, I was no more disposed
to fight than Mons. Saigny; indeed, I told him I would not; but if any man attacked me on my
way to or from the town, where I went every day, I would certainly defend myself: and fortunately
I never met Mons. Saigny in the fortnight I staid after in his house; for I could not bear
to leave a town where I had two or three very agreeable acquaintance, and one (Mons. Seguier)
whose house was filled as full of natural and artificial curiosities, as his head is with learning
and knowledge. Here too I had an opportunity of often visiting the Amphitheatre, the Maison
Carree, (so Mons. Seguier writes it) and the many remains of Roman monuments so common in and
about Nismes. I measured some of the stones under which I passed to make the tout au tour of
the Amphitheatre, they were seventeen feet in length, and two in thickness; and most of the
stones on which the spectators sat within the area, were twelve feet long, two feet ten inches
wide, and one foot five inches deep; except only those of the sixth row of seats from the top,
and they alone are one foot ten inches deep; probably it was on that range the people of the
highest rank took their seats, not only for the elevation, but the best situation for sight
and security; yet one of these great stones cannot be considered more, in comparison to the
whole building, than a single brick would be in the construction of Hampton-Court Palace. When
I had the sole possession (and I had it often) of this vast range of seats, where emperors,
empresses, Roman knights, and matrons, have been so often seated, to see men die wantonly by
the hands of other men, as well as beasts for their amusement, I could not but with pleasure
reflect, how much human nature is softened since that time; for notwithstanding the powerful
prevalency of custom and fashion, I do not think the ladies of the present age would plume
their towering heads, and curl their borrowed hair, with that glee, to see men murdered by
missive weapons, as to die at their feet by deeper, tho' less visible wounds. If, however,
we have not those cruel sports, we seem to be up with them in prodigality, and to exceed them
in luxury and licentiousness; for in Rome, not long before the final dissolution of the state,
the candidates for public employments, in spite of the penal laws to restrain it, bribed openly,
and were chosen sometimes by arms as well as money. In the senate, things were conducted no
better; decrees of great consequence were made when very few senators were present; the laws
were violated by private knaves, under the colour of public necessity; till at length, Cæsar
seized the sovereign power, and tho' he was slain, they omitted to recover their liberty, forgetting
that

    "A day, an hour, of virtuous Liberty
    Is worth a whole eternity of bondage."
                Addison's CATO.

I can almost think I read in the parallel, which I fear will soon be drawn between the rise
and fall of the British and Roman empire, something like this;--"Rome had her CICERO; Britain
her CAMDEN: Cicero, who had preserved Rome from the conspiracy of Catiline, was banished: CAMDEN,
who would have preserved Britain from a bloody civil war, removed." The historian will add,
probably, that "those who brought desolation upon their land, did not mean that there should
be no commonwealth, but that right or wrong, they should continue to controul it: they did
not mean to burn the capitol to ashes, but to bear absolute sway in the capitol:--The result
was, however, that though they did not mean to overthrow the state, yet they risqued all, rather
than be overthrown themselves; and they rather promoted the massacre of their fellow-citizens,
than a reconciliation and union of parties,"--THUS FELL ROME--Take heed, BRITAIN!

LETTER XXXV.

ARLES.

I left Nismes reluctantly, having formed there an agreeable and friendly intimacy with Mr.
D'Oliere, a young gentleman of Switzerland; and an edifying, and entertaining acquaintance,
with Mons. Seguier. I left too, the best and most sumptuous lodgings I had seen in my whole
tour; but a desire to see Arles, Aix, and Marseilles, &c. got the better of all. But I set
out too soon after the snow and rains, and I found part of the road so bad, that I wonder how
my horse dragged us through so much clay and dirt. When I gave you some account of the antiquities
of Nismes, I did not expect to find Arles a town fraught with ten times more matter and amusement
for an antiquarian; but I found it not only a fine town now, but that it abounds with an infinite
number of monuments which evince its having once been an almost second Rome. There still remains
enough of the Amphitheatre to convince the beholder what a noble edifice it was, and to wonder
why so little, of so large and solid a building, remains. The town is built on the banks of
the Rhone, over which, on a bridge of barges, we entered it; but it is evident, that in former
days, the sea came quite up to it, and that it was a haven for ships of burden; but the sea
has retired some leagues from it, many ages since; beside an hundred strong marks at this day
of its having been a sea-port formerly, the following inscription found a century or two ago,
in the church of St. Gabriel, will clearly confirm it:

          M. FRONTONI EVPOR
      IIIIIIVIR AVG. COL. JVLIA.
    AVG. AQVIS SEXTIIS NAVICVLAR.
    MAR. AREL. CVRAT EJVSD. CORP.
    PATRONA NAVTAR DRVENTICORVM.
          ET VTRICVLARIORVM.
         CORP. ERNAGINENSIUM.
           JULIA NICE VXOR.
          CONJVGI KARISSIMO.

Indeed there are many substantial reasons to believe, that it was at this town Julius Cæsar
built the twelve gallies, which, from the cutting of the wood to the time they were employed
on service, was but thirty days.--That it was a very considerable city in the time of the first
Emperors, is past all doubt. Constantine the Great held his court, and resided at Arles, with
all his family; and the Empress Faustina was delivered of a son here (Constantine the younger)
and it was long before so celebrated for an annual fair held in the month of August, that it
was called le Noble Marche de Gaules. And Strabo, in his dedication of his book to the Emperor,
called it "Galliarum Emporium non Parvum;" which is a proof that it was celebrated for its
rich commerce, &c. five hundred years before it became under the dominion of the Romans. But
were I capable of giving you a particular description of all the monuments of antiquity in
and near this town, it would compose a little book, instead of a sheet or two of paper. I shall
therefore only pick out a few things which have afforded me the most entertainment, and I hope
may give you a little; but I shall begin with mentioning what must first give you concern,
in saying that in that part of the town called la Roquette, I was shewn the place where formerly
stood an elevated Altar whereon, three young citizens were sacrificed annually, and who were
fattened at the public expence during a whole year, for the horrid purpose! On the first of
May their throats were cut in the presence of a prodigious multitude of people assembled from
all parts; among whom the blood of the victims was thrown, as they imagined all their sins
were expiated by that barbarous sacrifice; which horrid practice was put a stop to by the first
Bishop of Arles, ST. TROPHIME. The Jews, who had formerly a synagogue in Arles, were driven
out in the year 1493, when that and their celebrated School were demolished. There were found
about an hundred after, among the stones of those buildings some Hebrew characters neatly cut,
which were copied and sent to the Rabbins of Avignon, to be translated, and who explained them
then thus:

    Chodesh: Elvl. Chamescheth, lamech, nav. Nislamv. Bedikoth.
    Schradai.

i.e. they say,

    "In the month of August five thousand and thirty--the Visitation
    of God ceased."

Perhaps the plague had visited them.--There was also another Hebrew inscription, which was
on the tomb of a famous Rabbin called Solomon, surnamed the grandson of David.

The Amphitheatre of Arles was of an oval form, composed of three stages; each stage containing
sixty arches; the whole was built of hewn stone of an immense size, without mortar, and of
a prodigious thickness: the circumference above, exclusive of the projection of the architecture,
was 194 toises three feet, the frontispiece 17 toises high and the area 71 toises long and
52 wide; the walls were 17 toises thick, which were pierced round and round with a gallery,
for a convenience of passing in and out of the seats, which would conveniently contain 30,000
men, allowing each person three feet in depth and two in width; and yet, there remain at this
day only a few arches quite complete from top to bottom, which are of themselves a noble monument.
Indeed one would be inclined to think that it never had been compleated, did we not know that
the Romans left nothing unfinished of that kind; and read, that the Emperor Gallus gave some
superb spectacles in the Amphiteatre of Arles, and that the same amusements were continued
by following Emperors. Nothing can be a stronger proof than these ruins, of the certain destruction
and corruption of all earthly things; for one would think that the small parts which now remain
of this once mighty building would, endure as long as the earth itself; but what is very singular
is, that this very Amphitheatre was built upon the ruins of a more mighty building, and perhaps
one of a more substantial structure. Tempus edax rerum, tuque invidiosa vetustas omnia destruis.
In the street called St. Claude, stood a triumphal arch which was called L'Arche admirable;
it is therefore natural to conclude, that the town contained many others of less beauty. There
are also within the walls large remains of the palace of Constantine. A beautiful antique statue
of Venus was found here also, about an hundred and twenty years ago.--That a veritable fine
woman should set all the beaux and connoisseurs of a whole town in a flame, I do not much wonder;
but you will be surprized when I tell you that this cold trunk of marble, (for the arms were
never found) put the whole town of Arles together by the ears; one Sçavant said it was the
goddess Diana, and wrote a book to prove it; another insisted upon it, that it was the true
image of Venus; then starts up an Ecclesiastic, who you know has nothing to do with women,
and he pronounced in dogmatical terms, it was neither one nor the other; at length the wiser
magistrates of the town agreed to send it as a present to their august monarch Lewis the XIVth;
and if you have a mind to see an inanimate woman who has made such a noise in the world, you
will find her at Versailles, without any other notice taken of her or the quarrels about her,
than the following words written (I think) upon her pedestal, La Venus d'Arles. This ended
the dispute, as I must my letter.

LETTER XXXVI.

I have not half done with Arles. The more I saw and heard in this town, the more I found was
to be seen. The remains of the Roman theatre here would of itself be a sufficient proof that
it was a town of great riches and importance. Among the refuse of this building they found
several large vases of baked earth, which were open on one side, and which were fixed properly
near the seats of the audience to receive and convey the sounds of the instruments and voices
of the actors distinctly throughout the theatre, which had forty-eight arches, eleven behind
the scenes of ten feet wide, three grand arches of fourteen feet wide, and thirty-one of twelve
feet; the diameter was thirty-one canes, and the circumference seventy-nine; and from the infinite
number of beautiful pieces of sculpture, frizes, architraves, pillars of granite, &c. which
have been dug up, it is very evident that this theatre was a most magnificent building, and
perhaps would have stood firm to this day, had not a Bishop of Arles, from a principle of more
piety than wisdom, stript it of the finest ornaments and marble pillars, to adorn the churches.
Near the theatre stood also the famous temple of Diana; and, as the famous statue mentioned
in my former letter was found beneath some noble marble pillars near that spot, it is most
likely La Venus d'Arles is nevertheless the Goddess Diana.

I never wish more for your company than when I walk, (and I walk every day) in the Elysian
fields. The spot is beautiful, the prospect far and near equally so: in the middle of this
ancient Cimetiere stands a motly building, from the middle of which however rises a cupola,
which at the first view informs you it is the work of a Roman artist; and here you must, as
it were, thread the needle between an infinite number of Pagan and Christian monuments, lying
thick upon the surface in the utmost disorder and confusion, insomuch, that one would think
the Day of Judgment was arrived and the dead were risen. Neither Stepney church-yard, nor any
one in or near a great city, shew so many headstones as this spot does stone coffins of an
immense size, hewn out of one piece; the covers of most of which have been broken or removed
sufficiently to search for such things as were usually buried with the dead. Some of these
monuments, and some of the handsomest too, are still however unviolated. It is very easy to
distinguish the Pagan from the Christian monnments, without opening them, as all the former
have the Roman letters DM (Diis Manibus) cut upon them. It is situated, according to their
custom, near the high-way, the water, and the marshes. You know the ancients preferred such
spots for the interment of the dead.

The tombs of Ajax and Hector, HOMER says, were near the sea, as well as other heroes of antiquity;
for as they considered man to be composed of earth and water, his bones ought to be laid in
one, and near the other.

I will now give you a few of the most curious inscriptions; but first I will mention a noble
marble monument, moved from this spot into the Cimetiere of the great Hospital. This tomb is
ornamented with Cornucopiæ, Pateræ, &c. and in a shield the following inscription:

        CABILIAE D.F. APPRVLLAE FLAM
    D   DESIGNATAE COL. DEA. AUG. VOC.   M
        O. ANNOS XIIII, MENS II. DIES V.
        MARITVS VXORI PIENTISSIMAE.
              POSUIT.

This poor girl was not only too young to die, but too young to marry, one would think; I wish
therefore her afflicted husband had told us how many years he had been married to a wife who
died at the age of fourteen, two months, and five days. The cornucopiæ, I suppose, were to
signify that this virtuous wife, I was going to say maid, was the source of all his pleasure
and happiness. The Pateræ were vases destined to receive the blood of the victims.

    Supponunt alij cultros, tepidumque cruorem
    Suscipiunt Pateris,--Says the Poet.

On each side of the tomb are the symbols of sacrifice. It is very evident from the fine polish
of this monument, that her husband had obtained the Emperor's particular leave to finish it highly.

Rogum ascia ne Polito says the law of the twelve tables.

On another tomb, which is of common stone, in the middle of a shield supported by two Cupids,
is the following inscription:

            M IVNIO MESSIANO
        ----VTRICI. CORP. ARELAT.
    D   EIVS D. CORP. MAG. III. F   M
         QUI VIXIT ANN. XXVIII.
       M. V. D. X. IVNIA VALERIA.
          ALVMNO CLARISSIMO.

The first word of the second line is much obliterated.

There are an infinite number of other monuments with inscriptions; but those above, and this
below, will be sufficient for me to convey to you, and you to my friend at Winchester.

            L DOMIT. DOMITIANI
        EX TRIERARCHI CLASS. GERM.
    D       PECCOCEIA VALENTINA       M
            CONIUGI PIENTISSIMA.

Before I leave Arles, and I leave it reluctantly, whatever you may do, I must not omit to mention
the principal monument, and pride of it, at this day, i.e. their Obelisque. I will not tell
you where nor when it was dug up; it is sufficient to say, it was found here, that it is a
single piece of granite, sixty-one feet high, and seven feet square below; yet it was elevated
in the Market-place, upon a modern pedestal, which bears four fulsome complimentary inscriptions
to Lewis the XIV. neither of which will I copy. In elevating this monstrous single stone, the
inhabitants were very adroit: they set it upright in a quarter of an hour, in the year 1676,
just an hundred years ago, amidst an infinite number of joyful spectators, who are now all
laid in their lowly graves; for though it weighed more than two thousand hundred weight, yet
by the help of capsterns, it was raised without any difficulty. The great King Harry the IVth
had ordered the houses in the arena of the Amphitheatre to be thrown down, and this obelisk
to be fixed in the center of it; but his death, and Lewis's vanity, fixed it where it now stands;
it has no beauty however to boast of but its age and size, for it bears neither polish, characters,
nor hieroglyphicks, but, as it seems to have been an Egyptian monument, the inhabitants of
Arles have, like those people, consecrated it below to their King, and above to the sun: on
the top is fixed a globe of azure, sprinkled with fleurs de lis d'or, and crowned with a radiant
sun, that is to say, as the sun was made by GOD to enlighten the world, so LEWIS LE GRAND was
made to govern it.

I am sure now, you will excuse my mentioning what is said of this great man below; but speaking
of light, I must not omit to mention, that there are men of veracity now living in this town,
who affirm, that they have seen, upon opening some of the ancient monuments here, the eternal
lamps burning. The number of testimonies we have of this kind puts the matter past a doubt,
that a flame has appeared at the lip of these lamps when first the tombs have been opened;
one was found, you know, on the Appian way, in the tomb of Cicero's daughter, which had burnt
more than seventeen centuries; another at Padua, which had burnt eight hundred years, and which
was found hanging between two little phials, one of gold, the other of silver, which were both
quite full of liquor, extremely clear, as well as many others; but as it is impossible to believe
that flame can exist, and not consume that which feeds it, is it not more natural to conclude
that those lamps, phials, &c. contained a species of phosphorus, which became luminous upon
the first opening of the tombs and the sudden rushing in of fresh air; and that the reverse
of what is generally supposed is the fact, that they are not extinguished, but illuminated
by the fresh air they receive? I have seen several of these lamps here and elsewhere, most
of which are of baked earth. It has been said, that there is an oil to be extracted from gold,
which will not consume, and that a wick of asbestos has burnt many years in this oil, without
consumption to either. I have seen a book written by a German Jesuit, to confirm this fact;
so there is authority for you, if not conviction.

As I know your keen appetite after antiquities, I will send you a few other inscriptions, and
leave you to make your own comments; and voila.

        D       M
      L. HOSTIL. TER.
          SILVANI.
    ANN. XXIIII. M. II. D.
    XV MATER FIL PIJSSIMI
     MISERA ET IN LVCIV.
     AETERNALI BENIFICI.
        O NOVERCAE.

The following inscription is cut upon a marble column, which stands near the Jesuits' church:

    SALVIS D.D.N.N. THEODOSIO, ET VALENTINIANO.
         P.F.V. AC TRIVM. SEMPER AUG. XV.
         CONS. VIR. INL. AUXILIARIS PRÆ.
           PRÆT, GALLIA. DE ARELATE MA,
                MILLIARIA PONI. S.
                       M.P.S.

In the ancient church of St. Honore, which stands in the center of all these Heathen and Christian
monuments, are to be seen nine Bacchanalians of very ancient workmanship; where also is the
tomb of St. Honore, employed as the altar of the church; and beneath the church are catacombs,
where the first Christians retired to prayer during the persecution by the Emperors, and where
is still to be seen their altar and seven ancient sepulchres, of beautiful marble, and exquisitely
worked; the first is the tomb of St. Genet; the second of St. Roland, Archbishop of Arles;
the third of St. Concord, with an epitaph, and two doves with olive branches in their beaks,
cut in bass relief, and underneath are the two letters X and P; on this tomb is the miraculous
cross seen in the heavens by Constantine, who is represented before it on his knees; and on
the cover of this tomb are the heads of Constantine, Faustina, and his son; and they say the
Emperor saw this miracle in the heaven from the very Cimetiere in which this monument stands,
i.e. in the year 315; the fifth is the tomb of St. Dorothy, Virgin and Martyr of Arles; the
sixth St. Virgil, and the seventh St. Hiliare, (both Archbishops of Arles,) who has borrowed
a Pagan sepulchre, for it is adorned with the principal divinities of the ancients in bass
relief.--It seems odd to see on a Christian Bishop's tomb Venus, and the three Destinies. The
people here say, that this tomb represents human life, as the ancients believed that each God
contributed something towards the being. Be that as it may, the tomb is a very curious one,
and much admired by the Connoisseurs, for its excellent workmanship; but what is more extraordinary
than all these, is, that this catacomb, standing in the middle of the others, with its cover
well and closely fixed, has always water in it, and often is quite full, and nobody can tell
(but one of the priests perhaps) from what source it comes. There is also in this church the
tomb and a long Latin Epitaph of St. Trophime, their first Bishop; but the characters are very
Gothic, and the Cs are square, [Image: E E with no mid bar]; he came here in the year 61, and
preached down that abominable practice of sacrificing three young men annually. He died in
the year 61, at 72 years of age. On the front of the Metropolitan church of Arles, called St.
Trophime, are the two following lines, in Gothic characters, cut above a thousand years:

    Cernitur eximius vir Christi Discipulorum,
    De Numero Trophimus, hic Septuaginta duorum.

This church was built in the year 625, by St. Virgil, and is a curious piece of antiquity within,
and particularly without; but I will not omit to give you one of its singularities within;
it is an ancient and curious inscription in large Gothic letters, near the organ:

  Terrarum Roma         Gemina de luce majistrA.
  Ros Missus Semper     Aderit: velut incola IoseP
  Olim Contrito         Letheo Contulit OrchO.

To read this you will see you must take the first letter of each verse: TRO, Trophemus; GAL,
Galliæorum; and APO, Apostolus. The letter H, belonging to the word Joseph, must be carried
to the word Orcho, and the P must stand by itself.

Trophimus Galliarum Apostolus, ut ros missus est, ex urbe Romæ rerum Dominæ Gemina de luce,
scilicet a Petro et Paulo, Ecclesiæ luminaribus; Contrito orcho Letheo, nempe statim post Christi
Passionem qua Dæmonis & orchi caput contrivit, semper animos nostras nutriet, cibo illo, divinæ
fidei quem nobis contulit: ut alter Joseph qui olim Ægypti populum same pereuntem liberavit.

LETTER XXXVII.

MARSEILLES.

Soon after we left the town of Arles, on our way to Aix, and this city, we entered upon a most
extraordinary and extensive plain; it is called the Crau, and is a principal and singular domain,
belonging to and situated on the south side of that city; it is ten leagues in diameter; on
which vast extent, scarce a tree, shrub, or verdure is visible; the whole spot being covered
with flint stones of various sizes, and of singular shapes. Petrarch says, as Strabo, and others
have said before him, that those flint stones fell from Heaven like hail, when Hercules was
fighting there against the giants, who, finding he was likely to be overcome, invoked his father
Jupiter, who rained this hard shower of flint stones upon his enemies, which is confirmed by
Æschylus.

    "Jupiter Alcidem quando respexit inormem,
    Illachrymans, Ligures saxoso perpluit imbre."

But as this account may not be quite satisfactory to you, who I know love truth more than fable,
I am inclined to think you will consider Possidonius's manner of accounting for it more feasible:
He says, that it was once a great lake, and having a bed of gravel at the bottom, those pebble
stones, by a succession of ages, have grown to the size they now appear; but whether stones
grow which lie upon the surface of the earth and out of their proper strata, I must leave you
and other naturalists to determine, without repeating to you what Aristotle, and others, have
said upon that subject; and therefore, instead of telling you either what they say, or I think,
I will tell you what I know, which is, that barren as the Crau appears to be, it not only feeds,
but fattens an infinite number of sheep and cattle, and produces such excellent wine too in
some parts of it, that it is called Vin de Crau, by way of pre-eminence: it has a poignant
quality, is very bright, and is much esteemed for its delicious flavour. The herb which fattens
the sheep and feeds such quantities of cattle is a little plant which grows between and under
the flint stones, which the sheep and other animals turn up with their feet, to come at the
bite; beside which, there grows a plant on this Crau that bears a vermilion flower, from which
the finest scarlet dye is extracted; it is a little red grain, about the size of pea, and is
gathered in the month of May; it has been sold for a crown a pound formerly; and a single crop
has produced eleven thousand weight. This berry is the harvest of the poor, who are permitted
to gather it on a certain day, but not till the Lord of the Manor gives notice by the sound
of a horn, according to an ancient custom and privilege granted originally by King RENE.--On
my way over it, I gathered only a great number of large larks by the help of my gun, though
I did not forget my Montserrat vow: It was a fine day, and therefore I did not find it so tedious
as it must be in winter or bad weather; for if any thing can be worse than sea, in bad weather,
it must be this vast plain, which is neither land or sea, though not very distant from the
latter, and in all probability was many ages since covered by the ocean.

The first town we came to after passing this vast plain, I have forgot the name of; but it
had nothing but its antiquity and a noble and immense old castle to recommend it, except a
transparent agate statue of the Virgin in the church, as large as the life, with a tin crown
upon her head. Neither the town nor the inhabitants had any thing of the appearance of French
about them; every thing and every body looked so wild, and the place was in such a ruinous
condition, that I could scarce believe I was not among the Arabs in Egypt, or the ruins of
Persepolis. Without the town, in a fine beautiful lawn stands a most irregular high and rude
rock, perpendicular on all sides, and under one side of it are ruins of a house, which I suppose
was inhabited by the first Seigneur in the province. I looked in, and found the ruins full
of miserable inhabitants, I fancy many families; but it exhibited such a scene of woe, that
I was glad to get out again; and upon inquiry, I found it had been in that state ever since
it had been used as an hospital during the last plague.

LETTER XXXVIII.

MARSEILLES.

As the good and evil, which fall within the line of a road, as well as a worldly traveller,
are by comparison, I need not say what a heavenly country France (with all its untoward circumstances)
appeared to us after having journeyed in Spain: what would have put me out of temper before,
became now a consolation. How glad I should I have been, and how perfectly content, had it
been thus in Spain, was always uppermost, when things ran a little cross in France.

