It will be found that the ripest knowledge is best qualified to instruct the most complete
ignorance. It is a common mistake to suppose that those who know little suffice to inform those
who know less; that the master who is but a stage before the pupil can, as well as another,
shew him the way; nay, that there may even be an advantage in this near approach between the
minds of teacher and of taught; since the recollection of recent difficulties, and the vividness
of fresh acquisition, give to the one a more living interest in the progress of the other.
Of all educational errors, this is one of the gravest. The approximation required between the
mind of teacher and of taught is not that of a common ignorance, but of mutual sympathy; not
a partnership in narrowness of understanding, but that thorough insight of the one into the
other, that orderly analysis of the tangled skein of thought; that patient and masterly skill
in developing conception after conception, with a constant view to a remote result, which can
only belong to comprehensive knowledge and prompt affections. With whatever accuracy the recently
initiated may give out his new stores, he will rigidly follow the precise method by which he
made them his own; and will want that variety and fertility of resource, that command of the
several paths of access to a truth, which are given by thorough survey of the whole field on
which he stands. The instructor needs to have a full perception, not merely of the internal
contents, but also of the external relations, of that which he unfolds; as the astronomer knows
but little, if, ignorant of the place and laws of moon and sun, he has examined only their
mountains and their spots. The sense of proportion between the different parts and stages of
a subject; the appreciation of the size and value of every step; the foresight of the direction
and magnitude of the section that remains, are qualities so essential to the teacher, that
without them all instruction is but an insult to the learner's understanding. And in virtue
of these it is that the most cultivated minds are usually the most patient, most clear, most
rationally progressive; most studious of accuracy in details, because not impatiently shut
up within them as absolutely limiting the view, but quietly contemplating them from without
in their relation to the whole. Neglect and depreciation of intellectual minutiæ are characteristics
of the ill-informed; and where the granular parts of study are thrown away or loosely held,
will be found no compact mass of knowledge, solid and clear as crystal, but a sandy accumulation,
bound together by no cohesion, and transmitting no light. And above and beyond all the advantages
which a higher culture gives in the mere system of communicating knowledge, must be placed
that indefinable and mysterious power which a superior mind always puts forth upon an inferior;
that living and life-giving action, by which the mental forces are strengthened and developed,
and a spirit of intelligence is produced, far transcending in excellence the acquisition of
any special ideas. In the task of instruction, so lightly assumed, so unworthily esteemed,
no amount of wisdom would be superfluous and lost; and even the child's elementary teaching
would be best conducted, were it possible, by Omniscience itself. The more comprehensive the
range of intellectual view, and the more minute the perception of its parts, the greater will
be the simplicity of conception, the aptitude for exposition, and the directness of access
to the open and expectant mind. This adaptation to the humblest wants is the peculiar triumph
of the highest spirit of knowledge.--Martineau's Discourses.

AN AMERICAN RIVER.

The picturesque banks of the river Connecticut are dotted with charming little villages, that
break here and there upon the sight like feathers of light, dancing among the willow leaves;
there is such a dazzling irregularity of house and hill--so much fairy-like confusion of vista,
landscape, and settlement. Now we pass a tiny white and vine-clad cottage, that looks as if
it had been set down yesterday; now we sweep majestically by an ambitious young town, with
its two, three, or half-a-dozen church-spires, sending back the lines of narrow light into
the water; anon we glide past a forest of majestic old trees, that seem to press their topmost
buds against the fleecy clouds floating in the blue sky; and through these forests we catch
glimpses of the oriole, dashing through the boughs like a flake of fire.--Yankee Stories, by
Howard Paul.

CHOOSE THE SUNNY SIDE OF THE STREET.

The sunny side of the street should always be chosen as a residence, for its superior healthfulness.
In some barracks in Russia, it was found that in a wing where no sun penetrated, there occurred
three cases of sickness for every single case which occurred on that side of the building exposed
to the sun's rays. All other circumstances were equal--such as ventilation, size of apartments,
&c., so that no other cause for this disproportion seemed to exist. In the Italian cities,
this practical hint is well known. Malaria seldom attacks the set of apartments or houses which
are freely open to the sun; while, on the opposite side of the street, the summer and autumn
are very unhealthful, and even dangerous.

A DREAM OF DEATH.

    'Where shall we sail to-day?'
                              Thus said, methought,
    A Voice--that could be only heard in dreams:
    And on we glided without mast or oars,
    A fair strange boat upon a wondrous sea.

    Sudden the land curved inward, to a bay
    Broad, calm; with gorgeous sea-flowers waving slow
    Beneath the surface--like rich thoughts that move
    In the mysterious deep of human hearts.

    But towards the rounded shore's embracing arm,
    The little waves leaped, singing, to their death;
    And shadowy trees drooped pensive over them,
    Like long-fringed lashes over sparkling eyes.

    So still, so fair, so rosy in the dawn
    Lay that bright bay: yet something seemed to breathe,
    Or in the air, or trees, or lisping waves,
    Or from the Voice, ay near as one's own soul--

    'There was a wreck last night!'
                              A wreck?--and where
    The ship, the crew?--All gone. The monument
    On which is writ no name, no chronicle,
    Laid itself o'er them with smooth crystal smile.

    'Yet was the wreck last night!'
                              And, gazing down,
    Deep down beneath the surface, we were 'ware
    Of cold dead faces, with their stony eyes
    Uplooking to the dawn they could not see.

    One stirred with stirring sea-weeds: one lay prone,
    The tinted fishes glancing o'er his breast:
    One, caught by floating hair, rocked daintily
    On the reed-cradle woven by kind Death.

    'The wreck has been,' then said the deep low Voice,
    (Than which not Gabriel's did diviner sound,
    Or sweeter--when the stern, meek angel spake:
    'See that thou worship not! Not me, but God!')

    'The wreck has been, yet all things are at peace,
    Earth, sea, and sky. The dead, that while we slept
    Struggled for life, now sleep and fear no storm:
    O'er them let us not weep when God's heaven smiles.'

    So we sailed on above the diamond sands,
    Bright sea-flowers, and dead faces white and calm,
    Till the waves rocked us in the open sea,
    And the great sun arose upon the world.

THE EXECUTIONER IN ALGERIA.

