Latest surprise prepared by First Commissioner is illumination of entrance to House from Lobby,
cunningly effected by electric lights set within recesses of arch. SCHNAD-HORST, revisiting
House after long interval, astonished at this. "Making things very comfortable in anticipation
of our coming in," he says, smiling sweetly.

Later came upon NICHOLAS WOODS; found him standing in attitude of patient and intelligent expectation.
"What are you waiting there for?" I asked. "Why don't you come in and hear SWINBURNE make one
or two speeches on Tithes Bill?"

"Well--er--fact is," said NICHOLAS, steadfastly keeping his eyes on archway, "WILFRID LAWSON
told me that if I was here about eleven o'clock I would see PLUNKET and the ATTORNEY-GENERAL
come out under the archway dancing a pas de deux. Couldn't make out when I arrived what the
illumination was for; asked LAWSON. 'Oh' says he, 'it's the First Commissioner's reminiscence
of one of the alcoves at Vauxhall Gardens.' Then he told me about PLUNKET and WEBSTER. Thought
I'd like to see it. Do you think it's all right?"

"Well," I said, "ALBERT ROLLIT did tell me something about ATTORNEY-GENERAL going on the Spree.
But that was in Germany, and he had his skates with him. Don't know how it'll be here. You
mustn't forget that WILFRID's something of a wag. Wouldn't advise you to wait much after eleven
o'clock."

House engaged all night on Tithes Bill. Not particularly lively. Towards midnight TANNER, preternaturally
quiet since House met, suddenly woke up, and, à propos de bottes, moved to report progress.
COURTNEY down on him like cartload of bricks; declined to put Motion, declaring it abuse of
forms of House. This rather depressing. In good old times there would have been an outburst
of indignation in Irish camp; Chairman's ruling challenged, and squabble agreeably occupied
rest of evening. But times changed. No Irish present to back TANNER, who, with despairing look
round, subsided, and business went forward without further check.

Business done.--Tithes Bill in Committee.

Tuesday.--Mr. DICK DE LISLE came down to House to-night full of high resolve. Hadn't yet been
a Member of House when it shook from time to time with the roar of controversy round BRADLAUGH,
his oath, his affirmation, and his stylographic pen. At that time was in Singapore, helping
Sir FREDERICK WELD to govern the Straits Settlement. But had watched controversy closely, and
had contributed to its settlement by writing a luminous treatise, entitled, The Parliamentary
Oath. Now, by chance, the question cropped up again. BRADLAUGH had secured first place on to-night's
order for his Motion rescinding famous Resolution of June, 1880, declaring him ineligible to
take his seat. BRADLAUGH ill in bed; sick unto death, as it seemed; but HUNTER had taken up
task for him, and would move Resolution. Of course the Government would oppose it; if necessary,
DE LISLE would assist them with argument. In any case, they should have his vote. Heard SOLICITOR-GENERAL
with keen satisfaction. He showed not only the undesirability and impossibility of acceding
to proposition, but denounced it as "absolutely childish." Mr. G. followed; but Mr. G. said
the same kind of things eleven years ago, when he was Leader of triumphant party, and had been
defeated again and again. Of course same fate awaited him now. Government had spoken through
mouth of SOLICITOR-GENERAL, and there was an end on't.

Not quite. STAFFORD NORTHCOTE, unaccustomed participant in debate, presented himself. Stood
immediately behind OLD MORALITY, by way of testifying to his unaltered loyalty. At same time
he suggested that, after all, would be as well to humour BRADLAUGH and his friends, and strike
out Resolution. Then OLD MORALITY rose from side of SOLICITOR-GENERAL, and, unmindful of that
eminent Lawyer's irresistible argument and uncompromising declaration, said, "on the whole,"
perhaps NORTHCOTE was right, and so mote it be.

The elect of Mid-Leicestershire gasped for air. Did his ears deceive him, or was this the end
of the famous BRADLAUGH incidents? OLD MORALITY, in his cheerful way, suggested that, as they
were doing the thing, they had better do it unanimously. General cheer approved. DE LISLE started
to his feet. One voice, at least, should be heard in protest against this shameful surrender.
Began in half-choked voice: evidently struggling against some strange temptation; talked about
the Parnell Commission; accused House of legalising atheism, and whitewashing treason; argued
at length with Mr. G. on doctrine of excess of jurisdiction. Observed, as he went on, to be
waving his hands as if repelling some object; turned his head on one side as if he would fain
escape apparition; House looked on wonderingly. At length, with something like subdued sob,
DE LISLE gave way, and Members learned what had troubled him. It was dear old Mr. Dick's complaint.
Standing up to present his Memorial against tergiversation of OLD MORALITY, DE LISLE could
not help dragging in head of CHARLES THE FIRST. "As a Royalist," he said, "I should maintain
that the House of Commons exceeded its jurisdiction when it ordered King CHARLES THE FIRST
to be beheaded, but I never heard that it was proposed, after the Restoration, to expunge the
Resolution from the books."

Irreverent House went off into roars of laughter, amid which Mr. Dick, more than ever bewildered,
sat down, and presently went out to ask Miss Betsy Trottwood why they laughed.

Business done.--Resolution of June, 1880, declaring BRADLAUGH ineligible to sit, expunged from
journals.

Thursday.--As OLD MORALITY finely says, "The worm persistently incommoded by inconvenient attentions
will finally assume an aggressive attitude." So it has proved to-night. SYDNEY GEDGE long been
object of contumelious attention. Members jeer at him when he rises; talk whilst he orates;
laugh when he is serious, are serious when he is facetious. But the wounded worm has turned
at last. SYDNEY has struck. GEDGE has been goaded once too often.

It was COURTNEY brought it about. Been six hours in Chair in Committee on Tithes Bill; feeling
faint and weary, glad to refresh himself with sparkling conversation of Grand Young GARDNER;
GEDGE on his feet at moment in favourite oratorial attitude; pulverising Amendment moved by
GRAY; thought, as he proceeded, he heard another voice. Could it be? Yes; it was Chairman of
Committees conversing with frivolous elderly young man whilst he (S.G.) was debating the Tithes
Bill! Should he pass over this last indignity? No; honour of House must be vindicated; lofty
standard of debate must be maintained; the higher the position of offender the more urgent
his duty to strike a blow. Was standing at the moment aligned with Chair; paused in argument;
faced about to the right and marched with solemn steps to the end of Gangway, the Bench having
been desolated by his speech so far as it had gone.

"Sir," he said, bending angry brows on Chairman, "I am afraid my speech interrupted your conversation.
Therefore I have moved further away."

That was all, but it was enough. HERBERT GARDNER slunk away, COURTNEY hastily turned over pages
of the Bill; hung down his guilty head, and tried to look as if it were MILMAN who had been
engaged in conversation. Now MILMAN was asleep.

Business done.--Level flow of Debate on Tithes Bill interrupted by revolt of SYDNEY GEDGE.

Friday.--Rather a disappointing evening from Opposition point of view. In advance, was expected
to be brilliant field-night. Irish Administration to be attacked all along line; necessity
for new departure demonstrated. SHAW-LEFEVRE led off with Resolution demanding establishment
of Courts of Arbitration. Large muster of Members. Mr. G. in his place; expected to speak;
but presently went off; others fell away, and all the running made from Ministerial Benches.
SHAW-LEFEVRE roasted mercilessly. House roared at SAUNDERSON's description of his going to
interview SULTAN, and being shown into stable to make acquaintance of SULTAN's horse. Prince
ARTHUR turned on unhappy man full blast of withering scorn. Don't know whether SHAW-LEFEVRE
felt it; some men rather be kicked than not noticed at all; but Liberals felt they had been
drawn into ridiculous position, and murmured bad words. "What's the use," they ask, "of winning
Hartlepool out of doors, if things are so managed that we are made ridiculous within?"

Business done.--SHAW-LEFEVRE's Resolution on Irish Land Question negatived by 213 Votes against
152.

       *       *       *       *       *

"THERMIDOR" UP TO DATE.

(TONED DOWN FOR ENGLISH RECEPTION.)

    Last Act--On the road to the Guillotine--Hero, instead of
    Heroine, about to be executed--Heroine imploring Hero to sign
    paper.

Heroine. Attach but your signature, and you are free!

Hero (after reading document in a tone of horror). What, a vow to marry, with the prospect
of a breach of promise case to follow! Never! Death is preferable! [Exit to be guillotined.
Curtain.

       *       *       *       *       *

AN ARTIST AND A WHISTLER.--M. COQUELIN has summoned M. LISSAGARAY for having thrown a whistle
at him on the night of the Thermidor row. It is to be hoped that by this time M. LISSAGARAY
will have been made to pay for his whistle.