It was on a cold, bleak, stormy, November evening, when this news was brought, by a Brae-Marr-man,
to the laird's tower. He was wise and prudent, and he would give no ear to a tale so lightly
told: but his beautiful daughter-in-law, sanguine for her husband's sake, cherished reports
that brightened all her prospects. She retired to her chamber, almost hoping that another day
might see it enlivened by his presence, without whom life to her was a dreary blank. She was
lodged in a small apartment on the third story of the tower, opening straight from a narrow
passage at the head of the winding stairs. It had two small windows, which looked on the paved
courtyard of the castle; and beyond, to what was then a bare meadow, and the river. The moon
gave little light, and she turned from the gloomy prospect to the ample hearth, on which the
bright logs were blazing. Her heart was full, and her mind so restless, that after her maidens
left her, she continued to pace up and down her little chamber, unwilling to retire to rest.
At length she threw herself upon her bed, exhausted by the eagerness of her feelings, and in
the agitation of her ideas she forgot to say her prayers. Yet she slept, and calmly, but her
sleep was short. She awakened suddenly, and starting half up, listened anxiously for some minutes.
The wind blew strongly round the old tower, and a thick shower of sleet was driving fast against
the casements; but, in the pauses of the storm, she thought she heard distinctly, though at
a distance, the tramp of a horse at his speed. She bent forward and watched the sound. It came
nearer--it grew louder--it gallopped over the hard ground, and approached with the swiftness
of lightning. She gasped and trembled--it was he, it must be he,--she knew the long firm bound
of her husband's charger. Its rapid feet struck loud on the pavement of the courtyard below,
and in an instant dropt dead below the great door of the castle. She had neither power to breathe,
nor to move, but she listened for the call of the porter's name, and the jar of the chains
and bolts which secured the door. She heard nothing--she grew bewildered, and tried to rise
to call for succour--but a spell was on her to keep her down. At length, from the very bottom
of the winding stair, came the sound of a firm foot, ascending regularly step by step, without
a pause in its motion, the several stories. It rang on the stone passage adjoining her apartment,
and stept with a loud tread at her door. No lock was turned, no hinge was opened, but a rushing
wind swept through the room. Her fire had burned away, and she had neither lamp nor taper by
her, but as she started up in an agony of terror, the heavy logs in her wide chimney fell of
themselves, and lighting by the fall, sent forth a blaze into the chamber. Almost frantic with
fear, she seized with one hand the curtains of her bed, and darting a look of horror, she saw,
seated by the hearth, a figure in martial array, without a head; it held its arms out towards
her, and slowly rose. The scream she tried to utter was suffocated in her throat--she fell
motionless; the last sight she saw was an eagle's plume steeped in blood, cast at her feet
by the advancing spectre--the last sound she heard was the loud crash of every door in the
castle. When her maidens came to her in the morning, she was extended in a swoon upon the floor.
She lay for hours cold and insensible, and they thought that she was gone for ever. After many
trials she came at last to herself, but she recovered only to hear the true tale of the battle
of Sheriff-muir.

The Chevalier de St. George and the Earl of Marr had fled the country; many of their noble
adherents had been fortunate enough to secure a retreat with them to France; some had been
pardoned; a few had been taken in arms, and these few were executed; amongst them was the young
heir of M'Alister--Inspector.

       *        *        *        *        *

SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS

       *        *        *        *        *

SADDLED AND BRIDLED.

BY A. CUNNINGHAM.

  Saddled and bridled,
   And booted was he--
  A plume at his helmet,
   A sword at his knee;--
  Toom hame came the saddle
   At evening to me,
  And hame came his steed--
   But hame never came he!

  Down came his grey father,
   Sobbing fu' sair;
  Down came his auld mother,
   Tearing her hair:
  Down came his sweet wife,
   Wi' her bonnie bairns three--
  Ane at her bosom,
   And twa at her knee!

  There stood his fleet steed,
   All foaming and hot;
  There shrieked his sweet wife,
   And sank on the spot,--
  There stood his grey father,
   Weeping fu' free,
  For hame came his steed,
   But hame never came he!

Literary Magnet.

       *        *        *        *        *

TOBACCO-PIPE CONTROVERSY.

A furious, and yet unappeased, controversy has lately raged in the newspapers, upon the question
of the filthy nuisance of smoking tobacco--segars or pipe; and as in all other cases when men
allow their passions to be heated by opposition, has run in great personalities between gentlemen
who sign themselves Viator and Tabatiere. Whole columns of the newspapers have been occupied
in discussing, in the first place, whether a man who smokes at all is a beast or not; and secondly,
the argument has run into the comparative beastliness of smoking and snuffing. A future Hume,
on looking over the journals, may thus sum up the merits of the case. About this period great
hostilities arose between the advocates of segars and their opponents, which occupied the attention
of thousands, who took a lively interest in the successful issue of the controversy. By the
advocates for the practice it was urged with some plausibility of statement, that as to the
pleasure of a segar, none but those who used them ought to express an opinion upon the point--that
to appeal to experience, tobacco was in more universal use among nations than bread corn--that
it had been known to stay the plague, and was the friend and companion of rich and poor. These
statements were met with undisguised contempt, and it was retaliated, that the practice of
using tobacco either by smoke or snuff, was a nuisance to others, thus infringing the very
primary principles of civil liberty--that it led to drunkenness and debauch--that snuff spoiled
the complexion--stopped the nose to the perception of odours--and that as to the ladies, they
would positively spurn any approach of familiar friendship from a snuff-taker. This raised
the concealed anger of the snuff-takers, who had hitherto maintained a stubborn neutrality
while the argument was kept to smoke. They replied both by wit and invective--they affirmed
snuff to have a moral use--"Dust to dust"--would remind them of the brevity of life--that the
king and ministers patronized the habit, and gave away £10,000 worth of snuff-boxes in every
year--that as to the nose being blockaded, that was a happy circumstance to London residents,
and enabled them to acquire the French accent more naturally--that as to the assumed yellowness
of complexion complained of, it was only studious and Werter-like--and that as to the ladies
refusing to be saluted by snuff-takers, that was a thing which modesty and prudence required
them to sneeze at. The historian might add by way of reflection, that nothing could more clearly
show the national freedom from anxious cares, when it was thought that the public took interest
in the comparative merits of blackened teeth or a snuffy pocket-handkerchief.--The Inspector.

       *        *        *        *        *

FASHIONABLE NOVELS.

Of the slip-slop reading, under this denomination, with which the town has lately been inundated,
the following is a fair specimen:--

Hyde Nugent.--The book is made up completely of the gossip of drawing-rooms, hotels, dinners,
and balls. As to the hero, if any one has a grain of curiosity about him--gratify it. Hyde
is the son of a man of family and fortune; he goes to Oxford, fights a duel, and is expelled--prevails
upon a marquess to break the matter to the father--falls in love with the marquess's daughter--goes
large and loose about town--is every where introduced--and one of every party. Notwithstanding
certain warnings, and his own disgusts, he frequents Crockford's--gets plucked, and moreover
deeply involved with the Jews. In the meanwhile he does not neglect the marquess's daughter.
They soon come to an understanding. He is irresistible--she is an houri. But the consciousness
of his embarrassments press heavily upon him, and he is on the point of taking some desperate
step, when he is summoned to attend a friend in a duel, who kills his antagonist; and he and
Hyde are obliged to fly. This rescues him from his gaming associates; though he gets among
others at Lisbon, and narrowly escapes assassination. On his return to England, his sister
has married a duke's eldest son, and all the family visit the said duke's, and there also assemble
the aforesaid marquess and his beautiful daughter.

But now comes forward more than before, an officer of the guards--a guardsman is now become
indispensable--who is also in love with the marquess's daughter, and being not at all scrupulous
of the means of accomplishing his point--a very worthless person in short--he plays Iago, and
pours into the lady's ear the tale of Hyde's gambling propensities, and his deep involvements;
and moreover of a lady whose affection he had wantonly won, and wantonly cut, and who was now
actually dying for him. This, however, was not all true; the lady alluded to was the daughter
of his father's friend and neighbour; she and Hyde had been brought up together from children,
and played and romped together, and once, before Hyde went to Oxford, he had forced from her
a kiss. The poor fond girl had treasured up the kiss, and Hyde had thought no more of her,
or of it. She, however, pined away, and let concealment feed on her damask cheek; and at this
time was at Brighton for change of air. She has a brother, a lancer; he hears, through Hyde's
precious rival, of the state of his sister, and for the first time, of the cause. He flies
to the duke's--though deeply occupied, at the moment, in seducing the affections of a married
woman in Ireland--and calls upon Hyde to meet him forthwith. Hyde's rival is the lancer's second.
Hyde falls, and as he is borne bleeding to the house, Lady Georgina, the marquess's daughter,
meets him. The shock kills her outright, and the story stops; but hints are given that he slowly
recovers, and by still slower degrees is brought to think of the charming girl, who had treasured
his boyish kiss, and marries.--Monthly Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

MAN-EATING SOCIETY.

There is a horrible institution among some of the Indian tribes, which furnishes a powerful
illustration of their never-tiring love of vengeance. It is called the Man-Eating Society,
and it is the duty of its associates to devour such prisoners as are preserved and delivered
to them for that purpose. The members of this society belong to a particular family, and the
dreadful inheritance descends to all the children, male and female. Its duties cannot be dispensed
with, and the sanctions of religion are added to the obligations of immemorial usage. The feast
is considered a solemn ceremony, at which the whole tribe is collected as actors or spectators.
The miserable victim is fastened to a stake, and burned at a slow fire, with all the refinements
of cruelty which savage ingenuity can invent. There is a traditionary ritual, which regulates,
with revolting precision, the whole course of procedure at these ceremonies. The institution
has latterly declined, but we know those who have seen and related to us the incidents which
occurred on these occasions, when white men were sacrificed and consumed. The chief of the
family and principal members of the society among the Miames, whose name was White Skin, we
have seen, and with feelings of loathing, excited by a narrative of his atrocities, amid the
scenes when they occurred..--North American Review.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SELECTOR;

AND

LITERARY NOTICES OF

NEW WORKS.

       *       *       *       *       *

SAILING ROUND CONSTANTINOPLE.

Hiring a peramidias, or one of the beautiful boats which ply on the canal, I proceeded, accompanied
by my janissary and dragoman, to make the circuit of the city, by rowing round the Seraglio
Point into the sea of Marmora, then landing at the Seven Towers, and walking across the isthmus
by the famous wall to the Golden Horn, where we again embarked, and returned to Pera. On passing
the Seraglio Point, we remarked a number of cannon of different forms, ranged apparently more
for effect than defence, as a sloop of war with a commanding breeze might dislodge the men;
such is their exposed situation. Although two of the guns appeared to be of the calibre of
sixteen or seventeen inches, and calculated to throw some immense stone-balls, which we observed
near them, others were of small calibre, but having twelve barrels; over them, were suspended
some very large bones, about which I could not get even a marvellous account, both my companions
declaring honestly their ignorance of their history. The current sent us, with astonishing
rapidity, round the Point, (on which men are always stationed with small lines to track boats
upwards,) and we soon landed under the Seven Towers. The town on the west side, towards the
sea presents a poor and miserable appearance. We were allowed just to enter the outer court
of the castle, as it may be more properly called than the Seven Towers, because there are only
two conspicuous towers, and I suspect that the term Seven Towers was originally applied to
the whole wall which runs across the isthmus, and which has seven gates, over each of which
was formerly placed a tower.

Leaving the castle, we proceeded along the great road which runs parallel to the venerable
and highly interesting triple walls, said to have been begun by Constantine, and enlarged by
the second Theodosius. They consist of alternate courses of large flat bricks and stones, in
some parts perfect, with their battlements and towers; in others partly destroyed by earthquakes
or time--the whole rendered venerable by thick ivy or shading trees. The height of the walls
is such, that, when near them, the town is completely hid; and as the ditches are well cultivated
as gardens or orchards, and the country beyond is clear of houses, it is difficult to fancy
one's self so near the thickly populated city, once the mistress of the eastern world. The
distance across the isthmus to the Golden Horn, or harbour, is about four miles, and the walls
are uninterrupted by the before-mentioned gates. At about two-thirds of the distance, we came
to Baloucli, where, in the ruins of a chapel dedicated by Justinian to the Virgin, is a fountain
or well of excellent cold water, said to contain fish, black on one side and red on the other,
or, according to tradition, half fried.

