The emperor’s palace is in the centre of the city where the two great streets meet.  It is
enclosed by a wall of two feet high, and twenty feet distance from the buildings.  I had his
majesty’s permission to step over this wall; and, the space being so wide between that and
the palace, I could easily view it on every side.  The outward court is a square of forty feet,
and includes two other courts: in the inmost are the royal apartments, which I was very desirous
to see, but found it extremely difficult; for the great gates, from one square into another,
were but eighteen inches high, and seven inches wide.  Now the buildings of the outer court
were at least five feet high, and it was impossible for me to stride over them without infinite
damage to the pile, though the walls were strongly built of hewn stone, and four inches thick.
At the same time the emperor had a great desire that I should see the magnificence of his palace;
but this I was not able to do till three days after, which I spent in cutting down with my
knife some of the largest trees in the royal park, about a hundred yards distant from the city.
Of these trees I made two stools, each about three feet high, and strong enough to bear my
weight.  The people having received notice a second time, I went again through the city to
the palace with my two stools in my hands.  When I came to the side of the outer court, I stood
upon one stool, and took the other in my hand; this I lifted over the roof, and gently set
it down on the space between the first and second court, which was eight feet wide. I then
stept over the building very conveniently from one stool to the other, and drew up the first
after me with a hooked stick.  By this contrivance I got into the inmost court; and, lying
down upon my side, I applied my face to the windows of the middle stories, which were left
open on purpose, and discovered the most splendid apartments that can be imagined.  There I
saw the empress and the young princes, in their several lodgings, with their chief attendants
about them.  Her imperial majesty was pleased to smile very graciously upon me, and gave me
out of the window her hand to kiss.

But I shall not anticipate the reader with further descriptions of this kind, because I reserve
them for a greater work, which is now almost ready for the press; containing a general description
of this empire, from its first erection, through along series of princes; with a particular
account of their wars and politics, laws, learning, and religion; their plants and animals;
their peculiar manners and customs, with other matters very curious and useful; my chief design
at present being only to relate such events and transactions as happened to the public or to
myself during a residence of about nine months in that empire.  A high title of honour is conferred
upon him.  Ambassadors arrive from the emperor of Blefuscu, and sue for peace.  The empress’s
apartment on fire by an accident; the author instrumental in saving the rest of the palace.

This open bold declaration of mine was so opposite to the schemes and politics of his imperial
majesty, that he could never forgive me.  He mentioned it in a very artful manner at council,
where I was told that some of the wisest appeared, at least by their silence, to be of my opinion;
but others, who were my secret enemies, could not forbear some expressions which, by a side-wind,
reflected on me.  And from this time began an intrigue between his majesty and a junto of ministers,
maliciously bent against me, which broke out in less than two months, and had like to have
ended in my utter destruction.  Of so little weight are the greatest services to princes, when
put into the balance with a refusal to gratify their passions.

About three weeks after this exploit, there arrived a solemn embassy from Blefuscu, with humble
offers of a peace, which was soon concluded, upon conditions very advantageous to our emperor,
wherewith I shall not trouble the reader.  There were six ambassadors, with a train of about
five hundred persons, and their entry was very magnificent, suitable to the grandeur of their
master, and the importance of their business.  When their treaty was finished, wherein I did
them several good offices by the credit I now had, or at least appeared to have, at court,
their excellencies, who were privately told how much I had been their friend, made me a visit
in form.  They began with many compliments upon my valour and generosity, invited me to that
kingdom in the emperor their master’s name, and desired me to show them some proofs of my prodigious
strength, of which they had heard so many wonders; wherein I readily obliged them, but shall
not trouble the reader with the particulars.

When I had for some time entertained their excellencies, to their infinite satisfaction and
surprise, I desired they would do me the honour to present my most humble respects to the emperor
their master, the renown of whose virtues had so justly filled the whole world with admiration,
and whose royal person I resolved to attend, before I returned to my own country.  Accordingly,
the next time I had the honour to see our emperor, I desired his general license to wait on
the Blefuscudian monarch, which he was pleased to grant me, as I could perceive, in a very
cold manner; but could not guess the reason, till I had a whisper from a certain person, “that
Flimnap and Bolgolam had represented my intercourse with those ambassadors as a mark of disaffection;”
from which I am sure my heart was wholly free.  And this was the first time I began to conceive
some imperfect idea of courts and ministers.

It is to be observed, that these ambassadors spoke to me, by an interpreter, the languages
of both empires differing as much from each other as any two in Europe, and each nation priding
itself upon the antiquity, beauty, and energy of their own tongue, with an avowed contempt
for that of their neighbour; yet our emperor, standing upon the advantage he had got by the
seizure of their fleet, obliged them to deliver their credentials, and make their speech, in
the Lilliputian tongue.  And it must be confessed, that from the great intercourse of trade
and commerce between both realms, from the continual reception of exiles which is mutual among
them, and from the custom, in each empire, to send their young nobility and richer gentry to
the other, in order to polish themselves by seeing the world, and understanding men and manners;
there are few persons of distinction, or merchants, or seamen, who dwell in the maritime parts,
but what can hold conversation in both tongues; as I found some weeks after, when I went to
pay my respects to the emperor of Blefuscu, which, in the midst of great misfortunes, through
the malice of my enemies, proved a very happy adventure to me, as I shall relate in its proper
place.

The reader may remember, that when I signed those articles upon which I recovered my liberty,
there were some which I disliked, upon account of their being too servile; neither could anything
but an extreme necessity have forced me to submit.  But being now a nardac of the highest rank
in that empire, such offices were looked upon as below my dignity, and the emperor (to do him
justice), never once mentioned them to me. However, it was not long before I had an opportunity
of doing his majesty, at least as I then thought, a most signal service.  I was alarmed at
midnight with the cries of many hundred people at my door; by which, being suddenly awaked,
I was in some kind of terror.  I heard the word Burglum repeated incessantly: several of the
emperor’s court, making their way through the crowd, entreated me to come immediately to the
palace, where her imperial majesty’s apartment was on fire, by the carelessness of a maid of
honour, who fell asleep while she was reading a romance.  I got up in an instant; and orders
being given to clear the way before me, and it being likewise a moonshine night, I made a shift
to get to the palace without trampling on any of the people.  I found they had already applied
ladders to the walls of the apartment, and were well provided with buckets, but the water was
at some distance.  These buckets were about the size of large thimbles, and the poor people
supplied me with them as fast as they could: but the flame was so violent that they did little
good.  I might easily have stifled it with my coat, which I unfortunately left behind me for
haste, and came away only in my leathern jerkin.  The case seemed wholly desperate and deplorable;
and this magnificent palace would have infallibly been burnt down to the ground, if, by a presence
of mind unusual to me, I had not suddenly thought of an expedient.  I had, the evening before,
drunk plentifully of a most delicious wine called glimigrim, (the Blefuscudians call it flunec,
but ours is esteemed the better sort,) which is very diuretic.  By the luckiest chance in the
world, I had not discharged myself of any part of it.  The heat I had contracted by coming
very near the flames, and by labouring to quench them, made the wine begin to operate by urine;
which I voided in such a quantity, and applied so well to the proper places, that in three
minutes the fire was wholly extinguished, and the rest of that noble pile, which had cost so
many ages in erecting, preserved from destruction.

It was now day-light, and I returned to my house without waiting to congratulate with the emperor:
because, although I had done a very eminent piece of service, yet I could not tell how his
majesty might resent the manner by which I had performed it: for, by the fundamental laws of
the realm, it is capital in any person, of what quality soever, to make water within the precincts
of the palace.  But I was a little comforted by a message from his majesty, “that he would
give orders to the grand justiciary for passing my pardon in form:” which, however, I could
not obtain; and I was privately assured, “that the empress, conceiving the greatest abhorrence
of what I had done, removed to the most distant side of the court, firmly resolved that those
buildings should never be repaired for her use: and, in the presence of her chief confidents
could not forbear vowing revenge.”

CHAPTER VI.

Of the inhabitants of Lilliput; their learning, laws, and customs; the manner of educating
their children.  The author’s way of living in that country.  His vindication of a great lady.

Although I intend to leave the description of this empire to a particular treatise, yet, in
the mean time, I am content to gratify the curious reader with some general ideas.  As the
common size of the natives is somewhat under six inches high, so there is an exact proportion
in all other animals, as well as plants and trees: for instance, the tallest horses and oxen
are between four and five inches in height, the sheep an inch and half, more or less: their
geese about the bigness of a sparrow, and so the several gradations downwards till you come
to the smallest, which to my sight, were almost invisible; but nature has adapted the eyes
of the Lilliputians to all objects proper for their view: they see with great exactness, but
at no great distance.  And, to show the sharpness of their sight towards objects that are near,
I have been much pleased with observing a cook pulling a lark, which was not so large as a
common fly; and a young girl threading an invisible needle with invisible silk. Their tallest
trees are about seven feet high: I mean some of those in the great royal park, the tops whereof
I could but just reach with my fist clenched.  The other vegetables are in the same proportion;
but this I leave to the reader’s imagination.

I shall say but little at present of their learning, which, for many ages, has flourished in
all its branches among them: but their manner of writing is very peculiar, being neither from
the left to the right, like the Europeans, nor from the right to the left, like the Arabians,
nor from up to down, like the Chinese, but aslant, from one corner of the paper to the other,
like ladies in England.

They bury their dead with their heads directly downward, because they hold an opinion, that
in eleven thousand moons they are all to rise again; in which period the earth (which they
conceive to be flat) will turn upside down, and by this means they shall, at their resurrection,
be found ready standing on their feet.  The learned among them confess the absurdity of this
doctrine; but the practice still continues, in compliance to the vulgar.

There are some laws and customs in this empire very peculiar; and if they were not so directly
contrary to those of my own dear country, I should be tempted to say a little in their justification.
It is only to be wished they were as well executed.  The first I shall mention, relates to
informers.  All crimes against the state, are punished here with the utmost severity; but,
if the person accused makes his innocence plainly to appear upon his trial, the accuser is
immediately put to an ignominious death; and out of his goods or lands the innocent person
is quadruply recompensed for the loss of his time, for the danger he underwent, for the hardship
of his imprisonment, and for all the charges he has been at in making his defence; or, if that
fund be deficient, it is largely supplied by the crown.  The emperor also confers on him some
public mark of his favour, and proclamation is made of his innocence through the whole city.

They look upon fraud as a greater crime than theft, and therefore seldom fail to punish it
with death; for they allege, that care and vigilance, with a very common understanding, may
preserve a man’s goods from thieves, but honesty has no defence against superior cunning; and,
since it is necessary that there should be a perpetual intercourse of buying and selling, and
dealing upon credit, where fraud is permitted and connived at, or has no law to punish it,
the honest dealer is always undone, and the knave gets the advantage.  I remember, when I was
once interceding with the emperor for a criminal who had wronged his master of a great sum
of money, which he had received by order and ran away with; and happening to tell his majesty,
by way of extenuation, that it was only a breach of trust, the emperor thought it monstrous
in me to offer as a defence the greatest aggravation of the crime; and truly I had little to
say in return, farther than the common answer, that different nations had different customs;
for, I confess, I was heartily ashamed. {330}

