But if we come to the literary works which have followed these ardent and energetic efforts,
and which are destined to perpetuate their memory to future times--the interesting discoveries
which have so much extended our knowledge and enlarged our resources--the contemplation is
by no means to an inhabitant of these islands equally satisfactory. The British traveller is
essentially a man of energy and action, but rarely of contemplation or eloquence. He is seldom
possessed of the scientific acquirements requisite to turn to the best account the vast stores
of new and original information which are placed within his reach. He often observes and collects
facts; but it is as a practical man, or for professional purposes, rather than as a philosopher.
The genius of the Anglo-Saxon race--bold, sagacious, and enterprising, rather than contemplative
and scientific--nowhere appears more strongly than in the accounts of the numerous and intrepid
travellers whom they are continually sending forth into every part of the earth. We admire
their vigour, we are moved by their hardships, we are enriched by their discoveries; but if
we turn to our libraries for works to convey to future ages an adequate and interesting account
of these fascinating adventures, we shall, in general, experience nothing but disappointment.
Few of them are written with the practised hand, the graphic eye, necessary to convey vivid
pictures to future times; and though numerous and valuable books of travels, as works of reference,
load the shelves of our libraries, there are surprisingly few which are fitted, from the interest
and vivacity of the style in which they are written, to possess permanent attractions for mankind.

One great cause of this remarkable peculiarity is without doubt to be found in the widely different
education of the students in our universities, and our practical men. In the former, classical
attainments are in literature the chief, if not exclusive, objects of ambition; and in consequence,
the young aspirants for fame who issue from these learned retreats, have their minds filled
with the charms and associations of antiquity, to the almost entire exclusion of objects of
present interest and importance. The vigorous practical men, again, who are propelled by the
enterprise and exertions of our commercial towns, are sagacious and valuable observers; but
they have seldom the cultivated minds, pictorial eye, or powers of description, requisite to
convey vivid or interesting impressions to others. Thus our scholars give us little more than
treatises on inscriptions, and disquisitions on the sites of ancient towns; while the accounts
of our practical men are chiefly occupied with commercial enquiries, or subjects connected
with trade and navigation. The cultivated and enlightened traveller, whose mind is alike open
to the charm of ancient story and the interest of modern achievement--who is classical without
being pedantic, graphic and yet faithful, enthusiastic and yet accurate, discursive and at
the same time imaginative, is almost unknown amongst us. It will continue to be so as long
as education in our universities is exclusively devoted to Greek and Latin verses or the higher
mathematics; and in academies to book-keeping and the rule of three; while so broad and sullen
a line as heretofore is drawn between the studies of our scholars and the pursuits of our practical
citizens. To travel to good purpose, requires a mind stored with much and varied information,
in science, statistics, geography, literature, history, and poetry. To describe what the traveller
has seen, requires, in addition to this, the eye of a painter, the soul of a poet, and the
hand of a practised composer.