The first dramatic effort of Punch, in his individual quality and personality as a jester,
was the pantomime of "King John, or Harlequin and Magna Charta." Punch had at that time become
so popular, and was so generally regarded as the incarnation of all that was witty, that a
commission was given for a pantomime that was to surpass for wit and humour any pantomime that
had ever been written or thought of before. "They have given out," said Alfred Bunn in his
vituperative "Word with Punch," "in distinct terms that none but themselves can write a pantomime,
and modestly entitled the one they did write 'Punch's Pantomime' ... which they laboured so
lustily, but so vainly, to puff into notoriety." It was written in 1842, by Lemon, Jerrold,
and Henry Mayhew; but when it was read by the first-named to the Covent Garden Company, by
whom it was produced, it was found to contain a great deal of wit, but very little fun. It
was extensively amended in response to the representations of the pantomimists, and W. H. Payne
managed to make a good deal of his part. The wit, however, militated greatly against the "go"
and success of the piece, the prestige of its writers did not help it, and the experiment of
a "Punch's Pantomime" was accordingly not repeated.

The cordial sympathy that has bound together so many of Punch's Staff in life has more than
once taken the form of kindly charity in death or misfortune. To the performance given on behalf
of the unhappy Angus Reach reference is made where the man and his work are considered. For
Leigh Hunt--although he was not of the band--a theatrical performance was also given, and realised
a large sum, and the benefit in aid of Charles H. Bennett's widow and children was even more
successful. That interesting event is described later; but for the sake of history it may be
well to reproduce the programme here:--

     AMATEUR PERFORMANCE AT THE THEATRE ROYAL, MANCHESTER,

     (kindly placed at the disposal of the committee by John Knowles,
     Esq.,)

     MONDAY EVENING, JULY 29, 1867.

     To commence with an entirely new and original Triumviretta, in one
     act and ten tableaux (being a lyrical version of Mr. Maddison
     Morton's celebrated farce of "Box and Cox"), by Mr. F. C. BURNAND,
     entitled--

  COX AND BOX;
  OR, THE LONG-LOST BROTHERS.

     The Lodging, including the Little Second-floor Back Room, has been
     furnished with

     ORIGINAL MUSIC by Mr. ARTHUR SULLIVAN.

  John Cox, a Journeyman Hatter                 Mr. QUINTIN
  James Box, a Journeyman Printer               Mr. G. DU MAURIER.

  Bouncer, late of the Hampshire Yeomanry,
  with military reminiscences                   Mr. ARTHUR BLUNT.

     Scene--An elegantly furnished apartment in Bouncer's Mansion.

     Tableaux--1. Cox at his looking-glass.--2. Cox and Bouncer, the
     trial of the hat.--3. The beauties of bacon.--4. Revenons à nos
     moutons.--5. The stranger!--6. The duel!!--7. The gamblers. The
     hazard. The false die.--8. "Reading of the will."--9. (A classical
     study.) Penelope.--10. Knox! et præterea nil.

     Mr. SHIRLEY BROOKS will deliver an ADDRESS.

     After which will be performed Mr. Tom Taylor's popular Drama,

     A SHEEP IN WOLF'S CLOTHING.

  Colonel Percy Kirke, of Kirke's Lambs       Mr. MARK LEMON.

  Colonel Lord Churchill, of the Life Guards  Mr. JOHN TENNIEL.

  Master Jasper Carew                         Mr. TOM TAYLOR.

  Kester Chedzoy                              Mr. F. C. BURNAND.

  Corporal Flintoff   }                     { Mr. HORACE MAYHEW.
  Hackett             } of Kirke's Lambs    { Mr. HENRY SILVER.
  Rasper              }                     { Mr. R. T. PRITCHETT.

  John Zoyland, a Locksmith                  Mr. SHIRLEY BROOKS.

  Dame Carew, Wife of Jasper Carew (by the kind
  permission of B. Webster, Esq.)            Miss KATE TERRY.

  Dame Carew, Mother of Jasper Carew         Mrs. STOKER.

  Sibyl, Daughter of Jasper Carew            Miss FLORENCE TERRY.

  Keziah Mapletoft, Servant to Anne          Miss ELLEN TERRY (Mrs. Watts).

  To be followed by J. Offenbach's Bouffonnerie Musicale,

  LES DEUX AVEUGLES.

  Stanislas Giraffier                        Mons. G. Du Maurier.

  Giacomo Patachon                           Mons. Hal. Power.

     To conclude with Mr. John Oxenford's Farce, in one Act,

     A FAMILY FAILING.

     Characters by Messrs. ARTHUR BLUNT, MARK LEMON, TOM TAYLOR, HENRY
     SILVER, and Miss ELLEN TERRY.

     Tickets for the Dress Circle and Stalls, One Guinea each, may be
     obtained from any Member of the Committee; at the Theatre Royal;
     from Messrs. Hime and Addison, and Mr. Slater, St. Ann's Square;
     and Messrs. Forsyth, St. Ann's Street.

On this occasion, says an anonymous writer, "The celebrated cartoonist received the reception
of the evening. The audience rose en masse and cheered. Tom Taylor, playing in his own piece
the principal character, was, comparatively speaking, nowhere. The most interesting personality
of the Punch Staff was unquestionably Tenniel."

Affiliated with Punch, in its membership at least, was that "Guild of Literature and Art" of
which Charles Dickens was the father. Its theatrical career began in 1845 at the Royalty Theatre,
Soho, at that time called Miss Kelly's, the initial performance being Ben Jonson's "Every Man
in his Humour," with Mark Lemon as Brainworm and Dickens as Bobadil. (See p. 137.) On May 15th,
1848, much the same company, in aid of the fund for the endowment of the perpetual curatorship
of Shakespeare's house at Stratford-on-Avon, gave the "Merry Wives of Windsor," when Dickens
played Shallow; George Cruikshank, Pistol; John Leech, Slender; Mark Lemon, Falstaff; and other
characters were represented by George Henry Lewes, John Forster, Dudley Costello, Augustus
Egg, R.A., and Mr. Cowden Clarke--a goodly company. Mr. Sala says that Lemon's conception of
Falstaff (which was also known to the public through the jovial editor's "readings"), though
well understood, was "the worst he ever saw;" but Mrs. Cowden Clarke declared it "a fine embodiment
of rich, unctuous raciness, no caricature, rolling greasiness and grossness, no exaggerated
vulgarisation of Shakespeare's immortal 'fat knight,' but a florid, rotund, self-indulgent
voluptuary--thoroughly at his ease, thoroughly prepared to take advantage of all gratification
that might come in his way, and thoroughly preserving the manners of a gentleman accustomed
to the companionship of a prince. John Leech's Master Slender," she continues, "was picturesquely
true to the gawky, flabby, booty squire.... His mode of sitting on a stile, with his long ungainly
legs dangling down ... ever and anon ejaculating his maudlin cuckoo cry of 'Oh sweet Ann Page,'
was a delectable treat." Without disrespect to Leech's memory, it may be said that others of
his friends did not form a similarly favourable opinion of his histrionic powers.

A company quite as notable in its way was that which played "Not so Bad as We Seem," by Lytton
(with whom Punch had made his peace), at Devonshire House, on May 27th, 1851, before the Queen
and the Prince Consort, at the instance of the Duke of Devonshire. The playbill deserves to
be preserved here, although the only Punch names among the actors are those of Jerrold, Lemon,
and Tenniel--the last-named of whom is the only survivor of them all.

 MEN.

 The Duke of Middlesex { Peers Attached To the Son  }  Mr. Frank Stone,
                                                       A.R.A.
 The Earl of Loftus    { of James II., Commonly     }  Mr. Dudley Costello
                       { Called the First Pretender

 Lord Wilmot           { a Young Man at the Head    }  Mr. Charles Dickens
                       { of the Mode More Than a    }
                       { Century Ago, Son To Lord   }
                       { Loftus                     }

 Mr. Shadowly Softhead { a Young Gentleman From the }  Mr. Douglas Jerrold
                       { City, Friend and Double    }
                       { of Lord Wilmot             }

 Mr. Hardman           { a Rising Member of         }  Mr. John Forster
                         Parliament
                       { and Adherent To Sir        }
                       { Robert Walpole             }

 Sir Geoffrey Thornside{ a Gentleman of Good Family }  Mr. Mark Lemon
                       { and Estate                 }

 Mr. Goodenough Easy   { in Business, Highly        }  Mr. F. W. Topham
                         Respectable,
                       { and a Friend of Sir        }
                       { Geoffrey                   }

 Lord le Trimmer       } Frequenters of Wills'      {  Mr. Peter Cunningham
 Sir Thomas Timid      } Coffee House               {  Mr. Westland Marston
 Colonel Flint         }                            {  Mr. R. H. Horne

 Mr. Jacob Tonson        a Bookseller                  Mr. Charles Knight

 Smart                   Valet To Lord Wilmot          Mr. Wilkie Collins

 Hodge                 { Servant To Sir Geoffrey    }  Mr. John Tenniel
                       { Thornside                  }

 Paddy O'sullivan        Mr. Fallen's Landlord         Mr. Robert Bell

 Mr. David Fallen      { Grub Street Author and     }  Mr. Augustus Egg,
                       { Pamphleteer                }  A.R.A.

 Lord Strongbow, Sir John Bruin, Drawers, }    Coffee House Loungers
 Newsmen, Watchmen, &c. &c.               }

 WOMEN.

 Lucy                  { Daughter to Sir Geoffrey   } Mrs. Compton
                       { Thornside                  }

 Barbara                 Daughter to Mr. Easy.        Miss Ellen Chaplin

 The Silent Lady of Deadman's Lane.

 Date of Play--The Reign of George I.
 Scene--London.

Time supposed to be occupied, from the noon of the first day to the afternoon of the second.

And, lastly, may be mentioned the performance of Ben Jonson's play at Knebworth, in which,
says Vizetelly, Douglas Jerrold, as Master Stephen, showed real talent and power. But the piece
is not an entertaining one, as Lord Melbourne--with his bad habit of thinking aloud--bore disconcerting
witness in his stall: "I knew well enough that the play would be dull, but not so damnably
dull as this!"

KNEBWORTH.

ON MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18th, 1850,

WILL BE PERFORMED

BEN JONSON'S COMEDY

OF

EVERY MAN

IN

HIS HUMOUR.

Costumiers. Messers. NATHAN, of Titchborne Street. Perruqiuer. Mr. WILSON, of the Strand.

Knowell, (an Old Gentleman) Mr. DELME RADCLIFFE,
Edward Knowell, (his Son) Mr. HENRY HAWKINS,
Brainworm, (the Father's Man) Mr. MARK LEMON,
George Downright, (a Plain Squire) Mr. FRANK STONE,
Wellbred, (his Half-brother) Mr. HENRY HALE,
Kitely, (a Merchant) Mr. JOHN FORSTER,
Captain Bobadil, (a Paul's Man) Mr. CHARLES DICKENS,
Master Stephen, (a Country Gull) Mr. DOUGLAS JERROLD,
Master Matthew, (the Town Gull) Mr. JOHN LEECH,
Thomas Cash, (Kitely's Cashier) Mr. FREDERICK DICKENS,
Oliver Cobb, (a Water-bearer) Mr. AUGUSTUS EGG,
Justice Clement, (an old merry Magistrate) The HON. ELIOT YORKE,
Roger Formal, (his Clerk) Mr. PHANTOM,
Dame Kitely, (Kitely's Wife) Miss ANNE ROMER,
Mistress Bridget, (his Sister) Miss HOGARTH,
Tib, (Cob's Wife) Mrs. MARK LEMON,
 (Who has most kindly consented to act, in lieu
 of Mrs. CHARLES DICKENS, disabled by an accident.)

THE EPILOGUE BY MR. DELME RADCLIFFE.

To conclude with MRS. INCHBALD'S Farce of

ANIMAL MAGNETISM.

  The Doctor            Mr. CHARLES DICKENS,
  La Fleur              Mr. MARK LEMON,
  The Marquis de Lancy  Mr. JOHN LEECH,
  Jeffery               Mr. AUGUSTUS EGG,
  Constance             Miss HOGARTH,
  Lisette               Miss ANNE ROMER.

Stage Manager, MR. CHARLES DICKENS.

The Theatre will be open at HALF-PAST SIX. The Performance will begin precisely at HALF-PAST SEVEN.

=GOD SAVE THE QUEEN!=

FOR THE GUILD OF LITERATURE AND ART.

It may fairly be said that not three per cent.--probably not one per cent.--of the jokes sent
in to Punch "from outside" are worthy either of publication as they stand, or even of being
considered raw material for manipulation by the editor or his artists. In this low estimate,
of course, are not included the work of the few regular contributors who are recognised, though
"unattached," as well as of the others who make a practice of sending every good new joke they
hear to such a friend as they may happen to have on the Staff. These two classes are not numerous;
but they are, and have for years formed, a little body of bright-witted, laughter-loving persons,
to whom Punch and Punch readers are under an equal debt of gratitude.

In the United States the providing of jokes for illustration in the comic press is to some
extent a recognised, if a limited and illiberal, profession, he who follows it being commonly
described as the "Unknown Man." Endowed with natural wit and invention, but denied the gift
of draughtsmanship, this "dumb orator" is supposed to turn out jokes as other men would turn
out chair-legs, and sends them in priced, like gloves, at so much a dozen, "on approval--for
sale or return," with a suggested mise en scène complete, which the illustrator is recommended
to adopt. How far the system answers its purpose I am unable to judge; but if the experience
of Mr. Phil May may be taken as an example, there is every reason why the Man should remain
Unknown. For, at the suggestion of a fellow-artist, he ordered five dollars-worth of original
jokes, the price being quoted at a dollar per joke. His order was executed with punctuality
and despatch, when Mr. May found, to his amusement and dismay, that three of the jokes were
former Punch friends, and the remaining two were old ones of his own invention!

In the United Kingdom the joke-contributor is as a rule a disinterested person, usually seeking
neither pay nor recognition; and so far as his estimate bears upon the value of his contribution,
it must be admitted that his judgment is generally sound. But of the accepted jokes from unattached
contributors, it is a notable fact that at least seventy-five per cent. come from North of
the Tweed. Dr. Johnson, ponderous enough in his own humour, admitted that "much may be made
of a Scotchman if he be caught young;" and it is probable that to him, as well as to Walpole--who
suggested that proverbial surgical operation--is owing much of the false impression entertained
in England as to Scottish appreciation of humour and of "wut." Some may retort that it is just
the preponderance of Scotch collaboration that has rendered Punch at times a trifle dull. Certain
it is that Punch is keenly appreciated in the North. In one of the public libraries of Glasgow
it has been ascertained that it was second favourite of all the papers there examined by the
public; and it has been asserted that in one portion of the moors and waters gillies have more
than once been heard to say, "Eh, but that's a guid ane! Send that to Charlie Keene!"

Nevertheless, it must be admitted that Punch's dialect has not always pleased up there, where
"the execrable attempts at broad Scotch which appear weekly in our old friend Punch" have before
now been authoritatively denounced. Under the heading of "Probable Deduction" Punch had the
following paragraph:--"A pertinacious Salvation Army captain was worrying a Scotch farmer,
whom he met in the train, with perpetual inquiries as to whether 'he had been born again of
Water and the Spirit.' At last McSandy replied, 'Aweel, I dinna reetly ken how that may be,
but my good old feyther and mither took their toddy releegiously every nicht, the noo." Referring
to this story--first cousin surely to Lover's joke in "Handy Andy" of the Irish witness who,
when pressed as to his mother's religion, promptly replied, "She tuk whuskey in her tay!"--the
critic remarks, "It is pretty wit; for Punch. But McSandy ought to speak in the Scottish tongue.
Now, if 'night' is 'nicht,' why is 'right' 'reet'--either 'the noo' or at any other time? Hoots
awa." Yet Punch has usually taken great pains to verify his dialects, and Charles Keene--to
whom the legends usually came from his friends ready-made and carefully elaborated--would,
as a rule, seek to have them confirmed by one or other of his Scottish friends in town.

Perhaps the greatest service that any Scot ever rendered to Punch (apart from drawing for it)
was the "puir bodie" who explained that he found Lunnon so awfu' extravagant that he hadna
been in it more than a few hours "when bang went saxpence!" The reader will be interested to
learn that this expression--which may truthfully be said to have passed into the language--did
really issue from the lips of a visitor from the neighbourhood of Glasgow. It was Sir John
Gilbert who heard it, and repeated it to Mr. Birket Foster while they were seated resting from
their labours of "hanging" in the galleries of the Royal Water Colour Society. On the private-view
day that followed, Mr. Foster tried the effect of the joke on two ladies whom he accompanied
into Bond Street to take tea; and as they exploded with laughter, he concluded that it was
good enough for his friend Keene, to whom he thereupon sent it. The immediate success of the
joke was amazing; and Mr. Foster was therefore the more surprised and amused a year afterwards
to overhear a young "masher" calmly inform a barmaid serving on the Brighton pier that he was
the originator of it, and that he possessed the original drawing!

Another favourite Scotch picture of Keene's is that in which a drunken workman, remonstrated
with by the parson, protests that the latter is always blaming him for his drinking, but "You
forget my droth!" This incident really occurred at Pitlochrie, and was told by the minister
himself to Mr. Birket Foster, who handed it on to Keene; but--and here comes out one of the
charming qualities of Keene's character--the real offender was not a man, but a woman. It was
a chivalrous practice of Charles Keene's never to show a woman in a really undignified position;
and when he was remonstrated with on the subject, on the ground that he distorted the truth
unnecessarily, he would reply that "he could not be hard on the sex." But though "bang went
saxpence" is a notable Punch joke--and it may be remarked that it is not less beloved of the
political economist than of the Saturday Reviewer--it is not quite the best known. That position
is easily attained by what is undoubtedly the most successful (that is to say, the most popular)
mot of its kind ever composed in the English language.

It appeared in the Almanac for 1845 under "January," and, based upon the ingenious wording
of an advertisement widely put forth by Eamonson & Co., well-known house furnishers of the
day, ran as follows:--

WORTHY OF ATTENTION.

ADVICE TO PERSONS ABOUT TO MARRY,--Don't![13]

It is doubtful whether any line from any author is so often quoted as "Punch's advice." It
crops up continually, almost continuously, though not exactly when least to be expected, as
experience teaches us to expect it always; and I may assert from my own observation that it
appears in one or other of the papers of the kingdom on an average twice or thrice a week.
Perhaps what has lent additional piquancy to Punch's piece of quaint philosophy is the mystery
hitherto surrounding its authorship. An inquirer who endeavoured a few years ago to solve the
problem set on record the result of his researches, by which, according to a Scotch authority,
he is said to have found the author in (1) a policeman of Glasgow, (2) a bricklayer of Edinburgh,
(3) a railway official at Perth, (4) a compositor in Dundee, (5) an hotel-keeper in Inverness,
and (6) a "Free Press" reporter in Aberdeen. English and Irish evidently had no chance. A letter,
professing to explain the whole mystery, which lies before me from a medical correspondent,
under date April 7th, 1895, runs as follows: "When in practice as a medical man at Neath, in
S. Wales, it was well known to have been written by Mr. Charles Waring, a Quaker living at
'The Darran,' near Neath Abbey. Mr. Waring removed from there to the neighbourhood of Bristol
about twenty-two years ago. The proprietors of Punch were so pleased, they sent him a douceur
of £10 for the contribution!" Further inquiry shows that the late Mr. Waring was merely in
the habit of quoting, not of claiming, the joke.

Hearing Charles Keene's emphatic opinion that the author was a Miss Frances D----, who many
years ago was living in a remote village in the North of England, and who had been paid £5
for the line, I appealed to the Post Office for help to trace the lady out; and through the
kindly assistance of the officials at St. Martin's-le-Grand and elsewhere, although nearly
half a century had elapsed, I discovered her in another village equally remote, the Post Office
having courteously obtained her permission to place me in communication with her. But the information
was of a negative kind. She was, she protested, quite innocent of the credit of Punch's Monumental
Cynicism, and consequently had never been the recipient of the fantastic payment of £5 per
line. But since that time chance has placed in my possession the authoritative information;
and so far from any outsider, anonymous or declared, paid or unpaid, being concerned in it
at all, the line simply came in the ordinary way from one of the Staff--from the man who, with
Landells, had conceived Punch and shaped it from the beginning, and had invented that first
Almanac which had saved the paper's life--Henry Mayhew.

To trace the history of much of Punch's original humour would hardly be desirable, even were
it possible. But there are many examples of it which, while essentially original to Punch,
have yet sprung from circumstances independent of it, and are in themselves amusing enough
to be related, or which otherwise present points of interest. To some of these I call attention,
for they illustrate Punch's own aphorism that "it is easier to make new friends than new jokes."

There is a capital story in Mr. Le Fanu's "Seventy Years of Irish Life," in which the author
tells of a man who was accidentally knocked down by the buffer of a locomotive near Bray Station.
He was not seriously hurt, and but partially stunned; and the porters who quickly ran to the
spot determined to take him to the station at once. The hero of the accident, overhearing where
they were carrying him, imagined that he was being given in charge. "What do you want to take
me to the station for?" he asked. "You know me; and if I've done any damage to your d----d
engine, sure I'm ready to pay for it!" This story of Mr. Le Fanu's reached Keene's ears long
before the author incorporated it in his book, and with the change of hardly a word it illustrated
one of the best drawings the artist ever drew.

Though undoubtedly many of Punch's jokes are deliberately manufactured, or else improved from
actual incidents, a vast number--like that quoted just now--are used with but slight textual
editing, just as they occurred. Thus Joe Allen it was--the light-hearted artist who contributed
an article to Punch's first number--who provided Mr. du Maurier years afterwards with that
"social agony" in which a great lover of children, invited to a juvenile party, bursts into
the room with the cry of "Here we are again"--walking in on his hands like a clown--to find
that he had come to the wrong house next door, and was scandalising a sedate and stately dinner
party. Henry Mayhew had a story of which a facetious police officer of his acquaintance was
the hero. The latter was driving "Black Maria" along the street when he was hailed by a waggish
omnibus-driver who affected to mistake the depressing character of the passing vehicle. "Any
room?" he asked. "Yes," replied the officer, with a grin, "we've kept a place on purpose for
you. Jump inside!" "What's the fare?" inquired the humorist, a little "non-plushed," as Jeames
expressed it, at the unexpected retort. "Same as you had before--bread and water, and skilly
o' Sundays!" The joke duly appeared in Punch after a long interval (Vol. XLVI.), illustrated
by Charles Keene, under the title of "Frightful Levity."

Another omnibus story, printed just as it occurred, was that in which a conductor replies to
an old gentleman in the south of London, whose destination was the "Elephant and Castle." "Yus--you
go on to the Circus, and change into a Helephant." "Oh, mamma!" exclaims a little girl seated
near the door, "do let's go too!" "Go where?" "To the circus, and see the old gentleman change
into an elephant!" A similar incident, it may be observed, was illustrated by Eltze's pencil
in 1861, when a passenger in the "Highbury Bus" asks the conductor to "change him into a Hangel."
Jack Harris has often appeared in Punch. He was a driver beside whom Mr. Edmund Yates often
rode--"a wonderfully humorous fellow, whose queer views of the world and real native wit afforded
me the greatest amusement. A dozen of the best omnibus sketches were founded on scenes which
had occurred with this fellow, and which I described to John Leech, whose usually grave face
would light up as he listened, and who would reproduce them with inimitable fun."

The horrified swell of Leech's who is implored by an onion-hawker to "take the last rope" was
in reality his friend Mr. Horsley, R.A., by whom the artist was provided with a number of humorous
subjects. The unfailing advantage taken by Leech of all such contributions, which his friends
assured him were "not copyright," has been universally recognised. Among the subjects suggested
to him by Dean Hole was that in which his coachman, "unaccustomed to act as waiter, watched,
with great agony of mind, the jelly which he bore swaying to and fro, and set it down upon
the table with a gentle remonstrance of 'Who--a, who--a, who--a,' as though it were a restive
horse." By a curious coincidence, as I have heard from the lips of a member of one of the great
brewing firms, on the very day before the appearance of Mr. du Maurier's drawing[14] the identical
incident had occurred in his own house, and it was hard to believe on the following morning
that the subject of his plunging blanc-mange, similarly apostrophised, had not been imported
by some sort of magic into Punch's page. A similar coincidence, far graver in its first suggestion,
has been given me by Mr. Arnold-Forster. A friend of his sent in to Punch a comic sketch of
the Tsar travelling by railway, while he sent a decoy train in the opposite direction--which
was blown up! The paper containing the sketch was printed by the Monday, and before it was
published that had really occurred which Punch had playfully invented. Until the following
week, when an explanation was published, a certain section of the public criticised, with justifiable
severity, what they took to be the bad taste and ill-timed fooling of the Jester.

From Mr. Harry Furniss's pen came an oft-quoted drawing (lately used as an advertisement),
the idea of which reached him from an anonymous correspondent. It is that of the grimy, unshaven,
unwashed, mangy-looking tramp, who sits down to write, with a broken quill, a testimonial for
a firm of soap-makers: "I used your Soap two years ago; since then I've used no other." A further
point of interest about this famous sketch was that Charles Keene was deeply offended by it
at first--in the groundless belief that it was intended as a skit upon himself. It must at
least be admitted that the head is not unlike what one might have expected to belong to a dissipated
and dilapidated Charles Keene. But the nature of Mr. Furniss's work was of such a kind, and
the artist himself has always overflowed with so prodigal a flood of original quaintness, that
comparatively few sketches were ever sent in to him, or, being sent, were used. The origin
of one of his creations--that of the Sergeant-at-Arms as a beetle--is an example of the lightness
and quickness of his fancy. This representation, it has been said, was generally supposed to
bear some spiteful sort of reference to the shape of Captain Gosset's legs, which in breeches
and silk stockings did not perhaps appear to the best advantage; and, further, that the idea
was suggested by the appearance on the floor of the House of Commons, in the course of a particularly
wearisome debate, of a monster black-beetle marching slowly across under the eyes of the Representatives
of the People, breaking the monotony of the proceedings, and arousing altogether disproportionate
interest among the yawning members; that the "stranger" was quickly spied by the artist, who
about this time had to complain that certain facilities had been refused him by the Sergeant-at-Arms,
and who, in retaliation, professed thenceforward to believe that the two creatures were identical.
But the insinuation was untrue. For the Sergeant was already an established insect in Punch
before the appearance of the genuine black-beetle; and, moreover, so little did he resent it,
that he used to stick the amusing little libels all round his mantelpiece.

The national practice of sending in alleged jokes to Punch--a practice, I imagine, of which
the result is sufficient to prove how deficient in wit, if not in humour, is the English people
considered as a community--is doubtless a convenient one to the many persons who live upon
a fraudulent reputation of being "outside," and of course anonymous, Punch contributors. "How
clever of you!" said a lady in one well-authenticated case to just such an impostor; "how very
clever you must be! And what is it you write in Punch?" "Oh, all the best things are mine."
The difficulty which Thomas Hood actually experienced in establishing his authorship of "The
Song of the Shirt" is recorded in its proper place; while, among other things, Mr. Milliken's
"Childe Chappie" was claimed, as was afterwards ascertained, by a literary ghoul whose strange
taste it was to batten upon the comic writings of others, and to use his borrowed reputation
to ingratiate himself with the fair and trusting sex.

Not a few of Punch's jokes have been sent in by men who were destined a little later on to
become members of the Staff and diners at the Table. Mr. Furniss's first drawing, as is duly
explained elsewhere, was re-drawn by Mr. du Maurier, and Mr. Burnand's initial contribution--a
little sketch of 'Varsity life--was re-drawn by Leech. But quite a number of non-professional
wits and humorists have acted as disinterested friends, whose benevolent assistance has gone
far to colour Punch with the characteristics of their own vis comica. The chief of these no
doubt is Mr. Joseph Crawhall, of Newcastle, whose devoted service to his friend Charles Keene
was an important factor in the artist's Punch-life. From his other friends, Mr. Birket Foster
and Mr. Andrew Tuer, Keene was in receipt of a great number of jokes--from the latter they
came almost as regularly as the weekly paper. It was also from Mr. Tuer that he received, among
many others, that happy thought, so happily realised, of the gentleman who one day paid an
unaccustomed visit to his stables to give an order, and asking his coachman's child, "Well,
my little man, do you know who I am?" received for answer, "Yes, you're the man who rides in
our carriage." This story was quoted seven years later by Lord Aberdeen in a public speech,
in which he attributed the adventure--though on what grounds did not appear--to "a celebrated
physician," apparently Sir Andrew Clark.

After Charles Keene's death Mr. Tuer's humorous vein was turned on to others of the Staff.
One of his contributions may be quoted as illustrating how unintentional are the originals
of some of Punch's jokes. In 1889 appeared a picture entitled "A New Trade," in which a country
maid, on being asked what her last employer was, replied, "He kept a Vicarage." The circumstance
had actually taken place in Mr. Tuer's own house. When the number appeared, the legend was
read out to the maid, and it was explained to her that it was her joke. She showed no enthusiasm,
not even appreciation; but on seeing the others laugh, she said, with perfect gravity, yet
still with hopeful perseverance, "Well, I must try and make some more!"

To Canon Ainger, also, among a crowd of willing helpers, has Mr. du Maurier often been indebted--for
jokes rather scholarly than farcical, such as the parody spoken by a wretched passenger leaving
the steamboat--

  "Take, O boatman, thrice thy fee--
  I've been as ill as any three!"

Most, perhaps, resembling the "Unknown Man" of the United States already spoken of is Mr. Henry
Walker, of Worcester, a gentleman of wit and artistic knowledge. It had for many years been
his practice, whenever inspired with a good idea for a humorous drawing, to make a sketch of
it in his album; and thus he had collected a goodly number. At first he would send his sketches
to Keene from time to time, receiving due pecuniary acknowledgment in return, but later on
he left the whole book with Mark Lemon to draw from as he listed. Altogether, between the years
1867 and 1869, Keene made fifteen drawings from Mr. Walker's book, in some cases keeping close
to the original designs, in others entirely altering them; but in that re-drawn by Mr. du Maurier
from the sketch here reproduced, the original has been greatly departed from and improved.

It may be added that when Punch artists re-draw and touch up an outsider's sketch, it is their
usual practice not to sign their drawings, but to leave them without any indication of their
authorship.

Apart from these willing contributors are those from whom the Editor, always on the look-out
for new blood and fresh wit, invites contributions, having seen good work of theirs elsewhere.

It is often thus that Punch's ranks are recruited, and that Mr. Lucy, Mr. Lehmann, Mr. Partridge,
Mr. Phil May, and others have been drawn into the agreeable vortex of Whitefriars.

On at least one occasion, however, Punch threw his kerchief in vain, for Mr. Bristed tells
us, in his "Five Years at an English University," how the Epigram Club, of Oxford, was invited
by the Editor to send its productions to Punch, but that "with true English reserve" the Society
came to an agreement that all their transactions should remain in manuscript.

