THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

VOL. XIII, NO. 359.] SATURDAY, MARCH 7, 1829. [Price 2d.

RUGBY SCHOOL

On the eastern border of Warwickshire, about 13 miles from Coventry, and 16 from Warwick, stands
the cheerful town of Rugby, a place of great antiquity, but of little note previous to the
erection of a grammar-school there, towards the close of the sixteenth century. The circumstances
under which this school was founded, and the rank it has attained among our classical seminaries,
may probably be interesting to the reader.

Rugby School was founded in the ninth year of Elizabeth, by Lawrence Sheriff, grocer, of London,
chiefly as a free grammar-school for the children of the parishes of Rugby and Brownsover,
and places adjacent. For the accommodation of the master, who was, "if it conveniently might
be, to be ever a Master of Arts," he bequeathed a messuage at Rugby, in which it is probable
he had himself resided during the last few years of his life, and he directed that there should
be built, near this residence, a fair and convenient school-house, to defray which expense,
and of a contiguous almshouse, he bequeathed the revenue of the rectory of Brownsover, and
a third portion of twenty-four acres of land, situate in Lamb's Conduit Fields, "near London,"
and termed the Conduit Close. These eight acres were of trivial value at the period; and in
1653, the trustees of the property paid the schoolmaster a salary of 12l. a year, and each
of the alms-men 7s. 7d. In 1686, the Lamb's Conduit property was leased for fifty years at
50l. per annum. The metropolis increased, and stretching one of its Briareusian arms in this
direction, the once neglected field rose in value, and in 1702 (thirty-four years before the
expiration of the above term) the trustees granted a fresh lease to William (afterwards Sir
William) Milman, of forty-three years, to commence at the termination of the former lease.
Building was not then a mania, and Sir William obtained his term for 60l. per annum; so that
until the year 1780, the annual produce of the estate belonging to the Rugby charity, was only
116l. 17s. 6d.! But, shortly after the grant of an extended term to Sir W. Milman, handsome
streets of family houses sprung up, and it was computed that a ground-rent of at least 1,600l.
would accrue to the charity on the expiration of his lease. A much greater income has, in fact,
arisen, and the revenues will be materially increased on the termination of the present leases.

The flourishing finances of this noble institution are well managed by twelve trustees, chosen
from the nobility and gentry of the country.[1]

The ancient buildings of the Rugby seminary were a humble tenement for the schoolmaster, a
principal school-room, and two or three additional school-rooms, built at different times,
as the finances would allow. These being found too limited, in 1808 the trustees commenced
the erection of the present structure, from the designs of Mr. Henry Hakewill. It stands nearly
on the same spot as the former humble building, and is composed of white brick, the angles,
cornices, and dressings to the windows and openings being of Aldborough stone. The style of
architecture is that of the reign of Elizabeth, the period at which the school was founded.
The building is massy, august, and interesting from its graceful disposition of parts. The
principal front is that represented in our engraving, which extends 220 feet.

The schools are entered by a gateway opposite the street, which leads to the principal court,
a fine area, 90 feet long by 75 feet wide, with a plain cloister on the east, south, and west
sides. The buildings on the south of the court comprise the dining hall, belonging to the boys
in the head master's house, and three schools for different classes; those on the west are
occupied by the great school; and on the north are the French and writing schools. The east
side adjoins the offices belonging to the head master's house. About sixty boys are accommodated
here; the remainder lodge in the houses of the other masters, and in the town of Rugby.

Lawrence Sheriff, the benevolent founder of this institution, was born at Brownsover, whence
he removed to London, where he kept a grocer's shop in Newgate-street. A more gratifying portrait
of true beneficence than Sheriff's bequest can scarcely be found in British annals; and this
gratification is greatly enhanced by the justice with which his intentions have been carried
into effect at Rugby. The alms-houses were originally for four poor old men; but the dwellings
have been augmented in proportion to the increased revenues.

    [1] Their annual meeting is in August, when the examination takes
        place. Fourteen exhibitions have been instituted, each of the
        exhibitioners being allowed forty pounds per annum to assist in
        their support, for seven years, at either university.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHOICE HINTS FOR A PLAN TO DISCHARGE THE NATIONAL DEBT.

(For the Mirror.)

"Great events sometimes spring from trivial causes," of the truth of this adage, no man is,
I think, so great a heretic, as to express any doubt--were such the case, it would be by no
means difficult to conjure up a host of evidence, in support of our proposition; but, seeing
that "such things are," let us at once to the point.

The present age is so rife in whims and proposals, that I am rather apprehensive, some may
doubt the feasibility of the following. Nevertheless, it is, methinks, quite as good, as many
others which recently were strangled, in struggling for existence.

In looking over some old pamphlets the other day, I met with the following "true and particular
account" of Mr. Peter Pounce, Postmaster, of Petersham, and his horse, Prance.

Now, according to my author (of whose veracity I entreat the reader to use his own discretion)
it seems this Mr. Pounce was an exceedingly good kind of man, and that his horse, Prance, was
also an exceedingly good kind of horse; moreover, when the postmaster travelled, he usually
put up at the George, where there is exceeding good entertainment for both man and horse. Upon
one occasion, being in great haste, Mr. Pounce directed the ostler not to put Prance into the
stable, but to tie him to the brew-house door. Now, as cruel fate would have it, there was
just within the nag's reach, a tub full of wine lees, which, luckless moment for him, (being
thirsty) he unceremoniously quaffed off in a trice, without even here's to you.

The consequence was, Prance fell down dead drunk; nay, he acted death so much to the life,
that his master, reckoning him absolutely defunct, had him flayed, and sold his skin to a tanner,
who happened to be drinking in the alehouse kitchen. Mr. Pounce then walked in a solitary mood
to his home, and communicated the melancholy affair to his good lady, who wept bitterly at
Prance's untimely fate.

But leaving her to dry her eyes, we return to the nag--the weather being cold, he was by the
loss of his skin, &c. quite sobered, and prudently trotted to his master's door, at which he
whinnied with much clamour for admission.

Bless me, my dear, exclaims Mrs. P. our nag's ghost is at the door--I know him by his whinnies;
upon which Mr. Pounce runs with alacrity to the door, and sure enough there he was--no ghost--but
in propriâ personâ except his skin. In this exigence, the gentleman had four sheep killed forthwith,
and covered the nag with a woollen garment. To make short of it, the horse rapidly recovered,
and bore two tods of wool every year.

From this narration it is proposed to embrace the manifest advantages which offer themselves
for improving the woollen trade--that great staple of Britain's wealth, in manner following:--

First, then, let an accurate estimate be taken of the number of sheep annually slaughtered
in these kingdoms.

Secondly.--Let proper officers be appointed to collect these skins into commodious warehouses.

Lastly.--That such a number of horses, mares, and geldings as the said skins will conveniently
cover, be flayed (without fear of Mr. Martin!) and their backs forthwith enveloped in fleece.

By this arrangement the following benefits will arise to the government and community:--

1. Every horse whose hide was formerly only useful after death, will then afford an annual
profit by producing two tods of wool yearly, without any loss to the tanner or shoemaker, who
will still necessarily have as many hides as heretofore.

2. The health of that useful animal the horse, which is probably liable to more disorders than
any other (the human species excepted) will be much better preserved by woollen than a hairy
covering.

3. There will be little occasion for saddles, &c. as the fleece will afford a very easy seat,
much softer than leather, and well adapted for ladies and invalids.

Lastly.--There will be an annual acquisition of about 40 millions sterling, from this novel
mode of procedure, of which please to accept the following algebraical demonstration:--

Let x be the unknown quantity; a, the horses; b, the sheep; then per simple equations x, plus
a, plus b, minus tods, plus sheepskins, equal one thousand--then minus sheep, plus horses,
minus wool, plus tods, equal one million. Lastly, horses plus sheep, minus hides, plus fleeces,
in all equal forty millions.

    Quod erat demonstrandum.

There, reader, if you are still a sceptic, I cannot help it.

JACOBUS.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANSWER OF THE LONDON STONE.[2]

(For the Mirror.)

    Why hast thou mortal, on my slumber broken,
      And dragged my struggling spirit back to earth?
    Though "walls have ears," yet stones have never spoken.
      Why am I made the object of thy mirth?
    Why am I questioned thus to tell my fate,
    And primal use? Yet hear--whilst I relate.

    When time was young, and earth was in her prime,
      Secure I slept within her spacious womb;
    And ages passed--I took no heed of time,
      Until some Druid burst my dismal tomb,
    And dragged me forth amidst the haunts of man.
    And then, indeed my life of woe began.

    And ere great Caesar in triumphant pride,
      Led on by conquest, bade Rome's eagles soar
    To this fair isle; full many a victim died
      Upon my breast, and I was drenched with gore:
    For "midst the tangling horrors of the wood,"
    I stood an altar, stained with human blood.

    I've witnessed scenes, which I now dread to name,
      I've seen the captive bound in wicker rods
    Expire, midst shouts, to feed the sacred flame,
      And glut the fury of offended gods;
    Those days soon passed--the gospel's milder ray
    Dispelled the gloom, and spread a brighter day.

    Then superstition tottered on her throne,
      And hid her head in shades of gloomy night;
    Quenched were her fires--her impious fanes o'er thrown,
      Her mists dispersed before the Prince of Light,
    Then sank my grandeur; in some lonely spot
    I slept for years unnoticed and forgot.

    Until Vespasian, by Rome's stern command,
      To quench rebellion in my native isle,
    Brought his bold legions from a foreign strand,
      Our land to torture, and our towers to spoil;
    He hewed me in a fashion now unknown,
    And dubbed me, what I am, "The London Stone."

    From me, the miles by Britons once were counted,
      Close to my side were monies lent and paid;
    If princes died--some gaudy herald mounted
      Upon my head, and proclamations read;
    Till Gresham rose; who used me very ill,
    He moved the place of commerce to Cornhill.

    When reeling homewards from the tavern near,
      Oft with prince Henry has old honest Jack
    Sat on my breast, and I've been doomed to hear
      Him talk of valour, and of unpaid sack;
    And whilst he talked, the roysterers gave vent,
    To peals of laughter and of merriment.

    Yes, I'm the hone that "City's Lord" essayed,
      To make the whetstone of his rebel sword;
    On me, with mischief rife, rebellious Cade
      Sat whilst he thought and dubbed himself a Lord;
    And bade my conduit pipe for one whole year
    At city's cost, run naught but claret clear.[3]

    I could a tale of harrowing woes reveal,
      Whilst York and Lancaster for mastery tried:
    When men the ties of nature ceased to feel,
      When sires beneath their offsprings' sabres died;
    And sires 'gainst children clad themselves in arms,
    And England mourned the din of war's alarms.

    Yes, I beheld the beauteous virgin queen,
      And all the dauntless heroes of her court;
    Where danger threatened, 'midst the danger seen,
      Bending their fearless way to Tilbury Fort;
    I heard the shouts of joy which Britons gave,
    When th' Armada sank beneath the wave.

    I mind, Augusta,[4] well that fatal day,
      When to thy ports with dire contagion fraught.
    The laden vessel[5] stemmed its gallant way.
      And to thy sons the plague disastrous brought;
    Quick through thy walls the foul infection spread,
    And thou became the city of the dead.

    Scarce ceased the plague--when to my aching sight
      Appeared a scene of most terrific woe;
    Around me burnt one monstrous blaze of light,
      I warmed, and almost melted with its glow;
    I burst the chains,[6] which bound me fast, asunder,
    And now remain, to learned men a wonder.

    And when the city from her ruins rose,
      I soon was left deserted and forlorn;
    A porters' bench was raised beneath my nose.
      And I became the object of their scorn:
    I've heard the rascals, with a vacant stare,
    Ask, just like you, what business I had there?

    Few years have passed, since I, by parish sages,
      Was called a monstrous nuisance to the street,
    And, though I'd borne the brunt of varying ages,
      Was doomed for pavement 'neath the horses' feet,
    Until a Maiden,[7] near to Sherborne Lane,
    Saved me--and rescued London from that stain.

    And now, vain mortal, I have told thee all,
      My fate, my primal use, the what and which;
    And though my struggling spirit owned thy salt,
      Once more I'll slumber in my holy niche,
    And "Britain's sun may set," what's that to me,
    Since I, stone-blind and dumb, for aye will be.

                                              J.E.

    [2] See Ode to London Stone. MIRROR, No. 357, p. 114.

    [3] See Shakspeare's Henry VI., part 2, act 4, scene 6.

    [4] The ancient name for London.

    [5] The cause of the great plague in 1665, was ascribed to the
        importation of infected goods from Holland, where the plague
        had committed great ravages the preceding year.
        See No. 64 of the Mirror for an account of London Stone.

    [7] When the church of St. Swithin was repaired in 1798, some of
        the parishioners declared the London Stone a nuisance which
        ought to be removed. Fortunately, one gentleman, Thomas Maiden,
        of Sherborne Laue, interfered and rescued it from annihilation,
        and caused it to be placed in its present situation.

       *       *       *       *       *

HAVER BREAD.

(To the Editor of the Mirror.)

