

Caterina meanwhile, in the simple straight blue robe of a young Venetian maiden, her dimpled
throat encircled with the pearls that had been the ransom of a kingdom, stood turning her miniature
from side to side, catching the sunlight on the jewels and the face, with the pleasure of a
child in a new and splendid toy--for it was all beautiful together. "He is charming--charming,
my King!" she repeated.

But a shadow had crept into her mother's eyes. "It is a face that an artist might paint for
his pleasure," she said with hesitation, as if seeking expression for some vague fear that
haunted her; "I pray that he may make thee happy, carina; that he may be good and--and--noble."

"'Noble!'" cried Marco Cornaro, scornfully; "what seekest more? Is Cyprus not enough for thy
nobility? Is there another mother in Venice who doth not envy thee thy fortune! Go to thy tire-women
and consult with them, for the Betrothal will be soon, by order of the Senate, and there is
small time to waste in regrets that somewhat more to thy liking hath not befallen thee. See
to it that the robing of Caterina be fit for that other kingdom thou wouldst, perchance, have
chosen for her."

"If he be noble--truly noble," the Lady Fiorenza said with unwonted persistence--for something
moved her to assert herself, "I ask no more."

But the Senator permitted her the questionable honor of unanswered speech, as he turned with
a scowl and left her. For her word had rankled: since it was known, in the innermost circle
of the Council and there discussed in strictest secrecy, that had Janus been born in Venice,
the law would have excluded him from its Libro d'Oro, and no patrician father would have sought
him for his daughter. But Cyprus lay far away beyond the sea which washed the borders of Venetia,
and many of Oriental race had peopled its shores--the ideals of Venice might be no law for Cyprus.

III

These things took place in the spring of 1468; nor was it long before the ceremonial had been
prescribed and the pageant had been made ready for the betrothal of the youthful Caterina;
for the Senate could be as prompt in action as far-seeing in judgment when haste seemed wise;
and other rulers were looking with no disfavor on the King of Cyprus in this matter of an alliance,
for it was known that overtures had already been offered by the Court of Naples and by His
Holiness of Rome for one of his own family who had claim to his protection.

While Venice was plunged in a turmoil of preparation, the Casa Cornaro gathered from all its
palaces and surged up and down the grand stairway of the Marco Cornari, bringing counsel, gifts
and glorification; the dowagers to the remotest branches, were much in evidence, refurbished,
and coming in solemn state to testify their approval of an alliance so honorable to their house,
with many wise worldly maxims and pious thanks to the Madonna.

There was no quiet anywhere within the palazzo, save deep down in the heart of the Lady Fiorenza,
who had never been one with her family in worldly ambitions; and far below the giddy current
of the day's happenings ran the ceaseless flow of the mother's wordless prayer, enfolding her
child--pleading that that which was to come to her should make and keep her noble.

Resistance would have been vain, if only because she stood alone in her family circle; but
the decision of the Senate was supreme--unquestionable and irrevocable; she stood alone indeed
with only prayer to help her, and a great faith that because of it her child would be saved
in the path of danger from which her love might not hold her feet. And so the day of the Betrothal
dawned.

       *       *       *       *       *

Ah, how the bells were ringing--Madre Beata! For such a festa as never had been in Venice!
The hearts of the happy people throbbed to their rhythm, while each gave something to the splendor
of the day--were it but the color of a mantle, or the grace of a jubilant motion, or the radiance
of a beaming face--there was no festa in Venice of which the people had not its part.

They had been gathering since earliest dawn in the Piazza San Marco, arriving breathlessly
in gondolas from the nearer points, in fishing boats with painted sails from the distant islands--hastening
from their unsold wares in the market stalls near the wooden bridge of the Rialto to wait long
hours for the pageant that no Venetian might miss. For never had there been such another, and
there was not too much space where one might stand to see the glory and the beauty of it! Dio!
but it was good to be born in Venice, where life was a festa!

Along the Riva their radiant, dark faces gleamed in the sunshine, where they stood in serried
ranks, picturesque in all the brilliant coloring that their rustic wardrobes held in store
for these days of festa; silken shawls that were heirlooms--strings of coral and amber and
great Venetian beads of every tint, or an edge of old lace on the gala fazzuolo that many a
noble lady might be proud to wear; everywhere there was color against the background of festive
garlands and brilliant rugs decking the balconies of the palaces--a dazzling picture in the
sunshine, under the blue of the Venetian sky.

Every window in the Piazza and the Piazzetta was thronged with spectators in gala robes, while
under the arcades that stretched from San Marco to the ancient church of San Giminiano across
the square, the people surged crowding and jubilant; climbing to the roofs and ledges of every
building, the campanile, the churches, the columned palaces, leaving not a space where a man
might stand save the avenue through the crowd which the soldiers kept free for the procession.

The bells were beginning to ring--Santa Maria! all the bells--a true jubilee!

Messer San Marco and San Tadoro were good to them to-day; how their golden images flashed in
the sunshine on the columns! and the four great golden horses, in the dancing sunlight, seemed
to quiver and prance among the frost-work of the arches of San Marco, while the gold and blue
and scarlet of frieze and archivolt made a picture of delight.

The little ones shouted and babbled, were lifted high on their fathers' shoulders, or clamored
with disappointed half-sobs down in the crowd which shut out all vision, beside the weary,
expostulating mothers whose arms were filled with wee things who could not stand, and who had
come early in the day--so early--in hope of a treat for the bambini.

They had carried them around the Piazza when they came in the early morning before the crowd--"Santa
Vergine--wasn't that enough for them! to get a sight of all the grand balconies where the nobili
were to be, with the garlands and the tapestries and the curtains of velvet and brocade, and
the beautiful paintings, and the banners of San Marco, and the great golden horses in the Piazza--the
wonderful golden horses--up so high, thou knowest, eh, Battista? What dost thou want more?
Pazienza!"

There was a commotion on the Piazzetta; the first barge, heading the long procession from the
Palazzo Cornaro in San Cassiano far up the Canal Grande, was coming in sight, bearing the brilliant
Compagnia della Calza, the noble youths of the Company of the Hose, whose gilded duty it was
to appear at State Ceremonials in all the extravagance of fantastic elegance with which Venice
had decreed their costumes. A laughing, dainty company, they sprang ashore at the landing of
the Piazzetta, doffing their jewelled caps to the admiring crowd with capricious grace and
whimsical motions, like a flock of birds of paradise, in doublets of velvet and cloth of gold,
with hair floating loose about their throats; with devices of fabulous birds--of stars flashing
light--of mystic arabesques and hieroglyphs embroidered on their silken hose, in pearls and
gold and precious stones:--truly a gay and frivolous company to be under the grave control
of the Ten!

The people shouted with delight as they took their stand at the steps of the Piazzetta to receive
the oncoming barges, for the "Calza" were the very darlings of their eyes, and never had they
been more brilliant. With true Venetian comradery the crowd tossed them light banter on the
names of their divisions, with pantomimic interpretation, in response to their sweeping salutations.

"Cortesi! saw one ever such courtesy!"

"San Marco keep you Immortali, for the grace of you!"

"Sempiterni!--everlasting--ay, to be young like that, with so much pleasure in life--Cielo!"

"And the gondolieri of the Sempiterni--do they live also forever? Signori Nobili, have you
need of gondolieri?"

But it needed only a whimsical motion of the Calza to fasten all eyes on the Canal Grande,
where to the gracious rhythm of countless strings and flutes, the barges of State were nearing
the steps of the Piazzetta, bearing the standards of Venice and Cyprus--their prows garlanded
with roses, their rowers wreathed with myrtle--banners and draperies of snow and silver floating
in the breeze.

Far up the Canal Grande the gondolas of the nobles, waiting before their palaces, had glided
into position as the procession swept down toward the Piazza--each gondola showing the colors
of its casa, each fluttering a silken streamer in honor of Cyprus, each bearing its freight
of crimson-garbed Senators and ladies in festal array.

A murmur of intense satisfaction broke from the excited crowd along the Riva, as the barges
which bore the youthful bride and her newly-appointed suite floated nearer; the great festal
barges carved with bas-reliefs from classic story, were all of white and silver, their sails
of satin, plumed with roses, and from each prow the figure of a glorified swan flashed rosy
light from eyes of ruby: and every rower in white and silver plying his silver oar, wore the
arms of Cornaro blazoned on his sleeve, with a sash of the colors of Cyprus.

An opal light played over the group of the dainty maids of honor, yet each showed, for her
only color, the arms of her ancient Venetian house wrought large upon the creamy fabric of
her tunic, the threads of gold and gleam of jewels half lost within its folds as she walked:
but the people looked for the heraldic devices and named them eagerly as, two by two, the maidens
stepped on shore--Mocenigo--Giustiniani--Morosini-- Dandolo--Contarini--a new name for every
sweet young face--the King of Cyprus could add none fairer, nor no more noble arms to the court
of his youthful Queen. The Senate had outdone itself in luxury of imagination.

"Ecco!" The low long-drawn sound of delight swept through the expectant throng like the rustle
of the wind among the rushes, for here, at last, was La Caterina! and a very child she seemed
as she stood surrounded by the escort of noble Matrons of Honor most sumptuously clad, whom
Venice had appointed to act as sponsors in the ceremonial of the Adoption. She was like a snow-drop
in a garden of exotics--so pale and fair and young, in her robes of filmy lace from the cushions
of Burano--the great pearls of Janus rising and falling with the frightened throbbing of her
breast. Her mother only stood beside her under the canopy--her hand clasping that of her child
with a pressure which gradually steadied her to forget herself and to do her part mechanically,
as she might be instructed: for, deep in the heart of the Lady Fiorenza that ceaseless prayer
upheld her with a rare and noble dignity--it brought her calm for the drama she had not willed,
and faith that for her child all would be well. She had pleaded with the Senate that on this
day of deep import the barge of Caterina should not be without the benediction of its tutelary
saint, since every gondola was wont to have its shrine; and behind them under the canopy, from
a mass of roses on an altar of alabaster, rose a noble Madonna by Bellini, painted with exquisite
grace--the votive picture which later kept within the Chapel of the Lady Fiorenza in the Palazzo
Cornaro, the memory of this day.

The little ones cried and struggled down among the crowd, seeing nothing, and conscious from
the chorus of ecstatic exclamations that they were missing a golden moment.

"Pace! Yes, they are coming: she is there--the Regina. Every one of you shall see--every one.
Pazienza! Some one will hold the bimbo who sleeps? Then I could lift Tonino and Maria. Mille
Grazie!"

A dozen sympathetic arms had instantly offered in response to this appeal, for the good-natured
Venetian crowd adored festas--they also--and it would be a pity of pities that the bambini
should miss it, and this one was like heaven!

"Ah, but she is beautiful, the bride--beautiful as an angel: and young--young like my Teresina!
And to be a queen--Santa Maria!--she who was like the other daughters of the nobili on the
Canal Grande! Ah, but life is wonderful for them--the nobili--but Messer San Marco is gentile
to make this festa for Venice!" The recollection of their own little part in the festa came
with a patient sigh.

"It is our Caro Maestro Giovanni Bellini who hath fashioned it all they say--the garlands,
the barges--the costumes--he talked with their Excellencies, the Signoria."

The rumor went round, for the Maestro was the honest pride of Venice.

"It is he, verily, who hath painted our Blessed Lady for the barca of the Lady Caterina; for
Madonna Fiorenza is almost a saint--and devote----! She hath the heart of a carità within her."

"They come now from the palazzo of the Cornaro," cried the little peasant-mother eagerly. "Hearest
thou, my bimbo?" She moved the restless hands to and fro, the round eyes following the motion.
"Clap thy hands for the Regina--thou too, give thy greeting; thou wilt remember it when thou
art old. May the holy Madonna bless her!"

The shouts to which Caterina landed were deafening: the children screamed for very ecstasy.

The lagoon, from the Riva far out toward the islands was a dense mass of floating craft of
the poorer sort, for below the Piazza there had been no restriction, and the waters were crowded
with islanders--old people grateful for this nearness to the pageant, with a chance of separation
from the standing, jostling crowd, and proud of lending the color of their pennons and painted
sails for their share of the glory of the day. If one could see nothing, it was good to be
there to hear the shouting--one would understand the better when Tonio should be taking his
bit of supper and free to talk--for he was no good to his old mother now, with watching the
tacking and the people. And one might as well be dead as to stay far off in Burano on a day
like this! Cielo, but the bells and the shouting were divine! It made one young again.

"A king, thou sayest? Who is the king that the child is going to marry? What is he like, Tonio?
I cannot see so far."

"Not there? Holy Mother, but it is a strange wedding! There would have been the gossip of all
the islands to answer if there hadn't been two to a wedding when I was young. But the Signori
Nobili must have everything after their own new fashions. And to miss his own sposalizio! San
Marco is not good to him--he'll never see another half so fine. Is she so young as they say--like
Maria, there?"

"Ah, to be Signori just for to-day!" sighed the little peasant-mother in the crowd, as the
dazzling cortège passed out of sight into the golden glooms of San Marco. "To go with the nobili
into the Duomo where one may behold the Pala d'Oro and the wonderful golden candlesticks which
the Serenissimo hath given--to see the Serenissimo take her for the Daughter of the Republic--wonder
of wonders! And then to the Palazzo Ducale for the Betrothal--Pazienza, one must wait; they
will come again later, my bambini. Ah, but the beauty of it!" For the brave little woman was
weary, and there was nothing like enthusiasm for keeping up one's courage, "and Heaven alone
knew where Zorzi was with the barca!"

The crowd relaxed and grew restless, losing some of the gaiety of its temper when a weary neighbor
settled back a little too roughly on a fellow-shoulder, or the babies who had been put down
on the ground to rest lost the last sweet morsels they had been munching and clamored in vain
for more--too much excited by the unusual noises and happenings to deign to notice the brothers
of the next size who were busily turning somersaults in their behalf.

But it would not be long before the procession came again; for the last of the sumptuous nobles
who made this holiday for the people had disappeared under the portico of San Marco.

The bells were chiming now in soft low undertones, a very ripple of sound--like the breath
of the summer-breeze upon the sea--stilling the shrill voices of the people in the Piazza,
calming the exuberance of their motions. For it was a signal. They knew that within the Duomo,
before the great altar where slept their patron-saint, ablaze now with lights and the marvel
of the Pala d'Oro which was not for the sight of the eyes save on days of a festa like this,
the child of the Cornaro was waiting to be made the Daughter of Venice.

       *       *       *       *       *

And now--for the bells were silent--in the magnificent storied chamber of the Gran Consiglio,
where so many momentous questions of state had been discussed, in the presence of the Serenissimo,
the Signoria, the Senate and the Forty Noble Matrons, a new leaf was to be added to the story
of the Republic, and thither the feeble old Doge led the Daughter of Venice with the brilliant
assemblage who had witnessed the ceremony of the Adoption in the Duomo.

Caterina had moved through the splendid pageant of the morning as in a dream, still too much
a child to comprehend the responsibilities it portended--too much in awe of the distinguished
company assembled to do her honor to be conscious of any feeling but unwonted timidity. But
the tottering footsteps of the old man who held her hand as he led her through the Porta della
Carta into the Ducal Palace, awoke her inborn sense of pity, and it was she who upheld him
with her strong, young, vital clasp, recovering her own perfect poise in the act of giving help.

The Ambassador Mastachelli was waiting with his suite, and the signing of the parchment which
bore the seals of Venice and of Cyprus was the trifle of a moment. A circlet of rubies--the
sign of the promise--had been consecrated by the saintly Patriarch, Lorenzo Giustiniani, and
the Lady Fiorenza took comfort from the look in his noble face as he bent over Caterina to
give the benediction. She would seek his aid in the training of the young betrothed for her
life on that distant island.

But now--at last--the hour was the people's once more, for the Serenissimo stood on the balcony
above the portal of San Marco, between the great golden horses, with the Daughter of Venice
beside him--the sunlight irradiating her white robes and beautiful, girlish face.

"Caterina--Regina--Figlia di Venezia--Nostra Venezia!" A great cry rent the air; it came from
thousands of hearts and thrilled her own to its core, and the first, great emotion of her young
life swept through her, transforming and wholly possessing her.

A mist swam before her and her heart throbbed as if it would break: she dimly saw innumerable
faces leaning to her from roofs and balconies and windows, and below in the great Piazza, the
dense mass of the people with faces offering love and homage, lifting their children to clap
their tiny hands for her--it was wonderful--beautiful--had the Madonna, indeed, given her so much!

The mist cleared before her eyes and each face, to the remotest corners of the Piazza stood
out individualized, while a sudden great love of humanity was born within her. "She would pray
to make her people happy--she would be something to the poor and suffering ones of her distant
land of Cyprus--the Holy Mother would teach her----"

It was the supreme moment that does not come to all, yet when it comes holds the making or
the marring of a life--as the lightning gleams for an instant only through a rift of cloud,
awe-inspiring and too luminous to be forgotten. To Caterina, on the verge of womanhood, it
came with the force of a prophetic vision, giving her sight of the tie between a queen and
her people--it was like the strong mother-love of a great woman--all-embracing; the splendor
of the pageant, the personal homage had no longer part in the exaltation of that great moment--it
was the real beneath it all that stirred her soul. She lost herself in the emotion, seeking
only for expression; she opened her arms wide to them as if she would embrace them all, turning
on every side to smile her heart out to them--tossing kisses to the children who clapped their
eager hands for her--scattering sunshine with that rare magnetic power which is the most wondrous
gift that Heaven can bestow.

"Simpatica!" the responsive people cried with glowing faces. "Angiola!--Tanto Simpatica!"

The Lady Fiorenza standing where she could see the face of her child gave thanks for the vision,
with joyful tears.

"This hast thou granted her, Madonna mia Beatissima, for a wedding gift!"

IV

Now that the brilliant pageant of the Betrothal had taken place, life went on serenely in the
Palazzo Cornaro in San Cassan, while the seasons came and went and Caterina developed into
a charming maiden of seventeen--expanding in the gracious atmosphere and the wonderful new
joys that it brought her, as a rose matures to its most radiant perfection in the sunshine.
Her eager mind which had hitherto known only the meagre culture bestowed upon young Venetian
maids of her time and estate, awoke with ardent response, growing with leaps and bounds to
meet the new demands--yet always deepening because the spring of her will had its impulse in
noble emotions.

Her thin, restricted life had suddenly overflowed with interests: the boundaries of her vision
had opened far beyond the narrow confines of the lagoons of Venice and the Euganean hills,
as the consciousness dawned upon her of a world that had been rich in beauty and vital memories
before Venice began to be. Life was beginning to pulsate tumultuously in her veins; her heart
was awaking. All the fulness and delight of this germinal spring-time she owed to the lord
and lover who was waiting for her across the shimmering, beckoning sea. What wonder that her
maiden heart should cling to him with a passionate trust, while all her sweet self grew in
shy loveliness out of the dream that she was fashioning, and the deepening currents of her
being flowed purely about this vision of her betrothed, enthroning her love with her religion
in one centre.

The mimic court in the Palazzo Cornaro, under the supervision of her monitors of Venice, was
already attracting distinguished strangers--for the element of romance in her position made
the salon of the future Queen of Cyprus the feature of Venetian social life; and long hours
of eager study with masters of the many tongues spoken in the Cyprian court--alternating with
the teachings of her mother's noble friend, the Patriarch, as he sought to familiarize her
with the early Christian story of her distant island, proved the quick grasp of her mind--giving
dangerous hints of strength which, if disregarded, might thwart the moulding purpose of the
Signoria. So it seemed wise to forestall her questionings with such historic glimpses as should
fascinate her with her realm to be, while Venice was silently smoothing out the crumples of
that distant Cyprian shore; and it was fitting that the bride of Janus should make acquaintance
with the literary and legendary treasures of this fabled isle of poets, for the house of Lusignan
had been known for its taste in literature. But of a certain proverb current in Cyprus in the
days of the Lusignans, the watchful Senate took care that she should be left in ignorance,
Ce n'est pas Minerve qui est née en Chypre! and that Chief of the Ten whose difficult duty
it had become to supervise the education of Caterina was giving peremptory instruction to the
newly-created Historical Secretary to the Queen-elect:

"Begin with thy narration far back in the days of the Greek myths--she hath much poetry in
her soul. Take her carefully over the early Christian traditions--she doth most seriously incline
to venerate the Church:--there is food in these matters to consume much time."

"And then, Eccellentissimo, one may venture to tell the story of the House of Lusignan?"

The research of the learned Secretary had brought him in contact with Cyprus, but it had not
inclined him to make fancy pictures of its kings.

"Of Guy--the founder--and of the Crusades; it is a tale a maid may hear," the Capo responded
grimly. "Of gleanings, now and again, through the pages of the chronicle, as it may be wise.
She hath not the judgment to endure it all, being yet scarce more than a child--and with leanings
rather toward Church than State, being over-much under the influence of the Lady Fiorenza--over-much."

The words came with pauses which lent them force, and the new Secretary, being Senate-trained,
lost none of their significance.

"Thine office doth demand discretion," the Chief continued, fixing the other with his piercing
gaze. "One should choose the tale that may best please--that she may go glad-hearted and with
a maiden's fancy."

"Aye, your Excellency--for maids and women are not as men; and facts not over-gentle may be
best untold."

"Nay--not that--not that: but there is time--much time--and for the present the care shall
be to delight."

"It is the office of a courtier, Eccellentissimo; it befools a scholar," the Historical Secretary
exclaimed with indignation. "There be poets and romancers who would do it honor, rather than
I--who have spent long years among the records searching for truth, that I may leave a chronicle
to trust."

"And most unworthily, Signor Segretario, if thou hast found no least trace of the great philosopher
Zeno in the ancient city of Cition that was his birthplace; nor of Homer, that maker of literature,
who hath, perchance, won space enough in the estimate of mankind to be worthy the brief thought
of a child--even of thine--a scholar seeking for truth--he being the pride of Salamis.

"But the Signoria have never learned the backward step that they should withdraw an appointment
which conferreth unwilling honor," the Chief concluded coldly. "Thou shalt find some beauty
in the legends of the Cinyradæ, or the myths of Aphrodite, in this land of Cyprus where the
goddess rose from the foam of the sea!"

"Were not substance better than froth to train a maid to rule, your Excellency?"

"Nay, but to obey; to rule needeth not teaching."

"But--your Excellency----"

"Signore, foam shall suffice to teach obedience--thou hast heard the most gracious will of
the Senate."

The eyes of the scholar who loved truth better than fortune dropped baffled; for he could not
afford to surrender the favor of the Senate which promised him means to achieve in his own
special field; and he groaned in spirit while the wide halls of the Frari, with their treasure
of ancient MSS. rose before his mental vision as the most tempting spot on earth, with his
own magnum opus lying there unfinished, yet far toward completion. And for one who had meant
to chronicle the complete history of a movement, who had sought ever to weigh and sift in the
interests of truth alone, to surrender the freedom of his mind to the Senate--to come down
to the teaching of a child--to be commanded what he should speak--it was maddening!

"My own work," he murmured in a last appeal:--"I have so little time."

"The time of a Venetian is his best gift to the State," the Capo made answer icily.

There was a pause during which the unwilling Secretary felt the eyes of the Capo upon him,
forcing him to lift his own. For an instant he met the strange fixed gaze which conveyed to
him without words that what had passed between them was to be held inviolate; then, with a
courteous salute, the man of power spoke:

"The interview is dismissed." And the Segretario Reale went out from the presence, his soul
revolting at the absolutism that forced him to accept; and he despised himself.

       *       *       *       *       *

Meanwhile the soul of the maiden was thrilling to the Patriarch's tales of early Christian
conquests in her islands--at Paphos--at Salamis--of the miracles of the great Paulus, saint
and bishop and leader--as her eyes followed along the red-lettered parchment page of the rare
volume which the holy man had brought from the treasures of the "Marciana" for her teaching--translating
the story from the Greek, which was yet hard for her, into her own softer tongue.

Cyprus had indeed been a favored land in those early days; for the Holy Spirit had commanded
by a revelation that Barnabas and Paulus should set sail for Cyprus to preach the new faith
at Salamis; and they had taken with them Marcus--their own San Marco!--it was so written in
this strange, old book.

"Tell me about him!" Caterina cried, clasping her hands eagerly: "what did he do in my land?"

Every Venetian was familiar with the Patron-Saint of Venice in his symbolic guise, with his
terrible, flashing jewelled eyes--as a power who would guard them and confound their enemies,
rather than as an Evangelist--although the paw of the fierce Venetian lion rested always on
the open gospel-page. But to hear of him as a man, before he was known as saint--young--'sister's
son to Barnabas,' setting forth on this mission to Cyprus, made him strangely real to the young
Venetian girl; it even brought Cyprus nearer with a tender home claim, to hear of the wanderings
of San Marco among those temples of Aphrodite; and his scorn of the unholy worship kindled
her soul as the Patriarch told how the young Evangelist had not feared to curse the godless
Cyprian city for its idolatry--of the tumult that had been raised by his followers, as they
hurled the images of the Pagan gods from their pedestals, ruining portions of the huge, unholy
structure as they fell and killing some of those who were taking part in the games. She would
visit these vast ruins in the ancient grove of Aphrodite, where giant-trees had grown among
the fallen columns, and wonderful vases of gold and silver and alabaster, wrought like finest
cameos, had been disinterred from mounds of rubbish to decorate the palaces of patricians.

Of these, antique goblets, some flashing with an indescribable rainbow lustre, delicate as
an opal, had already been sent her among the rich gifts of Janus. And so life took on new color
for her--historic memories and trifles of the day crossing each other at many points, linking
the old to the new, in unsuspected continuity.

"Our San Marco was a hero even then!" she cried; "an early Crusader fighting for his faith!"

"Aye, daughter--as thou and I must fight," the Patriarch answered her with tender approval
in his eyes, a shadow of apprehension dimming them before he withdrew his gaze--for of such
tender stuff had martyrs been made. "The story of those early days is for our guidance. If
trials should come," he added, "cleave but to thy faith and Heaven shall show thee a way."

"I never thought before that one might love San Marco!" Caterina said, as she turned her glowing
face frankly to the old man; "he was never a person, but just a grotesque image to me."

"Symbols are for our race in its childhood, for with primitive peoples imagination dominates
reason," he answered her; "later we weave a more enduring fabric out of the truth of history--still
cherishing the myth--the earlier impulse."

But it was Barnabas who was the true hero-saint of Cyprus; for he had owned estates in his
native island and had sold them and given all for the propagation of the new faith; and when,
after his cruel martyrdom the fierce spirit of persecution had cooled, and his remains were
found interred in a grotto near the city--the divine revelation of St. Peter clasped to his
breast--the possession of so sacred a relic sufficed to win great privileges among the hierarchy
for the island of Cyprus, in perpetuity--the proud title of Archbishop of Salamis--the imperial
staff with the golden apple at top--the cap with the red cross, and many other honors and immunities.
It was a long way from the primitive simplicity of the fruitful ministration of José Barnabas,
the Son of Consolation, as he had fought for souls in the splendid vigor of his youth and consecration!

"I am glad of these sacred bonds between my two homes!" the young girl exclaimed with a little
wistful sigh.

"There are yet other links in the history of our Church; for Sant'Elenà, the Mother of Constantine--whose
tomb thou knowest on our fair island of Sant'Elenà--hath enriched thy favored land of Cyprus
with its most sacred relic, bestowing there the portions of the Holy Cross which she had brought
from Orient, and thou shalt find them still revered in the Chapel of Santa Croce on the Mountain
of the Troödos."

"Thou perchance, most Reverend Father, wilt come some day in pilgrimage to this blessed shrine
in my new land!" Caterina cried hopefully.

"Nay, dear daughter; for my work lieth in Venice. But thou seest that where our Holy Church
hath planted her banner, one may call no land strange."

It was partly with this thought that the Patriarch had striven to interest Caterina in these
incidents of early Christianity; and partly from his undefined dread as to what the future
might hold for her, with the wish to keep the Church and its teachings uppermost in her mind,
that she might lean upon them in need. She had been deeply interested and again and again had
turned the talk upon this theme--a docile pupil, growing in grace and strength from the teachings
he gathered for her from that quaint old volume so little known by the women of her time. It
was his gift to fit her for the unknown life to which she was going, and it gave him an opportunity
for many helpful words which if scarcely understood at the time came back to her later; yet
he darkened her bright visions with no fears, thinking that hope and joy and faith would suffice
for strength in trial.

The Senate, meanwhile, had matter less placid touching Cyprus and the betrothed bride wherewith
to fill this period of waiting: and more than once the Senator Marco Cornaro had returned from
lengthy sessions at the Ducal Palace in no gentle humor, yet mute to all questioning. For it
had been learned in that innermost Council, and told no farther than was needful, that Ferdinand
of Naples was intriguing to draw Janus into an alliance with a princess of his house; it was
also known, by that singular penetration in which Venice had no equal, that the new Archbishop
of Nicosia, Alvise Fabrici, was an agent for Ferdinand, secretly working to further his ends
in Cyprus; and finally in sign of the willingness of Janus to break faith with Venice, came
the rumor of some coldness toward Andrea Cornaro, who had hitherto been his fast friend.

It was enough to bring gloom to the brow of the Senator Marco Cornaro, whose heart was set
upon this royal marriage.

But nothing of this transpired beyond the walls of the Council Chamber, from whence at last,
to make an end of the pitiful waverings of this fickle King, an ambassador was sent to the
court of Cyprus to state in terms that could not be misunderstood, that if Janus were to disgrace
his royal word, solemnly pledged by his Ambassador Mastachelli in presence of the Serenissimo
and the Signoria, the insult to a Queen already betrothed to him would be a slight the Republic
would not suffer, and that Venice would become the enemy instead of the ally of Cyprus.

But no misgivings troubled the heart of the betrothed in the Palazzo Cornaro, where she waited
in happy confidence, being taught through the ceaseless vigilance of the Senate, that in royal
marriages haste was ever unseemly, and full time would be allowed for the fashioning of the
wedding trousseau, the weaving of wedding damasks and the complete preparation of a household
outfit consistent with the dignity of a queen.

The prospect of further enemies was not an enviable one for Janus, who already counted Genoa,
Savoy and Portugal and his Holiness of Rome among them; for he had won the wrath of the Genoese
by recapturing their important holding of Famagosta in the very heart of his own island, as
he had most heartily gained the disfavor of his Holiness by his alliance with the infidel Sultan
of Egypt; and through his sister Carlotta, the enmity of Savoy and of Portugal was assured to him.

So the galleys and favor of Venice were not to be disregarded, and it was not long before the
Cyprian fleet appeared in the waters of the Adriatic, bearing in response to the secret embassy
of Venice, the Ambassador sent by Janus to bring his young Queen to Cyprus.

V

Sér Gobbo Di Rialto bore on his broad breast announcements of intense interest concerning the
ceremonies which would make the day of the departure of the Daughter of the Republic among
the most splendid in the annals of Venice. A crowd of citizens who had not been advised by
special invitation of the various banquetings and happenings, came and went about the grotesque
figure with much lively comment of delighted anticipation, intermingled with benedictions upon
San Marco that it was not long to wait, since to-morrow would be there after the next Ave Maria!
For whatever of revelry was prepared for the nobles, brought always in Venice a corresponding
pageant to delight the eyes of the people.

Here and there some gondolier from the islands, sheepishly conscious of the brilliant fazzoletto,
or the string of beads he had just bought in the tempting booths of the old, wooden Rialto,
hung on the outskirts of the crowd before Sér Gobbo, to catch from the gossip of the more lettered
ones about him the details of the morrow's festa which he might not read for himself; for the
knowledge would make him the oracle of his little circle in Burano--or at least with Giovanna,
when he should bestow his silken trifle for the morrow's splendor. For, of course all Venice
would be there to see the queen set forth.

"Santa Maria!--the Serenissimo himself upon the Bucentoro will escort the Regina. Heard one
ever such splendor!"

"And at the Lido--hast heard, Tonio?--by favor of San Marco and San Nicolò, the gondolieri
with their barchette may float in line to make our part of the festa. Oh, the beautiful day!"

"And the Signoria, and all the nobili! and the court of the young Regina--and all the banners
and the barca--most beautiful to behold--one might die of the splendor of it, Santissima Maria!"

"Aye, Giuseppe, and the music of all the fleets!--it will be like heaven, if Messer San Marco
doth but send the sunshine and the breeze."

"Nay, he could not fail his Venice for a festa that doth him such honor; Messer San Marco è
galant uomo! But how then, Tonio, thou hast a sposalizio of thine own--with thy string of coral
and thy fazzoletto fit for a Signorina: the bells will be chiming for thee to-morrow?"

"Basta, basta!" Tonio responded with commendable gruffness, considering his contentment at
heart, as he hastily retreated to his gondola under the Rialto for needed shelter from the
banter which followed him, until some other unwary victim became the centre of the well-meant
pleasantry.

"Wait then for a day, Tonio mio, and the Bucentoro will be ready for thee," cries one of the
more daring as he vanishes; "hast thou already bespoken thy groomsman? I also am a Castellan."

Across the Piazza San Giacomo, under the famous colonnade of San Giacomo di Rialto, the talk
turned chiefly on the great event which was to culminate on the morrow, and which for three
years had consumed much time in Senate and State, as the patricians strolled to and fro in
lively discussion.

It was here that for generations everything that affected the commerce of Venice was held up
in the light of expression as free and candid as it was possible for opinion to be in this
highly organized oligarchy; and here as elsewhere, Venice, like a faithful mother, watched
over the welfare of her sons, though they were grown to man's estate; and since her commerce
was, in fact, the mainspring of her wealth and prestige--a very vital part of her--she kept
before their eyes on the exterior of this ancient church in the market-place where her merchant-princes
daily met, her admonition to uphold them in righteous dealing. One might decipher it wrought
into the wall of the apse under the stones of the frieze, in quaint lettering that tempted
to the perusal and endowed the mastered motto with the impressiveness of a rite--for the legend
assumed a quality of mystery, being much defaced from time.

"Hoc circa templum sit jus mercatoribus æqum, pondera ne vergant nec sit conventio prava."

(Around the Temple let the merchant's law be just, his weights true, and his covenant faithful.)

Among the frescoes on the walls under the colonnade was the famous mappa mondo, upon which
were indicated the various routes of Venetian commerce throughout the world.

Two dignified elderly men wearing the black silk robe of the merchant with chains of heavy
gold links were strolling to and fro in eager conversation--their comrades showing signs of
deference as they passed.

"Cyprus will seem nearer now," said one of them, pausing for a moment before the map to point
out a speck in the Mediterranean with his gold-topped staff.

"A century nearer than it was in the days of Comnenus," the other answered him, with a recollection
of the attempted purchase and occupancy of the island in those earlier times. "But now--praise
be to San Marco, the time is ripe."

"And Venice hath never ceased to covet that 'Island of Delights!' But now her fleets may lie
at anchor in the splendid port of Famagosta while she taketh her leisure in dealing with the
merchants of the East; for the King of Cyprus must aye keep faith with the Republic."

"Yet let Venice beware," the other answered, lowering his voice to a confidential tone. "It
is not over-easy to hold His Majesty to any faith or compact, by what one may guess from the
talk of the Senate: but the favor of Venice is needful to him."

"And none the less that there be those who favor him not. Genoa is wroth at him for having
chased them from Famagosta--the most marvellous stronghold in the world, if one may credit
Messer Andrea Cornaro, the friend of the King."

"He spake truly, from what I myself should have guessed thereof--getting no closer to the Fortress
than any Cyprian might have done six years ago, when I had gone with my fleet to the Syrian
Coast for a marvellous cargo of spices, and Cyprus tempted me to a voyage of pleasure, being
not so far--the sail of a day with a fair galley. The Genoese held the great Fortress and the
splendid city of Famagosta and the country for miles around; an enemy entrenched in the very
heart of a kingdom! Small wonder that King Janus, being of a most laudable prowess, should
claim his own again--which won him laurels, for the Cyprians had been sore over the matter.
Aye; Cyprus is good for the commerce of Venice, and it would be a hard day when the ships of
the Republic might not harbor in her waters. And if the good of Venice be the good of Cyprus,--the
amity is the more like to last!"

"Aye, for the commerce it is well--most truly well. But there will be too many of our patrician
daughters in the suite of the young queen when she shall sail on the morrow. I could more easily
have spared fewer."

"They are but charming childish faces; and they have left their sisters behind them--they and
the little Caterina; it is well that the bride should make a brave showing at the court of
Cyprus--which is held for a marvel of splendor."

"Thou knowest it, Messer Querini, having been there?"

"Nay--not at court--it is Messer Andrea Cornaro who will tell of it. But I passed some days
at Nikosia, on my way back from Alexandria, and verily the cities were twins for richness.
The beauty of the churches--one for each day of the year through,--we of Venice may not at
all equal, save in our Basilica of San Marco;--the precious altars inlaid with gold and jewels,--like
our Pala d'Oro that cometh not forth of our treasury save on days of festa; finest statues
of ivory and silver; great carven columns wrought like our columns of Acre--but vaster and
of that same fineness of workmanship: and such broideries of golden thread and great pearls
for draperies and altar-cloths, as one may scarce dream of! And in their market-places, strewn
with the spoils of the East are faces and voices of every clime and a very babel of tongues;
more--far more than on our own Rialto; with schools for every language. And I saw a thing in
Nikosia that in all my journeyings I have not met with before."

"Thy tales are more piquant than the tales of Marco Polo," his friend said rallying him.

"All is marvellous of which thou hast not hitherto known, though it be simpler than thou art
wont to behold. So I found strange and noble, a great building already a century and a half
old, in the heart of this sumptuous city, whereon it was signified by a writing cut into the
stone, that all men of every clime who but confess the name of Christus, being ill or needy,
should receive therein, freely given, rest and entertainment."

"If the entertainment were of the wines of Cyprus it would be verily a gift: for these one
may even taste who hath not been in her great cities."

"Truth is truth." the other assented. "And that wine of the Commanderie"--the dignified speaker
interrupted himself with slow unmistakable signs of approval--"I will make it known to thee
to-morrow at the banquet. And her ortolans!--It is a rich land: the Senate hath done well."

"How sayest thou, 'the Senate hath done well?' Is it not that we are losing too many of our
own patricians, rather than coming into favor of Cyprus?"

"How 'losing them'--to win relations that be wise for Venice? Andrea Cornaro hath never been
one to keep himself at rest in his palace at San Cassiano, and through his wandering hath come
this royal alliance for Venice; and to-morrow he goeth again to Cyprus as auditor to the young
queen, his niece. The Contarini, the Giustiniani--as thou knowest well--have already vast holdings
on those Mediterranean shores."

"What sayest thou of the Senator Aluisi Bernardini--that he is no loss to Venice?"

"Nay, nay: he is one that Venice may not too well spare: a man after her best traditions--one
for an embassy or any place of power--a man to do us honor--overgrave and quiet, perchance,
for his youth, yet of a courtesy and judgment!--and never leaving the thing undone! It is his
father again."

"Might not some other man, less finely tempered, have served in Cyprus?"

"Aye--if the Bernardini himself were not so finely-tempered! I was in the Senate the day they
put the choice before him--it was no secret, and it proved the man. To do him honor the Senate
gave him choice--and the Senate doth more easily command. And this they laid before him. An
Embassy to France, of which he should be chief--his father held it before him, and the Lady
of the Bernardini hath been eager that her son should bear his father's honors: that, measured
with this mission to Cyprus--to attend the charming little cousin, as private Chamberlain to
the Queen, forsooth,--a man twice her years and already of an acknowledged dignity!"

"It seemeth not easy to translate his choice. What sayeth the proud Lady of the Bernardini?
For it is less honor."

"One knoweth not; she being of Casa Cornaro, of the elder branch, and, like her son, of few
words and great discretion. But she had lately spoken with me of this embassy to France, wishing
that her son might hold it, thinking him well fitted for the place. Ah, well--she giveth no
sign; and to-morrow she also setteth sail for Cyprus,--being created chief lady in waiting
to her fair, young cousin."

"The Lady of the Bernardini in the court of the Caterina! Impossible! She, in whose salons
one might not think one's own thoughts!"

"By San Tadoro! one might think them, at one's ease, so only they were of a quality to please her."

"And the Lady of the Bernardini to leave her splendid palace! Venice without the Lady of the
Bernardini!"

"Where hast thou been that thou knowest it not? It is even so!"

"Thou dost verily flatter the vanity of a man, Querini, to forget that I am but two days returned
with my cargoes from Flanders."

"Nay--thy pardon, friend. I mind it well enough and shall mind it better when thou hast a chance
to make us envious of the wares thou wilt unburden from thy cumbrous, carven chests, for there
is much talk of their richness. But the ear of Venice is so attuned to these wedding-chimes
that it hath no chance to vibrate to another theme until the rejoicings of the morrow be past."

"And the great estates of the Bernardini? I remember some rumor in the Broglio, before this
matter of Cyprus came uppermost, that the houses would have been allied--a marriage between
the little Caterina and the cousin Aluisi--a dispensation to be gotten from His Holiness. It
would have been well for the estates and the Casa Cornaro."

"Aye, it would have been well for the Casa Cornaro: better perchance than this dazzling foreign
marriage, and more fortune in it for the Cornari. For the estates of the Bernardini are princely;
and it is well known in the Senate, though it be uttered in decorous whispers, that the dower
of the charming bride hath left small remainder to her noble uncle. And Messer Andrea also,
is large lender to a king--for war-debts and the like--Janus having nothing until he had regained
his kingdom. But as well buy a King as a vast estate for one's toy, if one hath the zecchini."

"Thou art verily more a merchant than I had esteemed thee, Messer Querini, if thou hast no
thought in this marriage but for the zecchini--as well those of her uncle Andrea for the maid
Caterina, as those of the Bernardini."

The Signor Querini gave a long, contemptuous sniffle.

"May gold buy a man like our young Senator Bernardini! Nay:--but it is the fuss and manner
of this marriage that turneth me somewhat against it: and because the father of the Bernardini
was in truth my friend. But Caterina was still a child when a king appeared as suitor, and
the question of the Bernardini was never made; and Marco Cornaro--Marco is a delighted magnifico.
Ebbene--San Marco might see many of us wise, old fools choosing a king for a son-in-law, if
one came our way to beg the favor. And Messer Andrea hath it that King Janus is full winsome.
One should not be hard upon Marco Cornaro--it is not the first alliance that his noble house
hath made with royalty. May happy fortune befall the maid--who is verily charming and of a
consummate dignity."

"The King hath sent an embassy, that doeth honor to any royal house, to bring his bride to
Cyprus. His Excellency the Ambassador, Messer Filippo Podacatharo, is a princely escort; and
yesterday when he gave banquet to the merchants of Venice, all were in admiration at the sumptuousness
of the fleet of Cyprus."

"I would have been there, but some matters of moment for the Bernardini held me. It is not
easy for him to leave Venice, with his vast holdings. And his father was my friend. I command
his galleys to-morrow, which follow the Bucentoro to the fleet of Cyprus, outside our harbor--San
Marco favor the day!"

VI

When the Senator Bernardini had first made known to his stately patrician Mother his acceptance
of the appointment to Cyprus, she had met him with surprise and keen disappointment.

"There is surely some great error," she said; "for I had it in confidence that the Embassy
to France hath been offered thee by the Senate."

He confessed as much.

"Thou wilt revise thy decision: I would gladly see thee wear thy Father's honors. Thou hast
the gift of statesmanship."

He waited to choose his words, for her tone betrayed more than her speech, and he grieved to
thwart her ambitions for him.

"So may it fit me the better for the Cyprian post," he answered with an attempt at playfulness.

"Thou wilt verily give up this Embassy to France to go with the Caterina to her new land! There
is some reason of which thou sayest naught--else were it hard to comprehend thy choice. We
are but two, Aluisi; may not thy mother hold thy confidence?"

For answer he raised her hand to his lips, smiling upon her. Her brow cleared.

"It is not that the little cousin hath touched thy heart?" she questioned half seriously--"thou
who art known as gracious for all and tender for none! I have not this to bear for thee--now
that the marriage which thy Father would have favored is no longer possible? Then France were
surely wiser for thee--the Fates are kind."

"Nay, nay," he answered frankly--"have no fear. When I set sail from Venetia for my long voyage,
the Caterina was still a child. And when, returning, I found her grown a charming maid, she
was already set apart from all such dreaming for any honorable knight of Venice. Thou dost
not guess the spell that holdeth me?"

"It is not one of her fair maids of honor who go with her to her court of Cyprus?"

"Nay, Madre carissima; thou art still before all others with thy wayward son."

"Yet my wish for thee--of France--thou dost pass by," she interrupted eagerly.

"It is but for duty to the Casa Cornaro,--in which thou wouldst be last to see me fail, dear
Lady of Venice!"

She laid her hand upon his arm as if she would constrain him.

"Tell me," she urged.

"Mother, when thy name and mine shall have been forgotten, one name of the Casa Cornaro shall
stand out never to be lost--since Fortune doth weave it into history. For honor to our house,
we will not fail our Caterina."

"And thou?"

"As thou wouldst have me--thou, my Mother--than whom among the Cornari are none found prouder--I
have sworn as solemnly as any knight may take his vow,--were it even in Crusade--to spend myself
in service of the little Queen, my cousin--as in that far land there may be need."

But for the Lady of the Bernardini--Venetian to her heart's core--the island of Cyprus had
little charm; she had dreamed of a brilliant career for her only son which should open to him
the best that Venice could give--and she was not satisfied.

"There is no fault with that dear child," she said; "and as thy bride--if this had been--I
could have loved her well. But if thy fortunes need be bound with hers--and all thine honors
for which thou art so meet, and with which thy Venice would fain endow thee, must be surrendered
for her sake,--'twere pity that this marriage which thy Father willed, went not forward."

"Sweet Mother--the 'might-have-beens' make faincants of men. It is not love--but duty that
calleth me. There is no choice. Where is thine honorable teaching?"

"Bethink thee, Aluisi, of this post of dignity in France--a place of power--of service to thy
country. How sayest thou 'there is no choice'?"

"Mother--when our stars have ordered otherwise--there is no more to it than that--why then--if
men lack strength to bend their wills to meet their destiny,--it is not as they will,--it is
not as their honor wills--but far otherwise. And theirs the fault."

She looked up into his noble face as he bent over her--a face not often yielded so fully to
her gaze--dear as this widowed mother and her son were to each other, and intimate in friendship;
and as she looked a calm fell upon her and she saw strength, truth, valor, judgment--the soul
of the man like a rock beneath the light play of his speech.

She no longer willed to oppose his choice. She put up her hand and drew him down beside her
on the couch.

"There will be much to think of," she said after a long silence; "thine interests in Venice
will be hard to leave. Why--if some of Caterina's house must escort her and abide with her--why
not her brother Zorzi? Who should be fitter in her defense?"

"Zorzi is but a youth--less in years than her own. How should she lean on such a boy?"

"Aluisi--thou hast some fear which thou hast not spoken."

He was silent though she waited. How might he declare the bitter need of watchfulness, yet
not betray the knowledge gotten in those secret councils of the Republic!

"Madre mia," he said at last, when she had reminded him of her question. "Without cause I had
made no vow. Canst thou not trust thy knight? And of my fealty, so solemnly sworn, Caterina
knoweth naught. It is for me and thee alone--and least of all for the ear of Venice. But thou
knowest--if it were no more than that the way of a crown be not easy for a young and guileless
maid--some one of her own should be with her in that strange land; and he should be wise in
counsel."

"As thou?--who dost so qualify thyself?" she asked with a pitiful attempt to rally him--for
her heart was sore. "What shall I do without thee--Aluisi!" Her voice had suddenly broken in
yearning. It was not often that such emotion escaped her. He folded her hand more closely as
they sat on in the silence, in the falling twilight, and his eyes wandered down the length
of the splendid ancestral hall, while his resolve strengthened within him--the knights and
ladies of the house of Cornaro for centuries back leaning to him out of the quaint carving
of their time-dimmed frames--fading from him, like ghosts, into the gloom of the distant corners,
yet holding him with a strange, vital fascination--for it was much to leave. The very tapestries
rustled with the legends of the Cornelii of long, long ago, on the shores of the Rivo Alto,
before the story of Venice had won its honored place in the chronicles of nations--yet not
the less for their indistinguishable outlines and mythical color were they woven into the proud
consciousness of the duty the Cornari owed their own.

Memories of the state his Mother had held here rose to meet him--memories of his Father, who
had been a power in Venice. How could he ask the Lady of the Bernardini, with her whitening
hair, to leave it all for Cyprus? Yet that was in his thought. He could not frame the words;
it was too much to ask--he must leave it to come from her.

"Is thy fear not to be spoken?" she asked at last. "And must we accept it for the Caterina--who
is very fair and tender?"

"It is the ways of Cyprus that I fear," he answered quickly; "and of that strange people--a
blending of half-pagan races with the blood of France and Greece. But, Madre mia--there must
be no echoes from the Council-Chamber--none of our talk beyond thine own discreet hearing--it
would but harm her. And for acceptance--'must we accept it for the Caterina?'--thou dost ask--it
is an empty word! The will of Venice is set to do this thing."

"Yet our cousin Marco--the child's own father--goeth not heavily; he hath no fear."

"He is mad with the glory of it--after Venice's own temper."

There had been some further talk--not over-much dwelling on vain regrets--and then the Lady
of the Bernardini had asked, half-reluctantly:

"How if some Lady of the Cornari went with her?--I--having no daughter of my own--and loving
her well? And--thou and I need not be parted."

"I dared not ask it of thee," he cried fervently--"for it is much. I dared not tell thee of
the Senate's wish to name thee chief Lady of Caterina's Court."

"The court of the child! The little Caterina!" she exclaimed impetuously, rising and taking
a few steps away from him with the irresistible impulse of offended dignity.

"I was bidden to lay their desire before thee--if it should be also of thy will, my Mother;
it was not a command," he hastened to assure her.

But she had already conquered herself--being strong as proud, and prompt in decision, but ruled
above all by her deep affections, and she came back to his side before he had found words with
which to propitiate her.

"It was strange to me," she said, "but Venice would be more strange without my boy. Let us
go together."

"Thou canst verily bear to leave it all?" he asked when he could trust himself to speak.

Her eyes followed the direction of his motion around the vast hall, then came back to rest
upon his face.

"The past is ours," she said, "but not to make us weak. Thy 'might-have-beens' are not less
wise for women than for men. I have only thee."

"San Marco atone to thee for thy sacrifice," he cried devoutly.

VII

Never was a more brilliant pageant imagined to do honor to the symbolic rite of the Wedding
of the Adriatic than the triumphant Signoria had called forth to speed the young Queen to her
distant island.

Never did father more solemnly promise his protection to the child from whom he was parting,
than did Cristoforo Moro, the Serenissimo, pledge the faith and support of Venetia to the Daughter
of the Republic, as with slow majesty, to the rhythm of an ancient wedding canticle, the Bucentoro,
escorted by all the galleys of the arsenal of Venice, the mighty galléasses of her patrician
merchants and the gondolas of her nobles, moved forward, beyond the Lido, where the Ambassador
Filippo Podacatharo waited with the fleet of Cyprus--most sumptuously outfitted--to receive
the bride of Janus.

And never sailed fairer maiden, more fearlessly, into the far sea of her unknown future, flooded
with dreams, as with sunshine. Was it only a glamour, tissued of myth and of legend, that lay
on the face of the waters, dazzling her eyes?

The rejoicings of the people speeded her; the bells of all the campanili of Venice came echoing
to the shores of the Lido; a tumult of voices--the voices of the popolazzo, shrill and jubilant,
called down the blessings of all the saints upon her--of Santa Caterina--her own name-saint,
fair patron of Betrothals; of charming San Luigi--the blessed guardian of love; of San Nicolò,
Saint of the Sea; of Messer San Marco and San Tadoro; and shrilly, above them all, rose the
babel of women's voices, invoking the Madonna, "Star of the Sea, Sancta Maria!"

But most of all, deep within her girlish soul, love speeded her--love, grown strong through
these years of waiting on the image she had fashioned for herself as the portrait of her lord--painted
with all the glowing lights of a true and gracious heart that knew no shadows.

As the galleys passed beyond the Lido into the wider water and the Daughter of Venice stood
in her royal wedding-robes beside the Doge, under the golden canopy of the Bucentoro, a rosy
light flashing from the circlet of rubies which, like the espousal ring of the Serenissimo,
had been consecrated with solemn mass and benediction by the Patriarch of Venice,--did the
words of the ancient rite occur to some among that throng of nobles, perchance, as an omen?

"Sea, we wed thee, in token of our true and perpetual dominion over thee."

But now, with a memory of the gracious legend of San Francisco del Deserto--that where the
birds should light the favor of Heaven would follow, as they passed the convent on their outward
way, a multitude of birds set free from their golden cages burst upon the air with a flood
of song, inspired by their sudden liberty, then came throbbing and overwrought, to seek shelter
among the silken sails of the Cyprian galleys--mere specks of iridescence, flashing like jewels
in a chance ray of sunlight.

The people saw and shouted, "Benedizion della Madonna! Viva Messer San Marco! Viva la Regina!"

When the chimes of the campanili had dimmed to a faint cadence, like some unuttered rhythm
of thought, as the distance grew between the outsailing fleet and all that pageantry of Venice,
two faces stood forth like visions from the bewildering pictures of the morning and dwelt with
Caterina forever.

The pleading face of the Mother deep with tenderness, yet shadowed by an unspoken dread of
the unknown that lay beyond:

And the gaze of the saintly Patriarch, Lorenzo Giustiniani, full of strength and inspiration.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was early summer, when the mere living was a joy; and there was much time for gracious dreaming
as the galleys of Cyprus floated down the length of the Adriatic and past the fair coasts of
the Mediterranean, before the coming of that wonderful day of days when the bridal fleet was
nearing the shores of the Isola Fortunata which had been for long the Mecca of the young Queen's
girlish visions.

It lay before her radiant under the Cyprian sky--palaces and ramparts stretching in long lines
a-down the coast, against the background of mountain ranges, densely wooded and crowned with
the sparkling snows of Troödos; there were gardens rainbow-dyed in bloom, cool with the spray
of fountains and the shadows of waving palms; and between the cities were wonderful, fertile
plains flowing down to the foam of the sea--a vision of tangled blossoms wreathing with beauty
the shattered splendor of temples of outworn divinities, or rippling with tasselled corn and
vines and all manner of fruit-bloom, in luxuriant promise of present good.

What could there be but happiness in such a home! Already the spell of the fabled Cyprian isle
was upon her,--could she ever forget this first vision of her land of dreams--fairer than even
her hope had limned it!

As she stood with beating heart, waiting with impatience that she scarce could bear for the
first touch of her new, strange shore, for the first glimpse of her lover's face--all her pulses
tuned to this harmonious rhythm of sky and sea and romance, it was told her that a messenger
waited to speak with her.

"Let him approach," she said, turning half-unwilling to watch a knight who advanced, unattended,
bearing a missive with the pendant royal seal of Cyprus that she knew so well. He knelt before
her, vizor down, yet with the customary homage; then, rising--

"I am sent by his Majesty the King," he said, "to bear his greeting to his most gracious Sovereign
Lady, or ever her foot shall touch the shore which blossoms for her alone."

She drew a little pace away from him, fearing to utter her thought until she had seen his face.

"Doth it become one so to speak the message of his King, with visor down, Sir Knight, to the
bride whom his Majesty would honor?" she answered half-playfully--yet a little bashful in her
first speech in the Grecian tongue which she had striven to make her own.

"Our Sovereign Lady doth answer right royally," he said, as he bowed his acquiescence in her
command, passing his helmet to one of the knights who came thronging behind him, and stood
confronting her--very courteous and deferent in his bearing, though the breeze was tossing
his waving hair about his throat with a hint of comradery, and there was a world of love and
mastery in his charming face.

Her own--very fair and true and radiant with girlish beauty--flushed, then paled again, with
the quickened beating of her heart, and her eyes, eloquent in confession, were fixed on his,
which deepened to a glow of pride and pleasure; yet he was loth to make an end of her charming
confusion.

"Hath this missive from his Majesty no meaning for his bride of Venice?" he asked, coming nearer.

"Janus!" she cried--all her soul shining in her eyes; and then, in her own soft, Italian tongue:

"How should my heart not know thee!"

VIII

Caterina Veneta, Queen of Cyprus, stood on a high balcony of the summer palace in the Casal
of Potamia, one beautiful June morning at early dawn, waving farewell to the cavalcade of nobles
who were winding up the pass that led to the great forests where the patricians of the island
were wont to pursue their favorite pastime. Janus was among them, leading in the chase as in
every art that demanded agility and prowess--lithe, strong and beautiful in her eyes as in
the first days of their short romance.

It was the one hour of the torrid day when the air was fragrant with the breath of flowers
and tingling with the freshness of the sea; and in the sparkle of the morning, with sunshine
in her heart and love-light in her eyes, she was very fair to look upon.

The scene had been exhilarating, full of color and motion--laughter and repartee mingling with
the adieux of the knights and seigneurs to their ladies, the notes of the hunting-horns, the
snorts of impatient steeds, the short expectant bark of the dogs, as the Master of the hounds,
the young Count of Jaffa, with his great army of hunters and attendants, moved before the cavalcade
into the heart of the forest. A fantastic train it was, with the picturesque costumes of the
riders, the tinted tails of their horses and dogs flashing an orange trail in the sunshine,
a touch of coquetry much in vogue among the young Cyprian nobles of the day.

Caterina had watched the start with pride in her husband's grace and courtly bearing, his beautiful
strong youth and the devotion of his chosen group of friends: and the winning charm of his
manner, as he looked back with a parting act of homage, brought a flush of pleasure to her
cheek. She stood for a moment, her eyes growing deep with delicious memories, as she recalled
the romance of their first meeting.

But she was conscious of a little pain at her heart, as she waited, following him with her
eyes until the cavalcade was lost to view under the plumy shadows of the distant cypress-trees.
Was it thus that kings should spend long summer days when there were rumors of discontent in
the air--rumors definite enough to have reached the palace circle in mysterious undertones,
quickly repressed when she turned to ask their meaning? Should Janus not have given up his
pleasure to stay and examine into the cause which he had laughed away as a mere nothing--a
jest of some discontented courtier of one of the old Greek families who had been in Cyprus
before the days of the Lusignans; and all the more if they were always alert for fancied slights?

"If he is discontented and it is a mere nothing, why should he not be summoned to state his
grievance?" she had persisted, with a trace of pleading in her attitude that fretted the King.
She was not to concern herself with questions of state or popular discontent suggesting unpleasantly
the ruling spirit of Helenà Paléologue, his father's wife; and he had not brought a girl-bride
from Venice to watch his method of holding the reins!

His annoyance had been very real under his laughing exterior, as he kissed the tips of her
slender fingers in knightly fashion and assured her that there was nothing to trouble her dainty
head about: she should keep her rose-leaf beauty dewy fresh for him, without brooding over
the possible meaning of ancient discontented nobles who belonged to an earlier régime.

A passing thought came over him while he made his laughing protest, of the four conspirators
who had just been put to the cruel death which Cyprus reserved for her traitors; but their
little game was happily over, and he dismissed the memory with a slight shrug of his graceful
shoulders. "Was there ever a kingdom without malcontents?" he had asked, turning to his wife.
"Was everyone satisfied throughout the length and breadth of Venetia?"

She did not know, for she had been a mere child in her Venetian home, without thought for the
things of state which few Venetian women dreamed of discussing--still less of influencing.
But now, that she was left alone for a few days, she let her thought dwell upon the question.
Was life more strenuous in Venice, or better ordered? As she recalled the ways of her father,
the Senator Marco Cornaro, and of the other statesmen of his circle, she could not but recognize
the fact that the nobles of Venice made the work of the Government their first concern. She
would ask her Secretary-Cousin, Aluisi Bernardini; she felt sure that his knowledge and judgment
were to be trusted on Venetian matters, although Janus had already told her with unconcealed
disdain that Bernardini's opinion was valueless on Cyprian questions, which were new to him--and
far too complicated.

It was not until recently that some dim perception of this complexity had begun to dawn upon
her, athwart the sunshine of her life as bride and queen. When she had first landed on this
fabled island she had been too much under the influence of the glamour with which her dreams
had invested Cyprus during the years of her betrothal for any serious study of conditions,
or questions of right and wrong. She had been taught that kings rule by Divine Right, and no
question of succession troubled her confidence of the people's choice of Janus as their sovereign.
For her there were no disputes to consider, for the troubled state of Cyprus, but too well
known in the Council Chambers of the Republic, had never been revealed to her. Janus was the
only son of the late King, his father, tenderly beloved by him, supported by the Sultan who
was Suzerain of Cyprus, and eagerly welcomed by the people of his realm. These were truths
it had been considered wise for her to know, and they had been duly declared to her by her
monitors of Venice.

But there were others--conflicting truths--among them the facts of his birth and of his contest
with Carlotta--with which they had diplomatically left her to come in contact when there could
be no withdrawal, but which time must unerringly reveal to her, and with no gentle hand.

The period of rejoicings for the Royal Marriage had been long and brilliant, as was the custom
of the time, and the Coronation-fêtes, the journeyings from city to city of the realm, that
she might make acquaintance with her land and people, had brought them far into the early spring.
But when the excitement of these days was over, she slowly grew aware of something sinister
beneath the smiling surface, and the studied brilliancy of the atmosphere about her made her
fear a conspiracy to keep her in childish ignorance of what was passing within the kingdom.
But surely, if she were not equal to comprehending these things, she must bend herself to the
task and try to grow!

It was of this that the young Queen was thinking as her husband rode forth with his suite of
gay, young nobles to the chase, and she summoned Aluisi to her presence.

Already a blast of heat was rising over the land and the rasping cries of the cicala fretted
their talk; and Caterina bade him follow her down into the voto--the vast, cool, underground
chambers which, for the patricians of Cyprus, made life possible during this heated term, between
the freshness of the morning and the comfort of the evening shadows.

The talk was long and serious.

"There was never a court without some discontent," he answered lightly to her questioning;
"fair Madame, my cousin and Queen."

The mingling of protection and affection in his attitude towards her was so natural in the
older man who had known her as the petted child and cousin of their house through the years
of intimacy in Venice, that she had never allowed him to change it when they talked alone together,
and it was only in the presence of the court that he taught himself to remember her queenly estate.

"Nay, Aluisi," she answered, earnestly, "thou art in league with the King--it was his very answer."

"It is but truth, in league with truth, most gracious Majesty," he retorted playfully. "Nay--but
no league at all; only two liege men speaking truth; therefore the oneness of speech."

He had employed the stilted fooling of the period to cover his confusion and to gain time;
for the matter was of moment and it had taken him unaware--he did not know how to answer her.

"Nay, nay, Aluisi--I am distressed; there is some great trouble; I command thy knowledge."

He had never heard her use the word before, and it became her well.

"Fair cousin, it is not new," he answered deferentially, but pausing to choose his words, for
it was no time to fill her soul with alarms. "It is, I hear them say, some question of a mutiny
in Cerines."

"It will mean an uprising?--danger for the King?"

"Nay, have no fear; it was quelled at once."

"How quelled?"

"So soon as discovery of the plot was made--before any steps had been taken to carry out their
plans."

"How quelled?" she asked again, dissatisfied.

"The manner of it was not reported to me," he answered truthfully enough; "I knew not that
the question would be put to me," he added with an attempt to turn easily from a subject on
which he dared not speak freely to matter more nearly touching his office--of her commands
for Venice for the galley that was to sail on the morrow. But meanwhile the vision of horror
rose before him of that which he had seen with his own eyes; and lest, watching him so closely
she should learn too much, he dropped his gaze, feigning to seek for some items on the tablet
he held in his hand. How should he tell her the story of this plot to influence an uprising,
to wrest the stronghold of Cerines for Carlotta, the rival claimant and heir? How explain this
conspiracy against her husband when she probably knew nothing of what lay beneath it? How could
he speak of the staunch loyalty to Carlotta of the leader of this conspiracy, of whom the disaffected
were making a hero, and who had preferred any fate to the necessity of swearing fealty to Janus!
He had shuddered at the barbarism which could decree such a fate for the conspirators; nor
could he forget the horror of those bodies cut in bits, and swung on high, in the four quarters
of the town--a ghastly warning for all men to see--as they walked to and fro in the marvellous
great city of Nikosia--the city of luxury and of churches.

But if the treatment of traitors in Venice was scarcely less barbarous, yet the State seemed
to each son of the Republic a more awe-inspiring and less personal entity than a kingly head
of any other government, justifying severer punishment when betrayed; Venetians had been brought
up to feel that a traitor could ask for no milder fate than to swing high upon the Piazzetta
between the columns--those who thought otherwise might avoid looking up as they passed.

He would not start her questions when it was not for him to answer them. He caught helplessly
at some court trifles, trying to evade her mood; but she silenced him with an impatient exclamation.

When he raised his eyes he found her still watching him, with a pathetic, questioning look.

"They keep things from me, as if I were a child!" she cried indignantly. "Can I be a friend
to our people if I do not understand them? There are many things that I would know--the fiefs--the
ancient nobles--Carlotta. They told me little in Venice of the things I need to know."

"What things?" the Chamberlain asked helplessly.

She looked at him searchingly. "To whom shall I go if not to thee, Aluisi? Art thou not enough
my friend to help me?"

"Messer Andrea, our cousin, being high in favor with his Majesty, hath a more intimate knowledge
of Cyprian matters--I being new in the land--why not appeal to him? Was it not by him that
our sweet Lady came hither?"

She thought of the King's favorite, her Uncle Andrea Cornaro, as Bernardini spoke--debonair,
charming--yet with a power of scorn and haughtiness beneath his facile exterior which won him
the hatred of those who were not his friends. He had not found time for any serious talk with
his niece, who had already appealed to him; indeed he had no time for anything but the brilliant
surface life of the court, where he was a ruling spirit. After his own fashion he had been
more than kind and generous to Caterina, showering her with princely gifts, eager that his
niece should keep such estate as befitted the bride of Janus, and proud of his own part in
securing so great an honor for the Casa Cornaro.

But among the ancient nobles of Cyprus, there were some who resented the knowledge of their
King's great indebtedness to this Venetian nobleman.

The cousins Cornaro and Bernardini were of the same generation, and no less anxious for the
honor of their house, but they represented opposite poles of Venetian character; Bernardini's
gravity and dignity of demeanor concealed a depth of tenderness and consideration which he
rarely confessed, yet, a true Venetian statesman, he could observe in silence, nor use his
knowledge until it might be of some avail. The King disliked him, fearing his silent judgment,
and was already considering how he might get him out of the Queen's household without offense
to Venice, whose favor was important for him. Of the Cornaro, although he owed him much, he
was less in fear; for Andrea Cornaro was one whom he might meet with his own weapons. The bearing
and deference of Bernardini were unimpeachable, but Janus was impatient of his impenetrable
reserve.

Caterina laid her hand affectionately on her cousin's arm, in response to his question. "Aluisi,"
she said gravely, "my Uncle Andrea hath been more than kind--as to a child who asketh only
baubles: but, truly, he will not see that one may not rest content to be always a child: he
thinketh, perchance, that for women there is no duty but to move regally in the midst of a
splendor where he would verily pour out his fortune. A question fretteth his mood, which persistence
maketh not more serious. But in a kingdom where discontent hath a share, one must study the
heart of the people and win it, if one may. And this is my way to help my husband. The look
of the peasants maketh me weary--as if the sunshine of their beautiful land were not for them.
I miss the happy faces of our people of Venice!"

"It is a queen-like task," he answered her, a little wondering at her gravity and purpose.
"Meanwhile I will talk with the King's Chamberlain about the fiefs and about the old nobility,"
he continued, eagerly seizing the least tangled thread to draw this uncomfortable conversation
to a close; "would not the Lady Margherita de Iblin know far better than I? Shall I ask my
mother to send her hither?"

The Lady Margherita--the one of all her Cyprian maids of honor who had most warmly won her
friendship--there was no older nor more noble family in the island than the De Iblin; why had
she not thought of her before!

"Aye, bid her come hither," she answered, well-pleased; "we will rest together in the heat
of the day and she shall tell me many things of Cyprus."

But the Chamberlain felt some uneasiness as he went in search of the Cyprian lady who was to
be the Queen's companion in more than one long, frank talk. If she were to presume too much
upon Caterina's knowledge and speak too freely, what might happen when the King returned? Might
he not vent his displeasure on Aluisi himself? And if he were to be dismissed to Venice, who
would watch for her as he could do--protect and help her?

But it was true that she ought not to be kept in ignorance of Cyprian affairs, and she herself
had made the demand.

In the days that followed, Cyprus began to unfold strange problems for the Queen, as its story
fell from the lips of the young Cyprian woman whose confidence she had so freely invited.

"Tell me I pray thee of Carlotta--Sister to the King--all that thou knowest," she said.

"It is a long tale, your Majesty."

"And these summer-days will be long, while the King is at the chase; we must seek wherewith
to give them some new interest, for the Court is dull without him," she flushed like a shy,
young girl, adding as if to cover her show of feeling: "it is dull with so many absent."

The Lady Margherita was some years older than Caterina, and she felt the gravity of the task
that the Queen had imposed upon her--to tell of the contest between her husband and his sister:
she was silent in her perplexity.

"It is a matter of history," she said slowly. "Doubtless your Majesty knew that many of us
in Cyprus had taken oath of fealty to Carlotta before the Sultan sent us Janus and upheld him
for our King. It is a difficult tale to speak of before our Sovereign lady--whom we love."

She looked up, a smile transforming her grave, dark face and deep, sad eyes; the rare sweetness
and directness of the young Queen's nature had already won her reverent love: but suddenly,
as the Lady Margherita looked at her she grew aware of the unsuspected fund of strength beneath
the gracious girlish exterior, realizing that the spring of her actions would be in true nobility--not
in selfish pleasure. Might not some good for her dear land come from the enlightened love of
its youthful Queen? Yet she hesitated to bring any shadow into the life which had seemed all
sunshine during these few months of bridal festivity, and the Queen was young to look at life
through such serious eyes. But she had asked, and the King, who was still a lover, might be
steadied by his wife's influence.

Caterina put out her hand in response to the smile and clasped that of Margherita.

"It is for your Majesty to command silence or speech," the Cyprian maid-of-honor said tentatively,
as Caterina still held silence. "Yet, if it be speech, I pray your Majesty to remember that
it is not I, who am the cause, if my page of history should offend. If I must speak, it can
only be what I believe to be truth."

"It is only those who speak truth, my Margherita, of whom one may trust the friendship," Caterina
answered gravely. "And I have chosen thee for my friend."

A deep flush colored the Cyprian's ivory cheek as she knelt and kissed the queen's hand in
acknowledgment; for the reticent maid had opened her heart, with unwonted warmth, to the appeal
of the rare simplicity and force of her liege lady's gentle nature.

"I would rather know, than fear I know not what," Caterina pursued. "Our most Reverend and
beloved Patriarch of Venice hath given me this talisman to help me in my new land," there was
a little pathetic lingering on the words, which touched her listener, "'Seek to know the truth
concerning all thy people. And tell thy perplexity, if there be any, to Christ and the Madonna.'
I would know that I may help the King," the young wife pleaded.

IX

And now, by the Queen's command which might not be denied, the talk flowed through the days
of leisure during the absence of the King, while Caterina strolled with her Cyprian maid of
honor through the terraced gardens in the cool of the evening, or rested in the heat of the
day, in the shaded apartments of the voto. The girl-queen listened with breathless eagerness
to the strange revelations, often interrupting with passionate exclamations, for her short
taste of Cyprian life had been so colored with the glamour of love and happiness and the excitement
of her novel surroundings that the vague forebodings which were beginning to temper the brilliancy
had suggested no serious shadows.

In vain Donna Margherita pleaded that she might be allowed to put the theme aside, as she told
of the disaffection of some of the ancient nobles of Cyprus who had been despoiled of vast
estates because of their sympathy with Queen Carlotta. "But Janus was ever generous," said
Margherita, "and none of their riches went into the King's treasury, but always into the hands
of those nobles who were loyal to the new Government."

The new Government! Queen Carlotta! The young Venetian's hot resentment rose fiercely against
the Republic which had left her in such ignorance of Cyprian matters while she turned her proud
young head away that Margherita might not guess how little the name of Carlotta had meant for her.

"Tell me more of Carlotta--tell me everything," she commanded, steadied by her quick resolve
to know and endure whatever the past might hold for her; and Margherita, who had been watching
her with strange intuition, knew that she might hold nothing back, as she also knew that the
young Queen had been kept in absolute ignorance of the complications preceding the accession
of Janus. But it was impossible for Caterina to conceal the play of her angry emotions as the
tale progressed, and she frankly gave up the attempt. Janus--her beautiful Janus--the idol
of the old King--not the legal heir to the throne! Janus, in his boyhood, hated, thwarted,
intrigued against--living in very fear of his life!

"Nay!" Margherita assured her with glowing eyes, "he knew not the color of fear, for he had
the heart of a King!"

Then Caterina drew her close and gave her a passionate kiss, in seal of a friendship that was
never to be broken.

"He had need to be brave," Margherita went on when she could command her voice, for the Queen's
great eyes were beseeching, "for Queen Elenà cared not how he should be put out of the way
so that he might not interfere with her absolute sway nor with the holding of the Crown by
her daughter Carlotta, when old King Janus should die."

So this was why, by Queen Elenà's command, the dashing, masterful boy of fifteen had been created
Archbishop of Cyprus--in the hope that the honors of the Church might absorb his powers and
keep the wish for his succession out of the thoughts of the people who idolized him! This holding
of the Primacy had been a mystery to Caterina, who, dearly as she loved her hero, knew him
to be no saint. But, whatever the rights of Carlotta--who had been left Queen by her father's
will (and insistent questions thrust themselves into the thoughts of Caterina while she listened,
zealous to escape no detail)--it was evident that Margherita's sympathies went out to Janus.

"He hath more the quality of the Lusignans--to whom the De Iblin were ever loyal," she explained
to Caterina, "and Carlotta is like her mother. Janus was first to offer his homage to his sister,
pleading that as children of one father there might be truce and loving intercourse between
them; but he was refused admittance to the Royal Palace; denied his right, as Primate of Cyprus,
to preside at the coronation and commanded to remain within his palace during the ceremony,
lest the love of the people should acclaim him King. But the crown of Carlotta fell from her
head as she returned in stately procession to the palace," Margherita exclaimed, crossing herself
devoutly--"so one might know that her reign should not be happy!"

"And then?" Caterina questioned, impatiently.

"Ah, yes, your Majesty, there was more; for our brave Janus had been gentle withal, but for
ceaseless outrage that forced him to forswear his oath of loyalty. His revenues were withheld:
he was beguiled to a banquet in the palace of a high officer of the crown where poisoned meats
were set before him, but here, as in many another intrigue, the watchful love of the beautiful
Maria da Patras--his unhappy mother--saved his life. Poor lady! she watched and prayed for
him, and had no other thought.

"One knows not how--but she always knew--as if some spirit had told her!" Margherita continued
in a tone of awe, after a moment's silence. "For none but she had dreamed the great Sir Tristan
traitor to his trust, he who came of the noble house of De Giblet and was keeper of the Episcopal
Palace and on guard at night! Yet once it befell that Sir Tristan came stealthily into the
sleeping chamber of the prince, and the pages of the night who stand at arms beside the couch
had fallen to the pavement, heavy with some strange sleep. But Donna Maria had watched and
warned and our Janus was already stealing far on his way to Alexandria, when Sir Tristan drew
aside the curtains and plunged his dagger deep into the mass of pillows which in the darkness
wore some semblance of a sleeping form. It was told that he howled with rage at such childish
thwarting, for Donna Maria had men at hand who came running at the outcry and took Sir Tristan
into safe keeping."

"Madre Sanctissima!" Caterina exclaimed in her excitement, and urging the recital with a quick
motion of her hand.

"It was the last time, sweet Lady, that our Janus might feel Carlotta's power; for soon he
returned from Alexandria to take possession of Cyprus by order of the Sultan, our Suzerain,
upheld by his armies and his treasure. For the charm of the Prince had won their hearts; the
circumstance of his birth and a woman's rights were of small account in the estimation of the
Sultan, and the march of our young King from his landing to his capital was a victory--the
people kneeling in his pathway--wild with the joy of welcome."

Margherita had told the tale with eloquence, her breath coming quickly, her color rising, but
Caterina was fairly startled by the dramatic ring in her voice as she told how Carlotta, at
the last moment, finding further resistance impossible, had sent an envoy to Janus to promise
him the revenues of his See, once more, if he would but lay down his arms and renew his allegiance.
But the magnificent ambassador from Alexandria, whom the Sultan had sent with Janus to see
his will enforced, made reply:

"It is the will of my master--the Sultan of Sultans, the Lord of lords, the King of kings--that
Janus, prince of Cyprus, should reign as King; and my master, the Sultan of sultans, will acknowledge
no other sovereign."

Then, suddenly, Caterina felt that she could bear no more; she must be alone to think, and
she held up her hand to entreat silence. How tender she would be to him on whom such cruelty
had been wreaked--how loving--to make amends for all the hatred of the past! How brave he was,
her true knight--how forgiving--to have told her nothing of all this tragedy! It was not strange
that his people loved him so--his people who had thronged upon his pathway with acclamation
and greeting! Her heart beat high with adoring love and her eyes filled with happy tears.

"My Janus!" she cried, and then again, "my Janus," she whispered softly, filling the syllables
with a wealth of tenderness and sympathy. She felt that she could not wait until he should
come again; these few days had seemed so long!

But her elation passed and a sense of overwhelming disaster possessed her. "The Senate had
known it all--the Senate had told her nothing--nothing about Carlotta. Why had they not named
her--was it because--because----?"

And then the questionings that had come to her hastily and been lost in the recital of the
perils and escapes of one so beloved came back with renewed force and would not be quieted,
but called out for an answer. When Janus came she would ask him--in her staunch fair soul,
she knew that she must ask him, though he might be angry and the bare thought of this made
her shrink and quail--it even shadowed a little the pleasure of his longed-for coming--for
he had always been so knightly to her. But yet, she could not wait! A great horror came over
her of the old Queen, who had been painted as without principle and of wild passions--shrinking
from nothing so that she might gain her will, and she was glad in her soul that Elenà was not
the mother of her Janus, while she struggled with her Venetian pride and promised herself to
be the truer to him for his wrongs. And so the night wore on; and between her longing and her
trouble there was no sleep for her while the day delayed.

A vague shape of terror seemed to hover between her and her vision of the future that had been
so golden. Where was Carlotta? Might she not come again and strive to win back her crown? Were
the nobles many who would uphold her?

Nay; but it was Janus whom the people loved--Janus! who had been crowned their king, with all
solemn ceremony in Alexandria, by order of the Suzerain of Cyprus--to oppose him was rebellion!
Janus--her beloved--so winsome, so masterful! Then, slowly out of the darkness rose the noble
face of Lorenzo the Giustinian, full of quiet and strength--her mother's face, loving, comforting--both
asking her best of her; and the Question grew in her soul. "Perhaps Carlotta's right was greater--could
it be greater than her husband's?"

X

All day the queen had been restless and depressed, starting at the sound of a footfall only
to drop her eyes again in disappointment and relapse into unquiet revery; the weight of empire
hung heavily upon her girlish spirit and she was unutterably lonely in the absence of Janus
which seemed so unduly prolonged. It was the latest day that he had named for his possible
absence, and still no courier had come to announce his return.

The noon had been unusually sultry, the stifling heat of the upper chambers oppressed her and
the ceaseless, rasping whir of the cicala smote her with weariness, but she resisted the attempt
of her ladies to detain her in the cooler atmosphere of the voto, for in these underground
chambers she could have no sight of the great plain beyond the boundaries of the palace-gardens--and
she preferred remaining in the halls that overlooked the terraces--turning her eyes often in
the direction of the forest.

It was like a pall upon them all to see their young mistress, usually so gracious and responsive,
wholly absorbed in her troubled revery; but to-day her maidens played their sweetest strains
upon their silvery lutes, without her answering smile; the gentlemen of her court sought in
vain for some diversion to distract her; even the Lady Margherita could do nothing for her
pleasure, while she watched in unobtrusive tenderness, feeling that quiet, however unsatisfying,
was more welcome than speech.

The pages, at a sign from the Lady Margherita, had dipped their fronds of feather in the great
vases of mountain-snow that stood between the columns, and waved them about the chamber; the
queen followed their movements with a fleeting smile as this breath of coolness reached her,
then fixed her eyes again, with a despairing look, upon the distant forest.

"She wearieth for the King," her maidens said low to each other, "and verily he may come to-night,
for the days have already numbered more than he giveth of wont to the chase."

"She is not like herself," the Lady Ecciva de Montferrat whispered to her young Venetian companion,
Eloisà Contarini, as the company strolled out upon the terraces at a sign from the Lady Beata
Bernardini whose loving motherly eyes saw that Caterina needed rest and solitude. "She is strange
and pale to-day--like one who hath seen a vision." Lady Ecciva spoke with deep seriousness,
for superstition was a vital part of the Cyprian nature, belonging alike to peasant and noble.

"How meanest thou--a vision?" Eloisà questioned, startled.

The other turned to see that they were not followed and answered in an awe-struck tone: "The
vision of the Melusina--the fate of the Lusignans! Didst thou not hear her shriek from the
Castle of Lusignan in the dead of night?"

"The Melusina? Ecciva, who is the 'Melusina?'"

"She is the evil genius of the House of Lusignan," Ecciva explained to her excited companion,
"all Cyprus knoweth that when the Melusina crieth three times from the towers of the ancient
Château of Lusignan, in far France, it meaneth death, or some great misfortune to a ruler of
this house."

"And thou--didst hear this lamentation verily, Ecciva? I should have died from fear!"

"Yea, thou being from Venice--not knowing that it bodeth not harm for thee--it is misfortune
only for some ruler of their house of Lusignan."

"And that is naught to thee!" the Venetian girl exclaimed in astonishment. "Thy King--is he
nothing to thee?"

"One knoweth not," the other answered nonchalantly. "There is Carlotta--both of the house of
Lusignan; and she might be kinder than King Janus who seized the fiefs of my father because
he came not forth to do him homage when he landed with his army from Alexandria."

Eloisà drew herself impetuously away from her companion who was watching her through long,
half-closed eyes.

"Thou then--why art thou here?" she exclaimed indignantly, "in service of my beloved Lady,
who is so good and fair, if thou lovest her not--nor the King!"

The youthful Dama Ecciva laughed lightly:

"Thou art a veritable turco for fierceness, Eloisà! I have naught against her Majesty, who
truly is most fair and gracious--quite other than Carlotta--whom I love not at all! And if
I held some grudge against the King for seizing of my father's lands (which broke his heart
before he died) one cannot long be churlish in presence of our Janus, who hath a matchless
fashion of grace with him, so that all think to have won his favor. Verily, that is a King
for Cyprus!--he mindeth one of Cinyras. I must tell thee the tale of our hero of Cyprus some
day, Eloisà."

"Aye: but tell me now--how camest thou at Court if the King hath wronged thy house?"

"Such eyes thou hast!--like a frightened child! I know not if I shall reach thy comprehension,
were I to answer thee--but I, being only daughter to my father, Gualtier of Montferrat, who
had no son--plead with my mother to send me hither when I came of age, to do homage loyally
to King Janus, and claim our fiefs of him again--I being his vassal by right of long generations
past--there was no other way."

"A vassal so loyal doth honor to him and thee!" the warm-blooded Venetian maid cried scornfully,
with a toss of her dainty head.

Again the Lady Ecciva laughed lightly, but no shadow of discomposure marred the exquisite outlines
of the beautiful, cold face: the skin, delicate and fine as ivory, showed no flush of color:
her eyes and tresses were dark as night--the eye-brows slender, yet marking a perfect arc--the
eyes beneath them tantalizing, inscrutable--the mouth rosy as that of a child--the fingers
long, sinuous, emphasizing her speech with movements so unconscious that sometimes they betrayed
what her words left unguessed.

"I do not understand thy vassalship," the Lady Eloisà said with hesitation--yet eager to know
more of her companion's attitude toward the Queen; they had wandered far down the terrace to
the basin where the swans were floating, opalescent in the sunset light.

Dama Ecciva broke off some oleander blossoms and flung them at the royal birds with teasing
motion, watching them contentedly as, one by one, they floated away with ruffled plumage and
sounds of protest.

"It is a right of our house for many generations," she explained; "being allied with royalty
through the elder branch of the Montferrats, I am a dama di maridaggio by birth, and since
there is no son of our house to offer homage in return for our fiefs, the duty was mine to
do service to our King and claim our lands of him again. It was a simple ceremony--to bend
the knee and kiss his hand, and make some empty vows--to see my mother Lady of her lands once
more."

"Aye, it were well--if thy vows were not so 'empty,'" Eloisà protested. "How shouldst thou
speak so coldly of thy vision, if thou hadst one spark of loyalty?"

"It was not my vision," her companion answered nonchalantly; "I slept the night through, the
better to enjoy the day, which, verily, was not worth taking such trouble for,--so stupid hath
it been!"

"But the vision?" Eloisà questioned impatiently--"there was no vision! Thou hast said it but
to frighten me!"

"It is her Majesty who hath had the vision--one can tell it but to look at her: and for the
three fatal shrieks--the shrieks to curdle one's blood--Josefa told of them but now. Some one
hath heard them; but they hush it in the court for it meaneth disaster."

"I may not stay with thee!" Eloisà cried turning away in hot displeasure; "not for fear--for
I do not believe thy vision: but because I hate thy mocking spirit and thy so strange loyalty--dama
di maridaggio!"

The Lady Ecciva calmly resumed her pastime of swan-teasing as her impulsive companion, flushed
and panting, began to climb the long flight of marble steps that led back to the palace-plateau.

"I think I am better companioned this heavenly night without thy preaching," she said serenely,
as Eloisà, half repenting her quickness, turned back to wave her a farewell, "for the breezes
are comforting after the day, and fret me not with questions. And for my loyalty"--she lingered
mockingly on the word--"my loyalty will serve King Janus well enough, unless he seeketh to
enforce his rights to my displeasure."

"How to thy 'displeasure'? What 'rights'?"

"His right of Lord of the fiefs--for our lands are gifts of the Crown--to choose a husband
for his dama di maridaggio who suiteth not her fancy."

"Nay, verily, Ecciva, he is a noble gentleman--he would not press thee too hard, thou wouldst
protest."

"Aye, I should protest--I would protest. And so he hath no scheme to marry me with the miserable
Neapolitan noble who held our lands while we were dispossessed, I care not! But it were good
to know what fancy might seize him--our charming Janus! For he is a man of many moods and some
favorite of the Soldan may next be friend to him!"

The evening breezes were slowly waking over the torrid land, bringing needed refreshment after
the long sultriness of the day: the air was laden with delicious odors--fragrance of rose and
jessamine and orange blooms; birds of brilliant plumage called to each other in jubilant notes
as they flitted hither and thither among the pomegranate blossoms which burned, like tongues
of flame, among the thickets of green.

Back through the long alleys of wonderful trees where many a clinging vine trailed masses of
riotous color, it was pleasant to hear mirthful voices ringing freely after the dull day's
repression, or echoing back more faintly from adventurous wanderers in the farther shrubberies.
This garden of delights which Janus had made for his bride, environing this palace of Potamia,
was alive with charm--rippling with stolen streams, more costly than molten silver at the summer's
height, which kept it in such vesture of luxuriant bloom as only a monarch might command.

But Eloisà sped quickly up from terrace to terrace, scarcely pausing to answer the persiflage
with which her companion sought to detain her; she was overwrought and unhappy, in spite of
herself; she had no faith in the vision of Ecciva; she felt hurt and outraged by her coldness,
and she was hastening back for one look in the true and noble face of the Lady of the Bernardini,
who mothered all these young Venetian maids of honor in the court of Caterina, craving to express
her deep loyalty to the Queen herself by some immediate act of silent homage.

Only the Lady of the Bernardini and Margherita de Iblin were with Caterina in the loggia, just
without the palace, as Eloisà came flying up the steps and falling on her knees covered the
young Queen's hand with passionate kisses.

"What is it, carina mia?" Caterina asked in alarm; "thou bringest news? There is a courier?"

"Niente--niente, Serenissima--only to be near the one I love!" the girl cried fervently; and
then grew suddenly quiet, in full content after this needed avowal.

"Poverina, thou art lonely for thy Venice, and thy people," the Queen murmured in her own soft
Italian tongue, while her fingers strayed caressingly through the glory of red-gold hair which
fell unbound about the maid, in the fashion of those days for one of noble birth and tender age.

But presently she withdrew her hand and motioned Eloisà to a corner among the cushions on the
curving marble slab, grotesquely wrought with talismanic symbols, which outlined the end of
the loggia where they sat. "Thou art come à-propos: for the Lady Margherita hath promised us
a tale of ancient Cyprus, and we of Venice wish to know these legends of our beautiful island."

"Nay, beloved Sovereign Lady;--it is not legend but simple historic truth, which your Majesty
hath granted me permission to narrate--a tale of love and loyalty of the annals of our house;
and out of it hath come this Cyprian proverb: 'Quel che Iblin è non si può trovar.' 'Such an
one as Iblin may no man find!'" Dama Margherita, usually so pale and grave, was flushed and
eager; her deep eyes sparkled; her breath came fast.

The name of Joan of Iblin was revered in Cyprus and the Queen turned towards Margherita with
some comprehension of her pride in the nobility of this ancestor who had spent himself in loyal
service for the early Kings of Cyprus, touching her hand with a light pressure, smiling her
approbation.

No feast at any court in those days was complete without this diversion of recitation, when
the nation's heroes, or some passage from its greater classics, furnished the theme; or when
some improvisator wove a tissue of myth and legend, embroidered with fact, which won its way
through confiding ages as historic truth, till the time, growing sophisticated, laid it heroically
aside for a curio. And Cyprus stood high among the Eastern nations in literary reputation.
Was not its poet Enclos earliest among the Greek prophetic singers? Was not the "Cypria" celebrated
among the epics of antiquity, a precursor to the Iliad itself? Was any land more fertile than
Cyprus in food for poets?

The Cypriotes no longer knew whether Cinyras were god, or man, or myth; whether he were the
son of Apollo, or of Pygmalion and the bewitching ivory image of the sculptor's dead wife;
or, in very truth, that splendid prince of Agamemnon's time, as sung by Homer in the Iliad,
winning laurels at the siege of Troy. This hero of the "Cypria," was he, in verity the great
High Priest of the island and chief of the stately race of the Cinyradæ who had ruled the people
long in State and Sanctuary, and filled their realm with stately temples? The Cypriotes drew
breath in an atmosphere of myth and poetry and felt the recital of the feats of their heroes
to be no less a duty than a delight.

The improvisatorial faculty so often bestowed upon this imaginative people was greatly prized,
and not infrequently it descended from father to son, as an inheritance, winning for its possessor
something of the reverence granted to a prophet.

Dama Margherita de Iblin possessed this gift, though only in moments of deep feeling was she
willing to exercise it: but to-night she was strangely moved out of sympathy for the Queen,
whose evident anxiety filled her with foreboding and whom she eagerly longed to divert.

"Since your Majesty hath graciously commanded the story of Joan of Iblin, Lord of Beirut and
Governor of Jerusalem--a tale of our dear land when it was young--I will tell it after the
fashion of my people," she said, rising with her sudden resolve, her strong, dark face grown
beautiful from the play of noble emotions.

She stood for a moment, her tall figure in its sweeping folds swaying in slow rhythmic cadence--her
attitude and gesture full of grace and dignity--irresistibly compelling--as in low, penetrating
monotone she began her chant.

The music-maidens stole noiselessly forth upon the loggia, accompanying the noble improvisatrice
with lute and rhythmic posture; the night deepened and the stars came out, and still her hearers
listened breathlessly, as in moments of emotion the chant leaped wildly to meet the urgency
of her thought, or deepened in melting tenderness to its pathos; for such was the intensity
of Margherita's emotion and dramatic quality that she endued each character with an almost
startling vitality--or had she put her auditors under some magic spell with the compelling
gaze of her deep eyes? They felt as if living in that past time, partakers in its very action,
and they surrendered themselves to her power.

It was the tale of an infant heir of Cyprus, when the realm was young and the Emperor Frederick
was her Suzerain, and with a sweep of her magnetic fingers Margherita showed the babe lying
helpless and appealing before his uncle the noble Lord of Iblin, to whom the widowed Queen
had confided him during his tutelage. The guardian's faith and devotion were sketched in rapid
strokes; and when the tiny King had been crowned and his knights and barons of Cyprus and Jerusalem
had sworn him fealty, the souls of her listeners swelled indignant within them as Dama Margherita
thrilled forth the challenge of the Emperor to the Lord of Iblin to lay down his trust and
surrender the child with the customs of Cyprus to him--their Suzerain--until the boy should
be of age.

"Not so--most gracious Lord and Emperor!" Joan of Iblin had made dauntless answer; "for my
tutelage is by order of the Queen, his mother, who holdeth the regency justly, and by the laws
of Cyprus and of Jerusalem--which, with all courtesy, I will defend. I make appeal unto the
courts for this our right!"

Her sympathetic auditors verily heard the tramp of armies in the wild chant of Margherita when
the Emperor had replied with scorn and insult, trampling on the rights of Cyprus; they could
have sworn that they saw the Emperor's hosts gathering on the plains as they watched the impetuous
motions of all those beckoning maiden hands; and then, advancing in quiet dignity, sure of
their right, the old-time knights and barons of Cyprus and Jerusalem, moving to the measure
of a quaint, Christian psalm: and so fully had her listeners yielded themselves to her potent
spell, that but hearkening to her recital, they quailed and trembled when she told that the
enemies of the Lord of Iblin came by night and sought to whisper treachery to his staunch soul,
while in tones that scarcely broke the hush, the false words of the tempter reached their consciousness,
quivering through them, as if they themselves were guilty of this treachery:

"Ye are more in number than the hosts of the Emperor--kill him while he sleepeth! For we will
see that his guards wake not."

Then fell a deep, throbbing silence, tingling with a sense of shame, broken by a sudden discord
of the lutes and the wild burst of ringing scorn.

"Shall we, Christian men of Cyprus, do this iniquity!"

Again, the whispered voice of the tempter: "Aye! for the Emperor is false; he hath taken thine
own sons for hostages and keepeth not his promise but in his camp entreateth them shamefully;
and in the courts, which shall judge of this thy cause, doth seek to malign thee."

Once more came the voice of Joan of Iblin, invincible:

"We have sworn fealty to the Emperor--we are true men--be others untrue."

And then in unison--swift, sure, triumphant--the words vibrated on the air: "We have sworn
fealty to the Emperor--we are true men--be others untrue."

The voices in the garden had long since ceased, and one by one the wanderers had gathered on
the terrace, waiting in responsive silence the conclusion of the tale they loved. Among them
the Bernardini stood entranced. He had been strolling alone, filled with anxious thoughts which
had brought him to a mood easily wrought upon, and from the silence of the garden to come suddenly
upon this scene of picturesque action was a surprise that gave it added power.

He stood as if fascinated, never moving his gaze from the lithe figure of Margherita, whose
every motion revealed new grace and unsuspected depths of feeling. Margherita, whom he had
thought so grave and cold! So intently was he watching her that he realized no others in the
vivid pantomime until the music maidens had gathered closely about her with hushed lutes and
a mysterious silence fell--as of night upon the plain--spreading with the slow movement of
the down-turned palms of all that girlish throng--the graceful, swaying figures scarce advancing,
yet seeming to encompass the plain.

Between these interludes of dramatic rendering, the thread of the story was held in a quick,
clear monotone easily followed. The hushed tramp of a great army withdrawing in the night--not
from fear, but to honor their vows--the words of Iblin: "We will not fight our Emperor, for
our men are more than his: which having seen, it will now perchance please him to accept our
terms of honorable peace." The Emperor's acceptance of the terms from fear or wile, or because
of new wars pressing in his own lands: his promise to leave the customs of the realm to Cyprus:
and then, as Suzerain, his swift summons to the Lord of Iblin to join him in Crusade with men
and arms. But the friends of the faithful guardian close round him and the chant of Margherita
grows fierce and ominous:

"Beware! He meaneth treachery. It is no summons--save to entrap thee."

But the answer rings out loyally in the knightly faith of those early days, while the deep,
contralto tones electrify her audience: "Shall we show fear of our Emperor, or fail to bring
him aid in holy warfare of Crusade--we, who are Christian knights? Faith begetteth Faith!"

Then the Cypriotes fare them forth to do the bidding of their dauntless leader,--all the knights
and nobles of Cyprus and Jerusalem, the youthful King and the sons of the Lord of Iblin--with
interchange of gifts and feasting and homage as of leal men to their Suzerain: with much pledging
of faith, from each to each, after the manner of those days--against the background of that
noble chorus following from afar in massive, chanted solemn tones--

     "Faith begetteth Faith."

But now, to the cities of Cyprus, left destitute of defense while their nobles were gone to
honor the Emperor's command, came a band of mercenaries of the Emperor's sending, who stole
the customs and by their lawless acts frightened the people who fled for safety to the convents,
denouncing Frederick as false and craven; while the governors sent by him, in despite of his
solemn treaty, made havoc in the land, proclaiming in every city:

"Let not the Lord of Iblin set foot in this land of Cyprus--by order of the Emperor!"

Suddenly the indignant cries of the whole listening company mingled in confusion with the inspired
voice of the improvisatrice and the descriptive music of the lutes.

Caterina sprang to her feet, not knowing what she did: "Bring back the Lord of Iblin!" she
cried. "Bring the noble Joan back! Save this people of Cyprus!"

At the sound of her voice the lords and ladies of her court came crowding up the steps of the
loggia from the terrace, clinging around her, kissing her hands with fervent words of loyalty
and pleasure, before she realized that she was in the Now, or that she had cried out in her
excitement. But this was the Cypriotes' story of stories, and her unconscious action had bound
them to her.

But Dama Margherita, still in her trance of song, waved them to quiet again as they stood grouped
about the Queen, in the very mood of the closing scene, creating an atmosphere of restrained
passion, through which the voice of the improvisatrice throbbed and pulsated like their own
hear-beats.

But now the tones of the improvisatrice are low and quiet, and her motions assert the dignity
of a life nobly lived. For Joan of Iblin has returned from Crusade, has conquered the intruders
and restored quiet to the realm. But, thereafter, siege is laid to his own castle and fief
of Beirut, and now, gray-haired and full of honors, his time of service drawing to a close,
his trust fulfilled and the young monarch come to his majority, he implores his royal ward
to assemble his full court, and kneeling in their presence before the youth whom he had served
from tenderest infancy, he prays:

"If I have served thee well, my nephew and my monarch--now come to thine own--because I loved
thee well, yet loving honor more:

"If I have fought for thee in keeping of my trust, and dared the enmity of the Emperor our
Suzerain,--and for thy sake:

"Now, by my love for thee--for I am old and the cities of my fiefs are doomed;

"Send, if it seemeth good to thee and to these, the knights and barons of thy realm, and save
my lands--that they be not wrested from me when my strength is spent!"

The true-hearted Prince threw loving arms about him, with words of comfort and with promises,
and would have raised him. But the Lord of Iblin would bring his speech to its conclusion and
have his say before them all, thus kneeling--as if it were a rendering of his trust, a fitting
close to a so loyal life.

The words of his Swan-Song had been chanted in full, rare, solemn harmony--the lutes in gracious
melody accompanying, like an undertone of love--slow tears down dropping from the eyes of Margherita.

And one by one, as the chant proceeded, through her strange magnetic power, her listeners saw
a knight step forth from the circle and drop to his knees, swearing fealty to the King and
the Lord of Iblin, until all were kneeling. Then the chanting voices hushed and the rapid motions
ceased: and under that spell they saw, as in a vision, luminous in the darkness, the kneeling
knights of that early court of Cyprus, and in their midst, the gray-haired Joan of Iblin and
the boyish monarch, in his young, rosy strength--a vision of love and loyalty!

Aluisi Bernardini breathed a sigh of content as he moved quickly away with a sense of his responsibility
being shared; for it was only now that he felt that he knew Margherita, and she would be ever
near the Queen, a Cypriote of the Cypriotes, but loyal to her heart's core. He could have kissed
the hem of her trailing robe as it floated towards him, stirred by the motion of his passing--for
in the maiden's tale she had revealed herself to him: it was not of her grace and talent, nor
of the poem that he thought--but on the surety of her staunchness of soul--of her consecration:
he heard her voice again ringing in the words:

     "We are true men: be others untrue!"

XI

A Little page who had been leaning on the marble parapet beyond the terrace, came stealthily
and beckoned to a comrade on the steps of the loggia.

"A troop of horse were coming across the plain," he explained in low, agitated tones, as the
other reached his side, and followed him back to the post where he had been watching. "I saw
them all the time Dama Margherita was reciting--Holy Mother, but it was long!--I thought the
King was coming, and it was I that should carry the news to her Majesty--I came near crying
out! But I could not see his orange plume, and I waited. They came slowly--Santissima Vergine!
He was not there!"

He clutched his comrade's doublet with a trembling hand and turned an ashen face towards him.

"What ailest thee, Tristan?--thou who art already a damoiseau and shalt be a true knight? Thou
art verily dreaming--I see nothing."

"They are gone within--in the first great court of the palace--those who came. They were the
King's gentlemen--all the King's gentlemen--Messer Andrea among them. I thought the champing
would have roused the Queen who hath been watching all the day. I am not afraid----" he gasped;
"but it was so horrible!--Thou knowest, Guido, Messer Andrea never leaveth the King."

The boy's eyes were dark with fear.

"He will come with the others--he will surely, surely come," Guido asseverated.

They clasped each other close and pressed their fresh cheeks together, trembling so that they
could scarcely speak, yet struggling to be brave, as became little pages that should be knights.

"They were so long," poor Tristan said in a choking whisper, "and it was so still--so still--no
music, and they returning from the chase! And--when they came nearer, I thought I saw his horse,
but I could not see a rider--and I thought, I thought--perhaps because it was dark--and I ran
down the front of the palace to get nearer when they crossed the bridge. Ah, but the tramp
was dreadful! And--and--it was his horse, and a squire leading him--and--behind them--oh Guido!--Then
I knew."

"We will be knights, Tristan mio," Guido whispered, wiping away his comrade's tears while his
own were falling; and then, straining each other convulsively, they broke down in sobs together.

       *       *       *       *       *

Dama Ecciva stole up the steps from the terrace, and catching Eloisà's hand, dragged her forcibly
away.

"Come quickly," she whispered, with chattering teeth, "Santa Maria Vergine! I am so frightened.
Oh, the poor, poor Queen! That was why she hath been so strange--she hath truly seen the vision.
Poverina, it breaks one's heart! And he but a week away! So gay and debonair, and beautiful
as a god!"

There was no mistaking her wild eyes.

"Tell me!" Eloisà gasped.

"I was there in the pergola, and I saw them come--the frati from the Troödos in the midst of
the troop of horse--with--with IT.--Oh Eloisà, it was true!--They are telling her now."

       *       *       *       *       *

There was a stir in the great audience-chamber back of the loggia where Caterina sat--a sound
of hesitant feet, as of many who came unwillingly, unutterably weary from the dull weight of
evil tidings.

The muffled footsteps roused her from her revery and she turned her head and saw them coming.
Her heart stood still for fear.

Messer Andrea came before the others, falteringly--as if youth had died out of him: he was
pale and strange and no words fell from his blanched lips during that long instant while he
crossed the interminable stretch between them, and Caterina waited, with all her tortured soul
crying out for Janus.

Then the King's favorite, with the cruel story written in his anguished eyes, turned them full
upon hers for one moment, that she might know--then bowed his head upon his breast and opened
his arms, as if he fain would shelter her--

"Caterina----" he said--"Child----"

XII

In the first dazed days that followed, between the necessary adjustment of matters of state,
and the many ceremonies incident upon the King's sudden death, there was scant time to discuss
the rapid happenings; even in the court-circle they scarcely knew what was passing--still less
how it had come about. It was said that Janus had died of malignant fever, due to the terrible
malaria of the coasts where he had been hunting. Yet some hinted that there were natural poisons,
as of the marshes, and others--more fatal: but this was with bated breath and kept well without
the innermost circle of the court, for no one really knew. It was easy to talk of poison, but
far less easy to make assertions implicating those who might be innocent; and, meanwhile, the
complications surrounding the throne of Cyprus demanded infinite wisdom and despatch.

Almost before the Queen could lift her head after the shock of her husband's death, the nobles
and barons of the realm had penetrated to her private boudoir and sworn her fealty, with a
tenderness and reverence that deeply touched her. By the will which the King had left, Caterina
Veneta was now Queen of Cyprus, with a Council of Seven appointed to assist her; and every
Venetian who held a post in the Government was restless until the young widow of Janus, who
had been crowned with all due ceremony in the Cathedral of Nikosia at the time of her marriage,
had publicly received the full seal of her authority.

So quickly death had fallen upon the brilliant, pleasure-loving young monarch--so without warning--that
it seemed to those of his court like some dread nightmare from which they might presently awake
to a new morning, fair and gay as those they had known so little time ago, before the music
and the mirth, the jewels and the festal robes that befit a court had given place to the gloom
and mourning of these horrible days. As in a dream they had taken part in the sumptuous funeral
ceremonies, feeling still that it could not be true--he was too young, too brave, too gay,
too gracious, to have come so soon to this! And if to some of those young nobles it was rather
the shock of the loss of a boon companion than a serious grief, there were many among them
who, for the few bright words that cost him little--a smile--the grasp of his ready hand--permission
to come and shine about him--now brought their tribute of adoring tears.

Meanwhile, in the halls of the palace, time moved with slow and halting footsteps: the stricken
Queen came rarely among her circle of ladies, and only for short intervals, and the talk, however
varied, was but upon one absorbing theme.

It was known that soon after the funeral, the Queen seeking how she might do highest honor
in preparing the permanent tomb, had been told of the priceless sarcophagus of oriental jasper--the
gift in early ages of the Emperor of the East to Santa Soffia in Nikosia, and she had sent
an envoy to the brothers of the convent to ask that it be surrendered for the tomb of Janus,
their king, promising whatever compensation they should ask.

"Ah, but it will be magnificent, that tomb under the dome of our own San Nicolò! It will stand
on the precious mosaic pavement from Alexandria, on columns of ivory chased with gold. Dama
Margherita hath seen the design which hath been made for her Majesty by the curator of our
library of art."

"I also," said the little Contarini, timidly, for she was proud of the favor of the Queen whom
she devotedly loved: "It was most beautiful; and the Serenissima la Regina held it long, as
if she could not put it away."

But a hand was raised to hush the topic:

"Speak no more thereof; for word hath come but now that the request of her Majesty hath been
denied."

There was a chorus of indignant protest:

"It could not be, when she so grieveth! They have no hearts--those frati of Santa Soffia!"

"The Queen will not endure this refusal without reason!"

"There was no reason that should be told," their informer whispered low to one of them. "For
love of the Queen, hush the topic."

But an elderly member of the Queen's Council who had been passing through the great Hall and
had paused near them, taking no part in the conversation, now came forward, after a moment's
hesitation.

"I speak that you may forget it," he said: "for it seemeth to be a pleasing theme of discussion
among you--yet should be so no more--a mere extravaganza of fancy that our girl-queen might
wisely abandon."

"Signore!" exclaimed the Lady of the Bernardini, rising indignantly, "I maintain the dignity
of our Sovereign Lady's Court, while she perforce, from sore affliction, must be absent. All
speech must be as in her presence."

The Councillor, resenting the reproof, gave a slight cold bow, studying her curiously, and
pondering whether he dared go further.

"The matter is of interest," he pursued, after a moment's pause, "for they gave their reason,
these monks of Santa Soffia, and scrupled not--being willing to keep their treasure."

"Signore Consiglière----!" Dama Margherita exclaimed beseechingly.

But if the monks of Santa Soffia had a reason for their conduct, he also had for his, and would
not be stayed.

"They gave their reason; that the precious gift should not be desecrated to hold relics that
were subject to excommunication," he said with painful distinctness, and would not linger for
any explanation.

"It is shameful--such a reason so calmly told by a member of our Queen's Council! He should
unsay the words!" one of the maids of honor cried hotly. "There could be no color for it: the
Signor Fabrici hath proven that he loveth not the Regina!"

"It was unholy speech," said Dama Margherita crossing herself, "which had not been, save for
the Consiglière: it hath no shade of truth; may the Holy Madonna forgive him--and us, who have
listened to slander."

"Cara Dama Margherita," said the little Contarini consolingly, "if we have listened--it is
not with our hearts!"

"Thou art wise, carina: and we who love her will see that the ill word goeth not beyond."

But the speech of the Consiglière had caused such consternation that it could not be immediately
dismissed; and one of the elder ladies of the Court was obliged to explain it, for "excommunication"
was a word of evil omen.

"The word is a slander," she said. "But it is known that the Holy Father hath had small friendship
for King Janus since he declined alliance with the niece of His Holiness, who was not one to
please our young King's delicate fancy, though His Holiness strove to have his will--first
by promises and then by threats."

They pressed closely about her, with exclamations of interest and astonishment, for this gray-haired
noble woman, Madama de Thénouris, had not been one of those to retail gossip and they might
not question her strange tale; they knew that she had some serious purpose in this unwonted
freedom of speech.

"This was known by some of us in Cyprus before the marriage of our King--yet was kept hushed,
lest trouble should grow from mention of the displeasure of the Holy Father; but no threat
of excommunication hath reached this court. My children, I am trusting you with confidences--for
it is a time of trouble for our most gracious Lady and we of her court must know truth from
slander that we may stand for her."

Each one came and laid her hand, in silent pledge, in that of the gray-haired speaker.

"Later, not long since," she continued, "there came from Rome a tale--maliciously whispered
about by Fabrici--not to be believed--that by some act of renunciation of the Christian Faith,
Janus won the favor of the Sultan when he sent him hither to regain his throne. The Consiglière
Fabrici went with others to the monks of Santa Soffia, and if he told this matter there, so
as he hath whispered it in the court of Cyprus, it may well be that the frati reasoned thus."

"Is it true, Madama, that an ambassador is already come from the Sultan to acknowledge Caterina
as Queen of Cyprus, and that there shall be some gathering of the court to-night to receive
his homage?"

"Aye; such a gathering as one may have in these sad days, my children."

"And Carlotta?" another asked eagerly--"Ecciva--tell them what thou hast spoken of Carlotta."

"That she, in very person, hath sailed from Rhodes to meet the Admiral of Venice on his fleet--to
throw herself on his mercy, as heir of Cyprus, to ask his help, to place her on the throne,
from the long friendship between the islands." She told it with a little note of triumph, for
it was strange news.

"Carlotta! To seek aid from Venice!--It cannot be true!"

"Aye; it is verily true," Madama de Thénouris said quietly--"as Ecciva hath told it; for a
report hath come from Messer Mocenigo, himself. But that is like Carlotta, who leaveth no imagining
of her brain untried. She hath even the courage to urge her near connection with Venice through
her brother Janus the King, by his marriage with Caterina Veneta!"

"She hath lost her reason, one would say: there can be no more to fear from Carlotta!"

"No more to hope from Carlotta," some one corrected in an undertone; but the voice sounded
unfamiliar in the group and when they looked to see who might have spoken, there was no one
to whom they could assign it.

Eloisà Contarini turned to the young Dama Ecciva de Montferrat with her impulsive question:

"Who was it, Ecciva?"

"Nay, I was about to ask--I also."

Dama Margherita turned and looked at her steadily; the girl gazed back at her with narrowing
eyelids, slightly shrugging her shoulders as she finally dropped her eyes.

"But Carlotta?" one of the Venetian maids of honor questioned, impatient for the tale: "she
knew not of the will of his Majesty the King?"

"Nay; and she had hope of being first to carry news of his death to the Admiral of Venice;--a
most strange hope of any favor from such a quarter!"

"The answer of the Mocenigo was a marvel of courtesy, as it hath been reported, and worthy
of a diplomat," Madama de Thénouris continued. "Most graciously he assured the Princess that
Venice held her friendship gladly and would not fail of anything that she might do to prove
her loyalty to this Crown of Cyprus. Yet now, the Daughter of the Republic, Caterina Veneta,
being left by the Will of Janus Queen of Cyprus, Venice must first uphold the rights of Caterina,
and might show her Eccellenza, the Princess Carlotta, no favor that could prejudice the sovereignty
of the Queen."

"And then?"

"And then came further pleading from Carlotta, with a new tissue of reasons. But finally the
Mocenigo told her plainly: 'The reasons which avail in kingdoms are arms--not questions of
legality.'"

"It is a theme for a comedy! And Carlotta----?"

"Hath sailed again with new wisdom for Rhodes; or, perchance to plan some enterprise that bespeaketh
her less mad."

"She is not mad--but brave!" cried the Dama Ecciva boldly.

"It is enough of Carlotta," said the Lady of the Bernardini, rising to break up the talk.

But she beckoned to Dama Margherita to remain, as the others were leaving the hall, and gave
her a charge in a low tone.

"See to it that these tales add not to the weariness of our beloved Lady who hath already enough
of grief to bear; and the time is full of dangers for her. I count much upon thine influence
with the younger maids to keep her from breaking her heart," she added with hesitation, but
with a smile which conveyed her confidence in the Lady Margherita, "and to hold them loyal."

She laid a detaining hand upon the younger woman's shoulder as she spoke the last words, uncertain
whether to confide in her further, and Margherita, having given her assurance, still waited.

"For this question of excommunication," the Lady of the Bernardini said at last--"lest it should
be bruited about by the enemies of the Queen--it hath no color of truth. My Son, the Lord Chamberlain,
hath confided to me--(I am trusting thee, Dama Margherita, that thou mayest know it to be so,
for the peace of mind of our poor, young Queen, and so mayest lead others to thy belief--yet
speak no hint of this my confidence). My Son, the Chamberlain, hath seen in the most revered
chronicle of State of this kingdom, the Libro delle Rimembranze, the copy of a letter sent
by King Janus to His Holiness, to accredit his Reverence the Archbishop of Nikosia, brother
to this same Signor Jean Perez Fabrici the Consiglière, who spoke with us but now--as Ambassador
to His Holiness: and the manner of this letter leaveth no room for doubt that he wrote as a
son of the Church, in all confidence of favor. He calleth His Holiness 'Santissimo e Beatissimo
Padre!' and the signature of this letter (which it is noted that he wrote with his own hand)
was 'Devotus vester Filius, Rex Jacobus Cipri.'"

XIII

"Madre Mia!" he said with deep tenderness, "I think it is not possible to hold the knowledge
from her longer. It must be told to-night."

They were in the loggia overlooking the splendid stretch of terraced gardens, now flooded with
moonlight; they had been standing there, quite silent, for a long time, each feeling that there
was something to be spoken and suffered--each praying to defer the moment.

"Oh, Aluisi--no!"

Her tone was an entreaty: but he only put out his hand and laid it tenderly upon hers: the
beautiful, tapering fingers trembled under his touch, then slowly quieted, for there was a
rare sympathy between them.

"I have done everything," he continued in a low voice, without looking at her, "but they will
not wait--matters of State, they say, to be passed upon--a Queen must give her signature when
it is needed."

He came closer, suddenly turning upon her a gaze which compelled her startled comprehension.
"They would be quite willing to pass the measure without her signature," he added, in a still
lower tone. "It has come to that--we must think of her rights and protect her against her Councillors!"

"She has had so much to bear, poor child--so young--and her heart is broken already with sorrow
for her husband. For she had faith in him. And now!--Have they no feeling for her?"

"Madre, carissima, thou knowest not Rizzo; he is the most powerful among them, and the most
ill-disposed. 'Let her take the Prince of Naples,' he hath said openly before the Councillors,
'and give us a man to reign over us.'"

"And Janus but two weeks dead!" The Lady Beata gave an involuntary cry of horror. "But Fabrici,
the Archbishop?" she asked after a moment, "may he not influence them to be more gentle with
her--having a brother in the Council?"

Aluisi shook his head sorrowfully. "Nay, Mother--I know not which is worse. Venice, at his
election, would have prevented it, but could not, because he represented this intriguing power
of Naples which hath not ceased from effort to have its will of Cyprus, since the betrothal
of Caterina--which also it sought to overthrow."

"How knowest thou?"

He laid his finger on his lips--"If we were yet in Venice, I might not answer thee; but here--and
it is for me and thee alone--it was I upon whom the Signoria laid the task of drawing up their
monitory letter to Janus to hold him to his contract."

"Oh, if thou hadst not done it! I would rather thou hadst not written it!" she said with a
low moan.

"Aye--Mother: and I--even then I knew that it must be happier for the child if that contract
might be broken. Though if I had dreamed of this I could not have doomed one of our Casa Cornaro
to such suffering and dishonor. But thou knowest the pride of Venice: if not my hand, another's
would have written it: and I then--we should not have been here to shield her."

"But the Archbishop Fabrici cannot hold malice against Caterina. He hath all the church of
Cyprus in his command; he must be friendly to the Queen."

But Aluisi's face gave her no hope, as she turned to him.

"Fabrici, for another cause, holdeth the queen in deep disfavor," he said, "for that he, having
been sent by Janus on some embassy of marriage for the child Zarla, came into the Chamber of
Counts of the Kingdom--not many days since--and with much grossness of speech would have discussed
the matter at length in that presence; which we, of her household--she being in the first grief
of her young widowhood--prevented, through members of the Queen's Council, better disposed."

"It was well, Aluisi: it seemeth even now too soon--too cruel--to add this shadow to her grief:
and but for thee, she must have known thereof that day. For she seeketh already to take up
the burden of the State and questioneth daily of the Secretary of the King of that which passeth
in the Council. 'That I may rule my people,' she sayeth sadly, 'and those who loved the King
will help me!' With what a tender grace she sayeth 'my people!'"

"Madre mia, thou who lovest her and art so wise--shall I leave this parchment with thee? Thou
best canst spare her in what must be told. I have had made this copy of certain clauses of
the Will of Janus, which may not longer wait official reading before the Council in the Chamber
of the Counts and in presence of the Queen. Thinkest thou not it would be too hard for her
to learn first of its provisions before them all?"

"Thou art right, Aluisi--always right. But her faith in him is deep; how shall I make her believe
it?"

"I know not," he answered with a groan, and crushing the parchment in his hand. Then he smoothed
it out remorsefully and gave it to her. "It is a faithful copy; there is no other argument.
Thou wilt go to her now--for it must be."

With bowed head he led her to the door of the Queen's ante-chamber. "I am here," he said, "if
need should be."

She still hesitated. "It may be long, for I know not how to tell her."

"Thank Heaven that she hath one like thee to care for her," he answered, gently forcing her
through the doorway as he held her hand. "For I do think the Council would willingly have her
away."

In the ante-chamber scattered groups of court-ladies in deepest mourning, were talking in low
tones. They all rose as the Lady Beata entered: but she, with only an inclination of her head
passed on hastily into the inner chamber which was the private boudoir of the Queen.

Caterina was quite alone, lying back on a low couch near an open window, through which the
moonlight streamed in long pale rays; while many soft lights of perfumed oils, burning low
in lamps of ivory, made only moonlight within the chamber. She held the miniature of Janus
pressed against her cheek, and as the Lady Beata came towards her she tried to welcome her
with a quivering smile.

"I sent them all away, Zia mia: sometimes it seems less hard to bear when I am quite alone."

The Lady Beata bent over her, stroking her hair caressingly, striving for courage to break
the silence.

"Caterina mia," she said at last, "it is needful to give some thought to matters of government--the
Council will not wait. Hast thou the strength?"

"I must have strength," she answered with instant resolution, rising and laying aside the miniature
with a lingering look. "Wilt thou call Aluisi? He ever maketh me understand. It is so new to
me," she pleaded feebly, as the Lady Beata did not move.

"Carina, it will be best alone; Aluisi hath asked me to speak with thee. If--if thou wilt read
this parchment"--the Lady Beata held it out to her--"it is the Will of the late King, Aluisi
hath bidden me give it thee."

"There is no need," Caterina answered listlessly, as the Lady Beata opened it and put it into
her hand, "the provisions have been told me."

But the other persisted. "To-morrow--for the Council say that they will not longer wait; it
will be read before the Counts of the Chamber, and they would have the Queen take oath of fealty
to Cyprus."

"I shall have the strength when to-morrow cometh," Caterina answered wearily, and making a
motion to return the parchment.

"There are other clauses; Aluisi thought it might be better to read them here--alone--before--before----"
Her face was blanched and pained, and her words came with difficulty.

The young Queen looked at her in surprise, then, after a moment's indecision, dropped her eyes
upon the page and read the short clauses through; then once more--as if she did not understand--then
again, a scarlet flush growing as she read.

The parchment contained but three short clauses: King Janus left his kingdom to his wife Caterina,
who was to reign, with their child, if there should be one; or alone, if the child should die.

He provided a Council of seven to assist her with the Government:

In case of her death and the death of the child, the kingdom should descend to each of the
three other children of Janus, in the order named. The unwedded mother of these children was
not mentioned and Caterina had never dreamed of their existence.

She stood trembling--her face slowly paling to a marble whiteness. "Mater Dolorosa!" she gasped,
with a moan of pain, instantly repressed.

The Lady Beata put her arm around her to steady her; but Caterina drew herself away, standing
upright.

"Call back the Chamberlain!" she cried, imperiously; and stood waiting--panting--until he entered
the room.

Then she drew up her slight figure in defiance, her eyes flashing in her white, white face--her
voice ringing scorn as she pointed to the document which had dropped from her hand.

"How should I believe this--this baseness of my husband--your King?" she cried. "Who hath dared
to fashion it?"

"Beloved Sovereign Lady"--he answered her, and for very pity could say no more.

She turned from one to the other with an impatient, questioning, imperious gesture.

They came nearer--slowly--silently turning upon her such faces of love and sorrow and comprehension
that the fire in her eyes died in anguish.

A quiver shot through her, but she struggled to stand, motioning them away again when they
would have helped her--she must drink this cup of bitterness alone. "How should I believe it?"
she repeated brokenly, still studying their faces.--"How should I believe it--ye are not faithless
to him--to me----?"

There was no need to answer her: again they looked their unspeakable compassion.

But as Caterina's eyes rested upon the parchment once more, a sudden hope came to her. "The
will of the King was written in his own hand," she cried eagerly. "Thou hast said it, Aluisi;
this is not the writing of the king!"

"Nay, beloved Sovereign Lady," the Chamberlain made answer, as he picked it up, and held it
before her; "this is but a memorandum made for your Majesty's convenience, but attested under
the seal of the kingdom. The original Will is in the keeping of the Lord of the Privy Seals,
awaiting your command. It was thought that your Majesty would wish to see it before the Council
should be assembled."

She understood and bowed her head in silence, while all hope died out of her face.

Aluisi advisedly used the ceremonious form by which he was accustomed to address the Queen
in public, hoping to hint to her of some necessary preparation to control the meeting of the
Council that could not, in any event, be long deferred.

They lingered wistfully, seeking vainly for words that might not hurt her; but Caterina looked
at them beseechingly, with dim eyes--her lips moving without sound.

The Lady Beata understood.

"I go now to pray the dear Christ for thee--the Man of Sorrows," she said with inexpressible
tenderness. "And later--Carinissima--I will come again, and thou wilt rest."

So young--so sorely stricken--she knelt in the cold moonlight alone--her hands clasped in passionate
repression on her throbbing heart--"Mater Dei!" she moaned: "Death--and then this!--If but
it need not have been told me! If I might but have kept the memory of my happiness!"

Only the stars and the pitying angels looked down on the fierce conflict of grief and love
and disillusion with which her desolate young soul wrestled alone through the long, midnight
vigil. How should she separate these two beautiful faiths which had been enthroned as one in
the happy depths of her guileless heart, without perilling her very trust in God!

Yet, as the sad day dawned over the hills and sea, she knew that God was still in His Heaven,
behind the clouds--while she clung as a drowning mariner--the more desperately for her weakness--to
the spar of this faith in the wreck of her happiness, though the love to which her whole being
had moved in rhythmic content was as a lost star, glimmering uncertainly behind the mists.

But through the desolate night-watches the Lady of the Bernardini in the ante-chamber of the
Queen had been agonizing in prayer for her until thought was spent; and now she had moved out
upon the loggia and stood there waiting for the dawn that seemed long-deferred, in a half-conscious
wonder that there were no sorrows great enough to stay Nature's punctual recurrences--that
to-day and to-morrow there would still be dawns and sunsets, whatever happened to the souls of men.

In the silver line that etched the dark mountain crests against the pale monotone of the sky,
single firs stood forth saliently, while dim in the distance, vast shapes, clothed in perpetual
snows, held wraith-like watch over the smiling plains below, where life and bloom were possible.

Athwart the low, confused twittering of bird-notes which had infused the solemn silence with
a vague hint of life, strident sounds grew dominant--a crow calling to his mate from tree to
tree--a short, sharp symphony of swallows--a cock announcing the coming of the dawn.

Then motion broke in upon the majesty; hurried rushes of flight across the sky--beatings of
wings--pulsings and ecstasies and triumphs of bird-life--and the Day was new.

Faint twitterings in the copses deepened to melody--to canticles of rejoicing; tints of turquoise
and opal crept into the shadows and gold into the greens: the night-dews gleamed upon the firs
and grasses, while a luminous haze dimmed the dark glint of the waters to pearly gray, softened
the grimness of the mountain-faces and wrapped them--sea and mountains, as soul and body in
a vision of mystery, a prelude to the blaze of golden glory that was suddenly outpoured on
land and sea.

Yet the heavenly splendor was but for a moment; it faded in sudden gloom, as a bell from the
inner chamber called the Lady of the Bernardini to attend the Queen.

       *       *       *       *       *

When at early morning, the Chamberlain was summoned to the Queen's presence, the change in
her beautiful face smote him to the heart: every line had been chiselled by pain--ennobled
by a high resolve--by a strong new-born will, rendered selfless; and in her eyes a soul--tried
by fire and suddenly grown to a great height--looked forth, luminous.

Instinctively, he dropped his eyes and fell upon his knees, as if in the presence of some heavenly
spirit, his hot tears falling upon the fragile hand she held out to him, which he clasped,
unconsciously, in both his own, with a grasp so like a vise that it would have smitten her
with sharp pain had she been capable at that moment of any physical emotion.

"Beloved Cousin and Queen!" he cried, when he could find his voice, "we love and revere you;
we would give our lives to help you!"

She made an effort to speak, but no words came; she could only bow her head to accept his homage,
while his asseverations of loyalty and love and impotent help came crowding upon his first
utterance--the immoderate outpouring of a deep, knightly soul, unused to confess itself--the
barriers of reserve once overcome by the stinging sense of the irreparable wrong of which the
revelation to this guileless, confiding girlish nature had suddenly wrenched every memory that
once had been happiness, out of her young life--yet, in the very immensity of her anguish,
had searched to the inmost truth of her woman's fibre and, in the fierce unfolding, had found
it wholly noble.

As he knelt, still protesting, yet out of his great reverence, using no word to wound her--the
more compassionate because he might not denounce the one who had wronged her--it was as if
he were looking up to a beloved daughter, immeasurably above him, who yet had need of his knightly
protection. He did not know that he was speaking--he did not know what passed--only that deep
in his soul he prayed to comfort her.

Slowly, with expression, the hot passion melted into a softer mood; his grasp relaxed and she
withdrew her hand, seamed and marred with red lines where he had unconsciously tortured it;
yet in her misery she was grateful to be reached across the awful gulf of loneliness that separated
her from the world by a sense that such loyalty yet remained to her.

She laid her hand lightly on his head, the fingers moving for a moment--half in caress--half
in benediction, while he felt her almost imperceptible gesture dismissing this unusual audience
where soul had faced soul on the brink of a great catastrophe; and he rose to meet the strange,
luminous, unsmiling gaze of the great dark eyes which yesterday had been almost the eyes of
a child.

She pointed to the loggia, where the morning breeze came freshly laden with the fragrance of
myriad blossoms that were just opening to the gladness of the sunrise--a sunrise over the beautiful,
fabled slopes of Cyprus--while shadows still lay on the flower-gemmed plains that stretched
between them and the sea. Ah, yes, the cool, blue, restless sea stretched far between her island
realm and the proud Venetian home from whence she had sailed a happy girl--one little year
before--to meet her radiant visions of the future; and now, in all the splendor of the morning,
for her the light of life had died forever on the hills of hope.

It was to this loggia that Janus had first led her when he brought her to this summer palace
of Potamia, that she might see what a vision of beauty he had prepared for his bride--the far-reaching
terraced gardens with their brilliancy of exotics, rivalling the plumage of the peacocks that
proudly flaunted their jewelled eyes among them--the pergolas of precious marbles from which
the vines flung out a wealth of bloom, luring the birds to a perpetual feast of song; and behind
them, spreading up to the deep groves of varied greens upon the hillsides, the snow of countless
blossoms lay whiter than the wings of the swans, floating at leisure in silver pools among
the beds of color. It was here that Janus had spoken words she had dreamed eternally and sacredly
her own: Mother of Consolation, she must remember them no more!

She had not thought of this when the sense of suffocation had impelled her to seek the air,
to rush where it might blow over her and through her, lift her hair about her throbbing temples
and help her to forget. Oh God--Omnipotent and Merciful--can one never forget!

A sob broke in her throat, but she made no sound, as she turned to re-enter her audience-chamber--the
sumptuous audience-chamber where she might feel herself less a woman and more a queen.

But Aluisi, obeying her slight motion, had already passed between the marble columns of the
portico, out into the sunshine, and stood confronting her--her friend, her cousin, and a Councillor
of her realm.

The thought gave her courage, and after a moment's struggle, she grew calm again, listening
gravely to the question of State he had wished to open to her before it should be discussed
in full Council.

He spoke at first with averted gaze, feigning to be attracted by the beauty of the morning,
that he might give her time to recover herself: but as he turned his face to hers for her reply,
she put the matter aside with an imperious gesture.

"To-day, Aluisi, I have graver matter to command my thought: the Council shall wait until I
give orders for its assembling--thou, meanwhile, using all courtesy in its delay and the enforcement
of--of my command--the Queen's command--so only that it be enforced. These methods are new
to me," she added, with a sudden softened appeal in her tone; "thou wilt know the way to compass
it--for my sake--for it must be done."

"It shall be done," he assented uncompromisingly; but in surprise, knowing only too well the
imperious methods of the Council appointed to assist her in her government and the temper of
the men who composed that body--for Janus had not been great in his knowledge of men; and possibly
the only one of the seven who had been strictly devoted to the King, had died shortly after
his appointment, and the place had been filled with one less favorable to the present rule
of Cyprus. Fabrici was known to be in sympathy with Naples; Rizzo, Chief of Council, strong,
domineering, unscrupulous, was perhaps the creature of Ferdinand, King of Naples. "It shall
be done," he said again, having vowed to help her.

"For, until I have had speech with the holiest man among the priests that may be found in all
this kingdom of Cyprus," she said with a decision that amazed him, "I will treat of no matter
of State, however urgent. Nay, Aluisi--my cousin"--as she noted his start of surprise--"to
thee alone--who must be my counsellor in days of desolation--pray Heaven more dark than thou
shalt ever dream of--I will confide that out of this night of vigil hath come this resolution
which I dare not break. Seek thou the man."

He had already turned to fulfil her quest which might be long in the doing--and these impatient
Councillors would be hard to hold; yet he had no thought of parleying with this girl-queen,
so suddenly grown to a full stature.

But her voice, even and low, arrested him. "He must be Greek in birth," she said, "and of the
Greek Church, which my people love. But above all--he must be a man to trust."

He turned when he had crossed the great audience-chamber, under the entrance colonnade of huge
porphyry columns, wrought with barbaric symbols of earlier dynasties and guarded by colossal
Assyrian bulls--she seemed so young and tender to leave, even for a day, in those surroundings
unguarded, at the mercy of that Council of Seven whom he had reason to distrust--in her kingdom
seamed with dissensions of which she had, as yet, small comprehension; of which, perhaps, she
did not even dream--with her shattered happiness behind her and loneliness before, and this
great responsibility pressing its leaden weight upon her fair young head.

He longed to throw her a last reassuring glance--to leave with her the absolute faith that
with every power of his being he would uphold and steady her in the rough and desolate way.

For since he came from Venice he had not ceased his vigilant study of the complications of
Cyprus, that when her need came he might be ready.

He never forgot the vision of the girl-queen in her sweeping widow's robes, across the great
space between them, in the sunshine of the loggia--her hand extended as if to hasten or to
bless him--a wonderful, unearthly light and strength in her face; and, for one moment as she
met his gaze and understood the full depth of his devotion, the ghost of a smile--as if it
had been granted him to bring her in this hour of martyrdom one little ray of human comfort.

XIV

Hagios Johannes, the holiest man in Cyprus, stood waiting in the vast, empty presence-chamber
of the young Queen; for, since the sudden death of Janus, there had been no court-life in this
palace of Potamia, and the gloom hung most heavily over the more sumptuous halls of ceremony.

Hagios Johannes--the holy John--they called this prior of the House of Priests from Troödos--the
Mountain of the Holy Cross--after the name of the earlier Saint who had made the spot famous
for the holiness of his living, for his boundless charity and the wisdom of his judgments,
so that the people had gone to him in ceaseless procession with their sins and woes in the
days of primitive Christianity in Cyprus, and had returned to their peasant homes the stronger
to endure and to renounce. Johannes the Lesser, this one called himself--being truly great
and devout of heart, so that his vision was wise and true as that of Hagios Johannes the Greater.

A curtain at the further end of the audience-chamber parted to admit a stately figure in mourning-robes,
as the Lady Beata of the Bernardini advanced to meet him, bringing the message that the Queen
would receive him in an inner cabinet.

"She is very worn and tired, most Reverend Father, and in years so near to childhood that the
nobility and strength of her resolve are marvellous. And the comfort that she seeketh of thee
she doth most sorely need."

The eyes of this strong and faithful friend gleamed with unshed tears as she turned them upon
the prior, in tender appeal.

But to Hagios Johannes all courts were strange; the life of his mountain overflowed with possibilities
of ministration which busied all his powers, and it was the first time that he had ever entered
any of the palaces of the luxurious Kings of Cyprus--of which, perhaps, this summer palace
of Potamia was the most sumptuous. The long corridors of precious marbles, with intricate carvings
and gleamings of gold and mosaic displeased him, though he had no knowledge of their worth
or beauty; but he stood aghast at the magnificence of the audience-chamber, and the huge Assyrian
bulls which guarded the entrance gave a hint of pagan power and oppression which instantly
angered him.

The appeal of the gracious Lady Beata but roused his indignation.

He was a stern, wild figure with his flowing beard, his long hair falling straight and unkempt
about his brown throat; and his sombre monk's garment was wrought on breast and shoulders with
a salient cross of natural thorns--the symbol of those monks of Troödos--the Mountain of the
Holy Cross; and the Lady Beata trembled for the interview that was to be, as he answered her
rudely:

"The dwellers in palaces of ivory have naught to do with wild men of the mountains who live
close to nature and care only for suffering humanity. I have Christ's work to do; let others
bring her rose-leaves and honeyed words."

She laid a gentle, detaining hand upon him as he thrust aside the curtain of the inner chamber.

"Most Reverend Father, are not the words of our Lord and Saviour, as well for those who suffer
in palaces, as for the wanderers and poor upon the earth?

"Are not the wounds of the spirit as deep in anguish as those of the physical man?

"May not the burdens of rulers be greater than those of the ruled?--Have compassion upon our
Queen!"

"Christ knoweth not kings," he answered her, as he shook off her light touch--"save only those
who bow to Him: and the mighty among men--aye--even he who calleth himself His Vicar upon earth--are
puffed up with pride and know in their hearts no virtue in this--His sacred symbol." He pressed
his rough hand hard against the thorns upon his breast as he spoke. "Hath not he--this false
and sumptuous Vicar--but now asserted that we, of the Holy Greek Church have no part in the
Communion of the Holy Catholic Church on earth? Did Christ call the Latins only?" he ended
fiercely.

It was a grievance that rankled; and Hagios Johannes had not learned the gracious art of self-control,
being accustomed to feel that whatever he thought or wished was good--his hatred as well as
that which appealed to him--since he honestly sought nothing for himself, despising riches
and station from the depths of his soul, with an open scorn for the great ones of earth and
an imperious assertion of his own methods and judgments which he would have denounced in any
earthly ruler, however wise. He never dreamed himself an autocrat over that continuous stream
of pilgrims who made their way into the House of Priests on Troödos: they were chiefly peasants,
rude in ways and understanding, whose accustomedness to absolute methods and short words made
their obedience the swifter; and the few more learned ones who came to consult him knew that
in his heart he was faithful and seldom treasured the offense against him--though they may
have decried his wisdom. But these came more rarely as his absolutism grew upon him, and the
prophet of the mountains came down to the cities of the plains only to see the luxury of them--the
sin and godliness of them, and to denounce them, in unmeasured words.

Within his soul, although he did not confess it to himself, the generations of men were separated
by a wide impassable gulf--the rich and ruling class, the godless, on one side; the poor, the
suffering and lowly--the to-be-saved,--on the other, and none ever passed across the deep abyss.
He would have challenged any man who counted him, Father Johannes, in his hempen garment studded
with thorns, among the rulers of men!

The youthful Queen, weary and worn indeed from the perplexities and struggle of the two long
nights and days that had elapsed since she had sent her Councillor on his quest of "the holiest
man in Cyprus," rose from her couch as the prior entered and advanced to meet him with a gracious
reverence.

But he, unconscious of any rudeness, spoke at once, without turning his eyes upon her, and
offering no homage.

"I am a plain man from the Mountain of the Holy Cross, your Majesty; I know naught of the ways
of Courts. The matter should be great that calleth me from my work. Let it be presented, that
I may be dismissed."

She was almost too weak to stand, and the rebuff smote her to the quick; her lip trembled slightly,
but she only stretched out her hand to her beloved friend, drawing her close and leaning lightly
upon her shoulder, that she might feel the support of loving companionship in her great need.

Father Johannes had been vaguely conscious of some movement in the chamber and involuntarily
he turned towards this royal lady whom, as yet, he had never seen, but whose urgent summons
had roused his indignation.

She looked so young and fair and simple in her heavy folds of mourning--so worn from vigil,
with the lines of anguish and of a strange strength written in her white girl-face--that she
might have been the vision of some youthful saint, wearing the rough cross of Troödos upon
her breast, beneath her robe: and for a moment, the holy man was startled--did such heavenly
visions, in truth, visit the palaces of the great?

There was a moment of stillness in which his wonder grew.

The breeze blew faintly in through the great arched openings, behind which rose the mountain
chain that led to his own Troödos; there were the groves of pine, darkly green, below the hills,
with their deep solitudes for prayer and meditation between the vast gnarled trunks; and the
group of the two noble women before him--severely simple--was a vision of love and womanly
grace and spiritual need; the younger one, all pleading and pain, clinging to the elder who
closely enfolded her, her face strong in the strength of love. It was not like any life that
he had ever seen--this holy man, whose personal life had been solitary and whose knowledge
of human love, as it is known in happy homes, had died long years ago with the passing of the
mother who had borne him in her heart. It might be that he needed such a vision to redeem his
spirit from the harshness which sin and pride in high places, and want and crime and poverty
of spirit among ignoble ones, had made him grow to think the whole of life!

He was very weary and his vision was not clear; for the previous day had been a solemn fast,
and he had walked far and long since the early morning, that he might be the less delayed.
He felt like kneeling where he stood--if perchance it should be a vision!--But he only bowed
his head and waited--and his weakness passed.

The younger one--the maiden with that strange mystery of pain and strength in her white face,
was coming towards him.

"Father," she said, "hath none offered thee refreshment? Thou must indeed be weary, for the
way is long. Zia, let us be served here--in sight of the great forest that will seem like home
to our good Padre."

"Nay, nay," he interposed quickly, with an effort to shake off this incomprehensible spell
and return to his wonted mood of protest, "for I have never banqueted in the palace of a Queen--your
Majesty."

"Let it be brought," Caterina said, turning to the Lady Beata, "a simple meal; for I myself
have need, having tasted nothing since the long vigil of the night--being too sore from my
great perplexity." For she divined that she must be alone with the prior to melt his mood,
which grieved her; but she had not the less faith in his judgment for his hatred of royalty,
and at all costs she had the grace to crave for truth in the questions she would ask of him.

"My Father," she said with winning gentleness when they were alone, "we will speak together
as father and daughter--it will be better so, for I was not born to Majesty, and I have sent
to ask of thee thy counsel, for life is difficult. And for my hospitality--is it not offered
to the pilgrim in thy House of Priests of the Troödista? Hath not our Lord Himself commanded
the giving of the cup of water?"

He was startled at her learning: surely it was rare that women out of holy orders had such
knowledge of Christian traditions. He looked at her reverently, still wondering, and would
have spoken to excuse his rough speech, but that he knew not how to frame a thought so strange
and new.

She motioned him to a seat where a table had been spread under the deep arches that looked
toward the forest. There were wines and fruits in tempting chalices of rainbow glass and low
baskets of ivory and chiselled silver, cooling with snow from the mountain; figs from Lefcara;
caistas, golden and delicious, emitting a fragrance of glorified nectarine that rivalled the
perfume of the wine itself; pomegranates--the gift of a goddess to the thirsty Cyprian land,
planted, as was well known, by the royal hand of Aphrodite herself, each fruit holding a fair
refreshment for a torrid Cyprian day in its sparkling, semilucent, ruby pulp: ortolans from
the sea-coast, steeped in wine.

The table was a slab of oriental alabaster, polished like a jewel, upheld by griffins with
outthrust tongues curiously contorted and entwined. But beyond the silken curtains of the palace-windows
the forest and the hills, with a wandering breath of coolness from the mountain-breeze, drew
and welcomed him, with some faint, new perception of the oneness of God's earth.

She had banished with a glance the maiden who stood waiting with her lute to give the customary
accompaniment to the meal, and they were quite alone.

He crumbled his bread and swallowed his wine like a hungry man, drawing the wild, purple figs
nearer, unconscious of the dainties which she did not press upon him, while he tasted the familiar
food--the food which his Lord Christ had blessed to man's uses. So, also, the luxury of the
service passed unnoticed, as he fixed his eyes on the distant darks of his own forest, with
the "Troödista" rising on a peak far, far away--that haven of distressed souls to whom he was
a father of consolation. Her fingers toyed with the fruit that lay untasted before her, while
the difficulty of speech struggled within her. Yet he felt, subtly, as he kept his eyes upon
the hills, that he was in sight of the shadow of a soul in pain, and he waited--for once, oblivious
of the distance between a palace and a convent.

"Thou art born a Greek, my Father?" she questioned. "Thou art a priest of the Greek Church--which
my people love?"

The commanding habit of a lifetime was strong upon him and again his resentment rose to quench
the softer mood which was possessing him, and of which he was afraid.

"I knew not that I had been summoned from my work for Christ to answer of myself," he said
sternly. "If thou hast need of counsel, tell it quickly."

Again her lip quivered at the hurt, but she put it aside bravely, as she rose and moved backward
for a pace further into the shadow. "I ask it for my people's sake--I being their Queen," she
said, "and knowing that my people are rather Greek in feeling, I would do naught to hurt them."

How tenderly the words "my people" fell from the lips of this young, Venetian woman, who seemed
almost a child--had their imperious Grecian Queen, Elenà Paléologue ever so uttered them? Had
she not named a boy to the highest See in the gift of their church--with no thought of fitness--but
solely that he might be put aside lest he come between her and her greed of domination? Had
she not plotted murder and whatever else might lie between her and the accomplishment of her
will? His heart melted within him, and he rose and followed Caterina into the chamber.

"The most Holy Father of Rome hath of late been prejudiced against the King--my husband--and
I sought for one who might give me counsel, unprejudiced."

If she had been a wily diplomat she could not better have wielded the prior's mood than by
this unconscious utterance.

"So help me God, I will strive to help thee in counsel," he answered fervently. "But are there
not men, set apart as Councillors for the realm, to aid one so young in the ruling of her kingdom?"

"Aye, Father," she admitted sadly, "but it is to steady mine own judgment to judge of theirs--that
I have sent for thee. The question is not for Court Councillors, but for one who hath no part
nor lot in this matter--who is often in meditation on holy matters, and hath won wisdom."

He made a motion of deprecation, but she went on speaking in her clear, even voice, still questioning:
"Thou knowest well the history of the kings of Lusignan?"

He bowed his head in assent.

"And the history of the life of the King--my husband?" She dwelt on the word with inexpressible
tenderness--the slight pause that followed it was like unuttered music.

Did she know? Was it possible that she knew? he asked himself.

