The Jews made it a custom for them, and for their children, and for all who should join them,
so that it might not be changed, that they should observe these two days as feasts each year.
For Haman had plotted to destroy the Jews completely, and he cast pur, that is, the lot, to
destroy them. For this reason these days are called Purim.

REBUILDING THE TEMPLE

That the promise made by Jehovah through the mouth of Jeremiah might be fulfilled, Jehovah
influenced Cyrus, king of Persia, in the first year of his reign to make this written law throughout
all his kingdom, "Thus commands Cyrus, king of Persia: 'Jehovah, the God of heaven, has given
me all the kingdoms of the earth and has charged me to build him a temple in Jerusalem in Judah.
Whoever among you of all his people wishes to return, may his God be with him, and let him
go up to Jerusalem, in Judah, and rebuild the temple of Jehovah, the God of Israel.

Then the heads of the families of Judah and Benjamin and the priests and the Levites, including
all whom God had influenced to build the temple of Jehovah at Jerusalem, started to return.

Cyrus, king of Persia, had the vessels of the temple of Jehovah, which Nebuchadrezzar had carried
from Jerusalem, brought out under the direction of Mithredath, the treasurer, and given to
Sheshbazzar, the prince of Judah; and he carried them to Jerusalem, with the people who returned
from captivity in Babylon. And Jehovah commanded them, through Haggai, the prophet, "Go up
to the mountains and bring wood and rebuild the temple, then I will be pleased with it and
I will show my glory."

Then Zerubbabel and Joshua, the high priest, with all the rest of the people obeyed the command
of Jehovah their God; and they came and worked on the temple of Jehovah their God. They finished
the building as the God of Israel commanded. They told me, "Those still living there in the
province are in great trouble and disgrace. The wall of Jerusalem is broken down and its gates
have been destroyed by fire." These are thy servants and thy people, whom thou hast saved by
thy great power and by thy strong hand. O Lord, I pray thee, let thine ear be open to the petition
of thy servant and to the petitions of thy servants who take pleasure in worshipping thee,
and give success to thy servant this day, and grant that he may win this man's sympathy."

Now I was cupbearer to the king, and in the month of March in the twentieth year of the reign
of Artaxerxes, the king, I had charge of the wine offered to the king. Then the king said to
me, "What do you wish?" Then I told him when I would return, so that the king was willing to
let me go. The king granted me all this, for my God kindly cared for me.

Then I went to the governors of the province and gave them the king's letters.

So I arrived at Jerusalem. After I had been there three days I rose in the night, together
with a few of my followers. I told no one what my God had put into my mind to do for Jerusalem,
and I had no animal with me except the one upon which I rode. Come and let us rebuild the wall
of Jerusalem, that we may no longer be in disgrace." I told them too how my God had kindly
cared for me and the words which the king had spoken to me. They said, "Let us go to work and
build?" So they entered heartily into the good work.

OVERCOMING GREAT DIFFICULTIES

Now when Sanballat heard that we were rebuilding the wall, he was so angry and indignant that
he mocked the Jews. He spoke before his tribesmen and the army of Samaria and said, "What are
these feeble Jews doing? Will they leave it to God? Will they offer a sacrifice? Will they
finish the work in a day? Will they recover the stones from the heaps of rubbish even after
they have been destroyed by fire?"

Tobiah, the Ammonite, was with him, and he said, "This stone wall which they are building--if
a fox should go up on it, he would break it down!" And they all planned together to come and
fight against Jerusalem and frighten the people there. But we prayed to our God and set a watch
as a protection against them day and night.

When our enemies heard that their plan was known to us and that God had not let them carry
it out, we all returned to the wall, each to his own work. From that time on, while half of
my servants were at work, half of them held the lances, the shields, the bows and the coats
of mail; and the rulers stood behind all the people of Judah. Those who built the wall and
those who carried burdens were also armed, each using one of his hands for the work, and was
ready with the other to grasp his spear. And each builder worked with his sword fastened at
his side. Wherever you hear the sound of the trumpet, gather about us; our God will fight for us."

So we worked hard, while half of them held the lances from early in the morning until the stars
came out. And I said at that time to the people, "Let each man with his servant stay in Jerusalem,
that they may protect us at night and work during the day." So neither I, nor any of my relatives,
nor my servants, nor the men of the guard who accompanied me took off our clothes, but each
kept his spear in his right hand.

After fifty-two days the wall was finished. When our enemies heard of it, all the nations around
us were afraid, and it seemed very wonderful to them, and they knew that this work had been
done by our God. And I said to them, "Let not the gates of Jerusalem be opened until after
sunrise; and at night, while the watchmen are still on guard, let them shut the doors and bar
them. So my God put it into my mind to gather together the nobles and the officials and the
people. The officials lived in Jerusalem. The rest of the people drew lots that one out of
every ten should live in Jerusalem, the sacred city, while the others stayed in the villages.

Then I had the officials of Judah take their place on the wall, and I formed two great processions.
The first marched to the right upon the wall toward the Dung Gate; and behind them went Hoshaiah
and half of the officials of Judah. Then they stood in the Gate of the Guard. So the two processions
took their position in the temple and I and half of the rulers who were with me.

Then the singers sang loudly, and the people offered many sacrifices that day and rejoiced,
for God had given them great cause for joy. The women and children rejoiced, too, so that the
cries of joy at Jerusalem were heard far away.

A BRAVE KNIGHT

Then the common people and their wives raised a loud cry against their fellow Jews. Some said,
"We must give up our sons and our daughters in pledge to get grain that we may eat and live."
Others said, "We must give up our fields and our vineyards and our houses, that we may get
grain because there is so little." Others said, "We have borrowed money to pay the king's taxes.
Although our flesh is as the flesh of our brothers, our children as their children; yet we
must sell our sons and our daughters as slaves. Some of our daughters have already been made
slaves, and it is not in our power to stop it, for our fields and our vineyards belong to the
nobles."

When I heard their cry and these words, I was very angry. After I had thought about it, I rebuked
the nobles and the rulers and said to them, "You make each of your fellow Jews pay what you
loan him."

Then I called a great meeting to protest against what they were doing. And I said to them,
"We ourselves have, as far as we could, bought back our fellow Jews who have been sold to foreigners.
Would you sell your fellow Jews, and should they be sold to us?" Then they were silent and
could not find a word to say. So I said, "What you are doing is not good. Ought you not to
live in the fear of God, so as not to be an object of shame to our foreign foes? I, too, my
relatives, and my servants lend the people money and grain. Let us stop taking anything for
what we lend. Give back to them at once their fields, their vineyards, their olive-yards, and
their houses, and whatever you have made them pay for the money, the grain, the new wine and
the oil."

Then they said, "We will give them back and will ask nothing from them; we will do even as
you say." Then I called the priests and made them solemnly promise that they would do as they
had said.

For twelve years from the time that I was appointed to be their governor in the land of Judah,
I and my relatives did not eat the food which was my right as governor. But the governors who
were before me were an expense to the people and took from them bread and wine and forty pieces
of silver each day. Their servants also were cruel to the people. But I did not do so, for
I feared God. I also gave myself to the work on the wall, and we did not buy any land, but
all my servants were gathered there for work. Also a hundred and fifty of the Jews and rulers,
beside those who came to us from other nations, were fed at my table. Yet with all this expense,
I did not demand the food which was due me as governor, because the public work was a heavy
burden upon this people. Remember to my credit, O my God, all that I have done for them!

JONAH THE NARROW-MINDED PATRIOT

This message from Jehovah came to Jonah, the son of Amittai: "Arise, go to that great city,
Nineveh, and preach against it; for their wickedness is known to me." But Jonah started to
flee to Tarshish from the presence of Jehovah.

But Jehovah made a furious wind blow over the sea, and there was such a great storm that the
ship was in danger of breaking to pieces. Then the sailors were afraid and each cried for help
to his own god. They threw into the sea the things that were in the ship, in order to make
it lighter. Then they said to him, "Tell us, what is your business, and where do you come from?
What is your country and to what race do you belong?"

Therefore they cried to Jehovah and said, "We pray thee, O Jehovah, we pray thee, let us not
die for this man's life, nor let us be guilty of shedding innocent blood, for thou art Jehovah;
thou hast done as it pleases thee." So they took up Jonah, and threw him into the sea; and
the sea became calm. Then the men greatly feared Jehovah, and they offered a sacrifice and
made promises to him. There Jonah prayed to Jehovah his God; and Jehovah spoke to the fish,
and it threw Jonah out upon the dry land.

This message from Jehovah came to Jonah the second time, "Arise, go to that great city, Nineveh,
and give to it the message that I tell you." So Jonah started for Nineveh, as Jehovah commanded.
Now Nineveh was so large a city, that it took three days' journey to cross it. And he gave
this order: "By the order of the king and his nobles: Man, beast, herd, and flock shall not
taste anything; let them not eat nor drink water. Let both man and beast put on sackcloth and
let them cry earnestly to God; let them turn each from his evil way and from the deeds of violence
which they are doing. Who knows but God may be sorry for us and turn away his fierce anger,
that we may not die."

When God saw that they turned from their evil way, he was sorry for the evil which he said
he would do to them, and did not do it.

But this displeased Jonah very much and he was angry. And he prayed to Jehovah and said, "Ah,
Jehovah, was not this what I said when I was still in my own country? That was why I fled at
once to Tarshish; for I knew that thou art a God, gracious and merciful, patient, and loving
and ready to forgive. Therefore, O Jehovah, take now, I beg of thee, my life from me; for it
is better for me to die than to live!" And Jehovah prepared a gourd and made it grow up over
Jonah as a shade for his head. So the gourd gave Jonah great pleasure; but at dawn the next
day God prepared a worm which injured the gourd, so that it wilted. He replied, "It is well
for one to be angry, even to death!"

THE STORY OF JOB

In the land of Uz there lived a man named Job; and he was blameless and upright, one who revered
God and avoided evil. He had seven sons and three daughters.

One day when the sons of God came before Jehovah, Satan came with them. Jehovah said to Satan,
"From where do you come?" Satan answered, "From going back and forth on the earth, and walking
up and down on it." And Jehovah said to Satan, "Have you seen my servant Job? For there is
no man like him on the earth, blameless and upright, who reveres God and avoids evil." Satan
answered, "But is it for nothing that Job reveres God? Have you not yourself made a hedge all
about him, about his household, and about all that he has? You have blessed whatever he does,
and his possessions have greatly increased. But just put out your hand now and take away all
he has; he certainly will curse you to your face." Then Jehovah said to Satan, "See, everything
that he has is in your power; only do not lay hands on Job himself." So Satan left the presence
of Jehovah.

One day, as Job's sons and daughters were eating and drinking in the oldest brother's house,
a messenger came to Job and said, "The oxen were ploughing and the asses were grazing near
them when Sabeans suddenly attacked and seized them; the servants were put to the sword, and
I alone have escaped to tell you."

While he was still speaking, another messenger came and said, "Lightning has fallen from heaven
and has completely burned up the sheep and the servants, and I alone have escaped to tell you."

While this man was still speaking, another messenger came and said, "The Chaldeans, attacking
in three bands, raided the camels and drove them away; the servants were put to the sword,
and I alone have escaped to tell you." I alone have escaped to tell you."

Then Job rose, tore his robe, shaved his head, threw himself on the ground and worshipped, saying:

        "Jehovah gave, Jehovah has taken away;
         Blessed be the name of Jehovah!"

In all this Job did not sin nor blame God. Jehovah said to Satan, "See, he is in your power;
only spare his life."

So Satan left the presence of Jehovah, and afflicted Job from the sole of his foot to the crown
of his head with leprosy so terrible that Job took a piece of broken pottery with which to
scrape himself.

As he sat among the ashes, his wife said to him, "Are you still holding to your piety? Curse
God and die." But he said to her, "You speak like a senseless woman. We accept prosperity from
God, shall we not also accept misfortune?" In all this Job said nothing that was wrong. But
when they saw him in the distance, they did not at first know him. Then they all wept aloud
and tore their robes and threw dust upon their heads. And they sat down with him on the ground
seven days and seven nights without any one saying a word to him, for they saw that he was
in great trouble.

Then Job began to speak and said:

        "Why did I not die at birth,
         Breathe my last when I was born?
         There the small and great are gathered,
         There the slave is free at last."

Then Eliphaz, the Temanite, answered:

        "If one dares to speak, will it vex you?
         But who can keep from speaking?
         See! you have instructed many,
         And strengthened the drooping hands.
         Your words have upheld the fallen,
         Giving strength to tottering knees.
         But now that trouble comes, you are impatient,
         Now that it touches you, you lose courage.

        "Is not your religion your confidence;
         Your blameless life, your hope?
         Remember! What innocent man ever perished?
         Or where were the upright ever destroyed?
         Happy the man whom God corrects;
         Therefore, spurn not the Almighty's chastening.
         For he causes pain but to comfort,
         And wounds, that his hands may heal."

Then Job answered:

        "What strength have I, that I should endure?
         And what is my future, that I should be patient?
         Is my strength the strength of stones,
         Or is my body made of brass?
         A friend should be kind to one fainting,
         Though he lose his faith in the Almighty.
         Teach me, and I will keep silent.
         Show me how I have sinned."

Then Bildad, the Shuhite, answered:

        "Is God a God of injustice?
         Or can the Almighty do wrong?
         If your children sinned against him,
         He has let them suffer the penalty;
         But you should earnestly seek him,
         And devoutly beseech the Almighty.
         If you are pure and upright,
         He will surely answer your prayer,
         And will prosper your righteous abode."

Then Job answered:

        "To be sure, I know that it is so;
         But how can a man be just before God?
         He is wise in mind and mighty in strength,
         Who has ever defied him and prospered,
         Blameless I am! I regard not myself;
         I hate my life; it is all one to me.
         Therefore, I openly declare:
         He destroys the blameless as well as the wicked."

Then Zophar, the Naamathite, answered:

        "If you would cleanse your heart,
         And stretch out your hands to God,
         And put away sin from your hand,
         And let no wrong dwell in your tent,
         You would then lift your face without spot,
         You would then be steadfast and fearless."

Then Job answered:

        "Verily you are the people,
         And with you wisdom shall die!
         But I have a mind as well as you,
         And who does not know all this?

        "For I know that my Defender lives,
         That at last he shall stand upon earth;
         And after this skin is destroyed.
         Freed from my flesh, I shall see him,
         Whom I shall behold for myself;
         My own eyes shall see, and no stranger's."

Job again spoke and said:

        "Oh, to be as in months of old,
         As in days when God guarded my steps,
         When his lamp shone above my head,
         And I walked by his light through the darkness;
         As I was in my prosperous days,
         When God protected my tent;
         When still the Almighty was with me,
         And my children were all about me!

        "He who heard of me called me happy,
         He who saw me bore me witness,
         For I saved the poor who cried,
         And the orphan with none to help him.
         The suffering gave me their blessing,
         And I made the widow's heart glad.
         I defended the cause of the stranger,
         I shattered the jaws of the wicked,
         And wrested the prey from his teeth.

        "Men listened to me eagerly,
         And in silence awaited my counsel.
         After my words they spoke not,
         And my speech fell as rain-drops upon them.
         But they sing of me now in derision,
         And my name is a by-word among them.

        "Oh, for some one to hear me!
         Behold my defense all signed!
         Let now the Almighty answer,
         Let Jehovah write the charge!
         On my shoulder I would bear it,
         As a crown I would bind it round me;
         I would tell him my every act;
         Like a prince I would enter his presence!"

Then out of the whirlwind Jehovah answered Job:

        "Where were you when I founded the earth?
         You have knowledge and insight, so tell me.
         You must know! Who determined its measures?
         Or who measured it off with a line?
         On what were its foundations placed?

        "Can you lift up your voice to the clouds,
         That abundance of water may answer you?
         Can you send on their missions the lightnings;
         To you do they say, 'Here we are'?

        "Does the hawk soar because of your wisdom,
         And stretch her wings to the south wind?
         Does the eagle mount up at your bidding,
         And build her nest on high?

        "Will the fault-finder strive with Almighty?
         He who argues with God, let him answer.
         Will you set aside my judgment,
         And condemn me, that you may be justified?"

Then Job answered the Lord:

        "How small I am! what can I answer?
         I lay my hand on my mouth.
         I spoke once, but will do so no more;
         Yes, twice, but will go no further.

        "I know thou canst do all things,
         And that nothing with thee is impossible.
         I spoke, therefore, without sense,
         Of wonders beyond my knowledge.
         I had heard of thee but by hearsay,
         But now my eye has seen thee;
         Therefore I despise my words,
         And repent in dust and ashes."

Then Jehovah gave back to Job, twice as much as he had before. He also had seven sons and three
daughters. And after this Job lived an hundred and forty years.

PSALMS

THE KING OF GLORY

        The earth is the Lord's in its fulness,
        The world and those who live in it;
        He founded it upon the seas,
        And established it upon the floods.

        Who may go up to the hill of the Lord?
        Who may stand in his holy place?
        The man with clean hands and pure heart,
        Who plans no evil purpose,
        Nor promises in order to deceive.
        He shall win from the Lord a blessing,
        And approval from God his Saviour.
        Such is the man who may worship him,
        Who may enter thy presence, O God of Jacob.
        The Lord, strong and mighty,
        The Lord, mighty in battle!
        The Lord, the God of hosts,
        He is the King of Glory!

        Thou didst fix the earth on its foundations,
        That it should not be moved forever.
        Thou didst cover it with the sea as with a garment.
        The waters stood far above the mountains,
        But at thy reproof they fled,
        At the sound of thy thunder they hastened away,
        Not to pass the bound thou hadst set,
        Not to return to cover the earth.
        Mountains rose, valleys sank,
        To the place which thou hadst prepared for them.
        The birds make their home beside them,
        They sing from among the branches.

        Thou waterest the mountains from thine upper stories;
        The earth is filled with the fruit of thy works.
        Thou makest grass spring up for the cattle,
        And green herbs for the service of man,
        Causing food to spring from the earth,
        Wine to gladden man's heart,
        Oil that makes his face shine,
        And bread to strengthen his heart.

        Thou createst the moon to divide the year,
        The sun knows when it should set.
        Man goes out to his work,
        To toil until evening comes.

        O Lord, how many are thy works!
        Wisely thou madest them all;
        The earth is full of thy creatures.
        There is the sea, great and wide,
        With its crawling things innumerable,
        Living things both small and great;
        There go the monsters of the sea,
        And the dragon thou madest to play.
        May my thoughts be pleasing unto him;
        I myself find my joy in the Lord.
        He made known his laws to Moses,
        His deeds to the people of Israel.

        The Lord is merciful and gracious,
        Patient and full of love.
        He will not always chide,
        Nor keep his anger forever.

        He has not dealt with us according to our sins,
        Nor rewarded us according to our iniquities.
        For as high as the heavens are above the earth,
        So great is his love toward those who revere him.
        As far as the east is from the west,
        So far has he removed our wrong deeds from us.

        As a father loves his children,
        So the Lord loves those who revere him,
        For he understands our nature,
        He remembers that we are dust.

        He has established his throne in the heavens,
        And his rule extends over all.
        Bless the Lord, his angels,
        You strong ones who do his bidding.

        Bless the Lord all his hosts,
        You servants who do his will,
        Bless the Lord, all his works,
        In every place where he rules,
        Bless the Lord, O my soul.

GOD FROM WHOM ALL GOOD THINGS COME

  Unless the Lord builds the house, its builders labor in vain.
  Unless the Lord guards the city, the watchman wakens in vain.
  It is vain for you to rise up early, to sit down at your meal late,
  And so eat the bread of toil; for he gives to his loved ones sleep.

  Children too are a gift from the Lord, they are a reward.

GOD'S GOODNESS AND MERCY

        The Lord is gracious and merciful,
        Patient, and full of loving-kindness.
        The Lord is good to all,
        Showing mercy to all his creatures.
        All thy works give thee thanks, O Lord,
        And those who love thee praise thee,
        They speak of thy glorious rule,
        And proclaim thy mighty power,
        That men may know thy great deeds,
        And the glorious splendor of thy rule.
        Thy rule is an everlasting rule,
        Thy dominion endures forever.

        The Lord lifts up all who fall,
        And raises up all who are bowed down.
        The eyes of all wait for thee,
        And thou givest them food in due season.
        Thou it is who openest thy hand,
        And satisfiest the desires of all creatures.

        The Lord is righteous in all his ways,
        And gracious in all his acts.
        He is near all who call upon him,
        To all who call upon him in truth.
        He fulfils the desire of his worshippers,
        He hears their cry and saves them.
        He takes care of all who love him,
        But destroys all those who do wrong.

        My mouth shall speak the praise of the Lord.
        Let all flesh praise his holy name forever.

GOD THE ALL-SEEING

        O Lord, thou searchest and knowest me,
        Whether I sit or stand, thou knowest,
        Thou readest my thought afar off,
        When I walk or lie down thou dost know it.

        Thou knowest all my ways.
        There is not a word on my tongue
        That thou, O Lord, dost not know!
        Should I take the wings of the morning,
        And dwell on the most distant sea,
        Even there thy hand would grasp me,
        Thy right hand would hold me fast.

        If I say, "The darkness will hide me,
        And the night throw its curtain about me,"
        Even darkness for thee is not dark,
        But the night shines clear as the day.

        Thou didst form my vital parts,
        Thou didst make me from the beginning,
        I thank thee, for I am wonderfully made;
        Fearful and marvellous are thy works.

        How precious to me are thy thoughts, O God!
        How great is the sum of them all!
        Should I count them, they would be more than the sand;
        When I awake, I am still with thee.

        Search me, O God, and know my heart,
        Try me, and know my secret thoughts,
        And see if I have any evil in me,
        And lead me in the way to eternal life.

GOD WHO ALWAYS WATCHES OVER HIS PEOPLE

  I will lift up my eyes to the hills; from whence comes my help?

  The Lord is your protector; the Lord is your shade upon your right hand;
  The sun shall not smite you by day, nor the moon by night!
  The Lord will keep you from all evil; he will preserve your life;
  The Lord will protect your going out and your coming in forevermore!

GOD WHO PROTECTS FROM ALL DANGER

        Give thanks to the Lord, for his goodness,
        For his love endures forever.

        Some strayed in the barren wilderness,
        Finding no inhabited city,
        Hungry, indeed, and thirsty,
        Their very life ebbing away.
        Then they cried to the Lord in their trouble,
        And he saved them from their distresses.
        He led them along the right way,
        Till they reached an inhabited city.
        Let them praise the Lord for his love,
        And his wonderful works unto men!
        For he satisfies the longing soul,
        And the hungry he fills with good things.

        Some dwelt in darkness and gloom,
        Being bound in affliction and iron,
        Because they had rebelled against God,
        And despised the counsel of the Most High.
        He humbled their heart with sorrow;
        When they fell, there was none to help them.
        Then they cried to the Lord in their trouble,
        And he saved them from their distresses.
        Out of darkness and gloom he brought them,
        And broke their bonds in pieces.
        Let them praise the Lord for his love,
        And his wonderful works unto men!
        For he shattered the gates of brass,
        And hewed bars of iron asunder.

        Fools because of their wrong-doing,
        And because of their sins were afflicted;
        They hated all kinds of food,
        And drew near to the gates of death.
        Then they cried to the Lord in their trouble,
        And he saved them from all their distresses.
        He sent his command to heal them,
        And saved their life from destruction.
        Let them praise the Lord for his love,
        And his wonderful works unto men!
        Let them sacrifice to him a thank-offering,
        And with joy recount his deeds.
        When he speaks, the tempest rises,
        And tosses the waves on high.
        Up to heaven, then down they go,
        Their courage melts at the danger,
        They stagger and reel like drunkards,
        And their skill is all exhausted.
        Then they cry to the Lord in their trouble,
        And he saves them from their distresses.
        He makes the tempest a calm,
        And the waves of the sea are still.
        They are glad when the waves go down;
        To the haven they long for he brings them.
        Let them praise the Lord for his love,
        For his wonderful works unto men;
        In the popular assembly extol him,
        In the council of elders praise him.

GOD'S PROTECTION OF THOSE WHO TRUST IN HIM

        I will bless the Lord at all times,
        His praise is continually in my mouth,
        My soul glories in the Lord,
        Let the afflicted hear and rejoice.
        O exalt the Lord with me,
        Let us praise his name together.

        I sought the Lord and he answered me,
        From all my fears he delivered me.
        He who looks to him, becomes radiant,
        And his face is not covered with shame.
        This afflicted man cried and he heard him,
        And from all his distresses delivered him.
        The angel of the Lord encamps
        About those who revere him, and saves them.

        Taste and see that the Lord is good;
        Happy the man who seeks refuge with him.
        Revere the Lord, O holy ones,
        For those who revere him lack nothing.

        The Lord is against evil-doers,
        To cut off their memory from the earth.
        The Lord watches over the upright,
        His ear is open to their cry.
        When they cry to the Lord, he hears,
        And saves them from all their troubles.

        The Lord is near those who are broken-hearted,
        He delivers those whose spirits are crushed.
        The misfortunes of the upright are many,
        But the Lord delivers him from them all.
        The Lord guards all his bones,
        Not one of them is broken.
        Misfortune shall slay the wicked,
        Those who hate the upright shall be condemned;
        But the Lord redeems his servants,
        And none who takes refuge in him shall be condemned.

GOD'S LOVING CARE

        The Lord is my shepherd; I shall not want.

TRUSTING IN GOD'S CARE

        Be not disturbed because of the wicked,
        Nor be envious of those who do wrong;
        For like grass they shall quickly wither,
        And fade like the green herbs.

        Trust in the Lord and do right,
        Live in the land and act faithfully.
        Then the Lord shall be your delight,
        He will grant you your heart's desire.

        Commit your way to the Lord,
        Trust in him, and he will work with you,
        He will bring to light your honesty,
        And make it as clear as the noonday.

A PRAYER OF TRUST

        To thee, O God, I lift up my soul,
        All the day long do I wait for thee.
        I trust in thee, O God, let me not be ashamed;
        Let not my enemies exult over me,
        And let none who hope in thee be ashamed;
        But let wicked traitors be disgraced.

        Show me thy ways, O Lord,
        Teach me thy way to live.
        Lead me in thy truth and teach me,
        For thou art the God who saves me,
        And in thee do I hope continually.

        Remember thy tender mercies, O Lord,
        And thy loving deeds, for they are eternal.
        Do not recall the sins of my youth,
        But in thy love remember thou me,
        Because of thy goodness, O Lord.

        Good and upright is the Lord,
        So he teaches sinners the way,
        He guides the humble aright,
        And teaches the meek his way,
        All his rules are loving and true,
        To those who follow his law and commands.
        For thy name's sake, O Lord,
        Pardon my guilt, for it is great.

        Who is the man that reveres the Lord?
        He will teach him the way to choose.
        That man shall continue to prosper,
        And his children inherit the land.
        He is friendly with those who revere him,
        And with his covenant he makes them acquainted.

        My eyes are ever turned toward the Lord,
        For he saves my feet from the net.
        Turn to me and be gracious,
        For I am alone and afflicted;
        Relieve the troubles of my heart,
        And deliver me from my distresses;
        Look on my affliction and suffering,
        And pardon all my sins.

        Consider my enemies, for they are many,
        And they hate me with violent hatred;
        Oh save my life and deliver me,
        Let me not be ashamed, for I trust thee.
        Let innocence and uprightness preserve me,
        For I wait for thee, O Lord.

SAFETY IN GOD'S CARE

        You who dwell in the shelter of the Most High,
        Who abide in the shadow of the Almighty,
        Who say to the Lord, "Thou art my refuge,
        And my fortress, my God in whom I trust,"
        He will surely deliver you from the snare,
        When entrapped from the destructive pit.
        With his pinions he will cover you,
        And under his wings you may hide.

        Because the Lord is your refuge,
        And you have made the Most High your abode,
        There shall no evil befall you,
        No plague come near your tent;
        For he will give his angels charge over you,
        To keep you in all your ways;
        They shall bear you up on their hands,
        Lest you strike your foot on a stone.
        You shall tread on the lion and adder,
        You shall trample on the young lion and dragon.

        "Because of his love for me I will deliver him,
        I will exalt him, for he knows my name.
        He shall call upon me and I will answer him,
        In time of trouble I will be with him,
        I will deliver him and bring him honor,
        With long life will I satisfy him,
        And show him my power to save."

GOD OUR REFUGE

        God is our refuge and strength,
        An ever-present help in trouble.
        So we fear not, though the earth trembles,
        And mountains tumble into the heart of the sea;
        Though its waters roar and foam,
        Though mountains quake at its uproar.
        The Lord of hosts is with us,
        The God of Jacob is our refuge.

        As the brooks refresh the city of God,
        So the Most High makes holy his abiding-place;
        God is in her midst, she cannot be moved,
        God will help her at the turn of the morn.
        The Lord of hosts is with us,
        The God of Jacob is our refuge.

        Oh come, let us worship and bow down,
        Let us kneel before the Lord, our Maker;
        For he is the Lord our God,
        And we are his people, the sheep of his pasture.

        Shout with joy to the Lord, all the earth,
        Serve the Lord with gladness,
        Come into his presence with singing,
        Know that the Lord is God,
        He has made us and we are his,
        His people, the flock that he tends.

        Enter his gates with thanksgiving,
        His courts with songs of rejoicing,
        Give thanks to him, praise his name,
        He is good, his kindness eternal,
        And his faithfulness unto all generations.

WHAT GOD ASKS OF THOSE WHO WORSHIP HIM

        O Lord, who may be a guest in thy tent?
        Who may dwell on thy holy hill?

        He who lives blamelessly and does right,
        And speaks the truth in his heart,
        Who utters no slander with his tongue,
        Who does no wrong to his friend,
        Who makes no charge against his neighbor;
        In whose sight the vile are despised,
        But he honors those who revere the Lord.
        He keeps his oath at all costs,
        His money he puts not out to usury,
        And cannot be bribed to injure the innocent.

        He who does this can never be moved.

A CALL TO PRAISE GOD

        Oh, sing to the Lord a new song;
        Sing to the Lord, all the earth,
        Sing to the Lord, praise his name,
        Proclaim his salvation each day;
        Tell his glory among the heathen,
        His wonders among all peoples.

        God is great, and worthy of praise,
        Above all gods should he be revered,
        For all the gods of the peoples are idols,
        But it is the Lord who made the heavens.
        Honor and majesty are in his presence,
        Strength and beauty are in his sanctuary.

        Give to the Lord, you tribes of the nations,
        Give to the Lord glory and strength.
        Give to the Lord the glory that is due him;
        Bring an offering, and enter his courts.
        Oh, worship the Lord in holy attire,
        Tremble before him, all the earth.
        Say to the nations, "The Lord reigns,
        And he will rule the peoples justly."

        Praise him, sun and moon,
        Praise him, all stars of light!

        Praise the Lord from the earth,
        Sea-monsters and all deeps!
        Over heaven and earth is his majesty,
        He has strengthened the might of his people;
        He is praised by all who are faithful,
        By the Israelites, who are near him.

        Praise God in his holy place,
        Praise him for his mighty firmament,
        Praise him for his deeds of power,
        Praise him for his infinite greatness.

