THE SECOND DELUGE

By

Garrett P. Serviss

1912

 ]

FOREWORD

What is here set down is the fruit of long and careful research among disjointed records left
by survivors of the terrible events described. The writer wishes frankly to say that, in some
instances, he has followed the course which all historians are compelled to take by using his
imagination to round out the picture. But he is able conscientiously to declare that in the
substance of his narrative, as well as in every detail which is specifically described, he
has followed faithfully the accounts of eyewitnesses, or of those who were in a position to
know the truth of what they related.

CONTENTS

CHAPTER

    I. COSMO VERSAL

   II. MOCKING AT FATE

  III. THE FIRST DROPS OF THE DELUGE

   IV. THE WORLD SWEPT WITH TERROR

    V. THE THIRD SIGN

   VI. SELECTING THE FLOWER OF MANKIND

  VII. THE WATERS BEGIN TO RISE

 VIII. STORMING THE ARK

   IX. THE COMPANY OF THE REPRIEVED

    X. THE LAST DAY OF NEW YORK

   XI. "A BILLION FOR A SHARE"

  XII. THE SUBMERGENCE OF THE OLD WORLD

 XIII. STRANGE FREAKS OF THE NEBULA

  XIV. THE ESCAPE OF THE PRESIDENT

   XV. PROFESSOR PLUDDER'S DEVICE

  XVI. MUTINY IN THE ARK

 XVII. THE JULES VERNE

XVIII. NAVIGATING OVER DROWNED EUROPE

  XIX. TO PARIS UNDER THE SEA

   XX. THE ADVENTURES IN COLORADO

  XXI. "THE FATHER OF HORROR"

 XXII. THE TERRIBLE NUCLEUS ARRIVES

XXIII. ROBBING THE CROWN OF THE WORLD

 XXIV. THE FRENCHMAN'S NEW SCHEME

  XXV. NEW YORK IN HER OCEAN TOMB

 XXVI. NEW AMERICA

ILLUSTRATIONS

"THEY MEANT TO CARRY THE ARK WITH A RUSH"

"THE GREAT BATTLESHIP ... CRASHED, PROW ON, INTO THE STEEL-RIBBED WALLS"

"IT IS A PROPHECY OF THE SECOND DELUGE"

"AND THEN THEY FLOATED NEAR THE MONUMENTAL TOMB OF GENERAL GRANT"

THE SECOND DELUGE

CHAPTER I

COSMO VERSAL

An undersized, lean, wizen-faced man, with an immense bald head, as round and smooth and shining
as a giant soap-bubble, and a pair of beady black eyes, set close together, so that he resembled
a gnome of amazing brain capacity and prodigious power of concentration, sat bent over a writing
desk with a huge sheet of cardboard before him, on which he was swiftly drawing geometrical
and trigonometrical figures. Compasses, T-squares, rulers, protractors, and ellipsographs obeyed
the touch of his fingers as if inspired with life.

The room around him was a jungle of terrestrial and celestial globes, chemists' retorts, tubes,
pipes, and all the indescribable apparatus that modern science has invented, and which, to
the uninitiated, seems as incomprehensible as the ancient paraphernalia of alchemists and astrologers.
The walls were lined with book shelves, and adorned along the upper portions with the most
extraordinary photographs and drawings. Even the ceiling was covered with charts, some representing
the sky, while many others were geological and topographical pictures of the face of the earth.

Beside the drawing-board lay a pad of paper, and occasionally the little man nervously turned
to this, and, grasping a long pencil, made elaborate calculations, covering the paper with
a sprinkling of mathematical symbols that looked like magnified animalcula. While he worked,
under a high light from a single window placed well up near the ceiling, his forehead contracted
into a hundred wrinkles, his cheeks became feverous, his piercing eyes glowed with inner fire,
and drops of perspiration ran down in front of his ears. One would have thought that he was
laboring to save his very soul and had but a few seconds of respite left.

Presently he threw down the pencil, and with astonishing agility let himself rapidly, but carefully,
off the stool on which he had been sitting, keeping the palms of his hands on the seat beside
his hips until he felt his feet touch the floor. Then he darted at a book-shelf, pulled down
a ponderous tome, flapped it open in a clear space on the floor, and dropped on his knees to
consult it.

After turning a leaf or two he found what he was after, read down the page, keeping a finger
on the lines, and, having finished his reading, jumped to his feet and hurried back to the
stool, on which he mounted so quickly that it was impossible to see how he managed it--without
an upset. Instantly he made a new diagram, and then fell to figuring furiously on the pad,
making his pencil gyrate so fast that its upper end vibrated like the wing of a dragon-fly.

At last he threw down the pencil, and, encircling his knees with his clasped arms, sank in
a heap on the stool. The lids dropped over his shining eyes, and he became buried in thought.

When he reopened his eyes and unbent his brows, his gaze happened to be directed toward a row
of curious big photographs which ran like a pictured frieze round the upper side of the wall
of the room. A casual observer might have thought that the little man had been amusing himself
by photographing the explosions of fireworks on a Fourth of July night; but it was evident
by his expression that these singular pictures had no connection with civic pyrotechnics, but
must represent something of incomparably greater importance, and, in fact, of stupendous import.

The little man's face took on a rapt look, in which wonder and fear seemed to be blended. With
a sweep of his hand he included the whole series of photographs in a comprehensive glance,
and then, settling his gaze upon a particularly bizarre object in the center, he began to speak
aloud, although there was nobody to listen to him.

"My God!" he said. "That's it! That Lick photograph of the Lord Rosse Nebula is its very image,
except that there's no electric fire in it. The same great whirl of outer spirals, and then
comes the awful central mass--and we're going to plunge straight into it. Then quintillions
of tons of water will condense on the earth and cover it like a universal cloudburst. And then
good-by to the human race--unless--unless--I, Cosmo Versal, inspired by science, can save a
remnant to repeople the planet after the catastrophe."

Again, for a moment, he closed his eyes, and puckered his hemispherical brow, while, with drawn-up
knees, he seemed perilously balanced on the high stool. Several times he slowly shook his head,
like a dreaming owl, and when his eyes reopened their fire was gone, and a reflective film
covered them. He began to speak, more deliberately than before, and in a musing tone:

"What can I do? I don't believe there is a mountain on the face of the globe lofty enough to
lift its head above that flood. Hum, hum! It's no use thinking about mountains! The flood will
be six miles deep--six miles from the present sea-level; my last calculation proves it beyond
all question. And that's only a minimum--it may be miles deeper, for no mortal man can tell
exactly what'll happen when the earth plunges into a nebula.

"We'll have to float; that's the thing. I'll have to build an ark. I'll be a second Noah. But
I'll advise the whole world to build arks.

"Millions might save themselves that way, for the flood is not going to last forever. We'll
get through the nebula in a few months, and then the waters will gradually recede, and the
high lands will emerge again. It'll be an awful long time, though; I doubt if the earth will
ever be just as it was before. There won't be much room, except for fish--but there won't be
many inhabitants for what dry land there is."

Once more he fell into silent meditation, and while he mused there came a knock at the door.
The little man started up on his seat, alert as a squirrel, and turned his eyes over his shoulder,
listening intently. The knock was repeated--three quick sharp raps. Evidently he at once recognized
them.

"All right," he called out, and, letting himself down, ran swiftly to the door and opened it.

A tall, thin man, with bushy black hair, heavy eyebrows, a high, narrow forehead, and a wide,
clean shaven mouth, wearing a solemn kind of smile, entered and grasped the little man by both
hands.

"Cosmo," he said, without wasting any time on preliminaries, "have you worked it out?"

"I have just finished."

"And you find the worst?"

"Yes, worse than I ever dreamed it would be. The waters will be six miles deep."

"Phew!" exclaimed the other, his smile fading. "That is indeed serious. And when does it begin?"

"Inside of a year. We're within three hundred million miles of the watery nebula now, and you
know that the earth travels more than that distance in twelve months."

"Have you seen it?"

"How could I see it--haven't I told you it is invisible? If it could be seen all these stupid
astronomers would have spotted it long ago. But I'll tell you what I have seen."

Cosmo Versal's voice sank into a whisper, and he shuddered slightly as he went on:

"Only last night I was sweeping the sky with the telescope when I noticed, in Hercules and
Lyra, and all that part of the heavens, a dimming of some of the fainter stars. It was like
the shadow of the shroud of a ghost. Nobody else would have noticed it, and I wouldn't if I
had not been looking for it. It's knowledge that clarifies the eyes and breeds knowledge, Joseph
Smith. It was not truly visible, and yet I could see that it was there. I tried to make out
the shape of the thing--but it was too indefinite. But I know very well what it is. See here"--he
suddenly broke off--"Look at that photograph." (He was pointing at the Lord Rosse Nebula on
the wall). "It's like that, only it's coming edgewise toward us. We may miss some of the outer
spirals, but we're going smash into the center."

With fallen jaw, and black brows contracted, Joseph Smith stared at the photograph.

"It doesn't shine like that," he said at last.

The little man snorted contemptuously.

"What have I told you about its invisibility?" he demanded.

"But how, then, do you know that it is of a watery nature?"

Cosmo Versal threw up his hands and waved them in an agony of impatience. He climbed upon his
stool to get nearer the level of the other's eyes, and fixing him with his gaze, exclaimed:

"You know very well how I know it. I know it because I have demonstrated with my new spectroscope,
which analyzes extra-visual rays, that all those dark nebulae that were photographed in the
Milky Way years ago are composed of watery vapor. They are far off, on the limits of the universe.
This one is one right at hand. It's a little one compared with them--but it's enough, yes,
it's enough! You know that more than two years ago I began to correspond with astronomers all
over the world about this thing, and not one of them would listen to me. Well, they'll listen
when it's too late perhaps.

"They'll listen when the flood-gates are opened and the inundation begins. It's not the first
time that this thing has happened. I haven't a doubt that the flood of Noah, that everybody
pretends to laugh at now, was caused by the earth passing through a watery nebula. But this
will be worse than that; there weren't two thousand million people to be drowned then."

For five minutes neither spoke. Cosmo Versal swung on the stool, and played with an ellipsograph;
Joseph Smith dropped his chin on his breast and nervously fingered the pockets of his long
vest. At last he raised his head and asked, in a low voice:

"What are you going to do, Cosmo?"

"I'm going to get ready," was the short reply.

"How?"

"Build an ark."

"But will you give no warning to others?"

"I'll do my best. I'll telephone to all the officials, scientific and otherwise, in America,
Europe, Africa, Asia, and Australia. I'll write in every language to all the newspapers and
magazines. I'll send out circulars. I'll counsel everybody to drop every other occupation and
begin to build arks--but nobody will heed me. You'll see. My ark will be the only one, but
I'll save as many in it as I can. And I depend upon you, Joseph, to help me. From all appearances,
it's the only chance that the human race has of survival.

"If I hadn't made this discovery they would all have been wiped out like miners in a flooded
pit. We may persuade a few to be saved--but what an awful thing it is that when the truth is
thrust into their very faces people won't believe, won't listen, won't see, won't be helped,
but will die like dogs in their obstinate ignorance and blindness."

"But they will, they must, listen to you," said Joseph Smith eagerly.

"They won't, but I must make them," replied Cosmo Versal. "Anyhow, I must make a few of the
best of them hear me. The fate of a whole race is at stake. If we can save a handful of the
best blood and brain of mankind, the world will have a new chance, and perhaps a better and
higher race will be the result. Since I can't save them all, I'll pick and choose. I'll have
the flower of humanity in my ark. I'll at least snatch that much from the jaws of destruction."

The little man was growing very earnest and his eyes were aglow with the fire of enthusiastic
purpose. As he dropped his head on one side, it looked too heavy for the stemlike neck, but
it conveyed an impression of immense intellectual power. Its imposing contour lent force to
his words.

"The flower of humanity," he continued after a slight pause. "Who composes it? I must decide
that question. Is it the billionaires? Is it the kings and rulers? Is it the men of science?
Is it the society leaders? Bah! I'll have to think on that. I can't take them all, but I'll
give them all a chance to save themselves--though I know they won't act on the advice."

Here he paused.

"Won't the existing ships do--especially if more are built?" Joseph Smith suddenly asked, interrupting
Cosmo's train of thought.

"Not at all," was the reply. "They're not suited to the kind of navigation that will be demanded.
They're not buoyant enough, nor manageable enough, and they haven't enough carrying capacity
for power and provisions. They'll be swamped at the wharves, or if they should get away they'd
be sent to the bottom inside a few hours. Nothing but specially constructed arks will serve.
And there's more trouble for me--I must devise a new form of vessel. Heavens, how short the
time is! Why couldn't I have found this out ten years ago? It's only to-day that I have myself
learned the full truth, though I have worked on it so long."

"How many will you be able to carry in your ark?" asked Smith.

"I can't tell yet. That's another question to be carefully considered. I shall build the vessel
of this new metal, levium, half as heavy as aluminum and twice as strong as steel. I ought
to find room without the slightest difficulty for a round thousand in it."

"Surely many more than that!" exclaimed Joseph Smith. "Why, there are ocean-liners that carry
several times as many."

"You forget," replied Cosmo Versal, "that we must have provisions enough to last for a long
time, because we cannot count on the immediate re-emergence of any land, even the most mountainous,
and the most compressed food takes space when a great quantity is needed. It won't do to overcrowd
the vessel, and invite sickness. Then, too, I must take many animals along."

"Animals," returned Smith. "I hadn't thought of that. But is it necessary?"

