Such is the woodcut regarding which I request some intelligence from your readers, as I have
shown it to several persons, who I thought could enlighten me, but who could afford me no satisfaction.
I suspect, from the costumes and the edificies, that it is German; and I ought to have mentioned
that each circle is separated from the others by a low stone wall running all around, and that
trees, hills, and fountains are not sparingly introduced. In the whole, it includes nearly
a hundred figures of men, women, and children.

THE HERMIT OF HOLYPORT.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Queries.

Viaggi di Enrico Wanton.--A fiction, upon the same plan as Gulliver's Travels, describing the
visit of two Europeans to communities of monkeys and cynocephali, and written by a Venetian
named Zaccaria Seriman, was printed at Venice in 1749, and again in 1764. A third citation,
with the title-page Delli Viaggi de Enrico Wanton alle Terre Australi, nuova Edizione, was
printed in London in 1772, "presso Tommaso Brewman Stampatore in Wych Street, Temple Bar,"
in 4 vols. 8vo. This edition is dedicated to George III. by "L'umilissimo e fedelissimo suddito,
Enrico Wanton." Can any of your correspondents explain how this work {278} (which is of no
great literary merit) came to be reprinted in England, and dedicated to the king?

A notice of Seriman's life may be found in the Biographie Universelle.

L.

Gloucester Alarm.--In the archives of Lyme Regis is this entry:

    "Town Accompt Book.

    "1661. For the four soldiers and drummers for service on the Gloucester
    alarm and candles, 10s. 0d."

What was the "Gloucester alarm?"

G. R.

Where is Criston, County Somerset?--Mr. Vaughan, a young man who was to have joined the Duke
of Monmouth, was of that house or place.

G. R.

"There was a Maid of Westmoreland."--"Some fifty summers past," I was in the habit of hearing
sung a simple ballad, which commenced--

 "There was a maid of Westmoreland,
  Who built her house upon the sand:"

and the conclusion of which was, that, however desolate and exposed a situation that might
be for her dwelling, it was better than in "the haunts of men." This was said to have been
written by the late Mr. Thomas Sheridan. I never heard by whom the music to it, which was very
pretty, was composed; nor whether or not it was published.

Can any of your correspondents supply the words of this old ballad, and state the name of the
composer of the music to it? Also whether it was published, and, if so, by whom?

E. H.

Anthony Bridges.--In the Hampshire Visitation of 1622, Harl. MS. 1544. fo. 25., appears the
marriage of Barbara, second daughter of Sir Richard Pexsall, of Beaurepaire, in co. Southampton,
by Ellinor his wife, daughter of William Pawlett, Marquis of Winchester, to "Anthony Bridges."
That Sir Richard Pexsall died in 1571, is the only clue I have to the date of the match.

Query, Who was this Anthony Bridges, and did he leave issue?

Is it possible that this is the identical Anthony, third surviving son of Sir John Bridges,
first Baron Chandos of Sudeley, respecting whose fate there is so much uncertainty? He is presumed
to have married a daughter of Fortescue of Essex, but the collateral evidence on which the
supposition is founded is too slight to be satisfactory. Little is known but that he was born
before 1532; that he was living in 1584 (in which year he was presented to the living of Meysey
Hampton in Gloucestershire, the county in which he resided); and that he had a son Robert,
upon a presumed descent from whom the late Sir Egerton Brydges founded his well-known claim
to the barony of Chandos of Sudeley.

O. C.

Barlaam and Josaphat (Vol. iii., p. 135.).--I was much interested in MR. STEPHENS' remarks
on the Rev. W. Adams's beautiful allegory, and would be glad to know from him, or some other
of your learned correspondents, what English translations there are of this "spiritual romance
in Greek;" where I may find an account or notice of the work, or get a copy of it.

JARLTZBERG.

"Stick at Nothing."--The expression "stop at nothing" occurs in the following couplet in Dryden's
Aurengzebe:

 "The world is made for the bold impious man,
  Who stops at nothing, seizes all he can."

And Pope, in one of his letters, has the expression "stick at nothing," where he says:

    "The three chief qualifications of party-writers are, to stick at
    nothing, to delight in flinging dirt, and to slander in the dark by
    guess."

Can any of your correspondents explain the origin of the word "stick" in the sense in which
it is used by Pope; and how it came to supplant altogether the more intelligible word "stop,"
as employed by Dryden?

HENRY H. BREEN.

St. Lucia, January, 1851.

"Ejusdem Farinæ."--Your readers are acquainted with the expression "ejusdem farinæ," and the
derogatory sense in which it is employed to describe things or characters of the same calibre.
It was in common use among clerical disputants after the Reformation; and Leland has it in
the following remarks respecting certain fabulous interpolations in the Black Book at Cambridge:

    "Centum sunt ibi, præterea, ejusdem farinæ fabulæ."

I have no doubt, however, that the origin of the expression may be traced to the scholastic
doctors and casuists of the Middle Ages.

Will any of your correspondents be good enough to explain the circumstances which gave rise
to the adoption of "farina" as a term expressive of baseness and disparagement?

HENRY H. BREEN.

St. Lucia, January, 1851.

Batail.--Favine, in his Theatre of Honour (b. ii. c. 13), in speaking of a bell at Menda, says
of the clapper of a bell, that "it is a Bataill in Armes." Was this word ever introduced into
English heraldry? The only instances of bells in English arms that I can discover in the books
to which I have access at present are in the coats of Bell, Porter, Osney, and Richbell.

H. N. E.

The Knights of Malta.--On the stone corbels which support the roof of one of the aisles of
a church in my neighbourhood, there are carved the armorial badges of persons who are supposed
to have contributed to the building of the church, which was erected in the thirteenth century.
On one of the corbels (the nearest to the altar, and therefore in the most honourable place)
there is a lamb bearing a flag. The lamb has a nimbus {279} round its head, and the staff of
the flag terminates in a cross like the head of a processional cross. The device, I have reason
to think, was the badge of the knights of the order of Saint John of Jerusalem, who had a preceptory
in this neighbourhood during the thirteenth century. In the history of these knights, first
of Jerusalem, then of Rhodes, and afterwards of Malta, I find it stated, that in the year 1130
Pope Innocent II. commanded that the standard of the knights (at that time settled at Jerusalem)
should be "gules, a full cross argent."

Will any of your correspondents be so kind as to inform me if the device on the corbel was
the badge of the knights of the order of St. John of Jerusalem? and if so, at what time they
first assumed it?

S. S. S.

General Pardons.--Has any example of a general pardon under the great seal been ever printed
at length? particularly any of those granted after the restoration of Charles II.?

J. G. N.

"Too wise to err."--You will oblige many of your readers if you will inform them from whence
the words

    "Too wise to err, too good to be unkind,"

are quoted.

T. W. A.

       *       *       *       *       *

Replies.

THOMAS MAY.

(Vol. iii., p. 167.)

Thomas May, famous amongst the busy characters of his age, both as a politician and a poet,
was the eldest son of Sir Thos. May, Knt., of Mayfield, in Sussex, where he was born in 1595.
At the usual period of life, he was admitted a fellow-commoner of Sidney Sussex College, Cambridge;
and having taken the degree of B.A. he entered himself at Gray's Inn, with the intention of
studying the law, which, however, it is uncertain whether he ever pursued as a profession.
Whilst he was a student of the law, he made the acquaintance of Edward Hyde, afterwards Earl
of Clarendon; and became the intimate associate of Ben Jonson, Selden, Cotton, Sir K. Digby,
Thos. Carew[1], "and some others of eminent faculties in their several ways."

    "His parts of nature and art," writes Clarendon[2], in describing his
    character, "were very good, as appears by his translation of Lucan
    (none of the easiest work of that kind), and more by his Supplement to
    Lucan, which being entirely his own, for the learning, the wit, and the
    language, may be well looked upon as one of the best epic poems in the
    English language."

As an elegant writer, indeed, of Latin verse, he is justly numbered amongst the most successful
of the accomplished poets of our nation--Ben Jonson, Cowley, Milton, Marvell, Crashaw, Addison,
Gray, Smart, T. Warton, Sir W. Jones, &c.--who have devoted their leisure to this species of
composition. Clarendon goes on to say that May was "born to a fortune, if his father had not
spent it; so that he had only an annuity left him, not proportionable to a liberal education:"

    "Yet since," continues this illustrious authority, "his fortune could
    not raise his mind, he brought his mind down to his fortune, by a great
    modesty and humility in his nature, which was not affected, but very
    well became an imperfection in his speech, which was a great
    mortification to him, and kept him from entering upon any discourse but
    in the company of his very friends," of whom he had not a few, for "he
    was cherished by many persons of honour, and very acceptable in all
    places."

From Charles I., no mean judge of poetry, and a liberal patron of the Muses, May received much
encouragement, and many substantial marks of favour in the shape of donatives; and it was at
the express command of this monarch that he wrote his historical poem entitled The Victorious
Reigne of Edward III. From disgust, however, at the appointment of D'Avenant to the Laureateship,
on the death of Jonson in 1637,--a post to which, according to what he considered to be his
own superior deserts[3], he was himself justly entitled,--"May fell from his duty, and all
his former friends," and became an active agent in promoting the designs of the so-called popular
leaders. Through the interest of Cromwell, he was nominated Secretary to the Parliament, in
which capacity he wrote a History of its transactions, a work which was published in 1647.
This performance, which is highly commended by Granger, rendered its author extremely obnoxious
to the royal party, who exercised all their powers of pen to disparage both the book and its
compiler. He is represented by Clarendon, for instance, "as prostituting himself to the vile
office of celebrating the infamous acts of those who were in rebellion against the king; which
he did so meanly, that he seemed to all men to have lost his wits, when he left his honesty."
Anthony à Wood's account[4] of these matters, and of May himself, is that

    "He was graciously countenanced by K. Charles I. and his royal consort;
    but he, finding not that preferment from either which he expected, grew
    discontented, sided with the Presbyterians, and, upon the {280} turn of
    the times, became a debauchee ad omnia; entertained ill principles as
    to religion, spoke often very slightly of the Trinity, kept beastly and
    atheistical company, of whom Thos. Challoner, the regicide, was one,
    and endeavoured to his power to asperse and invalidate the king and his
    cause."

His acquaintance with Challoner is also alluded to by Aubrey who says[5], "that his translation
of Lucan's excellent poem, made him in love with the republique." Aubrey adds, he was--

    "A handsome man, debauched, and lodged in the little square by Cannon
    Row, as you go through the alley."

Clarendon concludes his notice of May by observing that--

    "Shortly after the publication of his parliamentary history he died,
    miserable and neglected, and deserves to be forgotten."

The fact is, he was found dead in his bed in Nov. 1650; but that he was "neglected" is not
altogether correct. At any rate, he was honoured with a public funeral, a marble monument,
and a laudatory epitaph in Westminster Abbey,--short-lived dignities! for, at the Restoration,
the memorial of his fame was torn down, whilst his body was exhumed, and, after being treated
with much ignominy, hurled into a large pit in St. Margaret's churchyard adjoining.--Besides
the works above noticed, May also wrote The Description of Henry II., in verse, with A Short
Survey of the Changes of his Reign, and The Single and Comparative Character of Henry and Richard
his Sons, in prose. Nor was that of Lucan his only translation, for he rendered into English
verse Virgil's Georgics and Selected Epigrams of Martial. He was also the author of five dramas,
two of which are given in Dodsley's Old Plays. A now forgotten critic, Henry Headley, B.A.,
of Norwich, observes concerning his historical poetics, that May--

    "Has caught no small portion of the energy and declamatory spirit which
    characterises the Roman poet, whom, as he translated, he insensibly
    made his model. His battle pieces," our critic continues, "highly merit
    being brought forward to notice; they possess the requisites, in a
    remarkable degree, for interesting the feelings of an Englishman. While
    in accuracy they vie with a gazette, they are managed with such
    dexterity, as to busy the mind with unceasing agitation, with scenes
    highly diversified and impassioned by striking character, minute
    incident, and alarming situation."[6]

In confirmation of the general propriety and justness of these remarks, I would refer to the
description of "The Den of the Vices" (H. II. b. i.), and to the accounts of "The Death of
Rosamond" (H. II. b. v.), "The Battle of Cressy" (E. III. b. iii.), and "The Capture of Mortimer"
(E. III. b. i.). These pieces can only be thus vindicated, being much too long for extracting;
but I think a republication of the entire poems would be an acceptable boon to the public.

COWGILL.

[Footnote 1: The Life of Edward, Earl of Clarendon, &c., Oxf. 1827.]

[Footnote 2: The same.]

[Footnote 3: Southey calls May "the very able competitor of D'Avenant," and describes him as
"a man so honourably known by his translation of Lucan, and his Supplement to that poet, that
it were to be wished he were remembered for nothing else."--Biog. Sketches.]

[Footnote 4: Athenæ Oxon. Bliss's edit.]

[Footnote 5: In MSS. Ashmol., as quoted in Biog. Britann., from which, and Chalmer's Biog.
Dict., the dates, and such of the facts above given, not otherwise authenticated, are principally
derived.]

[Footnote 6: Biographical Sketches, Lond., 12mo. 1787.]

Although May's version of Cato's soliloquy is immeasurably below Addison's, I am inclined to
agree with J. H. L., that, on comparing them, it is more than probable, Addison had May's description
of Cato's death in his mind at the same time he penned the justly celebrated soliloquy in the
5th Act of his Cato.

E. B. PRICE.

Cow Cross.

Thomas May, the author of the Supplement to Lucan (Vol. iii., p. 167), was the secretary and
historian of the Long Parliament. He was born at Mayfield in 1595; took the degree of B.A.
at Sydney-Sussex College, Cambridge, and afterwards entered Gray's Inn, but devoted himself
to literature. He translated Virgil's Georgics, Selected Epigrams of Martial, and in 1627 Lucan's
Pharsalia; to the latter, in 1630, he supplied an English continuation of his own in seven
books; intituled,  A Continuation of the Subject of Lucan's Historical Poem till the Death
of Julius Cæsar. It was dedicated to Charles. He afterwards published at Leyden a Latin translation
of the seven additional books; this was added to the Amsterdam and other editions of Lucan,
and has established May's fame as a classic scholar. Andrew Marvell, who saw only an apology
for the doings of the tyrannical parliament in the continuation of Lucan's poem, calls May--

 "Most servile wit, and mercenary pen,
  Polydore, Lucan, Allan, Vandal, Goth.
  Malignant poet and historian both.
  Go seek the novice statesmen and obtrude
  On them some Roman cast similitude."

He died suddenly in the night of 13th Nov., 1650, his death being attributed by Marvell to
a little too much indulgence in wine.

 "As one pot drunk into the packet-boat,
  Tom May was hurry'd hence, and did not know't."

W. DURRANT COOPER.

81. Guilford Street.

    [We are also indebted to BALLIOLENSIS and other correspondents for
    general replies to this Query; and to W. S. (Richmond) for a reference
    to Baron Maseres' account of him prefixed to his edition of May's
    History of the Long Parliament.]

       *       *       *       *       *

DUCHESS OF BUCKINGHAM.

(Vol iii., pp. 224, 249.)

P. C. S. S. believes that a reference to almost any Peerage or work on British genealogy, would
{281} have saved Mr. F. B. RELTON the trouble of addressing the inquiry at Vol. iii., p. 224.
Katherine Sedley, daughter of Sir Charles Sedley, commemorated in Johnson's line--

 "And Sedley cursed the form that pleased a king"--

was created Countess of Dorchester by James II., and subsequently married David Collyer, first
Earl of Pontmore in Scotland. She died in 1692, having had by King James a natural daughter,
to whom, by royal warrant, that monarch gave the rank and precedence of a duke's daughter;
she was styled Lady Catherine Darnley, and married first, in October 1699, James, third Earl
of Anglesey, from whom, on account of alleged cruelty on his part, she was separated by act
of parliament in the following year. The earl died in 1701, and his widow married, secondly,
in 1705, John Sheffield, first Duke of Normanby and Buckingham. She died on the 13th of March,
1743, and was interred with almost regal pomp in Westminster Abbey. By her first husband (the
Earl of Anglesey) she had an only daughter, the Lady Catherine Annesley, married to Mr. William
Phipps, father of the first Lord Mulgrave, and, consequently, great-grandfather of the present
Marquis of Normanby, who on his recent elevation to that dignity, has, it appears, preferred
to take one of the ducal titles of a nobleman from whom he does not descend, and of whose blood
there does not flow a single drop in his veins, to the just assumption of the title of one
from whom he does descend, and whose sole representative he undoubtedly is.

Of the Duchess of Buckingham's inordinate pride, there are some curious stories in Walpole's
Letters to Sir Horace Mann (sub anno 1743). But perhaps the most remarkable instance of it
is to be found in a periodical paper called the British Champion, which was published at that
time, and which is now not commonly to be met. In the No. for April 7, 1743, there is the following
anecdote:--

