All the men and boys of Aru are expert archers, never stirring without their bows and arrows.
They shoot all sorts of birds, as well as pigs and kangaroos occasionally, and thus have a
tolerably good supply of meat to eat with their vegetables. The result of this better living
is superior healthiness, well-made bodies, and generally clear skins. They brought me numbers
of small birds in exchange for beads or tobacco, but mauled them terribly, notwithstanding
my repeated instructions. When they got a bird alive they would often tie a string to its leg,
and keep it a day or two, till its plumage was so draggled and dirtied as to be almost worthless.
One of the first things I got from there was a living specimen of the curious and beautiful
racquet-tailed kingfisher. Seeing how much I admired it, they afterwards brought me several
more, which wore all caught before daybreak, sleeping in cavities of the rocky banks of the
stream. My hunters also shot a few specimens, and almost all of them had the red bill more
or less clogged with mud and earth. This indicates the habits of the bird, which, though popularly
a king-fisher, never catches fish, but lives on insects and minute shells, which it picks up
in the forest, darting down upon them from its perch on some low branch. The genus Tanysiptera,
to which this bird belongs, is remarkable for the enormously lengthened tail, which in all
other kingfishers is small and short. Linnaeus named the species known to him "the goddess
kingfisher" (Alcedo dea), from its extreme grace and beauty, the plumage being brilliant blue
and white, with the bill red, like coral. Several species of these interesting birds are now
known, all confined within the very limited area which comprises the Moluccas, New Guinea,
and the extreme North of Australia. They resemble each other so closely that several of them
can only be distinguished by careful comparison. One of the rarest, however, which inhabits
New Guinea, is very distinct from the rest, being bright red beneath instead of white. That
which I now obtained was a new one, and has been named Tanysiptera hydrocharis, but in general
form and coloration it is exactly similar to the larger species found in Amboyna, and figured
at page 468 of my first volume.

New and interesting birds were continually brought in, either by my own boys or by the natives,
and at the end of a week Ali arrived triumphant one afternoon with a fine specimen of the Great
Bird of Paradise. The ornamental plumes had not yet attained their full growth, but the richness
of their glossy orange colouring, and the exquisite delicacy of the loosely waving feathers,
were unsurpassable. At the same time a great black cockatoo was brought in, as well as a fine
fruit-pigeon and several small birds, so that we were all kept hard at work skinning till sunset.
Just as we had cleared away and packed up for the night, a strange beast was brought, which
had been shot by the natives. It resembled in size, and in its white woolly covering, a small
fat lamb, but had short legs, hand-like feet with large claws, and a long prehensile tail.
It was a Cuscus (C. maculatus), one of the curious marsupial animals of the Papuan region,
and I was very desirous to obtain the skin. The owners, however, said they wanted to eat it;
and though I offered them a good price, and promised to give them all the meat, there was grout
hesitation. Suspecting the reason, I offered, though it was night, to set to work immediately
and get out the body for them, to which they agreed. The creature was much hacked about, and
the two hind feet almost cut off; but it was the largest and finest specimen of the kind I
had seen; and after an hour's hard work I handed over the body to the owners, who immediately
cut it up and roasted it for supper.

As this was a very good place for birds, I determined to remain a month longer, and took the
opportunity of a native boat going to Dobbo, to send Ali for a fresh supply of ammunition and
provisions. They started on the 10th of April, and the house was crowded with about a hundred
men, boys, women, and girls, bringing their loads of sugar-cane, plantains, sirih-leaf, yams,
&c.; one lad going from each house to sell the produce and make purchases. The noise was indescribable.
At least fifty of the hundred were always talking at once, and that not in the low measured
tones of the apathetically polite Malay, but with loud voices, shouts, and screaming laughter,
in which the women and children were even more conspicuous than the men. It was only while
gazing at me that their tongues were moderately quiet, because their eyes were fully occupied.
The black vegetable soil here overlying the coral rock is very rich, and the sugar-cane was
finer than any I had ever seen. The canes brought to the boat were often ten and even twelve
feet long, and thick in proportion, with short joints throughout, swelling between the knots
with the abundance of the rich juice. At Dobbo they get a high price for it, 1d. to 3d. a stick,
and there is an insatiable demand among the crews of the praus and the Baba fishermen. Here
they eat it continually. They half live on it, and sometimes feed their pigs with it. Near
every house are great heaps of the refuse cane; and large wicker-baskets to contain this refuse
as it is produced form a regular part of the furniture of a house. Whatever time of the day
you enter, you are sure to find three or four people with a yard of cane in one hand, a knife
in the other, and a basket between their legs, hacking, paring, chewing, and basket-filling,
with a persevering assiduity which reminds one of a hungry cow grazing, or of a caterpillar
eating up a leaf.

After five days' absence the boats returned from Dobbo, bringing Ali and all the things I had
sent for quite safe. A large party had assembled to be ready to carry home the goods brought,
among which were a good many cocoa-nut, which are a great luxury here. It seems strange that
they should never plant them; but the reason simply is, that they cannot bring their hearts
to bury a good nut for the prospective advantage of a crop twelve years hence. There is also
the chance of the fruits being dug up and eaten unless watched night and day. Among the things
I had sent for was a box of arrack, and I was now of course besieged with requests for a little
drop. I gave them a flask (about two bottles), which was very soon finished, and I was assured
that there were many present who had not had a taste. As I feared my box would very soon be
emptied if I supplied all their demands, I told them I had given them one, but the second they
must pay for, and that afterwards I must have a Paradise bird for each flask. They immediately
sent round to all the neighbouring houses, and mustered up a rupee in Dutch copper money, got
their second flask, and drunk it as quickly as the first, and were then very talkative, but
less noisy and importunate than I had expected. Two or three of them got round me and begged
me for the twentieth time to tell them the name of my country. Then, as they could not pronounce
it satisfactorily, they insisted that I was deceiving them, and that it was a name of my own
invention. One funny old man, who bore a ludicrous resemblance, to a friend of mine at home,
was almost indignant. "Ung-lung! "said he, "who ever heard of such a name?--ang lang--anger-lung--that
can't be the name of your country; you are playing with us." Then he tried to give a convincing
illustration. "My country is Wanumbai--anybody can say Wanumbai. I'm an orang-Wanumbai; but,
N-glung! who ever heard of such a name? Do tell us the real name of your country, and then
when you are gone we shall know how to talk about you." To this luminous argument and remonstrance
I could oppose nothing but assertion, and the whole party remained firmly convinced that I
was for some reason or other deceiving them. They then attacked me on another point--what all
the animals and birds and insects and shells were preserved so carefully for. They had often
asked me this before, and I had tried to explain to them that they would be stuffed, and made
to look as if alive, and people in my country would go to look at them. But this was not satisfying;
in my country there must be many better things to look at, and they could not believe I would
take so much trouble with their birds and beasts just for people to look at. They did not want
to look at them; and we, who made calico and glass and knives, and all sorts of wonderful things,
could not want things from Aru to look at. They had evidently been thinking about it, and had
at length got what seemed a very satisfactory theory; for the same old man said to me, in a
low, mysterious voice, "What becomes of them when you go on to the sea?" "Why, they are all
packed up in boxes," said I "What did you think became of them?" "They all come to life again,
don't they?" said he; and though I tried to joke it off, and said if they did we should have
plenty to eat at sea, he stuck to his opinion, and kept repeating, with an air of deep conviction,
"Yes, they all come to life again, that's what they do--they all come to life again."

After a little while, and a good deal of talking among themselves, he began again--"I know
all about it--oh yes! Before you came we had rain every day--very wet indeed; now, ever since
you have been here, it is fine hot weather. Oh, yes! I know all about it; you can't deceive
me." And so I was set down as a conjurer, and was unable to repel the charge. But the conjurer
was completely puzzled by the next question: "What," said the old man, "is the great ship,
where the Bugis and Chinamen go to sell their things? It is always in the great sea--its name
is Jong; tell us all about it." In vain I inquired what they knew about it; they knew nothing
but that it was called "Jong," and was always in the sea, and was a very great ship, and concluded
with, "Perhaps that is your country?" Finding that I could not or would not tell them anything
about "Jong," there came more regrets that I would not tell them the real name of my country;
and then a long string of compliments, to the effect that I was a much better sort of a person
than the Bugis and Chinese, who sometimes came to trade with them, for I gave them things for
nothing, and did not try to cheat them. How long would I stop? was the next earnest inquiry.
Would I stay two or three months? They would get me plenty of birds and animals, and I might
soon finish all the goods I had brought, and then, said the old spokesman, "Don't go away,
but send for more things from Dobbo, and stay here a year or two." And then again the old story,
"Do tell us the name of your country. We know the Bugis men, and the Macassar men, and the
Java men, and the China men; only you, we don't know from what country you come. Ung-lung!
it can't be; I know that is not the name of your country." Seeing no end to this long talk,
I said I was tired, and wanted to go to sleep; so after begging--one a little bit of dry fish
for his supper, and another a little salt to eat with his sago--they went off very quietly,
and I went outside and took a stroll round the house by moonlight, thinking of the simple people
and the strange productions of Aru, and then turned in under my mosquito curtain; to sleep
with a sense of perfect security in the midst of these good-natured savages.

We now had seven or eight days of hot and dry weather, which reduced the little river to a
succession of shallow pools connected by the smallest possible thread of trickling water. If
there were a dry season like that of Macassar, the Aru Islands would be uninhabitable, as there
is no part of them much above a hundred feet high; and the whole being a mass of porous coralline
rock, allows the surface water rapidly to escape. The only dry season they have is for a month
or two about September or October, and there is then an excessive scarcity of water, so that
sometimes hundreds of birds and other animals die of drought. The natives then remove to houses
near the sources of the small streams, where, in the shady depths of the forest, a small quantity
of water still remains. Even then many of them have to go miles for their water, which they
keep in large bamboos and use very sparingly. They assure me that they catch and kill game
of all kinds, by watching at the water holes or setting snares around them. That would be the
time for me to make my collections; but the want of water would be a terrible annoyance, and
the impossibility of getting away before another whole year had passed made it out of the question.

Ever since leaving Dobbo I had suffered terribly from insects, who seemed here bent upon revenging
my long-continued persecution of their race. At our first stopping-place sand-flies were very
abundant at night, penetrating to every part of the body, and producing a more lasting irritation
than mosquitoes. My feet and ankles especially suffered, and were completely covered with little
red swollen specks, which tormented me horribly. On arriving here we were delighted to find
the house free from sand-flies or mosquitoes, but in the plantations where my daily walks led
me, the day-biting mosquitoes swarmed, and seemed especially to delight in attaching my poor
feet. After a month's incessant punishment, those useful members rebelled against such treatment
and broke into open insurrection, throwing out numerous inflamed ulcers, which were very painful,
and stopped me from walking. So I found myself confined to the house, and with no immediate
prospect of leaving it. Wounds or sores in the feet are especially difficult to heal in hot
climates, and I therefore dreaded them more than any other illness. The confinement was very
annoying, as the fine hot weather was excellent for insects, of which I had every promise of
obtaining a fine collection; and it is only by daily and unremitting search that the smaller
kinds, and the rarer and more interesting specimens, can be obtained. When I crawled down to
the river-side to bathe, I often saw the blue-winged Papilio ulysses, or some other equally
rare and beautiful insect; but there was nothing for it but patience, and to return quietly
to my bird-skinning, or whatever other work I had indoors. The stings and bites and ceaseless
irritation caused by these pests of the tropical forests, would be borne uncomplainingly; but
to be kept prisoner by them in so rich and unexplored a country where rare and beautiful creatures
are to be met with in every forest ramble--a country reached by such a long and tedious voyage,
and which might not in the present century be again visited for the same purpose--is a punishment
too severe for a naturalist to pass over in silence.

I had, however, some consolation in the birds my boys brought home daily, more especially the
Paradiseas, which they at length obtained in full plumage. It was quite a relief to my mind
to get these, for I could hardly have torn myself away from Aru had I not obtained specimens.

But what I valued almost as much as the birds themselves was the knowledge of their habits,
which I was daily obtaining both from the accounts of my hunters, and from the conversation
of the natives. The birds had now commenced what the people here call their "sacaleli," or
dancing-parties, in certain trees in the forest, which are not fruit trees as I at first imagined,
but which have an immense tread of spreading branches and large but scattered leaves, giving
a clear space for the birds to play and exhibit their plumes. (See Frontispiece.) The bird
itself is nearly as large as a crow, and is of a rich coffee brown colour. The head and neck
is of a pure straw yellow above and rich metallic green beneath. The long plumy tufts of golden
orange feathers spring from the sides beneath each wing, and when the bird is in repose are
partly concealed by them. At the time of its excitement, however, the wings are raised vertically
over the back, the head is bent down and stretched out, and the long plumes are raised up and
expanded till they form two magnificent golden fans, striped with deep red at the base, and
fading off into the pale brown tint of the finely divided and softly waving points. I continued
also to get specimens of the lovely little king-bird occasionally, as well as numbers of brilliant
pigeons, sweet little parroquets, and many curious small birds, most nearly resembling those
of Australia and New Guinea.

Here, as among most savage people I have dwelt among, I was delighted with the beauty of the
human form-a beauty of which stay-at-home civilized people can scarcely have any conception.
What are the finest Grecian statues to the living, moving, breathing men I saw daily around
me? The unrestrained grace of the naked savage as he goes about his daily occupations, or lounges
at his ease, must be seen to be understood; and a youth bending his bow is the perfection of
manly beauty. The women, however, except in extreme youth, are by no means so pleasant to look
at as the men. Their strongly-marked features are very unfeminine, and hard work, privations,
and very early marriages soon destroy whatever of beauty or grace they may for a short time
possess. Their toilet is very simple, but also, I am sorry to say, very coarse, and disgusting.
It consists solely of a mat of plaited strips of palm leaves, worn tight round the body, and
reaching from the hips to the knees. It seems not to be changed till worn out, is seldom washed,
and is generally very dirty. This is the universal dress, except in a few cases where Malay
"sarongs" have come into use. Their frizzly hair is tied in a bench at the back of the head.
They delight in combing, or rather forking it, using for that purpose a large wooden fork with
four diverging prongs, which answers the purpose of separating and arranging the long tangled,
frizzly mass of cranial vegetation much better than any comb could do. The only ornaments of
the women are earrings and necklaces, which they arrange in various tasteful ways. The ends
of a necklace are often attached to the earrings, and then looped on to the hair-knot behind.
This has really an elegant appearance, the beads hanging gracefully on each side of the head,
and by establishing a connexion with the earrings give an appearance of utility to those barbarous
ornaments. We recommend this style to the consideration of those of the fair sex who still
bore holes in their ears and hang rings thereto. Another style of necklace among these Papuan
belles is to wear two, each hanging on one side of the neck and under the opposite arm, so
as to cross each other. This has a very pretty appearance, in part due to the contrast of the
white beads or kangaroo teeth of which they are composed with the dark glossy skin. The earrings
themselves are formed of a bar of copper or silver, twisted so that the ends cross. The men,
as usual among savages, adorn themselves more than the women. They wear necklaces, earrings,
and finger rings, and delight in a band of plaited grass tight round the arm just below the
shoulder, to which they attach a bunch of hair or bright coloured feathers by way of ornament.
The teeth of small animals, either alone, or alternately with black or white beads, form their
necklaces, and sometimes bracelets also. For these latter, however, they prefer brass wire,
or the black, horny, wing-spines of the cassowary, which they consider a charm. Anklets of
brass or shell, and tight plaited garters below the knee, complete their ordinary decorations.

Some natives of Kobror from further south, and who are reckoned the worst and least civilized
of the Aru tribes, came one day to visit us. They have a rather more than usually savage appearance,
owing to the greater amount of ornaments they use--the most conspicuous being a large horseshoe-shaped
comb which they wear over the forehead, the ends resting on the temples. The back of the comb
is fastened into a piece of wood, which is plated with tin in front, and above is attached
a plume of feathers from a cock's tail. In other respects they scarcely differed from the people
I was living with. They brought me a couple of birds, some shells and insects; showing that
the report of the white man and his doing had reached their country. There was probably hardly
a man in Aru who had not by this time heard of me.

Besides the domestic utensils already mentioned, the moveable property of a native is very
scanty. He has a good supply of spears and bows and arrows for hunting, a parang, or chopping-knife,
and an axe-for the stone age has passed away here, owing to the commercial enterprise of the
Bugis and other Malay races. Attached to a belt, or hung across his shoulder, he carries a
little skin pouch and an ornamented bamboo, containing betel-nut, tobacco, and lime, and a
small German wooden-handled knife is generally stuck between his waist-cloth of bark and his
bare shin. Each man also possesses a "cadjan," or sleeping-mat, made of the broad leaves of
a pandanus neatly sewn together in three layers. This mat is abort four feet square, and when
folded has one end sewn up, so that it forms a kind of sack open at one side. In the closed
corner the head or feet can be placed, or by carrying it on the head in a shower it forms both
coat and umbrella. It doubles up ix a small compass for convenient carriage, and then forms
a light and elastic cushion, so that on a journey it becomes clothing, house, bedding, and
furniture, all in one.

The only ornaments in an Aru horse are trophies of the chase--jaws of wild pigs, the heads
and backbones of cassowaries, and plumes made from the feathers of the Bird of Paradise, cassowary,
and domestic fowl. The spears, shields, knife-handles, and other utensils are more or less
carved in fanciful designs, and the mats and leaf boxes are painted or plaited in neat patterns
of red, black, and yellow colours. I must not forget these boxes, which are most ingeniously
made of the pith of a balm leaf pegged together, lined inside with pandanus leaves, and outside
with the same, or with plaited grass. All the joints and angles are coffered with strips of
split rattan sewn neatly on. The lid is covered with the brown leathery spathe of the Areca
palm, which is impervious to water, and the whole box is neat, strong, and well finished. They
are made from a few inches to two or three feet long, and being much esteemed by the Malay
as clothes-boxes, are a regular article of export from Aru. The natives use the smaller ones
for tobacco or betel-nut, but seldom have clothes enough to require the larger ones, which
are only made for sale.

Among the domestic animals which may generally be seen in native houses, are gaudy parrots,
green, red, and blue, a few domestic fowls, which have baskets hung for them to lay in under
the eaves, and who sleep on the ridge, and several half-starved wolfish-baking dogs. Instead
of rats and mice there are curious little marsupial animals about the same size, which run
about at night and nibble anything eatable that may be left uncovered. Four or five different
kinds of ants attack everything not isolated by water, and one kind even swims across that;
great spiders lurk in baskets and boxes, or hide in the folds of my mosquito curtain; centipedes
and millepedes are found everywhere. I have caught them under my pillow and on my bead; while
in every box, and under every hoard which has lain for some days undisturbed, little scorpions
are sure to be found snugly ensconced, with their formidable tails quickly turned up ready
for attack or defence. Such companions seem very alarming and dangerous, but all combined are
not so bad as the irritation of mosquitoes, or of the insect pests often found at home. These
latter are a constant and unceasing source of torment and disgust, whereas you may live a long
time among scorpions, spiders, and centipedes, ugly and venomous though they are, and get no
harm from them. After living twelve years in the tropics, I have never yet been bitten or stung
by either.

The lean and hungry dogs before mentioned were my greatest enemies, and kept me constantly
on the watch. If my boys left the bird they were skinning for an instant, it was sure to be
carried off. Everything eatable had to be hung up to the roof, to be out of their reach. Ali
had just finished skinning a fine King Bird of Paradise one day, when he dropped the skin.
Before he could stoop to pick it up, one of this famished race had seized upon it, and he only
succeeded in rescuing it from its fangs after it was torn to tatters. Two skins of the large
Paradisea, which were quite dry and ready to pack away, were incautiously left on my table
for the night, wrapped up in paper. The next morning they were gone, and only a few scattered
feathers indicated their fate. My hanging shelf was out of their reach; but having stupidly
left a box which served as a step, a full-plumaged Paradise bird was next morning missing;
and a dog below the house was to be seen still mumbling over the fragments, with the fine golden
plumes all trampled in the mud. Every night, as soon as I was in bed, I could hear them searching
about for what they could devour, under my table, and all about my boxes and baskets, keeping
me in a state of suspense till morning, lest something of value might incautiously have been
left within their read. They would drink the oil of my floating lamp and eat the wick, and
upset or break my crockery if my lazy boys had neglected to wash away even the smell of anything
eatable. Bad, however, as they are here, they were worse in a Dyak's house in Borneo where
I was once staying, for there they gnawed off the tops of my waterproof boots, ate a large
piece out of an old leather game-bag, besides devouring a portion of my mosquito curtain!

April 28th.--Last evening we had a grand consultation, which had evidently been arranged and
discussed beforehand. A number of the natives gathered round me, and said they wanted to talk.
Two of the best Malay scholars helped each other, the rest putting in hints and ideas in their
own language. They told me a long rambling story; but, partly owing to their imperfect knowledge
of Malay, partly through my ignorance of local terms, and partly through the incoherence of
their narrative, I could not make it out very clearly. It was, however, a tradition, and I
was glad to find they had anything of the kind. A long time ago, they said, some strangers
came to Aru, and came here to Wanumbai, and the chief of the Wanumbai people did not like them,
and wanted them to go away, but they would not go, and so it came to fighting, and many Aru
men were killed, and some, along with the chief, were taken prisoners, and carried away by
the strangers. Some of the speakers, however, said that he was not carried away, but went away
in his own boat to escape from the foreigners, and went to the sea and never came back again.
But they all believe that the chief and the people that went with him still live in some foreign
country; and if they could but find out where, they would send for them to come back again.
Now having some vague idea that white men must know every country beyond the sea, they wanted
to know if I had met their people in my country or in the sea. They thought they must be there,
for they could not imagine where else they could be. They had sought for them everywhere, they
said--on the land and in the sea, in the forest and on the mountains, in the air and in the
sky, and could not find them; therefore, they must be in my country, and they begged me to
tell them, for I must surely know, as I came from across the great sea. I tried to explain
to them that their friends could not have reached my country in small boats; and that there
were plenty of islands like Aru all about the sea, which they would be sure to find. Besides,
as it was so long ago, the chief and all the people must be dead. But they quite laughed at
this idea, and said they were sure they were alive, for they had proof of it. And then they
told me that a good many years ago, when the speakers were boys, some Wokan men who were out
fishing met these lost people in the sea, and spoke to them; and the chief gave the Wokan men
a hundred fathoms of cloth to bring to the men of Wanumbai, to show that they were alive and
would soon come back to them, but the Wokan men were thieves, and kept the cloth, and they
only heard of it afterwards; and when they spoke about it, the Wokan men denied it, and pretended
they had not received the cloth;--so they were quite sure their friends were at that time alive
and somewhere in the sea. And again, not many years ago, a report came to them that some Bugis
traders had brought some children of their lost people; so they went to Dobbo to see about
it, and the owner of the house, who was now speaking to me, was one who went; but the Bugis
man would not let them see the children, and threatened to kill them if they came into his
house. He kept the children shut up in a large box, and when he went away he took them with
him. And at the end of each of these stories, they begged me in an imploring tone to tell them
if I knew where their chief and their people now were.

By dint of questioning, I got some account of the strangers who had taken away their people.
They said they were wonderfully strong, and each one could kill a great many Aru men; and when
they were wounded, however badly, they spit upon the place, and it immediately became well.
And they made a great net of rattans, and entangled their prisoners in it, and sunk them in
the water; and the next day, when they pulled the net up on shore, they made the drowned men
come to life again, and carried them away.

Much more of the same kind was told me, but in so confused and rambling a manner that I could
make nothing out of it, till I inquired how long ago it was that all this happened, when they
told me that after their people were taken away the Bugis came in their praus to trade in Aru,
and to buy tripang and birds' nests. It is not impossible that something similar to what they
related to me really happened when the early Portuguese discoverers first came to Aru, and
has formed the foundation for a continually increasing accumulation of legend and fable. I
have no doubt that to the next generation, or even before, I myself shall be transformed into
a magician or a demigod, a worker of miracles, and a being of supernatural knowledge. They
already believe that all the animals I preserve will come to life again; and to their children
it will be related that they actually did so. An unusual spell of fine weather setting in just
at my arrival has made them believe I can control the seasons; and the simple circumstance
of my always walking alone in the forest is a wonder and a mystery to them, as well as my asking
them about birds and animals I have not yet seen, and showing an acquaintance with their form,
colours, and habits. These facts are brought against me when I disclaim knowledge of what they
wish me to tell them. "You must know," say they; "you know everything: you make the fine weather
for your men to shoot, and you know all about our birds and our animals as well as we do; and
you go alone into the forest and are not afraid." Therefore every confession of ignorance on
my part is thought to be a blind, a mere excuse to avoid telling them too much. My very writing
materials and books are to them weird things; and were I to choose to mystify them by a few
simple experiments with lens and magnet, miracles without end would in a few years cluster
about me; and future travellers, penetrating to Wanumbai, world h hardly believe that a poor
English naturalist, who had resided a few months among them, could have been the original of
the supernatural being to whom so many marvels were attributed.

Far some days I had noticed a good deal of excitement, and many strangers came and went armed
with spears and cutlasses, bows and shields. I now found there was war near us--two neighbouring
villages having a quarrel about some matter of local politics that I could not understand.
They told me it was quite a common thing, and that they are rarely without fighting somewhere
near. Individual quarrels are taken up by villages and tribes, and the nonpayment of the stipulated
price for a wife is one of the most frequent causes of bitterness and bloodshed. One of the
war shields was brought me to look at. It was made of rattans and covered with cotton twist,
so as to be both light, strong, and very tough. I should think it would resist any ordinary
bullet. Abort the middle there was au arm-hole with a shutter or flap over it. This enables
the arm to be put through and the bow drawn, while the body and face, up to the eyes, remain
protected, which cannot be done if the shield is carried on the arm by loops attached at the
back in the ordinary way. A few of the young men from our house went to help their friends,
but I could not bear that any of them were hurt, or that there was much hard fighting.

