  Ah, there's the rub! I fain would see him blest
    With ample quarters and sufficient food,
  A spacious close wherein to take his rest,
    Hats for his wife and bootlets for his brood.
  But, now the Powers have granted his request,
    Too well I know what course will be pursued
  By certain merchants who "enjoy" my custom:
  They'll put the price of coal up, you can trust 'em,
    Till I by want am utterly oppressed
  And my finances, howso I adjust 'em,
    To my complete insolvency attest.
  Five pounds a ton they'll charge--I know their game--
  Saying, "Of course the miner is to blame."

  Nay, let me clasp the honest fellow's hand,
    Saying, "O miner, here is one who shares
  Your just desire to make this lovely land
    A fit abode for heroes and their heirs
  By ousting Plunder's profiteering band,
    Who take the cash and leave us all the cares.
  Oh, if we twain together might conspire,
  Would we not grasp them by the scruff and fire
    Coal merchants, barons, dukes and millionaires,
  And run the business to our hearts' desire,
    Paying no dividends on watered shares;
  Blessing State ownership and State control,
  You for high wages, I for cheaper coal."

  ALGOL.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GREAT GOLF CRISIS.

A great budget of correspondence from all parts of the country has reached Mr. Punch concerning
the suggestions put forward by famous golfers with the view of modifying the predominant influence
exercised by putting in golf. A crisis is rapidly being reached and Government intervention
may be invoked any day.

Mr. Ludwig Shyster, of the North Boreland Golf Club, suggests that the tin in the hole should
be highly magnetized and the ball coated with a metallic substance so that it might be attracted
into the hole. Golf, he contends, is a recreation, and the true aim of golf legislation should
be to make the game easier, not more difficult; to attract the largest possible number of players
and so to keep up the green-fees and pay a decent salary to secretaries and professionals.

Hanusch Kozelik, the famous Czecho-Slovakian amateur, who has recently done some wonderful
rounds at Broadstairs, cordially supports GEORGE DUNCAN'S advocacy of a larger hole. He sees
no reason why it should not be three feet in diameter, provided the greens were reduced to
eight feet square and surrounded with a barbed-wire entanglement.

Lord HALSBURY, who took to golf when he was over eighty and has only recently given it up,
writes: "The bigger the better 'ole."

On the other hand, Dr. Scroggie Park, of Kilspindie, strongly advocates the abolition of the
hole altogether and the substitution of a bell, as in the old form of croquet. But, as he wisely
adds, variety, not cast-iron uniformity should be our aim. The principle of self-determination
should in his opinion be conceded to all properly constituted golf clubs.

Lord BIRKENHEAD is all for maintaining the status quo in regard to holes and greens, but takes
up a strong attitude on the improvement of the water-supply. In this respect golf-architecture
has hitherto been sadly to seek. There should, he says, be at least one bathroom for every
twenty members.

We are obliged to hold over for the present the views expressed on this burning question by
Dame MELBA, Madame KARSAVINA and Madame DESTINNOVA.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "A departure from the bridal custom frequently noted since the
    war, of having man bridesmaids, is being made by Lady Diano
    Manners."--Provincial Paper.

We had not previously noted this custom, but are glad that Lady DIANO--whose name also is new
to us--is dispensing with it.

       *       *       *       *       *

  An ex-Waac domestic named Mary Ann
  Took a place with a strict vegetarian;
       He cautioned her, too,
       That beer was taboo,
  But she simply replied, "Ça ne fait rien. " We have the same
hero, Hannay, as in Greenmantle and The Thirty-Nine Steps, the
same group of associates, reinforced for purposes of love-interest by
a young and attractive female, and the same arch-Hun, now identified
as the Graf von Schwabing. Also the affair pursues much the same
hide-and-seek course that gave the former adventures their
deserved popularity. I entirely decline even to sketch the manifold
vicissitudes of Hannay (now a General), tracking and being tracked,
captive and captor, ranging the habitable and non-habitable globe,
always (with a fine disregard for the requirements of book-making)
convinced that the next chapter will be the last. Three criticisms
I cannot avoid. To begin with, Colonel BUCHAN is really becoming
too lavish with his coincidences. Secondly, I found it odd that the
spy-hunters, after employing so many ruses and so much camouflage that
one might say they almost refused to recognise their own reflections
in a mirror, should proceed to the opposite extreme and arrange all
their plans, with engaging frankness, over the telephone. Finally, the
tale, though full of admirable disconnected moments, does not carry
one along sufficiently quickly. General Hannay was, I thought, too
apt to interpolate lengthy reminiscences of active service, just when
I wanted to get on with the matter in hand. Pace in such affairs is
everything, and my complaint is that, though the hunt had yielded some
capital sport, its end found me with my pulse rather disappointingly
calm.

       *       *       *       *       *

As was to be expected, one of the signs of the times in literature, not of one country but
of all, is a grim change in its attitude towards war. The era of pomp and circumstance, as
of genial make-believe, is gone by; more and more are our writers beginning to give us militarism
stripped of romance, a grisly but (I suppose) useful picture. I have nowhere found it more
horrible than in a story called The Secret Battle (METHUEN), written by Mr. A.P. HERBERT, whose
initials are familiar to Punch readers under work of a lighter texture. This is an intimate
study, inspired throughout by a cold fury of purpose that can be felt on every page, of the
destruction of a young man's spirit in the insensate machinery of modern war. There is no other
plot, no side issues, no relief. From the introduction of Harry Penrose, fresh from Oxford,
embarking like a gallant gentleman upon the adventure of arms, to the tragedy that blotted
him out of a scheme that had misused and ruined him, the record moves with a dreadful singleness
of intent. Sometimes, one at least hopes, the shadows may have been artificially darkened.
It seems even to-day hardly credible that events should conspire to such futility of error.
But as a story with a purpose, not, in spite of the publisher's description, a novel, The Secret
Battle certainly deserves the epithet "striking." It is a blow from the shoulder.

       *       *       *       *       *

