The rivalry between the two groups became so violent that in 1767 the government intervened
and closed down Grand Lodge.

The Templar group had, however, formed two separate associations, the "Knights of the East"
(1756) and the "Council of the Emperors of the East and West" (1758). In 1761 a Jew named Stephen
Morin was sent to America by the "Emperors" armed with a warrant from the Duc de Clermont and
Grand Lodge of Paris and bearing the sonorous title of "Grand Elect Perfect and Sublime Master,"
with orders to establish a Lodge in that country. In 1766 he was accused in Grand Lodge of
"propagating strange and monstrous doctrines" and his patent of Grand Inspector was withdrawn.[394]
Morin, however, had succeeded in establishing the Rite of Perfection. Sixteen Inspectors, nearly
all Jews, were now appointed. These included Isaac Iong, Isaac de Costa, Moses Hayes, B. Spitser,
Moses Cohen, Abraham Jacobs, and Hyman Long.

Meanwhile in France the closing of Grand Lodge had not prevented meetings of Lacorne's group,
which, on the death of the Duc de Clermont in 1772, instituted the "Grand Orient" with the
Duc de Chartres--the future "Philippe Égalité"--as Grand Master. The Grand Orient then invited
the Grande Loge to revoke the decree of expulsion and unite with it, and this offer being accepted,
the revolutionary party inevitably carried all before it, and the Duc de Chartres was declared
Grand Master of all the councils, chapters, and Scotch lodges of France.[395] In 1782 the "Council
of Emperors" and the "Knights of the East" combined to form the "Grand Chapitre Général de
France," which in 1786 joined up with the Grand Orient. The victory of the revolutionary party
was then complete.

It is necessary to enter into all these tedious details in order to understand the nature of
the factions grouped together under the banner of Masonry at this period. The Martinist Papus
attributes the revolutionary influences that now prevailed in the lodges to their invasion
by the Templars, and goes on to explain that this was owing to a change that had taken place
in the Ordre du Temple. Under the Grand Mastership of the Regent and his successor the Duc
de Bourbon, the revolutionary elements amongst the Templars had had full play, but from 1741
onwards the Grand Masters of the Order were supporters of the monarchy. When the Revolution
came, the Duc de Cossé-Brissac, who had been Grand Master since 1776, perished amongst the
defenders of the throne. It was thus that by the middle of the century the Order of the Temple
ceased to be a revolutionary force, and the discontented elements it had contained, no longer
able to find in it a refuge, threw themselves into Freemasonry, and entering the higher degrees
turned them to their subversive purpose. According to Papus, Lacorne was a member of the Templar
group, and the dissensions that took place were principally a fight between the ex-Templars
and the genuine Freemasons which ended in the triumph of the former:

     Victorious rebels thus founded the Grand Orient of France. So a
     contemporary Mason is able to write: "It is not excessive to say
     that the masonic revolution of 1773 was the prelude and the
     precursor of the Revolution of 1789." What must be well observed is
     the secret action of the Brothers of the Templar Rite. It is they
     who are the real fomentors of revolution, the others are only
     docile agents.[396]

But all this attributes the baneful influence of Templarism to the French Templars alone, and
the existence of such a body rests on no absolutely certain evidence. What is certain and admits
of no denial on the part of any historian, is the inauguration of a Templar Order in Germany
at the very moment when the so-called Scottish degrees were introduced into French Masonry.
We shall now return to 1738 and follow events that were taking place at this important moment
beyond the Rhine.

7

GERMAN TEMPLARISM AND FRENCH ILLUMINISM

The year after Ramsay's oration--that is to say in 1738--Frederick, Crown Prince of Prussia,
the future Frederick the Great, who for two years had been carrying on a correspondence with
Voltaire, suddenly evinced a curiosity to know the secrets of Freemasonry which he had hitherto
derided as "Kinderspiel," and accordingly went through a hasty initiation during the night
of August 14-15, whilst passing through Brunswick.[397]

The ceremony took place not at a masonic lodge, but at a hotel, in the presence of a deputation
summoned by the Graf von Lippe-Bückeburg from Grand Lodge of Hamburg for the occasion. It is
evident that something of an unusual kind must have occurred to necessitate these speedy and
makeshift arrangements. Carlyle, in his account of the episode, endeavours to pass it off as
a "very trifling circumstance"--a reason the more for regarding it as of the highest importance
since we know now from facts that have recently come to light how carefully Carlyle was spoon-fed
by Potsdam whilst writing his book on Frederick the Great.[398]

But let us follow Frederick's masonic career. In June 1740, after his accession to the throne,
his interest in Masonry had clearly not waned, for we find him presiding over a lodge at Charlottenburg,
where he received into the Order two of his brothers, his brother-in-law, and Duke Frederick
William of Holstein-Beck. At his desire the Baron de Bielfeld and his privy councillor Jordan
founded a lodge at Berlin, the "Three Globes," which by 1746 had no less than fourteen lodges
under its jurisdiction.

In this same year of 1740 Voltaire, in response to urgent invitations, paid his first visit
to Frederick the Great in Germany. Voltaire is usually said not to have yet become a Mason,
and the date of his initiation is supposed to have been 1778, when he was received into the
Loge des Neuf Soeurs in Paris. But this by no means precludes the possibility that he had belonged
to another masonic Order at an earlier date. At any rate, Voltaire's visit to Germany was followed
by two remarkable events in the masonic world of France. The first of these was the institution
of the additional degrees; the second--perhaps not wholly unconnected with the first--was the
arrival in Paris of a masonic delegate from Germany named von Marschall, who brought with him
instructions for a new or rather a revived Order of Templarism, in which he attempted to interest
Prince Charles Edward and his followers.

Von Marschall was followed about two years later by Baron von Hunt, who had been initiated
in 1741 into the three degrees of Craft Masonry in Germany and now came to consecrate a lodge
in Paris. According to von Hundt's own account, he was then received into the Order of the
Temple by an unknown Knight of the Red Plume, in the presence of Lord Kilmarnock,[399] and
was presented as a distinguished Brother to Prince Charles Edward, whom he imagined to be Grand
Master of the Order.[400] But all this was afterwards shown to be a pure frabrication, for
Prince Charles Edward dened all knowledge of the affair, and von Hundt himself admitted later
that he did not know the name of the lodge or chapter in which he was received, but that he
was directed from "a hidden centre" and by Unknown Superiors, whose identity he was bound not
to reveal.[401] In reality it appears that von Hundt's account was exactly the opposite of
the truth,[402] and that it was von Hundt who, seconding von Marschall's effort, tried to enrol
Prince Charles Edward in the new German Order by assuring him that he could raise powerful
support for the Stuart cause under the cover of reorganizing the Templar Order, of which he
claimed to possess the true secrets handed down from the Knights of the fourteenth century.
By way of further rehabilitating the Order, von Hundt declared that all the accusations brought
against it by Philippe le Bel and the Pope were based on false charges manufactured by two
recreant Knights named Noffodei and Florian as a revenge for having been deprived of their
commands by the Order in consequence of certain crimes they had committed.[403] According to
Lecouteulx de Canteleu, von Hundt eventually succeeded--after the defeat of Culloden--in persuading
Prince Charles Edward to enter his Order. But this is extremely doubtful. At any rate, when
in 1751 von Hundt officially founded his new Templar Order under the name of the Stricte Observance,
the unfortunate Charles Edward played no part at all in the scheme. As Mr. Gould has truly
observed, "no trace of Jacobite intrigues ever blended with the teaching of the Stricte Observance."[404]

The Order of the Stricte Observance was in reality a purely German association composed of
men drawn entirely from the intellectual and aristocratic classes, and, in imitation of the
chivalric Orders of the past, known to each other under knightly titles. Thus Prince Charles
of Hesse became Eques a Leone Resurgente, Duke Ferdinand of Brunswick Eques a Victoria, the
Prussian minister von Bischoffswerder Eques a Grypho, Baron de Wachter Eques a Ceraso, Christian
Bode (Councillor of Legation in Saxe-Gotha) Eques a Lilio Convallium, von Haugwitz (Cabinet
Minister of Frederick the Great) Eques a Monte Sancto, etc.

But according to the declarations of the Order the official leaders, Knights of the Moon, the
Star, the Golden Sun, or of the Sacred Mountain, were simply figure-heads; the real leaders,
known as the "Unknown Superiors," remained in the background, unadorned by titles of chivalry
but exercising supreme jurisdiction over the Order. The system had been foreshadowed by the
"Invisibles" of seventeenth-century Rosicrucianism; but now, instead of an intangible group
whose very existence was only known vaguely to the world, there appeared in the light of day
a powerful organization led apparently by men of influence and position yet secretly directed
by hidden chiefs.[405] Mirabeau has described the advent of these mysterious directors in the
following passage:

     In about 1756 there appeared, as if they had come out of the
     ground, men sent, they said, by unknown superiors, and armed with
     powers to reform the order [of Freemasonry] and re-establish it in
     its ancient purity. One of these missionaries, named Johnston, came
     to Weimar and Jena, where he established himself. He was received
     in the best way in the world by the brothers [Freemasons], who were
     lured by the hope of great secrets, of important discoveries which
     were never made known to them.[406]

Now, in the manuscripts of the Prince of Hesse published by Lecouteulx de Canteleu it is said
that this man Johnston, or rather Johnson, who proclaimed himself to be "Grand Prior of the
Order," was a Jew named Leicht or Leucht.[407] Gould says that his real name was either Leucht
or Becker, but that he professed to be an Englishman, although unable to speak the English
language, hence his assumption of the name Johnson.[408] Mr. Gould has described Johnson as
a "consummate rogue and an unmitigated vagabond ... of almost repulsive demeanour and of no
education, but gifted with boundless impudence and low cunning." Indeed, von Hundt himself,
after enlisting Johnson's services, found him too dangerous and declared him to be an adventurer.
Johnson was thereupon arrested by von Hundt's friend the councillor von Pritsch, and thrown
into the castle of Wartburg, where sudden death ended his career.

It is, however, improbable that Mirabeau could be right in indicating Johnson as one of the
"Unknown Superiors," who were doubtless men of vaster conceptions than this adventurer appears
to have been. Moreover, the manner of his end clearly proves that he occupied a subordinate
position in the Stricte Observance.

Here, then, we have a very curious sequence of events which it may be well to recapitulate
briefly in order to appreciate their full significance:

  1737. Oration of Chevalier Ramsay indicating Templar origin of
        Freemasonry, but making no mention of upper degrees.

  1738. Duc d'Antin becomes Grand Master of French Freemasonry in the
        place of Lord "Harnouester."

  1738. Frederick, Crown Prince of Prussia, initiated into Masonry at
        Brunswick.

  1740. Voltaire pays his first visit to Frederick, now King.

  1741. Baron von Marschall arrives in Paris with a plan for reviving
        the Templar Order.

        Templar degrees first heard of in France under name of "Scots
        Masonry."

  1743. Arrival in France of Baron von Hundt with fresh plans for
        reviving the Templar Order.

        Degree of Knight Kadosch celebrating vengeance of Templars said
        to have been instituted at Lyons.

  1750. Voltaire goes to spend three years with Frederick.

  1751. Templar Order of the Stricte Observance founded by von Hundt.

  1754. Rite of Perfection (early form of Scottish Rite) founded in
        France.

  1761. Frederick acknowledged head of Scottish Rite.

    "   Morin sent to found Rite of Perfection in America.

  1762. Grand Masonic Constitutions ratified in Berlin.[409]

It will be seen then that what Mr. Gould describes as "the flood of Templarism," which both
he and Mr. Tuckett attribute to the so-called Scots Masons,[410] corresponds precisely with
the decline of Jacobite and the rise of German influence. Would it not therefore appear probable
that, except in the case of the Rose-Croix degree, the authors of the upper degrees were not
Scotsmen nor Jacobites, that Scots Masonry was a term used to cover not merely Templarism but
more especially German Templarism, and that the real author and inspirer of the movement was
Frederick the Great? No, it is significant to find that in the history of the Ordre du Temple,
published at the beginning of the nineteenth century, Frederick the Great is cited as one of
the most distinguished members of this Order in the past,[411] and the Abbé Grégoire adds that
he was "consecrated" at Remersberg (Rheinsberg?) in 1738, that is to say in the same year that
he was initiated into Masonry at Brunswick.[412] There is therefore a definite reason for connecting
Frederick with Templarism at this date.

I would suggest, then, that the truth about the Templar succession may be found in one of the
two following theories:

1. That the documents produced by the Ordre du Temple in the nineteenth century, including
the Charter of Larmenius, were genuine; that the Order had never ceased to exist since the
days of the Crusades; that the Templar heresy was Johannism, but that this was not held by
the Templars who escaped to Scotland; that the Rose-Croix degree in its purely Christian form
was introduced by the Scottish Templars to Scotland and four hundred years later brought by
Ramsay to France; that the Master of the Temple at this date was the Regent, Philippe Duc d'Orléans,
as stated in the Charter of Larmenius. Finally, that after this, fresh Templar degrees were
introduced from Germany by von Hundt, acting on behalf of Frederick the Great.

2. That the documents produced by the Ordre du Temple in the nineteenth century were, as M.
Matter declares, early eighteenth-century fabrications; that although, in view of the tradition
preserved in the Royal Order of Scotland, there appears to be good reason to believe the story
of the Scottish Templars and the origin of the Rose-Croix degree, the rest of the history of
the Templars, including the Charter of Larmenius, was an invention of the "Concealed Superiors"
of the Stricte Observance in Germany, and that the most important of these "Concealed Superiors"
were Frederick the Great and Voltaire.

I shall not attempt to decide which of these two theories is correct; all that I do maintain
is that in either case the preponderating rôle in Templarism at this crisis was played by Frederick
the Great, probably with the co-operation of Voltaire, who in his Essai sur les Mæurs championed
the cause of the Templars. Let us follow the reasons for arriving at this conclusion.

Ramsay's oration in 1737 connecting Freemasonry with the Templars may well have come to the
ears of Frederick and suggested to him the idea of using Masonry as a cover for his intrigues--hence
his hasty initiation at Brunswick. But in order to acquire influence in a secret society it
is always necessary to establish a claim to superior knowledge, and Templarism seemed to provide
a fruitful source of inspiration. For this purpose new light must be thrown on the Order. Now,
there was probably no one better qualified than Voltaire, with his knowledge of the ancient
and medieval world and hatred of the Catholic Church, to undertake the construction of a historical
romance subversive of the Catholic faith--hence the urgent summons to the philosopher to visit
Frederick. We can imagine Voltaire delving amongst the records of the past in order to reconstruct
the Templar heresy. This was clearly Gnostic, and the Mandæans or Christians of St. John may
well have appeared to present the required characteristics. If it could be shown that here
in Johannism true "primitive Christianity" was to be found, what a blow for the "infâme"! A
skilful forger could easily be found to fabricate the documents said to have been preserved
in the secret archives of the Order. Further we find von Marschall arriving in the following
year in France to reorganize the Templars, and von Hundt later claiming to be in possession
of the true secrets of the Order handed down from the fourteenth century. That some documents
bearing on this question were either discovered or fabricated under the direction of Frederick
the Great seems the more probable from the existence of a masonic tradition to this effect.
Thus Dr. Oliver quotes a Report of the Grand Inspectors-General in the nineteenth century stating
that:

     During the Crusades, at which 27,000 Masons were present, some
     masonic MSS. of great importance were discovered among the
     descendants of the ancient Jews, and that other valuable documents
     were found at different periods down to the year of Light 5557
     (i.e. 1553), at which time a record came to light in Syrian
     characters, relating to the most remote antiquity, and from which
     it would appear that the world is many thousand years older than
     given by the Mosaic account. Few of these characters were
     translated till the reign of our illustrious and most enlightened
     Brother Frederick II, King of Prussia, whose well-known zeal for
     the Craft was the cause of so much improvement in the Society over
     which he condescended to preside.[413]

I suggest, then, that the documents here referred to and containing the secrets claimed by
von Hundt may have been the ones afterwards published by the Ordre du Temple in the nineteenth
century, and that if unauthentic they were the work of Voltaire, aided probably by a Jew capable
of forging Syriac manuscripts. That Johnson was the Jew in question seems probable, since Findel
definitely asserts that the history of the continuation of the Order of Knights Templar was
his work.[414] Frederick, as we know, was in the habit of employing Jews to carry out shady
transactions, and he may well have used Johnson to forge documents as he used Ephraim to coin
false money for him. It would be further quite in keeping with his policy to get rid of the
man as soon as he had served his purpose, lest he should betray his secrets.

At any rate, whatever were the methods employed by Frederick the Great for obtaining control
over Masonry, the fruitful results of that "very trifling circumstance," his initiation at
Brunswick, become more and more apparent as the century advances. Thus when in 1786 the Rite
of Perfection was reorganized and rechristened the "Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite"--always
the same Scottish cover for Prussianism!--it is said to have been Frederick who conducted operations,
drew up the new Constitutions of the Order, and rearranged the degrees so as to bring the total
number up to thirty-three[415], as follows:

    26. Prince of Mercy.
    27. Sovereign Commander of the Temple.
    28. Knight of the Sun.
    29. Grand Scotch Knight of St. Andrew.
    30. Grand Elect Knight of Kadosch.
    31. Grand Inspector Inquisitor Commander.
    32. Sublime Prince of the Royal Secret.
    33. Sovereign Grand Inspector-General.

In the last four degrees Frederick the Great and Prussia play an important part; in the thirtieth
degree of Knight Kadosch, largely modelled on the Vehmgerichts, the Knights wear Teutonic crosses,
the throne is surmounted by the double-headed eagle of Prussia, and the President, who is called
Thrice Puissant Grand Master, represents Frederick himself; in the thirty-second degree of
Sublime Prince of the Royal Secret, Frederick is described as the head of Continental Freemasonry;
in the thirty-third degree of Sovereign Grand Inspector-General the jewel is again the double-headed
eagle, and the Sovereign Grand Commander is Frederick, who at the time this degree was instituted
figured with Philippe, Duc d'Orléans, Grand Master of the Grand Orient, as his lieutenant.
The most important of these innovations was the thirty-second degree, which was in reality
a system rather than a degree for bringing together the Masons of all countries under one head--hence
the immense power acquired by Frederick. By 1786 French Masonry was thus entirely Prussianized
and Frederick had indeed become the idol of Masonry everywhere. Yet probably no one ever despised
Freemasonry more profoundly. As the American Mason Albert Pike shrewdly observed:

     There is no doubt that Frederick came to the conclusion that the
     great pretensions of Masonry in the blue degrees were merely
     imaginary and deceptive. He ridiculed the Order, and thought its
     ceremonies mere child's play; and some of his sayings to that
     effect have been preserved. It does not at all follow that he might
     not at a later day have found it politic to put himself at the head
     of an Order that had become a power....[416]

It is not without significance to find that in the year following the official foundation of
the Stricte Observance, that is to say in 1752, Lord Holdernesse, in a letter to the British
Ambassador in Paris, Lord Albemarle, headed "Very secret," speaks of "the influence which the
King of Prussia has of late obtained over all the French Councils"; and a few weeks later Lord
Albemarle refers to "the great influence of the Prussian Court over the French Councils by
which they are so blinded as not to be able to judge for themselves."[417]

But it is time to turn to another sphere of activity which Masonry opened out to the ambitions
of Frederick.

The making of the Encyclopédie, which even those writers the most sceptical with regard to
secret influences behind the revolutionary movement admit to have contributed towards the final
cataclysm, is a question on which official history has thrown but little light. According to
the authorized version of the story--as related, for example, in Lord Morley's work on the
Encyclopædists--the plan of translating Ephraim Chambers's Cyclopædia, which had appeared in
1728, was suggested to Diderot "some fifteen years later" by a French bookseller named Le Breton.

In the famous speech of the Chevalier Ramsay already quoted, which was delivered at Grand Lodge
of Paris in 1737, the following passage occurs:

     The fourth quality required in our Order is the taste for useful
     sciences and the liberal arts. Thus, the Order exacts of each of
     you to contribute, by his protection, liberality, or labour, to a
     vast work for which no academy can suffice, because all these
     societies being composed of a very small number of men, their work
     cannot embrace an object so extended. All the Grand Masters in
     Germany, England, Italy, and elsewhere exhort all the learned men
     and all the artisans of the Fraternity to unite to furnish the
     materials for a Universal Dictionary of all the liberal arts and
     useful sciences; excepting only theology and politics. The work has
     already been commenced in London, and by means of the unions of our
     brothers it may be carried to a conclusion in a few years.[419]

So after all it was no enterprising bookseller, no brilliantly inspired philosopher, who conceived
the idea of the Encyclopédie, but a powerful international organization able to employ the
services of more men than all the academies could supply, which devised the scheme at least
six years before the date at which it is said to have occurred to Diderot. Thus the whole story
as usually told to us would appear to be a complete fabrication--struggling publishers, toiling
littérateurs carrying out their superhuman task as "independent men of letters" without the
patronage of the great--which Lord Morley points out as "one of the most important facts in
the history of the Encyclopædia"--writers of all kinds bound together by no "common understanding
or agreement," are all seen in reality to have been closely associated as "artisans of the
Fraternity" carrying out the orders of their superiors.

The Encyclopédie was therefore essentially a Masonic publication, and Papus, whilst erroneously
attributing the famous oration and consequently the plan of the Encyclopédie to the inspiration
of the Duc d'Antin, emphasizes the importance of this fact. Thus, he writes:

     The Revolution manifests itself by two stages:

     1st. Intellectual revolution, by the publication of the
     Encyclopédie, due to French Freemasonry under the high
     inspiration of the Duc d'Antin.

     2nd. Occult revolution in the Lodges, due in great part to the
     members of the Templar Rite and executed by a group of expelled
     Freemasons afterwards amnestied.[420]

The masonic authorship of the Encyclopédie and the consequent dissemination of revolutionary
doctrines has remained no matter of doubt to the Freemasons of France; on the contrary, they
glory in the fact. At the congress of the Grand Orient in 1904 the Freemason Bonnet declared:

     In the eighteenth century the glorious line of Encyclopædists
     formed in our temples a fervent audience which was then alone in
     invoking the radiant device as yet unknown to the crowd: "Liberty,
     Equality, Fraternity." The revolutionary seed quickly germinated
     amidst this élite. Our illustrious Freemasons d'Alembert,
     Diderot, Helvétius, d'Holbach, Voltaire, Condorcet, completed the
     evolution of minds and prepared the new era. And, when the Bastille
     fell, Freemasonry had the supreme honour of giving to humanity the
     charter (i.e. the Declaration of the Rights of Man) which it had
     elaborated with devotion. (Applause.)

This charter, the orator went on to say, was the work of the Freemason Lafayette, and was adopted
by the Constituent Assembly, of which more than 300 members were Freemasons.

But in using the lodges to sow the seeds of revolution, the Encyclopædists betrayed not only
the cause of monarchy but of Masonry as well. It will be noticed that, in conformity with true
masonic principles, Ramsay in his oration expressly stated that the encyclopædia was to concern
itself with the liberal arts and sciences[421] and that theology and politics were to be excluded
from the contemplated scheme. How, then, did it come to pass that these were eventually the
two subjects to which the Encyclopædists devoted the greatest attention, so that their work
became principally an attack on Church and monarchy? If Papus was right in attributing this
revolutionary tendency to the Encyclopédie from the time of the famous oration, then Ramsay
could only be set down as the profoundest hypocrite or as the mouthpiece of hypocrites professing
intentions the very reverse of their real designs. A far more probable explanation seems to
be that during the interval between Ramsay's speech and the date when the Encyclopédie was
begun in earnest, the scheme underwent a change. It will be noticed that the year of 1746,
when Diderot and d'Alembert are said to have embarked on their task, coincided with the decadence
of French Freemasonry under the Comte de Clermont and the invasion of the lodges by the subversive
elements; thus the project propounded with the best intentions by the Freemasons of 1737 was
filched by their revolutionary successors and turned to a diametrically opposite purpose.

But it is not to the dancing-master Lacorne and his middle-class following that we can attribute
the efficiency with which not only the Encyclopédie but a host of minor revolutionary publications
were circulated all over France. Frederick the Great had seen his opportunity. If I am right
in my surmise that Ramsay's speech had reached the ears of Frederick, the prospect of the Encyclopédie
contained therein may well have appeared to him a magnificent method for obtaining a footing
in the intellectual circles of France; hence then, doubtless, an additional reason for his
hasty initiation into Masonry, his summons to Voltaire, and his subsequent overtures to Diderot
and d'Alembert, who, by the time the first volume of the Encyclopédie appeared in 1751, had
both been made members of the Royal Academy of Prussia. In the following year Frederick offered
d'Alembert the presidency of the Academy in place of Maupertuis, an offer which was refused;
but in 1755 and again in 1763 d'Alembert visited Frederick in Germany and received his pension
regularly from Berlin. It is therefore not surprising that when the Encyclopédie had reached
the letter P, it included, in an unsigned article on Prussia, a panegyric on the virtues and
the talents of the illustrious monarch who presided over the destinies of that favoured country.

The art of Frederick the Great, as of his successors on the throne of the Hohenzollerns, was
to make use of every movement that could further the design of Prussian supremacy. He used
the Freemasons as he used the philosophers and as he used the Jews, to carry out his great
scheme--the destruction of the French monarchy and of the alliance between France and Austria.
Whilst through his representatives at the Court of France he was able to create discord between
Versailles and Vienna and bring discredit on Marie Antoinette, through his allies in the masonic
lodges and in the secret societies he was able to reach the people of France. The gold and
the printing presses of Frederick the Great were added to those of the Orléanistes for the
circulation of seditious literature throughout the provinces.[422]

So as the century advanced the association founded by Royalists and Catholics was turned into
an engine of destruction by revolutionary intriguers; the rites and symbols were gradually
perverted to an end directly opposed to that for which they had been instituted, and the two
degrees of Rose-Croix and Knight Kadosch came to symbolize respectively war on religion and
war on the monarchy of France.

It is no orthodox Catholic but an occultist and Rosicrucian who thus describes the rôle of
Masonry in the Revolution:

     Masonry has not only been profaned but it has been served as a
     cover and pretext for the plots of anarchy, by the occult influence
     of the avengers of Jacques du Molay and the continuers of the
     schismatic work of the Temple. Instead of avenging the death of
     Hiram, they have avenged his assassins. The anarchists have taken
     the plumb-line, the square, and the mallet and have written on them
     liberty, equality, fraternity. That is to say, liberty for
     envyings, equality in degradation, fraternity for destruction.
     Those are the men whom the Church has justly condemned and that she
     will always condemn.[423]

But it is time to turn to another masonic power which meanwhile had entered the lists, the
Martinistes or French Illuminés.

French Illuminism

Whilst Frederick the Great, the Freemasons, the Encyclopædists, and the Orléanistes were working
on the material plane to undermine the Church and monarchy in France, another cult had arisen
which by the middle of the century succeeded in insinuating itself into the lodges. This was
a recrudescence of the old craze for occultism, which now spread like wildfire all over Europe
from Bordeaux to St. Petersburg. During the reign of Anna of Courland (1730-40) the Russian
Court was permeated with superstition, and professional magicians and charlatans of every kind
were encouraged. The upper classes of Germany in the eighteenth century proved equally susceptible
to the attractions of the supernatural, and princes desirous of long life or greater power
eagerly pursued the quest of the Philosopher's Stone, the "Elixir of Life," and evoked spirits
under the direction of occultists in their service.

In France occultism, reduced to a system, adopted the outer forms of Masonry as a cover to
the propagation of its doctrines. It was in 1754 that Martines de Pasqually (or Paschalis),
a Rose-Croix Mason,[424] founded his Order of Élus Cohens (Elected Priests), known later as
the Martinistes or the French Illuminés. Although brought up in the Christian faith, Pasqually
has been frequently described as a Jew. The Baron de Gleichen, himself a Martiniste and a member
of the Amis Réunis,[425] throws an interesting light on the matter in this passage: "Pasqualis
was originally Spanish, perhaps of the Jewish race, since his disciples inherited from him
a large number of Jewish manuscripts."[426]

It was "this Cabalistic sect,"[427] the Martinistes, which now became the third great masonic
power in France.

The rite of the Martinistes was broadly divided into two classes, in the first of which was
represented the fall of man and in the second his final restoration--a further variation on
the masonic theme of a loss and a recovery. After the first three Craft degrees came the Cohen
degrees of the same--Apprentice Cohen, Fellow Craft Cohen, and Master Cohen--then those of
Grand Architect, Grand Elect of Zerubbabel or Knight of the East: but above these were concealed
degrees leading up to the Rose-Croix, which formed the capstone of the edifice.[428] Pasqually
first established his rite at Marseilles, Toulouse, and Bordeaux, then in Paris, and before
long Martiniste lodges spread all over France with the centre at Lyons under the direction
of Willermoz, a prosperous merchant living there. From this moment other occult Orders sprang
up in all directions. In 1760 Dom Pernetti founded his sect of "Illuminés d'Avignon" in that
city, declaring himself a high initiate of Freemasonry and teaching the doctrines of Swedenborg.
Later a certain Chastanier founded the "Illuminés Théosophes," a modified version of Pernetti's
rite; and in 1783 the Marquis de Thomé started a purified variety of Swedenborgianism under
the name of "Rite of Swedenborg."

Beneath all these occult sects one common source of inspiration is to be found--the perverted
and magical Cabala of the Jews, that conglomeration of wild theosophical imaginings and barbaric
superstitions founded on ancient pagan cults and added to throughout seventeen centuries by
succeeding generations of Jewish occultists.[429] This influence is particularly to be detected
in the various forms of the Rose-Croix degree, which in nearly all these associations forms
the highest and most secret degree. The ritual of "the eminent Order of the Knights of the
Black Eagle or Sovereigns of the Rose-Croix," a secret and unpublished document of the eighteenth
century, which differs entirely from the published rituals, explains that no one can attain
to knowledge of the higher sciences without the "Clavicules de Salomon," of which the real
secrets were never committed to print and which is said to contain the whole of Cabalistic
science.[430] The catechism of this same degree deals mainly with the transmutation of metals,
the Philosopher's Stone, etc.

In the Rite of Perfection as worked in France and America this Cabalistic influence is shown
in those degrees known under the name of the "Ineffable Degrees," derived from the Jewish belief
in the mystery that surrounds the Ineflable Name of God. According to the custom of the Jews,
the sacred name Jehovah or Jah-ve, composed of the four letters yod, he, vau, he, which formed
the Tetragrammaton, was never to be pronounced by the profane, who were obliged to substitute
for it the word "Adonai." The Tetragrammaton might only be uttered once a year on the Day of
Atonement by the High Priest in the Holy of Holies amid the sound of trumpets and cymbals,
which prevented the people from hearing it. It is said that in consequence of the people thus
refraining from its utterance, the true pronunciation of the name was at last lost. The Jews
further believed that the Tetragrammaton was possessed of unbounded powers. "He who pronounces
it shakes heaven and earth and inspires the very angels with astonishment and terror."[431]
The Ineffable Name thus conferred miraculous gifts; it was engraved on the rod of Moses and
enabled him to perform wonders, just as, according to the Toledot Yeshu, it conferred the same
powers on Christ.

This superstition was clearly a part of Rosicrucian tradition, for the symbol of the Tetragrammaton
within a triangle, adopted by the masonic lodges, figures in Fludd's Cabalistic system.[432]
In the "Ineffable degrees" it was invested with all the mystic awe by which it is surrounded
in Jewish theology, and, according to early American working: "Brothers and Companions of these
degrees received the name of God as it was revealed to Enoch and were sworn to pronounce it
but once in their lives."

In the alchemical version of the Rose-Croix degree referred to above the Ineffable Name is
actually invested with magical powers as in the Jewish Cabala. Ragon, after describing the
Jewish ceremony when the word Jehovah was pronounced by the High Priest in the Holy of Holies,
goes on to say that "Schem-hamm-phorasch," another term for the Tetragrammaton, forms the sacred
word of a Scotch degree, and that this belief in its mystic properties "will be found at the
head of the instructions for the third degree of the Knight of the Black Eagle, called Rose-Croix,"
thus:

     Q. What is the most powerful name of God on the pentaculum?
     A. Adonai.
     Q. What is its power?
     A. To move the Universe.

     That one of the Knights who had the good fortune to pronounce it
     cabalistically would have at his disposal the powers that inhabit
     the four elements and the celestial spirits, and would possess all
     the virtues possible to man.[433]

That this form of the Rose-Croix was of purely Jewish origin is thus clearly evident. In the
address to the candidate for initiation into the Rose-Croix degree at the Lodge of the "Contrat
Social" it is stated:

     This degree, which includes an Order of Perfect Masons, was brought
     to light by Brother R., who took it from the Kabbalistic treasure
     of the Doctor and Rabbi Néamuth, chief of the synagogue of Leyden
     in Holland, who had preserved its precious secrets and its costume,
     both of which we shall see in the same order in which he placed
     them in his mysterious Talmud.[434]

Now, we know that in the eighteenth century a society of Rosicrucian magicians had been instituted
in Florence which was believed to date back to the fifteenth century and to have been partly,
if not wholly composed of Orientals, as we shall see in the next chapter; but it seems probable
that this sect, whilst secretly inspiring the Rose-Croix masons, was itself either nameless
or concealed under a disguise. Thus in 1782 an English Freemason writes: "I have found some
rather curious MSS. in Algiers in Hebrew relating to the society of the Rosicrucians, which
exists at present under another name with the same forms. I hope, moreover to be admitted to
their knowledge."[435]

It has frequently been argued that Jews can have played no part in Freemasonry at this period
since they themselves were not admitted to the lodges. But this is by no means certain; in
the article from The Gentleman's Magazine already quoted it is stated that Jews are admitted;
de Luchet further quotes the instance of David Moses Hertz received in a London lodge in 1787;
and the author of Les Franc-Masons écrasés, published in 1746, states that he has seen three
Jews received into a lodge at Amsterdam. In the "Melchisedeck Lodges" of the Continent non-Christians
were openly admitted, and here again the Rose-Croix degree occupies the most important place.
The highest degrees of this rite were the Initiated Brothers of Asia, the Masters of the Wise,
and the Royal Priests, otherwise known as the degree of Melchisedeck or the true Brothers of
the Rose-Croix.

This Order, usually described as the Asiatic Brethren, of which the centre was in Vienna and
the leader a certain Baron von Eckhoffen, is said to have been a continuation of the "Brothers
of the Golden and Rosy Cross," a revival of the seventeenth-century Rosicrucians organized
in 1710 by a Saxon priest, Samuel Richter, known as Sincerus Renatus. The real origins of the
Asiatic Brethren are, however, obscure and little literature on the subject is to be found
in this country.[436] Their further title of "the Knights and Brethren of St. John the Evangelist"
suggests Johannite inspiration and was clearly an imposture, since they included Jews, Turks,
Persians, and Armenians. De Luchet, who as a contemporary was in a position to acquire first-hand
information, thus describes the organization of the Order, which, it will be seen, was entirely
Judaic. "The superior direction is called the small and constant Sanhedrim of Europe. The names
of those employed by which they conceal themselves from their inferiors are Hebrew. The signs
of the third principal degree (i.e. the Rose-Croix) are Urim and Thummim.... The Order has
the true secrets and the explanations, moral and physical, of the hierogyphics of the very
venerable Order of Freemasonry."[437] The initiate had to swear absolute submission and unswerving
obedience to the laws of the Order and to follow its laws implicitly to the end of his life,
without asking by whom they were given or whence they came.

"Who," asks de Luchet, "gave to the Order these so-called secrets? That is the great and insidious
question for the secret societies. But the Initiate who remains, and must remain eternally
in the Order, never finds this out, he dare not even ask it, he must promise never to ask it.
In this way those who participate in the secrets of the Order remain the Masters."

Again, as in the Stricte Observance, the same system of "Concealed Superiors"--the same blind
obedience to unknown directors!

Under the guidance of these various sects of Illuminés a wave of occultism swept over France,
and lodges everywhere became centres of instruction on the Cabala, magic, divination, alchemy,
and theosophy[438]; masonic rites degenerated into ceremonies for the evocation of spirits--women,
who were now admitted to these assemblies, screamed, fainted, fell into convulsions, and lent
themselves to experiments of the most horrible kind.[439]

By means of these occult practices the Illuminés in time became the third great masonic power
in France, and the rival Orders perceived the expediency of joining forces. Accordingly in
1771 an amalgamation of all the masonic groups was effected at the new lodge of the Amis Réunis.

The founder of this lodge was Savalette de Langes, Keeper of the Royal Treasury, Grand Officer
of the Grand Orient, and a high initiate of Masonry--"versed in all mysteries, in all the lodges,
and in all the plots." In order to unite them he made his lodge a mixture of all sophistic,
Martiniste, and masonic systems, "and as a bait to the aristocracy organized balls and concerts
at which the adepts, male and female, danced and feasted, or sang of the beauties of their
liberty and equality, little knowing that above them was a secret committee which was arranging
to extend this equality beyond the lodge to rank and fortune, to castles and to cottages, to
marquesses and bourgeois" alike.[440]

A further development of the Amis Réunis was the Rite of the Philalèthes, compounded by Savalette
de Langes in 1773 out of Swedenborgian, Martiniste, and Rosicrucian mysteries, into which the
higher initiates of the Amis Réunis--Court de Gebelin, the Prince de Hesse, Condorcet, the
Vicomte de Tavannes, Willermoz, and others--were initiated. A modified form of this rite was
instituted at Narbonne in 1780 under the name of "Free and Accepted Masons du Rit Primitif,"
the English nomenclature being adopted (according to Clavel) in order to make it appear that
the rite emanated from England. In reality its founder, the Marquis de Chefdebien d'Armisson,
a member of the Grand Orient and of the Amis Réunis, drew his inspiration from certain German
Freemasons with whom he maintained throughout close relations and who were presumably members
of the Stricte Observance, since Chefdebien was a member of this Order, in which he bore the
title of "Eques a Capite Galeato." The correspondence that passed between Chefdebien and Salvalette
de Langes, recently discovered and published in France, is one of the most illuminating records
of the masonic ramifications in existence before the Revolution ever brought to light.[441]
To judge by the tone of these letters, the leaders of the Rit Primitif would appear to have
been law-abiding and loyal gentlemen devoted to the Catholic religion, yet in their passion
for new forms of Masonry and thirst for occult lore ready to associate themselves with every
kind of adventurer and charlatan who might be able to initiate them into further mysteries.
In the curious notes drawn up by Savalette for the guidance of the Marquis de Chefdebien we
catch a glimpse of the power behind the philosophers of the salons and the aristocratic adepts
of the lodges--the professional magicians and men of mystery; and behind these again the concealed
directors of the secret societies, the real initiates.

The Magicians

The part played by magicians during the period preceding the French Revolution is of course
a matter of common knowledge and has never been disputed by official history. But like the
schools of philosophers this sudden crop of magicians is always represented as a sporadic growth
called into being by the idle and curious society of the day. The important point to realize
is that just as the philosophers were all Freemasons, the principal magicians were not only
Freemasons but members of occult secret societies. It is therefore not as isolated charlatans
but as agents of some hidden power that we must regard the men whom we will now pass in a rapid
survey.

One of the first to appear in the field was Schroepfer, a coffee-house keeper of Leipzig, who
declared that no one could be a true Freemason without practising magic. Accordingly he proclaimed
himself the "reformer of Freemasonry," and set up a lodge in his own house with a rite based
on the Rose-Croix degree for the purpose of evoking spirits. The meetings took place at dead
of night, when by means of carefully arranged lights, magic mirrors, and possibly of electricity,
Schroepfer contrived to produce apparitions which his disciples--under the influence of strong
punch--took to be visitors from the other world.[442] In the end Schroepfer, driven crazy by
his own incantations, blew out his brains in a garden near Leipzig.

According to Lecouteulx de Canteleu, it was Schroepfer who indoctrinated the famous "Comte
de Saint-Germain"--"The Master" of our modern co-masonic lodges. The identity of this mysterious
personage has never been established[443]; by some contemporaries he was said to be a natural
son of the King of Portugal, by others the son of a Jew and a Polish Princess. The Duc de Choiseul
on being asked whether he knew the origin of Saint-Germain replied: "No doubt we know it, he
is the son of a Portuguese Jew who exploits the credulity of the town and Court."[444] In 1780
a rumour went round that his father was a Jew of Bordeaux, but according to the Souvenirs of
the Marquise de Créquy the Baron de Breteuil discovered from the archives of his Ministry that
the pretended Comte de Saint-Germain was the son of a Jewish doctor of Strasburg, that his
real name was Daniel Wolf, and that he was born in 1704.[445] The general opinion thus appears
to have been in favour of his Jewish ancestry.

Saint-German seems first to have been heard of in Germany about 1740, where his marvellous
powers attracted the attention of the Maréchal de Belle-Isle, who, always the ready dupe of
charlatans, brought him back with him to the Court of France, where he speedily gained the
favour of Madame de Pompadour. The Marquise before long presented him to the King, who granted
him an apartment at Chambord and, enchanted by his brilliant wit, frequently spent long evenings
in conversation with him in the rooms of Madame de Pompadour. Meanwhile his invention of flat-bottomed
boats for the invasion of England raised him still higher in the estimation of the Maréchal
de Belle-Isle. In 1761 we hear of him as living in great splendour in Holland and giving out
that he had reached the age of seventy-four, though appearing to be only fifty; if this were
so, he must have been ninety-seven at the time of his death in 1784 at Schleswig. But this
feat of longevity is far from satisfying his modern admirers, who declare that Saint-Germain
did not die in 1784, but is still alive to-day in some corner of Eastern Europe. This is in
accordance with the theory, said to have been circulated by Saint-Germain himself, that by
the eighteenth century he had passed through several incarnations and that the last one had
continued for 1,500 years. Barruel, however, explains that Saint-Germain in thus referring
to his age spoke in masonic language, in which a man who has taken the first degree is said
to be three years old, after the second five, or the third seven, so that by means of the huge
increase the higher degrees conferred it might be quite possible for an exalted adept to attain
the age of 1,500.

Saint-Germain has been represented by modern writers--not only those who compose his following--as
a person of extraordinary attainments, a sort of super-man towering over the minor magicians
of his day. Contemporaries, however, take him less seriously and represent him rather as an
expert charlatan whom the wits of the salons made the butt of pleasantries. His principal importance
to the subject of this book consists, however, in his influence on the secret societies. According
to the Mémoires authentiques pour servir à l'histoire du Comte de Cagliostro, Saint-Germain
was the "Grand Master of Freemasonry,"[446] and it was he who initiated Cagliostro into the
mysteries of Egyptian masonry.

Joseph Balsamo, born in 1743, who assumed the name of Comte de Cagliostro, as a magician far
eclipsed his master. Like Saint-Germain, he was generally reputed to be a Jew--the son of Pietro
Balsamo, a Sicilian tradesman of Jewish origin[447]--and he made no secret of his arden admiration
for the Jewish race. After the death of his parents he escaped from the monastery in which
he had been placed at Palermo and joined himself to a man known as Altotas, said to have been
an Armenian, with whom he travelled to Greece and Egypt[448]. Cagliostro's travels later took
him to Poland and Germany, where he was initiated into Freemasonry[449], and finally to France;
but it was in England that he himself declared that he elaborated his famous "Egyptian Rite,"
which he founded officially in 1782. According to his own account, this rite was derived from
a manuscript by a certain George Cofton--whose identity has never been discovered--which he
bought by chance in London[450]. Yarker, however, expresses the opinion that "the rite of Cagliostro
was clearly that of Pasqually," and that if he acquired it from a manuscript in London it would
indicate that Pasquilly had disciples in that city. A far more probable explanation is that
Cagliostro derived his Egyptian masonry from the same source as that on which Pasqually had
drawn for his Order of Martinistes, namely the Cabala, and that it was not from a single manuscript
but from an eminent Jewish Cabalist in London that he took his instructions. Who this may have
been we shall soon see. At any rate, in a contemporary account of Cagliostro we find him described
as "a doctor initiated into Cabalistic art" and a Rose-Croix; but after founding his own rite
he acquired the name of Grand Copht, that is to say, Supreme Head of Egyptian Masonry, a new
branch that he wished to graft on to old European Freemasonry.[451] We shall return to his
further masonic adventures later.

In a superior category to Saint-German and Cagliostro was the famous Swabian doctor Mesmer,
who has given his name to an important branch of natural science. In about 1780 Mesmer announced
his great discovery of "animal magnetism, the principle of life in all organized beings, the
soul of all that breathes." But if to-day Mesmerism has come to be regarded as almost synonymous
with hypnotism and in no way a branch of occultism, Mesmer himself--stirring the fluid in his
magic bucket, around which his disciples wept, slept, fell into trances or convulsions, raved
or prophesied[452]--earned not unnaturally the reputation of a charlatan. The Freemasons, eager
to discover the secret of the magic bucket, hastened to enrol him in their Order, and Mesmer
was received into the Primitive Rite of Free and Accepted Masons in 1785.[453]

Space forbids a description of the minor magicians who flourished at this period--of Schroeder,
founder in 1776 of a chapter of "True and Ancient Rose-Croix Masons," practising certain magical,
theosophical, and alchemical degrees; of Gassner, worker of miracles in the neighbourhood of
Ratisbonne; of "the Jew Leon," one of a band of charlatans who made large sums of money with
magic mirrors in which the imaginative were able to see their absent friends, and who was finally
banished from France by the police,--all these and many others exploited the credulity and
curiosity of the upper classes both in France and Germany between the years of 1740 and 1790.
De Luchet, writing before the French Revolution, describes the part played in their mysteries
by the soul of a Cabalistic Jew named Gablidone who had lived before Christ, and who predicted
that "in the year 1800 there will be, on our globe, a very remarkable revolution, and there
will be no other religion but that of the patriarchs."[454]

How are we to account for this extraordinary wave of Cabalism in Western Europe? By whom was
it inspired? If, as Jewish writers assure us, neither Marlines Pasqually, Saint-Germain, Cagliostro,
nor any of the visible occultists or magicians were Jews, the problem only becomes the more
insoluble. We cannot believe that Sanhedrims, Hebrew hieroglyphics, the contemplation of the
Tetragrammaton, and other Cabalistic rites originated in the brains of French and German aristocrats,
philosophers, and Freemasons. Let us turn, then, to events taking place at this moment in the
world of Jewry and see whether these may provide some clue.

8

THE JEWISH CABALISTS

It has been shown in the preceding chapters that the Jewish Cabala played an important part
in the occult and anti-Christian sects from the very beginning of the Christian era. The time
has now come to enquire what part Jewish influence played meanwhile in revolutions. Merely
to ask the question is to bring on oneself the accusation of "anti-Semitism," yet the Jewish
writer Bernard Lazare has shown the falseness of this charge:

     This [he writes] is what must separate the impartial historian from
     anti-Semitism. The anti-Semite says: "The Jew is the preparer, the
     machinator, the chief engineer of revolutions"; the impartial
     historian confines himself to studying the part which the Jew,
     considering his spirit, his character, the nature of his
     philosophy, and his religion, may have taken in revolutionary
     processes and movements.[455]

Lazare himself expresses the opinion, however, that--

     The complaint of the anti-Semites seems to be founded: the Jew has
     the revolutionary spirit; consciously or not he is an agent of
     revolution. Yet the complaint complicates itself, for anti-Semitism
     accuses the Jews of being the cause of revolutions. Let us examine
     what this accusation is worth....[456]

In the light of our present knowledge it would certainly be absurd to ascribe to the Jews the
authorship of the conspiracy of Catiline or of the Gracchi, the rising of Jack Straw and Wat
Tyler, Jack Cade's rebellion, the jacqueries of France, or the Peasants' Wars in Germany, although
historical research may lead in time to the discovery of certain occult influences--not necessarily
Jewish--behind the European insurrections here referred to. Moreover, apart from grievances
or other causes of rebellion, the revolutionary spirit has always existed independently of
the Jews. In all times and in all countries there have been men born to make trouble as the
sparks fly upward.

Nevertheless, in modern revolutions the part played by the Jews cannot be ignored, and the
influence they have exercised will be seen on examination to have been twofold--financial and
occult. Throughout the Middle Ages it is as sorcerers and usurers that they incur the reproaches
of the Christian world, and it is still in the same role, under the more modern terms of magicians
and loan-mongers, that we detect their presence behind the scenes of revolution from the seventeenth
century onward. Wherever money was to be made out of social or political upheavals, wealthy
Jews have been found to back the winning side; and wherever the Christian races have turned
against their own institutions, Jewish Rabbis, philosophers, professors, and occultists have
lent them their support. It was not then necessarily that Jews created these movements, but
they knew how to make use of them for their own ends.

It is thus that in the Great Rebellion we find them not amongst the Ironsides of Cromwell or
the members of his State Council, but furnishing money and information to the insurgents, acting
as army contractors, loan-mongers, and super-spies--or to use the more euphonious term of Mr.
Lucien Wolf, as "political intelligencers" of extraordinary efficiency. Thus Mr. Lucien Wolf,
in referring to Carvajal, "the great Jew of the Commonwealth," explains that "the wide ramifications
of his commercial transactions and his relations with other Crypto-Jews all over the world
placed him in an unrivalled position to obtain news of the enemies of the Commonwealth."[457]

It is obvious that a "secret service" of this kind rendered the Jews a formidable hidden power,
the more so since their very existence was frequently unknown to the rest of the population
around them. This precaution was necessary because Jews were not supposed to exist at that
date in England. In 1290 Edward I had expelled them all, and for three and a half centuries
they had remained in exile; the Crypto-Jews or Marranos who had come over from Spain contrived,
however, to remain in the country by skilfully taking the colour of their surroundings. Mr.
Wolf goes on to observe that Jewish services were regularly held in the secret Synagogue, but
"in public Carvajal and his friends followed the practice of the secret Jews in Spain and Portugal,
passing as Roman Catholics and regularly attending mass in the Spanish Ambassador's chapel."[458]
But when war between England and Spain rendered this expedient inadvisable, the Marranos threw
off the disguise of Christianity and proclaimed themselves followers of the Jewish faith.

Now, just at this period the Messianic era was generally believed by the Jews to be approaching,
and it appears to have occurred to them that Cromwell might be fitted to the part. Consequently
emissaries were despatched to search the archives of Cambridge in order to discover whether
the Protector could possibly be of Jewish descent.[459] This quest proving fruitless, the Cabalist
Rabbi of Amsterdam, Manasseh ben Israel,[460] addressed a petition to Cromwell for the readmission
of the Jews to England, in which he adroitly insisted on the retribution that overtakes those
who afflict the people of Israel and the rewards that await those who "cherish" them. These
arguments were not without effect on Cromwell, who entertained the same superstition, and although
he is said to have declined the Jews' offer to buy St. Paul's Cathedral and the Bodleian Library
because he considered the £500,000 they offered inadequate,[461] he exerted every effort to
obtain their readmission to the country. In this he encountered violent opposition, and it
seems that Jews were not permitted to return in large numbers, or at any rate to enjoy full
rights and privileges, until after the accession of Charles II, who in his turn had enlisted
their financial aid.[462] Later, in 1688, the Jews of Amsterdam helped with their credit the
expedition of William of Orange against James II; the former in return brought many Jews with
him to England. So a Jewish writer is able to boast that "a Monarch reigned who was indebted
to Hebrew gold for his royal diadem."[463]

In all this it is impossible to follow any consecutive political plan; the rôle of the Jews
seems to have been to support no cause consistently but to obtain a footing in every camp,
to back any venture that offered a chance of profit. Yet mingled with these material designs
were still their ancient Messianic dreams. It is curious to note that the same Messianic idea
pervaded the Levellers, the rebels of the Commonwealth; such phrases as "Let Israel go free,"
"Israel's restoration is now beginning," recur frequently in the literature of the sect. Gerard
Winstanley, one of the two principal leaders, addressed an epistle to "the Twelve Tribes of
Israel that are circumcised in heart and scattered through all the Nations of the Earth," and
promised them "David their King that they have been waiting for." The other leader of the movement,
by name Everard, in fact declared, when summoned before the Lord Fairfax at Whitehall, that
"he was of the race of the Jews."[464] It is true that the Levellers were by profession Christian,
but after the manner of the Bavarian Illuminati and of the Christian Socialists two centuries
later, claiming Christ as the author of their Communistic and equalitarian doctrines: "For
Jesus Christ, the Saviour of all Men, is the greatest, first, and truest Leveller that ever
was spoken of in the world." The Levellers are said to have derived originally from the German
Anabaptists; but Claudio Jannet, quoting German authorities, shows that there were Jews amongst
the Anabaptists. "They were carried away by their hatred of the name of Christian and imagined
that their dreams of the restoration of the kingdom of Israel would be realized amidst the
conflagration."[465] Whether this was so or not, it is clear that by the middle of the seventeenth
century the mystical ideas of Judaism had penetrated into all parts of Europe. Was there then
some Cabalistic centre from which they radiated? Let us turn our eyes eastward and we shall see.

Since the sixteenth century the great mass of Jewry had settled in Poland, and a succession
of miracle-workers known by the name of Zaddikim or Ba'al Shems had arisen. The latter word,
which signifies "Master of the Name," originated with the German Polish Jews and was derived
from the Cabalistic belief in the miraculous use of the sacred name of Jehovah, known as the
Tetragrammaton.

According to Cabalistic traditions, certain Jews of peculiar sanctity or knowledge were able
with impunity to make use of the Divine Name. A Ba'al Shem was therefore one who had acquired
this power and employed it in writing amulets, invoking spirits, and prescribing cures for
various diseases. Poland and particularly Podolia--which had not yet been ceded to Russia--became
thus a centre of Cabalism where a series of extraordinary movements of a mystical kind followed
each other. In 1666, when the Messianic era was still believed to be approaching, the whole
Jewish world was convulsed by the sudden appearance of Shabbethai Zebi, the son of a poulterer
in Smyrna named Mordecai, who proclaimed himself the promised Messiah and rallied to his support
a huge following not only amongst the Jews of Palestine, Egypt, and Eastern Europe, but even
the hard-headed Jews of the Continental bourses.[466] Samuel Pepys in his Diary refers to the
bets made amongst the Jews in London on the chances of "a certain person now in Smyrna" being
acclaimed King of the World and the true Messiah.[467]

Shabbethai, who was an expert Cabalist and had the temerity to utter the Ineffable Name Jehovah,
was said to be possessed of marvellous powers, his skin exuded exquisite perfume, he indulged
perpetually in sea-bathing and lived in a state of chronic ecstasy. The pretensions of Shabbethai,
who took the title of "King of the Kings of the Earth," split Jewry in two; many Rabbis launched
imprecations against him, and those who had believed in him were bitterly disillusioned when,
challenged by the Sultan to prove his claim to be the Messiah by allowing poisoned arrows to
be shot at him, he suddenly renounced the Jewish faith and proclaimed himself a Mohammedan.
His conversion, however, appeared to be only partial, for "at times he would assume the rôle
of a pious Mohammedan and revile Judaism; at others he would enter into relations with Jews
as one of their own faith."[468] By this means he retained the allegiance both of Moslems and
of Jews. But the Rabbis, alarmed for the cause of Judaism, succeeded in obtaining his incarceration
by the Sultan in a castle near Belgrade, where he died of colic in 1676.[469]

This prosaic ending to the career of the Messiah did not, however, altogether extinguish the
enthusiasm of his followers, and the Shabbethan movement continued into the next century. In
Poland Cabalism broke out with renewed energy; fresh Zaddikim and Ba'al Shems arose, the most
noted of these being Israel of Podolia, known as Ba'al Shem Tob, or by the initial letters
of this name, Besht, who founded his sect of Hasidim in 1740.

Besht, whilst opposing bigoted Rabbinism and claiming the Zohar as his inspiration, did not,
however, adhere strictly to the doctrine of the Cabala that the universe was an emanation of
God, but evolved a form of Pantheism, declaring that the whole universe was God, that even
evil exists in God since evil is not bad in itself but only in its relation to Man; sin therefore
has no positive existence.[470] As a result the followers of Besht, calling themselves the
"New Saints," and at his death numbering no less than 40,000, threw aside not only the precepts
of the Talmud, but all the restraints of morality and even decency.[471]

Another Ba'al Shem of the same period was Heilprin, alias Joel Ben Uri of Satanov, who, like
Israel of Podolia, professed to perform miracles by the use of the Divine Name and collected
around him many pupils, who, on the death of their master, "formed a band of charlatans and
shamelessly exploited the credulity of their contemporaries."[472]

But the most important of these Cabalistic groups was that of the Frankists, who were sometimes
known as the Zoharists or the Illuminated,[473] from their adherence to the Zohar or book of
Light, or in their birthplace Podolia as the Shabbethan Zebists, from their allegiance to the
false Messiah of the preceding century--a heresy that had been "kept alive in secret circles
which had something akin to a masonic organization."[474] The founder of this sect was Jacob
Frank, a brandy distiller profoundly versed in the doctrines of the Cabala, who in 1755 collected
around him a large following in Podolia and lived in a style of oriental magnificence, maintained
by vast wealth of which no one ever discovered the source. The persecution to which he was
subjected by the Rabbis led the Catholic clergy to champion his cause, whereupon Frank threw
himself on the mercy of the Bishop of Kaminick, and publicly burnt the Talmud, declaring that
he recognized only the Zohar, which, he alleged, admitted the doctrine of the Trinity. Thus
the Zoharists "claimed that they regarded the Messiah-Deliverer as one of the three divinities,
but failed to state that by the Messiah they meant Shabbethai Zebi."[475] The Bishop was apparently
deceived by this manoeuvre, and in 1759 the Zoharites declared themselves converted to Christianity,
and were baptized, including Frank himself, who took the name of Joseph. "The insincerity of
the Frankists soon became apparent, however, for they continued to inter-marry only among themselves
and held Frank in reverence, calling him 'The Holy Master.'"[476] It soon became evident that,
whilst openly embracing the Catholic faith, they had in reality retained their secret Judaism.[477]
Moreover, it was discovered that Frank endeavoured to pass as a Mohammedan in Turkey; "he was
therefore arrested in Warsaw and delivered to the Church tribunal on the charge of feigned
conversion to Christianity and the spreading of a pernicious heresy."[478] Unlike his predecessor
in apostasy, Shabbethai Zebi, Frank, however, came to no untimely end, but after his release
from prison continued to prey on the credulity of Christians and frequently travelled to Vienna
with his daughter, Eve, who succeeded in duping the pious Maria Theresa. But here also "the
sectarian plans of Frank were found out,"[479] and he was obliged to leave Austria. Finally
he settled at Offenbach and supported by liberal subsidies from the other Jews, he resumed
his former splendour[480]

     with a retinue of several hundred beautiful Jewish youth of both
     sexes; carts containing treasure were reported to be perpetually
     brought in to him, chiefly from Poland--he went out daily in great
     state to perform his devotions in the open field--he rode in a
     chariot drawn by noble horses; ten or twelve Hulans in red or green
     uniform, glittering with gold, by his side, with pikes in their
     hands and crests on their caps, eagles, or stags, or the sun and
     moon.... His followers believed him immortal, but in 1791 he died;
     his burial was as splendid as his mode of living--800 persons
     followed him to the grave.[481]

Now, it is impossible to study the careers of these magicians in Poland and Germany without
being reminded of their counterparts in France. The family likeness between the "Baron von
Offenbach," the "Comte de Saint-Germain" and the "Comte de Cagliostro" is at once apparent.
All claimed to perform miracles, all lived with extraordinary magnificence on wealth derived
from an unknown source, one was certainly a Jew, the other two were believed to be Jews, and
all were known to be Cabalists. Moreover, all three spent many years in Germany, and it was
whilst Frank was living as Baron von Offenbach close to Frankfurt that Cagliostro was received
into the Order of the Stricte Observance in a subterranean chamber a few miles from that city.
Earlier in his career he was known to have visited Poland, whence Frank derived. Are we to
believe that all these men, so strangely alike in their careers, living at the same time and
in the same places, were totally unconnected? It is a mere coincidence that this group of Jewish
Cabalist miracle-workers should have existed in Germany and Poland at the precise moment that
the Cabalist magicians sprang up in France? Is it again a coincidence that Martines Pasqually
founded his "Kabbalistic sect" of Illuminés in 1754 and Jacob Frank his sect of Zoharites (or
Illuminated) in 1755?

Moreover, when we know from purely Jewish sources that the Ba'al Shem Heilprin had many pupils
"who formed a band of charlatans who shamelessly exploited the credulity of their contemporaries,"
that the Ba'al Shem Tob and Jacob Frank both had large followings, it is surely here that we
may find the origin of those mysterious magicians who spread themselves over Europe at this date.

It will at once be asked: "But what proof is there that any one of these Ba'al Shems or Cabalists
was connected with masonic or secret societies?" The answer is that the most important Ba'al
Shem of the day, known as "the Chief of all the Jews," is shown by documentary evidence to
have been an initiate of Freemasonry and in direct contact with the leaders of the secret societies.
If then it is agreed that neither Saint-Germain nor Cagliostro can be proved to have been Jews,
here we have a man concerned in the movement, more important than either, whose nationality
admits of no doubt whatever.

This extraordinary personage, known as the "Ba'al Shem of London," was a Cabalistic Jew named
Hayyim Samuel Jacob Falk, also called Dr. Falk, Falc, de Falk, or Falkon, born in 1708, probably
in Podolia. The further fact that he was regarded by his fellow-Jews as an adherent of the
Messiah Shabbethai Zebi clearly shows his connexion with the Podolian Zoharites. Falk was thus
not an isolated phenomenon, but a member of one of the groups described in the foregoing pages.
The following is a summary of the account given of the Ba'al Shem of London in the Jewish Encyclopedia:

     Falk claimed to possess thaumaturgic powers and to be able to
     discover hidden treasure. Archenholz (England und Italien, I.
     249) recounts certain marvels which he had seen performed by Falk
     in Brunswick and which he attributes to a special knowledge of
     chemistry. In Westphalia at one time Falk was sentenced to be
     burned as a sorcerer, but escaped to England. Here he was received
     with hospitality and rapidly gained fame as a Cabalist and worker
     of miracles. Many stories of his powers were current. He would
     cause a small taper to remain alight for weeks; an incantation
     would fill his cellar with coal; plate left with a pawnbroker would
     glide back into his house. When a fire threatened to destroy the
     Great Synagogue, he averted the disaster by writing four Hebrew
     letters on the pillars of the door.[482] [Obviously the
     Tetragrammaton.]

On his arrival in London in 1742 Falk appeared to be without means, but soon after he was seen
to be in possession of considerable wealth, living in a comfortable house in Wellclose Square,
where he had his private synagogue, whilst gold and silver plate adorned his table. His Journal,
still preserved in the library of the United Synagogue, contains references to "mysterious
journeyings" to and from Epping Forest, to meetings, a meeting-chamber in the forest, and chests
of gold there buried. It was said that on one occasion when he was driving thither along Whitechapel
Road, a back wheel of his carriage came off, which alarmed the coachman, but Falk ordered him
to drive on and the wheel followed the carriage all the way to the forest.

The stories of Falk's miraculous powers are too numerous to relate here, but a letter written
by an enthusiastic Jewish admirer, Sussman Shesnowzi, to his son in Poland will serve to show
the reputation he enjoyed:

     Hear, my beloved son, of the marvellous gifts entrusted to a son of
     man, who verily is not a man, a light of the captivity ... a holy
     light, a saintly man ... who dwells at present in the great city of
     London. Albeit I could not fully understand him on account of his
     volubility and his speaking as an inhabitant of Jerusalem.... His
     chamber is lighted by silver candlesticks on the walls, with a
     central eight-branched lamp made of pure silver of beaten work. And
     albeit it contained oil to burn a day and a night it remained
     enkindled for three weeks. On one occasion he abode in seclusion in
     his house for six weeks without meat and drink. When at the
     conclusion of this period ten persons were summoned to enter, they
     found him seated on a sort of throne, his head covered with a
     golden turban, a golden chain round his neck with a pendant silver
     star on which sacred names were inscribed. Verily this man stands
     alone in his generation by reason of his knowledge of holy
     mysteries. I cannot recount to you all the wonders he accomplishes.
     I am grateful, in that I am found worthy to be received among those
     who dwell within the shadow of his wisdom.... I know that many will
     believe my words, but others, who do not occupy themselves with
     mysteries, will laugh thereat. Therefore, my son, be very
     circumspect, and show this only to wise and discreet men. For here
     in London this master has not been disclosed to anyone who does not
     belong to our Brotherhood.

The esteem in which Falk was held by the Jewish community, including the Chief Rabbi and the
Rabbi of the new Synagogue, appears to have roused the resentment of his co-religionist Emden,
who denounced him as a follower of the false Messiah and an exploiter of Christian credulity.

     Falk [he wrote in a letter to Poland] had made his position by his
     pretence to be an adept in practical Cabala, by which means he
     professed to be able to discover hidden treasures; by his
     pretensions he had entrapped a wealthy captain whose fortune he had
     cheated him out of, so that he was reduced to depending on the
     Rabbi's charity, and yet, despite this, wealthy Christians spend
     their money on him, whilst Falk spends his bounty on the men of his
     Brotherhood so that they may spread his fame.

In general Falk appears to have displayed extreme caution in his relations with Christian seekers
after occult knowledge, for the Jewish Encyclopædia goes on to say: "Archenholz mentions a
royal prince who applied to Falk in his quest for the philosopher's stone, but was denied admittance."
Nevertheless Hayyum Azulai mentions (Ma'gal Tob, p. 13b):

     That when in Paris in 1778 he was told by the Marchesa de Crona
     that the Ba'al Shem of London had taught her the Cabala. Falk seems
     also to have been on intimate terms with that strange adventurer
     Baron Theodor de Neuhoff.... Falk's principal friends were the
     London bankers Aaron Goldsmid and his son.[483] Pawnbroking and
     successful speculation enabled him to acquire a considerable
     fortune. He left large sums of money to charity, and the overseers
     of the United Synagogue in London still distribute annually certain
     payments left by him for the poor.

Nothing of all this would lead one to suppose that Falk could be regarded in the light of a
black magician; it is therefore surprising to find Dr. Adler observing that a horrible account
of a Jewish Cabalist in The Gentleman's Magazine for September 1762 "obviously refers to Dr.
Falk, though his name is not mentioned."[484] This man is described as "a christened Jew and
the biggest rogue and villain in all the world," who "had been imprisoned everywhere and banished
out of all countries in Germany, and also sometimes publicly whipped, so that his back lost
all the old skin, and became new again, and yet left never off from his villainies, but grew
always worse." The writer goes on to relate that the Cabalist offered to teach him certain
mysteries, but explained that before entering on any "experiments of the said godly mysteries,
we must first avoid all churches and places of worshipping as unclean"; he then bound his initiate
by a very strong oath and proceeded to tell him that he must steal a Hebrew Bible from a Protestant
and also procure "one pound of blood out of the veins of an honest Protestant." The initiate
thereupon robbed a Protestant of all his effects, but had himself bled of about three-quarters
of a pound of blood, which he gave to the magician. He thus describes the ceremony that took place:

     Then the next night about 11 o'clock, we both went into the garden
     of my own, and the cabalist put a cross, tainted with my blood, in
     each corner of the garden, and in the middle of the garden a
     threefold circle ... in the first circle were written all the names
     of God in Hebrew; in the second all the names of the angels; and in
     the third the first chapter of the holy Gospel of St. John, and it
     was all written with my blood.

The cruelties then performed by the Cabalist on a he-goat are too loathsome to transcribe.
The whole story, indeed, appears a farrago of nonsense and would not be worth quoting but for
the fact that it appears to be taken seriously by Dr. Adler as a description of the great Ba'al
Shem.

The death of Falk took place on April 17, 1782, and the epitaph on his grave in the cemetery
at Globe Road, Mile End, "bears witness to his excellencies and orthodoxy": "Here is interred
... the aged and honourable man, a great personage who came from the East, an accomplished
sage, an adept in Cabbalah.... His name was known to the ends of the earth and distant isles," etc.

This then is surely the portrait of a most remarkable personage, a man known for his powers
in England, France, and Germany, visited by a royal prince in search of the philosopher's stone,
and acclaimed by one of his own race as standing alone in his generation by reason of his knowledge,
yet whilst Saint-Germain and Cagliostro figure in every account of eighteenth-century magicians,
it is only in exclusively Judaic or masonic works, not intended for the general public, that
we shall find any reference to Falk. Have we not here striking evidence of the truth of M.
André Baron's dictum: "Remember that the constant rule of the secret societies is that the
real authors never show themselves"?

It will now be asked: what proof is there that Falk is connected with any masonic or secret
societies? True, in the accounts given by the Jewish Encyclopædia, the word Freemasonry is
not once mentioned. But in the curious portrait of the great Ba'al Shem appended, we see him
holding in his hand the pair of compasses, and before him, on the table at which he is seated,
the double triangle or Seal of Solomon known amongst Jews as "the Shield of David," which forms
an important emblem in Masonry.

Moreover, it is significant to find in the Royal Masonic Encyclopædia by the Rosicrucian Kenneth
Mackenzie that a long and detailed article is devoted to Falk, though again without any reference
to his connexion with Freemasonry. May we not conclude that in certain inner masonic circles
the importance of Falk is recognized but must not be revealed to the uninitiated? Mr. Gordon
Hills, in the above-quoted paper contributed to the Ars Quatuor Coronatorum, indulges in some
innocent speculation as to the part Falk may have played in the masonic movement. "If," he
observes, "Jewish Brethren did introduce Cabalistical learning into the so-called High Degrees,
here we have one, who, if a Mason, would have been eminently qualified to do so."

Falk inded was far more than a Mason, he was a high initiate--the supreme oracle to which the
secret societies applied for guidance. All this was disclosed a few years ago in the correspondence
between Savalette de Langes and the Marquis de Chefdebien referred to in the previous chapter.
Thus in the dossiers of the leading occultists supplied by Savalette we find the following
note on the Ba'al Shem of London:

     This Doctor Falk is known to many Germans. He is a very
     extraordinary man from every point of view. Some people believe him
     to be the Chief of all the Jews and attribute to purely political
     schemes all that is marvellous and singular in his life and
     conduct. He is referred to in a very curious manner, and as a
     Rose-Croix in the Memoirs of the Chevalier de Rampsow (i.e.
     Rentzov). He has had adventures with the Maréchal de Richelieu,
     great seeker of the Philosophers' Stone. He had a strange history
     with the Prince de Rohan Guéménée and the Chevalier de Luxembourg
     relating to Louis XV, whose death he foretold. He is almost
     inaccessible. In all the sects of savants in secret sciences he
     passes as a superior man. He is at present in England. The Baron de
     Gleichen can give good information about him. Try to get more at
     Frankfurt.[485]

Again, in notes on other personages the name of Falk recurs with the same insistence on his
importance as a high initiate:

     Leman, pupil of Falk....

     The Baron de Gleichen ... intimately connected with Wecter
     [Waechter] and Wakenfeldt.... He knows Falk....

     The Baron de Waldenfels ... is, according to what I know from the
     Baron de Gleichen, the princes of Daimstadt, ... and others, the
     most interesting man for you and me to know. If we made his
     acquaintance, he could give us the best information on all the most
     interesting objects of instiuction. He knows Falk and Wecter.

Prince Louis d'Haimstadt ... is also a member of the Amis Réunis, 12° and in charge of the
Directories. He worked in his youth with a Jew whom he believes to be taught by Falk....[486]

Here, then, behind the organization of the Stricte Observance, of the Amis Réunis, and the
Philalèthes, we catch a glimpse at last of one of those real initiates whose identity has been
so carefully kept dark. For Falk, as we see in these notes, was not an isolated sage; he had
pupils, and to be one of these was to be admitted to the inner mysteries. Was Cagliostro one
of these adepts? Is it here we may seek the explanation of the "Egyptian Rite" devised by him
in London, and of his chance discovery on a bookstall in that city of a Cabalistic document
by the mysterious "George Cofton," whose identity has never been revealed? I would suggest
that the whole story of the bookstall was a fable and that it was not from any manuscript,
but from Falk, that Cagliostro received his directions. Thus Cagliostro's rite was in reality
concealed Cabalism.

That Falk was only one of several Concealed Superiors is further suggested by the intriguing
correspondence of Savalette de Langes. "Schroeder," we read, "had for his master an old man
of Suabia," by whom the Baron de Waechter was also said to have been instructed in Masonry,
and to have become one of the most important initiates of Germany. Accordingly de Waechter
was despatched by his Order to Florence in order to make enquiries on further secrets and on
certain famous treasures about which Schroepfer, the Baron de Hundt, and others, had heard
that Aprosi, the secretary of the Pretender, could give them information. Waechter, however,
wrote to say that all they had been told on the latter point was fabulous, but that he had
met in Florence certain "Brothers of the Holy Land," who had initiated him into marvellous
secrets; one in particular who is described as "a man who is not a European" had "perfectly
instructed him." Moreover, de Waechter, who had set forth poor, returned loaded with riches
attributed by his fellow-masons to the "Asiatic Brethren" he had frequented in Florence who
possessed the art of making gold.[487] I would suggest then that these were the members of
the "Italian Order" referred to by Mr. Tuckett, which, like Schroepfer and de Hundt, he imagined
to have been connected with the Jacobites.

But all these secret sources of instruction are wrapped in mystery. Whilst Saint-Germain and
Cagliostro--who is referred to in this correspondence in terms of light derision--emerge into
the limelight, the real initiates remain concealed in the background. Falk "is almost inaccessible!"
Yet one more almost forgotten document of the period may throw some light on the important
part he played behind the scenes in Masonry.

It may be remembered that Archenholz had spoken of certain marvels he had seen performed by
Falk in Brunswick. Now, in 1770 the German poet Gotthold Ephraim Lessing was made librarian
to the Duke of Brunswick in that city. The fame of Falk may then have reached his ears. At
any rate in 1771 Lessing, after having mocked at Freemasonry, was initiated in a masonic lodge
at Hamburg, and in 1778 he published not only his famous masonic drama Nathan der Weise, in
which the Jew of Jerusalem is shown in admirable contrast to the Christians and Mohammedans,
but he also wrote five dialogues on Freemasonry which he dedicated to the Duke of Brunswick,
Grand Master of all the German Lodges, and which he entitled "Ernst und Falk: Gespräche fur
Freimaurer."[488]

Lessing's friendship with Moses Mendelssohn has led to the popular theory, unsupported however
by any real evidence, that the Jewish philosopher of Berlin provided the inspiration for the
character of Nathan, but might it not equally have been provided by the miracle-worker of Brunswick?
However, in the case of the dialogues less room is left for doubt. Falk is mentioned by name
and represented as initiated into the highest mysteries of Freemasonry. This is of course not
explained by Lessing's commentators, who give no clue to his identity.[489] It is evident that
Lessing committed an enormous blunder in thus letting so important a cat out of the bag, for
after the publication of the first three dialogues and whilst the last two were circulating
privately in manuscript amongst the Freemasons, an order from the Duke of Brunswick forbade
their publication as dangerous. In spite of this prohibition, the rest of the series was printed,
however without Lessing's permission, in 1870 with a preface by an unknown person describing
himself as a non-mason.

The dialogues between Ernst and Falk throw a curious light on the influences at work behind
Freemasonry at this period and gain immensely in interest when the identity of the two men
in question is understood. Thus Ernst, by whom Lessing evidently represents himself, is at
the beginning not a Freemason, and, whilst sitting with Falk in a wood, questions the high
initiate on the aims of the Order. Falk explains that Freemasonry has always existed, but not
under this name. Its real purpose has never been revealed. On the surface it appears to be
a purely philanthropic association, but in reality philanthropy forms no part of its scheme,
its object being to bring about a state of things which will render philanthropy unnecessary.
(Was man gemeinlich gute Thaten zu nennen pflegt entbehrlich zu machen.) As an illustration
Falk points to an ant-heap at the foot of the tree beneath which the two men are seated. "Why,"
he asks, "should not human beings exist without government like the ants or bees?" Falk then
goes on to describe his idea of a Universal State, or rather a federation of States, in which
men will no longer be divided by national, social, or religious prejudices, and where greater
equality will exist.

At the end of the third dialogue an interval occurs during which Ernst goes away and becomes
a Freemason, but on his return expresses his disappointment to Falk at finding many Freemasons
engaged in such futilities as alchemy or the evocation of spirits. Others again seek to revive
the * * *. Falk replies that although the great secrets of Freemasonry cannot be revealed by
any man even if he wished it, one thing, however, has been kept dark which should now be made
public, and this is the relationship between the Freemasons and the * * *.  "The * * * were
in fact the Freemasons of their time." It seems probable from the context and from Falk's references
to Sir Christopher Wren as the founder of the modern Order, that the asterisks denote the Rosicrucians.

The most interesting point of these dialogues is, however, the hint continually thrown out
by Falk that there is something behind Freemasonry, something far older and far wider in its
aims than the Order now known by this name--the modern Freemasons are for the most part only
"playing at it." Thus, when Ernst complains that true equality has not been attained in the
lodges since Jews are not admitted, Falk observes that he himself does not attend them, that
true Freemasonry does not exist in outward forms--"A lodge bears the same relation to Freemasonry
as a church to belief." In other words, the real initiates do not appear upon the scene. Here
then we see the role of the "Concealed Superiors." What wonder that Lessing's dialogues were
considered too dangerous for publication!

Moreover, in Falk's conception of the ideal social order and his indictment of what he calls
"bourgeois society" we find the clue to movements of immense importance. Has not the system
of the ant-heap or the beehive proved, as I have pointed out elsewhere, the model on which
modern Anarchists, from Proudhon onwards, have formed their schemes for the reorganization
of human life? Has not the idea of the "World State," "The Universal Republic" become the war-cry
of the Internationalist Socialists, the Grand Orient Masons, the Theosophists, and the world-revolutionaries
of our own day?

Was Falk, then, a revolutionary? This again will be disputed. Falk may have been a Cabalist,
a Freemason, a high initiate, but what proof is there that he had any connexion with the leaders
of the French Revolution? Let us turn again to the Jewish Encyclopædia:

     Falk ... is ... believed to have given the Duc d'Orléans, to ensure
     his succession to the throne, a talisman consisting of a ring,
     which Philippe Egalité before mounting the scaffold is said to have
     sent to a Jewess, Juliet Goudchaux, who passed it on to his son,
     subsequently Louis Philippe.

The Baron de Gleichen, who "knew Falc," refers to a talisman of lapis-lazuli which the Due
d'Orleans had received in England from "the celebrated Falk Scheck, first Rabbi of the Jews,"
and says that a certain occultist, Madame de la Croix, imagined she had destroyed it by "the
power of prayer." But the theory of its survival is further confirmed by the information supplied
from Jewish sources to Mr. Gordon Hills, who states that Falk was "in touch with the French
Court in the person of 'Prince Emanuel,'[490] whom he describes as a servant of the King of
France," and adds that the talismanic ring which he gave to the Due d'Orleans "is still in
the possession of the family, having passed to King Louis Philippe and thence to the Comte
de Paris."[491]

One fact, then, looms out of the darkness that envelops the secret power behind the Orléanist
conspiracy, one fact of supreme importance, and based moreover on purely Jewish evidence: the
Duke was in touch with Falk when in London and Falk supported his scheme of usurpation. Thus
behind the arch-conspirator of the revolution stood "the Chief of all the Jews." Is it here
perhaps, in Falk's "chests of gold," that we might find the source of some of those loans raised
in London by the Due d'Orléans to finance the riots of the Revolution, so absurdly described
as "l'or de Pitt"?

The direct connexion between the attack on the French monarchy and Jewish circles in London
is further shown by the curious sequel to the Gordon Riots. In 1780 the half-witted Lord George
Gordon (as a Jewish writer describes him), the head of the so-called "Protestant" mob, marched
on the House of Commons to protest against the bill for the relief of Roman Catholic disabilities
and then proceeded to carry out his plan of burning down London. During the five days' rioting
that ensued, property to the amount of £180,000 was destroyed. After this "the scion of the
ducal house of Gordon proved the durability of his love for Protestantism by professing the
Hebrew faith," and was received with the highest honours into the Synagogue. The same Jewish
writer, who has described him earlier as half-witted, quotes this panegyric on his orthodoxy:
"He was very regular in his Jewish observances; every morning he was seen with the philacteries
between his eyes, and opposite his heart.... His Saturday's bread was baked according to the
manner of the Jews, his wine was Jewish, his meat was Jewish, and he was the best Jew in the
congregation of Israel." And it was immediately after his conversion to Judaism that he published
in The Public Advertiser the libel against Marie Antoinette which brought about his imprisonment
in Newgate.[492]

Now we know that Lord George Gordon met Cagliostro in London in 1786.[493] Is it not probable
that the author of the scurrilous pamphlet and the magician concerned in the attack on the
Queen's honour through the Affair of the Necklace--one a--Jew by profession, the other said
to be a Jew by race--may have had some connexion with Philippe Egalité's Jewish supporter,
the miracle worker of Wellclose Square?

But already a vaster genius than Falk or Cagliostro, than Pasqually or Savalette de Langes,
had arisen, who, gathering into his hands the threads of all the conspiracies, was able to
weave them together into a gigantic scheme for the destruction of France and of the world.

9

The Bavarian Illuminati

The question of the system to which I shall henceforth refer simply as Illuminism is of such
immense importance to an understanding of the modern revolutionary movement that, although
I have already described it in detail in World Revolution, it is necessary to devote a further
chapter to it here in order to answer the objections made against my former account of the
Order and also to show its connexion with earlier secret societies.

Now, the main contentions of those writers who, either consciously or unconsciously, attempt
to mislead the public on the true nature and real existence of Illuminism are:

Firstly, that the case against Illuminism rests solely on the works of Robison, and of Barruel
and later Catholic authorities.

Secondly, that all these writers misinterpreted or misquoted the Illuminati, who should be
judged only by their own works.

Thirdly, that in reality the Illuminati were perfectly innocuous and even praiseworthy.

Fourthly, that they are of no importance, since they ceased to exist in 1786.

In the present chapter I propose therefore to answer all these contentions in turn and at the
same time to make further examination into the origins of the Order.

Origins of the Illuminati

That Weishaupt was not the originator of the system he named Illuminism will be already apparent
to every reader of the present work; it has needed, in fact, all the foregoing chapters to
trace the source of Weishaupt's doctrines throughout the history of the world. From these it
will be evident that men aiming at the overthrow of the existing social order and of all accepted
religion had existed from the earliest times, and that in the Cainites, the Carpocratians,
the Manichæns, the Batinis, the Fatimites, and the Karmathites many of Weishaupt's ideas had
already been foreshadowed. To the Manichæans, in fact, the word "Illuminati" may be traced--"gloriantur
Manichæi se de caelo illuminatos."[494]

It is in the sect of Abdullah ibn Maymūn that we must seek the model for Weishaupt's system
of organization. Thus de Sacy has described in the following words the manner of enlisting
proselytes by the Ismailis:

     They proceeded to the admission and initiation of new proselytes
     only by degrees and with great reserve; for, as the sect had at the
     same time a political object and ambitions, its interest was above
     all to have a great number of partisans in all places and in all
     classes of society. It was necessary therefore to suit themselves
     to the character, the temperament, and the prejudices of the
     greater number; what one revealed to some would have revolted
     others and alienated for ever spirits less bold and consciences
     more easily alarmed.[495]

This passage exactly describes the methods laid down by Weishaupt for his "Insinuating Brothers"--the
necessity of proceeding with caution in the enlisting of adepts, of not revealing to the novice
doctrines that might be likely to revolt him, of "speaking sometimes in one way, sometimes
in another, so that one's real purpose should remain impenetrable" to members of the inferior
grades.

How did these Oriental methods penetrate to the Bavarian professor? According to certain writers,
through the Jesuits. The fact that Weishaupt had been brought up by this Order has provided
the enemies of the Jesuits with the argument that they were the secret inspirers of the Illuminati.
Mr. Gould, indeed, has attributed most of the errors of the latter to this source; Weishaupt,
he writes, incurred "the implacable enmity of the Jesuits, to whose intrigues he was incessantly
exposed."[496] In reality precisely the opposite was the case, for, as we shall see, it was
Weishaupt who perpetually intrigued against the Jesuits. That Weishaupt did, however, draw
to a certain extent on Jesuit methods of training is recognized even by Barruel, himself a
Jesuit, who, quoting Mirabeau, says that Weishaupt "admired above all those laws, that régime
of the Jesuits, which, under one head, made men dispersed over the universe tend towards the
same goal; he felt that one could imitate their methods whilst holding views diametrically
opposed."[497] And again, on the evidence of Mirabeau, de Luchet, and von Knigge, Barruel says
elsewhere: "It is here that Weishaupt appears specially to have wished to assimilate the régime
of the sect to that of the religious orders and, above all, that of the Jesuits, by the total
abandonment of their own will and judgement which he demands of his adepts ..." But Barruel
goes on to show "the enormous difference that is to be found between religious obedience and
Illuminist obedience." In every religious order men know that the voice of their conscience
and of their God is even more to be obeyed than that of their superiors.

     There is not a single one who, in the event that his superiors
     should order him to do things contrary to the duties of a Christian
     or of a good man, would not see an exception to be made to the
     obedience which he has sworn. This exception is often expressed and
     always clearly announced in all religious institutions; it is above
     all formal and positively repeated many times in that of the
     Jesuits. They are ordered to obey their superiors, but it is in the
     event that they see no sin in obeying, ubi non cerneretur peccatum
     (Constitution des Jesuites, part 3, chapter I, parag. 2, vol. i.,
     édition de Prague).[498]

Indeed, implicit obedience and the total surrender of one's own will and judgement forms the
foundation of all military discipline; "theirs not to reason why, theirs not to make reply"
is everywhere recognized as the duty of soldiers. The Jesuits being in a sense a military Order,
acknowledging a General at their head, are bound by the same obligation. Weishaupt's system
was something totally different. For whilst all soldiers and all Jesuits, when obeying their
superiors, are well aware of the goal towards which they are tending, Weishaupt's followers
were enlisted by the most subtle methods of deception and led on towards a goal entirely unknown
to them. It is this that, as we shall see later, constitutes the whole difference between honest
and dishonest secret societies. The fact is that the accusation of Jesuit intrigue behind secret
societies has emanated principally from the secret societies themselves and would appear to
have been a device adopted by them to cover their own tracks. No good evidence has ever been
brought forward in support of their contention. The Jesuits, unlike the Templars and the Illuminati,
were simply suppressed in 1773 without the formality of a trial, and were therefore never given
the opportunity to answer the charges brought against them, nor, as in the case of these other
Orders, were their secret statutes--if any such existed--brought to light. The only document
ever produced in proof of these accusations was the "Monita Secreta," long since shown to be
a forgery. At any rate, the correspondence of the Illuminati provides their best exoneration.
The Marquis de Luchet, who was no friend of the Jesuits, shows the absurdity of confounding
their aims with those of either the Freemasons or the Illuminati, and describes all three as
animated by wholly different purposes.[499]

In all these questions it is necessary to seek a motive. I have no personal interest in defending
the Jesuits, but I ask: what motive could the Jesuits have in forming or supporting a conspiracy
directed against all thrones and altars? It has been answered me that the Jesuits at this period
cared nothing for thrones and altars, but only for temporal power; yet--even accepting this
unwarrantable hypothesis--how was this power to be exercised except through thrones and altars?
Was it not through princes and the Church that the Jesuits had been able to bring their influence
to bear on affairs of state? In an irreligious Republic, as events afterwards proved, the power
of the whole clergy was bound to be destroyed. The truth is then, that, far from abetting the
Illuminati, the Jesuits were their most formidable opponents, the only body of men sufficiently
learned, astute, and well organized to outwit the schemes of Weishaupt. In suppressing the
Jesuits it is possible that the Old Régime removed the only barrier capable of resisting the
tide of revolution.

Weishaupt indeed, as we know, detested the Jesuits,[500] and took from them only certain methods
of discipline, of ensuring obedience or of acquiring influence over the minds of his disciples;
his aims were entirely different.

Where, then, did Weishaupt find his immediate inspiration? It is here that Barruel and Lecouteulx
de Canteleu provide a clue not to be discovered in other sources. In 1771, they relate, a certain
Jutland merchant named Kölmer, who had spent many years in Egypt, returned to Europe in search
of converts to a secret doctrine founded on Manichæism that he had learnt in the East. On his
way to France he stopped at Malta, where he met Cagliostro and nearly brought about an insurrection
amongst the people. Kölmer was therefore driven out of the island by the Knights of Malta and
betook himself to Avignon and Lyons. Here he made a few disciples amongst the Illuminés and
in the same year went on to Germany, where he encountered Weishaupt and initiated him into
all the mysteries of his secret doctrine. According to Barruel, Weishaupt then spent five years
thinking out his system, which he founded under the name of Illuminati on May 1, 1776, and
assumed the "illuminated" name of "Spartacus."

Kölmer remains the most mysterious of all the mystery men of his day; at first sight one is
inclined to wonder whether he may not have been another of the Cabalistic Jews acting as the
secret inspirers of the magicians who appeared in the limelight. The name Kölmer might easily
have been a corruption of the well-known Jewish name Calmer. Lecouteulx de Canteleu, however,
suggests that Kölmer was identical with Altolas, described by Figuier as "this universal genius,
almost divine, of whom Cagliostro has spoken to us with so much respect and admiration. This
Altotas was not an imaginary personage. The Inquisition of Rome has collected many proofs of
his existence without having been able to discover when it began or ended, for Altotas disappears,
or rather vanishes like a meteor, which, according to the poetic fancy of romancers, would
authorize us in declaring him immortal."[501] It is curious to notice that modern occultists,
whilst attributing so much importance to Saint-Germain and the legend of his immortality, make
no mention of Altotas, who appears to have been a great deal more remarkable. But, again, we
must remember: "It is the unvarying rule of secret societies that the real authors never show
themselves." If, then, Kölmer was the same person as Altotas, he would appear not to have been
a Jew or a Cabalist, but an initiate of some Near Eastern secret society--possibly an Ismaili.
Lecouteulx de Canteleu describes Altotas as an Armenian, and says that his system was derived
from those of Egypt, Syria, and Persia. This would accord with Barruel's statement that Kölmer
came from Egypt, and that his ideas were founded on Manichæism.

It would be necessary to set these statements aside as only the theories of Barruel or Lecouteulx,
were it not that the writings of the Illuminati betray the influence of some sect akin to Manichæism.
Thus "Spartacus" writes to "Cato" that he is thinking of "warming up the old system of the
Ghebers and Parsees,"[502] and it will be remembered that the Ghebers were one of the sects
in which Dozy relates that Abdullah ibn Maymūn found his true supporters. Later Weishaupt goes
on to explain that--

     The allegory in which the Mysteries and Higher Grades must be
     clothed is Fire Worship and the whole philosophy of Zoroaster or of
     the old Parsees who nowadays only remain in India; therefore in the
     further degrees the Order is called "Fire Worship" (Feuer-dienst),
     the "Fire Order," or the "Persian Order"--that is, something
     magnificent beyond all expectation.[503]

At the same time the Persian calendar was adopted by the Illuminati.[504]

It is evident that this pretence of Zoroastrianism was as pure humbug as Weishaupt's later
pretence of Christianity; of the true doctrines of Zoroaster he shows no conception--nor does
he insist further on the point; but the above passage would certainly lend colour to the theory
that his system was partly founded on Manichæism, that is to say, on perverted Zoroastrianism,
imparted to him by a man from the East, and that the methods of the Batinis and Fatimites may
have been communicated to him through the same channel. Hence the extraordinary resemblance
between his plan of organization and that of Abdullah ibn Maymūn, which consisted in political
intriguing rather than in esoteric speculation. Thus in Weishaupt's system the phraseology
of Judaism, the Cabalistic legends of Freemasonry, the mystical imaginings of the Martinistes,
play at first no part at all. For all forms of "theosophy," occultism, spiritualism, and magic
Weishaupt expresses nothing but contempt, and the Rose-Croix masons are bracketed with the
Jesuits by the Illuminati as enemies it is necessary to outwit at every turn.[505] Consequently
no degree of Rose-Croix finds a place in Weishaupt's system, as in all the other masonic orders
of the day which drew their influence from Eastern or Cabalistic sources.

It is true that "Mysteries" play a great part in the phraseology of the Order--"Greater and
Lesser Mysteries," borrowed from ancient Egypt--whilst the higher initiates are decorated with
such titles as "Epopte" and "Hierophant," taken from the Eleusinian Mysteries. Yet Weishaupt's
own theories appear to bear no relation whatever to these ancient cults. On the contrary, the
more we penetrate into his system, the more apparent it becomes that all the formulas he employs
which derive from any religious source--whether Persian, Egyptian, or Christian--merely serve
to disguise a purely material purpose, a plan for destroying the existing order of society.
Thus all that was really ancient in Illuminism was the destructive spirit that animated it
and also the method of organization it had imported from the East. Illuminism therefore marks
an entirely new departure in the history of European secret societies. Weishaupt himself indicates
this as one of the great secrets of the Order. "Above all," he writes to "Cato" (alias Zwack),
"guard the origin and the novelty of ⊙ in the most careful way."[506] "The greatest mystery,"
he says again, "must be that the thing is new; the fewer who know this the better.... Not one
of the Eichstadters knows this but would live or die for it that the thing is as old as Methuselah."[507]

This pretence of having discovered some fund of ancient wisdom is the invariable ruse of secret
society adepts; the one thing never admitted is the identity of the individuals from whom one
is receiving direction. Weishaupt himself declares that he has got it all out of books by means
of arduous and unremitting labour. "What it costs me to read, study, think, write, cross out,
and re-write!" he complains to Marius and Cato.[508] Thus, according to Weishaupt the whole
system is the work of his own unaided genius, and the supreme direction remains in his hands
alone. Again and again he insists on this point in his correspondence.

If this were indeed the case, Weishaupt--in view of the efficiency achieved by the Order--must
have been a genius of the first water, and it is difficult to understand why so remarkable
a man should not have distinguished himself on other lines, but have remained almost unknown
to posterity. It would therefore appear possible that Weishaupt, although undoubtedly a man
of immense organizing capacity and endowed with extraofdinary subtlety, was not in reality
the sole author of Illuminism, but one of a group, which, recognizing his talents and the value
of his untiring activity, placed the direction in his hands. Let us examine this hypothesis
in the light of a document which was unknown to me when I wrote my former account of the Illuminati.

Barruel has pointed out that the great error of Robison was to describe Illuminism as arising
out of Freemasonry, since Weishaupt did not become a Freemason until after he had founded his
Order. It is true that Weishaupt was not officially received into Freemasonry until 1777, when
he was initiated into the first degree at the Lodge "Theodore de Bon Conseil," at Munich. From
this time we find him continually occupied in trying to discover more about the secrets of
Freemasonry, whilst himself claiming superior knowledge.

But at the same time it is by no means certain that an inner circle of the Lodge Theodore may
not have been first in the field and Weishaupt all the while an unconscious agent. A very curious
light is thrown on this question by the Mémoires of Mirabeau.

Now, in The French Revolution and again in World Revolution I quoted the generally received
opinion that Mirabeau, who was already a Freemason, was received into the Order of the Illuminati
during his visit to Berlin in 1786. To this Mr. Waite replied: "All that is said about Mirabeau,
his visit to Berlin, and his plot to 'illuminize' French Freemasonry, may be disposed of in
one sentence: there is no evidence to show that Mirabeau ever became a Mason. The province
of Barruel was to colour everything...."[509] Mr. Waite's statement may also be disposed of
in one sentence: it is a pure invention. The province of Mr. Waite is to deny everything inconvenient
to him. The evidence that Mirabeau was a Freemason does not rest on Barruel alone. M. Barthou,
in his Life of Mirabeau, refers to it as a matter of common knowledge, and relates that a paper
was found at Mirabeau's house describing a new Order to be grafted on Freemasonry. This document
will be found in its entirety in the Mémoires of Mirabeau, where it is stated that:

     Mirabeau had early entered an association of Freemasonry. This
     affiliation had accredited him to a Dutch lodge, and it seems that,
     either spontaneously or in response to a request, he thought of
     proposing an organization of which we possess the plan, written not
     by his hand.... but by the hand of a copyist whom Mirabeau had
     attached to himself.... This work appears to have been that of
     Mirabeau; all his opinions, his principles, and his style will be
     found here.[510]

The same work goes on to print the document in full, which is headed: "Memoir concerning an
intimate association to be established in the Order of Freemasonry so as to bring it back to
its true principles and to make it really tend to the good of humanity, drawn up by the F.
Mi----, at present named Arcesilas, in 1776."

As this Memoir is too long to reproduce in full here, M. Barthou's résumé will serve to give
an idea of its contents[511]:

     He [Mirabeau] was a Freemason from his youth. There was found
     amongst his papers, written by the hand of a copyist, an
     international organization of Freemasonry, which no doubt he
     dictated in Amsterdam. This project contains on the solidarity of
     men, on the benefits of instruction, and on the "correction of the
     system of governments and of legislations" views very superior to
     those of "The Essay on Despotism" (1772). The mind of Mirabeau had
     ripened. The duties he traces out for the "brothers of the higher
     grade" constitute even a whole plan of reforms which resemble very
     much in certain parts the work accomplished later by the
     Constituent [Assembly]: suppression of servitudes on the land and
     the rights of main morte, abolition of the corvées, of working
     guilds and of maîtrises [freedom of companies], of customs and
     excise duties, the diminution of taxation, liberty of religious
     opinions and of the press, the disappearance of special
     jurisdiction. In order to organize, to develop and arrive at his
     end, Mirabeau invokes the example of the Jesuits: "We have quite
     contrary views," he says, "that of enlightening men, of making them
     free and happy, but we must and we can do this by the same means,
     and who should prevent us doing for good what the Jesuits have done
     for evil?"[512]

Now in this Memoir Mirabeau makes no mention of Weishaupt, but in his Histoire de la Monarchic
Prussienne he gives a eulogistic account of the Bavarian Illuminati, referring to Weishaupt
by name, and showing the Order to have arisen out of Freemasonry. It will be seen that this
account corresponds point by point with the Memoir he had himself made out in 1776, that is
to say, in the very year that Illuminism was founded:

     The Lodge Theodore de Bon Conseil at Munich, where there were a few
     men with brains and hearts, was tired of being tossed about by the
     vain promises and quarrels of Masonry. The heads resolved to graft
     on to their branch another secret association to which they gave
     the name of the Order of the Illuminés. They modelled it on the
     Society of Jesus, whilst proposing to themselves views
     diametrically opposed.

Mirabeau then goes on to say that the great object of the Order was the amelioration of the
present system of government and legislation, that one of its fundamental rules was to admit
"no prince whatever his virtues,"[513] that it proposed to abolish--

     The slavery of the peasants, the servitude of men to the soil, the
     rights of main morte and all the customs and privileges which abase
     humanity, the corvées under the condition of an equitable
     equivalent, all the corporations, all the maîtrises, all the
     burdens imposed on industry and commerce by customs, excise duties,
     and taxes ... to procure a universal toleration for all religious
     opinions ... to take away all the arms of superstition, to favour
     the liberty of the press, etc.[514]

From all this we see then that Mirabeau did not become an Illuminatus in 1786 as I had supposed
before this document was known to me, but had been in the Order from the beginning apparently
as one of its founders, first under the "Illuminated" name of Arcesilas and later under that
of Leonidas. The Memoir found at his house was thus no other than the programme of the Illuminati
evolved by him in collaboration with an inner ring of Freemasons belonging to the Lodge Theodore.
The correspondence of the Illuminati in fact contains several references to an inner ring under
the name of "the secret chapter of the Lodge of St. Theodore," which, after his initiation
into Masonry, Weishaupt indicates the necessity of bringing entirely under the control of Illuminism.
It is probable that Weishaupt was in touch with this secret chapter before his formal admission
to the lodge.

Whether, then, the ideas of Illuminism arose in this secret, chapter of the Lodge Theodore
independently of Weishaupt, or whether they were imparted by Weishaupt to the Lodge Theodore
after the directions had been given him by Kölmer, it is impossible to know; but in either
case there would be some justification for Robison's assertion that Illuminism arose out of
Freemasonry, or rather that it took birth amongst a group of Freemasons whose aims were not
those of the Order in general.

What were these aims? A plan of social and political "reform" which, as M. Barthou points out,
much resembled the work accomplished later by the Constituent Assembly in France. This admission
is of great importance; in other words, the programme carried out by the Constituent Assembly
in 1789 had been largely formulated in a lodge of German Freemasons who formed the nucleus
of the Illuminati, in 1776. And yet we are told that Illuminism had no influence on the French
Revolution!

It will be objected that the reforms here indicated were wholly admirable. True, the abolition
of the corvée, of main morte, and of servitudes were measures that met with the approval of
all right-minded men, including the King of France himself. But what of the abolition of the
"working guilds" and "all the corporations," that is to say, the "trade unions" of the period,
which was carried out by the infamous Loi Chapelier in 1791, a decree that is now generally
recognized as one of the strangest anomalies of the Revolution? Again, to whose interest was
it to do away with the customs and excise duties of France? To establish the absolute and unfettered
liberty of the press and religious opinions? The benefits these measures might be expected
to confer on the French people were certainly problematical, but there could be no doubt of
their utility to men who, like Frederick the Great, wished to ruin France and to break the
Franco-Austrian alliance by the unrestricted circulation of libels against Marie Antoinette,
who, like Mirabeau, hoped to bring about a revolution, or who, like Voltaire, wished to remove
all obstacles to the spread of an anti-Christian propaganda.

It is therefore by no means impossible that Weishaupt was at first the agent of more experienced
conspirators, whose purely political aims were disguised under a plan of social reform, and
who saw in the Bavarian professor a clever organizer to be employed in carrying out their designs.

Whether this was so or not, the fact remains that from the time Weishaupt assumed control of
the Order the plan of "social reform" described by Mirabeau vanishes entirely, for not a word
do we find in the writings of the Illuminati about any pretended scheme for ameliorating the
lot of the people, and Illuminism becomes simply a scheme of anarchic philosophy. The French
historian Henri Martin has thus admirably summed up the system elaborated by "Spartacus":

     Weishaupt had made into an absolute theory the misanthropic gibes
     [boutades] of Rousseau at the invention of property and society,
     and without taking into account the statement so distinctly
     formulated by Rousseau on the impossibility of suppressing property
     and society once they had been established, he proposed as the end
     of Illuminism the abolition of property, social authority, of
     nationality, and the return of the human race to the happy state in
     which it formed only a single family without artificial needs,
     without useless sciences, every father being priest and magistrate.
     Priest of we know not what religion, for in spite of their frequent
     invocations of the God of Nature, many indications lead us to
     conclude that Weishaupt had, like Diderot and d'Holbach, no other
     God than Nature herself. From his doctrine would naturally follow
     the German ultra-Hegelianism and the system of anarchy recently
     developed in France, of which the physiognomy suggests a foreign
     origin.[515]

This summary of the aims of the Illuminati, which absolutely corroborates the view of Barruel
and Robison, is confirmed in detail by the Socialist Freethinker of the nineteenth century
Louis Blanc, who in his remarkable chapter on the "Révolutionnaires Mystiques" refers to Weishaupt
as "One of the profoundest conspirators who have ever existed."[516] George Sand also, Socialist
and intime of the Freemasons, wrote of "the European conspiracy of Illuminism" and the immense
influence exercised by the secret societies of "mystic Germany." To say, then, that Barruel
and Robison were alone in proclaiming the danger of Illuminism is simply a deliberate perversion
of the truth, and it is difficult to understand why English Freemasons should have allowed
themselves to be misled on this question.

Thus the Masonic Cyclopædia observes that the Illuminati "were, as a rule, men of the strictest
morality and humanity, and the ideas they sought to instil were those which have found universal
acceptance in our own times." Preston, in his Illustrations of Masonry, also does his best
to gloss over the faults of the Order, and even "the historian of Freemasonry" devotes to its
founder this astounding apology. After describing Weishaupt as the victim of Jesuit intrigue,
Mr. Gould goes on to say:

     He conceived the idea of combating his foes with their own
     weapons, and forming a society of young men, enthusiastic in the
     cause of humanity, who should gradually be trained to work as one
     man to one end--the destruction of evil and the enhancement of good
     in this world. Unfortunately he had unconsciously imbibed that most
     pernicious doctrine that the end justifies the means, and his whole
     plan reveals the effects of his youthful teaching.... The man
     himself was without guile, ignorant of men, knowing them only by
     books, a learned professor, an enthusiast who took a wrong course
     in all innocence, and the faults of his head have been heavily
     visited upon his memory in spite of the rare qualities of his
     heart.[517]

One can only conclude that these extraordinary exonerations of an Order bitterly hostile to
the true aims of Masonry proceed from ignorance of the real nature of Illuminism. In order
to judge of this it is only necessary to consult the writings of the Illuminati themselves,
which are contained in the following works:

1. Einige Originalschriften des Illuminatenordens (Munich, 1787).

2. Nachtrag von weitern Originalschriften, etc. (Munich, 1787).

3. Die neuesten Arbeiten des Spartacus und Philo in dem Illuminaten-Orden (Munich, 1794).

All these consist in the correspondence and papers of the Order which were seized by the Bavarian
Government at the houses of two of the members, Zwack and Bassus, and published by order of
the Elector. The authenticity of these documents has never been denied even by the Illuminati
themselves; Weishaupt, in his published defence, endeavoured only to explain away the most
incriminating passages. The publishers, moreover, were careful to state at the beginning of
the first volume: "Those who might have any doubts on the authenticity of this collection may
present themselves at the Secret Archives here, where, on request, the original documents will
be laid before them." This precaution rendered all dispute impossible.

Setting Barruel and Robison entirely aside, we shall now see from the evidence of their own
writings, how far the Illuminati can be regarded as a praiseworthy and cruelly maligned Order.
Let us begin with their attitude towards Freemasonry.

Illuminism and Freemasonry

From the moment of Weishaupt's admission into Freemasonry his whole conduct was a violation
of the Masonic code. Instead of proceeding after the recognized manner by successive stages
of initiation, he set himself to find out further secrets by underhand methods and then to
turn them to the advantage of his own system. Thus about a year after his initiation he writes
to Cato (alias Zwack): "I have succeeded in obtaining a profound glimpse into the secret of
the Freemasons. I know their whole aim and shall impart it all at the right time in one of
the higher degrees."[518]

Cato is then deputed to make further discoveries through an Italian Freemason, the Abbé Marotti,
which he records triumphantly in his diary:

     Interview with the Abbé Marotti on the question of Masonry, when he
     explained to me the whole secret, which is founded on old religion
     and Church history, and imparted to me all the higher degrees up to
     the Scottish. Informed Spartacus of this.[519]

Spartacus, however, unimpressed by this communication, replied drily:

     Whether you know the aim of Masonry I doubt. I have myself included
     an insight into this structure in my plan, but reserved it for
     later degrees.[520]

Weishaupt then decides that all illuminated "Areopagites" shall take the first three degrees
of Freemasonry[521]; but further:

     That we shall have a masonic lodge of our own. That we shall regard
     this as our nursery garden. That to some of these Masons we shall
     not at once reveal that we have something more than the Masons
     have. That at every opportunity we shall cover ourselves with this
     [Masonry].... All those who are not suited to the work shall remain
     in the masonic Lodge and advance in that without knowing anything
     of the further system.[522]

We shall find this plan of an inner secret circle concealed within Freemasonry persisting up
to our own day.

Weishaupt, however, admits himself puzzled with regard to the past of Masonry, and urges "Porcius"
to find out more on this question from the Abbé Marotti:

     See whether through him you can discover the real history, origin,
     and the first founders of Masonry, for on this alone I am still
     undecided.[523]

But it is in "Philo," the Baron von Knigge, a Freemason and member of the Stride Observance,
in which he was known as the Eques a Cygno, that Weishaupt finds his most efficient investigator.
Thus "Philo" writes to "Spartacus":

     I have now found in Cassel the best man, on whom I cannot
     congratulate ourselves enough: he is Mauvillon, Grand Master of one
     of the Royal York Lodges. So with him we have the whole lodge in
     our hands. He has also got from there all their miserable degrees
     [Er hat auch von dort aus alle ihre elenden Grade].[524]

No wonder that Weishaupt thereupon exclaims joyfully: "Philo does more than we all expected,
and he is the man who alone will carry it all through."[525] Weishaupt then occupies himself
in trying to get a "Constitution" from London, evidently without success, and also in wresting
the Lodge Theodore in Munich from the control of Berlin in order to substitute his own domination,
so that "the whole secret chapter will be subjected to our ⊙, leave everything to it, and await
further degrees from it alone."[526]

In all this Weishaupt shows himself not only an intriguer but a charlatan, inventing mysteries
and degrees to impose on the credulity of his followers. "The mysteries, or so-called secret
truths, are the finest of all," he writes to "Philipo Strozzi," "and give me much trouble."[527]
So whilst heartily despising Freemasonry, theosophy, Rosicrucianism, and mysticism of every
kind, his association with Philo leads him to perceive the utility of all these as a bait,
and he allows Philo to draw up plans for a degree of Scottish Knight. But the result is pitiable,
Philo's composition, a "semi-theosophical discourse and explanation of hieroglyphics" is characterized
by Weishaupt as gibberish (kauderwelsche).[528]

     Philo [he says again] is full of such follies, which betray his
     small mind.... On the Illuminatus Major follows the miserable
     degree of Scottish Knight entirely of his composition, and on the
     degree of Priest an equally miserable degree of Regent, ... but I
     have already composed four more degrees compared to the worst of
     which the Priest's degree will be child's play, but I shall tell no
     one about it till I see how the thing goes....[529]

The perfidy of the Illuminati with regard to the Freemasons is therefore apparent. Even Mounier,
who set out to refute Barruel on the strength of the information supplied to him by the Illuminatus
Bode, admits their duplicity in this respect.

     Weishaupt [says Mounier] made the acquaintance of a Hanoverian, the
     Baron von Knigge, a famous intriguer, long practised in the
     charlatanism of lodges of Freemasons. On his advice new degrees
     were added to the old ones, and it was resolved to profit by
     Freemasonry whilst profoundly despising it. They decided that the
     degrees of Entered Apprentice, Fellow Craft, Master Mason, and
     Scotch Knight should be added to those of the Illuminati, and that
     they would boast of possessing exclusively the real secrets of the
     Freemasons and affirm that Illuminism was the real primitive
     Freemasonry.

"The papers of the Order seized in Bavaria and published," Mounier says again, show that "the
Illuminati employed the forms of Freemasonry, but that they considered it in itself, apart
from their own degrees, as a puerile absurdity and that they detested the Rose-Croix." Mounier,
as a good disciple of Bode, takes much the same view and pities the naïveté of the Freemasons,
who, "like so many children, spend a great part of the time in their lodges playing at chapel."

Why in the face of all this should any British Masons take up the cudgels for the Illuminati
and vilify Robison and Barruel for exposing them? The American Mackey, as a consistent Freemason,
shows scant sympathy for this traitor in the masonic camp. "Weishaupt," he writes, "was a radical
in politics and an infidel in religion, and he organized this association, not more for the
purpose of aggrandizing himself, than of overturning Christianity and the institutions of society."
And in a footnote he adds that Robison's Proofs of a Conspiracy "contain a very excellent exposition
of the nature of this pseudo-masonic institution."[530]

The truth is that Weishaupt was one of the greatest enemies of British Freemasonry who ever
lived, and genuine Freemasons will do themselves no good by defending him or his abominable system.

Let us now see how far, apart from their rôle in Masonry, the Illuminati can be regarded as
noble idealists striving for the welfare of the human race.

Idealism of the Illuminati

The line of defence adopted by the apologists of the Illuminati is always to quote the admirable
principles professed by the Order, the "beautiful ideas" that run through their writings, and
to show what excellent people were to be found amongst them.

Of course on their face value the Illuminati appear wholly admirable, of course there is nothing
easier than to find innumerable passages in their writings breathing a spirit of the loftiest
aspiration, and of course many excellent men figured amongst the patrons of the Order. All
this is the mere stock-in-trade of the secret society leader as of the fraudulent company promoter,
to whom the first essentials are a glowing prospectus and a long list of highly respectable
patrons who know nothing whatever about the inner workings of the concern. These methods, pursued
as early as the ninth century by Abdullah ibn Maymūn, enter largely into the policy of Frederick
the Great, Voltaire, and his "brothers" in philosophy--or in Freemasonry.

The resemblances between Weishaupt's correspondence and that of Voltaire and of Frederick the
Great are certainly very striking. All at moments profess respect for Christianity whilst working
to destroy it. Thus just as Voltaire in one letter to d'Alembert expresses his horror at the
publication of an anti-Christian pamphlet, Le Testament de Jean Meslier,[531] and in another
urges him to have it circulated in thousands all over France,[532] so Weishaupt is careful
in general to exhibit the face of a benign philosopher and even of a Christian evangelist;
it is only at moments that he drops the mask and reveals the grinning satyr behind it.

Accordingly in the published statutes of the Illuminati no hint of subversive intentions will
be found; indeed the "Obligation" expressly states that "nothing against the State, religion,
or morals is undertaken."

Yet what is Weishaupt's real political theory? No other than that of modern Anarchy, that man
should govern himself and rulers should be gradually done away with. But he is careful to deprecate
all ideas of violent revolution--the process is to be accomplished by the most peaceful methods.
Let us see how gently he leads up to the final conclusion:

     The first stage in the life of the whole human race is savagery,
     rough nature, in which the family is the only society, and hunger
     and thirst are easily satisfied, ... in which man enjoys the two
     most excellent goods, Equality and Liberty, to their fullest
     extent.... In these circumstances ... health was his usual
     condition.... Happy men, who were not yet enough enlightened to
     lose their peace of mind and to be conscious of the unhappy
     mainsprings and causes of our misery, love of power ... envy ...
     illnesses and all the results of imagination.

The manner in which man fell from this primitive state of felicity is then described:

     As families increased, means of subsistence began to lack, the
     nomadic life ceased, property was instituted, men established
     themselves firmly, and through agriculture families drew near each
     other, thereby language developed and through living together men
     began to measure themselves against each other, etc.... But here
     was the cause of the downfall of freedom; equality vanished. Man
     felt new unknown needs....[533]

Thus men became dependent like minors under the guardianship of kings; the human must attain
its majority and become self-governing:

     Why should it be impossible that the human race should attain to
     its highest perfection, the capacity to guide itself? Why should
     anyone be eternally led who understands how to lead himself?[534]

Further, men must learn not only to be independent of kings but of each other:

     Who has need of another depends on him and has resigned his rights.
     So to need little is the first step to freedom; therefore savages
     and the most highly enlightened are perhaps the only free men. The
     art of more and more limiting one's needs is at the same time the
     art of attaining freedom....[535]

Weishaupt then goes on to show how the further evil of Patriotism arose:

     With the origin of nations and peoples the world ceased to be a
     great family, a single kingdom: the great tie of nature was
     torn.... Nationalism took the place of human love.... Now it became
     a virtue to magnify one's fatherland at the expense of whoever was
     not enclosed within its limits, now as a means to this narrow end
     it was allowed to despise and outwit foreigners or indeed even to
     insult them. This virtue was called Patriotism....[536]

And so by narrowing down affection to one's fellow-citizens, the members of one's family, and
even to oneself:

     There arose out of Patriotism, Localism, the family spirit, and
     finally Egoism.... Diminish Patriotism, then men will learn to know
     each other again as such, their dependence on each other will be
     lost, the bond of union will widen out....[537]

It will be seen that the whole of Weishaupt's theory was in reality a new rendering of the
ancient secret tradition relating to the fall of man and the loss of his primitive felicity;
but whilst the ancient religions taught the hope of a Redeemer who should restore man to his
former state, Weishaupt looks to man alone for his restoration. "Men," he observes, "no longer
loved men but only such and such men. The word was quite lost...."[538] Thus in Weishaupt's
masonic system the "lost word" is "Man," and its recovery is interpreted by the idea that Man
should find himself again. Further on Weishaupt goes on to show how "the redemption of the
human race is to be brought about".

     These means are secret schools of wisdom, these were from all time
     the archives of Nature and of human rights, through them will Man
     be saved from his Fall, princes and nations will disappear without
     violence from the earth, the human race will become one family and
     the world the abode of reasonable men. Morality alone will bring
     about this change imperceptibly. Every father of a family will be,
     as formerly Abraham and the patriarchs, the priest and unfettered
     lord of his family, and Reason will be the only code of Man. This
     is one of our greatest secrets....[539]

But whilst completely eliminating any idea of divine power outside Man and framing his system
on purely political lines, Weishaupt is careful not to shock the susceptibilities of his followers
by any open repudiation of Christian doctrines; on the contrary, he invokes Christ at every
turn and sometimes even in language so apparently earnest and even beautiful that one is almost
tempted to believe in his sincerity. Thus he writes:

     This our great and unforgettable Master, Jesus of Nazareth,
     appeared at a time in the world when it was sunk in depravity....
     The first followers of His teaching are not wise men but simple,
     chosen from the lowest class of the people, so as to show that His
     teaching should be possible and comprehensible to all classes and
     conditions of men.... He carries out this teaching by means of the
     most blameless life in conformity with it, and seals and confirms
     this with His blood and death. These laws which He shows as the way
     to salvation are only two: love of God and love of one's neighbour;
     more He asks of no one.[540]

So far no Lutheran pastor could have expressed himself better. But one must study Weishaupt's
writings as a whole to apprehend the true measure of his belief in Christ's teaching.

       *       *       *       *       *

Now, as we have already seen, his first idea was to make Fire Worship the religion of Illuminism;
the profession of Christianity therefore appears to have been an after-thought. Evidently Weishaupt
discovered, as others have done, that Christianity lends itself more readily to subversive
ideas than any other religion. And in the passages which follow we find him adopting the old
ruse of representing Christ as a Communist and as a secret-society adept. Thus he goes on to
explain that "if Jesus preaches contempt of riches, He wishes to teach us the reasonable use
of them and prepare for the community of goods introduced by Him,"[541] and in which, Weishaupt
adds later, He lived with His disciples.[542] But this secret doctrine is only to be apprehended
by initiates:

     No one ... has so cleverly concealed the high meaning of His
     teaching, and no one finally has so surely and easily directed men
     on to the path of freedom as our great master Jesus of Nazareth.
     This secret meaning and natural consequence of His teaching He hid
     completely, for Jesus had a secret doctrine, as we see in more than
     one place of the Scriptures.[543]

Weishaupt thus contrives to give a purely political interpretation to Christ's teaching:

     The secret preserved through the Disciplinam Arcani, and the aim
     appearing through all His words and deeds, is to give back to men
     their original liberty and equality.... Now one can understand how
     far Jesus was the Redeemer and Saviour of the world.[544]

The mission of Christ was therefore by means of Reason to make men capable of freedom[545]:
"When at last reason becomes the religion of man, so will the problem be solved."[546]

Weishaupt goes on to show that Freemasonry can be interpreted in the same manner. The secret
doctrine concealed in the teaching of Christ was handed down by initiates who "hid themselves
and their doctrine under the cover of Freemasonry,"[547] and in a long explanation of Masonic
hieroglyphics he indicates the analogies between the Hiramic legend and the story of Christ.
"I say then Hiram is Christ," and after giving one of his reasons for this assertion, adds:
"Here then is much ground gained, although I myself cannot help laughing at this explanation
[obwohl ich selbst über diese Explication im Grund lachen muss]."[548] Weishaupt then proceeds
to give further interpretations of his own devising to the masonic ritual, including an imaginary
translation of certain words supposed to be derived from Hebrew, and ends up by saying: "One
will be able to show several more resemblances between Hiram and the life and death of Christ,
or drag them in by the hair."[549] So much for Weishaupt's respect for the Grand Legend of
Freemasonry!

In this manner Weishaupt demonstrates that "Freemasonry is hidden Christianity, at least my
explanations of the hieroglyphics fit this perfectly; and in the way in which I explain Christianity
no one need be ashamed to be a Christian, for I leave the name and substitute for it Reason."[550]

But this is of course only the secret of what Weishaupt calls "real Freemasonry"[551] in contradistinction
to the official kind, which he regards as totally unenlightened: "Had not the noble and elect
remained in the background ... new depravity would have broken out in the human race, and through
Regents, Priests, and Freemasons Reason would have been banished from the earth."[552]

In Weishaupt's masonic system, therefore, the designs of the Order with regard to religion
are not confided to the mere Freemasons, but only to the Illuminati. Under the heading of "Higher
Mysteries" Weishaupt writes:

     The man who is good for nothing better remains a Scottish Knight.
     If he is, however, a particularly industrious co-ordinator
     [Sammler], observer, worker, he becomes a Priest.... If there are
     amongst these [Priests] high speculative intellects, they become
     Magi. These collect and put in order the higher philosophical
     system and work at the People's Religion, which the Order will
     next give to the world. Should these high geniuses also be fit to
     rule the world, they become Regents. This is the last degree.[553]

Philo (the Baron von Knigge) also throws an interesting light on the religious designs of the
Illuminati. In a letter to Cato he explains the necessity of devising a system that will satisfy
fanatics and freethinkers alike: "So as to work on both these classes of men and unite them,
we must find an explanation to the Christian religion ... make this the secret of Freemasonry
and turn it to our purpose."[554] Philo continues:

     We say then: Jesus wished to introduce no new religion, but only to
     restore natural religion and reason to their old rights. Thereby he
     wished to unite men in a great universal association, and through
     the spread of a wiser morality, enlightenment, and the combating of
     all prejudices to make them capable of governing themselves; so the
     secret meaning of his teaching was to lead men without revolution
     to universal liberty and equality. There are many passages in the
     Bible which can be made use of and explained, and so all
     quarrelling between the sects ceases if one can find a reasonable
     meaning in the teaching of Jesus--be it true or not. As, however,
     this simple religion was afterwards distorted, so were these
     teachings imparted to us through Disciplinam Arcani and finally
     through Freemasonry, and all masonic hieroglyphics can be explained
     with this object. Spartacus has collected very good data for this
     and I have myself added to them, ... and so I have got both degrees
     ready....

     Now therefore that people see that we are the only real and true
     Christians, we can say a word more against priests and princes, but
     I have so managed that after previous tests I can receive pontiffs
     and kings in this degree. In the higher Mysteries we must then
     (a) disclose the pious fraud and (b) reveal from all writings
     the origin of all religious lies and their connexion....[555]

So admirably did this ruse succeed that we find Spartacus writing triumphantly:

     You cannot imagine what consideration and sensation our Priest's
     degree is arousing. The most wonderful thing is that great
     Protestant and reformed theologians who belong to ⊙ [Illuminism]
     still believe that the religious teaching imparted in it contains
     the true and genuine spirit of the Christian religion. Oh! men, of
     what cannot you be persuaded? I never thought that I should become
     the founder of a new religion.[556]

It is on the "illuminized" clergy and professors that Weishaupt counts principally for the
work of the Order.

     Through the influence of the Brothers [he writes], the Jesuits have
     been removed from all professorships, and the University of
     Ingoldstadt has been quite cleansed of them....[557]

Thus the way is cleared for Weishaupt's adepts.

The Institute of Cadets also comes under the control of the Order:

     All the professors are members of the Illuminati, ... so will all
     the pupils become disciples of Illuminism.[558]

Further:

     We have provided our clerical members with good benefices,
     parishes, posts at Court.

     Through our influence Arminius and Cortez have been made professors
     at Ephesus.

       *       *       *       *       *

     The German schools are quite under [the influence of] ⊙ and now
     only members have charge of them.

     The charitable association is also directed by ⊙.

       *       *       *       *       *

     Soon we shall draw over to us the whole Bartholomew Institute for
     young clergymen; the preparations have already been made and the
     prospects are very good, by this means we shall be able to provide
     the whole of Bavaria with proper priests.[559]

But religion and Freemasonry are not the only means by which Illuminism can be spread.

     We must consider [says Weishaupt], how we can begin to work under
     another form. If only the aim is achieved, it does not matter under
     what cover it takes place, and a cover is always necessary. For in
     concealment lies a great part of our strength. For this reason we
     must always cover ourselves with the name of another society. The
     lodges that are under Freemasonry are in the meantime the most
     suitable cloak for our high purpose, because the world is already
     accustomed to expect nothing great from them which merits
     attention.... As in the spiritual Orders of the Roman Church,
     religion was, alas! only a pretence, so must our Order also in a
     nobler way try to conceal itself behind a learned society or
     something of the kind.... A society concealed in this manner cannot
     be worked against. In case of a prosecution or of treason the
     superiors cannot be discovered.... We shall be shrouded in
     impenetrable darkness from spies and emissaries of other
     societies.[560]

In order to give a good appearance to the Order, Weishaupt particularly indicates the necessity
for enlisting esteemed and "respectable" persons,[561] but above all young men whom he regards
as the most likely subjects. "I cannot use men as they are," he observes, "but I must first
form them."[562] Youth naturally lends itself best to this process. "Seek the society of young
people," Weishaupt writes to Ajax, "watch them, and if one of them pleases you, lay your hand
on him."[563] "Seek out young and already skilful people.... Our people must be engaging, enterprising,
intriguing, and adroit. Above all the first."[564]

If possible they should also be good-looking--"beautiful people, cæteris paribus...."

     Such people have generally gentle manners, a tender heart, and are,
     when well practised in other things, of the greatest use in
     undertakings, for their first glance attracts; but their spirit
     n'a pas la profondeur des physiognomies sombres. They are,
     however, also less disposed to riots and disturbances than the
     darker physiognomies. That is why one must know how to use one's
     people. Above all, the high, soulful eye pleases me and the free,
     open brow.[565]

With these novices the adept of Illuminism is to proceed slowly, talking backwards and forwards:

     One must speak, first in one way, then in another, so as not to
     commit oneself and to make one's real way of thinking impenetrable
     to one's inferiors.[566]

Weishaupt also insists on the importance of exciting the candidate's curiosity and then drawing
back again, after the manner of the Fatimite dais:

     I have no fault to find with your [methods of] reception
     ["Spartacus" writes to "Cato"], except that they are too quick....
     You should proceed gradually in a roundabout way by means of
     suspense and expectations, so as first to arouse indefinite, vague
     curiosity, and then when the candidate declares himself, present
     the object, which he will then seize with both hands.[567]

By this means his vanity will also be flattered, because one will arouse the pleasure of "knowing
something which everyone does not know, and about which the greater part of the world is groping
in darkness."[568]

For the same reason the candidate must be impressed with the importance of secret societies
and the part they have played in the destinies of the world:

     One illustrates this by the Order of the Jesuits, of the
     Freemasons, by the secret associations of the ancients, one asserts
     that all events in the world occur from a hundred secret springs
     and causes, to which secret associations above all belong; one
     arouses the pleasure of quiet, hidden power and of insight into
     hidden secrets.[569]

At this point one is to begin to "show glimpses and to let fall here and there remarks that
may be interpreted in two ways," so as to bring the candidate to the point of saying: "If I
had the chance to enter such an association, I would go into it at once." "These discourses,"
says Weishaupt, "are to be often repeated."[570]

In the discourse of reception to the "Illuminatus Dirigens," the appeal to love of power plays
the most important part:

     Do you realize sufficiently what it means to rule--to rule in a
     secret Society? Not only over the lesser or more important of the
     populace, but over the best men, over men of all ranks, nations,
     and religions, to rule without external force, to unite them
     indissolubly, to breathe one spirit and soul into them, men
     distributed over all parts of the world?...[571]

     And finally, do you know what secret societies are? what a place
     they occupy in the great kingdom of the world's events? Do you
     really think they are unimportant, transitory appearances?[572]
     etc.

But the admission of political aims is reserved only for the higher grades of the Order. "With
the beginner," says Weishaupt, "we must be careful about books on religion and the State. I
have reserved these in my plan for the higher degrees."[573] Accordingly the discourse to the
"Minerval" is expressly designed to put him off the track. Thus the initiator is to say to him:

     After two years' reflection, experience, intercourse, reading of
     the graduated writings and information, you will necessarily have
     formed the idea that the final aim of our Society is nothing less
     than to win power and riches, to undermine secular or religious
     government, and to obtain the mastery of the world, and so on. If
     you have represented our Society to yourself from this point of
     view or have entered it in this expectation, you have mightily
     deceived yourself....[574]

The initiator, without informing the Minerval of the real aim of the Society, then goes on
to say that he is now free to leave it if he wishes. By this means the leaders were able to
eliminate ambitious people who might become their rivals to power and to form their ranks out
of men who would submit to be led blindly onward by unseen directors. "My circumstances necessitate,"
Spartacus writes to Cato, "that I should remain hidden from most of the members as long as
I live. I am obliged to do everything through five or six persons."[575] So carefully was this
secret guarded that until the papers of the Illuminati were seized in 1786 no one outside this
inner circle knew that Weishaupt was the head of the Order. Yet if we are to believe his own
assertions, he had been throughout in supreme control. Again and again he impresses on his
intimes the necessity for unity of command in the Order: "One must show how easy it would be
for one clever head to direct hundreds and thousands of men,"[576] and he illustrates this
system by the table reproduced on the next page, to which he appends the following explanation:

     I have two immediately below me into whom I breathe my whole
     spirit, and each of these two has again two others, and so on. In
     this way I can set a thousand men in motion and on fire in the
     simplest manner, and in this way one must impart orders and operate
     on politics.[577]

Thus, as in the case of Abdullah ibn Maymūn's society, "the extraordinary result was brought
about that a multitude of men of divers beliefs were all working together for an object known
only to a few of them."

Enough has now been quoted from the correspondence of the Illuminati to show their aims and
methods according to their own admissions. We shall now see how far their apologists are justified
in describing them as "men of the strictest morality and humanity."[578] Doubtless there were
many excellent people in the outer ranks of the Order, but this is not the contention of Mr.
Gould, who expressly states that "all the prominent members of this association were estimable
men both in public and in private life." These further extracts from their correspondence may
be left to speak for themselves.

Character of the Illuminati

In June 1782 Weishaupt writes to "Cato" as follows:

     Oh, in politics and morality you are far behind, my gentlemen.
     Judge further if such a man as Marcus Aurelius[579] finds out how
     wretched it [Illuminism] appears in Athens [Munich]; what a
     collection of immoral men, of whoremongers, liars, debtors,
     boasters, and vain fools they have amongst them. If he saw all
     that, what do you suppose the man would think? Would he not be
     ashamed to find himself in such an association, in which the
     leaders arouse the greatest expectations and carry out the best
     plan in such a miserable manner? And all this out of caprice,
     expediency, etc. Judge whether I am not right.[580]

     From Thebes [Freysing] I hear fatal news; they have received into
     the lodge the scandal of the whole town, the dissolute debtor
     Propertius, who is trumpeted abroad by the whole "personnel" of
     Athens [Munich], Thebes and Erzerum [Eichstadt]; D. also appears
     to be a bad man. Socrates who would be a capital man [ein Capital
     Mann] is continually drunk, Augustus in the worst repute, and
     Alcibiades sits the whole day with the innkeeper's wife sighing and
     pining: Tiberius tried in Corinth to rape the sister of Democedes
     and the husband came in. In Heaven's name, what are these for
     Areopagites! We upper ones, write, read and work ourselves to
     death, offer to ⊙ our health, fame and fortune, whilst these
     gentlemen indulge their weaknesses, go a whoring, cause scandals
     and yet are Areopagites and want to know about everything.[581]

     Concerning Arminius there are great complaints.... He is an
     unbearable, obstinate, arrogant, vain fool![582]

     Let Celsus, Marius, Scipio, and Ajax do what they will ... no one
     does us so much harm as Celsus, no one is less to be reasoned with
     than Celsus, and perhaps few could have been so much use to us as
     Celsus.... Marius is obstinate and can see no great plan, Scipio is
     negligent, and of Ajax I will not speak at all.... Confucius is
     worth very little: he is too inquisitive and a terrible chatterer
     [ein grausamer Schwatzer].[583]

     Agrippa must be quite struck off our list, for the rumour goes
     round ... that he has stolen a gold and silver watch together with
     a ring from our best fellow-worker Sulla.[584]

It will doubtless be suggested at this point that all these letters merely portray the lofty
idealist sorrowing over the frailties of his erring disciples, but let us hear what Weishaupt
has to say about himself. In a letter to Marius (Hertel) he writes:

     And now in the strictest confidence, a matter near my heart, which
     robs me of all rest, makes me incapable of anything and drives me
     to despair. I stand in danger of losing my honour and my reputation
     which gave me so much power over our people. Think, my
     sister-in-law is expecting a child.[585] I have for this purpose
     sent to Euriphon in Athens to solicit the marriage licence and
     Promotorial from Rome, you see how much depends on this and that no
     time must be lost; every minute is precious. But if the
     dispensation does not arrive, what shall I do? How shall I make
     amends to the person since I alone am to blame? We have already
     tried several ways to get rid of the child; she herself was
     resolved for anything. But Euriphon is too timid and yet I see no
     other expedient, if I could ensure the silence of Celsus he could
     help me and indeed he already promised me this three years
     ago....[586] If you can help me out of this dilemma, you will give
     me back life, honour, peace and power to work.... I do not know
     what devil led me astray, I who always in these circumstances took
     extreme precautions.[587]

A little later Weishaupt writes again:

     All fatalities happen to me at the same time. Now there is my
     mother dead! Corpse, wedding, christening all in a short time, one
     on the top of the other. What a wonderful mix-up
     [mischmasch]![588]

So much for what Mr. Gould calls the "rare qualities" of Weishaupt's heart. Let us now listen
to the testimony of Weishaupt's principal coadjutor, Philo (the Baron von Knigge), to whom
the "historian of Freemasonry" refers as "a lovable enthusiast." In all subversive associations,
whether open or secret, directed by men who aim at power, a moment is certain to arrive when
the ambitions of the leaders come into conflict. This is the history of every revolutionary
organization during the last 150 years. It was when the inevitable climax had been reached
between Weishaupt and Knigge that "Philo" wrote to "the most loving Cato" in the following terms:

     It is not Mahomed and A. who are so much to blame for my break with
     Spartacus, as the Jesuitical conduct of this man which has so often
     turned us against each other in order to rule despotically over
     men, who, if they have not perhaps such a rich imagination as
     himself, also do not possess so much cuteness and cunning,
     etc.[589]

In a further letter Philo goes on to enumerate the services he has rendered to Weishaupt in
the past:

     At the bidding of Spartacus I have written against ex-Jesuits and
     Rosicrucians, persecuted people who never did me any harm, thrown
     the Stricte Observance into confusion, drawn the best amongst
     them to us, told them of the worthiness of ⊙, of its power, its
     age, the excellence of its Chiefs, the blamelessness of its higher
     leaders, the importance of its knowledge, and given great ideas of
     the uprightness of its views; those amongst us who are now working
     so actively for us but cling much to religiousness [sehr an
     Religiosität kleben] and who feared our intention was to spread
     Deism, I have sought to persuade that the higher Superiors had
     nothing less than this intention. Gradually, however, I shall work
     it as I please [nach und nach wirke ich dock was ich will]. If I
     now were to ... give a hint to the Jesuits and Rosicrucians as to
     who is persecuting them ... if I were to make known (to a few
     people) the Jesuitical character of the man who leads perhaps all
     of us by the nose, uses us for his ambitious schemes, sacrifices us
     as often as his obstinacy requires, [if I were to make known to
     them] what they have to fear from such a man, from such a machine
     behind which perhaps Jesuits may be concealed or might conceal
     themselves; if I were to assure those who seek for secrets that
     they have nothing to expect; if I were to confide to those who hold
     religion dear, the principles of the General; ... if I were to draw
     the attention of the lodges to an association behind which the
     Illuminati are concealed; if I were again to associate myself with
     princes and Freemasons ... but I shrink from the thought, vengeance
     will not carry me so far....[590]

We have now seen enough of the aims and methods of the Illuminati and the true characters of
their leaders from their own admissions. To make the case complete it would be necessary also
to give a résumé of the confessions made by the ex-Illuminati, the four professors Cosandey,
Grünberger, Utzschneider, and Renner, as also of the further published works of the Illuminati--but
space and time forbid. What is needed is a complete book on the subject, consisting of translations
of the most important passages in all the contemporary German publications.

From the extracts given above, can it, however, be seriously contended that Barruel or Robison
exaggerated the guilt of the Order? Do my literal translations differ materially in sense from
the translations and occasional paraphrases given by the much-abused couple?

Even those contemporaries, Mounier and the member of the Illuminati[591] who set out to refute
Barruel and Lombard de Langres, merely provide further confirmation of their views. Thus Mounier
is obliged to confess that the real design of Illuminism was "to undermine all civil order,"[592]
and "Ancien Illuminé" asserts in language no less forcible than Barruel's own that Weishaupt
"made a code of Machiavellism," that his method was "a profound perversity, flattering everything
that was base and rancorous in human nature in order to arrive at his ends," that he was not
inspired by "a wise spirit of reform" but by a "fanatical enmity inimical to all authority
on earth." The only essential points on which the opposing parties differ is that whilst Mounier
and "Ancien Illuminé" deny the influence of the Illuminati on the French Revolution and maintain
that they ceased to exist in 1786, Barruel and Lombard de Langres present them as the inspirers
of the Jacobins and declare them to be still active after the Revolution had ended. That on
this point, at any rate, the latter were right, we shall see in a further chapter.

The great question that presents itself after studying the writings of the Illuminati is: what
was the motive power behind the Order? If we admit the possibility that Frederick the Great
and the Stricte Observance, working through an inner circle of Freemasons at the Lodge St.
Theodore, may have provided the first impetus and that Kölmer initiated Weishaupt into Oriental
methods of organization, the source of inspiration from which Weishaupt subsequently drew his
anarchic philosophy still remains obscure. It has frequently been suggested that his real inspirers
were Jews, and the Jewish writer Bernard Lazare definitely states that "there were Jews, Cabalistic
Jews, around Weishaupt."[593] A writer in La Vieille France went so far as to designate these
Jews as Moses Mendelssohn, Wessely, and the bankers Itzig, Friedlander, and Meyer. But no documentary
evidence has ever been produced in support of these statements. It is therefore necessary to
examine them in the light of probability.

Now, as I have already shown, the theosophical ideas of the Cabala play no part in the system
of Illuminism; the only trace of Cabalism to be found amongst the papers of the Order is a
list of recipes for procuring abortion, for making aphrodisiacs, Aqua Toffana, pestilential
vapours, etc., headed "Cabala Major."[594] It is possible, then, that the Illuminati may have
learnt something of "venefic magic" and the use of certain natural substances from Jewish Cabalists;
at the same time Jews appear to have been only in rare cases admitted to the Order. Everything
indeed tends to prove that Weishaupt and his first coadjutors, Zwack and Massenhausen, were
pure Germans. Nevertheless there is between the ideas of Weishaupt and of Lessing's "Falk"
a distinct resemblance; both in the writings of the Illuminati and in Lessing's Dialogues we
find the same vein of irony with regard to Freemasonry, the same design that it should be replaced
by a more effectual system,[595]the same denunciations of the existing social order and of
bourgeois society, the same theory that "men should be self-governing," the same plan of obliterating
all distinctions between nations, even the same simile of the bee-hive as applied to human
life[596] which, as I have shown elsewhere, was later on adopted by the anarchist Proudhon.
It may, however, legitimately be urged that these ideas were those of the inner masonic circle
to which both Lessing and Weishaupt belonged, and that, though placed in the mouth of Falk,
they were in no sense Judaic.

But Lessing was also the friend and admirer of Moses Mendelssohn, who has been suggested as
one of Weishaupt's inspirers. Now, at first sight nothing seems more improbable than that an
orthodox Jew such as Mendelssohn should have accorded any sympathy to the anarchic scheme of
Weishaupt. Nevertheless, certain of Weishaupt's doctrines are not incompatible with the principles
of orthodox Judaism. Thus, for example, Weishaupt's theory--so strangely at variance with his
denunciations of the family system--that as a result of Illuminism "the head of every family
will be what Abraham was, the patriarch, the priest, and the unfettered lord of his family,
and Reason will be the only code of Man,"[597] is essentially a Jewish conception.

It will be objected that the patriarchal system as conceived by orthodox Jews could by no means
include the religion of Reason as advocated by Weishaupt. It must not, however, be forgotten
that to the Jewish mind the human race presents a dual aspect, being divided into two distinct
categories--the privileged race to whom the promises of God were made, and the great mass of
humanity which remains outside the pale. Whilst strict adherence to the commands of the Talmud
and the laws of Moses is expected of the former, the most indefinite of religious creeds suffices
for the nations excluded from the privileges that Jewish birth confers. It was thus that Moses
Mendelssohn wrote to the pastor Lavater, who had sought to win him over to Christianity:

     Pursuant to the principles of my religion, I am not to seek to
     convert anyone who is not born according to our laws. This
     proneness to conversion, the origin of which some would fain tack
     on to the Jewish religion, is, nevertheless, diametrically opposed
     to it. Our rabbis unanimously teach that the written and oral laws
     which form conjointly our revealed religion are obligatory on our
     nation only. "Moses commanded us a law, even the inheritance of the
     congregation of Jacob." We believe that all other nations of the
     earth have been directed by God to adhere to the laws of nature,
     and to the religion of the patriarchs. Those who regulate their
     lives according to the precepts of this religion of nature and of
     reason[598] are called virtuous men of other nations and are the
     children of eternal salvation.[599] Our rabbis are so remote from
     Proselytomania, that they enjoin us to dissuade, by forcible
     remonstrances, everyone who comes forward to be converted. (The
     Talmud says ... "proselytes are annoying to Israel like a
     scab.")[600]

But was not this "religion of nature and of reason" the precise conception of Weishaupt?

Whether, then, Weishaupt was directly inspired by Mendelssohn or any other Jew must remain
for the present an open question. But the Jewish connexions of certain other Illuminati cannot
be disputed. The most important of these was Mirabeau, who arrived in Berlin just after the
death of Mendelssohn and was welcomed by his disciples in the Jewish salon of Henrietta Herz.
It was these Jews, "ardent supporters of the French Revolution"[601] at its outset, who prevailed
on Mirabeau to write his great apology for their race under the form of a panegyric of Mendelssohn.

To sum up, I do not so far see in Illuminism a Jewish conspiracy to destroy Christianity, but
rather a movement finding its principal dynamic force in the ancient spirit of revolt against
the existing social and moral order, aided and abetted perhaps by Jews who saw in it a system
that might be turned to their own advantage. Meanwhile, Illuminism made use of every other
movement that could serve its purpose. As the contemporary de Luchet has expressed it:

     The system of the Illuminés is not to embrace the dogmas of a sect,
     but to turn all errors to its advantage, to concentrate in itself
     everything that men have invented in the way of duplicity and
     imposture.

More than this, Illuminism was not only the assemblage of all errors, of all ruses, of all
subtleties of a theoretic kind, it was also an assemblage of all practical methods for rousing
men to action.

This was what Weishaupt so admirably understood; he knew how to take from every association,
past and present, the portions he required and to weld them all into a working system of terrible
efficiency--the disintegrating doctrines of the Gnostics and Manicheans, of the modern philosophers
and Encyclopædists, the methods of the Ismailis and the Assassins, the discipline of the Jesuits
and Templars, the organization and secrecy of the Freemasons, the philosophy of Machiavelli,
the mystery of the Rosicrucians--he knew moreover, how to enlist the right elements in all
existing associations as well as isolated individuals and turn them to his purpose. So in the
army of the Illuminati we find men of every shade of thought, from the poet Goethe[602] to
the meanest intriguer--lofty idealists, social reformers, visionaries, and at the same time
the ambitious, the rancorous, and the disgruntled, men swayed by lust or embittered by grievances,
all these differing in their aims yet by Weishaupt's admirable system of watertight compartments
precluded from a knowledge of these differences and all marching, unconsciously or not, towards
the same goal.

Although this was not the invention of Weishaupt but had been foreshadowed many centuries earlier
in the East, it was Weishaupt, so far as we know, who reduced it to a working system for the
West--a system which has been adhered to by succeeding groups of world-revolutionaries up to
the present day. It is for this reason that I have quoted at length the writings of the Illuminati--all
the ruses, all the hypocrisy, all the subtle methods of camouflage which characterized the
Order will be found again in the insidious propaganda both of the modern secret societies and
the open revolutionary organizations whose object is to subvert all order, all morality, and
all religion.

I maintain, therefore, with greater conviction than ever the importance of Illuminism in the
history of world-revolution. But for this co-ordination of methods the philosophers and Encyclopædists
might have gone on for ever inveighing against thrones and altars, the Martinistes evoking
spirits, the magicians weaving spells, the Freemasons declaiming on universal brotherhood--none
of these would have "armed the hand" and driven the infuriated mobs into the streets of Paris;
it was not until the emissaries of Weishaupt formed an alliance with the Orléaniste leaders
that vague subversive theory became active revolution.

10

THE CLIMAX

The first Masonic body with which the Illuminati formed an alliance was the Stricte Observance,
to which the Illuminati Knigge and Bode both belonged. Cagliostro had also been initiated into
the Stricte Observance near Frankfurt and was now employed as agent of the combined order.
According to his own confession his mission "was to work so as to turn Freemasonry in the direction
of Weishaupt's projects"; and the funds he drew upon were those of the Illuminati.[603] Cagliostro
also formed a link with the Martinistes, whose doctrines, though derided by Weishaupt, were
useful to his plan in attracting by their mystical character those who would have been repelled
by the cynicism of the Illuminati. According to Barruel, it was the Martinistes who--following
in the footsteps of the Rosicrucians--had suggested to Weishaupt the device of presenting Christ
as an "Illuminatus" which had led to such triumphant results amongst the Protestant clergy.

But if Weishaupt made use of the various masonic associations, they on their account found
in him a valuable ally. The fact is that by this time both French and German Freemasons were
very much at sea with regard to the whole subject of Masonry and needed someone to give a point
to their deliberations. Thus at the Congress of Wilhelmsbad convened on July 16, 1782, and
attended by representatives of masonic bodies from all over the world, the first question propounded
by the Grand Master of the Templars (i.e. the Stricte Observance) was: "What is the real object
of the Order and its true origin?" So, says Mirabeau in relating this incident, "this same
Grand Master and all his assistants had worked for more than twenty years with incredible ardour
at a thing of which they knew neither the real object nor the origin."[604]

Two years later the Freemasons of France do not appear to have been any less in the dark on
this matter, for we find them writing to General Rainsford, one of the English Masons who had
been present at the Congress of Wilhelmsbad, as follows:

     Since you say that Masonry has never experienced any variation in
     its aim, do you then know with certainty what this unique object
     is? Is it useful for the happiness of mankind?... Tell us if it is
     of an historical, political, hermetical, or scientific nature?...
     Moral, social, or religious?... Are the traditions oral or
     written?[605]

But Weishaupt had a very definite object in view, which was to gain control of all Freemasonry,
and though he himself was not present at the Congress, his coadjutor Knigge, who had been travelling
about Germany proclaiming himself the reformer of Freemasonry, presented himself at Wilhelmsbad,
armed with full authority from Weishaupt, and succeeded in enrolling a number of magistrates,
savants, ecclesiastics, and ministers of state as Illuminati and in allying himself with the
deputies of Saint-Martin and Willermoz. Vanquished by this powerful rival, the Stricte Observance
ceased temporarily to exist and Illuminism was left in possession of the field.

On February 15, 1785, a further congress took place in Paris, convened this time by the Philalèthes,
at which the Illuminati Bode (alias Amelius) and the Baron de Busche (alias Bayard) were present,
also--it has been stated--the "magician" Cagliostro, the magnetiser Mesmer, the Cabalist Duchanteau,
and of course the leaders of the Philalèthes, Savalette de Langes, who was elected President,
the Marquis de Chefdebien, and a number of German members of the same Order. This congress
led to no very practical results, and a further and more secret one was convened in the following
year at Frankfurt, where a Grand Lodge had been established in 1783. It was here that the deaths
of Louis XVI and Gustavus III of Sweden are said to have been decreed.

But already in this same year of 1785 the first act of the revolutionary drama had been played
out. The famous "Affair of the Necklace" can never be understood in the pages of official history;
only an examination of the mechanism provided by the secret societies can explain that extraordinary
episode, which, in the opinion of Napoleon, contributed more than any other cause to the explosion
of 1789. In its double attack on Church and Monarchy the Affair of the Necklace fulfilled the
purpose of both Frederick the Great and of the Illuminati. Cagliostro, we know, received both
money and instructions from the Order for carrying out the plot, and after it had ended in
his own and the Cardinal de Rohan's exoneration and exile, we find him embarking on fresh secret-society
work in London, where he arrived in November of the same year. Announcing himself as the Count
Sutkowski, member of a society at Avignon, he "visited the Swedenborgians at their Theosophical
Society meeting in rooms in the Middle Temple and displayed minute acquaintance with their
doctrines, whilst claiming a superior knowledge."[606] According to a generally received opinion,
Cagliostro was the author of a mysterious proclamation which appeared at this moment in the
Morning Herald in the cypher of the Rose-Croix.[607]

But in the year before these events an extraordinary thing had happened. An evangelist preacher
and Illuminatus named Lanze had been sent in July 1785 as an emissary of the Illuminati to
Silesia, but on his journey he was struck down by lightning. The instructions of the Order
were found on him, and as a result its intrigues were conclusively revealed to the Government
of Bavaria.[608] A searching enquiry followed, the houses of Zwack and Bassus were raided,
and it was then that the documents and other incriminating evidence referred to in the preceding
chapter of this book were seized and made public under the name of The Original Writings of
the Order of the Illuminati (1787). But before this the evidence of four ex-Illuminati, professors
of Munich, was published in two separate volumes.[609]

The diabolical nature of Illuminism now remained no longer a matter of doubt, and the Order
was officially suppressed. The opponents of Barruel and Robison therefore declare that Illuminism
came finally to an end. We shall see later by documentary evidence that it never ceased to
exist, and that twenty-five years later not only the Illuminati but Weishaupt himself were
still as active as ever behind the scenes in Freemasonry.

But for the present we must follow its course from the moment of its apparent extinction in
1786. This course can be traced not only through the "German Union," which is believed to have
been a reorganization of the original Illuminati, but through the secret societies of France.
Illuminism in reality is less an Order than a principle, and a principle which can work better
under cover of something else. Weishaupt himself had laid down the precept that the work of
Illuminism could best be conducted "under other names and other occupations," and henceforth
we shall always find it carried on by this skilful system of camouflage.

The first cover adopted was the lodge of the "Amis Réunis" in Paris, with which, as we have
already seen, the Illuminati had established relations. But now in 1787 a definite alliance
was effected by the aforementioned Illuminati, Bode and Busche, who in response to an invitation
from the secret committee of the lodge arrived in Paris in February of this year. Here they
found the old Illuminatus Mirabeau--who with Talleyrand had been largely instrumental in summoning
these German Brothers--and, according to Gustave Bord,[610] two important members of the Stricte
Observance, the Marquis de Chefdebien d'Armisson (Eques a Capite Galeato) and an Austrian,
the Comte Leopold de Kollowrath-Krakowski (Eques ab Aquila Fulgente) who also belonged to Weishaupt's
Order of Illuminati in which he bore the pseudonym of Numenius.

It is important here to recognize the peculiar part played by the Lodge of the Amis Réunis.
Whilst the Loge des Neuf Soeurs was largely composed of middle-class revolutionaries such as
Brissot, Danton, Camille Desmoulins, and Champfort, and the Loge de la Candeur of aristocratic
revolutionaries--Lafayette as well as the Orléanistes, the Marquis de Sillery, the Duc d'Aiguillon,
the Marquis de Custine, and the Lameths--the Loge du Contrat Social was mainly composed of
honest visionaries who entertained no revolutionary projects but, according to Barruel, were
strongly Royalist. The rôle of the "Amis Réunis" was to collect together the subversives from
all other lodges--Philalèthes, Rose-Croix, members of the Loge des Neuf Sours and of the Loge
de la Candeur and of the most secret committees of the Grand Orient, as well as deputies from
the Illuminés in the provinces. Here, then, at the lodge in the Rue de la Sordière, under the
direction of Savalette de Langes, were to be found the disciples of Weishaupt, of Swedenborg,
and of Saint-Martin, as well as the practical makers of revolution--the agitators and demagogues
of 1789.

The influence of German Illuminism on all these heterogeneous elements was enormous. From this
moment, says a further Bavarian report of the matter, a complete change took place in the Order
of the "Amis Réunis." Hitherto only vaguely subversive, the Chevaliers Bienfaisants became
the Chevaliers Malfaisants, the Amis Réunis became the Ennemis Réunis. The arrival of the two
Germans, Bode and Busche, gave the finishing touch to the conspiracy. "The avowed object of
their journey was to obtain information about magnetism, which was just then making a great
stir," but in reality, "taken up with the gigantic plan of their Order," their real aim was
to make proselytes. It will be seen that the following passage exactly confirms the account
given by Barruel:

     As the Lodge of the Amis Réunis collected together everything
     that could be found out from all other masonic systems in the
     world, so the way was soon paved there for Illuminism. It was also
     not long before this lodge together with all those that depended on
     it was impregnated with Illuminism. The former system of all these
     was as if wiped out, so that from this time onwards the framework
     of the Philalèthes quite disappeared and in the place of the former
     Cabalistic-magical extravagance [Schwärmerei] came in the
     philosophical-political.[611]

It was therefore not Martinism, Cabalism, or Freemasonry that in themselves provided the real
revolutionary force. Many non-illuminized Freemasons, as Barruel himself declares, remained
loyal to the throne and altar, and as soon as the monarchy was seen to be in danger the Royalist
Brothers of the Contrat Social boldly summoned the lodges to coalesce in defence of King and
Constitution; even some of the upper Masons, who in the degree of Knight Kadosch had sworn
hatred to the Pope and Bourbon monarchy, rallied likewise to the royal cause. "The French spirit
triumphed over the masonic spirit in the greater number of the Brothers. Opinions as well as
hearts were still for the King." It needed the devastating doctrines of Weishaupt to undermine
this spirit and to turn the "degrees of vengeance" from vain ceremonial into terrible fact.

If, then, it is said that the Revolution was prepared in the lodges of Freemasons--and many
French Masons have boasted of the fact--let it always be added that it was Illuminized Freemasonry
that made the Revolution, and that the Masons who acclaim it are illuminized Masons, inheritors
of the same tradition introduced into the lodges of France in 1787 by the disciples of Weishaupt,
"patriarch of the Jacobins."

Many of the Freemasons of France in 1787 were thus not conscious allies of the Illuminati.
According to Cadet de Gassicourt, there were in all the lodges only twenty-seven real initiates;
the rest were largely dupes who knew little or nothing of the source whence the fresh influence
among them derived. The amazing feature of the whole situation is that the most enthusiastic
supporters of the movement were men belonging to the upper classes and even to the royal families
of Europe. A contemporary relates that no less than thirty princes--reigning and non-reigning--had
taken under their protection a confederation from which they stood to lose everything and had
become so imbued by its principles that they were inaccessible to reason.[612] Intoxicated
by the flattery lavished on them by the priests of Illuminism, they adopted a religion of which
they understood nothing. Weishaupt, of course, had taken care that none of these royal dupes
should be initiated into the real aims of the Order, and at first adhered to the original plan
of excluding them altogether; but the value of their co-operation soon became apparent and
by a supreme irony it was with a Grand Duke that he himself took refuge.

But if the great majority of princes and nobles were stricken with blindness at this crisis,
a few far-seeing spirits recognized the danger and warned the world of the impending disaster.
In 1787 Cardinal Caprara, Apostolic Nuncio at Vienna, addressed a confidential memoir to the
Pope, in which he pointed out that the activities carried on in Germany by the different sects
of Illuminés, of Perfectibilists, of Freemasons, etc., were increasing.

     The danger is approaching, for from all these senseless dreams of
     Illuminism, of Swedenborgianism, or of Freemasonry a frightful
     reality will emerge. Visionaries have their time; the revolution
     they forebode will have its time also.[613]

A more amazing prophecy, however, was the Essai sur la Secte des Illuminés, by the Marquis
de Luchet,[614] a Liberal noble who played some part in the revolutionary movement, yet who
nevertheless realized the dangers of Illuminism. Thus, as early as 1789, before the Revolution
had really developed, de Luchet uttered these words of warning:

     Deluded people ... learn that there exists a conspiracy in favour
     of despotism against liberty, of incapacity against talent, of vice
     against virtue, of ignorance against enlightenment.... This society
     aims at governing the world.... Its object is universal domination.
     This plan may seem extraordinary, incredible--yes, but not
     chimerical ... no such calamity has ever yet afflicted the world.

De Luchet then goes on to foretell precisely the events that were to take place three and four
years later; he describes the position of a king who has to recognize masters above himself
and to authorize their "abominable régime," to become the plaything of an ambitious and fanatical
horde which has taken possession of his will.

     See him condemned to serve the passions of all that surround him
     ... to raise degraded men to power, to prostitute his judgement by
     choices that dishonour his prudence....

All this was exactly fulfilled during the reign of the Girondin ministry of 1792. The campaign
of destruction carried out in the summer of 1793 is thus foretold:

     We do not mean to say that the country where the Illuminés reign
     will cease to exist, but it will fall into such a degree of
     humiliation that it will no longer count in politics, that the
     population will diminish, that the inhabitants who resist the
     inclination to pass into a foreign land will no longer enjoy the
     happiness of consideration, nor the charms of society, nor the
     gifts of commerce.

And de Luchet ends with this despairing appeal to the powers of Europe:

     Masters of the world, cast your eyes on a desolated multitude,
     listen to their cries, their tears, their hopes. A mother asks you
     to restore her son, a wife her husband, your cities for the fine
     arts that have fled from them, the country for citizens, the fields
     for cultivators, religion for forms of worship, and Nature for
     beings of which she is worthy.

Five years after these words were written the countryside of France was desolate, art and commerce
were destroyed, and women following the tumbril that carried Fouquier-Tinville to the guillotine
cried out: "Give me back my brother, my son, my husband!" So was this amazing prophecy fulfilled.
Yet not one word has history to say on the subject! The warning of de Luchet has fallen on
deaf ears amongst posterity as amongst the men of his own day.

De Luchet himself recognizes the obstacle to his obtaining a hearing: there are too many "passions
interested in supporting the system of the Illuminés," too many deluded rulers imagining themselves
enlightened ready to precipitate their people into the abyss, whilst "the heads of the Order
will never relinquish the authority they have acquired nor the treasure at their disposal."
In vain de Luchet appeals to the Freemasons to save their Order from the invading sect. "Would
it not be possible," he asks, "to direct the Freemasons themselves against the Illuminés by
showing them that whilst they are working to maintain harmony in society, those others are
everywhere sowing seeds of discord" and preparing the ultimate destruction of their Order?
So far it is not too late; if only men will believe in the danger it may be averted: "from
the moment they are convinced, the necessary blow is dealt to the sect." Otherwise de Luchet
prophesies "a series of calamities of which the end is lost in the darkness of time, ... a
subterranean fire smouldering eternally and breaking forth periodically in violent and devastating
explosions." What words could better describe the history of the last 150 years?

The Essai sur la Sects des Illuminés is one of the most extraordinary documents of history
and at the same time one of the most mysterious. Why it should have been written by the Marquis
de Luchet, who is said to have collaborated with Mirabeau in the Galerie de Portraits published
in the following year, why it should have been appended to Mirabeau's Histoire Secrète de la
Cour de Berlin, and accordingly attributed to Mirabeau himself, why Barruel should have denounced
it as dust thrown in the eyes of the public, although it entirely corroborated his own point
of view, are questions to which I can find no reply. That is was written seriously and in all
good faith it is impossible to doubt; whilst the fact that it appeared before, instead of after,
the events described, renders it even more valuable evidence of the reality of the conspiracy
than Barruel's own admirable work. What Barruel saw, de Luchet foresaw with equal clearness.
As to the rôle of Mirabeau at this crisis, we can only hazard an explanation on the score of
his habitual inconsistency. At one moment he was seeking interviews with the King's ministers
in order to warn them of the coming danger, at the next he was energetically stirring up insurrection.
It is therefore not impossible that he may have encouraged de Luchet's exposure of the conspiracy,
although meanwhile he himself had entered into the scheme of destruction. Indeed, according
to a pamphlet published in 1791 entitled Mystères de la Conspiration,[615] the whole plan of
revolution was found amongst his papers. The editor of this brochure explains that the document
here made public, called Croquis ou Projet de Révolution de Monsieur de Mirabeau, was seized
at the house of Madame Lejai, the wife of Mirabeau's publisher, on October 6, 1789. Beginning
with a diatribe against the French monarchy, the document goes on to say that "in order to
triumph over this hydra-headed monster these are my ideas":

     We must overthrow all order, suppress all laws, annul all power,
     and leave the people in anarchy. The laws we establish will not
     perhaps be in force at once, but at any rate, having given back the
     power to the people, they will resist for the sake of their liberty
     which they will believe they are preserving. We must caress their
     vanity, flatter their hopes, promise them happiness after our work
     has been in operation; we must elude their caprices and their
     systems at will, for the people as legislators are very dangerous,
     they only establish laws which coincide with their passions, their
     want of knowledge would besides only give birth to abuses. But as
     the people are a lever which legislators can move at their will, we
     must necessarily use them as a support, and render hateful to them
     everything we wish to destroy and sow illusions in their path; we
     must also buy all the mercenary pens which propagate our methods
     and which will instruct the people concerning their enemies whom we
     attack. The clergy, being the most powerful through public opinion,
     can only be destroyed by ridiculing religion, rendering its
     ministers odious, and only representing them as hypocritical
     monsters, for Mahomet in order to establish his religion first
     defamed the paganism which the Arabs, the Sarmathes, and the
     Scythians professed. Libels must at every moment show fresh traces
     of hatred against the clergy. To exaggerate their riches, to make
     the sins of an individual appear to be common to all, to attribute
     to them all vices; calumny, murder, irreligion, sacrilege, all is
     permitted in times of revolution.

     We must degrade the noblesse and attribute it to an odious
     origin, establish a germ of equality which can never exist but
     which will flatter the people; [we must] immolate the most
     obstinate, burn and destroy their property in order to intimidate
     the rest, so that if we cannot entirely destroy this prejudice we
     can weaken it and the people will avenge their vanity and their
     jealousy by all the excesses which will bring them to submission.

After describing how the soldiers are to be seduced from their allegiance, and the magistrates
represented to the people as despots, "since the people, brutal and ignorant, only see the
evil and never the good of things," the writer explains they must be given only limited power
in the municipalities.

     Let us beware above all of giving them too much force; their
     despotism is too dangerous, we must flatter the people by
     gratuitous justice, promise them a great diminution in taxes and a
     more equal division, more extension in fortunes, and less
     humiliation. These phantasies [vertiges] will fanaticise the
     people, who will flatten out all resistance. What matter the
     victims and their numbers? spoliations, destructions, burnings, and
     all the necessary effects of a revolution? nothing must be sacred
     and we can say with Machiavelli: "What matter the means as long as
     one arrives at the end?"

Were all these the ideas of Mirabeau, or were they, like the other document of the Illuminati
found amongst his papers, the programme of a conspiracy? I incline to the latter theory. The
plan of campaign was, at any rate, the one followed out by the conspirators, as Chamfort, the
friend and confidant of Mirabeau, admitted in his conversation with Marmontel:

     The nation is a great herd that only thinks of browsing, and with
     good sheepdogs the shepherds can lead it as they please.... Money
     and the hope of plunder are all-powerful with the people....
     Mirabeau cheerfully asserts that with 100 louis one can make quite
     a good riot.[616]

Another contemporary thus describes the methods of the leaders:

     Mirabeau, in the exuberance of an orgy, cried one day: "That
     canaille well deserves to have us for legislators!" These
     professions of faith, as we see, are not at all democratic; the
     sect uses the populace as revolution fodder [chair à révolution],
     as prime material for brigandage, after which it seizes the gold
     and abandons generations to torture. It is veritably the code of
     hell.[617]

It is this "code of hell" set forth in the "Projet de Révolution" that we shall find repeated
in succeeding documents throughout the last hundred years--in the correspondence of the "Alta
Vendita," in the Dialogues aux Enfers entre Machiavel et Montesquieu by Maurice Joly, in the
Revolutionary Catechism of Bakunin, in the Protocols of the Elders of Zion, and in the writings
of the Russian Bolsheviks to-day.

Whatever doubts may be cast on the authenticity of any of these documents, the indisputable
fact thus remains that as early as 1789 this Machiavellian plan of engineering revolution and
using the people as a lever for raising a tyrannical minority to power, had been formulated;
further, that the methods described in this earliest "Protocol" have been carried out according
to plan from that day to this. And in every outbreak of the social revolution the authors of
the movement have been known to be connected with secret societies.

It was Adrien Duport, author of the "Great Fear" that spread over France on July 22, 1789,
Duport, the inner initiate of the secret societies, "holding in his hands all the threads of
the masonic conspiracy," who on May 21, 1790, set forth before the Committee of Propaganda
the vast scheme of destruction.

     M. de Mirabeau has well established the fact that the fortunate
     revolution which has taken place in France must and will be for all
     the peoples of Europe the awakening of liberty and for Kings the
     sleep of death.

But Duport goes on to explain that whilst Mirabeau thinks it advisable at present not to concern
themselves with anything outside France, he himself believes that the triumph of the French
Revolution must lead inevitably to "the ruin of all thrones ... Therefore we must hasten among
our neighbours the same revolution that is going on in France."[618]

The plan of illuminized Freemasonry was thus nothing less than world-revolution.

It is necessary here to reply to a critic who suggested that in emphasizing the rôle of the
secret societies in World Revolution I had abandoned my former thesis of the Orléaniste conspiracy.
I wish therefore to state that I do not retract one word I wrote in The French Revolution on
the Orléaniste conspiracy, I merely supply a further explanation of its efficiency by enlarging
on the aid it received from the party I referred to as the Subversives--outcome of the masonic
lodges. It was because the Orléanistes held the whole masonic organization at their disposal
that they were able to carry out their plans with such extraordinary skill and thoroughness,
and because they had at their back men bent solely on destruction that they could enlist a
following which would not have rallied to a mere scheme of usurpation. Even Montjoie, who saw
in the Revolution principally the work of the Duc d'Orléans, indicates in a very curious passage
of a later work the existence of the still darker intrigue behind the conspiracy he had spent
his energies in unveiling:

     I will not examine whether this wicked prince, thinking he was
     acting in his personal interests, was not moved by that invisible
     hand which seems to have created all the events of our revolution
     in order to lead us towards a goal that we do not see at present,
     but which I think we shall see before long.[619]

Unfortunately, after this mysterious utterance Montjoie never again returns to the subject.

At the beginning of the Revolution, Orléanism and Freemasonry thus formed a united body. According
to Lombard de Langres:

     France in 1789 counted more than 2,000 lodges affiliated to the
     Grand Orient; the number of adepts was more than 100,000. The first
     events of 1789 were only Masonry in action. All the revolutionaries
     of the Constituent Assembly were initiated into the third degree.
     We place in this class the Duc d'Orléans, Valence, Syllery, Laclos,
     Sièyes, Pétion, Menou, Biron, Montesquieu, Fauchet, Condorcet,
     Lafayette, Mirabeau, Garat, Rabaud, Dubois-Crancé, Thiébaud,
     Larochefoucauld, and others.[620]

Amongst these others were not only the Brissotins, who formed the nucleus of the Girondin party,
but the men of the Terror--Marat, Robespierre, Danton, and Desmoulins.

It was these fiercer elements, true disciples of the Illuminati, who were to sweep away the
visionary Masons dreaming of equality and brotherhood. Following the precedent set by Weishaupt,
classical pseudonyms were adopted by these leaders of the Jacobins, thus Chaumette was known
as Anaxagoras, Clootz as Anacharsis, Danton as Horace, Lacroix as Publicola, and Ronsin as
Scaevola[621]; again, after the manner of the Illuminati, the names of towns were changed and
a revolutionary calendar was adopted. The red cap and loose hair affected by the Jacobins appear
also to have been foreshadowed in the lodges of the Illuminati.[622]

Yet faithfully as the Terrorists carried out the plan of the Illuminati, it would seem that
they themselves were not initiated into the innermost secrets of the conspiracy. Behind the
Convention, behind the clubs, behind the Revolutionary Tribunal, there existed, says Lombard
de Langres, that "most secret convention [convention sécrétissime] which directed everything
after May 31, an occult and terrible power of which the other Convention became the slave and
which was composed of the prime initiates of Illuminism. This power was above Robespierre and
the committees of the government, ... it was this occult power which appropriated to itself
the treasures of the nation and distributed them to the brothers and friends who had helped
on the great work."[623]

What was the aim of this occult power? Was it merely the plan of destruction that had originated
in the brain of a Bavarian professor twenty years earlier, or was it something far older, a
live and terrible force that had lain dormant through the centuries, that Weishaupt and his
allies had not created but only loosed upon the world? The Reign of Terror, like the outbreak
of Satanism in the Middle Ages, can be explained by no material causes--the orgy of hatred,
lust, and cruelty directed not only against the rich but still more against the poor and defenceless,
the destruction of science, art, and beauty, the desecration of the churches, the organized
campaign against all that was noble, all that was sacred, all that humanity holds dear, what
was this but Satanism?

So in the "great shipwreck of civilization," as a contemporary has described it, the projects
of the Cabalists, the Gnostics, and the secret societies which for nearly eighteen centuries
had sapped the foundations of Christianity found their fulfilment. Do we not detect an echo
of the Toledot Yeshu in the blasphemies of the Marquis de Sade concerning "the Jewish slave"
and "the adulterous woman, the courtesan of Galilee?" And in the imprecations of Marat's worshippers,
"Christ was a false prophet!" a repetition of the secret doctrine attributed to the Templars:
"Jesus is not the true God; He is a false prophet; He was not crucified for the salvation of
humanity, but for His own misdeeds"? Are these resemblances accidental, or are they the outcome
of a continuous plot against the Christian faith?

What, then, was the rôle of Jews in the Revolution? In this connexion it is necessary to understand
the situation of the Jews in France at this period.

After the decree of banishment issued by Charles VI in 1394, Jewry, as a body, had ceased to
exist; but towards the end of the fifteenth century a certain number of Jews, driven out of
Spain and Portugal, were allowed to settle in Bordeaux. These Spanish and Portuguese Jews,
known as Sephardim, appeared to acquiesce in the Christian religion and were not officially
regarded as Jews, but enjoyed considerable privileges conferred on them by Henri II. It was
not until the beginning of the eighteenth century, during the Regency, that Jews began to reappear
in Paris. Meanwhile, the annexation of Alsace at the end of the previous century had added
to the population of France the German Jews of that province known as the Ashkenazim.

It is important to distinguish between these two races of Jews in discussing the question of
Jewish emancipation at the time of the Revolution. For whilst the Sephardim had shown themselves
good citizens and were therefore subject to no persecutions, the Ashkenazim by their extortionate
usury and oppressions had made themselves detested by the people, so that rigorous laws were
enforced to restrain their rapacity. The discussions that raged in the National Assembly on
the subject of the Jewish question related therefore mainly to the Jews of Alsace. Already,
in 1784, the Jews of Bordeaux had been accorded further concessions by Louis XVI; in 1776 all
Portuguese Jews had been given religious liberty and the permission to inhabit all parts of
the kingdom. The decree of January 28, 1790, conferring on the Jews of Bordeaux the rights
of French citizens, put the finishing touch to this scheme of liberation. But the proposal
to extend this privilege to the Jews of Alsace evoked a storm of controversy in the Assembly
and also violent insurrections amongst the Alsatian peasants. It was thus on behalf of the
people that several deputies protested against the decree. "The Jews," said the Abbé Maury,
"have traversed seventeen centuries without mingling with other nations. They have never done
anything but trade with money, they have been the scourge of agricultural provinces, not one
of them has known how to ennoble his hands by guiding the plough." And he went on to point
out that the Jews "must not be persecuted, they must be protected as individuals and not as
Frenchmen, since they cannot be citizens.... Whatever you do, they will always remain foreigners
in our midst."

Monseigneur de la Fare, Bishop of Nancy, adopted the same line of argument:

     They must be accorded protection, safety, liberty; but should we
     admit into the family a tribe that is foreign to it, that turns its
     eyes unceasingly towards a common country, that aspires to abandon
     the land that bears it?... My cahier orders me to protest against
     the motion that has been made to you. The interest of the Jews
     themselves necessitates this protest. The people have a horror of
     them; they are often in Alsace the victims of popular risings.[625]

In all this, as will be seen, there is no question of persecution, but of precautions against
a race that wilfully isolates itself from the rest of the community in order to pursue its
own interests and advantages. The Jews of Bordeaux indeed recognized the odium that the German
Jews were calculated to bring on the Jewish cause, and in an address to the Assembly on January
22, 1790, dissociated themselves from the aggressive claims of the Ashkenazim:

     We dare to believe that our condition in France would not to-day be
     open to discussion if certain demands of the Jews of Alsace,
     Lorraine, and the Trois Evêchés [i.e. Metz, Toul, and Verdun] had
     not caused a confusion of ideas which appears to reflect on us. We
     do not yet know exactly what these demands are, but to judge by the
     public papers they appear to be rather extraordinary since these
     Jews aspire to live in France under a special régime, to have laws
     peculiar to themselves, and to constitute a class of citizens
     separated from all the others.

     As for us, our condition in France has long since been settled. We
     have been naturalized French since 1550; we possess all kinds of
     properties, and we enjoy the unlimited right to acquire estates. We
     have neither laws, tribunals, nor officers of our own[626]

In adopting this attitude the Sephardim created a precedent which, if it had been followed
henceforth consistently by their co-religionists, might have gone far to allay prejudice against
the Jewish race. It was the solidarity generally presented by the Jews towards the rest of
the community which excited alarm in the minds of French citizens. Thirty years earlier the
merchants of Paris, in a petition against the admission of the Jews to their corporations,
indicated by an admirable simile the danger this solidarity offered to free commerce.

     The French merchant carries on his commerce alone; each commercial
     house is in a way isolated, whilst the Jews are particles of
     quicksilver, which at the least slant run together into a
     block.[627]

But in spite of all protests, the decree emancipating the Jews of Alsace was passed in September
1791, and hymns of praise were sung in the synagogues.

What part was actually played by the Jews in the tumults of the Revolution it is impossible
to determine, for the reason that they are seldom designated as such in the writings of contemporaries.
On this point Jewish writers appear to be better informed than the rest of the world, for Monsieur
Léon Kahn in his panegyric on the part played by his co-religionists in the Revolution[628]
finds Jews where even Drumont failed to detect them. Thus we read that it was a Jew, Rosenthal,
who headed the legion known by his name, which was sent against La Vendée but took to flight,[629]
and which was the subject of complaint when employed to guard the Royal Family at the Temple[630];
that amongst those who worked most energetically to deprive the clergy of their goods was a
Jewish ex-old-clothes seller, Zalkind Hourwitz; that it was a Jew named Lang who murdered three
out of the five Swiss guards at the foot of the staircase in the Tuileries on August 10[631];
that Jews were implicated in the theft of the crown jewels on September 16, 1792, and one named
Lyre was executed in consequence; that it was Clootz and the Jew Pereyra, and not, as I had
stated, Hébert, Chaumette, and Momoro, who went to the Archbishop Gobel in November 1793 and
induced him by means of threats to abjure the Christian faith.[632]

All these facts were unknown to me when I wrote my account of these events; it will be seen
then that, far from exaggerating the rôle of the Jews in The French Revolution, I very much
underrated it. Indeed the question of their complicity had not occurred to me at all when I
wrote this book, and the only Jew to whom I referred was Ephraïm--sent to France by the Illuminati
Frederick William II and Bischoffswerder--whom M. Kahn indicates as playing an even more important
part than I had assigned to him.

But illuminating as these incidents may be, it is yet open to question whether they prove any
concerted attempt on the part of the Jews to bring about the overthrow of the French monarchy
and the Catholic religion. It is true, nevertheless, that they themselves boasted of their
revolutionary ardour. In an address presenting their claims before the National Assembly in
1789, they declare:

     Regenerators of the French Empire, you would not wish that we
     should cease to be citizens, since for already six months we have
     assiduously performed all duties as such, and the recompense for
     the zeal we have shown in accelerating the revolution will not be
     to condemn us to participate in none of its advantages now that it
     has been consummated.... Nosseigneurs, we are all very good
     citizens, and in this memorable revolution we dare to say that
     there is not one of us who has not proved himself.[633]

In all these activities, however, religious feeling appears to have played an entirely subordinate
part; the Jews, as has been said, were free before the Revolution to carry on the rites of
their faith. And when the great anti-religious campaign began, many of them entered whole-heartedly
into the attack on all religious faiths, their own included. Thus on the 21st Brumaire, whilst
the Feasts of Reason were taking place in the churches of Paris, we find "a deputation of Israelites"
presenting themselves at the National Assembly and "depositing on the bosom of the Mountain
the ornaments of which they had stripped a little temple they had in the Faubourg Saint-Germain."
At the same moment--

     A revolutionary committee of the Réunion brings to the general
     council crosses, suns, chalices, copes, and quantities of other
     ornaments of worship, and a member of this committee observes that
     several of these effects belong to individuals of the Jewish race.
     A minister of the religion of Moses, Abraham, and Jacob asks in the
     name of his co-religionists that the said effects should not be
     regarded as belonging to such and such a sect, ... this citizen is
     named Benjamin Jacob.... Another member of the same committee pays
     homage to the patriotic zeal of the citizens heretofore Jews, ...
     almost all have forestalled the wish of the revolutionary committee
     by themselves bringing their reliquaries and ornaments, amongst
     others the famous cope said to have belonged to Moses.[634]

On the 20th Frimaire at "the Temple of Liberty," formerly the church of the Benedictines, "the
citizen Alexandre Lambert fils, a Jew brought up in the prejudices of the Jewish religion,"
uttered a violent harangue against all religions:

     I will prove to you, citizens, that all forms of worship are
     impostures equally degrading to man and to divinities; I will not
     prove it by philosophy, I do not know it, but only by the light of
     reason.

After denouncing the iniquities of both the Catholic and Protestant faiths, Lambert demonstrates
"the absurdities of the Jewish religion, of this domineering religion"; he thunders against
Moses "governing a simple and agrarian people like all clever impostors," against "the servile
respect of the Jews for their kings ... the ablutions of women," etc. Finally he declares:

     The bad faith, citizens, of which the Jewish nation is accused does
     not come from themselves but from their priests. Their religion,
     which would allow them only to lend to those of their nation at 5
     per cent., tells them to take all they can from Catholics; it is
     even hallowed as a custom in our morning prayers to solicit God's
     help in catching out a Christian. There is more, citizens, and it
     is the climax of abomination: if any mistake is made in commerce
     between Jews, they are ordered to make reparation; but if on 100
     louis a Christian should have paid 25 too much, one is not bound to
     return them to him. What an abomination! What a horror! And where
     does that all come from but from the Rabbis? Who have excited
     proscriptions against us? Our priests! Ah, citizens, more than
     anything in the world we must abjure a religion which, ... by
     subjecting us to irksome and servile practices, makes it impossible
     for us to be good citizens.[635]

The encouragement accorded by the Jews to the French Revolution appears thus to have been prompted
not by religious fanaticism but by a desire for national advantage. That they gained immensely
by the overthrow of the Old Order is undeniable, for apart from the legislation passed on their
behalf in the National Assembly, the disorder of the finances in 1796 was such that, as M.
Leon Kahn tells us, a contemporary journal enquired: "Has the Revolution then been only a financial
scheme? a speculation of bankers?"[636] We know from Prudhomme to what race the financiers
who principally profited by this disorder belonged.[637]

But if the rôle of the Jews in the Revolution remains obscure there can be no doubt of the
part played by the secret societies in the revolt against all religion, all moral laws, and
social order, which had been reduced to a system in the councils of the Illuminati.

It was this conspiracy that reasserted itself in the Babouviste rising of 1796 which was directly
inspired by the secret societies. After the death of Babeuf, his friend and inspirer Buonarotti
with the aid of Marat's brother founded a masonic lodge, the Amis Sincères, which was affiliated
to the Philadelphes, at Geneva, and as "Diacre Mobile" of the "Order of Sublime and Perfect
Masons" created three new secret degrees, in which the device of the Rose-Croix I.N.R.I. was
interpreted as signifying "Justum necare reges injustos."[638]

The part to be assigned to each intrigue in preparing the world-movement of which the French
Revolution was the first expression is a question on which no one can speak with certainty.
But, as at the present moment, the composite nature of this movement must never be lost to
sight. Largely perhaps the work of Frederick the Great, it is probable that but for the Orléanistes
the plot against the French monarchy might have come to nought; whilst again, but for his position
at the head of illuminized Freemasonry it is doubtful whether the Duc d'Orléans could have
commanded the forces of revolution. Further, how far the movement, which, like the modern Bolshevist
conspiracy, appears to have had unlimited funds at its disposal, was financed by the Jews yet
remains to be discovered. Hitherto only the first steps have been taken towards elucidating
the truth about the French Revolution.

In the opinion of an early nineteenth-century writer the sect which engineered the French Revolution
was absolutely international:

     The authors of the Revolution are not more French than German,
     Italian, English, etc. They form a particular nation which took
     birth and has grown in the darkness, in the midst of all civilized
     nations, with the object of subjecting them to its domination.[639]

It is curious to find almost precisely the same idea expressed by the Duke of Brunswick, formerly
the "Eques a Victoria" of the Stricte Observance, "Aaron" of the Illuminati, and Grand Master
of German Freemasonry, who, whether because the Revolution had done its work in destroying
the French monarchy and now threatened the security of Germany, or whether because he was genuinely
disillusioned in the Orders to which he had belonged, issued a Manifesto to all the lodges
in 1794, declaring that in view of the way in which Masonry had been penetrated by this great
sect the whole Order must be temporarily suppressed. It is essential to quote a part of this
important document verbatim:

     Amidst the universal storm produced by the present revolutions in
     the political and moral world, at this period of supreme
     illumination and of profound blindness, it would be a crime against
     truth and humanity to leave any longer shrouded in a veil things
     that can provide the only key to past and future events, things
     that should show to thousands of men whether the path they have
     been made to follow is the path of folly or of wisdom. It has to do
     with you, VV. FF. of all degrees and of all secret systems. The
     curtain must at last be drawn aside, so that your blinded eyes may
     see that light you have ever sought in vain, but of which you have
     only caught a few deceptive rays....

     We have raised our building under the wings of darkness; ... the
     darkness is dispelled, and a light more terrifying than darkness
     itself strikes suddenly on our sight. We see our edifice crumbling
     and covering the ground with ruins; we see destruction that our
     hands can no longer arrest. And that is why we send away the
     builders from their workshops. With a last blow of the hammer we
     overthrow the columns of salaries. We leave the temple deserted,
     and we bequeath it as a great work to posterity which shall raise
     it again on its ruins and bring it to completion.

Brunswick then goes on to explain what has brought about the ruin of the Order, namely, the
infiltration of Freemasonry by secret conspirators:

     A great sect arose which, taking for its motto the good and the
     happiness of man, worked in the darkness of the conspiracy to make
     the happiness of humanity a prey for itself. This sect is known to
     everyone: its brothers are known no less than its name. It is they
     who have undermined the foundations of the Order to the point of
     complete overthrow; it is by them that all humanity has been
     poisoned and led astray for several generations. The ferment that
     reigns amongst the peoples is their work. They founded the plans of
     their insatiable ambition on the political pride of nations. Their
     founders arranged to introduce this pride into the heads of the
     peoples. They began by casting odium on religion.... They invented
     the rights of man which it is impossible to discover even in the
     book of Nature, and they urged the people to wrest from their
     princes the recognition of these supposed rights. The plan they had
     formed for breaking all social ties and of destroying all order was
     revealed in all their speeches and acts. They deluged the world
     with a multitude of publications; they recruited apprentices of
     every rank and in every position; they deluded the most
     perspicacious men by falsely alleging different intentions. They
     sowed in the hearts of youth the seed of covetousness, and they
     excited it with the bait of the most insatiable passions.
     Indomitable pride, thirst of power, such were the only motives of
     this sect: their masters had nothing less in view than the thrones
     of the earth, and the government of the nations was to be directed
     by their nocturnal clubs.

     This is what has been done and is still being done. But we notice
     that princes and people are unaware how and by what means this is
     being accomplished. That is why we say to them in all frankness:
     The misuse of our Order, the misunderstanding of our secret, has
     produced all the political and moral troubles with which the world
     is filled to-day. You who have been initiated, you must join
     yourselves with us in raising your voices, so as to teach peoples
     and princes that the sectarians, the apostates of our Order, have
     alone been and will be the authors of present and future
     revolutions. We must assure princes and peoples, on our honour and
     our duty, that our association is in no way guilty of these evils.
     But in order that our attestations should have force and merit
     belief, we must make for princes and people a complete sacrifice;
     so as to cut out to the roots the abuse and error, we must from
     this moment dissolve the whole Order. This is why we destroy and
     annihilate it completely for the time; we will preserve the
     foundations for posterity, which will clear them when humanity, in
     better times, can derive some benefit from our holy alliance.[640]

Thus, in the opinion of the Grand Master of German Freemasonry, a secret sect working within
Freemasonry had brought about the French Revolution and would be the cause of all future revolutions.
We shall now pursue the course of this sect after the first upheaval had ended.

Three years after the Duke of Brunswick issued his Manifesto to the lodges, the books of Barruel,
Robison, and others appeared, laying bare the whole conspiracy. It has been said that all these
books "fell flat."[641] This is directly contrary to the truth. Barruel's book went into no
less than eight editions, and I have described elsewhere the alarm that his work and Robison's
excited in America. In England they led to the very tangible result that a law was passed by
the English Parliament in 1799 prohibiting all secret societies with the exception of Freemasonry.

It is evident, then, that the British Government recognized the continued existence of these
associations and the danger they presented to the world. This fact should be borne in mind
when we are assured that Barruel and Robison had conjured up a bogey which met with no serious
attention from responsible men. For the main purpose of Barruel's book is to show that not
only had Illuminism and Grand Orient Masonry contributed largely to the French Revolution,
but that three years after that first explosion they were still as active as ever. This is
the great point which the champions of the "bogey" theory are most anxious to refute. "The
Bavarian Order of the Illuminati," wrote Mr. Waite, "was founded by Adam Weishaupt in 1776,
and it was suppressed by the Elector of Bavaria in 1789.... Those who say that 'it was continued
in more secret forms' have never produced one item of real evidence."[642] Now, as we have
seen, the Illuminati were not suppressed by the Elector of Bavaria in 1789, but in 1786--first
error of Mr. Waite. But more extraordinary confusion of mind is displayed in his Encyclopædia
of Freemasonry, where, in a Masonic Chronology, he gives, this time under the date of 1784,
"Suppression of the Illuminati," but under 1793: "J.J.C. Bode joined the Illuminati under Weishaupt."
At a matter of fact, this was the year Bode died. These examples will serve to show the reliance
that can be placed on Mr. Waite's statement concerning the Illuminati.

We shall now see that not only the Illuminati but Weishaupt himself still continued to intrigue
long after the French Revolution had ended.

Directly the Reign of Terror was over, the masonic lodges, which during the Revolution had
been replaced by the clubs, began to reopen, and by the beginning of the nineteenth century
were in a more flourishing condition than ever before. "It was the most brilliant epoch of
Masonry," wrote the Freemason Bazot in his History of Freemasonry. Nearly 1,200 lodges existed
in France under the Empire; generals, magistrates, artists, savants, and notabilities in every
line were initiated into the Order.[643] The most eminent of these was Prince Cambacérès, pro
Grand Master of the Grand Orient.

It is in the midst of this period that we find Weishaupt once more at work behind the scenes
of Freemasonry. Thus in the remarkable masonic correspondence published by M. Benjamin Fabre
in his Eques a Capite Galeato--of which, as has already been pointed out, the authenticity
is admitted by eminent British Freemasons--a letter is reproduced from Pyron, representative
in Paris of the Grand Orient of Italy, to the Marquis de Chefdebien, dated September 9, 1808,
in which it is stated that "a member of the sect of Bav." has asked for information on a certain
point of ritual.

On December 29, 1808, Pyron writes again: "By the words 'sect of B....' I meant W...."; and
on December 3, 1809, puts the matter quite plainly: "The other word remaining at the end of
my pen refers enigmatically to Weis=pt."

So, as M. Fabre points out:

     There is no longer any doubt that it is a question here of
     Weishaupt, and yet one observes that his name is not yet written in
     all its letters. It must be admitted here that Pyron took great
     precautions when it was a matter of Weishaupt! And one is led to
     ask what could be the extraordinary importance of the rôle played
     at this moment in the Freemasonry of the First Empire by this
     Weishaupt, who was supposed to have been outside the masonic
     movement since Illuminism was brought to trial in 1786![644]

But the Marquis de Chefdebien entertained no illusions about Weishaupt, whose intrigues he
had always opposed, and in a letter dated May 12, 1806, to the Freemason Roettiers, who had
referred to the danger of isolated masonic lodges, he asks:

     In good faith, very reverend brother, is it in isolated lodges that
     the atrocious conspiracy of Philippe [the Duc d'Orléans] and
     Robespierre was formed? Is it from isolated lodges that those
     prominent men came forth, who, assembled at the Hôtel de Ville,
     stirred up revolt, devastation, assassination? And is it not in the
     lodges bound together, co-and sub-ordinated, that the monster
     Weishaupt established his tests and had his horrible principles
     prepared?[645]

If, then, as M. Gustave Bord asserts, the Marquis de Chefdebien had himself belonged to the
Illuminati before the Revolution, here is indeed Illuminist evidence in support of Barruel!
Yet disillusioned as the "Eques a Capite Galeato" appears to have been with regard to Illuminism,
he still retained his allegiance to Freemasonry. This would tend to prove that, however subversive
the doctrines of the Grand Orient may have been--and indeed undoubtedly were--it was not Freemasonry
itself but Illuminism which organized the movement of which the French Revolution was the first
manifestation. As Monsignor Dillon has expressed it:

     Had Weishaupt not lived, Masonry might have ceased to be a power
     after the reaction consequent on the French Revolution. He gave it
     a form and character which caused it to outlive that reaction, to
     energize to the present day, and which will cause it to advance
     until its final conflict with Christianity must determine whether
     Christ or Satan shall reign on this earth to the end.[646]

If to the word Masonry we add Grand Orient--that is to say, the Masonry not of Great Britain,
but of the Continent--we shall be still nearer to the truth.

In the early part of the nineteenth century Illuminism was thus as much alive as ever. Joseph
de Maistre, writing at this period, constantly refers to the danger it presents to Europe.
Is it not also to Illuminism that a mysterious passage in a recent work of M. Lenôtre refers?
In the course of conversation with the friends of the false Dauphin Hervagault. Monsignor de
Savine is said to have "made allusions in prudent and almost terrified terms to some international
sect ... a power superior to all others ... which has arms and eyes everywhere and which governs
Europe to-day."[647]

When in World Revolution I asserted that during the period that Napoleon held the reins of
power the devastating fire of Illuminism was temporarily extinguished, I wrote without knowledge
of some important documents which prove that Illuminism continued without break from the date
of its foundation all through the period of the Empire. So far, then, from overstating the
case by saying that Illuminism did not cease in 1786, I understated it by suggesting that it
ceased even for this brief interval. The documents in which this evidence is to be found are
referred to by Lombard de Langres, who, writing in 1820, observes that the Jacobins were invisible
from the 18th Brumaire until 1813, and goes on to say:

     Here the sect disappears; we find to guide us during this period
     only uncertain notions, scattered fragments; the plots of
     Illuminism lie buried in the boxes of the Imperial police.

But the contents of these boxes no longer lie buried; transported to the Archives Nationales,
the documents in which the intrigues of Illuminism are laid bare have at last been given to
the public. Here there can be no question of imaginative abbés, Scotch professors, or American
divines conjuring up a bogey to alarm the world; these dry official reports prepared for the
vigilant eye of the Emperor, never intended and never used for publication, relate calmly and
dispassionately what the writers have themselves heard and observed concerning the danger that
Illuminism presents to all forms of settled government.

The author of the most detailed report[648] is one François Charles de Berckheim, special commissioner
of police at Mayence towards the end of the Empire, who as a Freemason is naturally not disposed
to prejudice against secret societies. In October 1810 he writes, however, that his attention
has been drawn to the Illuminati by a pamphlet which has just fallen into his hands, namely
the Essai sur la Secte des Illuminés, which, like many contemporaries, he attributes originally
to Mirabeau. He then goes on to ask whether the sect still exists, and if so whether it is
indeed "an association of frightful scoundrels who aim, as Mirabeau assures us, at the overthrow
of all law and all morality, at replacing virtue by crime in every act of human life." Further,
he asks whether both sects of Illuminés have now combined in one and what are their present
projects. Conversations with other Freemasons further increase Berckheim's anxiety on the subject;
one of the best informed observes to him: "I know a great deal, enough at any rate to be convinced
that the Illuminés have vowed the overthrow of monarchic governments and of all authority on
the same basis."

Berckheim thereupon sets out to make enquiries, with the result that he is able to state that
the Illuminés have initiates all over Europe, that they have spared no efforts to introduce
their principles into the lodges, and "to spread a doctrine subversive of all settled government
... under the pretext of the regeneration of social morality and the amelioration of the lot
and condition of men by means of laws founded on principles and sentiments unknown hitherto
and contained only in the heads of the leaders." "Illuminism," he declares, "is becoming a
great and formidable power, and I fear, in my conscience, that kings and peoples will have
much to suffer from it unless foresight and prudence break its frightful mechanism [ses affreux
restorts]."

Two years later, on January 16, 1813, Berckheim writes again to the Minister of Police:

     Monseigneur, they write to me from Heidelberg ... that a great
     number of initiates into the mysteries of Illuminism are to be
     found there.

     These gentlemen wear as a sign of recognition a gold ring on the
     third finger of the left hand; on the back of this ring there is a
     little rose, in the middle of this rose is an almost imperceptible
     dint; by pressing this with the point of a pin one touches a
     spring, by this means the two gold circles are detached. On the
     inside of the first of these circles is the device: "Be German as
     you ought to be"; on the inside of the second of these circles are
     engraved the words "Pro Patria."

Subversive as the ideas of the Illuminati might be, they were therefore not subversive of German
patriotism. We shall find this apparent paradox running all through the Illuminist movement
to the present day.

In 1814 Berckheim drew up his great report on the secret societies of Germany, which is of
so much importance in throwing a light on the workings of the modern revolutionary movement,
that extracts must be given here at length.[649] His testimony gains greater weight from the
vagueness he displays on the origins of Illuminism and the role it had played before the French
Revolution; it is evident, therefore, that he had not taken his ideas from Robison or Barruel--to
whom he never once refers--but from information gleaned on the spot in Germany. The opening
paragraphs finally refute the fallacy concerning the extinction of the sect in 1786.

     The oldest and most dangerous association is that which is
     generally known under the denomination of the Illuminés and of
     which the foundation goes back towards the middle of the last
     century.

     Bavaria was its cradle; it is said that it had for founders several
     chiefs of the Order of the Jesuits; but this opinion, advanced
     perhaps at random, is founded only on uncertain premises; in any
     case, in a short time it made rapid progress, and the Bavarian
     Government recognized the necessity of employing methods of
     repression against it and even of driving away several of the
     principal sectaries.

     But it could not eradicate the germ of the evil. The Illuminés
     who remained in Bavaria, obliged to wrap themselves in darkness so
     as to escape the eye of authority, became only the more formidable:
     the rigorous measures of which they were the object, adorned by the
     title of persecution, gained them new proselytes, whilst the
     banished members went to carry the principles of the Association
     into other States.

     Thus in a few years Illuminism multiplied its hotbeds all through
     the south of Germany, and as a consequence in Saxony, in Prussia,
     in Sweden, and even in Russia.

     The reveries of the Pietists have long been confounded with those
     of the Illuminés. This error may arise from the denomination of the
     sect, which at first suggests the idea of a purely religious
     fanaticism and of mystic forms which it was obliged to take at its
     birth in order to conceal its principles and projects; but the
     Association always had a political tendency. If it still retains
     some mystic traits, it is in order to support itself at need by the
     power of religious fanaticism, and we shall see in what follows how
     well it knows to turn this to account.

     The doctrine of Illuminism is subversive of every kind of monarchy;
     unlimited liberty, absolute levelling down, such is the fundamental
     dogma of the sect; to break the ties that bind the Sovereign to the
     citizen of a state, that is the object of all its efforts.

     No doubt some of the principal chiefs, amongst whom are numbered
     men distinguished for their fortune, their birth, and the dignities
     with which they are invested, are not the dupes of these demagogic
     dreams: they hope to find in the popular emotions they stir up the
     means of seizing the reigns of power, or at any rate of increasing
     their wealth and their credit; but the crowd of adepts believe in
     it religiously, and, in order to reach the goal shown to them, they
     maintain incessantly a hostile attitude towards sovereigns.

     Thus the Illuminés hailed with enthusiasm the ideas that
     prevailed in France from 1789 to 1804. Perhaps they were not
     foreign to the intrigues which prepared the explosions of 1789 and
     the following years; but if they did not take an active part in
     these manoeuvres, it is at least beyond doubt that they openly
     applauded the systems which resulted from them; that the Republican
     armies when they penetrated into Germany found in these sectarians
     auxiliaries the more dangerous for the sovereigns of the invaded
     states in that they inspired no distrust, and we can say with
     assurance that more than one general of the Republic owed a part of
     its success to his understanding with the Illuminés.

     It would be a mistake if one confounded Illuminism with
     Freemasonry. These two associations, in spite of the points of
     resemblance they may possess in the mystery with which they
     surround themselves, in the tests that precede initiation, and in
     other matters of form, are absolutely distinct and have no kind of
     connexion with each other. The lodges of the Scottish Rite number,
     it is true, a few Illuminés amongst the Masons of the higher
     degrees, but these adepts are very careful not to be known as such
     to their brothers in Masonry or to manifest ideas that would betray
     their secret.

Berckheim then goes on to describe the subtle methods by which the Illuminati now maintain
their existence; learning wisdom from the events of 1786, their organization is carried on
invisibly, so as to defy the eye of authority:

     It was thought for a long while that the association had a Grand
     Mastership, that is to say, a centre point from which radiated all
     the impulsions given to this great body, and this primary motive
     power was sought for successively in all the capitals of the North,
     in Paris and even in Rome. This error gave birth to another opinion
     no less fallacious: it was supposed that there existed in the
     principal towns lodges where initiations were made and which
     received directly the instructions emanating from the headquarters
     of the Society.

     If such had been the organization of Illuminism, it would not so
     long have escaped the investigations of which it was the object:
     these meetings, necessarily thronged and frequent, requiring
     besides, like masonic lodges, appropriate premises, would have
     aroused the attention of magistrates: it would not have been
     difficult to introduce false brothers, who, directed and protected
     by authority, would soon have penetrated the secrets of the sect.

     This is what I have gathered most definitely on the Association of
     the Illuminés:

     First I would point out that by the word hotbeds [foyers] I did not
     mean to designate points of meeting for the adepts, places where
     they hold assemblies, but only localities where the Association
     counts a great number of partisans, who, whilst living isolated in
     appearance, exchange ideas, have an understanding with each other,
     and advance together towards the same goal.

     The Association had, it is true, assemblies at its birth where
     receptions [i.e. initiations] took place, but the dangers which
     resulted from these made them feel the necessity of abandoning
     them. It was settled that each initiated adept should have the
     right without the help of anyone else to initiate all those who,
     after the usual tests, seemed to him worthy.

     The catechism of the sect is composed of a very small number of
     articles which might even be reduced to this single principle:

     "To arm the opinion of the peoples against sovereigns and to work
     by every method for the fall of monarchic governments in order to
     found in their place systems of absolute independence." Everything
     that can tend towards this object is in the spirit of the
     Association....

     Initiations are not accompanied, as in Masonry, by phantasmagoric
     trials, ... but they are preceded by long moral tests which
     guarantee in the safest way the fidelity of the catechumen; oaths,
     a mixture of all that is most sacred in religion, threats and
     imprecations against traitors, nothing that can stagger the
     imagination is spared; but the only engagement into which the
     recipient enters is to propagate the principles with which he has
     been imbued, to maintain inviolable secrecy on all that pertains to
     the association, and to work with all his might to increase the
     number of proselytes.

     It will no doubt seem astonishing that there can be the least
     accord in the association, and that men bound together by no
     physical tie and who live at great distances from each other can
     communicate their ideas to each other, make plans of conduct, and
     give grounds of fear to Governments; but there exists an invisible
     chain which binds together all the scattered members of the
     association. Here are a few links:

     All the adepts living in the same town usually know each other,
     unless the population of the town or the number of the adepts is
     too considerable. In this last case they are divided into several
     groups, who are all in touch with each other by means of members of
     the association whom personal relations bind to two or several
     groups at a time.

     These groups are again subdivided into so many private coteries
     which the difference of rank, of fortune, of character, tastes,
     etc., may necessitate: they are always small, sometimes composed of
     five or six individuals, who meet frequently under various
     pretexts, sometimes at the house of one member, sometimes at that
     of another; literature, art, amusements of all kinds are the
     apparent object of these meetings, and it is nevertheless in these
     confabulations [conciliabules] that the adepts communicate their
     private views to each other, agree on methods, receive the
     directions that the intermediaries bring them, and communicate
     their own ideas to these same intermediaries, who then go on to
     propagate them in other coteries. It will be understood that there
     may be uniformity in the march of all these separated groups, and
     that one day may suffice to communicate the same impulse to all the
     quarters of a large town....

     These are the methods by which the Illuminés, without any
     apparent organization, without settled leaders, agree together from
     the banks of the Rhine to those of the Neva, from the Baltic to the
     Dardanelles, and advance continually towards the same goal, without
     leaving any trace that might compromise the interests of the
     association or even bring suspicion on any of its members; the most
     active police would fail before such a combination....

     As the principal force of the Illuminés lies in the power of
     opinions, they have set themselves out from the beginning to make
     proselytes amongst the men who through their profession exercise a
     direct influence on minds, such as littérateurs, savants, and
     above all professors. The latter in their chairs, the former in
     their writings, propagate the principles of the sect by disguising
     the poison that they circulate under a thousand different forms.
     These germs, often imperceptible to the eyes of the vulgar, are
     afterwards developed by the adepts of the Societies they frequent,
     and the most obscure wording is thus brought to the understanding
     of the least discerning. It is above all in the Universities that
     Illuminism has always found and always will find numerous recruits.
     Those professors who belong to the Association set out from the
     first to study the character of their pupils. If a student gives
     evidence of a vigorous mind, an ardent imagination, the sectaries
     at once get hold of him, they sound in his ears the words
     Despotism--Tyranny--Rights of the People, etc., etc. Before he can
     even attach any meaning to these words, as he advances in age,
     reading chosen for him, conversations skilfully arranged, develop
     the germs deposited in his youthful brain; soon his imagination
     ferments, history, traditions of fabulous times, all are made use
     of to carry his exaltation to the highest point, and before even he
     has been told of a secret Association, to contribute to the fall of
     a sovereign appears to his eyes the noblest and most meritorious
     act....

     At last, when he has been completely captivated, when several years
     of testing guarantee to the society inviolable secrecy and absolute
     devotion, it is made known to him that millions of individuals
     distributed in all the States of Europe share his sentiments and
     his hopes, that a secret link binds firmly all the scattered
     members of this immense family, and that the reforms he desires so
     ardently must sooner or later come about.

     This propaganda is rendered the easier by the existing associations
     of students who meet together for the study of literature, for
     fencing, gaming, or even mere debauchery. The Illuminés insinuate
     themselves into all these circles and turn them into hot-beds for
     the propagation of their principles.

     Such, then, is the Association's continual mode of progression from
     its origins until the present moment; it is by conveying from
     childhood the germ of poison into the highest classes of society,
     in feeding the minds of students on ideas diametrically opposed to
     that order of things under which they have to live, in breaking the
     ties that bind them to sovereigns, that Illuminism has recruited
     the largest number of adepts, called by the state to which they
     were born to be the mainstays of the Throne and of a system which
     would ensure them honours and privileges.

     Amongst the proselytes of this last class there are some no doubt
     whom political events, the favour of the prince or other
     circumstances, detach from the Association; but the number of these
     deserters is necessarily very limited: and even then they dare not
     speak openly against their old associates, whether because they are
     in dread of private vengeances or whether because, knowing the real
     power of the sect, they want to keep paths of reconciliation open
     to themselves; often indeed they are so fettered by the pledges
     they have personally given that they find it necessary not only to
     consider the interests of the sect, but to serve it indirectly,
     although their new circumstances demand the contrary....

Berckheim then proceeds to show that those writers on Illuminism were mistaken who declared
that political assassinations were definitely commanded by the Order:

     There is more than exaggeration in this accusation; those who put
     it forward, more zealous in striking an effect than in seeking the
     truth, may have concluded, not without probability, that men who
     surrounded themselves with profound mystery, who propagated a
     doctrine absolutely subversive of any kind of monarchy, dreamt only
     of the assassination of sovereigns; but experience has shown (and
     all the documents derived from the least suspect sources confirm
     this) that the Illuminés count a great deal more on the power of
     opinion than on assassination; the regicide committed on Gustavus
     III is perhaps the only crime of this kind that Illuminism has
     dared to attempt, if indeed it is really proved that this crime was
     its work; moreover, if assassination had been, as it is said, the
     fundamental point in its doctrine, might we not suppose that other
     regicides would have been attempted in Germany during the course of
     the French Revolution, especially when the Republican armies
     occupied the country?

     The sect would be much less formidable if this were its doctrine,
     on the one hand because it would inspire in most of the Illuminés
     a feeling of horror which would triumph even over the fear of
     vengeance, on the other hand because plots and conspiracies always
     leave some traces which guide the authorities to the footsteps of
     the prime instigators; and besides, it is the nature of things that
     out of twenty plots directed against sovereigns, nineteen come to
     light before they have reached the point of maturity necessary to
     their execution.

     The Illuminés' line of march is more prudent, more skilful, and
     consequently more dangerous; instead of revolting the imagination
     by ideas of regicide, they affect the most generous sentiments:
     declamations on the unhappy state of the people, on the selfishness
     of courtiers, on measures of administration, on all acts of
     authority that may offer a pretext to declamations as a contrast to
     the seductive pictures of the felicity that awaits the nations
     under the systems they wish to establish, such is their manner of
     procedure, particularly in private. More circumspect in their
     writings, they usually disguise the poison they dare not proffer
     openly under obscure metaphysics or more or less ingenious
     allegories. Often indeed texts from Holy Writ serve as an envelope
     and vehicle for these baneful insinuations....

By this continuous and insidious form of propaganda the imagination of the adepts is so worked
on that if a crisis arises, they are ready to, carry out the most daring projects.

Another Association closely resembling the Illuminés, Berckheim reports, is known as the Idealists,
whose system is founded on the doctrine of perfectibility; these kindred sects "agree in seeing
in the words of Holy Scripture the pledge of universal regeneration, of an absolute levelling
down, and it is in this spirit that the sectarians interpret the sacred books."

Berckheim further confirms the assertion I made in World Revolution--contested, as usual, by
a reviewer without a shred of evidence to the contrary--that the Tugendbund derived from the
Illuminati. "The League of Virtue," he writes, "was directed by the secondary chiefs of the
Illuminés.... In 1810 the Friends of Virtue were so identified with the Illuminés in the North
of Germany that no line of demarcation was seen between them."

But it is time to turn to the testimony of another witness on the activities of the secret
societies which is likewise to be found at the Archives Nationales.[650] This consists of a
document transmitted by the Court of Vienna to the Government of France after the Restoration,
and contains the interrogatory of a certain Witt Doehring, a nephew of the Baron d'Eckstein,
who, after taking part in secret society intrigues, was summoned before the judge Abel at Bayreuth
in February, 1824. Amongst secret associations recently existing in Germany, the witness asserted,
were the "Independents" and the "Absolutes"; the latter "adored in Robespierre their most perfect
ideal, so that the crimes committed during the French Revolution by this monster and the Montagnards
of the Convention were in their eyes, in accordance with their moral system, heroic actions
ennobled and sanctified by their aim." The same document goes on to explain why so many combustible
elements had failed to produce an explosion in Germany:

     The thing that seemed the great obstacle to the plans of the
     Independents... was what they called the servile character and the
     dog-like fidelity [Hundestreue] of the German people, that is to
     say, that attachment--innate and firmly impressed on their minds
     without even the aid of reason--which that excellent people
     everywhere bears towards its princes.

A traveller in Germany during the year 1795 admirably summed up the matter in these words:

     The Germans are in this respect [of democracy] the most curious
     people in the world ... the cold and sober temperament of the
     Germans and their tranquil imagination enable them to combine the
     most daring opinions with the most servile conduct. That will
     explain to you ... why so much combustible material accumulating
     for so many years beneath the political edifice of Germany has not
     yet damaged it. Most of the princes, accustomed to see their men of
     letters so constantly free in their writings and so constantly
     slavish in their hearts, have not thought it necessary to use
     severity against this sheeplike herd of modern Gracchi and
     Brutuses. Some of them [the princes] have even without difficulty
     adopted part of their opinions, and Illuminism having doubtless
     been presented to them as perfection, the complement of philosophy,
     they were easily persuaded to be initiated into it. But great care
     was taken not to let them know more than the interests of the sect
     demanded.[651]

It was thus that Illuminism, unable to provoke a blaze in the home of its birth, spread, as
before the French Revolution, to a more inflammable Latin race--this time the Italians. Six
years after his interrogatory at Beyreuth, Witt Doehring published his book on the secret societies
of France and Italy, in which he now realized he had played the part of dupe, and incidentally
confirms the statement I have previously quoted, that the Alta Vendita was a further development
of the Illuminati.

This infamous association, with which I have dealt at length elsewhere,[652] constituted the
Supreme Directory of the Carbonari and was led by a group of Italian noblemen, amongst whom
a prince, "the profoundest of initiates, was charged as Inspector-General of the Order" to
propagate its principles throughout the North of Europe. "He had received from the hands of
Kingge [i.e. Knigge, the ally of Weishaupt?] the cahiers of the last three degrees." But these
were of course unknown to the great majority of Carbonari, who entered the association in all
good faith. Witt Doehring then shows how faithfully the system of Weishaupt was carried out
by the Alta Vendita. In the three first degrees, he explains--

     It is still a question of the morality of Christianity and even of
     the Church, for which those who wish to be received must promise to
     sacrifice themselves. The initiates imagine, according to this
     formula, that the object of the association is something high and
     noble, that it is the Order of those who desire a purer morality
     and a stronger piety, the independence and the unity of their
     country. One cannot therefore judge the Carbonari en masse; there
     are excellent men amongst them.... But everything changes after one
     has taken the three degrees. Already in the fourth, in that of the
     Apostoli, one promises to overthrow all monarchies, and
     especially the kings of the race of the Bourbons. But it is only in
     the seventh and last degree, reached by few, that revelations go
     further. At last the veil is torn completely for the Principi Summo
     Patriarcho. Then one learns that the aim of the Carbonari is just
     the same as that of the Illuminés. This degree, in which a man is
     at the same time prince and bishop, coincides with the Homo Rex of
     the latter. The initiate vows the ruin of all religion and of all
     positive government, whether despotic or democratic; murder,
     poison, perjury, are all at their disposal. Who does not remember
     that on the suppression of the Illuminés was found, amongst other
     poisons, a tinctura ad abortum faciendum. The summo maestro
     laughs at the zeal of the mass of Carbonari who have sacrificed
     themselves for the liberty and independence of Italy, neither one
     nor the other being for him a goal but a method.[653]

Witt Doehring, who had himself reached the degree of P.S.P., thereupon declares that, having
taken his vows under a misapprehension, he holds himself to be released from his obligations
and conceives it his duty to warn society. "The fears that assail governments are only too
well founded. The soil of Europe is volcanic."[654]

It is unnecessary to go over the ground already traversed in World Revolution by relating the
history of the successive eruptions which proved the truth of Witt Doehring's warning. The
point to emphasize again is that every one of these eruptions can be traced to the work of
the secret societies, and that, as in the eighteenth century, most of the prominent revolutionaries
were known to be connected with some secret association. According to the plan laid down by
Weishaupt, Freemasonry was habitually adopted as a cover. Thus Louis Amis de la Vérité, numbering
Bazard and Buchez amongst Blanc, himself a Freemason, speaks of a lodge named the its founders,
"in which the solemn puerilities of the Grand Orient only served to mask political action."[655]
Bakunin, companion of the Freemason Proudhon,[656] "the father of Anarchy," makes use of precisely
the same expression. Freemasonry, he explains, is not to be taken seriously, but "may serve
as a mask" and "as a means of preparing something quite different."[657]

I have quoted elsewhere the statement of the Socialist Malon that "Bakunin was a disciple of
Weishaupt," and that of the Anarchist Kropotkine that between Bakunin's secret society--the
Alliance Sociale Démocratique--and the secret societies of 1795 there was a direct affiliation;
I have quoted the assertion of Malon that "Communism was handed down in the dark through the
secret societies" of the nineteenth century; I have quoted also the congratulations addressed
by Lamartine and the Freemason Crémieux to the Freemasons of France in 1848 on their share
in this revolution as in that of 1789; I have shown that the organization of this later outbreak
by the secret societies is not a matter of surmise, but a fact admitted by all well-informed
historians and by the members of the secret societies themselves.

So, too, in the events of the Commune, and in the founding of the First Internationale, the
role of Freemasonry and the secret societies is no less apparent. The Freemasons of France
have indeed always boasted of their share in political and social upheavals. Thus in 1874,
Malapert, orator of the Supreme Council of the Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite, went so
far as to say: "In the eighteenth century Freemasonry was so widespread throughout the world
that one can say that since that epoch nothing has been done without its consent."

The secret history of Europe during the last two hundred years yet remains to be written. Until
viewed in the light of the dessous des cartes, many events that have taken place during this
period must remain for ever incomprehensible.

But it is time to leave the past and consider the secret forces at work in the world to-day.

PART II

THE PRESENT

11

MODERN FREEMASONRY

In the foregoing portion of this book we have followed the history of Freemasonry in the past
and the various interpretations that have been placed on its rites and ceremonies. The question
now arises: what is the role of Freemasonry to-day?

The fundamental error of most writers on this question, whether Masonic or anti-Masonic, is
to represent all Freemasons as holding a common belief and animated by a common purpose. Thus
on one hand the panegyrics by Freemasons on their Order as a whole, and on the other hand the
sweeping condemnations of the Order by the Catholic Church, are equally at fault.

The truth is that Freemasonry in a generic sense is simply a system of binding men together
for any given purpose, since it is obvious that allegories and symbols, like the x and y of
algebra, can be interpreted in a hundred different manners. Two pillars may be said to represent
strength and stability, or man and woman, or light and darkness, or any other two things we
please. A triangle may signify the Trinity, or Liberty, Equality, and Fraternity, or any other
triad. To say that any of these symbols have an absolute meaning is absurd.

The allegories of Freemasonry are equally capable of various interpretations. The building
of the Temple of Solomon may signify the progress of any undertaking and Hiram the victim of
its opponents. So also with regard to the "secret tradition" of Freemasonry concerning "a loss
which has befallen humanity"[658] and its ultimate recovery. Any body of people working for
an object may be said to have experienced a loss and to aim at its recovery.

In the same way the whole organization of Freemasonry, the plan of admitting candidates to
successive degrees of initiation, of binding them to secrecy by fearful oaths, is one that
can be employed for any purpose, social, political, philanthropic, or religious, for promoting
that which is good or for disseminating that which is evil. It may be used to defend a throne
or to overthrow it, to protect religion or to destroy it, to maintain law and order or to create
anarchy.

Now, there was, as we have seen, from the beginning, besides the written charges, an oral tradition
in Masonry, after the manner of the Cabala, on which the guidance of the society depended.
The true character of any form of Freemasonry is thus not to be judged only by its printed
ritual, but by the oral instruction of the initiates and the interpretations placed on the
symbols and ritual. Naturally these interpretations vary in different countries and at different
periods. Freemasonry is described in its Ritual as "a peculiar system of morality, veiled in
allegory and illustrated by symbols." But what code of morality? In studying the history of
the Order we shall find that the same code was by no means common to all masonic bodies, nor
is it to-day. Some maintain a very high standard of morals; others appear to possess no standard
at all.

M. Paul Nourrisson is therefore perfectly right in saying: "There are as many Masonries as
countries; there is no such thing as universal Masonry."[660] Broadly, however, modern Freemasonry
may be divided into two kinds: the variety worked in the British Empire, in America, Holland,
Sweden, Denmark, etc., and Grand Orient Masonry, which prevails in Catholic countries and of
which the most important centre is the Grand Orient of Paris.

Continental Masonry

The fact that Masonry in Protestant countries is neither revolutionary nor anti-religious is
frequently used by Catholic writers to show that Protestantism identifies itself with the aims
of Masonry, and by Freemasons to prove that the tyranny of the Church of Rome has driven Masonry
into an attitude hostile to Church and State. The point overlooked in both these contentions
is the essential difference in the character of the two kinds of Masonry. If the Grand Orient
had adhered to the fundamental principle of British Masonry not to concern itself with religion
or politics, there is no reason why it should have come into conflict with the Church. But
its duplicity on this point is apparent. Thus in one of its earlier manuals it declares, like
British Masonry, that it "never interferes with questions of government or of civil and religious
legislation, and that whilst making its members participate in the perfecting of all sciences,
it positively excepts in the lodges two of the most beautiful, politics and theology, because
these two sciences divide men and nations which Masonry constantly tends to unite."[661] But
on a further page of the same manual from which this quotation is taken we find it stated that
Masonry is simply "the political application of Christianity."[662] Indeed, during the last
fifty years the Grand Orient has thrown off the mask and openly declared itself to be political
in its aims. In October 1887 the Venerable Bro∴ Blanc said in a discourse which was printed
for the lodges:

     You recognise with me, my brothers, the necessity for Freemasonry
     to become a vast and powerful political and social society having a
     decisive influence on the resolutions of the Republican
     government.[663]

And in 1890 the Freemason Fernand Maurice declared "that nothing should happen in France without
the hidden action of Freemasonry," and "if the Masons choose to organize, in ten years' time
no one in France will be able to move outside us (personne ne bougera plus en France en dehors
de nous)."[664]

This is the despotic power which the Grand Orient has established in opposition to both Church
and Government.

Moreover, Grand Orient masonry is not only political but subversive in its political aims.
Instead of the peaceful trilogy of British masonry, "Brotherly love, relief, and truth," it
has throughout adhered to the formula which originated in the Masonic lodges of France and
became the war-cry of the Revolution: "Liberty, Equality, Fraternity." "It is the law of equality,"
says Ragon, "that has always endeared Masonry to the French," and "as long as equality really
exists only in the lodges, Masonry will be preserved in France."[665] The aim of Grand Orient
Masonry is thus to bring about universal equality as formulated by Robespierre and Babeuf.
In the matter of liberty we read further that as men are all by nature free--the old fallacy
of Rousseau and of the Declaration of the Rights of Man--therefore "no one is necessarily subjected
to another nor has the right to rule him."[666] The revolutionary expresses the same idea in
the phrase that "no man should have a master." Finally, by fraternity Grand Orient Masonry
denotes the abolition of all national feeling.

     It is to Masonry [Ragon says again] that we owe the affiliation of
     all classes of society, it alone could bring about this fusion
     which from its midst has passed into the life of the peoples. It
     alone could promulgate that humanitarian law of which the rising
     activity, tending to a great social uniformity, leads to the fusion
     of races, of different classes, of morals, codes, customs,
     languages, fashions, money, and measures. Its virtuous propaganda
     will become the humanitarian law of all consciences.[667]

The policy of the Grand Orient is thus avowedly International Socialism. Indeed in a further
passage Ragon plainly indicates this fact:

     Every generous reform, every social benefit derives from it, and if
     these survive it is because Masonry lends them its support. This
     phenomenon is due only to the power of its organization. The past
     belongs to it and the future cannot escape from it. By its immense
     lever of association it alone is able to realize by a productive
     communion (communion génératrice) that great and beautiful social
     unity conceived by Jaurez, Saint-Simon, Owen, Fourier. If Masons
     wish it, the generous conceptions of these philanthropic thinkers
     will cease to be vain Utopias.[668]

Who are the philanthropic thinkers enumerated here but the men derisively described by Karl
Marx as the "Utopian Socialists" of the nineteenth century? Utopian Socialism is thus simply
the open and visible expression of Grand Orient Freemasonry. Moreover, these Utopian Socialists
were almost without exception Freemasons or members of other secret societies.

The Freemason Clavel confirms the foregoing account by Ragon. Thus, like Ragon, he quotes,
the principle expressed in a ritual for the initiation of a Master Mason:

     It is expressly forbidden to Masons to discuss amongst themselves,
     either in the lodge or outside it, religious and political matters,
     these discussions having usually the effect of creating discord
     where formerly peace, union, and fraternity reigned. This masonic
     law admits of no exceptions.[669]

But Clavel also goes on to say:

     To efface amongst men the distinctions of colour, rank, creed,
     opinions, country; to annihilate fanaticism, and ... the scourge of
     war; in a word, to make of the whole human race one and the same
     family united by affection, by devotion, by work and knowledge:
     that, my brother, is the great work which Freemasonry has
     undertaken, etc.[670]

Up to a point many a British Freemason reading these passages will declare himself completely
in accord with the sentiments expressed. Humanitarianism, the obliteration of class distinctions,
fraternization between men of all races, conditions, and religious creeds, enter of course
largely into the spirit of British Masonry, but form simply the basis on which Masons meet
together in the lodges and not a political system to be imposed on the world in general.

British Masonry thus makes no attempt to interfere with the existing social system or form
of Government; the essence of its teaching is that each member of the Fraternity should seek
to reform himself and not society. In a word, individual regeneration takes the place of the
social reorganization advocated by the Grand Orient under the influence of Illuminism. The
formula of the "United States of Europe" and of the "Universal Republic" first proclaimed by
the Illuminatus, Anacharsis Clootz,[671] has long been the slogan of the French lodges.[672]

In the matter of religion, Grand Orient Masonry has entirely departed from the principle laid
down by the British lodges. If the Catholic Church has shown itself hostile to Masonry, it
must be remembered that in Catholic countries Masonry has shown itself militantly anti-Catholic.
"Freemasonry," one of its modern orators declared, "is the anti-Church, the anti-Catholicism,
the Church of Heresy (la contre Eglise, le contre Catholicisme, l'Eglise de l'Hérésie)."[673]
The Bulletin of the Grand Orient in 1885 officially declared: "We Freemasons must pursue the
definite demolition of Catholicism."

But the Grand Orient goes further than this and attacks all forms of religion. Thus, as has
been said, those "ancient landmarks" of British Masonry, belief in the Great Architect of the
Universe and in the immortality of the soul, had never formed an integral part of its system,
and it was only in 1849 that for the first time "it was distinctly formulated that the basis
of Freemasonry is a belief in God and in the immortality of the soul, and the solidarity of
Humanity." But in September 1877 the first part of this formula was deleted, all allusions
to the Great Architect were omitted, and the statute now reads: "Its basis is absolute liberty
of conscience and the solidarity of Humanity."[674] British Freemasonry, which does not admit
liberty of conscience in the sense of Atheism, but demands that every Mason should profess
belief in some form of religion and which insists that the Volume of the Sacred Law--in England
the Bible, in Mohammedan countries the Koran, and so on--should be placed on the table in its
lodges, thereupon broke off all relations with the Grand Orient. In March 1878 the following
resolution was passed unanimously:

     That the Grand Lodge, whilst always anxious to receive in the most
     fraternal spirit the Brethren of any foreign Grand Lodge whose
     proceedings are conducted according to the Ancient Landmarks of the
     Order, of which a belief in T.G.A.O.T.U. is the first and most
     important, cannot recognize as "true and genuine" Brethren any who
     have been initiated in lodges which either deny or ignore that
     belief.[675]

The Grand Orient, says M. Copin Albancelli, not content with renouncing the Great Architect
whose glory it had celebrated on every possible occasion and whose praises had been incessantly
sung in its lodges, demanded of its initiates that they should declare themselves to be absolutely
convinced that the Great Architect was nothing but a myth.[676] More than this, violent anti-religious
tirades have been permitted and even applauded in the lodges. Thus in 1902 the Freemason Delpech
in his discourse at a masonic banquet uttered these words:

     The triumph of the Galilean has lasted twenty centuries; he is
     dying in his turn. The mysterious voice which once on the mountains
     of Epirus announced the death of Pan, to-day announces the death of
     the deceiver God who had promised an era of justice and peace to
     those who should believe in him. The illusion has lasted very long;
     the lying God in his turn disappears; he goes to rejoin in the dust
     of ages the other divinities of India, Egypt, Greece, and Rome, who
     saw so many deluded creatures throw themselves at the food of their
     altars. Freemasons, we are pleased to state that we are not
     unconcerned with this ruin of false prophets. The Roman Church,
     founded on the Galilean myth, began to decline rapidly on the day
     when the masonic association was constituted. From the political
     point of view Freemasons have often varied. But in all times
     Freemasonry has stood firm on this principle: war on all
     superstitions, war on all fanaticism.[677]

How is it possible to reconcile this attitude towards religion in general and Christianity
in particular with the fact that the Grand Orient still works the Rose-Croix degree? This degree--which,
as we have seen, was first devised (whether in Scotland or in France) to give a Christian meaning
to Masonry--was only incorporated into British Freemasonry in 1846 and in our country has retained
its original character. Its ritual, centring around a lost word, signifies that the Old Testament
dispensation has come to an end with the Crucifixion, and is so strongly Christian that no
Jew, Mohammedan, or other non-Christian can be admitted to it. Moreover, since this degree,
known as the eighteenth degree, forms in reality the first degree of the Ancient and Accepted
Rite, as worked in this country, non-Christians are excluded from the whole of this Rite and
can only take the degrees of Royal Arch, Mark Mason, Royal Ark Mariner, and finally Royal Select
and Super-Excellent Master. Consequently the thirty-three Masons of the thirty-third degree
who compose the Supreme Council which directs the Ancient and Accepted Rite are necessarily
professing Christians. Exactly the opposite is the case in France; the Rose-Croix, worked by
professing atheists and Jews, can only be parody of Christian mysteries.

Now, it is essential to realize that in France the anti-masonic camp is divided into two parties.
Whilst the majority of Catholic writers regard Freemasonry itself as the source of all evil--"the
Synagogue of Satan"--more impartial investigators have pronounced the opinion that it is not
Freemasonry even of the Grand Orient variety but something concealed behind Freemasonry which
constitutes the principal danger. This view is expressed by M. Copin Albancelli, whose book
Le Pouvoir occulte contre la France is of the utmost importance to an understanding of the
masonic danger, for here there can be no question of Catholic prejudice or of imaginary accusations
made by a stranger to Masonry. M. Copin Albancelli entered the Grand Orient as an agnostic
and has never returned to the bosom of the Church; yet as a Frenchman, a patriot, and a believer
in law, morality, and Christian ethics he found himself obliged, after six years' experience
in the lodges and after attaining the degree of Rose-Croix, to leave Freemasonry and, further,
to denounce it. From what he himself heard and observed M. Copin Albancelli declares the Grand
Orient to be anti-patriotic, subversive of all morality and religious belief, and an immense
danger to France.

But further than this, M. Copin Albancelli declares the Grand Orient to be a system of deception
by which members are enlisted in a cause unknown to themselves; even the initiates of the upper
degrees are not all aware of the real aim of the Order or of the power behind it. M. Copin
Albancelli thus arrives at the conclusion that there are three Freemasonries one above the
other: (i) Blue Masonry (i.e. the three Craft Degrees), in which none of the real secrets are
revealed to the members and which serves merely as a sorting-ground for selecting likely subjects;
(2) the Upper Degrees, in which most of the members, whilst imagining themselves to have been
initiated into the whole secret of the Order and "bursting with importance" over their imaginary
rôle of leaders, are only admitted to a partial knowledge of the goal to which they are tending;
and (3) the inner circle, "the true masters," those who conceal themselves behind high-grade
Masonry. Admission to this inner circle may be, moreover, not a matter of degrees. "Whilst
in the lower Masonries the adepts are obliged to pass through all the degrees of the established
hierarchy, the upper and invisible Freemasonry is certainly recruited not only amongst the
thirty-three degrees but in all the groups of upper-degree Masonry, and perhaps even in certain
exceptional cases outside these."[678] This inner and invisible Freemasonry is to a large extent
international.

The most illuminating passage in the whole of M. Copin Albancelli's book is where he describes
an experience that befell him after he had taken the degree of Rose-Croix. It was then that
one of his superiors took him aside and addressed him in the following terms:

     "You realize the power which Freemasonry has at its disposal. We
     can say that we hold France. It is not because of our numbers,
     since there are only 25,000 Freemasons in this country [this was in
     1889]. Nor is it because we are the brains, for you have been able
     to judge of the intellectual mediocrity of the greater number of
     these 25,000 Freemasons. We hold France because we are organized
     and the only people who are organized. But above all, we hold
     France because we have an aim, this aim is unknown; as it is
     unknown, no obstacle can be put in its way; and finally, as no
     obstacle is put up, the way is wide open before us. This is
     logical, is it not?"

     "Absolutely."

     "Good. But what would you say of an association which instead of
     consisting of 25,000 nonentities as in Freemasonry, were composed
     of, say, only a thousand individuals, but a thousand individuals
     recruited in the manner that I will tell you."

And the Freemason went on to explain the way in which such individuals were selected, the months
and years of observation, of supervision, to which they were subjected, so as to form a body
of picked men inside Freemasonry capable of directing its operations.

     "You can imagine the power at the command of such an association?"

     "An association thus selected would do anything it chose. It could
     possess the world if it pleased."

Thereupon the higher adept, after asking for a further promise of secrecy, declared:

     "Well, in exchange for this promise, Brother Copin, I am authorized
     to let you know that this association exists and that, further, I
     am authorized to introduce you into it."[679]

It was then that Monsieur Copin Albancelli understood that the point to which the conversation
was leading up was not, as he had at first supposed, an invitation to take the next step in
Freemasonry--the thirtieth degree of Knight Kadosch--but to enter through a side-door into
an association concealed within Freemasonry and for which the visible organization of the latter
served merely as a cover. A very curious resemblance will here be noticed between the method
of sounding M. Copin Albancelli and that of the Illuminatus Cato in the matter of Savioli,
described in a passage already quoted:

     Now that he is a Mason I have ... taken up the general plan of our
     ⊙, and as this pleased him I said that such a thing really existed,
     whereat he gave me his word that he would enter it.

M. Copin Albancelli, however, did not give his word that he would enter it, but, on the contrary,
checked further revelations by declaring that he would leave Freemasonry.

This experience had afforded him a glimpse of "a world existing behind the masonic world, more
secret than it, unsuspected by it as by the outside world."[680] Freemasonry, then, "can only
be the half-lit antechamber of the real secret society. That is the truth."[681] "There exists
then necessarily a permanent directing Power. We cannot see that Power, therefore it is occult."[682]

For some time M. Copin Albancelli concluded this Power to be "the Jewish power," and elaborated
the idea in a further work[683]; but the war has led him to develop his theories in yet another
book, which will shortly appear.

That the lodges of the Grand Orient are largely controlled by Jews is, however, certain, and
that they are centres of political propaganda is equally undeniable. We have only to glance
at the following extracts--some of which are reproduced on the opposite page--from the programme
of debates in the Bulletin of the Grand Orient for June 5, 1922, to recognize that the ideas
they propagate are simply those of International Socialism:

     Loge "Union et France": Lecture du Rapport de notre T∴ C∴ F∴
     Chardard sur "L'Exploitation des richesses nationales au profit de
     la collectivité."

     Loge "Les Rénovateurs": "Exploitation des Richesses nationales et
     des grosses Entreprises an profit de la collectivité." Conférence
     de notre F∴ Goldschmidt, Orat∴ adjoint sur la même question.

     Loge "Les Zélés Philanthropes": "La Transformation de la Société
     Actuelle s'impose-t-elle?" Conférence par le T∴ C∴ F∴ Edmond
     Cottin.

     Loge "Paix-Travail-Solidarité": "Rôle de la Franc-Maçonnerie dans
     la politique actuelle" par le F∴ F∴

     Loge "Les Trinitaires": "Le Socialisme Français" par le T∴ Ill. F∴
     Elie May.

     Ten∴ Collective des L∴ "Emmanuel Arago" & "les Coeurs Unis
     indivisibles": "Comment propager notre Idéal Maçonnique dans le
     Monde profane." Conférence par le F∴ Jahia, de la R∴ L∴ Isis
     Monthyon.

     Loge "Isis Monthyon et Conscience et Volonté": "La Terreur et le
     Péril Fasciste en Italie, le Fascisme et la F∴-Maç∴ Italienne,"
     impressions de notre F∴ Mazzini, de retour, après un séjour
     prolongé en Italie.

It will be seen by the last of these extracts that Grand Orient Masonry is the enemy of Fascismo,
which saved Italy in her hour of peril. Indeed, the Italian Masons passed a resolution which
was directly opposed to Fascist views, especially with regard to the religious policy of Mussolini,
who has restored the crucifix to the schools and religious teaching to the curriculum. The
Fascist Giornale di Roma declared that the principles announced by the Masons in this resolution
were those which threatened to submerge the State and nation. Consequently Mussolini declared
that Fascisti must either leave their lodges or leave Fascismo.[684]

In Belgium Freemasonry has taken the same political and anti-religious course. In 1856 the
directing committee of the Belgian Grand Orient declared: "Not only is it the right but the
duty of the lodges to supervise the actions in public life of those amongst its members whom
it has placed in political posts, the right to demand explanations...."[685] When in 1866 at
a funeral ceremony in honour of the deceased King Leopold I the Grand Orient of Belgium displayed
the maxim, "The soul which has emanated from God is immortal," the Freemasons of Louvain entered
a violent protest on the ground that "Free-thinking had been admitted by the Belgian lodges
in 1864 as its fundamental principle," and that the Grand Orient had therefore violated the
convictions of its members.[686]

In Spain and Portugal Freemasonry has played not merely a subversive but an actively revolutionary
and sanguinary rôle. The anarchist Ferrer, intimately concerned with a plot to murder the King
of Spain, was at the same moment entrusted with negotiations between the Grand Orient of France
and the Grand Lodge of Catalonia.[687] These murderous schemes, frustrated in Spain, met, however,
in Portugal with complete success. The Portuguese revolutions from 1910 to 1921 were organized
under the direction of Freemasonry and the secret society of Carbonarios. The assassination
of King Carlos and his elder son had been prepared by the same secret organizations. In 1908
a pamphlet modelled on the libels published against Marie Antoinette was directed against Queen
Amélie and her husband. A month later the assassination took place. Amongst the leaders of
the new Republic was Magalhaes Lima, Grand Master of the Grand Orient of Portugal.[688]

The authorship of these disorders was, in fact, so clearly recognized that honest Freemasons
forsook the lodges. An English Mason, unaware of the true character of Portuguese Freemasonry,
when in Lisbon in August 1919, made himself known to several moderate Portuguese Masons, who,
while glad to welcome him as a brother, refused to take him to a lodge, declaring that they
had severed all connection with Masonry since it had passed under the control of assassins.
They also added that the assassination of Señor Paes, the President in December 1918, was the
work of certain Portuguese lodges. A special meeting had previously been held in Paris in conjunction
with the Grand Orient of France, at which it had been decided that Paes was to be removed.
This decision reached, the earliest opportunity of putting it into force was sought--with fatal
results. The assassin was imprisoned in the Penitentiary but liberated by the revolution of
1921, and no attempt has been made to recapture him. The murder of Dr. Antonio Granjo in October
1921 was traced to the same agency. In the pocket of the murdered man was found a document
from the "Lodge of Liberty and Justice"(!) warning him of the decision taken against him for
having ordered the police to protect the British tramway company.[689]

The present Portuguese Government, indeed, makes no secret of its masonic character and prints
the square and compass on its bank-notes.

But whilst in Spain and Portugal Freemasonry manifested itself in Anarchist outrages, in the
east of Europe the lodges, largely under the control of Jews, followed the line of Marxian
Socialism. After the fall of the Bela Kun régime in Hungary a raid on the lodges brought to
light documents clearly revealing the fact that the ideas of Socialism had been disseminated
by the Freemasons. Thus in the minutes of meetings it was recorded that on November 16, 1906,
Dr. Kallos had addressed the Gyor Lodge on Socialist ideals. "The ideal world which we call
the masonic world," he declared, "will be also a Socialist world and the religion of Freemasonry
is that of Socialism as well." Dr. Kallos then proceeded to acquaint the members with the theories
of Marx and Engels, showing that no help was to be found in Utopias, as the interests of the
proletarians were in absolute conflict with those of other classes, and these differences could
only be settled by international class warfare. Nevertheless with that fear of the proletariat
which has always characterized the democrats of revolutionary Freemasonry, Dr. Kallos declared
later that "the social revolution must take place without bloodshed."[690] The Karolyi régime
was the direct outcome of these illusions, and as in all revolutions paved the way for the
more violent elements.

Still further east in Europe the lodges, though revolutionary, instead of following the International
Socialist line of Hungarian Freemasonry, exhibited a political and nationalist character. The
Young Turk movement originated in the masonic lodges of Salonica under the direction of the
Grand Orient of Italy, which later contributed to the success of Mustapha Kemal. Moreover,
as we approach the Near East, cradle of the masonic system, we find the Semitic influence not
only of the Jews but of other Semite races directing the lodges. In Turkey, in Egypt, in Syria
now, as a thousand years ago, the same secret societies which inspired the Templars have never
ceased to exist, and in this mingling of the East and West it is possible that the Grand Orient
may draw reinforcement from those sources whence it drew its system and its name.

