Therefore in the limitation of species undue importance should not be given to characters responsive
to environment, such as the dimensions of leaf or cone, the number of leaves in the fascicle,
etc. Moreover, there are familiar examples (P. sylvestris, etc.) that show the possibility
of wide differences in the cone of the same species.

In the following classification species only are considered without attempting to determine
varietal or other subspecific forms. But varieties are often mentioned as one of the factors
illustrating the scope of species. Synonymy serves a like purpose, but synonyms not conveying
useful information are omitted, Roezl's list of Mexican species, for instance, and variations
in the orthography of specific names.

PINUS

    1755 Pinus Duhamel, Traité des Arbres, ii. 121.
    1790 Apinus Necker, Elem. Bot. iii. 269.
    1852 Cembra Opiz, Seznam, 27.
    1854 Strobus Opiz, Lotos, iv. 94.
    1903 Caryopitys Small, Fl. Southeast. U. S. 29.

Leaves and shoots dimorphous, primary leaves on long shoots, secondary leaves on dwarf shoots.
Flowers diclinous, the pistillate taking the place of long shoots, the staminate taking the
place of dwarf shoots. Growth of wood and fruit emanating from the nodes; buds, branchlets
and cones, therefore, in verticillate association. Leaves and staminate flowers in internodal
position, the primary leaves along the whole length of the internode, subtending secondary
leaf-fascicles on the apical, staminate flowers on the basal part. Buds compounded of minute
buds in the axils of bud-scales, becoming the bracts of the spring-shoot. Branchlets of one
or more internodes, each internode in three parts--a length without leaves, a length bearing
leaves and a node of buds. Cone requiring two, rarely three years to mature, displaying its
annual growths by distinct areas on each scale. Seeds wingless or winged, edible and nutritious.

The Pines are confined to the northern hemisphere, but grow in all climates and under all conditions
of soil, temperature and humidity where trees can grow. Some of the species are of very restricted
range, but others are adaptable and can cover wide areas. The sixty-six species are distributed
as follows--

    Eastern Hemisphere, 23.

      1 exclusively African (Canary Islands).
      2 exclusively European.
      3 about the Mediterranean Basin.
      2 common to Europe and northern Asia.
      14 exclusively Asiatic.

    Western Hemisphere, 43.

      28 in western North America, of which 12 are confined to Mexico
           and Central America.
      15 in eastern North America, of which 2 are exclusively West Indian.

The two sections of the genus correspond with those of Koehne (Deutsch. Dendrol. 28 [1893])
and his two names, Haploxylon and Diploxylon, are adopted here, together with his two subsections
of Haploxylon, Cembra and Paracembra.

Of the two subsections of Diploxylon, Pinaster has been employed by Endlicher (Syn. Conif.
166 [1847]) and later authors for smaller or larger groups of Hard Pines. The subsection Parapinaster
is now proposed.

The names of groups, Cembrae, Strobi, Cembroides, Gerardianae, Balfourianae, Pineae, Lariciones
and Australes, are taken from Engelmann's Revision of the Genus Pinus (Trans. Acad. Sci. St.
Louis, iv. 175-178 [1880]). The remainder, Flexiles, Leiophyllae, Longifoliae, Insignes and
Macrocarpae, are here proposed.

In order to bring the illustrations within the limits of the page the dimensions of cone and
leaf, as shown on the plates, are a little smaller than life. In plates X and XXV the reproductions
of the cones are reduced to 2/5 life-size.

SECTIONS, SUBSECTIONS, AND GROUPS

  Bases of the fascicle-bracts non-decurrent   A--HAPLOXYLON

    Umbo of the cone-scale terminal              a--Cembra

      Seeds wingless.
        Cones indehiscent                          I.     Cembrae
        Cones dehiscent                            II.    Flexiles
      Seed with an adnate wing                     III.   Strobi

    Umbo of the cone-scale dorsal                b--Paracembra

      Seeds wingless                               IV.    Cembroides
      Seed-wing short, ineffective                 V.     Gerardianae
      Seed-wing long, effective                    VI.    Balfourianae

  Bases of the fascicle-bracts decurrent       B--DIPLOXYLON

    Fascicle-sheath or seed of Haploxylon        c--Parapinaster

      Fascicle-sheath deciduous                    VII.   Leiophyllae
      Fascicle-sheath persistent.
        Seed-wing of the Strobi                    VIII.  Longifoliae
        Seed-wing of the Gerardianae               IX.    Pineae

    Fascicle-sheath persistent, seed-wing
        articulate, effective                    d--Pinaster

      Base of wing-blade thin or slightly
          thickened.
        Cones dehiscent at maturity.
          Pits of ray-cells large                  X.    Lariciones
          Pits of ray-cells small                  XI.   Australes
        Cones serotinous, pits of ray-cells small  XII.  Insignes
      Base of wing-blade very thick                XIII. Macrocarpae

HAPLOXYLON

Bases of the bracts subtending leaf-fascicles not decurrent. Staminate flowers not sufficiently
developed in the bud to be apparent. Spring-shoots uninodal. Fibro-vascular bundle of the leaf
single. Cone symmetrical, of relatively fewer larger scales, its tissues softer. Bark-formation
late, the trunks of young trees smooth. Wood soft and with little resin, of uniform color and
with relatively obscure definition of the annual rings. Tracheids of the medullary rays with
smooth walls.

  All the species of this section, except P. Nelsonii, have deciduous
  fascicle-sheaths. There are but two species of Diploxylon with
  deciduous sheaths, P. leiophylla and P. Lumholtzii, both of them
  easily recognized. The deciduous sheath, therefore, is an obvious and
  useful means for recognizing the Soft Pines. On the characters of the
  fruit and the wood Haploxylon can be divided into two subsections.

    a. Cembra      Umbo of the cone-scale terminal.
    b. Paracembra  Umbo of the cone-scale dorsal.

=Cembra=

Umbo of the cone-scale terminal. Scales of the conelet unarmed. Leaves
in fascicles of 5, the sheath deciduous, the two dermal tissues
distinct, the hypoderm-cells uniform. Pits of the cells of the wood-rays
large.
    Seeds with an adnate wing      III. Strobi.

=I. CEMBRAE=

Seeds wingless. Cones indehiscent, deciduous at maturity.

  In this group of species there is no segregation of sclerenchyma into
  an effective tissue. The cones are inert under hygrometric changes and
  may always be recognized in herbaria by their persistent occlusion and
  soft tissues. The seeds are released only by the disintegration of the
  fallen cone. There is, however, a vicarious dissemination by predatory
  crows (genus Nucifraga) and rodents.

    Leaves serrulate, their stomata ventral only.
      Cones relatively larger, the apophyses protuberant  1. koraiensis.
      Cones relatively smaller, the apophyses appressed   2. cembra.
    Leaves entire, their stomata ventral and dorsal       3. albicaulis.

1. PINUS KORAIENSIS

    1784 P. strobus Thunberg, Fl. Jap. 275 (not Linnaeus).
    1842 P. koraiensis Siebold & Zuccarini, Fl. Jap. ii. 38.
    1857 P. mandschurica Ruprecht in Bull. Acad. Sci. St. Pétersb. xv. 382.

Spring-shoots more or less densely tomentose. Leaves from 8 to 12 cm. long, serrulate, stomata
ventral only, resin-ducts medial and confined to the angles. Conelets large, subterminal, or
on young trees often pseudolateral. Cones indehiscent, from 9 to 14 cm. long, short-pedunculate,
ovoid-conical or subcylindrical; apophyses dull pale nut-brown, rugose, shrinking much in drying
and exposing the seeds, prolonged and tapering to a more or less reflexed tip, the umbo inconspicuous;
seeds large, wingless, the spermoderm entire.

  A species of the mountains of northeastern Asia with valuable wood and
  large edible nuts; hardy and often cultivated in cool-temperate
  climates.

  The P. koraiensis of Beissner (in Nuov. Giorn. Bot. Ital. n. ser. iv.
  184) and of Masters (in Gard. Chron. ser. 3, xxxiii. 34, ff.) are P.
  Armandi and have led to an erroneous extension of the range of this
  species into Shensi and Hupeh. In the original description of the
  species the authors call attention to an error in the plate, where a
  cone of another species has been substituted.

  P. koraiensis resembles P. cembra in leaf and branchlet but not in the
  cone. It is often confused with P. Armandi, but can easily be
  distinguished by its tomentose branchlets, indehiscent cone and
  peculiar seed. The two species, moreover, do not always agree in the
  position of the foliar resin-ducts.

    Plate VIII.

    Fig. 85, Cone and seed. Fig. 86, Leaf-fascicle and magnified
    leaf-section.

2. PINUS CEMBRA

    1753 P. cembra Linnaeus, Sp. Pl. 1000.
    1778 P. montana Lamarck, Fl. Franç. iii. 651 (not Miller).
    1858 P. pumila Regel in Index Sem. Hort. Petrop. 23.
    1884 P. mandschurica Lawson, Pinet. Brit. i. 61, ff. (not Ruprecht).
    1906 P. sibirica Mayr, Fremdl. Wald- & Parkb. 388.
    1913 P. coronans Litvinof in Trav. Mus. Bot. Acad. St. Pétersb.
              xi. 23, f.

Spring-shoots densely tomentose. Conelets short-pedunculate, purple during their second season.
Cone from 5 to 8 cm. long, ovate or subglobose, subsessile; apophyses dull nut-brown, thick,
slightly convex, the margin often a little reflexed, the umbo inconspicuous; seeds wingless,
large, the dorsal spermoderm adnate partly to the nut, partly to the cone-scale, the ventral
spermoderm wanting.

  The Swiss Stone Pine attains a height of 15 or 25 metres and occupies
  two distinct areas, the Alps, from Savoy to the Carpathians at high
  altitudes, and the plains and mountain-slopes throughout the vast area
  from northeastern Russia through Siberia. Beyond the Lena and Lake
  Baikal it becomes a dwarf (var. pumila) with its eastern limit in
  northern Nippon and in Kamchatka. It is successfully cultivated in the
  cool-temperate climates of Europe and America. The wood is of even,
  close grain, peculiarly adapted to carving. The nuts are gathered for
  food and confections, but are destroyed in great numbers by squirrels,
  mice and a jay-like crow, the European Nutcracker. It is generally
  conceded, however, that these enemies assist in dissemination.

    Plate VIII.

    Fig. 87, Cone, seed and magnified leaf-section. Fig. 88, Tree at
    Arolla, Switzerland. Fig. 89, Cone, leaf-fascicle and magnified
    leaf-section of var. pumila.

3. PINUS ALBICAULIS

    1853 P. flexilis Balfour in Bot. Exped. Oregon, 1, f. (not James).
    1857 P. cembroides Newberry in Pacif. R. R. Rep. vi-3, 44, f.
              (not Zuccarini).
    1863 P. albicaulis Engelmann in Trans. Acad. Sci. St. Louis, ii. 209.
    1867 P. shasta Carrière, Trait. Conif. ed. 2, 390.

Spring-shoots glabrous or pubescent. Branchlets pliant and tough. Leaves from 4 to 7 cm. long,
entire, stout, persistent for several years; stomata dorsal and ventral; resin-ducts external.
Conelets short-pedunculate, dark purple during the second season, their scales often tapering
to an acute apex. Cones from 5 to 7 cm. long, subsessile, oval or subglobose; apophyses nut-brown
or fulvous brown, dull or slightly lustrous, very thick, the under surface conspicuous, meeting
the upper surface in an acute margin, and terminated by a salient, often acute umbo; seed wingless,
the testa bare of spermoderm.

  This species ranges from British Columbia through Washington and
  Oregon, over the mountains of northern California and the Sierras as
  far south as Mt. Whitney, and, on the Rocky Mountains, through Idaho
  and Montana to northern Wyoming. It is found at the timber-line of
  many stations and forms, in exposed situations, flat table-like masses
  close to the ground. It is a species of no economical importance and
  is too inaccessible for the profitable gathering of its large nuts,
  which are devoured in quantity by squirrels and by Clark's crow, a
  bird of the same genus with the pinivorous Nutcracker of Europe.

  P. albicaulis is distinguished from its allies by its entire leaves
  with both dorsal and ventral stomata, from P. flexilis by its
  indehiscent cone, and from all of these species by its seed without
  membranous cover or rudimentary wing. It was united with P. flexilis
  by Parlatore and Gordon, and, later, was referred to that species as a
  varietal form by Engelmann (in Brewer & Watson, Bot. Calif. ii. 124).
  Parrish's P. albicaulis (in Zoe, iv. 350), extending its range to the
  mountains of southern California, proves to be P. flexilis (Jepson,
  Silva Calif. 74).

    Plate VIII.

    Fig. 90, Two cones and seed. Fig. 91, Leaf-fascicle. Fig. 92,
    Magnified leaf-section.

=II. FLEXILES=

Seeds wingless, the spermoderm forming a narrow border with a rudimentary prolongation. Cones
dehiscent at maturity.

  The dehiscent cone distinguishes this group from the Cembrae.
  Therefore confusion of P. koraiensis with P. Armandi, or P. albicaulis
  with P. flexilis should be impossible. The peculiar seed is found
  again only in the northern variety of P. ayacahuite.

    Leaves usually entire, the stomata dorsal and ventral  4. flexilis.
    Leaves serrulate, the stomata ventral only             5. Armandi.

4. PINUS FLEXILIS

    1823 P. flexilis James in Long's Exped. ii. 34.
    1882 P. reflexa Engelmann in Bot. Gaz. vii. 4.
    1897 P. strobiformis Sargent, Silva N. Am. xi. 33, tt. 544, 545
              (not Engelmann).

Spring-shoots pubescent; branchlets very tough and pliant. Leaves from 3 to 9 cm. long, entire,
or serrulate in the southern variety, persistent for five or six years; stomata dorsal and
ventral or, in the south, sometimes ventral only; resin-ducts external. Cones from 6 to 25
cm. long, ovate or subcylindrical, short-pedunculate; apophyses pale tawny yellow, or yellow
ochre, lustrous, often prolonged and more or less reflexed, thick, the margin together with
the umbo raised above the surface of the cone.

  This species grows on the Rocky Mountains from Alberta in the Dominion
  of Canada to Chihuahua in northern Mexico and ranges westward to the
  eastern slope of the Sierras and to the southern mountains of
  California. The wood, where accessible, is manufactured into lumber.
  It may be seen in the Arnold Arboretum and in the Royal Gardens at
  Kew.

  P. flexilis is recognized by its lustrous yellow cones. This and the
  constantly external ducts of its usually entire leaves distinguish it
  from P. Armandi. From P. albicaulis, with similar leaves, it differs
  by its dehiscent cone. At one extreme the cone of P. flexilis is not
  unlike that of P. albicaulis, at the other extreme it approaches the
  characteristic cone of P. ayacahuite, with prolonged reflexed scales.
  Hence the confusion of P. albicaulis with P. flexilis (Murray,
  Parlatore and others) and of P. flexilis with Engelmann's P.
  strobiformis. Sargent's P. strobiformis, illustrated in the Silva of
  North America, is the form of this species known as var. reflexa of
  Engelmann.

    Plate IX.

    Fig. 93, Two cones and seed. Fig. 94, Leaf-fascicle. Fig. 95,
    Magnified leaf-section.

5. PINUS ARMANDI

    1884 P. Armandi Franchet in Nouv. Arch. Mus. Paris, sér. 2,
              vii. 95, 96, t. 12.
    1898 P. scipioniformis Masters in Bull. Herb. Boiss. vi. 270. 18, 19 (not Siebold & Zuccarini).
    1908 P. Mastersiana Hayata in Gard. Chron. ser. 3, xliii, 194.

Spring-shoots glabrous; branches and most of the trunk covered with a smooth gray cortex. Leaves
from 8 to 15 cm. long, serrulate; stomata ventral only; resin-ducts external, external and
medial, or medial, all three conditions sometimes occurring in leaves of the same branchlet.
Cones from 6 to 20 cm. in length, pendent on peduncles of various lengths, the peduncle often
remaining on the tree after the fall of the cone; apophyses fulvous brown, dull or sublustrous,
the margin rounded or tapering to an acute apex, sometimes a little prolonged and reflexed,
the umbo inconspicuous.

  A tree of the mountains of central, southern and western China with an
  outlying station on the Island of Formosa. Recently planted in Europe
  and America, it has so far proved hardy. The nuts are gathered for
  food and some use is made of the wood.

  The glabrous shoots of P. Armandi distinguish it from P. flexilis and
  P. koraiensis. From the latter it is also distinct in its dehiscent
  cone and in its seed. The section of its leaf, with dorsal ducts often
  in two positions, is peculiar to this species among Soft Pines.

    Plate IX.

    Fig. 96, Two cones and seed. Fig. 97, Leaf-fascicle. Figs. 98, 99,
    Magnified sections of three leaves.

=III. STROBI=

Seed with a long effective wing adnate to the nut.

The base of the seed-wing corresponds to the marginal spermoderm of the Flexiles but is prolonged
into an effective adnate wing. This form of wing appears again in the species Balfouriana and
in the group Longifoliae.

    Cones very long, usually exceeding 25 cm.
      Cone-scales prolonged and reflexed                 6. ayacahuite.
      Cone-scales appressed                              7. Lambertiana.
    Cones less than 25 cm. long.
      Cone-scales prominently convex.
        Leaves less than 7 cm. long                      8. parviflora.
        Leaves 9-12 cm. long                             9. peuce.
        Leaves 12-18 cm. long                           10. excelsa.
      Cone-scales thin, conforming to the surface of
          the cone.
        Cone relatively longer, its phyllotaxis 8/21    11. monticola.
        Cone relatively shorter, its phyllotaxis 5/13   12. strobus.

6. PINUS AYACAHUITE

    1838 P. ayacahuite Ehrenberg in Linnaea, xii. 492.
    1848 P. strobiformis Engelmann in Wislizenus, Tour Mex. 102.
    1857 P. Veitchii Roezl, Cat. Graines Conif. Mex. 32.
    1858 P. Bonapartea Roezl in Gard. Chron. 358.
    1858 P. Loudoniana Gordon, Pinet. 230.

Spring-shoots glabrous or pubescent. Cones from 25 to 45 cm. long, pendent on long stalks,
subcylindrical or tapering, often curved; apophyses pale nut-brown, dull or sublustrous, varying
much in thickness, prolonged in various degrees, the prolongations patulous, reflexed, recurved
or revolute; seeds of the southern typical form with a long wing, the wing diminishing and
the nut increasing in relative size northward.

  The White Pine of Mexico and Guatemala grows on mountain-slopes and at
  the head of ravines. It is not very hardy in cultivation except in the
  milder parts of Great Britain and in northern Italy, where the forms
  of central and northern Mexico have been very successful. The species
  is best recognized by the prolonged apophyses of its large cone.

  The variations in the size of the cone and in the prolongations of its
  scales are many, but of far more significance is the remarkable
  variation of the seed-wing, which is long in the southern part of the
  range, short and broad in central Mexico, and rudimentary, like the
  seed of P. flexilis, in the north. This makes it possible to establish
  two well defined varieties--Veitchii and brachyptera. The three forms
  of the species present a gradation from the long effective wing of the
  Strobi to the rudimentary form of the Flexiles. Many of the seed-wings
  of the var. Veitchii correspond, in their short broad form and opaque
  coloring, with the characteristic wing of P. Lambertiana.

    Plate X. (leaves and cones much reduced).

    Fig. 103, Cone and cone-scale of var. Veitchii. Fig. 104, Cone and
    seed of var. brachyptera. Fig. 105, Cone-scale of the typical form.
    Figs. 106, 107, Leaf-fascicles and magnified leaf-sections.

7. PINUS LAMBERTIANA

    1827 P. Lambertiana Douglas in Trans. Linn. Soc. xv. 497.

Spring-shoots pubescent. Leaves from 7 to 10 cm. long, serrulate; stomata dorsal and ventral;
resin-ducts external or with one or two ventral medial ducts. Cones from 30 to 50 cm. long,
pendent, subcylindrical, tapering to a rounded apex; apophyses pale nut-brown, thick, a narrow
border of the under surface showing on the closed cone, the margin rounded or tapering to a
blunt slightly reflexed tip; seed with a large nut and a broad short opaque wing.

  The Sugar Pine is the tallest of the genus and attains a height of 50
  or 60 metres. It grows on mountain slopes and the sides of ravines.
  Its southern limit is in Lower California on the plateau of San Pedro
  Martir, its northern limit is in western Oregon. The wood is valuable,
  its nuts are eaten by native Indians, and the sweet exudation, which
  gives the tree its popular name, is a manna-like substance of some
  officinal value. P. Lambertiana is recognized by its long cone and by
  the constant dorsal stomata of its leaves.

    Plate X. (leaves and cone much reduced).

    Fig. 100, Cone and seed. Fig. 101, Conelet. Fig. 102, Leaf-fascicle
    and magnified leaf-section.

8. PINUS PARVIFLORA

    1784 P. cembra Thunberg, Fl. Jap. 274. (not Linnaeus).
    1842 P. parviflora Siebold and Zuccarini, Fl. Jap. ii. 27, t. 115.
    1890 P. pentaphylla Mayr, Mon. Abiet. Jap. 78, 94, t. 6.
    1908 P. morrisonicola Hayata in Gard. Chron. ser. 3, xliii. 194.
    1908 P. formosana Hayata in Jour. Linn. Soc. xxxviii. 297, t. 22.

Spring-shoots pubescent or glabrous; branches becoming studded with prominent resin-cells of
the cortex. Leaves from 3 to 8 cm. long, slender, serrulate; stomata ventral only; resin-ducts
external and dorsal. Cones subsessile, often persistent, from 5 to 10 cm. long, patulous or
horizontal, short-ovate, or elongate and slightly conical; apophyses nut-brown, abruptly convex
near the apex, or irregularly warped, varying much in size, the umbo confluent with the thin
margin of the scale and resting on the apophysis beneath; seeds with a large nut and a short
broad wing, often temporarily adherent to the cone-scale and breaking apart at the fall of the nut.

  A tree of the mountains of Japan and Formosa, cultivated extensively.
  It is recognized by its very short quinate leaves and by its nearly
  sessile cones. The frequent but not invariable retention of the
  seed-wing in the cone is due to adhesion. Many seeds fall with their
  wings intact, others break away from the wing which, after a while,
  loosens and also falls.

    Plate XI.

    Figs. 114, 115, Three cones and seed. Fig. 116, Leaf-fascicle and
    magnified leaf-section.

9. PINUS PEUCE

    1844 P. peuce Grisebach, Spicil. Fl. Rumel. ii. 349.
    1865 P. excelsa Hooker in Jour. Linn. Soc. viii. 145. (not Wallich).

Spring-shoots glabrous. Leaves from 7 to 10 cm. long, erect, serrulate; stomata ventral only;
resin-ducts external. Connective of pollen-sacs small and narrow. Cones deciduous, from 8 to
15 cm. long, subcylindrical, often curved, the peduncle short; apophyses tawny yellow, prominently
and abruptly convex, the umbo against the scale beneath; seed-wing long.

  A tree of the Balkan Mountains, very hardy and bearing abundant fruit
  in the gardens of both hemispheres. The cone resembles that of P.
  excelsa, but is prevalently much shorter and with a relatively shorter
  peduncle. Its leaves are also much shorter and are always erect. A
  curious difference is found in the connectives of the pollen-sacs,
  small in peuce (fig. 113), large in excelsa (fig. 110). The convexity
  of its apophyses distinguishes the cone from those of P. monticola and
  P. strobus. Beissner followed Hooker and named this species excelsa,
  var. peuce, in the first edition of his Handbuch (1891), but in the
  second edition he restored the Balkan Pine to specific standing.

    Plate XI.

    Fig. 111, Cone and seed. Fig. 112, Leaf-fascicle and magnified
    leaf-section. Fig. 113, Pollen-sacs and connective magnified.

10. PINUS EXCELSA

    1824 P. excelsa Wallich ex Lambert, Gen. Pin. ii, 5, t. 3.
    1845 P. nepalensis De Chambray, Arbr. Résin. 342.
    1854 P. Griffithii McClelland in Griffith, Notul. Pl. Asiat. iv, 17;
              Icon. Pl. Asiat. t. 365.

Spring-shoots glabrous. Leaves from 10 to 18 cm. long, drooping, serrulate; stomata ventral
only; resin-ducts external but often with a medial ventral duct. Connective of the pollen-sacs
large. Cones from 15 to 25 cm. long, narrow-cylindrical; apophyses tawny yellow or pale fulvous
brown, prominently convex, the umbo against the apophysis beneath; seeds with a long wing.

  A tree with gray-green drooping foliage, found, with some
  interruptions, along the Himalayas. It furnishes resin, tar and wood
  of considerable value. It is cultivated in all temperate climates and
  is a familiar tree of American and European gardens. Madden states
  that the foliage of P. excelsa is sometimes erect and is occasionally
  bright green. Such variations are often met in other species of Pinus.
  Usually the drooping gray-green foliage and the peculiar cone are
  sufficient for the recognition of this species. The not infrequent
  presence of a medial duct and the large connective are valuable aids
  for identifying it.

    Plate XI.

    Fig. 108, Cone and seed. Fig. 109, Leaf-fascicle and magnified
    section of two leaves. Fig. 110, Pollen-sacs and connective
    magnified.

11. PINUS MONTICOLA

    1837 P. monticola Douglas ex Lambert, Gen. Pin. iii. t.
    1884 P. porphyrocarpa Lawson, Pinet. Brit. i, 83, ff.

Spring-shouts pubescent. Leaves from 4 to 10 cm. long, serrulate; stomata ventral or rarely
with a few dorsal stomata; resin-ducts external. Cones from 10 to 25 cm. long, cylindrical
or tapering, sometimes curved; apophyses brown-ochre or fulvous brown, thin, smooth, conforming
to the surface of the cone, the apex sometimes slightly prolonged and reflexed, the umbo not
quite touching the surface of the scale below.

  The western White Pine grows in southern British Columbia and on
  Vancouver Island, on the Rocky Mountains of Montana and Idaho, in
  Washington, on the Blue Mountains, Cascades and Coast Range of Oregon,
  across northern California and along the Sierras to the mountains of
  southern California. Where it is abundant and accessible it furnishes
  valuable timber. It is hardy in New England and in northern and
  central Europe.

  It differs from P. strobus in the higher phyllotaxis of its cone, an
  obvious difference that may be seen by comparing cones of the two
  species of the same length (figs. 117, 119), the number of scales on
  the cone of P. monticola being much greater than that on the cone of
  P. strobus. Nuttall (Sylva, iii, 118) followed Hooker in considering
  it to be a variety of P. strobus.

    Plate XII.

    Fig. 117, Cone and cone-scale. Fig. 118, Leaf-fascicle and magnified
    leaf-section.

12. PINUS STROBUS

