Before proceeding on his expedition, and to attach his wife more closely to his person by proving
his strong affection, he left his band and proceeded to Civita Vecchia, and seeking a sailor
who had seduced her, he expressed a wish to speak with him a little distance from the town.
The sailor, conceiving it might be something to his advantage, followed immediately. Spatolino
conducted him a little beyond the gate of Civita Vecchia, and giving him two thrusts of his
stiletto in his heart, cut off his ears and nose, to carry them as a present to his wife, and
then departed immediately for Sonnino. On his arrival, he proceeded to seek Mary and his band.
After the usual salutations, he took out of his pocket the small bundle containing the nose
and ears of the sailor, and, presenting them to his wife, said, "From this you may judge my
affection. I was desirous of avenging your wrongs, and have done so by killing your seducer.
Here are the pledges of it, which you should keep, in order to remind you of the betrayer,
and as a guard against future temptation. You cannot mistrust me, when I promise ever to afford
you proofs of true attachment, and I hope you will be faithful to me!" After this they embraced
affectionately, and swore to each other eternal fidelity. Nor is it possible for any man to
have kept his word more scrupulously towards his wife. The following day Spatolino departed
at the head of his band, which was composed of eighteen persons, himself and wife included,
and proceeded to the vicinity of Portatta, near the main road leading from Rome to Naples,
which at that time was much frequented by the French of every rank and condition, who proceeded
under orders between these two places. Towards night, Spatolino placed himself and comrades
in ambush on the high road, intending to take advantage of a military body of which he had
information. Ere long a sound of horses was heard; they were immediately on the alert, and
succeeded in arresting a French escort of seven soldiers on foot, and the same number on horseback,
conducting the baggage-wagon of a French colonel of the line. It contained all his effects,
and money to a large amount. Upon the first fire of Spatolino's band, five of the soldiers
were killed, and three desperately wounded; he then threw himself amongst the others, who were
placed on the defence, and who had expended their fire without hurting a single individual
of the band. Spatolino, with his pistols, killed two, and a few moments saw him and his band
masters of the field. Spatolino ordered his men to strip the dead, and placing every thing
in the wagon, after digging a pit for the bodies, they retired to a cave in a wood near the
road, where the booty was equally divided. He took himself two of the best horses, and armed
and equipped his band in a superior manner. He also presented to his wife a part of the spoil,
she having been armed in the action, performing the duty of a sentinel on the highway in advance
about half a mile off, to give notice, in case of an overwhelming force appearing. Spatolino,
having made a fair division of the spoil to raise the courage of his companions, sent all his
own money to his parents, informing them at the same time, that for the future they should
be released from misery, as he would ever bear in mind the beings who gave him birth.--New
Monthly Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

AN UNINSURABLE RISK.

  A bookseller opened a shop on the coast,
    (I'd rather not mention the spot,)
  Where gentlemen lounged o'er the Herald and Post,
    And ladies read Byron and Scott.

  Much personal memoir, too, shone on the shelves,
    Which boasted a whimsical olio;
  Decorum sang small, in octavoes and twelves,
    And scandal in quarto and folio.

  The bookseller, prudently aiming to set
    Th' ignipotent god at defiance,
  To open a policy vainly essay'd
    At the Albion, the Hope, and Alliance.

  "My friend, your abortive attempt prithee stop,"
    Quoth Jekyll, intent on a joke,
  "How can you expect to insure, while your shop
    Is rolling out volumes of smoke?"

Ibid.

       *       *       *       *       *

LONDON NEWSPAPERS.

On few subjects are the public under more misapprehension than on the absolute and relative
circulation of several portions of the London daily press. The greater part of the people would
startle were they told that The Times circulates probably under 7,000 a day on an average;
the paper is seen, as one may say, in every pot-house in London, and all over the country;
and yet this is all its number.

The property of a paper is a matter of which most people have a very vague and imperfect knowledge.
I believe I am very near the truth when I state the gross proceeds of The Times at 45,000l.,
a year. The present proprietor of The Morning Chronicle gave for it, I believe, 40,000l. The
absolute property of The Courier, according to the current rate of its shares, is between 90,000l.
and 100,000l. Estimating the value of The Globe on the same scale, the absolute property of
it is probably somewhere about 35,000l. The profits of a paper arise almost entirely out of
its advertisements, and hence the difference in value between the two last, notwithstanding
their circulation is so nearly equal. A newspaper gets its advertisements by degrees, and,
as it is supposed by the public, its numbers increase; but it retains them long after the cause
by which they were acquired has vanished. It is thus that The Courier, which got its advertisements
when it basked in all the sunshine of ministerial patronage, retains these when its numbers
are reduced by one-half, and the countenance of government is no longer held out to it.

These, however, it must be admitted, are the prizes in the lottery of newspaper speculation:
and in this, as in every other lottery, there are more blanks than prizes. Mr. Murray, after
having expended upwards of 10,000l. on his Representative, sold it to the proprietors of The
New Times for about 600l.: and The British Press, after having ruined I know not how many capitalists,
was sold to the same concern for, I believe, a considerably smaller sum.--London Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

MADEMOISELLE CUVIER.

Mademoiselle Cuvier, daughter of the celebrated naturalist, died a short time since at Paris.
There has seldom been any instance where the strongest benevolence was so closely united to
the charms of intellect. She possessed a rare mixture of elevation of mind and firmness of
character--of strength and equanimity--sweetness and simplicity. It was truly gratifying to
witness her worship, or rather superstition, for truth, and to watch the avidity with which
she used to seize and illustrate whatever she thought likely to remove ignorance, or promote
the cause of virtue and freedom. The circumstances which attended the death of this amiable
creature, have, if possible, greatly augmented the grief of her family and friends. The day
of her nuptials was fixed, and she was to be united to a man of her own choice, and everything
was prepared for the ceremony. Being suddenly afflicted by rapid symptoms of consumption, all
hopes of her recovery soon vanished. Notwithstanding, the ball dresses, veils, and shawls,
continued to be sent home to the unhappy parents, who dared not refuse them, lest they should
themselves be accused of giving way to despair. This mixture of preparations for rejoicing,
and the certainty of death, formed a picture the most melancholy and pathetic. When the fatal
moment arrived, her family and many friends surrounded the dying couch in mournful silence.
The funeral was attended by all that is distinguished for rank and fortune at Paris; a clergyman
of the Protestant church read the service for the dead, and a funeral sermon. A number of young
females whom she had formed for succouring the poor, were ranged round the bier, dressed in
white, and followed to the Cemetery of Père la Chaise, where M. Salvandy, one of her friends,
undertook to deliver the final eulogy, which it is usual in France to pronounce on departed
worth.--Monthly Magazine.--Letter from Paris.

       *       *       *       *       *

HOW TO LOSE TIME.

Few men need complain of the want of time, if they are not conscious of a want of power, or
of desire to ennoble and enjoy it. Perhaps you are a man of genius yourself, gentle reader,
and though not absolutely, like Sir Walter, a witch, warlock, or wizard, still a poet--a maker--a
creator. Think, then, how many hours on hours you have lost, lying asleep so profoundly,

 "That the cock's shrill clarion, or the echoing horn,
  No more could rouse you from your lazy bed."

How many more have you, not absolutely lost, but to a certain extent abused, at breakfast--sip,
sipping away at unnecessary cups of sirupy tea, or gob, gobbling away at jam-buttered rolls,
for which nature never called--or "to party giving up what was meant for mankind"--forgetting
the loss of Time in the Times, and, after a long, blank, brown, and blue study, leaving behind
you a most miserable chronicle indeed! Then think--O think--on all your aimless forenoon saunterings--round
and round about the premises--up and down the avenue--then into the garden on tiptoe--in and
out among the neat squares of onion-beds--now humming a tune by the brink of abysses of mould,
like trenches dug for the slain in the field of battle, where the tender celery is laid--now
down to the river-side to try a little angling, though you well know there is nothing to be
had but Pars--now into a field of turnips, without your double-barreled Joe Manton, (at Mr.
Wilkinson's to be repaired,) to see Ponto point a place where once a partridge had pruned himself--now
home again, at the waving of John's red sleeve, to receive a coach-full of country cousins,
come in the capacity of forenoon callers--endless talkers all--sharp and blunt noses alike--and
grinning voraciously in hopes of a lunch--now away to dress for dinner, which will not be for
two long, long hours to come--now dozing, or daized on the drawing-room sofa, wondering if
the bell is ever to be rung--now grimly gazing on a bit of bloody beef which your impatience
has forced the blaspheming cook to draw from the spit ere the outer folds of fat were well
melted at the fire--now, after a disappointed dinner, discovering that the old port is corked,
and the filberts all pluffing with bitter snuff, except such as enclose a worm--now an unwholesome
sleep of interrupted snores, your bobbing head ever and anon smiting your breast-bone--now
burnt-beans palmed off on the family for Turkish coffee--now a game at cards, with a dead partner,
and the ace of spades missing--now no supper--you have no appetite for supper--and now into
bed tumbles the son of Genius, complaining to the moon of the shortness of human life, and
the fleetness of time!

Blackwood's Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

SLEEPING AFTER DINNER.

Mr. Fox at St. Ann's Hill was, for the last years of his life, in the habit (never interfered
with by his friends) of dosing for a few minutes after dinner; and it was on this occasion,
unconsciously yielding to the influence of custom, I perceived that Mr. Garrow, who was the
chief talker (Parr was in his smoking orgasm,) began to feel embarrassed at Mr. Fox's non-attention;
and I, therefore, made signs to Mr. Fox, by wiping my fingers to my eyes, and looking expressively
at Garrow. Mr. Fox, the most truly polite man in the world, immediately endeavoured to rouse
himself--but in vain; Nature would have her way. Garrow soon saw the struggle, and adroitly
feigned sleep himself. Mr. Fox was regenerated in ten minutes--apologized--and made the evening
delightful--Senatorial Reminiscenses.--The Inspector.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SELECTOR; AND LITERARY NOTICES OF NEW WORKS.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHRONICLES OF THE CANONGATE.

The Two Drovers.

(Concluded from page 289.)

    [Our readers must have missed, and probably with some regret,
    the conclusion of the above story, as promised for insertion in
    our last Number; and unaccustomed as we are to an intentional
    discrepancy of this sort, (for such was the above,) we shall
    consider ourselves justified in briefly stating some of the
    circumstances which led to the irregularity. We are not disposed
    to enter into the tilts of rival journalists, some of whom, in
    taking time by the forelock, may have perhaps been rather more
    enterprising than the subject warranted.[17] Nevertheless, in
    the attempt to please the public, as in other races, the
    youngest are often the fleetest. In the present case, the
    appetite of the public had been whetted with "reiterated
    advertisement:" and one of our contemporaries, with more
    playfulness than truth, had compared his priority to that of
    Fine-ear in the fairy tale. But his talisman failed, and a
    young rival outstripped him; and from this quarter we were
    induced to copy the first portion of the tale of The Two
    Drovers, upon the editor's assurance of his own honesty in
    obtaining the precedence, and which assurance We are still
    unwilling to question: although, were we to do so, ours would
    not he a solitary specimen of such ingratitude.[18] On the day
    of our publishing the first portion, we received a notice to
    desist from its continuance,--full of the causticity of our
    friends on the other side of the Tweed, and with whom, for the
    credit of the south, we hope the measure originated. We next
    resolved to suspend the conclusion; since the brutum fulmen
    became louder and louder still, in an advertisement actively
    inserted in the London newspapers. To make short of what is and
    ought to be but a trifling affair, we have abridged the whole
    story, and accordingly now present the conclusion to our
    readers, though certainly not in the promised state; how far we
    have exculpated ourselves, is for our patrons to determine.--A
    few words at parting, on the policy of the above conduct. We
    need not enlarge upon the advantages which publishers (and, to
    some extent, authors) derive from portions of their works
    appearing in periodical journals. The benefit is not reciprocal,
    but largely on their side, if they consider how many columns of
    advertisement duty they thereby avoid. It is well known that the
    first edition of any work by such a master-spirit as Sir
    Walter Scott is consumed in a few days by the circulating
    libraries and reading societies of the kingdom; but how many
    thousands would neither have seen nor heard of his most
    successful works, had not the gusto been previously created by
    the caducei of these literary Mercuries. Again, sift any one of
    them, with higher pretensions to originality than our economical
    sheet will admit of, and you shall find it, in quantity, at
    least, to resemble Gratiano's three grains. But we are not
    inclined to quarrel with the scheme, for with Johnson we say,
    "Quotation, sir (Walter), is a good thing," in the hope of
    hearing our readers reply, "This fellow pecks up wit as pigeons
    peas."--ED.]

Some words passed after the departure, of Robin Oig, between the bailiff, and Harry Wakefield,
who was now not indisposed to defend Robin Oig's reputation. But Dame Heskett prevented this
second quarrel by her peremptory interference. The conversation turned on the expected markets,
and the prices from different parts of Scotland and England, and Harry Wakefield found a chap
for a part of his drove, and at a considerable profit; an event more than sufficient to blot
out all remembrances of the past scuffle.

When Robin Oig left the door of the ale-house, seven or eight English miles at least lay betwixt
him and Morrison, whose advance was limited by the sluggish pace of his cattle. And now the
distant lowing of Morrison's cattle is heard; and now he meets them--passes them, and stops
their conductor.

"There it is for you then, since less wunna serve." There was Harry Wakefield, who amidst a
grinning group of smockfrocks, hob-nailed shoes, and jolly English physiognomies, was trolling
forth an old ditty, when he was interrupted by a high and stern voice, saying "Harry Waakfelt--if
you be a man, stand up!"

"Harry Waakfelt," repeated the same ominous summons, "stand up, if you be a man!"

Robin next offered the bloody poniard to the bailiff's throat.

"It were very just to lay you beside him," he said, "but the blood of a base pick-thank shall
never mix on my father's dirk, with that of a brave man." The face of the corpse was decently
covered with a napkin. Robin Oig removed the cloth, and gazed on the lifeless visage. I shall
never forget the charge of the venerable judge to the jury. It was the purpose and the act
of pre-determined revenge, for which law neither can, will, nor ought to have sympathy. The
jury, accordingly brought in a verdict of guilty; and Robin Oig M'Combich, alias M'Gregor,
was sentenced to death, and executed accordingly.

    [17] We remember the proverb, "Honour among thieves."

    [18] But we cannot so far forget our country as to be
    indifferent to them.--See a passage in the Two Drovers.

       *       *       *       *       *

A PERSIAN FABLE.

Amulet.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GATHERER.

    "I am but a Gatherer and disposer of other men's
    stuff."--Wotton.

       *       *       *       *       *

NEW READING.

A witty wight, on seeing the following line in our last,

    Necessitas non habet legem,

supplied this new reading,

    Necessity without a leg to stand upon.

       *       *       *       *       *

O. P. RIOTS.

"What is doing to-night?" asked Kemble, of one of the ballet-masters; "Oh pis (O P) toujours,
Monsieur," was the reply.

       *       *       *       *       *

A CURIOUS FACT.

An absent man, whose heart can seldom resist the importunities of beggars, was, a few mornings
since, followed by a hungry half-starved dog, when he inadvertently took from his pocket a
penny, which he was just about to give to the four-footed wanderer, when he perceived his mistake.
It should be mentioned that the above individual had, on nearly the precise spot, on the previous
night, assisted one of his fellow creatures in the same manner as that in which he was about
to relieve the quadruped. The EDITOR of the MIRROR will be happy to substantiate this fact
to such as may be disposed to doubt its authenticity:--"if it be madness, there's method in it."

       *       *       *       *       *

SIGNS OF THE TIMES.

Seventeen hundred individuals a year, for the last seven years, have been committed for poaching.--Report
Prison Discip. Society.

Crime is a curse only to the period in which it is successful; but virtue, whether fortunate
or otherwise, blesses not only its own age, but remotest posterity, and is as beneficial by
its example, as by its immediate effects.

At the late Doncaster races, there were 30,000 persons well clothed, and apparently well fed
and happy. 2000l. were taken at the grand stand for admission.

Mr. Kean is to receive, during the present season, fifty pounds for each night's performance--the
yearly income of a curate!

Singing Non Nobis Domine after dinner is a very foolish custom. People in England pay 10,000l.
a year for non nobis. Rather sing Dr. Kitchener's Universal Prayer and the English grace. The
common people of every country understand only their native tongue; therefore if you do not
understand them, you will not understand each other. All Italian music is detestable, and nothing
like our genuine native song. Weber's "unconcatenated chords" ought not to be listened to,
while we have such composers as Braham and Tom Cooke. The national songs of Great Britain have
not sold so well as the Cook's Oracle. "People like what goes into the mouth better than what
comes out of it."--Dr. Kitchener.

A museum, deanery, and a cattle-market are building at York. Various other improvements and
repairs are also in progress in that city!

According to the Report of the Commissioners of Public Charities, the annual sum of 972,396l.
has been bequeathed by pious donors to England only! This is surely the promised land of benevolence;
but in Salop only, there are arrears now due to the poor for upwards of 42 years!

M. La Combe, in his Picture of London, advises those who do not wish to be robbed to carry
a brace of blunderbusses, and to put the muzzle of one out of each window, so as to be seen
by the robbers.

The silly habit of praising every thing at a man's table came in for a share of the late Dr.
Kitchener's severity. He said, "Criticism, sir, is not a pastime; it is a verdict on oath:
the man who does it is (morally) sworn to perform his duty. There is but one character on earth,
sir," he would add, "that I detest; and that is the man who praises, indiscriminately, every
dish that is set before him. Once I find a fellow do that at my table, and, if he were my brother,
I never ask him to dinner again."

A daily literary journal has lately been started in Paris, and has, in less than three weeks,
above 2,000 subscribers.

Reviewing, as a profession by which a certain class of men seek to instruct the public, and
to support themselves creditably in the middle order, and to keep their children from falling,
after the decease of enlightened parents, on the parish, is at the lowest possible ebb in this
country; and many is the once well-fed critic now an hungered--Blackwood.

Oranges.--It is not perhaps generally known or suspected, that the rabbis of the London synagogues
are in the habit of affording both employment and maintenance to the poor of their own persuasion,
by supplying them with oranges at an almost nominal price.--Ibid.

Noble Authors.--The poor spinsters of the Minerva press can scarcely support life by their
labours, so completely are they driven out of the market by the Lady Charlottes and the Lady
Bettys; and a rhyming peer is as common as a Birmingham button. It would take ten Horace Walpoles
at least to do justice to the living authors of the red book.

Buying Books.--Money is universally allowed to be the thing which all men love best; and if
a man buys a book, we may safely infer he thinks well of it. What nobody buys, then, we may
justly conclude is not worth reading.

       *       *       *       *       *

On the Duchess of Devonshire's canvassing for Mr. Fox at the Westminster Election.

  Array'd in matchless beauty, Devon's fair
    In Fox's favour takes a zealous part;
  But, oh! where'er the pilferer comes beware,
    She supplicates a vote, and steals a heart.

       *       *       *       *       *

Lines sent by a Surgeon, with a box of ointment, to a Lady who had an inflamed eye.

  The doctor's kindest wishes e'er attend
  His beauteous patient, may he hope his friend;
  And prays that no corrosive disappointment
  May mar the lenient virtues of his ointment;
  Of which, a bit not larger than a shot,
  Or that more murd'rous thing, "a beauty spot,"
  Warmed on the finger by the taper's ray,
  Smear o'er the eye affected twice a day.
  Proffer not gold--I swear by my degree,
  From beauty's lily hand to take no fee;
  No glittering trash be mine, I scorn such pelf,
  The eye, when cured, will pay the debt itself.

       *       *       *       *       *

George III. is said to have observed to a person who approached him in a moment of personal
restraint, indispensable in his situation, "Here you see me checkmated."

       *       *       *       *       *

OLD GRIMALDI.

The first Grimaldi celebrated on the stage, appeared at Paris about the year 1735, when his
athletic force and extraordinary agility procured him the sobriquet of "Jambe de Fer," or iron-leg.
In 1742, when Mahomet Effendi, ambassador of the Porte, visited Paris, he was received with
the highest honour and utmost distinction; and the court having ordered a performance for the
Turk's entertainment, Grimaldi was commanded to exert himself to effect that object. In obedience
to his directions, in making a surprising leap, his foot actually struck a lustre, placed high
from the stage, and one of the glass drops was thrown in the face of the ambassador. It was
then customary to demand some reward from the personage for whom the entertainment was prepared,
and, at the conclusion of the piece, Grimaldi waited upon the Mussulman for the usual present.
If the Turk had concealed the expression of his anger at the accident, it was not however extinct,
for on the appearance of the buffoon, he directed him to be seized by his attendants, and transported
in his theatrical costume, to his residence, where, after undergoing a severe bastinado, the
hapless actor was thrust into the street, with only his pedal honour for his recompense.

       *       *       *       *       *

NEGROES' HEIR LOOM.

Some years ago, the boiler-men negroes on Huckenfield estate were overheard by the book-keeper
discoursing on this subject, (the superiority of the whites,) and various opinions were given,
till the question was thus set at rest by an old African:--"When God Almighty make de world,
him make two men, a nigger and a buckra; and him give dem two box, and him tell dem for make
dem choice. Nigger, (nigger greedy from time,) when him find one box heavy, him take it, and
buckra take t'other; when dem open de box, buckra see pen, ink, and paper; nigger box full
up with hoe and bill, and hoe and bill for nigger till this day."--Barclay's Slavery in the
West Indies.

       *       *       *       *       *

GRATITUDE.

When Suffer, who had been fifty years a servant in the English factory at Abesheber, or Bushire,
a Persian sea-port, was on his death-bed, the English doctor ordered him a glass of wine. He
at first refused, saying, "I cannot take it; it is forbidden in the Koran." But after a few
moments, he begged the doctor to give it him, saying, as he raised himself in his bed, "Give
me the wine; for it is written in the same volume, that all you unbelievers will be excluded
from Paradise; and the experience of fifty years teaches me to prefer your society in the other
world, to any place unto which I can be advanced with my own countrymen." He died a few hours
after this sally.--Sketches of Persia.