Peter Wilkins (Vol. ii., p. 480.).--In the preface to a garbled and mutilated edition of this
work, which appeared Lond. 1839, sq. 12mo., it is stated that the author was Robert Pultock,
of Clement's Inn, which is in accordance with the initials to the dedication. Those of R.S.
on the title I consider as mere fiction. Lowndes gives the 1st ed. 1750, 2 vols. 12mo. and
I have a note of a reprint, Dublin, Geo. Falkner, 1751, 2 vols. 12mo., "illustrated with several
cuts." My copy is Lond. 1816, 2 vols. 12mo., with a few indifferent engravings.

F.R.A.

"The Toast," by Dr. King (Vol. ii., p. 480.).--DR. RIMBAULT will find the key to the characters
named in this poem printed in Davis's Second Journey round the Library, &c., p. 106.

F.R.A.

    [W.A. informs us that there is a key to this work in Martin's Account
    of Privately Printed Books.]

The Widow of the Wood (Vol. ii., p. 406.).--The history of this publication can hardly be given
without raking up a piece of scandal affecting an honourable family still in existence. If
DR. RIMBAULT wishes to see the book, and has any difficulty in meeting with it, I shall be
happy to forward him my copy by the post on learning his address. I inclose you mine, and will
thank you to communicate it to him if he should wish for it.

The maiden name of this "widow" was Anne Northey. Her second husband was Sir Wm. Wolseley;
her fourth, Mr. Hargrave, father of the celebrated jurist. Every copy of the work which could
be found was destroyed by the latter gentleman.

H.C.

Damasked Linen (Vol. ii., p. 199.).--It may interest R.G.P.M. to learn that portion of the
damasked linen which formed part of the establishment of James II. when in Ireland, still exists
in the possession of R. Ely, Esq., of Ballaghmore Castle in the Queen's County. I have seen
with that gentleman several large napkins beautifully damasked with the then royal arms, together
with the initials J.R. of large size, and elaborately flourished. The tradition of the family
is, that they were obtained from the plunder of James's camp equipage, after the defeat of
the Boyne. Mr. Ely's ancestor was in William's army.

X.Y.A.

       *       *       *       *       *

MISCELLANEOUS.

NOTES ON BOOKS, SALES, CATALOGUES, ETC.

Every one who had an opportunity of inspecting the glorious assemblage of masterpieces of workmanship
and design which were collected together at the Exhibition of Ancient and Mediæval Art last
spring, must have felt a desire to possess some more lasting memorial of that unparalleled
display than the mere catalogue. {14} So strong, indeed, was this feeling at the time, as to
call several announcements of works in preparation, commemorative of the Exhibition, including
one by the accomplished Honorary Secretary of the Committee, Mr. Franks. Mr. Franks has, however,
we regret to hear, now abandoned that intention, so that of these promised memorials, we shall
probably only see the one which has just been published under the title of Choice Examples
of Art Workmanship, selected from the Exhibition of Ancient and Mediæval Art at the Society
of Arts; and, whether as a pleasant record to those who visited the collection, or as a compensation
for their disappointment to those who were not so fortunate, the book will, doubtless, find
favour with the rapidly increasing class who take an interest in works of this character. That
the publishers anticipate a large sale, is obvious, from the remarkably low price at which
they have published this beautiful volume, which contains upwards of sixty engravings, drawn
from the gems of the collection, by Mr. De la Motte, and engraved under his superintendence;
and furnishes representations of objects of the most varied kinds, from the Nautilus Cup belonging
to Her Majesty, to Mr. Vulliamy's Ivory Bas-reliefs ascribed to Fiamingo, Mr.