"Sir!" exclaimed Mr. BEZZLE, leaping at the publisher with eyes that fairly blazed with the
radiance of rectitude, "who do you take me for?" If Mr. BEZZLE had been less violent he would
probably have said, "Whom do you take me for," and so have spared himself the ignominy of sinking
to the ungrammatical level of the Common Herd. But the fact is, his proud spirit was chafed
and fretted at the spectacle of sordid self-seeking that everywhere met his gaze, and excess
of sentiment made him forgetful of syntax. "Mark me, my friend, I am not to be bought," he
continued in unconscious blank verse. "I shall take my pick, sir, and you will take this check."
And he handed the amazed publisher a check for five hundred dollars. "I sicken, sir," he continued,
"of this qualmish air of half-truth that I have breathed so long. I am going to read these
books, and say what I think of 'em, and five hundred dollars is dirt cheap for the privilege.
I had sooner that every 'New Publications' ad. should die out of my newspaper than that my
literary columns should be contaminated with a Lie! Never mind the change, sir. If anything
is left over, send it to the proprietor of the new penny paper that is struggling to keep its
head above water. Don't say that it came from me. Say that it came from a converted roper-in."
And Mr. BEZZLE stalked out of the office in such a tempest of morality that the publisher felt
as though a tidal wave of virtue had swept over him.

After this, Mr. BEZZLE'S dream became a trifle confused; but he thought that this noble course
of conduct was greatly approved by the public, that its eminent practicability commended it
to all classes of people, and that theatres, publishers, and others quadrupled their advertisements.
"Ah!" sighed Mr. BEZZLE, rubbing his hands, but still asleep, "what a sweet thing virtue is!
Honesty is the best policy after all!"

At this moment his elbow was nudged, and opening his eyes he beheld one of the office boys,
whom he had sent up to the theatre half an hour ago, to ask for six reserved seats near the stage.

"Mr. PUPPET says he's very sorry, sir," said the boy, "but the seats is all taken for to-night,
and so he can't send any."

"Can't send any, can't he?" exclaimed BEZZLE, wide awake. "All right. Just go to Mr. SNAPPETY,
the dramatic editor, for me, and tell him not to say one word about that theatre in his criticism
to-morrow, I'll teach Mr. PUPPET," etc., etc., etc.

SPIFFKINS.

       *       *       *       *       *

TURKEYS--A FANTASY.

We hear a great deal from scientific men about the influence of climate, atmosphere, and even
the proximity of certain mineral substances, upon the life and welfare of man; but there is
yet another vein to be worked in this region of human knowledge. Taking a chance train of ideas--an
excursion-train, we may say--which came in our way on last Thanksgiving, we were brought to
some interesting conclusions in regard to the influence exercised by the turkey upon human
affairs. The annual happiness of how many thousands at the return of Thanksgiving Day--the
unfed woes of how many thousands more--does this estimable fowl revolve within his urbane crop!
Every kernel of grain which he picks from the barn-floor may represent an instant of masticatory
joy held in store for some as yet unconscious maxillary; we may weigh the bird by the amount
of happiness he will afford. When we go to market, to barter for our Thanksgiving turkey, we
inquire substantially of the spruce vender, glistening in his white apron: "How much gustatory
delight does yonder cock contain?" And he, gross slave of matter, doth respond, giving the
estimate in dollars and parts of dollars!

But how inadequate is any material representative of his value to us. Indeed, it is next to
impossible to conceive of the niceties involved in this question of how much we owe the turkey.
For him the country air has been sweetened; the rain has fallen that he might thrive; the wheat
and barley sprouted that he might be fed. A shade more of leanness in the legs, one jot less
of rotundity in the breast--what misery might not these seemingly trivial incidents have created?
A failure in the supply of turkeys?--it would have been a national calamity! What were life,
indeed, without the turkey?

As for Thanksgiving, the turkey he is it. Paris, c'est la France! Remove the turkey, and you
undermine Thanksgiving. How could a conscientious man go to church on Thanksgiving morning,
knowing within himself that he shall return to beef, or mutton, or veal for his dinner, as
on work-days? I tell you, religion would disappear with the turkey.

Toward the close of Thanksgiving, how manifest becomes the influence of this feathered sovereign.
Observe yonder jaundiced youth pacing the street moodily, his lips set in a cynic sneer. His
turkey was lean. I know it. He cannot hide that turkey. The gaunt fowl obtrudes himself from
every part. On the other hand, none but the primest of prime turkeys could have set in motion
this brisk old gentleman with the ruddy check and hale, clear eye, whom we next pass. A most
stanch and royal turkey lurks behind that portly front--a sound and fresh animal, with plenty
of cranberries to boot.--What are these soldiers? Carpet-knights who have united their thanks
over a grand regimental banquet. What frisky gobblers they have shared in, to be sure! They
prance and amble over the pavements as if they had absorbed the very soul of Chanticleer, and
fancied themselves once more princes of the barnyard. The most singular and freakish of the
turkey's manifestations this, by far!

Indeed, on a review of these suggestive facts, we cannot but feel a marvellous reverence for
the potent cock, established as patron of this feast. This sentiment is wide-spread among our
people, and perhaps it is not too fanciful to predict that it will some day expand itself to
a cultus like that of the Egyptian APIS, or, more properly, the Stork of Japan. The advanced
civilization of the Chinese, indeed, has already made the Chicken an object of religious veneration.
In the slow march of ages we shall perhaps develop our as yet crude and imperfect religions
into an exalted worship of the Turkey. Then shall the symbolic bird, trussed as for Thanksgiving,
be enshrined in all our temples, and the multitudes making pilgrimage from afar to such sanctuaries
shall be greeted by an inscription over the temple-gate of BRILLAT SAVARIN'S axiom:--

"Tell me what you eat, and I will tell you what you are."

       *       *       *       *       *

BOOTS.

MR. PUNCHINELLO:--Breaking in a young span of boots is ecstasy, or would be, if fitting bootmakers
could be found; but there's the pinch, though they do give you fits sometimes.

Getting tailored to suit me, the next thing was to get booted, I succeeded. It cost me nineteen
dollars.

I'd willingly return the compliment for nothing.

At last my boots were finished, and I went into them right and left; at least, I tried so to do.

With every nerve flashing lightning, I pulled and tugged most thrillingly, but in vain.

"There's no putting my foot in it," says I.

"Give one more try," says he.

Although almost tried out, I generously gave one more. I placed the bootmaker's awl in one
strap, and his last-hook in the other, and with "two roses" mantling my cheeks, postured for
the contest.

I tried the heeling process, and earnestly endeavored to toe the mark; but to successfully
start the thing on foot was a bootless effort.

Then I slumberously gravitated, and dreamed thus:--

Old "LEATHERBRAINS" in SATAN'S livery, producing a hammer from a carpet-bag (he was a carpet-bagger),
proceeded to shape my feet, and fill them with shoe-pegs.

My nap was ruffled, and not to be continued under those circumstances, so I wisely concluded it.

"They're on!" says the bootmaker.

And a tight on it was, excruciatingly so.

I suspected at the time that I had been put to sleep by chloroform, but I afterward remembered
that a feeble youth was reading aloud from the Special Cable Dispatches of the Tribune.

My feelings centred in those boots, tears filled my eyes, and I was dumb with emotion, but
quickly reviving, I slaked the cordwainer with a flood of rabid eloquence.

The cowering wretch suggested that they would stretch. He lied, the villain, he lied, they shrank.

However, "in verdure clad," I was persuaded into wearing them, and stiffly sidled off, a badgered
biped, my head swinging round the circle, and my voice hanging on the verge of profanity all
the way.

As fit boots they were a most successful failure. I gave them to the office boy; but the crutches
I afterward bought him cost me twenty-seven dollars.

Henceforth I shall take my cue from JOHN CHINAMAN, and encase my understanding in wood. Yours
calmly,

VICTOR KING.

       *       *       *       *       *

Recognized at Last.

A recent telegram from London says:--

"The Prussian hussars rode down and out to pieces a regiment of marine infantry."

Hooray! Cheer, boys, cheer! The mythical Horse-Marines are thus at last recognized as an accomplished
fact.

       *       *       *       *       *

"As I was going to St. Ives."

At St. Ives, Huntingdonshire, England, Lord ROBERT MONTAGU, M.P., was lately burned in effigy
by some intelligent boors, because he had joined the Roman Catholic faith. That tells badly
for the burners, who should not have cared an f i g about the matter.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Walker."

MCETTRICK, the pedestrian, was arrested at Boston, a few days since, for giving an exhibition
without a license. He gave bail. Probably leg-bail.

       *       *       *       *       *

On the Bench

When is a judge like the structures that are to support the Brooklyn Suspension-Bridge? When
he's called a caisson.

       *       *       *       *       *

AN OFFICER WHO MUST ALWAYS BE OUT OF GUN-SHOT RANGE.

General FARRE.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PLAYS AND SHOWS.

By this time everybody has seen Rip Van Winkle, and everybody has expressed the same unbounded
admiration of Mr. JEFFERSON'S matchless genius. But the world never has been, and doubtless
never will be, without the pestiferous presence of Reformers, Men of Progress, Earnest Men,
who insist upon improving everything after their own fashion, and who are unhappy because they
did not have the opportunity of making the solar year consist of an even number of days, and
because they were not present at the building of the Ark, in order to urge upon NOAH the propriety
of attaching a screw propeller to that primitive Great Eastern. These horribly energetic nuisances
never find anything that precisely suits them, and are always insisting that everything stands
in need of the improvements which they gratuitously suggest. Latterly they have ventured to
attack Rip Van Winkle,--not the actor, but the play,--and to insist that the closing scene
should be so modified as to make the play a temperance lecture of the most unmistakable character.

If you recollect--as of course you do--the last scene in that exquisite drama, you can still
hear "RIP'S" tremulous voice as he says, "I will take my pipe and my glass, and will tell my
strange story to all my friends. And I will drink your good health, and your family's, and
may you live long and prosper." And now come the Progressive Nuisances, and ask Mr. JEFFERSON
to change this ending so that it will read as follows:--

GRETCHEN.--"Here is your glass, RIP."

RIP.--"But I swore off."

GRETCHEN.--"Bless you, my husband. Promise me never more to touch the intoxicating beer-mug."

RIP.--"I promise. Hereafter I will take my TUPPER'S Proverbial Philosophy and my glass of water,
and I will daily address all my friends on the subject of total abstinence from everything
that cheers, whether it inebriates or not. And I will now close this evening's lecture by an
appeal to the audience now present, to take warning by me, and never drink a drop of lager-beer.
Think, my friends, what would be the feelings of your respective wives, should you return home,
after a drunken sleep of twenty or thirty years, and find them all married to richer husbands!
Think how they would revile the weakness of the beer which could not keep you asleep forever.
Think how you would complicate the real estate business, when you came to turn out the mistaken
people who had occupied, improved, and sold your property during your brief absence. Think
of the difficulties that would arise from the increase in the size of your families, which
would probably have taken place while you were sleeping out in the open air, and for which
you would have to provide, although you had not been consulted in the matter. Think, too, of
the extent to which you would be interviewed by the reporters of the Sun, and the atrocious
libels concerning yourselves and your families which that unclean sheet would publish. Think
of all these things, my friends, and then step into the box-office on your way out and sign
the total abstinence pledge. The ushers will now make a collection for the support of the temperance
cause. Mr. MOLLENHAUER will please lead the audience in singing that beautiful temperance anthem--"

  "'Cold water is the only thing
    Worth loving here below;
  The man who won't its praises sing,
    Will straight to Hades go.'"

Now, for one, I don't like this improved version of "RIP." Of course, the Temperance Reformers
will construe this expression of opinion into an admission that every man, woman, or advocate
of female suffrage, who has ever written a line for PUNCHINELLO is a confirmed drunkard. In
spite of this probability, I still have the courage to maintain that so long as Mr. JEFFERSON
is an artist, and not a temperance lecturer, he need not mix up the drama with the Temperance
Reform, or any other hobby. If he is to be compelled to deliver a temperance address every
time he plays Rip Van Winkle, let us compel Mr. GREELEY to play "RIP" every time he gives a
temperance lecture. If the latter catastrophe were to happen, the punishment of the Reforming
Nuisances would be complete.

There are, however, plays which could be changed so as to terminate much more naturally and
effectively than they now do. For example, there is Enoch Arden. At present ENOCH, when he
looks through the window and sees his wife enjoying herself with PHILIP in the dining-room,
immediately lies down on the grass-plat in the back-yard, and groans in a most harrowing style,--after
which he picks himself up, and, going back to his hotel, dies without so much as recognizing
his old friends and congratulating them upon their prosperity. Now the way in which the play
should have ended, had the dramatist wished to convince us that "ENOCH" was a reasonable being,
would have been somewhat as follows:--

ENOCH (looking through the window).--"Well, here's a go. My wife has actually married PHILIP.
They look pretty comfortable, too. PHILIP is evidently rich. Here's luck for me at last. I've
got him where I can strike him pretty heavily." [He enters the house,]

PHILIP AND HIS WIFE.--"ENOCH! Can it be possible? Why, we thought you were entirely dead, and
so we married. Well! well! This is a healthy state of things."

ENOCH (sternly).--"Mr. PHILIP RAY. You have had the impertinence to marry my wife. Sir! I consider
that you have taken an unjustifiable liberty. Have you anything to say for yourself before
I proceed to shoot you? I might mention that I once had a third cousin whose aunt by marriage
was slightly insane, so you see that I can kill you with a calm certainty that the jury will
acquit me, on the ground of my hereditary insanity."

PHILIP.--"Take a drink, old boy. We'll be reasonable about this matter. Don't attempt murder,--it's
no longer respectable since MCFARLAND went into the business. Why can't we compromise this affair?"

ENOCH.--"It will cost you something. There are my lacerated feelings, which can't be repaired
without a good deal of expense. Still I will do the fair thing by you. Give me fifty thousand
dollars and I'll leave the country and say nothing more about it. You can keep my wife, if
you want her. I'm sure I don't."

PHILIP.--"But I've been to a good deal of expense about her. Her clothes have cost me no end
of money, and there are all our new children besides. Children, let me tell you, are a great
deal more expensive now than they were in your day. Now, I'll give you twenty thousand dollars,
and your wife, and we'll call it square."

ENOCH.--"No, sir. I don't want the wife, and I insist on more than twenty thousand dollars.
I've got you entirely in my power, and you know it. I'll come down to forty thousand dollars,
but not a cent less. Draw a check on the bank, or I'll draw a revolver on you. Be quick about
it, too, for my hereditary insanity may develop itself at any moment."

PHILIP.--"Well, if I must, I must. Here is your money. How did you leave things at--well, at
the place you came from? Everybody well, I hope?"

ENOCH.--"There were no people, and consequently nothing to drink there. Don't speak of the
wretched place. Thanks for the check. Hope you'll find your wife satisfactory. Let this be
a warning to you, not to marry a widow another time, unless you have a sure thing. Don't believe
her when she says her husband is dead, unless you have him dug up, and personally inspect his
bones. Thank you! I will take another drink since you insist upon it. Here's luck! You'll agree
with me that this is the best day's work I have ever done. Good-by. I'm off to Chicago."

Now, would not that be the way in which "ENOCH" would have acted had he been a practical business
man? You see the play thus altered is eminently probable, not to say realistic. I have several
more improved catastrophes, which, if substituted for the present ending of some of our more
recent popular plays, would render them quite perfect. Hamlet especially needs changing in
this respect. Some of these days I will show the readers of PUNCHINELLO how SHAKSPEARE should
have ended that drama. I rather think they will agree with me, that SHAKSPEARE, clever as he
doubtless was in certain respects, knew very little about writing plays that should be at once
effective and probable.

MATADOR.

       *       *       *       *       *

ON THE ROAD TO ROUEN.

 The Prussians.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

"AB"

I.

  Absinthe's a cunning word
    Dram-drinkers to entice,
  It comes from a Greek root which means
    The opposite of nice.

II.

  The wormwood shrub its gall
    Essentially doth give
  To "ab" by which so many die.
    For which so many live.

III.

  Its color is sea-green.
    And should you enter where
  The blissful stimulant is sold.
    You'll see green people there.

IV.

  King DEATH no longer drenches
    With "coal-black wine" his throttle.
  But slakes the drouth of his awful mouth
    With pulls at the absinthe bottle.

V.

  And why should we repine
    At the poison that's in his cup,
  Since the fools we can spare are everywhere
    And "ab" will use them up?

VI.

  Then heigh! for the wormwood shrub.
    And ho! for the sea-green liquor
  That softens the brain to sillybub
    And turns the blood to ichor!

       *       *       *       *       *

GRAIN ELEVATORS.

Rye cocktails.

       *       *       *       *       *

ODD REQUEST.

Bishop Potter having forbidden the celebration of the Holy Communion privately at St. Sacrament
Mission, when a priest is the only communicant, it seems that Father BEADLEY "has asked for
the formation of thirty persons, one of whom shall commune with him each day."

When Father B.'s thirty communing persons are fully "formed," we should like to take a look
at them. We should expect to find that a new race is started at last. This would be disagreeable
news to Professor DARWIN, but there are plenty of other and rival Professors who would be delighted
at the phenomenon. Twenty-nine at least of the newly-formed "persons" will always be "on view,"
as but one of the thirty can be engaged at a time. Doubtless they will be able to converse
in the American language, and it will be so interesting to hear them talk! To tell how they
feel, and what they think of things!

We should look for original and piquant views of everything and everybody. If they should appeal
to Nature's Standard, and pronounce Mr. PUNCHINELLO the handsomest man in New York, who could
wonder? They would simply confirm the opinions of connoisseurs.

We hope they will give us a call as soon as "formed." Give us but the opportunity, and we promise
to make something of these unsophisticated "persons." If we can but succeed in impressing on
their plastic young minds the principles which have hitherto guided us in our own glorious
path, we shall have no idle fears of their future. They will be all right from the start. Just
as the twig is bent, or rather straightened, the high old tree has got to shoot up.

We look with interest for news of this unique formation.

       *       *       *       *       *

Rebottling his Wrath.

  BOTTLED BUTLER talks fierce against poor JOHN BULL,
    All the British he'd kill at one slap,
  With their bones Bully BEN a canal would fill full--
    The one that he dug at Dutch Gap.

       *       *       *       *       *

Con by a Switch-tender.

Why is a railway accident like a dandy? Because it's death on the Ties.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

HIRAM GREEN'S FASHION REPORT.

The only Strictly Reliable Report on the Market.

A full-dressed girl of the Period, as she sails out for an afternoon airin, looks like somethin
as I imagine the north pole would, with a 1/2 dozen rainbows rapt about it. She is a sorter
of a flag-staff, from whose perpendicularity the ensines of all nations blows and flaps, and
any man base enuff to haul down one solitary flag will be shot on the spot. A far dixy. Tellin
the thing jest as it is, there's more flummy-diddles and mushroon attachments to a woman's
toggery nowadays than there is honest men in Wall street.

Durin the past season, overskirts and p-an-ears have been looped up, makin the fair secks look
as if she was gettin her garments in trim to leep over some frog-pond.

The only change in overskirts now, is that they have been let down a few pegs, giving the fair
wearer an appearance of havin landed safe on tother side of the Pollywog Asilum, which she
has been all summer waitin to jump over.

LONG TRAILLIN DRESSES are agin comin into fashin, to the great detriment of the legitimate
okerpashon of street-sweepin.

I understand that MARK TWAIN endorses long traillin skirts, and compels his new infant to wear
'em. How schockin!

JET TRIMMINS are agin to have a run. The United States Sennit will probably Read in a few black
orniments this winter.

SHAWL SOOTS are a pooty gay harniss, nowadays, to sling on. To make one, get an old shawl,
ram your head through the middle of it, then draw it snug about the waist, with a cast-off
nitecap string.

Yaller and red are becoming cullers for a broonet, says Harper's bazar. The 15th amendment
ladies will please take notiss and cultivate yaller hair and red noses in the futer.

RED GLOVES are much worn, makin the fashinable bell's hands look like a washer-woman's thumb
on a frosty mornin.

Some pooty desines have appeared in EAR RINGS, but the desines of a sertin strong-minded click
of femails to ring the ears of their lords and masters hain't endorsed in this ere report.

HAIR-DRESSIN.

The more frizzled and stirred up a ladey's hair appears nowadays, the hire she stands in the
eyes of the Bon tung. A waterfall which will go into a store door without the wearer stoopin
over, hain't considered of suffishent altitood for a fashinable got-up femme de sham to tug around.

Thrashin masheens are now used to get just the rite angle on the hair.

The head is inserted in the masheen, which proceeds to give the copiliary attraction a wuss
shampoonin than can be got in a Rale Rode smash up.

Where thrashin masheens hain't to be had, young gals sprinkle the hair with corn-meel, and
then let the chickens scratch it out. This gets up a snarl which a Filadephy lawyer can't ontangle.

Chauced bolony sassiges are fashinable danglin from a ladey's back hair.

These are often worn dubble barrelled, remindin us of a yoke of oxen--takin a waggin view of it.

MEN'S HARNISS.

Trowsers are very narrer contracted about the walkin pins.

The only way a feller can get his calves into his bifurkates, is to fill his butes with milk
and coax 'em through.

N.B.--The readers of this report musen't misunderstand me, and undertake to crawl head first
through their garments, for I assure him or her, that I refer to the calves of their perambulaters.

Cotes are worn short waisted, short in the skirts, and short in the sleeves. I have known them
short in the pocket, when the taler sent in his bill.

Neckties are worn large, what would usually be alowed for a silk dress is required now for
a fashenable scarf.

With the 2 long ends, which hangs danglin down over a feller's buzzum, it doesent make a bit
of difference if he wears a ragged shirt, dirty shirt, or no shirt at all.

Charity covers a multitood of sins, I'm told, and so does the new stile of scarfs cover a heep
of dirt and old rags.

The new stile of silk hats, worn by a femail heart destroyer, is big enuff to hitch up dubble,
with the shoo, in which the old lady and her children "hung out."

Altho the wimmen fokes have got off the steel trimmims, I notiss the Internal Revenoo Offisers
are continerly gettin in stealin trim.

This strictly reliable report will be isshood as often as the undersined gets any new cloze.

Any person wishin to know how to dress, can obtain the required informashen by sendin a ten
cent shinny to PUNCHINELLO Pub. Co.

A well-drest man is the noblest work of his taler, likewise is a full-rigged woman the noblest
work of her taleress.

Which is the opinion of the compiler of this work.

Stilishly Ewers,

HIRAM GREEN, ESQ.,

Lait Gustise of the Peece.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE DREAM OF A DINER-OUT.

  But yesterday night I dreamed a dream--
    I forget what I'd dined on, really,--
  'Twas something heavy, and then I'd read
    "What I Know of Farming," by GREELEY.

  Many and strange were the sights I saw
    As I turned on my restless pillow,
  BISMARCK and BLUCHER pitching cents
    For beer, 'neath a weeping willow.

  JULIUS CAESAR was turning up trumps
    In a nice little game at euchre,
  With a Chinese coolie, GEORGE FRANCIS TRAIN,
    SATAN, and old JOE HOOKER.

  EARL RUSSELL the small, to make himself tall,
    Close by on his dignity stood,
  While LITTLE JOHN sang the "Song of the Shirt"
    'Till I thought he was ROBBIN' HOOD!

  BRUTUS was taking a "whiskey straight,"
    Which I didn't think orthodox;
  While GRANT, with his usual zeal for sport,
    Seemed busy with fighting Cox!

  But I woke at last with a boisterous laugh
    From a dream that was simply ridiculous,
  For I knew (so did you) it couldn't be true
    That France had succumbed to St. NICHOLAS.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

POEMS OF THE CRADLE.

CANTO XIV.

At last there came a day when the husband was of no consequence in his own house. When numerous
female visitors frowned upon and snubbed him. When his mother-in-law glared at him and entreated
him despitefully if he ventured into her august and fearful presence; and even that wonderful
and mysterious person, the hired nurse, unfeelingly ordered him out of the house, and bade
him "begone about his business." The miserable and conscience-stricken wretch wandered disconsolately
from room to room, only to meet with fresh humiliation and contumely, and at last, in sheer
despair, betook himself off to a lonely and gloomsome spot in the dark wood, and there, in
penitent humility, bewailed his misfortune in being that miserably and insignificant nonentity--a
man.

Sorrowfully resting his head upon his hands, his eyes fixed upon the ground, his whole soul
absorbed in self-reproach, he passes the long hours in gloomy abstraction, wishing, he hardly
knew what, only that he was not, what he unfortunately happened to be at that moment, a man
despised of women and hated by his mother-in-law. His sorrowful musings were broken in upon
by his one faithful friend, the gentle companion of many a quiet hour, his affectionate and
devoted pet, his beloved cat. Gently rubbing her head against his penitent knee, she awakens
the absorbed poet to a realization of her presence, and to a feeling of pleasure that he is
not deserted by all, but has one heart left that beats for him alone.

Fondly taking his feline friend in his arms, he softly strokes her back, and gazes lovingly
into the soft green eyes that look responsively into his, and rebukes her not when, in impulsive
love, she rubs her cold nose against his burning cheek, and wipes her eyes upon his frail moustache.

Night draws on apace. The dew begins to fall; the pangs of hunger to manifest themselves; and
hesitatingly and timidly he and his cat turn their footsteps homeward. Loiter as he will, each
moment brings him nearer to that abode where once he thought himself master; but to his astonishment
he now finds himself an outcast and a reproach.

Slowly and quietly he creeps around to the back kitchen door, his cat held tightly in his arms,
stealthily enters, and meekly drops into a chair, the image of a self-convicted burglar.

Presently he hears a sound of smothered laughter, a quick, light step, and mother-in-law and
nurse enter, full of importance, and unnaturally friendly with each other. The unhappy man
silently tries to shrink into nothingness, and thus escape being again driven out of doors;
but the Argus eyes peer into the dark corner, and his intentions are frustrated.

Tremblingly he steps forth, into the light, prepared to meekly obey the harsh command, when,
to his great surprise, his fearful mother-in-law smiles benignly upon him, and with a knowing
look and gracious beckoning with the forefinger, bids him follow.

He follows, dizzy with the unlooked-for reception, and, in a bewildered state, is ushered into
that sanctum of privacy from which he has been ignominiously debarred all day--his wife's room.

The revulsion of feeling was too much for the poor man. His head began to whirl, and his eyes
were blinded. He had a faint perception of his wife speaking to him, and of his being shown
something, he didn't know what; of being told to do something, he didn't know what; and standing
dazed and helpless until forcibly led from the room, and bidden to "go get his supper and not
act like a fool."

The familiar expression and natural manner completely restored his wavering consciousness,
and he knowingly made his way to the kitchen and vigorously attacked a largo pork-pie, which
he gloriously conquered and felt all the pride of a hero.

The next day, having regained in a measure his usual self-control, he was allowed once more,
in consideration of the position he held in the family, to enter that sanctum sanctorum, and
gaze upon its inmates. His acute mother-in-law, having extracted a promise of absence for the
day, on condition of being allowed to look at his own child a moment, carefully deposits in
his trembling hands a small woollen bundle with a tiny speck of a face peering therefrom.

Indescribable emotions rushed through his frame at the first touch of that soft warm roll of
flannel, and a torrent of tumultuous joy bubbled up in his heart when he had so far mastered
his emotions as to be able to touch with one nervous finger the little soft red cheek, lying
so peacefully in his arms. The tiny hands doubled up, so brave looking yet so helpless now,
giving promise of the future, brought tears of joy and pride to his eyes, and stooping over
the wondrous future man, he pressed a kiss upon its unconscious face.

That kiss awoke the sleeping muse within him. Blissful visions of the future, and ambitious
feelings for the present, started into being. His first thought was to do something to please
the potent little fellow; but happening to glance at his "everlasting terror," he remembered
his promise.

One more kiss, and with a little sigh he lays the precious burden down, and departs to spend
the day in the woods, according to promise, so as not to be bothering around under foot, and
getting in everybody's way when he ain't wanted.

As he cannot entirely control circumstances, he is determined to make the best of them, and
he mentally blesses the happy thought, or rather inspiration, that suggested the soft rabbit
skin as a bed for the baby, and resolves that it alone shall be the object of his day's search.

       *       *       *       *       *

POLISHING THE POLICE.

Doubtless there is much room for improvement in the deportment and speech of our very efficient
Municipal Police. Citizens have frequently to apply to them for information, and it sometimes
happens that the answer is couched in language that may be Polish, so far as the querist knows,
though, in fact, there is no polish about it. It is more likely to be COPTIC, as the policeman
of the period likes to call himself a "COP." If there is a street sensation in progress, and
you ask a contemplative policeman the cause of it, matters are not made perfectly clear to
you when he replies that it is "only a put-up job to screen a fence" or words to that affect.
If you ask him to explain things more fully he will probably say, "Shoo! fly," or "you know
how it is yourself," or recommend you to "scratch gravel." Such expressions as these are very
embarrassing to strangers, and even to citizens whose pathways have not led them through the
brambly tracts of police philology.

In view of these facts, the public have reason to be thankful to Justice DOWLING for the reproof
administered by him, a few days since, to a policeman who made use of slang in addressing the
bench. The reprehended officer of the law spoke about a prisoner being "turned over," when
he should have said "discharged." This gave Mr. DOWLING occasion to pass some severe remarks
with regard to the use of slang terms generally, by policemen, and to caution them against
addressing persons in any such jargon. The lesson was a timely one, and we hope that it may
prove effective, since we frequently hear perplexed inquirers complaining that their education
has been neglected so far as slang is concerned, and lamenting that, when young, they had not
devoted themselves rather to the study of the Thieves' Dictionary than to that of the polite
but comparatively useless treatises on their native tongue.

       *       *       *       *       *

THREE LETTERS.

I was persuaded to send my son to Dr. STUFFEM'S boarding-school, in "the salubrious village
of Whelpville" (I quote from the Doctor's circular), "where the moral training of the pupils
is under the parental supervision of the Principal." Since the arrival of Master THEOPHILUS,
I have just received weekly reports of his progress on printed forms, and I presume it is satisfactory,
although I do not precisely understand these weekly missives, which are only a complex arrangement
of figures. To-day, however, I am favored with three letters which came in a bulky envelope,
and I append them, in the order of their perusal by myself. The first seems to be written by
a schoolmate of my son's, and was probably placed in the envelope inadvertently by THEOPHILUS.
I do not venture to make any alteration in the orthography of the first and second epistles,
as I do not know what dictionary may be authoritative in Whelpville.

"Deer Thee its rainin like blaises and I cant get out since I came heer Ive had bully times
and I hope Ill keep sik a good wile our doctur lets me eat donuts but sez I musnt play out
in the rain wen its rainin farther told me Id beter rite to sum of my scholmaids and giv me
this hole sheet of paper maibe Id get a leter rote before dinner but I cant tell you mutch
wile its rainin Thee git sik and you can come heer to git wel our doctur is bully I havent
took no stuf but sitrate of magneeshia and I don't mind that litel Billy Sims wot lives down
by the postofis has got meesils and you can ketch them from him if he arnt ded and then old
Stuffy can rite to your farther to let you come here and tel him weve got a bully doctor Thee
if Billy Sims is ded or got wel you mite ketch somthin ells and its prime heer farthers got
a gun and I no where the pouder is bring some pecushin caps with you Thee or well hav to tuch
her off with a cole if old Beeswax wont let you come you mite send me some caps in a leter
don't mash em Thee doctur sais I wil be wel in about a munth if I don't ketch cold but I can
easy fall in the pond before the munth is out Thee its hoopincof time and you can easy ketch
that you only hav to hold yur breth til you most bust our doctur is bully for hoopincof.

"Thee weve got a barn and theres lots of ha on 2 high plaises were we can clime up there arnt
no steps nor lader and we hav to clime up poles its bully Thee theres four cats heer and one
lets me nuss her the others is all wild and run under the barn we can hunt them wild ones Ive
got 2 long poles to poke under the barn but I wont hunt the cats till you come. I get lots
of aigs up on the ha when it arnt rainin I got four yesterda and sukt 2 and took 2 to mother
the 2 I sukt was elegant but one of mothers had a litel chiking in it.

"Thee you hav to come heer on the ralerode farther brot me but yore farther needent bring you
there arnt no plais for him to sleep but you can sleep with me theres a boy sels candy in the
cars and theres penuts on a stand in the deepoe 5 sents gits a pocketful the candy is nasty
but its in purty boxes its ten sents theres a old wommen keeps the penut stand but shes got
a litel gurl and the gurl gives you most for 5 sents don't let the old wommen wate on you but
just ask the prise and then sa sis give us 5 sents worth shes awful spry wen you git the penuts
just come out of the big dore of the deepoe and keep strait down the rode til you come to our
house you can tel it by the 4 cats if they arnt under the barn but you can ask somebody ware
farther lives his name is Mister Gillander but these fools that lives about hear cal him Mr.
Glander.

"Thee do come dinners reddy

"Yores afectionate DICK GILLANDER"

