"O! your honour may be assured he will be back in a quarter of an hour," said Dame Nelly; "he
is not the lad to stay out twenty-four hours at a stretch. And for the papers, I am sure your
honour will pardon him for just giving me a peep at the corner, as I was giving him a small
cup, not so large as my thimble, of distilled waters, to fortify his stomach against the damps,
and it was directed to the King's Most Excellent Majesty; and so doubtless his Majesty has
kept Richie out of civility to consider of your honour's letter, and send back a fitting reply."

Dame Nelly here hit by chance on a more available topic of consolation
than those she had hitherto touched upon; for the youthful lord had
himself some vague hopes that his messenger might have been delayed at
Court until a fitting and favourable answer should be dispatched back
to him. Inexperienced, however, in public affairs as he certainly was,
it required only a moment's consideration to convince him of the
improbability of an expectation so contrary to all he had heard of
etiquette, as well as the dilatory proceedings in a
 court suit, and he answered the good-natured hostess with a sigh,
that he doubted whether the king would even look on the paper
addressed to him, far less take it into his immediate consideration.

"Now, out upon you for a faint-hearted gentleman!" said the good dame; "and why should he not
do as much for us as our gracious Queen Elizabeth? Many people say this and that about a queen
and a king, but I think a king comes more natural to us English folks; and this good gentleman
goes as often down by water to Greenwich, and employs as many of the barge-men and water-men
of all kinds; and maintains, in his royal grace, John Taylor, the water-poet, who keeps both
a sculler and a pair of oars. And he has made a comely Court at Whitehall, just by the river;
and since the king is so good a friend to the Thames, I cannot see, if it please your honour,
why all his subjects, and your honour in specialty, should not have satisfaction by his hands."

"True, dame--true,--let us hope for the best; but I must take my cloak and rapier, and pray
your husband in courtesy to teach me the way to a magistrate."

"Sure, sir," said the prompt dame, "I can do that as well as he, who has been a slow man of
his tongue all his life, though I will give him his due for being a loving husband, and a man
as well to pass in the world as any betwixt us and the top of the lane. And so there is the
sitting alderman, that is always at the Guildhall, which is close by Paul's, and so I warrant
you he puts all to rights in the city that wisdom can mend; and for the rest there is no help
but patience. But I wish I were as sure of forty pounds as I am that the young man will come
back safe and sound."

Olifaunt, in great and anxious doubt of what the good dame so strongly averred, flung his cloak
on one shoulder, and was about to belt on his rapier, when first the voice of Richie Moniplies
on the stair, and then that faithful emissary's appearance in the chamber, put the matter beyond
question. Dame Nelly, after congratulating Moniplies on his return, and paying several compliments
to her own sagacity for having foretold it, was at length pleased to leave the apartment. The
truth was, that, besides some instinctive feelings of good breeding which combated her curiosity,
she saw there was no chance of Richie's proceeding in his narrative while she was in the room,
and she therefore retreated, trusting that her own address would get the secret out of one
or other of the young men, when she should have either by himself.

"Now, in Heaven's name, what is the matter?" said Nigel Olifaunt.-- "Where have you been, or
what have you been about? You look as pale as death. There is blood on your hand, and your
clothes are torn. What barns-breaking have you been at? You have been drunk, Richard, and fighting."

"Fighting I have been," said Richard, "in a small way; but for being drunk, that's a job ill
to manage in this town, without money to come by liquor; and as for barns-breaking, the deil
a thing's broken but my head. It's not made of iron, I wot, nor my claithes of chenzie-mail;
so a club smashed the tane, and a claught damaged the tither. Some misleard rascals abused
my country, but I think I cleared the causey of them. However, the haill hive was ower mony
for me at last, and I got this eclipse on the crown, and then I was carried, beyond my kenning,
to a sma' booth at the Temple Port, whare they sell the whirligigs and mony-go-rounds that
measure out time as a man wad measure a tartan web; and then they bled me, wold I nold I, and
were reasonably civil, especially an auld country-man of ours, of whom more hereafter."

"And at what o'clock might this be?" said Nigel.

"The twa iron carles yonder, at the kirk beside the Port, were just banging out sax o' the clock."

"And why came you not home as soon as you recovered?" said Nigel.

"In troth, my lord, every why has its wherefore, and this has a gude ane," answered his follower.
"To come hame, I behoved to ken whare hame was; now, I had clean tint the name of the wynd,
and the mair I asked, the mair the folk leugh, and the farther they sent me wrang; sae I gave
it up till God should send daylight to help me; and as I saw mysell near a kirk at the lang
run, I e'en crap in to take up my night's quarters in the kirkyard."

"In the churchyard?" said Nigel--"But I need not ask what drove you to such a pinch."

"It wasna sae much the want o' siller, my Lord Nigel," said Richie, with an air of mysterious
importance, "for I was no sae absolute without means, of whilk mair anon; but I thought I wad
never ware a saxpence sterling on ane of their saucy chamberlains at a hostelry, sae lang as
I could sleep fresh and fine in a fair, dry, spring night. Mony a time, when I hae come hame
ower late, and faund the West-Port steekit, and the waiter ill-willy, I have garr'd the sexton
of Saint Cuthbert's calf-ward serve me for my quarters. But then there are dainty green graffs
in Saint Cuthbert's kirkyard, whare ane may sleep as if they were in a down-bed, till they
hear the lavrock singing up in the air as high as the Castle; whereas, and behold, these London
kirkyards are causeyed with through-stanes, panged hard and fast thegither; and my cloak being
something threadbare, made but a thin mattress, so I was fain to give up my bed before every
limb about me was crippled. Dead folks may sleep yonder sound enow, but deil haet else."

"And what became of you next?" said his master.

"I just took to a canny bulkhead, as they ca' them here; that is, the boards on the tap of
their bits of outshots of stalls and booths, and there I sleepit as sound as if I was in a
castle. Not but I was disturbed with some of the night-walking queans and swaggering billies,
but when they found there was nothing to be got by me but a slash of my Andrew Ferrara, they
bid me good-night for a beggarly Scot; and I was e'en weel pleased to be sae cheap rid of them.
And in the morning, I cam daikering here, but sad wark I had to find the way, for I had been
east as far as the place they ca' Mile-End, though it is mair like sax-mile-end."

"Well, Richie," answered Nigel, "I am glad all this has ended so well --go get something to
eat. I am sure you need it."

"In troth do I, sir," replied Moniplies; "but, with your lordship's leave--"

"Forget the lordship for the present, Richie, as I have often told you before."

"Faith," replied Richie, "I could weel forget that your honour was a lord, but then I behoved
to forget that I am a lord's man, and that's not so easy. But, however," he added, assisting
his description with the thumb and the two forefingers of his right hand, thrust out after
the fashion of a bird's claw, while the little finger and ring-finger were closed upon the
palm, "to the Court I went, and my friend that promised me a sight of his Majesty's most gracious
presence, was as gude as his word, and carried me into the back offices, where I got the best
breakfast I have had since we came here, and it did me gude for the rest of the day; for as
to what I have eaten in this accursed town, it is aye sauced with the disquieting thought that
it maun be paid for. After a', there was but beef banes and fat brose; but king's cauff, your
honour kens, is better than ither folk's corn; at ony rate, it was a' in free awmous.--But
I see," he added, stopping short, "that your honour waxes impatient."

"By no means, Richie," said the young nobleman, with an air of resignation, for he well knew
his domestic would not mend his pace for goading; "you have suffered enough in the embassy
to have a right to tell the story in your own way. Only let me pray for the name of the friend
who was to introduce you into the king's presence. You were very mysterious on the subject,
when you undertook, through his means, to have the Supplication put into his Majesty's own
hands, since those sent heretofore, I have every reason to think, went no farther than his
secretary's."

"Weel, my lord," said Richie, "I did not tell you his name and quality at first, because I
thought you would be affronted at the like of him having to do in your lordship's affairs.
But mony a man climbs up in Court by waur help. It was just Laurie Linklater, one of the yeomen
of the kitchen, that was my father's apprentice lang syne."

"A yeoman in the kitchen--a scullion!" exclaimed Lord Nigel, pacing the room in displeasure.

"But consider, sir," said Richie, composedly, "that a' your great friends hung back, and shunned
to own you, or to advocate your petition; and then, though I am sure I wish Laurie a higher
office, for your lordship's sake and for mine, and specially for his ain sake, being a friendly
lad, yet your lordship must consider, that a scullion, if a yeoman of the king's most royal
kitchen may be called a scullion, may weel rank with a master-cook elsewhere; being that king's
cauff, as I said before, is better than--"

"You are right, and I was wrong," said the young nobleman. "I have no choice of means of making
my case known, so that they be honest."

"Laurie is as honest a lad as ever lifted a ladle," said Richie; "not but what I dare to say
he can lick his fingers like other folk, and reason good. But, in fine, for I see your honour
is waxing impatient, he brought me to the palace, where a' was astir for the king going out
to hunt or hawk on Blackheath, I think they ca'd it. And there was a horse stood with all the
quarries about it, a bonny grey as ever was foaled; and the saddle and the stirrups, and the
curb and bit, o' burning gowd, or silver gilded at least; and down, sir, came the king, with
all his nobles, dressed out in his hunting-suit of green, doubly laced, and laid down with
gowd. I minded the very face o' him, though it was lang since I saw him. But my certie, lad,
thought I, times are changed since ye came fleeing down the back stairs of auld Holyrood House,
in grit fear, having your breeks in your hand without time to put them on, and Frank Stewart,
the wild Earl of Bothwell, hard at your haunches; and if auld Lord Glenvarloch hadna cast his
mantle about his arm, and taken bluidy wounds mair than ane in your behalf, you wald not have
craw'd sae crouse this day; and so saying, I could not but think your lordship's Sifflication
could not be less than most acceptable; and so I banged in among the crowd of lords. Laurie
thought me mad, and held me by the cloak-lap till the cloth rave in his hand; and so I banged
in right before the king just as he mounted, and crammed the Sifflication into his hand, and
he opened it like in amaze; and just as he saw the first line, I was minded to make a reverence,
and I had the ill luck to hit his jaud o' a beast on the nose with my hat, and scaur the creature,
and she swarved aside, and the king, that sits na mickle better than a draff-pock on the saddle,
was like to have gotten a clean coup, and that might have cost my craig a raxing-and he flung
down the paper amang the beast's feet, and cried, 'Away wi' the fause loon that brought it!'
And they grippit me, and cried treason; and I thought of the Ruthvens that were dirked in their
ain house, for, it may be, as small a forfeit. However, they spak only of scourging me, and
had me away to the porter's lodge to try the tawse on my back, and I was crying mercy as loud
as I could; and the king, when he had righted himself on the saddle, and gathered his breath,
cried to do me nae harm; for, said he, he is ane of our ain Norland stots, I ken by the rowt
of him,--and they a' laughed and rowted loud eneugh. And then he said, 'Gie him a copy of the
Proclamation, and let him go down to the North by the next light collier, before waur come
o't.' So they let me go, and rode out, a sniggering, laughing, and rounding in ilk ither's
lugs. A sair life I had wi' Laurie Linklater; for he said it wad be the ruin of him. And then,
when I told him it was in your matter, he said if he had known before he would have risked
a scauding for you, because he minded the brave old lord, your father. And then he showed how
I suld have done, --and that I suld have held up my hand to my brow, as if the grandeur of
the king and his horse-graith thegither had casten the glaiks in my een, and mair jackanape
tricks I suld hae played, instead of offering the Sifflication, he said, as if I had been bringing
guts to a bear. [Footnote: I am certain this prudential advice is not original on Mr. Linklater's
part, but I am not at present able to produce my authority. I think it amounted to this, that
James flung down a petition presented by some supplicant who paid no compliments to his horse,
and expressed no admiration at the splendour of his furniture, saying, "Shall a king cumber
himself about the petition of a beggar, while the beggar disregards the king's splendour?"
It is, I think, Sir John Harrington who recommends, as a sure mode to the king's favour, to
praise the paces of the royal palfrey.]

'For,' said he, 'Richie, the king is a weel-natured and just man of his ain kindly nature,
but he has a wheen maggots that maun be cannily guided; and then, Richie,' says he, in a very
laigh tone, 'I would tell it to nane but a wise man like yoursell, but the king has them about
him wad corrupt an angel from heaven; but I could have gi'en you avisement how to have guided
him, but now it's like after meat mustard.'--'Aweel, aweel, Laurie,' said I, 'it may be as
you say', but since I am clear of the tawse and the porter's lodge, sifflicate wha like, deil
hae Richie Moniplies if he come sifflicating here again.'-- And so away I came, and I wasna
far by the Temple Port, or Bar, or whatever they ca' it, when I met with the misadventure that
I tauld you of before."

"Well, my honest Richie," said Lord Nigel, "your attempt was well meant, and not so ill conducted,
I think, as to have deserved so bad an issue; but go to your beef and mustard, and we'll talk
of the rest afterwards."

"There is nae mair to be spoken, sir," said his follower, "except that I met ane very honest,
fair-spoken, weel-put-on gentleman, or rather burgher, as I think, that was in the whigmaleery
man's back-shop; and when he learned wha I was, behold he was a kindly Scot himsell, and, what
is more, a town's-bairn o' the gude town, and he behoved to compel me to take this Portugal
piece, to drink, forsooth--my certie, thought I, we ken better, for we will eat it--and he
spoke of paying your lordship a visit."

"You did not tell him where I lived, you knave?" said the Lord Nigel, angrily. "'Sdeath! I
shall have every clownish burgher from Edinburgh come to gaze on my distress, and pay a shilling
for having seen the motion of the Poor Noble!"

"Tell him where you lived?" said Richie, evading the question; "How could I tell him what I
kendna mysell? If I had minded the name of the wynd, I need not have slept in the kirkyard
yestreen."

"See, then, that you give no one notice of our lodging," said the young nobleman; "those with
whom I have business I can meet at Paul's, or in the Court of Requests."

"This is steeking the stable-door when the steed is stolen," thought Richie to himself; "but
I must put him on another pin."

So thinking, he asked the young lord what was in the Proclamation which he still held folded
in his hand; "for, having little time to spell at it," said he, "your lordship well knows I
ken nought about it but the grand blazon at the tap--the lion has gotten a claught of our auld
Scottish shield now, but it was as weel upheld when it had a unicorn on ilk side of it."

Lord Nigel read the Proclamation, and he coloured deep with shame and indignation as he read;
for the purport was, to his injured feelings, like the pouring of ardent spirits upon a recent
wound.

"What deil's in the paper, my lord?" said Richie, unable to suppress his curiosity as he observed
his master change colour; "I wadna ask such a thing, only the Proclamation is not a private
thing, but is meant for a' men's hearing."

"It is indeed meant for all men's hearing," replied Lord Nigel, "and it proclaims the shame
of our country, and the ingratitude of our Prince."

"Now the Lord preserve us! and to publish it in London, too!" ejaculated Moniplies.

"Hark ye, Richard," said Nigel Olifaunt, "in this paper the Lords of the Council set forth,
that, 'in consideration of the resort of idle persons of low condition forth from his Majesty's
kingdom of Scotland to his English Court--filling the same with their suits and supplications,
and dishonouring the royal presence with their base, poor, and beggarly persons, to the disgrace
of their country in the estimation of the English; these are to prohibit the skippers, masters
of vessels and others, in every part of Scotland, from bringing such miserable creatures up
to Court under pain of fine and impisonment."'

"I marle the skipper took us on board," said Richie.

"Then you need not marvel how you are to get back again," said Lord Nigel, "for here is a clause
which says, that such idle suitors are to be transported back to Scotland at his Majesty's
expense, and punished for their audacity with stripes, stocking, or incarceration, according
to their demerits--that is to say, I suppose, according to the degree of their poverty, for
I see no other demerit specified."

"This will scarcely," said Richie, "square with our old proverb--

     A King's face
     Should give grace--

But what says the paper farther, my lord?"

"O, only a small clause which especially concerns us, making some still heavier denunciations
against those suitors who shall be so bold as to approach the Court, under pretext of seeking
payment of old debts due to them by the king, which, the paper states, is, of all species of
importunity, that which is most odious to his Majesty."

"The king has neighbours in that matter," said Richie; "but it is not every one that can shift
off that sort of cattle so easily as he does."

Their conversation was here interrupted by a knocking at the door. Olifaunt looked out at the
window, and saw an elderly respectable person whom he knew not. Richie also peeped, and recognised,
but, recognising, chose not to acknowledge, his friend of the preceding evening. Afraid that
his share in the visit might be detected, he made his escape out of the apartment under pretext
of going to his breakfast; and left their landlady the task of ushering Master George into
Lord Nigel's apartment, which she performed with much courtesy.

CHAPTER IV

  Ay, sir, the clouted shoe hath oft times craft in't,
  As says the rustic proverb; and your citizen,
  In's grogram suit, gold chain, and well-black'd shoes,
  Bears under his flat cap ofttimes a brain
  Wiser than burns beneath the cap and feather,
  Or seethes within the statesman's velvet nightcap.
                               Read me my Riddle.

The young Scottish nobleman received the citizen with distant politeness, expressing that sort
of reserve by which those of the higher ranks are sometimes willing to make a plebeian sensible
that he is an intruder. But Master George seemed neither displeased nor disconcerted. He assumed
the chair, which, in deference to his respectable appearance, Lord Nigel offered to him, and
said, after a moment's pause, during which he had looked attentively at the young man, with
respect not unmingled with emotion--"You will forgive me for this rudeness, my lord; but I
was endeavouring to trace in your youthful countenance the features of my good old lord, your
excellent father."

There was a moment's pause ere young Glenvarloch replied, still with a reserved manner,--"I
have been reckoned like my father, sir; and am happy to see any one that respects his memory.
But the business which calls me to this city is of a hasty as well as a private nature, and--"

"I understand the hint, my lord," said Master George, "and would not be guilty of long detaining
you from business, or more agreeable conversation. My errand is almost done when I have said
that my name is George Heriot, warmly befriended, and introduced into the employment of the
Royal Family of Scotland, more than twenty years since, by your excellent father; and that,
learning from a follower of yours that your lordship was in this city in prosecution of some
business of importance, it is my duty,--it is my pleasure,--to wait on the son of my respected
patron; and, as I am somewhat known both at the Court, and in the city, to offer him such aid
in the furthering of his affairs as my credit and experience may be able to afford."

"I have no doubt of either, Master Heriot," said Lord Nigel, "and I thank you heartily for
the good-will with which you have placed them at a stranger's disposal; but my business at
Court is done and ended, and I intend to leave London and, indeed, the island, for foreign
travel and military service. I may add, that the suddenness of my departure occasions my having
little time at my disposal."

Master Heriot did not take the hint, but sat fast, with an embarrassed countenance however,
like one who had something to say that he knew not exactly how to make effectual. At length
he said, with a dubious smile, "You are fortunate, my lord, in having so soon dispatched your
business at Court. Your talking landlady informs me you have been but a fortnight in this city.
It is usually months and years ere the Court and a suitor shake hands and part."

"My business," said Lord Nigel, with a brevity which was intended to stop further discussion,
"was summarily dispatched."

Still Master Heriot remained seated, and there was a cordial good- humour added to the reverence
of his appearance, which rendered it impossible for Lord Nigel to be more explicit in requesting
his absence.

"Your lordship has not yet had time," said the citizen, still attempting to sustain the conversation,
"to visit the places of amusement,--the playhouses, and other places to which youth resort.
But I see in your lordship's hand one of the new-invented plots of the piece, [Footnote: Meaning,
probably, playbills.] which they hand about of late--May I ask what play?"

"Oh! a well-known piece," said Lord Nigel, impatiently throwing down the Proclamation, which
he had hitherto been twisting to and fro in his hand,--"an excellent and well-approved piece--A
New Way to Pay Old Debts."

Master Heriot stooped down, saying, "Ah! my old acquaintance, Philip Massinger;" but, having
opened the paper and seen the purport, he looked at Lord Nigel with surprise, saying, "I trust
your lordship does not think this prohibition can extend either to your person or your claims?"
"I should scarce have thought so myself," said the young nobleman; "but so it proves. His Majesty,
to close this discourse at once, has been pleased to send me this Proclamation, in answer to
a respectful Supplication for the repayment of large loans advanced by my father for the service
of the State, in the king's utmost emergencies."

"It is impossible!" said the citizen--"it is absolutely impossible!--
If the king could forget what was due to your father's memory, still
he would not have wished--would not, I may say, have dared--to be so
flagrantly unjust to the memory of such a man as your father, who,
dead in the body, will long live in the memory of the Scottish
people." "I should have been of your opinion," answered Lord
 Nigel, in the same tone as before; "but there is no fighting with
facts."

"What was the tenor of this Supplication?" said Heriot; "or by whom was it presented? Something
strange there must have been in the contents, or else--"

"You may see my original draught," said the young lord, taking it out of a small travelling
strong-box; "the technical part is by my lawyer in Scotland, a skilful and sensible man; the
rest is my own, drawn, I hope, with due deference and modesty."

Master Heriot hastly cast his eye over the draught. "Nothing," he said, "can be more well-tempered
and respectful. Is it possible the king can have treated this petition with contempt?"

"He threw it down on the pavement," said the Lord of Glenvarloch, "and sent me for answer that
Proclamation, in which he classes me with the paupers and mendicants from Scotland, who disgrace
his Court in the eyes of the proud English--that is all. Had not my father stood by him with
heart, sword, and fortune, he might never have seen the Court of England himself."

"But by whom was this Supplication presented, my lord?" said Heriot; "for the distaste taken
at the messenger will sometimes extend itself to the message."

"By my servant," said the Lord Nigel; "by the man you saw, and, I think, were kind to."

"By your servant, my lord?" said the citizen; "he seems a shrewd fellow, and doubtless a faithful;
but surely--"

"You would say," said Lord Nigel, "he is no fit messenger to a king's presence?--Surely he
is not; but what could I do? Every attempt I had made to lay my case before the king had miscarried,
and my petitions got no farther than the budgets of clerks and secretaries; this fellow pretended
he had a friend in the household that would bring him to the king's presence,--and so--"

"I understand," said Heriot; "but, my lord, why should you not, in right of your rank and birth,
have appeared at Court, and required an audience, which could not have been denied to you?"

The young lord blushed a little, and looked at his dress, which was very plain; and, though
in perfect good order, had the appearance of having seen service.

"I know not why I should be ashamed of speaking the truth," he said, after a momentary hesitation,--"I
had no dress suitable for appearing at Court. I am determined to incur no expenses which I
cannot discharge; and I think you, sir, would not advise me to stand at the palace-door, in
person, and deliver my petition, along with those who are in very deed pleading their necessity,
and begging an alms."

"That had been, indeed, unseemly," said the citizen; "but yet, my lord, my mind runs strangely
that there must be some mistake.--Can I speak with your domestic?"

"I see little good it can do," answered the young lord, "but the interest you take in my misfortunes
seems sincere, and therefore----" He stamped on the floor, and in a few seconds afterwards
Moniplies appeared, wiping from his beard and mustaches the crumbs of bread, and the froth
of the ale-pot, which plainly showed how he had been employed.--"Will your lordship grant permission,"
said Heriot, "that I ask your groom a few questions?" "His lordship's page, Master George,"
answered Moniplies, with a nod of acknowledgment, "if you are minded to speak according to
the letter."

"Hold your saucy tongue," said his master, "and reply distinctly to the questions you are to
be asked."

"And truly, if it like your pageship," said the citizen, "for you may remember I have a gift
to discover falset."

"Weel, weel, weel," replied the domestic, somewhat embarrassed, in spite of his effrontery--"though
I think that the sort of truth that serves my master, may weel serve ony ane else."

"Pages lie to their masters by right of custom," said the citizen; "and you write yourself
in that band, though I think you be among the oldest of such springalds; but to me you must
speak truth, if you would not have it end in the whipping-post."

"And that's e'en a bad resting-place," said the well-grown page; "so come away with your questions,
Master George."

"Well, then," demanded the citizen, "I am given to understand that you yesterday presented
to his Majesty's hand a Supplication, or petition, from this honourable lord, your master."

"Troth, there's nae gainsaying that, sir," replied Moniplies; "there were enow to see it besides
me."

"And you pretend that his Majesty flung it from him with contempt?" said the citizen. "Take
heed, for I have means of knowing the truth; and you were better up to the neck in the Nor-Loch,
which you like so well, than tell a leasing where his Majesty's name is concerned."

"There is nae occasion for leasing-making about the matter," answered Moniplies, firmly; "his
Majesty e'en flung it frae him as if it had dirtied his fingers."

"You hear, sir," said Olifaunt, addressing Heriot.

"Hush!" said the sagacious citizen; "this fellow is not ill named--he has more plies than one
in his cloak. Stay, fellow," for Moniplies, muttering somewhat about finishing his breakfast,
was beginning to shamble towards the door, "answer me this farther question--When you gave
your master's petition to his Majesty, gave you nothing with it?"

"Ou, what should I give wi' it, ye ken, Master George?"

"That is what I desire and insist to know," replied his interrogator.

"Weel, then--I am not free to say, that maybe I might not just slip into the king's hand a
wee bit Sifflication of mine ain, along with my lord's--just to save his Majesty trouble--and
that he might consider them baith at ance."

"A supplication of your own, you varlet!" said his master.

"Ou dear, ay, my lord," said Richie--"puir bodies hae their bits of sifflications as weel as
their betters."

"And pray, what might your worshipful petition import?" said Master Heriot.--"Nay, for Heaven's
sake, my lord, keep your patience, or we shall never learn the truth of this strange matter.--Speak
out, sirrah, and I will stand your friend with my lord."

"It's a lang story to tell--but the upshot is, that it's a scrape of an auld accompt due to
my father's yestate by her Majesty the king's maist gracious mother, when she lived in the
Castle, and had sundry providings and furnishings forth of our booth, whilk nae doubt was an
honour to my father to supply, and whilk, doubtless, it will be a credit to his Majesty to
satisfy, as it will be grit convenience to me to receive the saam."

"What string of impertinence is this?" said his master.

"Every word as true as e'er John Knox spoke," said Richie; "here's the bit double of the Sifflication."

Master George took a crumpled paper from the fellow's hand, and said, muttering betwixt his
teeth--"'Humbly showeth--um--um--his Majesty's maist gracious mother--um--um--justly addebted
and owing the sum of fifteen merks--the compt whereof followeth--Twelve nowte's feet for jellies--ane
lamb, being Christmas--ane roasted capin in grease for the privy chalmer, when my Lord of Bothwell
suppit with her Grace.'--I think, my lord, you can hardly be surprised that the king gave this
petition a brisk reception; and I conclude, Master Page, that you took care to present your
own Supplication before your master's?"

"Troth did I not," answered Moniplies. "I thought to have given my lord's first, as was reason
gude; and besides that, it wad have redd the gate for my ain little bill. But what wi' the
dirdum an' confusion, an' the loupin here and there of the skeigh brute of a horse, I believe
I crammed them baith into his hand cheek-by-jowl, and maybe my ain was bunemost; and say there
was aught wrang, I am sure I had a' the fright and a' the risk--"

"And shall have all the beating, you rascal knave," said Nigel; "am I to be insulted and dishonoured
by your pragmatical insolence, in blending your base concerns with mine?"

"Nay, nay, nay, my lord," said the good-humoured citizen, interposing, "I have been the means
of bringing the fellow's blunder to light-- allow me interest enough with your lordship to
be bail for his bones. You have cause to be angry, but still I think the knave mistook more
out of conceit than of purpose; and I judge you will have the better service of him another
time, if you overlook this fault--Get you gone, sirrah--I'll make your peace."

"Na, na," said Moniplies, keeping his ground firmly, "if he likes to strike a lad that has
followed him for pure love, for I think there has been little servant's fee between us, a'
the way frae Scotland, just let my lord be doing, and see the credit he will get by it--and
I would rather (mony thanks to you though, Master George) stand by a lick of his baton, than
it suld e'er be said a stranger came between us."

"Go, then," said his master, "and get out of my sight."

"Aweel I wot that is sune done," said Moniplies, retiring slowly; "I did not come without I
had been ca'd for--and I wad have been away half an hour since with my gude will, only Maister
George keepit me to answer his interrogation, forsooth, and that has made a' this stir."

And so he made his grumbling exit, with the tone much rather of one who has sustained an injury,
than who has done wrong.

"There never was a man so plagued as I am with a malapert knave!--The fellow is shrewd, and
I have found him faithful--I believe he loves me, too, and he has given proofs of it--but then
he is so uplifted in his own conceit, so self-willed, and so self-opinioned, that he seems
to become the master and I the man; and whatever blunder he commits, he is sure to make as
loud complaints, as if the whole error lay with me, and in no degree with himself."

"Cherish him, and maintain him, nevertheless," said the citizen; "for believe my grey hairs,
that affection and fidelity are now rarer qualities in a servitor, than when the world was
younger. Yet, trust him, my good lord, with no commission above his birth or breeding, for
you see yourself how it may chance to fall."

"It is but too evident, Master Heriot," said the young nobleman; "and I am sorry I have done
injustice to my sovereign, and your master. But I am, like a true Scotsman, wise behind hand--the
mistake has happened--my Supplication has been refused, and my only resource is to employ the
rest of my means to carry Moniplies and myself to some counter-scarp, and die in the battle-front
like my ancestors."

"It were better to live and serve your country like your noble father, my lord," replied Master
George. "Nay, nay, never look down or shake your head--the king has not refused your Supplication,
for he has not seen it--you ask but justice, and that his place obliges him to give to his
subjects--ay, my lord, and I will say that his natural temper doth in this hold bias with his
duty."

"I were well pleased to think so, and yet----" said Nigel Olifaunt,-- "I speak not of my own
wrongs, but my country hath many that are unredressed."

"My lord," said Master Heriot, "I speak of my royal master, not only with the respect due from
a subject--the gratitude to be paid by a favoured servant, but also with the frankness of a
free and loyal Scotsman. The king is himself well disposed to hold the scales of justice even;
but there are those around him who can throw without detection their own selfish wishes and
base interests into the scale. You are already a sufferer by this, and without your knowing it."

"I am surprised, Master Heriot," said the young lord, "to hear you, upon so short an acquaintance,
talk as if you were familiarly acquainted with my affairs."

"My lord," replied the goldsmith, "the nature of my employment affords me direct access to
the interior of the palace; I am well known to be no meddler in intrigues or party affairs,
so that no favourite has as yet endeavoured to shut against me the door of the royal closet;
on the contrary, I have stood well with each while he was in power, and I have not shared the
fall of any. But I cannot be thus connected with the Court, without hearing, even against my
will, what wheels are in motion, and how they are checked or forwarded. Of course, when I choose
to seek such intelligence, I know the sources in which it is to be traced. I have told you
why I was interested in your lordship's fortunes. It was last night only that I knew you were
in this city, yet I have been able, in coming hither this morning, to gain for you some information
respecting the impediments to your suit."

"Sir, I am obliged by your zeal, however little it may be merited," answered Nigel, still with
some reserve; "yet I hardly know how I have deserved this interest."

"First let me satisfy you that it is real," said the citizen; "I blame you not for being unwilling
to credit the fair professions of a stranger in my inferior class of society, when you have
met so little friendship from relations, and those of your own rank, bound to have assisted
you by so many ties. But mark the cause. There is a mortgage over your father's extensive estate,
to the amount of 40,000 merks, due ostensibly to Peregrine Peterson, the Conservator of Scottish
Privileges at Campvere."

"I know nothing of a mortgage," said the young lord; "but there is a wadset for such a sum,
which, if unredeemed, will occasion the forfeiture of my whole paternal estate, for a sum not
above a fourth of its value--and it is for that very reason that I press the king's government
for a settlement of the debts due to my father, that I may be able to redeem my land from this
rapacious creditor."

"A wadset in Scotland," said Heriot, "is the same with a mortgage on this side of the Tweed;
but you are not acquainted with your real creditor. The Conservator Peterson only lends his
name to shroud no less a man than the Lord Chancellor of Scotland, who hopes, under cover of
this debt, to gain possession of the estate himself, or perhaps to gratify a yet more powerful
third party. He will probably suffer his creature Peterson to take possession, and when the
odium of the transaction shall be forgotten, the property and lordship of Glenvarloch will
be conveyed to the great man by his obsequious instrument, under cover of a sale, or some similar
device."

"Can this be possible?" said Lord Nigel; "the Chancellor wept when I took leave of him--called
me his cousin--even his son--furnished me with letters, and, though I asked him for no pecuniary
assistance, excused himself unnecessarily for not pressing it on me, alleging the expenses
of his rank and his large family. No, I cannot believe a nobleman would carry deceit so far."

"I am not, it is true, of noble blood," said the citizen; "but once more I bid you look on
my grey hairs, and think what can be my interest in dishonouring them with falsehood in affairs
in which I have no interest, save as they regard the son of my benefactor. Reflect also, have
you had any advantage from the Lord Chancellor's letters?"

"None," said Nigel Olifaunt, "except cold deeds and fair words. I have thought for some time,
their only object was to get rid of me--one yesterday pressed money on me when I talked of
going abroad, in order that I might not want the means of exiling myself."

"Right," said Heriot; "rather than you fled not, they would themselves furnish wings for you
to fly withal."

"I will to him this instant," said the incensed youth, "and tell him my mind of his baseness."

"Under your favour," said Heriot, detaining him, "you shall not do so. By a quarrel you would
become the ruin of me your informer; and though I would venture half my shop to do your lordship
a service, I think you would hardly wish me to come by damage, when it can be of no service
to you."

The word shop sounded harshly in the ear of the young nobleman, who replied hastily--"Damage,
sir?--so far am I from wishing you to incur damage, that I would to Heaven you would cease
your fruitless offers of serving one whom there is no chance of ultimately assisting!"

"Leave me alone for that," said the citizen: "you have now erred as far on the bow-hand. Permit
me to take this Supplication--I will have it suitably engrossed, and take my own time (and
it shall be an early one) for placing it, with more prudence, I trust, than that used by your
follower, in the king's hand--I will almost answer for his taking up the matter as you would
have him--but should he fail to do so, even then I will not give up the good cause."

"Sir," said the young nobleman, "your speech is so friendly, and my own state so helpless,
that I know not how to refuse your kind proffer, even while I blush to accept it at the hands
of a stranger."

"We are, I trust, no longer such," said the goldsmith; "and for my guerdon, when my mediation
proves successful, and your fortunes are re-established, you shall order your first cupboard
of plate from George Heriot."

"You would have a bad paymaster, Master Heriot," said Lord Nigel.

"I do not fear that," replied the goldsmith; "and I am glad to see you smile, my lord--methinks
it makes you look still more like the good old lord your father; and it emboldens me, besides,
to bring out a small request--that you would take a homely dinner with me to-morrow. I lodge
hard by in Lombard Street. For the cheer, my lord, a mess of white broth, a fat capon well
larded, a dish of beef collops for auld Scotland's sake, and it may be a cup of right old wine,
that was barrelled before Scotland and England were one nation--Then for company, one or two
of our own loving countrymen--and maybe my housewife may find out a bonny Scots lass or so."

"I would accept your courtesy, Master Heriot," said Nigel, "but I hear the city ladies of London
like to see a man gallant--I would not like to let down a Scottish nobleman in their ideas,
as doubtless you have said the best of our poor country, and I rather lack the means of bravery
for the present."

"My lord, your frankness leads me a step farther," said Master George. "I--I owed your father
some monies; and--nay, if your lordship looks at me so fixedly, I shall never tell my story--and,
to speak plainly, for I never could carry a lie well through in my life--it is most fitting,
that, to solicit this matter properly, your lordship should go to Court in a manner beseeming
your quality. I am a goldsmith, and live by lending money as well as by selling plate. I am
ambitious to put an hundred pounds to be at interest in your hands, till your affairs are settled."

"And if they are never favourably settled?" said Nigel.

"Then, my lord," returned the citizen, "the miscarriage of such a sum will be of little consequence
to me, compared with other subjects of regret."

"Master Heriot," said the Lord Nigel, "your favour is generously offered, and shall be frankly
accepted. I must presume that you see your way through this business, though I hardly do; for
I think you would be grieved to add any fresh burden to me, by persuading me to incur debts
which I am not likely to discharge. I will therefore take your money, under the hope and trust
that you will enable me to repay you punctually."

"I will convince you, my lord," said the goldsmith, "that I mean to deal with you as a creditor
from whom I expect payment; and therefore, you shall, with your own good pleasure, sign an
acknowledgment for these monies, and an obligation to content and repay me."

He then took from his girdle his writing materials, and, writing a few lines to the purport
he expressed, pulled out a small bag of gold from a side-pouch under his cloak, and, observing
that it should contain an hundred pounds, proceeded to tell out the contents very methodically
upon the table. Nigel Olifaunt could not help intimating that this was an unnecessary ceremonial,
and that he would take the bag of gold on the word of his obliging creditor; but this was repugnant
to the old man's forms of transacting business.

"Bear with me," he said, "my good lord,--we citizens are a wary and thrifty generation; and
I should lose my good name for ever within the toll of Paul's, were I to grant quittance, or
take acknowledgment, without bringing the money to actual tale. I think it be right now-- and,
body of me," he said, looking out at the window, "yonder come my boys with my mule; for I must
Westward Hoe. Put your monies aside, my lord; it is not well to be seen with such goldfinches
chirping about one in the lodgings of London. I think the lock of your casket be indifferent
good; if not, I can serve you at an easy rate with one that has held thousands;--it was the
good old Sir Faithful Frugal's;-- his spendthrift son sold the shell when he had eaten the
kernel--and there is the end of a city-fortune."

"I hope yours will make a better termination, Master Heriot," said the Lord Nigel.

"I hope it will, my lord," said the old man, with a smile; "but," to use honest John Bunyan's
phrase--'therewithal the water stood in his eyes,' "it has pleased God to try me with the loss
of two children; and for one adopted shild who ives--Ah! woe is me! and well-a-day!-- But I
am patient and thankful; and for the wealth God has sent me, it shall not want inheritors while
there are orphan lads in Auld Reekie.--I wish you good-morrow, my lord."

"One orphan has cause to thank you already," said Nigel, as he attended him to the door of
his chamber, where, resisting further escort, the old citizen made his escape.

As, in going downstairs, he passed the shop where Dame Christie stood becking, he made civil
inquiries after her husband. The dame of course regretted his absence; but he was down, she
said, at Deptford, to settle with a Dutch ship-master.

"Our way of business, sir," she said, "takes him much from home, and my husband must be the
slave of every tarry jacket that wants but a pound of oakum."

"All business must be minded, dame," said the goldsmith. "Make my remembrances--George Heriot,
of Lombard Street's remembrances--to your goodman. I have dealt with him--he is just and punctual--true
to time and engagements;--be kind to your noble guest, and see he wants nothing. Though it
be his pleasure at present to lie private and retired, there be those that care for him, and
I have a charge to see him supplied; so that you may let me know by your husband, my good dame,
how my lord is, and whether he wants aught."

"And so he is a real lord after all?" said the good dame. "I am sure I always thought he looked
like one. But why does he not go to Parliament, then?"

"He will, dame," answered Heriot, "to the Parliament of Scotland, which is his own country."

"Oh! he is but a Scots lord, then," said the good dame; "and that's the thing makes him ashamed
to take the title, as they say."

"Let him not hear you say so, dame," replied the citizen.

"Who, I, sir?" answered she; "no such matter in my thought, sir. Scot or English, he is at
any rate a likely man, and a civil man; and rather than he should want any thing, I would wait
upon him myself, and come as far as Lombard Street to wait upon your worship too."

"Let your husband come to me, good dame," said the goldsmith, who, with all his experience
and worth, was somewhat of a formalist and disciplinarian. "The proverb says, 'House goes mad
when women gad;' and let his lordship's own man wait upon his master in his chamber--it is
more seemly. God give ye good-morrow."

"Good-morrow to your worship," said the dame, somewhat coldly; and, so soon as the adviser
was out of hearing, was ungracious enough to mutter, in contempt of his council, "Marry quep
of your advice, for an old Scotch tinsmith, as you are! My husband is as wise, and very near
as old, as yourself; and if I please him, it is well enough; and though he is not just so rich
just now as some folks, yet I hope to see him ride upon his moyle, with a foot-cloth, and have
his two blue-coats after him, as well as they do."

CHAPTER V

Wherefore come ye not to court?
Certain 'tis the rarest sport;
There are silks and jewels glistening,
Prattling fools and wise men listening,
Bullies among brave men justling,
Beggars amongst nobles bustling;
Low-breath'd talkers, minion lispers,
Cutting honest throats by whispers;
Wherefore come ye not to court?
Skelton swears 'tis glorious sport.
                 Skelton Skeltonizeth.

It was not entirely out of parade that the benevolent citizen was mounted and attended in that
manner, which, as the reader has been informed, excited a gentle degree of spleen on the part
of Dame Christie, which, to do her justice, vanished in the little soliloquy which we have
recorded. The good man, besides the natural desire to maintain the exterior of a man of worship,
was at present bound to Whitehall in order to exhibit a piece of valuable workmanship to King
James, which he deemed his Majesty might be pleased to view, or even to purchase. He himself
was therefore mounted upon his caparisoned mule, that he might the better make his way through
the narrow, dirty, and crowded streets; and while one of his attendants carried under his arm
the piece of plate, wrapped up in red baize, the other two gave an eye to its safety; for such
was then the state of the police of the metropolis, that men were often assaulted in the public
street for the sake of revenge or of plunder; and those who apprehended being beset, usually
endeavoured, if their estate admitted such expense, to secure themselves by the attendance
of armed followers. And this custom, which was at first limited to the nobility and gentry,
extended by degrees to those citizens of consideration, who, being understood to travel with
a charge, as it was called, might otherwise have been selected as safe subjects of plunder
by the street-robber.

As Master George Heriot paced forth westward with this gallant attendance, he paused at the
shop door of his countryman and friend, the ancient horologer, and having caused Tunstall,
who was in attendance, to adjust his watch by the real time, he desired to speak with his master;
in consequence of which summons, the old Time-meter came forth from his den, his face like
a bronze bust, darkened with dust, and glistening here and there with copper filings, and his
senses so bemused in the intensity of calculation, that he gazed on his friend the goldsmith
for a minute before he seemed perfectly to comprehend who he was, and heard him express his
invitation to David Ramsay, and pretty Mistress Margaret, his daughter, to dine with him next
day at noon, to meet with a noble young countrymen, without returning any answer.

"I'll make thee speak, with a murrain to thee," muttered Heriot to himself; and suddenly changing
his tone, he said aloud,--"I pray you, neighbour David, when are you and I to have a settlement
for the bullion wherewith I supplied you to mount yonder hall-clock at Theobald's, and that
other whirligig that you made for the Duke of Buckingham? I have had the Spanish house to satisfy
for the ingots, and I must needs put you in mind that you have been eight months behind-hand."

There is something so sharp and aigre in the demand of a peremptory dun, that no human tympanum,
however inaccessible to other tones, can resist the application. David Ramsay started at once
from his reverie, and answered in a pettish tone, "Wow, George, man, what needs aw this din
about sax score o' pounds? Aw the world kens I can answer aw claims on me, and you proffered
yourself fair time, till his maist gracious Majesty and the noble Duke suld make settled accompts
wi' me; and ye may ken, by your ain experience, that I canna gang rowting like an unmannered
Highland stot to their doors, as ye come to mine."

Heriot laughed, and replied, "Well, David, I see a demand of money is
like a bucket of water about your ears, and makes you a man of the
world at once. And now, friend, will you tell me, like a Christian
man, if you will dine with me to-morrow at noon, and bring pretty
Mistress Margaret, my god-daughter, with you, to meet with our noble
young countryman, the Lord
 of Glenvarloch?"

"The young Lord of Glenvarloch!" said the old mechanist; "wi' aw my heart, and blithe I will
be to see him again. We have not met these forty years--he was twa years before me at the humanity
classes--he is a sweet youth."

"That was his father--his father--his father!--you old dotard Dot-and- carry-one that you are,"
answered the goldsmith. "A sweet youth he would have been by this time, had he lived, worthy
nobleman! This is his son, the Lord Nigel."

"His son!" said Ramsay; "maybe he will want something of a chronometer, or watch--few gallants
care to be without them now-a- days."

"He may buy half your stock-in-trade, if ever he comes to his own, for what I know," said his
friend; "but, David, remember your bond, and use me not as you did when my housewife had the
sheep's-head and the cock-a-leeky boiling for you as late as two of the clock afternoon."

"She had the more credit by her cookery," answered David, now fully awake; "a sheep's-head
over-boiled, were poison, according to our saying."

"Well," answered Master George, "but as there will be no sheep's-head to-morrow, it may chance
you to spoil a dinner which a proverb cannot mend. It may be you may forgather with your friend,
Sir Mungo Malagrowther, for I purpose to ask his worship; so, be sure and bide tryste, Davie."

"That will I--I will be true as a chronometer," said Ramsay.

"I will not trust you, though," replied Heriot.--"Hear you, Jenkin boy, tell Scots Janet to
tell pretty Mistress Margaret, my god-child, she must put her father in remembrance to put
on his best doublet to- morrow, and to bring him to Lombard Street at noon. Tell her they are
to meet a brave young Scots lord."

Jenkin coughed that sort of dry short cough uttered by those who are either charged with errands
which they do not like, or hear opinions to which they must not enter a dissent.

"Umph!" repeated Master George--who, as we have already noticed, was something of a martinet
in domestic discipline--"what does umph mean? Will you do mine errand or not, sirrah?"

"Sure, Master George Heriot," said the apprentice, touching his cap, "I only meant, that Mistress
Margaret was not likely to forget such an invitation."

"Why, no," said Master George; "she is a dutiful girl to her god- father, though I sometimes
call her a jill-flirt.--And, hark ye, Jenkin, you and your comrade had best come with your
clubs, to see your master and her safely home; but first shut shop, and loose the bull-dog,
and let the porter stay in the fore-shop till your return. I will send two of my knaves with
you; for I hear these wild youngsters of the Temple are broken out worse and lighter than ever."

"We can keep their steel in order with good handbats," said Jenkin; "and never trouble your
servants for the matter."

"Or, if need be," said Tunstall, "we have swords as well as the Templars."

"Fie upon it--fie upon it, young man," said the citizen;--"An apprentice with a sword!--Marry,
heaven forefend! I would as soon see him in a hat and feather."

"Well, sir," said Jenkin--"we will find arms fitting to our station, and will defend our master
and his daughter, if we should tear up the very stones of the pavement."

"There spoke a London 'prentice bold," said the citizen; "and, for your comfort, my lads, you
shall crush a cup of wine to the health of the Fathers of the City. I have my eye on both of
you--you are thriving lads, each in his own way.--God be wi' you, Davie. Forget not to-morrow
at noon." And, so saying, he again turned his mule's head westward, and crossed Temple Bar,
at that slow and decent amble, which at once became his rank and civic importance, and put
his pedestrian followers to no inconvenience to keep up with him.

At the Temple gate he again paused, dismounted, and sought his way into one of the small booths
occupied by scriveners in the neighbourhood. A young man, with lank smooth hair combed straight
to his ears, and then cropped short, rose, with a cringing reverence, pulled off a slouched
hat, which he would upon no signal replace on his head, and answered with much demonstration
of reverence, to the goldsmith's question of, "How goes business, Andrew?"--"Aw the better
for your worship's kind countenance and maintenance."

"Get a large sheet of paper, man, and make a new pen, with a sharp neb, and fine hair-stroke.
Do not slit the quill up too high, it's a wastrife course in your trade, Andrew--they that
do not mind corn- pickles, never come to forpits. I have known a learned man write a thousand
pages with one quill."

"My instructions are few, Andrew, soon told, and not hard to practise. Be honest--be industrious--be
frugal--and you will soon win wealth and worship.--Here, copy me this Supplication in your
best and most formal hand. I will wait by you till it is done."

The youth lifted not his eye from the paper, and laid not the pen from his hand, until the
task was finished to his employer's satisfaction. The citizen then gave the young scrivener
an angel; and bidding him, on his life, be secret in all business intrusted to him, again mounted
his mule, and rode on westward along the Strand.

It may be worth while to remind our readers, that the Temple Bar which Heriot passed, was not
the arched screen, or gateway, of the present day; but an open railing, or palisade, which,
at night, and in times of alarm, was closed with a barricade of posts and chains. The Strand
also, along which he rode, was not, as now, a continued street, although it was beginning already
to assume that character. It still might be considered as an open road, along the south side
of which stood various houses and hotels belonging to the nobility, having gardens behind them
down to the water-side, with stairs to the river, for the convenience of taking boat; which
mansions have bequeathed the names of their lordly owners to many of the streets leading from
the Strand to the Thames. The north side of the Strand was also a long line of houses, behind
which, as in Saint Martin's Lane, and other points, buildings, were rapidly arising; but Covent
Garden was still a garden, in the literal sense of the word, or at least but beginning to be
studded with irregular buildings. All that was passing around, however, marked the rapid increase
of a capital which had long enjoyed peace, wealth, and a regular government. Houses were rising
in every direction; and the shrewd eye of our citizen already saw the period not distant, which
should convert the nearly open highway on which he travelled, into a connected and regular
street, uniting the Court and the town with the city of London.

He next passed Charing Cross, which was no longer the pleasant solitary village at which the
judges were wont to breakfast on their way to Westminster Hall, but began to resemble the artery
through which, to use Johnson's expression "pours the full tide of London population." The
buildings were rapidly increasing, yet certainly gave not even a faint idea of its present
appearance.

At last Whitehall received our traveller, who passed under one of the beautiful gates designed
by Holbein, and composed of tesselated brick- work, being the same to which Moniplies had profanely
likened the West-Port of Edinburgh, and entered the ample precincts of the palace of Whitehall,
now full of all the confusion attending improvement. It was just at the time when James,--little
suspecting that he was employed in constructing a palace, from the window of which his only
son was to pass in order that he might die upon a scaffold before it,-- was busied in removing
the ancient and ruinous buildings of De Burgh, Henry VIII., and Queen Elizabeth, to make way
for the superb architecture on which Inigo Jones exerted all his genius. The king, ignorant
of futurity, was now engaged in pressing on his work; and, for that purpose, still maintained
his royal apartments at Whitehall, amidst the rubbish of old buildings, and the various confusion
attending the erection of the new pile, which formed at present a labyrinth not easily traversed.

The goldsmith to the Royal Household, and who, if fame spoke true, oftentimes acted as their
banker,--for these professions were not as yet separated from each other,--was a person of
too much importance to receive the slightest interruption from sentinel or porter; and, leaving
his mule and two of his followers in the outer-court, he gently knocked at a postern-gate of
the building, and was presently admitted, while the most trusty of his attendants followed
him closely, with the piece of plate under his arm. This man also he left behind him in an
ante-room,--where three or four pages in the royal livery, but untrussed, unbuttoned, and dressed
more carelessly than the place, and nearness to a king's person, seemed to admit, were playing
at dice and draughts, or stretched upon benches, and slumbering with half-shut eyes. A corresponding
gallery, which opened from the ante-room, was occupied by two gentlemen-ushers of the chamber,
who gave each a smile of recognition as the wealthy goldsmith entered.

No word was spoken on either side; but one of the ushers looked first to Heriot, and then to
a little door half-covered by the tapestry, which seemed to say, as plain as a look could,
"Lies your business that way?" The citizen nodded; and the court-attendant, moving on tiptoe,
and with as much caution as if the floor had been paved with eggs, advanced to the door, opened
it gently, and spoke a few words in a low tone. The broad Scottish accent of King James was
heard in reply,--"Admit him instanter, Maxwell. Have you hairboured sae lang at the Court,
and not learned, that gold and silver are ever welcome?"

The usher signed to Heriot to advance, and the honest citizen was presently introduced into
the cabinet of the Sovereign.

The scene of confusion amid which he found the king seated, was no bad picture of the state
and quality of James's own mind. There was much that was rich and costly in cabinet pictures
and valuable ornaments; but they were arranged in a slovenly manner, covered with dust, and
lost half their value, or at least their effect, from the manner in which they were presented
to the eye. The table was loaded with huge folios, amongst which lay light books of jest and
ribaldry; and, amongst notes of unmercifully long orations, and essays on king-craft, were
mingled miserable roundels and ballads by the Royal 'Prentice, as he styled himself, in the
art of poetry, and schemes for the general pacification of Europe, with a list of the names
of the king's hounds, and remedies against canine madness.

The king's dress was of green velvet, quilted so full as to be dagger- proof--which gave him
the appearance of clumsy and ungainly protuberance; while its being buttoned awry, communicated
to his figure an air of distortion. Over his green doublet he wore a sad- coloured nightgown,
out of the pocket of which peeped his hunting- horn. His high-crowned grey hat lay on the floor,
covered with dust, but encircled by a carcanet of large balas rubies; and he wore a blue velvet
nightcap, in the front of which was placed the plume of a heron, which had been struck down
by a favourite hawk in some critical moment of the flight, in remembrance of which the king
wore this highly honoured feather.

But such inconsistencies in dress and appointments were mere outward types of those which existed
in the royal character, rendering it a subject of doubt amongst his contemporaries, and bequeathing
it as a problem to future historians. He was deeply learned, without possessing useful knowledge;
sagacious in many individual cases, without having real wisdom; fond of his power, and desirous
to maintain and augment it, yet willing to resign the direction of that, and of himself, to
the most unworthy favourites; a big and bold asserter of his rights in words, yet one who tamely
saw them trampled on in deeds; a lover of negotiations, in which he was always outwitted; and
one who feared war, where conquest might have been easy. He was fond of his dignity, while
he was perpetually degrading it by undue familiarity; capable of much public labour, yet often
neglecting it for the meanest amusement; a wit, though a pedant; and a scholar, though fond
of the conversation of the ignorant and uneducated. Even his timidity of temper was not uniform;
and there were moments of his life, and those critical, in which he showed the spirit of his
ancestors. He was laborious in trifles, and a trifler where serious labour was required; devout
in his sentiments, and yet too often profane in his language; just and beneficent by nature,
he yet gave way to the iniquities and oppression of others. He was penurious respecting money
which he had to give from his own hand, yet inconsiderately and unboundedly profuse of that
which he did not see. In a word, those good qualities which displayed themselves in particular
cases and occasions, were not of a nature sufficiently firm and comprehensive to regulate his
general conduct; and, showing themselves as they occasionally did, only entitled James to the
character bestowed on him by Sully--that he was the wisest fool in Christendom.

That the fortunes of this monarch might be as little of apiece as his character, he, certainly
the least able of the Stewarts, succeeded peaceably to that kingdom, against the power of which
his predecessors had, with so much difficulty, defended his native throne; and, lastly, although
his reign appeared calculated to ensure to Great Britain that lasting tranquillity and internal
peace which so much suited the king's disposition, yet, during that very reign, were sown those
seeds of dissension, which, like the teeth of the fabulous dragon, had their harvest in a bloody
and universal civil war.

Such was the monarch, who, saluting Heriot by the name of Jingling Geordie, (for it was his
well-known custom to give nicknames to all those with whom he was on terms of familiarity,)
inquired what new clatter-traps he had brought with him, to cheat his lawful and native Prince
out of his siller.

"God forbid, my liege," said the citizen, "that I should have any such disloyal purpose. I
did but bring a piece of plate to show to your most gracious Majesty, which, both for the subject
and for the workmanship, I were loath to put into the hands of any subject until I knew your
Majesty's pleasure anent it."

"Body o' me, man, let's see it, Heriot; though, by my saul, Steenie's service o' plate was
sae dear a bargain, I had 'maist pawned my word as a Royal King, to keep my ain gold and silver
in future, and let you, Geordie, keep yours."

"Respecting the Duke of Buckingham's plate," said the goldsmith, "your Majesty was pleased
to direct that no expense should be spared, and--"

"What signifies what I desired, man? when a wise man is with fules and bairns, he maun e'en
play at the chucks. But you should have had mair sense and consideration than to gie Babie
Charles and Steenie their ain gate; they wad hae floored the very rooms wi' silver, and I wonder
they didna."

George Heriot bowed, and said no more. He knew his master too well to vindicate himself otherwise
than by a distant allusion to his order; and James, with whom economy was only a transient
and momentary twinge of conscience, became immediately afterwards desirous to see the piece
of plate which the goldsmith proposed to exhibit, and dispatched Maxwell to bring it to his
presence. In the meantime he demanded of the citizen whence he had procured it.

"From Italy, may it please your Majesty," replied Heriot.

"It has naething in it tending to papistrie?" said the king, looking graver than his wont.

"Surely not, please your Majesty," said Heriot; "I were not wise to bring any thing to your
presence that had the mark of the beast."

"You would be the mair beast yourself to do so," said the king; "it is weel kend that I wrestled
wi' Dagon in my youth, and smote him on the groundsill of his own temple; a gude evidence that
I should be in time called, however unworthy, the Defender of the Faith.--But here comes Maxwell,
bending under his burden, like the Golden Ass of Apuleius."

Heriot hastened to relieve the usher, and to place the embossed salver, for such it was, and
of extraordinary dimensions, in a light favourable for his Majesty's viewing the sculpture.

"Saul of my body, man," said the king, "it is a curious piece, and, as I think, fit for a king's
chalmer; and the subject, as you say, Master George, vera adequate and beseeming--being, as
I see, the judgment of Solomon--a prince in whose paths it weel becomes a' leeving monarchs
to walk with emulation."

"But whose footsteps," said Maxwell, "only one of them--if a subject may say so much--hath
ever overtaken."

"Haud your tongue for a fause fleeching loon!" said the king, but with a smile on his face
that showed the flattery had done its part. "Look at the bonny piece of workmanship, and haud
your clavering tongue.-- And whase handiwork may it be, Geordie?"

"It was wrought, sir," replied the goldsmith, "by the famous Florentine, Benvenuto Cellini,
and designed for Francis the First of France; but I hope it will find a fitter master."

"Francis of France!" said the king; "send Solomon, King of the Jews, to Francis of France!--Body
of me, man, it would have kythed Cellini mad, had he never done ony thing else out of the gate.
Francis!--why, he was a fighting fule, man,--a mere fighting fule,--got himsell ta'en at Pavia,
like our ain David at Durham lang syne;--if they could hae sent him Solomon's wit, and love
of peace, and godliness, they wad hae dune him a better turn. But Solomon should sit in other
gate company than Francis of France."

"I trust that such will be his good fortune," said Heriot.

"It is a curious and very artificial sculpture," said the king, in continuation; "but yet,
methinks, the carnifex, or executioner there, is brandishing his gully ower near the king's
face, seeing he is within reach of his weapon. I think less wisdom than Solomon's wad have
taught him that there was danger in edge-tools, and that he wad have bidden the smaik either
sheath his shabble, or stand farther back."

George Heriot endeavoured to alleviate this objection, by assuring the king that the vicinity
betwixt Solomon and the executioner was nearer in appearance than in reality, and that the
perspective should be allowed for.

"Gang to the deil wi' your prospective, man," said the king; "there canna be a waur prospective
for a lawful king, wha wishes to reign in luve, and die in peace and honour, than to have naked
swords flashing in his een. I am accounted as brave as maist folks; and yet I profess to ye
I could never look on a bare blade without blinking and winking. But a'thegither it is a brave
piece;--and what is the price of it, man?"

The goldsmith replied by observing, that it was not his own property, but that of a distressed
countryman.

"Whilk you mean to mak your excuse for asking the double of its worth, I warrant?" answered
the king. "I ken the tricks of you burrows-town merchants, man."

"I have no hopes of baffling your Majesty's sagacity," said Heriot; "the piece is really what
I say, and the price a hundred and fifty pounds sterling, if it pleases your Majesty to make
present payment."

"A hundred and fifty punds, man! and as mony witches and warlocks to raise them!" said the
irritated Monarch. "My saul, Jingling Geordie, ye are minded that your purse shall jingle to
a bonny tune!--How am I to tell you down a hundred and fifty punds for what will not weigh
as many merks? and ye ken that my very household servitors, and the officers of my mouth, are
sax months in arrear!"

The goldsmith stood his ground against all this objurgation, being what he was well accustomed
to, and only answered, that, if his Majesty liked the piece, and desired to possess it, the
price could be easily settled. It was true that the party required the money, but he, George
Heriot, would advance it on his Majesty's account, if such were his pleasure, and wait his
royal conveniency for payment, for that and other matters; the money, meanwhile, lying at the
ordinary usage.

"By my honour," said James, "and that is speaking like an honest and reasonable tradesman.
We maun get another subsidy frae the Commons, and that will make ae compting of it. Awa wi'
it, Maxwell--awa wi' it, and let it be set where Steenie and Babie Charles shall see it as
they return from Richmond.--And now that we are secret, my good auld friend Geordie, I do truly
opine, that speaking of Solomon and ourselves, the haill wisdom in the country left Scotland,
when we took our travels to the Southland here."

George Heriot was courtier enough to say, that "the wise naturally follow the wisest, as stags
follow their leader." "Troth, I think there is something in what thou sayest," said James;
"for we ourselves, and those of our Court and household, as thou thyself, for example, are
allowed by the English, for as self-opinioned as they are, to pass for reasonable good wits;
but the brains of those we have left behind are all astir, and run clean hirdie-girdie, like
sae mony warlocks and witches on the Devil's Sabbath e'en."

"I am sorry to hear this, my liege," said Heriot. "May it please your Grace to say what our
countrymen have done to deserve such a character?"

"They are become frantic, man--clean brain-crazed," answered the king. "I cannot keep them
out of the Court by all the proclamations that the heralds roar themselves hoarse with. Yesterday,
nae farther gane, just as we were mounted, and about to ride forth, in rushed a thorough Edinburgh
gutterblood--a ragged rascal, every dud upon whose back was bidding good-day to the other,
with a coat and hat that would have served a pease-bogle, and without havings or reverence,
thrusts into our hands, like a sturdy beggar, some Supplication about debts owing by our gracious
mother, and siclike trash; whereat the horse spangs on end, and, but for our admirable sitting,
wherein we have been thought to excel maist sovereign princes, as well as subjects, in Europe,
I promise you we would have been laid endlang on the causeway."

"Your Majesty," said Heriot, "is their common father, and therefore they are the bolder to
press into your gracious presence."

"I ken I am pater patriae well enough," said James; "but one would think they had a mind to
squeeze my puddings out, that they may divide the inheritance, Ud's death, Geordie, there is
not a loon among them can deliver a Supplication, as it suld be done in the face of majesty."

"I would I knew the most fitting and beseeming mode to do so," said Heriot, "were it but to
instruct our poor countrymen in better fashions."

"By my halidome," said the king, "ye are a ceevileezed fellow, Geordie, and I carena if I fling
awa as much time as may teach ye. And, first, see you, sir--ye shall approach the presence
of majesty thus,--shadowing your eyes with your hand, to testify that you are in the presence
of the Vice-gerent of Heaven.--Vera weel, George, that is done in a comely manner.--Then, sir,
ye sail kneel, and make as if ye would kiss the hem of our garment, the latch of our shoe,
or such like.--Very weel enacted--whilk we, as being willing to be debonair and pleasing towards
our lieges, prevent thus,--and motion to you to rise;--whilk, having a boon to ask, as yet
you obey not, but, gliding your hand into your pouch, bring forth your Supplication, and place
it reverentially in our open palm." The goldsmith, who had complied with great accuracy with
all the prescribed points of the ceremonial, here completed it, to James's no small astonishment,
by placing in his hand the petition of the Lord of Glenvarloch. "What means this, ye fause
loon?" said he, reddening and sputtering; "hae I been teaching you the manual exercise, that
ye suld present your piece at our ain royal body?--Now, by this light, I had as lief that ye
had bended a real pistolet against me, and yet this hae ye done in my very cabinet, where nought
suld enter but at my ain pleasure."

"I trust your Majesty," said Heriot, as he continued to kneel, "will forgive my exercising
the lesson you condescended to give me in the behalf of a friend?"

"Of a friend!" said the king; "so much the waur--so much the waur, I tell you. If it had been
something to do yoursell good there would have been some sense in it, and some chance that
you wad not have come back on me in a hurry; but a man may have a hundred friends, and petitions
for every ane of them, ilk ane after other."

"Your Majesty, I trust," said Heriot, "will judge me by
 former experience, and will not suspect me of such presumption."

"I kenna," said the placable monarch; "the world goes daft, I think-- sed semel insanivimus
omnes--thou art my old and faithful servant, that is the truth; and, were't any thing for thy
own behoof, man, thou shouldst not ask twice. But, troth, Steenie loves me so dearly, that
he cares not that any one should ask favours of me but himself.-- Maxwell," (for the usher
had re-entered after having carried off the plate,) "get into the ante-chamber wi' your lang
lugs.--In conscience, Geordie, I think as that thou hast been mine ain auld fiduciary, and
wert my goldsmith when I might say with the Ethnic poet--Non mea renidet in domo lacunar--for,
faith, they had pillaged my mither's auld house sae, that beechen bickers, and treen trenchers,
and latten platters, were whiles the best at our board, and glad we were of something to put
on them, without quarrelling with the metal of the dishes. D'ye mind, for thou wert in maist
of our complots, how we were fain to send sax of the Blue-banders to harry the Lady of Loganhouse's
dowcot and poultry-yard, and what an awfu' plaint the poor dame made against Jock of Milch,
and the thieves of Annandale, wha were as sackless of the deed as I am of the sin of murder?"

"It was the better for Jock," said Heriot; "for, if I remember weel, it saved him from a strapping
up at Dumfries, which he had weel deserved for other misdeeds."

"Ay, man, mind ye that?" said the king; "but he had other virtues, for he was a tight huntsman,
moreover, that Jock of Milch, and could hollow to a hound till all the woods rang again. But
he came to an Annandale end at the last, for Lord Torthorwald run his lance out through him.--Cocksnails,
man, when I think of those wild passages, in my conscience, I am not sure but we lived merrier
in auld Holyrood in those shifting days, than now when we are dwelling at heck and manger.
Cantabit vacuus--we had but little to care for."

"And if your Majesty please to remember," said the goldsmith, "the awful task we had to gather
silver-vessail and gold-work enough to make some show before the Spanish Ambassador."

"Vera true," said the king, now in a full tide of gossip, "and I mind not the name of the right
leal lord that helped us with every unce he had in his house, that his native Prince might
have some credit in the eyes of them that had the Indies at their beck."

"I think, if your Majesty," said the citizen, "will cast your eye on the paper in your hand,
you will recollect his name."

"Ay!" said the king, "say ye sae, man?--Lord Glenvarloch, that was his name indeed--Justus
et tenax propositi--A just man, but as obstinate as a baited bull. He stood whiles against
us, that Lord Randal Olifaunt of Glenvarloch, but he was a loving and a leal subject in the
main. But this supplicator maun be his son--Randal has been long gone where king and lord must
go, Geordie, as weel as the like of you--and what does his son want with us?"

"The settlement," answered the citizen, "of a large debt due by your Majesty's treasury, for
money advanced to your Majesty in great State emergency, about the time of the Raid of Ruthven."

"I mind the thing weel," said King James--"Od's death, man, I was just out of the clutches
of the Master of Glamis and his complices, and there was never siller mair welcome to a born
prince,--the mair the shame and pity that crowned king should need sic a petty sum. But what
need he dun us for it, man, like a baxter at the breaking? We aught him the siller, and will
pay him wi' our convenience, or make it otherwise up to him, whilk is enow between prince and
subject--We are not in meditatione fugae, man, to be arrested thus peremptorily."

"Alas! an it please your Majesty," said the goldsmith, shaking his head, "it is the poor young
nobleman's extreme necessity, and not his will, that makes him importunate; for he must have
money, and that briefly, to discharge a debt due to Peregrine Peterson, Conservator of the
Privileges at Campvere, or his haill hereditary barony and estate of Glenvarloch will be evicted
in virtue of an unredeemed wadset."

"How say ye, man--how say ye?" exclaimed the king, impatiently; "the carle of a Conservator,
the son of a Low-Dutch skipper, evict the auld estate and lordship of the house of Olifaunt?--God's
bread, man, that maun not be--we maun suspend the diligence by writ of favour, or otherwise."

"I doubt that may hardly be," answered the citizen, "if it please your Majesty; your learned
counsel in the law of Scotland advise, that there is no remeid but in paying the money."

"Ud's fish," said the king, "let him keep haud by the strong hand against the carle, until
we can take some order about his affairs."

"Alas!" insisted the goldsmith, "if it like your Majesty, your own pacific government, and
your doing of equal justice to all men, has made main force a kittle line to walk by, unless
just within the bounds of the Highlands."

"Well--weel--weel, man," said the perplexed monarch, whose ideas of justice, expedience, and
convenience, became on such occasions strangely embroiled; "just it is we should pay our debts,
that the young man may pay his; and he must be paid, and in verbo regis he shall be paid--but
how to come by the siller, man, is a difficult chapter--ye maun try the city, Geordie."

"To say the truth," answered Heriot, "please your gracious Majesty, what betwixt loans and
benevolences, and subsidies, the city is at this present----"

"Donna tell me of what the city is," said King James; "our Exchequer is as dry as Dean Giles's
discourses on the penitentiary psalms--Ex nihilo nihil fit--It's ill taking the breeks aff
a wild Highlandman-- they that come to me for siller, should tell me how to come by it--the
city ye maun try, Heriot; and donna think to be called Jingling Geordie for nothing--and in
verbo regis I will pay the lad if you get me the loan--I wonnot haggle on the terms; and, between
you and me, Geordie, we will redeem the brave auld estate of Glenvarloch.--But wherefore comes
not the young lord to Court, Heriot--is he comely--is he presentable in the presence?"

"No one can be more so," said George Heriot; "but----"

"Ay, I understand ye," said his Majesty--"I understand ye--Res angusta domi--puir lad-puir
lad!--and his father a right true leal Scots heart, though stiff in some opinions. Hark ye,
Heriot, let the lad have twa hundred pounds to fit him out. And, here--here"--(taking the carcanet
of rubies from his old hat)--"ye have had these in pledge before for a larger sum, ye auld
Levite that ye are. Keep them in gage, till I gie ye back the siller out of the next subsidy."

"If it please your Majesty to give me such directions in writing," said the cautious citizen.

"The deil is in your nicety, George," said the king; "ye are as preceese as a Puritan in form,
and a mere Nullifidian in the marrow of the matter. May not a king's word serve ye for advancing
your pitiful twa hundred pounds?"

"But not for detaining the crown jewels," said George Heriot.

And the king, who from long experience was inured to dealing with suspicious creditors, wrote
an order upon George Heriot, his well- beloved goldsmith and jeweller, for the sum of two hundred
pounds, to be paid presently to Nigel Olifaunt, Lord of Glenvarloch, to be imputed as so much
debts due to him by the crown; and authorizing the retention of a carcanet of balas rubies,
with a great diamond, as described in a Catalogue of his Majesty's Jewels, to remain in possession
of the said George Heriot, advancer of the said sum, and so forth, until he was lawfully contented
and paid thereof. By another rescript, his Majesty gave the said George Heriot directions to
deal with some of the monied men, upon equitable terms, for a sum of money for his Majesty's
present use, not to be under 50,000 merks, but as much more as could conveniently be procured.

"And has he ony lair, this Lord Nigel of ours?" said the king.

George Heriot could not exactly answer this question; but believed "the young lord had studied
abroad."

"He shall have our own advice," said the king, "how to carry on his studies to maist advantage;
and it may be we will have him come to Court, and study with Steenie and Babie Charles. And,
now we think on't, away--away, George--for the bairns will be coming hame presently, and we
would not as yet they kend of this matter we have been treating anent. Propera fedem, O Geordie.
Clap your mule between your boughs, and god-den with you."

Thus ended the conference betwixt the gentle King Jamie and his benevolent jeweller and goldsmith.

CHAPTER VI

  O I do know him--tis the mouldy lemon
  Which our court wits will wet their lips withal,
  When they would sauce their honied conversation
  With somewhat sharper flavour--Marry sir,
  That virtue's wellnigh left him--all the juice
  That was so sharp and poignant, is squeezed out,
  While the poor rind, although as sour as ever,
  Must season soon the draff we give our grunters,
  For two legg'd things are weary on't.
                     The Chamberlain--A Comedy

The good company invited by the hospitable citizen assembled at his house in Lombard Street
at the "hollow and hungry hour" of noon, to partake of that meal which divides the day, being
about the time when modern persons of fashion, turning themselves upon their pillow, begin
to think, not without a great many doubts and much hesitation, that they will by and by commence
it. Thither came the young Nigel, arrayed plainly, but in a dress, nevertheless, more suitable
to his age and quality than he had formerly worn, accompanied by his servant Moniplies, whose
outside also was considerably improved. His solemn and stern features glared forth from under
a blue velvet bonnet, fantastically placed sideways on his head--he had a sound and tough coat
of English blue broad-cloth, which, unlike his former vestment, would have stood the tug of
all the apprentices in Fleet Street. The buckler and broadsword he wore as the arms of his
condition, and a neat silver badge, bearing his lord's arms, announced that he was an appendage
of aristocracy. He sat down in the good citizen's buttery, not a little pleased to find his
attendance upon the table in the hall was likely to be rewarded with his share of a meal such
as he had seldom partaken of.

Mr. David Ramsay, that profound and ingenious mechanic, was safely conducted to Lombard Street,
according to promise, well washed, brushed, and cleaned, from the soot of the furnace and the
forge. His daughter, who came with him, was about twenty years old, very pretty, very demure,
yet with lively black eyes, that ever and anon contradicted the expression of sobriety, to
which silence, reserve, a plain velvet hood, and a cambric ruff, had condemned Mistress Marget,
as the daughter of a quiet citizen.

There were also two citizens and merchants of London, men ample in cloak, and many-linked golden
chain, well to pass in the world, and experienced in their craft of merchandise, but who require
no particular description. There was an elderly clergyman also, in his gown and cassock, a
decent venerable man, partaking in his manners of the plainness of the citizens amongst whom
he had his cure.

These may be dismissed with brief notice; but not so Sir Mungo Malagrowther, of Girnigo Castle,
who claims a little more attention, as an original character of the time in which he flourished.

That good knight knocked at Master Heriot's door just as the clock began to strike twelve,
and was seated in his chair ere the last stroke had chimed. This gave the knight an excellent
opportunity of making sarcastic observations on all who came later than himself, not to mention
a few rubs at the expense of those who had been so superfluous as to appear earlier.

Having little or no property save his bare designation, Sir Mungo had been early attached to
Court in the capacity of whipping-boy, as the office was then called, to King James the Sixth,
and, with his Majesty, trained to all polite learning by his celebrated preceptor, George Buchanan.
The office of whipping-boy doomed its unfortunate occupant to undergo all the corporeal punishment
which the Lord's Anointed, whose proper person was of course sacred, might chance to incur,
in the course of travelling through his grammar and prosody. Under the stern rule, indeed,
of George Buchanan, who did not approve of the vicarious mode of punishment, James bore the
penance of his own faults, and Mungo Malagrowther enjoyed a sinecure; but James's other pedagogue,
Master Patrick Young, went more ceremoniously to work, and appalled the very soul of the youthful
king by the floggings which he bestowed on the whipping-boy, when the royal task was not suitably
performed. And be it told to Sir Mungo's praise, that there were points about him in the highest
respect suited to his official situation. He had even in youth a naturally irregular and grotesque
set of features, which, when distorted by fear, pain, and anger, looked like one of the whimsical
faces which present themselves in a Gothic cornice. His voice also was high-pitched and querulous,
so that, when smarting under Master Peter Young's unsparing inflictions, the expression of
his grotesque physiognomy, and the superhuman yells which he uttered, were well suited to produce
all the effects on the Monarch who deserved the lash, that could possibly be produced by seeing
another and an innocent individual suffering for his delict.

Sir Mungo Malagrowther, for such he became, thus got an early footing at Court, which another
would have improved and maintained. But, when he grew too big to be whipped, he had no other
means of rendering himself acceptable. A bitter, caustic, and backbiting humour, a malicious
wit, and an envy of others more prosperous than the possessor of such amiable qualities, have
not, indeed, always been found obstacles to a courtier's rise; but then they must be amalgamated
with a degree of selfish cunning and prudence, of which Sir Mungo had no share. His satire
ran riot, his envy could not conceal itself, and it was not long after his majority till he
had as many quarrels upon his hands as would have required a cat's nine lives to answer. In
one of these rencontres he received, perhaps we should say fortunately, a wound, which served
him as an excuse for answering no invitations of the kind in future. Sir Rullion Rattray, of
Ranagullion, cut off, in mortal combat, three of the fingers of his right hand, so that Sir
Mungo never could hold sword again. At a later period, having written some satirical verses
upon the Lady Cockpen, he received so severe a chastisement from some persons employed for
the purpose, that he was found half dead on the spot where they had thus dealt with him, and
one of his thighs having been broken, and ill set, gave him a hitch in his gait, with which
he hobbled to his grave. The lameness of his leg and hand, besides that they added considerably
to the grotesque appearance of this original, procured him in future a personal immunity from
the more dangerous consequences of his own humour; and he gradually grew old in the service
of the Court, in safety of life and limb, though without either making friends or attaining
preferment. Sometimes, indeed, the king was amused with his caustic sallies, but he had never
art enough to improve the favourable opportunity; and his enemies (who were, for that matter,
the whole Court) always found means to throw him out of favour again. The celebrated Archie
Armstrong offered Sir Mungo, in his generosity, a skirt of his own fool's coat, proposing thereby
to communicate to him the privileges and immunities of a professed jester--"For," said the
man of motley, "Sir Mungo, as he goes on just now, gets no more for a good jest than just the
king's pardon for having made it."

Even in London, the golden shower which fell around him did not moisten the blighted fortunes
of Sir Mungo Malagrowther. He grew old, deaf, and peevish--lost even the spirit which had formerly
animated his strictures--and was barely endured by James, who, though himself nearly as far
stricken in years, retained, to an unusual and even an absurd degree, the desire to be surrounded
by young people.

Sir Mungo, thus fallen into the yellow leaf of years and fortune, showed his emaciated form
and faded embroidery at Court as seldom as his duty permitted; and spent his time in indulging
his food for satire in the public walks, and in the aisles of Saint Paul's, which were then
the general resort of newsmongers and characters of all descriptions, associating himself chiefly
with such of his countrymen as he accounted of inferior birth and rank to himself. In this
manner, hating and contemning commerce, and those who pursued it, he nevertheless lived a good
deal among the Scottish artists and merchants, who had followed the Court to London. To these
he could show his cynicism without much offence; for some submitted to his jeers and ill-humour
in deference to his birth and knighthood, which in those days conferred high privileges--and
others, of more sense, pitied and endured the old man, unhappy alike in his fortunes and his
temper.

Amongst the latter was George Heriot, who, though his habits and education induced him to carry
aristocratical feelings to a degree which would now be thought extravagant, had too much spirit
and good sense to permit himself to be intruded upon to an unauthorized excess, or used with
the slightest improper freedom, by such a person as Sir Mungo, to whom he was, nevertheless,
not only respectfully civil, but essentially kind, and even generous.

Accordingly, this appeared from the manner in which Sir Mungo Malagrowther conducted himself
upon entering the apartment. He paid his respects to Master Heriot, and a decent, elderly,
somewhat severe- looking female, in a coif, who, by the name of Aunt Judith, did the honours
of his house and table, with little or no portion of the supercilious acidity, which his singular
physiognomy assumed when he made his bow successively to David Ramsay and the two sober citizens.
He thrust himself into the conversation of the latter, to observe he had heard in Paul's, that
the bankrupt concern of Pindivide, a great merchant,--who, as he expressed it, had given the
crows a pudding, and on whom he knew, from the same authority, each of the honest citizens
has some unsettled claim,--was like to prove a total loss--"stock and block, ship and cargo,
keel and rigging, all lost, now and for ever."

The two citizens grinned at each other; but, too prudent to make their private affairs the
subject of public discussion, drew their heads together, and evaded farther conversation by
speaking in a whisper.

The old Scots knight next attacked the watchmaker with the same disrespectful familiarity.--"Davie,"
he said,--"Davie, ye donnard auld idiot, have ye no gane mad yet, with applying your mathematical
science, as ye call it, to the book of Apocalypse? I expected to have heard ye make out the
sign of the beast, as clear as a tout on a bawbee whistle."

"Why, Sir Mungo," said the mechanist, after making an effort to recall to his recollection
what had been said to him, and by whom, "it may be, that ye are nearer the mark than ye are
yoursell aware of; for, taking the ten horns o' the beast, ye may easily estimate by your digitals--"

"My digits! you d--d auld, rusty, good-for-nothing time-piece!" exclaimed Sir Mungo, while,
betwixt jest and earnest, he laid on his hilt his hand, or rather his claw, (for Sir Rullion's
broadsword has abridged it into that form,)--"D'ye mean to upbraid me with my mutilation?"

Master Heriot interfered. "I cannot persuade our friend David," he said, "that scriptural prophecies
are intended to remain in obscurity, until their unexpected accomplishment shall make, as in
former days, that fulfilled which was written. But you must not exert your knightly valour
on him for all that."

"By my saul, and it would be throwing it away," said Sir Mungo, laughing. "I would as soon
set out, with hound and horn, to hunt a sturdied sheep; for he is in a doze again, and up to
the chin in numerals, quotients, and dividends.--Mistress Margaret, my pretty honey," for the
beauty of the young citizen made even Sir Mungo Malagrowther's grim features relax themselves
a little, "is your father always as entertaining as he seems just now?"

Mistress Margaret simpered, bridled, looked to either side, then straight before her; and,
having assumed all the airs of bashful embarrassment and timidity which were necessary, as
she thought, to cover a certain shrewd readiness which really belonged to her character, at
length replied: "That indeed her father was very thoughtful, but she had heard that he took
the habit of mind from her grandfather."

"Your grandfather!" said Sir Mungo,--after doubting if he had heard her aright,--"Said she
her grandfather! The lassie is distraught!--I ken nae wench on this side of Temple Bar that
is derived from so distant a relation."

"She has got a godfather, however, Sir Mungo," said George Heriot, again interfering; "and
I hope you will allow him interest enough with you, to request you will not put his pretty
godchild to so deep a blush."

"The better--the better," said Sir Mungo. "It is a credit to her, that, bred and born within
the sound of Bow-bell, she can blush for any thing; and, by my saul, Master George," he continued,
chucking the irritated and reluctant damsel under the chin, "she is bonny enough to make amends
for her lack of ancestry--at least, in such a region as Cheapside, where, d'ye mind me, the
kettle cannot call the porridge- pot--"

The damsel blushed, but not so angrily as before. Master George Heriot hastened to interrupt
the conclusion of Sir Mungo's homely proverb, by introducing him personally to Lord Nigel.

Sir Mungo could not at first understand what his host said,--"Bread of Heaven, wha say ye, man?"

Upon the name of Nigel Olifaunt, Lord Glenvarloch, being again hollowed into his ear, he drew
up, and, regarding his entertainer with some austerity, rebuked him for not making persons
of quality acquainted with each other, that they might exchange courtesies before they mingled
with other folks. He then made as handsome and courtly a congee to his new acquaintance as
a man maimed in foot and hand could do; and, observing he had known my lord, his father, bid
him welcome to London, and hoped he should see him at Court.

Nigel in an instant comprehended, as well from Sir Mungo's manner, as from a strict compression
of their entertainer's lips, which intimated the suppression of a desire to laugh, that he
was dealing with an original of no ordinary description, and accordingly, returned his courtesy
with suitable punctiliousness. Sir Mungo, in the meanwhile, gazed on him with much earnestness;
and, as the contemplation of natural advantages was as odious to him as that of wealth, or
other adventitious benefits, he had no sooner completely perused the handsome form and good
features of the young lord, than like one of the comforters of the man of Uz, he drew close
up to him, to enlarge on the former grandeur of the Lords of Glenvarloch, and the regret with
which he had heard, that their representative was not likely to possess the domains of his
ancestry. Anon, he enlarged upon the beauties of the principal mansion of Glenvarloch--the
commanding site of the old castle--the noble expanse of the lake, stocked with wildfowl for
hawking--the commanding screen of forest, terminating in a mountain-ridge abounding with deer--and
all the other advantages of that fine and ancient barony, till Nigel, in spite of every effort
to the contrary, was unwillingly obliged to sigh.

Sir Mungo, skilful in discerning when the withers of those he conversed with were wrung, observed
that his new acquaintance winced, and would willingly have pressed the discussion; but the
cook's impatient knock upon the dresser with the haft of his dudgeon-knife, now gave a signal
loud enough to be heard from the top of the house to the bottom, summoning, at the same time,
the serving-men to place the dinner upon the table, and the guests to partake of it.

Sir Mungo, who was an admirer of good cheer,--a taste which, by the way, might have some weight
in reconciling his dignity to these city visits,--was tolled off by the sound, and left Nigel
and the other guests in peace, until his anxiety to arrange himself in his due place of pre-eminence
at the genial board was duly gratified. Here, seated on the left hand of Aunt Judith, he beheld
Nigel occupy the station of yet higher honour on the right, dividing that matron from pretty
Mistress Margaret; but he saw this with the more patience, that there stood betwixt him and
the young lord a superb larded capon.

The dinner proceeded according to the form of the times. All was excellent of the kind; and,
besides the Scottish cheer promised, the board displayed beef and pudding, the statutory dainties
of Old England. A small cupboard of plate, very choicely and beautifully wrought, did not escape
the compliments of some of the company, and an oblique sneer from Sir Mungo, as intimating
the owner's excellence in his own mechanical craft.

"I am not ashamed of the workmanship, Sir Mungo," said the honest citizen. "They say, a good
cook knows how to lick his own fingers; and, methinks, it were unseemly that I, who have furnished
half the cupboards in broad Britain, should have my own covered with paltry pewter."

The blessing of the clergyman now left the guests at liberty to attack what was placed before
them; and the meal went forward with great decorum, until Aunt Judith, in farther recommendation
of the capon, assured her company that it was of a celebrated breed of poultry, which she had
herself brought from Scotland.

"Then, like some of his countrymen, madam," said the pitiless Sir Mungo, not without a glance
towards his landlord, "he has been well larded in England."

"There are some others of his countrymen," answered Master Heriot, "to whom all the lard in
England has not been able to render that good office."

Sir Mungo sneered and reddened, the rest of the company laughed; and the satirist, who had
his reasons for not coming to extremity with Master George, was silent for the rest of the dinner.

The dishes were exchanged for confections, and wine of the highest quality and flavour; and
Nigel saw the entertainments of the wealthiest burgomasters, which he had witnessed abroad,
fairly outshone by the hospitality of a London citizen. Yet there was nothing ostentatious,
or which seemed inconsistent with the degree of an opulent burgher.

While the collation proceeded, Nigel, according to the good-breeding of the time, addressed
his discourse principally to Mrs. Judith, whom he found to be a woman of a strong Scottish
understanding, more inclined towards the Puritans than was her brother George, (for in that
relation she stood to him, though he always called her aunt,) attached to him in the strongest
degree, and sedulously attentive to all his comforts. As the conversation of this good dame
was neither lively nor fascinating, the young lord naturally addressed himself next to the
old horologer's very pretty daughter, who sat upon his left hand. From her, however, there
was no extracting any reply beyond the measure of a monosyllable; and when the young gallant
had said the best and most complaisant things which his courtesy supplied, the smile that mantled
upon her pretty mouth was so slight and evanescent, as scarce to be discernible.

Nigel was beginning to tire of his company, for the old citizens were speaking with his host
of commercial matters in language to him totally unintelligible, when Sir Mungo Malagrowther
suddenly summoned their attention.

That amiable personage had for some time withdrawn from the company into the recess of a projecting
window, so formed and placed as to command a view of the door of the house, and of the street.
This situation was probably preferred by Sir Mungo on account of the number of objects which
the streets of a metropolis usually offer, of a kind congenial to the thoughts of a splenetic
man. What he had hitherto seen passing there, was probably of little consequence; but now a
trampling of horse was heard without, and the knight suddenly exclaimed,--"By my faith, Master
George, you had better go look to shop; for here comes Knighton, the Duke of Buckingham's groom,
and two fellows after him, as if he were my Lord Duke himself."

"My cash-keeper is below," said Heriot, without disturbing himself, "and he will let me know
if his Grace's commands require my immediate attention."

"Umph!--cash-keeper?" muttered Sir Mungo to himself; "he would have had an easy office when
I first kend ye.--But," said he, speaking aloud, "will you not come to the window, at least?
for Knighton has trundled a piece of silver-plate into your house--ha! ha! ha!-- trundled it
upon its edge, as a callan' would drive a hoop. I cannot help laughing--ha! ha! ha!--at the
fellow's impudence."

"I believe you could not help laughing," said George Heriot, rising up and leaving the room,
"if your best friend lay dying."

"Bitter that, my lord--ha?" said Sir Mungo, addressing Nigel. "Our friend is not a goldsmith
for nothing--he hath no leaden wit. But I will go down, and see what comes on't."

Heriot, as he descended the stairs, met his cash-keeper coming up, with some concern in his
face.--"Why, how now, Roberts," said the goldsmith, "what means all this, man?"

"It is Knighton, Master Heriot, from the Court--Knighton, the Duke's man. He brought back the
salver you carried to Whitehall, flung it into the entrance as if it had been an old pewter
platter, and bade me tell you the king would have none of your trumpery."

"Ay, indeed," said George Heriot--"None of my trumpery!--Come hither into the compting-room,
Roberts.--Sir Mungo," he added, bowing to the knight, who had joined, and was preparing to
follow them, "I pray your forgiveness for an instant."

In virtue of this prohibition, Sir Mungo, who, as well as the rest of the company, had overheard
what passed betwixt George Heriot and his cash-keeper, saw himself condemned to wait in the
outer business-room, where he would have endeavoured to slake his eager curiosity by questioning
Knighton; but that emissary of greatness, after having added to the uncivil message of his
master some rudeness of his own, had again scampered westward, with his satellites at his heels.

In the meanwhile, the name of the Duke of Buckingham, the omnipotent favourite both of the
king and the Prince of Wales, had struck some anxiety into the party which remained in the
great parlour. He was more feared than beloved, and, if not absolutely of a tyrannical disposition,
was accounted haughty, violent, and vindictive. It pressed on Nigel's heart, that he himself,
though he could not conceive how, nor why, might be the original cause of the resentment of
the Duke against his benefactor. The others made their comments in whispers, until the sounds
reached Ramsay, who had not heard a word of what had previously passed, but, plunged in those
studies with which he connected every other incident and event, took up only the catchword,
and replied,--"The Duke--the Duke of Buckingham--George Villiers--ay--I have spoke with Lambe
about him."

"Our Lord and our Lady! Now, how can you say so, father?" said his daughter, who had shrewdness
enough to see that her father was touching upon dangerous ground.

"Why, ay, child," answered Ramsay; "the stars do but incline, they cannot compel. But well
you wot, it is commonly said of his Grace, by those who have the skill to cast nativities,
that there was a notable conjunction of Mars and Saturn--the apparent or true time of which,
reducing the calculations of Eichstadius made for the latitude of Oranienburgh, to that of
London, gives seven hours, fifty-five minutes, and forty-one seconds----"

"Hold your peace, old soothsayer," said Heriot, who at that instant entered the room with a
calm and steady countenance; "your calculations are true and undeniable when they regard brass
and wire, and mechanical force; but future events are at the pleasure of Him who bears the
hearts of kings in his hands."

"Ay, but, George," answered the watchmaker, "there was a concurrence of signs at this gentleman's
birth, which showed his course would be a strange one. Long has it been said of him, he was
born at the very meeting of night and day, and under crossing and contending influences that
may affect both us and him.

    'Full moon and high sea,
     Great man shalt thou be;
     Red dawning, stormy sky,
     Bloody death shalt thou die.'"

"It is not good to speak of such things," said Heriot, "especially of the great; stone walls
have ears, and a bird of the air shall carry the matter."

Several of the guests seemed to be of their host's opinion. The two merchants took brief leave,
as if under consciousness that something was wrong. Mistress Margaret, her body-guard of 'prentices
being in readiness, plucked her father by the sleeve, and, rescuing him from a brown study,
(whether referring to the wheels of Time, or to that of Fortune, is uncertain,) wished good-night
to her friend Mrs. Judith, and received her godfather's blessing, who, at the same time, put
upon her slender finger a ring of much taste and some value; for he seldom suffered her to
leave him without some token of his affection. Thus honourably dismissed, and accompanied by
her escort, she set forth on her return to Fleet Street.

Sir Mungo had bid adieu to Master Heriot as he came out from the back compting-room, but such
was the interest which he took in the affairs of his friend, that, when Master George went
upstairs, he could not help walking into that sanctum sanctorum, to see how Master Roberts
was employed. The knight found the cash-keeper busy in making extracts from those huge brass-clasped
leathern-bound manuscript folios, which are the pride and trust of dealers, and the dread of
customers whose year of grace is out. The good knight leant his elbows on the desk, and said
to the functionary in a condoling tone of voice,--"What! you have lost a good customer, I fear,
Master Roberts, and are busied in making out his bill of charges?"

Now, it chanced that Roberts, like Sir Mungo himself, was a little deaf, and, like Sir Mungo,
knew also how to make the most of it; so that he answered at cross purposes,--"I humbly crave
your pardon, Sir Mungo, for not having sent in your bill of charge sooner, but my master bade
me not disturb you. I will bring the items together in a moment." So saying, he began to turn
over the leaves of his book of fate, murmuring, "Repairing ane silver seal-new clasp to his
chain of office--ane over-gilt brooch to his hat, being a Saint Andrew's cross, with thistles--a
copper gilt pair of spurs,--this to Daniel Driver, we not dealing in the article."

He would have proceeded; but Sir Mungo, not prepared to endure the recital of the catalogue
of his own petty debts, and still less willing to satisfy them on the spot, wished the bookkeeper,
cavalierly, good-night, and left the house without farther ceremony. The clerk looked after
him with a civil city sneer, and immediately resumed the more serious labours which Sir Mungo's
intrusion had interrupted.

CHAPTER VII

  Things needful we have thought on; but the thing
  Of all most needful--that which Scripture terms,
  As if alone it merited regard,
  The ONE thing needful--that's yet unconsider'd.
                       The Chamberlain.

When the rest of the company had taken their departure from Master Heriot's house, the young
Lord of Glenvarloch also offered to take leave; but his host detained him for a few minutes,
until all were gone excepting the clergyman.

"My lord," then said the worthy citizen, "we have had our permitted hour of honest and hospitable
pastime, and now I would fain delay you for another and graver purpose, as it is our custom,
when we have the benefit of good Mr. Windsor's company, that he reads the prayers of the church
for the evening before we separate. Your excellent father, my lord, would not have departed
before family worship--I hope the same from your lordship."

"With pleasure, sir," answered Nigel; "and you add in the invitation an additional obligation
to those with which you have loaded me. When young men forget what is their duty, they owe
deep thanks to the friend who will remind them of it."

While they talked together in this manner, the serving-men had removed the folding-tables,
brought forward a portable reading-desk, and placed chairs and hassocks for their master, their
mistress, and the noble stranger. Another low chair, or rather a sort of stool, was placed
close beside that of Master Heriot; and though the circumstance was trivial, Nigel was induced
to notice it, because, when about to occupy that seat, he was prevented by a sign from the
old gentleman, and motioned to another of somewhat more elevation. The clergyman took his station
behind the reading-desk. The domestics, a numerous family both of clerks and servants, including
Moniplies, attended, with great gravity, and were accommodated with benches.

The household were all seated, and, externally at least, composed to devout attention, when
a low knock was heard at the door of the apartment; Mrs. Judith looked anxiously at her brother,
as if desiring to know his pleasure. He nodded his head gravely, and looked to the door. Mrs.
Judith immediately crossed the chamber, opened the door, and led into the apartment a beautiful
creature, whose sudden and singular appearance might have made her almost pass for an apparition.
She was deadly pale-there was not the least shade of vital red to enliven features, which were
exquisitely formed, and might, but for that circumstance, have been termed transcendently beautiful.
Her long black hair fell down over her shoulders and down her back, combed smoothly and regularly,
but without the least appearance of decoration or ornament, which looked very singular at a
period when head-gear, as it was called, of one sort or other, was generally used by all ranks.
Her dress was of white, of the simplest fashion, and hiding all her person excepting the throat,
face, and hands. Her form was rather beneath than above the middle size, but so justly proportioned
and elegantly made, that the spectator's attention was entirely withdrawn from her size. In
contradiction of the extreme plainness of all the rest of her attire, she wore a necklace which
a duchess might have envied, so large and lustrous were the brilliants of which it was composed;
and around her waist a zone of rubies of scarce inferior value.

When this singular figure entered the apartment, she cast her eyes on Nigel, and paused, as
if uncertain whether to advance or retreat. The glance which she took of him seemed to be one
rather of uncertainty and hesitation, than of bashfulness or timidity. Aunt Judith took her
by the hand, and led her slowly forward--her dark eyes, however, continued to be fixed on Nigel,
with an expression of melancholy by which he felt strangely affected. Even when she was seated
on the vacant stool, which was placed there probably for her accommodation, she again looked
on him more than once with the same pensive, lingering, and anxious expression, but without
either shyness or embarrassment, not even so much as to call the slightest degree of complexion
into her cheek.

So soon as this singular female had taken up the prayer-book, which was laid upon her cushion,
she seemed immersed in devotional duty; and although Nigel's attention to the service was so
much disturbed by this extraordinary apparition, that he looked towards her repeatedly in the
course of the service, he could never observe that her eyes or her thoughts strayed so much
as a single moment from the task in which she was engaged. Nigel himself was less attentive,
for the appearance of this lady seemed so extraordinary, that, strictly as he had been bred
up by his father to pay the most reverential attention during performance of divine service,
his thoughts in spite of himself were disturbed by her presence, and he earnestly wished the
prayers were ended, that his curiosity might obtain some gratification. When the service was
concluded, and each had remained, according to the decent and edifying practice of the church,
concentrated in mental devotion for a short space, the mysterious visitant arose ere any other
person stirred; and Nigel remarked that none of the domestics left their places, oreven moved,
until she had first kneeled on one knee to Heriot, who seemed to bless her with his hand laid
on her head, and a melancholy solemnity of look and action. She then bended her body, but without
kneeling, to Mrs. Judith, and having performed these two acts of reverence, she left the room;
yet just in the act of her departure, she once more turned her penetrating eyes on Nigel with
a fixed look, which compelled him to turn his own aside. When he looked towards her again,
he saw only the skirt of her white mantle as she left the apartment.

The domestics then rose and dispersed themselves--wine, and fruit, and spices, were offered
to Lord Nigel and to the clergyman, and the latter took his leave. The young lord would fain
have accompanied him, in hope to get some explanation of the apparition which he had beheld,
but he was stopped by his host, who requested to speak with him in his compting-room.

"I hope, my lord," said the citizen, "that your preparations for attending Court are in such
forwardness that you can go thither the day after to-morrow. It is, perhaps, the last day,
for some time, that his Majesty will hold open Court for all who have pretensions by birth,
rank, or office to attend upon him. On the subsequent day he goes to Theobald's, where he is
so much occupied with hunting and other pleasures, that he cares not to be intruded on."

"I shall be in all outward readiness to pay my duty," said the young nobleman, "yet I have
little heart to do it. The friends from whom I ought to have found encouragement and protection,
have proved cold and false--I certainly will not trouble them for their countenance on this
occasion--and yet I must confess my childish unwillingness to enter quite alone upon so new
a scene."

"It is bold of a mechanic like me to make such an offer to a nobleman," said Heriot; "but I
must attend at Court to-morrow. I can accompany you as far as the presence-chamber, from my
privilege as being of the household. I can facilitate your entrance, should you find difficulty,
and I can point out the proper manner and time of approaching the king. But I do not know,"
he added, smiling, "whether these little advantages will not be overbalanced by the incongruity
of a nobleman receiving them from the hands of an old smith."

"From the hands rather of the only friend I have found in London," said Nigel, offering his hand.

"Nay, if you think of the matter in that way," replied the honest citizen, "there is no more
to be said--I will come for you to-morrow, with a barge proper to the occasion.--But remember,
my good young lord, that I do not, like some men of my degree, wish to take opportunity to
step beyond it, and associate with my superiors in rank, and therefore do not fear to mortify
my presumption, by suffering me to keep my distance in the presence, and where it is fitting
for both of us to separate; and for what remains, most truly happy shall I be in proving of
service to the son of my ancient patron."

The style of conversation led so far from the point which had interested the young nobleman's
curiosity, that there was no returning to it that night. He therefore exchanged thanks and
greetings with George Heriot, and took his leave, promising to be equipped and in readiness
to embark with him on the second successive morning at ten o'clock.

The generation of linkboys, celebrated by Count Anthony Hamilton, as peculiar to London, had
already, in the reign of James I., begun their functions, and the service of one of them with
his smoky torch, had been secured to light the young Scottish lord and his follower to their
lodgings, which, though better acquainted than formerly with the city, they might in the dark
have run some danger of missing. This gave the ingenious Mr. Moniplies an opportunity of gathering
close up to his master, after he had gone through the form of slipping his left arm into the
handles of his buckler, and loosening his broadsword in the sheath, that he might be ready
for whatever should befall.

"If it were not for the wine and the good cheer which we have had in yonder old man's house,
my lord," said this sapient follower, "and that I ken him by report to be a just living man
in many respects, and a real Edinburgh gutterblood, I should have been well pleased to have
seen how his feet were shaped, and whether he had not a cloven cloot under the braw roses and
cordovan shoon of his."

"Why, you rascal," answered Nigel, "you have been too kindly treated, and now that you have
filled your ravenous stomach, you are railing on the good gentleman that relieved you."

"Under favour, no, my lord," said Moniplies,--"I would only like to see something mair about
him. I have eaten his meat, it is true--more shame that the like of him should have meat to
give, when your lordship and me could scarce have gotten, on our own account, brose and a bear
bannock--I have drunk his wine, too."

"I see you have," replied his master, "a great deal more than you should have done."

"Under your patience, my lord," said Moniplies, "you are pleased to say that, because I crushed
a quart with that jolly boy Jenkin, as they call the 'prentice boy, and that was out of mere
acknowledgment for his former kindness--I own that I, moreover, sung the good old song of Elsie
Marley, so as they never heard it chanted in their lives----"

And withal (as John Bunyan says) as they went on their way, he sung--

    "O, do ye ken Elsie Marley, honey--
     The wife that sells the barley, honey?
     For Elsie Marley's grown sae fine,
     She winna get up to feed the swine.--
         O, do ye ken----"

Here in mid career was the songster interrupted by the stern gripe of his master, who threatened
to baton him to death if he brought the city-watch upon them by his ill-timed melody.

"I crave pardon, my lord--I humbly crave pardon--only when I think of that Jen Win, as they
call him, I can hardly help humming--'O, do ye ken'--But I crave your honour's pardon, and
will be totally dumb, if you command me so."

"No, sirrah!" said Nigel, "talk on, for I well know you would say and suffer more under pretence
of holding your peace, than when you get an unbridled license. How is it, then? What have you
to say against Master Heriot?"

It seems more than probable, that in permitting this license, the young lord hoped his attendant
would stumble upon the subject of the young lady who had appeared at prayers in a manner so
mysterious. But whether this was the case, or whether he merely desired that Moniplies should
utter, in a subdued and under tone of voice, those spirits which might otherwise have vented
themselves in obstreperous song, it is certain he permitted his attendant to proceed with his
story in his own way.

"And therefore," said the orator, availing himself of his immunity, "I would like to ken what
sort of carle this Maister Heriot is. He hath supplied your lordship with wealth of gold, as
I can understand; and if he has, I make it for certain he hath had his ain end in it, according
to the fashion of the world. Now, had your lordship your own good lands at your guiding, doubtless
this person, with most of his craft--goldsmiths they call themselves--I say usurers--wad be
glad to exchange so many pounds of African dust, by whilk I understand gold, against so many
fair acres, and hundreds of acres, of broad Scottish land."

"But you know I have no land," said the young lord, "at least none that can be affected by
any debt which I can at present become obliged for--I think you need not have reminded me of that."

"True, my lord, most true; and, as your lordship says, open to the meanest capacity, without
any unnecessary expositions. Now, therefore, my lord, unless Maister George Heriot has something
mair to allege as a motive for his liberality, vera different from the possession of your estate--and
moreover, as he could gain little by the capture of your body, wherefore should it not be your
soul that he is in pursuit of?"

"My soul, you rascal!" said the young lord; "what good should my soul do him?"

"What do I ken about that?" said Moniplies; "they go about roaring and seeking whom they may
devour--doubtless, they like the food that they rage so much about--and, my lord, they say,"
added Moniplies, drawing up still closer to his master's side, "they say that Master Heriot
has one spirit in his house already."

"How, or what do you mean?" said Nigel; "I will break your head, you drunken knave, if you
palter with me any longer."

"Drunken?" answered his trusty adherent, "and is this the story?--why, how could I but drink
your lordship's health on my bare knees, when Master Jenkin began it to me?--hang them that
would not--I would have cut the impudent knave's hams with my broadsword, that should make
scruple of it, and so have made him kneel when he should have found it difficult to rise again.
But touching the spirit," he proceeded, finding that his master made no answer to his valorous
tirade, "your lordship has seen her with your own eyes."

"I saw no spirit," said Glenvarloch, but yet breathing thick as one who expects some singular
disclosure, "what mean you by a spirit?"

"You saw a young lady come in to prayers, that spoke not a word to any one, only made becks
and bows to the old gentleman and lady of the house--ken ye wha she is?"

"No, indeed," answered Nigel; "some relation of the family, I suppose."

"Deil a bit--deil a bit," answered Moniplies, hastily, "not a blood- drop's kin to them, if
she had a drop of blood in her body--I tell you but what all human beings allege to be truth,
that swell within hue and cry of Lombard Street--that lady, or quean, or whatever you choose
to call her, has been dead in the body these many a year, though she haunts them, as we have
seen, even at their very devotions."

"You will allow her to be a good spirit at least," said Nigel Olifaunt, "since she chooses
such a time to visit her friends?"

"For that I kenna, my lord," answered the superstitious follower; "I ken no spirit that would
have faced the right down hammer-blow of Mess John Knox, whom my father stood by in his very
warst days, bating a chance time when the Court, which my father supplied with butcher- meat,
was against him. As to whilk story, nevertheless, I make scruple to say whether it be truth
or not, better men than I am having doubted on that matter."

"Well, well, well," said his master, impatiently, "we are now near home, and I have permitted
you to speak of this matter for once, that we may have an end to your prying folly, and your
idiotical superstitions, for ever. For whom do you, or your absurd authors or informers, take
this lady?"

"I can sae naething preceesely as to that," answered Moniplies; "certain it is her body died
and was laid in the grave many a day since, notwithstanding she still wanders on earth, and
chiefly amongst Maister Heriot's family, though she hath been seen in other places by them
that well knew her. But who she is, I will not warrant to say, or how she becomes attached,
like a Highland Brownie, to some peculiar family. They say she has a row of apartments of her
own, ante-room, parlour, and bedroom; but deil a bed she sleeps in but her own coffin, and
the walls, doors, and windows are so chinked up, as to prevent the least blink of daylight
from entering; and then she dwells by torchlight--"

"To what purpose, if she be a spirit?" said Nigel Olifaunt.

"How can I tell your lordship?" answered his attendant. "I thank God I know nothing of her
likings, or mislikings--only her coffin is there; and I leave your lordship to guess what a
live person has to do with a coffin. As little as a ghost with a lantern, I trow."

"What reason," repeated Nigel, "can a creature, so young and so beautiful, have already habitually
to contemplate her bed of last-long rest?"

"In troth, I kenna, my lord," answered Moniplies; "but there is the coffin, as they told me
who have seen it: it is made of heben-wood, with silver nails, and lined all through with three-piled
damask, might serve a princess to rest in."

"Singular," said Nigel, whose brain, like that of most active young spirits, was easily caught
by the singular and the romantic; "does she not eat with the family?"

"Who!--she!"--exclaimed Moniplies, as if surprised at the question; "they would need a lang
spoon would sup with her, I trow. Always there is something put for her into the Tower, as
they call it, whilk is a whigmaleery of a whirling-box, that turns round half on the tae side
o' the wa', half on the tother."

"I have seen the contrivance in foreign nunneries," said the Lord of Glenvarloch. "And is it
thus she receives her food?"

"They tell me something is put in ilka day, for fashion's sake," replied the attendant; "but
it's no to be supposed she would consume it, ony mair than the images of Bel and the Dragon
consumed the dainty vivers that were placed before them. There are stout yeomen and chamber-queans
in the house, enow to play the part of Lick-it-up-a', as well as the threescore and ten priests
of Bel, besides their wives and children."

"And she is never seen in the family but when the hour of prayer arrives?" said the master.

"Never, that I hear of," replied the servant.

"It is singular," said Nigel Olifaunt, musing. "Were it not for the ornaments which she wears,
and still more for her attendance upon the service of the Protestant Church, I should know
what to think, and should believe her either a Catholic votaress, who, for some cogent reason,
was allowed to make her cell here in London, or some unhappy Popish devotee, who was in the
course of undergoing a dreadful penance. As it is, I know not what to deem of it."

His reverie was interrupted by the linkboy knocking at the door of honest John Christie, whose
wife came forth with "quips, and becks, and wreathed smiles," to welcome her honoured guest
on his return to his apartment.

CHAPTER VIII

  Ay! mark the matron well--and laugh not, Harry,
  At her old steeple-hat and velvet guard--
  I've call'd her like the ear of Dionysius;
  I mean that ear-form'd vault, built o'er his dungeon,
  To catch the groans and discontented murmurs
  Of his poor bondsmen--Even so doth Martha
  Drink up, for her own purpose, all that passes,
  Or is supposed to pass, in this wide city--
  She can retail it too, if that her profit
  Shall call on her to do so; and retail it
  For your advantage, so that you can make
  Your profit jump with hers.
                            The Conspiracy.

We must now introduce to the reader's acquaintance another character, busy and important far
beyond her ostensible situation in society--in a word, Dame Ursula Suddlechop, wife of Benjamin
Suddlechop, the most renowned barber in all Fleet Street. This dame had her own particular
merits, the principal part of which was (if her own report could be trusted) an infinite desire
to be of service to her fellow-creatures. Leaving to her thin half-starved partner the boast
of having the most dexterous snap with his fingers of any shaver in London, and the care of
a shop where starved apprentices flayed the faces of those who were boobies enough to trust
them, the dame drove a separate and more lucrative trade, which yet had so many odd turns and
windings, that it seemed in many respects to contradict itself.

Its highest and most important duties were of a very secret and confidential nature, and Dame
Ursula Suddlechop was never known to betray any transaction intrusted to her, unless she had
either been indifferently paid for her service, or that some one found it convenient to give
her a double douceur to make her disgorge the secret; and these contingencies happened in so
few cases, that her character for trustiness remained as unimpeached as that for honesty and
benevolence.

In fact, she was a most admirable matron, and could be useful to the impassioned and the frail
in the rise, progress, and consequences of their passion. She could contrive an interview for
lovers who could show proper reasons for meeting privately; she could relieve the frail fair
one of the burden of a guilty passion, and perhaps establish the hopeful offspring of unlicensed
love as the heir of some family whose love was lawful, but where an heir had not followed the
union. More than this she could do, and had been concerned in deeper and dearer secrets. She
had been a pupil of Mrs. Turner, and learned from her the secret of making the yellow starch,
and, it may be, two or three other secrets of more consequence, though perhaps none that went
to the criminal extent of those whereof her mistress was accused. But all that was deep and
dark in her real character was covered by the show of outward mirth and good-humour, the hearty
laugh and buxom jest with which the dame knew well how to conciliate the elder part of her
neighbours, and the many petty arts by which she could recommend herself to the younger, those
especially of her own sex.

Dame Ursula was, in appearance, scarce past forty, and her full, but not overgrown form, and
still comely features, although her person was plumped out, and her face somewhat coloured
by good cheer, had a joyous expression of gaiety and good-humour, which set off the remains
of beauty in the wane. Marriages, births, and christenings were seldom thought to be performed
with sufficient ceremony, for a considerable distance round her abode, unless Dame Ursley,
as they called her, was present. She could contrive all sorts of pastimes, games, and jests,
which might amuse the large companies which the hospitality of our ancestors assembled together
on such occasions, so that her presence was literally considered as indispensable in the families
of all citizens of ordinary rank, at such joyous periods. So much also was she supposed to
know of life and its labyrinths, that she was the willing confidant of half the loving couples
in the vicinity, most of whom used to communicate their secrets to, and receive their counsel
from, Dame Ursley. The rich rewarded her services with rings, owches, or gold pieces, which
she liked still better; and she very generously gave her assistance to the poor, on the same
mixed principles as young practitioners in medicine assist them, partly from compassion, and
partly to keep her hand in use.

Dame Ursley's reputation in the city was the greater that her practice had extended beyond
Temple Bar, and that she had acquaintances, nay, patrons and patronesses, among the quality,
whose rank, as their members were much fewer, and the prospect of approaching the courtly sphere
much more difficult, bore a degree of consequence unknown to the present day, when the toe
of the citizen presses so close on the courtier's heel. Dame Ursley maintained her intercourse
with this superior rank of customers, partly by driving a small trade in perfumes, essences,
pomades, head-gears from France, dishes or ornaments from China, then already beginning to
be fashionable; not to mention drugs of various descriptions, chiefly for the use of the ladies,
and partly by other services, more or less connected with the esoteric branches of her profession
heretofore alluded to.

Possessing such and so many various modes of thriving, Dame Ursley was nevertheless so poor,
that she might probably have mended her own circumstances, as well as her husband's, if she
had renounced them all, and set herself quietly down to the care of her own household, and
to assist Benjamin in the concerns of his trade. But Ursula was luxurious and genial in her
habits, and could no more have endured the stinted economy of Benjamin's board, than she could
have reconciled herself to the bald chat of his conversation.

It was on the evening of the day on which Lord Nigel Olifaunt dined with the wealthy goldsmith,
that we must introduce Ursula Suddlechop upon the stage. She had that morning made a long tour
to Westminster, was fatigued, and had assumed a certain large elbow-chair, rendered smooth
by frequent use, placed on one side of her chimney, in which there was lit a small but bright
fire. Here she observed, betwixt sleeping and waking, the simmering of a pot of well-spiced
ale, on the brown surface of which bobbed a small crab-apple, sufficiently roasted, while a
little mulatto girl watched, still more attentively, the process of dressing a veal sweetbread,
in a silver stewpan which occupied the other side of the chimney. With these viands, doubtless,
Dame Ursula proposed concluding the well spent day, of which she reckoned the labour over,
and the rest at her own command. She was deceived, however; for just as the ale, or, to speak
technically, the lamb's-wool, was fitted for drinking, and the little dingy maiden intimated
that the sweetbread was ready to be eaten, the thin cracked voice of Benjamin was heard from
the bottom of the stairs.

"Why, Dame Ursley--why, wife, I say--why, dame--why, love, you are wanted more than a strop
for a blunt razor--why, dame--"

"I would some one would draw a razor across thy windpipe, thou bawling ass!" said the dame
to herself, in the first moment of irritation against her clamorous helpmate; and then called
aloud,--"Why, what is the matter, Master Suddlechop? I am just going to slip into bed; I have
been daggled to and fro the whole day."

"Nay, sweetheart, it is not me," said the patient Benjamin, "but the Scots laundry-maid from
neighbour Ramsay's, who must speak with you incontinent."

At the word sweetheart, Dame Ursley cast a wistful look at the mess which was stewed to a second
in the stewpan, and then replied, with a sigh,--"Bid Scots Jenny come up, Master Suddlechop.
I shall be very happy to hear what she has to say;" then added in a lower tone, "and I hope
she will go to the devil in the flame of a tar-barrel, like many a Scots witch before her!"

The Scots laundress entered accordingly, and having heard nothing of the last kind wish of
Dame Suddlechop, made her reverence with considerable respect, and said, her young mistress
had returned home unwell, and wished to see her neighbour, Dame Ursley, directly.

"And why will it not do to-morrow, Jenny, my good woman?" said Dame Ursley; "for I have been
as far as Whitehall to-day already, and I am well-nigh worn off my feet, my good woman."

"Aweel!" answered Jenny, with great composure, "and if that sae be sae, I maun take the langer
tramp mysell, and maun gae down the waterside for auld Mother Redcap, at the Hungerford Stairs,
that deals in comforting young creatures, e'en as you do yoursell, hinny; for ane o' ye the
bairn maun see before she sleeps, and that's a' that I ken on't."

So saying, the old emissary, without farther entreaty, turned on her heel, and was about to
retreat, when Dame Ursley exclaimed,--"No, no-- if the sweet child, your mistress, has any
necessary occasion for good advice and kind tendance, you need not go to Mother Redcap, Janet.
She may do very well for skippers' wives, chandlers' daughters, and such like; but nobody shall
wait on pretty Mistress Margaret, the daughter of his most Sacred Majesty's horologer, excepting
and saving myself. And so I will but take my chopins and my cloak, and put on my muffler, and
cross the street to neighbour Ramsay's in an instant. But tell me yourself, good Jenny, are
you not something tired of your young lady's frolics and change of mind twenty times a-day?"

"In troth, not I," said the patient drudge, "unless it may be when she is a wee fashious about
washing her laces; but I have been her keeper since she was a bairn, neighbour Suddlechop,
and that makes a difference."

"Ay," said Dame Ursley, still busied putting on additional defences against the night air;
"and you know for certain that she has two hundred pounds a-year in good land, at her own free
disposal?"

"Left by her grandmother, heaven rest her soul!" said the Scotswoman; "and to a daintier lassie
she could not have bequeathed it."

"Very true, very true, mistress; for, with all her little whims, I have always said Mistress
Margaret Ramsay was the prettiest girl in the ward; and, Jenny, I warrant the poor child has
had no supper?"

Jenny could not say but it was the case, for, her master being out, the twa 'prentice lads
had gone out after shutting shop, to fetch them home, and she and the other maid had gone out
to Sandy MacGivan's, to see a friend frae Scotland.

"As was very natural, Mrs. Janet," said Dame Ursley, who found her interest in assenting to
all sorts of propositions from all sorts of persons.

"And so the fire went out, too,"--said Jenny.

"Which was the most natural of the whole," said Dame Suddlechop; "and so, to cut the matter
short, Jenny, I'll carry over the little bit of supper that I was going to eat. For dinner
I have tasted none, and it may be my young pretty Mistress Marget will eat a morsel with me;
for it is mere emptiness, Mistress Jenny, that often puts these fancies of illness into young
folk's heads." So saying, she put the silver posset-cup with the ale into Jenny's hands and
assuming her mantle with the alacrity of one determined to sacrifice inclination to duty, she
hid the stewpan under its folds, and commanded Wilsa, the little mulatto girl, to light them
across the street.

"Whither away, so late?" said the barber, whom they passed seated with his starveling boys
round a mess of stockfish and parsnips, in the shop below.

"If I were to tell you, Gaffer," said the dame, with most contemptuous coolness, "I do not
think you could do my errand, so I will e'en keep it to myself." Benjamin was too much accustomed
to his wife's independent mode of conduct, to pursue his inquiry farther; nor did the dame
tarry for farther question, but marched out at the door, telling the eldest of the boys "to
sit up till her return, and look to the house the whilst."

The night was dark and rainy, and although the distance betwixt the two shops was short, it
allowed Dame Ursley leisure enough, while she strode along with high-tucked petticoats, to
embitter it by the following grumbling reflections--"I wonder what I have done, that I must
needs trudge at every old beldam's bidding, and every young minx's maggot! I have been marched
from Temple Bar to Whitechapel, on the matter of a pinmaker's wife having pricked her fingers--marry,
her husband that made the weapon might have salved the wound.--And here is this fantastic ape,
pretty Mistress Marget, forsooth--such a beauty as I could make of a Dutch doll, and as fantastic,
and humorous, and conceited, as if she were a duchess. I have seen her in the same day as changeful
as a marmozet and as stubborn as a mule. I should like to know whether her little conceited
noddle, or her father's old crazy calculating jolter-pate, breeds most whimsies. But then there's
that two hundred pounds a-year in dirty land, and the father is held a close chuff, though
a fanciful--he is our landlord besides, and she has begged a late day from him for our rent;
so, God help me, I must be comfortable--besides, the little capricious devil is my only key
to get at Master George Heriot's secret, and it concerns my character to find that out; and
so, ANDIAMOS, as the lingua franca hath it."

Thus pondering, she moved forward with hasty strides until she arrived at the watchmaker's
habitation. The attendant admitted them by means of a pass-key. Onward glided Dame Ursula,
now in glimmer and now in gloom, not like the lovely Lady Cristabelle through Gothic sculpture
and ancient armour, but creeping and stumbling amongst relics of old machines, and models of
new inventions in various branches of mechanics with which wrecks of useless ingenuity, either
in a broken or half-finished shape, the apartment of the fanciful though ingenious mechanist
was continually lumbered.

At length they attained, by a very narrow staircase, pretty Mistress Margaret's apartment,
where she, the cynosure of the eyes of every bold young bachelor in Fleet Street, sat in a
posture which hovered between the discontented and the disconsolate. For her pretty back and
shoulders were rounded into a curve, her round and dimpled chin reposed in the hollow of her
little palm, while the fingers were folded over her mouth; her elbow rested on a table, and
her eyes seemed fixed upon the dying charcoal, which was expiring in a small grate. She scarce
turned her head when Dame Ursula entered, and when the presence of that estimable matron was
more precisely announced in words by the old Scotswoman, Mistress Margaret, without changing
her posture, muttered some sort of answer that was wholly unintelligible.

"Go your ways down to the kitchen with Wilsa, good Mistress Jenny," said Dame Ursula, who was
used to all sorts of freaks, on the part of her patients or clients, whichever they might be
termed; "put the stewpan and the porringer by the fireside, and go down below--I must speak
to my pretty love, Mistress Margaret, by myself--and there is not a bachelor betwixt this and
Bow but will envy me the privilege."

The attendants retired as directed, and Dame Ursula, having availed herself of the embers of
charcoal, to place her stewpan to the best advantage, drew herself as close as she could to
her patient, and began in a low, soothing, and confidential tone of voice, to inquire what
ailed her pretty flower of neighbours.

"Nothing, dame," said Margaret somewhat pettishly, and changing her posture so as rather to
turn her back upon the kind inquirer.

"Nothing, lady-bird!" answered Dame Suddlechop; "and do you use to send for your friends out
of bed at this hour for nothing?"

"It was not I who sent for you, dame," replied the malecontent maiden.

"And who was it, then?" said Ursula; "for if I had not been sent for, I had not been here at
this time of night, I promise you!"

"It was the old Scotch fool Jenny, who did it out of her own head, I suppose," said Margaret;
"for she has been stunning me these two hours about you and Mother Redcap."

"Me and Mother Redcap!" said Dame Ursula, "an old fool indeed, that couples folk up so.--But
come, come, my sweet little neighbour, Jenny is no such fool after all; she knows young folks
want more and better advice than her own, and she knows, too, where to find it for them; so
you must take heart of grace, my pretty maiden, and tell me what you are moping about, and
then let Dame Ursula alone for finding out a cure."

"Nay, an ye be so wise, Mother Ursula," replied the girl, "you may guess what I ail without
my telling you."

"Ay, ay, child," answered the complaisant matron, "no one can play better than I at the good
old game of What is my thought like? Now I'll warrant that little head of yours is running
on a new head-tire, a foot higher than those our city dames wear--or you are all for a trip
to Islington or Ware, and your father is cross and will not consent--or----"

"Or you are an old fool, Dame Suddlechop," said Margaret, peevishly, "and must needs trouble
yourself about matters you know nothing of."

"Fool as much as you will, mistress," said Dame Ursula, offended in her turn, "but not so very
many years older than yourself, mistress."

"Oh! we are angry, are we?" said the beauty; "and pray, Madam Ursula, how come you, that are
not so many years older than me, to talk about such nonsense to me, who am so many years younger,
and who yet have too much sense to care about head-gears and Islington?"

"Well, well, young mistress," said the sage counsellor, rising, "I perceive I can be of no
use here; and methinks, since you know your own matters so much better than other people do,
you might dispense with disturbing folks at midnight to ask their advice."

"Why, now you are angry, mother," said Margaret, detaining her; "this comes of your coming
out at eventide without eating your supper--I never heard you utter a cross word after you
had finished your little morsel.--Here, Janet, a trencher and salt for Dame Ursula;--and what
have you in that porringer, dame?--Filthy clammy ale, as I would live --Let Janet fling it
out of the window, or keep it for my father's morning draught; and she shall bring you the
pottle of sack that was set ready for him--good man, he will never find out the difference,
for ale will wash down his dusty calculations quite as well as wine."

"Truly, sweetheart, I am of your opinion," said Dame Ursula, whose temporary displeasure vanished
at once before these preparations for good cheer; and so, settling herself on the great easy-chair,
with a three-legged table before her, she began to dispatch, with good appetite, the little
delicate dish which she had prepared for herself. She did not, however, fail in the duties
of civility, and earnestly, but in vain, pressed Mistress Margaret to partake her dainties.
The damsel declined the invitation.

"At least pledge me in a glass of sack," said Dame Ursula; "I have heard my grandame say, that
before the gospellers came in, the old Catholic father confessors and their penitents always
had a cup of sack together before confession; and you are my penitent."

"I shall drink no sack, I am sure," said Margaret; "and I told you before, that if you cannot
find out what ails me, I shall never have the heart to tell it."

So saying, she turned away from Dame Ursula once more, and resumed her musing posture, with
her hand on her elbow, and her back, at least one shoulder, turned towards her confidant.

"Nay, then," said Dame Ursula, "I must exert my skill in good earnest.--You must give me this
pretty hand, and I will tell you by palmistry, as well as any gipsy of them all, what foot
it is you halt upon."

"As if I halted on any foot at all," said Margaret, something scornfully, but yielding her
left hand to Ursula, and continuing at the same time her averted position.

"I see brave lines here," said Ursula, "and not ill to read neither-- pleasure and wealth,
and merry nights and late mornings to my Beauty, and such an equipage as shall shake Whitehall.
O, have I touched you there?--and smile you now, my pretty one?--for why should not he be Lord
Mayor, and go to Court in his gilded caroch, as others have done before him?"

"Lord Mayor? pshaw!" replied Margaret.

"And why pshaw at my Lord Mayor, sweetheart? or perhaps you pshaw at my prophecy; but there
is a cross in every one's line of life as well as in yours, darling. And what though I see
a 'prentice's flat cap in this pretty palm, yet there is a sparking black eye under it, hath
not its match in the Ward of Farringdon-Without."

"Whom do you mean, dame?" said Margaret coldly.

"Whom should I mean," said Dame Ursula, "but the prince of 'prentices, and king of good company,
Jenkin Vincent?"

"Out, woman--Jenkin Vincent?--a clown--a Cockney!" exclaimed the indignant damsel.

"Ay, sets the wind in that quarter, Beauty!" quoth the dame; "why, it has changed something
since we spoke together last, for then I would have sworn it blew fairer for poor Jin Vin;
and the poor lad dotes on you too, and would rather see your eyes than the first glimpse of
the sun on the great holiday on May-day."

"I would my eyes had the power of the sun to blind his, then," said Margaret, "to teach the
drudge his place."

"Nay," said Dame Ursula, "there be some who say that Frank Tunstall is as proper a lad as Jin
Vin, and of surety he is third cousin to a knighthood, and come of a good house; and so mayhap
you may be for northward ho!"

"Maybe I may"--answered Margaret, "but not with my father's 'prentice --I thank you, Dame Ursula."

"Nay, then, the devil may guess your thoughts for me," said Dame Ursula; "this comes of trying
to shoe a filly that is eternally wincing and shifting ground!"

"Hear me, then," said Margaret, "and mind what I say.--This day I dined abroad--"

"I can tell you where," answered her counsellor,--"with your godfather the rich goldsmith--ay,
you see I know something--nay, I could tell you, as I would, with whom, too."

"Indeed!" said Margaret, turning suddenly round with an accent of strong surprise, and colouring
up to the eyes.

"With old Sir Mungo Malagrowther," said the oracular dame,--"he was trimmed in my Benjamin's
shop in his way to the city."

"Pshaw! the frightful old mouldy skeleton!" said the damsel.

"Indeed you say true, my dear," replied the confidant,--"it is a shame to him to be out of
Saint Pancras's charnel-house, for I know no other place he is fit for, the foul-mouthed old
railer. He said to my husband--"

"Somewhat which signifies nothing to our purpose, I dare say," interrupted Margaret. "I must
speak, then.--There dined with us a nobleman--"

"A nobleman! the maiden's mad!" said Dame Ursula.

"There dined with us, I say," continued Margaret, without regarding the interruption, "a nobleman--a
Scottish nobleman."

"Now Our Lady keep her!" said the confidant, "she is quite frantic!-- heard ever any one of
a watchmaker's daughter falling in love with a nobleman--and a Scots nobleman, to make the
matter complete, who are all as proud as Lucifer, and as poor as Job?--A Scots nobleman, quotha?
I had lief you told me of a Jew pedlar. I would have you think how all this is to end, pretty
one, before you jump in the dark."

"That is nothing to you, Ursula--it is your assistance," said Mistress Margaret, "and not your
advice, that I am desirous to have, and you know I can make it worth your while."

"O, it is not for the sake of lucre, Mistress Margaret," answered the obliging dame; "but truly
I would have you listen to some advice-- bethink you of your own condition."

"My father's calling is mechanical," said Margaret, "but our blood is not so. I have heard
my father say that we are descended, at a distance indeed, from the great Earls of Dalwolsey."
[Footnote: The head of the ancient and distinguished house of Ramsay, and to whom, as their
chief, the individuals of that name look as their origin and source of gentry. Allan Ramsay,
the pastoral poet, in the same manner, makes

    "Dalhousie of an auld descent,
     My chief, my stoup, my ornament."]

"Ay, ay," said Dame Ursula; "even so--I never knew a Scot of you but was descended, as ye call
it, from some great house or other; and a piteous descent it often is--and as for the distance
you speak of, it is so great as to put you out of sight of each other. Yet do not toss your
pretty head so scornfully, but tell me the name of this lordly northern gallant, and we will
try what can be done in the matter."

"It is Lord Glenvarloch, whom they call Lord Nigel Olifaunt," said Margaret in a low voice,
and turning away to hide her blushes.

"Marry, Heaven forefend!" exclaimed Dame Suddlechop; "this is the very devil, and something worse!"

"How mean you?" said the damsel, surprised at the vivacity of her exclamation.

"Why, know ye not," said the dame, "what powerful enemies he has at Court? know ye not--But
blisters on my tongue, it runs too fast for my wit--enough to say, that you had better make
your bridal-bed under a falling house, than think of young Glenvarloch."

"He IS unfortunate then?" said Margaret; "I knew it--I divined it-- there was sorrow in his
voice when he said even what was gay--there was a touch of misfortune in his melancholy smile--he
had not thus clung to my thoughts had I seen him in all the mid-day glare of prosperity."

"Romances have cracked her brain!" said Dame Ursula; "she is a castaway girl--utterly distraught--loves
a Scots lord--and likes him the better for being unfortunate! Well, mistress, I am sorry this
is a matter I cannot aid you in--it goes against my conscience, and it is an affair above my
condition, and beyond my management;--but I will keep your counsel."

"You will not be so base as to desert me, after having drawn my secret from me?" said Margaret,
indignantly; "if you do, I know how to have my revenge; and if you do not, I will reward you
well. Remember the house your husband dwells in is my father's property."

"I remember it but too well, Mistress Margaret," said Ursula, after a moment's reflection,
"and I would serve you in any thing in my condition; but to meddle with such high matters--I
shall never forget poor Mistress Turner, my honoured patroness, peace be with her!--she had
the ill-luck to meddle in the matter of Somerset and Overbury, and so the great earl and his
lady slipt their necks out of the collar, and left her and some half-dozen others to suffer
in their stead. I shall never forget the sight of her standing on the scaffold with the ruff
round her pretty neck, all done up with the yellow starch which I had so often helped her to
make, and that was so soon to give place to a rough hempen cord. Such a sight, sweetheart,
will make one loath to meddle with matters that are too hot or heavy for their handling."

"Out, you fool!" answered Mistress Margaret; "am I one to speak to you about such criminal
practices as that wretch died for? All I desire of you is, to get me precise knowledge of what
affair brings this young nobleman to Court."

"And when you have his secret," said Ursula, "what will it avail you, sweetheart?--and yet
I would do your errand, if you could do as much for me."

"And what is it you would have of me?" said Mistress Margaret.

"What you have been angry with me for asking before," answered Dame Ursula. "I want to have
some light about the story of your godfather's ghost, that is only seen at prayers."

"Not for the world," said Mistress Margaret, "will I be a spy on my kind godfather's secrets--No,
Ursula--that I will never pry into, which he desires to keep hidden. But thou knowest that
I have a fortune, of my own, which must at no distant day come under my own management--think
of some other recompense."

"Ay, that I well know," said the counsellor--"it is that two hundred per year, with your father's
indulgence, that makes you so wilful, sweetheart."

"It may be so,"--said Margaret Ramsay; "meanwhile, do you serve me truly, and here is a ring
of value in pledge, that when my fortune is in my own hand, I will redeem the token with fifty
broad pieces of gold."

"Fifty broad pieces of gold!" repeated the dame; "and this ring, which is a right fair one,
in token you fail not of your word!--Well, sweetheart, if I must put my throat in peril, I
am sure I cannot risk it for a friend more generous than you; and I would not think of more
than the pleasure of serving you, only Benjamin gets more idle every day, and our family----"

"Say no more of it," said Margaret; "we understand each other. And now, tell me what you know
of this young man's affairs, which made you so unwilling to meddle with them?"

"Of that I can say no great matter as yet," answered Dame Ursula; "only I know, the most powerful
among his own countrymen are against him, and also the most powerful at the Court here. But
I will learn more of it; for it will be a dim print that I will not read for your sake, pretty
Mistress Margaret. Know you where this gallant dwells?"

"I heard by accident," said Margaret, as if ashamed of the minute particularity of her memory
upon such an occasion,--"he lodges, I think--at one Christie's--if I mistake not--at Paul's
Wharf--a ship- chandler's."

"A proper lodging for a young baron!--Well, but cheer you up, Mistress Margaret--If he has
come up a caterpillar, like some of his countrymen, he may cast his slough like them, and come
out a butterfly.--So I drink good-night, and sweet dreams to you, in another parting cup of
sack; and you shall hear tidings of me within four-and- twenty hours. And, once more, I commend
you to your pillow, my pearl of pearls, and Marguerite of Marguerites!"

So saying, she kissed the reluctant cheek of her young friend, or patroness, and took her departure
with the light and stealthy pace of one accustomed to accommodate her footsteps to the purposes
of dispatch and secrecy.

Margaret Ramsay looked after her for some time, in anxious silence. "I did ill," she at length
murmured, "to let her wring this out of me; but she is artful, bold and serviceable--and I
think faithful--or, if not, she will be true at least to her interest, and that I can command.
I would I had not spoken, however--I have begun a hopeless work. For what has he said to me,
to warrant my meddling in his fortunes?--Nothing but words of the most ordinary import--mere
table- talk, and terms of course. Yet who knows"--she said, and then broke off, looking at
the glass the while, which, as it reflected back a face of great beauty, probably suggested
to her mind a more favourable conclusion of the sentence than she cared to trust her tongue withal.

On the morning of the day on which George Heriot had prepared to escort the young Lord of Glenvarloch
to the Court at Whitehall, it may be reasonably supposed, that the young man, whose fortunes
were likely to depend on this cast, felt himself more than usually anxious. He rose early,
made his toilette with uncommon care, and, being enabled, by the generosity of his more plebeian
countryman, to set out a very handsome person to the best advantage, he obtained a momentary
approbation from himself as he glanced at the mirror, and a loud and distinct plaudit from
his landlady, who declared at once, that, in her judgment, he would take the wind out of the
sail of every gallant in the presence--so much had she been able to enrich her discourse with
the metaphors of those with whom her husband dealt.

At the appointed hour, the barge of Master George Heriot arrived, handsomely manned and appointed,
having a tilt, with his own cipher, and the arms of his company, painted thereupon.

The young Lord of Glenvarloch received the friend, who had evinced such disinterested attachment,
with the kind courtesy which well became him.

Master Heriot then made him acquainted with the bounty of his sovereign; which he paid over
to his young friend, declining what he had himself formerly advanced to him. Nigel felt all
the gratitude which the citizen's disinterested friendship had deserved, and was not wanting
in expressing it suitably.

Yet, as the young and high-born nobleman embarked to go to the presence of his prince, under
the patronage of one whose best, or most distinguished qualification, was his being an eminent
member of the Goldsmiths' Incorporation, he felt a little surprised, if not abashed, at his
own situation; and Richie Moniplies, as he stepped over the gangway to take his place forward
in the boat, could not help muttering,--"It was a changed day betwixt Master Heriot and his
honest father in the Kraemes;--but, doubtless, there was a difference between clinking on gold
and silver, and clattering upon pewter."

On they glided, by the assistance of the oars of four stout watermen, along the Thames, which
then served for the principal high-road betwixt London and Westminster; for few ventured on
horseback through the narrow and crowded streets of the city, and coaches were then a luxury
reserved only for the higher nobility, and to which no citizen, whatever was his wealth, presumed
to aspire. The beauty of the banks, especially on the northern side, where the gardens of the
nobility descended from their hotels, in many places, down to the water's edge, was pointed
out to Nigel by his kind conductor, and was pointed out in vain. The mind of the young Lord
of Glenvarloch was filled with anticipations, not the most pleasant, concerning the manner
in which he was likely to be received by that monarch, in whose behalf his family had been
nearly reduced to ruin; and he was, with the usual mental anxiety of those in such a situation,
framing imaginary questions from the king, and over-toiling his spirit in devising answers to them.

His conductor saw the labour of Nigel's mind, and avoided increasing it by farther conversation;
so that, when he had explained to him briefly the ceremonies observed at Court on such occasions
of presentation, the rest of their voyage was performed in silence.

They landed at Whitehall Stairs, and entered the Palace after announcing their names,--the
guards paying to Lord Glenvarloch the respect and honours due to his rank.

The young man's heart beat high and thick within him as he came into
the royal apartments. His education abroad, conducted, as it had been,
on a narrow and limited scale, had given him but imperfect ideas of
the grandeur of a Court; and the philosophical reflections which
taught him to set ceremonial and exterior splendour at defiance,
proved, like other maxims of mere philosophy, ineffectual, at the
moment they were weighed against the impression naturally made on the
mind of an inexperienced youth, by the unusual magnificence of the
scene. The splendid apartments through which they passed,
 the rich apparel of the grooms, guards, and domestics in waiting, and
the ceremonial attending their passage through the long suite of
apartments, had something in it, trifling and commonplace as it might
appear to practised courtiers, embarrassing, and even alarming, to
one, who went through these forms for the first time, and who was
doubtful what sort of reception was to accompany his first appearance
before his sovereign.

Heriot, in anxious attention to save his young friend from any momentary awkwardness, had taken
care to give the necessary password to the warders, grooms of the chambers, ushers, or by whatever
name they were designated; so they passed on without interruption.

In this manner they passed several ante-rooms, filled chiefly with guards, attendants of the
Court, and their acquaintances, male and female, who, dressed in their best apparel, and with
eyes rounded by eager curiosity to make the most of their opportunity, stood, with beseeming
modesty, ranked against the wall, in a manner which indicated that they were spectators, not
performers, in the courtly exhibition.

Through these exterior apartments Lord Glenvarloch and his city friend advanced into a large
and splendid withdrawing-room, communicating with the presence-chamber, into which ante-room
were admitted those only who, from birth, their posts in the state or household, or by the
particular grant of the kings, had right to attend the Court, as men entitled to pay their
respects to their sovereign.

Amid this favoured and selected company, Nigel observed Sir Mungo Malagrowther, who, avoided
and discountenanced by those who knew how low he stood in Court interest and favour, was but
too happy in the opportunity of hooking himself upon a person of Lord Glenvarloch's rank, who
was, as yet, so inexperienced as to feel it difficult to shake off an intruder.

The knight forthwith framed his grim features to a ghastly smile, and, after a preliminary
and patronising nod to George Heriot, accompanied with an aristocratic wave of the hand, which
intimated at once superiority and protection, he laid aside altogether the honest citizen,
to whom he owed many a dinner, to attach himself exclusively to the young lord, although he
suspected he might be occasionally in the predicament of needing one as much as himself. And
even the notice of this original, singular and unamiable as he was, was not entirely indifferent
to Lord Glenvarloch, since the absolute and somewhat constrained silence of his good friend
Heriot, which left him at liberty to retire painfully to his own agitating reflections, was
now relieved; while, on the other hand, he could not help feeling interest in the sharp and
sarcastic information poured upon him by an observant, though discontented courtier, to whom
a patient auditor, and he a man of title and rank, was as much a prize, as his acute and communicative
disposition rendered him an entertaining companion to Nigel Olifaunt. Heriot, in the meantime,
neglected by Sir Mungo, and avoiding every attempt by which the grateful politeness of Lord
Glenvarloch strove to bring him into the conversation, stood by, with a kind of half smile
on his countenance; but whether excited by Sir Mungo's wit, or arising at his expense, did
not exactly appear.

In the meantime, the trio occupied a nook of the ante-room, next to the door of the presence-chamber,
which was not yet thrown open, when Maxwell, with his rod of office, came bustling into the
apartment, where most men, excepting those of high rank, made way for him. He stopped beside
the party in which we are interested, looked for a moment at the young Scots nobleman, then
made a slight obeisance to Heriot, and lastly, addressing Sir Mungo Malagrowther, began a hurried
complaint to him of the misbehaviour of the gentlemen-pensioners and warders, who suffered
all sort of citizens, suitors, and scriveners, to sneak into the outer apartments, without
either respect or decency.--"The English," he said, "were scandalised, for such a thing durst
not be attempted in the queen's days. In her time, there was then the court-yard for the mobility,
and the apartments for the nobility; and it reflects on your place, Sir Mungo," he added, "belonging
to the household as you do, that such things should not be better ordered."

Here Sir Mungo, afflicted, as was frequently the case on such occasions, with one of his usual
fits of deafness, answered, "It was no wonder the mobility used freedoms, when those whom they
saw in office were so little better in blood and havings than themselves."

"You are right, sir--quite right," said Maxwell, putting his hand on the tarnished embroidery
on the old knight's sleeve,--"when such fellows see men in office dressed in cast-off suits,
like paltry stage-players, it is no wonder the Court is thronged with intruders."

"Were you lauding the taste of my embroidery, Maister Maxwell?" answered the knight, who apparently
interpreted the deputy- chamberlain's meaning rather from his action than his words;--"it is
of an ancient and liberal pattern, having been made by your mother's father, auld James Stitchell,
a master-fashioner of honest repute, in Merlin's Wynd, whom I made a point to employ, as I
am now happy to remember, seeing your father thought fit to intermarry with sic a person's
daughter."

Maxwell looked stern; but, conscious there was nothing to be got of Sir Mungo in the way of
amends, and that prosecuting the quarrel with such an adversary would only render him ridiculous,
and make public a mis-alliance of which he had no reason to be proud, he covered his resentment
with a sneer; and, expressing his regret that Sir Mungo was become too deaf to understand or
attend to what was said to him, walked on, and planted himself beside the folding-doors of
the presence-chamber, at which he was to perform the duty of deputy- chamberlain, or usher,
so soon as they should be opened.

"The door of the presence is about to open," said the goldsmith, in a whisper, to his young
friend; "my condition permits me to go no farther with you. Fail not to present yourself boldly,
according to your birth, and offer your Supplication; which the king will not refuse to accept,
and, as I hope, to consider favourably."

As he spoke, the door of the presence-chamber opened accordingly, and, as is usual on such
occasions, the courtiers began to advance towards it, and to enter in a slow, but continuous
and uninterrupted stream.

As Nigel presented himself in his turn at the entrance, and mentioned his name and title, Maxwell
seemed to hesitate. "You are not known to any one," he said. "It is my duty to suffer no one
to pass to the presence, my lord, whose face is unknown to me, unless upon the word of a responsible
person."

"I came with Master George Heriot," said Nigel, in some embarrassment at this unexpected interruption.

"Master Heriot's name will pass current for much gold and silver, my lord," replied Maxwell,
with a civil sneer, "but not for birth and rank. I am compelled by my office to be peremptory.--The
entrance is impeded--I am much concerned to say it--your lordship must stand back."

"What is the matter?" said an old Scottish nobleman, who had been speaking with George Heriot,
after he had separated from Nigel, and who now came forward, observing the altercation betwixt
the latter and Maxwell.

"It is only Master Deputy-Chamberlain Maxwell," said Sir Mungo Malagrowther, "expressing his
joy to see Lord Glenvarloch at Court, whose father gave him his office--at least I think he
is speaking to that purport--for your lordship kens my imperfection." A subdued laugh, such
as the situation permitted, passed round amongst those who heard this specimen of Sir Mungo's
sarcastic temper. But the old nobleman stepped still more forward, saying,--"What!--the son
of my gallant old opponent, Ochtred Olifaunt--I will introduce him to the presence myself."

So saying, he took Nigel by the arm, without farther ceremony, and was about to lead him forward,
when Maxwell, still keeping his rod across the door, said, but with hesitation and embarrassment--"My
lord, this gentleman is not known, and I have orders to be scrupulous."

"Tutti--taiti, man," said the old lord, "I will be answerable he is his father's son, from
the cut of his eyebrow--and thou, Maxwell, knewest his father well enough to have spared thy
scruples. Let us pass, man." So saying, he put aside the deputy-chamberlain's rod, and entered
the presence-room, still holding the young nobleman by the arm.

"Why, I must know you, man," he said; "I must know you. I knew your father well, man, and I
have broke a lance and crossed a blade with him; and it is to my credit that I am living to
brag of it. He was king's-man and I was queen's-man during the Douglas wars--young fellows
both, that feared neither fire nor steel; and we had some old feudal quarrels besides, that
had come down from father to son, with our seal-rings, two-harided broad-swords, and plate-coats,
and the crests on our burgonets."

"Too loud, my Lord of Huntinglen," whispered a gentleman of the chamber,--"The King!--the King!"

The old earl (for such he proved) took the hint, and was silent; and James, advancing from
a side-door, received in succession the compliments of strangers, while a little group of favourite
courtiers, or officers of the household, stood around him, to whom he addressed himself from
time to time. Some more pains had been bestowed on his toilette than upon the occasion when
we first presented the monarch to our readers; but there was a natural awkwardness about his
figure which prevented his clothes from sitting handsomely, and the prudence or timidity of
his disposition had made him adopt the custom already noticed, of wearing a dress so thickly
quilted as might withstand the stroke of a dagger, which added an ungainly stiffness to his
whole appearance, contrasting oddly with the frivolous, ungraceful, and fidgeting motions with
which he accompanied his conversation. And yet, though the king's deportment was very undignified,
he had a manner so kind, familiar, and good-humoured, was so little apt to veil over or conceal
his own foibles, and had so much indulgence and sympathy for those of others, that his address,
joined to his learning, and a certain proportion of shrewd mother-wit, failed not to make a
favourable impression on those who approached his person.

When the Earl of Huntinglen had presented Nigel to his sovereign, a ceremony which the good
peer took upon himself, the king received the young lord very graciously, and observed to his
introducer, that he "was fain to see them twa stand side by side; for I trow, my Lord Huntinglen,"
continued he, "your ancestors, ay, and e'en your lordship's self and this lad's father, have
stood front to front at the sword's point, and that is a worse posture."

"Until your Majesty," said Lord Huntinglen, "made Lord Ochtred and me cross palms, upon the
memorable day when your Majesty feasted all the nobles that were at feud together, and made
them join hands in your presence--"

"I mind it weel," said the king; "I mind it weel--it was a blessed day, being the nineteen
of September, of all days in the year--and it was a blithe sport to see how some of the carles
girned as they clapped loofs together. By my saul, I thought some of them, mair special the
Hieland chiels, wad have broken out in our own presence; but we caused them to march hand in
hand to the Cross, ourselves leading the way, and there drink a blithe cup of kindness with
ilk other, to the stanching of feud, and perpetuation of amity. Auld John Anderson was Provost
that year--the carle grat for joy, and the bailies and councillors danced bare-headed in our
presence like five- year-auld colts, for very triumph."

"It was indeed a happy day," said Lord Huntinglen, "and will not be forgotten in the history
of your Majesty's reign."

"I would not that it were, my lord," replied the monarch--"I would not that it were pretermitted
in our annals. Ay, ay--BEATI PACIFICI. My English lieges here may weel make much of me, for
I would have them to know, they have gotten the only peaceable man that ever came of my family.
If James with the Fiery Face had come amongst you," he said, looking round him, "or my great
grandsire, of Flodden memory!"

"We should have sent him back to the north again," whispered one English nobleman.

"At least," said another, in the same inaudible tone, "we should have had a MAN to our sovereign,
though he were but a Scotsman."

"And now, my young springald," said the king to Lord Glenvarloch, "where have you been spending
your calf-time?"

"At Leyden, of late, may it please your Majesty," answered Lord Nigel.

"Aha! a scholar," said the king; "and, by my saul, a modest and ingenuous youth, that hath
not forgotten how to blush, like most of our travelled Monsieurs. We will treat him conformably."

Then drawing himself up, coughing slightly, and looking around him with the conscious importance
of superior learning, while all the courtiers who understood, or understood not, Latin, pressed
eagerly forward to listen, the sapient monarch prosecuted his inquiries as follows:--

"Hem! hem! salve bis, quaterque salve, glenvarlochides noster! Nuperumne ab lugduno batavorum
britanniam rediisti?"

The young nobleman replied, bowing low--

"Imo, rex augustissime--biennium fere apud lugdunenses Moratus sum."

James proceeded--

"Biennium dicis? Bene, bene, optume factum est--non uno Die, quod dicunt,--intelligisti, domine
glenvarlochiensis? Aha!"

Nigel replied by a reverent bow, and the king, turning to those behind him, said--

"Adolescens quidem ingenui vultus ingenuique pudoris." Then resumed his learned queries. "et
quid hodie lugdunenses loquuntur--vossius vester nihilne novi scripsit?--nihil certe, quod
doleo, typis recenter editit."

"Valet quidem vossius, rex benevole." replied Nigel, "ast senex veneratissimus annum agit,
ni fallor, septuagesimum."

"Virum, mehercle, vix tam grandaevum crediderim," replied the monarch. "et vorstius iste?--arminii
improbi successor aeque ac sectator--herosne adhuc, ut cum homero loquar, <ZOOS ESTI KAI EPI
THONI DERKOV>?" text in Greek

Nigel, by good fortune, remembered that Vorstius, the divine last mentioned in his Majesty's
queries about the state of Dutch literature, had been engaged in a personal controversy with
James, in which the king had taken so deep an interest, as at length to hint in his public
correspondence with the United States, that they would do well to apply the secular arm to
stop the progress of heresy by violent measures against the Professor's person--a demand which
their Mighty Mightinesses' principles of universal toleration induced them to elude, though
with some difficulty. Knowing all this, Lord Glenvarloch, though a courtier of only five minutes'
standing, had address enough to reply--

"Vivum quidem, haud diu est, hominem videbam--vigere autem quis dicat qui sub fulminibus eloquentiae
tuae, rex magne, jamdudum pronus jacet, et prostratus?"

[Footnote: Lest any lady or gentleman should suspect there is aught of mystery concealed under
the sentences printed in Italics, they will be pleased to understand that they contain only
a few commonplace Latin phrases, relating to the state of letters in Holland, which neither
deserve, nor would endure, a literal translation.]

This last tribute to his polemical powers completed James's happiness, which the triumph of
exhibiting his erudition had already raised to a considerable height.

He rubbed his hands, snapped his fingers, fidgeted, chuckled, exclaimed--"Euge! Belle! Optime!"
and turning to the Bishops of Exeter and Oxford, who stood behind him, he said.--"Ye see, my
lords, no bad specimen of our Scottish Latinity, with which language we would all our subjects
of England were as well embued as this, and other youths of honourable birth, in our auld kingdom;
also, we keep the genuine and Roman pronunciation, like other learned nations on the continent,
sae that we hold communing with any scholar in the universe, who can but speak the Latin tongue;
whereas ye, our learned subjects of England, have introduced into your universities, otherwise
most learned, a fashion of pronouncing like unto the 'nippit foot and clippit foot' of the
bride in the fairy tale, whilk manner of speech, (take it not amiss that I be round with you)
can be understood by no nation on earth saving yourselves; whereby Latin, quoad anglos, ceaseth
to be communis lingua, the general dragoman, or interpreter, between all the wise men of the
earth."

The Bishop of Exeter bowed, as in acquiescence to the royal censure; but he of Oxford stood
upright, as mindful over what subjects his see extended, and as being equally willing to become
food for fagots in defence of the Latinity of the university, as for any article of his religious
creed.

The king, without awaiting an answer from either prelate, proceeded to question Lord Nigel,
but in the vernacular tongue,--"Weel, my likely Alumnus of the Muses, and what make you so
far from the north?"

"To pay my homage to your Majesty," said the young nobleman, kneeling on one knee, "and to
lay before you," he added, "this my humble and dutiful Supplication."

The presenting of a pistol would certainly have startled King James more, but could (setting
apart the fright) hardly have been more unpleasing to his indolent disposition.

"And is it even so, man?" said he; "and can no single man, were it but for the rarity of the
case, ever come up frae Scotland, excepting EX PROPOSITO--on set purpose, to see what he can
make out of his loving sovereign? It is but three days syne that we had weel nigh lost our
life, and put three kingdoms into dule-weeds, from the over haste of a clumsy-handed peasant,
to thrust a packet into our hand, and now we are beset by the like impediment in our very Court.
To our Secretary with that gear, my lord--to our Secretary with that gear."

"I have already offered my humble Supplication to your Majesty's Secretary of State," said
Lord Glenvarloch--"but it seems----"

"That he would not receive it, I warrant?" said the king, interrupting him; "bu my saul, our
Secretary kens that point of king-craft, called refusing, better than we do, and will look
at nothing but what he likes himsell--I think I wad make a better Secretary to him than he
to me.--Weel, my lord, you are welcome to London; and, as ye seem an acute and learned youth,
I advise ye to turn your neb northward as soon as ye like, and settle yoursell for a while
at Saint Andrews, and we will be right glad to hear that you prosper in your studies.-- Incumbite
Remis Fortiter."

While the king spoke thus, he held the petition of the young lord carelessly, like one who
only delayed till the supplicant's back was turned, to throw it away, or at least lay it aside
to be no more looked at. The petitioner, who read this in his cold and indifferent looks, and
in the manner in which he twisted and crumpled together the paper, arose with a bitter sense
of anger and disappointment, made a profound obeisance, and was about to retire hastily. But
Lord Huntinglen, who stood by him, checked his intention by an almost imperceptible touch upon
the skirt of his cloak, and Nigel, taking the hint, retreated only a few steps from the royal
presence, and then made a pause. In the meantime, Lord Huntinglen kneeled before James, in
his turn, and said--"May it please your Majesty to remember, that upon one certain occasion
you did promise to grant me a boon every year of your sacred life?"

"I mind it weel, man," answered James, "I mind it weel, and good reason why--it was when you
unclasped the fause traitor Ruthven's fangs from about our royal throat, and drove your dirk
into him like a true subject. We did then, as you remind us, (whilk was unnecessary,) being
partly beside ourselves with joy at our liberation, promise we would grant you a free boon
every year; whilk promise, on our coming to menseful possession of our royal faculties, we
did confirm, restrictive always and conditionaliter, that your lordship's demand should be
such as we, in our royal discretion, should think reasonable."

"Even so, gracious sovereign," said the old earl, "and may I yet farther crave to know if I
have ever exceeded the bounds of your royal benevolence?"

"By my word, man, no!'" said the king; "I cannot remember you have asked much for yourself,
if it be not a dog or a hawk, or a buck out of our park at Theobald's, or such like. But to
what serves this preface?"

"To the boon to which I am now to ask of your Grace," said Lord Huntinglen; "which is, that
your Majesty would be pleased, on the instant, to look at the placet of Lord Glenvarloch, and
do upon it what your own just and royal nature shall think meet and just, without reference
to your Secretary or any other of your Council."

"By my saul, my lord, this is strange," said the king; "ye are pleading for the son of your enemy!"

"Of one who WAS my enemy till your Majesty made him my friend," answered Lord Huntinglen.

"Weel spoken, my lord!" said the king; "and with, a true Christian spirit. And, respecting
the Supplication of this young man, I partly guess where the matter lies; and in plain troth
I had promised to George Heriot to be good to the lad--But then, here the shoe pinches. Steenie
and Babie Charles cannot abide him--neither can your own son, my lord; and so, methinks, he
had better go down to Scotland before he comes toill luck by them."

"My son, an it please your Majesty, so far as he is concerned, shall not direct my doings,"
said the earl, "nor any wild-headed young man of them all."

"Why, neither shall they mine," replied the monarch; "by my father's saul, none of them all
shall play Rex with me--I will do what I will, and what I ought, like a free king."

"Your Majesty will then grant me my boon?" said the Lord Huntinglen.

"Ay, marry will I--marry will I," said the king; "but follow me this way, man, where we may
be more private."

He led Lord Huntinglen with rather a hurried step through the courtiers, all of whom gazed
earnestly on this unwonted scene, as is the fashion of all Courts on similar occasions. The
king passed into a little cabinet, and bade, in the first moment, Lord Huntinglen lock or bar
the door; but countermanded his direction in the next, saying,-- "No, no, no--bread o' life,
man, I am a free king--will do what I will and what I should--I am justus et tenax propositi,
man-- nevertheless, keep by the door, Lord Huntinglen, in case Steenie should come in with
his mad humour."

"O my poor master!" groaned the Earl of Huntinglen. "When you were in your own cold country,
you had warmer blood in your veins."

The king hastily looked over the petition or memorial, every now and then glancing his eye
towards the door, and then sinking it hastily on the paper, ashamed that Lord Huntinglen, whom
he respected, should suspect him of timidity.

"To grant the truth," he said, after he had finished his hasty perusal, "this is a hard case;
and harder than it was represented to me, though I had some inkling of it before. And so the
lad only wants payment of the siller due from us, in order to reclaim his paternal estate?
But then, Huntinglen, the lad will have other debts--and why burden himsell with sae mony acres
of barren woodland? let the land gang, man, let the land gang; Steenie has the promise of it
from our Scottish Chancellor--it is the best hunting-ground in Scotland--and Babie Charles
and Steenie want to kill a buck there this next year-- they maun hae the land--they maun hae
the land; and our debt shall be paid to the young man plack and bawbee, and he may have the
spending of it at our Court; or if he has such an eard hunger, wouns! man, we'll stuff his
stomach with English land, which is worth twice as much, ay, ten times as much, as these accursed
hills and heughs, and mosses and muirs, that he is sae keen after."

All this while the poor king ambled up and down the apartment in a piteous state of uncertainty,
which was made more ridiculous by his shambling circular mode of managing his legs, and his
ungainly fashion on such occasions of fiddling with the bunches of ribbons which fastened the
lower part of his dress.

Lord Huntinglen listened with great composure, and answered, "An it please your Majesty, there
was an answer yielded by Naboth when Ahab coveted his vineyard--' The Lord forbid that I should
give the inheritance of my fathers unto thee.'"

"Ey, my lord--ey, my lord!" ejaculated James, while all the colour mounted both to his cheek
and nose; "I hope ye mean not to teach me divinity? Ye need not fear, my lord, that I will
shun to do justice to every man; and, since your lordship will give me no help to take up this
in a more peaceful manner--whilk, methinks, would be better for the young man, as I said before,--why--since
it maun be so--'sdeath, I am a free king, man, and he shall have his money and redeem his land,
and make a kirk and a miln of it, an he will." So saying, he hastily wrote an order on the
Scottish Exchequer for the sum in question, and then added, "How they are to pay it, I see
not; but I warrant he will find money on the order among the goldsmiths, who can find it for
every one but me.--And now you see, my Lord of Huntinglen, that I am neither an untrue man,
to deny you the boon whilk I became bound for, nor an Ahab, to covet Naboth's vineyard; nor
a mere nose-of-wax, to be twisted this way and that, by favourites and counsellors at their
pleasure. I think you will grant now that I am none of those?"

"You are my own native and noble prince," said Huntinglen, as he knelt to kiss the royal hand--"just
and generous, whenever you listen to the workings of your own heart."

"Ay, ay," said the king, laughing good-naturedly, as he raised his faithful servant from the
ground, "that is what ye all say when I do any thing to please ye. There--there, take the sign-manual,
and away with you and this young fellow. I wonder Steenie and Babie Charles have not broken
in on us before now."

Lord Huntinglen hastened from the cabinet, foreseeing a scene at which he was unwilling to
be present, but which sometimes occurred when James roused himself so far as to exert his own
free will, of which he boasted so much, in spite of that of his imperious favourite Steenie,
as he called the Duke of Buckingham, from a supposed resemblance betwixt his very handsome
countenance, and that with which the Italian artists represented the protomartyr Stephen. In
fact, the haughty favourite, who had the unusual good fortune to stand as high in the opinion
of the heir-apparent as of the existing monarch, had considerably diminished in his respect
towards the latter; and it was apparent, to the more shrewd courtiers, that James endured his
domination rather from habit, timidity, and a dread of encountering his stormy passions, than
from any heartfelt continuation of regard towards him, whose greatness had been the work of
his own hands. To save himself the pain of seeing what was likely to take place on the duke's
return, and to preserve the king from the additional humiliation which the presence of such
a witness must have occasioned, the earl left the cabinet as speedily as possible, having first
carefully pocketed the important sign-manual.

No sooner had he entered the presence-room, than he hastily sought Lord Glenvarloch, who had
withdrawn into the embrasure of one of the windows, from the general gaze of men who seemed
disposed only to afford him the notice which arises from surprise and curiosity, and, taking
him by the arm, without speaking, led him out of the presence- chamber into the first ante-room.
Here they found the worthy goldsmith, who approached them with looks of curiosity, which were
checked by the old lord, who said hastily, "All is well.--Is your barge in waiting?" Heriot
answered in the affirmative. "Then," said Lord Huntinglen, "you shall give me a cast in it,
as the watermen say; and I, in requital, will give you both your dinner; for we must have some
conversation together."

They both followed the earl without speaking, and were in the second ante-room when the important
annunciation of the ushers, and the hasty murmur with which all made ample way as the company
repeated to each other,--"The Duke--the Duke!" made them aware of the approach of the omnipotent
favourite.

He entered, that unhappy minion of Court favour, sumptuously dressed in the picturesque attire
which will live for ever on the canvas of Vandyke, and which marks so well the proud age, when
aristocracy, though undermined and nodding to its fall, still, by external show and profuse
expense, endeavoured to assert its paramount superiority over the inferior orders. The handsome
and commanding countenance, stately form, and graceful action and manners of the Duke of Buckingham,
made him become that picturesque dress beyond any man of his time. At present, however, his
countenance seemed discomposed, his dress a little more disordered than became the place, his
step hasty, and his voice imperative.

All marked the angry spot upon his brow, and bore back so suddenly to make way for him, that
the Earl of Huntinglen, who affected no extraordinary haste on the occasion, with his companions,
who could not, if they would, have decently left him, remained as it were by themselves in
the middle of the room, and in the very path of the angry favourite. He touched his cap sternly
as he looked on Huntinglen, but unbonneted to Heriot, and sunk his beaver, with its shadowy
plume, as low as the floor, with a profound air of mock respect. In returning his greeting,
which he did simply and unaffectedly, the citizen only said,--"Too much courtesy, my lord duke,
is often the reverse of kindness."

"I grieve you should think so, Master Heriot," answered the duke; "I only meant, by my homage,
to claim your protection, sir--your patronage. You are become, I understand, a solicitor of
suits--a promoter--an undertaker--a fautor of court suitors of merit and quality, who chance
to be pennyless. I trust your bags will bear you out in your new boast."

"They will bear me the farther, my lord duke," answered the goldsmith, "that my boast is but
small."

"O, you do yourself less than justice, my good Master Heriot," continued the duke, in the same
tone of irony; "you have a marvellous court-faction, to be the son of an Edinburgh tinker.
Have the goodness to prefer me to the knowledge of the high-born nobleman who is honoured and
advantaged by your patronage."

"That shall be my task," said Lord Huntinglen, with emphasis. "My lord duke, I desire you to
know Nigel Olifaunt, Lord Glenvarloch, representative of one of the most ancient and powerful
baronial houses in Scotland.--Lord Glenvarloch, I present you to his Grace the Duke of Buckingham,
representative of Sir George Villiers, Knight of Brookesby, in the county of Leicester."

The duke coloured still more high as he bowed to Lord Glenvarloch scornfully, a courtesy which
the other returned haughtily, and with restrained indignation. "We know each other, then,"
said the duke, after a moment's pause; and as if he had seen something in the young nobleman
which merited more serious notice than the bitter raillery with which he had commenced--"we
know each other--and you know me, my lord, for your enemy."

"I thank you for your plainness, my lord duke," replied Nigel; "an open enemy is better than
a hollow friend."

"For you, my Lord Huntinglen," said the duke, "methinks you have but now overstepped the limits
of the indulgence permitted to you, as the father of the prince's friend, and my own."

"By my word, my lord duke," replied the earl, "it is easy for any one to outstep boundaries,
of the existence of which he was not aware. It is neither to secure my protection nor approbation,
that my son keeps such exalted company."

"O, my lord, we know you, and indulge you," said the duke; "you are one of those who presume
for a life-long upon the merit of one good action."

"In faith, my lord, and if it be so," said the old earl, "I have at least the advantage of
such as presume more than I do, without having done any action of merit whatever. But I mean
not to quarrel with you, my lord--we can neither be friends nor enemies--you have your path,
and I have mine."

Buckingham only replied by throwing on his bonnet, and shaking its lofty plume with a careless
and scornful toss of the head. They parted thus; the duke walking onwards through the apartments,
and the others leaving the Palace and repairing to Whitehall Stairs, where they embarked on
board the barge of the citizen.

CHAPTER X

  Bid not thy fortune troll upon the wheels
  Of yonder dancing cubes of mottled bone;
  And drown it not, like Egypt's royal harlot,
  Dissolving her rich pearl in the brimm'd wine-cup.
  These are the arts, Lothario, which shrink acres
  Into brief yards--bring sterling pounds to farthings,
  Credit to infamy; and the poor gull,
  Who might have lived an honour'd, easy life,
  To ruin, and an unregarded grave.
              The Changes.

When they were fairly embarked on the Thames, the earl took from his pocket the Supplication,
and, pointing out to George Heriot the royal warrant indorsed thereon, asked him, if it were
in due and regular form? The worthy citizen hastily read it over, thrust forth his hand as
if to congratulate the Lord Glenvarloch, then checked himself, pulled out his barnacles, (a
present from old David Ramsay,) and again perused the warrant with the most business-like and
critical attention. "It is strictly correct and formal," he said, looking to the Earl of Huntinglen;
"and I sincerely rejoice at it."

"I doubt nothing of its formality," said the earl; "the king understands business well, and,
if he does not practise it often, it is only because indolence obscures parts which are naturally
well qualified for the discharge of affairs. But what is next to be done for our young friend,
Master Heriot? You know how I am circumstanced. Scottish lords living at the English Court
have seldom command of money; yet, unless a sum can be presently raised on this warrant, matters
standing as you hastily hinted to me, the mortgage, wadset, or whatever it is called, will
be foreclosed."

"It is true," said Heriot, in some embarrassment; "there is a large sum wanted in redemption--yet,
if it is not raised, there will be an expiry of the legal, as our lawyers call it, and the
estate will be evicted."

"My noble--my worthy friends, who have taken up my cause so undeservedly, so unexpectedly,"
said Nigel, "do not let me be a burden on your kindness. You have already done too much where
nothing was merited."

"Peace, man, peace," said Lord Huntinglen, "and let old Heriot and I puzzle this scent out.
He is about to open--hark to him!"

"My lord," said the citizen, "the Duke of Buckingham sneers at our city money-bags; yet they
can sometimes open, to prop a falling and a noble house."

"We know they can," said Lord Huntinglen--"mind not Buckingham, he is a Peg-a-Ramsay--and now
for the remedy."

"I partly hinted to Lord Glenvarloch already," said Heriot, "that the redemption money might
be advanced upon such a warrant as the present, and I will engage my credit that it can. But
then, in order to secure the lender, he must come in the shoes of the creditor to whom he advances
payment."

"Come in his shoes!" replied the earl; "why, what have boots or shoes to do with this matter,
my good friend?"

"It is a law phrase, my lord. My experience has made me pick up a few of them," said Heriot.

"Ay, and of better things along with them, Master George," replied Lord Huntinglen; "but what
means it?"

"Simply this," resumed the citizen; "that the lender of this money will transact with the holder
of the mortgage, or wadset, over the estate of Glenvarloch, and obtain from him such a conveyance
to his right as shall leave the lands pledged for the debt, in case the warrant upon the Scottish
Exchequer should prove unproductive. I fear, in this uncertainty of public credit, that without
some such counter security, it will be very difficult to find so large a sum."

"Ho la!" said the Earl of Huntinglen, "halt there! a thought strikes me.--What if the new creditor
should admire the estate as a hunting- field, as much as my Lord Grace of Buckingham seems
to do, and should wish to kill a buck there in the summer season? It seems to me, that on your
plan, Master George, our new friend will be as well entitled to block Lord Glenvarloch out
of his inheritance as the present holder of the mortgage."

The citizen laughed. "I will engage," he said, "that the keenest sportsman to whom I may apply
on this occasion, shall not have a thought beyond the Lord Mayor's Easter-Hunt, in Epping Forest.
But your lordship's caution is reasonable. The creditor must be bound to allow Lord Glenvarloch
sufficient time to redeem his estate by means of the royal warrant, and must wave in his favour
the right of instant foreclosure, which may be, I should think, the more easily managed, as
the right of redemption must be exercised in his own name."

"But where shall we find a person in London fit to draw the necessary writings?" said the earl.
"If my old friend Sir John Skene of Halyards had lived, we should have had his advice; but
time presses, and--"

"I know," said Heriot, "an orphan lad, a scrivener, that dwells by Temple Bar; he can draw
deeds both after the English and Scottish fashion, and I have trusted him often in matters
of weight and of importance. I will send one of my serving-men for him, and the mutual deeds
may be executed in your lordship's presence; for, as things stand, there should be no delay."
His lordship readily assented; and, as they now landed upon the private stairs leading down
to the river from the gardens of the handsome hotel which he inhabited, the messenger was dispatched
without loss of time.

Nigel, who had sat almost stupefied while these zealous friends volunteered for him in arranging
the measures by which his fortune was to be disembarrassed, now made another eager attempt
to force upon them his broken expressions of thanks and gratitude. But he was again silenced
by Lord Huntinglen, who declared he would not hear a word on that topic, and proposed instead,
that they should take a turn in the pleached alley, or sit upon the stone bench which overlooked
the Thames, until his son's arrival should give the signal for dinner.

"I desire to introduce Dalgarno and Lord Glenvarloch to each other," he said, "as two who will
be near neighbours, and I trust will be more kind ones than their fathers were formerly. There
is but three Scots miles betwixt the castles, and the turrets of the one are visible from the
battlements of the other."

The old earl was silent for a moment, and appeared to muse upon the recollections which the
vicinity of the castles had summoned up.

"Does Lord Dalgarno follow the Court to Newmarket next week?" said Heriot, by way of removing
the conversation.

