INFLUENCES OF GEOGRAPHIC ENVIRONMENT
                ON THE BASIS OF RATZEL'S SYSTEM OF
                        ANTHROPO-GEOGRAPHY

                     BY ELLEN CHURCHILL SEMPLE

                TO THE MEMORY OF FRIEDRICH RATZEL

           Hither, as to their fountain, other stars
           Repairing, in their golden urns draw light.
                                               MILTON.

PREFACE

The present book, as originally planned over seven years ago, was to be a simplified paraphrase
or restatement of the principles embodied in Friedrich Ratzel's Anthropo-Geographie. The German
work is difficult reading even for Germans. To most English and American students of geographic
environment it is a closed book, a treasure-house bolted and barred. Ratzel himself realized
"that any English form could not be a literal translation, but must be adapted to the Anglo-Celtic
and especially to the Anglo-American mind." The writer undertook, with Ratzel's approval, to
make such an adapted restatement of the principles, with a view to making them pass current
where they are now unknown. But the initial stages of the work revealed the necessity of a
radical modification of the original plan.

Ratzel performed the great service of placing anthropo-geography on a secure scientific basis.
He had his forerunners in Montesquieu, Alexander von Humboldt, Buckle, Ritter, Kohl, Peschel
and others; but he first investigated the subject from the modern scientific point of view,
constructed his system according to the principles of evolution, and based his conclusions
on world-wide inductions, for which his predecessors did not command the data. To this task
he brought thorough training as a naturalist, broad reading and travel, a profound and original
intellect, and amazing fertility of thought. Yet the field which he had chosen was so vast,
and its material so complex, that even his big mental grasp could not wholly compass it. His
conclusions, therefore, are not always exhaustive or final.

Moreover, the very fecundity of his ideas often left him no time to test the validity of his
principles. He enunciates one brilliant generalization after another. Sometimes he reveals
the mind of a seer or poet, throwing out conclusions which are highly suggestive, on the face
of them convincing, but which on examination prove untenable, or at best must be set down as
unproven or needing qualification. But these were just the slag from the great furnace of his
mind, slag not always worthless. Brilliant and far-reaching as were his conclusions, he did
not execute a well-ordered plan. Rather he grew with his work, and his work and its problems
grew with him. He took a mountain-top view of things, kept his eyes always on the far horizon,
and in the splendid sweep of his scientific conceptions sometimes overlooked the details near
at hand. Herein lay his greatness and his limitation.

These facts brought the writer face to face with a serious problem. Ratzel's work needed to
be tested, verified. The only solution was to go over the whole field from the beginning, making
research for the data as from the foundation, and checking off the principles against the facts.
This was especially necessary, because it was not always obvious that Ratzel had based his
inductions on sufficiently broad data; and his published work had been open to the just criticism
of inadequate citation of authorities. It was imperative, moreover, that any investigation
of geographic environment for the English-speaking world should meet its public well supported
both by facts and authorities, because that public had not previously known a Ritter or a Peschel.

The writer's own investigation revealed the fact that Ratzel's principles of anthropo-geography
did not constitute a complete, well-proportioned system. Some aspects of the subject had been
developed exhaustively, these of course the most important; but others had been treated inadequately,
others were merely a hint or an inference, and yet others were represented by an hiatus. It
became necessary, therefor, to work up certain important themes with a thoroughness commensurate
with their significance, to reduce the scale of others, and to fill up certain gaps with original
contributions to the science. Always it was necessary to clarify the original statement, where
that was adhered to, and to throw it into the concrete form of expression demanded by the Anglo-Saxon
mind.

One point more. The organic theory of society and state permeates the Anthropo-geographie,
because Ratzel formulated his principles at a time when Herbert Spencer exercised a wide influence
upon European thought. This theory, now generally abandoned by sociologists, had to be eliminated
from any restatement of Ratzel's system. Though it was applied in the original often in great
detail, it stood there nevertheless rather as a scaffolding around the finished edifice; and
the stability of the structure, after this scaffolding is removed shows how extraneous to the
whole it was. The theory performed, however, a great service in impressing Ratzel's mind with
the life-giving connection between land and people.

The writer's own method of research has been to compare typical peoples of all races and all
stages of cultural development, living under similar geographic conditions. If these peoples
of different ethnic stocks but similar environments manifested similar or related social, economic
or historical development, it was reasonable to infer that such similarities were due to environment
and not to race. Thus, by extensive comparison, the race factor in these problems of two unknown
quantities was eliminated for certain large classes of social and historical phenomena.

The writer, moreover, has purposely avoided definitions, formulas, and the enunciation of hard-and-fast
rules; and has refrained from any effort to delimit the field or define the relation of this
new science of anthropo-geography to the older sciences. It is unwise to put tight clothes
on a growing child. The eventual form and scope of the science, the definition and organization
of its material must evolve gradually, after long years and many efforts of many workers in
the field. The eternal flux of Nature runs through anthropo-geography, and warns against precipitate
or rigid conclusions. But its laws are none the less well founded because they do not lend
themselves to mathematical finality of statement. For this reason the writer speaks of geographic
factors and influences, shuns the word geographic determinant, and speaks with extreme caution
of geographic control.

The present volume is offered to the public with a deep sense of its inadequacy; with the realization
that some of its principles may have to be modified or their emphasis altered after wider research;
but also with the hope that this effort may make the way easier for the scholar who shall some
day write the ideal treatise on anthropo-geography.

In my work on this book I have only one person to thank, the great master who was my teacher
and friend during his life, and after his death my inspiration.

ELLEN CHURCHILL SEMPLE. LOUISVILLE, KENTUCKY, January, 1911.

CONTENTS

PREFACE

CHAPTER I. OPERATION OF GEOGRAPHIC FACTORS IN HISTORY

Man a product of the earth's surface--Persistent effect of geographic barriers--Recurrent influences
of nature-made highways--Regions of historical similarity--Persistence of climatic influences--Relation
of geography to history--Multiplicity of geographic factors--Evolution of geographic relations--Interplay
of geographic factors--Direct and indirect effects of environment--Indirect effects in differentiation
of colonial peoples--General importance of indirect effects--Time element--Previous habitat--Transplanted
religions--Partial response to environment--The larger conception of environment--Unity of
the earth and the human race.

CHAPTER II. CLASSES OF GEOGRAPHIC INFLUENCES

Four classes of influences--Physical effects of environment--Stature and environment--Effects
of dominant activities--Physical effects of climate--Pigmentation in relation to heat and light--Pigmentation
and altitude--Difficulty of generalization from geographic distribution--Psychical effects--In
Religion--In mind and character--In language--The great man in history--Economic and social
effects--Size of the social group--Effects on movements of peoples--Segregation and accessibility--Change
of habitat.

CHAPTER III. SOCIETY AND STATE IN RELATION TO THE LAND

People and land--Political geography--Political versus social geography--Land basis of society--Morgan's
societas--Land bond in primitive hunter tribes--In fisher tribes--In pastoral tribes--Land
and state--Strength of the land bond in the state--Evolution of land tenure--Land and food
supply--Advance from natural to artificial basis of subsistence--Land basis in relation to
agriculture--Migratory and sedentary agriculture--Geographic checks to progress in economic
and social development--Native animal and plant life as factors in progress--Density of population
under different cultural and geographic conditions--Its relation to government--Territorial
expansion of the state--Artificial checks to population--Extra-territorial relations of state
and people--Theory of progress from the standpoint of geography--Progressive dependence of
man upon nature.

CHAPTER IV. MOVEMENTS OF PEOPLES IN THEIR GEOGRAPHICAL SIGNIFICANCE

Universality of such movements--The name Historical Movement--Its evolution--Its importance
in history--Geographical interpretation of historical movement--Mobility of primitive peoples--Civilization
and mobility--Migration and ethnic mingling--Cultural modification during migration--The transit
land--War as form of historical movement--Slavery--Military colonies--Withdrawal and flight--Natural
regions of asylum--Emigration and colonization--Commerce as a form of historical movement--Movements
due to religion--Historical movement and race distribution--Zonal distribution--Movements to
like or better geographic conditions--Their direction--Return movements--Regions of attraction
and repulsion--Psychical influences in certain movements--Two results of historical movement--Differentiation
and area--Differentiation and isolation--Geographic conditions of heterogeneity and homogeneity--Assimilation--Elimination
of unfit variants through historical movement--Geographical origins.

CHAPTER V. GEOGRAPHICAL LOCATION

The importance of geographical location--Content of the term location--Intercontinental location--Natural
versus vicinal location--Naturally defined location--Vicinal location--Vicinal groups of similar
or diverse race and culture--Thalassic vicinal location--Complementary locations--Continuous
and scattered location--Central versus peripheral location--Mutual relations between center
and periphery--Inland and coastward expansion--Reaction between center and periphery--Periphery
in colonization--Dominant historical side--Change of historical front--Contrasted historical
sides--One-sided historical location--Scattered location--Due to adverse geographic conditions--Island
way stations on maritime routes--Scattered location of primitive peoples--Ethnic islands of
expansion and decline--Discontinuous distribution--Contrasted location--Geographical polarity--Geographical
marks of growth and decline--Interpretation of scattered and marginal location--Contrast between
ethnic islands of growth and decline.

CHAPTER VI. GEOGRAPHICAL AREA

The size of the earth--Relation of area to life--Area and differentiation--The struggle for
space--National area an index of social and political development--The Oikoumene--The unity
of the human species in relation to the earth--Isolation and differentiation--Monotonous race
type of small area--Wide race distribution and inner diversities--Large area a guarantee of
racial or national permanence--Weakness of small states--Protection of large area to primitive
peoples--Contrast of large and small areas in bio-geography--Political domination of large
areas--Area and literature--Small geographic base of primitive societies--Influence of small,
confined areas--The process of territorial growth--Historical advance from small to large areas--Gradations
in area and in development--Preliminaries to ethnic and political expansion--Significance of
sphere of influence or activity--Nature of expansion in new and old countries--Relation of
ethnic to political expansion--Relation of people and state to political boundary--Expansion
of civilization--Cultural advantages of large political area--Politico-economic advantages--Political
area and the national horizon--National estimates of area--Limitations of small tribal conceptions--Evolution
of territorial policies--Colonial expansion--The mind of colonials.

CHAPTER VII. GEOGRAPHICAL BOUNDARIES

The boundary zone in Nature--Oscillating boundaries of the habitable area of the earth--Wallace's
Line a typical boundary zone--Boundaries as limits of expansion--Boundary zone as index of
growth or decline--Breadth of boundary zone--Broad frontier zones of active expansion--Value
of barrier boundaries--The sea as the absolute boundary--Natural boundaries as bases of ethnic
and political boundaries--Primitive waste boundaries--Alien intrusions into border wastes--Politico-economic
significance of the waste boundary--Common boundary districts--Tariff free zones--Boundary
zones of mingled race elements--Assimilation of civilization in boundary zones--Relation of
ethnic and cultural assimilation--The border zone of assimilation in political expansion--Tendency
toward defection along political frontiers--The spirit of colonial frontiers--Free border states
as political survivals--Guardians of the marches--Lawless citizens deported to political frontiers--Drift
of lawless elements to the frontiers--Asylums beyond the border.

CHAPTER VIII. COAST PEOPLES

The coast a zone of transition--The inner edge--Shifting of the inner edge--Outer edge in original
settlement--In early navigation--In colonization--Inland advance of colonies--Interpenetration
of land and sea--Ratio of shore-line to area--Criticism of the formula--Accessibility of coasts
from hinterland--Accessibility of coasts from the sea--Embayed coasts--Contrasted coastal belts--Evolution
of ports--Influence of offshore islands--Previous habitat of coast-dwellers--Habitability of
coasts as a factor in maritime development--Geographic conditions for brilliant maritime development--Scope
and importance of seaward expansion--Ethnic contrast between coast and interior peoples--Ethnic
amalgamations of coastlands--Lingua franca a product of coasts--Coast-dwellers as middlemen--Differentiation
of coast from inland people--Early civilization of coasts--Progress from thalassic to oceanic
coasts--Importance of geographic location of coasts--Historical decline of certain coasts--Complex
interplay of geographic factors in coastlands.

CHAPTER IX. OCEANS AND ENCLOSED SEAS

The water a factor in man's mobility--Oceans and seas the factor of union in universal history--Origin
of navigation--Primitive forms--Relation of river to marine navigation--Retarded and advanced
navigation--Geographic conditions in Polynesia--Mediterranean versus Atlantic seamanship--Three
geographic stages of maritime development--Enclosed seas as areas of ethnic and cultural assimilation--Assimilation
facilitated by ethnic kinship--Importance of zonal and continental location of enclosed seas--Thalassic
character of the Indian Ocean--Limitations of small area in enclosed seas--Successive maritime
periods in history--Contrasted historical rôles of northern and southern hemispheres--Size
of the ocean--Neutrality of the seas--Mare clausum and Mare liberum.

CHAPTER X. MAN'S RELATION TO THE WATER

The protection of a water frontier--Pile villages of ancient times--Modern pile dwellings--Their
geographic distribution--River-dwellers in old and popular lands--Man's encroachment upon the
sea by reclamation of land--The struggle with the water--Mound villages in river flood-plains--Social
and political gain by control of the water--A factor in early civilization of arid lands--The
economy of the water--Fisheries--Factors in maritime expansion--Fisheries as nurseries of seamen--Anthropo-geographic
importance of navigation.

CHAPTER XI. THE ANTHROPO-GEOGRAPHY OF RIVERS

Rivers as intermediaries between land and sea--Sea navigation merges into river navigation--Historical
importance of seas and oceans influenced by their debouching streams--Lack of coast articulations
supplied by rivers--River highways as basis of commercial preëminence--Importance of rivers
in large countries--Rivers as highways of expansion--Determinants of routes in arid or semi-arid
lands--Increasing historical importance of rivers from source to mouth--Value of location at
hydrographic centers--Effect of current upon trade and expansion--Importance of mouth to upstream
people--Prevention of monopoly of river mouths--Motive for canals in lower course--Watershed
canals for extension of inland waterways--Rivers and railroads--Natural unity of every river
system--In arid lands as common source of water supply--Tendency towards ethnic and cultural
unity in a river valley--Identity of country with river valley--Rivers as boundaries of races
and peoples--Rivers as political boundaries--Fluvial settlements and peoples--Boatman tribes
or castes--River islands as protected sites--River and lake islands as robber strongholds--River
peninsulas--River islands as sites of trading posts and colonies--Swamps as barriers and boundaries--Swamps
as regions of survivals--Swamps as places of refuge--The spirit of the marshes--Economic and
political importance of lakes--Lakes as nuclei of states--Lakes as fresh-water seas.

CHAPTER XII. CONTINENTS AND THEIR PENINSULAS

Insularity of the land-masses--Classification of land-masses according to size and location--Effect
of the size of land-masses--Independence due to location versus independence due to size--Continental
convergence and ethnic kinship--Africa's location--The Atlantic abyss--Geographical character
of the Pacific--Pacific affinities of North America--The Atlantic face of America as the infant
Orient of the world--The Atlantic abyss in the movements of peoples--Races and continents--Contrast
of the northern and southern continents--Effects of continental structure upon historical development--Structure
of North and South America--Cultural superiority of Pacific slope Indians--Coast articulations
of continents--Importance of size in continental articulations--Peninsular conditions most
favorable to historical development--The continental base of peninsulas--Continental base a
zone of transition--Continental base the scene of invasion and war--Peninsular extremities
as areas of isolation--Ethnic unity of peninsulas--Peninsulas as intermediaries.

CHAPTER XIII. ISLAND PEOPLES

Physical relationship between islands and peninsulas--Character of insular flora and fauna--Paradoxical
influences of island habitat on man--Conservative and radical tendencies born of isolation
and accessibility--Islands as nurseries and disseminators of distinctive civilizations--Limitation
of small area in insular history--Sources of ethnic stock of islands on nearest mainland. Ethnic
divergence with increased isolation--Differentiation of peoples and civilizations in islands--Differentiation
of language--Unification of race in islands--Remoter sources of island populations--Double
sources--Mixed population of small thalassic isles--Significant location of island way stations--Thalassic
islands as goals of maritime expansion--Political detachability of islands--Insular weakness
based upon small area--Island fragments of broken empires--Area and location as factors in
political autonomy of islands--Historical effects of island isolation in primitive retardation--Later
stimulation of development--Excessive isolation--Protection of an island environment--Islands
as places of refuge--Islands as places of survival--Effects of small area in islands--Economic
limitations of their small area--Dense population of islands--Geographic causes of this density--Oceanic
climate as factor--Relation of density to size--Density affected by a focal location for trade--Overflow
of island population and colonies to the mainland--Precocious development of island agriculture--Intensive
tillage--Emigration and colonization from islands--Recent emigration from islands--Maritime
enterprise as outlet--Artificial checks to population--Polyandry--Infanticide--Low valuation
of human life.

CHAPTER XIV. PLAINS, STEPPES AND DESERTS

Relief of the sea floor--Mean elevations of the continents--Distribution of relief--Homologous
reliefs and homologous histories--Anthropo-geography of lowlands--Extensive plains unfavorable
to early development--Conditions for fusion in plains--Retardation due to monotonous environment--Influence
of slight geographic features in plains--Plains and political expansion--Arid plains--Nomadism--Pastoral
life--Pastoral nomads of Arctic plains--Historical importance of steppe nomads--Mobility of
pastoral nomads--Seasonal migrations--Marauding expeditions--Forms of defense against nomad
depredations--Pastoral life as a training for soldiers--Capacity for political organization
and consolidation--Centralization versus decentralization in nomadism--Spirit of independence
among nomads--Resistance to conquest--Curtailment of nomadism--Supplementary agriculture of
pastoral nomadism--Irrigation and horticulture--Scant diet of nomads--Effects of a diminishing
water supply--Checks to population--Trade of nomads--Pastoral nomads as middlemen--Desert markets--Nomad
industries--Arid lands as areas of arrested development--Mental and moral qualities of nomads--Religion
of pastoral nomads.

CHAPTER XV. MOUNTAIN BARRIERS AND THEIR PASSES

Man as part of the mobile envelope of the earth--Inaccessibility of mountains--Mountains as
transit regions--Transition forms of relief between highlands and lowlands--Piedmont belts
as boundary zones--Density of population in piedmont belts--Piedmont towns and cities--Piedmonts
as colonial or backwoods frontiers--Mountain carriers--Power of mountain barriers to block
or deflect historical movement--Significance of mountain valleys--Longitudinal valleys--Passes
in mountain barriers--Breadth of mountain barriers--Dominant transmontane routes--Height and
form of mountain barriers--Contrasted accessibility of opposite slopes--Political and ethnic
effects--Persistence of barrier nature--Importance of mountain passes--Geographic conditions
affecting the historical importance of passes--Passes determine the transmontane routes--Navigable
river approaches to passes--Types of settlement in the valley approaches--Pass cities and their
markets--Pass peoples--Their political importance.

CHAPTER XVI. INFLUENCES OF A MOUNTAIN ENVIRONMENT

Zones of altitude--Politico-economic value of a varied relief--Belief and climate--Altitude
zones of economic and cultural development--Altitude and density belts in tropical highlands--Increasing
density where altitude confers safety--Geographic conditions affecting density of mountain
population--Terrace agriculture--Its geographical distribution--Terrace agriculture in mountainous
islands--Among savage peoples--Fertilizing terrace lands--Economy of level land--Mountain pastures
and stock-raising--Life and industry of the summer herdsmen--Communal ownership of mountain
pastures--Hay making in high mountains--Winter industries of mountain peoples--Overpopulation
and emigration--Preventive checks to increase of population--Religious celibacy--Polyandry--Marauding
tendencies in mountaineers--Historical consequences of mountain raiding--Conquest of mountain
regions--Political dismemberment of mountain peoples--Types of mountain states--Significance
of their small size--Mountain isolation and differentiation--Survival of primitive races in
mountains--Diversity of peoples and dialects--Constriction of mountain areas of ethnic survival--Isolation
and retardation of mountain regions--Mental and moral qualities of mountain people.

CHAPTER XVII. THE INFLUENCES OF CLIMATE UPON MAN

Importance of climatic influences--Climate in the interplay of geographic factors--Its direct
and indirect effects--Climate determines the habitable area of the earth--Effect of climate
upon relief and hence upon man--Man's adaptability to climatic extremes--Temperature as modified
by oceans and winds--Rainfall--Temperature and zonal location--Mutual reactions of contrasted
zones--Isothermal lines in anthropo-geography--Historical effects of compressed isotherms--Historical
effects of slight climatic differences--Their influence upon distribution of immigration--Temperature
and race temperament--Complexity of this problem--Monotonous climatic conditions--Effects of
Arctic cold--Effect of monotonous heat--The tropics as goals of migration--The problem of acclimatization--Historical
importance of the temperate zone--Contrast of the seasons--Duration of the seasons--Effect
of long winters and long summers--Zones of culture--Temperate zone as cradle of civilization

INDEX

LIST OF MAPS.

DENSITY OF POPULATION IN THE EASTERN HEMISPHERE                 8 DENSITY OF POPULATION IN
THE WESTERN HEMISPHERE                 9 POWELL'S MAP OF INDIAN LINGUISTIC STOCKS         
54 PRIMITIVE INDIAN STOCKS OF SOUTH AMERICA                      101 ETHNOGRAPHICAL MAP OF
INDIA                                   102 ETHNOGRAPHICAL MAP OF ASIA                    
103 ETHNOGRAPHICAL MAP OF AFRICA                                  105 DISTRIBUTION OF WILD
AND CIVILIZED TRIBES IN THE PHILIPPINES  147 DISTRIBUTION OF POPULATION IN THE PROVINCE OF
FINMARKEN       153 DISTRIBUTION OF POPULATION IN THE UNITED STATES IN 1800       156 THE SLAV-GERMAN
BOUNDARY IN EUROPE                            223 ETHNOGRAPHICAL MAP OF RUSSIA            
225 THE GERMAN NORTH SEA COAST                                    243 ANCIENT PHOENICIAN AND
GREEK COLONIES                         251 RIPARIAN VILLAGES OF THE LOWER ST. LAWRENCE    
365 LAKE OF THE FOUR FOREST CANTONS                               374 THE ANNUAL RAINFALL OF
THE WORLD                              484 THE CULTURAL REGIONS OF AFRICA AND ARABIA      
487 DISTRIBUTION OF RELIGIONS IN THE OLD WORLD                    513 DENSITY OF POPULATION
IN ITALY                                559 MEAN ANNUAL ISOTHERMS AND HEAT BELTS          
612

CHAPTER I

THE OPERATION OF GEOGRAPHIC FACTORS IN HISTORY

[Sidenote: Man a product of the earth's surface.]

Man is a product of the earth's surface. This means not merely that he is a child of the earth,
dust of her dust; but that the earth has mothered him, fed him, set him tasks, directed his
thoughts, confronted him with difficulties that have strengthened his body and sharpened his
wits, given him his problems of navigation or irrigation, and at the same time whispered hints
for their solution. She has entered into his bone and tissue, into his mind and soul. On the
mountains she has given him leg muscles of iron to climb the slope; along the coast she has
left these weak and flabby, but given him instead vigorous development of chest and arm to
handle his paddle or oar. In the river valley she attaches him to the fertile soil, circumscribes
his ideas and ambitions by a dull round of calm, exacting duties, narrows his outlook to the
cramped horizon of his farm. Up on the wind-swept plateaus, in the boundless stretch of the
grasslands and the waterless tracts of the desert, where he roams with his flocks from pasture
to pasture and oasis to oasis, where life knows much hardship but escapes the grind of drudgery,
where the watching of grazing herd gives him leisure for contemplation, and the wide-ranging
life a big horizon, his ideas take on a certain gigantic simplicity; religion becomes monotheism,
God becomes one, unrivalled like the sand of the desert and the grass of the steppe, stretching
on and on without break or change. Chewing over and over the cud of his simple belief as the
one food of his unfed mind, his faith becomes fanaticism; his big spacial ideas, born of that
ceaseless regular wandering, outgrow the land that bred them and bear their legitimate fruit
in wide imperial conquests.

Man can no more be scientifically studied apart from the ground which he tills, or the lands
over which he travels, or the seas over which he trades, than polar bear or desert cactus can
be understood apart from its habitat. Man's relations to his environment are infinitely more
numerous and complex than those of the most highly organized plant or animal. So complex are
they that they constitute a legitimate and necessary object of special study. The investigation
which they receive in anthropology, ethnology, sociology and history is piecemeal and partial,
limited as to the race, cultural development, epoch, country or variety of geographic conditions
taken into account. Hence all these sciences, together with history so far as history undertakes
to explain the causes of events, fail to reach a satisfactory solution of their problems largely
because the geographic factor which enters into them all has not been thoroughly analyzed.
Man has been so noisy about the way he has "conquered Nature," and Nature has been so silent
in her persistent influence over man, that the geographic factor in the equation of human development
has been overlooked.

[Sidenote: Stability of geographic factors in history.]

In every problem of history there are two main factors, variously stated as heredity and environment,
man and his geographic conditions, the internal forces of race and the external forces of habitat.
Now the geographic element in the long history of human development has been operating strongly
and operating persistently. Herein lies its importance. It is a stable force. It never sleeps.
This natural environment, this physical basis of history, is for all intents and purposes immutable
in comparison with the other factor in the problem--shifting, plastic, progressive, retrogressive
man.

[Sidenote: Persistent effect of remoteness.]

History tends to repeat itself largely owing to this steady, unchanging geographic element.
If the ancient Roman consul in far-away Britain often assumed an independence of action and
initiative unknown in the provincial governors of Gaul, and if, centuries later, Roman Catholicism
in England maintained a similar independence towards the Holy See, both facts have their cause
in the remoteness of Britain from the center of political or ecclesiastical power in Rome.
If the independence of the Roman consul in Britain was duplicated later by the attitude of
the Thirteen Colonies toward England, and again within the young Republic by the headstrong
self-reliance, impatient of government authority, which characterized the early Trans-Allegheny
commonwealths in their aggressive Indian policy, and led them to make war and conclude treaties
for the cession of land like sovereign states; and if this attitude of independence in the
over-mountain men reappeared in a spirit of political defection looking toward secession from
the Union and a new combination with their British neighbor on the Great Lakes or the Spanish
beyond the Mississippi, these are all the identical effects of geographical remoteness made
yet more remote by barriers of mountain and sea. This is the long reach which weakens the arm
of authority, no matter what the race or country or epoch.

[Sidenote: Effect of proximity.]

As with geographical remoteness, so it is with geographical proximity. The history of the Greek
peninsula and the Greek people, because of their location at the threshold of the Orient, has
contained a constantly recurring Asiatic element. This comes out most often as a note of warning;
like the motif of Ortrud in the opera of "Lohengrin," it mingles ominously in every chorus
of Hellenic enterprise or paean of Hellenic victory, and finally swells into a national dirge
at the Turkish conquest of the peninsula. It comes out in the legendary history of the Argonautic
Expedition and the Trojan War; in the arrival of Phoenician Cadmus and Phrygian Pelops in Grecian
lands; in the appearance of Tyrian ships on the coast of the Peloponnesus, where they gather
the purple-yielding murex and kidnap Greek women. It appears more conspicuously in the Asiatic
sources of Greek culture; more dramatically in the Persian Wars, in the retreat of Xenophon's
Ten Thousand, in Alexander's conquest of Asia, and Hellenic domination of Asiatic trade through
Syria to the Mediterranean. Again in the thirteenth century the lure of the Levantine trade
led Venice and Genoa to appropriate certain islands and promontories of Greece as commercial
bases nearer to Asia. In 1396 begins the absorption of Greece into the Asiatic empire of the
Turks, the long dark eclipse of sunny Hellas, till it issues from the shadow in 1832 with the
achievement of Greek independence.

[Sidenote: Persistent effect of natural barriers.]

If the factor is not one of geographical location, but a natural barrier, such as a mountain
system or a desert, its effect is just as persistent. The upheaved mass of the Carpathians
served to divide the westward moving tide of the Slavs into two streams, diverting one into
the maritime plain of northern Germany and Poland, the other into the channel of the Danube
Valley which guided them to the Adriatic and the foot of the Alps. This same range checked
the westward advance of the mounted Tartar hordes. The Alps long retarded Roman expansion into
central Europe, just as they delayed and obstructed the southward advance of the northern barbarians.
Only through the partial breaches in the wall known as passes did the Alps admit small, divided
bodies of the invaders, like the Cimbri and Teutons, who arrived, therefore, with weakened
power and at intervals, so that the Roman forces had time to gather their strength between
successive attacks, and thus prolonged the life of the declining empire. So in the Middle Ages,
the Alpine barrier facilitated the resistance of Italy to the German emperors, trying to enforce
their claim upon this ancient seat of the Holy Roman Empire.

It was by river-worn valleys leading to passes in the ridge that Etruscan trader, Roman legion,
barbarian horde, and German army crossed the Alpine ranges. To-day well-made highways and railroads
converge upon these valley paths and summit portals, and going is easier; but the Alps still
collect their toll, now in added tons of coal consumed by engines and in higher freight rates,
instead of the ancient imposts of physical exhaustion paid by pack animal and heavily accoutred
soldier. Formerly these mountains barred the weak and timid; to-day they bar the poor, and
forbid transit to all merchandise of large bulk and small value which can not pay the heavy
transportation charges. Similarly, the wide barrier of the Rockies, prior to the opening of
the first overland railroad, excluded all but strong-limbed and strong-hearted pioneers from
the fertile valleys of California and Oregon, just as it excludes coal and iron even from the
Colorado mines, and checks the free movement of laborers to the fields and factories of California,
thereby tightening the grip of the labor unions upon Pacific coast industries.

[Sidenote: Persistent effect of nature-made highways.]

As the surface of the earth presents obstacles, so it offers channels for the easy movement
of humanity, grooves whose direction determines the destination of aimless, unplanned migrations,
and whose termini become, therefore, regions of historical importance. Along these nature-made
highways history repeats itself. The maritime plain of Palestine has been an established route
of commerce and war from the time of Sennacherib to Napoleon.[1] The Danube Valley has admitted
to central Europe a long list of barbarian invaders, covering the period from Attila the Hun
to the Turkish besiegers of Vienna in 1683. The history of the Danube Valley has been one of
warring throngs, of shifting political frontiers, and unassimilated races; but as the river
is a great natural highway, every neighboring state wants to front upon it and strives to secure
it as a boundary.

The movements of peoples constantly recur to these old grooves. The unmarked path of the voyageur's
canoe, bringing out pelts from Lake Superior to the fur market at Montreal, is followed to-day
by whaleback steamers with their cargoes of Manitoba wheat. To-day the Mohawk depression through
the northern Appalachians diverts some of Canada's trade from the Great Lakes to the Hudson,
just as in the seventeenth century it enabled the Dutch at New Amsterdam and later the English
at Albany to tap the fur trade of Canada's frozen forests. Formerly a line of stream and portage,
it carries now the Erie Canal and New York Central Railroad.[2] Similarly the narrow level
belt of land extending from the mouth of the Hudson to the eastern elbow of the lower Delaware,
defining the outer margin of the rough hill country of northern New Jersey and the inner margin
of the smooth coastal plain, has been from savage days such a natural thoroughfare. Here ran
the trail of the Lenni-Lenapi Indians; a little later, the old Dutch road between New Amsterdam
and the Delaware trading-posts; yet later the King's Highway from New York to Philadelphia.
In 1838 it became the route of the Delaware and Raritan Canal, and more recently of the Pennsylvania
Railroad between New York and Philadelphia.[3]

The early Aryans, in their gradual dispersion over northwestern India, reached the Arabian
Sea chiefly by a route running southward from the Indus-Ganges divide, between the eastern
border of the Rajputana Desert and the western foot of the Aravalli Hills. The streams flowing
down from this range across the thirsty plains unite to form the Luni River, which draws a
dead-line to the advance of the desert. Here a smooth and well-watered path brought the early
Aryans of India to a fertile coast along the Gulf of Cambay.[4] In the palmy days of the Mongol
Empire during the seventeenth century, and doubtless much earlier, it became an established
trade route between the sea and the rich cities of the upper Ganges.[5] Recently it determined
the line of the Rajputana Railroad from the Gulf of Cambay to Delhi.[6] Barygaza, the ancient
seaboard terminus of this route, appears in Pliny's time as the most famous emporium of western
India, the resort of Greek and Arab merchants.[7] It reappears later in history with its name
metamorphosed to Baroche or Broach, where in 1616 the British established a factory for trade,[8]
but is finally superseded, under Portuguese and English rule, by nearby Surat. Thus natural
conditions fix the channels in which the stream of humanity most easily moves, determine within
certain limits the direction of its flow, the velocity and volume of its current. Every new
flood tends to fit itself approximately into the old banks, seeks first these lines of least
resistance, and only when it finds them blocked or pre-empted does it turn to more difficult paths.

[Sidenote: Regions of historical similarity.]

Geographical environment, through the persistence of its influence, acquires peculiar significance.
Its effect is not restricted to a given historical event or epoch, but, except when temporarily
met by some strong counteracting force, tends to make itself felt under varying guise in all
succeeding history. It is the permanent element in the shifting fate of races. Islands show
certain fundamental points of agreement which can be distinguished in the economic, ethnic
and historical development of England, Japan, Melanesian Fiji, Polynesian New Zealand, and
pre-historic Crete. The great belt of deserts and steppes extending across the Old World gives
us a vast territory of rare historical uniformity. From time immemorial they have borne and
bred tribes of wandering herdsmen; they have sent out the invading hordes who, in successive
waves of conquest, have overwhelmed the neighboring river lowlands of Eurasia and Africa. They
have given birth in turn to Scythians, Indo-Aryans, Avars, Huns, Saracens, Tartars and Turks,
as to the Tuareg tribes of the Sahara, the Sudanese and Bantu folk of the African grasslands.
But whether these various peoples have been Negroes, Hamites, Semites, Indo-Europeans or Mongolians,
they have always been pastoral nomads. The description given by Herodotus of the ancient Scythians
is applicable in its main features to the Kirghis and Kalmuck who inhabit the Caspian plains
to-day. The environment of this dry grassland operates now to produce the same mode of life
and social organization as it did 2,400 years ago; stamps the cavalry tribes of Cossacks as
it did the mounted Huns, energizes its sons by its dry bracing air, toughens them by its harsh
conditions of life, organizes them into a mobilized army, always moving with its pastoral commissariat.
Then when population presses too hard upon the meager sources of subsistence, when a summer
drought burns the pastures and dries up the water-holes, it sends them forth on a mission of
conquest, to seek abundance in the better watered lands of their agricultural neighbors. Again
and again the productive valleys of the Hoangho, Indus, Ganges, Tigris and Euphrates, Nile,
Volga, Dnieper and Danube have been brought into subjection by the imperious nomads of arid
Asia, just as the "hoe-people" of the Niger and upper Nile have so often been conquered by
the herdsmen of the African grasslands. Thus, regardless of race or epoch--Hyksos or Kaffir--history
tends to repeat itself in these rainless tracts, and involves the better watered districts
along their borders when the vast tribal movements extend into these peripheral lands.

[Sidenote: Climatic influences.]

Climatic influences are persistent, often obdurate in their control. Arid regions permit agriculture
and sedentary life only through irrigation. The economic prosperity of Egypt to-day depends
as completely upon the distribution of the Nile waters as in the days of the Pharaohs. The
mantle of the ancient Egyptian priest has fallen upon the modern British engineer. Arctic explorers
have succeeded only by imitating the life of the Eskimos, adopting their clothes, food, fuel,
dwellings, and mode of travel. Intense cold has checked both native and Russian development
over that major portion of Siberia lying north of the mean annual isotherm of degree C. (32
degrees F.); and it has had a like effect in the corresponding part of Canada. (Compare maps
pages 8 and 9.) It allows these sub-arctic lands scant resources and a population of less than
two to the square mile. Even with the intrusion of white colonial peoples, it perpetuates the
savage economy of the native hunting tribes, and makes the fur trader their modern exploiter,
whether he be the Cossack tribute-gatherer of the lower Lena River, or the factor of the Hudson
Bay Company. The assimilation tends to be ethnic as well as economic, because the severity
of the climate excludes the white woman. The debilitating effects of heat and humidity, aided
by tropical diseases, soon reduce intruding peoples to the dead level of economic inefficiency
characteristic of the native races. These, as the fittest, survive and tend to absorb the new-comers,
pointing to hybridization as the simplest solution of the problem of tropical colonization.

[Sidenote: The relation of geography to history.]

The more the comparative method is applied to the study of history--and this includes a comparison
not only of different countries, but also of successive epochs in the same country--the more
apparent becomes the influence of the soil in which humanity is rooted, the more permanent
and necessary is that influence seen to be. Geography's claim to make scientific investigation
of the physical conditions of historical events is then vindicated. "Which was there first,
geography or history?" asks Kant. And then comes his answer: "Geography lies at the basis of
history." The two are inseparable. History takes for its field of investigation human events
in various periods of time; anthropo-geography studies existence in various regions of terrestrial
space. But all historical development takes place on the earth's surface, and therefore is
more or less molded by its geographic setting. Geography, to reach accurate conclusions, must
compare the operation of its factors in different historical periods and at different stages
of cultural development. It therefore regards history in no small part as a succession of geographical
factors embodied in events. Back of Massachusetts' passionate abolition movement, it sees the
granite soil and boulder-strewn fields of New England; back of the South's long fight for the
maintenance of slavery, it sees the rich plantations of tidewater Virginia and the teeming
fertility of the Mississippi bottom lands. This is the significance of Herder's saying that
"history is geography set into motion." What is to-day a fact of geography becomes to-morrow
a factor of history. The two sciences cannot be held apart without doing violence to both,
without dismembering what is a natural, vital whole. All historical problems ought to be studied
geographically and all geographic problems must be studied historically. Every map has its
date. Those in the Statistical Atlas of the United States showing the distribution of population
from 1790 to 1890 embody a mass of history as well as of geography. A map of France or the
Russian Empire has a long historical perspective; and on the other hand, without that map no
change of ethnic or political boundary, no modification in routes of communication, no system
of frontier defences or of colonization, no scheme of territorial aggrandizement can be understood.

[Sidenote: Multiplicity of geographic factors.]

The study of physical environment as a factor in history was unfortunately brought into disrepute
by extravagant and ill-founded generalization, before it became the object of investigation
according to modern scientific methods. And even to-day principles advanced in the name of
anthropo-geography are often superficial, inaccurate, based upon a body of data too limited
as to space and time, or couched in terms of unqualified statement which exposes them to criticism
or refutation. Investigators in this field, moreover, are prone to get a squint in their eye
that makes them see one geographic factor to the exclusion of the rest; whereas it belongs
to the very nature of physical environment to combine a whole group of influences, working
all at the same time under the law of the resolution of forces. In this plexus of influences,
some operate in one direction and some in another; now one loses its beneficent effect like
a medicine long used or a garment outgrown; another waxes in power, reinforced by a new geographic
factor which has been released from dormancy by the expansion of the known world, or the progress
of invention and of human development.

[Sidenote: Evolution of geographic relations.]

These complex geographic influences cannot be analyzed and their strength estimated except
from the standpoint of evolution. That is one reason these half-baked geographic principles
rest heavy on our mental digestion. They have been formulated without reference to the all-important
fact that the geographical relations of man, like his social and political organization, are
subject to the law of development. Just as the embryo state found in the primitive Saxon tribe
has passed through many phases in attaining the political character of the present British
Empire, so every stage in this maturing growth has been accompanied or even preceded by a steady
evolution of the geographic relations of the English people.

Owing to the evolution of geographic relations, the physical environment favorable to one stage
of development may be adverse to another, and vice versa. For instance, a small, isolated and
protected habitat, like that of Egypt, Phoenicia, Crete and Greece, encourages the birth and
precocious growth of civilization; but later it may cramp progress, and lend the stamp of arrested
development to a people who were once the model for all their little world. Open and wind-swept
Russia, lacking these small, warm nurseries where Nature could cuddle her children, has bred
upon its boundless plains a massive, untutored, homogeneous folk, fed upon the crumbs of culture
that have fallen from the richer tables of Europe. But that item of area is a variable quantity
in the equation. It changes its character at a higher stage of cultural development. Consequently,
when the Muscovite people, instructed by the example of western Europe, shall have grown up
intellectually, economically and politically to their big territory, its area will become a
great national asset. Russia will come into its own, heir to a long-withheld inheritance. Many
of its previous geographic disadvantages will vanish, like the diseases of childhood, while
its massive size will dwarf many previous advantages of its European neighbors.

[Sidenote: Evolution of world relations.]

This evolution of geographic relations applies not only to the local environment, but also
to the wider world relations of a people. Greeks and Syrians, English and Japanese, take a
different rank among the nations of the earth to-day from that held by their ancestors 2,000
years ago, simply because the world relations of civilized peoples have been steadily expanding
since those far-back days of Tyrian and Athenian supremacy. The period of maritime discoveries
in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries shifted the foci of the world relations of European
states from enclosed seas to the rim of the Atlantic. Venice and Genoa gave way to Cadiz and
Lagos, just as sixteen centuries before Corinth and Athens had yielded their ascendency to
Rome and Ostia. The keen but circumscribed trade of the Baltic, which gave wealth and historical
preeminence to Lübeck and the other Hanse Towns of northern Germany from the twelfth to the
seventeenth century, lost its relative importance when the Atlantic became the maritime field
of history. Maritime leadership passed westward from Lübeck and Stralsund to Amsterdam and
Bristol, as the historical horizon widened. England, prior to this sudden dislocation, lay
on the outskirts of civilized Europe, a terminal land, not a focus. The peripheral location
which retarded her early development became a source of power when she accumulated sufficient
density of population for colonizing enterprises, and when maritime discovery opened a way
to trans-oceanic lands.[9]

Meanwhile, local geographic advantages in the old basins remain the same, although they are
dwarfed by the development of relatively greater advantages elsewhere. The broken coastline,
limited area and favorable position of Greece make its people to-day a nation of seamen, and
enable them to absorb by their considerable merchant fleet a great part of the trade of the
eastern Mediterranean,[10] just as they did in the days of Pericles; but that youthful Aegean
world which once constituted so large a part of the oikoumene, has shrunken to a modest province,
and its highways to local paths. The coast cities of northern Germany still maintain a large
commerce in the Baltic, but no longer hold the pre-eminence of the old Hanse Towns. The glory
of the Venetian Adriatic is gone; but that the sea has still a local significance is proven
by the vast sums spent by Austria and Hungary on their hand-made harbors of Trieste and Fiume.[11]
The analytical geographer, therefore, while studying a given combination of geographic forces,
must be prepared for a momentous readjustment and a new interplay after any marked turning
point in the economic, cultural, or world relations of a people.

[Sidenote: Interplay of geographic factors.]

Skepticism as to the effect of geographic conditions upon human development is apparently justifiable,
owing to the multiplicity of the underlying causes and the difficulty of distinguishing between
stronger and weaker factors on the one hand, as between permanent and temporary effects on
the other. We see the result, but find it difficult to state the equation producing this result.
But the important thing is to avoid seizing upon one or two conspicuous geographic elements
in the problem and ignoring the rest. The physical environment of a people consists of all
the natural conditions to which they have been subjected, not merely a part. Geography admits
no single blanket theory. The slow historical development of the Russian folk has been due
to many geographic causes--to excess of cold and deficiency of rain, an outskirt location on
the Asiatic border of Europe exposed to the attacks of nomadic hordes, a meager and, for the
most part, ice-bound coast which was slowly acquired, an undiversified surface, a lack of segregated
regions where an infant civilization might be cradled, and a vast area of unfenced plains wherein
the national energies spread out thin and dissipated themselves. The better Baltic and Black
Sea coasts, the fertility of its Ukraine soil, and location next to wide-awake Germany along
the western frontier have helped to accelerate progress, but the slow-moving body carried too
heavy a drag.

[Sidenote: Land and sea in co-operation.]

The law of the resolutions of forces applies in geography as in the movement of planets. Failure
to recognize this fact often enables superficial critics of anthropo-geography to make a brave
show of argument. The analysis of these interacting forces and of their various combinations
requires careful investigation. Let us consider the interplay of the forces of land and sea
apparent in every country with a maritime location. In some cases a small, infertile, niggardly
country conspires with a beckoning sea to drive its sons out upon the deep; in others a wide
territory with a generous soil keeps its well-fed children at home and silences the call of
the sea. In ancient Phoenicia and Greece, in Norway, Finland, New England, in savage Chile
and Tierra del Fuego, and the Indian coast district of British Columbia and southern Alaska,
a long, broken shoreline, numerous harbors, outlying islands, abundant timber for the construction
of ships, difficult communication by land, all tempted the inhabitants to a seafaring life.
While the sea drew, the land drove in the same direction. There a hilly or mountainous interior
putting obstacles in the way of landward expansion, sterile slopes, a paucity of level, arable
land, an excessive or deficient rainfall withholding from agriculture the reward of tillage--some
or all of these factors combined to compel the inhabitants to seek on the sea the livelihood
denied by the land. Here both forces worked in the same direction.

In England conditions were much the same, and from the sixteenth century produced there a predominant
maritime development which was due not solely to a long indented coastline and an exceptional
location for participating in European and American trade. Its limited island area, its large
extent of rugged hills and chalky soil fit only for pasturage, and the lack of a really generous
natural endowment,[12] made it slow to answer the demands of a growing population, till the
industrial development of the nineteenth century exploited its mineral wealth. So the English
turned to the sea--to fish, to trade, to colonize. Holland's conditions made for the same development.
She united advantages of coastline and position with a small infertile territory, consisting
chiefly of water-soaked grazing lands. When at the zenith of her maritime development, a native
authority estimated that the soil of Holland could not support more than one-eighth of her
inhabitants. The meager products of the land had to be eked out by the harvest of the sea.
Fish assumed an important place in the diet of the Dutch, and when a process of curing it was
discovered, laid the foundation of Holland's export trade. A geographical location central
to the Baltic and North Sea countries, and accessible to France and Portugal, combined with
a position at the mouth of the great German rivers made it absorb the carrying trade of northern
Europe.[13] Land and sea coöperated in its maritime development.

[Sidenote: Land and sea opposed.]

Often the forces of land and sea are directly opposed. If a country's geographic conditions
are favorable to agriculture and offer room for growth of population, the land forces prevail,
because man is primarily a terrestrial animal. Such a country illustrates what Chisholm, with
Attic nicety of speech, calls "the influence of bread-power on history,"[14] as opposed to
Mahan's sea-power. France, like England, had a long coastline, abundant harbors, and an excellent
location for maritime supremacy and colonial expansion; but her larger area and greater amount
of fertile soil put off the hour of a redundant population such as England suffered from even
in Henry VIII's time. Moreover, in consequence of steady continental expansion from the twelfth
to the eighteenth century and a political unification which made its area more effective for
the support of the people, the French of Richelieu's time, except those from certain districts,
took to the sea, not by national impulse as did the English and Dutch, but rather under the
spur of government initiative. They therefore achieved far less in maritime trade and colonization.[15]
In ancient Palestine, a long stretch of coast, poorly equipped with harbors but accessible
to the rich Mediterranean trade, failed to offset the attraction of the gardens and orchards
of the Jezreel Valley and the pastures of the Judean hills, or to overcome the land-born predilections
and aptitudes of the desert-bred Jews. Similarly, the river-fringed peninsulas of Virginia
and Maryland, opening wide their doors to the incoming sea, were powerless, nevertheless, to
draw the settlers away from the riotous productiveness of the wide tidewater plains. Here again
the geographic force of the land outweighed that of the sea and became the dominant factor
in directing the activities of the inhabitants.

The two antagonistic geographic forces may be both of the land, one born of a country's topography,
the other of its location. Switzerland's history has for centuries shown the conflict of two
political policies, one a policy of cantonal and communal independence, which has sprung from
the division of that mountainous country into segregated districts, and the other one of political
centralization, dictated by the necessity for coöperation to meet the dangers of Switzerland's
central location mid a circle of larger and stronger neighbors. Local geographic conditions
within the Swiss territory fixed the national ideal as a league of "sovereign cantons," to
use the term of their constitution, enjoying a maximum of individual rights and privileges,
and tolerating a minimum of interference from the central authority. Here was physical dismemberment
coupled with mutual political repulsion. But a location at the meeting place of French, German,
Austrian and Italian frontiers laid upon them the distasteful necessity of union within to
withstand aggressions crowding upon them from without. Hence the growth of the Swiss constitution
since 1798 has meant a fight of the Confederation against the canton in behalf of general rights,
expanding the functions of the central government, contracting those of canton and commune.[16]

[Sidenote: Local and remote geographic factors.]

Every country forms an independent whole, and as such finds its national history influenced
by its local climate, soil, relief, its location whether inland or maritime, its river highways,
and its boundaries of mountain, sea, or desert. But it is also a link in a great chain of lands,
and therefore may feel a shock or vibration imparted at the remotest end. The gradual desiccation
of western Asia which took a fresh start about 2,000 years ago caused that great exodus and
displacement of peoples known as the Völkerwanderung, and thus contributed to the downfall
of Rome; it was one factor in the Saxon conquest of Britain and the final peopling of central
Europe. The impact of the Turkish hordes hurling themselves against the defenses of Constantinople
in 1453 was felt only forty years afterward by the far-off shores of savage America. Earlier
still it reached England as the revival of learning, and it gave Portugal a shock which started
its navigators towards the Cape of Good Hope in their search for a sea route to India. The
history of South Africa is intimately connected with the Isthmus of Suez. It owes its Portuguese,
Dutch, and English populations to that barrier on the Mediterranean pathway to the Orient;
its importance as a way station on the outside route to India fluctuates with every crisis
in the history of Suez.

[Sidenote: Direct and indirect effects of environment.]

The geographic factors in history appear now as conspicuous direct effects of environment,
such as the forest warfare of the American Indian or the irrigation works of the Pueblo tribes,
now as a group of indirect effects, operating through the economic, social and political activities
of a people. These remoter secondary results are often of supreme importance; they are the
ones which give the final stamp to the national temperament and character, and yet in them
the causal connection between environment and development is far from obvious. They have, therefore,
presented pitfalls to the precipitate theorizer. He has either interpreted them as the direct
effect of some geographic cause from which they were wholly divorced and thus arrived at conclusions
which further investigation failed to sustain; or seeing no direct and obvious connection,
he has denied the possibility of a generalization.

Montesquieu ascribes the immutability of religion, manners, custom and laws in India and other
Oriental countries to their warm climate.[17] Buckle attributes a highly wrought imagination
and gross superstition to all people, like those of India, living in the presence of great
mountains and vast plains, knowing Nature only in its overpowering aspects, which excite the
fancy and paralyze reason. He finds, on the other hand, an early predominance of reason in
the inhabitants of a country like ancient Greece, where natural features are on a small scale,
more comprehensible, nearer the measure of man himself.[18] The scientific geographer, grown
suspicious of the omnipotence of climate and cautious of predicating immediate psychological
effects which are easy to assert but difficult to prove, approaches the problem more indirectly
and reaches a different solution. He finds that geographic conditions have condemned India
to isolation. On the land side, a great sweep of high mountains has restricted intercourse
with the interior; on the sea side, the deltaic swamps of the Indus and Ganges Rivers and an
unbroken shoreline, backed by mountains on the west of the peninsula and by coastal marshes
and lagoons on the east, have combined to reduce its accessibility from the ocean. The effect
of such isolation is ignorance, superstition, and the early crystallization of thought and
custom. Ignorance involves the lack of material for comparison, hence a restriction of the
higher reasoning processes, and an unscientific attitude of mind which gives imagination free
play. In contrast, the accessibility of Greece and its focal location in the ancient world
made it an intellectual clearing-house for the eastern Mediterranean. The general information
gathered there afforded material for wide comparison. It fed the brilliant reason of the Athenian
philosopher and the trained imagination which produced the masterpieces of Greek art and literature.

[Sidenote: Indirect mental effects.]

Heinrich von Treitschke, in his recent "Politik," imitates the direct inference of Buckle when
he ascribes the absence of artistic and poetic development in Switzerland and the Alpine lands
to the overwhelming aspect of nature there, its majestic sublimity which paralyzes the mind.[19]
He reinforces his position by the fact that, by contrast, the lower mountains and hill country
of Swabia, Franconia and Thuringia, where nature is gentler, stimulating, appealing, and not
overpowering, have produced many poets and artists. The facts are incontestable. They reappear
in France in the geographical distribution of the awards made by the Paris Salon of 1896. Judged
by these awards, the rough highlands of Savoy, Alpine Provence, the massive eastern Pyrenees,
and the Auvergne Plateau, together with the barren peninsula of Brittany, are singularly lacking
in artistic instinct, while art nourishes in all the river lowlands of France. Moreover, French
men of letters, by the distribution of their birthplaces, are essentially products of fluvial
valleys and plains, rarely of upland and mountain.[20]

This contrast has been ascribed to a fundamental ethnic distinction between the Teutonic population
of the lowlands and the Alpine or Celtic stock which survives in the isolation of highland
and peninsula, thus making talent an attribute of race. But the Po Valley of northern Italy,
whose population contains a strong infusion of this supposedly stultifying Alpine blood, and
the neighboring lowlands and hill country of Tuscany show an enormous preponderance of intellectual
and artistic power over the highlands of the peninsula.[21] Hence the same contrast appears
among different races under like geographic conditions. Moreover, in France other social phenomena,
such as suicide, divorce, decreasing birth-rate, and radicalism in politics, show this same
startling parallelism of geographic distribution,[22] and these cannot be attributed to the
stimulating or depressing effect of natural scenery upon the human mind.

Mountain regions discourage the budding of genius because they are areas of isolation, confinement,
remote from the great currents of men and ideas that move along the river valleys. They are
regions of much labor and little leisure, of poverty to-day and anxiety for the morrow, of
toil-cramped hands and toil-dulled brains. In the fertile alluvial plains are wealth, leisure,
contact with many minds, large urban centers where commodities and ideas are exchanged. The
two contrasted environments produce directly certain economic and social results, which, in
turn, become the causes of secondary intellectual and artistic effects. The low mountains of
central Germany which von Treitschke cites as homes of poets and artists, owing to abundant
and varied mineral wealth, are the seats of active industries and dense populations,[23] while
their low reliefs present no serious obstacle to the numerous highways across them. They, therefore,
afford all conditions for culture.

[Sidenote: Indirect effects in differentiation of colonial peoples.]

Let us take a different example. The rapid modification in physical and mental constitution
of the English transplanted to North America, South Africa, Australia and New Zealand has been
the result of several geographic causes working through the economic and social media; but
it has been ascribed by Darwin and others to the effect of climate. The prevailing energy and
initiative of colonists have been explained by the stimulating atmosphere of their new homes.
Even Natal has not escaped this soft impeachment. But the enterprise of colonials has cropped
out, under almost every condition of heat and cold, aridity and humidity, of a habitat at sea-level
and on high plateau. This blanket theory of climate cannot, therefore, cover the case. Careful
analysis supersedes it by a whole group of geographic factors working directly and indirectly.
The first of these was the dividing ocean which, prior to the introduction of cheap ocean transportation
and bustling steerage agents, made a basis of artificial selection. Then it was the man of
abundant energy who, cramped by the narrow environment of a Norwegian farm or Irish bog, came
over to America to take up a quarter-section of prairie land or rise to the eminence of Boston
police sergeant. The Scotch immigrants in America who fought in the Civil War were nearly two
inches taller than the average in the home country.[24] But the ocean barrier culled superior
qualities of mind and character also--independence of political and religious conviction, and
the courage of those convictions, whether found in royalist or Puritan, Huguenot or English
Catholic.

[Sidenote: Indirect effect through isolation.]

Such colonists in a remote country were necessarily few and could not be readily reinforced
from home. Their new and isolated geographical environment favored variation. Heredity passed
on the characteristics of a small, highly selected group. The race was kept pure from intermixture
with the aborigines of the country, owing to the social and cultural abyss which separated
them, and to the steady withdrawal of the natives before the advance of the whites. The homogeneity
of island peoples seems to indicate that individual variations are in time communicated by
heredity to a whole population under conditions of isolation; and in this way modifications
due to artificial selection and a changed environment become widely spread.

Nor is this all. The modified type soon becomes established, because the abundance of land
at the disposal of the colonists and the consequent better conditions of living encourage a
rapid increase of population. A second geographic factor of mere area here begins to operate.
Ease in gaining subsistence, the greater independence of the individual and the family, emancipation
from carking care, the hopeful attitude of mind engendered by the consciousness of an almost
unlimited opportunity and capacity for expansion, the expectation of large returns upon labor,
and, finally, the profound influence of this hopefulness upon the national character, all combined,
produce a social rejuvenation of the race. New conditions present new problems which call for
prompt and original solution, make a demand upon the ingenuity and resourcefulness of the individual,
and therefore work to the same end as his previous removal from the paralyzing effect of custom
in the old home country. Activity is youth and sluggishness or paralysis is age. Hence the
energy, initiative, adaptability, and receptivity to new ideas--all youthful qualities--which
characterize the Anglo-Saxon American as well as the English Africander, can be traced back
to the stimulating influences, not of a bracing or variable climate, but of the abundant opportunities
offered by a great, rich, unexploited country. Variation under new natural conditions, when
safe-guarded by isolation, tends to produce modification of the colonial type; this is the
direct effect of a changed environment. But the new economic and social activities of a transplanted
people become the vehicle of a mass of indirect geographic influences which contribute to the
differentiation of the national character.

[Sidenote: General importance of indirect effects.]

The tendency to overlook such links between conspicuous effects and their remote, less evident
geographic causes has been common in geographic investigation. This direct rather than indirect
approach to the heart of the problem has led to false inferences or to the assumption that
reliable conclusions were impossible. Environment influences the higher, mental life of a people
chiefly through the medium of their economic and social life; hence its ultimate effects should
be traced through the latter back to the underlying cause. But rarely has this been done. Even
so astute a geographer as Strabo, though he recognizes the influence of geographic isolation
in differentiating dialects and customs in Greece,[25] ascribes some national characteristics
to the nature of the country, especially to its climate, and the others to education and institutions.
He thinks that the nature of their respective lands had nothing to do with making the Athenians
cultured, the Spartans and Thebans ignorant; that the predilection for natural science in Babylonia
and Egypt was not a result of environment but of the institutions and education of those countries.[26]
But here arise the questions, how far custom and education in their turn depend upon environment;
to what degree natural conditions, molding economic and political development, may through
them fundamentally affect social customs, education, culture, and the dominant intellectual
aptitudes of a people. It is not difficult to see, back of the astronomy and mathematics and
hydraulics of Egypt, the far off sweep of the rain-laden monsoons against the mountains of
Abyssinia and the creeping of the tawny Nile flood over that river-born oasis.

[Sidenote: Indirect political and moral effects.]

Plutarch states in his "Solon" that after the rebellion of Kylon in 612 B.C. the Athenian people
were divided into as many political factions as there were physical types of country in Attica.
The mountaineers, who were the poorest party, wanted something like a democracy; the people
of the plains, comprising the greatest number of rich families, were clamorous for an oligarchy;
the coast population of the south, intermediate both in social position and wealth, wanted
something between the two. The same three-fold division appeared again in 564 B.C. on the usurpation
of Peisistratus.[27] Here the connection between geographic condition and political opinion
is clear enough, though the links are agriculture and commerce. New England's opposition to
the War of 1812, culminating in the threat of secession of the Hartford Convention, can be
traced back through the active maritime trade to the broken coastline and unproductive soil
of that glaciated country.

In all democratic or representative forms of government permitting free expression of popular
opinion, history shows that division into political parties tends to follow geographical lines
of cleavage. In our own Civil War the dividing line between North and South did not always
run east and west. The mountain area of the Southern Appalachians supported the Union and drove
a wedge of disaffection into the heart of the South. Mountainous West Virginia was politically
opposed to the tidewater plains of old Virginia, because slave labor did not pay on the barren
"upright" farms of the Cumberland Plateau; whereas, it was remunerative on the wide fertile
plantations of the coastal lowland. The ethics of the question were obscured where conditions
of soil and topography made the institution profitable. In the mountains, as also in New England,
a law of diminishing financial returns had for its corollary a law of increasing moral insight.
In this case, geographic conditions worked through the medium of direct economic effects to
more important political and ethical results.

The roots of geographic influence often run far underground before coming to the surface, to
sprout into some flowering growth; and to trace this back to its parent stem is the necessary
but not easy task of the geographer.

[Sidenote: Time element.]

The complexity of this problem does not end here. The modification of human development by
environment is a natural process; like all other natural processes, it involves the cumulative
effects of causes operating imperceptibly but persistently through vast periods of time. Slowly
and deliberately does geography engrave the subtitles to a people's history. Neglect of this
time element in the consideration of geographic influences accounts equally for many an exaggerated
assertion and denial of their power. A critic undertakes to disprove modification through physical
environment by showing that it has not produced tangible results in the last fifty or five
hundred years. This attitude recalls the early geologists, whose imaginations could not conceive
the vast ages necessary in a scientific explanation of geologic phenomena.

The theory of evolution has taught us in science to think in larger terms of time, so that
we no longer raise the question whether European colonists in Africa can turn into negroes,
though we do find the recent amazing statement that the Yankee, in his tall, gaunt figure,
"the colour of his skin, and the formation of his hair, has begun to differentiate himself
from his European kinsman and approach the type of the aboriginal Indians."[28] Evolution tells
the story of modification by a succession of infinitesimal changes, and emphasizes the permanence
of a modification once produced long after the causes for it cease to act. The mesas of Arizona,
the earth sculpture of the Grand Canyon remain as monuments to the erosive forces which produced
them. So a habitat leaves upon man no ephemeral impress; it affects him in one way at a low
stage of his development, and differently at a later or higher stage, because the man himself
and his relation to his environment have been modified in the earlier period; but traces of
that earlier adaptation survive in his maturer life. Hence man's relation to his environment
must be looked at through the perspective of historical development. It would be impossible
to explain the history and national character of the contemporary English solely by their twentieth
century response to their environment, because with insular conservatism they carry and cherish
vestiges of times when their islands represented different geographic relations from those
of to-day. Witness the wool-sack of the lord chancellor. We cannot understand the location
of modern Athens, Rome or Berlin from the present day relations of urban populations to their
environment, because the original choice of these sites was dictated by far different considerations
from those ruling to-day. In the history of these cities a whole succession of geographic factors
have in turn been active, each leaving its impress of which the cities become, as it were,
repositories.

[Sidenote: Effect of a previous habitat.]

The importance of this time element for a solution of anthropo-geographic problems becomes
plainer, where a certain locality has received an entirely new population, or where a given
people by migration change their habitat. The result in either case is the same, a new combination,
new modifications superimposed on old modifications. And it is with this sort of case that
anthropo-geography most often has to deal. So restless has mankind been, that the testimony
of history and ethnology is all against the assumption that a social group has ever been subjected
to but one type of environment during its long period of development from a primitive to a
civilized society. Therefore, if we assert that a people is the product of the country which
it inhabits at a given time, we forget that many different countries which its forbears occupied
have left their mark on the present race in the form of inherited aptitudes and traditional
customs acquired in those remote ancestral habitats. The Moors of Granada had passed through
a wide range of ancestral experiences; they bore the impress of Asia, Africa and Europe, and
on their expulsion from Spain carried back with them to Morocco traces of their peninsula life.

A race or tribe develops certain characteristics in a certain region, then moves on, leaving
the old abode but not all the accretions of custom, social organization and economic method
there acquired. These travel on with the migrant people; some are dropped, others are preserved
because of utility, sentiment or mere habit. For centuries after the settlement of the Jews
in Palestine, traces of their pastoral life in the grasslands of Mesopotamia could be discerned
in their social and political organization, in their ritual and literature. Survivals of their
nomadic life in Asiatic steppes still persist among the Turks of Europe, after six centuries
of sedentary life in the best agricultural land of the Balkan Peninsula. One of these appears
in their choice of meat. They eat chiefly sheep and goats, beef very rarely, and swine not
at all.[29] The first two thrive on poor pastures and travel well, so that they are admirably
adapted to nomadic life in arid lands; the last two, far less so, but on the other hand are
the regular concomitant of agricultural life. The Turk's taste to-day, therefore, is determined
by the flocks and herds which he once pastured on the Trans-Caspian plains. The finished terrace
agriculture and methods of irrigation, which the Saracens had learned on the mountain sides
of Yemen through a schooling of a thousand years or more, facilitated their economic conquest
of Spain. Their intelligent exploitation of the country's resources for the support of their
growing numbers in the favorable climatic conditions which Spain offered was a light-hearted
task, because of the severe training which they had had in their Arabian home.

The origin of Roman political institutions is intimately connected with conditions of the naturally
small territory where arose the greatness of Rome. But now, after two thousand years we see
the political impress of this narrow origin spreading to the governments of an area of Europe
immeasurably larger than the region that gave it birth. In the United States, little New England
has been the source of the strongest influences modifying the political, religious and cultural
life of half a continent; and as far as Texas and California these influences bear the stamp
of that narrow, unproductive environment which gave to its sons energy of character and ideals.

[Sidenote: Transplanted religions.]

Ideas especially are light baggage, and travel with migrant peoples over many a long and rough
road. They are wafted like winged seed by the wind, and strike root in regions where they could
never have originated. Few classes of ideas bear so plainly the geographic stamp of their origin
as religious ones, yet none have spread more widely. The abstract monotheism sprung from the
bare grasslands of western Asia made slow but final headway against the exuberant forest gods
of the early Germans. Religious ideas travel far from their seedbeds along established lines
of communication. We have the almost amusing episode of the brawny Burgundians of the fifth
century, who received the Arian form of Christianity by way of the Danube highway from the
schools of Athens and Alexandria, valiantly supporting the niceties of Greek religious thought
against the Roman version of the faith which came up the Rhone Valley.

If the sacred literature of Judaism and Christianity take weak hold upon the western mind,
this is largely because it is written in the symbolism of the pastoral nomad. Its figures of
speech reflect life in deserts and grasslands. For these figures the western mind has few or
vague corresponding ideas. It loses, therefore, half the import, for instance, of the Twenty-third
Psalm, that picture of the nomad shepherd guiding his flock across parched and trackless plains,
to bring them at evening, weary, hungry, thirsty, to the fresh pastures and waving palms of
some oasis, whose green tints stand out in vivid contrast to the tawny wastes of the encompassing
sands. "He leadeth me beside the still waters," not the noisy rushing stream of the rainy lands,
but the quiet desert pool that reflects the stars. What real significance has the tropical
radiance of the lotus flower, the sacred symbol of Buddhism, for the Mongolian lama in the
cold and arid borders of Gobi or the wind-swept highlands of sterile Tibet? And yet these exotic
ideas live on, even if they no longer bloom in the uncongenial soil. But to explain them in
terms of their present environment would be indeed impossible.

[Sidenote: Partial response to environment]

A people may present at any given time only a partial response to their environment also for
other reasons. This may be either because their arrival has been too recent for the new habitat
to make its influence felt; or because, even after long residence, one overpowering geographic
factor has operated to the temporary exclusion of all others. Under these circumstances, suddenly
acquired geographic advantages of a high order or such advantages, long possessed but tardily
made available by the release of national powers from more pressing tasks, may institute a
new trend of historical development, resulting more from stimulating geographic conditions
than from the natural capacities or aptitudes of the people themselves. Such developments,
though often brilliant, are likely to be short-lived and to end suddenly or disastrously, because
not sustained by a deep-seated national impulse animating the whole mass of the people. They
cease when the first enthusiasm spends itself, or when outside competition is intensified,
or the material rewards decrease.

[Sidenote: The case of Spain.]

An illustration is found in the mediæval history of Spain. The intercontinental location of
the Iberian Peninsula exposed it to the Saracen conquest and to the constant reinforcements
to Islam power furnished by the Mohammedanized Berbers of North Africa. For seven centuries
this location was the dominant geographic factor in Spain's history. It made the expulsion
of the Moors the sole object of all the Iberian states, converted the country into an armed
camp, made the gentleman adventurer and Christian knight the national ideal. It placed the
center of political control high up on the barren plateau of Castile, far from the centers
of population and culture in the river lowlands or along the coast. It excluded the industrial
and commercial development which was giving bone and sinew to the other European states. The
release of the national energies by the fall of Granada in 1492 and the now ingrained spirit
of adventure enabled Spain and Portugal to utilize the unparalleled advantage of their geographical
position at the junction of the Mediterranean and Atlantic highways, and by their great maritime
explorations in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries, to become foremost among European colonial
powers. But the development was sporadic, not supported by any widespread national movement.
In a few decades the maritime preëminence of the Iberian Peninsula began to yield to the competition
of the Dutch and English, who were, so to speak, saturated with their own maritime environment.
Then followed the rapid decay of the sea power of Spain, followed by that of Portugal, till
by 1648 even her coasting trade was in the hands of the Dutch, and Dutch vessels were employed
to maintain communication with the West Indies.[30]

[Sidenote: Sporadic response to a new environment.]

We have a later instance of sporadic development under the stimulus of new and favorable geographic
conditions, a similar anti-climax. The expansion of the Russians across the lowlands of Siberia
was quite in harmony with the genius of that land-bred people; but when they reached Bering
Sea, the enclosed basin, the proximity of the American continent, the island stepping-stones
between, and the lure of rich sealskins to the fur-hunting Cossacks determined a sudden maritime
expansion, for which the Russian people were unfitted. Beginning in 1747, it swept the coast
of Alaska, located its American administrative center first on Kadiak, then on Baranof Island,
and by 1812 placed its southern outposts on the California coast near San Francisco Bay and
on the Farralone Islands.[31] Russian convicts were employed to man the crazy boats built of
green lumber on the shores of Bering Sea, and Aleutian hunters with their bidarkas were impressed
to catch the seal.[32] The movement was productive only of countless shipwrecks, many seal
skins, and an opportunity to satisfy an old grudge against England. The territory gained was
sold to the United States in 1867. This is the one instance in Russian history of any attempt
at maritime expansion, and also of any withdrawal from territory to which the Muscovite power
had once established its claim. This fact alone would indicate that only excessively tempting
geographic conditions led the Russians into an economic and political venture which neither
the previously developed aptitudes of the people nor the conditions of population and historical
development on the Siberian seaboard were able to sustain.

[Sidenote: The larger conception of the environment.]

The history and culture of a people embody the effects of previous habitats and of their final
environment; but this means something more than local geographic conditions. It involves influences
emanating from far beyond the borders. No country, no continent, no sea, mountain or river
is restricted to itself in the influence which it either exercises or receives. The history
of Austria cannot be understood merely from Austrian ground. Austrian territory is part of
the Mediterranean hinterland, and therefore has been linked historically with Rome, Italy,
and the Adriatic. It is a part of the upper Danube Valley and therefore shares much of its
history with Bavaria and Germany, while the lower Danube has linked it with the Black Sea,
Greece, the Russian steppes, and Asia. The Asiatic Hungarians have pushed forward their ethnic
boundary nearly to Vienna. The Austrian capital has seen the warring Turks beneath its walls,
and shapes its foreign policy with a view to the relative strength of the Sultan and the Czar.

[Sidenote: Unity of the earth.]

The earth is an inseparable whole. Each country or sea is physically and historically intelligible
only as a portion of that whole. Currents and wind-systems of the oceans modify the climate
of the nearby continents, and direct the first daring navigations of their peoples. The alternating
monsoons of the Indian Ocean guided Arab merchantmen from ancient times back and forth between
the Red Sea and the Malabar coast of India.[33] The Equatorial Current and the northeast trade-wind
carried the timid ships of Columbus across the Atlantic to America. The Gulf Stream and the
prevailing westerlies later gave English vessels the advantage on the return voyage. Europe
is a part of the Atlantic coast. This is a fact so significant that the North Atlantic has
become a European sea. The United States also is a part of the Atlantic coast: this is the
dominant fact of American history. China forms a section of the Pacific rim. This is the fact
back of the geographic distribution of Chinese emigration to Annam, Tonkin, Siam, Malacca,
the Philippines, East Indies, Borneo, Australia, Hawaiian Islands, the Pacific Coast States,
British Columbia, the Alaskan coast southward from Bristol Bay in Bering Sea, Ecuador and Peru.

As the earth is one, so is humanity. Its unity of species points to some degree of communication
through a long prehistoric past. Universal history is not entitled to the name unless it embraces
all parts of the earth and all peoples, whether savage or civilized. To fill the gaps in the
written record it must turn to ethnology and geography, which by tracing the distribution and
movements of primitive peoples can often reconstruct the most important features of their history.

Anthropo-geographic problems are never simple. They must all be viewed in the long perspective
of evolution and the historical past. They require allowance for the dominance of different
geographic factors at different periods, and for a possible range of geographic influences
wide as the earth itself. In the investigator they call for pains-taking analysis and, above
all, an open mind.

NOTES TO CHAPTER I

[1] George Adam Smith, Historical Geography of the Holy Land, pp. 149-157. New York, 1897.

[2] A.P. Brigham, Geographic Influences in American History, Chap. I. Boston, 1903.

[3] R.H. Whitbeck, Geographic Influences in the Development of New Jersey, Journal of Geography,
Vol. V, No. 6. January, 1908.

[4] Hans Helmolt, History of the World, Vol. II, p. 372. London and New York, 1902-1906.

[5] Jean Baptiste Tavernier, Travels in India, 1641-1667. Vol. I, chap. V and map. London, 1889.

[6] Sir Thomas Holdich, India, p. 305. London, 1905.

[7] Bunbury, History of Ancient Geography, Vol. II, pp. 464-465, 469. London, 1883.

[8] Imperial Gazetteer for India, Vol. III, p. 109. London, 1885.

[9] G.G. Chisholm, The Relativity of Geographic Advantages, Scottish Geog. Mag., Vol. XIII,
No. 9, Sept. 1897.

[10] Hugh Robert Mill, International Geography, p. 347. New York, 1902.

[11] Joseph Partsch, Central Europe, pp. 228-230. London, 1903.

[12] H.J. Mackinder, Britain and the British Seas, pp. 317-323. London, 1904.

[13] Captain A.T. Mahan, Influence of Sea Power upon History, pp. 36-38. Boston, 1902.

[14] G.G. Chisholm, Economic Geography, Scottish Geog. Mag., March, 1908.

[15] Captain A.T. Mahan, Influence of Sea Power upon History, pp. 37-38. Boston, 1902.

[16] Boyd Winchester, The Swiss Republic, pp. 123, 124, 145-147. Philadelphia, 1891.

[17] Montesquieu, Spirit of the Laws, Book XIV, chap. IV.

[18] Henry Buckle, History of Civilization in England, Vol. I, pp. 86-106.

[19] Heinrich von Treitschke, Politik, Vol. I, p. 225. Leipzig, 1897. This whole chapter on
Land und Leute is suggestive.

[20] W.Z. Ripley, Races of Europe, pp. 524-525. New York, 1899.

[21] Ibid., 526.

[22] Ibid., 517-520, 533-536.

[23] Joseph Partsch, Central Europe, pp. 256-257, 268-271. London, 1903.

[24] W.Z. Ripley, Races of Europe, p. 89. New York, 1899.

[25] Strabo, Book VII, chap. I, 2.

[26] Strabo, Book II, chap. III, 7.

[27] Plutarch, Solon, pp. 13, 29, 154.

[28] Hans Helmolt, History of the World, Vol. II, pp. 244-245. New York, 1902-1906.

[29] Roscher, National-oekonomik des Ackerbaues, p. 33, note 3. Stuttgart, 1888.

[30] Captain A.T. Mahan, Influence of Sea Power upon History, pp. 41-42, 50-53. Boston, 1902.

[31] H. Bancroft, History of California, Vol. I, pp. 298, 628-635. San Francisco.

[32] Agnes Laut, Vikings of the Pacific, pp. 64-82. New York, 1905.

[33] Bunbury, History of Ancient Geography, Vol. II, pp. 351, 470-471. London, 1883.

CHAPTER II

CLASSES OF GEOGRAPHIC INFLUENCES

Into almost every anthropo-geographical problem the element of environment enters in different
phases, with different modes of operation and varying degrees of importance. Since the causal
conception of geography demands a detailed analysis of all the relations between environment
and human development, it is advisable to distinguish the various classes of geographic influences.

[Sidenote: Physical effects.]

Four fundamental classes of effects can be distinguished.

1. The first class includes direct physical effects of environment, similar to those exerted
on plants and animals by their habitat. Certain geographic conditions, more conspicuously those
of climate, apply certain stimuli to which man, like the lower animals, responds by an adaption
of his organism to his environment. Many physiological peculiarities of man are due to physical
effects of environment, which doubtless operated very strongly in the earliest stages of human
development, and in those shadowy ages contributed to the differentiation of races. The unity
of the human species is as clearly established as the diversity of races and peoples, whose
divergences must be interpreted chiefly as modifications in response to various habitats in
long periods of time.

[Sidenote: Variation and natural conditions.]

Such modifications have probably been numerous in the persistent and unending movements, shiftings,
and migrations which have made up the long prehistoric history of man. If the origin of species
is found in variability and inheritance, variation is undoubtedly influenced by a change of
natural conditions. This self-maintenance under outward influences is an essential part of
the conception of life which Herbert Spencer defines as the correspondence between internal
conditions and external circumstances, or August Comte as the harmony between the living being
and the surrounding medium or milieu.

According to Virchow, the distinction of races rests upon hereditary variations, but heredity
itself cannot become active till the characteristic or Zustand is produced which is to be handed
down.[35] But environment determines what variation shall become stable enough to be passed
on by heredity. For instance, we can hardly err in attributing the great lung capacity, massive
chests, and abnormally large torsos of the Quichua and Aymara Indians inhabiting the high Andean
plateaus to the rarified air found at an altitude of 10,000 or 15,000 feet above sea level.
Whether these have been acquired by centuries of extreme lung expansion, or represent the survival
of a chance variation of undoubted advantage, they are a product of the environment. They are
a serious handicap when the Aymara Indian descends to the plains, where he either dies off
or leaves descendants with diminishing chests.[36] [See map page 101.]

[Sidenote: Stature and environment]

Darwin holds that many slight changes in animals and plants, such as size, color, thickness
of skin and hair, have been produced through food supply and climate from the external conditions
under which the forms lived.[37] Paul Ehrenreich, while regarding the chief race distinctions
as permanent forms, not to be explained by external conditions, nevertheless concedes the slight
and slow variation of the sub-race under changing conditions of food and climate as beyond
doubt.[38] Stature is partly a matter of feeding and hence of geographic condition. In mountain
regions, where the food resources are scant, the varieties of wild animals are characterized
by smaller size in general than are corresponding species in the lowlands. It is a noticeable
fact that dwarfed horses or ponies have originated in islands, in Iceland, the Shetlands, Corsica
and Sardinia. This is due either to scanty and unvaried food or to excessive inbreeding, or
probably to both. The horses introduced into the Falkland Islands in 1764 have deteriorated
so in size and strength in a few generations that they are in a fair way to develop a Falkland
variety of pony.[39] On the other hand, Mr. Homer Davenport states that the pure-bred Arabian
horses raised on his New Jersey stock farm are in the third generation a hand higher than their
grandsires imported from Arabia, and of more angular build. The result is due to more abundant
and nutritious food and the elimination of long desert journeys.

The low stature of the natives prevailing in certain "misery spots" of Europe, as in the Auvergne
Plateau of southern France, is due in part to race, in part to a disastrous artificial selection
by the emigration of the taller and more robust individuals, but in considerable part to the
harsh climate and starvation food-yield of that sterile soil; for the children of the region,
if removed to the more fertile valleys of the Loire and Garonne, grow to average stature.[40]
The effect of a scant and uncertain food supply is especially clear in savages, who have erected
fewer buffers between themselves and the pressure of environment. The Bushmen of the Kalahari
Desert are shorter than their Hottentot kindred who pasture their flocks and herds in the neighboring
grasslands.[41] Samoyedes, Lapps, and other hyperborean races of Eurasia are shorter than their
more southern neighbors, the physical record of an immemorial struggle against cold and hunger.
The stunted forms and wretched aspect of the Snake Indians inhabiting the Rocky Mountain deserts
distinguished these clans from the tall buffalo-hunting tribes of the plains.[42] Any feature
of geographic environment tending to affect directly the physical vigor and strength of a people
cannot fail to prove a potent factor in their history.

[Sidenote: Physical effects of dominant activities.]

Oftentimes environment modifies the physique of a people indirectly by imposing upon them certain
predominant activities, which may develop one part of the body almost to the point of deformity.
This is the effect of increased use or disuse which Darwin discusses. He attributes the thin
legs and thick arms of the Payaguas Indians living along the Paraguay River to generations
of lives spent in canoes, with the lower extremities motionless and the arm and chest muscles
in constant exercise.[43] Livingstone found these same characteristics of broad chests and
shoulders with ill-developed legs among the Barotse of the upper Zambesi;[44] and they have
been observed in pronounced form, coupled with distinctly impaired powers of locomotion, among
the Tlingit, Tsimshean, and Haida Indians of the southern Alaskan and British Columbia coast,
where the geographic conditions of a mountainous and almost strandless shore interdicted agriculture
and necessitated sea-faring activities.[45] An identical environment has produced a like physical
effect upon the canoemen of Tierra del Fuego[46] and the Aleutian Islanders, who often sit
in their boats twenty hours at a time.[47] These special adaptations are temporary in their
nature and tend to disappear with change of occupation, as, for instance, among the Tlingit
Indians, who develop improved leg muscles when employed as laborers in the salmon canneries
of British Columbia.

[Sidenote: Effects of climate.]

Both the direct and indirect physical effects of environment thus far instanced are obvious
in themselves and easily explained. Far different is it with the majority of physical effects,
especially those of climate, whose mode of operation is much more obscure than was once supposed.
The modern geographer does not indulge in the naive hypothesis of the last century, which assumed
a prompt and direct effect of environment upon the form and features of man. Carl Ritter regarded
the small, slit eyes and swollen lids of the Turkoman as "an obvious effect of the desert upon
the organism." Stanhope Smith ascribed the high shoulders and short neck of the Tartars of
Mongolia to their habit of raising their shoulders to protect the neck against the cold; their
small, squinting eyes, overhanging brows, broad faces and high cheek bones, to the effect of
the bitter, driving winds and the glare of the snow, till, he says, "every feature by the action
of the cold is harsh and distorted."[48] These profound influences of a severe climate upon
physiognomy he finds also among the Lapps, northern Mongolians, Samoyedes and Eskimo.

[Sidenote: Acclimatization]

Most of these problems are only secondarily grist for the geographer's mill. For instance,
when the Aryans descended to the enervating lowlands of tropical India, and in that debilitating
climate lost the qualities which first gave them supremacy, the change which they underwent
was primarily a physiological one. It can be scientifically described and explained therefore
only by physiologists and physico-chemists; and upon their investigations the geographer must
wait before he approaches the problem from the standpoint of geographical distribution. Into
this sub-class of physical effects come all questions of acclimatization.[49] These are important
to the anthropo-geographer, just as they are to colonial governments like England or France,
because they affect the power of national or racial expansion, and fix the historical fate
of tropical lands. The present populations of the earth represent physical adaptation to their
environments. The intense heat and humidity of most tropical lands prevent any permanent occupation
by a native-born population of pure whites. The catarrhal zone north of the fortieth parallel
in America soon exterminates the negroes.[50]

The Indians of South America, though all fundamentally of the same ethnic stock, are variously
acclimated to the warm, damp, forested plains of the Amazon; to the hot, dry, treeless coasts
of Peru; and to the cold, arid heights of the Andes. The habitat that bred them tends to hold
them, by restricting the range of climate which they can endure. In the zone of the Andean
slope lying between 4,000 and 6,000 feet of altitude, which produces the best flavored coffee
and which must be cultivated, the imported Indians from the high plateaus and from the low
Amazon plains alike sicken and die after a short time; so that they take employment on these
coffee plantations for only three or five months, and then return to their own homes. Labor
becomes nomadic on these slopes, and in the intervals these farm lands of intensive agriculture
show the anomaly of a sparse population only of resident managers.[51] Similarly in the high,
dry Himalayan valley of the upper Indus, over 10,000 feet above sea level, the natives of Ladak
are restricted to a habitat that yields them little margin of food for natural growth of population
but forbids them to emigrate in search of more,--applies at the same time the lash to drive
and the leash to hold, for these highlanders soon die when they reach the plains.[52] Here
are two antagonistic geographic influences at work from the same environment, one physical
and the other social-economic. The Ladaki have reached an interesting resolution of these two
forces by the institution of polyandry, which keeps population practically stationary.

[Sidenote: Pigmentation and climate.]

The relation of pigmentation to climate has long interested geographers as a question of environment;
but their speculations on the subject have been barren, because the preliminary investigations
of the physiologist, physicist and chemist are still incomplete. The general fact of increasing
nigrescence from temperate towards equatorial regions is conspicuous enough, despite some irregularity
of the shading.[53] This fact points strongly to some direct relation between climate and pigmentation,
but gives no hint how the pigmental processes are affected. The physiologist finds that in
the case of the negro, the dark skin is associated with a dense cuticle, diminished perspiration,
smaller chests and less respiratory power, a lower temperature and more rapid pulse,[54] all
which variations may enter into the problem of the negroes coloring. The question is therefore
by no means simple.

Yet it is generally conceded by scientists that pigment is a protective device of nature. The
negro's skin is comparatively insensitive to a sun heat that blisters a white man. Livingstone
found the bodies of albino negroes in Bechuana Land always blistered on exposure to the sun,[55]
and a like effect has been observed among albino Polynesians, and Melanesians of Fiji.[56]
Paul Ehrenreich finds that the degree of coloration depends less upon annual temperature than
upon the direct effect of the sun's rays; and that therefore a people dwelling in a cool, dry
climate, but exposed to the sun may be darker than another in a hot, moist climate but living
in a dense forest. The forest-dwelling Botokudos of the upper San Francisco River in Brazil
are fairer than the kindred Kayapo tribe, who inhabit the open campos; and the Arawak of the
Purus River forests are lighter than their fellows in the central Matto Grosso.[57] Sea-faring
coast folk, who are constantly exposed to the sun, especially in the Tropics, show a deeper
pigmentation than their kindred of the wooded interior.[58] The coast Moros of western Mindanao
are darker than the Subanos, their Malay brethren of the back country, the lightness of whose
color can be explained by their forest life.[59] So the Duallas of the Kamerun coast of Africa
are darker than the Bakwiri inhabiting the forested mountains just behind them, though both
tribes belong to the Bantu group of people.[60] Here light, in contradistinction to heat, appears
the dominant factor in pigmentation. A recent theory, advanced by von Schmaedel in 1895, rests
upon the chemical power of light. It holds that the black pigment renders the negro skin insensitive
to the luminous or actinic effects of solar radiation, which are far more destructive to living
protoplasm than the merely calorific effects.[61]

[Sidenote: Pigmentation and altitude]

Coloration responds to other more obscure influences of environment. A close connection between
pigmentation and elevation above sea level has been established: a high altitude operates like
a high latitude. Blondness increases appreciably on the higher slopes of the Black Forest,
Vosges Mountains, and Swiss Alps, though these isolated highlands are the stronghold of the
brunette Alpine race.[62] Livi, in his treatise on military anthropometry, deduced a special
action of mountains upon pigmentation on observing a prevailing increase of blondness in Italy
above the four-hundred meter line, a phenomenon which came out as strongly in Basilicata and
Calabria provinces of the south as in Piedmont and Lombardy in the north.[63] The dark Hamitic
Berbers of northern Africa have developed an unmistakable blond variant in high valleys of
the Atlas range, which in a sub-tropical region rises to the height of 12,000 feet. Here among
the Kabyles the population is fair; grey, blue or green eyes are frequent, as is also reddish
blond or chestnut hair.[64] Waitz long ago affirmed this tendency of mountaineers to lighter
coloring from his study of primitive peoples.[65] The modification can not be attributed wholly
to climatic contrast between mountain and plain. Some other factor, like the economic poverty
of the environment and the poor food-supply, as Livi suggests, has had a hand in the result;
but just what it is or how it has operated cannot yet be defined.[66]

[Sidenote: Difficulty of Generalization]

Enough has been said to show that the geographer can formulate no broad generalization as to
the relation of pigmentation and climate from the occurrence of the darkest skins in the Tropics;
because this fact is weakened by the appearance also of lighter tints in the hottest districts,
and of darker ones in arctic and temperate regions. The geographer must investigate the questions
when and where deeper shades develop in the skins of fair races; what is the significance of
dark skins in the cold zones and of fair ones in hot zones. His answer must be based largely
on the conclusions of physiologists and physicists, and only when these have reached a satisfactory
solution of each detail of the problem can the geographer summarize the influence of environment
upon pigmentation. The rule can therefore safely be laid down that in all investigation of
geographic influences upon the permanent physical characteristics of races, the geographic
distribution of these should be left out of consideration till the last, since it so easily
misleads.[67] Moreover, owing to the ceaseless movements of mankind, these effects do not remain
confined to the region that produced them, but pass on with the wandering throng in whom they
have once developed, and in whom they endure or vanish according as they prove beneficial or
deleterious in the new habitat.

[Sidenote: Psychical effects.]

II. More varied and important are the psychical effects of geographic environment. As direct
effects they are doubtless bound up in many physiological modifications; and as influences
of climate, they help differentiate peoples and races in point of temperament. They are reflected
in man's religion and his literature, in his modes of thought and figures of speech. Blackstone
states that "in the Isle of Man, to take away a horse or ox was no felony, but a trespass,
because of the difficulty in that little territory to conceal them or to carry them off; but
to steal a pig or a fowl, which is easily done, was a capital misdemeanour, and the offender
punished with death." The judges or deemsters in this island of fishermen swore to execute
the laws as impartially "as the herring's backbone doth lie in the middle of the fish."[68]
The whole mythology of the Polynesians is an echo of the encompassing ocean. The cosmography
of every primitive people, their first crude effort in the science of the universe, bears the
impress of their habitat. The Eskimo's hell is a place of darkness, storm and intense cold;[69]
the Jew's is a place of eternal fire. Buddha, born in the steaming Himalayan piedmont, fighting
the lassitude induced by heat and humidity, pictured his heaven as Nirvana, the cessation of
all activity and individual life.

[Sidenote: Indirect effect upon language]

Intellectual effects of environment may appear in the enrichment of a language in one direction
to a rare nicety of expression; but this may be combined with a meager vocabulary in all other
directions. The greatest cattle-breeders among the native Africans, such as the Hereros of
western Damaraland and the Dinkas of the upper White Nile, have an amazing choice of words
for all colors describing their animals--brown, dun, red, white, dapple, and so on in every
gradation of shade and hue. The Samoyedes of northern Russia have eleven or twelve terms to
designate the various grays and browns of their reindeer, despite their otherwise low cultural
development.[70] The speech of nomads has an abundance of expressions for cattle in every relation
of life. It includes different words for breeding, pregnancy, death, and slaughtering in relation
to every different kind of domestic animal. The Magyars, among whom pastoral life still survives
on the low plains of the Danube and Theiss, have a generic word for herd, csorda, and special
terms for herds of cattle, horses, sheep, and swine.[71] While the vocabulary of Malays and
Polynesians is especially rich in nautical terms, the Kirghis shepherd tribes who wander over
the highlands of western Asia from the Tian Shan to the Hindu Kush have four different terms
for four kinds of mountain passes. A daban is a difficult, rocky defile; an art is very high
and dangerous; a bel is a low, easy pass, and a kutal is a broad opening between low hills.[72]

To such influences man is a passive subject, especially in the earlier stages of his development;
but there are more important influences emanating from his environment which affect him as
an active agent, challenge his will by furnishing the motives for its exercise, give purpose
to his activities, and determine the direction which they shall take.[73] These mold his mind
and character through the media of his economic and social life, and produce effects none the
less important because they are secondary. About these anthropo-geography can reach surer conclusions
than regarding direct psychical effects, because it can trace their mode of operation as well
as define the result. Direct psychical effects are more matters of conjecture, whose causation
is asserted rather than proved. They seem to float in the air, detached from the solid ground
under foot, and are therefore subject matter for the psychologist rather than the geographer.

[Sidenote: The great man in history.]

What of the great man in this geographical interpretation of history? It seems to take no account
of him, or to put him into the melting-pot with the masses. Both are to some extent true. As
a science, anthropo-geography can deal only with large averages, and these exclude or minimize
the exceptional individual. Moreover, geographic conditions which give this or that bent to
a nation's purposes and determine its aggregate activities have a similar effect upon the individual;
but he may institute a far-seeing policy, to whose wisdom only gradually is the people awakened.
The acts of the great man are rarely arbitrary or artificial; he accelerates or retards the
normal course of development, but cannot turn it counter to the channels of natural conditions.
As a rule he is a product of the same forces that made his people. He moves with them and is
followed by them under a common impulse. Daniel Boone, that picturesque figure leading the
van of the westward movement over the Allegheny Mountains, was born of his frontier environment
and found a multitude of his kind in that region of backwoods farms to follow him into the
wilderness. Thomas Jefferson of Virginia, in the Louisiana Purchase, carried out the policy
of expansion adumbrated in Governor Spottswood's expedition with the Knights of the Golden
Horseshoe over the Blue Ridge in 1712. Jefferson's daring consummation of the purchase without
government authority showed his community of purpose with the majority of the people. Peter
the Great's location of his capital at St. Petersburg, usually stigmatized as the act of a
despot, was made in response to natural conditions offering access to the Baltic nations, just
as certainly as ten centuries before similar conditions and identical advantages led the early
Russian merchants to build up a town at nearby Novgorod, in easy water connection with the
Baltic commerce.[74]

[Sidenote: Economic and social effects.]

III. Geographic conditions influence the economic and social development of a people by the
abundance, paucity, or general character of the natural resources, by the local ease or difficulty
of securing the necessaries of life, and by the possibility of industry and commerce afforded
by the environment. From the standpoint of production and exchange, these influences are primarily
the subject matter of economic and commercial geography; but since they also permeate national
life, determine or modify its social structure, condemn it to the dwarfing effects of national
poverty, or open to it the cultural and political possibilities resident in national wealth,
they are legitimate material also for anthropo-geography.

[Sidenote: Size of the social group.]

They are especially significant because they determine the size of the social group. This must
be forever small in areas of limited resources or of limited extent, as in the little islands
of the world and the yet smaller oases. The desert of Chinese Turkestan supports, in certain
detached spots of river-born fertility, populations like the 60,000 of Kashgar, and from this
size groups all the way down to the single families which Younghusband found living by a mere
trickle of a stream flowing down the southern slope of the Tian Shan. Small islands, according
to their size, fertility, and command of trade, may harbor a sparse and scant population, like
the five hundred souls struggling for an ill-fed existence on the barren Westman Isles of Iceland;
or a compact, teeming, yet absolutely small social group, like that crowding Malta or the Bermudas.
Whether sparsely or compactly distributed, such groups suffer the limitations inherent in their
small size. They are forever excluded from the historical significance attaching to the large,
continuously distributed populations of fertile continental lands.

[Sidenote: Effect upon movements of peoples.]

IV. The next class belongs exclusively to the domain of geography, because it embraces the
influence of the features of the earth's surface in directing the movements and ultimate distribution
of mankind. It includes the effect of natural barriers, like mountains, deserts, swamps, and
seas, in obstructing or deflecting the course of migrating people and in giving direction to
national expansion; it considers the tendency of river valleys and treeless plains to facilitate
such movements, the power of rivers, lakes, bays and oceans either to block the path or open
a highway, according as navigation is in a primitive or advanced stage; and finally the influence
of all these natural features in determining the territory which a people is likely to occupy,
and the boundaries which shall separate from their neighbors.

[Sidenote: River routes.]

The lines of expansion followed by the French and English in the settlement of America and
also the extent of territory covered by each were powerfully influenced by geographic conditions.
The early French explorers entered the great east-west waterway of the St. Lawrence River and
the Great Lakes, which carried them around the northern end of the Appalachian barrier into
the heart of the continent, planted them on the low, swampy, often navigable watershed of the
Mississippi, and started them on another river voyage of nearly two thousand miles to the Gulf
of Mexico. Here were the conditions and temptation for almost unlimited expansion; hence French
Canada reached to the head of Lake Superior, and French Louisiana to the sources of the Missouri,
To the lot of the English fell a series of short rivers with fertile valleys, nearly barred
at their not distant sources by a wall of forested mountains, but separated from one another
by low watersheds which facilitated lateral expansion over a narrow belt between mountains
and sea. Here a region of mild climate and fertile soil suited to agriculture, enclosed by
strong natural boundaries, made for compact settlement, in contrast to the wide diffusion of
the French. Later, when a growing population pressed against the western barrier, mountain
gates opened at Cumberland Gap and the Mohawk Valley; the Ohio River and the Great Lakes became
interior thoroughfares, and the northwestern prairies lines of least resistance to the western
settler. Rivers played the same part in directing and expediting this forward movement, as
did the Lena and the Amoor in the Russian advance into Siberia, the Humber and the Trent in
the progress of the Angles into the heart of Britain, the Rhone and Danube in the march of
the Romans into central Europe.

[Sidenote: Segregation and accessibility.]

The geographical environment of a people may be such as to segregate them from others, and
thereby to preserve or even intensify their natural characteristics; or it may expose them
to extraneous influences, to an infusion of new blood and new ideas, till their peculiarities
are toned down, their distinctive features of dialect or national dress or provincial customs
eliminated, and the people as a whole approach to the composite type of civilized humanity.
A land shut off by mountains or sea from the rest of the world tends to develop a homogeneous
people, since it limits or prevents the intrusion of foreign elements; or when once these are
introduced, it encourages their rapid assimilation by the strongly interactive life of a confined
locality. Therefore large or remote islands are, as a rule, distinguished by the unity of their
inhabitants in point of civilization and race characteristics. Witness Great Britain, Ireland,
Japan, Iceland, as also Australia and New Zealand at the time of their discovery. The highlands
of the Southern Appalachians, which form the "mountain backyards" of Kentucky, Tennessee and
North Carolina, are peopled by the purest English stock in the United States, descendants of
the backwoodsmen of the late eighteenth century. Difficulty of access and lack of arable land
have combined to discourage immigration. In consequence, foreign elements, including the elsewhere
ubiquitous negro, are wanting, except along the few railroads which in recent years have penetrated
this country. Here survive an eighteenth century English, Christmas celebrated on Twelfth Night,
the spinning wheel, and a belief in Joshua's power to arrest the course of the sun.[75]

An easily accessible land is geographically hospitable to all new-comers, facilitates the mingling
of peoples, the exchange of commodities and ideas. The amalgamation of races in such regions
depends upon the similarity or diversity of the ethnic elements and the duration of the common
occupation. The broad, open valley of the Danube from the Black Sea to Vienna contains a bizarre
mixture of several stocks--Turks, Bulgarians, various families of pure Slavs, Roumanians, Hungarians,
and Germans. These elements are too diverse and their occupation of the valley too recent for
amalgamation to have advanced very far as yet. The maritime plain and open river valleys of
northern France show a complete fusion of the native Celts with the Saxons, Franks, and Normans
who have successively drifted into the region, just as the Teutonic and scanter Slav elements
have blended in the Baltic plains from the Elbe to the Vistula.

[Sidenote: Change of habitat.]

Here are four different classes of geographic influences, all which may become active in modifying
a people when it changes its habitat. Many of the characteristics acquired in the old home
still live on, or at best yield slowly to the new environment. This is especially true of the
direct physical and psychical effects. But a country may work a prompt and radical change in
the social organization of an immigrant people by the totally new conditions of economic life
which it presents. These may be either greater wealth or poverty of natural resources than
the race has previously known, new stimulants or deterrents to commerce and intercourse, and
new conditions of climate which affect the efficiency of the workman and the general character
of production. From these a whole complex mass of secondary effects may follow.

The Aryans and Mongols, leaving their homes in the cool barren highlands of Central Asia where
nature dispensed her gifts with a miserly hand, and coming down to the hot, low, fertile plains
of the Indian rivers, underwent several fundamental changes in the process of adaptation to
their new environment. An enervating climate did its work in slaking their energies; but more
radical still was the change wrought by the contrast of poverty and abundance, enforced asceticism
and luxury, presented by the old and new home. The restless, tireless shepherds became a sedentary,
agricultural people; the abstemious nomads,--spare, sinewy, strangers to indulgence--became
a race of rulers, revelling in luxury, lording it over countless subjects; finally, their numbers
increased rapidly, no longer kept down by the scant subsistence of arid grasslands and scattered
oases.

In a similar way, the Arab of the desert became transformed into the sedentary lord of Spain.
In the luxuriance of field and orchard which his skilful methods of irrigation and tillage
produced, in the growing predominance of the intellectual over the nomadic military life, of
the complex affairs of city and mart over the simple tasks of herdsman or cultivator, he lost
the benefit of the early harsh training and therewith his hold upon his Iberian empire. Biblical
history gives us the picture of the Sheik Abraham, accompanied by his nephew Lot, moving up
from the rainless plains of Mesopotamia with his flocks and herds into the better watered Palestine.
There his descendants in the garden land of Canaan became an agricultural people; and the problem
of Moses and the Judges was to prevent their assimilation in religion and custom to the settled
Semitic tribes about them, and to make them preserve the ideals born in the starry solitudes
of the desert.

[Sidenote: Retrogression in new habitat.]

The change from the nomadic to the sedentary life represents an economic advance. Sometimes
removal to strongly contrasted geographic conditions necessitates a reversion to a lower economic
type of existence. The French colonists who came to Lower Canada in the seventeenth and eighteenth
centuries found themselves located in a region of intense cold, where arable soil was inferior
in quality and limited in amount, producing no staple like the tobacco of Virginia or the wheat
of Maryland or the cotton of South Carolina or the sugar of the West Indies, by which a young
colony might secure a place in European trade. But the snow-wrapped forests of Canada yielded
an abundance of fur-bearing animals, the fineness and thickness of whose pelts were born of
this frozen north. Into their remotest haunts at the head of Lake Superior or of Hudson Bay,
long lines of rivers and lakes opened level water roads a thousand miles or more from the crude
little colonial capital at Quebec. And over in Europe beaver hats and fur-trimmed garments
were all the style! So the plodding farmer from Normandy and the fisherman from Poitou, transferred
to Canadian soil, were irresistibly drawn into the adventurous life of the trapper and fur-trader.
The fur trade became the accepted basis of colonial life; the voyageur and courier de bois,
clad in skins, paddling up ice-rimmed streams in their birch-bark canoes, fraternizing with
Indians who were their only companions in that bleak interior, and married often to dusky squaws,
became assimilated to the savage life about them and reverted to the lower hunter stage of
civilization.[76]

[Sidenote: The Boers of South Africa]

Another pronounced instance of rapid retrogression under new unfavorable geographic conditions
is afforded by the South African Boer. The transfer from the busy commercial cities of the
Rhine mouths to the far-away periphery of the world's trade, from the intensive agriculture
of small deltaic gardens and the scientific dairy farming of the moist Netherlands to the semi-arid
pastures of the high, treeless veldt, where they were barred from contact with the vivifying
sea and its ship-borne commerce, has changed the enterprising seventeenth century Hollander
into the conservative pastoral Boer. Dutch cleanliness has necessarily become a tradition to
a people who can scarcely find water for their cattle. The comfort and solid bourgeois elegance
of the Dutch home lost its material equipment in the Great Trek, when the long wagon journey
reduced household furniture to its lowest terms. House-wifely habits and order vanished in
the semi-nomadic life which followed.[77] The gregarious instinct, bred by the closely-packed
population of little Holland, was transformed to a love of solitude, which in all lands characterizes
the people of a remote and sparsely inhabited frontier. It is a common saying that the Boer
cannot bear to see another man's smoke from his stoep, just as the early Trans-Allegheny pioneer
was always on the move westward, because he could not bear to hear his neighbor's watch-dog
bark. Even the Boer language has deteriorated under the effects of isolation and a lower status
of civilization. The native Taal differs widely from the polished speech of Holland; it preserves
some features of the High Dutch of two centuries ago, but has lost inflexions and borrowed
words for new phenomena from the English, Kaffirs and Hottentots; can express no abstract ideas,
only the concrete ideas of a dull, work-a-day world.[78]

The new habitat may eliminate many previously acquired characteristics and hence transform
a people, as in the case of the Boers; or it may intensify tribal or national traits, as in
the seafaring propensities of the Angles and Saxons when transferred to Britain, and of the
seventeenth century English when transplanted to the indented coasts of New England; or it
may tolerate mere survival or the slow dissuetude of qualities which escape any particular
pressure in the new environment, and which neither benefit nor handicap in the modified struggle
for existence.

NOTES TO CHAPTER II

[34] Darwin, Origin of Species, Chap. V, p. 166. New York, 1895.

[35] E. Virchow, Rassenbildung und Erblichkeit, Bastian Festschrift, pp. 14, 43, 44. Berlin, 1896.

[36] Darwin, Descent of Man, pp. 34-35. New York, 1899.

[37] Darwin, Origin of Species, Chap. I, pp. 8-9. New York, 1895.

[38] P. Ehrenreich, Die Urbewohner Brasiliens, p. 30. Braunschweig, 1897.

[39] Ratzel, Die Erde und das Leben, Vol. I, pp. 364, 365. Leipzig and Vienna, 1901.

[40] W.Z. Ripley, Races of Europe, pp. 79-86, 96, 100. New York, 1899.

[41] T. Waitz, Anthropology, pp. 57-58. Edited by J.F. Collingwood. London, 1863.

[42] Schoolcraft, Indian Tribes of the United States, Vol. I, pp. 198-200, 219. Philadelphia, 1853.

[43] Darwin, Descent of Man, p. 33. New York, 1899.

[44] D. Livingstone, Missionary Travels, p. 266. New York, 1858.

[45] Alaska, Eleventh Census Report, pp. 54, 56. Washington, 1893, and Albert P. Niblack, The
Coast Indians of Southern Alaska and Northern British Columbia, p. 237. Washington, 1888.

[46] Fitz-Roy, Voyage of the Beagle, Vol. II, pp. 130-132, 137, 138. London, 1839.

[47] H. Bancroft, Native Races, Vol. I, pp. 88-89. San Francisco, 1886.

[48] S. Stanhope Smith, Essay on the Causes of the Variety of Complexion and Figure in the
Human Species, pp. 103-110. New Brunswick and New York, 1810.

[49] For full discussion see A.R. Wallace's article on acclimatization in Encyclopedia Britanica,
and W.Z. Ripley, Races of Europe. Chap. XXI. New York, 1899.

[50] D.G. Brinton, Races and Peoples, pp. 39-41. Philadelphia, 1901.

[52] E.F. Knight, Where Three Empires Meet, pp. 137-138. London, 1897.

[53] W.Z. Ripley, Races of Europe, pp. 58-71, Map. New York, 1898.

[54] Ibid., p. 566. D.G. Brinton, Races and Peoples, pp. 29-30. Philadelphia, 1901.

[55] D. Livingstone, Missionary Travels, p. 607. New York, 1858.

[56] Williams and Calvert, Fiji and the Fijians, p. 83, New York, 1859.

[57] P. Ehrenreich, Die Urbewohner Brasiliens, p. 32. Braunschweig, 1897.

[58] T. Waitz, Anthropology, pp. 46-49. Edited by Collingwood, London, 1863.

[59] Philippine Census, Vol. I, p. 552. Washington, 1903.

[60] F. Ratzel, History of Mankind, Vol. III, p. 106. London, 1908.

[61] Major Charles E. Woodruff, The Effect of Tropical Light on the White Man, New York, 1905,
is a suggestive but not convincing discussion of the theory.

[62] W.Z. Ripley, Races of Europe, pp. 74-77. New York, 1899.

[63] Quoted in G. Sergi, The Mediterranean Race, p. 73. London and New York, 1901.

[64] Ibid., pp. 63-69, 74-75.

[65] T. Waitz, Anthropology, pp. 44-45. Edited by J.F. Collingwood, London, 1863.

[66] W.Z. Ripley, Races of Europe, p. 76. New York, 1899.

[67] For able discussion, see Topinard, Anthropology, pp. 385-392. Tr. from French, London, 1894.

[68] J. Johnson, Jurisprudence of the Isle of Man, pp. 44, 71. Edinburgh, 1811.

[69] Charles F. Hall, Arctic Researches and Life among the Eskimo, p. 571. New York, 1866.
Franz Boas, The Central Eskimo, Sixth Annual Report of the Bureau of Ethnology, pp. 588-590.
Washington, 1888.

[70] Ratzel, History of Mankind, Vol. I, p. 35. London, 1896-1898.

[71] Roscher, National-Oekonomik des Ackerbaues, p. 34, note 8. Stuttgart, 1888.

[72] Elisée Reclus, The Earth and Its Inhabitants, Asia, Vol. I, p. 171. New York, 1895.

[73] Alfred Hettner, Die Geographie des Menschen, pp. 409-410 in Geographische Zeitschrift,
Vol. XIII, No. 8. Leipzig, 1907.

[74] S.B. Boulton, The Russian Empire, pp. 60-64. London, 1882.

[75] E.C. Semple, The Anglo-Saxons of the Kentucky Mountains, The Geographical Journal, Vol.
XVII, No. 6, pp. 588-623. London, 1901.

[76] E.C. Semple, American History and its Geographic Conditions, pp. 25-31. Boston, 1903.
The Influence of Geographic Environment on the Lower St. Lawrence, Bull. Amer. Geog. Society,
Vol. XXXVI, p. 449-466. New York, 1904.

[77] A.R. Colquhoun, Africander Land, pp. 200-201. New York, 1906.

[78] Ibid., pp. 140-145. James Bryce, Impressions of South Africa, p. 398. New York, 1897.

CHAPTER III

SOCIETY AND STATE IN RELATION TO THE LAND

[Sidenote: People and land.]

Every clan, tribe, state or nation includes two ideas, a people and its land, the first unthinkable
without the other. History, sociology, ethnology touch only the inhabited areas of the earth.
These areas gain their final significance because of the people who occupy them; their local
conditions of climate, soil, natural resources, physical features and geographic situation
are important primarily as factors in the development of actual or possible inhabitants. A
land is fully comprehended only when studied in the light of its influence upon its people,
and a people cannot be understood apart from the field of its activities. More than this, human
activities are fully intelligible only in relation to the various geographic conditions which
have stimulated them in different parts of the world. The principles of the evolution of navigation,
of agriculture, of trade, as also the theory of population, can never reach their correct and
final statement, unless the data for the conclusions are drawn from every part of the world,
and each fact interpreted in the light of the local conditions whence it sprang. Therefore
anthropology, sociology and history should be permeated by geography.

[Sidenote: Political geography and history.]

In history, the question of territory,--by which is meant mere area in contrast to specific
geographic conditions--has constantly come to the front, because a state obviously involved
land and boundaries, and assumed as its chief function the defence and extension of these.
Therefore political geography developed early as an offshoot of history. Political science
has often formulated its principles without regard to the geographic conditions of states,
but as a matter of fact, the most fruitful political policies of nations have almost invariably
had a geographic core. Witness the colonial policy of Holland, England, France and Portugal,
the free-trade policy of England, the militantism of Germany, the whole complex question of
European balance of power and the Bosporus, and the Monroe Doctrine of the United States. Dividing
lines between political parties tend to follow approximately geographic lines of cleavage;
and these make themselves apparent at recurring intervals of national upheaval, perhaps with,
centuries between, like a submarine volcanic rift. In England the southeastern plain and the
northwestern uplands have been repeatedly arrayed against each other, from the Roman conquest
which embraced the lowlands up to about the 500-foot contour line,[79] through the War of the
Roses and the Civil War,[80] to the struggle for the repeal of the Corn Laws and the great
Reform Bill of 1832.[81] Though the boundary lines have been only roughly the same and each
district has contained opponents of the dominant local party, nevertheless the geographic core
has been plain enough.

[Sidenote: Political versus social geography.]

The land is a more conspicuous factor in the history of states than in the history of society,
but not more necessary and potent. Wars, which constitute so large a part of political history,
have usually aimed more or less directly at acquisition or retention of territory; they have
made every petty quarrel the pretext for mulcting the weaker nation of part of its land. Political
maps are therefore subject to sudden and radical alterations, as when France's name was wiped
off the North American continent in 1763, or when recently Spain's sovereignty in the Western
Hemisphere was obliterated. But the race stocks, languages, customs, and institutions of both
France and Spain remained after the flags had departed. The reason is that society is far more
deeply rooted in the land than is a state, does not expand or contract its area so readily.
Society is always, in a sense, adscripta glebae; an expanding state which incorporates a new
piece of territory inevitably incorporates its inhabitants, unless it exterminates or expels
them. Yet because racial and social geography changes slowly, quietly and imperceptibly, like
all those fundamental processes which we call growth, it is not so easy and obvious a task
to formulate a natural law for the territorial relations of the various hunter, pastoral nomadic,
agricultural, and industrial types of society as for those of the growing state.

[Sidenote: Land basis of society.]

Most systems of sociology treat man as if he were in some way detached from the earth's surface;
they ignore the land basis of society. The anthropo-geographer recognizes the various social
forces, economic and psychologic, which sociologists regard as the cement of societies; but
he has something to add. He sees in the land occupied by a primitive tribe or a highly organized
state the underlying material bond holding society together, the ultimate basis of their fundamental
social activities, which are therefore derivatives from the land. He sees the common territory
exercising an integrating force,--weak in primitive communities where the group has established
only a few slight and temporary relations with its soil, so that this low social complex breaks
up readily like its organic counterpart, the low animal organism found in an amoeba; he sees
it growing stronger with every advance in civilization involving more complex relations to
the land,--with settled habitations, with increased density of population, with a discriminating
and highly differentiated use of the soil, with the exploitation of mineral resources, and
finally with that far-reaching exchange of commodities and ideas which means the establishment
of varied extra-territorial relations. Finally, the modern society or state has grown into
every foot of its own soil, exploited its every geographic advantage, utilized its geographic
location to enrich itself by international trade, and when possible, to absorb outlying territories
by means of colonies. The broader this geographic base, the richer, more varied its resources,
and the more favorable its climate to their exploitation, the more numerous and complex are
the connections which the members of a social group can establish with it, and through it with
each other; or in other words, the greater may be its ultimate historical significance. The
polar regions and the subtropical deserts, on the other hand, permit man to form only few and
intermittent relations with any one spot, restrict economic methods to the lower stages of
development, produce only the small, weak, loosely organized horde, which never evolves into
a state so long as it remains in that retarding environment.

[Sidenote: Morgan's Societas.]

Man in his larger activities, as opposed to his mere physiological or psychological processes,
cannot be studied apart from the land which he inhabits. Whether we consider him singly or
in a group--family, clan, tribe or state--we must always consider him or his group in relation
to a piece of land. The ancient Irish sept, Highland clan, Russian mir, Cherokee hill-town,
Bedouin tribe, and the ancient Helvetian canton, like the political state of history, have
meant always a group of people and a bit of land. The first presupposes the second. In all
cases the form and size of the social group, the nature of its activities, the trend and limit
of its development will be strongly influenced by the size and nature of its habitat. The land
basis is always present, in spite of Morgan's artificial distinction between a theoretically
landless societas, held together only by the bond of common blood, and the political civitas
based upon land.[82] Though primitive society found its conscious bond in common blood, nevertheless
the land bond was always there, and it gradually asserted its fundamental character with the
evolution of society.

The savage and barbarous groups which in Morgan's classification would fall under the head
of societas have nevertheless a clear conception of their ownership of the tribal lands which
they use in common. This idea is probably of very primitive origin, arising from the association
of a group with its habitat, whose food supply they regard as a monopoly.[83] This is true
even of migratory hunting tribes. They claim a certain area whose boundaries, however, are
often ill-defined and subject to fluctuations, because the lands are not held by permanent
occupancy and cultivation. An exceptional case is that of the Shoshone Indians, inhabiting
the barren Utah basin and the upper valleys of the Snake and Salmon Rivers, who are accredited
with no sense of ownership of the soil. In their natural state they roved about in small, totally
unorganized bands or single families, and changed their locations so widely, that they seemed
to lay no claim to any particular portion. The hopeless sterility of the region and its poverty
of game kept its destitute inhabitants constantly on the move to gather in the meager food
supply, and often restricted the social group to the family.[84] Here the bond between land
and tribe, and hence between the members of the tribe, was the weakest possible.

[Sidenote: Land bond in hunter tribes.]

The usual type of tribal ownership was presented by the Comanches, nomadic horse Indians who
occupied the grassy plains of northern Texas. They held their territory and the game upon it
as the common property of the tribe, and jealously guarded the integrity of their domain.[85]
The chief Algonquin tribes, who occupied the territory between the Ohio River and the Great
Lakes, had each its separate domain, within which it shifted its villages every few years;
but its size depended upon the power of the tribe to repel encroachment upon its hunting grounds.
Relying mainly on the chase and fishing, little on agriculture, for their subsistence, their
relations to their soil were superficial and transitory, their tribal organization in a high
degree unstable.[86] Students of American ethnology generally agree that most of the Indian
tribes east of the Mississippi were occupying definite areas at the time of the discovery,
and were to a considerable extent sedentary and agricultural. Though nomadic within the tribal
territory, as they moved with the season in pursuit of game, they returned to their villages,
which were shifted only at relatively long intervals.[87]

The political organization of the native Australians, low as they were in the social scale,
seems to have been based chiefly on the claim of each wretched wandering tribe to a definite
territory.[88] In north central Australia, where even a very sparse population has sufficed
to saturate the sterile soil, tribal boundaries have become fixed and inviolable, so that even
war brings no transfer of territory. Land and people are identified. The bond is cemented by
their primitive religion, for the tribe's spirit ancestors occupied this special territory.[89]
In a like manner a very definite conception of tribal ownership of land prevails among the
Bushmen and Bechuanas of South Africa; and to the pastoral Hereros the alienation of their
land is inconceivable.[90] [See map page 105.]

A tribe of hunters can never be more than a small horde, because the simple, monotonous savage
economy permits no concentration of population, no division of labor except that between the
sexes, and hence no evolution of classes. The common economic level of all is reflected in
the simple social organization,[91] which necessarily has little cohesion, because the group
must be prepared to break up and scatter in smaller divisions, when its members increase or
its savage supplies decrease even a little. Such primitive groups cannot grow into larger units,
because these would demand more roots sent down into the sustaining soil; but they multiply
by fission, like the infusorial monads, and thereafter lead independent existences remote from
each other. This is the explanation of multiplication of dialects among savage tribes.

[Sidenote: Land bond in fisher tribes.]

Fishing tribes have their chief occupation determined by their habitats, which are found along
well stocked rivers, lakes, or coastal fishing grounds. Conditions here encourage an early
adoption of sedentary life, discourage wandering except for short periods, and facilitate the
introduction of agriculture wherever conditions of climate and soil permit. Hence these fisher
folk develop relatively large and permanent social groups, as testified by the ancient lake-villages
of Switzerland, based upon a concentrated food-supply resulting from a systematic and often
varied exploitation of the local resources. The coöperation and submission to a leader necessary
in pelagic fishing often gives the preliminary training for higher political organization.[92]
All the primitive stocks of the Brazilian Indians, except the mountain Ges, are fishermen and
agriculturists; hence their annual migrations are kept within narrow limits. Each linguistic
group occupies a fixed and relatively well defined district.[93] Stanley found along the Congo
large permanent villages of the natives, who were engaged in fishing and tilling the fruitful
soil, but knew little about the country ten miles back from the river. These two generous means
of subsistence are everywhere combined in Polynesia, Micronesia and Melanesia: there they are
associated with dense populations and often with advanced political organization, as we find
it in the feudal monarchy of Tonga and the savage Fiji Islands.[94] Fisher tribes, therefore,
get an early impulse forward in civilization;[95] and even where conditions do not permit the
upward step to agriculture, these tribes have permanent relations with their land, form stable
social groups, and often utilize their location on a natural highway to develop systematic
trade. For instance, on the northwest coast of British Columbia and Southern Alaska, the Haida,
Tlingit and Tsimshean Indians have portioned out all the land about their seaboard villages
among the separate families or households as hunting, fishing, and berrying grounds. These
are regarded as private property and are handed down from generation to generation. If they
are used by anyone other than the owner, the privilege must be paid for. Every salmon stream
has its proprietor, whose summer camp can be seen set up at the point where the run of the
fish is greatest. Combined with this private property in land there is a brisk trade up and
down the coast, and a tendency toward feudalism in the village communities, owing to the association
of power and social distinction with wealth and property in land.[96]

[Sidenote: Land bond in pastoral societies.]

Among pastoral nomads, among whom a systematic use of their territory begins to appear, and
therefore a more definite relation between land and people, we find a more distinct notion
than among wandering hunters of territorial ownership, the right of communal use, and the distinct
obligation of common defense. Hence the social bond is drawn closer. The nomad identifies himself
with a certain district, which belongs to his tribe by tradition or conquest, and has its clearly
defined boundaries. Here he roams between its summer and winter pastures, possibly one hundred
and fifty miles apart, visits its small arable patches in the spring for his limited agricultural
ventures, and returns to them in the fall to reap their meager harvest. Its springs, streams,
or wells assume enhanced value, are things to be fought for, owing to the prevailing aridity
of summer; while ownership of a certain tract of desert or grassland carries with it a certain
right in the bordering settled district as an area of plunder.[97]

The Kara-Kirghis stock, who have been located since the sixteenth century on Lake Issik-Kul,
long ago portioned out the land among the separate families, and determined their limits by
natural features of the landscape.[98] Sven Hedin found on the Tarim River poles set up to
mark the boundary between the Shah-yar and Kuchar tribal pastures.[99] John de Plano Carpini,
traveling over southern Russia in 1246, immediately after the Tartar conquest, found that the
Dnieper, Don, Volga and Ural rivers were all boundaries between domains of the various millionaries
or thousands, into which the Tartar horde was organized.[100] The population of this vast country
was distributed according to the different degrees of fertility and the size of the pastoral
groups.[101] Volney observed the same distinction in the distribution of the Bedouins of Syria.
He found the barren cantons held by small, widely scattered tribes, as in the Desert of Suez;
but the cultivable cantons, like the Hauran and the Pachalic of Aleppo, closely dotted by the
encampments of the pastoral owners.[102]

The large range of territory held by a nomadic tribe is all successively occupied in the course
of a year, but each part only for a short period of time. A pastoral use of even a good district
necessitates a move of five or ten miles every few weeks. The whole, large as it may be, is
absolutely necessary for the annual support of the tribe. Hence any outside encroachment upon
their territory calls for the united resistance of the tribe. This joint or social action is
dictated by their common interest in pastures and herds. The social administration embodied
in the apportionment of pastures among the families or clans grows out of the systematic use
of their territory, which represents a closer relation between land and people than is found
among purely hunting tribes. Overcrowding by men or livestock, on the other hand, puts a strain
upon the social bond. When Abraham and Lot, typical nomads, returned from Egypt to Canaan with
their large flocks and herds, rivalry for the pastures occasioned conflicts among their shepherds,
so the two sheiks decided to separate. Abraham took the hill pastures of Judea, and Lot the
plains of Jordan near the settled district of Sodom.[103]

[Sidenote: Geographical mark of low-type societies.]

The larger the amount of territory necessary for the support of a given number of people, whether
the proportion be due to permanent poverty of natural resources as in the Eskimo country, or
to retarded economic development as among the Indians of primitive America or the present Sudanese,
the looser is the connection between land and people, and the lower the type of social organization.
For such groups the organic theory of society finds an apt description. To quote Spencer, "The
original clusters, animal and social, are not only small, but they lack density. Creatures
of low type occupy large spaces considering the small quantity of animal substance they contain;
and low-type societies spread over areas that are wide relatively to the number of their component
individuals."[104] In common language this means small tribes or even detached families sparsely
scattered over wide areas, living in temporary huts or encampments of tepees and tents shifted
from place to place, making no effort to modify the surface of the land beyond scratching the
soil to raise a niggardly crop of grain or tubers, and no investment of labor that might attach
to one spot the sparse and migrant population. [See density maps pages 8 and 9.]

[Sidenote: Land and state.]

The superiority over this social type of the civilized state lies in the highly organized utilization
of its whole geographic basis by the mature community, and in the development of government
that has followed the increasing density of population and multiplication of activities growing
out of this manifold use of the land. Sedentary agriculture, which forms its initial economic
basis, is followed by industrialism and commerce. The migratory life presents only limited
accumulation of capital, and restricts narrowly its forms. Permanent settlement encourages
accumulation in every form, and under growing pressure of population slowly reveals the possibilities
of every foot of ground, of every geographic advantage. These are the fibers of the land which
become woven into the whole fabric of the nation's life. These are the geographic elements
constituting the soil in which empires are rooted; they rise in the sap of the nation.

[Sidenote: Strength of the land bond in the state.]

The geographic basis of a state embodies a whole complex of physical conditions which may influence
its historical development. The most potent of these are its size and zonal location; its situation,
whether continental or insular, inland or maritime, on the open ocean or an enclosed sea; its
boundaries, whether drawn by sea, mountain, desert or the faint demarking line of a river;
its forested mountains, grassy plains, and arable lowlands; its climate and drainage system;
finally its equipment with plant and animal life, whether indigenous or imported, and its mineral
resources. When a state has taken advantage of all its natural conditions, the land becomes
a constituent part of the state,[105] modifying the people which inhabit it, modified by them
in turn, till the connection between the two becomes so strong by reciprocal interaction, that
the people cannot be understood apart from their land. Any attempt to divide them theoretically
reduces the social or political body to a cadaver, valuable for the study of structural anatomy
after the method of Herbert Spencer, but throwing little light upon the vital processes.

[Sidenote: Weak land tenure of hunting and pastoral tribes.]

A people who makes only a transitory or superficial use of its land has upon it no permanent
or secure hold. The power to hold is measured by the power to use; hence the weak tenure of
hunting and pastoral tribes. Between their scattered encampments at any given time are wide
interstices, inviting occupation by any settlers who know how to make better use of the soil.
This explains the easy intrusion of the English colonists into the sparsely tenanted territory
of the Indians, of the agricultural Chinese into the pasture lands of the Mongols beyond the
Great Wall, of the American pioneers into the hunting grounds of the Hudson Bay Company in
the disputed Oregon country.[106] The frail bonds which unite these lower societies to their
soil are easily ruptured and the people themselves dislodged, while their land is appropriated
by the intruder. But who could ever conceive of dislodging the Chinese or the close-packed
millions of India? A modern state with a given population on a wide area is more vulnerable
than another of like population more closely distributed; but the former has the advantage
of a reserve territory for future growth.[107] This was the case of Kursachsen and Brandenburg
in the sixteenth century, and of the United States throughout its history. But beside the danger
of inherent weakness before attack, a condition of relative underpopulation always threatens
a retardation of development. Easy-going man needs the prod of a pressing population. [Compare
maps pages 8 and 103 for examples.]

[Sidenote: Land and food supply.]

Food is the urgent and recurrent need of individuals and of society. It dictates their activities
in relation to their land at every stage of economic development, fixes the locality of the
encampment or village, and determines the size of the territory from which sustenance is drawn.
The length of residence in one place depends upon whether the springs of its food supply are
perennial or intermittent, while the abundance of their flow determines how large a population
a given piece of land can support.

[Sidenote: Advance from natural to artificial basis of subsistence.]

Hunter and fisher folk, relying almost exclusively upon what their land produces of itself,
need a large area and derive from it only an irregular food supply, which in winter diminishes
to the verge of famine. The transition to the pastoral stage has meant the substitution of
an artificial for a natural basis of subsistence, and therewith a change which more than any
other one thing has inaugurated the advance from savagery to civilization.[108] From the standpoint
of economics, the forward stride has consisted in the application of capital in the form of
flocks and herds to the task of feeding the wandering horde;[109] from the standpoint of alimentation,
in the guarantee of a more reliable and generally more nutritious food supply, which enables
population to grow more steadily and rapidly; from the standpoint of geography, in the marked
reduction in the per capita amount of land necessary to yield an adequate and stable food supply.
Pastoral nomadism can support in a given district of average quality from ten to twenty times
as many souls as can the chase; but in this respect is surpassed from twenty to thirty-fold
by the more productive agriculture. While the subsistence of a nomad requires 100 to 200 acres
of land, for that of a skillful farmer from 1 to 2 acres suffice.[110] In contrast, the land
of the Indians living in the Hudson Bay Territory in 1857 averaged 10 square miles per capita;
that of the Indians in the United States in 1825, subsidized moreover by the government, 1-1/4
square miles.[111]

[Sidenote: Land in relation to agriculture.]

With transition to the sedentary life of agriculture, society makes a further gain over nomadism
in the closer integration of its social units, due to permanent residence in larger and more
complex groups; in the continuous release of labor from the task of mere food-getting for higher
activities, resulting especially in the rapid evolution of the home; and finally in the more
elaborate organization in the use of the land, leading to economic differentiation of different
localities and to a rapid increase in the population supported by a given area, so that the
land becomes the dominant cohesive force in society. [See maps pages 8 and 9.]

[Sidenote: Migratory agriculture]

Agriculture is adopted at first on a small scale as an adjunct to the chase or herding. It
tends therefore to partake of the same extensive and nomadic character[112] as these other
methods of gaining subsistence, and only gradually becomes sedentary and intensive. Such was
the superficial, migratory tillage of most American Indians, shifting with the village in the
wake of the retreating game or in search of fresh unexhausted soil. Such is the agriculture
of the primitive Korkus in the Mahadeo Hills in Central India. They clear a forested slope
by burning; rake over the ashes in which they sow their grain, and reap a fairly good crop
in the fertilized soil. The second year the clearing yields a reduced product and the third
year is abandoned. When the hamlet of five or six families has exhausted all the land about
it, it moves to a new spot to repeat the process.[113]

The same superficial, extensive tillage, with abandonment of fields every few years, prevails
in the Tartar districts of the Russian steppes, as it did among the cattle-raising Germans
at the beginning of their history. Tacitus says of them, Arva per annos mutant et superest
ager,[114] commenting at the same time upon their abundance of land and their reluctance to
till. Where nomadism is made imperative by aridity, the agriculture which accompanies it tends
to become fixed, owing to the few localities blessed with an irrigating stream to moisten the
soil. These spots, generally selected for the winter residence, have their soil enriched, moreover,
by the long stay of the herd and thus avoid exhaustion.[115] Often, however, in enclosed basins
the salinity of the irrigating streams in their lower course ruins the fields after one or
two crops, and necessitates a constant shifting of the cultivated patches; hence agriculture
remains subsidiary to the yield of the pastures. This condition and effect is conspicuous along
the termini of the streams draining the northern slope of the Kuen Lun into the Tarim basin.[116]

[Sidenote: Geographic checks to progress.]

The desultory, intermittent, extensive use of the land practised by hunters and nomads tends,
under the growing pressure of population, to pass into the systematic, continuous, intensive
use practised by the farmer, except where nature presents positive checks to the transition.
The most obvious check consists in adverse conditions of climate and soil. Where agriculture
meets insurmountable obstacles, like the intense cold of Arctic Siberia and Lapland, or the
alkaline soils of Nevada and the Caspian Depression, or the inadequate rainfall of Mongolia
and Central Arabia, the land can produce no higher economic and social groups than pastoral
hordes. Hence shepherd folk are found in their purest types in deserts and steppes, where conditions
early crystallized the social form and checked development. [Rainfall map chap. XIV.]

[Sidenote: Native animal and plant life as factors.]

Adverse conditions of climate and soil are not the only factors in this retardation. The very
unequal native equipment of the several continents with plant and animal forms likely to accelerate
the advance to nomadism and agriculture also enters into the equation. In Australia, the lack
of a single indigenous mammal fit for domestication and of all cereals blocked from the start
the pastoral and agricultural development of the natives. Hence at the arrival of the Europeans,
Australia presented the unique spectacle of a whole continent with its population still held
in the vise of nature. The Americas had a limited variety of animals susceptible of domestication,
but were more meagerly equipped than the Old World. Yet the Eskimo failed to tame and herd
the reindeer, though their precarious food-supply furnished a motive for the transition. Moreover,
an abundance of grass and reindeer moss (Cladonia rangiferina), and congenial climatic conditions
favored it especially for the Alaskan Eskimo, who had, besides, the nearby example of the Siberian
Chukches as reindeer herders.[117] The buffalo, whose domesticability has been proved, was
never utilized in this way by the Indians, though the Spaniard Gomara writes of one tribe,
living in the sixteenth century in the southwestern part of what is now United States territory,
whose chief wealth consisted in herds of tame buffalo.[118] North America, at the time of the
discovery, saw only the dog hanging about the lodges of the Indians; but in South America the
llama and alpaca, confined to the higher levels of the Andes (10,000 to 15,000 feet elevation)
were used in domestic herds only in the mountain-rimmed valleys of ancient Peru, where, owing
to the restricted areas of these intermontane basins, stock-raising early became stationary,[119]
as we find it in the Alps. Moreover, the high ridges of the Andes supported a species of grass
called ichu, growing up to the snowline from the equator to the southern extremity of Patagonia.
Its geographical distribution coincided with that of the llama and alpaca, whose chief pasturage
it furnished.[120] In contrast, the absence of any wild fodder plants in Japan, and the exclusion
of all foreign forms by the successful competition of the native bamboo grass have together
eliminated pastoral life from the economic history of the island.

The Old World, on the other hand, furnished an abundant supply of indigenous animals susceptible
of domestication, and especially those fitted for nomadic life, such as the camel, horse, ass,
sheep and goat. Hence it produced in the widespread grasslands and deserts of Europe, Asia,
and Africa the most perfect types of pastoral development in its natural or nomadic form. Moreover,
the early history of the civilized agricultural peoples of these three continents reveals their
previous pastoral mode of life.

North and South America offered over most of their area conditions of climate and soil highly
favorable to agriculture, and a fair list of indigenous cereals, tubers, and pulses yielding
goodly crops even to superficial tillage. Maize especially was admirably suited for a race
of semi-migratory hunters. It could be sown without plowing, ripened in a warm season even
in ninety days, could be harvested without a sickle and at the pleasure of the cultivator,
and needed no preparation beyond roasting before it was ready for food.[121] The beans and
pumpkins which the Indians raised also needed only a short season. Hence many Indian tribes,
while showing no trace of pastoral development, combined with the chase a semi-nomadic agriculture;
and in a few districts where geographic conditions had applied peculiar pressure, they had
accomplished the transition to sedentary agriculture.

[Sidenote: Land per capita under various cultural and geographic conditions.]

Every advance to a higher state of civilization has meant a progressive decrease in the amount
of land necessary for the support of the individual, and a progressive increase in the relations
between man and his habitat. The stage of social development remaining the same, the per capita
amount of land decreases also from poorer to better endowed geographical districts, and with
every invention which brings into use some natural resource. The following classification[122]
illustrates the relation of density of population to various geographic and socio-economic
conditions.

Hunter tribes on the outskirts of the habitable area, as in Arctic America and Siberia, require
from 70 to 200 square miles per capita; in arid lands, like the Kalahari Desert and Patagonia,
40 to 200 square miles per capita; in choice districts and combining with the chase some primitive
agriculture, as did the Cherokee, Shawnee and Iroquois Indians, the Dyaks of Borneo and the
Papuans of New Guinea, 1/2 to 2 square miles per capita.

Pastoral nomads show a density of from 2 to 5 to the square mile; practicing some agriculture,
as in Kordofan and Sennar districts of eastern Sudan, 10 to 15 to the square mile. Agriculture,
undeveloped but combined with some trade and industry as in Equatorial Africa, Borneo and most
of the Central American states, supports 5 to 15 to the square mile; practised with European
methods in young or colonial lands, as in Arkansas, Texas, Minnesota, Hawaii, Canada and Argentine,
or in European lands with unfavorable climate, up to 25 to the square mile.

Pure agricultural lands of central Europe support 100 to the square mile, and those of southern
Europe, 200; when combining some industry, from 250 to 300. But these figures rise to 500 or
more in lowland India and China. Industrial districts of modern Europe, such as England, Belgium,
Saxony, Departments Nord and Rhone in France, show a density of 500 to 800 to the square mile.
[See maps pages 8 and 9.]

[Sidenote: Density of population and government.]

With every increase of the population inhabiting a given area, and with the consequent multiplication
and constriction of the bonds uniting society with its land, comes a growing necessity for
a more highly organized government, both to reduce friction within and to secure to the people
the land on which and by which they live. Therefore protection becomes a prime function of
the state. It wards off outside attack which may aim at acquisition of its territory, or an
invasion of its rights, or curtailment of its geographic sphere of activity. The modern industrial
state, furthermore, with the purpose of strengthening the nation, assists or itself undertakes
the construction of highways, canals, and railroads, and the maintenance of steamship lines.
These encourage the development of natural resources and of commerce, and hence lay the foundation
for an increased population, by multiplying the relations between land and people.

[Sidenote: Territorial expansion of the state.]

A like object is attained by territorial expansion, which often follows in the wake of commercial
expansion. This strengthens the nation positively by enlarging its geographic base, and negatively
by forcing back the boundaries of its neighbors. The expansion of the Thirteen Colonies from
the Atlantic slope to the Mississippi River and the Great Lakes by the treaty concluding the
Revolution was a strong guarantee of the survival of the young Republic against future aggressions
either of England or Spain, though it exchanged the scientific or protecting boundary of the
Appalachian Mountains for the unscientific and exposed boundary of a river. The expansion to
the Rocky Mountains by the Louisiana purchase not only gave wider play to national energies,
stimulated natural increase of population, and attracted immigration, but it eliminated a dangerous
neighbor in the French, and placed a wide buffer of untenanted land between the United States
and the petty aggressions of the Spanish in Mexico. Rome's expansion into the valley of the
Po, as later into Trans-Alpine Gaul and Germany, had for its purpose the protection of the
peninsula against barbarian inroads. Japan's recent aggression against the Russians in the
Far East was actuated by the realization that she had to expand into Korea at the cost of Muscovite
ascendency, or contract later at the cost of her own independence.

[Sidenote: Checks to population.]

If a state lacks the energy and national purpose, like Italy, or the possibility, like Switzerland,
for territorial expansion, and accepts its boundaries as final, the natural increase of population
upon a fixed area produces an increased density, unless certain social forces counteract it.
Without these forces, the relation of men to the land would have tended to modify everywhere
in the same way. Increase in numbers would have been attended by a corresponding decrease in
the amount of land at the disposal of each individual. Those states which, like Norway and
Switzerland, cannot expand and which have exploited their natural resources to the utmost,
must resign themselves to the emigration of their redundant population. But those which have
remained within their own boundaries and have adopted a policy of isolation, like China, feudal
Japan during its two and a half centuries of seclusion, and numerous Polynesian islands, have
been forced to war with nature itself by checking the operation of the law of natural increase.
All the repulsive devices contributing to this end, whether infanticide, abortion, cannibalism,
the sanctioned murder of the aged and infirm, honorable suicide, polyandry or persistent war,
are the social deformities consequent upon suppressed growth. Such artificial checks upon population
are more conspicuous in natural regions with sharply defined boundaries, like islands and oases,
as Malthus observed;[123] but they are visible also among savage tribes whose boundaries are
fixed not by natural features but by the mutual repulsion and rivalry characterizing the stage
of development, and whose limit of population is reduced by their low economic status.

[Sidenote: Extra-territorial relations.]

There is a great difference between those states whose inhabitants subsist exclusively from
the products of their own country and those which rely more or less upon other lands. Great
industrial states, like England and Germany, which derive only a portion of their food and
raw material from their own territory, supply their dense populations through international
trade. Interruption of such foreign commerce is disastrous to the population at home; hence
the state by a navy protects the lines of communication with those far-away lands of wheat
fields and cattle ranch. This is no purely modern development. Athens in the time of Pericles
used her navy not only to secure her political domination in the Aegean, but also her connections
with the colonial wheat lands about the Euxine.

The modern state strives to render this circle of trade both large and permanent by means of
commercial treaties, customs-unions, trading-posts and colonies. Thus while society at home
is multiplying its relations with its own land, the state is enabling it to multiply also its
relations with the whole producing world. While at home the nation is becoming more closely
knit together through the common bond of the fatherland, in the world at large humanity is
evolving a brotherhood of man by the union of each with all through the common growing bond
of the earth. Hence we cannot avoid the question: Are we in process of evolving a social idea
vaster than that underlying nationality? Do the Socialists hint to us the geographic basis
of this new development, when they describe themselves as an international political party?

[Sidenote: Geography in the philosophy of history.]

It is natural that the old philosophy of history should have fixed its attention upon the geographic
basis of historical events. Searching for the permanent and common in the outwardly mutable,
it found always at the bottom of changing events the same solid earth. Biology has had the
same experience. The history of the life forms of the world leads always back to the land on
which that life arose, spread, and struggled for existence. The philosophy of history was superior
to early sociology, in that its method was one of historical comparison, which inevitably guided
it back to the land as the material for the first generalization. Thus it happens that the
importance of the land factor in history was approached first from the philosophical side.
Montesquieu and Herder had no intention of solving sociological and geographical problems,
when they considered the relation of peoples and states to their soil; they wished to understand
the purpose and destiny of man as an inhabitant of the earth.

[Sidenote: Theory of progress from the standpoint of geography.]

The study of history is always, from one standpoint, a study of progress. Yet after all the
century-long investigation of the history of every people working out its destiny in its given
environment, struggling against the difficulties of its habitat, progressing when it overcame
them and retrograding when it failed, advancing when it made the most of its opportunities
and declining when it made less or succumbed to an invader armed with better economic or political
methods to exploit the land, it is amazing how little the land, in which all activities finally
root, has been taken into account in the discussion of progress. Nevertheless, for a theory
of progress it offers a solid basis. From the standpoint of the land social and political organizations,
in successive stages of development, embrace ever increasing areas, and make them support ever
denser populations; and in this concentration of population and intensification of economic
development they assume ever higher forms. It does not suffice that a people, in order to progress,
should extend and multiply only its local relations to its land. This would eventuate in arrested
development, such as Japan showed at the time of Perry's visit. The ideal basis of progress
is the expansion of the world relations of a people, the extension of its field of activity
and sphere of influence far beyond the limits of its own territory, by which it exchanges commodities
and ideas with various countries of the world. Universal history shows us that, as the geographical
horizon of the known world has widened from gray antiquity to the present, societies and states
have expanded their territorial and economic scope; that they have grown not only in the number
of their square miles and in the geographical range of their international intercourse, but
in national efficiency, power, and permanence, and especially in that intellectual force which
feeds upon the nutritious food of wide comparisons. Every great movement which has widened
the geographical outlook of a people, such as the Crusades in the Middle Ages, or the colonization
of the Americas, has applied an intellectual and economic stimulus. The expanding field of
advancing history has therefore been an essential concomitant and at the same time a driving
force in the progress of every people and of the world.

[Sidenote: Man's increasing dependence upon nature.]

Since progress in civilization involves an increasing exploitation of natural advantages and
the development of closer relations between a land and its people, it is an erroneous idea
that man tends to emancipate himself more and more from the control of the natural conditions
forming at once the foundation and environment of his activities. On the contrary, he multiplies
his dependencies upon nature;[124] but while increasing their sum total, he diminishes the
force of each. There lies the gist of the matter. As his bonds become more numerous, they become
also more elastic. Civilization has lengthened his leash and padded his collar, so that it
does not gall; but the leash is never slipped. The Delaware Indians depended upon the forests
alone for fuel. A citizen of Pennsylvania, occupying the former Delaware tract, has the choice
of wood, hard or soft coal, coke, petroleum, natural gas, or manufactured gas. Does this mean
emancipation? By no means. For while fuel was a necessity to the Indian only for warmth and
cooking, and incidentally for the pleasureable excitement of burning an enemy at the stake,
it enters into the manufacture of almost every article that the Pennsylvanian uses in his daily
life. His dependence upon nature has become more far-reaching, though less conspicuous and
especially less arbitrary.

[Sidenote: Increase in kind and amount.]

These dependencies increase enormously both in variety and amount. Great Britain, with its
twenty thousand merchant ships aggregating over ten million tons, and its immense import and
export trade, finds its harbors vastly more important to-day for the national welfare than
in Cromwell's time, when they were used by a scanty mercantile fleet. Since the generation
of electricity by water-power and its application to industry, the plunging falls of the Scandinavian
Mountains, of the Alps of Switzerland, France, and Italy, of the Southern Appalachians and
the Cascade Range, are geographical features representing new and unsuspected forms of national
capital, and therefore new bonds between land and people in these localities. Russia since
1844 has built 35,572 miles (57,374 kilometers) of railroad in her European territory, and
thereby derived a new benefit from her level plains, which so facilitate the construction and
cheap operation of railroads, that they have become in this aspect alone a new feature in her
national economy. On the other hand, the galling restrictions of Russia's meager and strategically
confined coasts, which tie her hand in any wide maritime policy, work a greater hardship to-day
than they did a hundred years ago, since her growing population creates a more insistent demand
for international trade. In contrast to Russia, Norway, with its paucity of arable soil and
of other natural resources, finds its long indented coastline and the coast-bred seamanship
of its people a progressively important national asset. Hence as ocean-carriers the Norwegians
have developed a merchant marine nearly half as large again as that of Russia and Finland combined--1,569,646
tons[125] as against 1,084,165 tons.

This growing dependence of a civilized people upon its land is characterized by intelligence
and self-help. Man forms a partnership with nature, contributing brains and labor, while she
provides the capital or raw material in ever more abundant and varied forms. As a result of
this coöperation, held by the terms of the contract, he secures a better living than the savage
who, like a mendicant, accepts what nature is pleased to dole out, and lives under the tyranny
of her caprices.

NOTES TO CHAPTER III

[79] H.J. Mackinder, Britain and the British Seas, p. 196. London, 1904.

[80] Gardner, Atlas of English History, Map 29. New York, 1905.

[81] Hereford George, Historical Geography of Great Britain, pp. 58-60. London, 1904.

[82] Lewis Morgan, Ancient Society, p. 62. New York, 1878.

[83] Franklin H. Giddings, Elements of Sociology, p. 247. New York, 1902. Philadelphia, 1853.

[85] Ibid., Vol. I, pp. 231-232, 241.

[86] Roosevelt, The Winning of the West, Vol. I, pp. 70-73, 88. New York, 1895.

[87] McGee and Thomas, Prehistoric North America, pp. 392-393, 408, Vol. XIX, of History of
North America, edited by Francis W. Thorpe, Philadelphia, 1905. Eleventh Census Report on the
Indians, p. 51. Washington, 1894.

[88] Hans Helmolt, History of the World, Vol. II, pp. 249-250. New York, 1902-1906.

[89] Spencer and Gillen, Northern Tribes of Central Australia, pp. 13-15. London, 1904.

[90] Ratzel, History of Mankind, Vol. I, p. 126. London, 1896-1898.

[91] Roscher, National-Oekonomik des Ackerbaues, p. 24. Stuttgart, 1888.

[92] Ratzel, History of Mankind, Vol. I, p. 131. London, 1896-1898.

[93] Paul Ehrenreich, Die Einteilung und Verbreitung der Völkerstämme Brasiliens, Peterman's
Geographische Mittheilungen, Vol. XXXVII, p. 85. Gotha, 1891.

[94] Roscher, National-Oekonomik des Ackerbaues, p. 26, Note 5. Stuttgart, 1888.

[95] Ibid., p. 27. Washington, 1888.

[97] Ratzel, History of Mankind, Vol. III, p. 173. London, 1896-1898.

[98] Ibid., Vol. III. pp. 173-174.

[99] Sven Hedin, Central Asia and Tibet, Vol. I, p. 184. New York and London, 1903.

[100] John de Plano Carpini, Journey in 1246, p. 130. Hakluyt Society, London, 1904.

[101] Journey of William de Rubruquis in 1253, p. 188. Hakluyt Society, London, 1903.

[102] Volney, quoted in Malthus, Principles of Population, Chap. VII, p. 60. London, 1878.

[103] Genesis, Chap. XIII, 1-12.

[104] Herbert Spencer, Principles of Sociology, Vol. I. p. 457. New York.

[105] Heinrich von Treitschke, Politik, Vol. I, pp. 202-204. Leipzig, 1897.

[106] E.C. Semple, American History and Its Geographic Conditions, pp. 206-207. Boston, 1903.

[107] Roscher, Grundlagen des National-Oekonomik, Book VI. Bevölkerung, p. 694, Note 5. Stuttgart,
1886.

[108] Edward John Payne, History of the New World Called America, Vol. I, p. 303-313. Oxford
and New York, 1892.

[109] Roscher, National-Oekonomik des Ackerbaues, pp. 31, 52. Stuttgart, 1888.

[110] Ibid., p. 56, Note 5.

[111] For these and other averages, Sir John Lubbock, Prehistoric Times, pp. 593-595. New York,
1872.

[112] Roscher, National-Oekonomik des Ackerbaues, pp. 79-80, p. 81, Note 7. Stuttgart, 1888.
William I. Thomas, Source Book for Social Origins, pp. 96-112. Chicago, 1909.

[113] Capt. J. Forsyth, The Highlands of Central India, pp. 101-107, 168. London, 1889.

[114] Tacitus, Germania, III.

[115] Roscher, National-Oekonomik des Ackerbaues, p. 32, Note 15 on p. 36. Stuttgart, 1888.

[116] E. Huntington, The Pulse of Asia, pp. 202, 203, 212, 213, 236-237. Boston, 1907.

[117] Sheldon Jackson, Introduction of Domesticated Reindeer into Alaska, pp. 20, 25-29, 127-129.
Washington, 1894.

[118] Quoted in Alexander von Humboldt, Aspects of Nature in Different Lands, pp. 62, 139.
Philadelphia, 1849. I, pp. 311-321. 333-354, 364-366. New York, 1892.

[120] Prescott, Conquest of Peru, Vol. I, p. 47. New York, 1848.

[121] McGee and Thomas, Prehistoric North America, Vol.

[122] Ratzel, Anthropo-geographie, Vol. II, pp. 264-265.

[123] Malthus, Principles of Population, Chapters V and VII. London, 1878.

[124] Nathaniel Shaler, Nature and Man in America, pp. 147-151. W.Z. Ripley, Races of Europe,
Chap. I, New York, 1899.

[125] Justus Perthes, Taschen-Atlas, pp. 44, 47. Gotha, 1910.

CHAPTER IV

THE MOVEMENTS OF PEOPLES IN THEIR GEOGRAPHICAL SIGNIFICANCE

[Sidenote: Universality of these movements.]

The ethnic and political boundaries of Europe to-day are the residuum of countless racial,
national, tribal and individual movements reaching back into an unrecorded past. The very names
of Turkey, Bulgaria, England, Scotland and France are borrowed from intruding peoples. New
England, New France, New Scotland or Nova Scotia and many more on the American continents register
the Trans-Atlantic nativity of their first white settlers. The provinces of Galicia in Spain,
Lombardy in Italy, Brittany in France, Essex and Sussex in England record in their names streams
of humanity diverted from the great currents of the Völkerwanderung. The Romance group of languages,
from Portugal to Roumania, testify to the sweep of expanding Rome, just as the wide distribution
of the Aryan linguistic family points to many roads and long migrations from some unplaced
birthplace. Names like Cis-Alpine and Trans-Alpine Gaul in the Roman Empire, Trans-Caucasia,
Trans-Caspia and Trans-Baikalia in the Russian Empire, the Transvaal and Transkei in South
Africa, indicate the direction whence the advancing people have come.

[Sidenote: Stratification of races]

Ethnology reveals an east and west stratification of linguistic groups in Europe, a north and
south stratification of races, and another stratification by altitude, which reappears in all
parts of the world, and shows certain invading dominant races occupying the lowlands and other
displaced ones the highlands. This definite arrangement points to successive arrivals, a crowding
forward, an intrusion of the strong into fertile, accessible valleys and plains, and a dislodgment
of the weak into the rough but safe keeping of mountain range or barren peninsula, where they
are brought to bay. Ethnic fragments, linguistic survivals, or merely place names, dropped
like discarded baggage along the march of a retreating army, bear witness everywhere to tragic
recessionals.

[Sidenote: The name Historical Movement.]

Every country whose history we examine proves the recipient of successive streams of humanity.
Even sea-girt England has received various intruding peoples from the Roman occupation to the
recent influx of Russian Jews. In prehistoric times it combined several elements in its population,
as the discovery of the "long barrow" men and "round barrow" men by archaeologists, and the
identification of a surviving Iberian or Mediterranean strain by ethnologists go to prove.[126]
Egypt, Mesopotamia, and India tell the same story, whether in their recorded or unrecorded
history. Tropical Africa lacks a history; but all that has been pieced together by ethnologists
and anthropologists, in an effort to reconstruct its past, shows incessant movement,--growth,
expansion and short-lived conquest, followed by shrinkage, expulsion or absorption by another
invader.[127] To this constant shifting of races and peoples the name of historical movement
has been given, because it underlies most of written history, and constitutes the major part
of unwritten history, especially that of savage and nomadic tribes. Two things are vital in
the history of every people, its ethnic composition and the wars it wages in defense or extension
of its boundaries. Both rest upon historical movements,--intrusions, whether peaceful or hostile,
into its own land, and encroachments upon neighboring territory necessitated by growth. Back
of all such movements is natural increase of population beyond local means of subsistence,
and the development of the war spirit in the effort to secure more abundant subsistence either
by raid or conquest of territory.

[Sidenote: Evolution of the Historical Movement.]

Among primitive peoples this movement is simple and monotonous. It involves all members of
the tribe, either in pursuit of game, or following the herd over the tribal territory, or in
migrations seeking more and better land. Among civilized peoples it assumes various forms,
and especially is differentiated for different members of the social group. The civilized state
develops specialized frontiersmen, armies, explorers, maritime traders, colonists, and missionaries,
who keep a part of the people constantly moving and directing external expansion, while the
mass of the population converts the force once expended in the migrant food-quest into internal
activity. Here we come upon a paradox. The nation as a whole, with the development of sedentary
life, increases its population and therewith its need for external movements; it widens its
national area and its circle of contact with other lands, enlarges its geographical horizon,
and improves its internal communication over a growing territory; it evolves a greater mobility
within and without, which attaches, however, to certain classes of society, not to the entire
social group. This mobility becomes the outward expression of a whole complex of economic wants,
intellectual needs, and political ambitions. It is embodied in the conquests which build up
empires, in the colonization which develops new lands, in the world-wide exchange of commodities
and ideas which lifts the level of civilization, till this movement of peoples becomes a fundamental
fact of history.

[Sidenote: Nature of primitive movements.]

This movement is and has been universal and varied. When most unobtrusive in its operation,
it has produced its greatest effects. To seize upon a few conspicuous migrations, like the
Völkerwanderung and the irruption of the Turks into Europe, made dramatic by their relation
to the declining empires of Rome and Constantinople, and to ignore the vast sum of lesser but
more normal movements which by slow increments produce greater and more lasting results, leads
to wrong conclusions both in ethnology and history. Here, as in geology, great effects do not
necessarily presuppose vast forces, but rather the steady operation of small ones. It is often
assumed that the world was peopled by a series of migrations; whereas everything indicates
that humanity spread over the earth little by little, much as the imported gypsy moth is gradually
occupying New England or the water hyacinth the rivers of Florida. Louis Agassiz observed in
1853 that "the boundaries within which the different natural combinations of animals are known
to be circumscribed upon the surface of the earth, coincide with the natural range of distinct
types of man."[128] The close parallelism between Australian race and flora, Eskimo race and
Arctic fauna, points to a similar manner of dispersion. Wallace, in describing how the Russian
frontier of settlement slowly creeps forward along the Volga, encroaching upon the Finnish
and Tartar areas, and permeating them with Slav blood and civilization, adds that this is probably
the normal method of expansion.[129] Thucydides describes the same process of encroachment,
displacement, and migration in ancient Hellas.[130] Strabo quotes Posidonius as saying that
the emigration of the Cimbrians and other kindred tribes from their native seats was gradual
and by no means sudden.[131] The traditions of the Delaware Indians show their advance from
their early home in central Canada southward to the Delaware River and Chesapeake Bay to have
been a slow zigzag movement, interrupted by frequent long halts, leaving behind one laggard
group here and sending out an offshoot there, who formed new tribes and thereby diversified
the stock.[132] It was an aimless wandering, without destination and purpose other than to
find a pleasanter habitat. The Vandals appear first as "a loose aggregation of restless tribes
who must not be too definitely assigned to any precise district on the map," somewhere in central
or eastern Prussia.[133] Far-reaching migrations aiming at a distant goal, like the Gothic
and Hunnish conquests of Italy, demand both a geographical knowledge and an organization too
high for primitive peoples, and therefore belong to a later period of development.[134]

[Sidenote: Number and range.]

The long list of recorded migrations has been supplemented by the researches of ethnologists,
which have revealed a multitude of prehistoric movements. These are disclosed in greater number
and range with successive investigation. The prehistoric wanderings of the Polynesians assume
far more significance to-day than a hundred years ago, when their scope was supposed to have
its western limit at Fiji and the Ellice group. They have now been traced to almost every island
of Melanesia; vestiges of their influence have been detected in the languages of Australia,
and the culture of the distant coasts of Alaska and British Columbia. The western pioneers
of America knew the Shoshone Indians as small bands of savages, constantly moving about in
search of food in the barren region west of the Rocky Mountains, and occasionally venturing
eastward to hunt buffalo on the plains. Recent investigation has identified as offshoots of
this retarded Shoshonean stock the sedentary agriculturalists of the Moqui Pueblo, and the
advanced populations of ancient Mexico and Central America.[135] Here was a great human current
which through the centuries slowly drifted from the present frontier of Canada to the shores
of Lake Nicaragua. Powell's map of the distribution of the linguistic stocks of American Indians
is intelligible only in the light of constant mobility. Haebler's map of the South American
stocks reveals the same restless past. This cartographical presentation of the facts, giving
only the final results, suggests tribal excursions of the nature of migrations; but ethnologists
see them as the sum total of countless small movements which are more or less part of the normal
activity of an unrooted savage people. [Map page 101.]

Otis Mason finds that the life of a social group involves a variety of movements characterized
by different ranges or scopes. I. The daily round from bed to bed. II. The annual round from
year to year, like that of the Tunguse Orochon of Siberia who in pursuit of various fish and
game change their residence within their territory from month to month, or the pastoral nomads
who move with the seasons from pasture to pasture. III. Less systematic outside movements covering
the tribal sphere of influence, such as journeys or voyages to remote hunting or fishing grounds,
forays or piratical descents upon neighboring lands eventuating usually in conquest, expansion
into border regions for occasional occupation or colonization. IV. Participation in streams
of barter or commerce. V. And at a higher stage in the great currents of human intercourse,
experience, and ideas, which finally compass the world.[136] In all this series the narrower
movement prepares for the broader, of which it constitutes at once an impulse and a part.

[Sidenote: Importance of such movements in history.]

The real character and importance of these movements have been appreciated by broad-minded
historians. Thucydides elucidates the conditions leading up to the Peloponnesian War by a description
of the semi-migratory population of Hellas, the exposure of the more fertile districts to incursions,
and the influence of these movements in differentiating Dorian from Ionian Greece.[137] Johannes
von Muller, in the introduction to his history of Switzerland, assigns to federations and migrations
a conspicuous rôle in historical development. Edward A. Ross sees in such movements a thorough-going
selective process which weeds out the unfit, or rather spares only the highly fit. He lays
down the principle that repeated migrations tend to the creation of energetic races of men.
He adds, "This principle may account for the fact that those branches of a race achieve the
most brilliant success which have wandered the farthest from their ancestral home.... The Arabs
and Moors that skirted Africa and won a home in far-away Spain, developed the most brilliant
of the Saracen civilizations. Hebrews, Dorians, Quirites, Rajputs, Hovas were far invaders.
No communities in classic times flourished like the cities of Asia created by the overflow
from Greece. Nowhere under the Czar are there such vigorous, progressive communities as in
Siberia."[138] Brinton distinguishes the associative and dispersive elements in ethnography.
The latter is favored by the physical adaptability of the human race to all climates and external
conditions; it is stimulated by the food-quest, the pressure of foes, and the resultant restlessness
of an unstable primitive society.[139]

The earth's surface is at once factor and basis in these movements. In an active way it directs
them; but they in turn clothe the passive earth with a mantle of humanity. This mantle is of
varied weave and thickness, showing here the simple pattern of a primitive society, there the
intricate design of advanced civilization; here a closely woven or a gauzy texture, there disclosing
a great rent where a rocky peak or the ice-wrapped poles protrude through the warm human covering.
This is the magic web whereof man is at once woof and weaver, and the flying shuttle that never
rests. Given a region, what is its living envelope, asks anthropo-geography. Whence and how
did it get there? What is the material of warp and woof? Will new threads enter to vary the
color and design? If so, from what source? Or will the local pattern repeat itself over and
over with dull uniformity?

[Sidenote: Geographical interpretation of historical movement.]

It was the great intellectual service of Copernicus that he conceived of a world in motion
instead of a world at rest. So anthropo-geography must see its world in motion, whether it
is considering English colonization, or the westward expansion of the Southern slave power
in search of unexhausted land, or the counter expansion of the free-soil movement, or the early
advance of the trappers westward to the Rockies after the retreating game, or the withdrawal
thither of the declining Indian tribes before the protruding line of white settlement, and
their ultimate confinement to ever shrinking reservations. In studying increase of population,
it sees in Switzerland chalet and farm creeping higher up the Alp, as the lapping of a rising
tide of humanity below; it sees movement in the projection of a new dike in Holland to reclaim
from the sea the land for another thousand inhabitants, movement in Japan's doubling of its
territory by conquest, in order to house and feed its redundant millions.

The whole complex relation of unresting man to the earth is the subject matter of anthropo-geography.
The science traces his movements on the earth's surface, measures their velocity, range, and
recurrence, determines their nature by the way they utilize the land, notes their transformation
at different stages of economic development and under different environments. Just as an understanding
of animal and plant geography requires a previous knowledge of the various means of dispersal,
active and passive, possessed by these lower forms of life, so anthropo-geography must start
with a study of the movements of mankind.

[Sidenote: Mobility of primitive peoples.]

First of all is to be noted an evolution in the mobility of peoples. In the lower stages of
culture mobility is great. It is favored by the persistent food-quest over wide areas incident
to retarded economic methods, and by the loose attachment of society to the soil. The small
social groups peculiar to these stages and their innate tendency to fission help the movements
to ramify. The consequent scattered distribution of the population offers wide interstices
between encampments or villages, and into these vacant spaces other wandering tribes easily
penetrate. The rapid decline of the Indian race in America before the advancing whites was
due chiefly to the division of the savages into small groups, scattered sparsely over a wide
territory. Hunter and pastoral peoples need far more land than they can occupy at any one time.
Hence the temporarily vacant spots invite incursion. Moreover, the slight impedimenta carried
by primitive folk minimize the natural physical obstacles which they meet when on the march.
The lightly equipped war parties of the Shawnee Indians used gorges and gaps for the passage
of the Allegheny Mountains which were prohibitive to all white pioneers except the lonely trapper.
Finally, this mobility gets into the primitive mind. The Wanderlust is strong. Long residence
in one territory is irksome, attachment is weak. Therefore a small cause suffices to start
the whole or part of the social body moving. A temporary failure of the food supply, cruelty
or excessive exaction of tribute on the part of the chief, occasions an exodus. The history
of every negro tribe in Africa gives instances of such secessions, which often leave whole
districts empty and exposed to the next wandering occupant. Methods of preventing such withdrawals,
and therewith the diminution of his treasury receipts and his fighting force, belong to the
policy of every negro chieftain.

[Sidenote: Natural barriers to movement.]

The checks to this native mobility of primitive peoples are two: physical and mental. In addition
to the usual barriers of mountains, deserts, and seas before the invention of boats, primeval
forests have always offered serious obstacles to man armed only with stone or bronze axe, and
they rebuffed even man of the iron age. War and hunting parties had to move along the natural
clearings of the rivers, the tracks of animals, or the few trails beaten out in time by the
natives themselves. Primitive agriculture has never battled successfully against the phalanx
of the trees. Forests balked the expansion of the Inca civilization on the rainy slope of the
Andes, and in Central Africa the negro invaded only their edges for his yam fields and plantain
groves. The earliest settlements in ancient Britain were confined to the natural clearings
of the chalk downs and oolitic uplands; and here population was chiefly concentrated even at
the close of the Roman occupation. Only gradually, as the valley woodlands were cleared, did
the richer soil of the alluvial basins attract men from the high, poor ground where tillage
required no preliminary work. But after four centuries of Roman rule and Roman roads, the clearings
along the river valleys were still mere strips of culture mid an encompassing wilderness of
woods. When the Germanic invaders came, they too appropriated the treeless downs and were blocked
by the forests.[140] On the other hand, grasslands and savannahs have developed the most mobile
people whom we know, steppe hunters like the Sioux Indians and Patagonians. Thus while the
forest dweller, confined to the highway of the stream, devised only canoe and dugout boat in
various forms for purposes of transportation, steppe peoples of the Old World introduced the
use of draft and pack animals, and invented the sledge and cart.

[Sidenote: Effect of geographical horizon.]

Primitive peoples carry a drag upon their migrations in their restricted geographical outlook;
ignorance robs them of definite goals. The evolution of the historical movement is accelerated
by every expansion of the geographical horizon. It progresses most rapidly where the knowledge
of outlying or remote lands travels fastest, as along rivers and thalassic coasts. Rome's location
as toll-gate keeper of the Tiber gave her knowledge of the upstream country and directed her
conquest of its valley; and the movement thus started gathered momentum as it advanced. Cæsar's
occupation of Gaul meant to his generation simply the command of the roads leading from the
Mediterranean to the northern sources of tin and amber, and the establishment of frontier outposts
to protect the land boundaries of Italy; this represented a bold policy of inland expansion
for that day. The modern historian sees in that step the momentous advance of history beyond
the narrow limits of the Mediterranean basin, and its gradual inclusion of all the Atlantic
countries of Europe, through whose maritime enterprise the historical horizon was stretched
to include America. In the same way, mediæval trade with the Orient, which had familiarized
Europe with distant India and Cathay, developed its full historico-geographical importance
when it started the maritime discoveries of the fifteenth century. The expansion of the geographical
horizon in 1512 to embrace the earth inaugurated a widespread historical movement, which has
resulted in the Europeanization of the world.

[Sidenote: Civilization and mobility.]

Civilized man is at once more and less mobile than his primitive brother. Every advance in
civilization multiplies and tightens the bonds uniting him with his soil; makes him a sedentary
instead of a migratory being. On the other hand every advance in civilization is attended by
the rapid clearing of the forests, by the construction of bridges and interlacing roads, the
invention of more effective vehicles for transportation whereby intercourse increases, and
the improvement of navigation to the same end. Civilized man progressively modifies the land
which he occupies, removes or reduces obstacles to intercourse, and thereby approximates it
to the open plain. Thus far he facilitates movements. But while doing this he also places upon
the land a dense population, closely attached to the soil, strong to resist incursion, and
for economic reasons inhospitable to any marked accession of population from without. Herein
lies the great difference between migration in empty or sparsely inhabited regions, such as
predominated when the world was young, and in the densely populated countries of our era. As
the earth grew old and humanity multiplied, peoples themselves became the greatest barriers
to any massive migrations, till in certain countries of Europe and Asia the historical movement
has been reduced to a continual pressure, resulting in compression of population here, repression
there. Hence, though political boundaries may shift, ethnic boundaries scarcely budge. The
greatest wars of modern Europe have hardly left a trace upon the distribution of its peoples.
Only in the Balkan Peninsula, as the frontiers of the Turkish Empire have been forced back
from the Danube, the alien Turks have withdrawn to the shrinking territory of the Sultan and
especially to Asia Minor.

[Sidenote: Diffusion of culture.]

Where a population too great to be dislodged occupies the land, conquest results in the eventual
absorption of the victors and their civilization by the native folk, as happened to the Lombards
in Italy, the Vandals in Africa and the Normans in England. Where the invaders are markedly
superior in culture though numerically weak, conquest results in the gradual permeation of
the conquered with the religion, economic methods, language, and customs of the new-comers.[141]
The latter process, too, is always attended by some intermixture of blood, where no race repulsion
exists, but this is small in comparison to the diffusion of civilization. This was the method
by which Greek traders and colonists Hellenized the countries about the eastern Mediterranean,
and spread their culture far back from the shores which their settlements had appropriated.
In this way Saracen armies soon after the death of Mohammed Arabized the whole eastern and
southern sides of the Mediterranean from Syria to Spain, and Arab merchants set the stamp of
their language and religion on the coasts of East Africa as far as Moçambique. The handful
of Spanish adventurers who came upon the relatively dense populations of Mexico and Peru left
among them a civilization essentially European, but only a thin strain of Castilian blood.
Thus the immigration of small bands of people sufficed to influence the culture of that big
territory known as Latin America.

[Sidenote: Ethnic intermixture.]

That vast sum of migrations, great and small, which we group under the general term of historical
movement has involved an endless mingling of races and cultures. As Professor Petrie has remarked,
the prevalent notion that in prehistoric times races were pure and unmixed is without foundation.
An examination of the various forms of the historical movement reveals the extent and complexity
of this mingling process.

In the first place, no migration is ever simple; it involves a number of secondary movements,
each of which in turn occasions a new combination of tribal or racial elements. The transference
of a whole people from its native or adopted seat to a new habitat, as in the Völkerwanderungen,
empties the original district, which then becomes a catchment basin for various streams of
people about its rim; and in the new territory it dislodges a few or all of the occupants,
and thereby starts up a fresh movement as the original one comes to rest.

Nor is this all. A torrent that issues from its source in the mountains is not the river which
reaches the sea. On its long journey from highland to lowland it receives now the milky waters
of a glacier-fed stream, now a muddy tributary from agricultural lands, now the clear waters
from a limestone plateau, while all the time its racing current bears a burden of soil torn
from its own banks. Now it rests in a lake, where it lays down its weight of silt, then goes
on, perhaps across an arid stretch where its water is sucked up by the thirsty air or diverted
to irrigate fields of grain. So with those rivers of men which we call migrations. The ethnic
stream may start comparatively pure, but it becomes mixed on the way. From time to time it
leaves behind laggard elements which in turn make a new racial blend where they stop. Such
were the six thousand Aduatici whom Cæsar found in Belgian Gaul. These were a detachment of
the migrating Cimbri, left there in charge of surplus cattle and baggage while the main body
went on to Italy.[142]

[Sidenote: Complex currents of migration.]

