At this time of day to attempt criticism upon a new novel by MISS RHODA BROUGHTON seems almost
impertinent. The tens of thousands to whom she has given such pleasure before now would probably
be willing to read anything that was put before them with the guarantee of her name. Fortunately
in the case of Concerning a Vow (STANLEY PAUL) this confidence would be by no means misplaced.
I can say at once, with my hand upon my reviewer's heart, that in freshness and vivacity and
power of sprightly character-drawing here is a story that need fear comparison with none of
its most popular predecessors. The vow of the title was that exacted by Meg Champneys on her
death-bed from her sister Sally, binding the latter not to marry Edward Branley. Edward, in
some fashion that was never made quite clear to me, had previously jilted both the sisters.
But this all happened before the beginning of the book. In it poor Edward is made so pitiable
and heart-broken a figure that I found it hard to credit his previous infidelities. However,
most of the other characters detested him, and said that nothing was too bad for him; and as
they themselves were delightful and quite human people I am ready to suppose that they had
their reasons. Of course Edward and Sally were really in love all the time, and of course too
they find resistance to this impossible; though I must own that their method of circumventing
the vow reminded me dangerously of the young man who used a cigarette-holder because he had
been told to keep away from tobacco. I speak flippantly; but as a matter of fact the story
of Edward and Sally is not free from tragedy, very simply and movingly told. If Concerning
a Vow does not add to Miss BROUGHTON'S popularity it will only be because this is impossible;
it certainly will do nothing to lessen it.

       *       *       *       *       *

Illustration: Barber (to victim.) "WHAT IS YOUR OPINION OF THE AEROPLANE AS A MILITARY ASSET?"

       *       *       *       *       *

I think that Mr. W. R. TITTERTON is a little late in the day; his book, Me as a Model (PALMER),
recalls happy memories of that past and already romantic period when Trilby was the talk of
the hour and Paris the centre of all Bohemian licence. Mr. TITTERTON has the DU MAURIER manner,
but his jocular skittishness, aided by asterisks, exclamation marks and suspensive dots, has
curiously little behind it. It is not enough to-day to paint the gay impropriety of models
and the devil-may-care penury of lighthearted artists. Trilby began the movement, Louise ended
it, and Mr. TITTERTON is behind his day. I am glad, however, to learn that he was so splendid
a model. The students at JULIEN'S fall back aghast before his magnificent figure, and now,
in every gallery in Europe, sculptures and paintings of Mr. TITTERTON are to be seen by the
vulgar crowd, very often for no charge at all; and that, of course, is delightful for Europe.
And, according to his title, that is doubtless the final impression that the author wishes
to convey. I intend on my next trip abroad to search for Mr. TITTERTON in all the galleries.
My only means of discovery are the pictures of the author with which his book is filled, and
here, if the illustrator (a very clever fellow) is to be trusted, I am frankly puzzled by the
attitude at JULIEN'S towards their model. There is very little in these illustrations to justify
it.

       *       *       *       *       *

