No. 6.

       *       *       *       *       *

GERMAN CRITICISM ON ENGLISH FEMALE ROMANCE WRITERS.

We translate the following for the International from a letter dated London, June 15, to the
Cologne Gazette.

"Among the most remarkable writers of romances in England, three women are entitled to be reckoned
in the first rank, namely, Miss Jewsbury, Miss Bronte, and Mrs. Gaskell. Miss Jewsbury issued
her first work about four years since, a novel, in three volumes, under the title of 'Zoe,'
and since then she has published the 'Half Sisters.' Both these works are excellent in manner
as well as ideas, and show that their author is a woman of profound thought and deep feeling.
Both are drawn from country life and the middle class, a sphere in which Miss Jewsbury is at
home. The tendency of the first is speculative, and is based on religion; that of the second
is social, relating to the position of woman.

"Miss Jewsbury is still young, for an authoress. She counts only some thirty years, and many
productions may be confidently expected from her hand, though perhaps none will excel those
already published, for, after gaining a certain climax, no one excels himself. Her usual residence
is Manchester; it is but seldom that she visits the metropolis; she is now here. She has lively
and pleasing manners, a slight person, fine features, a beautiful, dreamy, light brown eye.
She is attractive without being beautiful, retiring, altogether without pretensions, and in
conversation is neither brilliant nor very intellectual,--a still, thoughtful, modest character.

"Miss Bronte was long involved in a mysterious obscurity, from which she first emerged into
the light as an actually existing being, at her present visit to London. Two years ago there
appeared a romance, 'Jane Eyre,' by 'Currer Bell,' which threw all England into astonishment.
Everybody was tormenting himself to discover the real author, for there was no such person
as Currer Bell, and no one could tell whether the book was written by a man or woman, because
the hues of the romance now indicated a male and now female hand, without any possibility of
supposing that the whole originated with a single pencil. The public attributed it now to one,
now to another, and the book passed to a second edition without the solution of the riddle.
At last there came out a second romance, 'Shirley,' by the same author, which was devoured
with equal avidity, although it could not be compared to the former in value; and still the
incognito was preserved. Finally, late in the autumn of last year the report was spread about
that the image of Jane Eyre had been discovered in London in the person of a pale young lady,
with gray eyes, who had been recognized as the long-sought authoress. Still she remained invisible.
And again, in June 1850, it is said that Currer Bell, Jane Eyre, Miss Bronte,--for all three
names mean the same person,--is in London, though to all inquiries concerning the where and
how a satisfactory answer is still wanting. She is now indeed here, but not for the curious
public; she will not serve society as a lioness, will not be gazed and gaped at. She is a simple
child of the country, brought up in the little parsonage of her father, in the North of England,
and must first accustom her eye to the gleaming diadem with which fame seeks to deck her brow,
before she can feel herself at home in her own sunshine.

"Our third lady, Mrs. Gaskell, belongs also to the country, and is the wife of a Unitarian
clergyman. In this capacity she has probably had occasion to know a great deal of the poorer
classes, to her honor be it said. Her book, 'Mary Barton,' conducts us into the factory workman's
narrow dwelling, and depicts his joys and sorrows, his aims and efforts, his wants and his
misery, with a power of truth that irresistibly lays hold upon the heart. The scene of the
story alternates from there to the city mansion of the factory owner, where, along with luxury
and splendor we find little love and little happiness, and where sympathy with the condition
of the workman is wanting only because it is not known, and because no one understands why
or how the workman suffers. The book, is at once very beautiful, very instructive, and written,
in a spirit of conciliation."

       *       *       *       *       *

MARGARET FULLER, MARCHESA D'OSSOLI.

Sarah Margaret Fuller, by marriage Marchioness of Ossoli, was born in Cambridge, Massachusetts,
about the year 1807. Her father, Mr. Timothy Fuller, was a lawyer, and from 1817 to 1825 he
represented the Middlesex district in Congress. At the close of his last term as a legislator
he purchased a farm near Cambridge, and determined to abandon his profession for the more congenial
one of agriculture; but he died soon after, leaving a widow and six children, of whom Margaret
was the eldest.

At a very early age she exhibited unusual abilities, and was particularly distinguished for
an extraordinary facility in acquiring languages. Her father, proud of the displays of her
intelligence, prematurely stimulated it to a degree that was ultimately injurious to her physical
constitution. When he first went to Washington he was accustomed to speak of her as one "better
skilled in Greek and Latin than half of the professors;" and alluding in one of her essays,
to her attachment to foreign literature, she herself observes that in childhood she had well-nigh
forgotten her English while constantly reading in other tongues. These conversations are described
by Dr. Orestes A. Brownson, as "in the highest degree brilliant, instructive, and inspiring,"
and our own recollections of them confirm to us the justice of the applause with which they
are now referred to. She made her first appearance as an author, in a translation of Eckermann's
Conversations with Goethe, published in Boston in 1839. When Mr. Emerson, in the following
year, established The Dial, she became one of the principal contributors to that remarkable
periodical, in which she wrote many of the most striking papers on literature, art, and society.
In the summer of 1843 she made a journey to the Sault St. Marie, and in the next spring published
in Boston reminiscences of her tour, under the title of Summer on the Lakes. The Dial having
been discontinued, she came to reside in New York, where she had charge of the literary department
of the New York Tribune, which acquired a great accession of reputation from her critical essays.
Here in 1845 she published Woman in the Nineteenth Century; and in 1846, Papers on Literature
and Art, in two volumes, consisting of essays and reviews, reprinted, with one exception, from
periodicals. They left Florence in June, and at Leghorn embarked in the ship Elizabeth for
New York. The passage commenced auspiciously, but at Gibraltar the master of the ship died
of smallpox, and they were detained at the quarantine there some time in consequence of this
misfortune, but finally set sail again on the 8th of June, and arrived on our coast during
the terrible storm of the 18th and 19th ult., when, in the midst of darkness, rain, and a terrific
gale, the ship was hurled on the breakers of Fire Island, near Long Island, and in a few hours
was broken in pieces. Margaret Fuller d'Ossoli, the Marquis d'Ossoli, and their son, two years
of age, with an Italian girl, and Mr. Horace Sumner of Boston, besides several of the crew,
lost their lives. We reprint a sketch of the works and genius of Margaret Fuller, written several
years ago by the late Edgar A. Poe.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Miss Fuller was at one time editor, or one of the editors of the 'The Dial,' to which she
contributed many of the most forcible and certainly some of the most peculiar papers. She is
known, too, by 'Summer on the Lakes,' a remarkable assemblage of sketches, issued in 1844,
by Little & Brown, of Boston. More lately she published 'Woman in the Nineteenth Century,'
a work which has occasioned much discussion, having had the good fortune to be warmly abused
and chivalrously defended. For 'The New York Tribune,' she has furnished a great variety of
matter, chiefly notices of new books, etc., etc., her articles being designated by an asterisk.
Two of the best of them were a review of Professor Longfellow's late magnificent edition of
his own works, (with a portrait,) and an appeal to the public in behalf of her friend Harro
Harring. The review did her infinite credit; it was frank, candid, independent--in even ludicrous
contrast to the usual mere glorifications of the day, giving honor only where honor was due,
yet evincing the most thorough capacity to appreciate and the most sincere intention to place
in the fairest light the real and idiosyncratic merits of the poet. In my opinion it is one
of the very few reviews of Longfellow's poems, ever published in America, of which the critics
have not had abundant reason to be ashamed. Mr. Longfellow is entitled to a certain and very
distinguished rank among the poets of his country, but that country is disgraced by the evident
toadyism which would award to his social position and influence, to his fine paper and large
type, to his morocco binding and gilt edges, to his flattering portrait of himself, and to
the illustrations of his poems by Huntingdon, that amount of indiscriminate approbation which
neither could nor would have been given to the poems themselves. The defense of Harro Harring,
or rather the philippic against those who were doing him wrong, was one of the most eloquent
and well-put articles I have ever yet seen in a newspaper.

"'Woman in the Nineteenth Century' is a book which few women in the country could have written,
and no woman in the country would have published, with the exception of Miss Fuller. In the
way of independence, of unmitigated radicalism, it is one of the 'Curiosities of American Literature,'
and Doctor Griswold should include it in his book. I need scarcely say that the essay is nervous,
forcible, suggestive, brilliant, and to a certain extent scholar-like--for all that Miss Fuller
produces is entitled to these epithets--but I must say that the conclusions reached are only
in part my own. Not that they are bold, by any means--too novel, too startling or too dangerous
in their consequences, but that in their attainment too many premises have been distorted,
and too many analogical inferences left altogether out of sight. I mean to say that the intention
of the Deity as regards sexual differences--an intention which can be distinctly comprehended
only by throwing the exterior (more sensitive) portions of the mental retina casually over
the wide field of universal analogy--I mean to say that this intention has not been sufficiently
considered. Miss Fuller has erred, too, through her own excessive objectiveness. She judges
woman by the heart and intellect of Miss Fuller, but there are not more than one or two dozen
Miss Fullers on the whole face of the earth. Holding these opinions in regard to 'Woman in
the Nineteenth Century,' I still feel myself called upon to disavow the silly, condemnatory
criticism of the work which appeared in one of the earlier numbers of "The Broadway Journal."
That article was not written by myself, and was written by my associate, Mr. Briggs.

"The most favorable estimate of Miss Fuller's genius (for high genius she unquestionably possesses)
is to be obtained, perhaps, from her contributions to 'The Dial,' and from her 'Summer on the
Lakes.' Many of the descriptions in this volume are unrivaled for graphicality, (why is there
not such a word?) for the force with which they convey the true by the novel or unexpected,
by the introduction of touches which other artists would be sure to omit as irrelevant to the
subject. This faculty, too, springs from her subjectiveness, which leads her to paint a scene
less by its features than by its effects. Hence so many desperate failures to convey it on
the part of ordinary tourists. Mr. William W. Lord, to be sure, in his poem 'Niagara,' is sufficiently
objective; he describes not the fall, but very properly, the effect of the fall upon him. He
says that it made him think of his own greatness, of his own superiority, and so forth, and
so forth; and it is only when we come to think that the thought of Mr. Lord's greatness is
quite idiosyncratic confined exclusively to Mr. Lord, that we are in condition to understand
how, in spite of his objectiveness he has failed to convey an idea of anything beyond one Mr.
William W. Lord.

"From what I have quoted, a general conception of the prose style of the authoress may be gathered.
Her manner, however, is infinitely varied. It is always forcible--but I am not sure that it
is always anything else, unless I say picturesque. It rather indicates than evinces scholarship.
Perhaps only the scholastic, or, more properly, those accustomed to look narrowly at the structure
of phrases, would be willing to acquit her of ignorance of grammar--would be willing to attribute
her slovenliness to disregard of the shell in anxiety for the kernel; or to waywardness, or
to affectation, or to blind reverence to Carlyle--would be able to detect, in her strange and
continual inaccuracies, a capacity for the accurate.

    "'I cannot sympathize with such an apprehension; the spectacle
    is capable to swallow up all such objects."

    "It is fearful, too, to know, as you look, that whatever has
    been swallowed by the cataract, is like to rise suddenly to
    light."

    "I took our mutual friends to see her."

    "It was always obvious that they had nothing in common
    between them."

    "The Indian cannot be looked at truly except by a poetic
    eye."

    "McKenny's Tour to the Lakes gives some facts not to be met
    with elsewhere."

    "There is that mixture of culture and rudeness in the aspect
    of things as gives a feeling of freedom," etc., etc.

"These are merely a few, a very few instances, taken at random from among a multitude of willful
murders committed by Miss Fuller on the American of President Polk. She uses, too, the word
'ignore,' a vulgarity adopted only of late days (and to no good purpose, since there is no
necessity for it) from the barbarisms of the law, and makes no scruple of giving the Yankee
interpretation to the verbs 'witness' and 'realize,' to say nothing of 'use,' as in the sentence,
'I used to read a short time at night.' It will not do to say in defense of such words, that
in such senses they may be found in certain dictionaries--in that of Bolles', for instance;--some
kind of 'authority' may be found for any kind of vulgarity under the sun.

"In spite of these things, however and of her frequent unjustifiable Carlyleisms, (such as
that of writing sentences which are no sentences, since, to be parsed, reference must be had
to sentences preceding,) the style of Miss Fuller is one of the very best with which I am acquainted.
In general effect, I know no style which surpasses it. It is singularly piquant, vivid, terse,
bold, luminous--leaving details out of sight, it is everything that a style need be.

"I believe that Miss Fuller has written much poetry, although she has published little. That
little is tainted with the affectation of the transcendentalists, (I used this term, of course,
in the sense which the public of late days seem resolved to give it,) but is brimful of the
poetic sentiment. To lean is a neuter verb, and 'seizing on' is not properly to be called a
pleonasm, merely because it is--nothing at all. The concluding line is difficult of pronunciation
through excess of consonants. I should have preferred, indeed, the ante-penultimate tristich
as the finale of the poem.

"The supposition that the book of an author is a thing apart from the author's self, is, I
think, ill-founded. The soul is a cipher, in the sense of a cryptograph; and the shorter a
cryptograph is, the more difficulty there is in its comprehension--at a certain point of brevity
it would bid defiance to an army of Champollions. And thus he who has written very little,
may in that little either conceal his spirit or convey quite an erroneous idea of it--of his
acquirements, talents, temper, manner, tenor and depth (or shallowness) of thought--in a word
of his character, of himself. But this is impossible with him who has written much. Of such
a person we get, from his books, not merely a just, but the most just representation. Bulwer,
the individual, personal man, in a green velvet waistcoat and amber gloves, is not by any means
the veritable Sir Edward Lytton, who is discoverable only in 'Ernest Maltravers,' where his
soul is deliberately and nakedly set forth. And who would ever know Dickens by looking at him
or talking with him, or doing anything with him except reading his 'Curiosity Shop?' What poet,
in especial, but must feel at least the better portion of himself more fairly represented in
even his commonest sonnet, (earnestly written,) than in his most elaborate or most intimate
personalities?

"I put all this as a general proposition, to which Miss Fuller affords a marked exception--to
this extent, that her personal character and her printed book are merely one and the same thing.
We get access to her soul as directly from the one as from the other--no more readily from
this than from that--easily from either. Her acts are bookish, and her books are less thoughts
than acts. Her literary and her conversational manner are identical. She is perpetually saying
just such things in just such words. To get the conversational woman in the mind's eye, all
that is needed is to imagine her reciting the paragraph just quoted: but first let us have
the personal woman. She is of the medium height; nothing remarkable about the figure; a profusion
of lustrous light hair; eyes a bluish gray, full of fire; capacious forehead; the mouth when
in repose indicates profound sensibility, capacity for affection, for love--when moved by a
slight smile, it becomes even beautiful in the intensity of this expression; but the upper
lip, as if impelled by the action of involuntary muscles, habitually uplifts itself, conveying
the impression of a sneer. Imagine, now, a person of this description looking at you one moment
earnestly in the face, at the next seeming to look only within her own spirit or at the wall;
moving nervously every now and then in her chair; speaking in a high key, but musically, deliberately,
(not hurriedly or loudly,) with a delicious distinctness of enunciation--speaking, I say, the
paragraph in question, and emphasizing the words which I have italicized, not by impulsion
of the breath, (as is usual) but by drawing them out as long as possible, nearly closing her
eyes, the while--imagine all this, and we have both the woman and the authoress before us."

       *       *       *       *       *

An Illustration of the high prices paid to fortunate artists in these times may be found in
the fact that Alboni, the famous contralto singer, has been engaged to sing at Madrid, at the
enormous rate of $400 dollars per day, while Roger, the tenor, who used to sing at the Comic
Opera at Paris, and who was transplanted to the Grand Opera to assist in the production of
Meyerbeer's "Prophet," has been engaged to sing with her at the more moderate salary of $8000
a month. This is almost equal to the extravagant sum guaranteed to Jenny Lind for performing
in this country. It would be a curious inquiry why singers and dancers are always paid so much
more exorbitantly than painters, sculptors or musical composers, especially as the pleasure
they confer is of a merely evanescent character, while the works of the latter remain a perpetual
source of delight and refinement to all generations.

       *       *       *       *       *

FRASER'S MAGAZINE UPON THE POETS AND POETRY OF AMERICA.

The last number of Fraser's Magazine has a long article upon THE POETS AND POETRY OF AMERICA,
in which the subject is treated with more than the customary civility of English criticism
upon this subject. We are half inclined, indeed, to believe the article was written "above
Bleecker," or by an inhabitant of that quarter now in London. Omitting the illustrative extracts,
we copy the greater portion of the review, in which most of those who are admitted to be poets
are characterized.

"When Halleck said of New York--

            Our fourteen wards
  Contain some seven-and-thirty-bards,

he rather understated than exaggerated the fact. Mr. Griswold, besides the ninety regular poets
in his collection, gives an appendix of about seventy fugitive pieces by as many authors; and
bitter complaints have been made against him in various quarters for not including some seventy,
or a hundred and seventy more, 'who,' it is said, and probably with truth, 'have as good a
right to be there as many of those admitted.' Still it is possible to pick out a few of general
reputation, whom literati from all parts of the Union would agree in sustaining as specimens
of distinguished American poets, though they would differ in assigning their relative position.
Thus, if the Republic had to choose a laureate, Boston would probably deposit a nearly unanimous
vote for Longfellow; the suffrages of New York might he divided between Bryant and Halleck;
and the southern cities would doubtless give a large majority for Poe. But these gentlemen,
and some three or four more, would be acknowledged by all as occupying the first rank. Perhaps,
on the whole, the preponderance of native authority justifies us in heading the list with Bryant,
who, at any rate, has the additional title of seniority in authorship, if not in actual years.

"William Cullen Bryant is, as we learn from Mr. Griswold, about fifty-five years old, and was
born in Massachusetts, though his literary career is chiefly associated with New York, of which
he is a resident. With a precocity extraordinary, even in a country where precocity is the
rule instead of the exception, he began to write and publish at the age of thirteen, and has,
therefore, been full forty years before the American public, and that not in the capacity of
poet alone--having for more than half that period edited the Evening Post, one of the ablest
and most respectable papers in the United States, and the oldest organ, we believe, of the
Democratic party in New York. He has been called, and with justice, a poet of nature. The prairie
solitude, the summer evening landscape, the night wind of autumn, the water-bird flitting homeward
through the twilight--such are the favorite subjects of inspiration. Thanatopsis, one of his
most admired pieces, was written at the age of eighteen, and exhibits a finish of style, no
less than a maturity of thought, very remarkable for so youthful a production. Mr. Bryant's
poems have been for some years pretty well known on this side the water,--better known, at
any rate, than any other transatlantic verses; on which account, being somewhat limited for
space, we forbear to make any extracts from them.

"FITZ-GREENE HALLECK is also a New-Englander by birth and a New Yorker by adoption. He is Bryant's
contemporary and friend, but the spirit and style of his versification are very different;
and so, it is said, are his political affinities. While Bryant is a bulwark of the Democracy,
Halleck is reported to be not only an admirer of the obsolete Federalists, but an avowed Monarchist.
To be sure, this is only his private reputation: no trace of such a feeling is observable in
his writings, which show throughout a sturdy vein of republicanism, social and political. In
truth, the party classification of American literary men is apt to puzzle the uninitiated.
Thus Washington Irving is said to belong to the Democrats; but it would be hard to find in
his writings anything countenancing their claim upon him. His sketches of English society are
a panegyric of old institutions; and the fourth book of his Knickerbocker is throughout a palpable
satire on the administration of Thomas Jefferson, the great apostle of Democracy. Perhaps,
however, he may since have changed his views. Willis, too, the 'Free Penciler,' who has been
half his life prating about lords and ladies, and great people, and has become a sort of Jenkins
to the fashionable life of New York; he also is one of the Democratic party. Peradventure he
may vote the 'Locofoco ticket' in the hope of propitiating the boys (as the canaille of American
cities are properly called), and saving his printing-office from the fate of the Italian Opera
House in Astor Place. But what shall we say of Cooper, who, by his anti-democratic opinions,
has made himself one of the most unpopular men in his country, and whose recent political novels
rival the writings of Judge Haliburton in the virulence as well as the cleverness of their
satire upon Republican institutions? He, too, is a Democrat. To us, who are not behind the
curtain, these things are a mystery incapable of explanation. To return to our present subject.
Halleck made his début in the poetical world by some satirical pieces called The Croakers,
which created as much sensation at their appearance as the anonymous Salmagundi which commenced
Irving's literary career. These were succeeded by Fanny, a poem in the Don Juan metre. Fanny
has no particular plot or story, but is a satirical review of all the celebrities, literary,
fashionable, and political, of New York at that day (1821). And the satire was probably very
good at the time and in the place; but, unfortunately for the extent and permanence of its
reputation, most of these celebrities are utterly unknown, not merely beyond the limits of
the Union, but beyond those of New York. Among all the personages enumerated we can find but
two names that an European reader would be likely to know anything about,--Clinton and Van
Buren. Nay, more, in the rapid growth and change of things American, the present generation
of New Yorkers are likely to lose sight of the lions of their immediate progenitors; and unless
some Manhattanese scholiast should write a commentary on the poem in time, its allusions, and
with them most of its wit, will be in danger of perishing entirely. What we can judge of in
Fanny are one or two graceful lyrics interspersed in it, though even these are marred by untimely
comicality and local allusions. The nominal hero, while wandering about at night after the
wreck of his fortunes, hears a band playing outside a public place of entertainment. It must
have been a better band than that which now, from the Museum opposite the Astor House, drives
to frenzy the hapless stranger.... In Halleck's subsequent productions the influence of Campbell
is more perceptible than that of Byron, and with manifest advantage. It may be said of his
compositions, as it can be affirmed of few American verses, that they have a real innate harmony,
something not dependent on the number of syllables in each line, or capable of being dissected
out into feet, but growing in them, as it were, and created by the fine ear of the writer.
Their sentiments, too, are exalted and ennobling; eminently genial and honest, they stamp the
author for a good man and true,--Nature's aristocracy.... For some unexplained reason Halleck
has not written, or at least not published, anything new for several years, though continually
solicited to do so; for he is a great favorite with his countrymen, especially with the New
Yorkers. His time, however, has been by no means passed in idleness. Fashionable as writing
is in America, it is not considered desirable or, indeed, altogether reputable, that the poet
should be only a poet. Halleck has been in business most of his life; and was lately head-clerk
of the wealthy merchant, John Jacob Astor, who left him a handsome annuity. This was increased
by Mr. Astor's son and heir, a man of well-known liberality; so that between the two there
is a chance of the poet's being enabled to 'meditate the tuneful Muse' for the remainder of
his days free from all distractions of business.

"LONGFELLOW, the pet poet of Boston, is a much younger man than either Bryant or Halleck, and
has made his reputation only within the last twelve years, during which time he has been one
of the most noted lions of American Athens. The city of Boston, as every one knows who has
been there, or who has met with any book or man emanating from it, claims to be the literary
metropolis of the United States, and assumes the slightly-pretending soubriquet just quoted.
The American Athenians have their thinking and writing done for them by a coterie whose distinctive
characteristics are Socinianism in theology, a præter-Puritan prudery in ethics, a German tendency
in metaphysics, and throughout all a firm persuasion that Boston is the fountain-head of art,
scholarship, and literature for the western world, and particularly that New York is a Nazareth
in such things, out of which can come nothing good. For the Bostonians, who certainly cultivate
literature with more general devotion, if not always with more individual success than the
New Yorkers, can never forgive their commercial neighbors for possessing by birth the two most
eminent prose-writers of the country--Irving and Cooper; and by adoption, two of the leading
poets--Bryant and Halleck. Nor are the good people of the 'Empire State' slow to resent these
exhibitions of small jealousy; but, on the contrary, as the way of the world is, they are apt
to retort by greater absurdities. So shy are they of appearing to be guided by the dicta of
their eastern friends, that to this day there is scarcely man or woman on Manhattan Island
who will confess a liking for Tennyson, Mrs. Barrett Browning, or Robert Browning, simply because
these poets were taken up and patronized (metaphorically speaking, of course,) by the 'Mutual
Admiration Society' of Boston.

"The immediate influences of this camaraderie are highly flattering and apparently beneficial
to the subject of them, but its ultimate effects are most injurious to the proper development
of his powers. When the merest trifles that a man throws off are inordinately praised, he soon
becomes content with producing the merest trifles. Longfellow has grown unaccustomed to do
himself justice. Half his volumes are filled up with translations; graceful and accurate, indeed;
but translations, and often from originals of very moderate merit. His last original poem,
Evangeline, is a sort of pastoral in hexameters. The resuscitation of this classical metre
had a queer effect upon the American quidnuncs. Some of the critics evidently believed it to
be a bran-new metre invented for the nonce by the author, a delusion which they of the 'Mutual
Admiration' rather winked at; and the parodists who endeavored to ridicule the new measure
were evidently not quite sure whether seven feet or nine made a hexameter. It is really to
be regretted that Longfellow has been cajoled into playing these tricks with himself, for his
earlier pieces were works of much promise, and, had they been worthily followed out, might
have entitled him to a high place among the poets of the language.... Longfellow's poetry,
whenever he really lays himself out to write poetry, has a definite idea and purpose in it--no
small merit now-a-days. His versification is generally harmonious, and he displays a fair command
of metre. Sometimes he takes a fancy to an obsolete or out-of-the-way stanza; one of his longest
and best poems, The Skeleton in Armor, is exactly in the measure of Drayton's fine ballad on
Agincourt. His chief fault is an over-fondness for simile and metaphor. He seems to think indispensable
the introduction into everything he writes of a certain (or sometimes a very uncertain) number
of these figures. Accordingly his poems are crowded with comparisons, sometimes very pretty
and pleasing, at others so far-fetched that the string of tortured images which lead off Alfred
de Musset's bizarre Ode to the Moon can hardly equal them. This making figures (whether from
any connection with the calculating habits of the people or not) is a terrible propensity of
American writers, whether of prose or verse. Their orators are especial sinners in this respect.
We have seen speeches stuck as full of metaphors (more or less mixed) as Burton's Anatomy is
of quotations.

"Such persons as know from experience that literary people are not always in private life what
their writings would betoken, that Miss Bunions do not precisely resemble March violets, and
mourners upon paper may be laughers over mahogany--such persons will not be surprised to hear
that the Longfellow is a very jolly fellow, a lover of fun and good dinners, and of an amiability
and personal popularity that have aided not a little the popularity of his writings in verse
and prose--for he writes prose too, prettier, quainter, more figurative, and more poetic if
anything, than his poetry. He is also a professor at Harvard College, near Boston.

"EDGAR A. POE, like Longfellow and most of the other American poets, wrote prose as well as
poetry, having produced a number of wild, grotesque, and powerfully-imagined tales; unlike
most of them he was a literary man pur sang. He depended for support entirely on his writings,
and his career was more like the precarious existence of an author in the time of Johnson and
Savage than the decent life of an author in our own day. He was a Southerner by birth, acquired
a liberal education, and what the French call 'expansive' tastes, was adopted by a rich relative,
quarreled with him, married 'for love,' and lived by editing magazines in Richmond, Philadelphia,
and New York; by delivering lectures (the never-failing last resort of the American literary
adventurer); by the occasional subscriptions of compassionate acquaintances or admiring friends--any
way he could--for eighteen or nineteen years: lost his wife, involved himself in endless difficulties,
and finally died in what should have been the prime of his life, about six months ago. His
enemies attributed his untimely death to intemperance; his writings would rather lead to the
belief that he was an habitual taker of opium. Virulently and ceaselessly abused by his enemies
(who included a large portion of the press), he was worshiped to infatuation by his friends.
The severity of his editorial criticisms, and the erratic course of his life, fully account
for the former circumstance; the latter is probably to be attributed, in part at least, to
pity for his mishaps.

"If Longfellow's poetry is best designated as quaint, Poe's may most properly be characterized
as fantastic. The best of it reminds one of Tennyson, not by any direct imitation of particular
passages, but by its general air and tone. But he was very far from possessing Tennyson's fine
ear for melody. His skill in versification, sometimes striking enough, was evidently artificial;
he overstudied metrical expression and overrated its value so as sometimes to write, what were
little better than nonsense-verses, for the rhythm. He had an incurable propensity for refrains,
and when he had once caught a harmonious cadence, appeared to think it could not be too often
repeated. Poe's name is usually mentioned in connection with The Raven, a poem which he published
about five years ago. It had an immense run, and gave rise to innumerable parodies--those tests
of notoriety if not of merit. And certainly it is not without a peculiar and fantastic excellence
in the execution, while the conception is highly striking and poetic. This much notice seems
due to a poem which created such a sensation in the author's country. To us it seems by no
means the best of Poe's productions; we much prefer, for instance, this touching allegory,
which was originally embodied in one of his wildest tales, The Haunted Palace. In the very
same volume with this are some verses that Poe wrote when a boy, and some that a boy might
be ashamed of writing. Indeed the secret of rejection seems to be little known to Transatlantic
bards. The rigidness of self-criticism which led Tennyson to ignore and annihilate, so far
as in him lay, full one half of his earlier productions, would hardly be understood by them.
This is particularly unlucky in the case of Poe, whose rhymes sometimes run fairly away with
him, till no purpose or meaning is traceable amid a jingle of uncommon and fine-sounding words....

"Though Poe was a Southerner, his poetry has nothing in it suggestive of his peculiar locality.
It is somewhat remarkable that the slave-holding, which has tried almost all other means of
excusing or justifying itself before the world, did not think of 'keeping a poet,' and engaging
the destitute author from its own territory to sing the praises of 'the patriarchal institution.'
And it would have been a fair provocation that the Abolitionists had their poet already. Indeed
several of the northern poets have touched upon this subject; Longfellow, in particular, has
published a series of spirited and touching anti-slavery poems; but the man who has made it
his specialité is JOHN GREENLEAF WHITTIER, a Quaker, literary editor of the National Era, an
Abolition and ultra-Radical paper, which, in manful despite of Judge Lynch, is published at
Washington, between the slave-pens and the capitol. His verses are certainly obnoxious to the
jurisdiction of that notorious popular potentate, being unquestionably 'inflammatory, incendiary,
and insurrectionary,' as the Southern formula goes, in a very high degree. At times, when deploring
the death of some fellow laborer in the cause, he falls into a somewhat subdued strain, though
even then there is more of spirit and fire in his verses than one naturally expects from a
follower of George Fox; but on such occasions he displays a more careful and harmonious versification
than is his wont. There is no scarcity of these elegies in his little volume, the Abolitionists,
even when they escape the attentions of the high legal functionary already alluded to, not
being apparently a long-lived class.

"Toujours perdrix palls in poetry as in cookery; we grow tired after awhile of invectives against
governors of slave-states and mercenary persons, and dirges for untimely perished Abolitionists.
The wish suggests itself that Whittier would not always

    'Give up to a party what is meant for mankind,'

but sometimes turn his powers in another direction. Accordingly, it is a great relief to find
him occasionally trying his hand on the early legends of New England and Canada, which do not
suffer such ballads as St. John....

