[8] In a letter to M. de Meusnier, dated January 24, 1786, Mr. Jefferson says: "I conjecture
there are six hundred and fifty thousand negroes in the five southermost states, and not fifty
thousand in the rest. In most of the latter, effectual measures have been taken for their future
emancipation. In the former nothing is done toward that. The disposition to emancipate them
is strongest in Virginia. Those who desire it, form, as yet, the minority of the whole state,
but it bears a respectable proportion to the whole, in numbers and weight of character; and
it is constantly recruiting by the addition of nearly the whole of the young men as fast as
they come into public life. I flatter myself that it will take place there at some period of
time not very distant. In Maryland and North Carolina, a very few are disposed to emancipate.
In South Carolina and Georgia, not the smallest symptom of it; but, on the contrary, these
two states and North Carolina continue importations of slaves. These have long been prohibited
in all the other states." Works, ix, p. 290.

[9] "De la Littérature des Nègres; ou Recherches aur leurs Facultès Intellectuelles, leurs
Qualités Morales et leur Littérature, Paris, 1808." 8vo. The work was translated by D. B. Warden,
Secretary of the American Legation at Paris, and printed at Brooklyn, New York, in 1810.

[10] Gen. Washington, although a slaveholder, put on record throughout his voluminous correspondence
his detestation of the system of slavery, as practiced at the South.

M. Brissot de Warville, in connection with Gen. Lafayette and other French philanthropists,
early in the year 1788, formed at Paris the Philanthropic Society of the Friends of Negroes,
to co-operate with those in America and London, in procuring the abolition of the traffic in,
and the slavery of, the blacks. In furtherance of this object, M. Brissot de Warville delivered
an oration in Paris, February 17, 1788, which was translated and printed by the Pennsylvania
Abolition Society, in Philadelphia, the next year. In May of the same year, he arrived in the
United States, and wrote the most impartial and instructive book of travels in America (with
the exception of M. de Tocqueville's), that has ever been made by a foreigner, of which several
editions in English were printed in London. His principles brought him into intimate relations
with persons who held anti-slavery sentiments, and his work gives a very interesting epitome
of the prevalence of those sentiments at that period.

He visited General Washington at Mount Vernon, and conversed with him freely on the subject
of slavery. He states that the General had three hundred slaves distributed in log houses in
different parts of his plantation of ten thousand acres. "They were treated," he said, "with
the greatest humanity; well fed, well clothed, and kept to moderate labor. They bless God without
ceasing for having given them so good a master. It is a task worthy of a soul so elevated,
so pure and so disinterested, to begin the revolution in Virginia to prepare the way for the
emancipation of the negroes. This great man declared to me that he rejoiced at what was doing
in other States on the subject [of emancipation--alluding to the recent formation of several
state societies]; that he sincerely desired the extension of it in his own State; but he did
not dissemble that there were still many obstacles to be overcome; that it was dangerous to
strike too vigorously at a prejudice which had begun to diminish; that time, patience, and
information would not fail to vanquish it. Almost all the Virginians, he added, believe that
the liberty of the blacks can not become general. This is the reason why they do not wish to
form a society which may give dangerous ideas to their slaves. There is another obstacle--the
great plantations of which the state is composed, render it necessary for men to live so dispersed
that frequent meetings of a society would be difficult.

"I replied, that the Virginians were in an error; that evidently, sooner or later, the negroes
would obtain their liberty everywhere. It is then for the interests of your countrymen to prepare
the way to such a revolution, by endeavoring to reconcile the restitution of the rights of
the blacks, with the interest of the whites. The means necessary to be taken to this effect
can only be the work of a society; and it is worthy the saviour of America to put himself at
the head, and to open the door of liberty to 300,000 unhappy beings of his own State. He told
me that he desired the formation of a society, and that he would second it; but that he did
not think the moment favorable. Doubtless more elevated views filled his soul. The destiny
of America was just ready to be placed a second time in his hands." Ed. of 1792, pp. 290, 291.

"The strongest objection to freeing the negroes lies in the character, the manners, and habits
of the Virginians. They seem to enjoy the sweat of slaves. They are fond of hunting; they love
the display of luxury, and disdain the idea of labor. This order of things will change when
slavery shall be no more." Id., p. 281.

Patrick Henry, in the Virginia Constitutional Convention, opposing the adoption of the Federal
Constitution, said: "In this State there are 236,000 blacks. Elliott's Debates, Va., pp. 590,
591. Elliott's Debates, Va., p. 452.

[11] Mr. Jefferson's doubts, and his timidity, as a person of political aspirations, in treating
the subject of slavery in a practical manner, reduced his conduct to the verge of cowardice,
if not of duplicity. While writing to Dr. Price in this assured tone, and urging him to exhort
the young men of the College of William and Mary, on the evils of slavery, he was afraid to
have these same students see what he had himself written on the same subject, in his "Notes
on Virginia." M. de Chastelleux had written to him, desiring to print some extracts from the
"Notes on Virginia," in the Journal de Physique. Works, i, p. 339. Works, ii, p. 6. Mr. Madison's
communications to Mr. Jefferson on the subject are in his "Letters and other Writings," i,
pp, 202, 211. M. Brissot de Warville proposed to Mr. Jefferson to become a member of the Philanthropic
Society of Paris. Works, ii, p. 357.

Compare this record with Mr. Garrison's, which he put forth in the "Liberator," in 1831. He
had been accused of using plain and harsh language. He says: "My country is the world, and
my countrymen are all mankind.

[12] Mr. Jefferson's indecision in dealing with an institution he so much abhorred, is seen
in the anti-slavery provision of his ordinance. He would allow slavery to get a foot-hold in
the western territories, and at the end of sixteen years would prohibit it. By southern votes,
this clause was fortunately stricken out. Every northern state voted to retain Mr. Jefferson's
fifth article of compact, and its rejection, which was regarded at the time, as a public calamity,
was soon seen to be a piece of good fortune. Timothy Pickering, writing to Rufus King, nearly
a year later (March 8, 1785), says: "I should indeed have objected to the period proposed (1800)
for the exclusion of slavery; for the admission of it for a day, or an hour, ought to have
been forbidden. It will be infinitely easier to prevent the evil at first, than to eradicate
it, or check it, at any future time. For God's sake, let one more effort be made to prevent
so terrible a calamity."

Mr. King, eight days later, moved, in Congress, to attach an article of compact to Mr. Jefferson's
ordinance, in the place of the one stricken outs in substantially the words that stand in the
Ordinance of 1787: "That there shall be neither slavery nor involuntary servitude in any of
the states described in the resolve of Congress of April 23, 178-." The matter was referred
to a committee; but was never taken up and acted on. If Mr. King's resolution had passed, it
would have excluded slavery from Kentucky, Tennessee, and all the Western territories.

[13] George Keith, a Quaker, about the year 1693, printed a pamphlet in which he charged his
own religious denomination, "that they should set their negroes at liberty, after some reasonable
time of service." Samuel Sewall, Judge of the Superior Court of Massachusetts, in 1700, printed
a tract against slavery, entitled, "The Selling of Joseph, a Memorial," which he gave to each
member of the General Court, to clergymen, and to literary gentlemen with whom he was acquainted.
This tract is reprinted in Moore's "Notes on Slavery in Massachusetts," p. 83. These were the
earliest publications on slavery in this country. Works, x, 403.

The earliest statute for the suppression of slavery in the colonies may be seen in Rhode Island
Records, i, 248, under the date of May 19, 1652, which, however, was never enforced. November
4, 1646, Massachusetts Records, ii, p. 168. I believe a time will come when an opportunity
will be offered to abolish this lamentable evil." Wm. Goodell's Slavery and Anti-Slavery, p. 70.

[15] The preamble of the Constitution then adopted was as follows: "Whereas, there are in this
and the neighboring states a number of negroes and others kept in a state of slavery, who,
we apprehend, from different causes and circumstances, are justly entitled to their freedom
by the laws and Constitution under which we live, could their particular cases be candidly
and openly debated, and evidence to the best advantage for them procured; but as in their situation,
they, being tied by the strong cords of oppression, are rendered incapable of asserting their
freedom, and many through this inability remain unjustly in bondage through life; it therefore
has appeared necessary that some aid should be extended towards such poor unhappy sufferers,
wherever they may be discovered, either in this city or its neighborhood; and, as loosing the
bonds of wickedness, and setting the oppressed free, is evidently a duty incumbent on all professors
of Christianity, but more especially at a time when justice, liberty, and the laws of the land
are the general topics among most ranks and stations of men. The officers elected were John
Baldwin, President; Samuel Davis, Treasurer; Thomas Harrison, Secretary. Six members were also
appointed a Committee of Inspection, and a number of cases were forthwith committed to their
care. Edw. Needles's Historical Memoir of the Pennsylvania Society, p. 15.

[16] Appended to the Rules and Regulations, is the act of 1780, providing for the gradual abolition
of slavery in Pennsylvania. The members of the Philadelphia Society were especially active
in procuring the passage of this act. Anthony Benezet held private interviews with every member
of the government on the subject. The act passed the assembly by a vote of 34 to 21. The minority
entered a protest against it on several grounds: First, because it would be offensive to other
states, and would weaken the bonds of union with them; Second, while they approved of the justice
and humanity of manumitting slaves in time of peace, this was not the proper time; Third, they
did not approve of slaves becoming citizens, of their voting and being voted for, of intermarrying
with white persons, etc.; Fourth, because the motion to postpone to the next session of the
Assembly had been overruled.

[17] James Pemberton and Jonathan Penrose were chosen Vice-Presidents; James Starr, Treasurer;
and Wm. Lewis, John D. Cox, Miers Fisher, and Wm. Rawle, Counselors. Thirty-six new members
were elected at this meeting. The preamble of the new organization was as follows: "It having
pleased the Creator of the world to make of one flesh all the children of men, it becomes them
to consult and promote each other's happiness, as members of the same family, however diversified
they may be by color, situation, religion, or different states of society. It is more especially
the duty of those persons who profess to maintain for themselves the rights of human nature,
and who acknowledge the obligations of Christianity, to use such means as are in their power
to extend the blessings of freedom to every part of the human race; and in a more particular
manner to such of their fellow-creatures as are entitled to freedom by the laws and constitutions
of any of the United States, and who, notwithstanding, are detained in bondage by fraud or
violence. Needles's Memoir, p. 30.

[18] The secretaries were directed to have one thousand copies of the Constitution printed,
together with the names of the officers of the society, and the acts of the Legislature of
Pennsylvania for the gradual abolition of slavery. They were also to prepare letters to be
sent to each of the Governors of the United States, with a copy of the Constitution and laws,
and a copy of Clarkson's essay on "The Commerce and Slavery of the Africans." They were also
directed to write letters to the Society in New York, to Thomas Clarkson and Dr. Price of London,
and to the Abbé Raynall, in France. Needles's Memoir, p. 30.

Dr. Franklin drew up a "Plan for Improving the Condition of the Free Blacks." The entire plan
may be seen in Dr. Franklin's Works, ii, pp. 513, 514. Immediately following, in the same volume,
is "An Address to the Public," from the Pennsylvania Society, also written by Dr. Franklin
in aid of raising funds for carrying out the purposes of the society.

M. Brissot de Warville, who visited the New York and Philadelphia Societies in 1788, says:
"It is certainly a misfortune that such societies do not exist in Virginia and Maryland, for
it is to the persevering zeal of those of Philadelphia and New York, that we owe the progress
of this [anti-slavery] revolution in America, and the formation of the Society in London."
He speaks of the impressions he received in attending the meetings of these societies. "What
serenity in the countenances of the members! What simplicity in their discourses; candor in
their discussions; beneficence and energy in their decisions! With what joy they learned that
a like Society was formed in Paris! They hastened to publish it in their gazettes, and likewise
a translation of the first discourse [his own] pronounced in that society. These beneficent
societies are at present contemplating new projects for the completion of their work of justice
and humanity. They are endeavoring to form similar institutions in other states, and have succeeded
in the state of Delaware. The business of these societies is not only to extend light and information
to legislatures and to the people at large, and to form the blacks by early instruction in
the duties of citizens; but they extend gratuitous protection to them in all cases of individual
oppression, and make it their duty to watch over the execution of the laws, which have been
obtained in their favor. Mr. Myers Fisher, one of the first lawyers of Philadelphia, is always
ready to lend them his assistance, which he generally does with success, and always without
reward. These societies have committees in different parts of the country to take notice of
any infractions of these laws of liberty, and to propose to the legislature such amendments
as experience may require"--pp. 291-294.

In an appendix, written in 1791, he says: "My wishes have not been disappointed. The progress
of these societies is rapid in the United States; there is one already formed even in Virginia."
His English translator adds, that there has also one been formed in the state of Connecticut.

In Needles' Memoir are the names of the following persons who were officers, and served on
committees, of the Pennsylvania Society before the year 1800: John Baldwin, Samuel Davis, Thomas
Harrison, Anthony Benezet, Thomas Meredith, John Todd, James Starr, Samuel Richards, James
Whitehall, Wm. Lippencott, John Thomas, Benjamin Horner, John Evans, Lambert Wilmore, Edward
Brooks, Thomas Armit, John Warner, Daniel Sidrick, Thomas Barton, Robert Evans, Benj. Miers,
Robert Wood, John Eldridge, Jonathan Penrose, Wm. Lewis, Francis Baily, Norris Jones, Tench
Cox, Wm. Jackson, Benj. Rush, Benj. Franklin, James Pemberton, John D. Cox, Wm. Rawle, Miers
Fisher, Temple Franklin, John Andrews, Richard Peters, Thomas Paine, Caleb Lownes, S. P. Griffiths,
John Olden, John Todd, Jr., John Kaighn, Wm. Rogers, Benj. Say, Thomas Parker, Robert Waln,
Samuel Pancoast, Thomas Savery, Robert Taggert, John Poultney, Wm. Zane, Joseph Moore, Joseph
Budd, Wm. McIllhenny, Samuel Baker, Jonathan Willis, Richard Jones, Ellis Yarnall, Thomas Arnott,
Philip Benezet, Samuel Emlen, Jr., Jacob Shoemaker, Jr., Richard Wells, Bart. Wistar, R. Wells,
J. McCrea, Nathan Boys, J. Proctor, Robert Patterson, Walter Franklin, Edward Farris, John
Ely, Samuel M. Fox, Sallows Shewell, John Woodside, Wm. Garrum, Thomas Ross, Joseph Sharpless,
Joseph Cruikshanks, G. Williams, Wm. Webb, Geo. Williams, David Thomas, Samuel Bettle, Edward
Garrigues.

[19] At the end of M. Brissot de Warville's oration at Paris, February 19, 1788, on the necessity
of establishing such a society, is a note, which states that, after the Paris Society had been
formed, "in the space of six weeks, ninety others, distinguished for their nobility, for their
offices, and as men of letters, have made application to be admitted into the Society. The
Marquis de la Fayette is one of the founders of this Society, and he gives it a support, so
much the more laudable, as the Society of Paris has many great difficulties to encounter, which
are unknown to the societies in London and America."

[20] M. Brissot, writing in September, 1788, speaks of the Delaware Society as then existing.
Warner Mifflin was its most enterprising member. M. Brissot says of him: "One of the ardent
petitioners to Congress in this cause was the respectable Warner Mifflin. His zeal was rewarded
with atrocious calumnies, which he always answered with mildness, forgiveness, and argument"--p.
300. A petition which Mr. Mifflin made to Congress in November, 1792, for the abolition of
slavery, was, by vote of the House, returned to him by the clerk. Annals of Congress, iii,
p. 71. Annals, i. p. 1523.

The present attention of Europe and America to slavery, seems to constitute that crisis in
the minds of men when the united endeavors of a few may greatly influence the public opinion,
and produce, from the transient sentiment of the times, effects, extensive, lasting, and useful.

The common Father of mankind created all men free and equal; and his great command is, that
we love our neighbor as ourselves--doing unto all men as we would they should do unto us. The
human race, however varied in color or intellects, are all justly entitled to liberty; and
it is the duty and the interest of nations and individuals, enjoying every blessing of freedoms
to remove this dishonor of the Christian character from amongst them.

THE CONSTITUTION.

I. The officers of the Society are a president, vice-president, secretary, treasurer, four
counselors, an electing-committee of twelve, an acting-committee of six members. All these,
except the acting-committee, shall be chosen annually by ballot, on the first seventh-day called
Saturday, in the month called January.

II. The president, and in his absence the vice-president, shall subscribe all the public acts
of the Society.

III. The president, and in his absence, the vice-president, shall moreover have the power of
calling a special meeting of the Society whenever he shall judge proper, or six members require it.

IV. The secretary shall keep fair records of the proceedings of the Society; he shall also
conduct the correspondence of the Society, with a committee of three appointed by the president;
and all letters on the business of the Society are to be addressed to him.

V. Corresponding members shall be appointed by the electing-committee. Their duty shall be
to communicate to the secretary and his assistants any information, that may promote the purposes
of this institution, which shall be transferred by him to the acting-committee.

VI. The treasurer shall pay all orders drawn by the president, or vice-president; which orders
shall be his vouchers for his expenditures. He shall, before he enters on his office, give
a bond of not less than 200l. for the faithful discharge of his duty.

VII. The duty of the councilors shall be to explain the laws and constitutions of the States,
which relate to the emancipation of slaves; and to urge their claims to freedom, when legal,
before such persons or courts as are authorized to decide upon them.

VIII. The electing-committee shall have sole power of admitting new members. Two-thirds of
them shall be a quorum for this purpose; and the concurrence of a majority of them by ballot,
when met, shall be necessary for the admission of a member. No member shall be admitted who
has not been proposed at a general meeting of the Society nor shall election of a member take
place in less than a month after the time of his being proposed. Foreigners, or other persons,
who do not reside in this State, may be elected corresponding members of the Society without
being subject to an annual payment, and shall be admitted to the meetings of the Society during
their residence in the State.

IX. The acting-committee shall transact the business of the Society in its recess, and report
the same at each quarterly meeting. They shall have a right, with the concurrence of the president
or vice-president, to draw upon the treasurer for such sums of money as may be necessary to
carry on the business of their appointment. Four of them shall be a quorum. After their first
election, at each succeeding quarterly meeting, there shall be an election for two of their number.

X. Every member, upon his admission, shall subscribe the Constitution of the Society, and contribute
ten shillings annually, in quarterly payments, towards defraying its contingent expenses. If
he neglect to pay the same for more than six months, he shall, upon due notice being given
him, cease to be a member.

XI. The Society shall meet on the first seventh-day, called Saturday, in the months called
January, April, July, and October, at such time and place as shall be agreed to by a majority
of the Society.

XII. No person, holding a slave as his property, shall be admitted a member of this Society;
nevertheless, the Society may appoint persons of legal knowledge, owners of slaves, as honorary-counselors.

XIII. When an alteration in the Constitution is thought necessary, it shall be proposed at
a previous meeting, before it shall take place. All questions shall be decided, where there
is a division, by a majority of votes. In those cases where the Society is equally divided,
the presiding officer shall have a casting vote.

OFFICERS OF THE SOCIETY.

President--PHILIP ROGERS.

Vice-President--JAMES CAREY.

Secretary--JOSEPH TOWNSEND.

Treasurer--DAVID BROWN.

Counselors--ZEBULON HOLLINGSWORTH, ARCHIBALD ROBINSON.

Honorary-Counselors--SAMUEL CHASE, LUTHER MARTIN.

Electing-Committee--JAMES OGLEBY, ISAAC GREIST, GEO. MATTHEWS, GEORGE PRESSTMAN, HENRY WILSON,
JOHN BANKSON, ADAM FONERDEN, JAMES EICHELBERGER, WILLIAM HAWKINS, WILLIAM WILSON, THOMAS DICKSON,
GER. HOPKINS.

