To enter into any detailed account of the military career of the Duke of Wellington, would
be wholly beyond the scope of a work devoted more especially to his Grace's character and services
as a civilian; but were it not so, it would be unnecessary, after the many able biographies
which have appeared since the publication of the dispatches by Lieut.-Colonel Gurwood. The
following is, therefore only a short summary of the Duke's proceedings from 1794, when he first
entered on active service, to 1815, when his functions as a military commander in the field
finally ceased.

It was in June, 1794, that Lieut.-Colonel Wellesley embarked at Cork, in command of the 33rd
regiment, to join the Duke of York's army in the Netherlands. In the subsequent retreat from
Holland he commanded, as senior officer, three battalions, and conducted himself in a manner
that already drew on him the attention of military men.

In October, 1795, he again embarked, in the command of the 33rd, for the West Indies, on board
the fleet commanded by Admiral Christian. This fleet was, however, repeatedly driven back by
the strong equinoctial gales, and in the January following it returned to port. Before it could
again sail, the 33rd regiment was ordered to India, and Colonel Wellesley arrived at Bengal
in February, 1797. When we consider the fate of a large portion of his fellow soldiers who
went to the West Indies, and at the same time look forward to the peculiar facilities which
the service in India afforded for developing the great qualities of mind which lay hid under
the rigid exterior of the young soldier, it may truly be said, that the moment at which the
destination of the 33rd regiment was countermanded, was the point at which the fate of the
Duke of Wellington turned. Nay more, if it be admitted that you rarely find in one man a combination
of those peculiar qualities, which enabled the Duke to withstand, and ultimately to destroy,
the military and political system established by the contrary tendencies which ruled the mind
of Napoleon; if, too, it be conceded that the British government, even while the Duke was winning
battles in Spain, were accustomed to resort to his counsel with regard to their more extended
operations against the common enemy; if, in fact, it is owing to the sagacity, steadfastness,
and perseverance of the Duke of Wellington, that we owe the peace of Europe; then must it be
admitted, that upon the accident of tempests which obstructed Admiral Christian's fleet, and
upon the accident of military disposition, which altered the destination of the regiment, depended
not merely the fortunes of the Duke of Wellington, but also the fate of nations, and the peace
of the world.

By this time, the Earl of Mornington had been appointed Governor-general of India, and the
inveterate hatred of Tippoo Sultaun against the English name was arming the natives to resistance.
The first achievement of Colonel Wellesley, that drew attention to his name, was the storming
of Seringapatam, in which he commanded the reserve in the trenches. On the capture of Seringapatam
Colonel Wellesley was appointed governor, and at the same time named as one of the commission
appointed to dispose of the territory conquered. But an office more honourable to his character,
was his selection to superintend the removal of the family of Tippoo Sultaun. Lord Mornington
in his instructions says:--"The details of this painful but indispensable measure cannot be
entrusted to any person more likely to combine every office of humanity with the prudential
precautions required by the occasion than Colonel Wellesley; and I therefore commit to his
discretion, activity, and humanity, the whole arrangement."

In July, 1799, Colonel Wellesley was appointed to the sole command of Seringapatam and Mysore;
and here his capacity for civil government, as well as in military affairs, was fully developed.
He had by this time begun to feel his own strength, and to make it felt by others. The reader
of his dispatches will perceive that, from the moment when he was placed in a position of independent
command, his mind appears to have taken a higher stand: he recognised higher responsibilities:
and one may almost detect, in the confirmed self-reliance of his judgment even in this comparatively
limited sphere, a prescience of future greatness.

The year 1803 was signalised by Major-General Wellesley's conquests in the Mahratta territory,
and the battle of Assaye. Passing over the details of these campaigns, in which the rising
commander displayed military genius of the highest order, we come to the more pleasing task
of enumerating the honours he received. A monument was erected in Calcutta to commemorate the
last-named battle: the inhabitants of that city presented him with a sword of the value of
£1000: the officers of his division presented him with a golden vase, afterwards changed for
a service of plate, on which the word "Assaye" was engraved: the British parliament voted him
public thanks, he was made a Knight Companion of the Bath: and addresses of the warmest praise
were voted to him by the inhabitants of Seringapatam, and other places, which had benefitted
by his skill and prowess in the field, and his wisdom on the seat of government.

In February, 1805, having resolved on returning to England, he resigned the political and military
powers that had been entrusted to him in the Deccan. On the 5th of March, a grand entertainment
was given him at the Pantheon at Madras, by the officers of the Presidency, civil and military.
On the 10th of September following, he arrived in the Downs; and, in the following month, he
was appointed to the Staff, for the Kent District.

In the November following, Sir Arthur Wellesley, as he had now become, commanded the brigade
in the expedition to Hanover under Lord Cathcart, which was withdrawn immediately after the
battle of Austerlitz. In January, 1800, on the death of the Marquis Cornwallis, he was appointed
colonel of the 33rd regiment; and on the 12th of April, in the same year, he was returned to
the House of Commons as member for Newport, Isle of Wight.

In this year, Sir Arthur Wellesley married the Honourable Catherine Pakenham, third daughter
of the second Earl of Longford.

On the 8th of April, 1807, he was made a privy councillor; and on the 19th of the same month,
appointed chief secretary for Ireland, under the lord lieutenancy of the Duke of Richmond.
On the 22nd, he was presented by the corporation of the city of Dublin with the freedom of
that city. The address in which it was conveyed was most complimentary, and shows the high
estimation in which he was already held on account of his brilliant military and civil services
in India. In June of the same year, he accompanied Lord Cathcart in the expedition against
Copenhagen; and in the only important action which took place at the affair at Kioge--he commanded,
and obtained distinction. The result of the action was a capitulation, which Sir Arthur Wellesley
was appointed to arrange. On his return home, he received the thanks of parliament for his
services. Alluding to Sir Arthur Wellesley, the speaker said:--"But I should indeed be wanting
in the full expression of those sentiments which animate this house and the whole country,
if I forebore to notice, that we are on this day crowning with our thanks one gallant officer,
long since known to the gratitude of this house, who has long trodden the paths of glory,--whose
genius and valour have already extended our fame and empire,--whose sword has been the terror
of our distant enemies, and will not now be drawn in vain to defend the seat of empire itself,
and the throne of his sovereign."

A new and wider field of operations was now preparing for the rising hero. Napoleon, the unquestioned
despot of the rest of continental Europe, had also grasped at the Peninsula. Both Spain and
Portugal were in his possession, as far as military occupation and nominal sovereignty could
ensure them to him. The hostile efforts of England were suspended as far as regarded Europe;
but an expedition had been fitted out at Cork against part of Spanish America, and Sir Arthur
Wellesley was appointed to the command. Again a marvellous interposition of accidents prevented
this his second projected service in America. Before the troops could set sail, the insurrection
at Madrid on the 2nd of May, 1808, against the French under Murat, drew the attention of England
to the Peninsula, where some hope of successful resistance to Napoleon began to dawn. Once
more the destination of the future conqueror was averted from the West, and he was ordered
in command to the South.

Sir Arthur Wellesley landed at the mouth of the river Mondego in Portugal on the 3rd of August.
Here he received intimation that re-inforcements under Sir John Moore were about to be sent.
Moore was his superior officer, and there was also Sir Hew Dalrymple and Sir Harry Burrard
on their way, the former of whom would take the chief, and the latter, the second command of
the army. There was but little time for Sir Arthur to strike the decisive blow, and although
he was not the man to force a battle for the sake of fame, he could not but feel anxious for
distinction in this new sphere before all opportunity should be cut off, by the arrival of
his superiors in command. Fortune in this was on his side; and he had not been many days in
Portugal before he was enabled to defeat the French at the pass of Roliça, and, on the 21st
of August, to gain the battle of Vimeiro.

While this battle was at its height, Sir Harry Burrard arrived, but would not interfere with
Sir Arthur's dispositions. The French were soon after beaten on the left, and Sir Arthur then
urged on Sir Harry the advance of our right wing upon Torres Vedras, while our left would pursue
the enemy: his object being to cut off Junot's retreat on Lisbon. No man now doubts that this
was counsel wise as well as bold; but Sir Harry Burrard declined to take it, and the golden
opportunity was lost. Sir Arthur, who carried military obedience almost to the extent of a
chivalrous sentiment, submitted to the orders, though he did not acquiesce in the judgment
of his superior officer; but he could not help saying to one of his officers who stood by,
"well, then, we have nothing to do but to go and shoot red-legged partridges!" the common game
of that part of Portugal.

Sir Arthur Wellesley's subsequent conduct to Sir Harry Burrard was highly honourable. He declared
voluntarily before the Court of Inquiry that, though he still differed in opinion with Sir
Harry as to the not advancing after the battle of Vimeiro, his opinion was, that Sir H. Burrard
"had decided upon fair military grounds, in the manner which appeared to him to be the most
conducive to the interests of the country;" and his belief, "that Sir Harry had no motive for
his decision which could be supposed personal to him, or which as an officer he could not avow."

The untoward convention of Cintra, which followed the victory of Vimeiro, was received in England
with one universal cry of indignation. Sir Arthur Wellesley was no farther implicated in it
than that he signed it as one of the generals, although disapproving of it from the first.
Pending the inquiry, instituted in England on the convention, he returned thither, and his
evidence was satisfactory alike to the court and to the public.

On the 27th January, 1809, Sir Arthur received the thanks of parliament for the battle of Vimeiro.
The speaker, in delivering the thanks of the House of Commons, said:--

   "Amidst the contending opinions which have prevailed
   upon other questions, the public voice has been
   loud and general in admiration of your splendid
   achievements. It is your praise to have inspired
   your troops with unshaken confidence and unbounded
   ardour--to have commanded, not the obedience alone,
   but the hearts and affections of your companions in
   arms; and having planned your operations with the skill
   and promptitude which have so eminently characterised all
   your former exertions, you have again led the armies of
   your country to battle, with the same deliberate valour,
   and triumphant success which have long since rendered your
   name illustrious in the remotest parts of this empire.
   Military glory has ever been dear to this nation; and great
   military exploits, in the field or upon the ocean, have
   their sure reward in royal favour, and the gratitude of parliament."

Sir Arthur, in his reply, observed:--

   "No man can value more highly than I do the
   honourable distinction which has been conferred upon
   me--a distinction which it is in the power of the
   representatives of a free people alone to bestow, and
   which it is the peculiar advantage of the officers and
   soldiers in the service of his majesty to have held out
   to them as the object of their ambition, and to receive
   as the reward of their services."

The opening allusion of the speaker to "contending opinions on other matters," was intended
to mark the sense of the house that Sir Arthur Wellesley, at least, was free from blame as
regarded recent transactions in the Peninsula. That the government thought so also, and had
at last learned to appreciate the value of an officer whom they had so recently trammelled,
was evidenced by the appointment of Sir Arthur, on the 2nd of April, to the command of the
army in Portugal.

Towards the close of the previous year, complaint had been made, in the House of Commons, of
Sir Arthur holding the office of secretary for Ireland while in the Peninsula. On the 14th
of April, he resigned that office, and on the 22nd, he arrived at Lisbon and assumed the command
of an army, disproportioned, indeed, to the service expected of it, and still more to that
which they afterwards achieved, but strong in its confidence in a general who had never made
a false step, or suffered a defeat.

On the 12th of May, he carried Oporto by a coup de main. So complete was the surprise, that
Sir Arthur and his staff sat down to the dinner which had been prepared for the French commander.

On the 28th July following, the battle of Talavera was fought, after which (on the 26th August),
Sir Arthur was raised to the peerage by the titles of Baron Douro of Wellesley and Viscount
Wellington of Talavera. In the February following, he received the thanks of parliament for
Talavera, and a pension of £2000 per annum was voted to him and his two next heirs male.

So inferior was the numerical force of his army to that of the enemy that Lord Wellington found
his operations must for some time be confined to the defence of Portugal; and he, therefore,
gave orders for the fortification of the lines of Torres Vedras, by which the capital of the
country was covered. They extended from the sea to the Tagus, at a point where the width of
that river is such as to afford an adequate protection.

It was characteristic of the mind of the man of whom we are writing, that these works were
planned and executed with a secrecy that baffled the penetration of the enemy, and equally
the suicidal curiosity of the English newspapers.

