Vegetables are at their best in their own season, just as nature develops them, not as man
forces them. Gathered not quite full grown with the dew of the morning upon them, they are
solid, tender, juicy, sweet and full of flavor, fit for a feast of the gods. But the crispness,
sweetness and fresh flavors are fleeting, and few but owners of, and neighbors to gardens know
the prime flavors of the fruits and vegetables upon their tables. Therefore in selecting vegetables
for your table choose first the freshest possible, select medium sized and not overgrown ones,
though small sized turnips and large rutabagas are best, egg-plants should be full grown, but
not ripe. If vegetables are not fresh refresh them by plunging them into cold salt water an
hour before cooking. Old potatoes should be pared as thin as possible and be thrown at once
into cold salt water for several hours, changing the water once or twice. Wipe plunged vegetables
before cooking. Old potatoes are improved by paring before baking. Irish or sweet potatoes,
if frozen, must be put into bake without thawing. Onions should be soaked in warm salt water
an hour before cooking to modify their rank flavor. Lettuce, greens, and celery are sometimes
best cleaned by using warm water, though they must be thrown at once, when cleaned, into cold
water. To steam vegetables is better than to boil them, their flavors are held better, they
are less liable to be water-soaked and their odors are confined instead of escaping through
the house. If they are to be boiled always draw fresh water. Mrs. Rorer says, "Soft water should
be used for dry vegetables, such as split peas, lentils and beans, and hard water for green
ones. Water is made soft by using a half teaspoonful of bi-carbonate of soda to a gallon of
water, and hard by using one teaspoonful of salt to a gallon of water." As soon as the water
boils, before it parts with its gases, put in the vegetables. Use open vessels except for spinach.
The quicker they boil the better. As soon as tender, take them out of the water, drain and
dress for the table. Never let them remain in the water after they are once done. Fresh vegetables
boil in about 1/3 of the time of old ones. A little bi-carbonate of soda added to the boiling
water before greens are put in will serve to keep their color. A pinch of pearl ash put into
boiling peas will render old yellow ones, quite tender and green. A little sugar improves beets,
turnips, peas, corn, squash, tomatoes and pumpkins, especially if they are not in prime condition.
A little lime boiled in water improves very watery potatoes. A piece of red pepper the size
of a finger nail, a small piece of charcoal or even a small piece of bread crust, dropped in
with boiling vegetables will modify unpleasant odors. Vegetables served with salt meats must
be boiled in the liquor of the meat after it has been boiled and removed. Egg-plant and old
potatoes are often put on to cook in cold salt water. It is claimed that onions, carrots, and
turnips cook quicker if cut in rings across the fiber. Clean all vegetables thoroughly to remove
all dirt and insects. To free leaves from insects, throw vegetables, stalk ends uppermost,
into a strong brine made by putting one and one half pounds of salt into a gallon of water.
Leave them in the brine for two or three hours, and the insects will fall off and sink to the
bottom.

BOILED ARTICHOKES.

