PUNCH,

OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL. 103.

November 19, 1892.

THE MAN WHO WOULD.

II.--THE MAN WHO WOULD PLAY GOLF.

BULGER was no cricketer, no tennis-player, no sportsman, in fact. But his Doctor recommended
exercise and fresh air. "And I'm thinking, Sir," he added, "that you cannot do better than
just take yourself down to St. Andrews, and put yourself under TOM MORRIS." "Is he a great
Scotch physician?" asked BULGER; "I don't seem to have heard of him." "The Head of the Faculty,
Sir," said the medical man--"the Head of the Faculty in those parts."

BULGER packed his effects, and, in process of time, he arrived at Leuchars. Here he observed
some venerable towers within a short walk, and fancied that he would presently arrive at St.
Andrews. In this he was reckoning without the railway system--he was compelled to wait at Leuchars
for no inconsiderable time, which he occupied in extracting statistics about the consumption
of whiskey from the young lady who ministered to travellers. The revelations now communicated,
convinced BULGER that either Dr. MORRIS was not on the lines of Sir ANDREW CLARK, or, as an
alternative, that his counsels were not listened to by travellers on that line.

Arriving in the dusk, BULGER went to his inn, and next morning inquired as to the address of
the Head of the Faculty. "I dinna ken," said an elderly person, to whom he appealed, "that
the Professors had made TOM a Doctor, though it's a sair and sad oversicht, and a disgrace
to the country, that they hae'na done sae lang syne. But I jalouse that your Doctor was jist
making a gowk o' ye." "What!" said BULGER. "Jist playin' a plisky on ye, and he meant that
TOM wad pit ye in the way o' becoming a player. Mon, ye're a bull-neckit, bow-leggit chiel',
and ye'd shape fine for a Gowfer! Here's TOM." And, with this brief introduction, the old man
strolled away.

BULGER now found himself in the presence of Mr. MORRIS, whose courtesy soon put him on a footing
of friendliness and confidence. He purchased, by his Mentor's advice, a driver, a cleek, a
putter, a brassey, an iron, a niblick, and a mashy. Armed with these implements, which were
"carried by an orphan boy," and, under the guidance of the Head of the Faculty himself, BULGER
set forth on his first round. His first two strokes were dealt on the yielding air; his third
carried no inconsiderable parcel of real property to some distance; but his fourth hit the
ball, and drove it across the road. "As gude as a better," quoth the orphan boy, and bade BULGER
propel the tiny sphere in the direction of a neighbouring rivulet. Into this affluent of the
main, BULGER finally hit the ball; but an adroit lad of nine stamped it into the mud, while
pretending to look for it, and BULGER had to put down another. When he got within putting range,
he hit his ball careering back and forward over the hole, and, "Eh, man," quoth the orphan
boy, "if ye could only drive as you put!"

In some fifteen strokes he accomplished his task of holing out; and now, weary and desponding
(for he had fancied Golf to be an easy game), he would have desisted for the day. But the Head
of the Faculty pressed on him the necessity of "The daily round, the common task." So his ball
was tee'd, and he lammed it into the Scholar's Bunker, at a distance of nearly thirty yards.
A niblick was now placed in his grasp, and he was exhorted to "Take plenty sand." Presently
a kind of simoom was observed to rage in the Scholars' Bunker, out of which emerged the head
of the niblick, the ball, and, finally, BULGER himself. His next hit, however, was a fine one,
over the wall, where, as the ball was lost, BULGER deposited a new one. This he, somehow, drove
within a few feet of the hole, when he at once conceived an intense enthusiasm for the pastime.
"It was a fine drive," said the Head of the Faculty. "Mr. BLACKWELL never hit a finer." Thus
inflamed with ardour, BULGER persevered. He learned to waggle his club in a knowing way. He
listened intently when he was bidden to "keep his eye on the ba'", and to be "slow up." True,
he now missed the globe and all that it inhabit, but soon he hit a prodigious swipe, well over
cover-point's head,--or rather, in the direction where cover-point would have been. "Ye're
awfu' bad in the whuns," said the orphan boy; and, indeed, BULGER'S next strokes were played
in distressing circumstances. The spikes of the gorse ran into his person--he could only see
a small part of the ball, and, in a few minutes, he had made a useful clearing of about a quarter
of an acre.

It is unnecessary to follow his later achievements in detail. He returned a worn and weary
man, having accomplished the round in about a hundred and eighty, but in possession of an appetite
which astonished him and those with whom he lunched. In the afternoon, the luck of beginners
attending him, he joined a foursome of Professors, and triumphantly brought in his partner
an easy victor. In a day or two, he was drinking beer (which he would previously have rejected
as poison), was sleeping like a top, and was laying down the law on stimy, and other "mysteries
more than Eleusinian." True, after the first three days, his play entirely deserted BULGER,
and even Professors gave him a wide berth in making up a match. But by steady perseverance,
reading Sir WALTER SIMPSON, taking out a professional, and practising his iron in an adjacent
field, BULGER soon developed to such an extent that few third-rate players could give him a
stroke a hole. He had been in considerable danger of "a stroke" of quite a different character
before he left London, and the delights of the Bar. But he returned to the Capital in rude
health, and may now often be seen and heard, topping into the Pond at Wimbledon, and talking
in a fine Fifeshire-accent. It must be acknowledged that his story about his drive at the second
hole, "equal to BLACKWELL, himself, TOM MORRIS himself told me as much," has become rather
a source of diversion to his intimates; but we have all our failings, and BULGER never dreams,
when anyone says, "What is the record drive?" that he is being drawn for the entertainment
of the sceptical and unfeeling. BULGER will never, indeed, be a player; but, if his handicap
remains at twenty-four, he may, some day, carry off the monthly medal. With this great aim
before him, and the consequent purchase of a red-coat and gilt-buttons, BULGER has a new purpose
in existence, "something to live for, something to do." May this brief but accurate history
convey a moral to the Pessimist, and encourage those who take a more radiant view of the possibilities
of life!

       *       *       *       *       *

A PLEBISCITE FOR PARNASSUS.

    [The result of the Pall Mall's competition for the
    Laureateship has been to place Mr. ERIC MACKAY and Mr.
    GILBART-SMITH first and second, and SWINBURNE and MORRIS
    nowhere.]

  A popular vote the Laureate's post to fill?
  Ay! if Parnassus were but Primrose Hill.
  The Penny Vote puts lion below monkey.
  'Tis "Tuppence more, Gents, and up goes the donkey!"

       *       *       *       *       *

QUITE MOVING.--From Far and Near and All Alive, are two excellent "movable toy-books" that
will please the little ones (when their seniors are tired of playing with them) far into the
Yule-tide season. The author is LOTHAR MAGGENDORFER, a gentleman to whom Mr. Punch wishes a
"Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year." This may appear a little premature, but it is a far
cry from England to Germany, and the Sage of Fleet Street has allowed for any delays that may
be caused by fogs, railway unpunctuality, and other necessary evils.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE AMERICAN GANYMEDE.

    [The extraordinary triumph of Mr. GROVER CLEVELAND, Democratic
    Candidate for the American Presidency, is attributed to a
    general revolt against the McKinley Bill.]

  O plump and pant-striped boy, upborne,
    Like Ganymede of old,
  Punch hails you, with your slack, untorn,
    Fast in the Eagle's hold.
  It is, indeed, a startling sight
    That speculation tarries on;
  And it must give an awful fright
    To Hebe (alias HARRISON!)

  Up, up to the Olympus, where
    The White House spreads its board,
  Whirled high through the electoral air,
    A boy less long than broad!
  He looks not like the Tammany breed,
    That with high tariffs dally;
  He proves, this Yankee Ganymede,
    The Democratic rally.

  This eagle's a colossal fowl,
    Like Sindbad's monstrous Roc,
  A bird of prey some say, a-prowl
    Like that Stymphalian flock,
  With iron claws and brazen beak,
    Intent to clutch and collar,
  Fired with devotion strong, yet weak,
    To the Almighty Dollar.

  Pooh! Plunder's not his only joy.
    He hovered till he saw
  "A something-pottle-bodied boy,"
    Who spurned MCKINLEY'S Law.
  He stooped and clutched him, fair and good,
    Flew nigh o'er roof and casement,
  Whilst the Republicans all stood
    Agape in sheer amazement.

  He soars with proudly swelling crest
    And followed with acclaims,
  A cause of wonder in the West,
    And crowing by the Thames.
  For England, glorying in the sight,
    Greets Boy and Bird together;
  Whilst watching with serene delight
    That big, black, falling feather!

       *       *       *       *       *

ROBERT ON LORD MARE'S DAY.

The most ewentfoollest day of the hole year broke, as the poets says, without almost not no
fog, on Wensday larst, to my grate serprise and joy; but noing, from long xperiens, how unsertain
is whether at this orful seasun of the year, I took jest one leetel glass of hold brandy before
setting out on my arjus dootys. I was encurraged to do so also by the horful rumers as was
spread about, weeks afore, as to threttend atacks on the sacred Show by some disapinted prottestens,
I think they called theirselves, as hadn't bin inwited to the Bankwet, and so meant to prottest
accordingly.

But I needn't a bin alarmd, for the most respekful mob as filled the streets was as quiet as
mice, havin heard, I'm told, as how as the Copperashun had had the lectric light turned on
at Gildhall, by which means, of course, they coud comunicate with any-wheres, and so know where
to send an hole army of Waiters to, well fortyfide, and armed to the teeth with a splendid
Lunch, to help the pore Perlice in their arjus dootys.

From wot I seed of the butifool Sho, I shood give the cake to the Frute-Makers' splendid Car,
all covered with the most butifool Frute, all made, too, in England, as it trewthfoolly said
on both sides of the high-backed Car. The second plaice I shood give to the numerus butifool
young Ladys, with most butifool flaxin air, all most bisily ingaged in a twistlin and a twiddlin
of luvly gold and silver wire, on a Car belongin to the Makers of Gold and Silver Wire Drorers,
wich I heard a most respectfool carpenter declare, must, he thort, be most uncomferal to wear.
With that good fortun as allers atends the Hed Waiter, I seem to have atracted the notis of
one of the most butifool of the young Ladys afoursaid, for she acshally tossed me a luvly littel
bit of reel golden wire, which I shall trezure nex my art for years, if so be as how it don't
skratch.

The grand Bankwet, with its nine hunderd Gestes, was as ushal, about the grandest thing of
the kind as the world has ever seen, but sumhows it struck me as the gents was much more impashent
for their wittles than they ushally is. At my pertickler tabel, the two gents at the top was
that trubblesum about the reel Turtel-soup as I ain't a tall accumstumed to, and I amost poured
a hole ladel-full down the fine shirt-front of one of em; and then, trying at the next help
to awoid him, I sent my helbow full into the face of the other, and a pretty fuss he made,
you bet, and acshally torked of sending for the souperintendent, ewidently not knowing who I was.

The same himpashent Gent amost worried my life out arterwards, and all about a glass of plane
water as he called it, and when I told him as I didn't think as we hadn't not none in the plaice,
but I coud get him a bottel of amost any kind of Shampane as he liked to name; he again said
as he wood call for the souperintendent. So in course I had to go for some, and a preshus long
time it took me to get it; the wine-steward naterally sayin as he never before herd of sich
a order on sich a ocasion, and he had only one bottel with him, and when I took it to the himpashent
Gent, and told him so, he fairly roared with larfter, and told it all round as a capital joke!
I wunders where the joke was.

When the dinner was over and the speaches began, I got permishun to stand unner the gallery
for to hear them; but strange to tell, not a word coud I hear, and them as I did hear I coudn't
unnerstand. So I began for to fear as crewel age was a tarnishing of my 'earrings, so I moved
to the other end of the 'All jest in time for to hear a werry dark but gennelmanly young feller,
as was called the Gayqueer, or some such wonderfool name, and who, I was told, come all the
way from Indier, make sitch a grand and nobel speach, and in quite as good Inglish as ewen
I coud use, as got him more applorse from the distinguisht hordiens than all the speaches maid
by Her Madjesty's Ministers put together. Always xceptin the Lawyers, for they seems to have
sitch a jolly good time of it, that they are allers as reddy to cause a larf as to enjoy one.
We all seemed sumhow to miss the werry PRIME MINISTER--we are all so acustomd to see the werry
top of the tree, that we don't quite like being put off with a mere bow, however big and himportant
it may be; besides, I must confess as I do like to hear his luvly woice, ewen when I don't
quite unnerstand all as he says. So I don't suppose as any one of my numerus readers will quarrel
with me when I says, better luck nex time.

ROBERT.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

PROOFS BEFORE LETTERS.

  Humbugs will always ape their betters,
    Fools fancy the alphabet brings them fame;
  But you don't become a man of letters
    By tacking the letters after your name.
  One suffix only the fact expresses,
  And that's an A and a couple of S's!

       *       *       *       *       *

ANOTHER MEANING.--I Rantzau is the title of MASCAGNI'S new Opera. The title, anglicised, would
be suitable for an old-fashioned transpontine melodramatic tragedian, who could certainly say
of himself, "I rant so!"

       *       *       *       *       *

SHAKSPEARIAN CONUNDRUM.

At what time would SHAKSPEARE'S heroine of The Taming of the Shrew have been eminently fitted
to be a modern Sunday-School teacher?

Answer. When Petruchio kissed her; because then she was a Kattie Kiss'd. (Hem! A Cate-chist.)

       *       *       *       *       *

ALL ROUND THE FAIR.

NO. I.

    SCENE--A street of Gingerbread, Sweetstuff, and Toy-stalls,
    "Cocoa-nut Shies," "Box-pitching Saloons," &c., forming
    the approach to the more festive portion of the Fair, from
    which proceeds a cheerful cacophony of orchestrions,
    barrel-organs, steam-whistles, gongs, big drums, rattles,
    and speaking-trumpets.

Proprietors of Cocoa-nut Shies. Now, then, play up all o' you--ar-har! There goes another on
'em! That's the way to 'it 'em--win all yer like, &c.

