She ran to the porch and stole silently into the house, emerging with a small medicine case,
which she stuck into a pocket of her coat. Once before she had had occasion to use her simple
remedies on Sissy--an illness as simple as her remedies; but she could feel something of Mrs.
Levins' concern for her offspring, and--and it was an ideal night for a gallop over the plains.

It was almost midnight by the Levins' clock when she entered the cabin, and a quick diagnosis
of her case with an immediate application of one of her remedies, brought results. At half
past twelve Sissy was sleeping peacefully, and Chuck had dozed off, fully dressed, no doubt
ready to re-enact his manly and heroic rôle upon call.

It was not until Rosalind was ready to go that Mrs. Levins apologized for her husband's rudeness
to his guest.

"Clay feels awfully bitter against Corrigan. It's because Corrigan is fighting Trevison--and
Trevison is Clay's friend--they've been like brothers. Trevison has done so much for us."

Rosalind glanced around the cabin. She had meant to ask Chuck why his father had not come on
the midnight errand, but had forebore. "Mr. Levins isn't here?"

"Clay went away about nine o'clock." The woman did not meet Rosalind's direct gaze; she flushed
under it and looked downward, twisting her fingers in her apron. Rosalind had noted a strangeness
in the woman's manner when she had entered the cabin, but she had ascribed it to the child's
illness, and had thought nothing more of it. But now it burst upon her with added force, and
when she looked up again Rosalind saw there was an odd, strained light in her eyes--a fear,
a dread--a sinister something that she shrank from. Rosalind remembered the killing of Marchmont,
and had a quick divination of impending trouble.

"What is it, Mrs. Levins? What has happened?"

The woman gulped hard, and clenched her hands. Evidently, whatever her trouble, she had determined
to bear it alone, but was now wavering.

"Tell me, Mrs. Levins; perhaps I can help you?"

"You can!" The words burst sobbingly from the woman. "Maybe you can prevent it. But, oh, Miss
Rosalind, I wasn't to say anything--Clay told me not to. But I'm so afraid! Clay's so hot-headed,
and Trevison is so daring! I'm afraid they won't stop at anything!"

"But what is it?" demanded Rosalind, catching something of the woman's excitement.

"It's about the machinery at the butte--the mining machinery. My God, you'll never say I told
you--will you? But they're going to blow it up tonight--Clay and Trevison; they're going to
dynamite it! I'm afraid there will be murder done!"

"Why didn't you tell me before?" The girl stood rigid, white, breathless.

"Oh, I ought to," moaned the woman. "But I was afraid you'd tell--Corrigan--somebody--and--and
they'd get into trouble with the law!"

"I won't tell--but I'll stop it--if there's time! For your sake. Trevison is the one to blame."

She inquired about the location of the butte; the shortest trail, and then ran out to her horse.
Once in the saddle she drew a deep breath and sent the animal scampering into the flood of
moonlight.

                   *       *       *       *       *

Down toward the cut the two men ran, and when they reached a gully at a distance of several
hundred feet from the dynamite shed they came upon their horses. Mounting, they rode rapidly
down the track toward the butte where the mining machinery was being erected. They had taken
the handkerchiefs off while they ran, and now Trevison laughed with the hearty abandon of a
boy whose mischievous prank has succeeded.

"That was easy. I thought I heard a noise, though, when you backed against the door and shoved
it open."

"Nobody usually monkeys around a dynamite shed at night," returned Levins. "Whew! There's enough
of that stuff there to blow Manti to Kingdom Come--wherever that is."

They rode boldly across the level at the base of the butte, for they had reconnoitered after
meeting on the plains just outside of town, and knew Corrigan had left no one on guard.

"It's a cinch," Levins declared as they dismounted from their horses in the shelter of a shoulder
of the butte, about a hundred yards from where the corrugated iron building, nearly complete,
loomed somberly on the level. "But if they'd ever get evidence that we done it--"

Trevison laughed lowly, with a grim humor that made Levins look sharply at him. "That abandoned
pueblo on the creek near your shack is built like a fortress, Levins."

"What in hell has this job got to do with that dobie pile?" questioned the other.

"Plenty. Oh, you're curious, now. But I'm going to keep you guessing for a day or two."

"You'll go loco--give you time," scoffed Levins.

"Somebody else will go crazy when this stuff lets go," laughed Trevison, tapping his pockets.

Levins snickered. They trailed the reins over the heads of their horses, and walked swiftly
toward the corrugated iron building. Halting in the shadow of it, they held a hurried conference,
and then separated, Trevison going toward the engine, already set up, with its flimsy roof
covering it, and working around it for a few minutes, then darting from it to a small building
filled with tools and stores, and to a pile of machinery and supplies stacked against the wall
of the butte. They worked rapidly, elusive as shadows in the deep gloom of the wall of the
butte, and when their work was completed they met in the full glare of the moonlight near the
corrugated iron building and whispered again.

                   *       *       *       *       *

Lashing her horse over a strange trail, Rosalind Benham came to a thicket of gnarled fir-balsam
and scrub oak that barred her way completely. She had ridden hard and her horse breathed heavily
during the short time she spent looking about her. Her own breath was coming sharply, sobbing
in her throat, but it was more from excitement than from the hazard and labor of the ride,
for she had paid little attention to the trail, beyond giving the horse direction, trusting
to the animal's wisdom, accepting the risks as a matter-of-course. It was the imminence of
violence that had aroused her, the portent of a lawless deed that might result in tragedy.
She had told Mrs. Levins that she was doing this thing for her sake, but she knew better. She
did consider the woman, but she realized that her dominating passion was for the grim-faced
young man who, discouraged, driven to desperation by the force of circumstances--just or not--was
fighting for what he considered were his rights--the accumulated results of ten years of exile
and work. She wanted to save him from this deed, from the results of it, even though there
was nothing but condemnation in her heart for him because of it.

"To the left of the thicket is a slope," Mrs. Levins had told her. She stopped only long enough
to get her bearings, and at her panting, "Go!" the horse leaped. They were at the crest of
the slope quickly, facing the bottom, yawning, deep, dark. She shut her eyes as the horse took
it, leaning back to keep from falling over the animal's head, holding tightly to the pommel
of the saddle. They got down, someway, and when she felt the level under them she lashed the
horse again, and urged him around a shoulder of the precipitous wall that loomed above her,
frowning and somber.

She heard a horse whinny as she flashed past the shoulder, her own beast tearing over the level
with great catlike leaps, but she did not look back, straining her eyes to peer into the darkness
along the wall of the butte for sight of the buildings and machinery.

She saw them soon after passing the shoulder, and exclaimed her thanks sharply.

                   *       *       *       *       *

"All set," said one of the shadowy figures near the corrugated iron building. A match flared,
was applied to a stick of punk in the hands of each man, and again they separated, each running,
applying the glowing wand here and there.

Trevison's work took him longest, and when he leaped from the side of a mound of supplies Levins
was already running back toward the shoulder where they had left their horses. They joined,
then split apart, their weapons leaping into their hands, for they heard the rapid drumming
of horse's hoofs.

"They're coming!" panted Trevison, his jaws setting as he plunged on toward the shoulder of
the butte. "Run low and duck at the flash of their guns!" he warned Levins.

A wide swoop brought the oncoming horse around the shoulder of the butte into full view. As
the moonlight shone, momentarily, on the rider, Trevison cried out, hoarsely:

"God, it's a woman!"

He leaped, at the words, out of the shadow of the butte into the moonlight of the level, straight
into the path of the running horse, which at sight of him slid, reared and came to a halt,
snorting and trembling. Trevison had recognized the girl; he flung himself at the horse, muttering:
"Dynamite!" seized the beast by the bridle, forced its head around despite the girl's objections
and incoherent pleadings--some phrases of which sank home, but were disregarded.

"Don't!" she cried, fiercely, as he struck the animal with his fist to accelerate its movements.
She was still crying to him, wildly, hysterically, as he got the animal's head around and slapped
it sharply on the hip, his pistol crashing at its heels.

The frightened animal clattered over the back trail, Trevison running after it. He reached
Nigger, flung himself into the saddle, and raced after Levins, who was already far down the
level, following Rosalind's horse. At a turn in the butte he came upon them both, their horses
halted, the girl berating Levins, the man laughing lowly at her.

"Don't!" she cried to Trevison as he rode up. "Please, Trevison--don't let that happen! It's
criminal; it's outlawry!"

"Too late," he said grimly, and rode close to her to grasp the bridle of her horse. Standing
thus, they waited--an age, to the girl, in reality only a few seconds. Then the deep, solemn
silence of the night was split by a hollow roar, which echoed and re-echoed as though a thousand
thunder storms had centered over their heads. A vivid flash, extended, effulgent, lit the sky,
the earth rocked, the canyon walls towering above them seemed to sway and reel drunkenly. The
girl covered her face with her hands. Another blast smote the night, reverberating on the heels
of the other; there followed another and another, so quickly that they blended; then another,
with a distinct interval between. Then a breathless, unreal calm, through which distant echoes
rumbled; then a dead silence, shattered at last by a heavy, distant clatter, as though myriad
big hailstones were falling on a pavement. And then another silence--the period of reeling
calm after an earthquake.

"O God!" wailed the girl; "it is horrible!"

"You've got to get out of here--the whole of Manti will be here in a few minutes! Come on!"

He urged Nigger farther down the canyon, and up a rocky slope that brought them to the mesa.
The girl was trembling, her breath coming gaspingly. He faced her as they came to a halt, pityingly,
with a certain dogged resignation in his eyes.

"What brought you here? Who told you we were here?" he asked, gruffly.

"It doesn't matter!" She faced him defiantly. "You have outraged the laws of your country tonight!
I hope you are punished for it!"

He laughed, derisively. "Well, you've seen; you know. Go and inform your friends. What I have
done I did after long deliberation in which I considered fully the consequences to myself.
Levins wasn't concerned in it, so you don't need to mention his name. Your ranch is in that
direction, Miss Benham." He pointed southeastward, Nigger lunged, caught his stride in two
or three jumps, and fled toward the southwest. His rider did not hear the girl's voice; it
was drowned in clatter of hoofs as he and Levins rode.

CHAPTER XXI

ANOTHER WOMAN RIDES

Trevison rode in to town the next morning. On his way he went to the edge of the butte overlooking
the level, and looked down upon the wreck and ruin he had caused. Masses of twisted steel and
iron met his gaze; the level was littered with debris, which a gang of men under Carson was
engaged in clearing away; a great section of the butte had been blasted out, earth, rocks,
sand, had slid down upon much of the wreckage, partly burying it. The utter havoc of the scene
brought a fugitive smile to his lips.

He saw Carson waving a hand to him, and he answered the greeting, noting as he did so that
Corrigan stood at a little distance behind Carson, watching. Trevison did not give him a second
look, wheeling Nigger and sending him toward Manti at a slow lope. As he rode away, Corrigan
called to Carson.

"Your friend didn't seem to be much surprised."

Carson turned, making a grimace while his back was yet toward Corrigan, but grinning broadly
when he faced around.

"Didn't he now? I wasn't noticin'. But, begorra, how c'ud he be surprised, whin the whole domned
country was rocked out av its bed be the blast! Wud ye be expictin' him to fall over in a faint
on beholdin' the wreck?"

"Not he," said Corrigan, coldly; "he's got too much nerve for that."

"Ain't he, now!" Carson looked guilelessly at the other. "Wud ye be havin' anny idee who done it?"

Corrigan's eyes narrowed. "No," he said shortly, and turned away.

Trevison's appearance in Manti created a stir. He had achieved a double result by his deed,
for besides destroying the property and making it impossible for Corrigan to resume work for
a considerable time, he had caused Manti's interest to center upon him sharply, having shocked
into the town's consciousness a conception of the desperate battle that was being waged at
its doors. For Manti had viewed the devastated butte early that morning, and had come away,
seething with curiosity to get a glimpse of the man whom everybody secretly suspected of being
the cause of it. Many residents of the town had known Trevison before--in half an hour after
his arrival he was known to all. Public opinion was heavily in his favor and many approving
comments were heard.

"I ain't blamin' him a heap," said a man in the Belmont. "If things is as you say they are,
there ain't much more that a man could do!"

"The laws is made for the guys with the coin an' the pull," said another, vindictively.

"An' dynamite ain't carin' who's usin' it," said another, slyly. Both grinned. The universal
sympathy for the "under dog" oppressed by Justice perverted or controlled, had here found expression.

It was so all over Manti. Admiring glances followed Trevison; though he said no word concerning
the incident; nor could any man have said, judging from the expression of his face, that he
was elated. He had business in Manti--he completed it, and when he was ready to go he got on
Nigger and loped out of town.

"That man's nerve is as cold as a naked Eskimo at the North Pole," commented an admirer. "If
I'd done a thing like that I'd be layin' low to see if any evidence would turn up against me."

"I reckon there ain't a heap of evidence," laughed his neighbor. "I expect everybody knows
he done it, but knowin' an' provin' is two different things."

A mile out of town Trevison met Corrigan. The latter halted his horse when he saw Trevison
and waited for him to come up. The big man's face wore an ugly, significant grin.

"You did a complete job," he said, eyeing the other narrowly. "And there doesn't seem to be
any evidence. But look out! When a thing like that happens there's always somebody around to
see it, and if I can get evidence against you I'll send you up for it!"

He noted a slight quickening of Trevison's eyes at his mention of a witness, and a fierce exultation
leaped within him.

Trevison laughed, looking the other fairly between the eyes. Rosalind Benham hadn't informed
on him. However, the day was not yet gone.

"Get your evidence before you try to do any bluffing," he challenged. He spurred Nigger on,
not looking back at his enemy.

Corrigan rode to the laborers' tents, where he talked for a time with the cook. In the mess
tent he stood with his back to a rough, pine-topped table, his hands on its edge. The table
had not yet been cleared from the morning meal, for the cook had been interested in the explosion.
He tried to talk of it with Corrigan, but the latter adroitly directed the conversation otherwise.
The cook would have said they had a pleasant talk. Corrigan seemed very companionable this
morning. He laughed a little; he listened attentively when the cook talked. After a while Corrigan
fumbled in his pockets. Not finding a cigar, he looked eloquently at the cook's pipe, in the
latter's mouth, belching much smoke.

"Not a single cigar," he said. "I'm dying for a taste of tobacco."

The cook took his pipe from his mouth and wiped the stem hastily on a sleeve. "If you don't
mind I've been suckin' on it," he said, extending it.

"I wouldn't deprive you of it for the world." Corrigan shifted his position, looked down at
the table and smiled. "Luck, eh?" he said, picking up a black brier that lay on the table behind
him. "Got plenty of tobacco?"

The cook dove for a box in a corner and returned with a cloth sack, bulging. He watched while
Corrigan filled the pipe, and grinned while his guest was lighting it.

"Carson'll be ravin' today for forgettin' his pipe. He must have left it layin' on the table
this mornin'--him bein' in such a rush to get down, to the explosion."

"It's Carson's, eh?" Corrigan surveyed it with casual interest. "Well," after taking a few
puffs "--I'll say for Carson that he knows how to take care of it."

He left shortly afterward, laying the pipe on the table where he had found it. Five minutes
later he was in Judge Lindman's presence, leaning over the desk toward the other.

"I want you to issue a warrant for Patrick Carson. I want him brought in here for examination.
Charge him with being an accessory before the fact, or anything that seems to fit the case.
But throw him into the cooler--and keep him there until he talks. He knows who broke into the
dynamite shed, and therefore he knows who did the dynamiting. He's friendly with Trevison,
and if we can make him admit he saw Trevison at the shed, we've got the goods. He warned Trevison
the other day, when I had the deputies lined up at the butte, and I found his pipe this morning
near the door of the dynamite shed. We'll make him talk, damn him!"

                   *       *       *       *       *

Banker Braman had closed the door between the front and rear rooms, pulled down the shades
of the windows, lighted the kerosene lamp, and by its wavering flicker was surveying his reflection
in the small mirror affixed to one of the walls of the building. He was pleased, as the fatuous
self-complacence of his look indicated, and carefully, almost fastidiously dressed, and he
could not deny himself this last look into the mirror, even though he was now five minutes
late with his appointment. The five minutes threatened to become ten, for, in adjusting his
tie-pin it slipped from his fingers, struck the floor and vanished, as though an evil fate
had gobbled it.

He searched for it frenziedly, cursing lowly, but none the less viciously. It was quite by
accident that when his patience was strained almost to the breaking point, he struck his hand
against a board that formed part of the partition between his building and the courthouse next
door, and tore a huge chunk of skin from the knuckles. He paid little attention to the injury,
however, for the agitating of the board disclosed the glittering recreant, and he pounced upon
it with the precision of a hawk upon its prey, snarling triumphantly.

"I'll nail that damned board up, some day!" he threatened. But he knew he wouldn't, for by
lying on the floor and pulling the board out a trifle, he could get a clear view of the interior
of the courthouse, and could hear quite plainly, in spite of the presence of a wooden box resting
against the wall on the other side. And some of the things that Braman had already heard through
the medium of the loose board were really interesting, not to say instructive, to him.

He was ten minutes late in keeping his appointment. He might have been even later without being
in danger of receiving the censure he deserved. For the lady received him in a loose wrapper
and gracefully disordered hair, a glance at which made Braman gasp in unfeigned admiration.

"What's this?" he demanded with a pretense of fatherly severity, which he imagined became him
very well in the presence of women. "Not ready yet, Mrs. Harvey?"

The woman waved him to a chair with unsmiling unconcern; dropped into another, crossed her
legs and leaned back in her chair, her hands folded across the back of her head, her sleeves,
wide and flaring, sliding down below her elbows. She caught Braman's burning stare of interest
in this revelation of negligence, and smiled at him in faint derision.

"I'm tired, Croft. I've changed my mind about going to the First Merchants' Ball. I'd much
rather sit here and chin you--if you don't mind."

"Not a bit!" hastily acquiesced the banker. "In fact, I like the idea of staying here much
better. It is more private, you know." He grinned significantly, but the woman's smile of faint
derision changed merely to irony, which held steadily, making Braman's cheeks glow crimson.

"Well, then," she laughed, exulting in her power over him; "let's get busy. What do you want
to chin about?"

"I'll tell you after I've wet my whistle," said the banker, gayly. "I'm dry as a bone in the
middle of the Sahara desert!"

"I'll take mine 'straight,'" she laughed.

Braman rang a bell. A waiter with glasses and a bottle appeared, entered, was paid, and departed,
grinning without giving the banker any change from a ten dollar bill.

The woman laughed immoderately at Braman's wolfish snarl.

"Be a sport, Croft. Don't begrudge a poor waiter a few honestly earned dollars!"

"And now, what has the loose-board telephone told you?" she asked, two hours later when flushed
of face from frequent attacks on the bottle--Braman rather more flushed than she--they relaxed
in their chairs after a tilt at poker in which the woman had been the victor.

"You're sure you don't care for Trevison any more--that you're only taking his end of this
because of what he's been to you in the past?" demanded the banker, looking suspiciously at her.

"He told me he didn't love me any more. I couldn't want him after that, could I?"

"I should think not." Braman's eyes glowed with satisfaction. But he hesitated, yielding when
she smiled at him. "Damn it, I'd knife Corrigan for you!" he vowed, recklessly.

"Save Trevison--that's all I ask. Tell me what you heard."

"Corrigan suspects Trevison of blowing up the stuff at the butte--as everybody does, of course.
He's determined to get evidence against him. He found Carson's pipe at the door of the dynamite
shed this morning. Carson is a friend of Trevison's. Corrigan is going to have Judge Lindman
issue a warrant for the arrest of Carson--on some charge--and they're going to jail Carson
until he talks."

The woman cursed profanely, sharply. "That's Corrigan's idea of a square deal. He promised
me that no harm should come to Trevison." She got up and walked back and forth in the room,
Braman watching her with passion lying naked in his eyes, his lips loose and moist.

She stopped in front of him, finally. "Go home, Croft--there's a good boy. I want to think."

"That's cruelty to animals," he laughed in a strained voice. "But I'll go," he added at signs
of displeasure on her face. "Can I see you tomorrow night?"

"I'll let you know." She held the door open for him, and permitted him to take her hand for
an instant. He squeezed it hotly, the woman making a grimace of repugnance as she closed the door.

Swiftly she changed from her loose gown to a simple, short-skirted affair, slipped on boots,
a felt hat, gloves. Leaving the light burning, she slipped out into the hall and called to
the waiter who had served her and Braman. By rewarding him generously she procured a horse,
and a few minutes later she emerged from the building by a rear door, mounting the animal and
sending it clattering out into the night.

Twice she lost her way and rode miles before she recovered her sense of direction, and when
she finally pulled the beast to a halt at the edge of the Diamond K ranchhouse gallery, midnight
was not far away. The ranchhouse was dark. She smothered a gasp of disappointment as she crossed
the gallery floor. She was about to hammer on the door when it swung open and Trevison stepped
out, peered closely at her and laughed shortly.

"It's you, eh?" he said. "I thought I told you--"

She winced at his tone, but it did not lessen her concern for him.

"It isn't that, Trev! And I don't care how you treat me--I deserve it! But I can't see them
punish you--for what you did last night!" She felt him start, his muscles stiffen.

"Something has turned up, then. You came to warn me? What is it?"

"You were seen last night! They're going to arrest--"

"So she squealed, did she?" he interrupted. He laughed lowly, bitterly, with a vibrant disappointment
that wrung the woman's heart with sympathy. But her brain quickly grasped the significance
of his words, and longing dulled her sense of honor. It was too good an opportunity to miss.
"Bah! I expected it. She told me she would. I was a fool to dream otherwise!" He turned on
Hester and grasped her by the shoulders, and her flesh deadened under his fingers.

"Did she tell Corrigan?"

"Yes." The woman told the lie courageously, looking straight into his eyes, though she shrank
at the fire that came into them as he released her and laughed.

"Where did you get your information?" His voice was suddenly sullen and cold.

"From Braman."

He started, and laughed in humorous derision.

"Braman and Corrigan are blood brothers in this deal. You must have captivated the little sneak
completely to make him lose his head like that!"

"I did it for you, Trev--for you. Don't you see? Oh, I despise the little beast! But he dropped
a hint one day when I was in the bank, and I deliberately snared him, hoping I might be able
to gain information that would benefit you. And I have, Trev!" she added, trembling with a
hope that his hasty judgment might result to her advantage. And how near she had come to mentioning
Carson's name! If Trevison had waited for just another second before interrupting her! Fortune
had played favorably into her hands tonight!

"For you, boy," she said, slipping close to him, sinuously, whispering, knowing the "she" he
had mentioned must be Rosalind Benham. "Old friends are best, boy. At least they can be depended
upon not to betray one. Trev; let me help you! I can, and I will! Why, I love you, Trev! And
you need me, to help you fight these people who are trying to ruin you!"

"You don't understand." Trevison's voice was cold and passionless. "It seems I can't make you
understand. I'm grateful for what you have done for me tonight--very grateful. But I can't
live a lie, woman. I don't love you!"

"But you love a woman who has delivered you into the hands of your enemies," she moaned.

"I can't help it," he declared hoarsely. "I don't deny it. I would love her if she sent me
to the gallows, and stood there, watching me die!"

The woman bowed her head, and dropped her hands listlessly to her sides. In this instant she
was thinking almost the same words that Rosalind Benham had murmured on her ride to Blakeley's,
when she had discovered Trevison's identity: "I wonder if Hester Keyes knows what she has missed."

CHAPTER XXII

A MAN ERRS--AND PAYS

For a time Trevison stood on the gallery, watching the woman as she faded into the darkness
toward Manti, and then he laughed mirthlessly and went into the house, emerging with a rifle
and saddle. A few minutes later he rode Nigger out of the corral and headed him southwestward.
Shortly after midnight he was at the door of Levins' cabin. The latter grinned with feline
humor after they held a short conference.

"That's right," he said; "you don't need any of the boys to help you pull that off--they'd
mebbe go to actin' foolish an' give the whole snap away. Besides, I'm a heap tickled to be
let in on that sort of a jamboree!" There followed an interval, during which his grin faded.
"So she peached on you, eh? She told my woman she wouldn't. That's a woman, ain't it? How's
a man to tell about 'em?"

"That's a secret of my own that I am not ready to let you in on. Don't tell your wife where
you are going tonight."

"I ain't reckonin' to. I'll be with you in a jiffy!" He vanished into the cabin, reappeared,
ran to the stable, and rode out to meet Trevison. Together they were swallowed up by the plains.

At eight o'clock in the morning Corrigan came out of the dining-room of his hotel and stopped
at the cigar counter. He filled his case, lit one, and stood for a moment with an elbow on
the glass of the show case, smoking thoughtfully.

"That was quite an accident you had at your mine. Have you any idea who did it?" asked the
clerk, watching him furtively.

Corrigan glanced at the man, his lips curling.

"You might guess," he said through his teeth.

"That fellow Trevison is a bad actor," continued the clerk. "And say," he went on, confidentially;
"not that I want to make you feel bad, but the majority of the people of this town are standing
with him in this deal. They think you are not giving the land-owners a square deal. Not that
I'm 'knocking' you," the clerk denied, flushing at the dark look Corrigan threw him. "That's
merely what I hear. Personally, I'm for you. This town needs men like you, and it can get along
without fellows like Trevison."

"Thank you," smiled Corrigan, disgusted with the man, but feeling that it might be well to
cultivate such ingratiating interest. "Have a cigar."

"I'll go you. Yes, sir," he added, when he had got the weed going; "this town can get along
without any Trevisons. These sagebrush rummies out here give me a pain. What this country needs
is less brute force and more brains!" He drew his shoulders erect as though convinced that
he was not lacking in the particular virtue to which he had referred.

"You are right," smiled Corrigan, mildly. "Brains are all important. A hotel clerk must be
well supplied. I presume you see and hear a great many things that other people miss seeing
and hearing." Corrigan thought this thermometer of public opinion might have other information.

"You've said it! We've got to keep our wits about us. There's very little escapes us." He leered
at Corrigan's profile. "That's a swell Moll in number eleven, ain't it?"

"What do you know about her?" Corrigan's face was inexpressive.

"Oh say now!" The clerk guffawed close to Corrigan's ear without making the big man wink an
eyelash. "You don't mean to tell me that you ain't on! I saw you steer to her room one night--the
night she came here. And once or twice, since. But of course us hotel clerks don't see anything!
She is down on the register as Mrs. Harvey. But say! You don't see any married women running
around the country dressed like her!"

"She may be a widow."

"Well, yes, maybe she might. But she shows speed, don't she?" He whispered. "You're a pretty
good friend of mine, now, and maybe if I'd give you a tip you'd throw something in my way later
on--eh?"

"What?"

"Oh, you might start a hotel here--or something. And I'm thinking of blowing this joint. This
town's booming, and it can stand a swell hotel in a few months."

"You're on--if I build a hotel. Shoot!"

The clerk leaned closer, whispering: "She receives other men. You're not the only one."

"Who?"

The clerk laughed, and made a funnel of one hand. "The banker across the street--Braman."

Corrigan bit his cigar in two, and slowly spat that which was left in his mouth into a cuspidor.
He contrived to smile, though it cost him an effort, and his hands were clenched.

"How many times has he been here?"

"Oh, several."

"When was he here last?"

"Last night." The clerk laughed. "Looked half stewed when he left. Kinda hectic, too. Him and
her must have had a tiff, for he left early. And after he'd gone--right away after--she sent
one of the waiters out for a horse."

"Which way did she go?"

"West--I watched her; she went the back way, from here."

Corrigan smiled and went out. The expression of his face was such as to cause the clerk to
mutter, dazedly: "He didn't seem to be a whole lot interested. I guess I must have sized him
up wrong."

Corrigan stopped at his office in the bank, nodding curtly to Braman. Shortly afterward he
got up and went to the courthouse. He had ordered Judge Lindman to issue a warrant for Carson
the previous morning, and had intended to see that it was served. But a press of other matters
had occupied his attention until late in the night.

He tried the front door of the courthouse, to find it locked. The rear door was also locked.
He tried the windows--all were fastened securely. Thinking the Judge still sleeping he went
back to his office and spent an hour going over some correspondence. At the end of that time
he visited the courthouse again. Angered, he went around to the side and burst the flimsy door
in, standing in the opening, glowering, for the Judge's cot was empty, and the Judge nowhere
to be seen.

Corrigan stalked through the building, cursing. He examined the cot, and discovered that it
had been slept in. The Judge must have risen early. Obviously, there was nothing to do but
to wait. Corrigan did that, impatiently. For a long time he sat in the chair at his desk, watching
Braman, studying him, scowling, rage in his heart. "If he's up to any dirty work, I'll choke
him until his tongue hangs out a yard!" was a mental threat that he repeated many times. "But
he's just mush-headed over the woman, I guess--he's that kind of a fool!"

At ten o'clock Corrigan jumped on his horse and rode out to the butte where the laborers were
working, clearing away the debris from the explosion. No one there had seen Judge Lindman.
Corrigan rode back to town, fuming with rage. Finding some of the deputies he sent them out
to search for the Judge. One by one they came in and reported their failure. At six-thirty,
after the arrival of the evening train from Dry Bottom, Corrigan was sitting at his desk, his
face black with wrath, reading for the third or fourth time a letter that he had spread out
on the desk before him:

  "MR. JEFFERSON CORRIGAN:

  "I feel it is necessary for me to take a short rest. Recent
  excitement in Manti has left me very nervous and unstrung. I shall be
  away from Manti for about two weeks, I think. During my absence any
  pending litigation must be postponed, of course."

The letter was signed by Judge Lindman, and postmarked "Dry Bottom."

Corrigan got up after a while and stuffed the letter into a pocket. He went out, and when he
returned, Braman had gone out also--to supper, Corrigan surmised. When the banker came in an
hour later, Corrigan was still seated at his desk. The banker smiled at him, and Corrigan motioned
to him.

Corrigan's voice was silky. "Where were you last night, Braman?"

The banker's face whitened; his thoughts became confused, but instantly cleared when he observed
from the expression of the big man's face that the question was, apparently, a casual one.
But he drew his breath tremulously. One could never be sure of Corrigan.

"I spent the night here--in the back room."

"Then you didn't see the Judge last night--or hear him?"

"No."

Corrigan drew the Judge's letter from the pocket and passed it over to Braman, watching his
face steadily as he read. He saw a quick stain appear in the banker's cheeks, and his own lips
tightened.

The banker coughed before he spoke. "Wasn't that a rather abrupt leave-taking?"

"Yes--rather," said Corrigan, dryly. "You didn't hear him walking about during the night?"

"No."

"You're rather a heavy sleeper, eh? There is only a thin board partition between this building
and the courthouse."

"He must have left after daylight. Of course, any noise he might have made after that I wouldn't
have noticed."

"No, of course not," said Corrigan, passionlessly. "Well--he's gone." He seemed to have dismissed
the matter from his mind and Braman sighed with relief. But he watched Corrigan narrowly during
the remainder of the time he stayed in the office, and when he went out, Braman shook a vindictive
fist at his back.

"Worry, damn you!" he sneered. "I don't know what was in Judge Lindman's mind, but I hope he
never comes back! That will help to repay you for that knockdown!"

Corrigan went over to the Castle and ate supper. He was preoccupied and deliberate, for he
was trying to weave a complete fabric out of the threads of Braman's visits to Hester Harvey;
Hester's ride westward, and Judge Lindman's abrupt departure. He had a feeling that they were
in some way connected.

At a little after seven he finished his meal, went upstairs and knocked at the door of Hester
Harvey's room. He stepped inside when she opened the door, and stood, both hands in the pockets
of his trousers, looking at her with a smile of repressed malignance.

"Nice night for a ride, wasn't it?" he said, his lips parting a very little to allow the words
to filter through.

The woman flashed a quick, inquiring look at him, saw the passion in his eyes, the gleam of
malevolent antagonism, and she set herself against it. For her talk with Trevison last night
had convinced her of the futility of hope. She had gone out of his life as a commonplace incident
slips into the oblivion of yesteryear. Worse--he had refused to recall it. It hurt her, this
knowledge--his rebuff. It had aroused cold, wanton passions in her--she had become a woman
who did not care. She met Corrigan's gaze with a look of defiant mockery.

"Swell. I enjoyed every minute of it. Won't you sit down?"

He held himself back, grinning coldly, for the woman's look had goaded him to fury.

"No," he said; "I'll stand. I won't be here a minute. You saw Trevison last night, eh? You
warned him that I was going to have Carson arrested." He had hazarded this guess, for it had
seemed to him that it must be the solution to the mystery, and when he caught the quick, triumphant
light in the woman's eyes at his words he knew he had not erred.

