BIOGRAPHICAL NOTICE OF ELLIS AND ACTON BELL

It has been thought that all the works published under the names of Currer, Ellis, and Acton
Bell were, in reality, the production of one person.  This mistake I endeavoured to rectify
by a few words of disclaimer prefixed to the third edition of 'Jane Eyre.'  These, too, it
appears, failed to gain general credence, and now, on the occasion of a reprint of 'Wuthering
Heights' and 'Agnes Grey,' I am advised distinctly to state how the case really stands.

Indeed, I feel myself that it is time the obscurity attending those two names--Ellis and Acton--was
done away.  The little mystery, which formerly yielded some harmless pleasure, has lost its
interest; circumstances are changed.  It becomes, then, my duty to explain briefly the origin
and authorship of the books written by Currer, Ellis, and Acton Bell.

About five years ago, my two sisters and myself, after a somewhat prolonged period of separation,
found ourselves reunited, and at home.  Resident in a remote district, where education had
made little progress, and where, consequently, there was no inducement to seek social intercourse
beyond our own domestic circle, we were wholly dependent on ourselves and each other, on books
and study, for the enjoyments and occupations of life.  The highest stimulus, as well as the
liveliest pleasure we had known from childhood upwards, lay in attempts at literary composition;
formerly we used to show each other what we wrote, but of late years this habit of communication
and consultation had been discontinued; hence it ensued, that we were mutually ignorant of
the progress we might respectively have made. This dream, never relinquished even when distance
divided and absorbing tasks occupied us, now suddenly acquired strength and consistency:  it
took the character of a resolve.

Ill-success failed to crush us:  the mere effort to succeed had given a wonderful zest to existence;
it must be pursued.  We each set to work on a prose tale:  Ellis Bell produced 'Wuthering Heights,'
Acton Bell 'Agnes Grey,' and Currer Bell also wrote a narrative in one volume.  These MSS.
were perseveringly obtruded upon various publishers for the space of a year and a half; usually,
their fate was an ignominious and abrupt dismissal.

I was then just completing 'Jane Eyre,' at which I had been working while the one-volume tale
was plodding its weary round in London: in three weeks I sent it off; friendly and skilful
hands took it in.  This was in the commencement of September, 1847; it came out before the
close of October following, while 'Wuthering Heights' and 'Agnes Grey,' my sisters' works,
which had already been in the press for months, still lingered under a different management.

They appeared at last.  Hence, I fear, arose a prejudice against the book.  That writer who
could attempt to palm off an inferior and immature production under cover of one successful
effort, must indeed be unduly eager after the secondary and sordid result of authorship, and
pitiably indifferent to its true and honourable meed.  If reviewers and the public truly believed
this, no wonder that they looked darkly on the cheat.

It is my duty, as well as my pleasure, to acknowledge one exception to the general rule of
criticism.  One writer, endowed with the keen vision and fine sympathies of genius, has discerned
the real nature of 'Wuthering Heights,' and has, with equal accuracy, noted its beauties and
touched on its faults.  Too often do reviewers remind us of the mob of Astrologers, Chaldeans,
and Soothsayers gathered before the 'writing on the wall,' and unable to read the characters
or make known the interpretation.  We have a right to rejoice when a true seer comes at last,
some man in whom is an excellent spirit, to whom have been given light, wisdom, and understanding;
who can accurately read the 'Mene, Mene, Tekel, Upharsin' of an original mind (however unripe,
however inefficiently cultured and partially expanded that mind may be); and who can say with
confidence, 'This is the interpretation thereof.

Yet even the writer to whom I allude shares the mistake about the authorship, and does me the
injustice to suppose that there was equivoque in my former rejection of this honour (as an
honour I regard it).  May I assure him that I would scorn in this and in every other case to
deal in equivoque; I believe language to have been given us to make our meaning clear, and
not to wrap it in dishonest doubt?

'The Tenant of Wildfell Hall,' by Acton Bell, had likewise an unfavourable reception.  At this
I cannot wonder.  The choice of subject was an entire mistake.  Nothing less congruous with
the writer's nature could be conceived.  The motives which dictated this choice were pure,
but, I think, slightly morbid.

Neither Ellis nor Acton allowed herself for one moment to sink under want of encouragement;
energy nerved the one, and endurance upheld the other.  They were both prepared to try again;
I would fain think that hope and the sense of power were yet strong within them.  The details
of her illness are deep-branded in my memory, but to dwell on them, either in thought or narrative,
is not in my power.  Yet, while physically she perished, mentally she grew stronger than we
had yet known her.

Two cruel months of hope and fear passed painfully by, and the day came at last when the terrors
and pains of death were to be undergone by this treasure, which had grown dearer and dearer
to our hearts as it wasted before our eyes.  Towards the decline of that day, we had nothing
of Emily but her mortal remains as consumption left them.  She died December 19, 1848.

We thought this enough:  but we were utterly and presumptuously wrong.  She was not buried
ere Anne fell ill.  She had not been committed to the grave a fortnight, before we received
distinct intimation that it was necessary to prepare our minds to see the younger sister go
after the elder.  Accordingly, she followed in the same path with slower step, and with a patience
that equalled the other's fortitude.  I have said that she was religious, and it was by leaning
on those Christian doctrines in which she firmly believed, that she found support through her
most painful journey. I witnessed their efficacy in her latest hour and greatest trial, and
must bear my testimony to the calm triumph with which they brought her through.  She died May
28, 1849.

What more shall I say about them?  I cannot and need not say much more.  In externals, they
were two unobtrusive women; a perfectly secluded life gave them retiring manners and habits.
In Emily's nature the extremes of vigour and simplicity seemed to meet.

Anne's character was milder and more subdued; she wanted the power, the fire, the originality
of her sister, but was well endowed with quiet virtues of her own.  Long-suffering, self-denying,
reflective, and intelligent, a constitutional reserve and taciturnity placed and kept her in
the shade, and covered her mind, and especially her feelings, with a sort of nun-like veil,
which was rarely lifted.  Neither Emily nor Anne was learned; they had no thought of filling
their pitchers at the well-spring of other minds; they always wrote from the impulse of nature,
the dictates of intuition, and from such stores of observation as their limited experience
had enabled them to amass.  I may sum up all by saying, that for strangers they were nothing,
for superficial observers less than nothing; but for those who had known them all their lives
in the intimacy of close relationship, they were genuinely good and truly great.

This notice has been written because I felt it a sacred duty to wipe the dust off their gravestones,
and leave their dear names free from soil.

CURRER BELL September 19, 1850.

EDITOR'S PREFACE TO THE NEW EDITION OF 'WUTHERING HEIGHTS'

I have just read over 'Wuthering Heights,' and, for the first time, have obtained a clear glimpse
of what are termed (and, perhaps, really are) its faults; have gained a definite notion of
how it appears to other people--to strangers who knew nothing of the author; who are unacquainted
with the locality where the scenes of the story are laid; to whom the inhabitants, the customs,
the natural characteristics of the outlying hills and hamlets in the West Riding of Yorkshire
are things alien and unfamiliar.

To all such 'Wuthering Heights' must appear a rude and strange production.  The wild moors
of the North of England can for them have no interest:  the language, the manners, the very
dwellings and household customs of the scattered inhabitants of those districts must be to
such readers in a great measure unintelligible, and--where intelligible--repulsive.  Men and
women who, perhaps, naturally very calm, and with feelings moderate in degree, and little marked
in kind, have been trained from their cradle to observe the utmost evenness of manner and guardedness
of language, will hardly know what to make of the rough, strong utterance, the harshly manifested
passions, the unbridled aversions, and headlong partialities of unlettered moorland hinds and
rugged moorland squires, who have grown up untaught and unchecked, except by Mentors as harsh
as themselves.  A large class of readers, likewise, will suffer greatly from the introduction
into the pages of this work of words printed with all their letters, which it has become the
custom to represent by the initial and final letter only--a blank line filling the interval.
I may as well say at once that, for this circumstance, it is out of my power to apologise;
deeming it, myself, a rational plan to write words at full length.  The practice of hinting
by single letters those expletives with which profane and violent persons are wont to garnish
their discourse, strikes me as a proceeding which, however well meant, is weak and futile.
I cannot tell what good it does-- what feeling it spares--what horror it conceals.

With regard to the rusticity of 'Wuthering heights,' I admit the charge, for I feel the quality.
It is rustic all through.  It is moorish, and wild, and knotty as a root of heath.  Nor was
it natural that it should be otherwise; the author being herself a native and nursling of the
moors.  Doubtless, had her lot been cast in a town, her writings, if she had written at all,
would have possessed another character.  Even had chance or taste led her to choose a similar
subject, she would have treated it otherwise.  Had Ellis Bell been a lady or a gentleman accustomed
to what is called 'the world,' her view of a remote and unreclaimed region, as well as of the
dwellers therein, would have differed greatly from that actually taken by the home-bred country
girl.  Doubtless it would have been wider--more comprehensive:  whether it would have been
more original or more truthful is not so certain.  As far as the scenery and locality are concerned,
it could scarcely have been so sympathetic:  Ellis Bell did not describe as one whose eye and
taste alone found pleasure in the prospect; her native hills were far more to her than a spectacle;
they were what she lived in, and by, as much as the wild birds, their tenants, or as the heather,
their produce.  Her descriptions, then, of natural scenery are what they should be, and all
they should be.

Having avowed that over much of 'Wuthering Heights' there broods 'a horror of great darkness';
that, in its storm-heated and electrical atmosphere, we seem at times to breathe lightning:
let me point to those spots where clouded day-light and the eclipsed sun still attest their
existence.  For a specimen of true benevolence and homely fidelity, look at the character of
Nelly Dean; for an example of constancy and tenderness, remark that of Edgar Linton. (Some
people will think these qualities do not shine so well incarnate in a man as they would do
in a woman, but Ellis Bell could never be brought to comprehend this notion:  nothing moved
her more than any insinuation that the faithfulness and clemency, the long-suffering and loving-kindness
which are esteemed virtues in the daughters of Eve, become foibles in the sons of Adam.  She
held that mercy and forgiveness are the divinest attributes of the Great Being who made both
man and woman, and that what clothes the Godhead in glory, can disgrace no form of feeble humanity.)
There is a dry saturnine humour in the delineation of old Joseph, and some glimpses of grace
and gaiety animate the younger Catherine. Nor is even the first heroine of the name destitute
of a certain strange beauty in her fierceness, or of honesty in the midst of perverted passion
and passionate perversity.  These solitary traits omitted, we should say he was child neither
of Lascar nor gipsy, but a man's shape animated by demon life--a Ghoul--an Afreet.

Whether it is right or advisable to create beings like Heathcliff, I do not know:  I scarcely
think it is.  But this I know:  the writer who possesses the creative gift owns something of
which he is not always master--something that, at times, strangely wills and works for itself.
He may lay down rules and devise principles, and to rules and principles it will perhaps for
years lie in subjection; and then, haply without any warning of revolt, there comes a time
when it will no longer consent to 'harrow the valleys, or be bound with a band in the furrow'--when
it 'laughs at the multitude of the city, and regards not the crying of the driver'-- when,
refusing absolutely to make ropes out of sea-sand any longer, it sets to work on statue-hewing,
and you have a Pluto or a Jove, a Tisiphone or a Psyche, a Mermaid or a Madonna, as Fate or
Inspiration direct.  Be the work grim or glorious, dread or divine, you have little choice
left but quiescent adoption.  As for you-- the nominal artist--your share in it has been to
work passively under dictates you neither delivered nor could question--that would not be uttered
at your prayer, nor suppressed nor changed at your caprice.  If the result be attractive, the
World will praise you, who little deserve praise; if it be repulsive, the same World will blame
you, who almost as little deserve blame.

CURRER BELL.

