BUSINESS CORRESPONDENCE

VOLUME I

HOW TO WRITE THE BUSINESS LETTER: 24 chapters on preparing to write the letter and finding
the proper viewpoint; how to open the letter, present the proposition convincingly, make an
effective close; how to acquire a forceful style and inject originality; how to adapt selling
appeal to different prospects and get orders by letter-- proved principles and practical schemes
illustrated by extracts from 217 actual letters

CONTENTS

BUSINESS CORRESPONDENCE VOLUME I

PART I Preparing to Write the Letter CHAPTER 1:  What You Can Do With a Postage Stamp 2:  The
Advantages of Doing Business by Letter 3:  Gathering Material and Picking Out Talking Points
4:  When You Sit Down to Write

PART II How to Write the Letter 5:  How to Begin a Business Letter 6:  How to Present Your
Proposition 7:  How to Bring the Letter to a Close

PART III Style--Making the Letter Readable 8:  "Style" in Letter Writing--And How to Acquire
It 9:  Making the Letter Hang Together 10: How to Make Letters Original 11: Making the Form
Letter Personal

PART IV The Dress of a Business Letter 12: Making Letterheads and Envelopes Distinctive 13:
The Typographical Make-up of Business Letters 14: Getting a Uniform Policy and Quality in Letters
15: Making Letters Uniform in Appearance

PART V Writing the Sales Letter 16: How to Write the Letter That Will "Land" the Order 17:
The Letter That Will Bring An Inquiry 18: How to Close Sales by Letter 19: What to Enclose
With Sales Letters 20: Bringing in New Business by Post Card 21: Making it Easy for the Prospect
to Answer

PART VI The Appeal to Different Classes 22: How to Write Letters That Appeal to Women 23: How
to Write Letters That Appeal to Men 24: How to Write Letters That Appeal to Farmers

What You Can Do With a POSTAGE STAMP

PART I--PREPARING TO WRITE THE LETTER--CHAPTER 1

Last year [1910] fifteen billion letters were handled by the post office--one hundred and fifty
for every person. Just as a thousand years ago practically all trade was cash, and now only
seven per cent involves currency, so nine-tenths of the business is done today by letter while
even a few decades ago it was by personal word. You can get your prospect, turn him into a
customer, sell him goods, settle complaints, investigate credit standing, collect your money--ALL
BY LETTER. And often better than by word of mouth. For, when talking, you speak to only one
or two; by letter you can talk to a hundred thousand in a sincere, personal way. So the letter
is the MOST IMPORTANT TOOL in modern business--good letter writing is the business man's FIRST
REQUIREMENT.

       *       *       *       *       *

There is a firm in Chicago, with a most interesting bit of inside history. It is not a large
firm. Ten years ago it consisted of one man. Today there are some three hundred employees,
but it is still a one-man business. It has never employed a salesman on the road; the head
of the firm has never been out to call on any of his customers.

But here is a singular thing: you may drop in to see a business man in Syracuse or San Francisco,
in Jacksonville or Walla Walla, and should you casually mention this man's name, the chances
are the other will reply: "Oh, yes. I know him very well. That is, I've had several letters
from him and I feel as though I know him."

Sitting alone in his little office, this man was one of the first to foresee, ten years ago,
the real possibilities of the letter. He saw that if he could write a man a thousand miles
away the right kind of a letter he could do business with him as well as he could with the
man in the next block.

So he began talking by mail to men whom he thought might buy his goods--talking to them in
sane, human, you-and-me English. Through those letters he sold goods. Nor did he stop there.
In the same human way he collected the money for them. He adjusted any complaints that arose.
He did everything that any business man could do with customers. In five years he was talking
not to a thousand men but to a million. And today, though not fifty men in the million have
ever met him, this man's personality has swept like a tidal wave across the country and left
its impression in office, store and factory--through letters--letters alone.

This instance is not cited because it marks the employment of a new medium, but because it
shows how the letter has become a universal implement of trade; how a commonplace tool has
been developed into a living business-builder.

The letter is today the greatest potential creator and transactor of business in the world.
But wide as its use is, it still lies idle, an undeveloped possibility, in many a business
house where it might be playing a powerful part.

The letter is a universal implement of business--that is what gives it such great possibilities.
It is the servant of every business, regardless of its size or of its character. It matters
not what department may command its use--wherever there is a business in which men must communicate
with each other, the letter is found to be the first and most efficient medium.

Analyze for a moment the departments of your own business. See how many points there are at
which you could use right letters to good advantage. See if you have not been overlooking some
opportunities that the letter, at a small cost, will help develop.

Do you sell goods? The letter is the greatest salesman known to modern business. It will carry
the story you have to tell wherever the mail goes. It will create business and bring back orders
a thousand miles to the very hand it left. If you are a retailer, the letter will enable you
to talk your goods, your store, your service, to every family in your town, or it will go further
and build a counter across the continent for you.

If you are a manufacturer or wholesaler selling to the trade, the letter will find prospects
and win customers for you in remote towns that salesmen cannot profitably reach.

But the letter is not only a direct salesman, it is a supporter of every personal sales force.
Judiciously centered upon a given territory, letters pave the way for the salesman's coming;
they serve as his introduction. After his call, they keep reminding the prospect or customer
of the house and its goods.

Or, trained by the sales manager upon his men, letters keep them in touch with the house and
key up their loyalty. With regular and special letters, the sales manager is able to extend
his own enthusiasm to the farthest limits of his territory.

So in every phase of selling, the letter makes it possible for you to keep your finger constantly
upon the pulse of trade.

If you are a wholesaler or manufacturer, letters enable you to keep your dealers in line. If
you are a retailer, they offer you a medium through which to keep your customers in the proper
mental attitude toward your store, the subtle factor upon which retail credit so largely depends.
If you sell on instalments, letters automatically follow up the accounts and maintain the inward
flow of payments at a fraction of what any other system of collecting entails.

Do you have occasion to investigate the credit of your customers? The letter will quietly and
quickly secure the information. Knowing the possible sources of the data you desire you can
send forth half a dozen letters and a few days later have upon your desk a comprehensive report
upon the worth and reliability of almost any concern or individual asking credit favors. And
the letter will get this information where a representative would often fail because it comes
full-fledged in the frankness and dignity of your house.

Does your business involve in any way the collecting of money? Letters today bring in ten dollars
for every one that collectors receive on their monotonous round of homes and cashiers' cages.
Without the collection letter the whole credit system would be toppling about our ears.

       *       *       *       *       *

  THE LETTER
    SELLS GOODS
      DIRECT
        TO CONSUMERS
        TO DEALERS
        TO AGENTS

      INDIRECT
        BUILDS UP LISTS
          SECURES NAMES
          ELIMINATES DEAD WOOD
          CLASSIFIES LIVE PROSPECTS

        OPENS UP NEW TERRITORY
          THROUGH CONSUMERS
          CREATES DEMAND
          DIRECTS TRADE

          THROUGH DEALERS
          SHOWS POSSIBLE PROFIT
          INTRODUCES NEW LINES

        AID TO SALESMEN
          EDUCATES TRADE

          CO-OPERATION
          INTRODUCES
          BACKS UP
          KEEPS LINED UP

        AID TO DEALERS
          DRUMS UP TRADE
          HOLDS CUSTOMERS
          DEVELOPS NEW BUSINESS

    HANDLES MEN
      INSTRUCTION
        ABOUT GOODS
        ABOUT TERRITORY
        ABOUT PROSPECTS
        HOW TO SYSTEMIZE WORK

      INSPIRATION
        GINGER TALES
        INSPIRES CONFIDENCE
        SECURES CO-OPERATION
        PROMOTES LOYALTY

    COLLECTS MONEY
      MERCANTILE ACTS - RETAIL ACTS - INSTALLMENT ACTS - PETTY ACTS
        PERSUASION
          EMPHASIZE HOUSE POLICY
          EMPHASIZE ADVANTTAGAE OF GOODS
          ESTABLISHMENT OF FORCED COLLECTIONS
          COST OF FORCED COLLECTIONS
          CASH-UP PROPOSITION
          EXTENSION OF ACCOMMODATION

        PRESSURE
          THROUGH THREATS
            OF SUIT
            OF SHUTTING OFF CREDIT
            OF WRITING TO REFERENCES
          THROUGH LEGAL AVENUES
            THROUGH LEGAL AGENCIES
            HOUSE COLLECTION BUREAUS
            REGULAR COLLECTION BUREAUS
            THROUGH ATTORNEYS

    HANDLES LONG RANGE CUSTOMERS
      SUPPLIES PERSONAL CONTACT
      SHOWS INTEREST IN CUSTOMER
      WINS CONFIDENCE
      DEVELOPS RE-ORDER SCHEMES
      BUILDS UP STEADY TRADE

    HANDLES COMPLAINTS
      ADJUSTS
      INVESTIGATES
      MAKES CAPITAL OUT OF COMPLAINTS
      WINS BACK CUSTOMERS

    DEVELOPS PRESTIGE
      GIVES PERSONALITY TO BUSINESS
      BUILDS UP GOOD WILL
      PAVES WAY FOR NEW CUSTOMERS

The practical uses of the business letter are almost infinite: selling goods, with distant
customers, developing the prestige of the house--there is handling men, adjusting complaints,
collecting money, keeping in touch scarcely an activity of modern business that cannot be carried
on by letter

       *       *       *       *       *

Do you find it necessary to adjust the complaint of a client or a customer? A diplomatic letter
at the first intimation of dissatisfaction will save many an order from cancellation. It will
soothe ruffled feelings, wipe out imagined grievances and even lay the basis for firmer relations
in the future.

So you may run the gamut of your own business or any other. At every point that marks a transaction
between concerns or individuals, you will find some way in which the letter rightly used, can
play a profitable part.

There is a romance about the postage stamp as fascinating as any story--not the romance contained
in sweet scented notes, but the romance of big things accomplished; organizations developed,
businesses built, great commercial houses founded.

In 1902 a couple of men secured the agency for a firm manufacturing extracts and toilet preparations.
They organized an agency force through letters and within a year the manufacturers were swamped
with business, unable to fill the orders.

Then the men added one or two other lines, still operating from one small office. Soon a storage
room was added; then a packing and shipping room was necessary and additional warehouse facilities
were needed. Space was rented in the next building; a couple of rooms were secured across the
street, and one department was located over the river--wherever rooms could be found.

Next the management decided to issue a regular mail-order catalogue and move to larger quarters
where the business could be centered under one roof. A floor in a new building was rented--a
whole floor. The employees thought it was extravagance; the managers were dubious, for when
the business was gathered in from seven different parts of the city, there was still much vacant
floor space.

One year later it was again necessary to rent outside space. The management then decided to
erect a permanent home and today the business occupies two large buildings and the firm is
known all over the country as one of the big factors of mail-order merchandising.

It has all been done by postage stamps.

When the financial world suddenly tightened up in 1907 a wholesale dry goods house found itself
hard pressed for ready money. The credit manager wrote to the customers and begged them to
pay up at once. But the retailers were scared and doggedly held onto their cash. Even the merchants
who were well rated and whose bills were due, played for time.

The house could not borrow the money it needed and almost in despair the president sat down
and wrote a letter to his customers; it was no routine collection letter, but a heart-to-heart
talk, telling them that if they did not come to his rescue the business that he had spent thirty
years in building would be wiped out and he would be left penniless because he could not collect
his money. He had the bookkeepers go through every important account and they found that there
was hardly a customer who had not, for one reason or another, at some time asked for an extension
of credit. And to each customer the president dictated a personal paragraph, reminding him
of the time accommodation had been asked and granted. Then the appeal was made straight from
the heart: "Now, when I need help, not merely to tide me over a few weeks but to save me from
ruin, will you not strain a point, put forth some special effort to help me out, just as I
helped you at such and such a time?"

"If we can collect $20,000," he had assured his associates, "I know we can borrow $20,000,
and that will probably pull us through."

The third day after his letters went out several checks came in; the fourth day the cashier
banked over $22,000; within ten days $68,000 had come in, several merchants paying up accounts
that were not yet due; a few even offered to "help out the firm."

The business was saved--by postage stamps.

Formality to the winds; stereotyped phrases were forgotten; traditional appeals were discarded
and a plain talk, man-to-man, just as if the two were closeted together in an office brought
hundreds of customers rushing to the assistance of the house with which they had been dealing.

Sixty-eight thousand dollars collected within two weeks when money was almost invisible--and
by letter. Truly there is romance in the postage stamp.

Twenty-five years ago a station agent wrote to other agents along the line about a watch that
he could sell them at a low price. When an order came in he bought a watch, sent it to the
customer and used his profit to buy stamps for more letters. After a while he put in each letter
a folder advertising charms, fobs and chains; then rings, cuff buttons and a general line of
jewelry was added. It soon became necessary to give up his position on the railroad and devote
all his time to the business and one line after another was added to the stock he carried.

Today the house that started in this way has customers in the farthermost parts of civilization;
it sells every conceivable product from toothpicks to automobiles and knockdown houses. Two
thousand people do nothing but handle mail; over 22,000 orders are received and filled every
day; 36,000 men and women are on the payroll.

