UP FROM SLAVERY: AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY

By Booker T. Washington

     This volume is dedicated to my Wife
     Margaret James Washington
     And to my Brother John H. Washington
     Whose patience, fidelity,
     and hard work have gone far to make the
     work at Tuskegee successful.

Preface

This volume is the outgrowth of a series of articles, dealing with incidents in my life, which
were published consecutively in the Outlook. While they were appearing in that magazine I was
constantly surprised at the number of requests which came to me from all parts of the country,
asking that the articles be permanently preserved in book form. I am most grateful to the Outlook
for permission to gratify these requests.

I have tried to tell a simple, straightforward story, with no attempt at embellishment. My
regret is that what I have attempted to do has been done so imperfectly. The greater part of
my time and strength is required for the executive work connected with the Tuskegee Normal
and Industrial Institute, and in securing the money necessary for the support of the institution.
Much of what I have said has been written on board trains, or at hotels or railroad stations
while I have been waiting for trains, or during the moments that I could spare from my work
while at Tuskegee. Without the painstaking and generous assistance of Mr. Max Bennett Thrasher
I could not have succeeded in any satisfactory degree.

Introduction

The details of Mr. Washington's early life, as frankly set down in "Up from Slavery," do not
give quite a whole view of his education. He had the training that a coloured youth receives
at Hampton, which, indeed, the autobiography does explain. But the reader does not get his
intellectual pedigree, for Mr. Washington himself, perhaps, does not as clearly understand
it as another man might. The truth is he had a training during the most impressionable period
of his life that was very extraordinary, such a training as few men of his generation have
had. To see its full meaning one must start in the Hawaiian Islands half a century or more
ago.* There Samuel Armstrong, a youth of missionary parents, earned enough money to pay his
expenses at an American college. Equipped with this small sum and the earnestness that the
undertaking implied, he came to Williams College when Dr. Mark Hopkins was president. Williams
College had many good things for youth in that day, as it has in this, but the greatest was
the strong personality of its famous president. Every student does not profit by a great teacher;
but perhaps no young man ever came under the influence of Dr. Hopkins, whose whole nature was
so ripe for profit by such an experience as young Armstrong. He lived in the family of President
Hopkins, and thus had a training that was wholly out of the common; and this training had much
to do with the development of his own strong character, whose originality and force we are
only beginning to appreciate.

     * For this interesting view of Mr. Washington's education, I
     am indebted to Robert C. Ogden, Esq., Chairman of the Board
     of Trustees of Hampton Institute and the intimate friend of
     General Armstrong during the whole period of his educational
     work.

