PUNCH,

  OR, THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

  VOLUME 98.

  MARCH 8, 1890.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE LONDON COUNTY COUNCIL AND THE LYCEUM THEATRE.

APPEAL OF MR. HENRY IRVING. RESULT.

(A not impossible Extract from Next Year's Morning Papers.)

Yesterday, before the Theatres Committee of the London County Council, the appeal of MR. HENRY
IRVING (the well-known actor and manager) against the decision of the Sub-Committee to refuse
a licence to the Lyceum Theatre, came on for hearing.

After MR. HENRY IRVING (who appeared in person) had addressed the Committee at some length,
dwelling upon the character of the pieces he had produced during his management, and the care
and expense with which they had been mounted, several members of the Committee expressed a
wish to put questions to him, which MR. IRVING promised to answer to the best of his ability.

MR. HECKLEBURY. I think you told us that Hamlet was one of your favourite parts? Is it not
the fact that the chief character in the play drives his fiancée to madness and suicide by
his cruelty, slays her father and brother, together with his own step-father, and procures
the death of two of his school-fellows?

MR. IRVING admitted that this was so. (Sensation.)

MR. HECKLEBURY. That is all I wanted to ask you.

MR. FUSSLER. I understand that you have produced a play called Othello on more than one occasion;
perhaps you will inform us whether the following passages are in your opinion suitable for
public declamation? (Mr. FUSSLER then proceeded to read several extracts to which he objected
on account of their offensive signification.)

MR. IRVING protested that SHAKSPEARE, and not himself, was responsible for such passages.

MR. FUSSLER. Unfortunately, SHAKSPEARE is not before us--and you are. You admit that you have
produced a play containing lines such as I have just read? That is enough for Us.

MR. MEDLAM. Unless I am mistaken, the hero in Othello is not only a murderer but a suicide?

MR. IRVING. Undoubtedly. (Sensation.)

MR. MEDLAM. We have heard something of a piece called The Bells. I seldom attend theatres myself,
except in the exercise of my public functions, but I do happen to have seen that particular
play on one occasion. Does my memory mislead me in saying, that you committed a brutal and
savage murder in the course of the drama?

MR. IRVING said that, as a matter of fact, the murder took place many years before the curtain
rose--otherwise, the Member's memory was entirely accurate.

MR. MEDLAM. Whenever the murder was committed, it remains undetected, and the criminal escapes
all penalty--is not that the case?

MR. IRVING urged that the Nemesis was worked out by the murderer's own conscience.

MR. MEDLAM said that was all nonsense; a person's conscience could not be made visible on the
stage, and here a murderer was represented as dying several years after his crime, in his own
bedroom, respected by all who knew him. Did MR. IRVING intend to tell them that such a spectacle
was calculated to deter an intending murderer, or did he not? That was the plain question.

MR. IRVING thought that intending murderers formed so inappreciable an element in his usual
audiences, that they might safely be left out of the calculation.

MR. MEDLAM. But you might have an intending murderer among your audience, I suppose?

MR. IRVING'S reply was not audible in the reporters' gallery.

MR. PARSEEKER. I should like to hear what you have to say about duelling, MR. IRVING--I mean,
is it, or is it not, a practice sanctioned by the laws of this country?

MR. IRVING said that he did not quite understand the drift of such a question; but, since they
asked him, he should say that duelling was distinctly illegal.

MR. PARSEEKER. You will understand the drift of my question directly, MR. IRVING. I have made
it my business to acquaint myself with your dramatic career, and I find that you have played
as hero at various times in Romeo and Juliet, Hamlet, The Corsican Brothers, and The Dead Heart,
besides Macbeth. Am I wrong in saying that in each of these pieces you fight a duel?

MR. IRVING. No. I fight a duel in each of them, except Macbeth, in which there is no duel,
only a hand-to-hand combat. I do commit a murder in Macbeth.

A MEMBER. MR. IRVING'S tastes seem rather to run in the direction of murders. (Laughter.)

After the report of the Official Censor upon the general tone of the Lyceum plays during the
last fifteen years had been read a second time and adopted, the Chairman, without more than
a formal consultation with his colleagues, proceeded to announce the decision of the Committee.
He said that they had not come to their present conclusion without long and anxious deliberation.
They were now the constituted guardians of the public morals, and must fulfil their functions
without fear or favour. (Applause.) They must look at the character of the performances at
each theatre, considering only whether they were or were not beneficial to morality. In the
past, under a régime happily now at an end, public opinion had been shamefully lax, and official
control purely nominal; plays had been repeatedly performed, and even welcomed as classics,
which he did not hesitate to say were full of incidents that were revolting to all well-regulated
minds. SHAKSPEARE, who, with his undoubted talents, should have known better, was, so far from
being an exception, one of the worst offenders. The Council must free themselves from the shackles
of conventional tolerance. (Applause.) Evil was evil--murder was murder--coarseness was coarseness--whether
treated by SHAKSPEARE or anybody else. Nor could the Committee shut their eyes to the fact
that Mr. IRVING'S histrionic ability, and his popularity with those who attended his exhibitions
could only intensify the injurious effect which such representations must have upon young and
impressionable minds. In his opinion, much as he regretted having to say so, the Lyceum was
nothing less than a School of Murder. It aggravated rather than extenuated the evil to be told,
as they had been told, that all these deeds of violence had been represented on the stage with
every aid which money, art and research could give. Again, was it desirable that the Democracy
should derive their ideas of the family life of crowned heads from being admitted into the
scandalous secrets of the household of Hamlet? Or did they wish to see an injured husband following
the example of Othello? A thousand times no. These things must be stopped. The Council was
very far from taking a Puritanical view of the question--(applause)--they fully recognised
that the stage was a necessary social evil, and, as such, must be tolerated until the public
taste was sufficiently purified to refuse it further countenance; but, in the meantime, the
Council must insure that such exhibitions as they were prepared to sanction were of a kind
consistent with the preservation of good manners, decorum, and of the public peace--(applause)--none
of which conditions, in the unanimous opinion of the Committee, was fulfilled by the class
of entertainment which the appellant IRVING had, by his own admission, persisted in providing.
On those grounds alone the Committee dismissed the Appeal, and declared the Lyceum Theatre
closed till further notice. He might say, however, that they might possibly be induced, after
a certain interval, to reconsider the question, and allow the theatre to be reopened on MR.
IRVING'S undertaking to produce dramas of an entirely unobjectionable character in future.
(MR. IRVING begged for some more definite leading as to the dramas alluded to.) The Chairman
said that he had been informed that an illustrated periodical called Punch was publishing a
series of Moral Dramas, in which the sentiments and incidents were alike irreproachable. Let
MR. IRVING promise to confine himself to these, and the Council would see about it. ( MR. IRVING
then withdrew, without, however, having given any definite undertaking, and the Committee adjourned.)

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The Eiffel Tower is 1000 feet high; if the Forth Bridge were put up
    on end, it would be 5280 feet in height. The tower has in its
    construction 7500 tons of iron; the bridge has 53,000 tons of the
    best steel. The tower was made in about six months; the bridge has
    required seven years. The Eiffel Tower is a wonderful thing; but,
    then, how much more wonderful is the Forth Bridge!"--Illustrated
    London News.

  The Bridge. You took lots of beating, my sky-scraping friend,
          But  BENJAMIN BAKER has compassed that end;
          I am sure Monsieur  EIFFEL himself would allow
          That the Bridge licks the Tower; so where are you now?

  The Tower. J'y suis et j'y reste, my big friend and great rival,
          I hope for a long and a glorious survival;
          But don't mind admitting--all great souls are frank--
          That you--for the present at least--take first rank
          'Midst the mighty achievements adorning our sphere
          Of our latest of Titans, the Great Engineer.

  The Bridge. All hail, Engineering! No wonder you're proud
          Of a work in whose honour all praises are loud;
          No wonder 'tis opened by princes and peers
          Amidst technical triumph and popular cheers;
          No wonder that  BENJAMIN BAKER feels glad,
          Sir  JOHN FOWLER and  COOPER quite other than sad.
          'Twas a very big job, 'tis a very big day,
          And the whole country joins in the Scotchmen's Hooray!

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

What train of thought was it that led the indefatigable PERCY FITZGERALD to write, The Story
of Bradshaw's Guide, which appears in one of the most striking wrappers that can be seen on
a railway book-stall? How pleasant if we could obtain a real outside coat-pocket railway guide
just this size. It is a pity that the Indefatigable and Percy-vering One did not apply to Mr.
Punch for permission to reprint the page of Bradshaw which appeared in Mr. Punch's Bradshaw's
Guide, marvellously illustrated by BENNETT, many years ago. This magnum opus in parvo is really
interesting and amusing, but if there is one thing more than another which he who runs and
reads desiderates of an author writing of time-tables and guides, it is accuracy. Now, in one
particular instance, our PERCY is inaccurate. He writes: "Close on fifty years have passed
by, and the guide with every year has continued, like Mr. Stiggins, to be a 'swellin' wisibly.'"
The Brave Baron challenges PERCY to mortal combat on this issue, defying him to prove that
Mr. Stiggins was ever described within the limits of Pickwick, as "swellin' wisibly." Will
the erudite biographer of Bradshaw be surprised to learn, that, in the first place, the description
"swellin' wisibly" was never applied to Mr. Stiggins at all, but was used by Mr. Weller senior,
as illustrating the condition of a "young 'ooman on the next form but two" from where he was
sitting, who had "drank nine breakfast cups and a half, and," he goes on to whisper to Sam,
"She's a swellin' wisibly before my wery eyes." In the second place, the expression was employed
at a time when Mr. Stiggins was not present, but, in his official character, as "a deligate
from the Dorking branch of our society, Brother Stiggins" was in attendance downstairs. With
these two exceptions, one mistake of omission, and one of commission, the Baron confers his
imprimatur on the Story of Bradshaw's Guide, and recommends it to the public.

For a first-rate, short, well-constructed, and sensationally interesting story, let me recommend
my readers to The Peril of Richard Pardon. Only one possible objection do I see to it, and
that is a matter of my own private opinion, which is, that Richard Pardon is the most irritating
idiot ever created by an author. For the sake of the story, it was necessary that he should
be weak; but he is such a very backboneless man, and yet quite strong enough to support the
fabric of the plot. Then one is cleverly put off the scent by a certain Richard Mortlock, from
whom the reader expects much more than ever comes out. The sequel of this capital novelette
must be Richard Mortlock. I have quite forgotten to say that The Peril of Richard Pardon is
by Mr. B. L. FARJEON, whom I have to thank for making time pass too rapidly on many a previous
occasion. The Hour Before Dinner Series--not that this is the genuine title, but it might be,
and is a suggestion--is a real "boon and a blessing" to those who, like Podgers, in JOHN HOLLINGSHEAD'S
immortal farce, "only have a 'our," not for "their dinner," but for their novel-reading throughout
the day. FARJEON soit béni! (Signed) The Baron de Book-Worms.

       *       *       *       *       *

AN EVENTFUL WEEK.

(From a Prophetic Journal of Events, looming possibly somewhere a-head.)

Monday.--London, having now been without coal for sixteen weeks, and people having kept their
kitchen-fires alight by burning their banisters and bedroom furniture, several noted West-end
houses undertake to deliver the arms and legs of drawing-room chairs ("best screened"), at
£26 5s. a ton for cash.

Tuesday.--All the petroleum in the country having now been exhausted for heating purposes,
and Piccadilly being, in consequence, illuminated by a night-light in one lamp-post in every
three, a "Discontented Ratepayer" commences a correspondence in the Times, commenting on the
matter in a severe temper.

Wednesday.--Several Colliery Owners, in despair, descend into their own mines for the purpose
of trying to raise some coal themselves, but their employés, declining to assist in hauling
them up again, they are left to their fate, and nothing more is heard of them.

Thursday.--A Syndicate of Noblemen determine to try for coal on the spot, by sinking a mine
in the middle of Belgrave Square, when, on arriving at a depth of 2500 feet, they come across
an active volcano, which proves such a nuisance to the neighbourhood, that the Vestry is applied
to by several parishioners to put a stop to it. On their sending the Sanitary Inspector to
investigate the matter, he orders the mine to be closed. On this being done, the scheme collapses,
several of the Syndicate, as a consequence, in despair emigrating to Tierra del Fuego.

Friday.--A set of studs and a drawing-room tiara of "Best Wallsend," are shown in a window
of a jeweller's in Bond Street, and attract such crowds that the Police have to be called in
to prevent a block in the traffic, and keep the pavement clear for foot passengers.

Saturday.--Furious street riots commenced by a noble Duke in Grosvenor Place pulling up the
wood pavement in front of his house, and having it carted rapidly into his coal-cellars. The
move becoming popular, spreads in all directions, with the result of leading to serious collisions
with the local Vestry Authorities, who call in the aid of the Police.

Sunday.--The Archbishop of CANTERBURY preaches to an enormous congregation in Westminster Abbey,
on the "Plague of Darkness" in Egypt by the light of a one-farthing candle. This being, by
some misadventure, inadvertently knocked over, the assembled multitude are enabled to realise,
to some extent, the gloomy horrors of the situation as described by the reverend preacher,
and, stumbling over each other, retire to unlighted streets and fireless hearths, to face another
week of the consequences of the "Trade Problem," with the solution of which they have been
brought face to face.

       *       *       *       *       *

GRAND OLD BILLEE.[A]

    "It is stated that the captaincy of Deal Castle ... is to be offered
    to Mr. GLADSTONE, the captaincy being in the gift of the Lord Warden
    of the Cinque Ports."--Daily News.

  There were three sailors of London city
    Who found their (Party) ship at sea,
  Although with programmes, authorised and unauthorised,
    Most carefully they had loaded she.

  There was greedy JOE and glosing JIMMY,
    And the third was named Grand Old BILLEE;
  And they were reduced to the piteous prospect
    Of grubbing on one split (Party) pea.

  Says greedy  JOE to glosing JIMMY,
    "For captaincy I am hungaree."
  To greedy JOE says glosing JIMMY,
    "Then you and I must get rid of he."

  Says greedy JOE to glosing JIMMY,
    "With one another we should agree.
  With me as Captain, and you as First Mate,
    If it wasn't for Grand Old BILLEE."

  "Oh, BILLEE, we're going to chuck you over,
    So prepare for a bath in the Irish Sea."
  When BILL received this information,
    His dexter optic winked he.

  "First let me take an observation
    From the main-top over the Irish Sea!"
  "Make haste, make haste," says glosing JIMMY,
    Whilst  JOE he fumbled his snickersnee.

  So BILLY went up to the main-top-gallant mast,
    And began to count o'er the Irish Sea;
  And he scarce had come to eighty-six, or so,
    When up he jumps. "Land Ho!" shouts he.

  "I can see Ould Ireland! There's the Bay of Dublin;
    With a distant glimpse of Amerikee.
  And the Parliament upon College Green, bhoys,
    With a right good glass I can (almost) see."

  So they went ashore, and the crew when mustered
    Kicked Guzzling  JOE, and cashiered JIMMEE.
  But as for Grand Old BILLEE, they gave him
    Of the old "Deal Castle" the captaincy! Hadn't supposed any such thing;
hadn't, indeed, referred to the matter. Only looked at him inquiringly,
as ATTORNEY-GENERAL for IRELAND, trudging stolidly through the mire,
attempted to answer CHARLES RUSSELL. "If I am Irish Secretary, as
TREVELYAN once said, I'm an English gentleman, and if you suppose I have
any sympathy with the sort of thing that goes on at Clongorey, you're
mistaken. But I am answerable for law and order, and law and order I
maintain."

Thus ARTHUR, quite querulous. Have noticed sometimes, when a man hopelessly in the wrong, he
is inclined to turn on his best friend and rend him. This Clongorey business, truly, a bad
one. When, just now, SEXTON moved adjournment of House, in order to call attention to it, Conservatives
rose with one accord and went forth. They know WINDBAG SEXTON of old, and thought he was probably
going to favour them with one of his usual exercises. Better this once have stopped and listened.
Interesting to see how two hundred English gentlemen would have voted had they learned all
about Clongorey. Happily less, far less, than usual of the windbag about SEXTON. His story,
in truth, needed no assistance from wind instrument. Farms at Clongorey simply strips of reclaimed
bog land, on which struggling tenants had built miserable shanties; got along in good times;
just managed to keep body and soul together, and pay the rent--rent on land they had literally
created, and for huts they had actually built. Two years ago came a flood; swamped them. Asked
landlord to make temporary reduction on rent, to tide over troublesome times. Landlord offered
a pitiful trifle. What was thought of this shown by County Court Judge, who, on cases that
came before him, permanently reduced rent by thrice amount of temporary reduction proffered.
Judge further suggested that arrears should be wiped out. Landlord declined to listen to suggestion.
Tenants drowned out by the cruel river, dragged out by the relentless landlord. Stood by whilst
the emergency men wrenched roofs off their huts, and set fire to the ruins. A neighbour offered
them shelter, enlarging out-buildings on her farm. Down came the police on workmen engaged
in this act of charity. A hundred police, paid for by tax-payer, swooped down with fixed bayonets
on Clongorey, arrested labourers, handcuffed them, marched them off to police barracks.

This is the simple Story of Clongorey, reduced to facts not denied by BALFOUR or ATTORNEY-GENERAL,
divested of all incidental matters alleged, such as the parading of the handcuffed prisoners
through the crowded streets of the town, the police making raids among the crowd, naturally
gathered to see the sight. "One man had his eyeball burst, another his skull broken." CHARLES
RUSSELL, not given to exaggerated views, somewhat reputable as a legal authority, with law-books
in hand stated his opinion that, apart from incidents of the foray, magistrates and police
were acting illegally.

"Well," said LONG LAWRANCE, turning his back on House of Commons, "I'm glad they've made me
a Judge. Have ever been what is called a good Party-man; believe in BALFOUR; always ready to
back him up with my vote; but, dash my wig (now that I'm going to wear a full-bottomed one)
if I like voting to render possible the repetition of a business like this at Clongorey. Must
begin to cultivate a judicial frame of mind; so I'll go for a walk on the terrace." LAWRANCE'S
view evidently taken in other quarters of Conservative camp, for, after diligent whipping up,
Ministerial majority reduced to 42. Business done.--Address agreed to.

Tuesday.--Midst a mass of Notices of Motion, a sea of troublous words, GEORGE TREVELYAN drops
in a score which shines forth with light of common sense. "Why," he asks, "does not Parliament
rise at beginning of July, sitting through winter months for whatsoever longer period may be
necessary for the due transaction of public business?"

Why not? On Friday, the 14th March, TREVELYAN will put the question in formal way before House,
so that they may vote on it. Conservative majority may well be expected to support it. No new
thing; simply revival of older fashion. Our great grandfathers knew better than to swelter
in London through July, pass the Twelfth of August at Westminster, and go off forlorn and jaded
in the early days of September. Hunting men may have objections to raise; but then hunting
men, though eminently respectable class, are not everybody, not even a majority; may even be
spared to go hunting as usual. WALPOLE hunted like anything, yet in WALPOLE'S day Parliament
oftener met in November than at any other time of year, and with due provision for Christmas
holidays, sat into early summer. The thing can be done, and ought to be done--will be done
if TREVELYAN sticks to it. Not nearly such a revolution in Procedure as that which, only a
couple of years ago, established the automatic close of Debate at midnight. Who is there would
like to go back to the old order of things in this respect?

Got into Committee of Supply to-night on Vote for Houses of Parliament. TONY LUMPKIN turned
up again. Last Session, in moment of inspiration, TONY spluttered forth a joke; likened new
staircase in Westminster Hall to SPURGEON'S Pulpit. It is just as like the River Thames or
Finsbury Park; but that's where the fun lies. Incongruity is the soul of wit. Everybody laughed
last Session when TONY, with much gurgling, produced this bantling; brings it out again to-night.

"Can't have too much of a good thing, TOBY," he says, wrestling with his exuberant shirt-front,
and rubbing his hair the wrong way. "Always had my joke, you know, down in the country. Remember
the little affair of the circuitous drive? This is what you may call my urban class of humour.
SPURGEON'S Pulpit, Ha, ha!"--and TONY walked off delighted with himself.

Business done.--Supplementary Estimates.

Thursday.--Pity that prejudice should be allowed to stand in way of doing the best thing. Talk
just now of pending vacancies on the Bench; such talk recurrent; sometimes more talk than vacancy.
"But I pass from that," as ARTHUR BALFOUR says, when gliding over knotty points of question
put from Irish Benches. If not vacancy to-morrow, sure to be within week, or month, or year.
Why not make JEMMY LOWTHER a Judge? It is true he has no practice at the Bar; but he was "called,"
and, I believe, went. That is a detail; what we desire in our Judges are, a certain impressive
air, a striking presence, and an art of rotund speech. JAMES has played many parts in his time--Parliamentary
Secretary to the Poor-Law Board, Under-Secretary for the Colonies, Chief Secretary for Ireland,
and Steward of the Jockey Club. In this last capacity he, a year ago, temporarily assumed judicial
functions. How well he bore himself! with what dignity! with what awful suavity! with what
irreproachable integrity!

That this manner is ingrained, is testified to on the occasions, too infrequent, when JEMMY
rises in House. To-night BUCHANAN asked HOME SECRETARY a question, involving disrespect of
rabbit-coursing. JAMES, the great patron of British sport in all developments, slowly rose,
and impressively interposed. Was his Right Hon. friend, the HOME SECRETARY, aware that rabbit-coursing,
conducted under recognised and established regulations, affords pastime to large masses of
the industrious population who are unable, from their pecuniary circumstances, to indulge in
the more expensive forms of sport? Those were JEMMY'S words, each syllable deliberately enunciated.
What a study for the aspirant to Parliamentary style!

Kindly Earl of RAVENSWORTH, who still haunts the Chamber in which Lord ESLINGTON once had a
place, chanced to hear this question. Delighted with it. Wished he could introduce something
of that sort in House of Lords. Went about Lobby with his faithful umbrella (companion of his
daily life, wet or shine) murmuring the musical phrases. That all very well, but not quite
all. Easy enough to catch the trick of speech; who but JEMMY LOWTHER can add the indefinable
personal gifts which invest even the commonplace with impressiveness?

Business done.--Lots. Ministers bring in Bills by the half-dozen.

Friday.--Such alouettes! SAGE OF QUEEN ANNE'S GATE, who can't abear scandals, brought on alleged
iniquity of Government in connection with Cleveland Street affair. Got off his speech; ATTORNEY-GENERAL
replied; then SAGE proposed to offer few supplementary remarks. In course of these appeared
frank declaration of his private opinion that everything the MARKISS says must be taken cum
grano Salis-BURY; only the way he put it was much worse than that. COURTNEY asked him to withdraw.
"Shan't!" said the SAGE. Then COURTNEY named him (calling him, by the way, "Mr. HENRY LABOUCHERE.")
OLD MORALITY, rising to height of duty and occasion, moved that SAGE be suspended.

"Oh, hang it!" cried Opposition--"can't agree to that."

Divided on proposal; beaten, and SAGE hung up for a week. "He'll be pretty well dried by that
time," grimly muttered the ATTORNEY-GENERAL, whom the SAGE had stroked the wrong way.

Business done.--Vote on Account agreed to.

       *       *       *       *       *

"A DOSE OF GREGORY."

It is some time since I have tasted a dramatic mixture so much to my liking as Mr. GRUNDY'S
Gregory's Mixture, known to the public, and likely to be highly popular with the public too,
as A Pair of Spectacles. Art more refined than Mr. HARE'S, as Benjamin Goldfinch in this piece,
has not been seen on the stage for many a long day; nor, except in A Quiet Rubber, do I remember
Mr. HARE having had anything like this particular chance of displaying his rare skill as a
genuine comedian of the very first rank.

Everyone remembers, or ought to remember, DICKENS'S "Brothers Cheeryble." Well, Benjamin Goldfinch
has all the milk of human kindness which characterised these philanthropic Gemini. As to moral
characteristics, he is these two single gentlemen rolled into one, while physically, his exterior
rather conjures up the picture of Harold Skimpole, though his eyes beam with the youthful impetuosity
of old Martin Chuzzlewit when he caned Pecksniff. To this delightfully guileless good Samaritan,
the rough, nay brutal, Uncle Gregory from Sheffield, with a heart apparently as hard as his
own ware, is a contrast most skilfully brought out by Mr. CHARLES GROVE. Though the part of
Uncle Gregory does not require the delicate treatment demanded by that of Goldfinch, yet it
might very easily be overdone; but never once does Mr. GROVE overshoot the mark, although the
author has imperilled its success by too frequent repetition of a catch-phrase, "I know that
man," "I know that father," "I know that friend," and so forth, which is sometimes on the verge
of becoming wearisome. Indeed, even now, I should be inclined to cut out at least half a dozen
of these variations of the original phrase. His short but sufficient representation of the
effects of too much lunch on Uncle Gregory is masterly. So realistic, in the best sense of
the word, is the impersonation of these two characters, that one is inclined to resent the
brutality of Uncle Gregory, when one sees the change suddenly effected in the sweet and sympathetic
nature of Benjamin Goldfinch, and when we see him suspicious of everybody, and even of his
young wife, whom he loves so dearly, we murmur, "Oh, what a noble mind is here o'erthrown!"
And, indeed, but that it is impossible to help laughing from first to last, the final scenes
of this charming piece, replete with touches of real human nature, would send an audience away
crying with joy, to think of the possible goodness existent in the world, of which one occasionally
hears, but so seldom sees, except on the stage.

Not a part in this piece is even indifferently played. The two young men, Mr. RUDGE HARDING,
and Mr. SYDNEY BROUGH, both very good, the latter having better dramatic opportunities, and
making the most of them. Mr. DODSWORTH just the very man for Friend Lorimer; Mr. CATHCART is
Joyce, the Butler; and of the two Shoemakers, respectively played by Mr. KNIGHT and Mr. BYRON,
I can only say, "I know those shoemakers."

As for the Ladies, Miss KATE RORKE looks very pretty, and acts charmingly as young Mrs. Goldfinch;
Miss HORLOCK is very nice as Lucy Lorimer, delivering herself of a little bit of picturesque
sentiment about feeding the birds (Les Petits Oiseaux is the title of the old French piece,
if I remember rightly) in a rather too forcedly ingenuous manner, but behaving most naturally
in the interrupted courtship scene, and being generally very sympathetic. I mustn't omit Miss
HUNTER, pink of parlour-maids, not the conventional flirty soubrette nor the low-comedy waiting-woman,
but a self-respecting, responsible young person, conscious of her own and her young man's moral
rectitude, and satisfied with quarter-day and the Post-Office Savings Bank.

Only one single fault have I to find with the piece, and as it cannot be entirely remedied,
though it might be modified, I will mention it. The title is a mistake; that can't be altered
now: but the attempt at illustrating the double-meaning conveyed in the title by the practical
"business" of changing the material glasses and thus hampering the actor by the necessity of
altering his expression and his manner in accordance with his deposition or his resumption
of these spectacles, seems to me to be childish to a degree, and tends towards turning this
simple tale into a kind of fairy story, in which the spectacles play the part of a magic potion
or charm, such as Mr. W. S. GILBERT would use in his Creatures of Impulse, his Fogarty's Fairy,
and his Sorcerer, whenever he wishes to bring about a sudden and otherwise inexplicable transition
from one mental attitude to another, and entirely opposite. But for the earnestness of the
actors, this reductio ad Fairydum would have imparted an air of unreality to the characters
and incidents which does not belong to them. The plot is a model of neat construction; and,
to everyone at all in doubt as to where to pass an agreeable evening, I say, "Go to the Garrick
Theatre." By the way, a Correspondent suggests that A Pair of Spectacles is an illustration
of "The Hares Preservation Bill,"

  JACK IN A BOX.

       *       *       *       *       *

A DISCLAIMER.--The Right Hon. Mr. HENRY CHAPLIN, M.P., Anti-muzzle-man and Minister of Agriculture,
wishes to deny explicitly that, when, by a lapsus calami, he was made to describe Mr. TAY PAY
O'CONNOR as "peeping from behind the Speaker's chair," he ever intended to fix upon that honourable
gentleman the sobriquet of "Peeping Tom"; nor had he any idea of sending him to Coventry. What
he did say was----but it doesn't much matter what "he did say," what he didn't say is so much
more to the point.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE STANLEY AND AFRICAN EXHIBITION.--One of the largest contributors will be Mr. BONNY. This
sounds well; at all events, it's BONNY. The French, who are now welcoming their own private
African hero, le Capitaine TRIVIER, back to his native land, may be induced to place their
trophies under Mr. BONNY'S care, as, if Imperialists, they can then say they have a BONNY-part
in this Exhibition.

       *       *       *       *       *

FROM AN INDIGNANT CORRESPONDENT.--"Sir,--I sent you a joke three months ago, which you have
not used. Since then I have made arrangements for the joke to appear elsewhere." [What a chance
we have lost!--ED.]

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

"THE BIG GUN!"

Grand Old Gunner loquitur:--

  'Tis a regular "Mons Meg" of a cannon!
    The swabs, they have been every one,
  Very hard the Grand Old (Gunner) Man on,
    But what will they think of this gun?
  Double shotted, and charged to the muzzle,
    And trained by my hands and my eye,
  The foes I conceive it will puzzle,
              And tempt them to fly.

  Mere skirmishing, up to the present,
    With pop-guns, and flint-locks, and such;
  But now! They will not find it pleasant,
    When once this huge touch-hole I touch.
  Mighty CÆSAR! I guess they won't like it;
    Great SCOTT! won't it just raise a din?
  And don't they just wish they could spike it
              Before we begin?

  The fun of it is, they have furnished
    The filling themselves, unaware.
  The shot they've cast, polished, and burnished,
    The powder were prompt to prepare.
  It's pitiful, quite, their position,
    To see, the unfortunate elves!
  Their carefully-stored ammunition
              Thus turned on themselves.

  Their batteries big it should batter,
    Their trenches should burst and blow up,
  Their forces allied it should scatter,
    It's worse than an Armstrong or Krupp.
  Chain-shot for swift slaughter's not in it,
    For spreading it's better than grape,
  They'll all be smashed up in a minute,
              Scarce one can escape.

  Now, MORLEY, my boy, and brave PARNELL,
    I'll lay it; just follow my hand.
  That plain will soon look like a charnel,
    With all that remains of their band;
  The "fragments of him called McCARTY"
    (Referred to, I think, in the song)
  Were huge chunks to the scraps that their Party
              Will show before long.

