No. 3.

       *       *       *       *       *

GEORGE SAND, IN THE MEMOIRS OF CHATEAUBRIAND.

George Sand is about to publish a book called "Memoirs of my Life," which is looked for with
great expectations by both the admirers of her genius and the lovers of scandalous gossip.
It is certain that if she makes a clean breast of her adventures and experiences, the world
will have reason both for admiration and disgust over the confessions: admiration for the generosity
of her character--for she never did a mean thing, and probably never had a mean thought--disgust
at the recklessness with which she has cast off the delicacy and modesty of woman, and undermined
the morality on which the holiest institutions of society depend. The interest with which the
French public look forward to the book may be understood from the enormous price she has received
for it between $30,000 and $40,000. The Credit, a most respectable daily journal of Paris,
has purchased of the publisher, for $12,000, the right of issuing the first six volumes in
its feuilleton, in advance of the regular publication, and will soon commence them.

Chateaubriand, in one of the latest chapters of his Posthumous Memoirs, speaks at some length
of George Sand. The verdict of the most illustrious French literary man of the age which has
just closed, upon this most remarkable writer of the age now passing, is every way interesting,
and we translate it for the International from the columns of La Presse, as follows:

Madame Sand possesses talents of the first order. Her descriptions are true as those of Rousseau
in his Reveries, and those of Bernardin St. Pierre in his Studies. Her free style is stained
by none of the current faults of the day. Lelia, a book painful to read, and offering only
here and there one of the delicious scenes which may be found in Indiana and Valentine, is
nevertheless a master-work of its kind. Of the nature of a debauch, it is yet without passion,
though it produces the disturbance of passion. The soul is wanting, but still it weighs upon
the heart. Depravity of maxims, insult to rectitude of life, could not go farther; but over
the abyss descends the talent of the author. In the valley of Gomorrah the dew falls nightly
upon the Dead Sea.

The works of Madame Sand, those romances, the poetry of matter, are born of the epoch. Notwithstanding
her superiority, it is to be feared that the author has narrowed the circle of her readers
by the very character of her writings. George Sand will never be a favorite with persons of
all ages. Of two men equal in genius, one of whom preaches order and the other disorder, the
first will attract the greater number of hearers. The human race never give unanimous applause
to what wounds morality, on which repose the feeble and the just. We do not willingly associate
with all the recollections of our life those books which caused us the first blush, and whose
pages were not those we learned by heart as we left the cradle: books which we have read only
in secret, which have never been our avowed and cherished companions, and which were never
mingled with either the candor of our sentiments or the integrity of our innocence. Providence
has confined to very straight limits all success which has not its source in goodness, and
has given universal glory as an encouragement for virtue.

I am aware that I reason here like a man whose narrow view does not embrace the vast humanitary
horizon, like a retrograde attached to a ridiculous system of morality, a morality already
passing to decay, and at the best good only for minds without intelligence, in the infancy
of society. There is close at hand the birth of a new gospel, far above the common-places of
this conventional wisdom, which hinders the progress of the human race, and the restoration
to dignity and honor of this poor body, so calumniated by the soul. When women all resort to
the street--when to perform the marriage ceremony it will be enough to open the window and
call on God as witness, priest, and wedding-guest--then all prudery will be destroyed; there
will be espousals everywhere, and we shall rise the same as the birds to the grandeur of nature.
My criticism on books of the sort of George Sand's has then no value except in the vulgar order
of things past, and therefore I trust she will not be offended by it. The admiration I profess
for her ought to make her excuse these remarks, which have their origin in the infelicity of
my age. Once I should have been more carried away by the Muses. Those daughters of heaven were
in times past my lovely mistresses, now they are only my ancient friends. At evening they kept
me company by the fireside, but they soon depart; for I go to bed early, and then they hasten
to take their places around the hearth-stone of Madame Sand.

Without doubt Madame Sand will in this path prove her intellectual omnipotence, but yet she
will please less, because she will be less original. She will fancy she augments her power
by venturing into the depths of these reveries, beneath which we deplorable common mortals
are buried, and she will be mistaken. In fact she is much superior to this extravagance, this
vagueness, this presumptuous balderdash. At the same time that a person endowed with a rare
but too flexible faculty, should be guarded against follies of the higher order, he ought also
to be warned that fantastic compositions, subjective or intimate, painting (so runs the jargon)
are restricted; that their course is in youth; that its springs are drying up every instant,
and that after a number of productions the writer finishes with nothing but weak repetitions.

Is it very likely that Madame Sand will always find the same charm in what she now composes?
Will not the merit and the enthusiasm of twenty lose their value in her mind as the works of
my first days are depreciated in mine? There is nothing changeless except the labors of the
antique muse, and they are sustained by a nobility of manners, a beauty of language, and a
majesty of sentiments, which belong to the entire human species. The fourth book of the Eneid
remains forever exposed to the admiration of men because it is suspended in heaven. The ships
bearing the founder of the Roman Empire,--Dido, the foundress of Carthage, stabbing herself
after having announced Hannibal:

  Exoriare aliquis nostius exossibus ulta.--

Love causing the rivality of Rome and Carthage to leap from the flame of his torch, lighting
with his own hand the funeral pile, whose blaze the fugitive Eneas perceives upon the waves,--is
altogether another thing than the promenade of a dreamer in the woods, or the disappearance
of a libertine who drowns himself in the sea. Madame Sand will, I trust, yet associate her
talents with subjects as durable as her genius.

Madame Sand can only be converted by the preaching of that missionary with bald forehead and
hoary beard, called Time. A voice less austere meanwhile enchains the captive ear of the poet.
In fact, I am persuaded that the talent of Madame Sand has some of its roots in corruption;
in becoming modest she would become commonplace. It would have been otherwise had she always
remained in that sanctuary not frequented by men; her power of love, restrained and concealed
beneath the virginal fillet, would have drawn from her heart those decent melodies which belong
at once to the woman and the angel. However that may be, audacity of ideas and voluptuousness
of manners form a spot not before cleared up by a daughter of Adam, and which, submitted to
a woman's culture, has yielded a harvest of unknown flowers. Let us permit Madame Sand to produce
these perilous marvels till the approach of winter; she will sing no more when the North wind
has come. Meanwhile, less improvident than the grasshopper, let her make provision of glory
for the time when there will be a famine of pleasure. The mother of Musarion was wont to repeat
to her child: "Thou wilt not always be sixteen; will Choereas always remember his oath, his
tears and his caresses?"

For the rest, women have often been seduced, and as it were carried off, by their own youth,
but toward the days of autumn, restored to the maternal hearth, they have added to their harps
the grave or plaintive chord on which either religion or unhappiness finds expression. Old
age is a traveler in the night time; the earth is hidden from sight and he can see nothing
but the heavens shining above his head.

I have not seen Madame Sand dressed in men's clothes or wearing the blouse and the iron-shod
staff of the mountaineer. I have not seen her drinking from the cup of bacchanals and smoking
indolently reclining on a sofa like a sultana,--natural or affected eccentricities which for
me could add nothing to her charms or her genius.

Is she more inspired when she causes a cloud of vapor to rise from her mouth about her hair?
Did Lelia escape from the head of her mother through a burning mist, as Sin, according to Milton,
proceeded from the head of the glorious and guilty archangel amid a whirlpool of smoke? I know
not what passes in the sacred courts; but here below Neamede, Phila, Lais, Gnathene, the witty
Phryne, the despair of the pencil of Apelles, and the chisel of Praxiteles, Leëna, beloved
of Harmodias, the two sisters named Aphyes, because they were small and had large eyes, Dorica,
the fillet of whose locks and embalmed robe were consecrated in the temple of Venus,--all these
enchantresses knew only the perfumes of Arabia. It is true that Madame Sand has on her side
the authority of the Odalisques and the young Mexicans who dance with cigars between their lips.

What effect has Madame Sand had upon me, after the few gifted women, and many charming women
whom I have known--after those daughters of the earth, who like Madame Sand said with Sappho:
"Come, Mother of Love, to our delicious banquets, fill our cups with the nectar of roses?"
As I have placed myself now in fiction and now in reality, the author of Valentine has made
on me two very different impressions.

As for fiction, I do not speak of it, for I ought no longer to understand its language; as
for reality, a man of grave age, cherishing the notions of propriety, attaching as a Christian
the highest value to the timid virtue of woman. I know not how to express my unhappiness at
such a mass of rich endowments bestowed on the prodigal and faithless hours which are spent
and vanish.

       *       *       *       *       *

MARIA BROOKS AND SOUTHEY.

It is well known that our countrywoman MARIA DEL OCCIDENTE was on terms of familiar intimacy
with the poet-laureate, whose admiration of her genius is illustrated in several allusions
to her in his works, and particularly in that passage of "The Doctor" in which she is described
as "the most impassioned and imaginative of all poetesses." Southey superintended the publication
of "Zophiel," in London, and afterward was a frequent correspondent of Mrs. Brooks, during
her residence in New York and in Cuba. Among the souvenirs of Mrs. Brooke's grateful recollection
of his kindness, are two or three short poems commemorating her visits to Keswick, and the
following song, put into a lyrical form by her, from the blank verse of "Madoc."

PRINCE HOEL'S LAY OF LOVE.

  I've harnessed thee, my faithful steed--
  Now, by the ocean, prove thy speed,
  While, as we pass, th' advancing spray
  Shall kiss thy side of glossy gray;--
  Oh! fairer than the ocean foam
  Is that cold maid for whom we roam!
    Her cheek is like the apple flower
  Or summer heavens, at evening hour,
  While, in her tender bashfulness,
  She starts and files my love's excess,
  Tho' dim my brow, beneath its mail,
  As ocean when the sun is pale.
    On, on! until my longing sight,
  Can fix upon that dwelling white,
  Beside a verdant bank that braves
  The ocean's ever-sounding waves;--
  There, all alone, she loves to sing,
  Watching the silver sea-mew's wing.
    In crowded halls, my spirit flies
  To wait upon her; and wasting sighs
  Consume my nights; where'er I turn
  For her I pant, for her I burn,
  Who, like some timid, graceful bird,
  Shrinks from my glance and fears my word.
    I faint; my glow of youth is gone;
  Sleepless at night and sick at morn,
  My strength departs; I droop, I fade,
  Yet think upon that lonely maid,
  And pity her, the while I pine
  That she should spurn a love like mine
    This, Madoc took the harp to play;
  Cold in the earth Prince Hoel lay;
  And Llaian listened, fain to speak
  But wept as if her heart would break.

In this connection, writing of Southey, soon after intelligence was received in this country
of the decay of his intelligence, from her coffee estate in Cuba, Mrs. Brooks says:

    When a child of ten years old I could admire the poem "Madoc,"
    such is the simplicity of its sentiments and the beauty of
    its delineations. Looking it over, here, (amidst the woods and
    canes of that island where repose the bones of Columbus,) the
    song of Prince Hoel attached itself to my thoughts, and has
    been (involuntarily) put into rhyme. This song may be found in
    the first part of the poem mentioned. The lyric metre in which
    it now appears must rather injure than improve the belle
    nature of the original. Still I wish it to be published, as
    coming from my hand; because it gives me an opportunity of
    expressing, in some degree, my unqualified admiration of its
    composer. Well may he be called THE POET AND HISTORIAN OF THE
    NEW WORLD. To justify this appellation, one has only to look
    at Madoc and the History of Brazil. I have heard, from a
    friend, of a rumor that Southey is ill; and, as it is feared,
    irrecoverably.

This intelligence is unexpected as it is melancholy; for who had better reason to look forward
to a protracted existence upon earth, than he who has written more than any other man except
Voltaire--than Robert Southey, perfectly proportioned in person, just in mind, regular in his
way of living, and benevolent in all his doings?

During that Spring which hallowed the last revolution in France, (that of July, 1830,) I saw
this bard of the lakes surrounded by his most amiable and certainly beautiful family; one only
individual of which, his "Dark-eyed Birtha, timid as a dove," was then absent. I must ever
believe that a common reputation for beauty depends more on circumstances than on any particular
faultlessness in the person said generally to be handsome.

Byron, in some one of the letters or conversations, written either by or for him, says, or
is said to say: "I saw Southey (naming the time) at Lord Holland's, and would give Newstead
for his head and shoulders." This quotation is from memory, but, I trust, right in sentiment,
though it may not be perfectly so in words; but I have seen little else concerning the physique
either of him "Who framed of Thalaba that wild and wondrous song," or of those to whom his
blood is transmitted. Still, at the time I have mentioned, it was impossible to look unmoved
upon so much perfection of color, sound and expression as arrested my eyes at Keswick; in the
tasteful and hospitable dwelling of him who brought to earth that "Glendoveer," "one of the
fairest race of Heaven," (the heaven of India,) who averted the designs of Arvalan, in that
glowing and magnificent poem "The Curse of Kehama."

The Herodotus of Brazil, himself, had seen, when I first saw him, fifty-seven winters; but
his once dark locks, though sprinkled with snow, were still curling as if childhood had not
passed; and looked wild and thick as those of his own Thalaba. A "chevelure" like this, with
black eyes, aquiline features, and figure tall and slender, without attenuation, assisted in
presenting such an image as is seldom viewed in reality; while the effect of the whole was
enhanced by easy, unpretending and affectionate manners.

The eldest daughter of this Minstrel of the Mountains was called Edith May, (the name of May
having been given because she was born in the month of blossoms.) This lady (now Mrs. Warter,)
was the bard himself with a different sex and complexion. "Her features his, but softened."
Her gentle, graceful deportment was in perfect harmony with flaxen hair tinted with gold; and
the outline of her father's face was embellished by the blue eyes and other delicate colors
of her too sensitive mother, (named, also, Edith,) who had been chosen for love alone. The
second daughter, Birtha, as I have said, was absent. The third, Catherine, "between the woman
and the child," had hazel eyes and fine features, altogether with a delicate shape and complexion.
Cuthbert, the only son, was a boy of eleven or twelve, with an open, expressive countenance.

I could not help remarking that in the names of each individual of this pleasing group was
heard that sound produced by the letter T followed by its companion H, which is so difficult
to the organs of foreigners, but which, when tenderly pronounced, brings to mind the down of
a swan or the wing of a dove. Edith, Birtha, Catherine, Cuthbert, Southey. If affection and
innocence can insure felicity on earth, the course of their lives must be smooth as waters
where the swan reposes; for certainly all their movements seemed innocent as those of the dove.

The month of March was nearly half gone, when I reached Keswick, by the road from Edinburgh;
having passed, in my way, an old stone building, pointed out to me as "Branksome Tower," known
by the "Lay of the Last Minstrel," who has sung the achievements of Scottish knights and ladies.
This village, at the foot of Skiddaw, though much visited in the summer, has still all the
wildness of nature. Daffodils were in blossom when I walked there; and primroses, daisies and
violets opened, among the trees, upon every bank and grass plat, while the mountains, clustering
about Derwent Water, assumed such tints and shades of purple and blue as are peculiar to a
northern climate.

  "Oh, man, thou pendulum betwixt a smile and tear!"

All these pleasing images seemed to flit before me while putting into rhyme the "Song of Prince
Hoel,"--but before I could write it down, tidings reached me of the illness, (perhaps incurable,)
of him who drew it from the oblivion of its native Welsh.

Death already has robbed me of so much, that I have become, as it were, inured to grief, and
accustomed, even in my least unhappy moments to reflect on the incertitude of all earthly hopes
and wishes. I can now hear of losses with melancholy rather than with horror.

So much of the soul of Robert Southey has been dispersed about the world that a translation
to some other state of being, (now, before time has given him any burthen to carry,) would
be, perhaps, no misfortune, except to those left to sorrow. Yet to know that so benevolent
a being is still existing, feeling, joying, and suffering, on the sphere of our own mortality,
awakens a feeling so nearly allied to pleasure that all who can appreciate excellence must
entreat of Heaven the continuance upon earth of a contemporary of whom it may be said:

  "VIRTUE AND HE ARE ONE!"

       *       *       *       *       *

MISS LESLIE'S LIFE OF JOHN FITCH.

It has been announced for years that Miss Leslie--the very clever but not altogether amiable
magazinist--was engaged upon a memoir of JOHN FITCH, to whom, it has always seemed to us, was
due much more than to Fulton, the credit of inventing the steamboat. While Fitch was in London,
Miss Leslie's father was one of his warmest friends, and the papers of her family enable her
to give many particulars of his history unknown to other biographers. When several years ago.
R.W. Griswold published his Sketches of the Life and Labors of John Fitch, the late Noah Webster
sent him the following interesting letter upon the subject:

    DEAR SIR:--In your sketch of John Fitch you justly remarked
    that his biography is still a desideratum. The facts related
    of him by Mr. St. John to Mr. Stone, and published in the New
    York Commercial Advertiser, are new to me; and never before
    had I heard of Mr. Fitch at Sharon, in Connecticut; but
    I know Mr. St. John very well, and cannot discredit his
    testimony any more than I can Mr. Stone's memory. The
    substance of the account given of Mr. Fitch by the
    indefatigable J.W. Barber, in his Connecticut Historical
    Collections, is as follows: John Fitch was born in East
    Windsor, in Connecticut, and apprenticed to Mr. Cheney, a
    watch and clock-maker, of East Hartford, now Manchester, a
    new town separated from East Hartford. He married, but did not
    live happily with his wife, and he left her and went to New
    Brunswick, in New Jersey, where he set up the business of
    clock-making, engraving, and repairing muskets, before the
    revolution. When New Jersey was invaded by the British troops,
    Mr. Fitch removed into the interior of Pennsylvania, where he
    employed his time in repairing arms for the army.

    Mr. Fitch conceived the project of steam navigation in 1785,
    as appears by his advertisement. He built his boat in 1787.
    In my Diary I have myself noted that I visited the boat, lying
    at the wharf in the Delaware, on the ninth day of February,
    1787. The Governor and Council were so much gratified with
    the success of the boat that they presented Mr. Fitch with a
    superb flag. About that time, the company, aiding Mr. Fitch,
    sent him to France, at the request of Mr. Vail, our consul at
    L'Orient, who was one of the company. But this was when France
    began to be agitated by the revolution, and nothing in favor
    of Mr. Fitch was accomplished; he therefore returned. Mr. Vail
    afterward presented to Mr. Fulton for examination the papers
    of Mr. Fitch, containing his scheme of steam navigation.
    After Mr. Fitch returned to this country, he addressed a
    letter to Mr. Rittenhouse, in which he predicted that in time
    the Atlantic would be crossed by steam power; he complained
    of his poverty, and urged Mr. Rittenhouse to buy his land in
    Kentucky, for raising funds to complete his scheme. But he
    obtained no efficient aid. Disappointed in his efforts to
    obtain funds, he resorted to indulgence in drink; he retired
    to Pittsburgh, and finally ended his life by plunging into
    the Alleghany. His books and papers he bequeathed to the
    Philadelphia Library, with the injunction that they were to
    remain closed for thirty years. At the end of that period,
    the papers were opened, and found to contain a minute account
    of his perplexities and disappointments. Thus chiefly the
    narration of Mr. Barber, who refers for authority to the
    American edition of the Edinburgh Encyclopedia. It may be
    worth while for some gentleman to attempt to find these
    papers. N. WEBSTER.

    Rev. RUFUS W. GRISWOLD.

The papers to which Dr. Webster alludes in the above letter, have been examined by Miss Leslie,
and the curious details they contain of Fitch's early life, his courtship, unfortunate marriage,
captivity among the Indians, experiments, &c. will be embraced in her work, which will undoubtedly
be one of the most interesting biographies of this country.

       *       *       *       *       *

The director of the Museum of Paris has opened a very interesting gallery of American antiquities,
from Yucatan, Mexico, Peru, Bolivia, and other countries of the New World.

       *       *       *       *       *

ILLUMINATED BOOKS.

Mr. Owen Jones, an English architect, and the author of a very beautiful work on the Alhambra,
has been enabled, by the curious process of chromo-lithography, originally discovered by the
Bavarian, Alois Sennefelder, to popularize and multiply almost indefinitely the delicate and
highly-finished illuminations executed by the pious monkish artists of the middle ages.

According to Felton, the manuscript illuminators "borrowed their title from the illumination
which a bright genius giveth to his work," and they form the connecting link in the chain which
unites the ancient with the modern schools of painting. Their works, considered as a subordinate
branch of pictorial art, though frequently grotesque and barbarous, are singularly characteristic
of the epoch in which they lived, whether we retrace the art to its Byzantine origin in the
earliest ages of Christianity, or follow it to its most complete and harmonious development
in the two centuries which preceded the discovery of the printing press.

The primitive Christians were possessed with an unconquerable repugnance to the introduction
of images, and the first notice we have of the use of pictures is in the censure of the Council
of Illiberis, 300 years after the Christian era. Of these one of the earliest and most curious
specimens is the consecrated banner which animated the victorious soldiers of Constantine.
The Labarum was a long pike, topped with a crown of gold, inclosing a monogram expressive of
the cross and the two initial letters of the name of Christ, and intersected by a transverse
beam, from which hung a silken vail curiously inwrought with the images of the reigning monarch
and his children. A medal of the Emperor Constantius is said to be still extant in which the
mysterious symbol is accompanied with the memorable words, "By this sign shalt thou conquer."
The austere simplicity of the Primitive Christians yielded at length to this innovation of
sacred splendor. Before the end of the sixth century the use and even the worship of images,
or pictorial representations of sacred persons and subjects, was firmly established in the
capital, and those "made without hands" were propagated in the camps and cities of the Eastern
empire by monkish artists, whose flat delineations were in the last degeneracy of taste.

In the eighth century, Leo the Isaurian ascended the throne of the East, and for a time the
public or private worship of images was proscribed, but the edict was vigorously and successfully
resisted by the Latins of the Western church. Charlemagne, whose literary tastes are attested
by his encouragement of the learned, by the foundation of schools, and by his patronage of
the arts of music and painting, gave a great impulse to the practice of illumination: and the
Benedictines, whose influence extended throughout Europe, assigned an eminent rank among monastic
virtues to the guardianship and reproduction of valuable manuscripts. In each Benedictine monastery
a chamber was set apart for this sacred purpose, and Charlemagne assigned to Alcuin, a member
of their order, the important office of preparing a perfect copy of the Scriptures.

The process of laving on and burnishing gold and silver appears to have been familiar to oriental
nations from a period of remote antiquity, and the Greeks are supposed to have acquired from
them the art of thus ornamenting manuscripts, which they in turn communicated to the Latins.
Their most precious manuscripts were written in gold or silver letters, on the finest semi-transparent
vellum, stained of a beautiful violet color (the imperial purple), and these were executed
only for crowned heads. One of the most ancient existing specimens of this mode of caligraphy
in the fourth century, the Codex Argenteus of Ulphilas, the inventor of the Visigothic alphabet,
was discovered in the library of Wolfenbüttel, and is now at Upsal, Sweden. This fine MS. is
written in letters of gold and silver on a purple ground; and the fragments of a Greek MS.
of the Eusebian Canons of the sixth century, preserved in the British Museum, is perhaps a
unique example of a MS. in which both sides of the leaves are illuminated upon a golden ground.
Mr. Owen Jones' illustrations commence with a page from the celebrated Durham book, or Gospels
of St. Cuthbert, in the Hiberno-Saxon style of the seventh century, which was borrowed originally
from the Romans, and afterward diffused throughout Europe by the itinerant-Saxon Benedictines.
This style is formed by an ingenious disposition of interweaving threads or ribbons of different
colors, varied by the introduction of extremely attenuated lizard-like reptiles, birds, and
other animals. The initial letters are of gigantic size, and of extreme intricacy, and are
generally surrounded with rows of minute red dots.

The Coronation Oath Book of the Anglo-Saxon kings is a curious specimen of the rude state of
art in the ninth century. The Lombard and the Carlovingian styles, of which latter the Psalter
of Charles the Bold, is a fine specimen, prevailed on the continent during the eighth and ninth
centuries. Toward the end of the tenth century, the Anglo-Saxon school, under the patronage
of Bishop Ethelwold, at Winchester, assumed a new and distinct character, which was not surpassed
by any works executed at the same period. This style, with its bars of gold, forming complete
frames to the text, when enriched with interweaving foliage of the acanthus and the ivy, became
the basis of the latter and more florid school of illumination, which attained its highest
perfection in the twelfth century, and of which the Arnstein Bible is an example. This Bible
belonged to the Monks of St. Mary and St. Nicholas, of Arnstein, and the value which was attached
to it may be inferred from the following quaint and mild anathema at the end of the first volume:--

    "The book of St. Mary and St. Nicholas, in Arnstein, the
    which, if any one shall purloin it, may he die the death--may
    he be cooked upon the gridiron--may the falling sickness and
    fevers attack him--and may he be broken upon the wheel and
    hung!"

In the thirteenth century Paris became celebrated for its illuminators, and the productions
of Franco-Bolognese, whose skill in illuminating manuscripts was then paramount, is mentioned
by Dante. Mr. Humphreys thus graphically describes the style of the fourteenth century:--

    "It was a great artistic era--the architecture, the painting,
    the goldsmith's work, the elaborate productions in enamel, and
    the illuminator's art, were in beautiful harmony, being each
    founded upon similar principles of design and composition;
    even the art of writing lending itself to complete the chord
    of artistic harmony, by adopting that, crisp and angular
    feeling which the then general use of the pointed arch
    introduced into all works of artistic combination."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PHANTOM WORLD.[1]

MR. CHRISTMAS, in his "Twin Giants," attacked the stronghold of popular superstition by exhibiting
the foundations and growth of error in the early and ignorant ages, and of the progressive
dissipation of these delusions as the light of history and science spread over the world. The
present work is a translation from Calmet. It deals with spectres, vampyres, and all that tribe
of visionary monsters. We have here the learning and opinion of the enlightened portion of
the world a century ago. M. Calmet traversed all history for his facts, and gives us a mass
of monkish inventions, which prove to what an extent the Romish church fostered superstition
for its own purposes. We have dead men called from their graves to show the danger of neglecting
to pay tithes, and to rivet on the rich the necessity of building churches, and paying liberally
for masses. At p. 286 of vol.

This went on, at intervals, for a year, when the ghost found a voice, and told them to tell
the cure to come there; and when he came he said he wanted three masses said for him, and alms
given to the poor.

If we are so easily deceived in these matters, is it strange that in peculiar states of mind
or body, we are so completely imposed on in others? At p. 353 we have the story on which Goethe
has founded a singular exploit of Mephistopheles in the cellar of Auerbach.

The book is curious and interesting and calculated to do away with much of the superstition
which now appears to be gaining ground in almost every part of Christendom.

[Footnote 1: THE PHANTOM WORLD: a Philosophy of Spirits, Apparitions, &c. By AUGUSTINE CALMET.
Edited by Rev. Henry Christmas.]

       *       *       *       *       *

AUTHORS AND BOOKS.

George Sand, as elsewhere noted, has written her "Confessions," in the style of Rousseau, and
a Paris bookseller has contracted to give her a fortune for them. The three greatest--intellectually
greatest--women of modern times have lived in France and it is remarkable that they have been
three of the most shamelessly profligate in all history. The worst of these, probably--Madame
de Staël--left us no records of her long-continued, disgusting, and almost incredible licentiousness,
so remarkable that Chateaubriand deemed her the most abandoned person in France at a period
when modesty was publicly derided in the Assembly as a mere "system of refined voluptuousness."
Few who have lately resided in Paris are ignorant of the gross sensualism of the astonishing
Rachel, whose genius, though displayed in no permanent forms, is not less than that of the
Shakspeare of her sex, the forever-to-be-famous Madame Dudevant, whose immoralities of conduct
have perhaps been overdrawn, while those of De Staël and Rachel have rarely been spoken of
save where they challenged direct observation. We perceive that Rachel is to be in New York
next autumn, with a company of French actors.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. G.P.R. James arrived in New York on the Fourth, and "landed amid discharges of artillery,
the huzzas of assembled thousands, and such an imposing military display as is rarely seen
in this country except on occasions of great moment and universal interest." He is certainly
entitled to all the ceremonious honors he will receive during his summer in America, for no
man living, probably, has contributed more to the quiet and rational pleasure of the people
here than this prolific but always intelligent and gentlemanly author. We have it from the
best authority that Mr. James does not intend in any way whatever to meddle with the copyright
question, and that he will not write a book about us on his return to England. He visits the
United States for a season's agreeable relaxation, with his family, comprising his wife and
daughter and three sons. The London Morning Chronicle, in a review of one of his recent compositions,
has the following piece of criticism, in contemplation of the present interruption of Mr. James's
labors:--

    "A season without two or three novels from Mr. James would
    be a marked year in the world of letters. There is not a
    power-loom in all Manchester which works with more untiring,
    unswerving regularity. Does Mr. James ever stop to think,
    to eat, to drink, to sleep? Is he ever sick? Has he ever a
    headache? Is he ever out of sorts, even as other men are, when
    they turn away from the inkstand as from a bottle of physic?
    We do not believe it. We sometimes doubt whether Mr. James be
    a man at all. Is he mortal? Has he flesh and blood, or is he
    some indefinite unheard-of machine, some anomaly of nature,
    some freak of creation, whose mission is to make novels--and
    who accordingly spins, spins away, and never leaves off for
    a moment--never! We know how M. Dumas manages to rear his
    wonderful literary offspring. With all Mr. James's fertility,
    however, the Frenchman has a thousand times Mr. James's
    invention. The romances of the latter are simply a series
    of ever-changing, yet never novel variations upon the one
    original theme furnished by Sir Walter Scott. Dumas, with his
    eighty volumes a year, yet manages to be ever fresh, ever
    new. Nobody knows, till he reads it, what a novel of the
    Frenchman's will be. Everybody, even before he cuts open
    page one, can tell you the certain features, the stereotyped
    characters, which flourish in eternal youth in the
    never-ending productions of James. It is only calling them
    by other names, and dressing them in different
    costumes--altering, in the description of a castle, the dais
    from the one end of the great hall to the other, or some such
    important revolution--and presto, Mr. James can whip the
    personages and the places who flourished in one country and
    in one century right slap into another generation and another
    land. The thing is done in a moment, and you have a new novel
    before you--just as new, at all events, as is any in his list
    of a hundred."

       *       *       *       *       *

Botta's "Nineveh" has at last reached completion at Paris. It consists of five folio volumes
of the largest size; only 400 copies have been printed; 300 of them are to be distributed by
the Government, and 100 for booksellers, to be sold. The price is 1800 francs a copy, or about
$600, the total expense of the edition being 296,000 fr. or not far from $55,000. The publication
of the work on so expensive a scale, unaccompanied by an edition cheap enough for ordinary
readers, is a great blunder; at least the reputation of the author suffers from it. The book
does not reach those for whom it is written, while of Layard's work at least 10,000 copies
have been sold, exclusive of the sale in America.

       *       *       *       *       *

Arago announces that he will at last begin the printing of his long prepared but not yet published
works. His health is deeply shattered. When the Provincial Government ceased to exist he was
so weak that he could scarcely walk, but since then repose has considerably recruited his strength,
but he does well to undertake the long postponed publication of his studies. The first issued
will be on Measuring the Intensity of Light, which he is now reading to the Academy; subsequently
he will bring out the Astronomy, so long waited for. It is true that some years since a book
was printed with this title, composed from notes of some of his lectures; this work has passed
through many editions and has been translated into other languages, though he has often protested
against it as an entirely erroneous and perverted presentation of his ideas.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Rev. H.W. Bellows has resigned the editorship of The Christian Enquirer, which he has conducted
with distinguished ability, we believe from its commencement.

       *       *       *       *       *

Miss Cooper, a daughter of the great novellist, has been announced in London as the author
of "Rural Hours," a volume to be published in two or three weeks by Bentley, and by our Aldus,
Mr. Putnam. We have read and in this number of the International give some extracts from the
advance sheets of "Rural Hours," and we think the work will be regarded as one of the most
pleasing and elegant contributions which woman has in a long time made to English literature.
It is in the form of a year's diary in the country, and it illustrates on almost every page
a large and wise cultivation, and the finest capacities for the observation of nature. We shall
hereafter enter more fully into the discussion of its merits, but meanwhile advise the reader
to obtain the book as soon as possible, in confidence that it will prove one of the most delightful
souvenirs of the summer.

       *       *       *       *       *

Prof. Agassiz of Harvard College appears in the last number of the Christian Examiner--an able
periodical, which no degree or affectation of "liberality" should have tempted to the admission
of such a paper--in an elaborate argument against the Unity of the Human Race. It is ridiculous
to attempt a disguise of this matter: the proposition of Prof. Agassiz is an attack upon the
Christian religion, and he is guilty of scandalous dishonesty in endeavoring to evade its being
so considered. He has undoubtedly a right to pursue any investigation to which he may be led
by a love of science, and, guarding himself about with humility and candor, he has a right
to accept the results which may be offered in the premises by a careful induction. But the
right to assail the commonly received opinions of mankind, especially the right to assail a
people's religion, has other and very rigid conditions, which will not, we are persuaded, justify
this new outbreak of the restless spirit of Infidelity. Certainly, it would have become Prof.
Agassiz, before venturing upon the course he has adopted, to dissociate himself from a University
to which so many of the youth of the country have been sent without any thought on the part
of their parents that they were to be exposed there to influences which they would dread above
all others. There is no right to offer, except to men, capable of its thorough apprehension,
any new or questionable or unsettled doctrine. Prof. Agassiz should have been in a condition
to receive in his own person the consequences of a failure to establish his theory. We have
no fears as to the result of the controversy upon which he has entered. No man worthy to be
called a Christian scholar, deprecates the subjection of the Bible to any tests that are possible.
It has withstood in the last two centuries quite too much of sham science to be in any way
affected by the logic of Prof. Agassiz. Still, the appearance of such a paper in the Christian
Examiner--the chief organ of American Unitarianism--is significant of a state of feeling and
opinion to be regretted, and it should summon to the conflict the men whose predecessors made
every similar wave of Infidelity bring support and strength to the bases of the rock of Christianity.

       *       *       *       *       *

Letters from Dr. Layard have been received in London, to the 10th of April, dated from Arban,
on the River Khabour. The last account from this quarter mentioned his purpose of penetrating
into the desert, which he has explored for three weeks, meeting with numerous traces of ancient
population, though not so many antiquities as he expected. His present site, however, is richer
in archæological remains, and is important, as they are undoubtedly Assyrian, and prove the
extent of that empire. Two winged bulls and other fragments are described as very remarkable,
the meadows as rich in herbage, and the banks of the Khabour as literally gemmed with flowers;
and Mr. Layard was desirous to examine this river to its mouth; but the Arabs were hostile
to the plan, though it was trusted that arrangements would be made with the parties, wherever
they interposed between Mr. Layard and his wishes. In his letter, he says he thinks Major Rawlinson
wrong in some of his topography, and that the chronological deductions cannot as yet be considered
settled.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. Rogers, the poet, was lately knocked down by a cab, as he was returning from a dinner party,
and so seriously injured as very much to alarm his friends. He was not restored sufficiently
to see visitors at the last dates. Rogers, Montgomery, Moore, Hunt, Wilson, Savage Landor,
and De Quincey, are "listening to the praises of posterity." Not any of them can last much longer.

       *       *       *       *       *

Harro Harring, the Swedish republican novelist, had scarcely reached his own country after
several years exile in America, before he was again imprisoned for some quixotic attack upon
institutions which he has neither the ability nor the character, even if let alone by the government,
to change.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. W.E. Foster has published in London a new edition of Clarkson's Life of Penn, in the preface
to which he has entered very fully into the points raised by Macaulay in his History in regard
to the Quakers, vindicating them, and very ably sustaining the fame of their hero.

       *       *       *       *       *

Rev. Dr. Judson, the missionary, is again reported in very feeble health, and in a decline.
He is nearly sixty years of age.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Poems of Frances A. and Metta V. Fuller, of Ohio, are in press, and to be published in
a beautiful volume in the autumn.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. Prescott, the historian, is passing the summer in England.

       *       *       *       *       *

LITERATURE IN PARIS.--A correspondent of the London Literary Gazette, under date of June 12, says:

    "I notice reprints, by Didot, of several of the standard works
    of Chateaubriand; a condensation, by General O'Connor, of his
    "Monopoly;" a Treatise, by the Bishop of Langres, on the grave
    question of Church and State; a very interesting and curious
    work on the forests of Gaul, ancient France, England, Italy,
    &c.; a volume of the Unpublished Letters of Mary Adelaide
    of Savoy, Duchess of Bourgogne--which throws great light on
    many of the principal historical events and personages of
    her time; a charming series of Sketches from Constantinople,
    entitled "Nuits du Ramazan," by Gerard de Nerval, a popular
    feuilletoniste; a big volume of the works of St. Just, the
    terrible Conventionist; a continuation of the Illustrated
    Edition of Defauconpret's Translation of the complete works
    of Walter Scott; an admirable fac-simile collection of
    Contemporary Portraits of Eminent Individuals of the Sixteenth
    Century; a reprint of Boileau's Satires; an Alphabetical
    and Analytical Table of all the Authors, Sacred and Profane,
    discovered or published in the forty-three volumes of the
    celebrated Cardinal Mai; a 'Month in Africa,' by Pierre
    Napoleon Buonaparte, &c. There have also been more than the
    usual average of works in the Greek, Latin, Hebrew. Italian
    and Portuguese."

       *       *       *       *       *

DR. GUTZLAFF, the famous missionary, is now in Germany, and he had recently an interview with
the Presidents of the Corporation of Merchants of Stettin, to give them some information as
to the sort of goods best adapted for exportation to China. He held out very little encouragement
of a profitable trade with that country at present, as he said he could not name a single article
of German manufacture he thought likely to secure any great demand. He commended the English
government for establishing a "Chinese Exhibition," in order to instruct the merchants of the
real nature and quality of Chinese productions. (He must have meant the exhibition of the late
Mr. Dunn, of Philadelphia, so long open in London, and erroneously supposed that it was a government
institution.) He also described the Chinese language itself, on account of its extreme difficulty,
as the chief obstacle in the way of the civilization of the people. He did not believe the
most learned Chinese perfectly knew his alphabet, as after twenty years' study he could not
say he was master of it, a fact highly discouraging to the German savans.

       *       *       *       *       *

A new Historical Society was formed at Hartford, Conn., a few weeks ago, under the title of
the Historical Society of the Protestant Episcopal Church of the United States. A constitution
was formed, and Bishop Brownwell elected President. The objects are to collect and preserve
such materials, as may serve to illustrate the history of the Episcopal church, and the collection
and preservation of all memorials, printed, manuscript, or traditional, which throw light on
the progress of the American branch of that church, in any period, and of all materials relating
to the social and religious history of the times during which that church has existed.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE FINE ARTS.

       *       *       *       *       *

ELLIOTT is the subject of an editorial chapter in the Knickerbocker, in which justice and no
more than justice, is done to him. In the regular succession he follows Copley, Stuart, Jarvis,
Newton, and Inman, as the first portrait-painter of his time in the United States. Elliott
has recently finished a very effective head of Dr. John W. Francis, to be placed in the permanent
gallery of the Art Union, of which Dr. Francis was the first President. He is now engaged upon
a portrait of Washington Irving, which will be engraved in the most elaborate style by Cheney.

       *       *       *       *       *

MINOR K. KELLOGG has nearly completed, for Mr. Higgs, the banker, of Washington, an exquisite
picture which he calls The Greek Girl,--similar, but we think in all respects superior, to
his beautiful Circassian Girl, engravings of which by a Parisian artist have some time formed
one of the attractions of the print shops. Mr. Kellogg is also painting a full-length of General
Scott, for the city.

       *       *       *       *       *

A PORTRAIT OF CAPTAIN SUTTER, of California, has just been engraved in the finest style of
Sartain, from a painting by S.S. Osgood, made while that excellent artist was in the Gold Region.
It is a remarkably strong and pleasing head, and it will rank among Mr. Osgood's best productions.

       *       *       *       *       *

BALL HUGHES, the sculptor, is preparing a monument to be placed over the remains of Josiah
Sturgis, at Mount Auburn.

       *       *       *       *       *

ORIGINAL POETRY.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CHILD OF FAME.

BY MRS. M.E. HEWITT.

    "Je vivrai eternellement."--La vie de Sappho. Traduction de
    Madame Dacier.

  Nay--call me not thy rose--thine own sweet flower,
    For oh, my soul to thy wild words is mute!
  Leave me my gift of song--my glorious dower--
    My hand unchanged, and free to sweep the lute.

  Thus, when within the tomb thy memory slumbers,
    Mine, mine will tie of those immortal names
  Sung by the poet in undying numbers:
    Call me not thine--I am the world's and fame's!

  Were it not blissful, when from earth we sever,
    To know that we shall leave, with bard and sage,
  A name enrolled on fame's bright page forever--
    A wonder, and a theme to after age!

  Talk not of love! I know how, wasted, broken,
    The trusting heart learns its sad lesson o'er--
  Counting the roses Passion's lips have spoken,
    Amid the thorns that pierce it to the core.

  Oh, heart of mine! that when life's summer hour
    For thee with love's bright blossoms hung the bough,
  Too quickly found an asp beneath the flower--
    And is naught left thee but ambition now?

  Alas! alas! this brow its pride forsaking,
    Would give the glory of its laurel crown
  For one fond breast whereas to still its aching--
    For one true heart that I might call mine own!

       *       *       *       *       *

[FROM THE NATIONAL ERA.]

ELDORADO: ADVENTURES IN THE PATH OF EMPIRE.[2]

BY J.G. WHITTIER.

With something of the grateful feeling which prompted the memorable exclamation of Sancho Panza,
"Blessings on the man who first invented sleep!" we have laid down these pleasant volumes.
Blessings on the man who invented books of travel for the benefit of home idlers! the Marco
Polos, the Sir John Mandevilles, and the Ibn Batutas of old time, and their modern disciples
and imitators! Nothing in the shape of travel and gossip, by the way, comes amiss to us, from
Cook's voyages round the earth to Count De Maistre's journey round his chamber. When the cark
and care of daily life and homely duties, and the weary routine of sight and sound, oppress
us, what a comfort and refreshing is it to open the charmed pages of the traveler! Our narrow,
monotonous horizon breaks away all about us; five minutes suffice to take us quite out of the
commonplace and familiar regions of our experience: we are in the Court of the Great Khan,
we are pitching tents under the shadows of the ruined temples of Tadmor, we are sitting on
a fallen block of the Pyramids, or a fragment of the broken nose of the Sphynx, dickering with
Arab Shieks, opposing Yankee shrewdness to Ishmaelitish greed and cunning: we are shooting
crocodiles on the white Nile, unearthing the winged lions of Ezekiel's vision on the Tigris--watching
the night-dance of the Devil-worshipers on their mountains, negotiating with the shrewd penny-turning
patriarch of Armenia for a sample from his holy-oil manufactory at Erivan, drinking coffee
at Damascus, and sherbet at Constantinople, lunching in the vale of Chaumorng, taking part
in a holy fête at Rome, and a merry Christmas at Berlin. We look into the happiness of traveling
through the eyes of others, and, for the miseries of it, we enjoy them exceedingly. Very cool
and comfortable are we while reading the poor author's account of his mishaps, hair-breadth
escapes, hunger, cold, and nakedness. We take a deal of satisfaction in his moscheto persecutions
and night-long battles with sanguinary fleas. The discomforts and grievances of his palate
under the ordeal of foreign cooking were a real relish for us. On a hot morning in the tropics,
we see him pulling on his stocking with a scorpion in it, and dancing in involuntary joy under
the effects of the sting. Let him dance; it is all for our amusement. Let him meet with what
he will--robbers, cannibals, jungle-tigers, and rattlesnakes, the more the better--since we
know that he will get off alive, and come to regard them so many god-sends in the way of book-making.

The volumes now before us are not only seasonable as respects the world-wide curiosity in regard
to California--the new-risen empire on the Pacific--abounding, as they do, in valuable facts
and statistics, but they have in a high degree that charm of personal adventure and experience
to which we have referred. Bayard Taylor is a born tourist. He has eyes to see, skill to make
the most of whatever opens before him under the ever-shifting horizon of the traveler. He takes
us along with him, and lets us into the secret of his own hearty enjoyment. Much of what he
describes has already become familiar to us from the notes of a thousand gold-seekers, who
have sent home such records as they could of their experiences in a strange land. Yet even
the well known particulars of the overland route across the Isthmus become novel and full of
interest in the narrative of our young tourist. The tropical scenery by day and night on the
river, the fandango at Gorgona, and the ride to Panama through the dense dark forest, with
death, in the shape of a cholera-stricken emigrant, following at their heels, are in the raciest
spirit of story-telling. The steamer from Panama touched at the ancient city of Acapulco, and
took in a company of gamblers, who immediately set up their business on deck. At San Deigo,
the first overland emigrants by the route of the Gila river, who had reached that place a few
days before, came on board, lank and brown as the ribbed sea-sand, their clothes in tatters,
their boots replaced with moccasins, small deerskin wallets containing all that was left of
the abundant stores with which they started--their hair and beards matted and unshorn, with
faces from which the rigid expression of suffering was scarcely relaxed. The tales of their
adventures and sufferings the author speaks of as more marvelous than anything he had ever
heard or read since his boyish acquaintance with Robinson Crusoe and Ledyard. Some had come
by the way of Santa Fe, along the savage Gila hills--some had crossed the Great Desert, and
taken the road from El Paso to Sonora--some had passed through Mexico, and, after beating about
for months in the Pacific, had run into San Deigo and abandoned their vessel--some had landed
weary with a seven months' voyage round Cape Horn--while others had wandered on foot from Cape
St. Lucas to San Deigo, over frightful deserts and rugged mountains, a distance of nearly fifteen
hundred miles, as they were obliged to travel.

The Gila emigrants spoke with horror of the Great Desert west of the Colorado--a land of drought
and desolation--vast salt plains and hills of drifting sand; the trails which they followed
sown white with bones of man and beast. Unburied corpses of emigrants and carcasses of mules
who had preceded them, making the hot air foul and loathsome. Wo to the weak and faltering
in such a journey! They were left alone to die on the burning sands.

On the Sonora route, one of the party fell sick, and rode on behind his companions, unable
to keep pace with them for several days, yet always arriving in camp a few hours later. At
last he was missing. Four days after, a negro, alone and on foot, came into camp and told them
that many miles back a man lying by the road had begged a little water of him, and urged him
to hurry on and bring assistance. The next morning a company of Mexicans came up, and brought
word that the man was dying. But his old companions hesitated to go to his relief. The negro
thereupon retraced his steps over the desert, and reached the sufferer just as he expired.
He lifted him in his arms; the poor fellow strove to speak to his benefactor, and died in the
effort. His mule, tied to a cactus, was already dead of hunger at his side. A picture commemorating
such a scene, and the heroic humanity of the negro, would better adorn a panel of the Capitol,
than any battle-piece which was ever painted.

There is a graphic account of the author's first impressions of San Francisco. "A furious wind
was blowing down through a gap in the hills, filling the streets with dust. On every side stood
buildings of all kinds, began or half-finished, with canvas sheds open in front and covered
with all kinds of signs, in all languages. Great piles of merchandise were in the open air,
for lack of storehouses. The streets were full of people of as diverse and bizarre a character
as their dwellings: Yankees of every possible variety, native Californians in serapes and sombreros,
Chilians, Sonorians, Kanakas from Hawaii, Chinese with long tails, Malays armed with everlasting
creeses, and others, in their bearded and embrowned visages, it was impossible to recognize
any especial nationality." "San Francisco by day and night" is the title of one of the best
chapters in the book.

Our author made a foot journey to Monterey during the sitting of the Convention which formed
the State Constitution. Her house was the favorite resort of the leading members of the Convention,
American and Californian. She was thoroughly versed in Spanish literature, and her remarks
on the various authors were just and elegant. She was, besides, a fine rider, and could throw
the lariat with skill, and possesses all those bold and daring qualities which are so fascinating
when softened and made graceful by true feminine delicacy.

He describes the native Californians as physically and morally superior to the Mexicans of
other States. They are, as a class, finely built, with fresh, clear complexions. The educated
class very generally are and appear well satisfied with the change of affairs, but the majority
still look with jealousy on the new comers, and are not pleased with the new customs and new
laws. The Californians in the Convention seemed every way worthy of their position. General
Vallejo is a man of middle years, tall, and of commanding presence--with the grave and dignified
expression of the old Castilian race. With him were Cavarrubias, the old Secretary of the Government,
Pico, Carvillo, Pedrorena, La Guerra, and a half-blood Indian member, Dominguez, who, together
with many of the most respectable and wealthy citizens of California, is now excluded from
voting by a clause of the Constitution, which denies that privilege to Indians and negroes.
This unjust exception--a blot on an otherwise admirable Constitution--was adopted after a warm
debate, and against fierce opposition. The attempt to prohibit free people of color from inhabiting
the State failed by a large majority. The clause prohibiting slavery passed by the vote of
every member.

The account of the close of the Convention is sufficiently amusing. The members met and adjourned,
after a brief session, and their hall was immediately cleared of forum, seats, and tables,
and decorated with pine boughs and oak garlands. At eight in the evening, it was thrown open
for a ball. Sixty or seventy ladies, and as many gentlemen, were present. Dark-eyed daughters
of Monterey and Los Angelos and Santa Barbara, with Indian and Spanish complexions, contrasted
with the fairer bloom of belles from the Atlantic side of the Nevada. There was as great a
variety of costume as of complexion. Several American officers were there in their uniform.
In one group might be seen Captain Sutter's soldierly moustache and clear blue eye; in another,
the erect figure and quiet, dignified bearing of Vallejo. Don Pablo de la Guerra, with his
handsome aristocratic features, was the floor manager, and gallantly discharged his office.
Conspicuous among the native members, were Don Miguel Pedrorena and Jacinto Rodriguez, both
polished and popular gentlemen. Dominguez. the Indian, took no part in the dance, but evidently
enjoyed the scene as much as any one present. The most interesting figure was that of the Padre
Ramirez, who, in his clerical cassock, looked until a late hour. "If the strongest advocate
of priestly decorum had been present," says our author, "he could not have found it in his
heart to grudge the good old padre the pleasure which beamed in his honest countenance."

The next day the Convention met for the last time. The parchment sheet, with the engrossed
Constitution, was laid upon the table, and the members commenced affixing their names. Then
the American colors were run up the flagstaff in front of the Hall, and the guns of the fort
responded to the signal. The great work was done. California, so far as it depended on herself,
was a State of the great Confederacy. All were excited. Captain Sutter leaped up from his seat,
and swung his arm over his head. "Gentlemen!" he cried, "this is the happiest hour of my life.
It makes me glad to hear the cannon. This is a great day for California!" Recollecting himself,
he sat down, the tears streaming from his eyes. His brother members cheered. As the signing
went on, gun followed gun from the fort. At last the thirty-first was echoed back from the
hills. "That's for California!" shouted a member, and three times three cheers were given by
the members. An English vessel caught the enthusiasm, and sent to the breeze the American flag
from her mast-head. The day was beautiful; all faces looked bright and happy under the glorious
sunset, "Were I a believer in omens," writes our tourist on the spot, "I would augur from the
tranquil beauty of the evening--from the clear sky and sunset hues of the bay--more than all,
from the joyous expression of every face--a glorious and happy career for the 'STATE OF CALIFORNIA!'"

Our author visited several of the most important "diggings," and his account of their location,
productiveness, &c., does not materially differ from the descriptions which have become familiar
to all our readers. It is evident from his statements, that with good health and perseverance,
any reasonable expectation of wealth on the part of the miners may be realized, in a few months
or years, according to the richness of the "diggings," or the ease with which they may be worked.
What, however, has interested us more than the gold-product of California, is the confirmation
which our traveler gives to the statements of Fremont and King, relative to the richness of
its soil, and its great agricultural capacities. The valleys of the Sacramento and San Joaquim
alone are capable of supporting a population of two millions, if carefully cultivated. The
deep, black, porous soil produces the important cereal grains, although on the seaboard the
air is too cool for the ripening of Indian corn. Enormous crops of wheat may be obtained by
irrigation, such as was successfully practiced by the great Jesuit missions; and, without it,
from forty to fifty bushels to the bushel of seed have been raised. Oats of the kind grown
on the Atlantic grow luxuriantly and wild, self-sown on all the hills of the coast, furnishing
abundant supplies for horses. Irish potatoes grow to a great size, and all edible roots cultivated
in the States are produced in perfection, without irrigation.

The climate of San Francisco is unquestionably disagreeable; the cold, fierce winds which sweep
over the bay, and they alternating with extreme heats, are prejudicial to health and comfort.
Inland, however, in the beautiful valleys of San Jose and Los Angelos, the climate is all that
can be desired. The heat during the summer months is indeed great, but its dryness renders
it more endurable than the damp sultriness of an Atlantic August. At Los Angelos, latitude
34° 7', long. W. 118°, and forty miles from the ocean, the mean monthly temperature of ten
months was as follows: June 73 deg., July 74, August 75, September 75, October 69, November
59, December 60.

Our author describes with a poet's enthusiasm the atmospheric effects of the Californian sunsets.
Fresh from his travels in Italy, and with the dust of that Pincian hill still on his sandals
from whence Claude sketched his sunsets, he declares that his memory of that classic atmosphere
seems cold and pale, when he thinks of the splendor of evening on the bay and mountains of
San Francisco.

The chapter on "Society in California" may prove of much practical utility, and should be read
by all who are smitten with the gold fever. California is no place for the sick, the weak,
the self-indulgent, the indolent, the desponding. There must be a willingness to work at anything
and everything, and stout muscles to execute the will. Our author estimates that nearly one-third
of the emigrants are unfitted for their vocation, "miserable, melancholy men, ready to yield
up their last breath at any moment, who left home prematurely, and now humbly acknowledge their
error." His own happy constitution and buoyant health led him to look on the best side of things,
and to take the sunniest possible view of the condition of the new country he was exploring,
but occasionally he reveals incidentally the reverse of the picture. Here is a sketch of a
sick miner at Sacramento City, which is enough to make even California "gold become dim, and
the fine gold changed."

    "He was sitting alone on a stone beside the water, with his
    bare feet purple with cold on the cold, wet sand. He was
    wrapped from head to foot in a coarse blanket, which shook
    with the violence of his chill, as if his limbs were about to
    drop in pieces. He seemed unconscious of all that was passing;
    his long, matted hair hung over his wasted face; his eyes
    glared steadily forward with an expression so utterly hopeless
    and wild, that I shuddered at seeing it. This was but one of a
    number of cases, equally sad and distressing."

The hardy and healthy portion of the emigrants, under the stimulating excitements of the novel
circumstances of their situation, seemed to revel in the exuberance of animal spirits. Each
seemed to have adopted the rule of the wise man: "Whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, that do
with all thy might." They speculated, dug, or gambled, with an almost reckless energy. All
old forms of courtesy had given place to hearty, blunt good fellowship in their social intercourse.
They reminded our traveler of the Jarls and Norse sea-kings, and in the noisy and almost fierce
revelry of these bearded gold-hunters around their mountain tires, he seemed to see the brave
and jovial Berseckers of the middle ages.

We cannot forbear quoting a paragraph in relation to the great question of our time, "The Organization
of Labor."

    "In California, no model phalanxes or national workshops
    have been necessary. Labor has organized itself, in the best
    possible way. The dream of attractive industry is realized;
    all are laborers, and equally respectable; the idler and the
    gentleman of leisure, to use a phrase of the country, 'can't
    shine in these diggings.' Rich merchandise lies in the open
    street; and untold wealth in gold dust is protected only
    by ragged canvas walls, but thefts and robbery are seldom
    heard of. The rich returns of honest labor render harmless
    temptations which would prove an overmatch for the average
    virtue of New England. The cut-purse and pickpocket in
    California find their occupation useless, and become
    chevaliers of industry, in a better sense than the term has
    ever before admitted of. It will appear natural," says our
    author, "that California should be the most democratic country
    in the world. The practical equality of all the members of
    the community, whatever might be the wealth, intelligence,
    or profession of each, was never before so thoroughly
    demonstrated. Dress was no gauge of respectability and no
    honest occupation, however menial in its character, affected
    a man's standing. Lawyers, physicians, and ex-professors,
    dug cellars, drove ox-teams, sawed wood, and carried baggage,
    while men who had been army privates, sailors, cooks, or day
    laborers, were at the head of profitable establishments, and
    not unfrequently assisted in some of the minor details of
    government. A man who would consider his fellow beneath
    him, on account of his appearance or occupation, would have
    had some difficulty in living peaceably in California. The
    security of the country is owing in no small degree to this
    plain, practical development of what the French reverence as
    an abstraction, under the name of Fraternité. To sum up
    all in three words, Labor is respectable. May it never
    be otherwise while a grain of gold is left to glitter in
    Californian soil!"

Our author returned by way of Mazatlan and the city of Mexico, meeting with a pleasant variety
of adventures, robbery included, on his route. In taking leave of his volumes, we cannot forbear
venturing a suggestion to the author, that he may find a field of travel, less known, and quite
as interesting at the present time, in the vast Territory of New Mexico--the valley of the
Del Norte, with its old Castilian and Aztec monuments and associations; the Great Salt Lake,
and the unexplored regions of the great valley of the Colorado, between the mountain ranges
of the Sierra Madre and the Sierra Nevada. We know of no one better fitted for such an enterprise,
or for whom, judging from the spirit of his California narrative, it would present more attractions.

[Footnote 2: Eldorado: Adventures in the Path of Empire. By Bayard Taylor. New York. Putnam.
1850. Two volumes.]

       *       *       *       *       *

MEYERBEER AND WEBER.--The Berlin papers are reviving the rumor that Meyerbeer is to complete
an opera which Weber left unfinished. This time his share is defined to be, a new third act,
three numbers in the second, one number in the first, and an overture.

       *       *       *       *       *

FROM UNPUBLISHED BOOKS

       *       *       *       *       *

FROM MISS FENIMORE COOPER'S "RURAL HOURS," IN PRESS BY PUTNAM

A CHASE

Within twenty years from the foundation of the village, the deer had already become rare, and
in a brief period later they had fled from the country. One of the last of these beautiful
creatures seen in the waters of our lake occasioned a chase of much interest, though under
very different circumstances from those of a regular hunt. A pretty little fawn had been brought
in very young from the woods, and nursed and petted by a lady in the village until it had become
as tame as possible. It was graceful, as these little creatures always are, and so gentle and
playful that it became a great favorite, following the different members of the family about,
caressed by the neighbors, and welcome everywhere. One morning, after gamboling about as usual
until weary, it threw itself down in the sunshine, at the feet of one of its friends, upon
the steps of a store. There came along a countryman, who for several years had been a hunter
by pursuit, and who kept several dogs: one of his hounds came to the village with him on this
occasion. The dog, as it approached the spot where the fawn lay, suddenly stopped; the little
animal saw him, and started to its feet. It had lived more than half its life among the village,
and had apparently lost all fear of them; but it seemed now to know instinctly that an enemy
was at hand. In an instant a change came over it, and the gentleman who related the incident,
and who was standing by at the moment, observed that he had never in his life seen a finer
sight than the sudden arousing of instinct in that beautiful creature. In a second its whole
character and appearance seemed changed, all its past habits were forgotten, every wild impulse
was awake; its head erect, its nostrils dilated, its eye flashing. In another instant, before
the spectators had thought of the danger, before its friends could secure it, the fawn was
leaping wildly through the street, and the hound in full pursuit. The bystanders were eager
to save it; several persons instantly followed its track, the friends who had long fed and
fondled it, calling the name it had hitherto known, but in vain. The hunter endeavored to whistle
back his dog, but with no better success. In half a minute the fawn had turned the first corner,
dashed onward toward the lake, and thrown itself into the water. But, if for a moment the startled
creature believed itself safe in the cool bosom of the lake, it was soon undeceived; the hound
followed in hot and eager chase, while a dozen of the village dogs joined blindly in the pursuit.
Quite a crowd collected on the bank, men, women, and children, anxious for the fate of the
little animal known to them all: some threw themselves into boats, hoping to intercept the
hound before he reached his prey; but the plashing of the oars, the eager voices of the men
and boys, and the barking of the dogs, must have filled the beating heart of the poor fawn
with terror and anguish, as though every creature on the spot where it had once been caressed
and fondled had suddenly turned into a deadly foe. It was soon seen that the little animal
was directing its course across a bay toward the nearest borders of the forest, and immediately
the owner of the hound crossed the bridge, running at full speed in the same direction, hoping
to stop his dog as he landed. On the fawn swam, as it never swam before, its delicate head
scarcely seen above the water, but leaving a disturbed track, which betrayed its course alike
to anxious friends and fierce enemies. As it approached the land, the exciting interest became
intense. The hunter was already on the same line of shore, calling loudly and angrily to his
dog, but the animal seemed to have quite forgotten his master's voice in the pitiless pursuit.
The fawn touched the land--in one leap it had crossed the narrow line of beach, and in another
instant it would reach the cover of the woods. The hound followed, true to the scent, aiming
at the same spot on the shore; his master, anxious to meet him, had run at full speed, and
was now coming up at the most critical moment; would the dog hearken to his voice, or could
the hunter reach him in time to seize and control him? A shout from the village bank proclaimed
that the fawn had passed out of sight into the forest; at the same instant, the hound, as he
touched the land, felt the hunter's strong arm clutching his neck. The worst was believed to
be over; the fawn was leaping up the mountain-side, and its enemy under restraint. The other
dogs, seeing their leader cowed, were easily managed. A number of persons, men and boys, dispersed
themselves through the woods in search of the little creature, but without success; they all
returned to the village, reporting that the animal had not been seen by them. Some persons
thought that after its fright had passed over it would return of its own accord. It had worn
a pretty collar, with its owner's name engraved upon it, so that it could easily be known from
any other fawn that might be straying about the woods. Before many hours had passed a hunter
presented himself to the lady whose pet the little creature had been, and showing a collar
with her name on it said that he had been out in the woods, and saw a fawn in the distance:
the little animal instead of bounding away as he expected, moved toward him; he took aim, fired,
and shot it to the heart. When he found the collar about its neck he was very sorry he had
killed it. And so the poor little thing died; one would have thought that terrible chase would
have made it afraid of man: but no, it forgot the evil and remembered the kindness only, and
came to meet as a friend the hunter who shot it. It was long mourned by its best friend.

       *       *       *       *       *

MISCELLANIES.

CIRCUMNAVIGATING A POPE.--Cardinal Maury did not allow you to advance far. He was fond of telling
anecdotes, but he loved to select his subject and to choose his terms. Memory well managed
can furnish a tolerable share of the wit and spirit of conversation, and he was, in this respect,
the most capital manoeuvrer I ever met with. As he had been absent from Paris for fourteen
years he had a great deal to tell. Every one, therefore, listened to his stories with pleasure--himself
among the first. Even at the dinner-table he permitted himself the indulgence of a vast quantity
of Spanish snuff, which he generally shared with his neighbors, distributing a large portion
on their plates, which rather spoiled the pleasure of those who had the good fortune to be
seated next to him, as it once happened to me at Madame du Roure's. While singing the praises
of his beautiful villa at Monte-Fiascone, he frequently drew from his pocket an enormous snuff-box,
the contents of which were most liberally showered down upon the company placed near him, and,
between two pinches, he informed us that he had formerly the pretension of taking the very
best snuff in France. He prepared it with his own hands, and spared no pains in the important
proceeding. When he emigrated to Rome he carried with him two jars of the precious mixture.
The future destiny of the Abbe Maury was dependent on the pope, and he was a great snuff-taker!
"I presented myself several times (I quote his own expressions) before his holiness, and took
great care never to omit displaying my snuff-box, which I opened and shut several times during
the interview, making as loud a noise as possible. This was all I dared do,--respect forbade
me making any advances toward his holiness by offering directly a taste of the mixture of which
I was so justly proud. At length my perseverance met with its reward. One day I managed skillfully
to push the snuff-box beneath his hand, and, in the heat of argument, he opened it mechanically,
and took a pinch of snuff therefrom. It was an awful moment, as you may imagine. I observed
him with the greatest attention, and immediately remarked the expression of satisfaction and
surprise which overspread his features as he stretched forth his fingers to take another pinch.
"Donde vi viene questo maraviglioso tobacco?" I told him that I alone possessed the mixture,
and that I had only two jars left, or rather that I had no more, as, of course, they now belonged
to his holiness. I am inclined to believe that this present was agreeable to him, as it was
useful to me." After the story the cardinal boasted to us of the extraordinary frankness of
his character. He had shown more of this than he had intended in the tale he had been telling.

--Souvenirs de France et d'Italie dans les Années 1830, 1831 et 1832.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Deutsche Reform publishes as a curiosity a selection, though an imperfect one, from the
catalogue of the flying leaves and small cheap journals, political and satirical, that sprung
into existence after the revolution, mostly in Berlin and Vienna; not more than three or four
of them now exist. The insect world was a favorite source of names for the satirist, the sting
of whose production was frequently only in the title: every week produced the Hornet, the Wasp,
the Gadfly, and their plurals, the Wasps and the Gadflies; there was also an Imperial Gadfly,
and one Wasp's Nest. The necessity of enlightenment exhausted the means of doing it through
the Torch, the Taper, the Jet of Gas, the Lamp, the Everburning Lamp (the last flickers still
at uncertain intervals, the extinguisher of the Berlin police coming down on it whenever it
appears), the Lantern and the White Lamp, the Snuffers followed the list of lights, and the
whole category concluded in an Egyptian Darkness, to which most of them have descended. The
other titles are not so well classified: there was a Democratic Reasoner, a Shrieker (or Shouter),
and the Berlin Widemouth, the Barricade Journal, the Street Journal, the Cat's Music, the Red
Cap, the Sansculottes (Ohne-Hosen), the Tower of Fools, are miscellaneous: there was a variety
of devils--the Travelling Devil, the Devil Untied, the Church Devil, the Revolutionary Devil.
Some of the titles were cant words, quite untranslatable, as Kladderadatsch (the Berlin Punch,
still existing), the Klitsch-Klatsch, and the Pumpernickel (a kind of black bread); the three
last were--The Prussians Have Come, the General Wash, and the Political Ass. In the provincial
towns all the flying leaves were something for the people--Volks-boten, Volks-freunde, Volks-zeitung--in
a list that would be too long to repeat.

       *       *       *       *       *

TRUE PROGRESS.--The civilization of antiquity was the advancement of the few and the slavery
of the many--in Greece 30,000 freemen and 300,000 slaves--and it passed away. True civilization
must be measured by the progress, not of a class or nation, but of all men. God admits none
to advance alone. Individuals in advance become martyrs--nations in advance the prey of the
barbarian. Only as one family of man can we progress. But man must exist as an animal before
he can exist as a man: his physical requirements must be satisfied before those of mind; and
hitherto it has taken the whole time and energies of the many to provide for their physical
wants. Such wants have spread mankind over the whole globe--the brute and the savage have disappeared
before the superior race--the black blood of the torrid zone has been mixed with the white
of the temperate, and a superior race, capable of living and laboring under a zenith sun, has
been formed, and we seem to be preparing for a united movement onward. The elements have been
pressed into our service, the powers of steam and electricity would appear boundless, and science
has given man an almost unlimited control over nature. The trammels which despotisms have hitherto
imposed on body and mind have been thrown off, and constitutional liberty has rapidly and widely
spread. The steamship and railway, and mutual interests in trade and commerce, have united
nation to nation, and the press has given one mind and simultaneous thoughts to the whole community.
Power there is in plenty for the emancipation of the whole race; since the steam engine and
machinery may be to the working-classes what they have hitherto been to those classes above
them. All that is wanted is to know how to use these forces for the general good. The powers
of production are inexhaustible; we have but to organize them, and justly to distribute the
produce.--Charles Bray.

       *       *       *       *       *

COFFEE AND THE SAVANS.--In a letter from Paris it is said: "Some of our eminent scientific
men are again squabbling on the vexed question as to whether coffee does or does not afford
nourishment. One of them has laid down what seems a paradox, viz., that coffee contains fewer
nutritive properties than the ordinary food of man, and yet that the man who makes it his principal
food is stronger than one who feeds on meat and wine. In support of this paradox, our savant
calls the example of the miners of the coal-pits of Charleroi, who never eat meat except a
very small quantity on Sundays, and whose daily meals consist exclusively of bread and butter
and coffee. These men, he says, are strong, muscular, and able to do, and actually perform,
more hard work than the miners of the coal-pits of Onzin, in France, who feed largely on the
more nutritive articles, meat and vegetables, and drink wine or beer. Another savant, taking
nearly the same views, insists that the Arabs are able to live moderately, and to make long
abstinences, as they do, entirely on account of their extensive use of coffee. But this last
assertion is demolished, by the declaration of M. d'Abbadie, who has just returned from Abyssinia,
that certain tribes of Arabs and Abyssinians who do not use coffee can support greater fatigue
than those who do. In presence of such very contradictory facts, who shall say which of the
learned doctors is in the right?"

       *       *       *       *       *

A CURIOUS TRIO.--Mr. Dallas, when Secretary of the Treasury, says Mr. Paulding, told me the
following story, which he had from Mr. Breck:--When the Duc de Liancourt was in Philadelphia,
sometime after the execution of Louis the Sixteenth, Mr. Breck called to see him at his lodgings,
in Strawberry-alley. Knocking at the door of a mean looking house, a little ragged girl came
out, who, on being asked for the Duke, pointed to a door, which Mr. B. entered. At a little
deal table he found Cobbett, teaching the Duke and Monsieur Talleyrand English!

       *       *       *       *       *

BAD COOKERY A CAUSE OF DRUNKENKESS.--To what are we to ascribe the prevalence of this detestable
vice amongst us! Many causes might be plausibly assigned for it, and one of them is our execrable
cookery. The demon of drunkenness inhabits the stomach. From that "vasty deep" it calls for
its appropriate offerings. But the demon may be appeased by other agents than alcohol. A well-cooked,
warmed, nutritious meal allays the craving quite as effectually as a dram; but cold, crude,
indigestible viands, not only do not afford the required solatium to the rebellious organ,
but they aggravate the evil, and add intensity to the morbid avidity for stimulants. It is
remarked that certain classes are particularly obnoxious to drunkenness, such as sailors, carriers,
coachmen, and other wandering tribes whose ventral insurrections are not periodically quelled
by regular and comfortable meals. Country doctors, for the same reason, not unfrequently manifest
a stronger predilection for their employers' bottles than their patients do for theirs. In
the absence of innocuous and benign appliances, the deleterious are had recourse to exorcise
the fiend that is raging within them. These views are explicable by the laws of physiology,
but this is not the place for such disquisitions. One reason why the temperance movement has
been arrested in this country is, that while one sensual gratification was withdrawn, another
was not provided. The intellectual excitements which were offered as a substitute have not
been found to answer the desired purpose. Our temperance coffee-houses are singularly deficient
in gastronomical attractions; and the copious decoctions of coffee and chicory which are there
served up, with that nauseous accompaniment, buttered toast, are more calculated to create
a craving for stimulants than allay it. The lower classes of Scotland are as deficient in knowledge
of cookery as the natives of the Sandwich Islands; and if our apostles of temperance would
employ a few clever cooks to go through the country and teach the wives and daughters of the
workingmen to dress meat and vegetables, and make soups, and cheap and palatable farinaceous
messes, they would do more in one year to advance their cause, than in twenty by means of long
winded moral orations, graced with all the flowers of oratory.--Wilson on the Social Condition
of France as compared with that of England.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MONKEY AND THE WATCH.--A distinguished lord, going from home, left his watch hanging beside
his bed. A tame monkey, who was in the habit of imitating the actions of his master, took the
watch, and with the aid of a band, fastened it to his side. A moment afterward he drew it forth
and wound it. Then he looked at it, and said, "This goes too fast." He opened it, put back
the hand, and again adjusted it to his side. A few moments passed, and he took it in his hand
once more. "Oh!" said the imitator, "now it goes too slow. What a trouble it is! How can it
be remedied?" He winds it again with the regulator; then closes it, and applies it gracefully
to the ear. "This movement is wrong, still;" and he wound it with the key in another way. Then
bent to listen to it. "It does not go well, yet." He opened the case; looked and examined every
part; touched this wheel, stopped that, moved another; in short, injured it so much by altering
and shaking it in his hand, that it at length ceased all motion. Guard us, O propitious Heaven!
from quacks that perform amongst men, as did the monkey with the unfortunate watch.--From the
Italian.

       *       *       *       *       *

A SYRIAN CHRISTIAN AND PHILOSOPHER.--When supper was brought in Amu Lyas, or Uncle Lyas, as
Iskender always respectfully called him, said a grace of twenty minutes before he sat down,
and one of equal duration after he got up. He was perpetually counting his beads and uttering
devout sayings--which partly accounted for his influence with the priests. He and I agreed
very well at the beginning, although in our very first conversation he forced on a religious
discussion, and plainly told me to what place all heretics were irrevocably doomed. On this
and other occasions he strictly maintained that the earth is stationary, that it is surrounded
by the sea, that the moon rises and sets, and that the stars are no bigger than they seem;
and turned pale with indignation at any contrary statements, which he asserted to be direct
attacks on the foundation of the Christian religion. Further experience taught me that he was
a very fair representative of public opinion among a large class of Syrian Christians. He was
an ardent desirer of French domination, and entertained the most stupid prejudices against
the English. I generally found that the Levantines preferred the French, whilst we are great
favorites with the Arabs.--Two Years in a Levantine Family.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BRITISH HIERARCHY.--The Eternal Anarch, with his old waggling addle-head full of mere windy
rumor, and his old insatiable paunch full of mere hunger and indigestion tragically blended,
and the hissing discord of all the Four Elements persuasively pleading to him;--he, set to
choose, would be very apt to vote for such a set of demigods to you.--Carlyle's Latter-Day
Pamphlets.

       *       *       *       *       *

[FROM BOHEMIAN POEMS, TRANSLATED BY A.H. WRAITSALL, M.A., JUST PUBLISHED IN LONDON.]

  Whither, oh, whither, now all things are over?
    We to our journey and he to his home;
  Eyes cannot pierce through the vail that must cover
    Him whom we laid in the still silent tomb.
  He hath but ended his journey before us,
    We for a season are sojourning still
  On the same earth with the same heaven o'er us,--
    Turn we, oh, turn we, our tasks to fulfill!
  Whither, oh, whither, now all things are ended?
    We to our labor and he to his rest;
  Let not the heart by its woe be offended,
    Man seeks the pleasant, but God gives the best.

       *       *       *       *       *

FROM FRASER'S MAGAZINE.

THE GREAT MARSHAL SUWARROW.

The Russian is eminently fitted for a soldier's life; his education is almost as martial as
if he had been brought up in a camp; for his relatives and neighbors hold their lands by military
tenure, and love to talk together of the days when they served in the wars. All, from the highest
order to the lowest, look to the fulfillment of their ancient prophecy, that "All the world
is to be conquered by the arms of Russia." Should some man of resplendent genius, like Suwarrow,
chance to command, there is no calculating on the position to which the Russian army might
attain. Suwarrow was not alone fitted to lead an army, but was exactly the general to form
one: his frankness and generosity, and the manner in which his habits identified him with his
soldiers, endeared him to the army; while his religious feelings and exercises, and the habit
of participating in some of their superstitions, sanctified him in the eyes of the men, and
gave him unbounded influence. Some of the anecdotes with which we have met exhibit feelings
for which we were but little inclined to give the devoted warrior credit, for most certainly
we should never have sought in rude camps, and among wild Cossacks, for gentle affections and
tender emotions; and yet even there they may be found; and we see that he whose whole existence
was nearly an uninterrupted series of military exploits, was by no means devoid of those congenial
sympathies which make up the charm of domestic life.... This is the more worthy of observation,
as he has been regarded by many as something not far removed from an ogre--an impression which
the barbarous warfare carried on between the Turks and Cossacks, in which he took such a prominent
part, seemed to justify; coupled as it has been, too, with the story of his having packed up
in a sack the heads of the Janissaries who had fallen by his hand, for the purpose of laying
them at the feet of his general. The spirit of the times, and of those with whom his lot was
cast, must be looked to as some palliation for the savage conflicts in which he was engaged.
That they had not hardened his heart against all tender emotions is surprising.

Pierre Alexis Wasiltowitch, Count Suwarrow, was born in 1730, in Moscow, according to his biographer,
of a Swedish family. He began his military career when but twelve years of age, having been
placed in the School of Young Cadets in St. Petersburgh by his father. He was a mere boy when
he entered the Russian service as a private soldier. For some years he was not advanced beyond
the rank of a subaltern. From the earliest age the decision and originality of his character
were developed, and he was not long in perceiving his own superiority to those by whom he was
commanded. This conviction rendered the control to which he was forced to submit extremely
distasteful, and made him determine to raise himself from a subordinate situation. To determine
was to achieve, in one possessed of his powers of mind and matchless energy. The singularity
of his bearing was very remarkable, and as he lost no opportunity of rendering it conspicuous,
it soon attracted observation, which was all that was necessary for the discovery of the extraordinary
intellectual powers which he possessed. Thus recommended by his superior abilities, his advancement
was rapid. Before he was twenty-nine he was a lieutenant-colonel. His reliance on his own unaided
powers was so entire, that he could ill brook the thought of considering himself bound by obedience
to any one. When speaking at a later period on the subject, he said, "When my sovereign does
me the honor to give me the command of her armies, she supposes me capable of guiding them
to victory; and how can she pretend to know better than an old soldier like myself, who am
on the spot, the road which leads to it? So, whenever her orders are in opposition to her true
interests, I take it for granted that they are suggested by the enmity of her courtiers, and
I act in conformity to what appears to me most conducive to her glory." On some occasions he
acted in accordance with this declaration, and on a very remarkable one showed that he was
justified in the dependence which he had on his own judgment; but whether his acting on it
was defensible, must be left to the martinets to determine. In the year 1771, during the campaign,
when he held the rank of major-general, he found that the Grand Marshal of Lithuania was assembling
the Poles at Halowitz, of which he directly apprised the commander-in-chief, Marshal Boutourlin,
and demanded leave to attack them. Boutourlin, who was a cautious man, thought such a risk
should not be attempted, as Suwarrow had but a few hundred men under him, and therefore decidedly
forbade any attack. At the same time, an account reached Suwarrow that the Regiment of Petersburgh
had just been beaten by the Poles, whose numbers amounted to five thousand men, and were increasing
every day. Fired by the intelligence, he at once determined on action, and advanced at the
head of a thousand men to the attack. Every danger but excited him to additional exertion.
In four days he marched fifty leagues, surprised the Poles at dead of night, and beat and dispersed
them. He took the town of Halowitz and twelve pieces of cannon. His victory was complete, but
he had disobeyed orders; and according to all rules of military discipline he deserved punishment.
It was thus he announced his success to the commander of the army:

    "As a soldier I have disobeyed--I ought to be punished--I have
    sent you my sword; but as a Russian I have done my duty in
    destroying the Confederate forces, which we could not have
    resisted had they been left time to unite."

Boutourlin was in the utmost astonishment, and quite at a loss what steps he should take. He
laid Suwarrow's extraordinary dispatch before the Empress, and requested her orders as to the
manner in which he should act. Catharine lost no time in addressing Suwarrow:

    "Your commander, Marshal Boutourlin, ought to put you under
    arrest, to punish military insubordination. As your sovereign,
    I reserve to myself the pleasure of rewarding a faithful
    subject, who by a splendid action has well served his
    country."

The Order of St. Alexander accompanied this gracious letter. Never was commander more loved
by his soldiers than Suwarrow. Like Napoleon, he shared their hardships and privations as well
as their dangers. He would often pass the cold winter nights in their bivouac and partake of
their humble fare. In every difficulty he kept up their spirits by his alacrity and cheerfulness.
However tinctured with superstition, he had deep devotional feelings; and it is stated that
he never went to battle without offering up a prayer, and that it was his first and last occupation
every day. Often when provisions were failing he would order a fast to be observed by the troops,
as a token of humiliation for their sins: and he always set the example of the prescribed abstinence
himself. The noble self-denial which made him scorn any care for himself which was beyond the
reach of the common soldiers, so thoroughly identified him with them, that all their tender
sympathies were with him, as much as their respect and veneration. He was never seen on the
long and heavy marches of his infantry but on foot by their side; and in every advance of his
cavalry he was at their head on horseback. He worked indefatigably with them in the trenches,
and in all their military operations. When the war broke out afresh with the Turks in the year
1785, he was surprised in the town of Kenburn by an advance of a great body of Osmanli horse;
his troops were scattered through the adjacent country, and could not be brought together without
great difficulty--a successful attack had been made upon one his generals. When the news was
brought to him he betrayed no agitation, but instantly repaired to the church, where he directed
that a Te Deum should be chanted as for a victory. This he might have done to show his firm
trust in the prophesied success of the Russian arms, even under discouragement. He joined in
the chant with animated fervor. As soon as the service was over he placed himself a the head
of a small body of troops which were in waiting, and hastened to meet the enemy, who were coming
on in considerable force. By a most desperate onset he drove them back, but in the engagement
he was wounded; and his soldiers, no longer animated by his presence, became disheartened,
and fled in confusion. Suwarrow leaped from the litter in which he was carried--all bleeding
and wounded as he was--and springing on horseback, exclaimed, "I am still alive, my children!"
This was the rallying cry--he led them on to victory.

Of all the brilliant achievements of Suwarrow, there was none more wonderful than the conquest
of Ismail. It had stood out against two sieges, and was considered almost impregnable. The
Empress, provoked at its not having yielded, gave an absolute order that it should be taken.
Potemkin, who was then at the head of the Russian army, dreaded Catharine's displeasure should
she be disappointed the third time. In his embarrassment he consulted with Suwarrow, who undertook
the conduct of the siege. Notwithstanding the great danger of an enterprise which had failed
twice, he felt confident of success; and said, with earnest faith in the result, "The Empress
wills it--we must obey!"

After a forced march of four days he reached Ismail at the head of his troops. A few days were
spent in the preparations necessary for an assault. When all was ready, orders were given:
the column marched forward at midnight. At that moment a courier rode up at full speed with
dispatches from Potemkin. Suwarrow was no sooner apprised of his arrival than he guessed with
his usual quickness the nature of the dispatches, and he determined not to receive them till
the fate of the enterprise was decided. He ordered his horse to be brought round to the door
of his tent; he sprang on it and galloped off, without seeming to observe the courier. After
a desperate resistance the Turks at length gave way, and Ismail fell into the hands of the
Russians. With his staff gathered eagerly round Suwarrow to offer their congratulations, the
eyes of the Marshal fell upon the officer who bore the dispatches.

"Who are you, brother?" said he.

"It is I," replied the courier, "who brought dispatches from Prince Potemkin yesterday evening."

"What!" exclaimed Suwarrow, with affected passion,--"what! you bring me news from my sovereign!--you
have been here since yesterday, and I have not yet received the dispatches!" Then threatening
the officer for his negligence, he handed the dispatch to one of his generals and bade him
read it aloud.

A more striking scene can scarcely be conceived. There was deep silence as the dispatch was
opened. Suwarrow and his companions in victory listened with breathless interest. Every danger
which they had braved and surmounted was enumerated one after the other. It was urged that
an enterprise undertaken in the midst of a winter even more than usually severe, must be disastrous,
and that it was absolutely preposterous to think it possible to make an impression on a fortress
furnished with 230 pieces of cannon and defended by 43,000 men, the half of whom were Janissaries,
with a force that amounted to no more than 28,000--little more than half their number. The
dispatch ended with a peremptory order for the abandonment of the enterprise.

"Thank God!" exclaimed Suwarrow, as soon as the general had ceased reading, raising his eyes
to heaven and crossing himself with devotion, "thank God, Ismail is taken, or I should have
been undone!"

There was silence for a moment, as if all participated in the feeling with which Suwarrow glanced
at the different situation which would have been his had he not succeeded; every eye was fixed
on him, and then a sudden shout of triumph burst through all the ranks. He then penned the
following brief reply: "The Russian flag flies on the ramparts of Ismail."

It is not to our purpose to follow the victorious steps of Suwarrow through the campaigns in
which he was engaged; they are now a part of history, and won for him that military glory after
which his heart panted from his early boyhood. Decoration after decoration, honor after honor:
title after title, marked the high estimation in which the services of this intrepid soldier
were held by his sovereign; and never did ruler dispense favors with a more munificent hand
than Catharine. What most attracted us, and from which we most wished to make a selection,
were those characteristic traits which brought us in a manner personally acquainted with Suwarrow.
In person Suwarrow was unlike what the imagination would picture. He was but five feet one
inch in height, and of a fragile form; his mouth was large, and his features plain; but his
countenance was full of fire, vivacity, and penetration. When he was moved, it became severe,
commanding, and even terrible; but this seldom happened, and never without some powerful cause.
His brow was much wrinkled, but as it seemed to be so from deep thinking it gave still greater
expression to his face. Though of a form which appeared delicate and feeble, no one could endure
greater fatigue. This may be attributed to his active and temperate habits, and to the wonderful
energy of his mind. He was most certainly able to use more exertion and undergo more hardship
and toil than most people of a robust frame. The spirit "which burned within him" was indeed
equal to any effort. The only weak point in his character was the horror which he had of being
reminded in any way of his age as he advanced in life: he most carefully avoided everything
which could make him think of it. All the looking-glasses in his house were either removed
or so completely covered that he could not catch even a transient glimpse of his face or person.
He often joked about his personal appearance, but said that he had all his life avoided looking
at himself in the glass, solely that he might not perceive the change which years bring, and
which might perhaps make him suppose himself growing too old for military pursuits. Be this
as it may, he never would look near a mirror. If he happened to go into a room where there
was one, the very moment he perceived it he shut his eyes, made all manner of odd faces, and
ran by it at his utmost speed out of the room. When a chair chanced to be in his way he jumped
over it, to show that he retained his activity; and for the same reason he always ran in and
out of the room. It was but seldom that he was seen to move at a slower pace. When in the company
of strangers he even quickened the speed of his motions, and exhibited the most droll antics
to impress upon their minds that he was still equal to take the field. It was the custom to
rise early--never later at any time of the year than four o'clock, and often even at midnight--to
the end of his life. As soon as he rose he was well drenched with cold water, even in the depth
of the most severe winter. He generally dined in winter at eight o'clock in the morning, and
in summer at seven. Dinner was his principal meal. Though his cookery could not have been very
tempting, as it was made up of ill-dressed Cossack ragouts, nobody ventured to find any fault
with it, and his good appetite made it palatable to himself. He never sat down to a meal without
a thanksgiving or an invocation for a blessing. If any among his guests did not take part in
the grace by responding "Amen," he would say, "Those who have not said amen shall have no eau
de vie." He never took any refreshment through the rest of the day, but a few cups of tea or
coffee. He never exceeded at table, but was fond of sitting long after dinner. This habit he
wished to correct, and gave his aid-de-camp, Tichinka, directions to order him from table whenever
he thought he was remaining too long; and this was to be managed after the fashion which he
prescribed. When the injunction was obeyed, he would ask, "By whose order?" When Tichinka made
reply, "By Marshal Suwarrow's order," he immediately rose from table, and said, with a smile,
"Very well: the marshal must be obeyed." According to his desire the same ceremony was gone
through when he was too sedentary, and as soon as he was told by his aid-de-camp that Marshal
Suwarrow had ordered him to go out he instantly complied. As he was unlike every one, so he
dressed like nobody else. He wore whole boots so wide that they fell about his heels. His waistcoat
and breeches were of white dimity; the lining and collar of the waistcoat were of green cloth;
his little helmet of felt was ornamented with green fringe. This was his military dress throughout
the whole year, except when the weather was intensely cold, and then he substituted white cloth
for the dimity. His appearance was still more strange from his frequently leaving the garter
and stocking hanging loose upon one leg, while the other was booted; but as the boot was thus
occasionally discarded in consequence of a wound in the leg, it was nothing to laugh at. His
long sabre trailed along the ground, and his thin dress hung loosely about his slight person.
Equipped in this extraordinary manner it was that Suwarrow reviewed, harangued, and commanded
his soldiers. On great occasions he appeared in his superb dress as field-marshal, and wore
the profusion of splendid ornaments which had been bestowed on the occasion of his victories.
Among them was the magnificent golden-hilted sword, studded with jewels, and the gorgeous plume
of diamonds which he had received from the hand of the Empress, among other marks of distinction,
for his extraordinary services at Aczakoff. At other times he wore no ornament but the chain
of the order of St. Andrew. He carried no watch or ornaments with him, save those which commemorated
his military exploits. On these he delighted to look, as they were associated in his mind with
the most gratifying events of his life--his glory, and the favor of his sovereign. He would
sometimes show them to a stranger, exhibiting them one by one, and setting his stamp of value
on each, as he would say, "At such an action I gained this order--at such another, this;" and
so on till he had told the remarkable occurrence to which he owed the possession of each--a
pride that was natural in one who had earned them so bravely. His whole style of living was
marked by the greatest simplicity. He preferred the plainest apartment, without any article
of luxury: he scarcely ever slept in a house when his troops were encamped; and he not only
stayed in his tent at night, but for the most part of the day, only entering the house appropriated
to his staff at dinner-time. Throughout his whole military career he had never passed an entire
night in bed. He stretched himself, when he lay down to rest, on a bundle of hay; nor would
he indulge himself in a more luxurious couch, even in the palace of the Empress. He had no
carriage, but a plain kibitk, (a sort of chariot,) drawn by hired horses, for he kept no horses;
but when he required one, as on the occasion of a review or some other military operation,
he mounted any which chanced to be at hand. Sometimes it belonged to one of the Cossacks, but
oftener was lent to him by his aid-de-camp, Tichinka. He was without servants, keeping but
one attendant to wait upon himself, and employing some of the soldiers in the service of his
house. This mode of living arose not from parsimony, but from an utter indifference to any
kind of indulgence, which he considered beneath a soldier's attention. He had a contempt for
money as a means of procuring gratification, but valued it as often affording him the pleasure
of being generous and kind. He gave up his entire share of the immense booty at Ismail, and
divided it among his soldiers. He never carried any money about him, or asked the price of
anything, but left all to the management of Tichinka. His strictness in doing what he considered
just, when he conceived himself in the slightest degree accountable, was very remarkable. On
one occasion an officer had lost at play sixty rubles, with which he had supplied himself from
the military chest. Suwarrow reprimanded the officer severely, but refunded the sum from his
own resources. "It is right," said he, in a letter to the Empress, in which he alluded to the
circumstance, "it is right that I should make it good, for I am answerable for the officers
I employ." One of Suwarrow's odd peculiarities consisted in keeping up the appearance of a
soldier at all times. When he saluted any person, he drew up, turned out his toes, threw back
his shoulders, kept himself quite erect, and turned the back of his hand to his helmet, as
soldiers do when saluting their officers. He was greatly attached to Tichinka, an old soldier,
who had once saved his life. From that time he never separated from him: he made him his aid-de-camp,
and gave him the sole management of all his affairs.

Suwarrow was very remarkable for his directness; and so great was his aversion to an evasive
or unmeaning expression, that he never could bear the person who made use of such, and was
sure to give him the name of Niesnion, which may be translated, "I don't know," "possibly,"
or "perhaps." He would take no such answer; but would say, in an emphatic tone, "try," "learn,"
or "set about it." Indeed, the abhorrence in which he held any mode of expression which was
not dictated by the most perfect frankness was so great, that he could not endure the flattery
and unmeaning civility of courtiers; and he never hesitated to mark his displeasure by bitter
satire, regardless of the presence of those against whom it was directed, even if the Empress
herself made one of the company. This caused him to be feared and disliked by many at court.
His acquirements were considerable. He spoke eight languages--French, like a native. He composed
verses with facility; he had read much, and was particularly well-informed in history and biography.
Notwithstanding his remarkable frankness and all his oddities, his manners were engaging and
polished: his conversation was original, energetic, and lively; he would often indulge in sallies
of pleasantry to amuse the Empress, and as he was an excellent mimic, he would take off the
uncouth manners and accents of some of the soldiers to the life. He had a dislike to writing,
always asserting that a pen was an unfit implement for a soldier. His dispatches were laconic,
but not the less striking on that account. Once or twice they were couched in concise couplets.
His brevity was laid aside when he addressed his soldiers. It was his custom to harangue them
at great length, sometimes even for two hours at a time, and in the very depth of winter.

    "I remember," says M. de Guillaumanches, "that one day, in the
    month of January, he took it into his head to harangue a body
    of 10,000 men drawn up on parade at Varsovia. It was bitterly
    cold, and a freezing hoar frost came down from the sky. The
    marshal, in a waistcoat of white dimity, began his usual
    harangue. He soon found that the coldness of the weather
    made it seem long; accordingly, he stretched it to two hours.
    Almost all the generals, officers, and soldiers caught cold.
    The marshal was nothing the worse, and was even gayer than
    usual. His quarters rang with continued fits of coughing,
    and he seemed to enjoy hearing it. He had the satisfaction of
    thinking that he had taught his army to disregard fatigue, and
    winter with all its frosts."

M. de Guillaumanches speaks of the veneration which Suwarrow had for the ministers of his religion.
He would often stop a priest on the road to implore his blessing. He loved to take part in
their religious services and to join in their chants; but it is on the goodness of his heart
that his biographer most delights to dwell. He tells us, "he was a kind relation, a sincere
friend, and an affectionate father." In the midst of all his triumphs, it has been said that
he was touched with pity and with sorrow for suffering humanity. "I asked him," says Mr. Tweddel,
"if after the massacre of Ismail he was perfectly satisfied with the conduct of the day. He
said, he went home and wept in his tent." Though Suwarrow spared but little time from his military
avocation for social intercourse, his tenderness for children was so great that he could not
bear to pass them without notice. He would stop, embrace, and bless them whenever he met them:
that he fondly loved his own is sufficiently proved by the following anecdote:--

While on his way to join the army, thoughts of home were in his mind. He felt it might be long
before he should see it in, if indeed, he should ever see it. He was seized with the most intense
longing to look on his children once more. The desire became so irresistible, that he turned
from the road he was traversing, and took that to Moscow. He rested neither day nor night till
he got there. It was the middle of the night when he reached his house; he sprang lightly from
his carriage, and knocked gently at the door. All the family were asleep. At length he was
heard by one of the domestics, and let in. He stole on tiptoe to his children's room, and,
withdrawing the curtains cautiously, for fear of disturbing them, bent over them; and, as he
gazed on them in delight, they slept on, unconscious of their midnight visitor. Then throwing
his arms gently over them, he held them for a moment in his fond embrace and left them a father's
blessing, and then went away to join his troops.

After the death of Catharine, in the year 1796, there was a sad change in the fortunes of her
faithful soldier. He served her successor with the same heroic devotion with which he had promoted
her interest and glory. In 1799 he effected one of the most brilliant retreats that stand in
the annals of history. Opposed in Italy by Moreau with an overwhelming force, when a retreat
was resolved on he was so afflicted that he wrung his hands and wept bitterly. He led his troops
over the heights of Switzerland into Germany with such consummate skill and undaunted energy
as added fresh honors to his name. The dangers and difficulties of this memorable operation
were such as would have been considered absolutely insurmountable by one less daring, and a
commander less beloved could never have encouraged his troops to hold out against surrender.
But they followed him in the midst of winter snows, through unknown and intricate paths and
deep ravines; sometimes passing in what haste they could along the edge of frightful chasms
and awful precipices, such as the weary traveler would tremble but to look at. Here they were
frequently exposed to the fire of the enemy, who lay in ambush among the rocks, and ofttimes
had to fight their way at the point of the bayonet. But still, even in retreat victorious,
he achieved his object, and never yielded to the foe. He is the only general, it is stated,
except Marlborough and Wellington, who was never defeated. The title of Prince Italisky was
conferred to commemorate the glory of his having led his army unconquered in his retreat from
Italy. He died the next year at St. Petersburgh. A broken heart was alleged by many to have
been the fatal disease which ended his days. The indomitable spirit which is proof against
danger, toil, and privation, may yet be borne down by the stings of ingratitude. The death
of Suwarrow, so soon following his recall, and the indignities which he received at the hands
of the emperor, tells in itself a tale of outraged feeling that needs no comment. It has been
truly said that ridicule is more bitterly resented and more rarely forgiven than injury. The
indulgence of a satiric humor, in some words spoken in jest by Suwarrow, is said to have piqued
Paul so much that he took a cruel revenge. The rage of the emperor for the introduction of
German fashions was so great, that he determined to have the German uniform adopted in the army.

When old Marshal Suwarrow got orders to introduce this uniform, and received little sticks
for measures and models of the soldiers tails and side-curls, "Hair-powder," said he, "is not
gunpowder, curls are not cannons, and tails are not bayonets." This, in the Russian language,
falls into rhyme, and soon spread as a saying through the army: and having reached the emperor's
ears, is said, in The Secret Memoirs of the Russian Court, to have been "the true cause which
induced Paul to recall Suwarrow and dispense with his services."

The genius of Suwarrow was superior to every difficulty, and led him to fame and honors such
as few have ever attained. Though born of a good family, he had neither money nor interest
to advance him, but pushed his own fortunes from his boyhood. He rose to the rank of colonel
when he was but twenty-nine. He was nominated general-in-chief for having compelled the Tartars
to submit to the Russian arms. He was created a count, and obtained the surname of Rimnisky
for a victory over the Turks near the river Rimnisky, by which he saved the Prince of Saxe
Coburg and the imperial army. For his services in Poland he was made a field-marshal, and received
the grant of an estate. In the year 1799 the title of Prince Italisky was conferred. This was
the last favor shown: the following year saw him laid in the grave.

       *       *       *       *       *

FROM DICKENS'S HOUSEHOLD WORDS.

"PRESS ON."

A RIVULET'S SONG.

  "Just under an island, 'midst rushes and moss,
    I was born of a rock-spring, and dew:
  I was shaded by trees, whose branches and leaves
    Ne'er suffered the sun to gaze through.

  "I wandered around the steep brow of a hill,
    Where the daisies and violets fair
  Were shaking the mist from their wakening eyes,
    And pouring their breath on the air.

  "Then I crept gently on, and I moistened the feet
    Of a shrub which infolded a nest--
  The bird in return sang his merriest song,
    And showed me his feathery crest.

  "How joyous I felt in the bright afternoon,
    When the sun, riding off in the west,
  Came out in red gold from behind the green trees
    And burnished ray tremulous breast!

  "My memory now can return to the time
    When the breeze murmured low plaintive tones,
  While I wasted the day in dancing away,
    Or playing with pebbles and stones.

  "It points to the hour when the rain pattered down,
    Oft resting awhile in the trees;
  Then quickly descending it ruffled my calm,
    And whispered to me of the seas!

  "'Twas then the first wish found a home in my breast
    To increase as time hurries along;
  'Twas then I first learned to lisp softly the words
    Which I now love so proudly--'Press on!'

  "I'll make wider my bed, as onward I tread,
    A deep mighty river I'll be--
  'Press on' all the day will I sing on my way,
    Till I enter the far-spreading sea."

  It ceased. A youth lingered beside its green edge
    Till the stars in its face brightly shone;
  He hoped the sweet strain would re-echo again--
    But he just heard a murmur--"Press on!"

       *       *       *       *       *

[FROM DICKENS'S HOUSEHOLD WORDS.]

ADDRESS FROM AN UNDERTAKER TO THE TRADE

(STRICTLY PRIVATE AND CONFIDENTIAL.)

I address you, gentlemen, as an humble individual who is much concerned about the body. This
little joke is purely a professional one. It must go no farther. I am afraid the public thinks
uncharitably of undertakers, and would consider it a proof that Dr. Johnson was right when
he said that the man who would make a pun would pick a pocket. Well; we all try to do the best
we can for ourselves--everybody else as well as undertakers. Burials may be expensive, but
so is legal redress. So is spiritual provision; I mean the maintenance of all our reverends
and right reverends. I am quite sure that both lawyers' charges and the revenues of some of
the chief clergy are very little, if any, more reasonable than our own prices. Pluralities
are as bad as crowded gravepits, and I don't see that there is a pin to choose between the
church and the churchyard. Sanitary revolutionists and incendiaries accuse us of gorging rottenness,
and battening on corruption. We don't do anything of the sort, that I see, to a greater extent
than other professions, which are allowed to be highly respectable. Political, military, naval,
university, and clerical parties, of great eminence, defend abuses in their several lines when
profitable. We can't do better than follow such good examples. Let us stick up for business,
and--I was going to say--leave society to take care of itself. No; that is just what we should
endeavor to prevent society from doing. The world is growing too wise for us gentlemen. Accordingly,
this Interments Bill, by which our interests are so seriously threatened, has been brought
into Parliament. We must join heart and hand to defeat and crush it. Let us nail our colors--which
I should call the black flag--to the mast, and let our war-cry be, "No surrender!" or else
our motto will very soon be, "Resurgam;" in other words, it will be all up with us. We stand
in a critical position in regard to public opinion. In order to determine what steps to take
for protecting business, we ought to see our danger. I wish, therefore, to state the facts
of our case clearly to you; and I say let us face them boldly, and not blink them. Therefore,
I am going to speak plainly and plumply on this subject.

There is no doubt--between ourselves--that what makes our trade so profitable is the superstition,
weakness, and vanity of parties. We can't disguise this fact from ourselves, and I only wish
we may be able to conceal it much longer from others. As enlightened undertakers, we must admit
that we are of no more use on earth than scavengers. All the good we do is to bury people's
dead out of sight. Speaking as a philosopher--which an undertaker surely ought to be--I should
say that our business is merely to shoot rubbish. However, the rubbish is human rubbish, and
bereaved parties have certain feelings which require that it should be shot gingerly. I suppose
such sentiments are natural, and will always prevail. But I fear that people will by and by
begin to think that pomp, parade, and ceremony are unnecessary upon melancholy occasions. And
whenever this happens, Othello's occupation will, in a great measure, be gone.

I tremble to think of mourning relatives considering seriously what is requisite--and all that
is requisite--for decent interment, in a rational point of view. Nothing more, I am afraid
Common Sense would say, than to carry the body in the simplest chest, and under the plainest
covering, only in a solemn and respectful manner, to the grave, and lay it in the earth with
proper religious ceremonies. I fear Common Sense would be of opinion that mutes, scarfs, hatbands,
plumes of feathers, black horses, mourning coaches, and the like, can in no way benefit the
defunct, or comfort surviving friends, or gratify anybody but the mob, and the street-boys.
But happily, Common Sense has not yet acquired an influence which would reduce every burial
to a most low affair.

Still, people think no more than they did, and in proportion as they do think, the worse it
will be for business. I consider that we have a most dangerous enemy in Science. That same
Science pokes its nose into everything--even vaults and churchyards. It has explained how grave-water
soaks into adjoining wells; and has shocked and disgusted people by showing them that they
are drinking their dead neighbors. It has taught parties resident in large cities that the
very air they live in reeks with human remains, which steam up from graves; and which, of course,
they are continually breathing. So it makes our churchyards to be worse haunted than they were
formerly believed to be by ghosts, and, I may add, vampyres, in consequence of the dead continually
rising from them in this unpleasant manner. Indeed, Science is likely to make people dread
them a great deal more than Superstition ever did, by showing that their effluvia breed typhus
and cholera; so that they are really and truly very dangerous. I should not be surprised to
hear some sanitary lecturer say, that the fear of churchyards was a sort of instinct implanted
in the mind, to prevent ignorant people and children from going near such unwholesome places.

It would be comparatively well if the mischief done us by Science, Medicine and Chemistry,
and all that sort of thing--stopped here. The mere consideration that burial in the heart of
cities is unhealthy, would but lead to extramural interment, to which our only objection--though
even that is no very trifling one--is that it would diminish mortality, and consequently our
trade. But this Science--confound it!--shows that the dead do not remain permanently in their
coffins, even when the sextons of metropolitan graveyards will let them. It not only informs
Londoners that they breathe and drink the deceased; but it reveals how the whole of the defunct
party is got rid of, and turned into gases, liquids, and mould. It exposes the way in which
all animal matter as it is called in chemical books--is dissolved, evaporates, and disappears;
and is ultimately, as I may say, eaten up by Nature, and goes to form parts of plants, and
of other living creatures. So that, if gentlemen really wanted to be interred with the remains
of their ancestors, it would sometimes be possible to comply with their wishes only by burying
them with a quantity of mutton--not to say with the residue of another quadruped than the sheep,
which often grazes in churchyards. Science, in short, is hammering into people's heads truths
which they have been accustomed merely to gabble with their mouths--that all flesh is indeed
grass, or convertible into it; and not only that the human frame does positively turn to dust,
but into a great many things besides. Now, I say, that when they become really and truly convinced
of all this; when they know and reflect that the body cannot remain any long time in the grave
which it is placed in; I am sadly afraid that they will think twice before they will spend
from thirty to several hundred pounds in merely putting a corpse into the ground to decompose.

The only hope for us if these scientific views become general, is, that embalming will be resorted
to; but I question if the religious feelings of the country will approve of a practice which
certainly seems rather like an attempt to arrest a decree of Providence; and would, besides,
be very expensive. Hero I am reminded of another danger, to which our prospects are exposed.
It is that likely to arise from serious parties, in consequence of growing more enlightened,
thinking consistently with their religious principles, instead of their religion being a mere
sentimental kind of thing which they never reason upon. We often, you know, gentlemen, overhear
the bereaved remarking that they trust the departed is in a better place. Why, if this were
not a mere customary saying on mournful occasions--if the parties really believed this--do
you think they would attach any importance to the dead body which we bury underground? No;
to be sure: they would look upon it merely as a suit of left-off clothes--with the difference
of being unpleasant and offensive, and not capable of being kept. They would see that a spirit
could care no more about the corpse it had quitted, than a man who had lost his leg, would
for the amputated limb. The truth is--don't breathe it, don't whisper it, except to the trade--that
the custom of burying the dead with expensive furniture; of treating a corpse as if it were
a sensible being; arises from an impression--though parties won't own it, even to themselves--that
what is buried is the actual individual, the man himself. The effect of thinking seriously,
and at the same time rationally, will be to destroy this notion, and with it put an end to
all the splendor and magnificence of funerals, arising from it. Moreover, religious parties,
being particular as to their moral conduct, would naturally consider it wrong and wicked to
spend upon the dead an amount of money which might be devoted to the benefit of the living;
and no doubt, when we come to look into it, such expenditure is much the same thing with the
practice of savages and heathens in burying bread, and meat, and clothes, along with their
deceased friends.

I have been suggesting considerations which are very discouraging, and which afford but a poor
look-out to us undertakers. But, gentlemen, we have one great comfort still. It has become
the fashion to inter bodies with parade and display. Fashion is fashion; and the consequence
is that it is considered an insult to the memory of deceased parties not to bury them in a
certain style; which must be respectable at the very least, and cost, on a very low average,
twenty-five or thirty pounds. Many, such as professional persons and tradespeople, who cannot
afford so much money, can still less afford to lose character and custom. That is where we
have a pull upon the widows and children, many of whom, if it were not for the opinion of society,
would be only too happy to save their little money, and turn it into food and clothing, instead
of funeral furniture.

Now here the Metropolitan Interments Bill steps in, and aims at destroying our only chances
of keeping up business as heretofore. We have generally to deal with parties whose feelings
are not in a state to admit of their making bargains with us--a circumstance, on their parts,
which is highly creditable to human nature; and favorable to trade. Thus, in short, gentlemen,
we have it all our own way with them. But this Bill comes between the bereaved party and the
undertaker. By the twenty-seventh clause, it empowers the Board of Health to provide houses
and make arrangements for the reception and care of the dead previously to, and until interment;
in order, as it explains in a subsequent clause, to the accommodation of persons having to
provide the funerals--supposing such persons to desire the accommodation. Clause the twenty-eighth
enacts "That the said Board shall make provision for the management and conduct, by persons
appointed by them, of the funerals of persons whose bodies are to be interred in the Burial
Grounds, to be provided under this Act, where the representatives of the deceased, or the persons
having the care and direction of the funeral, desire to have the same so conducted; and the
said Board shall fix and publish a scale of the sums to be payable for such funerals, inclusive
of all matters and services necessary for the same, such sums to be proportioned to the description
of the funeral, or the nature of the matter and services to be furnished and rendered for the
same; but so that in respect of the lowest of such sums, the funerals may be conducted with
decency and solemnity." Gentlemen, if this enactment becomes law, we shall lose all the advantages
which we derived from bereaved parties' state of mind. The Board of Health will take all trouble
off their hands, at whatever sum they may choose to name. Of course they will apply to the
Board of Health instead of coming to us. But what is beyond everything prejudicial to our interests,
is the proviso "that in respect of the lowest of such sums, the funerals may be conducted with
decency and solemnity." Hitherto it has been understood that so much respect could not be paid
in the case of what we call a low affair as in one of a certain style. We have always considered
that a funeral ought to cost so much to be respectable at all. Therefore relations have gone
to more expense with us, than they would otherwise have been willing to incur, in order to
secure proper respect. But if proper respect is to be had at a low figure, the strongest hold
that we have upon sorrowing relatives will be taken away.

It is all very fine to say that we are a necessary class of tradesmen, and if this Bill passes
must continue to be employed. If this Bill does pass we shall be employed simply as tradesmen,
and shall obtain, like other tradesmen, a mere market price for our articles, and common hire
for our labor. I am afraid that it will be impossible to persuade the public that this would
not be perfectly just and right. I think, therefore, that we had better not attack the Bill
on its merits, but try to excite opposition against it on the ground of its accessory clauses.
Let us oppose it as a scheme of jobbery, devised with a view to the establishment of offices
and appointments. Let us complain as loudly as we can of its creating a new rate to defray
the expenses of its working, and let us endeavor to get up a good howl against that clause
of it which provides for compensation to incumbents, clerks, and sextons. We must cry out with
all our might upon its centralizing tendency, and of course make the most we can out of the
pretense that it violates the sanctity of the house of mourning, and outrages the most fondly
cherished feelings of Englishmen. Urge these objections upon church-wardens, overseers, and
vestrymen; and especially din the objection to a burial rate into their ears. Recollect, our
two great weapons--like those of all good old anti-reformers--are cant and clamor. Keep up
the same cry against the Bill perseveringly, no matter how thoroughly it may be refuted or
proved absurd. Literally, make the greatest noise in opposition to it that you are able, especially
at public meetings. There, recollect a groan is a groan, and a hiss a hiss, even though proceeding
from a goose. On all such occasions do your utmost to create a disturbance, to look like a
popular demonstration against the measure. In addition to shouting, yelling, and bawling, I
should say that another rush at another platform, another upsetting of the reporter's table,
another terrifying of the ladies, and another mobbing the chairman, would be advisable. Set
to work with all your united zeal and energy to carry out the suggestions of our Central Committee
for the defeat of a Bill which, if passed, will inflict a blow on the undertaker as great as
the boon it will confer on the widow and orphan--whom we, of course, can only consider as customers.
The Metropolitan Interments Bill goes to dock us of every penny that we make by taking advantage
of the helplessness of afflicted families. And just calculate what our loss would then be;
for, in the beautiful language of St. Demetrius, the silversmith, "Sirs, ye know that by this
craft we have our wealth."

       *       *       *       *       *

FROM MISS FENIMORE COOPER'S (UNPUBLISHED) "RURAL HOURS."

FIRE IN THE WOODS.

Observing an old branchless trunk of the largest size, in a striking position, where it looked
like a broken column, we walked up to examine it. The shaft rose, without a curve or a branch,
to the height of perhaps forty feet, where it had been abruptly shivered, probably in some
storm. The tree was a chestnut, and the bark of a clear, unsullied gray; walking round it,
we saw an opening near the ground, and to our surprise found the trunk hollow, and entirely
charred within, black as a chimney, from the root to the point where it was broken off. It
frequently happens that fire steals into the heart of an old tree, in this way, by some opening
near the roots, and burns away the inside, leaving merely a gray outer shell. One would not
expect the bark to be left in such cases, but the wood at the heart seems to be more inflammable
than the outer growth. Whatever be the cause, such shafts are not uncommon about our hills,
gray without, charred within.

There is, indeed, much charred wood in our forests; fires which sweep over the hills are of
frequent occurrence here, and at times they do much mischief. If the flames are once fairly
kindled in dry weather, they will spread in all directions as the wind varies, burning sometimes
for weeks together, until they have swept over miles of woodland, withering the verdure, destroying
the wood already cut, and greatly injuring many trees which they do not consume. Several years
since, in the month of June, there was quite an extensive fire on the eastern range of hills;
it lasted for ten days or a fortnight, spreading several miles in different directions. It
was the first important fire of the kind we had ever seen, and of course we watched its progress
with much interest; but the spectacle was a very different one from what we had supposed. It
was much less terrible than the conflagration of buildings in a town; there was less of power
and fierce grandeur, and more of treacherous beauty about the flames as they ran hither and
thither along the mountain-side. The first night after it broke out we looked on with admiration:
one might have thought it a general illumination of the forest, as the flames spread in long
winding lines, gaining upon the dark wood every moment, up and down, and across the hill, collecting
here and there with greater brilliancy about some tall old tree, which they hung with fire
like a giant lustre. But the next day the sight was a sad one indeed: the deceitful brilliancy
of the flames no longer pleased the eye: wreaths of dull smoke and hot vapors hung over the
blighted trees, and wherever the fire had wandered there the fresh June foliage was utterly
blasted. That night we could no longer take pleasure in the spectacle; we could no longer fancy
a joyous illumination. We seemed rather to behold the winding coils of some fiery serpent gliding
farther and farther on its path of evil: a rattling, hissing sound accompanying its movement,
the young trees trembling and quivering with agitation in the heated current which proclaimed
its approach. The fresh flowers were all blighted by its scorching breath, and with its forked
tongue it fed upon the pride of the forest, drying up the life of great trees, and without
waiting to consume them, hurrying onward to blight other groves, leaving a blackened track
of ruin wherever it passed.

Some fifty years since a fire of this kind is said to have spread until it inclosed within
its lines the lake and the valley, as far as one could see, surrounding the village with a
network of flame, which at night was quite appalling in its aspect. The danger, however, was
not so great as it appeared, as there was everywhere a cleared space between the burning forest
and the little town. At times, however, very serious accidents result from these fires: within
a few days we have heard of a small village, in the northern part of the State, in St. Lawrence
county, entirely destroyed in this way, the flames gaining so rapidly upon the poor people
that they were obliged to collect their families and cattle in boats and upon rafts, in the
nearest pools and streams.

Of course, more or less mischief is always done; the wood and timber already cut are destroyed,
fences are burnt, many trees are killed, others are much injured, the foliage is more or less
blighted for the season; the young plants are killed, and the earth looks black and gloomy.
Upon the whole, however, it is surprising that no more harm is done. On the occasion of the
fire referred to in these woods, we found the traces of the flames to disappear much sooner
than we had supposed possible. The next season the smaller plants were all replaced by others;
many of the younger trees seemed to revive, and a stranger passing over the ground to-day would
scarcely believe that fire had been feeding on those woods for a fortnight only a few seasons
back. A group of tall, blasted hemlocks, on the verge of the wood, is the striking monument
of the event. The evergreens generally suffer more than other trees, and for some cause or
other the fire continued busy at that point for several days. We repeatedly passed along the
highway at the time, with the flames at work on either side. Of course, there was no danger,
but it looked oddly to be quietly driving along through the fire. The crackling of the flames
was heard in the village, and the smell of smoke was occasionally quite unpleasant.

A timely rain generally puts a stop to the mischief; but parties of men are also sent out into
the woods to "fight the fire." They tread out the flames among the dry leaves by trampling
them down, and they rake away the combustible materials, to confine the enemy to its old grounds,
when it soon exhausts itself. The flames spread more frequently along the earth, than from
tree to tree.

       *       *       *       *       *

[FROM HOUSEHOLD WORDS.]

FLOWERS.

  Dear friend, love well the flowers! Flowers are the sign
  Of Earth's all gentle love, her grace, her youth,
  Her endless, matchless, tender gratitude. You may see them born,
  On any day in April, moist or dry,
  As bright as are the Heavens that look on them:
  Some sown like stars upon the greensward; some
  As yellow as the sunrise; others red
  As day is when he sets; reflecting thus,
  In pretty moods, the bounties of the sky.

  And now, of all fair flowers, which lovest thou best?
  The Rose? She is a queen more wonderful
  Than any who have bloomed on Orient thrones:
  Sabæan Empress! in her breast, though small,
  Beauty and infinite sweetness sweetly dwell,
  Inextricable. Or dost dare prefer
  The Woodbine, for her fragrant summer breath?
  Or Primrose, who doth haunt the hours of Spring,
  A wood-nymph brightening places lone and green?
  Or Cowslip? or the virgin Violet,
  That nun, who, nestling in her cell of leaves,
  Shrinks from the world, in vain!

  Yet, wherefore choose, when Nature doth not choose?
  Our mistress, our preceptress? She brings forth
  Her brood with equal care, loves all alike,
  And to the meanest as the greatest yields
  Her sunny splendors and her fruitful rains.
  Love all flowers, then. Be sure that wisdom lies
  In every leaf and bloom; o'er hills and dales;
  And thymy mountains; sylvan solitudes
  Where sweet-voiced waters sing the long year through;
  In every haunt beneath the Eternal Sun,
  Where Youth or Age sends forth its grateful prayer,
  Or thoughtful Meditation deigns to stray.

       *       *       *       *       *

French Eulogy has always been prone to run riot. One M. Philoxene Boyer, in a grave work which
has just published, in Paris, thus addresses Victor Hugo:--"You, Victor Hugo, will become not
only President of the French Republic, but President of the Universal Republic, Chief of the
Oecumenic Council of Nations, Intellectual Pope reigning in your Paris, whilst the Pope of
Religion, united with you and Jesus Christ, the common master, will continue to reign in his Rome."

