2. In Lewis's History of the Translations of the Bible, edit. 1818. p. 25., he quotes a work
of Bishop Bonner, "Of the Seven Sacraments, 1555," in which a manuscript English Bible is cited
by the Bishop, as then in his possession, "translated out of Latyne in tyme of heresye almost
eight-score years before that tyme, i.e. about 1395, fayre and truly written in parchment."
Lewis proceeds to conjecture, that this MS. was the same which is preserved in the Bodleian
Library under the mark Fairfax, 2. And in this erroneous supposition he has been followed by
later writers. The copy in question, which belonged to Bonner, is actually in the Archiepiscopal
Library at Lambeth, No. 25., and contains the Pentateuch in the earlier Wycliffite version
(made, no doubt, by Nicholas Hereford), whilst the rest of the Old and New Testament is in
the later or revised translation by Purvey and his coadjutors. What I now wish to inquire about,
is, where can I meet with a copy of Bonner's work, De Septem Sacramentis, in which the passages
occur referred to by Lewis? They are not in A Profitable and Necessarye Doctryne, with certayne
Homelies adjoyned, printed in 1555 by John Carood, although one of these homilies is on the
subject of the seven sacraments.

F. MADDEN.

       *       *       *       *       *

MINOR QUERIES.

Monastery, Arrangement of One.--Any information and particulars respecting the extent, arrangement,
and uses of the various buildings for an establishment of fifty Cistercian or Benedictine Monks
would be useful to and gratefully received by

A.P.H.

    [Has our Querist consulted Professor Willis, "Description of the
    Ancient Plan of the Monastery of St. Gall in the Ninth Century,"
    accompanying a copy of the plan, and which he will find in the
    Archæological Journal, vol. v. p. 85.?]

Constantine the Artist.--Who was "M. Constantine, an Italian architect to our late Prince Henry,"
employed in the masque at the Earl of Somerset's marriage in 1613? and was he the same Constantine
de Servi to whom the Prince assigned a yearly pension of 200l. in July 1612? If so, where can
more be found respecting him? He is not mentioned on Walpole's Anecdotes.

J.G.N.

Josias Ibach Stada.--Who was the artist whose name occurs inscribed on the hoof of the horse
of King Charles the Second's equestrian statue at {453} Windsor, as follows:--"1669. Fudit
Josias Ibach Stada Bramensis;" and is Mr. Hewitt, in his recent Memoir of Tobias Rustat, correct
in calling him "Stada, an Italian artist?"

J.G.N.

Worm of Lambton.--Is there any published notice of the "Knight and Serpent" tradition regarding
this family and parish?

A.C.

    [A quarto volume of traditions, gathered in the immediate
    neighbourhood of the scene of action, was privately printed in
    the year 1530, under the title of The Worm of Lambton.]

       *       *       *       *       *

REPLIES.

LUTHER'S TRANSLATION OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.

Luther's solemn request that his translation should on no account be altered, accompanies most
of the earlier editions of the N.T. I find it on the reverse of the title-page of the edition
in 8vo. printed at Wittemberg by Hans Lufft in 1537, thus:--

    "I request all my friends and enemies, my master printer, and
    reader, will let this New Testament be mine; and, if they have
    fault to find with it, that they make one of their own. I know
    well what I do, and see well what others do; but this Testament
    shall be Luther's German Testament; for carping and cavilling is
    now without measure or end. And be every one cautioned against
    other copies, for I have already experienced how negligently and
    falsely others reprint us."[1]

The disputed verse (1 John, v. 7.) is omitted in all the editions printed under Luther's eye
or sanction in his lifetime; but it has not, I think, been remarked that in verse 8. the words
auf erde, found in later editions, are wanting. The passage stands:--

    "Denn drey sind die da zeugen, der Geist, und das Wasser, und
    das Blut, und die drey sind beysamen."

In the first edition of the Saxon (Düdesche version of Luther's Bible, by Jo. Heddersen, printed
in a magnificent volume at Lubeck, by Lo. Dietz, in 1533-4), the verse stands thus:--

    "Wente dre synt dede tüchinisse geven, de Geist unde dat Water,
    unde dat Bloth, unde de dre synt by emander."

A MS. note of a former possessor remarks:--

    "The 7th verse is not found here, nor is it in the Bibles of
    Magdeburg, 1544, of Wittemberg, 1541, ditto 1584, Frankfort,
    1560 and 1580."

In the edition of this same version, printed by Hans Lufft, Wittemberg, 1541, the passage is
exactly similar; but in one printed by Hans Walther, Magdeburg, 1545, the words up erdeu are
inserted.

These Saxon versions are interesting from the very great similarity that idiom has to our early
language; and they, doubtless, influenced much our own early versions.

In a translation of the N.T. from the Latin of Erasmus (the first printed in Latin with a translation
on the same page, and which is very similar in appearance to Udal's), printed at Zurich in
1535, 4to., with a Preface by Johansen Zwikk of Constance, the 7th verse is given (as it was
in the Latin); but is distinguished by being printed in brackets, and in both verses we have--

    "Unnd die drey dienend in eins."

Erasmus having admitted the verse into his third edition, gave occasion perhaps to the liberty
which has been taken in later times to print both verses, with this distinction, in editions
of the Lutheran version. The earliest edition, I believe, in which it thus appears, is one
at Wittemberg in 1596, which was repeated in 1597, 1604, 1605[2], and 1625. It also appears,
but printed in smaller type, in the Hamburgh Bible by Wolder in 1597, in that of Jena 1598,
and in Hutter's Nuremburg, 1599.

In a curious edition of the N.T. printed at Wandesbeck in 1710, in 4to., in which four German
versions, the Catholic, the Lutheran, the Reformed, a new version by Reitz, and the received
Dutch version, are printed in parallel columns, both verses are given in every instance; but
a note points out that Luther uniformly omitted the 7th verse, and the words auf erde.

There cannot be a doubt, therefore, that the insertion is entirely unwarranted in any edition
of the New Testament professing to be Luther's translation.

S.W. SINGER.

April 25. 1850.

    [Footnote 1: "Ich bitte alle meine Freunde, und Feinde, meine
    Meister Drücker und Leser, wolten dis Newe Testament lassen mein
    sein, Haben sie aber mangel dran, das sie selbs ein eigens für
    sich machen; Ich weiss wol was ich mache, Sehe auch wol was
    andere machen, Aber dis Testament sol des Luther's Deudsch
    Testament sein, Denn Meisterns und Klugelus ist jtzt weder masse
    noch ende. Und sey jederman gewarnet für andern Exemplaren, Denn
    ich bisher wol erfaren wie unfvleissig und falsch uns andere
    nachdrücken."]

    [Footnote 2: Fr. Er. Kettner, who printed at Leipsic, in 1696, a
    long and strenuous defence of the authenticity of the 7th verse,
    exults in the existence of this verse in an edition of the
    Bible, Wittemberg, 1606, which is falsely said on the title-page
    to be juxta ultimum a Luthero revisum exemplar correctum.]

Luther's Translation of the Bible (No. 25, p. 309.).--De Wette, in his critical Commentary
on the verse 1 John, after stating his opinion that the controverted passage is a spurious
interpolation, gives a list of the codices and editions in which the passage is not found,
and of those in which it is found.

The passage is wanting in all Greek Codd. except Codd. 34. 162. 172. (of his introduction,
where it is introduced from the Vulgate), and in all MS. {454} of the Vulgate before the tenth
century; in Erasmus' edit. of 1516 and 1518; in Ald. Ed. Venet. 1518; in all editions of Luther's
translation published by him during his life-time, and up to 1581; in the edit. Withenb., 1607;
Hamb. 1596. 1619. 1620.

The passage is found in all the editions printed of the Vulgate, and in all translations from
it before Luther; and the edit. complut.; in Erasmus' of 1522, and in his paraphrase; in the
edit. of Rob. Stephens, 1546-69; and Beza, 1565-76. 1582; in the Lutheran translations reprinted
by Froschauer, Zurich, 1529-31. (but in small type); edit. 1536-89. in brackets; edit. 1597,
without the brackets; in the edit. Frankf. 1593; Wittenb. 1596-97, and many later ones. I may
add, that the passage is in every edition of recent date that I have seen of the Lutheran Bible,
but not, of course, in De Wette's translation.

S.W.

       *       *       *       *       *

LINES ON LONDON DISSENTING MINISTERS.

In reply to one of the Queries of "W." (No. 24. p. 383.), I transcribe from the MSS. of Mr.
Chewning Blackmore, a Presbyterian minister of Worcester, the "Lines on London Dissenting Ministers
of a former Day," which I have never seen entire in print:--

  "Behold how Papal Wright with lordly pride
   Directs his haughty eye to either side,
   Gives forth his doctrine with imperious nod,
   And fraught with pride addresses e'en his God.

  "Not so the gentle Watts, in him we find
   The fairest pattern of a humble mind;
   In him the meekest, lowliest virtue dwells,
   As mild as light, as soft as ev'ning gales.

  "Tuning melodious nonsense, Bradbury stands,
   With head uplifted and with dancing hands,
   Prone to sedition, and to slander free,
   Sacheverell sure was but a type of thee.

  "Mark how the pious matrons flock around,
   Pleased with the noise of Guyse's empty sound;
   How sweetly each unmeaning period flows
   To lull the audience to a gentle doze!

  "Eternal Bragge in never-ending strains
   Unfolds the mysteries Joseph's coat contains,
   Of every hue describes a different cause,
   And from each patch a solemn mystery draws.

  "With soundest judgment and with nicest skill,
   The learned Hunt explains his Master's will,
   So just his meaning, and his sense to true,
   He only pleases the discerning few.

  "In Chandler's solid, well-composed discourse,
   What wond'rous energy! what mighty force!
   Still, friend to Truth, and strict to Reason's rules,
   He scorns the censure of unthinking fools.

  "But see the accomplish'd orator appear,
   Refined his language, and his reasoning dear,
   Thou only, Foster, has the pleasing art,
   At once to please the ear and mend the heart!

  "Lawrence, with clear and solid judgment speaks,
   And on the sober mind impression makes,
   The sacred truths with justness he explains,
   And he from ev'ry hearer praise obtains."

Of the author of these lines I can give no information. He evidently belonged to the Anti-Calvinistic
party. His name does not appear to have been known to Mr. Walter Wilson, the historian of the
"Dissenting Churches" of London, although he quotes a portion of them. But they were probably
composed between 1728 and 1738. In the former year, Dr. James Foster's London popularity arose,
on the occasion of his undertaking the evening lecture at the Old Jewry. In the year 1738,
Mr. Robert Bragge, one of the subjects of the poem, died. Of this gentleman the story is told
(and to it the poem evidently alludes), that he was employed no less than four months in developing
the mysteries of Joseph's coat, from Genesis, xxxvii. 3.: "And he made him a coat of many colours."
In reply to the sarcasm on Mr. Bragge, Mr. Walter Wilson states (Hist. and Ant. of Diss. ch.
i. p. 247.) that the following stanza was composed:--

  "The unwearied Bragge, with zeal, in moving strains,
   Unfolds the mysteries Scripture-Book contains;
   Marks every truth, of error shows the cause,
   And from each mystery useful doctrine draws."

The unfavourable notice of Dr. Sam. Wright in the opening stanza, is at variance with the general
report of biographers. In the copy of the verses in the Blackmore MSS. is this note:--"I think
this is too severe on the Dr." Dr. Wright was admired for his pulpit elocution; and it is said
that Archbishop Herring was, in his younger years, a frequent hearer of his, with a view to
improve in elocution. The notice of the celebrated Tom Bradbury is grossly unjust. He was a
man of wit and courage, though sometimes boisterous and personal. His unsparing opponent, Dr.
Caleb Fleming, wrote admiringly of "his musical voice, and the flow of his periods, adapting
scripture language to every purpose."--The Character of the Rev. Mr. Thos. Bradbury, taken
from his own Pen, &c. Lond. 8vo. 1749, p. 35.

A.B.R.

Dukinfield.

       *       *       *       *       *

REPLIES TO MINOR QUERIES.

Tracts by Dekker and Nash.--The Raven's Almanacke, 1609, is the production of Thomas Dekker,
the dramatist, and one of the rarest of his numerous works. A copy sold in the Gordonstown
sale for seven guineas; and another occurred in Mr. J.H. Bright's collection (No. 1691.); but
I have not the sale catalogue at hand to quote the price. Dekker was also the author of a similar
work, entitled The Owle's Almanacke, 1618; but it is not mentioned in the lists furnished by
{455} Lowndes and Dr. Nott. The latter is indeed very inaccurate, omitting many well-known
productions of the author, and assigning others to him for which he is not answerable. Whilst
upon the subject of Dekker, I cannot resist mentioning a fraud upon his memory which has, I
believe, escaped the notice of bibliographers. In 1697 was published a small volume, entitled,
The Young Gallant's Academy, or Directions how he should behave himself in an Ordinary, in
a Playhouse, in a Tavern, &c., with the Character of a Town-Huff, by Samuel Vincent. This is
nothing more than a reprint of Dekker's Gull's Horn-book, with some slight alterations to adapt
it to the times.

Nash's Terrors of the Night, or a Discourse of Apparitions, was printed by John Danter for
William Jones, 1594. It is a very interesting tract, and contains many personal allusions to
its unfortunate author. A copy was sold in Heber's sale (Part IV. No. 1592.) for 5l. 18s. A
note in the handwriting of that distinguished collector gives us the following information:--

    "Only two other copies are known to exist, one in the Ashbridge
    Library at Cleveland House, the other, not so fine as the
    present, bought by Malone at Brand's, since James Boswell's, and
    now (1825) penes me, R.H."

All things considered, I think your correspondent "J.E." (p. 400.) may congratulate himself
on having "met with a prize."

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

Nash's Terrors of the Night.--Excessively rare. Boswell had a copy, and another is in the library
of the Earl of Ellesmere, described in Mr. Collier's Bridgewater Catalogue as one of the worst
of Nash's tracts.

L.

Tureen (No. 25. p. 407.).--The valuable reference to Knox proves the etymology from the Latin.
Terrene, as an adjective, occurs in old English. See quotation in Halliwell, p. 859.

L.

