Still, sea-snakes, though well-known to the natives, are not abundant round Ceylon, as compared
with their numbers in other places. Their principal habitat is the ocean between the southern
shores of China and the northern coast of New Holland; and their western limit appears to be
about the longitude of Cape Comorin. It has long since been ascertained that they frequent
the seas that separate the islands of the Pacific; but they have never yet been found in the
Atlantic, nor even on the western shores of tropical America. And if, as has been stated[1],
they have been seen on a late occasion in considerable numbers in the Bay of Panama, the fact
can only be regarded as one of the rare instances, in which a change in the primary distribution
of a race of animals has occurred, either by an active or a passive immigration. Being exclusively
inhabitants of the sea, they are liable to be swept along by the influence of currents; but
to compensate for this they have been endowed with a wonderful power of swimming. The individuals
of all the groups of terrestrial serpents are observed to be possessed of this faculty to a
greater or a less degree; and they can swim for a certain distance without having any organs
specially modified for the purpose; except, perhaps, the lung, which is a long sac capable
of taking in a sufficient quantity of air, to keep the body of the snake above water. Nor do
we find any peculiar or specially adapted organs even in the freshwater-snakes, although they
can catch frogs or fishes while swimming. But in the hydrophids, which are permanent inhabitants
of the ocean, and which in an adult state, approach the beach only occasionally, and for very
short times, the tail, which is rounded and tapering in the others, is compressed into a vertical
rudder-like organ, similar to, and answering all the purposes of, the caudal fin in a fish.
When these snakes are brought on shore or on the deck of a ship, they are helpless and struggle
vainly in awkward attitudes. Their food consists exclusively of such fishes as are found near
the surface; a fact which affords ample proof that they do not descend to great depths, although
they can dive as well as swim. They are often found in groups during calm weather, sleeping
on the sea; but owing to their extreme caution and shyness, attempts to catch them are rarely
successful; on the least alarm, they suddenly expel the air from their lungs and descend below
the surface; a long stream of rising air-bubbles marking the rapid course which they make below.
Their poisonous nature has been questioned; but the presence of a strong perforated tooth and
of a venomous gland sufficiently attest their dangerous powers, even if these had not been
demonstrated by the effects of their bite. But fortunately for the fishermen, who sometimes
find them unexpectedly among the contents of their nets, sea-snakes are unable, like other
venomous serpents, to open the jaws widely, and in reality they rarely inflict a wound. Dr.
Cantor believes, that, they are blinded by the light when removed from their own element; and
he adds that they become sluggish and speedily die.[2]

[Footnote 1: Proc. Zool. Soc. 1858.]

[Footnote 2: Catal. Mal. Rept. p. 136.]

Those found near the coasts of Ceylon are generally small,--from one to three feet in length,
and apparently immature; and it is certain that the largest specimens taken in the Pacific
do not attain to greater length than eight feet. In colour they are generally of a greenish
brown, in parts inclining to yellow, with occasionally cross bands of black. The species figured
in the accompanying drawing is the Hydrophis subloevis of Gray; or Hydrus cyanocinctus of Boie.[1]
The specimen from which the drawing is taken, was obtained by Dr. Templeton at Colombo.

[Footnote 1: Its technical characteristics are as follows,--Body rather slender; ground colour
yellowish with irregular black rings. Scales nearly smooth; ventral plates broad, six-sided,
smooth, some divided into two, by a slight central groove. I. p. 39.]

[Footnote 2: The following narrative of the operations of a snake-charmer in Ceylon is contained
in a note from Mr. Reyne, of the department of public works: "A snake-charmer came to my bungalow
in 1851, requesting me to allow him to show me his snakes dancing. As I had frequently seen
them, I told him I would give him a rupee if he would accompany me to the jungle, and catch
a cobra, that I knew frequented the place. He was willing, and as I was anxious to test the
truth of the charm, I counted his tame snakes, and put a watch over them until I returned with
him. Before going I examined the man, and satisfied myself he had no snake about his person.
When we arrived at the spot, he played on a small pipe, and after persevering for some time
out came a large cobra from an ant hill, which I knew it occupied. On seeing the man it tried
to escape, but he caught it by the tail and kept swinging it round until we reached the bungalow.
He then made it dance, but before long it bit him above the knee. He immediately bandaged the
leg above the bite, and applied a snake-stone to the wound to extract the poison. He was in
great pain for a few minutes, but after that it gradually went away, the stone falling off
just before he was relieved. When he recovered he held a cloth up which the snake flew at,
and caught its fangs in it; while in that position, the man passed his hand up its back, and
having seized it by the throat, he extracted the fangs in my presence and gave them to me.
He then squeezed out the poison on to a leaf. It was a clear oily substance, and when rubbed
on the hand produced a fine lather. I carefully watched the whole operation, which was also
witnessed by my clerk and two or three other persons. Since the foregoing account was published,
I have received a note from Mr. HARDY, relative to the piedra ponsona, the snake-stone of Mexico,
in which he gives the following account of the method of preparing and applying it: "Take a
piece of hart's horn of any convenient size and shape; cover it well round with grass or hay,
enclose both in a thin piece of sheet copper well wrapped round them, and place the parcel
in a charcoal fire till the bone is sufficiently charred.

"When cold, remove the calcined horn from its envelope, when it will be ready for immediate
use. In this state it will resemble a solid black fibrous substance, of the same shape and
size as before it was subjected to this treatment.

"USE.--The wound being slightly punctured, apply the bone to the opening, to which it will
adhere firmly for the space of two minutes; and when it falls, it should be received into a
basin of water. It should then be dried in a cloth, and again applied to the wound. But it
will not adhere longer than about one minute. In like manner it may be applied a third time;
but now it will fall almost immediately, and nothing will cause it to adhere any more.

"These effects I witnessed in the case of a bite of a rattle-snake at Oposura, a town in the
province of Sonora, in Mexico, from whence I obtained my recipe; and I have given other particulars
respecting it in my Travels in the Interior of Mexico, published in 1830. R.W.H. HARDY.

[Footnote 1: A Singhalese variety of the Rana cutipora? and the Malabar bull-frog, Hylarana
Malabarica.

[Footnote 1: Polypedates maculatus, Gray.]

In the gardens and grounds toads[1] crouch in the shade, and pursue the flies and minute coleoptera.
In Ceylon, as in Europe, these creatures suffer from the bad renown of injecting a poison into
the wound inflicted by their bite.[2] The main calumny is confuted by the fact that no toad
has yet been discovered furnished with any teeth whatsoever; but the obnoxious repute still
attaches to the milky exudation sometimes perceptible from glands situated on either side behind
the head; nevertheless experiments have shown, that though acrid, the secretions of the toad
are incapable of exciting more than a slight erythema on the most delicate skins. The smell
is, however, fetid and offensive, and hence toads are less exposed to the attacks of carnivorous
animals and of birds than frogs, in which such glands do not exist.

In undergoing this change, it is chiefly the organs of respiration that manifest alteration.
In its earliest form the young batrachian, living in the water, breathes as a fish does by
gills, either free and projecting as in the water-newt, or partially covered by integument
as in the tadpole. But the gills disappear as the lungs gradually become developed: the duration
of the process being on an average one hundred days from the time the eggs were first deposited.
After this important change, the true batrachian is incapable any longer of living continuously
in water, and either betakes itself altogether to the land, or seeks the surface from time
to time to replenish its exhausted lungs.[1]

[Footnote 1: A few Batrachians, such as the Siren of Carolina, the Proteus of Illyria, the
Axolotl of Mexico, and the Menobranchus of the North American Lakes, retain their gills during
life; but although provided with lungs in mature age, they are not capable of living out of
the water. Such batrachians form an intermediate link between reptiles and fishes.]

The change in the digestive functions during metamorphosis is scarcely less extraordinary;
frogs, for example, which feed on animal substances at maturity, subsist entirely upon vegetable
when in the condition of larvæ, and the subsidiary organs undergo remarkable development, the
intestinal canal in the earlier stage being five times its length in the later one.

Of the family of tailed batrachians, Ceylon does not furnish a single example; but of those
without this appendage, the island, as above remarked, affords many varieties; seven distinguishable
species pertaining to the genus rana, or true frogs with webs to the hind feet; two to the
genus bufo, or true toads, and five to the Polypedates, or East Indian "tree-frogs;" besides
a few others in allied genera. The "tree-frog," whose toes are terminated by rounded discs
which assist it in climbing, possesses, in a high degree, the faculty of changing its hues;
and one as green as a leaf to-day, will be found grey and spotted like the bark to-morrow.
One of these beautiful little creatures, which had seated itself on the gilt pillar of a lamp
on my dinner-table, became in a few minutes scarcely distinguishable in colour from the or-molu
ornament to which it clung.

       *       *       *       *       *

List of Ceylon Reptiles.

  Hydrosaurus
    salvator, Wagler.
  Monitor
    dracæna, Linn.
  Riopa
    punctata, Linn.
    Hardwickii, Gray.
  Brachymeles
    Bonitæ, Dum. & Bib.
  Lygosoma
    fallax, Peters.
  Rhinophis
    oxyrhynchus, Schn.
    punctatus, J. Müll
    philippinus, J. Müll
    homolepis, Hempr.
    planiceps, Peters.
    Blythii, Kelaart.
    melanogaster, Gray.
  Uropeltis
    grandis, Kelaart.
    saffragamus, Kelaart.
  Silybura
    Ceylonica, Cuv.
  Hemidactylus
    frenatus, Schleg.
    Leschenaultii, Dum.
  Peripia
    Peronii, Dum. & Bib.
  Gymnodactylus
    Kandianus, Kelaart.
  Sitana
    Ponticereana, Cuv.
  Lyriocephalus
    scutatus, Linn.
  Ceratophora
    Stoddartii, Gray.
    Tennentii, Günther.
  Otocryptis
    bivittata, Wiegm.
  Salea Jerdoni, Gray.
  Calotes
    ophiomachus, Merr.
    nigrilabris, Peters.
    versicolor, Daud.
    Rouxii, Dum. & Bib.
    mystaceus, Dum.
  Chameleo
    vulgaris, Daud.

      OPHIDIA.

  Megæra
    trigonocephala, Latr.
  Trigonocephalus
    hypnalis, Merr.
  Daboia
    elegans, Daud.
  Pelamys
    bicolor, Daud.
  Aturia
    lapemoides, Gray.
  Hydrophis
    sublævis, Gray.
    cyanocinctus, Daud.
  Chersydrus
    granulatus, Schneid.
  Cerberus
    cinereus, Daud.
  Aspidura
    brachyorrhos, Boie.
    trachyprocta, Cope.
  Haplocercus
    Ceylonensis, Günth.
  Chrysopelea
    ornata, Shaw.
  Dendrophis
    picta, Gm.
  Passerita
    mycterizans, Linn.
    fusca.
  Dipsadomorphus
    Ceylonensis, Günth.
  Lycodon
    aulicus, Linn.
  Cercaspis
    carinata, Kuhl.
  Bungarus
    fasciatus, Schneid.
    var. Ceylonensis, Gthr.
  Caretta
    imbricata, Linn.
  Chelonia
    virgata, Schweigg.

      EMYDOSAURI.

  Crocodilus
    biporcatus. Cuv.
    palustris, Less.

      BATRACHIA.

  Rana
    hexadactyla, Less.
    Kuhlii, Schleg.
    cutipora, Dum. & Bib.
    tigrina, Daud.
    vittigera, Wiegm.
    Malabarica, Dum. & Bib.
    Kandiana, Kelaart.
    Neuera-elliana, Kel.
  Bufo
    melanostictus, Schneid.
    Kelaartii, Günth.
  Ixalus
    variabilis, Günth.
    leucorhinus, Martens.
    poecilopleurus, Mart.
    aurifasciatus, Schleg.
    schmardanus, Kelaart.
  Polypedates
    maculatus, Gray.
    microtympanum, Gth.
    eques, Günth.
  Kaloula
    pulchra, Gray.
    balteata, var. Günth.
    stellata, Kelaart.
  Adenomus
    badioflavus, Copr.
  Pyxicephalus
    fodiens, Jerd.
  Engystoma
    rubrum, Jerd. Cercaspis, and Haplocercus
would appear to be similarly restricted);--Lygosoma fallax; Trimesurus
Ceylonensis, T. nigromarginatus; Megæra Trigonocephala; Trigonocephalus
hypnalis; Daboia elegans; Rhinophis punctatus, Rh. homolepis, Rh.
planiceps, Rh. X.

FISHES.

Hitherto no branch of the zoology of Ceylon has been so imperfectly investigated as its Ichthyology.
This powerful weapon seems designed to compensate for the inadequacy of the ordinary maxillary
teeth which are unusually small, obtuse, and insufficient to capture and kill the animals which
form the food of this predatory shark. To remedy this, the fore part of the head and its cartilages
are prolonged into a flattened plate, the length of which is nearly equal to one third of the
whole body, its edges being armed with formidable teeth, that are never shed or renewed, but
increase in size with the growth of the creature. They are easily distinguished from the sharks
by their broad and flat body, the pectoral fins being expanded like wings on each side of the
trunk. They are all inhabitants of the ocean, and some grow to a prodigious size. Specimens
have been caught of twenty feet in breadth. These, however, are of rare occurrence, as such
huge monsters usually retreat into the depths of the sea, where they are secure from the molestation
of man. It is, generally speaking, only the young and the smaller species that approach the
coasts, where they find a greater supply of those marine animals which form their food. The
Rays have been divided into several generic groups, and the one of which a drawing (Aëtobates
narinari[1]) is given, has very marked characteristics in its produced snout, pointed and winged-like
pectoral fins, and exceedingly long, flagelliform tail. The latter is armed with a strong,
serrated spine, which is always broken off by the fishermen immediately on capture, under the
impression that wounds inflicted by it are poisonous. Their fears, however, are utterly groundless,
as the ray has no gland for secreting any venomous fluid. The apprehension may, however, have
originated in the fact that a lacerated wound such as would be produced by a serrated spine,
is not unlikely to assume a serious character, under the influence of a tropical climate. The
species figured on the last page is brownish-olive on the upper surface, with numerous greenish-white
round spots, darkening towards the edges. The anterior annulations of the tail are black and
white, the posterior entirely black. Its mouth is transverse and paved with a band of flattened
teeth calculated to crush the hard shells of the animals on which it feeds. It moves slowly
along the bottom in search of its food, which consists of crustacea and mollusca, and seems
to be unable to catch fishes or other quickly moving animals. Specimens have been taken near
Ceylon, of six feet in width. Like most deep-sea fishes, the ray has a wide geographical range,
and occurs not only in all the Indian Ocean, but also in the tropical tracts of the Atlantic.

[Footnote 1: Raja narinari, Bl. Schn. p. 361. Aëtobates narinari, Müll. und Henle., Plagiost.
p. 179.]

Another armed fish, renowned since the times of Ælian and Pliny for its courage in attacking
the whale, and even a ship, is the sword-fish (Xiphias gladius).[1] Like the thunny and bonito,
it is an inhabitant of the deeper seas, and, though known in the Mediterranean, is chiefly
confined to the tropics. The dangerous weapon with which nature has equipped it is formed by
the prolongation and intertexture of the bones of the upper jaw into an exceedingly compact
cylindrical protuberance, somewhat flattened at the base, but tapering to a sharp point. In
strange inconsistence with its possession of so formidable an armature, the general disposition
of the sword-fish is represented to be gentle and inoffensive; and although the fact of its
assaults upon the whale has been incontestably established, yet the motive for such conflicts,
and the causes of its enmity, are beyond conjecture. Competition for food is out of the question,
as the Xiphias can find its own supplies without rivalry on the part of its gigantic antagonist;
and as to converting the whale itself into food, the sword-fish, from the construction of its
mouth and the small size of its teeth, is quite incapable of feeding on animals of such dimensions.

[Footnote 1: ÆLIAN tells a story of a ship in the Black Sea, the bottom of which was penetrated
by the sword of a Xiphias (L. xiv. c. 23); and PLINY (L. xxxii. c. 8) speaks of a similar accident
on the coast of Mauritania. In the British Museum there is a specimen of a plank of oak, pierced
by a sword-fish, and still retaining the broken weapon.]

In the seas around Ceylon sword-fishes sometimes attain to the length of twenty feet, and are
distinguished by the unusual height of the dorsal fin. Those both of the Atlantic and Mediterranean
possess this fin in its full proportions, only during the earlier stages of their growth. Its
dimensions even then are much smaller than in the Indian species; and it is a curious fact
that it gradually decreases as the fish approaches to maturity; whereas in the seas around
Ceylon, it retains its full size throughout the entire period of life. They raise it above
the water, whilst dashing along the surface in their rapid course; and there is no reason to
doubt that it occasionally acts as a sail.

The Indian species (which are provided with two long and filamentous ventral fins) have been
formed into the genus Histiophorus; to which belongs the individual figured on the next page.
It is distinguished from others most closely allied to it, by having the immense dorsal fin
of one uniform dark violet colour; whilst in its congeners, it is spotted with blue. The fish
from which the engraving has been made, was procured by Dr. Templeton, near Colombo. The species
was previously known only by a single specimen captured in the Red Sea, by Rüppell, who conferred
upon it the specific designation of "immaculatus."[1]

[Footnote 1: Trans. Zool. Soc. ii. p. 71. Pl. 15.]

Ælian, in his graphic account of the strange forms presented by the fishes inhabiting the seas
around Ceylon, says that one in particular is so grotesque in its configuration, that no painter
would venture to depict it; its main peculiarity being that it has feet or claws rather than
fins.[1] The annexed drawing[2] may probably represent the creature to which the informants
of Ælian referred. It is a cheironectes; one of a group in which the bones of the carpus form
arms that support the pectoral fins, and enable these fishes to walk along the moist ground,
almost like quadrupeds.

[Footnote 1: [Greek: Podas ge mên chêlas ê pterygia.]--Lib. xvi. c. 18.]

[Footnote 2: The fish from which this drawing of the Cheironectes was made, was taken near
Colombo, and from the peculiarities which it presents it is in all probability a new and undescribed
species. Dr. GÜNTHER has remarked, that in it, whilst the first and second dorsal spines are
situated as usual over the eye (and form, one the angling bait of the fish, the other the crest
above the nose), the third is at an unusual distance from the second, and is not separated,
as in the other species, from the soft fin by a notch.]

They belong to the family of Lophiads or "anglers," not unfrequent on the English coast; which
conceal themselves in the mud, displaying only the erectile ray, situated on the head, which
bears an excrescence on its extremity resembling a worm; by agitating which, they attract the
smaller fishes, that thus become an easy prey.

On the rocks in Ceylon which are washed by the surf there are quantities of the curious little
fish, Salarius alticus[1], which possesses the faculty of darting along the surface of the
water, and running up the wet stones, with the utmost ease and rapidity. By aid of the pectoral
and ventral fins and gill-cases, they move across the damp sand, ascend the roots of the mangroves,
and climb up the smooth face of the rocks in search of flies; adhering so securely as not to
be detached by repeated assaults of the waves. These little creatures are so nimble, that it
is almost impossible to lay hold of them, as they scramble to the edge, and plunge into the
sea on the slightest attempt to molest them. They are from three to four inches in length,
and of a dark brown colour, almost undistinguishable from the rocks they frequent.

[Footnote 1: Cuv. and VALEN., Hist. Nat. des Poissons, tom. xi. p. 249. It raises or depresses
this spine at pleasure. It has been known, however, to all the old ichthyologists, Valentyn,
Renard, Seba, Artedi, and has been named Chætodon lineatus, by Linné. It is scarce on the southern
coast of Ceylon.]

Of these richly coloured fishes the most familiar in the Indian seas are the Pteroids. They
are well known on the coast of Africa, and thence eastward to Polynesia; but they do not extend
to the west coast of America, and are utterly absent from the Atlantic. The rays of the dorsal
and pectoral fins are so elongated, that when specimens were first brought to Europe it was
conjectured that these fishes have the faculty of flight, and hence the specific name of "volitans"
But this is an error, for, owing to the deep incisions between the pectoral rays, the pteroids
are wholly unable to sustain themselves in the air. They are not even bold swimmers, living
close to the shore and never venturing into the deep sea. Their head is ornamented with a number
of filaments and cutaneous appendages, of which one over each eye and another at the angles
of the mouth are the most conspicuous. Sharp spines project on the crown and on the side of
the gill-apparatus, as in the other sea-perches, Scorpæna, Serranus, &c., of which these are
only a modified and ornate form. The extraordinary expansion of their fins is not, however,
accompanied by a similar development of the bones to which they are attached, simply because
they appear to have no peculiar function, as in flying fishes, or in those where the spines
of the fins are weapons of offence. They attain to the length of twelve inches, and to a weight
of about two pounds; they live on small marine animals, and by the Singhalese the flesh (of
some at least) is considered good for table. Nine or ten species are known to occur in the
East Indian Seas, and of these the one figured above is, perhaps, the most common.

Another species known to occur on the coasts of Ceylon is the Scorpæna miles, Bennett, or Pterois
miles, Günther[1], of which Bennett has given a figure[2], but it is not altogether correct
in some particulars.

[Footnote 1: The fish from the Sea of Pinang, described by Dr. CANTOR with this name (Catal.
Mal. Fish. p. 42), is again different, and belongs to a third species.]

[Footnote 2: Fishes of Ceylon, Pl. ix.]

In the fishes of Ceylon, however, beauty is not confined to the brilliancy of their tints.
In some, as in the /Scarus harid, Forsk[1], the arrangement of the scales is so graceful, and
the effect is so heightened by modifications of colour, as to present the appearance of tessellation,
or mosaic work.

[Footnote 1: This is the fish figured by BENNETT as Sparus pepo.

Some years ago the experiment was made, with success, of introducing into Mauritius the Osphromenus
olfax of Java, which has also been taken to French Guiana. In both places it is now highly
esteemed as a fish for table. As it belongs to a family which possesses the faculty, hereafter
alluded to, of surviving in the damp soil after the subsidence of the water in the tanks and
rivers, it might with equal advantage be acclimated in Ceylon. It grows to 20 lbs. weight and
upwards.]

Of eight of these, which were from the Mahawelliganga, and caught in the vicinity of Kandy,
five were carps; two were Leucisci, and one a Mastacembelus (M. armatus, Lacep); one was an
Ophiocephalus, and one a Polyacanthus, with no serræ on the gills.

The fresh-water Perches of Europe and of the North of America are represented in Ceylon and
India by several genera, which bear to them a great external similarity (Lates, Therapon).
They have the same habits as their European allies, and their flesh is considered equally wholesome,
but they appear to enter salt-water, or at least brackish water, more freely. It is, however,
in their internal organisation that they differ most from the perches of Europe; their skeletons
are composed of fewer vertebræ, and the air bladder of the Therapon is divided into two portions,
as in the carps. Four species at least of this genus inhabit the lakes and rivers of Ceylon,
and one of them, of which a figure is given above, has been but imperfectly described in any
ichthyological work[1]; it attains to the length of seven inches.

[Footnote 1: Holocentrus quadrilineatus, Bloch. It is allied to Helotes polytoenia, Bleek.,
from Halmaheira which it can be readily distinguished by having only five or six blackish longitudinal
bands, the black humeral spot being between the first and second; another blackish blotch is
in the spinous dorsal fin. There are two specimens in the British Museum collection, one of
which has recently arrived from Amoy; of the other the locality is unknown. See GÜNTHER, Acanthopt.
Fishes, vol. i. p. 282, where mention of the black humeral spot has been omitted.]

In addition to marine eels, in which the Indian coasts abound, Ceylon has some true fresh-water
eels, which never enter the sea. These are known to the natives under the name of Theliya,
and to naturalists by that of Mastacembelus. They have sometimes in ichthyological systems
been referred to the Scombridæ and other marine families, from the circumstance that the dorsal
fin anteriorly is composed of spines. But, in addition to the general shape of the body, their
affinity to the eel is attested, by their confluent fins, by the absence of ventral fins, by
the structure of the mouth and its dentition, by the apparatus of the gills, which opens with
an inferior slit, and above all by the formation of the skeleton itself.[1]

[Footnote 1: See GÜNTHER'S Acanthopt. Fishes, vol. iii. (Family Mastacembelidæ).]

Their skin is covered with minute scales, coated by a slimy exudation, and the upper jaw is
produced into a soft tripartite tentacle, with which they are enabled to feel for their prey
in the mud. They are very tenacious of life, and belong, without doubt, to those fishes which
in Ceylon descend during the drought into the muddy soil.[1] Their flesh very much resembles
that of the eel; and is highly esteemed.[2] They were first made known to European naturalists
by Russell[3], who brought to Europe from the rivers round Aleppo specimens, some of which
are still preserved in the collection of the British Museum. Aleppo is the most western point
of their geographical range, the group being mainly confined to the East-Indian continent and
its islands.

In Ceylon only one species appears to occur, the

[Footnote 1: See post, p. 351.]

[Footnote 2: CUV. and VAL., Hist. Poiss. vol. iii. p. 459.]

[Footnote 3: Nat. Hist. Aleppo, 2nd edit. Lond. 1794, vol. ii. p. 208, pl. vi.]

Mastacembelus armatus.[1] The back is armed with from thirty-five to thirty-nine short, stout
spines; there being three others before the anal fin. The ground colour of the fish is brown,
and the head has two rather irregular longitudinal black bands; deep-brown spots run along
the back as well as along the dorsal and anal fins; and the sides are ornamented with irregular
and reticulated brown lines. This eel attains to the length of two feet. The old females do
not show any markings, being of a uniform brown colour. 15, 16, 17.]

[Footnote 3: Lib. viii. ch. 2.]

[Footnote 4: Ib. ch.

As regards the fresh-water fishes of India and Ceylon, the fact is now established that certain
of them possess the power of leaving the rivers and returning to them again after long migrations
on dry land, and modern observation has fully confirmed their statements. It is the A. oligolepis
of Bleek.

But the faculty of becoming torpid at such periods is not confined in Ceylon to the crocodile
sand fishes;--it is also possessed by some of the fresh-water mollusca and aquatic coleoptera.
When, during the dry season, the water is about to evaporate, it burrows and conceals itself[1]
till the returning rains restore it to activity, and reproduce its accustomed food. LYELL mentions
the instance of some snails in Italy which, when they hybernate, descend to the depth of five
feet and more below the surface.

[Footnote 1: Annals of Natural History, 1860.

In the following list, the Acanthopterygian fishes of Ceylon has been prepared for me by Dr.
GÜNTHER, and will be found the most complete which has appeared of this order. I am also indebted
to him for the correction of the list of Malacopterygians, which I hope ere long to render
still more extended, as well as that of the Cartilaginous fishes.

I. OSSEOUS.

ACANTHOPTERYGII

BERYCIDÆ, Lowe.
  Myripristis murdjan, Forsk.
  Holocentrum rubrum, Forsk.
     spiniferum, Forsk.
     diadema, Lacép.

PERCIDÆ, Günther.
 *Lates calcarifer, Bl.
  Serranus louti, Forsk.
     pachycentrum, C. & V.
     guttatus, Bl.
     Sonneratii, C. & V.
     angularis, C.& V.
     marginalis, Bl.
     hexagonatis, Forsk.
     flavocoeruleus, Lacép.
     biguttatus, C. & V.
     lemniscatus, C. & V.
     Amboinensis, Bleek.
     boenak, C. & V.
  Grammistes orientalis,  Bl.
  Genyoroge Sebæ, C. & V.
     Bengalensis, C. & V.
     marginata, C. & V.
     rivulata, C. & V.
     gibba, Forsk.
     spilura, Benn.
  Mesoprion aurolineatus, C. & V.
     rangus, C. & V.
     quinquelineatus, Rüpp.
     Johnii, Bl.
     annularis, C. & V.
  ?Priacanthus Blochii, Bleek.
  Ambassis n. sp., Günth.
     Commersonii, C. & V.
     thermalis, C. & V.
  Apogon Ceylonicus, C. & V.
     thermalis, C. & V.
     annularis, Rüpp. Var. roseipinnis.
  Chilodipterus quinquelineatus, C. & V.

PRISTIPOMATIDÆ, Günther.
  Dules Bennettii, Bleek.
 *Therapon servus, Bloch.
    *trivittatus, Buch. Ham.
     quadrilineatus, Bl.
 *Helotes polytænia, Bleek.
  Pristipoma hasta, Bloch.
     maculatum, Bl.
  Diagramma punctatum, Ehrenb.
     orientale, Bl.
     poecilopterum, C. & V.
     Blochii, C. & V.
     lineatum, Gm.
     Radja, Bleek.
  Lobotes auctorum, Günth.
  Gerres oblongus, C & V.
  Scolopsia Japonicus, Bl.
     bimaculatus, Rüpp.
     monogramma, k. & v. H.
  Synagris furcosus, C. & V.
  Pentapus aurolineatus, Lacép.
  Smaris balteatus, C. & V.
  Cæsio coerulaureus, Lacép.

MULLIDÆ, Gray.
  Upeneus tæniopterus, C. & V.
     Indicus, Shaw.
     cyclostoma, Lacép.
  Upe. trifasciatus, Lacép.
     cinnabarinus, C. & V.
  Upeneoides vittatus, Forsk.
     tragula.
     sulphureus, C. & V.
  Mulloides flavolineatus, Lacép.
     Ceylonicus, C. & V.

SPARIDÆ, Günther.
  Lethrinus frenatus, C. & V.
     cinereus, C. & V.
     fasciatus, C. & V.
    ?ramak, Forsk.
     opercularis, C. & V.
     erythrurus, C. & V.
  Pagrus spinifer, Forsk.
  Crysophrys hasta, Bl.
 ?Pimelepterus Ternatensis, Bleek.

SQUAMIPINNES, Günthier.
  Chætodon Layardi, Blyth.
     oligacanthus, Bleek.
     setifer, Bl.
     vagabundus, L.
     guttatissimus, Benn.
     pictus, Forsk.
     xanthocephalus, Benn.
     Sebæ, C. & V.
  Heniochus macrolepidotus, Artedi.
  Holacanthus annularis, Bl.
     xanthurus, Benn.
     imperator, B1.
  Scatophagus argus, Gm.
  Ephippus orbis, Bl.
  Drepane punctata, Gm.

CIRRHITIDÆ, Gray.
  Cirrhites Forsteri, Schn.

CATAPHRACTI, Cuv.
  Scorpæna polyprion, Bleek.
  Pterois volitans, L.
     miles, Benn.
  Tetraroge longispinis, C. & V.
  Platycephalus insidiator, Forsk.
     punctatus, C. & V.
     serratus, C. & V.
     tuberculatus, C. & V.
     suppositus, Trosch.
  Dactylopterus orientalis, C. & V.

TRACHINIDÆ, Günther.
 ?Uranoscopus guttatus, C. & V.
  Percis millepunctata, Günth.
  Sillago siliama, Forsk.

SCIÆNIDÆ, Günther.
  Sciæna diacantha, Lacép.
     maculata, Schn.
     Dussumieri, C & V.
  Corvina miles, C. & V.
  Otolithus argenteus, k. & v. H.

POLYNEMIDÆ, Günther.
  Polynemus heptadactylus, C. & V.
     hexanemus, C. & V.
     Indicus, Shaw.
     plebeius, Gm.
     tetradactylus, Shaw.

SPHYRÆNIDÆ, Agass.
  Sphyræna jello, C. & V.
     obtusata, C. & V.

TRICHIURIDÆ, Günther.
  Trichiurus savala, Cuv.

SCOMBRIDÆ, Günther.
 ?Thynnus affinis, Cant.
  Cybium Commersonii, Lacép.
     guttatum, Schn.
  Naucrates ductor, L.
  Elacate nigra, Bl.
    ?n. sp.
  Echeneis remora, L.
     scutata, Günth.
     naucrates, L.
  Stromateus cinereus, Bl.
     niger, Bl.
  Coryphæna hippurus, L.
  Mene maculata, Schn.

CARANGIDÆ, Günther.
  Caranx Heberi, Benn.
  Rottleri, Bl.
     calla, C.&V.
     xanthurus, K.&v.H.
     talamparoides, Bleek.
     Malabaricus, Schn.
     speciosus, Forsk.
     carangus, Bl.
     hippos, L.
     armatus, Forsk.
     ciliaris, Bl.
     gallus, L.
  Micropteryx chrysurus, L.
  Seriola nigro-fasciata, Rüpp.
  Chorinemus lysan, Forsk.
     Sancti Petri, C. & V.
  Trachynotus oblongus, C. & V.
     ovatus, L.
  Psettus argenteus, L.
  Platax vespertilio, Bl.
     Raynaldi, C.&V.
  Zanclus sp. n.
  Lactarius delicatulus, C. & V.
  Equula fasciata, Lacép.
     edentula, Bl.
     daura, Cuv.
     inlerrupta.
  Gazza minuta, Bl.
     equulæformis, Rüpp.
  Pempheris sp.

XIPHIIDÆ, Agass.
  Histiophorus immaculatus, Rüpp.

THEUTYIDÆ, Günther.
  Theutys Javus, L.
     stellata, Forsk.
     nebulosa, A. & G.

ACRONURIDÆ, Günther.
  Acanthurus triostegus, L.
     nigrofuscus, Forsk.
     lineatus, L.
     Tennentii, Gthr.
     leucosternon, Bennett.
     ctenodon, C.&V.
     rhombeus, Kittl.
     xanthurus, Blyth.
  Acronurus melas, C. & V.
     melanurus, C. & V.
  Naseus unicornis, Forsk,
     brevirostris, C. & V.
     tuberosus, Lacép.
     lituratus, Forster.

AULOSTOMATA, Cuvier.
  Fistularia serrata, Bl.

BLENNIIDÆ, Müll.
  Salarias fasclatus, Bl.
  Sal. marmoratus, Benn.
     tridactylus, Schn.
     quadricornis, C.&V.

GOBIIDÆ, Müll.
  Gobius ornatus, Rüpp.
     giuris, Buch. Ham.
     albopunctatus, C. & V.
     grammepomus, Bleek.
  Apocryptes lanceolatus, Bl.
  Periophthalmus Koelreuteri, Pall.
  Eleotris ophiocephalus, K. & v.H.
     fusca, Bl.
     sexguttata, C. & V.
     muralis, A. & G.

MASTACEMBELIDÆ. Günther.
  Mastacembelus armatus, Lacép.

PEDICULATI, Cuv.
  Antennarius marmoratus, Günth.
     hispidus, Schn.
     pinniceps, Commers.
     Commersonii, Lacép.
     multiocellatus Günth.
     bigibbus, Lacép.

ATHERINIDÆ, Günther.
  Atherina Forskalii, Rüpp.
     duodecimalis, C. & V.

MUGILIDÆ, Günther.
  Mugil planiceps, C. & V.
     Waigiensis, A.G.
     Ceylonensis, Günth.

OPHIOCEPHALIDÆ, Günther.
  Ophiocephalus punctatus, Bl.
     Kelaartii, Günth.
     striatus, Bl.
     marulius, Ham. Buch.
  Channa orientalis, Schn.

LABYRINTHICI, Cuv.
  Anabas oligolepis, Bleek.
  Polyacanthus signatus, Günth.

PHARYNGOGNATHI.
  Amphiprion Clarkii, J. Benn.
  Dascyllus aruanus, C. & V.
  trimaculatus, Rüpp.
  Glyphisodon septem-fasciatus, C. & V.
     Brownrigii, Benn,
     coelestinus, Sol.
  Etroplus Suratensis, Bl.
  Julis lunaris Linn.
     decussatus, W Benn.
     formosus, C.&V.
     quadricolor. Lesson.
     dorsalis, Quoy & Gaim.
     aureomaculatus, W. Benn.
     Cellanicus, E. Benn.
     Finlaysoni, C. & V.
     purpureo-lineatus, C. & V.
     cingulum, C. & V.
  Gomphosus fuscus, C. & V.
     coeruleus, Comm.
     viridis, W. Benn.
  Scarus pepo, W. Benn.
     harid. Forsk.
  Tautoga fasciata, Thunb.
  Hemirhamphus Reynaldi, C. & V.
     Georgii C.& V.
  Exocoetus evolans. Linn.
  Belone annulata, C. & V.

MALACOPTERYGII (ABDOMINALES).
  Bagrus gulio, Buch.
     albilabris, C. & V.
  Plotosus lineatus, C. & V.
  Barbus tor, C. & V.
  Nuria thermoicos, C. & V.
  Leuciscus dandia, C. & V.
     scalpellus, C. & V.
     Ceylonicus, E. Benn.
     thermalis, C. & V.
  Cobitis thermalis, C. & V.
  Chirocentrus dorab, Forsk.
  Elops saurus, L.
  Megalops cundinga, Buch.
  Engraulis Brownii, Gm.
  Sardinella leiogaster, C. & V.
     lineolata, C. & V.
     Neohowii.
  Saurus myops, Val.
  Saurida tombil, Bl.

MALACOPTERYGII (SUB-BRANCHIATI).
  Balistes biaculeatus, W. Benn.
     lineatus, Bl.
  Triacanthus biaculeatus, W. Benn.
  Alutarius lævis, Bl.

II. CARTILAGINOUS.

  Pristis antiquorum, Lath.
     cuspidatus, Lath.
     pectinatus, Lath.
  Chiloscyllium plagiosum, Benn.
  Stegostoma fasciatum, Bl.
  Carcharias acutus, Rüpp.
  Sphyrna zygæna, L.
  Rhynchobatus lævis, Bl.
  Trygon uarnak, Forsk.
  Pteroplatea micrura, Bl.
  Tæniura lymna, Forsk.
  Myliobatis Nieuhofii, Bl.
  Aëtobates narinari, Bl.

(Memorandum by Professor Huxley.)

See Page 324.

                         Ceylon.

ON THE BORA-CHUNG, OR "GROUND-FISH" OF BHOOTAN.

See P. 353.

In Bhootan, at the south-eastern extremity of the Himalayas, a fish is found, the scientific
name of which is unknown to me, but it is called by the natives the Bora-chung, and by European
residents the "ground-fish of Bhootan." It is described in the Journal of the Asiatic Society
of Bengal for 1839, by a writer (who had seen it alive), as being about two feet in length,
and cylindrical, with a thick body, somewhat shaped like a pike, but rounder, the nose curved
upwards, the colour olive-green, with orange stripes, and the head speckled with crimson.[1]
This fish, according to the native story, is caught not in the rivers in whose vicinity it
is found, but "in perfectly dry places in the middle of grassy jungle, sometimes as far as
two miles from the banks." Here, on finding a hole four or five inches in diameter, they commence
to dig, and continue till they come to water; and presently the bora-chung rises to the surface,
sometimes from a depth of nineteen feet. In these extemporised wells these fishes are found
always in pairs, and I when brought to the surface they glide rapidly over the ground with
a serpentine motion. This account appeared in 1839; but some years later, Mr. Campbell, the
Superintendent of Darjeeling, in a communication to the same journal[2], divested the story
of much of its exaggeration, by stating, as the result of personal inquiry in Bhootan, that
the bora-chung inhabits the jheels and slow-running streams near the hills, but lives principally
on the banks, into which it penetrates from one to five or six feet. The entrance to these
retreats leading from the river into the bank is generally a few inches below the surface,
so that the fish can return to the water at pleasure. The mode of catching them is by introducing
the hand into these holes; and the bora-chungs are found generally two in each chamber, coiled
concentrically like snakes. It is not believed that they bore their own burrows, but that they
take possession of those made by land-crabs. Mr. Campbell denies that they are more capable
than other fish of moving on dry ground. From the particulars given, the bora-chung would appear
to be an Ophiocephalus, probably the O. barka described by Buchanan, as inhabiting holes in
the banks of rivers tributary to the Ganges.

[Footnote 1: Paper by Mr. J.T. PEARSON, Journ. Asiat. Soc. Beng., vol. viii p. 551.]

[Footnote 2: Journ. Asiat. Soc. Beng., vol. xi. p. 963.]

CHAP. XI.

SHELLS.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mollusca.--Radiata, &c.

Ceylon has long been renowned for the beauty and variety of the shells which abound in its
seas and inland waters, and in which an active trade has been organised by the industrious
Moors, who clean them with great expertness, arrange them in satin-wood boxes, and send them
to Colombo and all parts of the island for sale. In general, however, these specimens are more
prized for their beauty than valued for their rarity, though some of the "Argus" cowries[1]
have been sold as high as four guineas a pair.

[Footnote 1: Cypræa Argus.]

One of the principal sources whence their supplies are derived is the beautiful Bay of Venloos,
to the north of Batticaloa, formed by the embouchure of the Natoor river. The scenery at this
spot is enchanting. The sea is overhung by gentle acclivities wooded to the summit; and in
an opening between two of these eminences the river flows through a cluster of little islands
covered with mangroves and acacias. A bar of rocks projects across it, at a short distance
from the shore; and these are frequented all day long by pelicans, that come at sunrise to
fish, and at evening return to their solitary breeding-places remote from the beach. The strand
is literally covered with beautiful shells in rich profusion, and the dealers from Trincomalie
know the proper season to visit the bay for each particular description. The entire coast,
however, as far north as the Elephant Pass, is indented by little rocky inlets, where shells
of endless variety may be collected in great abundance.[1] During the north-east monsoon a
formidable surf bursts upon the shore, which is here piled high with mounds of yellow sand;
and the remains of shells upon the water mark show how rich the sea is in mollusca. Amongst
them are prodigious numbers of the ubiquitous violet-coloured Ianthina[2], which rises when
the ocean is calm, and by means of its inflated vesicles floats lightly on the surface.

[Footnote 1: In one of these beautiful little bays near Catchavelly, between Trincomalie and
Batticaloa, I found the sand within the wash of the sea literally covered with mollusca and
shells, and amongst others a species of Bullia (B. vittata, I think), the inhabitant of which,
has the faculty of mooring itself firmly by sending down its membranous foot into the wet sand,
where, imbibing the water, this organ expands horizontally into a broad, fleshy disc, by which
the animal anchors itself, and thus secured, collects its food in the ripple of the waves.
On the slightest alarm, the water is discharged, the disc collapses into its original dimensions,
and the shell and its inhabitant disappear together beneath the sand.]

[Footnote 2: Ianthina communis, Krause and I. prolongata, Blainv.]

The trade in shells is one of extreme antiquity in Ceylon. The Gulf of Manaar has been fished
from the earliest times for the large chank shell, Turbinella rapa, to be exported to India,
where it is still sawn into rings and worn as anklets and bracelets by the women of Hindustan.
Another use for these shells is their conversion into wind instruments, which are sounded in
the temples on all occasions of ceremony. A chank, in which the whorls, instead of running
from left to right, as in the ordinary shell, are reversed, and run from right to left, is
regarded with such reverence that a specimen formerly sold for its weight in gold, but one
may now be had for four or five pounds. COSMAS INDICO-PLEUSTES, writing in the fifth century,
describes a place on the west coast of Ceylon, which he calls Marallo, and says it produced
"[Greek: kochlious]," which THEVENOT translates "oysters;" in which case Marallo might be conjectured
to be Bentotte, near Colombo, which yields the best edible "oysters" in Ceylon.[1] But the
shell in question was most probably the chank, and Marallo was Mantotte, off which it is found
in great numbers.[2] In fact, two centuries later Abouzeyd, an Arab, who wrote an account of
the trade and productions of India, speaks of these shells by the name they still bear, which
he states to be schenek[3]; but "schenek" is not an Arabic word, and is merely an attempt to
spell the local term, chank, in Arabic characters.

[Footnote 1: COSMAS INDICO-PLEUSTES, in Thevenot's ed. t i. p. 21.]

[Footnote 2: At Kottiar, near Trincomalie, I was struck with the prodigious size of the edible
oysters, which were brought to us at the rest-house. The shell of one of these measured a little
more than eleven inches in length, by half as many broad: thus unexpectedly attesting the correctness
of one of the stories related by the historians of Alexander's expedition, that in India they
had found oysters a foot long. PLINY says: "In Indico mari Alexandri rerum auctores pedalia
inveniri prodidere."--Nat. Hist. lib. xxxii. ch. 31. DARWIN says, that amongst the fossils
of Patagonia, he found "a massive gigantic oyster, sometimes even a foot in diameter."--Nat.
Voy., ch. viii.]

[Footnote 3:--ABOUZEYD, Voyages Arabes, &c., t. i. p. 6; REINAUD, Mémoire sur l'Inde, &c p. 222.]

BERTOLACCI mentions a curious local peculiarity[1] observed by the fishermen in the natural
history of the chank. "All shells," he says, "found to the northward of a line drawn from a
point about midway from Manaar to the opposite coast (of India) are of the kind called patty,
and are distinguished by a short flat head; and all those found to the southward of that line
are of the kind called pajel, and are known from having a longer and more pointed head than
the former. Nor is there ever an instance of deviation from this singular law of nature. The
Wallampory, or 'right-hand chanks,' are found of both kinds."

[Footnote 1: See also the Asiatic Journal for 1827, p. 469.]

This tendency of particular localities to re-produce certain specialities of form and colour
is not confined to the sea or to the instance of the chank shell. In the gardens which line
the suburbs of Galle in the direction of Matura the stems of the coco-nut and jak trees are
profusely covered with the shells of the beautiful striped Helix hamastoma. Stopping frequently
to collect them, I was led to observe that each separate garden seemed to possess a variety
almost peculiar to itself; in one the mouth of every individual shell was red; in another,
separated from the first only by a wall, black; and in others (but less frequently) pure white;
whilst the varieties of external colouring were equally local. In one enclosure they were nearly
all red, and in an adjoining one brown.[1]

[Footnote 1: DARWIN, in his Naturalist's Voyage, mentions a parallel instance of the localised
propagation of colours amoungst the cattle which range the pasturage of East Falkland Island:
"Round Mount Osborne about half of some of the herds were mouse-coloured, a tint no common
anywhere else,--near Mount Pleasant dark-brown prevailed; whereas south of Choiseul Sound white
beasts with black heads and feet were common."--Ch. ix. p. 192.]

A trade more ancient by far than that carried on in chanks, and infinitely more renowned, is
the fishery of pearls on the west coast of Ceylon, bordering the Gulf of Manaar. No scene in
Ceylon presents so dreary an aspect as the long sweep of desolate shore to which, from time
immemorial, adventurers have resorted from the uttermost ends of the earth in search of the
precious pearls for which this gulf is renowned. On approaching it from sea the only perceptible
landmark is a building erected by Lord Guildford, as a temporary residence for the Governor,
and known by the name of the "Doric," from the style of its architecture. A few coco-nut palms
appear next above the low sandy beach, and presently are discovered the scattered houses which
form the villages of Aripo and Condatchy.

Between these two places, or rather between the Kalaar and Arrive river, the shore is raised
to a height of many feet, by enormous mounds of shells, the accumulations of ages, the millions
of oysters[1], robbed of their pearls, having been year after year flung into heaps, that extend
for a distance of many miles.

[Footnote 1: It is almost unnecessary to say that the shell fish which produces the true Oriental
pearls is not an oyster, but belongs to the genus Avicula, or more correctly, Meleagrina. It
is the Meleagrina Margaritifera of Lamarck.]

During the progress of a pearl-fishery, this singular and dreary expanse becomes suddenly enlivened
by the crowds who congregate from distant parts of India; a town is improvised by the construction
of temporary dwellings, huts of timber and cajans[1], with tents of palm leaves or canvas;
and bazaars spring up, to feed the multitude on land, as well as the seamen and divers in the
fleets of boats that cover the bay.

[Footnote 1: Cajan is the local term for the plaited fronds of a coco-nut.]

I visited the pearl banks officially in 1848 in company with Capt. Stenart, the official inspector.
My immediate object was to inquire into the causes of the suspension of the fisheries, and
to ascertain the probability of reviving a source of revenue, the gross receipts from which
had failed for several years to defray the cost of conservancy. In fact, between 1837 and 1854,
the pearl banks were an annual charge, instead of producing an annual income, to the colony.
The conjecture, hastily adopted, to account for the disappearance of mature shells, had reference
to mechanical causes; the received hypothesis being that the young broods had been swept off
their accustomed feeding grounds, by the establishment of unusual currents, occasioned by deepening
the narrow passage between Ceylon and India at Paumbam. It was also suggested, that a previous
Governor, in his eagerness to replenish the colonial treasury, had so "scraped" and impoverished
the beds as to exterminate the oysters. To me, neither of these suppositions appeared worthy
of acceptance; for, in the frequent disruptions of Adam's Bridge, there was ample evidence
that the currents in the Gulf of Manaar had been changed at former times without destroying
the pearl beds: and moreover the oysters had disappeared on many former occasions, without
any imputation of improper management on the part of the conservators; and returned after much
longer intervals of absence than that which fell under my own notice, and which was then creating
serious apprehension in the colony.

A similar interruption had been experienced between 1820 and 1828: the Dutch had had no fishing
for twenty-seven years, from 1768 till 1796[1]; and they had been equally unsuccessful from
1732 till 1746. The Arabs were well acquainted with similar vicissitudes, and Albyronni (a
contemporary of Avicenna), who served under Mahmoud of Ghuznee, and wrote in the eleventh century,
says that the pearl fishery, which formerly existed in the Gulf of Serendib, had become exhausted
in his time, simultaneously with the appearance of a fishery at Sofala, in the country of the
Zends, where pearls were unknown before; and hence, he says, arose the conjecture that the
pearl oyster of Serendib had migrated to Sofala.[2]

[Footnote 1: This suspension was in some degree attributable to disputes with the Nabob of
Arcot and other chiefs, and the proprietors of temples on the opposite coast of India, who
claimed, a right to participate in the fisheries of the Gulf of Manaar.]

[Footnote 2: "Il y avait autrefois dans le Golfe de Serendyb, une pêcherie de perles qui s'est
épuiseé de notre temps. D'un autre côté il s'est formé une pêcherie de Sofala dans le pays
des Zends, là ou il n'en existait pas auparavant--on dit que c'est la pêcherie de Serendyb
qui s'est transportée à Sofala."--ALBYROUNI, in RENAUD'S Fragmens Arabes, &c, p. 125; see also
REINAUD'S Mémoire sur l'Inde, p. 228.]

It appeared to me that the explanation of the phenomenon was to be sought, not merely in external
causes, but also in the instincts and faculties of the animals themselves, and, on my return
to Colombo, I ventured to renew a recommendation, which had been made years before, that a
scientific inspector should be appointed to study the habits and the natural history of the
pearl-oyster, and that his investigations should be facilitated by the means at the disposal
of the Government.

Dr. Kelaart was appointed to this office, by Sir H.G. Ward, in 1857, and his researches speedily
developed results of great interest. In opposition to the received opinion that the pearl-oyster
is incapable of voluntary movement, and unable of itself to quit the place to which it is originally
attached[1], he demonstrated, not only that it possesses locomotive powers, but also that their
exercise is indispensable to its oeconomy when obliged to search for food, or compelled to
escape from local impurities. He showed that, for this purpose, it can sever its byssus, and
re-form it at pleasure, so as to migrate and moor itself in favourable situations.[2] The establishment
of this important fact may tend to solve the mystery of the occasional disappearances of the
oyster; and if coupled with the further discovery that it is susceptible of translation from
place to place, and even from salt to brackish water, it seems reasonable to expect that beds
may be formed with advantage in positions suitable for its growth and protection. Thus, like
the edible oyster of our own shores, the pearl-oyster may be brought within the domain of pisciculture,
and banks may be created in suitable places, just as the southern shores of France are now
being colonised with oysters, under the direction of M. Coste.[3] The operation of sowing the
sea with pearl, should the experiment succeed, would be as gorgeous in reality, as it is grand
in conception: and the wealth of Ceylon, in her "treasures of the deep," might eclipse the
renown of her gems when she merited the title of the "Island of Rubies."

[Footnote 1: STEUART'S Pearl Fisheries of Ceylon, p. 27: CORDINER'S Ceylon, &c, vol. ii. p. 45.]

[Footnote 2: See Dr. KELAART'S Report on the Pearl Oyster in the Ceylon Calendar for 1858--Appendix,
p. 14.]

[Footnote 3: Rapport de M. COSTE, Professeur d'Embryogénie, &c., Paris, 1858.]

On my arrival at Aripo, the pearl-divers, under the orders of their Adapanaar, put to sea,
and commenced the examination of the banks.[1] The persons engaged in this calling are chiefly
Tamils and Moors, who are trained for the service by diving for chanks. The pieces of apparatus
employed to assist the diver in his operations are exceedingly simple in their character: they
consist merely of a stone, about thirty pounds' weight, (to accelerate the rapidity of his
descent,) which is suspended over the side of the boat, with a loop attached to it for receiving
the foot; and of a net-work basket, which he takes down to the bottom and fills with the oysters
as he collects them. MASSOUDI, one of the earliest Arabian geographers, describing, in the
ninth century, the habits of the pearl-divers in the Persian Gulf, says that, before descending,
each filled his ears with cotton steeped in oil, and compressed his nostrils by a piece of
tortoise-shell.[2] This practice continues there to the present day[3]; but the diver of Ceylon
rejects all such expedients; he inserts his foot in the "sinking stone" and inhales a full
breath; presses his nostrils with his left hand; raises his body as high as possible above
water, to give force to his descent: and, liberating the stone from its fastenings, he sinks
rapidly below the surface. As soon as he has reached the bottom, the stone is drawn up, and
the diver, throwing himself on his face, commences with alacrity to fill his basket with oysters.
This, on a concerted signal, is hauled rapidly to the surface; the diver assisting his own
ascent by springing on the rope as it rises.

[Footnote 1: Detailed accounts of the pearl fishery of Ceylon and the conduct of the divers,
will be found in PERCIVAL's Ceylon, ch. iii.: and in CORDINER'S Ceylon, vol. ii. ch. xvi. There
is also a valuable paper on the same subject by Mr. LE BECK, in the Asiatic Researches, vol.
v. p. 993; but by far the most able and intelligent description is contained in the Account
of the Pearl Fisheries of Ceylon, by JAMES STEUART, Esq., Inspector of the Pearl Banks, 4to.
Colombo, 1843.]

[Footnote 2: MASSOUDI says that the Persian divers, as they could not breathe through their
nostrils, cleft the root of the ear for that purpose: "Ils se fendaient la racine de l'oreille
pour respirer; en effet, ils ne peuvent se servir pour cet objet des narines, vu qu'ils se
les bouchent avec des morceaux d'écailles de tortue marine on bien avec des morceaux de corne
ayant la forme d'un fer de lance. En même temps ils se mettent dans l'oreille du coton trempé
dans de l'huile."--Moroudj-al-Dzeheb, &c., REINAUD, Mémoire sur l'Inde, p. 228.]

[Footnote 3: Colonel WILSON says they compress the nose with horn, and close the ears with
beeswax. See Memorandum on the Pearl Fisheries in Persian Gulf.--Journ. Geogr. Soc. 1833, vol.
iii. p. 283.]

Improbable tales have been told of the capacity which these men acquire of remaining for prolonged
periods under water. The divers who attended on this occasion were amongst the most expert
on the coast, yet not one of them was able to complete a full minute below. Captain Steuart,
who filled for many years the office of Inspector of the Pearl Banks, assured me that he had
never known a diver to continue at the bottom longer than eighty-seven seconds, nor to attain
a greater depth than thirteen fathoms; and on ordinary occasions they seldom exceeded fifty-five
seconds in nine fathom water[1].

[Footnote 1: RIBEYRO says that a diver could remain below whilst two credos were being repeated:
"Il s'y tient l'espace de deux credo."--Lib. i. ch. xxii. p. 169. PERCIVAL says the usual time
for them to be under water was two minutes, but that some divers stayed four or five, and one
six minutes,--Ceylon p. 91; LE BECK says that in 1797 he saw a Caffre boy from Karical remain
down for the space of seven minutes.--Asiat. Res vol. v. p. 402.]

The only precaution to which the Ceylon diver devotedly resorts, is the mystic ceremony of
the shark-charmer, whose exorcism is an indispensable preliminary to every fishery. His power
is believed to be hereditary; nor is it supposed that the value of his incantations is at all
dependent upon the religious faith professed by the operator, for the present head of the family
happens to be a Roman Catholic. At the time of our visit this mysterious functionary was ill
and unable to attend; but he sent an accredited substitute, who assured me that although he
himself was ignorant of the grand and mystic secret, the mere fact of his presence, as a representative
of the higher authority, would be recognised and respected by the sharks.

Strange to say, though the Gulf of Manaar abounds with these hideous creatures, not more than
one well authenticated accident[1] is known to have occurred from this source during any pearl
fishery since the British have had possession of Ceylon. In all probability the reason is that
the sharks are alarmed by the unusual number of boats, the multitude of divers, the noise of
the crews, the incessant plunging of the sinking stones, and the descent and ascent of the
baskets filled with shells. The dark colour of the divers themselves may also be a protection;
whiter skins might not experience an equal impunity. Massoudi relates that the divers of the
Persian Gulf were so conscious of this advantage of colour, that they were accustomed to blacken
their limbs, in order to baffle the sea monsters.[2]

[Footnote 1: CORDINER'S Ceylon, vol. ii p. 52.]

[Footnote 2: "Ils s'enduisaient les pieds et les jambes d'une substance noirâtre, atin de faire
peur aux monstres marins, que, sans cela, seraient tentés de les dévorer."--Moroudj-al-Dzekeb,
REINAUD, Mém. sur l'Inde, p. 228.]

The result of our examination of the pearl banks, on this occasion, was such as to discourage
the hope of an early fishery. The oysters in point of number were abundant, but in size they
were little more than "spat," the largest being barely a fourth of an inch in diameter. As
at least seven years are required to furnish the growth at which pearls may be sought with
advantage[1], the inspection served only to suggest the prospect (which has since been realised)
that in time the income from this source might be expected to revive;--and, forced to content
ourselves with this anticipation, we weighed anchor from Condatchy, on the 30th March, and
arrived on the following day at Colombo.

[Footnote 1: Along with this two plates are given from drawings made for the Official Inspector,
and exhibiting the ascertained size of the pearl oyster at every period of its growth, from
the "spat" to the mature shell. The young "brood" are shown at Nos. 1 and 2. The shell at four
months old, No. 3, No. 4. six months, No. 5. one year, No. 6, two years. The second plate exhibits
the shell at its full growth.]

The banks of Aripo are not the only localities, nor is the acicula the only mollusc, by which
pearls are furnished. The Bay of Tamblegam, connected with the magnificent harbour of Trincomalie,
is the seat of another pearl fishery, and the shell which produces them is the thin transparent
oyster (Placuna placenta). whose clear white shells are used, in China and elsewhere, as a
substitute for window glass. They are also collected annually for the sake of the diminutive
pearls contained in them. These are exported to the coast of India, to be calcined for lime,
which the luxurious affect to chew with their betel. These pearls are also burned in the mouths
of the dead. So prolific are the mollusca of the Placuna, that the quantity of shells taken
by the licensed renter in the three years prior to 1858, could not have been less than eighteen
millions.[1] They delight in brackish water, and on more than one recent occasion, an excess
of either salt water or fresh has proved fatal to great numbers of them.

[Footnote 1: Report of Dr. KELAART, Oct. 1857.]

On the occasion of a visit which I made to Batticaloa. in September, 1848, I made some inquiries
relative to a story which had reached me of musical sounds, said to be often heard issuing
from the bottom of the lake, at several places, both above and below the ferry opposite the
old Dutch Fort; and which the natives suppose to proceed from some fish peculiar to the locality.
The report was confirmed in all its particulars, and one of the spots whence the sounds proceed
was pointed out between the pier and a rock that intersects the channel, two or three hundred
yards to the eastward. They were said to be heard at night, and most distinctly when the moon
was nearest the full, and they were described as resembling the faint sweet notes of an Æolian
harp. I sent for some of the fishermen, who said they were perfectly aware of the fact, and
that their fathers had always known of the existence of the musical sounds, heard, they said,
at the spot alluded to, but only during the dry season, as they cease when the lake is swollen
by the freshes after the rain. They believed them to proceed not from a fish, but from a shell,
which is known by the Tamil name of (oorie cooleeroo cradoo, or) the "crying shell," a name
in which the sound seems to have been adopted as an echo to the sense. I sent them in search
of the shell, and they returned bringing me some living specimens of different shells, chiefly
littorina and cerithium.[1]

[Footnote 1: Littorina lævis. Cerithium palustre. Of the latter the specimens brought to me
were dwarfed and solid, exhibiting in this particular the usual peculiarities that distinguish
(1) shells inhabiting a rocky locality from (2) their congeners in a sandy bottom. Their longitudinal
development was less, with greater breadth, and increased strength and weight.]

In the evening when the moon rose, I took a boat and accompanied the fishermen to the spot.
We rowed about two hundred yards north-east of the jetty by the fort gate; there was not a
breath of wind, nor a ripple except those caused by the dip of our oars. On coming to the point
mentioned, I distinctly heard the sounds in question. They came up from the water like the
gentle thrills of a musical chord, or the faint vibrations of a wine-glass when its rim is
rubbed by a moistened finger. It was not one sustained note, but a multitude of tiny, sounds,
each clear and distinct in itself; the sweetest treble mingling with the lowest bass. On applying
the ear to the woodwork of the boat, the vibration was greatly increased in volume. The sounds
varied considerably at different points, as we moved across the lake, as if the number of the
animals from which they proceeded was greatest in particular spots; and occasionally we rowed
out of hearing of them altogether, until on returning to the original locality the sounds were
at once renewed.

This fact seems to indicate that the causes of the sounds, whatever they may be, are stationary
at several points; and this agrees with the statement of the natives, that they are produced
by mollusca, and not by fish. They came evidently and sensibly from the depth of the lake,
and there was nothing in the surrounding circumstances to support the conjecture that they
could be the reverberation of noises made by insects on the shore conveyed along the surface
of the water; for they were loudest and most distinct at points where the nature of the land,
and the intervention of the fort and its buildings, forbade the possibility of this kind of
conduction.

Sounds somewhat similar are heard under water at some places on the western coast of India,
especially in the harbour of Bombay.[1] At Caldera, in Chili, musical cadences are stated to
issue from the sea near the landing-place; they are described as rising and falling fully four
notes, resembling the tones of harp strings, and mingling like those at Batticaloa, till they
produce a musical discord of great delicacy and sweetness. The same interesting phenomenon
has been observed at the mouth of the Pascagoula, in the State of Mississippi, and of another
river called the "Bayou coq del Inde," on the northern shore of the Gulf of Mexico. The animals
from which they proceed have not been identified at either of these places, and the mystery
remains unsolved, whether the sounds at Batticaloa are given forth by fishes or by molluscs.

[Footnote 1: These sounds are thus described by Dr. BUIST in the Bombay Times of January 1847:
"A party lately crossing from the promontory in Salsette called the 'Neat's Tongue,' to near
Sewree, were, about sunset, struck by hearing long distinct sounds like the protracted booming
of a distant bell, the dying cadence of an Æolian harp, the note of a pitchpipe or pitch-fork,
or any other long-drawn-out musical note. It was, at first, supposed to be music from Parell
floating at intervals on the breeze; then it was perceived to come from all directions, almost
in equal strength, and to arise from the surface of the water all around the vessel. The boatmen
at once intimated that the sounds were produced by fish, abounding in the muddy creeks and
shoals around Bombay and Salsette; they were perfectly well known, and very often heard. Accordingly,
on inclining the ear towards the surface of the water; or, better still, by placing it close
to the planks of the vessel, the notes appeared loud and distinct, and followed each other
in constant succession. The boatmen next day produced specimens of the fish--a creature closely
resembling, in size and shape the fresh-water perch of the north of Europe--and spoke of them
as plentiful and perfectly well known. It is hoped they may be procured alive, and the means
afforded of determining how the musical sounds are produced and emitted, with other particulars
of interest supposed new in Ichthyology. We shall be thankful to receive from our readers any
information they can give us in regard to a phenomenon which does not appear to have been heretofore
noticed, and which cannot fail to attract the attention of the naturalist. Of the perfect accuracy
with which the singular facts above related have been given, no doubt will be entertained when
it is mentioned that the writer was one of a party of five intelligent persons, by all of whom
they were most carefully observed, and the impressions of all of whom in regard to them were
uniform. It is supposed that the fish are confined to particular localities--shallows, estuaries,
and muddy creeks, rarely visited by Europeans; and that this is the reason why hitherto no
mention, so far as we know, has been made of the peculiarity in any work on Natural History."

This communication elicited one from Vizagapatam, relative to "musical sounds like the prolonged
notes on the harp" heard to proceed from under water at that station. It appeared in the Bombay
Times of Feb. 13, 1849.]

Certain fishes are known to utter sounds when removed from the water[1], and some are capable
of making noises when under it[2]; but all the circumstances connected with the sounds which
I heard at Batticaloa are unfavourable to the conjecture that they were produced by either.

[Footnote 1: The Cuckoo Gurnard (Triglia cuculus) and the maigre (Sciæna aquila) utter sounds
when taken out of the water (YARRELL, vol. i. p. 44, 107); and herrings when the net has just
been drawn have been observed to do the same. This effect has been attributed to the escape
of air from the air bladder, but no air bladder has been found in the Cottus, which makes a
similar noise.]

[Footnote 2: The fishermen assert that a fish about five inches in length, found in the lake
at Colombo, and called by them "magoora," makes a grunt when disturbed under water. PALLEGOIX,
in his account of Siam, speaks of a fish resembling a sole, but of brilliant colouring with
black spots, which the natives call the "dog's tongue," that attaches itself to the bottom
of a boat, "et fait entendre un bruit très-sonore et même harmonieux."--Tom. i. p. 194. A Silurus,
found in the Rio Parana, and called the "armado," is remarkable for making a harsh grating
noise when caught by hook or line, which can be distinctly heard when the fish is beneath the
water. DARWIN, Nat. Journ. ch. vii. Aristotle and Ælian were aware of the existence of this
faculty in some of the fishes of the Mediterranean. ARISTOTLE, De Anim., lib. iv. ch. ix.;
ÆLIAN, De Nat. Anim., lib. x. ch. xi.; see also PLINY, lib. ix. ch. vii.. lib. xi. ch. cxiii.;
ATHENÆUS, lib. vii. ch. iii. vi. I have heard of sounds produced under water at Baltimore,
and supposed to be produced by the "cat-fish;" and at Swan River in Australia, where they are
ascribed to the "trumpeter." A similar noise heard in the Tagus is attributed by the Lisbon
fishermen to the "Corvina"--but what fish is meant by that name, I am unable to tell.]

Organs of hearing have been clearly ascertained to exist, mot only in fishes[1], but in mollusca.
In the oyster the presence of an acoustic apparatus of the simplest possible construction has
been established by the discoveries of Siebold[2], and from our knowledge of the reciprocal
relations existing between the faculties of hearing and of producing sounds, the ascertained
existence of the one affords legitimate grounds for inferring the coexistence of the other
in animals of the same class.[3]

[Footnote 1: AGASSIZ, Comparative Physiology, sec. ii. 158.]

[Footnote 2: It consists of two round vesicles containing fluid, and crystalline or elliptical
calcareous particles or otolites, remarkable for their oscillatory action in the living or
recently killed animal. OWEN'S Lectures on the Comparative Anatomy and Physiology of the Invertebrate
Animals, 1855, p. 511-552.]

[Footnote 3: I am informed that Professor MÜLLER read a paper on "Musical fishes" before the
Academy of Berlin, in 1856. It will probably be found in the volume of MÜLLER'S Archiv. für
Physiologie for that year; but I have not had an opportunity of reading it.]

Besides, it has been clearly established, that one at least of the gasteropoda is furnished
with the power of producing sounds. Dr. Grant, in 1826, communicated to the Edinburgh Philosophical
Society the fact, that on placing some specimens of the Tritonia arborescens in a glass vessel
filled with sea water, his attention was attracted by a noise which he ascertained to proceed
from these mollusca. It resembled the "clink" of a steel wire on the side of the jar, one stroke
only being given at a time, and repeated at short intervals.[1]

[Footnote 1: Edinburgh Philosophical Journ., vol. xiv. p. 188. See also the Appendix to this
chapter.]

The affinity of structure between the Tritonia and the mollusca inhabiting the shells brought
to me at Batticaloa, might justify the belief of the natives of Ceylon, that the latter are
the authors of the sounds I heard; and the description of those emitted by the former as given
by Dr. Grant, so nearly resemble them, that I have always regretted my inability, on the occasion
of my visits to Batticaloa, to investigate the subject more narrowly. At subsequent periods
I have since renewed my efforts, but without success, to obtain specimens or observations of
the habits of the living mollusca. His. Nat. i. BOLTEN, Mus. BORN, Test. Mus. Cæcs. Vind. BRODERIP,
Zool. Journ. i. iii. BRUGUIERE, Encyc. Deser. Cur. Conch.

Teredo nucivorus. Couch. Chem. Con. Cab.[4]

Mactra complanata, Desh. Proc. Zl. Conch. Cab.
  Corbiculoides, Deshayes, Pr. Zl. S. 1854. Mis.

Galeomma Layardi. Desh. Pr. Zl. S. 1856.

Kellia peculiaris, Adams, Pr. Zl. S. 1856.

Petricola cultellus, Desh. Pr. Zl. S. 1853. Anim. s. Vert.[2]
Tellina virgata, Linn. Syst. Syst. A. Nat. 1837.[8]
Venus reticulata, Linn. Syst. Enc. Méth.
  Mauritii (Hanley as of Hinds), Rec. Biv.
Unio
  corrugatus, Müller, Hist. Verm. Syst. Nat.
Pinna inflata, Chamn. Icon.
Lima squamosa, Linn. M. Vind.[16]
Vulsella
  Pholadiformis, Reeve, C. Icn.

[Footnote 1: P. cærulesens, Lam.]

[Footnote 2: Sanguinolaria rugosa, Lam.]

[Footnote 3: T. striatula of Lamarck is also supposed to be indigenous to Ceylon.]

[Footnote 4: T. rostrata, Lam.]

[Footnote 5: L. divaricata is found, also, in mixed Ceylon collections.]

[Footnote 6: C. dispar of Chemnitz is occasionally found in Ceylon collections.]

[Footnote 7: C. impudica. Anim. Be.
  testodinaria, Linn. Syst. Nat.
Emarginula fissurata, Ch.
Lunax, 2 sp.
Parmacella Tennentii, Templ.[4]
Vitrina irradians, Pfeiffer, Mon. Helic.
  Edgariana, Ben. Ann. N.H. 1853 (xii.)
  membranacea, Ben. Symb. S. 18S4.
  ceraria, Benson, An. Nat. H. 1853 (xii.)
  vilipensa, Benson, An. N.H. 1853 (xii.)
  perfucata, Benson, A.N.H. 1853 (xii.)
  puteolus, Benson, An. N.H. 1853 (xii.)
  mononema, Benson, A.N.H. 1853 (xii.)
  marcida, Benson, An. N.H. 1853 (xii.)
  galerus, Benson, A.N.H. 1856 (xviii.)
  albizonata. Dohrn, Proc. Zoo. Soc. 1858. (?Blævis, iGray, in
  Index Testaceologicus.)
  adumbratus, Pfieff. A.N.H. 1856 (xviii.)
  rufopictus, Ben. A.N.H. 1856 (xviii.)
  panos, Benson, Ann. Nat.
  Punctogaliana. Pfeiff Monog. Helic.
  pachycheila, Benson
  veruina, Bens, A. Nat. Hist. Pr. Zool. Soc. 1854.[6]
  Ceylanica, Petit, Proc. Zool. Soc. 1842.[7]
  Layardi, Adams, Proc. Zool. Soc. 1854.[8]
  pellucens, Menke, Synopsis Moll.
Pythia
  Ceylanica, Pfeiff. Zeits. Mal. 1847.
  punctatum, Gratel. A.L. Bordeaux (xi.)
  loxostoma, Pfeiff. Monog. Pneumon. M. Pneum.
  parapsis, Bens. An. Nat. Hist. 1853 (xii.)
  parma, Bens. An. Nat. His. 1856 (xviii.)
  cratera, Bens. An. A.N.H. (ser. 2. xi.)
  apicatum, Bens. Mat. Pneumon.
Cyclostoma (Pterocyclos).
  Cingalense, Bens. A.N.H. 1853 (xii.)
  Thwaitesii, Pfeiff. Proc. Zo. Zo. Soc. 1856. Zo. Zo. Soc. 1854.
  fulguratus, Dohrn, Proc. Zo. Soc. Zo. Soc. Z.S. 1857.
  Cumingianus, Dohrn, Proc. Z.S. 1857.
  dromedarius, Dohrn, Proc. Zo. Soc. 1857.
  nodulosus, Dohrn, Proc. Zo. Soc. Soc. Soc. Ampul.[2]
  Luzonica, Reeve, Conch. Icon.[2]
  Sumatrensis, Philippi, monog. Soc. Soc. 1845.
  Perottetiana, Recluz, Rev. Z. Cuv.

[Footnote 1: M. fasciolata, Olivier.]

[Footnote 2: These four species are included on the authority of Mr. Dohrn.]

[Footnote 3: N. exuvia, Lam. not Linn.]

  adusta, Ch. C. C. f. 1926-7, & Karsten.[1]
  pellis-tigrina, Karsten, Mus. Lesk.[2]
  didyma, Bolten, Mus.[3]
Ianthina prolongata, Blainv., D.S.N. xxiv.
  communis, Kr., (as of L. in part) S.A.M.
Sigaretus, sp.[4]
Stomatella
  calliostoma, Adams, Thesaur. Conch.
Haliotis varia, Linn. Syst. Nat.
  aluco, Linn. Syst. (as of Mart.), Thes. Zool. 1831.
  Blosvillei, Deshayes, E. Méth. Vers., ii.
Pyrula rapa, Linn. Syst. Belanger. Conch. Cab. 1892-3.]

[Footnote 3: N. glauciua, Lam. not Linn.]

[Footnote 4: A species (possibly Javanicus) is known to have been collected. I have not seen it.]

[Footnote 5: Not of Lamarck. D. atrata. Reeve.]

[Footnote 6: Philippia L.]

[Footnote 7: Zeit. Mal. Lam. Nouv. Ann. Mus. Anim. s. Vert.
  carinitera, Lam. Anim. s. Vert. So. 1854.
  insculpta, Adams, Proc. Zool. Soc. 1854.
Layardi, Adams, Proc. Zool. Soc. C. Sh.
  gangrenosa, Soland. in Dillw. Mus. Cæs.[8]
  nebulosa, Lam. Anim. s. Vert. Syst. Nat. Must. En. Mth.
Sepia Hieredda, Rang. M.Z., ser. i. p. 100.
Sepioteuthis, Sp.
Loligo, Sp.

These pests in all probability received their popular name of Guinea-worms, from the narrative
of Bruno or Braun, a citizen and surgeon of Basle, who about the year 1611 made several voyages
to that part of the African coast, and on his return published, amongst other things, an account
of the local diseases.[1] But Linschoten, the Dutch navigator, had previously observed the
same worms at Ormus in 1584, and they are thus described, together with the method of removing
them, in the English version of his voyage.

[Footnote 1: In DE BRY'S, Collect, vol. i. p. 49.]

"There is in Ormus a sickenesse or common plague of wormes, which growe in their legges, it
is thought that they proceede of the water that they drink. These wormes are like, unto lute
strings, and about two or three fadomes longe, which they must plucke out and winde them aboute
a straw or a feather, everie day some part thereof, so longe as they feele them creepe; and
when they hold still, letting it rest in that sort till the next daye, they bind it fast and
annoynt the hole, and the swelling from whence it commeth foorth, with fresh butter, and so
in ten or twelve dayes, they winde them out without any let, in the meanetime they must sit
still with their legges, for if it should breake, they should not, without great paine get
it out of their legge, as I have seen some men doe." [1]

[Footnote 1: JOHN HUIGHEN VAN LINSCHOTEN his Discours of Voyages into the Easte and West Indies.
London, 1599, p, 16.]

The worm is of a whitish colour, sometimes inclining to brown. Its thickness is from a half
to two-thirds of a line, and its length has sometimes reached to ten or twelve feet. They sting,
as their trivial name indicates, like a nettle when incautiously touched. The coloured water
at times is to be seen all along the coast north to Kurrachee, and far out, and of a much more
intense tint in the Arabian Sea.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTE.

TRITONIA ARBORESCENS.

The following is the letter of Dr. Grant, referred to at page 385:--

Sir,--I have perused, with much interest, your remarkable communication received yesterday,
respecting the musical sounds which you heard proceeding from under water, on the east coast
of Ceylon. I cannot parallel the phenomenon you witnessed at Batticaloa, as produced by marine
animals, with anything with which my past experience has made me acquainted in marine zoology.
Excepting the faint clink of the Tritonia arborescens, repeated only once every minute or two,
and apparently produced by the mouth armed with two dense horny laminæ, I am not aware of any
sounds produced in the sea by branchiated invertebrata. It is to be regretted that in the memorandum
you have not mentioned your observations on the living specimens brought you by the sailors
as the animals which produced the sounds. Your authentication of the hitherto unknown fact,
would probably lead to the discovery of the same phenomenon in other common accessible paludinæ,
and other allied branchiated animals, and to the solution of a problem, which is still to me
a mystery, even regarding the tritonia.

My two living tritonia, contained in a large clear colourless glass cylinder, filled with pure
sea water, and placed on the central table of the Wernerian Natural History Society of Edinburgh,
around which many members were sitting, continued to clink audibly within the distance of twelve
feet during the whole meeting. These small animals were individually not half the size of the
last joint of my little finger. What effect the mellow sounds of millions of these, covering
the shallow bottom of a tranquil estuary, in the silence of night, might produce, I can scarcely
conjecture.

In the absence of your authentication, and of all geological explanation of the continuous
sounds, and of all source of fallacy from the hum and buzz of living creatures in the air or
on the land, or swimming on the waters, I must say that I should be inclined to seek for the
source of sounds so audible as those you describe rather among the pulmonated vertebrata, which
swarm in the depths of these seas--as fishes, serpents (of which my friend Dr. Cantor has described
about twelve species he found in the Bay of Bengal), turtles, palmated birds, pinnipedous and
cetaceous mammalia, &c.

The publication of your memorandum in its present form, though not quite satisfactory, will,
I think, be eminently calculated to excite useful inquiry into a neglected and curious part
of the economy of nature.

I remain, Sir,

Yours most respectfully,

ROBERT E. GRANT.

Sir J. Emerson Tennent, &c. &c.

CHAP. XII.

INSECTS. The natives have a superstitious belief that their flight is ultimately directed to
Adam's Peak, and that their pilgrimage ends on reaching the sacred mountain. Journal, p. 39.]

[Footnote 2: Republished in the Ann. Nat. 22.]

Amongst the superstitions of the Singhalese arising out of their belief in demonology, one
remarkable one is connected with the appearance of a beetle when observed on the floor of a
dwelling-house after nightfall. The popular belief is that in obedience to a certain form of
incantation (called cooroominiya-pilli) a demon in the shape of a beetle is sent to the house
of some person or family whose destruction it is intended to compass, and who presently falls
sick and dies. The only means of averting this catastrophe is, that some one, himself an adept
in necromancy, should perform a counter-charm, the effect of which is to send back the disguised
beetle to destroy his original employer; for in such a conjuncture the death of one or the
other is essential to appease the demon whose intervention has been invoked. Hence the discomfort
of a Singhalese on finding a beetle in his house after sunset, and his anxiety to expel but
not to kill it.

ORTHOPTERA.

There is a species of Termes in Ceylon (T. monoceros), which always builds its nest in the
hollow of an old tree; and, unlike the others, carries on its labours without the secrecy and
protection of a covered way. A marching column of these creatures may be observed at early
morning in the vicinity of their nest, returning laden with the spoils collected during their
foraging excursions. These consist of comminuted vegetable matter, derived, it may be, from
a thatched roof, if one happens to be within reach, or from the decaying leaves of a coco-nut.
Each little worker in the column carries its tiny load in its jaws; and the number of individuals
in one of these lines of march must be immense, for the column is generally about two inches
in width, and very densely crowded. One was measured which had most likely been in motion for
hours, moving in the direction of the nest, and was found to be upwards of sixty paces in length.
If attention be directed to the mass in motion, it will be observed that flanking it on each
side throughout its whole length are stationed a number of horned soldier termites, whose duty
it is to protect the labourers, and to give notice of any danger threatening them. This latter
duty they perform by a peculiar quivering motion of the whole body, which is rapidly communicated
from one to the other for a considerable distance: a portion of the column is then thrown into
confusion for a short time, but confidence soon returns, and the progress of the little creatures
goes on with steadiness and order as before. The nest is of a black colour, and resembles a
mass of scoriæ; the insects themselves are of a pitchy brown.[1]

[Footnote 1: For these particulars of the termes monoceros, I am indebted to Mr. Thwaites,
of the Roy. The mandibles[2] of these bees are admirably formed for the purpose of working
out the tunnels required, being short, stout, and usually furnished at the tip with two teeth
which are rounded somewhat into the form of cheese-cutters.

[Footnote 1: Xylocopa tenuiscapa, Westw.; Another species found in Ceylon is the X. latipes,
Drury.]

[Footnote 2: See figure above.]

These when brought into operation cut out the wood in the same way as a carpenter's double
gouge, the teeth being more or less hollowed out within. The female alone is furnished with
these powerful instruments. In the males the mandibles are slender as compared with those of
the females. The bores of some of these bees are described as being from twelve to fourteen
inches in length. If not protected, it is presently attacked by ants, and in a short time is,
as it were, converted into white crystalline sugar, the ants having refined it by removing
the darker portion, probably preferring that part from it containing azotized matter. The negroes,
I may remark, prefer brown sugar to white: they say its sweetening power is greater; no doubt
its nourishing quality is greater, and therefore as an article of diet deserving of preference.
There is a species still more minute, and evidently distinct, which frequents the caraffes
and toilet vessels.

Stinging Caterpillars.--The Dutch carried to their Eastern settlements two of their home propensities,
which distinguish and embellish the towns of the Low Countries; they indulged in the excavation
of canals, and they planted long lines of trees to diffuse shade over the sultry passages in
their Indian fortresses. For the latter purpose they employed the Suriya (Hibiscus populneus),
whose broad umbrageous leaves and delicate yellow flowers impart a delicious coolness, and
give to the streets of Galle and Colombo the fresh and enlivening aspect of walks in a garden.

In the towns, however, the suriya trees are productive of one serious inconvenience. They are
the resort of a hairy greenish caterpillar[1], longitudinally striped, great numbers of which
frequent them, and at a certain stage of growth descend by a silken thread to the ground and
hurry away, probably in search of a suitable spot in which to pass through their metamorphoses.
Should they happen to alight, as they often do, upon some lounger below, and find their way
to his unprotected skin, they inflict, if molested, a sting as pungent, but far more lasting,
than that of a nettle or a star-fish.

[Footnote 1: The species of moth with which it is identified has not yet been determined, but
it most probably belongs to a section of Boisduval's genus Bombyx allied to Cnethocampa, Stephens.]

Attention being thus directed to the quarter whence an assailant has lowered himself down,
the caterpillars above will be found in clusters, sometimes amounting to hundreds, clinging
to the branches and the bark, with a few straggling over the leaves or suspended from them
by lines. These pests are so annoying to children as well as destructive to the foliage, that
it is often necessary to singe them off the trees by a flambeau fixed on the extremity of a
pole; and as they fall to the ground they are eagerly devoured by the crows and domestic fowls.[1]

[Footnote 1: Another caterpillar which feeds on the jasmine flowering Carissa, stings with
such fury that I have known a gentleman to shed tears while the pain was at its height. It
is short and broad, of a pale green, with fleshy spines on the upper surface, each of which
seems to be charged with the venom that occasions this acute suffering. The moth which this
caterpillar produces, Neæra lepida, Cramer; Limacodes graciosa, Westw., has dark brown wings,
the primary traversed by a broad green band. It is common in the western side of Ceylon. These
it moves without dispersing the powder: but when dead they fall rapidly to dust. I regret that
I did not preserve specimens, but I have reason to think that they are the larvæ of the Flata
limbata, or of some other closely allied species[1], though I have not seen in Ceylon any of
the wax produced by the flata. "Divers sorts of flies," Ps. cv. 31; and in another, "swarms
of flies," Exod. viii. 21, &c., means merely "an assemblage." a "mixture" or a "swarm," and
the expletive. "of flies" is an interpolation of the translators. This, however, serves to
show that the fly implied was one easily recognisable by its habit of swarming; and the further
fact that it bites, or rather stings, is elicited from the expression of the Psalmist, Ps.
lxxviii. 45, that the insects by which the Egyptians were tormented "devoured them," so that
here are two peculiarities inapplicable to the domestic fly, but strongly characteristic of
gnats and mosquitoes.

Bruce thought that the fly of the fourth plague was the "zimb" of Abyssinia which he so graphically
describes: and WESTWOOD, in an ingenious passage in his Entomologist's Text-book. p. 17, combats
the strange idea of one of the bishops, that it was a cockroach! and argues in favour of the
mosquito. This view he sustains by a reference to the habits of the creature, the swarms in
which it invades a locality, and the audacity with which it enters the houses; and he accounts
for the exemption of "the land of Goshen in which the Isrælites dwelt," by the fact of its
being sandy pasture above the level of the river; whilst the mosquitoes were produced freely
in the rest of Egypt, the soil of which was submerged by the rising of the Nile.

In all the passages in the Old Testament in which flies are alluded to, otherwise than in connection
with the Egyptian infliction, the word used in the Hebrew is zevor, which the Septuagint renders
by the ordinary generic term for flies in general, [Greek: muia], "musca" (Eccles. x. 1, Isaiah
vii. 10); but in every instance in which mention is made of the miracle of Moses, the Septuagint
says that the fly produced was the [Greek: kunomyia], the "dog-fly." What insect was meant
by this name it is not now easy to determine, but ÆLIAN intimates that the dogfly both inflicts
a wound and emits a booming sound, in both of which particulars it accords with the mosquito
(lib. iv, 51); and PHILO-JUDÆUS, in his Vita Mosis, lib. i. ch. xxiii., descanting on the plague
of flies, and using the term of the Septuagint, [Greek: kunomyia], describes it as combining
the characteristic of "the most impudent of all animals, the fly and the dog, exhibiting the
courage and the cunning of both, and fastening on its victim with the noise and rapidity of
an arrow"--[Greek: meta roizou kathaper belos]. This seems to identify the dog-fly of the Septuagint
with the description of the Psalmist, Ps. lxxviii. (Lecanium Caffeæ, Wlk.), which of late years
has made such destructive ravages in the plantations in the Mountain Zone.[1] The first thing
that attracts attention on looking at a coffee tree infested by it, is the number of brownish
wart-like bodies that stud the young shoots and occasionally the margins on the underside of
the leaves.[2] Each of these warts or scales is a transformed female, containing a large number
of eggs which are hatched within it.

[Footnote 1: The following notice of the "coffee-bug," and of the singularly destructive effects
produced by it on the plants, has been prepared chiefly from a memoir presented to the Ceylon
Government by the late Dr. Gardner, in which he traces the history of the insect from its first
appearance in the coffee districts, until it had established itself more or less permanently
in all the estates in full cultivation throughout the island.]

[Footnote 2: See the annexed drawing, Fig. 1.]

When the young ones come out from their nest, they run about over the plant like diminutive
wood-lice, and at this period there is no apparent distinction between male and female. Shortly
after being hatched the males seek the underside of the leaves, while the females prefer the
young shoots as a place of abode. If the under surface of a leaf be examined, it will be found
to be studded, particularly on its basil half, with minute yellowish-white specks of an oblong
form.[1] These are the larvæ of the males undergoing transformation into pupæ, beneath their
own skins; some of these specks are always in a more advanced state than the others, the full-grown
ones being whitish and scarcely a line long. Some of this size are translucent, the insect
having escaped; the darker ones still retain it within, of an oblong form, with the rudiment
of a wing on each side attached to the lower part of the thorax and closely applied to the
sides; the legs are six in number, the four hind ones being directed backwards, the anterior
forwards (a peculiarity not common in other insects); the two antennæ are also inclined backwards,
and from the tail protrude three short bristles, the middle one thinner and longer than the rest.

[Footnote 1: Figs. 2, and 3 and 5 in the engraving, where these and all the other figures are
considerably enlarged.]

When the transformation is complete, the mature insect makes its way from beneath the pellucid
case[1], all its organs having then attained their full size: the head is sub-globular, with
two rather prominent black eyes, and two antennæ, each with eleven joints, hairy throughout,
and a tuft of rather longer hairs at the apices; the legs are also covered with hairs, the
wings are horizontal, of an obovate oblong shape, membranous, and extending a little farther
than the bristles of the tail. They have only two nerves, neither of which reaches so far as
the tips; one of them runs close to the costal margin, and is much thicker than the other,
which branches off from its base and skirts along the inner margin; behind the wings is attached
a pair of minute halteres of peculiar form. The possession of wings would appear to be the
cause why the full-grown male is more rarely seen on the coffee bushes than the female.

[Footnote 1: Fig. 4. Mr. WESTWOOD, who observed the operation in one species, states that they
escape backwards, the wings being extended flatly over the head.]

The female, like the male, attaches herself to the surface of the plant, the place selected
being usually the young shoots; but she is also to be met with on the margins of the undersides
of the leaves (on the upper surface neither the male nor female ever attach themselves); but,
unlike the male, which derives no nourishment from the juices of the tree (the mouth being
obsolete in the perfect state), she punctures the cuticle with a proboscis (a very short three-jointed
promuscis), springing as it were from the breast, but capable of being greatly porrected, and
inserted in the cuticle of the plant, and through this she abstracts her nutriment. In the
early pupa state the female is easily distinguishable from the male, by being more elliptical
and much more convex. As she increases in size her skin distends and she becomes smooth and
dry; the rings of the body become effaced; and losing entirely the form of an insect, she presents,
for some time, a yellowish pustular shape, but ultimately assumes a roundish conical form,
of a dark brown colour.[1]

[Footnote 1: Figs. 6 and 7. There are many other species of the Coccus tribe in Ceylon, some
(Pseudococcus?) never appearing as a scale, the female wrapping herself up in a white cottony
exudation; many species nearly allied to the true Coccus infest common plants about gardens,
such as the Nerium Oleander, Plumeria Acuminata, and others with milky juices; another subgenus
(Ceroplastes?), the female of which produces a protecting waxy material, infests the Gendurassa
Vulgaris, the Furrcæa Gigantea, the Jak Tree, Mango, and other common trees.]

Until she has nearly reached her full size, she still possesses the power of locomotion, and
her six legs are easily distinguishable in the under surface of her corpulent body; but at
no period of her existence has she wings. It is about the time of her obtaining full size that
impregnation takes place[1]; after which the scale becomes somewhat more conical, assumes a
darker colour, and at length is permanently fixed to the surface of the plant, by means of
a cottony substance interposed between it and the vegetable cuticle to which it adheres. The
scale, when full grown, exactly resembles in miniature the hat of a Cornish miner[2], there
being a narrow rim at the base, which gives increased surface of attachment. It is about 1/8
inch in diameter, by about 1/12 deep, and it appears perfectly smooth to the naked eye; but
it is in reality studded over with a multitude of very minute warts, giving it a dotted appearance.
Except the margin, which is ciliated, it is entirely destitute of hairs. The number of eggs
contained in one of the scales is enormous, amounting in a single one to 691. The eggs are
of an oblong shape, of a pale flesh colour, and perfectly smooth.[3] In some of the scales,
the eggs when laid on the field of the microscope resemble those masses of life sometimes seen
in decayed cheese.[4] A few small yellowish maggots are sometimes found with them, and these
are the larvæ[5] of insects, the eggs of which have been deposited in the female while the
scale was soft. They escape when mature by cutting a small round hole in the dorsum of the scale.

[Footnote 1: REAUMUR has described the singular manner in which this occurs. Mem. tom. iv.]

[Footnote 2: Fig. 8.]

[Footnote 3: Fig. 9.]

[Footnote 4: Figs. 10, 11.]

[Footnote 5: Of the parasitic Chalcididiæ, many genera of which are well known to deposit their
eggs in the soft Coccus, viz.: Encystus, Coccophagus, Pteromalus, Mesosela, Agonioneurus; besides
Aphidius, a minutely sized genus of Ichneumonidæ. Most, if not all, of these genera are Singhalese.]

It is not till after this pest has been on an estate for two or three years that it shows itself
to an alarming extent. During the first year a few only of the ripe scales are seen scattered
over the bushes, generally on the younger shoots; but that year's crop does not suffer much,
and the appearance of the tree is little altered.

The second year, however, brings a change for the worse; if the young shoots and the underside
of the leaves he now examined, the scales will be found to have become much more numerous,
and with them appear a multitude of white specks, which are the young scales in a more or less
forward state. The clusters of berries now assume a black sooty look, and a great number of
them fall off before coming to maturity; the general health of the tree also begins to fail,
and it acquires a blighted appearance. A loss of crop is this year sustained, but to no great
extent.

The third year brings about a more serious change, the whole plant acquires a black hue, appearing
as if soot had been thrown over it in great quantities; this is caused by the growth of a parasitic
fungus[1] over the shoots and the upper surface of the leaves, forming a fibrous coating, somewhat
resembling velvet or felt. This never makes its appearance till the insect has been a considerable
time on the bush, and probably owes its existence there to an unhealthy condition of the juices
of the leaf, consequent on the irritation produced by the coccus, since it never visits the
upper surface of the leaf until the latter has fully established itself on the lower. At this
period the young shoots have an exceedingly disgusting look from the dense mass of yellow pustular
bodies forming on them, the leaves get shrivelled, and the infected trees become conspicuous
in the row. The black ants are assiduous in their visits to them. Two-thirds of the crop is
lost, and on many trees not a single berry forms.

[Footnote 1: Racodium? Species of this genus are not confined to the coffee plant alone in
Ceylon, but follow the "bugs" in their attacks on other bushes. It appears like a dense interlaced
mesh of fibres, each made up of a single series of minute oblong vesicles applied end to end.]

This Lecanium, or a very closely allied species, has been observed in the Botanic Garden at
Peradenia, on the Citrus acida, Psidium pomiferum, Myrtus Zeylanica, Rosa Indica, Careya arborea,
Vitex Negundo, and other plants. The coffee coccus has generally been first observed in moist,
hollow places sheltered from the wind; and thence it has spread itself even over the driest
and most exposed parts of the island. On some estates, after attaining a maximum, it has generally
declined, but has shown a liability to reappear, especially in low sheltered situations, and
it is believed to prevail most extensively in wet seasons. While in its earlier stages, it
is easily transmitted from one estate to another, on the clothes of human beings, and in various
other ways, which will readily suggest themselves. Dr. Gardner, after a careful consideration
and minute examination of estates, arrived at the conclusion, that all remedies suggested up
to that time had utterly failed, and that none at once cheap and effectual was likely to be
discovered. He seems also to have been of opinion that the insect was not under human control;
and that even if it should disappear, it would only be when it should have worn itself out
as other blighte have been known to do in some mysterious way. Whether this may prove to be
the case or not, is still very uncertain, but every thing observed by Dr. Gardner tends to
indicate the permanency of the pest.

"The Copridæ, Dynastidæ, Melolonthidæ, Cetoniadæ, and Passalidæ are well represented on the
plains and on the coast, and the species are mostly of a tropical character.

Pheropsophos, Solier.
  Cateisei, Dej.
  bimaculatus, Fabr.

Cymindis, Latr
  rufiventris, Wlk.

Anchisia, Niet.
  *modesta, Niet.

Isotarsus, Laferlé
  quadrimaculatus, Oliv.
  *lærtoides, Niet.

Osorius? Leach.
  *compactus, Wlk.

Prognatha, Latr.
  decisi, Wlk.
  *tenuis, Wlk.

Leptochirus, Perty. LATHRIDIANÆ, Wall.

Orepanocerus, Kirby.
  Taprobanæ, West.

Apogenia, Kirby.
  nigricans, Hope.

Phytalos Erich.
  eurystomus, Burm.

Ancylon cha.

Dastareus, Wlk.
  porosus, Wlk.

Fam. BUPRESTIDIE, Steph.
  *exasperatus, Dohrn.

Epicanta, Dej.
  nigrifinis, Wlk.

Cissites, Latr.
  testaceus, Febr.

Thaceona, Wlk.
  dimelas, Wlk.

Fam. MORDELLIDÆ, Steph.
  *detectiva, Wlk.

Myrmecolax, Westir.
  *Nietneri, Westir.

Fam. ANTHICIDÆ, Wlk.

Anthicus, Payk.
  *vertens, Wlk.
  *moderatus, Wlk..
  *testaceus, Wlk.
  *exiguns, Wlk.

Platypus, Herbst.
  minex, Wlk.
  solidus, Wlk.

Thramus, Pasc.
  gibbosus, Pasc.
  *aurieps, Hagen.

Polyrhachis, Smith.

Fam. SPHEGIDÆ, Steph.

Ammophila, Kirby.
  atripes, Smith.
  *similliana, Smith.

Coelioxys, Latr.
  capitata, Smith.

Pleris, Schr.
  Eucharis, Drury.
  Coronis, Cram.
  Epicharis, Godt.
  Philippina, Boisd.
  Pyranthe, Linn.
  Hilaria, Cram.
  Limomas, Linn.
  Oenone, Linn.
  Thyelia, Fabr.

Adolias, Boisd.
  Evelina, Stoll.
  Lutentina, Fabr.
  Vasanta, Moore.
  Chejus, Horsf.
  Rosimon, Fabr.
  Angias, Linn.

Achylodes, Hübn.
  Ceodochates, Wlk.
  Tiagara, Wlk.
  Stenatarum, Linn.
  gyrans, Borsd.
  Corythus, Borsd.
  divergens, Wlk.

Calymina, Borsd.
  Panopus, Cram.

Choerocampa, Dup.

Panacia, Wlk.
  vigil, Guér.

Daphnis, Hübn.
  Nern, Linn.

Zonitia, Boisd.
  Morpheus, Cram.

Ægocera, Latr.
  Imaoa, Cram.

Glaucopis, Fabr.
  subaurata, Wlk.
  Zeinire, Cram.

Lithosia, Fabr.
  autica, Wlk.
  brevipennis, Wlk.

Delopeia, Steph.
  pulcella, Linn.
  Astrea, Drury.
  Argus, Kodar.

Fam. ARCHTIIDÆ, Leach.

Alope, Wlk.
  ocellitera, Wlk.

Acmonia, Wlk.
  Etnosioides, Wlk.

Atoa, Wlk.
  lactmea, Cram.
  candidula, Wlk.
  erisa, Wlk.

Amerila, Wlk.
  Melipithus, Wlk.

Nyssia, Herr Sch.
  læta, Westw.
  Dominic, Cram.

Amyna, Guér.
  selenampha, Guér.

Fam. NOCTUIDÆ, Guér.
  Maulia, Cram.

Orsonoba, Wlk.
  Rajaca, Wlk.

Fascelima, Wlk.
  chromataria, Wlk.
  Ajura, Wlk.
  Vijura, Wlk.

Blemyia, Wlk.
  Bataca, Wlk.
  blitiaria, Wlk.

Corenna, Guén.
  Comatina, Wlk.

Lobophora, Curt.
  Cydoniatis, Cram.

Fam. HYPENIDÆ, Herr.
  Idahalis, Wlk.
  Janassalis, Wlk.

Aglossa, Latr.
  Guidusalis, Wlk.
  *melaleucalis, Wlk.
  *impulsalis, Wlk.
  Procopalis, Cram.
  ignibasalis, Wlk.

Ficulea, Wlk.
  blandinella, Wlk.

Fresilia, Wlk.
  nesciatella, Wlk.

Gesontha, Wlk.
  cantiosella, Wlk.

Aginis, Wlk.
  hilariella, Wlk.

Fam. PENTATOMIDÆ, Steph.

Pentatoma, Oliv.
  Timorensis, Hope.

Fam. ARADIDÆ, Wlk.
  Clonia, Wlk.
  Larus, Wlk.

Cicada, Linn.
  limitaris, Wlk.
  nubifurca, Wlk.

Fam. XIII.

ARTICULATA.

The largest specimens I have seen were at Gampola in the vicinity of Kandy, and one taken in
the store-room of the rest-house there, nearly covered with its legs an ordinary-sized breakfast
plate.[1]

[Footnote 1: See Plate opposite.]

This hideous creature does not weave a broad web or spin a net like other spiders, but nevertheless
it forms a comfortable mansion in the wall of a neglected building, the hollow of a tree, or
under the eave of an overhanging stone. This it lines throughout with a tapestry of silk of
a tubular form; and of a texture so exquisitely fine and closely woven, that no moisture can
penetrate it. The extremity of the tube is carried out to the entrance, where it expands into
a little platform, stayed by braces to the nearest objects that afford a firm hold. In particular
situations, where the entrance is exposed to the wind, the mygale, on the approach of the monsoon,
extends the strong tissue above it so as to serve as an awning to prevent the access of rain.

The construction of this silken dwelling is exclusively designed for the domestic luxury of
the spider; it serves no purpose in trapping or securing prey, and no external disturbance
of the web tempts the creature to sally out to surprise an intruder, as the epeira and its
congeners would.

[Footnote 1: Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. May, 1853.]

But, in addition to minor and ignoble prey, the Mygale rests under the imputation of seizing
small birds and feasting on their blood. The author who first gave popular currency to this
story was Madame MERIAN, a zoological artist of the last century, many of whose drawings are
still preserved in the Museums of St. Petersburg, Holland, and England. In a work on the Insects
of Surinam, published in 1705[1], she figured the Mygale aricularia, in the act of devouring
a humming-bird. The accuracy of her statement has since been impugned[2] by a correspondent
of the Zoological Society of London, on the ground that the mygale makes no net, but lives
in recesses, to which no humming-bird would resort; and hence, the writer somewhat illogically
declares, that he "disbelieves the existence of any bird-catching spider."

[Footnote 1: Dissertatio de Generatione et Metamorphosibus Insectorum Surinamensium, Amst.
1701. Fol.]

[Footnote 2: By Mr. MACLEAY in a paper communicated to the Zoological Society of London, Proc.
1834, p. 12.]

Some years later, however, the same writer felt it incumbent on him to qualify this hasty conclusion[1],
in consequence of having seen at Sydney an enormous spider, the Epeira diadema, in the act
of sucking the juices of a bird (the Zosterops dorsalis of Vigors and Horsfield), which, it
had caught in the meshes of its geometrical net. This circumstance, however, did not in his
opinion affect the case of the Mygale; and even as regards the Epeira, Mr. MacLeay, who witnessed
the occurrence, was inclined to believe the instance to be accidental and exceptional; "an
exception indeed so rare, that no other person had ever witnessed the fact."

[Footnote 1: See Ann. and Mag. of Nat. Hist. for 1842, vol. viii. p. 324.]

Subsequent observation has, however, served to sustain the story of Madame Merian.[1] Baron
Walckenær and Latreille both corroborated it by other authorities; and M. Moreau da Jonnès,
who studied the habits of the Mygale in Martinique, says it hunts far and wide in search of
its prey, conceals itself beneath leaves for the purpose of surprising them, and climbs the
branches of trees to devour the young of the humming-bird, and of the Certhia flaveola. As
to its mode of attack, M. Jonnès says that when it throws itself on its victim it clings to
it by the double hooks of its tarsi, and strives to reach the back of the head, to insert its
jaws between the skull and the vertebræ.[2]

[Footnote 1: See authorities quoted by Mr. SHUCKARD in the Ann. and Mag. of Nat. Hist. 1842,
vol. viii. p. 436, &c.]

[Footnote 2: At a meeting of the Entomological Society, July 20, 1855, a paper was read by
Mr. H.W. BATES, who stated that in 1849 at Cameta in Brazil, he "was attracted by a curious
movement of the large grayish brown Mygale on the trunk of a vast tree: it was close beneath
a deep crevice or chink in the tree, across which this species weaves a dense web, at one end
open for its exit and entrance. In the present instance the lower part of the web was broken,
and two small finches were entangled in its folds. The finch was about the size of the common
Siskin of Europe, and he judged the two to be male and female; one of them was quite dead,
but secured in the broken web; the other was under the body of the spider, not quite dead,
and was covered in parts with a filthy liquor or saliva exuded by the monster. "The species
of spider," Mr. Bates says, "I cannot name; it is wholly of a gray brown colour, and clothed
with coarse pile." "If the Mygales," he adds, "did not prey upon vertebrated animals, I do
not see how they could find sufficient subsistence."--The Zoologist, vol. xiii. p. 480.]

For my own part, no instance came to my knowledge in Ceylon of a mygale attacking a bird; but
PERCIVAL, who wrote his account of the island in 1805, describes an enormous spider (possibly
an Epeirid) thinly covered with hair which "makes webs strong enough to entangle and hold even
small birds that form its usual food."[1]

[Footnote 1: PERCIVAL'S Ceylon, p. 313.]

The fact of its living on millepeds, blattæ, and crickets, is universally known; and a lady
who lived at Marandahn, near Colombo, told me that she had, on one occasion, seen a little
house-lizard (gecko) seized and devoured by one of these ugly spiders. Asiat. Soc. Bengal,
1850, vol. xix. p. 475.]

The voracious Galeodes has not yet been noticed in Ceylon; but its carnivorous propensities
are well known in those parts of Hindustan, where it is found, and where it lives upon crickets,
coleoptera and other insects, as well as small lizards and birds. This "tiger of the insect
world," as it has aptly been designated by a gentleman who was a witness to its ferocity[1],
was seen to attack a young sparrow half grown, and seize it by the thigh, which it sawed through.
The "savage then caught the bird by the throat, and put an end to its sufferings by cutting
off its head." "On another occasion," says the same authority, "Dr. Baddeley confined one of
these spiders under a glass wall-shade with two young musk-rats (Sorex Indicus), both of which
it destroyed." It must be added, however, that neither in the instance of the bird, of the
lizard, or the rats, did the galeodes devour its prey after killing it.

[Footnote 1: Capt. Hutton. See a paper on the Galeodes voræ in the Journal of the Asiatic Society
of Bengal, vol. xi. Part 11. p. 860.]

In the hills around Pusilawa, I have seen the haunts of a curious species of long-legged spiders[1],
popularly called "harvest-men," which congregate in hollow trees and in holes in the banks
by the roadside, in groups of from fifty to a hundred, that to a casual observer look like
bunches of horse-hair. This appearance is produced by the long and slender legs of these creatures,
which are of a shining black, whilst their bodies, so small as to be mere specks, are concealed
beneath them. The same spider is found in the low country near Galle, but there it shows no
tendency to become gregarious. Can it be that they thus assemble in groups in the hills for
the sake of accumulated warmth at the cool altitude of 4000 feet? Books, papers, and manuscripts
rapidly decay; especially during the south-west monsoon, when the atmosphere is saturated with
moisture. Unless great precautions are taken, the binding fades and yields, the leaves grow
mouldy and stained, and letter-paper, in an incredibly short time, becomes so spotted and spongy
as to be unfit for use. After a very few seasons of neglect, a book falls to pieces, and its
decomposition attracts hordes of minute insects, that swarm to assist in the work of destruction.
The concealment of these tiny creatures during daylight renders it difficult to watch their
proceedings, or to discriminate the precise species most actively engaged; but there is every
reason to believe that the larvæ of the death-watch and numerous acari are amongst the most
active. As nature seldom peoples a region supplied with abundance of suitable food, without,
at the same time, taking measures of precaution against the disproportionate increase of individuals;
so have these vegetable depredators been provided with foes who pursue and feed greedily upon
them. These are of widely different genera; but instead of their services being gratefully
recognised, they are popularly branded as accomplices in the work of destruction. One of these
ill-used creatures is a tiny, tail-less scorpion (Chelifer[1]), and another is the pretty little
silvery creature (Lepisma), called by Europeans the "fish-insect."[2]

[Footnote 1: Of the first of these, three species have been noticed in Ceylon, all with the
common characteristics of being nocturnal, very active, very minute, of a pale chesnut colour,
and each armed with a crab-like claw. They are

  Chelifer Librorum, Temp.
  Chelifer oblongus, Temp.
  Chelifer acaroides, Hermann.

Dr. Templeton appears to have been puzzled to account for the appearance of the latter species
in Ceylon, so far from its native country, but it has most certainly been introduced from Europe,
in Dutch or Portuguese books.]

[Footnote 2: Lepisma niveo-fasciata, Templeton, and L. niger, Temp. It was called "Lepisma"
by Fabricius, from its fish-like scales. It has six legs, filiform antenna, and the abdomen
terminated by three elongated setæ, two of which are placed nearly at right angles to the central
one. LINNÆUS states that the European species, with which book collectors are familiar, was
first brought in sugar ships from America. Hence, possibly, these are more common in seaport
towns in the South of England and elsewhere, and it is almost certain that, like the chelifer,
one of the species found on book-shelves in Ceylon, has been brought thither from Europe.]

The latter, which is a familiar genus, comprises several species, of which only two have as
yet been described; one is of a large size, most graceful in its movements, and singularly
beautiful in appearance, owing to the whiteness of the pearly scales from which its name is
derived. These, contrasted with the dark hue of the other parts, and its tri-partite tail,
attract the eye as the insect darts rapidly along. Like the chelifer, it shuns the light, hiding
in chinks till sunset, but is actively engaged throughout the night feasting on the acari and
soft-bodied insects which assail books and papers. Bose.

Archoreutes coccinea.

Polybius.

Neptunus pelagicus, Linn.
  sanguinolentus, Herbst.

Thalamlta ... ?

Palinurus ornatus, Fabr.
  affinis, N.S.

Crangon ... ?

Alpheus ... ?

Pomonia inflata, Edw.

Palæmon carcinus, Fabr.

Steaopus ... ?

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTE

ON THE FACULTY OF REPEATED RE-VIVIFICATION POSSESSED BY THE ROTIFERA, ETC.

The Rotifer, a singular creature, although it can only truly live in water, inhabits the moss
on house-tops, dying each time the sun dries up its place of retreat, to revive as often as
a shower of rain supplies it with the moisture essential to its existence; thus employing several
years to exhaust the eighteen days of life which nature has allotted to it. These creatures
were discovered by LEUWENHOECK, and have become the types of a class already numerous, which
undergo the same conditions of life, and possess the same faculty. Besides the Rotifera, the
Tardigrades, (which belong to the Acari,) and certain paste-eels, all exhibit a similar phenomenon.
But although these different species may die and be resuscitated several times in succession,
this power has its limits, and each successive experiment generally proves fatal to one or
more individuals. SPALLANZANI, in his experiments on the Rotifera, did not find that any survived
after the sixteenth alternation of desiccation and damping, but paste-eels bore seventeen of
those vicissitudes.

SPALLANZANI, after thoroughly drying sand rich in Rotifera, kept it for more than three years,
moistening portions taken from it every five or six months. BAKER went further still in his
experiments on paste-eels, for he kept the paste from which they had been taken, without moistening
it in any way, for twenty-seven years, and at the end of that time the eels revived on being
immersed in a drop of water. If they had exhausted their lives all at once and without these
intermissions, these Rotifera and paste-eels would not have lived beyond sixteen or eighteen
consecutive days.

To remove all doubt as to the complete desiccation of the animalcules experimented on by SPALLANZANI
and BAKER, M. DOYÈRE has published, in the Annales des Sciences Naturales for 1842, the results
of his own observation, in cases in which the mosses containing the insects were dried under
the receiver of an air-pump and left there for a week; after which they were placed in a stove
heated to 267° Fahr., and yet, when again immersed in water, a number of the Rotifera became
as lively as ever.

Further particulars of these experiments will be found in the Appendix to the Rambles of a
Naturalist, &c., by M. QUARTREFAGE.

INDEX.

       *       *       *       *       *

ABOU-ZEYD, his account of fish on dry land, 350 n.
Abyssinia, fishes of, 352.
Acalephæ, 398. See Radiata.
Acanthopterygii, 360.
Accipitres, 245.
Acherontia Sathanas, 427
Adam's Peak, elephants on the summit, 109.
Ælian's account of the mermaid, 69.
his statement as to the export of elephants from Ceylon, 77 n., 209 n.
  error as to the shedding of the elephant's tusks, 79 n.
  describes elephants killing criminals with their knees. 87 n.
  error as to elephants' joints, 102.
  his account of Ceylon tortoises, 293.
  his account of the superiority of the elephants of Ceylon, 209 n.
  his description of the performances of the trained elephants at
    Rome, 237.
  his account of the sword-fish, 328.
  describes a Cheironectes, 331.
African elephant, its peculiarities, 65.
  not inferior to the Indian in tractability, 208.
Albino buffalo, 57.
  deer, 59.
Albyrouni, on the pearl oyster, 375.
Alce, described by Pliny and Cæsar, 101 n.
Alexandria, story of the dogs at, 34.
Alligator, 283. See Crocodile.
Almeida, Manoel de, on burying fishes, 353 n.
Amboina, mermaids at, 70.
Ampullaria, its faculty of burying itself, 355.
Anabas, 354.
  Daldorf's account of, doubted, 349, 350.
  accidents from, 351 n.
Angling bad in Ceylon, 335 n., 341.
Annelidæ, leeches, 479.
  land-leech, its varieties, 482.
  land-leech, its teeth and eyes, 480.
  its tormenting bite, 482.
  list of, 485.
Anseres, 260.
Ansted, Prof., on the geology of Ceylon, 61.
  his statement as to the height of Indian elephants, 100 n.
Antiochus, elephants used by, 208.
Antipater, the first to bring the Indian elephant to Europe, 207.
Ant-lion, 411. See Insects.
Ants, 420 See Insects.
  red, 420, 422.
  white, 412. See Termites.
  their faculty in discovering food, 421.
Armandi's work on the use of elephants in war, 208 n.
Aphaniptera, 433.
Arachnidæ, spiders, 464.
  extraordinary webs, ib.
  Olios Taprobanius, 470.
  Mygale fasciata, 465.
  erroneously called "tarentula," ib.
  anecdote of, 466.
  spiders, the Mygale, 465.
  birds killed by it, 468.
  Galeodes, 470.
  ticks, their multitude, 471.
  mites, 472.
  Trombidium tinctorum, 472.
  list of, 485.
Argus cowrie, 369.
Aripo, the sea-shore, 373.
Aristotle, account of fishes migrating overland, 344.
  sounds made by elephants, 97.
  his error as to the elephant's knees, 101.
Armitage, Mr., story of an elephant on his estate, 139.
Articulata, list of, 485.
Athenæus, anecdotes of fishes on dry land, 346.
Avicula, 373. See Pearl Fishery.
Avitchia, story of, 244. See Jackdaw.
Ayeen Akbery, elephant stomach described in, 128.

Baker, Mr., his theory of the passion for sporting, 142 n.
  its accuracy questionable, 142 n.
Badger, the Ceylon, 38. See Mongoos.
Bandicoot rat, 44.
Barbezieux, on the elephant, 104.
Batocera rubus, 406.
Batrachia, 318.
Bats, 13 See Mammalia and Cheiroptera.
  orange-coloured bats, 14.
  bats do not hybernate in Ceylon, 18.
  horse-shoe bat, 19.
  sense of smell and touch, 19.
  small bat, Scotophilus Coromandelicus, 20.
  their parasite (Nycteribia), 20-22.
Batticaloa, musical fish, 380.
Bears, 22. See Mammalia.
  ferocity of, 23.
  charm to protect from, 25 n.
Beaters for elephants, 150.
Beaver, on African elephant, 234.
Beckman's account of fishes on dry land, 346.
Bees, 419. See Insects.
Beetles, 405. See Insects.
  instincts of the scavenger beetle, 405.
  coco-nut beetle, 407.
  tortoise beetle, 408.
Bell, Sir Charles, on the elephant's shoulder, 108.
Benary, his derivation of the word elephant, 76 n.
Bengal mode of taking elephants, 164.
Bennett's account of Ceylon, Introd.
  work on its Ichthyology, 323.
Bernier, on the Ceylon elephant, 209.
Bertolacci, on form of chank shell, 372.
Bestiaries, 104.
Bicho de Mar. See Holothuria.
Birds of Ceylon, 241.
  their number and character, ib.
  few songsters, 242.
  pea-fowl, 244.
  eagles and hawks, 245.
  owls, devil bird, 246, 247.
  swallows, 248.
  edible bird' nests, 248.
  kingfisher, sun birds, 249.
  bulbul, tailor bird, weaver bird, 251.
  crows, anecdotes of, 253.
  paroquets, 256.
  pigeons, 257.
  jungle-fowl, 259.
  grallæ, flamingoes, 260.
  list of Ceylon birds, 265.
Bird-eating spiders, 469.
Birds' nests, edible, 248.
Blainville, De, on the age of the elephant, 232.
Blair, on the anatomy of the elephant, 123 n.
Bles, Marcellus, on the elephants of Ceylon. 113 n., 215 n.
Blood-suckers, 275.
Blyth, Mr., of Calcutta, his cultivation of zoology, 4.
  his revision of this work, Introd.
Boa, 303. See Python.
Boar, wild, 59.
Bochart, 68.
  his derivation of the word "elephant," 76 n.
Bora-chung, a curious fish, 367.
Bosquez, Demas, account of a mermaid, 70.
Bowring, Sir John, on the fishes of Siam, 348.
Broderip, on the elephant, 122.
Browne, Sir Thomas, vulgar errors, 100, 105.
  error as to elephants' joints, 102.
Brun, Le, account of the elephants at Colombo, 77 n.
Bruno or Braun, his account of the Guinea worm, 397.
Buchanan, story of buffalo "rogues," 115 n.
Buffalo, 54. See Mammalia.
  its temper, 54.
  sporting buffaloe, 55.
  peculiar structure of its foot, 56.
  rogue buffalo, 115 n.
  buffalo's stomach and its water-cells, 129 n.
Buffon, on the elephant, 113 n., 215.
Bugs, 433. See Insects and Coffee-bug.
Buist, Dr., account of fish fallen from clouds, 362.
Bulbul, 251. See Birds.
Bulimi, their vitality, 357.
Bullia, curious property of, 370.
Bullocks for draught, 50.
Burying fishes, 351.
Butterflies, 403, 425. See Insects.
  migration of, 403 n.
  the spectre butterfly, 426.

Cæcilia, 317. See Reptiles.
Cæsar's description of the "alce," 100 n.
Cajan, 373 n.
Caldera, in Chili, musical sounds under water, 383.
Calotes, the green, 276.
Camel, attempt to domesticate in Ceylon, 53 n.
  stomach of, 128.
  antipathy to the horse, 83 n.
Camper, on the anatomy of the elephant's stomach, 125.
Carawala, 296. See Reptiles.
Carnivora, 74.
Carpenter bee, 418. See Insects.
Caterpillars, stings of, 429.
Cats attracted by the Cuppa-may-niya, 33.
Centipede, 474. See Myriapoda and Scolopendræ.
Ceratophora, 279.
Cerithia, 381.
  probably musical, 381 n.
Cermatia, 473. See Myriapoda.
Cetacea, 68, 74.
  described by Megasthenes and Ælian, 69.
Chameleon, 278. See Reptiles.
Chank shell, Turbinella rapa, 371. See [Greek: Kochlious] and
  Schenek.
Cheetah, 26. See Leopard.
Cheironectes, described by Ælian, 331.
Cheiroptera, 13, 74.
Chelifer, 475.
Chelonia, 322.
Chena cultivation, 130.
Cicada, 432. See Insects.
Cirrhipeda, 486.
Cissa, 252.
Civet, 32. See Genette.
Climbing fish (Anabas scandens), 349.
Cluverius, 68.
Cobra de Capello, anecdotes of, 297.
  legend of, 297 n.
  a white cobra, 298 n.
  a tame cobra, 299 n.
  cobra crossing the sea, 300.
  curious belief as to the cobra, 300, 301.
  worship of, 303.
Cobra-tel, poison, 272. See Kabara-tel.
Coecilia glutinosa, 317.
  attacked and killed by ants, 422.
Coco-nut beetle, 407.
Coffee-bug, Lecanium Caffeæ, 436.
Coffee rat, 43.
Coleoptera, 405.
Columbidæ, 257.
Conchology. See Shells.
Cooroowe, elephant catchers, 181.
Corral for taking elephants, 156, 164. See Elephant.
  process of its construction, 170.
  mode of conducting the capture, 156, 169.
Corse, Mr., account of elephants, 114.
Cosmas Indico pleustes, his reference to chanks at Marallo, 371.
Cotton-thief, 250. See Tchitrea.
Crabs, 477. See Crustacea.
Cripps, Mr., on sounds produced by elephants, 98.
  his story of an elephant which feigned death, 135.
  his account of fishes after rain, 343.
Crocodile, 282. See Reptiles.
  its sensibility to tickling, 285.
  habit of the crocodile to bury itself in the mud, 286.
  its flesh eaten, 284 n.
  their vitality, 288 n.
  one killed at Batticaloa, 287.
Crows, 233. See Birds.
  anecdotes of, 254.
  story of a crow and a dog, 255.
Cruelty to turtle, &c., 291.
Crustacea, calling crabs, 477.
  Sand crabs (ocypode), 478.
  Painted crabs, 478.
  Paddling crabs, 478.
  Hermit crabs, 478.
  Pea crabs, 479.
  List of Ceylon Crustacea, 486.
Ctesias' error as to the elephant's knee, 101.
Cumming, Mr. Gordon, on the power of the elephant in overturning trees,
  218 n.
Cuppa-moy niya plant, its attraction for cats, 33 n.
Cuvier, on the elephant, 133.
  on the structure of its tusks, 228.
  on the elephant's age, 232.

Daldorf's account of climbing fish, 350.
   his story doubted, 350.
Darwin, burying-place of llamas and goats,
  236 n.
  on the coleoptera of Brazil, 405.
Davy, Dr. John, describes the reptiles of
  Ceylon, 3.
  stimulates study of natural history, 3.
  operation on a diseased elephant, 224.
Dawson, Captain, story of an elephant, 107.
Deafness frequent in elephants, 98.
Death's-head moth, 427.
Decoy elephants, 157.
Decapoda brachyura, 486.
  anomura, 486.
  macrura, 486.
Deer, 57.
  meminna, 58.
  Ceylon elk, 59.
  milk-white, 59 n.
Demon-worship, anecdote of, 408.
Denham, error as to height of elephants, 99.
Devil-bird, 246. See Owls.
  Mr. Mitford's account of, 247 n.
Diard, M., sends home an elephant for dissection, 123 n.
Dicuil on the elephant, 103.
Diptera, 434.
Dogs, 33.
  device of, to escape fleas, 433, 434.
  dog-tax, 33.
  republican instincts, 34.
  disliked by elephants, 82, 84.
Donne, on the elephant, 105.
Doras, fish of Guiana, 347.
Dragon-flies, 411. See Insects.
Dugong, 68, 69.
  abundant at Manaar, 69.
  origin of the fable of the mermaid, 69.
Dutch belief in the mermaid, 70.

Eagles, 245. See Birds.
Edentata, 46, 74.
Edrisi, the Arabian geographer, his account of musk, 32 n.
Eels, 337, 347 n.
Eginhard, life of Charlemagne, 103.
Elephant, 64, 75.
  Sumatran species, 64.
  points of distinction, 65.
  those of Ceylon extolled, 209.
  elephants on Adam's Peak, 109.
  numbers in Ceylon, 76.
  [Greek: Elephas], derivation of the word, 76 n.
  antiquity of the trade in, 77.
  numbers diminishing, 77.
  mode of poisoning, 77 n.
  tusks and their uses, 78.
  disposition gentle, 81.
  accidents from, 81.
  antipathy to other animals, 82; to the horse, 83.
  jealousy of each other, 86.
  mode of attacking man, 87.
  anecdote of a tame elephant, 89.
  African elephant differs from that of Ceylon, 64.
  skin, 91.
  white elephant, 92.
  love of shade, 94.
  water, not heat, essential to them, 94.
  sight limited--smell acute, 95.
  anatomy of the brain, 95.
  power of smell, 96.
  sounds uttered by, 96.
  subject to deafness, 98.
  exaggeration as to size, 98.
  source of this mistake, 98 n.
  stealthy motions, 100.
  error as to the elephant's want of joints, 100.
  probable origin of this mistake, 106.
  mode of lying down, 107.
  ability to climb acclivities, 108.
  mode of descending a mountain, 110.
  a herd is a family, 111.
  attachment to young, 112.
  young suckled by all the females in a herd, 113.
  theory of this, according to White, 113 n.
  a rogue, what, 114.
  savage attacks of rogues, 116.
  character of the rogues, 116, 147.
  habits of the herd, 117.
  anecdote of, 118.
  elephant's mode of drinking, 120.
  their method of swimming, 121.
  wells sunk by, 122.
  receptacle in the stomach, 122.
  stomach, anatomy of, 124.
  food of the elephant, 129.
  instinct in search of food, 130.
  dread of fences, 131.
  their caution exaggerated, 132.
  spirit of curiosity in elephants, 132.
  anecdote of Col. Hardy, 132, 133.
  sagacity in freedom over-estimated, 134.
  leave the forests during thunder, 134.
  cunning, feign death, 135.
  stories of encounters with wild elephants, 136.
  sporting, numbers shot, 142.
  butchery by expert shots, 142 n.
  fatal spots in the head, 144, 145.
  peculiar actions of elephants, 148.
  love of retirement, 149.
  elephant-trackers, 150.
  herd charging, 151.
  carcase useless 153.
  remarkable recovery from a wound, 154. See Lieut. Fretz.
  mode of taking in India, 157-162.
  height measured by the circumference of the foot, 159.
  mode of shipping elephants at Manaar, 162.
  mode of shipping elephants at Galle, in 1701, 163 n.
  keddah for taking elephants in Bengal, 164.
  a corral (kraal) described, 165, 166.
  derivation of the word corral, 165 n.
  corral, its construction, 167, 172.
  corral, driving in the elephants, 173.
  the capture, 177.
  mode of securing, 181.
  the "cooroowe," or noosers, 181.
  tame elephants, their conduct, 182, 191.
  captives, their resistance and demeanour, 184.
  dread of white rods, 186.
  their contortions, 190.
  a young one, 206.
  conduct in captivity, 207.
  mode of training, 211.
  their employment in ancient warfare, 207.
  superiority of Ceylon, a fallacy, 209.
  elephant driver's crook (hendoo), 212.
  hairy elephants in Ceylon, 215 n.
Elephants, capricious disposition of, 215.
  first labour intrusted to them, 217.
  his comprehension of his duties, 218.
  exaggeration of his strength in uprooting trees, 218 n.
  Mahouts and their duties, 221.
  Their cry of urre! 222 n.
  elephant's sense of musical notes, 223.
  its endurance of pain, 224.
  diseases in captivity, 225.
  subject to tooth-ache, 227.
  questionable economy of keeping trained elephants for labour, 229.
  their cost, 230.
  their food, 230 n.
  fallacy of their alleged reluctance to breed in captivity, 231.
  duration of life in the elephant, 232.
  theory of M. Fleurens, 232.
  instances of very old elephants in Ceylon, 233.
  dead elephant never found, 234.
  Sinbad's story, 236.
  passage from Ælian regarding the, 237.
Elk, 59. See Deer; Mammalia.
Emydosauri, 321.
Emys trijuga, 290.
Englishman, anonymous, his story of a fight between elephants and horses,
84.

Falconer, Dr., height of Indian elephant, 99 n.
Falkland Islands, peculiarity in the cattle there, 372 n.
Fauna of Ceylon, not common to India, Introd. 62.
  peculiar and independent, Introd. 62.
  have received insufficient attention, 3.
  first study due to Dr. Davy, 3.
  subsequent, due to Templeton, Layard, and Kelaart, 3, 4.
Fishes of Ceylon, little known, 323.
  seir fish, and others for table, 324.
  abundance of perch, soles, and sardines, 324.
  explanation of Odoric's statement, 324 n.
  sardines, said to be poisonous, 324.
  shark, and sawfish, 325.
  sawfish, 325.
  ray, 326.
  swordfish, 328.
  cheironectes of Ælian, 331.
  fishes of rare forms, and of beautiful colours, 332.
  fresh-water fishes, their peculiarities, 335.
  fresh-water, little known, ib.; reason, 335 n.
  eels, 337.
  reappearance of fishes after the dry season, 340.
Fishes, similar mysterious re-appearances elsewhere, 342 n.
  method of taking them by hand, 340.
  a fish decoy, 342.
  fish filling from clouds, 342 n., 362.
  buried alive in mud, 347.
  Mr. Yarrell's theory controverted, 344.
  travelling overland, 345.
  the fact was known to the Greeks and Romans, 345.
  instances in Guiana and Siam, 347.
  faculty of all migratory fish for discovering water, 347 n.
  on dry land in Ceylon, 348.
  fish ascending trees, 349.
  excerpt from letter by Mr. Morris, 348 n.
  Anabas scandens, 349, 350.
  Daldorf's statement, anticipated by Abou-zeyd, 350 n.
  accidents when fishing, 351 n.
  burying fishes and travelling fish, 351.
  occurrence of similar fish in Abyssinia and elsewhere, 352.
  statement of the patriarch Mendes, 553 n.
knowledge of habits of Melania employed judicially by E.L. Layard, 355
n.
  illustrations of æstivating fish and animals, 356.
  æstivating shell-fish and water-beetlea, 351.
  fish in hot water, 358.
  list of Ceylon fishes, 359.
  Professor Huxley's memorandum on the fishes of Ceylon, 364.
  Dr. Gray's memorandum, 366.
  Note on the Bora-chung, 367.
Fishing, native mode of, 340.
Fish insect, 475.
Flamingoes, 261. See Birds.
Fleas, 433. See Insects.
Fleurens, on the duration of life in the elephant, 232.
Flies, their instinct in discovering carrion, 196 n.
  mosquitoes, the plague of, 434.
Flowers, fondness of monkeys for, 7.
Flying Fox. Pteropus Edwardsii, 14. See Mammalia.
  its sizes, 14.
  skeleton of, 15.
  food, 16.
  habits, 16.
  numbers, 16.
  strange attitudes, 17.
  food and habits, 18.
  drinking toddy, 18.
Flying squirrels, 41.
Fresh-water fishes, 335.
Fretz, Lieut., his singular wound, 154.
Frogs, 318.
  tree frogs, 319, 320.

Galle, elephants shipped in 1701, 163 n.
Gallinæ, 259.
Galloperdix bicalcaratus, 259.
Gallwey, Capt. P.P., great number of elephants shot by him, 142.
Game birds, 265.
Gardner, Dr., his account of the coffee bug, 436-441.
Gaur, 49 See Mammalia.
  Knox's account of the gaur, 49.
Geckoes, 281.
Gemma Frisius, 68.
Genette, 32.
Geology of Ceylon, errors as to, 60.
  previous accounts, 61.
  traditions of ancient submersion, 61, 67.
  Ceylon has a fauna distinct from India, 62.
"Golden Meadows," 211 n. See Massoude.
Golunda rat, 43.
Goondah, 114. See Rogue.
Gooneratne, Mr., Introd.
  his story of the jackal, 35.
Gordon Cumming, his butchery of elephants in Africa, 146 n.
Gowra-ellia, 49.
Grallæ, 260.
Gray, Dr. J.E., Brit. Mus., Introd.
  notice of Ceylon fishes, 366.
Great fire-fish, 332.
Guinea worm, 397.
Günther, Dr. A., on Ceylon reptiles, 275 n., 304.
Gwillim's Heraldry, error as to elephants, 105 n.

Hambangtotte, elephants of, 99.
Hardy, Col, anecdote of, when chased by an elephant, 133.
Hardy, Rev. Spence, describes a white monkey, 8.
Haroun Alraschid, sends an elephant to Charlemagne, 103.
Harrison, Dr., 95.
  his anatomy of the elephant, 123 n., 126.
  his account of elephant's head, 142.
  of the elephant's ear, 223.
Hastisilpe, a work on elephants, 87 n., 91.
Hawking, 246.
Hawks. See Birds, 246.
Hedge-hog, 46.
Helix hæmastoma, its colouring, 372.
Hemiptera, 433, 462.
Hendoo, crook for driving elephants, 212.
Herd, a, of elephants, is a family, 111.
  its mode of electing a leader, 117.
Herodotus, on mosquitoes, 435.
  antipathy of the elephant to the camel, 83 n.
Herpestes, 38.
Herport, Albrecht, his work on India, 71 n.
Hesperidæ, 426.
Hill, Sir John, error as to elephants, 98.
Hippopotamus rogues, 115 n.
Histiophorus, 330. See Sword-fish.
Holland, Dr., his theory as to the formation of tusks, 89 n.
Holothurin, sea-slug and Trepang, 396.
Home, Sir Everard, on the elephant's stomach, 124.
  error as to the elephant's ear, 223.
Home, Randal, error as to elephant, 105 n.
Homoptera, 462, 463.
Honey-comb, great size of, 418.
Hooker, Dr. J.D., on the elephants of the Himalaya, 110 n.
  error as to white ants' nests, 413.
  on ticks in Nepal, 471 n., 472.
Hora, 115. See Rogue.
Horace, alludes to a white elephant, 92 n.
Hornbill, Buceros, 242, 243.
Horse, alleged antipathy to the elephant, 83.
  to the camel, 83 n.
  story of, and an elephant, 89.
  horses taught to fight with elephants, 84.
Hotambeya, 40. See Mongoos.
Hot-water fishes, 358.
Hunt, mode of conducting an elephant-hunt, 157.
Hunter, Dr. John, his theory of æstivation, 356.
Hurra! 223 n.
Huxley, Prof., Introd.
  his memorandum on the fishes of Ceylon, 364.
Hydrophobia in jackals, 36.
Hymenoptera, 416.

Ianthina, 370.
Ichneumon, 39. See Mongoos.
Iguana, 271. See Reptiles.
Infusoria, Red, in the Ceylon seas, 400.
Insects of Ceylon, 403.
  their profusion and beauty, 403.
  hitherto imperfectly described, 404.
  coleoptera, 405.
  Beetles, scavengers, 405.
  coco-nut beetle, tortoise beetle, 407.
  tortoise beetle, 408.
  Orthoptera, 408.
  the soothsayer, leaf-insect, 410.
  Neuroptera, 411.
  dragon-flies, 411.
  ant-lion, 411.
  white ant, termites, 411.
Insects, Hymenoptera, mason-wasp, 416.
  wasps, bees, wasps' nest, 418.
  carpenter bee, 418.
  ants, 420.
  value of scavenger ants to conchologists, 421.
  dimiya or red ant, 422.
  introduced to destroy coffee-bug, 423.
  Lepidoptera, butterflies, 424.
  lycænidæ, hesperidæ, 426.
  acherontia sathanas, 427.
  moths, silk-worm, 427.
  stinging caterpillars, 429.
  oiketicus, 430.
  Homoptera, cicada, the "knife-grinder," 432.
  Flata, 433.
  Aphaniptera--fleas, 433.
  Diptera--mosquitoes, 434.
  Coffee bug, 436-441.
  Mr. Walker's memorandum on Ceylon insects, 442.
  list, 447.
Ivory, annual consumption, 78 n.
  superiority of Chinese, ib.

Jackal, 35.
  its cunning, 35.
  probably the "fox" of Scripture, 35.
  its sagacity in hunting, 36.
  subject to hydrophobia, 36.
  jackal's horn, the narric comboo, 37.
  superstitions connected with, 37.
Jackdaw, fable of, 244. See Avitchia.
Jardine, Sir W., error as to elephants shedding their tusks, 79 n.
Jay, the mountain, 252. See Cissa.
Joinville, on the parasite of the bat, 20.
Julus, 477.
Jungle fowl, 259. See Birds.
Juvenal's allusion to fishes on land, 346.

Kabragoya, 272, 273. See Iguana.
  Kabara-tel, poison, 274.
  Kanats in Persia, 339 n.
Keddah, for taking elephants, 164.
Kelaart, Dr., work on the Zoology of Ceylon, 4.
  examination of the Radiata, 395.
  discoveries as to the pearl oyster, 375.
Kingfisher, 249. See Birds.
Kinnis, Dr., cultivates zoology, 4.
Kite, on Egyptian sculpture, 246 n.
Knife-grinder, 432. See Cicada.
Knox, R., account of Ceylon fauna, Introd.
  his description of the Wanderoo, 5.
  of elephants executing criminals, 87.
  of the mode of catching elephants, 157.
Knox, his description of natives fishing, 340.
[Greek: Kochlious], 371.
Kombook tree, its bark, 170.
Korahl, 165. See Kraal and Corral.
  derivation of the word, 165 n.
Kornegalle, beauty of the place, 167.
Kottiar, immense oysters, 371 n. See Cottiar.
Kraal, 165. See Corral and Korahl.
Krank-bezoeker, 71 n.

Layard, E.A., his knowledge of Ceylon zoology, 4.
  his collections of Ceylon birds, 241.
  story of fish on dry land, 318.
  anecdote of burying molluscs, 355.
Leaf insect. 408-410. See Insects.
Leaping fish, 332. See Salarias alticus.
Lecanium Caffeæ, 436.
Leeches, 479. See Annelidæ.
  land leech, 479.
  medicinal leech, 483.
  cattle leech, 344.
Leopard, 25.
  in Ceylon confounded with the cheetah, 26.
  superstitions regarding, 26.
  anecdotes of their ferocity, 27.
  attracted by the small-pox, 28.
  story of Major Skinner, 29.
  monkeys killed by leopards, 31.
Lepidoptera, 424.
Lepisma, the fish insect, 474.
Lima, General de, his account of the weight of elephants' tusks at
Mozambique, 79 n.
Livingstone's account of the "rogue" hippopotamus, 115 n.
Llama of the Andes, its stomach, 128 n.
Livy, account of fishes on dry land, 346.
Lizards, 271. See Reptiles.
Lophobranchi, 362.
Loris, 12. See Mammalia.
  two varieties in Ceylon, 12.
  torture inflicted on it, 13.
Lucan, description of the ichneumon, 39.
Lycænidæ, 426.
Lyre-headed lizard, 277.

Macabbees iii. Book, allusion to elephants, 87 n., 211 n.
Macacus monkey, 5.
Machlis described by Cæsar, 101.
Macready, Major, account of a noise made by elephants, 97.
his opinion as to the vulnerable point in the elephant's head. 145
n.
Mahawanso, mentions a white elephant, 93.
Mahout, an elephant driver, 181. See Ponnekella.
Mahout, alleged short life, 222.
Malacopterygii abdominales, 362.
  sub-branchiati, 362.
  apoda, 362.
Mammalia, 3.
  Monkeys, 5.
  Rilawa,5.
  Wanderoo, 6.
  error as to the Ceylon Wanderoo, 6, n.
  Wanderoo, mode of flight among trees, 9.
  monkeys never found dead, 11.
  Loris, 12.
  tortures inflicted on it, 13.
  Bat, flying fox, 14.
  skeleton of, 14.
  attracted by toddy to the coco-nut palms, 18.
  horse-shoe bat, 18.
  parasite of the bat, Nycteribia, 20, 21.
  bears, 22.
  bears dreaded in Ceylon, 24.
  leopards, 25.
  attracted by the odour of small pox, 28.
  anecdote of a leopard, 29.
  lesser felines, 32.
  dogs, Pariah, 34.
  jackal, 34.
  the jackal's horn, 36.
  Mongoos, 37.
  assaults of Mongoos on the serpent, 38.
  squirrels, 41.
  the flying squirrel, 41.
  rats, the rat snake, 42.
  coffee rat, 43, 44.
  bandicoot, 44, 45.
  porcupine, 45.
  pengolin, 46-48.
  the gaur, 49.
  the ox, 50.
  anecdote of, 51.
  draft oxen, 51-53.
  the buffalo, 54.
  sporting buffaloes, 55.
  peculiarity of the buffalo's foot, 56.
  deer, 57.
  meminna, 57, 58.
  Ceylon elk, 59.
  wild boar, 59.
  elephant, 69, 75.
  whale and dugong, 68, 69.
  peculiarities of Ceylon mammalia, 73.
  list of, 73.
Manaar, mermaid taken at, 69.
  elephants shipped at, 162.
  pearl fishery, 373.
Manis. See Pengolin, 46.
Mantis, 410.
Massoudi, on the use of elephants in war, 211 n.
  his account of pearl-diving, 377 n.
Mastacembelus, 338. See Eels.
Megasthenes' account of the mermaid, 69.
Mehemet Ali, story of, 34.
Melania Paludina, its habit of burying itself, 355.
  its hybernation, 355.
Melania, story of a law suit decided by, 355 n.
Meleagrina, 373 n. See Pearl fishery.
Meminna deer, 58.
Mercator, 68.
Mercer, Mr., his story of an elephant fight, 86.
Mermaid, 68. See Dugong.
Mermaids, at Manaar, 69.
  at Amboina, 70.
  at Booro, 71.
  at Edam, 72.
Millipeds, Julus, 477.
Mites, 472.
Mollusca. See Shells.
Molyneux, on the anatomy of the elephant, 122 n.
Mongoos, 38. See Ichneumon.
  species at Neuera-ellia, Herpestes Vitticollis, 38.
  story of its antidote against the bite of serpents, 39.
  its mode of killing snakes, 39.
Monkeys, 5.
  never found dead, 11.
  a white monkey, 8.
Moors of Galle, make ornaments of the elephant's teeth, 153.
Moors, as caravan drivers, 53.
Moose deer, 58. See Meminna.
Morris, Mr., account of fishes on land, 348.
Mosquitoes, their cunning, 434.
  Herodotus, account of, 436.
  probably the plague of flies, 434 n.
Moths, 427. See Insects.
Munster, Sebastian, 68.
Musical fishes, 380.
  account of, at Batticaloa, 380.
  similar phenomena at other places, 383 n.
  fishes known to utter sounds, 384.
  Tritonia arborescens, 385.
Musk, 32.
Mygale, spider, 465.
Myriapods, 472.

Narric-comboo, 37. See Jackal's Horn.
Natural history neglected in Ceylon, 3.
Neela-cobeya, pigeon, 258.
Neuroptera, 411.
Nietner, on Ceylon insects, Introd.
Nycteribia, parasite of the bat, 20, 21.
  its extraordinary structure, 22.

Odoric of Portenau, his cure for leech bites, 481.
  his account of birds with two heads, 243.
  his account of fishes in Ceylon, 324 n.
Oiketicus, 430.
Oil-bird, 269.
Ophidia, 321.
Ortelius, 68.
Orthoptera, 408.
Ouanderoo. See Wanderoo.
Owen, Professor, on the structure of the elephant's tusk, 228.
  on the Protopterus of the Gambia, 352.
Owls. See Birds.
Oxen, their uses and diseases, 50.
  anecdote of a cow and a leopard, 51.
  white, eight feet high, seen by Wolf, 52 n.
Oysters at Bentotte, 371.
  immense, at Kottiar, 371 n.

Pachydermata, 59, 74.
Padivil, the great tank, 262.
Pallegoix, on the elephants of Siam, 98 n.
  on the fishes of Siam, 347.
Palm-cat, 32.
Panickeas, elephant catchers, 150, 158.
  their skill, 159.
Pariah dogs, 33.
Paris, Matthew, on the elephant, 103.
Paroquets, their habits; anecdote of, 256.
Passeres, 248.
Patterson, R., Esq., Introd.
Pea-fowl, 244. See Birds.
  fable of the jackdaw, 244.
Pearl fishery of Ceylon, its antiquity, 373.
  dreary scenery of Aripo, 373.
  disappearances of the pearl-oyster, 374.
  capable of transplantation, 376.
  operation of diving, 377.
  endurance of the divers under water, 377.
  growth of the pearl-oyster, 379.
  pearls of Tamblegam, 380.
Pelicans, 262.
  strange scene at their breeding place, 263.
Pengolin, 46.
  its habits and food, 47.
  skeleton of, 48.
Phile, his account of the elephant, 103.
  error as to its joints, 107.
  describes its drinking, 121 n.
  its dispositions, 216 n.
  on the elephant's ear, 224.
  on elephants burying their dead, 235.
Phillipe, on the elephant of Ceylon, 209.
Phyllium, 410. See Leaf Insect.
Physalus urticulus, 400. See Portuguese Man-of-war.
Pictet, Mon., his derivation of the word "elephant," 76 n.
Pigeons, 257. See Birds.
Pigeons, Lady Torrington's pigeon, 258.
Placuna placenta, pearls of, 380.
Planaria, 398. See Radiata.
Pliny's nereids, 72 n.
  error as to elephants shedding their tusks, 79 n.
  error as to their antipathy to other animals, 85.
  error as to elephant's joints, 100.
  account of the machlis, 101 n.
  his knowledge of the vulnerability of the elephant's head, 144 n.
  of fishes on dry land, 346.
  Ponnekella. See Mahout.
Polybius' account of fishes on dry land, 346.
Pomponius, Mela, account of fishes on land, 346.
Porcupine, 45.
Portuguese belief in the mermaid, 69.
  Man-of-war, 400.
Pott, his derivation of the word elephant, 76 n.
Presbytes cephalopterus, 7.
  ursinus, 6, 9.
  Thersites, 6, 10.
  its fondness of attention, 10.
  Priamus, 10.
  its curiosity, 11.
Protopterus of the Gambia, 352.
Pseudophidia, 322.
Pterois volitans, 333.
Pterophorus, 430. See Insects.
Pteropus, 14. See Flying Fox.
Pyrard de Laval, on the Ceylon elephant, 209.
Python, its great size, 303.

Quadrumana, 5, 74. Quatrefage on the Rotifera, 487.

Radiata, star-fish, 395.
  sea-slugs, holothuria, 396.
  parasitic worms, 396.
  Guinea worm, 397.
  planaria, 398.
  acalephæ, 398.
  Portuguese Man-of-war, 400.
  Red infusoria, 400.
Raja-kariya, forced labour, in elephant hunts, 170.
Raja-welle estate, story of an elephant at, 133 n.
Ramayana, Ceylon elephants mentioned in, 210.
Rats, 42.
  eaten as food in Oovah and Bintenne, 43.
  liable to hydrophobia, 43.
  coffee rat, 43.
  bandicoot, 44.
Rat snake, anecdote of, 43.
Rat-snake, domesticated, 299 n.
Ray, 326, 327.
Reinaud, on the ancient use of the elephant in Indian wars, 205 n.
Reptiles of Ceylon described by Dr. Davy, Introd.
  lizards, iguana, 271.
  kabara-tel, poison, 272.
  blood-suckers, 275.
  calotes, the green, 276.
  lyre-headed lizard, 277.
  chameleon, 278.
  ceratophora, 279.
  gecko, anecdotes of, 281, 282.
  crocodile, anecdotes of, 282, 283.
  crocodile and alligator, skulls of, 283.
  tortoises, 289.
  parasites of the tortoise, 289.
  Terrapins, 290.
  cruel mode of cutting up turtle, 291.
  turtle, said to be poisonous, 292.
  hawk's-bill turtle, 293.
  cruel mode of taking tortoise-shell, 293.
  snakes, few poisonous, 294.
  tic-polonga, 296.
  cobra de capello, 297.
  legends of the cobra, 297-298 n.
  uropeltis, 301.
  the python, 303.
  haplocercus, 304.
  tree-snakes, 305.
  water snakes, 308.
  sea snakes, 308.
  the snake-stone and its composition, 312-317.
  cæcilia, 317.
  frogs, 318.
  tree frogs, 319.
  list of Ceylon reptiles, 321.
  snakes peculiar to Ceylon, 322.
Rhinolophus, 19. See Horse-shoe Bat.
Ribeyro's account of pearl-diving, 378.
Rilawa monkey, 5.
Rodentia, 41, 74.
Rogers, Major, story of his horse, 84.
  his death by lightning, 84 n.
  anecdote of an elephant killed by him, 107.
  great numbers of elephants shot by him, 142.
"A Rogue" elephant. See Elephant, 114.
  derivation of the term "Rogue," 114.
Ronkedor, 114. See "Rogue."
Ronquedue, 114. See "Rogue."
  dangerous encounters with, 136.
Rotifera, marvellous faculty in, 486.
Rousette. See Flying-fox and Pteropus, 14.
Ruminantia, 49, 74.

Salarias Alticus, 332.
  almasius, 68.
Sardines, said to be poisonous, 324.
Saw fish, 325. See Fishes.
Scaliger, Julius, 68.
Scansores, 256.
Scarus harid, 335.
Schenck, 371. See Chank.
Schlegel's essay on the elephant, 208 n.
Schlegel, Prof., of Leyden, his account of the Sumatran elephant, 66.
Schmarda, Prof., 5.
Schomburgk, Sir R., on the fishes of Guiana, 347.
Sciurus Tennentii, 41 n.
Scolopiendræ, centipede, 474.
Scorpions, 474.
Sea slugs, holothuria, 397.
Sea snakes, 308.
Seir-fish, 324.
Seneca, account of fishes on dry land, 346.
Septuagint, allusion to elephants in, 87, 210 n.
Serpents, 294. See Reptiles.
Shakspeare, on the elephant, 105.
  describes its capture in pit-falls, 157 n.
Sharks, 325.
Shark charmer, 378.
Shaw, error as to elephants shedding their tusks, 79 n.
Shells of Ceylon, 369.
  lanthina, 370.
  Bullia vittata, 370.
  chanks, 371.
  oysters, immense, 371 n.
  Helix hæmastoma, 372.
  Pearl fishery, 373.
  Musical shells, 381.
  Mr. Henley's memorandum, 386.
  uncertainty as to species, 387.
  list of Ceylon shells, 388.
Siam, fishes on dry land, 347.
Silk, cultivated by the Dutch, 429.
Silkworm. See Insects.
Sindbad's story of the elephants burying-place, 236.
Skinner, Major, knowledge of Ceylon. Introd. n.
  adventure with a leopard, 30.
  great number of elephants killed by him, 142.
  description of the Panickeas or elephant catchers, 158, 159 n.
  anecdotes of elephants, 118.
  collection of Ceylon fish, 339.
Small-pox attracts the leopard, 28.
  native superstition, 29.
Snakes, 294.
Snakes, tamed snakes, 299 n.
  snakes crossing the sea, 300.
  curious tradition of the cobra-de-capello, 300.
  uropeltis, and explanation of the popular belief, 302.
  reluctance of Buddhists to kill snakes, 303.
  python or "boa," 303.
  tree snakes, 305.
  the Passerita fusca, 306.
  water snakes, 308.
  sea snakes, 308.
  their geographical distribution, 309.
  their habits, 310.
  cæcilia, 317.
Snake-stone, its alleged virtue, 312.
  anecdotes of its use, 312.
  analysis of, by Professor Faraday, 315.
Sofala, pearls at, 375 n.
Solinus, on the elephant, 103.
Soothsayer insect, 410.
Spectre butterfly, 426.
Spiders. See Arachnida, 464.
  at Gampola, 465.
  at Pusilawa, 471.
Squirrel, 41.
  the flying squirrel, 44.
Star-fish, 396. See Radiata.
Stick insect, 410. See Insects.
Stinging caterpillars, 429.
Strabo, his account of fishes on dry land, 346.
Strachan, Mr., account of the elephants shipped at Ceylon, 163 n,
  210 n.
Stuckley, on the anatomy of the elephant, 123 n.
Sumatra confounded with Ceylon, 67.
  elephant of, 64.
  points in which it differs from that of India, 65.
Sun bird, 249. See Birds.
Superstitions:--Singhalese folk-lore regarding bears, 24 n.
  leopards, 27, 29.
  mongoos, 38.
  kabra-goya, 273.
  cobra-de-capello, 300.
  use of snake-stones, 315.
  elephants' burial-place, 236.
Suriya trees, caterpillars on, 429.
Syrnum Indranee, 246. See Devil-bird.
Swallows, 248. See Birds.
Sword-fish, 328.

Tailor-bird, 251. See Birds;
Tamblegam, lake of, 380.
  pearls, 380.
Tarentula, Mygale fasciata, 465.
  fight with a cockroach, 467.
  numerous at Gampola, 465.
Tavalam, a caravan of bullocks, 53.
Tavernier, error as to Ceylon elephants, 203, 214.
Taylor, the translator of Aristotle, his error as to elephants' joints,
  102.
Tchitrea paradisi, 250.
Temminck, his discovery of the Sumatran elephant, 64.
  his account of it, 65.
Templeton, Dr. R.A., his knowledge of Ceylon, Introd.
  his valuable aid in the present work, ib.
  his cultivation of zoology, 4.
  notice of Ceylon monkeys, 6.
Termites, white ants, their ravages, 412.
  whence comes their moisture, 412 n.
Terrapins, 290.
Terrier, attacks an elephant, 85.
Testudinata, 289.
Thaun, Philip de, on the elephant, 104.
Theobaldus' Physiologus, 104.
Theophrastus' account of fishes on dry land, 344, 345.
Thevenot, on the Ceylon elephant, 203.
Thomson's "Seasons," error as to the elephant, 106.
Thunberg, account of the snake-stone, 317.
Thysdnura, 464.
Ticks, 475.
Tic-polonga, 296. See Reptiles.
Tiger at Trincomalie, 25 n.
Toad, 319.
Torrington, Viscount, his tax on dogs, 33.
Tortoises, 289, 291. See Turtle.
  parasite of, 289.
  fresh-water tortoises, 290. See Terrapins.
Tortoise-shell, cruel mode of taking, 293.
Tree frogs, 320.
Tree snakes, 304.
Trepang, 396. See Sea-slug.
Tritonia arborescens, 385. See Musical Fish.
  letter on, 401.
Trombidium tinctorum. See Mites.
Trumpeting of elephants, 97, 201.
Trunk, elephant's, origin of the name, 97 n.
Tsetse fly of Africa, 40.
Turbinella rapa, 371. See Chank.
Turtle, 291. See Reptiles.
  barbarous treatment of, 291.
Tushes, 79.
Tusks, 79. See Elephant; Ivory.
  fallacy that they are shed, 79.
  weight of, 80.
  their uses, 80.
  singular shapes of, 88 n.
Tusks, Dr. Holland's theory of their formation, 88 n.
Tytler, Mr., story of an elephant, 133 n.

Uropeltis, 301. Urré! cry of the elephant drivers, 222.

Valentyn's account of the mermaid, 70.
  Dutch mode of taking elephants, 164.
Venloos Bay, its profusion of shells, 369.
Vossius, Isaac, 68.

Waloora. See Wild-boar, 59.
  dreaded by the Singhalese, 59.
Wanderoo monkey, 5.
Wasps, wasps' nest, 418.
  mason-wasp, 416.
Water-fowl, 260, 262.
Water snakes, 308.
Weaver-bird, 251.
Whales, 68. See Cetacea.
White, Adam, Esq., Brit Mus., Introd.
White, of Selbourne, his theory of animals suckled by strange mothers, 113
  n.
White ants, 411. See Termites.
Whiting, Mr., account of buried fishes, 342 n., 354.
Wild-boar, 59.
Wolf, Jo. Christian, travels in Ceylon, 99 n., 115 n.
  his account of elephants there, 99.
  describes pitfalls for elephants, 157 n.
Wood-carrying moth, 430. See Insects.
Worms, parasite, 396. See Radiata.
Wound when elephant shooting, 154.
Wright, Thomas, Esq., F.S.A., 104.

Yarrell's theory of buried fish, 342. Yule's embassy to Ava, 216 n.

Zimb fly, 434.
Zoology neglected in Ceylon, 3. See Natural History.
  partial extent to which it has been cultivated, Introd.

THE END.

LONDON PRINTED BY SPOTTISWOODE AND CO. NRW-STREET SQUARE