"Yep!" Barkwell said, now; "that other bunch is deputies, too. It's mighty plain. This bunch
rounded up 'Firebrand' an' sent some one back for reinforcements." He swept the Diamond K outfit
with a snarling smile. "They're goin' to need 'em, too! I reckon we'd better wait for them
to play their hand. It's about a stand off in numbers. We don't stand no slack, boys. We're
outlawed already, from the ruckus of last night, an' if they start anything we've got to wipe
'em out! You heard 'em shootin' at the boss, an' they ain't no pussy-kitten bunch! I'll do
the gassin'--if there's any to be done--an' when I draw, you guys do your damnedest!"

The outfit set itself to wait. Over on the edge of the pueblo they could see Trevison. He was
bending over something, and when they saw him stoop and lift the object, heaving it to his
shoulder and walking away with it, a sullen murmur ran over the outfit, and lips grew stiff
and white with rage.

"It's Clay Levins, boys!" said Barkwell. "They've plugged him! Do you reckon we've got to go
back to Levins' shack an' tell his wife that we let them skunks get away after makin' orphants
of her kids?"

"I'm jumpin'!" shrieked Jud Weaver, his voice coming chokingly with passion. "I ain't waitin'
one damned minute for any palaver! Either them deputies is wiped out, or I am!" He dug the
spurs into his horse, drawing his six-shooter as the animal leaped.

Weaver's horse led the outfit by only three or four jumps, and they swept over the level like
a devastating cyclone, the spiral dust cloud that rose behind them following them lazily, sucked
along by the wind of their passing.

The group of deputies had halted; they were sitting tense and silent in their saddles when
the Diamond K outfit came up, slowing down as they drew nearer, and halting within ten feet
of the others, spreading out in a crude semi-circle, so that each man had an unobstructed view
of the deputies.

Barkwell had no chance to talk. Before he could get his breath after pulling his horse down,
Weaver, his six-shooter in hand, its muzzle directed fairly at Gieger, who was slightly in
advance of his men, fumed forth:

"What in hell do you-all mean by tryin' to herd-ride our boss? Talk fast, you eagle-beaked
turkey buzzard, or I salivates you rapid!"

The situation was one of intense delicacy. Gieger might have averted the threatening clash
with a judicious use of soft, placating speech. But it pleased him to bluster.

"We are deputies, acting under orders from the court. We are after a murderer, and we mean
to get him!" he said, coldly.

"Deputies! Hell!" Barkwell's voice rose, sharply scornful and mocking. "Deputies! Crooks! Gun-fighters!
Pluguglies!" His eyes, bright, alert, gleaming like a bird's, were roving over the faces in
the group of deputies. "A damn fine bunch of guys to represent the law! There's Dakota Dick,
there! Tinhorn, rustler! There's Red Classen! Stage robber! An' Pepper Ridgely, a plain, ornery
thief! An' Kid Dorgan, a sneakin' killer! An' Buff Keller, an' Andy Watts, an' Pig Mugley,
an'--oh, hell! Deputies! Law!----Ah--hah!"

One of the men had reached for his holster. Weaver's gun barked twice and the man pitched limply
forward to his horse's neck. Other weapons flashed; the calm of the early morning was rent
by the hoarse, guttural cries of men in the grip of the blood-lust, the sustained and venomous
popping of pistols, the queer, sodden impact of lead against flesh, the terror-snorts of horses,
and the grunts of men, falling heavily.

                   *       *       *       *       *

A big man in khaki, loping his horse up the slope of an arroyo half a mile distant, started
at the sound of the first shot and raced over the crest. He pulled the horse to an abrupt halt
as his gaze swept the plains in front of him. He saw riderless horses running frantically away
from a smoking blot, he saw the blot streaked with level, white smoke-spurts that ballooned
upward quickly; he heard the dull, flat reports that followed the smoke-spurts.

It seemed to be over in an instant. The blot split up, galloping horses and yelling men burst
out of it. The big man had reached the crest of the arroyo at the critical second in which
the balance of victory wavers uncertainly. With thrusting chin, lips in a hideous pout, and
with sullen, blazing eyes, he watched the battle go against him. Fifteen cowboys--he counted
them, deliberately, coldly, despite the rage-mania that had seized him--were spurring after
eight other men whom he knew for his own. As he watched he saw two of these tumble from their
horses. And at a distance he saw the loops of ropes swing out to enmesh four more--who were
thrown and dragged; he watched darkly as the remaining two raised their hands above their heads.
Then his lips came out of their pout and were wreathed in a bitter snarl.

"Licked!" he muttered. "Twelve put out of business. But there's thirty more--if the damn fools
have come in to town! That's two to one!" He laughed, wheeled his horse toward Manti, rode
a few feet down the slope of the arroyo, halted and sat motionless in the saddle, looking back.
He smiled with cold satisfaction. "Lucky for me that cinch strap broke," he said.

                   *       *       *       *       *

Trevison was placing Levins' limp form across the saddle on Nigger's back when the faint morning
breeze bore to his ears the report of Weaver's pistol. A rattling volley followed the first
report, and Trevison led Nigger close to the edge of the ledge in time to observe the battle
as Corrigan had seen it. He hurried Nigger down the slope, but he had to be careful with his
burden. Reaching the level he lifted Levins off, laid him gently on the top of a huge flat
rock, and then leaped into the saddle and sent Nigger tearing over the plains toward the scene
of the battle.

It was over when he arrived. A dozen men were lying in the tall grass. Some were groaning,
writhing; others were quiet and motionless. Four or five of them were arrayed in chaps. His
lips grimmed as his gaze swept them. He dismounted and went to them, one after another. He
stooped long over one.

"They've got Weaver," he heard a voice say. And he started and looked around, and seeing no
one near, knew it was his own voice that he heard. It was dry and light--as a man's voice might
be who has run far and fast. He stood for a while, looking down at Weaver. His brain was reeling,
as it had reeled over on the ledge of the pueblo a few minutes before, when he had discovered
a certain thing. It was not a weakness; it was a surge of reviving rage, an accession of passion
that made his head swim with its potency, made his muscles swell with a strength that he had
not known for many hours. Never in his life had he felt more like crying. His emotions seared
his soul as a white-hot iron sears the flesh; they burned into him, scorching his pity and
his impulses of mercy, withering them, blighting them. He heard himself whining sibilantly,
as he had heard boys whine when fighting, with eagerness and lust for blows. It was the insensate,
raging fury of the fight-madness that had gripped him, and he suddenly yielded to it and raised
his head, laughing harshly, with panting, labored breath.

Barkwell rode up to him, speaking hoarsely: "We come pretty near wipin' 'em out, 'Firebrand!'"

He looked up at his foreman, and the latter's face blanched. "God!" he said. He whispered to
a cowboy who had joined him: "The boss is pretty near loco--looks like!"

"They've killed Weaver," muttered Trevison. "He's here. They killed Clay, too--he's down on
a rock near the slope." He laughed, and tightened his belt. The record book which he had carried
in his waistband all along interfered with this work, and he drew it out, throwing it from
him. "Clay was worth a thousand of them!"

Barkwell got down and seized the book, watching Trevison closely.

"Look here, Boss," he said, as Trevison ran to his horse and threw himself into the saddle;
"you're bushed, mighty near--"

If Trevison heard his first words he had paid no attention to them. He could not have heard
the last words, for Nigger had lunged forward, running with great, long, catlike leaps in the
direction of Manti.

"Good God!" yelled Barkwell to some of the men who had ridden up; "the damn fool is goin' to
town! They'll salivate him, sure as hell! Some of you stay here--two's enough! The rest of
you come along with me!"

They were after Trevison within a few seconds, but the black horse was far ahead, running without
hitch or stumble, as straight toward Manti as his willing muscles and his loyal heart could
take him.

                   *       *       *       *       *

Corrigan had seen the black bolt that had rushed toward him out of the spot where the blot
had been. He cursed hoarsely and drove the spurs deep into the flanks of his horse, and the
animal, squealing with pain and fury, leaped down the side of the arroyo, crossed the bottom
in two or three bounds and stretched away toward Manti.

A cold fear had seized the big man's heart. It made a sweat break out on his forehead, it caused
his hand to tremble as he flung it around to his hip in search of his pistol. He tried to shake
the feeling off, but it clung insistently to him, making him catch his breath. His horse was
big, rangy, and strong, but he forced it to such a pace during the first mile of the ride that
he could feel its muscles quivering under the saddle skirts. And he looked back at the end
of the mile, to see the black horse at about the same distance from him; possibly the distance
had been shortened. It seemed to Corrigan that he had never seen a horse that traveled as smoothly
and evenly as the big black, or that ran with as little effort. He began to loathe the black
with an intensity equaled only by that which he felt for his rider.

He held his lead for another mile. Glancing back a little later he noted with a quickening
pulse that the distance had been shortened by several hundred feet, and that the black seemed
to be traveling with as little effort as ever. Also, for the first time, Corrigan noticed the
presence of other riders, behind Trevison. They were topping a slight rise at the instant he
glanced back, and were at least a mile behind his pursuer.

At first, mingled with his fear, Corrigan had felt a slight disgust for himself in yielding
to his sudden panic. He had never been in the habit of running. He had been as proud of his
courage as he had been of his cleverness and his keenness in planning and plotting. It had
been his mental boast that in every crisis his nerve was coldest. But now he nursed a vagrant,
furtive hope that waiting for him at Manti would be some of those men whom he had hired at
his own expense to impersonate deputies. The presence of the hope was as inexplicable as the
fear that had set him to running from Trevison. Two or three weeks ago he would have faced
both Trevison and his men and brazened it out. But of late a growing dread of the man had seized
him. Never before had he met a man who refused to be beaten, or who had fought him as recklessly
and relentlessly.

He jeered at himself as he rode, telling himself that when Trevison got near enough he would
stand and have it out with him--for he knew that the fight had narrowed down between them until
it was as Trevison had said, man to man--but as he rode his breath came faster, his backward
glances grew more frequent and fearful, and the cold sweat on his forehead grew clammy. Fear,
naked and shameful, had seized him.

                   *       *       *       *       *

