Hiram Meeker was a member, in regular standing, of the Congregational Church in Burnsville.
The Preparatory Lecture, as it is called, that is, the lecture delivered prior to 'Communion-Sabbath,'
in the church, was always on the previous Friday, at three o'clock P.M. On a pleasant day toward
the end of April, Hiram Meeker and Sarah Burns went in company to attend this lecture. The
exercises were especially interesting. Several young people, at the close of the services,
who had previously been propounded, were examined as to their 'experience,' and a vote was
separately taken on the admission of each. This over, the clergyman spoke as follows: 'Brother
Hiram Meeker being about to remove from among us, desires to dissolve his connection with the
Congregational church in Burnsville, and requests the usual certificate of membership and good
standing. Is it your pleasure that he receive it? Those in favor will please to signify it.'
Several 'right hands' were held up, and the matter was concluded. A young man who sat nearly
opposite Sarah Burns, observed that on the announcement, her face became very pale.

When the little company of church-members was dismissed, Hiram Meeker and Sarah Burns walked
away together as they came. No, not as they came, as the following conversation will show.

'Why did you not tell me, Hiram?'

'Because, Sarah, I did not fully decide till the mail came in this very afternoon. I had only
time to speak to Mr. Chase, and there was no opportunity to see you, and I could not tell you
about it while we were walking along so happy together.'

Hiram Meeker lied.

Sarah Burns could not disbelieve him; it was not possible Hiram would deceive her, but her
heart felt the lie, nevertheless.

Hiram Meeker is the hero of this history. It is, therefore, necessary to give some account
of him previous to his introduction to the reader on the afternoon of the preparatory lecture.
At the date of the commencement of the narrative, he was already twenty-two years old. He was
the youngest of several children. His father was a highly respectable man, who resided in Hampton,
about fifteen miles from Burnsville, and cultivated one of the most valuable farms in the county.
Mr. and Mrs. Meeker both had the reputation of being excellent people. They were exemplary
members of the church, and brought up their children with a great deal of care. They were in
every respect dissimilar. He was tall, thin, and dark-complexioned; she was almost short, very
fair, and portly in appearance. Mr. Meeker was a kind-hearted, generous, unambitious man, who
loved his home and his children, and rejoiced when he could see every body happy around him.
He was neither close nor calculating. With a full share of natural ability, he did not turn
his talents to accumulation, quite content if he made the ends of the year meet.

Mrs. Meeker was a woman who never took a step from impulse. She had a motive for every act
of her life. Exceedingly acute in her judgments of people, she brought her shrewdness to bear
on all occasions. She was a capital housekeeper, a most excellent manager, a pattern wife and
mother. I say, 'pattern wife and mother,' for she was devoted to her husband's interests, which,
to be sure, were equally her own; she made every thing very comfortable for him indoors, and
she managed expenditures with an economy and closeness which Mr. Meeker was quite incapable
of. She looked after her children with unremitting care. They were sent to better schools,
and their associations were of a better description than those of her neighbors. She took personal
pains with their religious culture. Although they were sent to Sunday-school, she herself taught
them the Catechism, the Commandments, the Lord's Prayer, and the Sermon on the Mount, beside
a great variety of Gospel hymns and Bible-stories. But along with these excellent teachings
they were taught--what is apt to be taught in almost every family, to almost every child--to
regard appearances, to make the best possible show to the world, to seem what they ought to
be; apparently a sort of short-cut to goodness, but really a turnpike erected by the devil,
which leads any where rather than to the desired point. Mrs. Meeker was a religious woman,
scrupulous and exact in every outward observance; in this respect severe with herself and with
all around her. Yet this never prevented her having an eye to the 'main chance,' which was,
to get on in the world. Indeed, to attempt to do so, was with her a fundamental duty. She loved
to pray the Lord to bless 'our basket and our store.' She dwelt much on the promise of 'a hundred-fold'
in this world in addition to the 'inheritance of everlasting life.' She could repeat all the
practical maxims which abound in the book of Proverbs, and she was careful, when she feared
her husband was about to give way to a generous impulse in favor of a poor relation or neighbor,
to put him in mind of his own large and increasing household, solemnly cautioning him that
he who looked not well after it, was 'worse than an infidel.' In short, being fully convinced
by application of her natural shrewd sense that religion was the safest thing for her here
and hereafter, she became religious. In her piety there was manifested but one idea--self.
Whatever she did, was from a sense of duty, and she did her duty because it was the way to
prosperity and heaven.

I have remarked how different were husband and wife. They lived together, however, without
discord, for Mr. Meeker yielded most points of controversy when they arose, and for the rest
his wife was neither disagreeable nor unamiable. But the poor woman had experienced through
life one great drawback; she had half-a-dozen fine children. Alas! not one of them resembled
her in temper, character, or disposition. All possessed their father's happy traits, which
were developed more and more as they grew older, despite their mother's incessant warnings
and teachings.

Frank, the first-born, exhibited fondness for books, and early manifested an earnest desire
for a liberal education with a view to the study of medicine. His father resolved to gratify
him. His mother was opposed to it. She wanted her boy a merchant. 'Doctors,' she said, 'were
mostly a poor set, who were obliged to work very hard by day and by night, and got little for
it. If Frank would only be contented to go into her cousin's store, in New-York, (he was one
of the prominent wholesale dry-goods jobbers,) why, there would be some hope of him, that is,
if he could cure himself of certain extravagant notions; but to go through college, and then
study medicine! Why couldn't he, at least, be a lawyer, then there might be a chance for him.'

'But the boy has no taste for mercantile life, nor for the law,' said Mr. Meeker.

'Taste--fiddlesticks,' responded his wife, 'as if a boy has a right to have any taste contrary
to his parents' wish.'.

'But, Jane, it is not contrary to my wish.'

Mrs. Meeker looked her husband steadily in the face. She saw there an unusual expression of
firmness; something which she knew it to be idle to contend with, and with her usual good sense,
she withdrew from the contest.

'Have it your own way, Mr. Meeker. You know my opinion. It was my duty to express it. Make
of Frank what you like. I pray that he may be prospered in whatever he undertakes.'

So Frank was sent to college, with the understanding that, after graduating, he was to pursue
his favorite study of medicine.

A few months after he entered, Mrs. Meeker gave birth to her seventh child--the subject of
the present narrative. Her disappointment at Frank's destination was severe. Besides, she met
with daily evidences that pained her. None of her children were, to use her expression, 'after
her own heart.' There were two other boys, George and William, who she was accustomed to say,
almost bitterly, were 'clear father.' The three girls, Jane, Laura, and Mary, one would suppose
might represent the mother's side; but alas! they were 'clear father' too.

In her great distress, as Mrs. Meeker often afterward declared, she resolved to 'call upon
the Lord.' She prayed that the child she was soon to give birth to might be a boy, and become
a joy and consolation to his mother. She read over solicitously all the passages, of Scripture
she could find, which she thought might be applicable to her case. As the event approached,
she exhibited still greater faith and enthusiasm. She declared she had consecrated her child
to God, and felt a holy confidence that the offering was accepted. Do not suppose from this,
she intended to devote him to the ministry. That required a special call, and it did not appear
such a call had been revealed to her. But she prayed earnestly that he might be chosen and
favored of the Most High; that he might stand before kings; that he might not be slothful in
business; but fervent in spirit, serving the Lord. The happy frame of mind Mrs. Meeker had
attained, at length became the subject of conversation in the neighborhood. The clergyman was
greatly interested. He even made allusion to it in the weekly prayer-meeting, which, by the
by, rather scandalized some of the unmarried ladies present.

Mr. Meeker took all this in good part. The truth is, he regarded it as a very innocent whim,
which required to be indulged in his wife's delicate situation; so he always joined in her
hopeful anticipations, and endeavored to sympathize with them. It was under these auspicious
circumstances that Hiram Meeker first saw the light. All his mother's prayers seemed to have
been answered. The boy, from the earliest manifestation of intelligence, exhibited traits which
could belong only to her. As he advanced into childhood, these became more and more apparent.
He had none of the openness of disposition which was possessed by the other children. He gave
much less trouble about the house than they ever did, and was more easily managed than they
had been at his age. It must not be inferred that because he was his mother's favorite, he
received any special indulgence, or was not subject to every proper discipline. Indeed, the
discipline was more severe, the moral teachings more unremitting, the practical lessons more
frequent than with any of the rest. But there could not exist a more tractable child than Hiram.
He was apparently made for special training, he took to it so readily, as if appreciating results
and anxious to arrive at them. When he was six years old, it was astonishing what a number
of Bible-verses and Sunday-school hymns he had committed to memory, and how much the child
knew. He was especially familiar with the uses of money. He knew the value of a dollar, and
what could be purchased with it. So of half a dollar, a quarter, ten cents, and five cents.
He had already established for himself a little savings bank, in which were placed the small
sums which were occasionally presented to him. He could tell the cost of each of his playthings
respectively, and, indeed, of every article about the house; he learned the price of tea, sugar,
coffee, and molasses. This information, to be sure, formed a part of his mother's course of
instruction; but it was strange how he took to it. Systematically and unceasingly, she pursued
it. Oh! how she rejoiced in her youngest child. How she thanked God for answering her prayers.
I had forgotten to state that there was considerable difficulty in deciding what name to give
the boy. Mrs. Meeker had an uncle, a worthy minister, by the name of Nathaniel. Mr. Meeker
suggested that the new-comer be called after him. His wife did not like to object; but she
thought Nathaniel a very disagreeable name. Her cousin, the rich dry-goods merchant in New-York,
who had four daughters and no sons, was named Hiram. Hiram was a good name, not too long and
very expressive. It sounded firm and strong. It was a Bible-name, too, as well as the other.
In fact, she liked it, and she thought her cousin would be gratified when he learned that she
had named a child for him. There were advantages which might flow from it, it was not necessary
to specify, Mr. Meeker could understand to what she alluded Mr. Meeker did not understand;
in fact, he did not trouble his head to conjecture; but it was settled Hiram should be the
name, and our hero was baptized accordingly. He was a good boy; never in mischief, never a
truant, never disobedient, nor willful, nor irritable, nor obstinate. 'Too good for this world;'
that is what folks said. 'Such an astonishing child--too wise to live long.' So it was prophesied;
but Hiram survived all these dismal forebodings, until the people gave up and concluded to
let him live.

We pass over his earlier days at school. At twelve, he was sent to the academy in the village,
about a mile distant. He was to receive a first-rate English education, 'no Latin, no Greek,
no nonsense,' to use his mother's language; but the real substantials. Hiram proved to be an
excellent scholar. He was especially good in figures. When he came to study bookkeeping, he
seemed as happy as if he were reading a romance. He mastered with ease the science of single
and double entry. He soon became fascinated with the beauties of his imaginary business. For
his instructor had prepared for him a regular set of books, and gave him problems, from day
to day, in mercantile dealings, which opened up to the youth all the mysteries of 'Dr.' and
'Cr.' Out of these various problems, he constructed quite a little library of account-books,
which he numbered, and which were representations of various descriptions of trade, and marked
with the name of some supposed company, and labeled 'Business Successful,' or 'Business Unsuccessful,'
as the case might be.

We must now turn from Hiram, engaged in diligently pursuing his studies, and enter on another
topic.

CHAPTER II.

Mrs. Meeker had been a church-member from the time she was fourteen years old. There was an
extensive revival throughout the country at that period, and she, with a large number of young
people of both sexes, were, or thought they were, converted. She used to speak of this circumstance
very often to her children, especially when any one of them approached the age which witnessed,
to use her own language, 'her resignation of the pomps and vanities of life, and her dedication
to the service of her Saviour.' Still, notwithstanding her prayers and painstaking, not one
of them had ever been under 'conviction of sin;' at least, none had ever manifested that agony
and mental suffering which she considered necessary to a genuine change of heart. She mourned
much over such a state of things in her household. What a scandal that not one of her children
should give any evidences of saving grace! What a subject for reproach in the mouths of the
ungodly! But it was not her fault; no, she often felt that Mr. Meeker was too lax in discipline,
(she had had fears of him, sometimes, lest he might become a castaway,) and did not set that
Christian example, at all times, which she could desire. For instance, after church on Sunday
afternoon, it was his custom, when the season was favorable, frequently with a child holding
each hand, to walk leisurely over his fields, humming a cheerful hymn and taking note of whatever
was pleasant in the scene, perhaps the fresh vegetation just bursting into life, or the opening
flowers, or it might be the maturing fruit, or the ripening yellow grain. On these occasions,
he would endeavor to impress on his children how good God was; how seed-time and harvest always
came; how the sun shone on the evil as well as on the good, and the rain descended both on
the just and on the unjust. He, too, would inculcate lessons of diligence and industry, agreeable
lessons, after quite a different model from those of his wife. Not that his mother positively
interdicted him. She was too judicious a person to hold up to censure any habitual act of her
husband, whatever might have been her own opinion, or however she might have remonstrated with
him in private. She had no difficulty in keeping Hiram by her side on Sunday afternoons, and
the little fellow seemed instinctively to appreciate why. Indeed, I doubt if the green fields
and pleasant meadow, with the pretty brook running through it, had any charms for him even
then. At any rate, he was satisfied with his mother's reason, that it was not good for him;
he had better stay at home with her.

At fourteen, Hiram was to become 'pious.' So Mrs. Meeker fervently hoped, and to this end her
prayers were specially directed. Her son once secure and safe within the pale of the church,
she could be free to prosecute for him her earthly plans, which could not be sanctioned or
blessed of Heaven, so long as he was still in the gall of sin and bonds of iniquity. So she
labored to explain to him how impossible it was for an unconverted person to think an acceptable
thought or do a single acceptable act in the sight of God. All his labor was sin, while he
was in a state of sin, whether it was at the plow, or in the shop, or store, or office, or
counting-room. She warned him of the wrath to come, and she explained to him with minute vividness
the everlasting despair and tortures of the damned. Hiram was a good deal affected. He began
to feel that his position personally was perilous. He wanted to get out of it, especially as
his mother assured him if he should be taken away--and he was liable to die that very night--then
alas! his soul would lie down in everlasting burnings. At last, the youth was thoroughly alarmed.
His mother recollected she had continued just one week under conviction, before light dawned
in on her, and she considered that a proper period for her son to go through. She contented
herself, at first, by cautioning him against a relapse into his old condition, for then seven
other spirits more wicked than the first would have possession of him, and his last state would
be worse than the first. Besides, he would run great risk of sinning away his day of grace.
It was soon understood in the church that Hiram was under concern of mind. Mrs. Meeker, on
the fourth day, withdrew him from school, and sent for the minister to pray with him. He found
him in great distress, I might say in great bodily terror; for he was very much afraid when
he got into bed at night, he might awake in hell the next morning. The clergyman was a worthy
and a sincere man. He was anxious that a true repentance should flow from Hiram's present distress,
and the lively agony of the child awakened his strongest sympathy. He talked very kindly to
him, explained in a genuine, truthful manner, what was necessary. He dwelt on the mercy of
our heavenly Father, and on his love. He prayed with the lad earnestly, and with many affectionate
counsels he went away. Hiram was comforted. Things began to look in a pleasanter light than
ever before. He had only to repent and believe, and it was his duty to repent and believe,
and all would be well. So it happened that when the week was out, Hiram felt that he had cast
his burden on the Lord, and was accepted by him.

There were great rejoicings over this event. Mrs. Meeker exclaimed, while tears streamed from
her eyes, that she was ready to depart in peace. Mr. Meeker, who had by no means been indifferent
to his son's state of mind, and who had sought from time to time to encourage him, (rather,
it must be confessed, to his wife's annoyance,) was thankful that he had obtained relief from
the right source. The happy subject himself became an object of a good deal of interest in
the congregation. There was not the usual attention, just then, to religious matters, and Hiram's
conversion was seized on as a token that more fruits were to be gathered in from the same field,
that is, among the young. In due course he was propounded and admitted into the church. It
happened on that day that he was the only individual who joined, and he was the observed of
all observers. Hiram Meeker was a handsome boy, well formed, with an interesting face, blight
blue eyes, and a profusion of light hair shading a forehead indicative of much intelligence.
All this was disclosed to the casual observer; indeed, who would stop to criticise the features
of one so young--else you would have been struck by something disagreeable about the corners
of his mouth, something repulsive in the curve of those thin lips, (he had his mother's lips,)
something forbidding in a certain latent expression of the eye, while you would remark with
pain the conscious, self-possessed air with which he took his place in the broad aisle before
the pulpit, to give his assent to the church articles and confession of faith. The good minister
preached from the text, 'Remember now thy Creator in the days of thy youth,' and in the course
of his sermon held up Hiram as an example to all the unconverted youth of his flock. On Monday
he returned to school, prosecuting his studies more diligently than ever. He felt that he had
secured the true salvation, and was safe now in whatever he undertook. He was very careful
in the observance of all his religious exercises, and so far as I can ascertain, never neglected
any of them. Thus happily launched, Hiram continued at school till he was nearly seventeen.
He had, for the last two years, been sent to Newton Institute, one of the best institutions
in the State, where his advantages would be superior to those of the academy in his native
town. There he learned the higher branches of mathematics, and studied with care mercantile
and descriptive geography with reference to the different products of the earth. During this
time his proficiency was excellent, and his conduct always most exemplary.

At length his course was completed, and Mrs. Meeker felt that her cousin, the wholesale dry-goods
jobber in New-York, would be proud of such an acquisition in his establishment. He had been
duly apprised that the boy was named for him, and really appeared to manifest, by his inquiries,
a good deal of interest in Hiram. Although they generally met once or twice a year, Mrs. Meeker
did not apprise her cousin of her plans, preferring to wait till her son should have finished
his academical course before making them known. Her first idea was to send him to New-York
with a letter, in which she would fully explain her hopes and wishes. On second thought, she
concluded to write first, and await her cousin's reply. It will be seen, from the perusal of
it, she took the proper course.

Here it is:

                                        'New-York, May 15th, 18--.

     'DEAR COUSIN: Your letter of May 12th is before me. I am glad to
     hear you are all well at Hampton. We are much obliged for your kind
     invitation for the summer. I think you may count confidently on a
     visit from my wife and myself some time during the season, and I
     have no doubt one of the girls will come with us. I know I shall
     enjoy it for one, and I am sure we all shall.

     'As to my namesake, I am glad to hear so good an account of him.
     Now, cousin, I really take an interest in the lad, and beg you will
     not make any wry faces over an honest expression of my opinion. If
     you want the boy to make a first-rate merchant, and SUCCEED, don't
     send him to me at present. Of course, I will receive him, if you
     insist upon it. But, in my opinion, it will only spoil him. I tell
     you frankly, I would not give a fig for a city-bred boy. But I will
     enter into this compact with you: I will undertake to make a
     first-class merchant of Hiram, if you will let me have my own way.
     If you do not, I can not answer for it. What I recommend is, that
     you put him into one of the stores in your own village. If I
     remember right, there are two there which do a regular country
     trade, and have a general stock of dry goods, groceries, crockery,
     clothing, stationery, etc., etc., etc. Here he will learn two
     things--detail and economy--without a practical knowledge of which,
     no man can succeed in mercantile business. I presume you will
     consider this a great falling off from your expectations. Perhaps
     you will think it petty business for your boy to be behind a
     counter in a small country store, selling a shilling's worth of
     calico, a cent's worth of snuff, or taking in a dozen eggs in
     exchange, but there is just where he ought to be, for the present.
     I repeat, he will learn detail. He will understand the value of all
     sorts of merchandise; he will get a real knowledge of barter and
     trade. When he learns out there, put him in another retail store of
     more magnitude. Keep him at this three or four years, and then I
     agree to make a merchant of him. I repeat, don't be disappointed at
     my letter. I tell you candidly, if I had a son, that's just what I
     would do with him, and it is just what I want you to do with Hiram.
     I hope you will write me that you approve of my plan. If you do,
     you may rely on my advice at all times, and I think I have some
     experience in these matters.

     'We all desire to be remembered to your husband and family.

                                  'Very truly, your cousin,

                                           'HIRAM BENNETT.'

He had added, from habit, '& Co.,' but this was erased.

The letter was a heavy blow to the fond mother; but she recovered from it quickly, like a sensible
woman. In fact, she perceived her cousin was sincere, and she herself appreciated the good
sense of his suggestions. Her husband, whom she thought best to consult, since matters were
taking this turn, approved of what her cousin had written, and so it was decided that Hiram
should become a clerk of Mr. Jessup, the most enterprising of the two 'store--keepers' in Hampton.
How he got along with Mr. Jessup, and finally entered the service of Mr. Burns, at Burnsville,
must be reserved for a separate chapter.

MONROE TO FARRAGUT.

  By brutal force you've seized the town,
  And therefore the flag shall not come down.
  And having told you that it shan't,
  Just let me show you why it can't.
  The climate here is very queer,
  In the matter of flags at this time of year.
  If a Pelican touched the banner prized,
  He would be immediately paralyzed.
  I'm a gentleman born--though now on the shelf,
  And I think you are almost one yourself.
  For from my noble ancestry,
  I can tell the élite, by sympathy.
  Had you lived among us, sir, now and then,
  No one can say what you might have been.
  So refrain from any sneer or quiz,
  Which may wound our susceptibilities.
  For my people are all refined--like me,
  While yours are all low as low can be.
  As for shooting women or children either,
  Or any such birds of the Union feather,
  We shall in all things consult our ease,
  And act exactly as we please.
  For you've nothing to do with our laws, you know,
  Yours, merely 'respectfully,           JOHN MONROE.'

AMONG THE PINES.

'We, you say; you mean by that, the hundred and eighty thousand nabobs who own five sixths
of your slaves?'[4]

     [4: The statistics given above are correct. But the South, and the world, are a long, way off from general
education. He went
on, and in three years had accumulated nearly seven hundred dollars,
when his master failed. What followed will be the subject of another chapter.

PICAYUNE BUTLER.

'General Butler was a barber,'
  So the Pelicans were raving;
Now you've got him in your harbor,
  Tell us how you like his shaving?

LITERARY NOTICES.

LECTURES ON THE SCIENCE OF LANGUAGE. New-York: Charles Scribner, Boston: A.K. Loring. 1862.

Within the memory of man one could in England or America be 'very well educated,' as the word
went, and yet remain grossly ignorant of the simplest elements of the history of language.
In those days Latin was held by scholars to be derived from Greek--where the Greek came from
nobody knew or cared, though it was thought, from Hebrew. German was a jargon, Provençal a
'patois,' and Sanscrit an obsolete tongue, held in reverence by Hindoo savages. The vast connections
of language with history were generally ignored. Hebrew was assumed, as a matter of course,
to have been the primeval language, and it was wicked to doubt it. This was an apocalypse of
truth to many--but a source of grief to the orthodox believers that Greek and Latin were either
aboriginal languages, or modifications of Hebrew. Hence the blind, and in some cases untruthful
warfare made on the Sanscrit discoveries, as in the case of Dugald Stewart.

     'Dugald Stewart was too wise not to see that the conclusions drawn
     from the facts about Sanscrit were inevitable. He therefore denied
     the reality of such a language as Sanscrit altogether, and wrote
     his famous essay to prove that Sanscrit had been put together,
     after the model of Greek and Latin, by those arch forgers and
     liars, the Brahmins, and that the whole of Sanscrit literature was
     an imposture.'

But it was all of no avail. In 1808 Frederick Schlegel's work, On the Language and Wisdom of
the Indians, first 'boldly faced the facts and conclusions of Sanscrit scholarship, and became,'
with all its faults, the 'foundation for the science of language.' Its great result may be
given in one sentence--it embraced at a glance the languages of India, Persia, Greece, Italy,
and Northern Europe, and riveted them by the simple name 'Indo-Germanic.' Then in this school,
begun by English industry and shaped by German genius, came Franz Bopp, with his great comparative
grammar of the Indo-Germanic tongues, and the enormous labors of Lassen, Rosen, Burnouf, and
W. von Humboldt--a man to whose incredible ability of every kind, as to his secret diplomatic
influence, history has never done justice. Grimm, and Rask--the first great Zend scholar--were
among these early explorers, who have been followed by so many scholars, until some knowledge
not merely of Greek and Latin, but of the relations of all languages, has become essential
to a truly good education.

Yet after all, Sanscrit, it was soon seen, was not the parent, but 'the elder sister' of the
Indo-Germanic languages. Behind Greek, Latin, and Sanscrit, Celtic, Teutonic, and Slavonic
tongues, lurks a lost language--the mysterious Aryan, which, reëchoed through the tones of
those six remaining Pleiades, its sisters, speaks of a mighty race which once, it may be, ruled
supreme over a hundred lands, or perchance sole in the Caucasus. It is strange to see philologists
slowly reconstructing, here and there, fragments of the Aryan,

    'And speak in a tongue which man speaks no more.'

Among the many excellent elementary and introductory works on philology which have appeared
of late years, this of Müller's is on several accounts the best. It is clearly written, so
as to be within the comprehension of any reader of ordinary intelligence, and we can hardly
conceive that any such person would not find it an extremely entertaining book. Its author
is a genial writer--he writes with a relish and with real power--he loves knowledge, and wishes
others to share it with him. Language, he holds--though the idea is not new with him--springs
from a very few hundred roots, which are the phonetic types produced by a power inherent in
human nature. Every substance has its peculiar ring when struck--man, under the action of certain
laws, must develop first onomato-poietic sounds, and finally language. With this we take leave
of this excellent work, trusting that the public will extend to it the favor which it so amply
deserves. Boston: A.K. Loring. 1862.

This work has a strong, we might say an extraordinary claim to the interest of the most general
reader, in its very first paragraph, since in it we are told that Washington Irving, on committing
to his nephew Pierre the vast mass of papers requisite to his biography, remarked: 'Somebody
will be writing my life when I am gone, and I wish you to do it. You must promise me that you
will.' So with unusual wealth of material, gathered together for the purpose by the subject
of the biography himself, the work has been begun, by the person whom Irving judged best fitted
for it.

And a delightful work it is, not a page without something of special relish, as might be anticipated
in the chronicle of a life which is thickly studded with personal association or correspondence
with almost every intellectual eminence either of Europe or America during the past half-century.
But apart from this, there is a racy Irving-y flavor from the very beginning, long before the
wide world had incorporated Irving into its fraternity of great men, in the details of life,
of home travel and of homely incident, as set forth in extracts from his letters, which is
irresistibly charming. Full as this portion of the life is, we can not resist the hope that
it will be greatly enlarged in subsequent editions, and that more copious extracts will be
given from those letters, to the humblest of which the writer invariably communicates an indefinable
fascination. In them, as in his regular 'writings,' we find the simplest incident narrated
always without exaggeration--always as briefly as possible, yet told so quaintly and humorously
withal, that we wonder at the piquancy which it assumes. It is the trouble with great men that
they are, for lack of authentic anecdotes and details of their daily life, apt to retire into
myths. Such will not be the case with Irving. The reality, the life-likeness of these letters,
and of the ana drawn from them, will keep him, Washington Irving the New-Yorker, alive and
breathing before the world to all time. In these chapters a vail seems lifted from what was
growing obscure in our knowledge of social life in the youth of our fathers. Our only wish,
in reading, is for more of it. But the life gathers interest as it proceeds. From America it
extends to Europe, and we meet the names of Humboldt, De Staël, Allston, Vanderlyn, Mrs. Siddons,
as among his associates even in early youth. So through Home Again and in Europe Again there
is a constant succession of personal experience and wide opportunity to know the world. Did
our limits permit, we would gladly cite largely from these pages, for it is long since the
press has given to the world a book so richly quotable. But the best service we can render
the reader is to refer him to the work itself, which is as well worth reading as any thing
that its illustrious subject ever wrote, since in it we have most admirably reflected Irving
himself; the best loved of our writers, and the man who did more, so far as intellectual effort
is concerned, to honor our country than any American who ever lived.

BEAUTIES SELECTED FROM THE WRITINGS OF THOMAS DE QUINCKY. With a Portrait.
    Boston: Ticknor and Fields.

We are not sure that this is not the very first book of other than pictorial beauties which
we ever regarded with patience. Books of literary 'beauties' are like musical matinées--the
first act of one opera--the grand dying-scene from another--all very pretty, but not on the
whole satisfactory, or entitling one to claim from it alone any real knowledge of the original
whole. Yet this volume we have found fascinating, have flitted from page to page, backwards
and forwards, [it is a great advantage in a book of 'unconnections' that one may conscientiously
skip about,] and concluded by thanking in our heart the judicious Eclectic, whoever he may
be--who mosaicked these bits into an enduring picture of De Quincey-ism. For really in it,
by virtue of selection, collection, and recollection, we have given an authentic cabinet of
specimens more directly suggestive of the course and soul-idioms of the author than many minds
would gather from reading all that he ever wrote. Only one thing seems needed--the great original
commentary or essay on De Quincey, which these Beauties would most happily illustrate. It seems
to rise shadowy before us--a sort of dead-letter ghost of a glorious book which craves life
and has it not. We trust that our suggestion may induce some admirer of the Opium-Eater to
have prepared an interleaved copy of these Beauties, and perfect the suggestion.

THE CHURCH IN THE ARMY; OR THE FOUR CENTURIONS. By Rev. WM. A. SCOTT, D.D.,
     of San Francisco. New-York: Carleton, No. 413 Broadway. Boston:
     Crosby and Nichols. 1862.

Since every one is doing their 'little utmost' for the army, Mr. Scott hath contributed his
mite in a work on the four captains of hundreds mentioned in the Bible--the first whereof was
he of Capernaum; the second, the one commanding at the crucifixion; the third, that of Cesarea;
and the fourth, Julius, the centurion who had Paul in charge during his voyage to Rome. We
are glad to learn, from the close researches and critical acumen of Rev. Mr. Scott, that there
is very good ground for concluding that all of these centurions were so impressed by the thrilling
scenes which they witnessed, and the society with which they mingled, as to have eventually
been converted and saved, a consummation which may possibly have escaped the observation of
most readers, who, absorbed in their contemplation of the great dramatis personae, seldom give
thought as to what the effect on the minor characters must have been. It is worth observing
that our author is thoroughly earnest in his exhortations--at times almost naively so. If he
be often rather over-inclined to threaten grim damnation to an alarming majority, and describe
with a relish the eternal horrors which hang around the second death, in good old-fashioned
style, still we must remember that he sincerely means what he says, and is a Puritan of the
ancient stamp.

EDITOR'S TABLE.

There is something intensely American in such phrases as 'manifest destiny,' 'mission,' and
'call,' and we may add, something very vigorous may be found in the character of him who uses
them. They are expressions which admit no alternative, no second possibility. The man of a
'mission,' or of a 'manifest destiny,' may be a fanatic, but he will be no flincher; he will
strive to the bitter end, and fall dead in the traces; but he will succeed.

We are glad to learn that there is growing up in the army, and of course from it in all the
homes of the whole country, a fixed impression that the South is inevitably destined to be
'Northed' or 'free-labored,' as the result of this war. The intelligent farmer in the ranks,
who has learned his superiority to 'Secesh,' as a soldier, and who knows himself to be superior
to any Southern in all matters of information and practical creative power, looks with scorn
at the worn-out fields, wasteful agriculture, and general shiftlessness of the natives, and
says, with a contemptuous laugh: 'We will get better crops out of the land, and manage it in
another fashion, when we settle down here.' Not less scornfully does the mechanic look down
on the clumsy, labor-wasting contrivances of the negro or negro-stupified white man, and agree
with his mate that 'these people will never be of much account until we take them in hand.'

Master-mechanic, master-farmer, you are right. These people are your inferiors; with all their
boasts and brags of 'culture,' you could teach them, by your shrewder intelligence, at a glance,
the short cut to almost any thing at which their intellects might be employed; and you indulge
in a very natural feeling, when, as conquerors, in glancing over their Canaan, you involuntarily
plan what you will do some day, if a farm should by chance be your share of the bounty-money,
when the war is over. For it is absurd to suppose that such a country will continue forever
a prey to the wasting and exhaustive disease of the plantation-system, or that the black will
always, as at present, inefficiently and awkwardly fulfill those mechanic labors which a keen
white workman can better manage. Wherever the hand of the Northman touches, in these times,
it shows a superior touch, whether in improvising a six-action cotton-gin, in repairing locomotives,
or in sarcastically seizing a 'Secesh' newspaper and reëditing it with a storm of fun and piquancy
such as its doleful columns never witnessed of old. In this and in a thousand ways, the Northern
soldier realizes that he is in a land of inferiors, and a very rich land at that. At this point,
his speculations on manifest destiny may very appropriately begin. There is no harm in suffering
this idea to take firm hold. Like ultimate emancipation, it may be assumed as a fact, all to
be determined in due time, according to the progress of events, as wisely laid down by President
Lincoln, without hurry, without feverish haste, simply guided by the firm determination that
eventually it must be.

We can not insist too strongly on this great truth, that when a nation makes up its mind that
a certain event must take place, and acts calmly in the spirit of perfect persuasion, very
little is really needed to hasten the wished-for consummation. Events suddenly spring up to
aid, and in due time all is accomplished. Those who strive to hurry it retard it, those who
work to drag it back hasten it. Never yet on earth was a real conviction crushed or prematurely
realized. So it is, so it will be with this 'Northing' of the South. Let the country simply
familiarize itself with the idea, and the idea will advance as rapidly as need be. In it lies
the only solution of the great problem of reconciling the South and the North; the sooner we
make up our minds to the fact, the better; and, on the other hand, the more deliberately and
calmly we proceed to the work, the more certain will its accomplishment be. Events are now
working to aid us with tremendous power and rapidity--faith, a judicious guiding of the current
as it runs, is all that is at present required to insure a happy fulfillment.

       *       *       *       *       *

The degree to which a vindictive and malignant opposition to every thing for the sake of 'the
party' can be carried, has been well illustrated in the amount and variety of slander which
has been heaped by the Southern-rights, sympathizing Democratic press on the efforts of those
noble-hearted women who have endeavored to do something to alleviate the condition of the thousands
of contrabands, who are many without clothes, employment, or the slightest idea of what they
are to do. It would be hard to imagine any thing more harmless or more perfectly free from
any thing like sinister or selfish motives than have been the conduct and motives of the noble
women who have assumed this mission. Florence Nightingale undertook nothing nobler; and the
world will some day recognize the deserts of those who strove against every obstacle to relieve
the sufferings and enlighten the ignorance of the blacks--among whom were thousands of women
and little children. Such being the literal truth, what does the reader think of such a paragraph
as the following, which we find going the rounds of the Boston Courier and other journals of
the same political faith?

     'On dit, that some of the schoolmarms who went to South-Carolina
     several weeks ago, are not so intent upon 'teaching the young ideas
     how to shoot,' as upon flirting with the officers, in a manner not
     entirely consistent with morality. General Hunter is going to send
     some of the misbehaving misses home.'

If there is a loathsome, cowardly, infamous phrase, it is that of on dit, 'they say,' 'it is
said,' when used to assail the virtue of women--above all, of women engaged in such a cause
as that in question. We believe in our heart, this whole story to be a slander of the meanest
description possible--a piece of as dirty innuendo as ever disgraced a Democratic paper. The
spirit of the viper is apparent in every line of it. Yet it is in perfect keeping with the
storm of abuse and falsehood which has been heaped on these 'contraband' missionaries, teachers,
and nurses, since they went their way. They have been accused of pilfering, of lying, of doing
nothing, of corrupting the blacks, of going out only to speculate, and, as might have been
expected, we have at last the unfailing resort of the lying coward--a dirty hint as to breaking
the seventh commandment--all according to the devilish old Jesuit precept of, 'Calumniare fortiter
aliquis koerebit'--'Slander boldly, something will be sure to stick.' And to such a depth of
degradation--to the hinting away the characters of young ladies because they try to teach the
poor contrabands--can men descend 'for the sake of the party'!

       *       *       *       *       *

Of late years, those soundest of philanthropists, the men of common-sense who labor unweariedly
to facilitate exchanges between civilized nations, have endeavored to promote in every possible
manner the adoption of the same system of currency, weights and measures among civilized nations.
It has been accepted as a rule beyond all debate, that if such mediums of business could be
adopted--nay, if a common language even were in use, industry would receive an incalculable
impulse, and the production of capital be enormously increased.

Not so, however, thinks John M. Vernon, of New-Orleans, who, stimulated by the purest secession
sentiments, and urged by the most legitimate secession and 'State rights' logic, has developed
a new principle of exclusiveness by devising a new system of decimal currency, which he thus
recommends to the rebel Congress:

     'We are a separate and distinct people, influenced by different
     interests and sentiments from the vandals who would subjugate us.
     Our manners and customs are different; our tastes and talents are
     different; our geographical position is different; and in
     conformity with natural laws, nature and instinct, our
     currency,--weights and measures, should be different.

     'The basis of integral limit of value proposed for our currency, is
     the star, which is to be divided into one hundred equal parts, each
     part to be called a centime, namely: 10 centimes--1 tropic;
     10 tropics--1 star; 10 stars--1 sol.

     'These denominations for our currency have been selected for three
     reasons: first, they are appropriate to ourselves as a people;
     second, they are emblems of cheerfulness, honor, honesty of
     purpose, solidity, and stability; and third, the words used are
     simple, easily remembered, and are common to several languages. I
     will, in addition, observe that similar characteristics distinguish
     the proposed tables of weights and measures.'

'Stars'--'centimes'--'tropics,' and 'sols.' Why these words should be more significant of cheerfulness,
honor, honesty, and solidity, than dollars and dimes, cents and mills, is not, as yet, apparent.
As set forth in this recommendation, it would really appear that the root of all evil would
have its evil properties extracted by giving the radical a different name. To be sure, the
wages of sin thus far in the world's history, have generally been found equivalent to death,
whether they are termed guineas, francs, thalers, cobangs, pesos, sequins, ducats, or dollars.
But in Dixie--happy Dixie!--they only need another name, and lo! a miracle is to be wrought
at once.

There is something in this whole proposition which accurately embodies the whole Southern policy.
While the rest of the world is working to assimilate into civilization, they are laboring to
get away and apart--to be different from everybody else--to remain provincial and 'peculiar.'
It is the working of the same spirit which inspires the desire to substitute 'State rights'
or individual will, or, in plain terms, lawlessness and barbarism for enlightenment and common
rights. It is a craving for darkness instead of light, for antiquated feudal falsehood instead
of republican truth; and it will meet with the destiny which awaits every struggle against
the great and holy cause of humanity.

KYNG COTEN.

A 'DARK' CONCEIT.

(Being an ensample of a longe poeme.)

  O muse! that did me somedeal favour erst,
    Whereas I piped my silly oaten reede,
  And songs in homely guise to mine reherst,
    Well pleased with maiden's smilings for my meed;
    Sweet muse, do give my Pegasus good speede,
  And send to him of thy high, potent might,
    Whiles mortalls I all of my theme do rede,
  Thatte is the story of a doughty knight,
  Who eftsoons wageth war, Kyng COTEN is he hight.

  Kyng Coten cometh of a goodly race,
    Though black it was, as records sothly tell;
  But thatte is nought, which only is the face,
    And ne the hart, where alle goode beings dwell;
    For witness him the puissant Hannibal,
  Who was in veray sooth a Black-a-Moor;
    And Cleopatra, Egypt's darksome belle,
  And others, great on earth, a hundred score;
  Howbeit, ilke kyng was white, which doth amaze me sore.

  Kyng Coten cometh of a goodly race,
    As born of fathers clean as many as
  The sands thatte doe the mighty sea-shore grace,
    But black, as sayde, as dark is Erebus.
    His rule the Southron Federation was,
  Thatte was a part of great Columbia,
    Which was as fayre a clyme as man mote pass;
  And situate where Vesper holds his swaye,
  But habited wilome by men of salvage fray.

  Farre in the North he had an enimie,
    Who certes was the knight's true soveraine,
  Who likéd not his wicked slaverie,
    Which 'cross God's will was counter-wisely laine,
    Whiles he himself, it seemeth now right playne,
  Did seek to have a kyngdom of his kynde,
    Where he, as tyrant-like, mote lonly raine;
  So to a treacherie he fetched his mynde,
  Which soon was rent in four, and sent upon each wynde.

  His enimie thatte liveth in the North,
    Who, after all, was not his enimie,
  Ydeemed he was a gentilman of worth,
    Too proud to make so vile a villianie,
    And, therefore, did ne tent his railerie,
  But went his ways, as was his wont wilome;
    Goliah, he turned out eftsoons, ah! me,
  Who leaned upon his speare when David come,
  And laughed to scorn the sillie boy his threat'ning doom.

  But when his stronghold in ye Southron land,
    Of formidable front, Forte Sumter hight,
  Did fall into Kyng Coten's rebell hand,
    Who coward-wise did challenge to the fight,
    Some several men again his host of might;
  Then Samuel, for so was he yclipt,
    Begun in batail's gear himself to dight,
  As being fooled by him with whom he sippt,
  And hied him out, loud crying, 'Treason must be nippt!'

  O ye who doe the crusades' musters tell,
    In wise that maketh myndes incredulous,
  And paynte how like Dan Neptune's sweeping swell
    The North bore down on the perfidious!
    Ne nigh so potent thatte as was with us;
  Where men, like locusts, darkened all the land,
    As marched they toward the place that's treacherous,
  And shippes, that eke did follow the command,
  Like forests, motion-got, doe walk along the strand.

  Fierce battails ther were fought upon the ground,
  Thatte rob'd the heavens alle in ayer dunne;
  And shoke the world as doth the thunder's sound,
    Till, soth to say, it well-nigh was undone:
    But of them alle, ther is an one
  That frayle pen dispairs for to descrive,
  Which mortalls call the Battail of Bull Run;
  But why I mote ne tell, as I'm alive,
  Unless it haply he ther running did most thrive.

LAWRENCE MINOT.

'Our Orientalist' appears this month with

EGYPT IN TWENTY-FOUR HOURS.

BY A FAST TRAVELER.

'You ought to go to the East,' said Mr. Swift, with a wave of his hand; 'I've been there, and
seen it under peculiar circumstances.'

'Explain, O howaga! Give us the facts.

'Immediately. Just place the punch-pitcher where I can reach it easily. That's right! Light
another Cabañas. So; now for it. In 1858, month of December, I was settled in comfortable quarters
in the Santa Lucia, Naples, and fully expected to winter there at my ease, when, to my disgust,
I received letters from England, briefly ordering me by first steamer to Alexandria, thence
per railroad to Cairo, there to see the head of a certain banking-house; transact my business,
and return to Naples with all possible dispatch. No sooner said than done; there was one of
the Messagérie steamers up for Malta next day; got my passport visaed, secured berth, all right.
Next night I was steaming it past Stromboli, next morning in Messina; then Malta, where I found
steamer up for Alexandria that night; in four days was off that port, at six o'clock in the
morning, and at half-past eight o'clock was in the cars, landing in Cairo at four o'clock in
the afternoon. Posted from the railroad-station to the banker's, saw my man, arranged my business,
was to receive instructions at seven o'clock the next morning, and at eight o'clock take the
return train to Alexandria, where a steamer was to sail next day, that would carry me back
to Naples, presto! as the jugglers say.

'There, breathe a little, and take another glass of punch, while I recall my day in the East.

'Through at the banker's, he recommended me to the Hotel ----, where I would find a good table,
clean rooms, and none of my English compatriots. I love my native land and my countrymen in
it, but as for them out of it, and as Bohemians--ugh! I am too much of a wolf myself to love
wolves. Arrived at the hotel, with my head swimming with palm-trees, railroad, turbans, tarbooshes,
veiled women, camels, pipes, dust, donkeys, oceans of blue calico, groaning water-wheels, the
Nile, far-off view of the Pyramids, etc., I at once asked the headwaiter for a room, water,
towels; he passed me into the hands of a very tall Berber answering to the name of Yusef, who
was dressed in flowing garments and tarboosh, and who was one of the gentlest beings entitled
to wear breeches I have ever seen; he had feet that in my recollection seem a yard long, and
how he managed to move so noiselessly, unless both pedals were soft-shod, worries me to the
present time. Well, at six o'clock the gong sounded for dinner, and out I went over marble
floors to the dining hall, where I found only three other guests, who saluted me courteously
when I entered, and at a signal from Yusef, a compromise between a bow and a salaam, we seated
ourselves at table. Of the three guests, one was particularly a marked man, apart from his
costume, that of a cavalry officer in the Pacha's service; there was something grand in his
face, large blue eyes, full of humor and bonhommie, a prominent nose, a broad forehead, burned
brown with the sun, his head covered with the omnipresent tarboosh, a mustache like Cartouche's;
such was my vis-à-vis at the hotel-table.

'In conversation with this officer, it turned up that one of my most intimate friends was his
cousin, and so we had a bottle of old East-India pale sherry over that; then we had another
to finally cement our acquaintance; I said finally--I should say, finally for dinner.

'I have seen the interiors of more than three hundred hotels in Europe, Africa, and America;
but I have yet to see one that appeared so outrageously romantic as that of the Hotel ----,
at Cairo, after that second bottle of sherry! The divans on which we reposed, the curious interlacing
of the figures on the ceiling, the raised marble floor at the end of the room overlooking the
street, the arabesques on the doors, and finally the never-ending masquerade-ball going on
in the street under the divans where we sat and smoked.

'I can't tell you how it happened, but after very small cups of very black coffee and a pousse
café, in the officer's room, of genuine kirschwasser and good curaçoa, I was mounted on a bay
horse; there was a dapple-gray alongside of me; and running ahead of us, to clear the way,
the officer's sais afoot, ready to hold our horses when we halted. We were quickly mounted
and off like the wind, past turbans, flowing bournouses, tarbooshes, past grand old mosques,
petty cafés, where the faithful were squatting on bamboo-seats, smoking pipes or drinking coffee-grounds,
while listening to a storyteller, possibly relating some story in the Arabian Nights; then
we were through the bazaars, all closed now and silent; then up in the citadel, and through
the mosque of Yusef; then down and scouring over the flying sand among the grand old tombs
of the Mamelukes and of the caliphs; then off at break-neck speed toward the Mokatamma mountains,
from a rise on the lower spur of one of which we saw, in the shadow of the coming night, the
Pyramids and the slow-flowing Nile.

'Again we were in Cairo, and now threading narrow street after street, the fall of our horses'
hoofs hardly heard on the unpaved ways, as we were passing under overhanging balconies covered
with lace-work lattices. As it grew darker, our sais preceded us with lighted lantern, shouting
to pedestrians, blind and halt, to clear the road for the coming effendis.

'Halte la!

'My foaming bay was reined in with a strong hand, I leaped from the saddle, and found the sais
at hand to hold our horses, while we saw the seventh heaven of the Koran, and by no means al
Hotama.

'With a foresight indicating an old campaigner, the officer produced a couple of bottles of
sherry from the capacious folds of the sais' mantle, and unlocking the door of the house in
front of which we stood, invited me to enter. Two or three turns, a court-yard full of rose-bushes,
and an enormous palm-tree, a fountain shooting up its sparkling waters in the moonlight, a
clapping of hands, chibouks, sherry cooled in the fountain.

'Then, in the moonlight, the gleam of white flowing garments, the nervous thrill breathed in
from perfumes filling the evening air; the great swimming eyes; the kiss; the ah!--other bottles
of sherry. The fingans of coffee, the pipe of Latakiah tobacco, the blowing a cloud into dreamland,
while Fatima or Zoe insists on taking a puff with you.

'But as she said, 'Hathih al-kissah moaththirah, which, in the vernacular, is. 'This history
is affecting,' so let us pass it by. We finished those two bottles of sherry, and if Mohammed,
in his majesty, refuses admittance to two Peris into paradise, because they drank sherry that
night, let the sins be on our shoulders, WE are to blame.

       *       *       *       *       *

'Next morning, at seven o'clock, I was at the banker's, and received his orders, and at six
o'clock that evening was steaming out of Alexandria, bound to Naples via Malta. A little over
twenty-four hours, and I had SEEN THE ORIENT THROUGH SHERRY--pale, golden, and serenely beautiful!

'Pass the punch.'

       *       *       *       *       *

Very welcome is our pleasant contributor--he who of late discoursed on 'honeyed thefts' and
rural religious discipline--and now, in the present letter, he gives us his views on meals,
feeds, banquets, symposia, or by whatever name the reader may choose to designate assemblies
for the purpose of eating.

     Please make room at this table, right here, for me. Surely at a
     table of such dimensions, there should be plenty of room. Many a
     table-scene do I now recall, in days gone by, 'all of which I saw,
     and part of which I was,' but nothing like this. Tables of all
     sorts and sizes, but never a CONTINENTAL table before. I suppose
     the nearest approach to it was the picnic dinner the wee
     youngsters used to eat off the ground! A CONTINENTAL table! The
     most hospitable idea imaginable. Give place! Do you demand my
     credentials, my card, my ticket? Here we have it all; a little note
     from mine host, Mr. LELAND, inviting the bearer to this monthly
     repast, and requesting, very properly--it was the way we always
     did, when we used to get up picnics--that the receiver of the note
     bring some sort of refreshments along. Thank you. This seat is very
     comfortable. What more appropriate, at such a time, than the
     discussion of the Meal?

     I protest I am no glutton; in fact, I despise the man whose
     meal-times are the epochs of his life; yet I frankly confess to
     emotions of a very positive character, in contemplating the
     associations of the table, and I admit farther, that I take
     pleasure in the reality as well as in the imagination. I like to be
     'one of the company,' whether in palace or in farm-house. I always
     brighten up when I see the dining-room door thrown open to an angle
     hospitably obtuse, and am pleased alike with the politely-worded
     request, 'Will the ladies and gentlemen please walk out and partake
     of some refreshments?' or the blunt, kindly voice of mine host,
     'Come, friends; dinner's ready.' Still I assert my freedom from any
     slavish fondness for the creature comforts. It is not the bill of
     fare that so pleases me. In fact, some of the best meals of which I
     have ever partaken, were those the materials of which I could not
     have remembered twenty minutes after. Exquisite palatal pleasures,
     then, are not a sine qua non in the enjoyment of table comforts.
     No, indeed. There is a condiment which is calculated to impart a
     high relish to the humblest fare; but without this charmed
     seasoning, every banquet is a failure. Solomon was a man of nice
     observation, even in so humble a matter as a meal. Let him reveal
     the secret in his own words: 'Better is a dinner of herbs, where
     LOVE is, than a stalled ox and hatred therewith.'

     By a merciful arrangement of Providence, man is so constituted that
     he may think, talk, and eat, all at one and the same time. Hence,
     the table is often the scene of animated and very interesting
     conversations, provided love is there. Many of our Saviour's most
     interesting and instructive discourses were delivered while
     'sitting at meat,' and the 'table-talk' of some authors is
     decidedly the most meritorious of all their performances.

     But the truth is, there are not many meals where love is entirely
     absent. Cheerfulness is naturally connected with eating; eating
     begets it probably. It is difficult for a man to eat at all, if he
     is in a bad humor. Quite impossible, if he is in a rage; especially
     if he is obliged to sit down to his dinner in company with the man
     he hates. There are so many little kind offices that guests must
     perform for each other at table, so many delicate compliments may
     be paid to those we love or revere, by polite attentions to them,
     and so necessary, indeed, have these become to our notion of a
     satisfactory repast, that to banish such amiable usages from our
     tables would be not only to degrade us to the level of the brute,
     but would deprive us of a most humanising and refining means of
     enjoyment. How beautiful and necessary, then, is the arrangement by
     which, morning, noon, and night, (I pity folks who only eat twice a
     day,) the members of the household are brought together in such
     kindly intercourse around the family board! How seldom would they
     assemble thus pleasantly, were it not for the meal!

     The little wounds and scratches which the sharp edges of our
     characters will inflict upon each other, when brought together in
     the necessary contact of daily intercourse, would otherwise be
     suffered to fret and vex us sorely; but before they have had time
     to fester and inflame, meal-time comes, and brings with it the
     magic, mollifying oil.

     It is meet, then, (we spell the word with two e's, mind you,) that,
     on any occasion of public rejoicing, the banquet should be an
     indispensable accompaniment. The accomplishment of some important
     public enterprise, the celebration of the birth-days of great and
     good men, a nation's holidays, the reünions of friends engaged in a
     common cause, are occasions in which the dinner, very properly,
     constitutes one of the leading features.

     And what can be more exhilarating than the innocent mirthfulness,
     the unaffected kindnesses, the witty speeches, the sprightly
     conversations which are universally incident to such occasions? No
     wonder Lycurgus decreed that the Spartans should eat in public.
     Ostensibly, it was for the sake of the grave conversations of the
     elders at such times, but really, I imagine, it was to keep the
     citizens (who had been at swords' points with each other) in a good
     humor, by bringing them around a common table.

     He knew that if any thing would soften their mutual asperities and
     cultivate mutual good feeling, such a measure would. Would it not
     be well for modern times to take a hint here? Had I been appointed
     architect of the Capitol, I think I could have saved the feuds
     which long ago sprang up, and which have resulted in, and will yet
     bring about, alas! we know not how much bloodshed. I would have
     constructed a couple of immense dining-rooms, with all the
     necessary appurtenances. Just to think how different would have
     been the aspect of things in the chamber where Sumner once lay
     bleeding, and in the hall where a gentleman, in a mêlée, 'stubbed
     his toe and fell!' There would have been Mr. Breckinridge, in a
     canopied seat at the head of one of the tables, rapping the Senate
     to order with his knife-handle, and Mr. Orr at the head of the
     other, uncovering an immense tureen, with the remark that 'the
     House will now proceed to business!' How strange it would be to
     hear any angry debate at such a time! Imagine a Congressman helping
     himself to a batter-cake and at the same time calling his
     brother-member a liar! or throwing down his napkin, by way of
     challenge to 'the gentleman on the opposite side of the table!'
     Think of Keitt politely handing Grow the cream-pitcher, and
     attempting to knock him down before the meal was dispatched. Had
     the discussion of the Lecompton Constitution been carried on
     simultaneously with that of a couple of dozen roast turkeys, I
     sometimes think we might have avoided this war.

     Not only in public but in private rejoicings, is the table the
     scene of chief enjoyment. When was it that the fatted calf was
     killed? On what occasion was the water turned into wine? What
     better way to rejoice over the return of a long-absent one than to
     meet him around the hospitable table? Ye gods! let your mouths
     water! There's a feast ahead for our brave soldiers, when they come
     home from this war, that will make your tables look beggarly. I
     refer to that auspicious moment when the patriot now baring his
     bosom to the bloody brunt of war, shall sit down once more to the
     table, in his own dear home, however humble, and partake of the
     cheerful meal in peace, with his wife and his little ones about
     him. Oh! for the luxury of that first meal! I almost feel as if I
     could endure the hardships of the fierce campaign that precedes it.

     There is no memory so pleasant to me as that of the annual reünion
     of my aunts and uncles, with their respective troops of cousins, at
     the house of my dear grandmother of blessed memory. It was pleasant
     to watch the conveyances one by one coming in, laden with friends
     who had traveled many a weary mile to be present on the great
     occasion. It was pleasant to witness the mutual recognitions of
     brothers and sisters with their respective wives and husbands; to
     observe the transports of the little fellows, in their hearty
     greetings, after a twelve months' separation, and to hear their
     expressions of mingled surprise and delight on being introduced to
     the strange little cousins, whose presence increased the number
     considerably above the preceding census. But the culminating point
     was yet to come. That was attained when all the brothers and
     sisters had gathered around the great long table, just as they did
     when they were children, with their dear mother at the head,
     surveying the scene in quiet enjoyment, and one of the 'older boys'
     at the foot, to ask a blessing. There were the waffle-cakes, baked
     in the irons which had furnished every cake for that table for the
     last quarter of a century. There was the roast-turkey, which
     grandma had been putting through a generous system of dietetics for
     weeks, preparatory to this occasion. It rested on the same old
     turkey-plate, with its two great birds sitting on a rose-bush, and
     by its side was the great old carving-knife, which had from time
     immemorial been the instrument of dissection on such occasions. And
     there was maple-molasses from Uncle D----'s 'sugar-camp,' and
     cheese from Aunt N----'s press, and honey from Uncle T----'s hives,
     and oranges which Aunt I----, who lived in the city, had provided,
     and all contained in the old-fashioned plates and dishes of a
     preceding generation.

     I discover I am treating my subject in a very desultory manner.
     Perhaps I should have stated that under the head of the complete
     genus, meal, there are three distinct species, public, social,
     and private. That the grand banquet, celebrating some great man's
     birth, or the success of some noble public enterprise, with its
     assemblages of the great and the good from every part of the
     country; the Fourth of July festival, in honor of our nation's
     independence, with its speeches, its drums, its toasts, and its
     cannon; the 'table d'hôte,' or in plain English, the hotel
     dinner-table, so remarkable for the multitude of its dishes and the
     meagreness of their contents; the harvest-feast, the exact opposite
     of the last-named, even to the mellow thirds and fifths that come
     floating over the valleys from the old-fashioned dinner-horn,
     calling in the tired laborers; its musical invitation in such
     striking contrast with the unimagined horrors of the gong that
     bellows its expectant victims to their meals; the family repast,
     where one so often feels gratified with the delicate compliment of
     a mother, a sister, or a wife, in placing some favorite dish or
     flower near his plate; the annual gatherings of jolly alumni; the
     delightful concourse of relatives and friends; the gleesome picnic
     lunch, with its grassy carpet and log seats; the luxurious
     oyster-supper, with its temptations 'to carry the thing too far;'
     the festival at the donation-party, which, in common parlance,
     would be called a dish of 'all sorts;' the self-boarding student's
     desolate corn-cake, baked in a pan of multifarious use: all these
     are so many modifications under their respective species.

     Let me remark, in conclusion, that there are some meals from which
     I pray to be delivered. There is the noisy dinner of the
     country-town tavern or railroad station, where each individual
     seems particularly anxious that number one should be provided
     for, and where, in truth, he is obliged often to make pretty
     vigorous efforts, if he succeeds. Again, have you ever observed how
     gloomy is the look of those who for the first time gather around
     the table, after the departure of a friend? The breakfast was
     earlier than usual, and the dishes were suffered to stand and the
     beds to go unmade, and housemaid, chamber-maid, cook, and
     seamstress, all engaged in the mélée of packing up, and of course
     came in for their share of 'good-bys.' After the guests were fairly
     off, 'things took a stand-still' for a while. All hands sat down
     and rested, and looked very blank, and didn't know just where to
     begin. Slowly, confusion began to relax his hold, and order, by
     degrees, resumed her sway; (for the life of me, I can't bring
     myself to determine the genders in any other way.) But when, at
     last, the dinner-hour came, how strangely silent were the eaters!
     Ah! if the departed one have gone to his long home, how solemn is
     this first meeting of the family, after their return to their
     lonely home! It may be the sire whose place at the head of the
     table is now vacant, and whose silvery voice we no longer hear
     humbly invoking the divine blessing; or perhaps the mother, and how
     studiously we keep our eye away from the seat where her generous
     hand was wont to pour our tea. Perhaps the little one, the idol of
     the household, whose chirruping voice was wont to set us all
     laughing with droll remarks, expressed in baby dialect. How we miss
     the little high-chair that was always drawn up 'close by papa!' How
     our eyes will swim and our hearts swell up and choke us when we see
     it pushed back into the corner, now silent and vacant! Hast thou
     not wept thus? Be grateful. Thou hast been spared one of life's
     keenest pangs.

Thou speakest well. Dr. Doran has pleased us with his Table Traits, but a great book yet remains
to be written on the social power of meals. The immortals were never so lordly as when assembled
at the celestial table, where inextinguishable laughter went the rounds with the nectar. The
heroes of Valhalla were most glorious over the ever-growing roast-boar and never-failing mead.
Heine suggests a millennial banquet of all nations, where the French are to have the place
of honor, for their improvements in freedom and in cookery, and Master Rabelais could imagine
nothing more genial than when in the Moyen de Parvenir, he placed all the gay, gallant, wise,
brave, genial, joyous dames and demoiselles, knights, and scholars of all ages at one eternal
supper. Ah! yes; it matters but little what is 'gatherounded,' as a quaint Americanism hath
it, so that the wit, and smiles, and good-fellowship be there.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is stated in the newspapers--we know not on what authority--that Charles A. Dana, late of
the New-York Tribune, will probably receive an important appointment in the army. A man of
iron will, of indomitable energy, undoubted courage, and of an inexhaustible genius, which
displays itself by mastering every subject as by intuition, Dana is one whom, of all others,
we would wish to see actively employed in the war. We have described him in by-gone days as
one who was 'an editor by destiny and a soldier by nature,' and sincerely trust that his career
will yet happily confer upon him military honors. No man in America--we speak advisedly--has
labored more assiduously, or with more sterling honest conviction in politics, than Charles
A. Dana. The influence which he has exerted has been immense, and it is fit that it be recognized.
Men who, like him, combine stern integrity with vigorous practical talent, have a claim to lead.

       *       *       *       *       *

Among the most striking songs which the war has brought forth, we must class that grim Puritanical
lyric, 'The Kansas John Brown,' which appeared originally in the Kansas Herald, and which is,
as we are informed, extensively sung in the army. The words are as follows:

THE KANSAS JOHN BROWN SONG.

  John Brown was a hero undaunted, true and brave,
  And Kansas knew his valor when he fought her rights to save;
  And now, though the grass grows green above his grave,
        His soul is marching on.

  John Brown was John the Baptist of the Christ we are to see;
  CHRIST, who of the bondmen shall the Liberator be;
  And soon through all the South the slaves shall all be free,
        For his soul goes marching on.

  John Brown he was a soldier--a soldier of the LORD;
  John Brown he was a martyr--a martyr to the WORD;
  And he made the gallows holy when he perished by the cord,
        For his soul goes marching on.

  The battle that John Brown begun, he looks from heaven to view,
  On the army of the Union with its flag, red, white and blue;
  And the angels shall sing hymns o'er the deeds we mean to do,
        As we go marching on!

There! if the soldiers of Cromwell and of Ireton had any lyric to beat that, we should like
to see it. Among its rough and rude rhymes gleams out a fierce fire which we supposed was long
since extinct. Verily, old Father Puritan is not dead yet, neither does he sleep; and to judge
from what we have heard of the effects of this song among the soldiers, we should say that
grim Old John Brown himself, far from perishing, is even now terribly alive. There is something
fearful in the inspiration which can inspire songs like this.

       *       *       *       *       *

'GALLI VAN T' is welcome, and will be 'welcomer' when he again visits us in another letter
like this:

     DEAR CONTINENTAL: I have a friend who is not an artful man, though
     he be full of art; and yesterday evening he told me the following:

     'In my early days, when I took views of burly farmers and their
     bouncing daughters in oil, and painted portraits of their favorite
     horses for a very moderate honorarium, and in short, was the
     artist of a small country town--why, then, to tell the truth, I was
     held to be one of the greatest painters in existence. Since
     studying abroad, and settling down in New-York--'

     'And getting your name up among the first,' I added.

     'Never mind that--I'm not 'the greatest painter that ever lived'
     here. But in Spodunk, I was. Folks 'admired to see me.' I was a man
     that 'had got talent into him,' and the village damsels invited me
     to tea. There were occasional drawbacks, to be sure. One day a man
     who had heard that I had painted Doctor Hewls's house, called and
     asked me what I would charge to paint his little 'humsted.' I
     offered to do it for twenty dollars.

     'He gave me a shrewd gimlet-look and said:

     'Find your own paint--o' course?'

     ''Of course,' I replied.

     ''What color?'

     ''Why, the same color you now have,' was my astonished answer.

     ''Wall, I don't know. My wife kind o' thinks that turtle-color
     would suit our house better than Spanish brown. You put on two
     coats, of course?'

     'I now saw what he meant, and roaring with laughter, explained to
     him that there was a difference between a painter of houses and a
     house-painter.

     'One morning I was interrupted by a grim, Herculean, stern-looking
     young fellow--one who was manifestly a man of facts--who, with a
     brief introduction of himself, asked if I could teach 'the pictur
     business.' I signified my assent, and while talking of terms,
     continued painting away at a landscape. I noticed that my visitor
     glanced at my work at first as if puzzled, and then with an air of
     contempt. Finally he inquired:

     '''S that the way you make your pictures?'

     ''That is it,' I replied.

     ''Do you have to keep workin' it in, bit by bit, slow--like as a
     gal works woosted-patterns?'

     ''Yes, and sometimes much slower, to paint well.'

     ''How long 'll it take to learn your trade?'

     ''Well, if you've any genius for it, you may become a tolerable
     artist in two years.'

     ''Two--thunder! Why, a man could learn to make shoes, in that
     time!'

     ''Very likely. There is not one man in a hundred, who can make
     shoes, who would ever become even a middling sort of artist.'

     ''Darn paintin'!' was the reply of my visitor, as he took up his
     club to depart--his hat had not been removed during the whole of
     the visit. 'Darn paintin'! I thought you did the thing with
     stencils, and finished it up with a comb and a scraper. Mister, I
     don't want to hurt your feeling--but 'cordin' to my way o'
     thinkin', paintin' as you do it, an't a trade at all--it's
     nothin' but a darned despisable fine art!'

     'And with this candid statement of his views, my lost pupil turned
     to go. I burst out laughing. He turned around squarely, and
     presenting an angry front not unlike that of a mad bull, inquired
     abruptly, as he glared at me:

     ''Maybe you'd like to paint my portrit?'

     'I looked at him steadily in the eyes, as I gravely took up my
     spatula, (I knew he thought it some deadly kind of dagger,) and
     answered:

     ''I don't paint animals.

     'He gave me a parting look, and 'abscondulated.' When I saw him
     last, he was among the City Fathers! GALLI VAN T.'

       *       *       *       *       *

A SONG OF THE PRESENT.

BY EDWARD S. RAND, JR.

  Not to the Past whose smouldering embers lie,
   Sad relics of the hopes we fondly nursed,
  Not to the moments that have hurried by,
   Whose joys and griefs are lived, the best, the worst.

  Not to the Future, 'tis a realm where dwell
    Fair, misty ghosts, which fade as we draw near,
  Whose fair mirages coming hours dispel,
    A land whose hopes find no fruition here.

  But to the Present: be it dark or bright,
    Stout-hearted greet it; turn its ill to good;
  Throw on its clouds a soul-reflected light;
    Its ills are blessings, rightly understood.

  Prate not of failing hopes, of fading flowers;
    Whine not in melancholy, plaintive lays,
  Of joys departed, vanished sunny hours;
    A cheerful heart turns every thing to praise.

  Clouds can not always lower, the sun must shine;
    Grief can not always last, joy's hour will come;
  Seize as you may, each sunbeam, make it thine,
    And make thy heart the sunshine's constant home.

  Nor for thyself alone, a sunny smile
    Carries a magic nothing can withstand;
  A cheerful look may many a care beguile,
    And to the weary be a helping hand.

  Be brave--clasp thy great sorrows in thy arms;
   Though eagle-like, they threat, with lifted crest,
  The dread, the terror which thy soul alarms,
   Shall turn a peaceful dove upon thy breast.

       *       *       *       *       *

A STRANGE STORY--ITS SEQUEL.

PREFACE.

The often expressed wish of the American Press for an explanation of the meaning of 'A Strange
Story,' shall be complied with. It is purely and simply this: Many novels, most of them, in
fact, treat of the World; the rest may be divided into those vaguely attempting to describe
the works of the Flesh and the Devil. This division of subjects is fatal to their force; there
was need to write a novel embracing them all; therefore 'A Strange Story' was penned. Mrs.
Colonel Poyntz personated the World, Doctor Fenwick the Flesh, and Margrave, alias Louis Grayle,
certainly, I may be allowed to say, played the Devil with marked ability. To give a fitting
morale to all, the character of Lilian Ashleigh was thrown in; the good genius, the conqueror
of darkness, the positive of the electrical battery meeting the negative and eliciting sparks
of triumphant light--such was the heroine.

Man, conscious of a future life, and endowed with imagination, is not content with things material,
especially if his brain is crowded with the thoughts of the brains of ten thousand dead authors,
and his nervous system is over-tasked and over-excited. In this condition he rushes away--away
from cool, pure, and lovely feature--burying himself in the hot, spicy, and gorgeous dreams
of Art. He would adore Cagliostro, while he mocked Doctor Watts! Infatuated dreamer! Returning
at last, by good chance--or, rather, let me say, by the directing hand of Providence--from
his evil search of things tabooed, to admiration of the Real, the Tangible, and the True; he
will show himself as Doctor Fenwick does in this sequel, a strong, sensible, family-man, with
a clear head and no-nonsense about him.

CHAPTER I.

'I think,' said Faber, with a sigh, 'that I must leave Australia and go to other lands, where
I can make more money. You remember when that Egyptian woman bore the last--positively the
last--remains of Margrave, or Louis Grayle, to the vessel?'

'I do,' quoth Doctor Fenwick.

'Well, a pencil dropped from the pocket of the inanimate form. I picked it up, and on it was
stamped in gilded letters:

              'FABER, No. 4.'

I believe it may belong to one of my family--lost, perhaps, in the ocean of commerce.'

'Who knows? We will think of this anon; but hark! the tea-bell is rung; let us enter the house.'

CHAPTER II.

'Good gracious! Doctor Faber, I am so glad to see you. Sit right down in this easy-chair. We've
muffins for tea, and some preserves sent all the way from dear Old England. Now, Allen, be
lively to-night, and show us how that cold chicken should be carved.'

Thus Lilian, Doctor Fenwick's wife, rattled on. She had grown very stout in the five years
passed since 'A Strange Story' was written, and now weighed full thirteen stone, was red-cheeked
and merry as a cricket. Mrs. Ashleigh, too, had grown very stout and red-cheeked, and was bustling
around when the two doctors entered the room.

'How much do you think I weigh?' asked Fenwick of Doctor Faber.

'About fifteen stone,' answered the old doctor, while he dissected a side-bone of the chicken.
'I think you did well to begin farming in earnest. There is nothing like good hard work to
cure the dyspepsia and romantic dreams.'

'Indeed, dear doctor, and you have reason, to be sure,' said Mrs. Ashleigh. 'And pray, don't
you think, now, that Lilian is a great deal more comely since she has given up worsted-work
and dawdling, and taken to filling her duties as housewife?'

'To be sure I do.'

The doctor here passed the muffins to Lilian. She helped herself to a brown one, remarking:

'It is such a blessed thing to have a fine appetite, and be able to eat half-a-dozen muffins
for tea! Oh! by the way, Allen, I wish you would buy three or four more barrels of pale ale--we
are nearly out.'

CHAPTER III.

'Here ye are, gen-till-men! This fine de-tersive soap--on-ly thrippence a tab-let--takes stains
out of all kinds of things. Step up while there air a few tab-lets left of this in-im-a-table
art-tickle unsold.'

'Who's that guy in the soap-trade?' asked one policeman of another one as they passed along
Lowther Arcade and saw the man whose conversation is reported above.

'He's a deep one, hi know,' said the one asked. ''Is name is Grayle, Louis Grayle. There's
hodd stories 'bout 'im, werry hodd. 'E tries to work a werry wiry dodge on the johnny-raws,
bout bein' ha 'undred hand ten years hold. Says 'e's got some kind o' water wot kips hun' from
growink hold, My heye! strikes me if 'e 'ad, 'e wouldn't bein' sellin' soap 'bout 'ere. Go
hup to 'im hand tell 'im to move hon, 'e's ben wurkin this lay long enough, I ham thinkin'.

Such, gentle reader, was the condition of Louis Grayle when I last saw him. By the assistance
of confederates and other means, he had imposed on our good friend Doctor Fenwick, in former
years, and nearly driven that poor gentleman crazy during his celibacy, especially as the doctor
in all this period would smoke hasheesh and drink laudanum cocktails--two little facts neglected
to be mentioned in 'A Strange Story.' Now, he was poor as a crow, this Louis Grayle, and was
only too glad to turn the information he had learned of Haroun of Aleppo, to profitable account--the
most valuable knowledge he had gained from that Oriental sage being the composition of a soap,
good to erase stains from habits.

CHAPTER IV.

Mrs. Colonel Poyntz having rendered herself generally disagreeable to even the London world
of fashion, by her commanding presence, has been quietly put aside, and at latest accounts,
every thing else having failed, had taken up fugitive American secessionists for subjects,
and reports of revolvers and pokers (a slavish game of cards) were circulated as filling the
air she ruled.

CHAPTER V.

Doctor Fenwick is now the father of four small tow-headed children, who poss the long Australian
days teasing a tame Kangaroo and stoning the loud-laughing great kingfisher and other birds,
catalogue of which is mislaid. His wife has not had a single nervous attack for years, and
probably never will have another. Doctor Faber married Mrs. Ashleigh!

Doctor Fenwick, it is needless to say, has thrown his library of Alchemists, Rosicrucianists,
Mesmerists, Spiritualists, Transcendentalists, and all other trashy lists into the fire, together
with several pounds of bang, hasheesh, cocculus indicus, and opium. He at this present time
of writing, is an active, industrious, intelligent, and practical man, finding in the truthful
working out THE great problem, Do unto others as you would have others do unto you, an exceeding
great reward.

THE END.

       *       *       *       *       *

WHAT THEN?

BY J. HAL. ELLIOT.

  God's pity on them! Human souls, I mean,
    Crushed down and hid 'neath squalid rags and dirt,
    And bodies which no common sore can hurt;
           All this between
  Those souls, and life--corrupt, defiled, unclean.

  And more--hard faces, pinched by starving years.
    Cold, stolid, grimy faces--vacant eyes,
    Wishful anon, as when one looks and dies;
           But never tears!
  Tears would not help them--battling constant jeers.

  Forms, trained to bend and grovel from the first,
    Crouching through life forever in the dark,
    Aimlessly creeping toward an unseen mark;
           And no one durst
  Deny their horrid dream, that they are curst.

  And life for them! dare we call life its name?
    O God! an arid sea of burning sand,
    Eternal blackness! death on every hand!
           A smothered flame,
  Writhing and blasting in the tortured frame.

  And death! we shudder when we speak the word;
    'Tis all the same to them--or life, or death;
    They breathe them both with every fevered breath;
           When have they heard,
  That cool Bethesda's waters might be stirred!

  They live among us--live and die to-day;
    We brush them with our garments on the street,
    And track their footsteps with our dainty feet;
           'Poor common clay!'
  We curl our lips--and that is what we say.

  God's pity on them! and on us as well:
    They live and die like brutes, and we like men:
    Both go alone into the dark--what then?
           Or heaven, or hell?
  They suffered in this life! Stop! Who can tell?

       *       *       *       *       *

The last stranger who visited Washington Irving, before his death, was Theodore Tilton, who
published shortly afterward an account of the interview. Mr. Tilton wrote also a private letter
to a friend, giving an interesting reminiscence, which he did not mention in his published
account. The following is an extract from this letter, now first made public:

     As I was about parting from Mr. Irving, at the door-step, he held
     my hand a few moments, and said:

     'You know Henry Ward Beecher?'

     'Yes,' I replied, 'he is an intimate friend.'

     'I have never seen him,' said he, 'tell me how he looks.'

     I described, in a few words, Mr. Beecher's personal appearance;
     when Mr. Irving remarked:

     'I take him to be a man always in fine health and cheery spirits.'

     I replied that he was hale, vigorous, and full of life; that every
     drop of his blood bubbled with good humor.

     'His writings,' said Knickerbocker, 'are full of human kindness. I
     think he must have a great power of enjoyment.'

     'Yes,' I added, 'to hear him laugh is as if one had spilt over you
     a pitcher of wine.'

     'It is a good thing for a man to laugh well,' returned the old
     gentleman, smiling. He then observed:

     'I have read many of your friend's writings; he draws charming
     pictures; he inspires and elevates one's mind; I wish I could once
     take him by the hand.'

     At which I instantly said:

     'I will ask him to make you a visit.'

     'Tell him I will give him a Scotch welcome; tell him that I love
     him, though I never have seen his face.'

     These words were spoken with such evident sincerity, that
     Sunnyside will always have a sunnier place in my memory, because
     of the old man's genial tribute to my dear friend.

                                      I am ever yours,
                                                THEODORE TILTON.

       *       *       *       *       *

The following paragraph from the Boston Traveller, contains a few facts well worth noting:

     'The secession sympathizers in the North have two favorite dodges
     for the service of their friends, the enemy. The first is, to
     magnify the numbers of the rebel forces, placing them at 500,000
     men, whereas they never have had above half as many men in the
     field, all told, and counting negroes as well as white men. The
     other is, to magnify the cost of the war on the side of the
     Federalists. They tell us that our public war-debt, by the close of
     the current fiscal year, June 30, 1862, will be $1,200,000,000,
     (twelve hundred million dollars.) They know better than this, for
     that debt will, at the date named, be not much above $620,000,000,
     which would be no greater burden on the country than was that which
     it owed in 1815, perhaps not so great a burden as that was. People
     should not allow themselves to be frightened by the prophecies of
     men who, if they could be sure of preserving slavery in all its
     force, would care for nothing else.'

It is always easy to make up a gloomy statement, and this has been done of late to perfection
by the demo-secessionists among us. It is an easy matter to assume, as has been done, the maximum
war expenditure for one single day, and say that it is the average. It is easy, too, to say
that 'You can never whip the South,' and point to Richmond 'bounce' in confirmation. It will
all avail nothing. Slavery is going--of that rest assured--and the South is to be thoroughly
Northed with new blood. Delenda est Dixie.

Our 'private' readers in the army--of whom we have enough, we are proud to say, to constitute
a pretty large-sized public--may rest assured that accounts will not be settled with the South
without very serious consideration of what is due to the soldier for his services 'in snatching
the common-weal from the jaws of hell,' as the Latin memorial to Pitt, on the Dedham stone
hath it. It has been said that republics are ungrateful; but in this instance the adage must
fall to the ground. The soldier will be as much needed after the war, to settle the South,
'North it,' and preserve the Union by his intellect and his industry, as he now is to reestablish
it by his bravery.

We find the following in the Boston Courier of March 29th:

     'Our attention has been called to a statement in the
     CONTINENTAL MONTHLY MAGAZINE, to the effect, that certain
     interesting 'Notes on the Gulf States,' which have recently
     appeared in this paper were reproductions, with certain
     alterations, of letters which were printed in the Knickerbocker
     Magazine several years ago. The statement made is not positive,
     but made with such qualifications as might lead to the inference
     that the comparison was not very carefully made. We can only
     say, that we have had no opportunity to confer with our distant
     correspondent, who handed us the whole series of 'Notes'
     together, in manuscript, for publication; nor had we any reason
     to believe that they were ever printed before, either in whole
     or in part. We can say nothing further, until we know more about
     the grounds for the intimation of the CONTINENTAL MONTHLY.'

We were guarded in our statement, not having at hand, when we wrote the paragraph referred
to, more than three or four numbers of the Courier containing the Gulf States articles, and
not desiring to give the accusation a needlessly harsh expression, knowing well that the best
informed editor may have at times old literary notes passed upon him for new ones. What we
do say, is simply that several columns of the articles which appeared as original in the Boston
Courier, were literal reprints from a series which appeared in the Knickerbocker Magazine in 1847.

THE OFFICIAL WAR MAP--NOW READY

HAZARD'S

RAILROAD AND MILITARY MAP OF THE SOUTHERN STATES

Compiled from the most authentic sources, and the United States Coast Surveys, by the Committee
on Inland Transportation of the Board of Trade of Philadelphia, and superbly engraved in the
finest style of map making.

The information for this map was recently obtained by A PERSONAL TOUR THROUGH THE SOUTH, as
well as by the information given by THE PRESIDENT OF EVERY RAILROAD; the corrections make it
COMPLETE TO THE PRESENT HOUR; and it gives so recent and such valuable facts concerning all
the Railroads, that the War Department immediately authorized its publication, and distributed
ONE THOUSAND COPIES among the Generals and Colonels of the Army; that order having been supplied,
no further delay in issuing the map will occur, and subscribers can now be supplied at the
following prices:

In Sheets, Carefully Colored,                                  $1.00
In Sheets, Carefully Colored, in a Neat Cloth Case,             1.50
The Same,  Carefully Colored, Mounted on Muslin, Folded,        2.50
  Do.      Carefully Colored, on Rollers, Varnished,            2.50
  Do.      Carefully Colored, Beautifully Mounted and
                  Framed for Office Use,                        3.00

Several weighty reasons for purchasing "HAZARD'S RAILROAD AND MILITARY MAP OF THE SOUTHERN STATES."

1st. It is the official map; and therefore must be the best and the most reliable, which is
everything, particularly at this time when a good map is of such universal interest. This is
the ONLY MAP that has been officially adopted for Government purposes.

2d. The Coast is so distinct and accurate, it shows every little island and inlet, and is as
correct as the large maps issued by the Coast Survey Office.

3d. It is very cheap. It is thirty-two by fifty-five inches, and is one of the best specimens
of map engraving ever done in this country.

4th. It presents the whole Southern States at one view, and the railroads are so distinctly
marked as to show at a glance the most important strategical points.

GENERAL MCCLELLAN has acknowledged in several communications the "great importance to his movements
of the accurate information in regard to the Southern Railroads, conveyed in this map."

Testimonials of the same character have been received from Prof. A.D. BACHE, of the Coast Survey
Department, as to the great accuracy of the coast line; and one hundred extra copies ordered
"to distribute among the Commanders of the Atlantic and Gulf Squadrons," which have been furnished.

While ADOPTED FOR ITS ACCURACY by the MILITARY AUTHORITIES, as has been stated, it is yet more
especially a COMMERCIAL MAP, and was at first intended expressly for that purpose. Hence, its
value will be undiminished when the war is over, and renewed attention is directed to that section.

After what has been said of THE GREAT VALUE OF THIS MAP TO EVERY INTELLIGENT MAN, is there
any one who will be without it? particularly since its price has been made as low as that of
inferior maps, in order to keep up with the times. We are constantly told by those who already
have several of the maps rushed upon the public, that they have laid them aside and use only
this one.

ACCURACY AND DISTINCTNESS are the characteristics of this map, the only one sanctioned by the
Government.

Just published and for sale by

CHAS. T. EVANS, General Agent for New-York State,

532 BROADWAY, NEW-YORK

WASHINGTON

LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY,

NO. 98 BROADWAY, NEW-YORK.

THIS COMPANY ISSUES POLICIES OF ALL KINDS UPON THE MOST FAVORABLE TERMS.

CLAIMS PROMPTLY SETTLED.

DIRECTORS.

Cyrus Curtiss, Cleayton Newbold, Robert B. Minturn, George Griswold, Jr., Roland G. Mitchell,
Frederick G. Foster, Henry S. Fearing, John Caswell, Arthur F. Willmarth. Thomas Hope, Ellwood
Walter. Benjamin W. Bonney, Franklin F. Randolph, Frederick W. Macy, Henry Swift, David A.
Wood, Frederick Tracy, William H. Aspinwall, Henry W. Peck, George N. Lawrence, Thomas H. Faile,
Lewis F. Battelle, James Ponnett, Levi P. Morton, Effingham Townsend, William F. Mott, Jr.,
Andrew V. Stout, Abiel A. Low, Gustav Schwab, Wellington Clapp, Merritt Trimble, Leopold Bierwirth,
George A. Robbins, Robert R. Willets, James B. Johnston, David Wagstaff, Abraham Bininger,
James Thomson, Thomas A. Patteson, Robert H. Berdell, John G. Vose, John H. Sherwood, W.A.
Brewer, Jr., Jeremiah C. Garthwaite, Frederick Wood, Frederick Croswell, Matthew Mitchell,
Thomas B. Fitch.

CLEAYTON NEWBOLD, Vice-President. CYRUS CURTISS, President. GEO. T. ELLIOT, JR., M.D., Medical
Examiner. W.A. BREWER, Jr., Sec'ty. GEO. M. GRIGGS, General Agent for the State of New-York.

AGENTS WANTED IN EVERY STATE.

HOME INSURANCE COMPANY OF NEW YORK, OFFICE, ........ 112 and 114 BROADWAY.

CASH CAPITAL,               $1,000,000. ASSETS, 1st January, 1860,  $1,458,396 28 LIABILITIES
42,580 43

THIS COMPANY INSURES AGAINST LOSS AND DAMAGE BY FIRE, ON FAVORABLE TERMS. LOSSES EQUITABLY
ADJUSTED AND PROMPTLY PAID.

DIRECTORS.

Charles J. Martin, A.F. Willmarth, William G. Lambert, George C. Collins, Danford N. Barney,
Lucius Hopkins, Thomas Messenger, William H. Mellen, Charles B. Hatch, B. Watson Bull, Homer
Morgan, L. Roberts, Levi P. Stone, James Humphrey, George Pearce, Ward A. Work, James Lowe,
Isaac H. Frothingham, Charles A. Bulkley, Albert Jewitt, George D. Morgan, Theodore McNamee,
Richard Bigelow, Oliver E. Wood, Alfred S. Barnes, George Bliss, Roe Lockwood, Levi P. Morton,
Curtis Noble, John B. Hutchinson Charles P. Baldwin. Amos T. Dwight, Henry A. Hurlbut, Jesse
Hoyt, William Sturgis, Jr., John R. Ford, Sidney Mason, Geo. T. Stedman, Cinn. Cyrus Yale,
Jr., William R. Fosdick, F.H. Cossitt, David I. Boyd, Albany, S.B. Caldwell, A.J. Wills, W.H.
Townsend.

CHARLES J. MARTIN, PRESIDENT. JOHN MCGEE, SECRETARY. A.F. WILLMARTH, VICE PRESIDENT.

WILCOX & GIBBS SEWING MACHINE

PRICE, $30.

 REMARKABLE FOR ITS SIMPLICITY.

"Has evident points of superiority as a FAMILY MACHINE over all others."--Philadelphia Press.

MANUFACTURED BY JAMES WILLCOX, No. 508 BROADWAY, opposite St. Nicholas Hotel, New-York.

NOW READY. In one Vol., 12mo. $1.25.

Undercurrents of Wall Street: The Romance of Business.

BY RICHARD B. KIMBALL, AUTHOR OF "ST. LEGER."

Also, in one Vol., 12mo. $1.25. A new edition of St. Leger.

G. P. PUTNAM, 532 BROADWAY.

 Orders should be sent at once to
secure a prompt supply.