PUNCH,

OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL. 100.

January 10, 1891.

MR. PUNCH'S PRIZE NOVELS.

NO. X.--THE FONDMAN.

(BY CALLED ABEL, AUTHOR OF "THE TEAMSTER.")

    [The eminent Author writes to us as follows:--"How's this for
    a Saga? Do you know what a Saga is? Nor do I, but this is one
    in spite of what anybody may say. History be blowed! Who cares
    about history? Mix up your dates and your incidents, and fill
    up with any amount of simple human passions. Then you'll get
    a Saga? After that you can write a Proem and an Epilogue. They
    must have absolutely nothing to do with the story, but you can
    put in some Northern legends, and a tale about MAHOMET (by the
    way, I've written a play about him) which are bound to tell,
    though, of course, you were not bound to tell them. Ha, ha!
    who talked about thunderstorms, and passions, and powers and
    emotions, and sulphur-mines, and heartless Governors, and
    wicked brothers? Read on, my bonny boy. Vous m'en direz des
    nouvelles, but don't call this a novel. It's a right-down
    regular Saga."--C.A.]

THE BOOK OF STIFFUN ORRORS.

CHAPTER I.

STIFFUN ORRORS was a gigantic fair-haired man, whose muscles were like the great gnarled round
heads of a beech-tree. When a man possesses that particular shape of muscle he is sure to be
a hard nut to crack. And so poor PATRICKSEN found him, merely getting his own wretched back
broken for his trouble. GORGON GORGONSEN Was Governor of Iceland, and lived at Reykjavik, the
capital, which was not only little and hungry, but was also a creeping settlement with a face
turned to America. It was a poor lame place, with its wooden feet in the sea. Altogether a
strange capital. In the month of Althing GORGON took his daughter to Thingummy-vellir, where
there were wrestling matches. It came to the turn of PATRICKSEN and STIFFUN. STIFFUN took him
with one arm; then, curling one leg round his head and winding the other round his waist, he
planted his head in his chest, and crushing his ribs with one hand he gave a mighty heave,
and clasping the ground, as with the hoofs of an ox, he flung him some two hundred yards away,
and went and married RACHEL the Governor's daughter. That night he broke PATRICKSEN's back,
as if he had been a stick of sugar-candy. After this he took his wife home, and often beat
her, or set his mother on her. But one day she happened to mention PATRICKSEN, so he fled,
cowed, humiliated, cap in hand, to Manxland, but left to her her child, her liberator, her
FASON, so that she might span her little world of shame and pain on the bridge of Hope's own
rainbow. She did this every day, and no one in all Iceland, rugged, hungry, cold Iceland, knew
how she did it. It was a pretty trick.

CHAPTER II.

This is the Isle of Man, the island of MATT MYLCHREEST, and NARY CROWE, but plenty of vultures,
the island of Deemsters, and Keys, and Kirk Maughold, and Port y Vullin. Here at the Lague
lived ADAM FATSISTER, the Deputy Governor, who had been selected for that post because he owned
five hundred hungry acres, six hungrier sons, a face like an angel's in homespun, a flaccid
figure, and a shrewd-faced wife, named RUTH. Hither came STIFFUN, to beg shelter. The footman
opened the door to him, but would have closed it had not ADAM, with a lusty old oath, bidden
him to let the man in. Hereupon STIFFUN's face softened, and the footman's dropped; but ORRORS,
with an Icelander's inborn courtesy, picked it up, dusted it, and returned it to its owner.
Shortly afterwards, STIFFUN became a bigamist and a wrecker, and had another son, whom, in
honour of the Manxland Parliament, he christened MICHAEL MOONKEYS, and left him to be cared
for by old ADAM, whose daughter's name was GREEBA. STIFFUN, as I have said, was a wrecker,
a wrecker on strictly Homeric principles, but a wrecker, nevertheless. When storm-winds blew,
he was a pitcher and tosser on the ocean, but, like other pitchers, he went to the bad once
too often, and got broken on the rocks. Then came KANE WADE, and CHALSE, and MYLCHREEST, and
they sang hymns to him.

"Ye've not lived a right life," said one. "Now, by me sowl, ye've got to die," sang another.
"All flesh is as grass," roared a third. Suddenly FASON stood beside his bedside. "This," he
thought, "is my father. I must kill him." But he restrained himself by a superhuman effort--and
that was the end of ORRORS.

THE BOOK OF MICHAEL MOONKEYS.

CHAPTER III.

MICHAEL and FASON were both the sons of ORRORS. They were both Homeric, and both fell in love
with GREEBA, who flirted outrageously with both. These coincidences are absolutely essential
in a tale of simple human passions. But, to be short, GREEBA married MICHAEL, who had become
First President of the second Icelandic Republic. Thus GREEBA and MICHAEL were at Reykjavik.
FASON followed, spurred by a blind feeling of revenge. About this time Mrs. FATSISTER took
a dislike to her husband.

"Crinkum, crankum!" she said, "you'd have me toil and moil while you pat your nose at the fire."

"RUTH," said ADAM.

"Hoity toity!" cried she. "The house is mine. Away with you!" So poor old ADAM also set out
for Reykjavik, and the boatmen cried after him, "Dy banne jee oo!" and he immediately jeeooed,
as you shall hear. Last, GREEBA's six brothers packed up, and left for Reykjavik; and now that
we have got all our characters safely there, or on the way, we can get on with the story. It
may be mentioned, however, that Mrs. ADAM found a fever in a neglected cattle-trough. Being
a grasping woman, she caught it, and took it home--and it killed her.

CHAPTER IV.

RED FASON meant to kill MICHAEL. That was plain. So he was tried by a Bishop and nine of his
neighbours an hour or so after the attempt. And although the time was so short, all the witnesses
had been collected, and all formalities completed. And FASON was dumb, but great of heart,
and the Bishop condemned him to the sulphur-mines, for which he soon afterwards started with
his long stride, and his shorn head, and his pallid face. Upon this the six brothers of GREEBA
arrived, spread calumnies, and were believed. Their names were ASHER, JACOB, JOHN, THURSTAN,
STEAN, and ROSS, but they preferred addressing one another as JOBBERNOWL, WASTREL, GOMERSTANG,
BLUBBERHEAD, NUMSKULL, and BLATHERSKITE. It saved time, and made things pleasant all round.
MICHAEL quarrelled with his wife, and there is no knowing what might have happened, if GORGON
GORGONSEN, at the head of some Danish soldiers, had not upset the Republic, and banished MICHAEL
to the sulphur-mines to join his brother.

THE BOOK OF RED FASON.

CHAPTER V.

Poor ADAM arrived too late, yet he has his use in the tale, for his words to GORGON GORGONSEN
were bitter words, such as the cruel old Governor liked not. And he harried him, and worried
him, but without avail, for in Reykjavik money was justice, and ADAM had spent his. What availed
it that a grey silt should come up out of the deposits of his memory? That was a totally unmarketable
commodity in Reykjavik, as ADAM found to his cost. And in the end intending to shoot MICHAEL
they shot FASON. And yet it is perfectly certain that the next chapter of this Saga, had there
been a next, would have found all the characters once more in the Isle of Man. For nothing
is more surely established than this: that a good (or a bad) Icelander, when he dies (or lives),
goes always to the Isle of Man, and every self-respecting Manxman returns the compliment by
going to Iceland. And thus are Sagas constructed. And this is the End.

       *       *       *       *       *

LAUNCE IN LONDON.

(SHAKSPEARE ADAPTED TO THE SITUATION.)

    Enter LAUNCE with his dog.

Launce. When a poor man's cur shall cost him some thirteen shillings and sixpence within the
year, look you, it goes hard; one that I brought up as a puppy; one of a mongrel litter that
I saved from drowning, when three or four of his blind, breedless brothers and sisters went
to it. Verily I will write to the Standard thereanent. Item--muzzle, two shillings; item--collar,
under new order, two shillings and sixpence; item--engraving collar, under new order, one shilling
and sixpence; item--licence, seven shillings and sixpence; total, thirteen shillings and sixpence,
as aforesaid. Truly a poor man feeleth an amount like this, and hath to deny himself some necessary
to preserve his affectionate companion, to wit, his dog. I have taught him, even as one would
say, precisely, "thus would I teach a dog." O 'tis a foul thing when a dog cannot keep himself
in all companies, but must grub for garbage in the gutter, and yap at constables' kibes! I
would have, as one should say, one that takes upon himself to be a dog indeed, to be, as it
were, a dog at all things. And art thou so, Crab? But verily 'tis I who have taught thee, that
have also to pay for thee; and, whether the art wholly worth the cost, concerns not thee, but
thy master. Thou hast of late many enemies in seats of office, and elsewhere; ministers, and
scribes, and feeble folk in fidgety fear of hypothetical hydrophoby. "Out with the dog!" says
one. "That cur looks mad!" says another; "Muzzle him!" says the third. "Knock me him on the
head with a constable's staff!" cries the fourth; "Give him euthanasia at the Dog's Home!"
suggests a fifth, with more sensibility; "Tax him, collar him, badge him, make his owner pay
roundly for him!" saith the Minister of Agriculture. And they, between them, make me no more
ado than whip me thirteen and six out of my pinched pocket to pay thee out of danger. How many
masters would do this for their servant? Nay, I'll be sworn I have paid the fines inflicted
by austere Magistrates, when thou, Crab, hast surreptitiously slipped thy muzzle, otherwise
thou hadst been executed; I have "tipped" angry constables when thou hast stolen out not "under
control," otherwise thou hadst suffered for't: thou thinkest not of this now! Nay, I remember
the trick thou servedst me anigh the end of the year, when I had so far successfully dodged
the Dog Tax for that season: did I not bid thee still mark me, and keep out of sight when the
rate-collector called? When didst thou see me rush headlong upstairs and make madly for the
collector's calves? Didst thou ever see me do such a fool's trick?

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

AUDITORS IN WONDERLAND.

"If you please," said the Auditor of the Tottenham School Board accounts, "would you explain
to me what that curious thing is that you have got in your hand?"

"With pleasure," replied the White Knight, who had recently been elected as a Member of the
Board. "It's a Tellurium."

"I see that it cost the ratepayers four pounds to buy. What is the use of it?"

"Use?" said the White Knight, in mild surprise. "Oh, it's a most useful thing. A child who
can't think of the right answer to a question about the stars, only has to put this thing on
its head--at Examination time, you know--and it at once remembers all about it. It's got Electricity
or something inside it. And the shape is my own invention."

"That's why it's called a Tellurium, then," remarked the Auditor, who could hardly help laughing,
it all seemed so strange; "because, when they put it on, the children tell you the answer you
want?"

"Yes; and WILLIAM TELL put an apple on his head, or on somebody else's head, and I thought
the name would remind the children of that fact."

"Then the School must win an increased Government Grant, with this thing to help them," said
the Auditor.

"Well," said the Knight, more despondently, "they have hardly had time to try it yet. In fact,"
he added, still more gloomily, "their teachers won't let them try it. But it's really an admirable
idea, if it could be tried." And the White Knight fastened the curious object on his own head,
whence it immediately fell with a crash upon the floor.

"It's too ridiculous!" exclaimed the Auditor, bursting into a little laugh. "I declare a Hektograph
would be as useful for the children as this thing!"

"Would it?" asked the White Knight. "Does a Hektograph work well? Then we'll get one or two--several."

"And I notice," the Auditor went on, "that there is a thing called a Cyclostyle put down in
the accounts. Please will you tell me what a Cyclostyle is, and what use it is for purposes
of elementary education?"

"With pleasure," replied the White Knight, who seemed quite cheerful again; "it's an apparatus
for catching cycles, if any should take to going round and round the room when the children
are at their lessons. It does it in style, you see."

"But," said the Auditor, "it's not very likely that any cyclists would care to wheel their
machines into a Board School, is it?"

"Not very likely, I daresay," the Knight answered, eagerly; "but, if any do come, I don't intend
that we shall be without a machine for catching them quickly. And the plan is my own invention!"

"I should suppose it was," the Auditor observed. "I am sorry to be obliged to disallow the
costs of all these inventions, but the ratepayers must not he forced to pay for fads; and,
as you take such an interest in them, I am sure you won't mind, paying for them yourself. Good-day!"

       *       *       *       *       *

HEINRICH SCHLIEMANN.

(BORN, JANUARY, 1822. DIED, DECEMBER 26, 1890)

  Helen, who fired the topmost towers of Troy,
  Should spare a smile for the North-German boy,
  Who, from a sketch of Ilium aflame,
  Was fired with zeal which led so straight to fame.
  'Twas a far cry from that small grocer's shop
  To Priam's city; but will distance stop
  Genius, which scorns to fear or play the laggard?
  "The World's Desire" (as HELEN's called by HAGGARD)
  Might well have crowned on Ilium's windy cope,
  This patient follower-up of "The Heart's Hope!"

       *       *       *       *       *

SHOW OF THE OLD MASTERS AT BURLINGTON HOUSE.--This Exhibition opened last Saturday. It was
such a peasoupy day that the Artiest of our Fine Arts' Critics couldn't get there. Old Masters,
indeed! it was a good Old Foggy that prevented him from being in his place (and he knows his
place too) on that occasion.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHRISTMAS IN TWO PIECES.

