I had hardly seated myself at the desk when there came a tap at the door and a white slip of
paper slid under it. I unfolded it and read:

     "DEAR JOHN,

     "I am going back to my grandmother. My lawyer will
     communicate with you later."

"Oh," I cried. "Oh, I wish I was dead!"

And:

"That's exactly what you ought to be!" said that horrible voice from the other end of the room.

I sat up abruptly--I had sunk into a chair under the blow of the letter--then I dropped back
again and my hair rose in a thick prickle on the top of my head. Coming majestically across
the floor towards me was a highly polished pair of thick laced shoes. I stared at them in a
sort of dreadful fascination, and then something about their gait attracted my attention and
I recognized them.

"See here," I said sternly. "What do you mean by appearing here like this?"

"I can't help it," said the voice, which seemed to come from a point about five and a half
feet above the shoes. I raised my eyes and presently distinguished her round protruding mouth.

"Why can't you? A nice way to act, to walk in sections----"

"If you'll give me time," said the mouth in an exasperated voice, "I assure you the rest of
me will presently arrive."

"But what's the matter with you? You never acted this way before."

She seemed stung to make a violent effort, for a portion of a fishy eye and the end of her
nose popped into view with a suddenness that made me jump.

"It's all your fault." She glared at me, while part of her hair and her plaid skirt began slowly
to take form.

"My fault!"

"Of course. How can you keep a lady up working all night and then expect her to retain all
her faculties the next day? I'm just too tired to materialize."

"Then why did you bother?"

"Because I was sent to ask when your wife is going to get rid of that Ouija board."

"How should I know! I wish to heaven I'd never seen you!" I cried. "Look what you've done!
You've lost me my wife, you've lost me my home and happiness, you've----you've----"

"Misto Hallock," came from the hall outside, "Misto Hallock, I's gwine t' quit. I don't like
no hoodoos." And the steps retreated.

"You've----you've lost me my cook----"

"I didn't come here to be abused," said the ghost coldly. "I--I----"

And then the door opened and Lavinia entered. She wore the brown hat and coat she usually travels
in and carried a suitcase which she set down on the floor.

That suitcase had an air of solid finality about it, and its lock leered at me brassily.

I leaped from my chair with unaccustomed agility and sprang in front of my wife. I must conceal
that awful phantom from her, at any risk!

She did not look at me, or--thank heaven!--behind me, but fixed her injured gaze upon the waste-basket,
as if to wrest dark secrets from it.

"I have come to tell you that I am leaving," she staccatoed.

"Oh, yes, yes!" I agreed, flapping my arms about to attract attention from the corner. "That's
fine--great!"

"So you want me to go, do you?" she demanded.

"Sure, yes--right away! Change of air will do you good. I'll join you presently!" If only she
would go till Helen could de-part! I'd have the devil of a time explaining afterward, of course,
but anything would be better than to have Lavinia see a ghost. Why, that sensitive little woman
couldn't bear to have a mouse say boo at her--and what would she say to a ghost in her own
living-room?

Lavinia cast a cold eye upon me. "You are acting very queerly," she sniffed. "You are concealing
something from me."

Just then the door opened and Gladolia called, "Mis' Hallock! Mis' Hallock! I've come to tell
you I'se done lef' dis place."

My wife turned her head a moment. "But why, Gladolia?"

"I ain't stayin' round no place 'long wid dem Ouija board contraptions. I'se skeered of hoodoos.
I's done gone, I is."

"Is that all you've got to complain about?" Lavinia inquired.

"Yes, ma'am."

"All right, then. Go back to the kitchen. You can use the board for kindling wood."

"Who? Me touch dat t'ing? No, ma'am, not dis nigger!"

"I'll be the coon to burn it," I shouted. "I'll be glad to burn it."

Gladolia's heavy steps moved off kitchenward.

Then my Lavinia turned waspishly to me again. "John, there's not a bit of use trying to deceive
me. What is it you are trying to conceal from me?"

"Who? Me? Oh, no," I lied elaborately, looking around to see if that dratted ghost was concealed
enough. She was so big, and I'm rather a smallish man. But that was a bad move on my part.

"John," Lavinia demanded like a ward boss, "you are hiding somebody in here! Who is it?"

I only waved denial and gurgled in my throat. She went on, "It's bad enough to have you flirt
over the Ouija board with that hussy----"

"Oh, the affair was quite above-board, I assure you, my love!" I cried, leaping lithely about
to keep her from focusing her gaze behind me.

She thrust me back with sudden muscle. "I will see who's behind you! Where is that Helen?"

"Me? I'm Helen," came from the ghost.

Lavinia looked at that apparition, that owl-eyed phantom, in plaid skirt and stiff shirtwaist,
with hair skewed back and no powder on her nose. I threw a protecting husbandly arm about her
to catch her when she should faint. But she didn't swoon. A broad, satisfied smile spread over
her face.

"I thought you were Helen of Troy," she murmured.

"I used to be Helen of Troy, New York," said the ghost. "And now I'll be moving along, if you'll
excuse me. See you later."

With that she telescoped briskly, till we saw only a hand waving farewell.

My Lavinia fell forgivingly into my arms. I kissed her once or twice fervently, and then I
shoved her aside, for I felt a sudden strong desire to write. The sheets of paper on my desk
spread invitingly before me.

"I've got the bulliest plot for a ghost story!" I cried.

THE LADY AND THE GHOST

BY ROSE CECIL O'NEILL

From the Cosmopolitan Magazine. By permission of John Brisben Walker and Rose O'Neill.

The Lady and the Ghost

BY ROSE CECIL O'NEILL

It was some moments before the Lady became rationally convinced that there was something occurring
in the corner of the room, and then the actual nature of the thing was still far from clear.

"To put it as mildly as possible," she murmured, "the thing verges upon the uncanny"; and,
leaning forward upon her silken knees, she attended upon the phenomenon.

At first it had seemed like some faint and unexplained atmospheric derangement, occasioned,
apparently, neither by an opened window nor by a door. Some papers fluttered to the floor,
the fringes of the hangings softly waved, and, indeed, it would still have been easy to dismiss
the matter as the effect of a vagrant draft had not the state of things suddenly grown unmistakably
unusual. All the air of the room, it then appeared, rushed even with violence to the point
and there underwent what impressed her as an aerial convulsion, in the very midst and well-spring
of which, so great was the confusion, there seemed to appear at intervals almost the semblance
of a shape.

The silence of the room was disturbed by a book that flew open with fluttering leaves, the
noise of a vase of violets blown over, from which the perfumed water dripped to the floor,
and soft touchings all around as of a breeze passing through a chamber full of trifles.

The ringlets of the Lady's hair were swept forward toward the corner upon which her gaze was
fixed, and in which the conditions had now grown so tense with imminent occurrence and so rent
with some inconceivable throe that she involuntarily rose, and, stepping forward against the
pressure of her petticoats which were blown about her ankles, she impatiently thrust her hand
into the----

