Fortunately, Mdlle. Dufour had not yet returned, and Anielka seated herself in her accustomed
corner. She often took out the ruble to, gaze fondly upon it, and set to work to make a little
purse, which, having fastened to a ribbon, she hung round her neck. She did not dream of spending
it, for it would have deeply grieved her to part with the gift of the only person in the whole
house who had looked kindly on her.

From this time Anielka remained always in her young mistress's room; she was better dressed,
and Mdlle. Dufour ceased to persecute her. To what did she owe this sudden change? Perhaps
to a remonstrance from Leon. Constantia ordered Anielka to sit beside her whilst taking her
lessons from her music masters, and on her going to the drawing-room, she was left in her apartments
alone. Being thus more kindly treated. Anielka lost by degrees her timidity; and when her young
mistress, whilst occupied over some embroidery, would tell her to sing, she did so boldly and
with a steady voice. A greater favor awaited her. Constantia, when unoccupied, began teaching
Anielka to read in Polish; and Mdlle. Dufour thought it politic to follow the example of her
mistress, and began to teach her French.

Meanwhile, a new kind of torment commenced. Having easily learnt the two languages, Anielka
acquired an irresistible passion for reading. Books had for her the charm of the forbidden
fruit, for she could only read by stealth at night, or when her mistress went visiting in the
neighborhood. The kindness hitherto shown her for a time, began to relax. Leon had set off
on a tour, accompanied by his old tutor, and a bosom friend, as young, as gay, and as thoughtless
as himself.

So passed the two years of Leon's absence. When he returned, Anielka was seventeen, and had
become tall and handsome. No one who had not seen her during this time, would have recognized
her. Of this number was Leon. In the midst of perpetual gayety and change, it was not possible
he could have remembered a poor peasant girl; but in Anielka's memory he had remained as a
superior being, as her benefactor, as the only one who had spoken kindly to her, when poor,
neglected, forlorn! When in some French romance she met with a young man of twenty, of a noble
character and handsome appearance, she bestowed on him the name of Leon. The recollection of
the kiss be had given her ever brought a burning blush to her cheek, and made her sigh deeply.

One day Leon came to his sister's room. Anielka was there, seated in a corner at work. Leon
himself had considerably changed; from a boy he had grown into a man. "I suppose, Constantia,"
he said, "you have been told what a, good boy I am, and with what docility I shall submit myself
to the matrimonial yoke, which the Count and Countess have provided for me?" and he began whistling,
and danced some steps of the Mazurka.

"Perhaps you will be refused," said Constantia coldly.

"Refused! Oh, no. The old Prince has already given his consent, and as for his daughter, she
is desperately in love with me. Look at these moustachios; could anything be more irresistible?"
and he glanced in the glass and twirled them round his fingers; then continuing in a graver
tone, he said, "To tell the sober truth, I cannot say that I reciprocate. My intended is not
at all to my taste. She is nearly thirty, and so thin, that whenever I look at her, I am reminded
of my old tutor's anatomical sketches. But, thanks to her Parisian dress-maker, she makes up
a tolerably good figure, and looks well in a Cachemere. Of all things, you know, I wished for
a wife with an imposing appearance, and I don't care about love. I find it's not fashionable,
and only exists in the exalted imagination of poets."

"Surely people are in love with one another sometimes," said the sister.

"Sometimes," repeated Anielka, inaudibly. The dialogue had painfully affected her, and she
knew not why. Her heart beat quickly, and her face was flushed, and made her look more lovely
than ever.

"Perhaps. Of course we profess to adore every pretty woman," Leon added abruptly. "But, my
dear sister, what a charming ladies' maid you have!" He approached the corner, where Anielka
sat, and bent on her a coarse familiar smile. Anielka, although a serf, was displeased, and
returned it with a glance full of dignity. But when her eyes rested on the youth's handsome
face, a feeling, which had been gradually and silently growing in her young and inexperienced
heart, predominated over her pride and displeasure. She wished ardently to recall herself to
Leon's memory, and half unconsciously raised her hand to the little purse which always hung
round her neck. She took from it the rouble he had given her.

"See!" shouted Leon, "what a droll girl; how proud she is of her riches! Why, girl, you are
a woman of fortune, mistress of a whole rouble!"

"I hope she came by it honestly," said the old Countess, who at this moment entered.

At this insinuation, shame and indignation kept Anielka, for a time, silent. She replaced the
money quickly in its purse, with the bitter thought that the few happy moments which had been
so indelibly stamped upon her memory, had been utterly forgotten by Leon. To clear herself,
she at last stammered out, seeing they all looked at her inquiringly, "Do you not remember,
M. Leon, that you gave me this coin two years ago in the garden"?"

"How odd!" exclaimed Leon, laughing, "do you expect me to remember all the pretty girls to
whom I have given money? But I suppose you are right, or you would not have treasured up this
unfortunate rouble as if it were a holy relic. You should not be a miser, child; money is made
to be spent."

"Pray put an end to these jokes," said Constantia impatiently; "I like this girl, and I will
not have her teased. She understands my ways better than any one, and often puts me in a good
humor with her beautiful voice."

"Sing something for me pretty damsel," said Leon, "and I will give you another rouble, a new
and shining one."

"Sing instantly," said Constantia imperiously.

At this command Anielka could no longer stifle her grief; she covered her face with her hands,
and wept violently.

"Why do you cry?" asked her mistress impatiently; "I cannot bear it; I desire you to do as
you are bid."

It might have been from the constant habit of slavish obedience, or a strong feeling of pride,
but Anielka instantly ceased weeping. There was a moment's pause, during which the old Countess
went grumbling out of the room. Anielka chose the Hymn to the Virgin she had warbled in the
garden, and as she sung, she prayed fervently;--she prayed for peace, for deliverance from
the acute emotions which had been aroused within her. Her earnestness gave an intensity of
expression to the melody, which affected her listeners. They were silent for some moments after
its conclusion. Leon walked up and down with his arms folded on his breast. Was it agitated
with pity for the accomplished young slave? or by any other tender emotion? What followed will
show.

"My dear Constantia," he said, suddenly stopping before his sister and kissing her hand, "will
you do me a favor?"

Constantia looked inquiringly in her brother's face without speaking.

"Give me this girl"

"Impossible!"

"I am quite in earnest," continued Leon, "I wish to offer her to my future wife. In the Prince
her father's private chapel they are much in want of a solo soprano."

"I shall not give her to you," said Constantia."

"Not as a free gift, but in exchange. I will give you instead a charming young negro--so black.
The women in St. Petersburgh and in Paris raved about him: but I was inexorable: I half refused
him to my princess."

"No, no," replied Constantia; "I shall be lonely without this girl, I am so used to her."

"Nonsense! you can get peasant girls by the dozen; but a black page, with teeth whiter than
ivory, and purer than pearls; a perfect original in his way; you surely cannot withstand. You
will kill half the province with envy. A negro servant is the most fashionable thing going,
and yours will be the first imported into the province."

This argument was irresistible. "Well," replied Constantia, "when do you think of taking her?"

"Immediately; to-day at five o'clock," said Leon; and he went merrily out of the room.

This then was the result of his cogitation--of Anielka's Hymn to the Virgin. Constantia ordered
Anielka to prepare herself for the journey, with as little emotion as if she had exchanged
away a lap-dog, or parted with parrot.

She obeyed in silence. Her heart was full. She went into the garden that she might relieve
herself by weeping unseen. With one hand supporting her burning head, and the other pressed
tightly against her heart, to stifle her sobs, she wandered on mechanically till she found
herself by the side of the river. She felt quickly for her purse, intending to throw the rouble
into the water, but as quickly thrust it back again, for she could not bear to part with the
treasure. She felt as if without it she would be still more an orphan. Weeping bitterly, she
leaned against the tree which had once before witnessed her tears.

By degrees the stormy passion within her gave place to calm reflection. This day she was to
go away; she was to dwell beneath another roof, to serve another mistress. Humiliation! always
humiliation! But at least it would be some change in her life. As she thought of this, she
returned hastily to the palace that she might not, on the last day of her servitude, incur
the anger of her young mistress.

Scarcely was Anielka attired in her prettiest dress, when Constantia came to her with a little
box, from which she took several gay-colored ribbons, and decked her in them herself, that
the serf might do her credit in the new family. And when Anielka, bending down to her feet,
thanked her, Constantia, with marvelous condescension, kissed her on her forehead. Even Leon
cast an admiring glance upon her. His servant soon after came to conduct her to the carriage,
and showing her where to seat herself, they rolled off quickly toward Radapol.

For the first time in her life Anielka rode in a carriage. Her head turned quite giddy, she
could not look at the trees and fields as they flew past her; but by degrees she became more
accustomed to it, and the fresh air enlivening her spirits, she performed the rest of the journey
in a tolerably happy state of mind. At last they arrived in the spacious court-yard before
the Palace of Radapol, the dwelling of a once rich and powerful Polish family, now partly in
ruin. It was evident, even to Anielka, that the marriage was one for money on the one side,
and for rank on the other.

Among other renovations at the castle, occasioned by the approaching marriage, the owner of
it, Prince Pelazia, had obtained singers for the chapel, and had engaged Signer Justiniani,
an Italian, as chapel-master. Immediately on Leon's arrival, Anielka was presented to him.
He made her sing a scale, and pronounced her voice to be excellent.

Anielka found that, in Radapol, she was treated with a little more consideration than at Olgogrod,
although she had often to submit to the caprices of her new mistress, and she found less time
to read. But to console herself, she gave all her attention to singing, which she practiced
several hours a day. Her naturally great capacity, under the guidance of the Italian, began
to develop itself steadily. Besides sacred, he taught her operatic music. On one occasion Anielka
sung an aria in so impassioned and masterly style, that the enraptured Justiniani clapped his
hands for joy, skipped about the room, and not finding words enough to praise her, exclaimed
several times, "Prima Donna! Prima Donna!"

But the lessons were interrupted. The Princess's wedding-day was fixed upon, after which event
she and Leon were to go to Florence, and Anielka was to accompany them. Alas! feelings which
gave her poignant misery still clung to her. She despised herself for her weakness; but she
loved Leon. The sentiment was too deeply implanted in her bosom to be eradicated; too strong
to be resisted. It was the first love of a young and guileless heart, and had grown in silence
and despair.

Anielka was most anxious to know something of her adopted parents. Once, after the old prince
had heard her singing, he asked her with great kindness about her home. She replied, that she
was an orphan, and had been taken by force from those who had so kindly supplied the place
of parents, Her apparent attachment to the old bee-keeper and his wife so pleased the prince,
that he said, "You are a good child. Anielka, and to-morrow I will send you to visit them.
You shall take them some presents."

Anielka, overpowered with gratitude, threw herself at the feet of the prince. She dreamed all
night of the happiness that was in store for her, and the joy of the poor, forsaken, old people;
and when the next morning she set off, she could scarcely restrain her impatience. At last
they approached the cabin; she saw the forest, with its tall trees, and the meadows covered
with flowers. She leaped from the carriage, that she might be nearer these trees and flowers,
every one of which she seemed to recognize. The weather was beautiful. She breathed with avidity
the pure air which, in imagination, brought to her the kisses and caresses of her poor father!
Her foster-father was, doubtless, occupied with his bees; but his wife?

Anielka opened the door of the cabin; all was silent and deserted. The arm-chair on which the
poor old woman used to sit, was overturned in a corner. Anielka was chilled by a fearful presentiment.
She went with a slow step toward the bee-hives; there she saw a little boy tending the bees,
whilst the old man was stretched on the ground beside him. The rays of the sun, falling on
his pale and sickly face, showed that he was very ill. Anielka stooped down over him, and said,
"It is I, it is Anielka, your own Anielka, who always loves you."

The old man raised his head, gazed upon her with a ghastly smile, and took off his cap.

"And my good old mother, where is she?" Anielka asked.

"She is dead!" answered the old man, and falling back he began laughing idiotically. Anielka
wept. She gazed earnestly on the worn frame, the pale and wrinkled cheeks, it which scarcely
a sign of life could be perceived; it seemed to her that he had suddenly fallen asleep, and
not wishing to disturb him, she went to the carriage for the presents. When she returned, she
took his hand. It was cold. The poor old bee-keeper had breathed his last!

Anielka was carried almost senseless back to the carriage, which quickly returned with her
to the castle. There she revived a little; but the recollection that she was now quite alone
in the world, almost drove her to despair.

Her master's wedding and the journey to Florence were a dream to her. Though the strange sights
of a strange city slowly restored her perceptions, they did not her cheerfulness. She felt
as if she could no longer endure the misery of her life; she prayed to die.

"Why are you so unhappy?" said the Count Leon kindly to her, one day.

To have explained the cause of her wretchedness would have been death indeed.

"I am going to give you a treat," continued Leon. "A celebrated singer is to appear to-night
in the theater. I will send you to hear her, and afterward you shall sing to me what you remember
of her performances."

Anielka went. It was a new era in her existence. Herself, by this time, an artist, she could
forget her griefs, and enter with her whole soul into the beauties of the art she now heard
practiced in perfection for the first time. To music a chord responded in her breast which
vibrated powerfully. During the performances she was at one moment pale and trembling, tears
rushing into her eyes; at another, she was ready to throw herself at the feet of the cantatrice,
in an ecstacy of admiration. "Prima donna,"--by that name the public called on her to receive
their applause, and it was the same, thought Anielka, that Justiniani had bestowed upon her.
Could she also be a prima donna? What a glorious destiny! To be able to communicate one's own
emotions to masses of entranced listeners; to awaken in them, by the power of the voice, grief,
love, terror.

Strange thoughts continued to haunt her on her return home. She was unable to sleep. She formed
desperate plans. At last she resolved to throw off the yoke of servitude, and the still more
painful slavery of feelings which her pride disdained. Having learnt the address of the prima
donna, she went early one morning to her house.

On entering she said, in French, almost incoherently, so great was her agitation--"Madam, I
am a poor serf belonging to a Polish family who have lately arrived in Florence. I have escaped
from them; protect, shelter me. They say I can sing."

The Signora Teresina, a warm-hearted, passionate Italian, was interested by her artless earnestness.
She said, "Poor child! you must have suffered much,"--she took Anielka's hand in hers. "You
say you can sing; let me hear you." Anielka seated herself on an ottoman. She clasped her hands
over her knees, and tears fell into her lap. With plaintive pathos, and perfect truth of intonation,
she prayed in song. The Hymn to the Virgin seemed to Teresina to be offered up by inspiration.

The Signora was astonished. "Where," she asked, in wonder, "were you taught?"

Anielka narrated her history, and when she had finished, the prima donna spoke so kindly to
her that she felt as if she had known her for years. Anielka was Teresina's guest that day
and the next. After the Opera, on the third day, the prima donna made her sit beside her, and
said:--

"I think you are a very good girl, and you shall stay with me always."

The girl was almost beside herself with joy.

"We will never part. Do you consent, Anielka?"

"Do not call me Anielka. Give me instead some Italian name."

"Well, then, be Giovanna. The dearest friend I ever had but whom I have lost--was named Giovanna,"
said the prima donna.

"Then, I will be another Giovanna to you."

Teresina then said, "I hesitated to receive you at first, for your sake as well as mine; it
you are safe now. I learn that your master and mistress, after searching vainly for you, have
returned to Poland."

From this time Anielka commenced an entirely new life. She took lessons in singing every day
from the Signora. and got an engagement to appear in inferior characters at the theater. She
had now her own income, and her own servant--she, who till then had been obliged to serve herself.
She acquired the Italian language rapidly, and soon passed for a native of the country.

So passed three years. New and varied impressions failed, however, to blot out the old ones.
Anielka arrived at great perfection in her singing, and even began to surpass the prima donna,
who was losing her voice from weakness of the chest. This sad discovery changed the cheerful
temper of Teresina. She ceased to sing in public; for she could not endure to excite pity,
where she had formerly commanded admiration.

She determined to retire. "You," she said to Anielka, "shall now assert your claim to the first
rank in the vocal art. You will maintain it. You surpass me. Often, on hearing you sing, I
have scarcely been able to stifle a feeling of jealousy."

Anielka placed her hand on Teresina's shoulder, and kissed her.

"Yes," continued Teresina, regardless of everything but the bright future she was shaping for
her friend. "We will go to Vienna--there you will be understood and appreciated. You shall
sing at the Italian Opera, and I will be by your side--unknown, no longer sought, worshiped--but
will glory in your triumphs. They will be a repetition of my own; for have I not taught you?
Will they not be the result of my work!"

Though Anielka's ambition was fired, her heart was softened, and she wept violently.

Five months had scarcely elapsed, when a furore was created in Vienna by the first appearance,
at the Italian Opera, of the Signora Giovanna. Her enormous salary at once afforded her the
means of even extravagant expenditure. Her haughty treatment of male admirers only attracted
new ones; but in the midst of her triumphs she thought often of the time when the poor orphan
of Pobereze was cared for by nobody. This remembrance made her receive the flatteries of the
crowd with an ironical smile; their fine speeches fell coldly on her ear, their eloquent looks
made no impression on her heart: that, no change could alter, no temptation win.

In the flood of unexpected success a new misfortune overwhelmed her. Since their arrival at
Vienna, Teresina's health rapidly declined, and in the sixth month of Anielka's operatic reign
she expired, leaving all her wealth, which was considerable, to her friend.

Once more Anielka was alone in the world. Despite all the honors and blandishments of her position,
the old feeling of desolateness came upon her. The new shock destroyed her health. She was
unable to appear on the stage. To sing was a painful effort; she grew indifferent to what passed
around her. Her greatest consolation was in succoring the poor and friendless, and her generosity
was most conspicuous to all young orphan girls without fortune. She had never ceased to love
her native land, and seldom appeared in society, unless it was to meet her countrymen. If ever
she sang, it was in Polish.

A year had elapsed since the death of the Signora Teresina, when the Count Selka, a rich noble
of Volkynia, at that time in Vienna, solicited her presence at a party. It was impossible to
refuse the Count and his lady, from whom she had received great kindness. She went. When in
their saloons, filled with all the fashion and aristocracy in Vienna, the name of Giovanna
was announced, a general murmur was heard. She entered, pale and languid, and proceeded between
the two rows made for her by the admiring assembly, to the seat of honor beside the mistress
of the house.

Shortly after, the Count Selka led her to the piano. She sat down before it, and thinking what
she should sing, glanced round upon the assembly. She could not help feeling that the admiration
which beamed from the faces around her was the work of her own merit, for had she neglected
the great gift of nature--her voice, she could not have excited it. With a blushing cheek,
and eyes sparkling with honest pride, she struck the piano with a firm hand, and from her seemingly
weak and delicate chest poured forth a touching Polish melody, with a voice pure, sonorous,
and plaintive. Tears were in many eyes, and the beating of every heart was quickened.

The song was finished, but the wondering silence was unbroken. Giovanna leaned exhausted on
the arm of the chair, and cast down her eyes. On again raising them, she perceived a gentleman
who gazed fixedly at her, as if he still listened to echoes which had not yet died within him.
The master of the house, to dissipate his thoughtfulness, led him toward Giovanna. "Let me
present to you, Signora," he said, "a countryman, the Count Leon Roszynski."

