Off the south-west end of Aros these blocks are very many, and much greater in size.  Indeed,
they must grow monstrously bigger out to sea, for there must be ten sea miles of open water
sown with them as thick as a country place with houses, some standing thirty feet above the
tides, some covered, but all perilous to ships; so that on a clear, westerly blowing day, I
have counted, from the top of Aros, the great rollers breaking white and heavy over as many
as six-and-forty buried reefs.  But it is nearer in shore that the danger is worst; for the
tide, here running like a mill race, makes a long belt of broken water--a Roost we call it--at
the tail of the land.  I have often been out there in a dead calm at the slack of the tide;
and a strange place it is, with the sea swirling and combing up and boiling like the cauldrons
of a linn, and now and again a little dancing mutter of sound as though the Roost were talking
to itself.  But when the tide begins to run again, and above all in heavy weather, there is
no man could take a boat within half a mile of it, nor a ship afloat that could either steer
or live in such a place. You can hear the roaring of it six miles away.  At the seaward end
there comes the strongest of the bubble; and it's here that these big breakers dance together--the
dance of death, it may be called--that have got the name, in these parts, of the Merry Men.
I have heard it said that they run fifty feet high; but that must be the green water only,
for the spray runs twice as high as that.  Whether they got the name from their movements,
which are swift and antic, or from the shouting they make about the turn of the tide, so that
all Aros shakes with it, is more than I can tell.

The truth is, that in a south-westerly wind, that part of our archipelago is no better than
a trap.  If a ship got through the reefs, and weathered the Merry Men, it would be to come
ashore on the south coast of Aros, in Sandag Bay, where so many dismal things befell our family,
as I propose to tell.  The thought of all these dangers, in the place I knew so long, makes
me particularly welcome the works now going forward to set lights upon the headlands and buoys
along the channels of our iron-bound, inhospitable islands.

The country people had many a story about Aros, as I used to hear from my uncle's man, Rorie,
an old servant of the Macleans, who had transferred his services without afterthought on the
occasion of the marriage.  There was some tale of an unlucky creature, a sea-kelpie, that dwelt
and did business in some fearful manner of his own among the boiling breakers of the Roost.
A mermaid had once met a piper on Sandag beach, and there sang to him a long, bright midsummer's
night, so that in the morning he was found stricken crazy, and from thenceforward, till the
day he died, said only one form of words; what they were in the original Gaelic I cannot tell,
but they were thus translated: 'Ah, the sweet singing out of the sea.'  Seals that haunted
on that coast have been known to speak to man in his own tongue, presaging great disasters.
It was here that a certain saint first landed on his voyage out of Ireland to convert the Hebrideans.
And, indeed, I think he had some claim to be called saint; for, with the boats of that past
age, to make so rough a passage, and land on such a ticklish coast, was surely not far short
of the miraculous.  It was to him, or to some of his monkish underlings who had a cell there,
that the islet owes its holy and beautiful name, the House of God.

Among these old wives' stories there was one which I was inclined to hear with more credulity.
As I was told, in that tempest which scattered the ships of the Invincible Armada over all
the north and west of Scotland, one great vessel came ashore on Aros, and before the eyes of
some solitary people on a hill-top, went down in a moment with all hands, her colours flying
even as she sank.  There was some likelihood in this tale; for another of that fleet lay sunk
on the north side, twenty miles from Grisapol.  It was told, I thought, with more detail and
gravity than its companion stories, and there was one particularity which went far to convince
me of its truth: the name, that is, of the ship was still remembered, and sounded, in my ears,
Spanishly.  The Espirito Santo they called it, a great ship of many decks of guns, laden with
treasure and grandees of Spain, and fierce soldadoes, that now lay fathom deep to all eternity,
done with her wars and voyages, in Sandag bay, upon the west of Aros.  No more salvos of ordnance
for that tall ship, the 'Holy Spirit,' no more fair winds or happy ventures; only to rot there
deep in the sea-tangle and hear the shoutings of the Merry Men as the tide ran high about the
island.  It was a strange thought to me first and last, and only grew stranger as I learned
the more of Spain, from which she had set sail with so proud a company, and King Philip, the
wealthy king, that sent her on that voyage.

And now I must tell you, as I walked from Grisapol that day, the Espirito Santo was very much
in my reflections.  I had been favourably remarked by our then Principal in Edinburgh College,
that famous writer, Dr. Robertson, and by him had been set to work on some papers of an ancient
date to rearrange and sift of what was worthless; and in one of these, to my great wonder,
I found a note of this very ship, the Espirito Santo, with her captain's name, and how she
carried a great part of the Spaniard's treasure, and had been lost upon the Ross of Grisapol;
but in what particular spot, the wild tribes of that place and period would give no information
to the king's inquiries.  Putting one thing with another, and taking our island tradition together
with this note of old King Jamie's perquisitions after wealth, it had come strongly on my mind
that the spot for which he sought in vain could be no other than the small bay of Sandag on
my uncle's land; and being a fellow of a mechanical turn, I had ever since been plotting how
to weigh that good ship up again with all her ingots, ounces, and doubloons, and bring back
our house of Darnaway to its long-forgotten dignity and wealth.

This was a design of which I soon had reason to repent.  My mind was sharply turned on different
reflections; and since I became the witness of a strange judgment of God's, the thought of
dead men's treasures has been intolerable to my conscience.  But even at that time I must acquit
myself of sordid greed; for if I desired riches, it was not for their own sake, but for the
sake of a person who was dear to my heart--my uncle's daughter, Mary Ellen.  She had been educated
well, and had been a time to school upon the mainland; which, poor girl, she would have been
happier without.  For Aros was no place for her, with old Rorie the servant, and her father,
who was one of the unhappiest men in Scotland, plainly bred up in a country place among Cameronians,
long a skipper sailing out of the Clyde about the islands, and now, with infinite discontent,
managing his sheep and a little 'long shore fishing for the necessary bread.  If it was sometimes
weariful to me, who was there but a month or two, you may fancy what it was to her who dwelt
in that same desert all the year round, with the sheep and flying sea-gulls, and the Merry
Men singing and dancing in the Roost!

CHAPTER II.  WHAT THE WRECK HAD BROUGHT TO AROS.

It was half-flood when I got the length of Aros; and there was nothing for it but to stand
on the far shore and whistle for Rorie with the boat. I had no need to repeat the signal. 
At the first sound, Mary was at the door flying a handkerchief by way of answer, and the old
long-legged serving-man was shambling down the gravel to the pier.  For all his hurry, it took
him a long while to pull across the bay; and I observed him several times to pause, go into
the stern, and look over curiously into the wake.  As he came nearer, he seemed to me aged
and haggard, and I thought he avoided my eye.  The coble had been repaired, with two new thwarts
and several patches of some rare and beautiful foreign wood, the name of it unknown to me.

'Why, Rorie,' said I, as we began the return voyage, 'this is fine wood. How came you by that?'

'It will be hard to cheesel,' Rorie opined reluctantly; and just then, dropping the oars, he
made another of those dives into the stern which I had remarked as he came across to fetch
me, and, leaning his hand on my shoulder, stared with an awful look into the waters of the bay.

'What is wrong?' I asked, a good deal startled.

'It will be a great feesh,' said the old man, returning to his oars; and nothing more could
I get out of him, but strange glances and an ominous nodding of the head.  In spite of myself,
I was infected with a measure of uneasiness; I turned also, and studied the wake.  The water
was still and transparent, but, out here in the middle of the bay, exceeding deep. For some
time I could see naught; but at last it did seem to me as if something dark--a great fish,
or perhaps only a shadow--followed studiously in the track of the moving coble.  And then I
remembered one of Rorie's superstitions: how in a ferry in Morven, in some great, exterminating
feud among the clans; a fish, the like of it unknown in all our waters, followed for some years
the passage of the ferry-boat, until no man dared to make the crossing.

'He will be waiting for the right man,' said Rorie.

Mary met me on the beach, and led me up the brae and into the house of Aros.  Outside and inside
there were many changes.  The garden was fenced with the same wood that I had noted in the
boat; there were chairs in the kitchen covered with strange brocade; curtains of brocade hung
from the window; a clock stood silent on the dresser; a lamp of brass was swinging from the
roof; the table was set for dinner with the finest of linen and silver; and all these new riches
were displayed in the plain old kitchen that I knew so well, with the high-backed settle, and
the stools, and the closet bed for Rorie; with the wide chimney the sun shone into, and the
clear-smouldering peats; with the pipes on the mantelshelf and the three- cornered spittoons,
filled with sea-shells instead of sand, on the floor; with the bare stone walls and the bare
wooden floor, and the three patchwork rugs that were of yore its sole adornment--poor man's
patchwork, the like of it unknown in cities, woven with homespun, and Sunday black, and sea-cloth
polished on the bench of rowing.  The room, like the house, had been a sort of wonder in that
country-side, it was so neat and habitable; and to see it now, shamed by these incongruous
additions, filled me with indignation and a kind of anger.  In view of the errand I had come
upon to Aros, the feeling was baseless and unjust; but it burned high, at the first moment,
in my heart.

'Mary, girl,' said I, 'this is the place I had learned to call my home, and I do not know it.'

'It is my home by nature, not by the learning,' she replied; 'the place I was born and the
place I'm like to die in; and I neither like these changes, nor the way they came, nor that
which came with them.  I would have liked better, under God's pleasure, they had gone down
into the sea, and the Merry Men were dancing on them now.'

Mary was always serious; it was perhaps the only trait that she shared with her father; but
the tone with which she uttered these words was even graver than of custom.

'Ay,' said I, 'I feared it came by wreck, and that's by death; yet when my father died, I took
his goods without remorse.'

'Your father died a clean strae death, as the folk say,' said Mary.

'True,' I returned; 'and a wreck is like a judgment.  What was she called?'

'They ca'd her the Christ-Anna,' said a voice behind me; and, turning round, I saw my uncle
standing in the doorway.

He was a sour, small, bilious man, with a long face and very dark eyes; fifty-six years old,
sound and active in body, and with an air somewhat between that of a shepherd and that of a
man following the sea.  He never laughed, that I heard; read long at the Bible; prayed much,
like the Cameronians he had been brought up among; and indeed, in many ways, used to remind
me of one of the hill-preachers in the killing times before the Revolution.  But he never got
much comfort, nor even, as I used to think, much guidance, by his piety.  He had his black
fits when he was afraid of hell; but he had led a rough life, to which he would look back with
envy, and was still a rough, cold, gloomy man.

As he came in at the door out of the sunlight, with his bonnet on his head and a pipe hanging
in his button-hole, he seemed, like Rorie, to have grown older and paler, the lines were deeplier
ploughed upon his face, and the whites of his eyes were yellow, like old stained ivory, or
the bones of the dead.

'Ay' he repeated, dwelling upon the first part of the word, 'the Christ- Anna.  It's an awfu'
name.'

I made him my salutations, and complimented him upon his look of health; for I feared he had
perhaps been ill.

'I'm in the body,' he replied, ungraciously enough; 'aye in the body and the sins of the body,
like yoursel'.  Denner,' he said abruptly to Mary, and then ran on to me: 'They're grand braws,
thir that we hae gotten, are they no?  Yon's a bonny knock {15}, but it'll no gang; and the
napery's by ordnar.  Bonny, bairnly braws; it's for the like o' them folk sells the peace of
God that passeth understanding; it's for the like o' them, an' maybe no even sae muckle worth,
folk daunton God to His face and burn in muckle hell; and it's for that reason the Scripture
ca's them, as I read the passage, the accursed thing.  Mary, ye girzie,' he interrupted himself
to cry with some asperity, 'what for hae ye no put out the twa candlesticks?'

'Why should we need them at high noon?' she asked.

But my uncle was not to be turned from his idea.  'We'll bruik {16} them while we may,' he
said; and so two massive candlesticks of wrought silver were added to the table equipage, already
so unsuited to that rough sea- side farm.

'She cam' ashore Februar' 10, about ten at nicht,' he went on to me. 'There was nae wind, and
a sair run o' sea; and she was in the sook o' the Roost, as I jaloose.  We had seen her a'
day, Rorie and me, beating to the wind.  She wasnae a handy craft, I'm thinking, that Christ-Anna;
for she would neither steer nor stey wi' them.  A sair day they had of it; their hands was
never aff the sheets, and it perishin' cauld--ower cauld to snaw; and aye they would get a
bit nip o' wind, and awa' again, to pit the emp'y hope into them.  Eh, man! but they had a
sair day for the last o't!  He would have had a prood, prood heart that won ashore upon the
back o' that.'

'And were all lost?' I cried.  'God held them!'

'Wheesht!' he said sternly.  'Nane shall pray for the deid on my hearth- stane.'

I disclaimed a Popish sense for my ejaculation; and he seemed to accept my disclaimer with
unusual facility, and ran on once more upon what had evidently become a favourite subject.

