PUNCH, OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL. 158.

January 28th, 1920.

CHARIVARIA.

Now that petrol is being increased by eightpence a gallon, pedestrians will shortly have to
be content to be knocked down by horsed vehicles or hand trucks.

* * *

Moleskins, says a news item, are now worth eighteen-pence each. It is only fair to add that
the moles do not admit the accuracy of these figures.

* * *

Three hundred pounds is the price asked by an advertiser in The Times for a motor-coat lined
with Persian lamb. It is still possible to get a waistcoat lined with English lamb (or even
good capon) for a mere fraction of that sum.

* * *

Charged with impersonation at a municipal election a defendant told the Carlisle Bench that
it was only a frolic. The Bench, entering into the spirit of the thing, told the man to go
and have a good frisk in the second division.

* * *

"Steamers carrying coal from Dover to Calais," says a news item, "are bringing back champagne."
It is characteristic of the period that we should thus exchange the luxuries of life for its
necessities.

* * *

Charged at Willesden with travelling without a ticket a Walworth girl was stated to have a
mania for travelling on the Tube. The Court missionary thought that a position could probably
be obtained for her as scrum-half at a West End bargain-counter.

* * *

A correspondent writes to a London paper to say that he heard a lark in full song on Sunday.
We can only suppose that the misguided bird did not know it was Sunday.

* * *

A medical man refers to the case of a woman who has no sense of time, proportion or numbers.
There should be a great chance for her as a telephone operator.

* * *

"Owing to its weed-choked condition," says The Evening News, "the Thames is going to ruin."
Unless something is done at once it is feared that this famous river may have to be abolished.

* * *

As the supply of foodstuffs will probably be normal in August next, the Food Ministry will
cease to exist, its business being finished. This seems a pretty poor excuse for a Government
Department to give for closing down.

* * *

"Music is not heard by the ear alone," says M. JACQUES DALCROZE. Experience proves that when
the piano is going next door it is heard by the whole of the neighbour at once.

* * *

A weekly paper points out that there are at least thirty thousand unemployed persons in this
country. This of course is very serious. After all you cannot have strikes unless the people
are in work.

* * *

It appears that the dog (since destroyed) which was found wandering outside No. 10, Downing
Street, had never tasted Prime Minister.

* * *

It is reported that when Sir DAVID BURNETT put up Drury Lane Theatre for sale under the hammer
the other day one gentleman offered to buy it on condition that the vendor papered the principal
room and put a bath in.

* * *

A Bolton labourer who picked up twenty-five one-pound Treasury notes and restored them to the
proper owner was rewarded with a shilling. It is only fair to say that the lady also said,
"Thank you."

* * *

Asked what he would give towards a testimonial fund for a local hero one hardy Scot is reported
to have said that he would give three cheers.

* * *

We learn on good authority that should a General Election take place during one of Mr. LLOYD
GEORGE'S visits to Paris The Daily Mail will undertake to keep him informed regarding the results
by means of its Continental edition.

* * *

A sad story reaches us from South-West London. It appears that a girl of twenty attempted suicide
because she realised she was too old to write either a popular novel or a book of poems.

* * *

The Guards, it is stated, are to revert to the pre-war scarlet tunic and busby. Pre-war head-pieces,
it may be added, are now worn exclusively at the War Office.

* * *

At the Independent Labour Party's Victory dance it was stipulated that "evening dress and shirt
sleeves are barred." This challenge to the upper classes (with whom shirt-sleeves are of course
de rigueur) is not without its significance.

* * *

As much alarm was caused by the announcement in these columns last week that the collapse of
a wooden house was caused by a sparrow stepping on it, we feel we ought to mention that, owing
to a sudden gust of wind, the bird in question leaned to one side, and it was simply this movement
which caused the house to overbalance.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The eternal combustion engine has become recognised the world over as
    a factor in modern civilisation."--Provincial Paper.

But surely it is many years since Lord WESTBURY in the GORHAM case was said to have "dismissed
h---- with costs?"

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SWEET INFLUENCES OF TRADE.

    [The revival, in certain quarters, of commercial relations with Germany
    has already begun to blunt the memory of the War. And now the proposal
    to open up trade with the Co-operative Societies in Russia, to the
    obvious benefit of the Bolshevists, who practically control the whole
    country, looks like an attempt to bring about indirectly a peace which
    we cannot in decency negotiate through the ordinary channels of
    diplomacy.]

  They are coming, the carpet-baggers, their voices are heard in the land,
  Guttural Teuton organs, but very polite and bland;
  And our arms are stretched for their welcome; we've buried the past like
      a dud;
  For blood may be thicker than water, but Trade is thicker than blood.

  The Winter of war is over, and lo! with the dawn of Spring
  They come, and we greet them coming, like swallows that homeward swing,
  Fair as the violet's waking, swift as the snows in flood,
  For blood may be thicker than water, but Trade is thicker than blood.

  Likewise with Soviet Russia--we've done with the need to fight;
  There are gentler methods (and cheaper) of putting the whole thing right;
  The palms of the dealers are plying the soap's invisible sud,
  For blood may be thicker than water, but Trade is thicker than blood.

  Of Peace there can be no parley with LENIN'S régime, as such,
  But Business can easily tackle what Honour declines to touch,
  Making the sewage to blossom, sampling the septic mud,
  For blood may be thicker than water, but Trade is thicker than blood.

  Thus may our merchant princes modestly play their part,
  Speeding the silent process of soldering heart to heart,
  Just as the forces of Nature silently swell the bud,
  For blood may be thicker than water, but Trade is thicker than blood.

  So in the hands of the Bolshie our hands shall at last be laid;
  Deep unto deep is calling to lift the long blockade;
  "No truck," we had sworn, "with murder;" but God will forget that oath,
  For blood is thicker than water, but Trade is thicker than both.

  O.S.

       *       *       *       *       *

WITH THE AUXILIARY PATROL.

AN HONOURABLE RECORD.

Many years ago, in the reign of good QUEEN VICTORIA, a little ship sailed out of Grimsby Docks
in all the proud bravery of new paint and snow-white decks, and passed the Newsand bound for
the Dogger Bank. They had christened her the King George, and, though her feminine susceptibilities
were perhaps a trifle piqued at this affront to her sex, it was a right royal name, and her
brand-new boilers swelled with loyal fervour. She was a steam trawler--at that time one of
the smartest steam trawlers afloat, and she knew it; she held her headlights very high indeed,
you may be sure.

Time passed, and the winds and waters of the North Sea dealt all too rudely with the fair freshness
of her exterior; she grew worn and weather-stained, and it was apparent even to the casual
eye of a landsman that she had left her girlhood behind her out on the Nor'-East Rough. Some
of the younger trawlers would jeeringly refer to her behind her back as "Auntie," and affected
to regard her as an antediluvian old dowager, which of course was mainly due to jealousy. But
she still pegged away at her work, bringing in from the Dogger week by week her cargoes of
fish, regardless alike of the ravages of time and the jibes of her upstart rivals. As long
as her owners were satisfied she was happy, for she cherished first and last a sense of duty,
as all good ships do.

And then suddenly came the War, infesting the seas with unaccustomed and nerve-racking dangers.
I must apologise for mentioning this, as everybody knows that we ought now to forget about
the War as quickly as possible and get on with more important matters, but at the time it had
a certain effect upon us all, not excluding the King George. Scorning the menaces that lurked
about her path she carried on the pursuit of the cod and haddock in her old undemonstrative
fashion, for she was a British ship from stem to stern and conscious of the tradition behind her.

Then one day they hauled her up in dock, gave her a six-pounder astern, fitted her with wireless
and sent her out to take care of her unarmed sisters on the fishing-grounds. She flew the White
Ensign.

These were the proudest days of her life: she was helping to keep the seas. It is true the
big ships of the Fleet might laugh at her in a good-natured way and pass uncomplimentary remarks
about her personal appearance, but they had to acknowledge her seamanship and her pluck. She
could buffet her way through weather that no destroyer dare face, and mines had no terrors
for her, for even if she were to bump a tin-fish it only meant one old trawler the less, and
the Navy could afford it.

It was during these days, too, that she became known, though not by name, to readers of Punch,
for her adventures and those of her crew were often chronicled in his tales of the "Auxiliary
Patrol." And when she had seen the War through she said Good-bye to his pages and made ready
to return again to the ways of peace. She was quite satisfied; she never thought of giving
up her job, though she was now a very old ship, and it would have been no shame to her. She
just took a fresh coat of paint and steamed away to the Dogger Bank once more.

       *       *       *       *       *

The other day a small paragraph appeared in some of the newspapers that were not too busy discussing
the possibilities of another railway strike: "The Grimsby trawler King George," it said, "is
reported long over-due from the fishing-grounds, and the owners say that there is no hope of
her return." No one would notice this, because the first round of the English Cup was to be
played that week, and besides it was not as though it were a battleship or a big liner that
had gone down. It was just the old King George.

And that, I suppose, is the end of her, except that she may continue to be remembered by one
or two who served aboard her in the days of the Auxiliary Patrol--remembered as a gallant little
ship that served her country in its hour of need, and did not hold that hour the limit of her
service. Well played, King George!

       *       *       *       *       *

    "THE DRINKWATER TRAGEDY."--Heading in "New York Times."

This comes from dry America, but it is not the wail of a "Wet"; merely the heading of an article
on Abraham Lincoln.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Wales has its Ulster just as Ireland had, and it was a question
    whether Wales was going to be conquered by the industrial area of
    Cardiff and the district, or whether the industrial area was going to
    conquer Wales."--Western Mail.

We shall put our money on "the industrial area."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

A LIMPET OF WAR.

(With the British Army in France.)

The day on which that fine old crusted warrior, Major Slingswivel, quits the hospitable confines
of Nullepart Camp will be the signal that the British Army in France has completed its work,
even to the labelling and despatching of the last bundle of assorted howitzers. A British army
in France without Major Slingswivel would be unthinkable. It is confidently asserted that Nullepart
Camp was built round him when he landed in '14, and that he has only emerged from it on annual
visits to his tailor for the purpose of affixing an additional chevron and having another inch
let into his tunic. Latest reports state that he is still going strong, and indenting for ice-cream
freezers in anticipation of a hot summer.

But for an unforgivable error of tact I might have stood by the old brontosaurus to the bitter
end. One evening he and I were listening to a concert given by the "Fluffy Furbelows" in the
camp Nissen Coliseum, and a Miss Gwennie Gwillis was expressing an ardent desire to get back
to Alabama and dear ole Mammy and Dad, not to speak of the rooster and the lil melon-patch
way down by the swamp. The prospect as painted by her was so alluring that by the end of the
first verse all the troops were infected with trans-Atlantic yearnings and voiced them in a
manner that would have made an emigration agent rub his hands and start chartering transport
right away. She had an enticing twinkle which lighted on the Major a few times, so that I wasn't
surprised when the second chorus found him roaring out that he too was going to take a long
lease of a shack down Alabama way.

"Gad--she's immense! We must invite her to tea to-morrow," he said to me in a whisper that
shook the Nissen hut to its foundations. Slingswivel was no vocal lightweight. Those people
in Thanet and Kent who used to write to the papers saying they could hear the guns in the Vimy
Ridge and Messines offensives were wrong. What they really heard was Major Slingswivel at Nullepart
expostulating with his partner for declaring clubs on a no-trump hand.

"Very well," I answered sulkily. It wasn't the first time the Major had been captivated by
ladies with Southern syncopated tastes, and I knew I should be expected to complete the party
with the other lady member of the troupe, Miss Dulcie Demiton, and listen to the old boy making
very small talk in a very large voice. I could see myself balancing a teacup and trying to
get in a word here and there through the barrage.

Still, there was no getting out of it, and next afternoon found our quartette nibbling petits
gâteaux in the only pâtisserie in the village. The Major was in fine fettle as the war-worn
old veteran, and Gwennie and Dulcie spurred him on with open and undisguised admiration.

"Now I'm in France," gushed Gwennie, "I want to see everything--where the trenches were and
where you fought your terrible battles."

"Delighted to show you," said Slingswivel, bursting with pride at being taken for a combatant
officer. "How about to-morrow?"

"Just lovely," cooed Gwennie. "We're showing at Petiteville in the evening, but we shan't be
starting before lunch."

"That gives us all morning," said the Major enthusiastically. "Miss Gwennie, Miss Dulcie, Spenlow,
we will parade to-morrow at 9.30."

I couldn't understand it. Naturally Gwennie, with her mind constantly set on Alabama, couldn't
be expected to be up in war geography, but the Major knew jolly well that all the battles within
reasonable distance of Nullepart had been fought out with chits and indents. I put it to him
that it wasn't likely country for war thrills.

"Leave it to me," he said confidently.

So I left it, and when we paraded next morning where do you think the wily old bird led us?
Why, to the old training ground on the edge of the camp, where the R.E.'s used to lay out beautifully
revetted geometrical trenches as models of what we were supposed to imitate in the front line
between hates. Having been neglected since the Armistice they had caved in a bit and sagged
round the corners till they were a very passable imitation of the crump-battered thing.

Old Slingswivel so arranged the itinerary that the girls didn't perceive that the sector was
bounded on one side by Père Popeau's turnip field and on the other by a duck-pond, and he showed
a tactical knowledge of the value of cover in getting us into a trench out of view of certain
stakes and pickets that were obviously used by Mère Popeau as a drying-ground. To divert attention
he gave a vivid demonstration of bombing along a C.T. with clods of earth, with myself as bayonet-man
nipping round traverses and mortally puncturing sand-bags with a walking-stick. It must have
been a pretty nervy business for the Major, for any minute we might have come across a notice-board
about the hours of working parties knocking off for dinner that would have given the whole
show away. But he displayed fine qualities of leadership and presence of mind at critical moments,
notably when Gwennie showed a disposition to explore a particular dug-out.

"I shouldn't advise you to go in there, Miss Gwennie," he said gravely.

"Why?" asked Gwennie apprehensively.

"Not a pleasant sight for a lady," said the Major gruffly. "It upset me one day when I looked in."

This was probable enough, for the Mess steward used it as a store for empty bottles.

Gwennie shuddered and passed on.

The Major mopped his forehead with relief and set the ladies souveniring among old water-tin
stoppers, which he alleged to be the plugs of hand-grenades.

Taking it all round, it was a successful morning's show, which did credit to the producer,
and it was only spoiled when, so to speak, the curtain rolled down amidst thunders of applause.

"We don't realize what we owe to gallant soldiers like you," said Gwennie admiringly.

The Major waved a fat deprecating hand.

"And Captain Spenlow has just been telling me," continued Gwennie, "that you occupied this
sector all through the War and that you hung on right to the very last, notwithstanding incredible
efforts to dislodge you."

At this crude statement of the naked facts Slingswivel's face went a deeper shade of purple,
and you can appreciate why I put in an urgent application for immediate release, on compassionate
grounds, and why the Major gladly endorsed it.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

    "WAR CRIMINALS.

    THE THREE PREMIERS MEET ALONE TO-DAY."--Evening Paper.

We suspect Mr. KEYNES' hand in these headlines.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Information wanted as to whereabouts of Mrs. J.O. Plonk (Blonk) wife
    of J.O. Plonk (Clonk)."--Advt. in Chinese Paper.

This should go very well with a banjo accompaniment.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE TRAGEDY OF AN AUTHOR'S WIFE.

"I won't stand it any longer," said Janet intensely, meeting me in the hall. "Take off your
umbrella and listen to me."

"It's off," I replied faintly, perceiving that something was all my fault. "Can't you hear
it singing 'Niagara' in the porch?"

I dropped the shopping on the floor and sat down to watch Janet walking up and down the room.

"I want," she continued in the tone of one who has had nobody to be indignant with all day,
"a divorce."

"Who for?" I inquired. "Really, darling, we can't afford any more presents this--"

"Me," she interrupted, frowning.

"Couldn't you have it for your birthday?" I suggested. "I may have some more money by then.
Besides, I gave you--"

"No, I could not," replied Janet in a voice like the end of the world; "I want it now. I will
not wear myself out trying to live up to an impossible ideal, and lose all my friends because
they can't help comparing me with it. And it isn't even as if it were my own ideal. I never
know what I've got to be like from one week to another. And what do I get for my struggles?
Not even recognition, much less gratitude."

"Janet," I said kindly, "I don't know what you're talking about. Who are these people who keep
idealising you? I will not have you annoyed in this way. Send them to me and I'll put a little
solid realism into their heads. I'll tell them what you really are, and that'll settle their
unfortunate illusions. Dear old girl, don't worry so.... I'll soon put it right."

Janet looked at me piercingly.

"It's this," she said; "I keep having people to call on me."

"I know," I answered, shuddering; "but I can't help it, can I? You shouldn't be so attractive."

"Dear Willyum," she replied, "that's just the point; you can help it."

"Stop calling me names and I'll see what can be done."

"But it's part of my 'whimsical wit' to call you Willyum," she said grimly. "I understand that
I am like that. People realise this when they read your articles, and immediately call to see
if I'm true. I've read through nearly all your stories to-day, in between the visitors, and--and--"

I gripped her hand in silence.

"I'm losing all my friends," she mourned, touched by my sympathy, "even those who used to like
me long ago. Girls who knew me at school say to themselves, 'Fancy poor old Janet being like
that all the time, and we never knew!' and they rush down to see me again. They sit hopefully
round me as long as they can bear it; then, after the breakdown, they go away indignant and
never think kindly of me again."

She gloomed.

"And all the cousins and nice young men who used to think I was quite jolly have suddenly noticed
how much jollier I might be if only I could say the things they say you say I say...."

"Hush, hush," I whispered; "have an aspirin."

"But it's quite true," she cried hopelessly. "And She's just what I ought to be. She says everything
just in the right place. When I compare myself with Her, I know I'm not a bit the kind of person
you admire, and--and it's no good pretending any longer. I'm not jealous, only--sort of misrubble."

She rose with a pale smile and, hushing my protestations, arrived at her conclusion.

"We must part," she said, throwing her cigarette into the fire and walking to the window; "I
can't help it. I suppose I'm not good enough for you. You must be free to marry Her when we
find Her. I too," she sighed, "must be free...."

"I now call upon myself to speak," I remarked, rising hurriedly. "Janet," I continued, arriving
at her side, "keep perfectly still and do not attempt to breathe, because you will not be able
to, and look as pleasant as you can while I tell you truthfully what I think you are really like."

(I have been compelled to delete this passage on the ground that even if people believed me
it would only attract more callers.)

"All right," she continued, unruffling her hair; "but if I do you must promise to leave off
writing stories about me. Will you?"

"But, darling," I objected, "consider the bread-and-jam."

She was silent.

"Well, then," she said at last, "you must only write careful ones that I can live up to."

"I'll try," I agreed remorsefully; "I'll go and do one now--all about this. And you can censor
it." I left the room jauntily.

Janet's voice, suddenly repentant, followed me.

"No," she called, "that won't do either. Because if it's a true one you won't sell it."

"But if it isn't," I called back, "and I do, we can put the money in the Divorce Fund."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SORROWS OF A SUPER-PROFITEER.

    [Bradford wool-spinners are stated to be unable to escape from the
    deluge of wealth that pours upon them or avoid making profits of three
    thousand two hundred per cent.]

  And so you thought we simply steered
    Great motor-cars to champagne dinners
  And bought tiaras and were cheered
    By hopes of breeding Epsom winners;
  Eh, lad, you little knew the weird
    Dreed by the Yorkshire spinners.

  How hollow are those marble halls,
    The place I built and deemed a show-thing,
  Its terraces, its waterfalls--
    Once more I hear that sound of loathing,
  The bell rings and a stranger calls
    To speak of underclothing.

  They've bashed my offices to wrecks,
    They've broke their way beyond the warders,
  And now my country seat they vex,
    They trample my herbaceous borders;
  They chase me up and down with cheques,
    They flummox me with orders.

  They bolt me to the billiard-room,
    Where chaps are playing five-bob snooker;
  They see me dodging from the doom,
    They heed no threats and no rebuker;
  "We've got thee now," they say, "ba goom!"
    And pelt me with their lucre.

  Vainly I put the prices up
    To stem that flowing tide of riches;
  The horror haunts me as I sup;
    The unknown guest arrives and pitches
  His ultimatum in my cup:--
    "The people must have breeches."

  I shall not see the skylark soar
    Nor hear the cuckoo nor the linnet,
  When Springtime comes, above the roar
    Of folk a-hollering each minute
  For yarn at thirty-two times more
    Than what I spent to spin it.

  Eh me, I cannot help but pine
    For days departed now and olden,
  When I could drink of common wine,
    To powdered flunkeys unbeholden;
  Do peas taste better when we dine
    Because the knife is golden?

  Often I wish I might repair
    To haunts that once I used to enter,
  Like "The Old Fleece" up yonder there,
    Of which I was a great frequenter,
  Not yet a brass-bound millionaire,
    But just a cent-per-center.

  EVOE.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Over 30,000 people paid £2,019 to see the cup tie at Valley Parade."--
    Provincial Paper.

The new rich!

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE JUMBLE SALE.

Aunt Angela coughed. "By the way, Etta was here this afternoon."

Edward's eye met mine. The result of Etta's last call was that Edward spent a vivid afternoon
got up as Father Christmas in a red dressing-gown and cotton-wool whiskers, which caught fire
and singed his home-grown articles, small boys at the same time pinching his legs to see if
he was real, while I put in some sultry hours under a hearthrug playing the benevolent polar-bear
to a crowd of small girls who hunted me with fire-irons.

"What is it this time?" I asked.

"A jumble sale," said Aunt Angela.

"What's that?"

"A scheme by which the bucolic English exchange garbage," Edward explained.

"Oh, well, that has nothing to do with us, thank goodness."

He returned to his book, a romance entitled Gertie, or Should She Have Done It? Edward, I should
explain, is a philosopher by trade, but he beguiles his hours of ease with works of fiction
borrowed from the cook.

Aunt Angela was of a different opinion. "Oh, yes, it has: both of you are gradually filling
the house up with accumulated rubbish. If you don't surrender most of it for Etta's sale there'll
be a raid."

My eye met Edward's. We walked out into the hall.

"We'll have to give Angela something or she'll tidy us," he groaned.

"These orderly people are a curse," I protested. "They have no consideration for others. Look
at me; I am naturally disorderly, but I don't run round and untidy people's houses for them."

Edward nodded. "I know; I know it's all wrong, of course; we should make a stand. Still, if
we can buy Angela off, I think ... you understand?..." And he ambled off to his muck-room.

