It was a happy idea of the Sisters MARY and JANE FINDLATER to call their new book of short
stories Seen and Heard (SMITH, ELDER), with the sub-title, Before and After 1914. I say short
stories, but actually these have so far outgrown the term that a half-dozen of them make up
the volume. They are all examples of the same gentle and painstaking craft that their writers
have before now exhibited elsewhere. Here are no sensational happenings; the drama of the tales
is wholly emotional. My own favourites are the first, called "The Little Tinker," a half-ironical
study of the temptation of a tramp mother to surrender her child to the blessings of civilisation;
and how, by the intervention of a terrible old woman, the queen of the tribe, this momentary
weakness was overcome. My other choice, the last tale in the collection (and the only one contributed
by Miss MARY FINDLATER), is a dour little comedy of the regeneration, through poverty and hard
work, of two underemployed and unpleasant elderly ladies. A restful book, such as will keep
no one awake at nights, but will give pleasure to all who appreciate slight studies of ordinary
life sketched with precise and careful finish.

       *       *       *       *       *

Their Lives (STANLEY PAUL) has at least this point of originality, that it ends with the wedding
of somebody other than the heroine, or rather, I should say, the chief heroine, because, strictly
speaking, all three daughters of Mr. and Mrs. Radmall might be said jointly to fill this post,
but it is Christina, the eldest, who fills most of it. The other two were named Virgilia and
Orinthia, and I can't say that these horrific labels did them any injustice. As for the story
of "their lives," as VIOLET HUNT tells it, there is really nothing very much to charm in a
history of three disagreeable children developing into detestable young women. Perhaps it may
have some value as a study of feminine adolescence, but I defy anyone to call the result attractive.
Its chief incident, which is (not to mince matters) the attempted seduction by Christina of
a middle-aged man, the father of one of her friends, mercifully comes to nothing. I like to
believe that this sort of thing is as unusual as it is unpleasant. For the rest, the picture
of the "artistic" household in which the children grew up, of their managing mother, and the
slightly soured and disappointed painter their father, is drawn vividly enough. But what unamiable
people they all are! "MILES IGNOTUS," who supplies a quaintly attractive little preface, in
which he speaks of having read the book in proof under shell-fire, affects to discover in them
a kinship with Prussia. Certainly they are almost frightful enough.

       *       *       *       *       *

Having read all about The Rise of Ledgar Dunstan (DUCKWORTH) from obscurity to wealth, literary
success and aristocratic wedlock, I should be infinitely content to leave him at that and have
done; but Mr. ALFRED TRESIDDER SHEPPARD warns us that there is more to follow, and even hints
that the sequel, opening in July, 1914, may in many respects be far indeed from the dulness
of happily-ever-after. If Ledgar had been satisfied to marry the sweetheart of his school-days
there might have been some danger of such a disaster; but, having put his humble past, including
his Nonconformist conscience, too diligently behind him for that, he will have to face whatever
his author and the KAISER may have in store, supported only by a wife who is going, I trust
and believe, to revenge on him all the irritation which she and I both felt at his attitude
of unemotional superiority towards all the world. Some people may think it almost a pity that
the lady cannot deal similarly with Mr. SHEPPARD himself in just reprisal for his long-winded
and nebulous way of talking about Anti-Christ and Armageddon, and for his revolting incidents
of murder and insanity introduced without any excuse of necessity. The book contains a considerable
element of lively if undiscriminating humour, but its insistence on the gruesome is so unfortunate
that unless his hero's future fate be already irrevocably fixed in manuscript one would like
to remind the author that essays in this kind are the easiest form of all literary effort and
the least supportable.

       *       *       *       *       *

With Serbia into Exile (MELROSE) is a book that will suffer little from the fact that its tragic
tale has already been told by several other pens. Mr. FORTIER JONES, the writer, has much that
is fresh to say, and a very fresh and vigorous way of saying it. His book and himself are both
American of the best kind--which is to say, wonderfully resourceful, observant, sympathetic
and alive. From a newspaper flung away by a stranger on the Broadway Express, Mr. JONES first
became aware that men were wanted for relief work in Serbia, and "in an hour I had become part
of the expedition." That is a phrase characteristic of the whole book. Though the matter of
it is the story, "incredibly hideous and incredibly heroic," of a nation going into exile,
Mr. JONES has always a keen eye for the picturesque and even humorous aspects of the tragedy;
he has a quick sense of the effective which enables him to touch in many haunting pictures--the
delusive peace of a sunny Autumn day among the Bosnian mountains; the face of KING PETER seen
for a moment by lamplight amid a crowd of refugees; and countless others. More than a passing
mention also is due to the many quite admirable snapshots with which the volume is illustrated.
The author seems successfully to have communicated his own gifts of observation and selection
to his camera, an instrument only too apt to betray those who look to it for support. One is
glad for many reasons to think that our American cousins will read this book.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Man in the Fog (HEATH, CRANTON) is a book that I find exceedingly hard to classify. Its
author, Mr. HARRY TIGHE, has several previous stories to his credit, all of which seem to have
moved the critics to pleasant sayings. But for my own part I have frankly to confess that I
found The Man in the Fog somewhat wheezy company. The Man of the title was a kind of Northern
Joseph, dismissed from a promising partnership with Potiphar after a domestic intrigue on the
lines of the original. The fog happens when, years later, he meets the daughter of Mrs. Potiphar
returning to her mother's house, and (at the risk of the poor girl catching her death) detains
her on the front step with foggy allusions to the mysterious past. I may mention that his own
conduct in the interval had been such as I can only regard as a lamentable relapse from the
altitude of the earlier chapters. But it is all vastly serious--it would perhaps be unkind
to say sententious--and wholly unruffled by the faintest suggestion of comedy. For which reason
I should never be startled to learn that HARRY TIGHE was either youthful, Scotch, or female
(or indeed, for that matter, all three). In any case I can only hope that he, or she, will
not resent my parting advice to cultivate a somewhat lighter touch, and the selection of such
words as come easily from the tongue. Some of the dialogue in the present book is painfully
unhuman.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

A Great Problem Solved.

Some carry their season tickets in their hat-bands, others fasten them on their wrists, others
wear them attached to cords. A correspondent writes:--

    "In my own overcoat I find an ingenious arrangement excellently suited
    for the purpose of carrying a season ticket, so that it shall be at
    once secure and easily accessible. The tailor has made a horizontal
    slit, about two-and-a-half inches wide, in the right side of the coat,
    and cunningly inserted a small rectangular bag or pouch of linen, the
    whole thing being strongly stitched and neatly finished off with a
    flap. It makes an admirable receptacle for a season ticket of ordinary
    dimensions, and I recommend this contrivance to those who may not be
    acquainted with it."

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Well-fed as we are at home, and conscious that the men who are
    fighting our battles are the best provisioned forces who ever took the
    field, we can contemplate the continuance of the coldest weather for
    twenty years with equanimity."--Daily Chronicle.

Or even for the duration of the War.