    "... of gliding and wide-wayed silence
    With room in the streets for the soul."

The sense of remoteness from common life could hardly be greater if one were suddenly swept
away to some far star, blazing in the firmament; or if Charon had rowed him over the mystic
river and he had entered the abodes of life on the plane beyond. Even the hotel becomes an
enchanted palace whose salons, luxuriously decorated, open by long windows on marble balconies
overhanging the Grand Canal. Dainty little tables piled with current reading matter, in French,
English, and Italian, stand around; the writing-desks are sumptuous, filled with every convenience
of stationery; and the matutinal coffee and rolls are served the guest in any idyllic niche
wherein he chooses to ensconce himself, regardless of the regulation salle-à-manger. One looks
across the Grand Canal to the beautiful Church of Santa Maria della Salute. The water plashes
against the marble steps as gondolas glide past; the blue sky of Italy reflects itself in the
waters below, until one feels as if he were floating in the air between sea and sky. In the
heart of the city, with throngs of people moving to and fro, all is yet silence, save the cry
of the gondolier, the confused echo of voices from the people who pass, and here and there
the faint call of a bird. No whir and rush of electric cars and motors; no click of the horses'
feet on the asphalt pavement--no pavement, indeed, and no horses, no twentieth-century rush
of life. It is Venice, it is June, and the two combine to make an illuminated chapter. To live
in Venice is like being domesticated in the heart of an opal. How wonderful it is to drift--a
sky above and a sky below--on still waters at sunset, with the Dream City mirrored in the depths,
every shade of gold and rose and amber mirrored back,--the very atmosphere a sea of color,
recalling to one Ruskin's words that "none of us appreciate the nobleness and the sacredness
of color. Of all God's gifts to man," he continues, "color is the holiest, the most divine,
the most solemn. Color is the sacred and saving element." If the enthusiasm in these words
savor of exaggeration, Venice is the place that will lure one to forgetfulness of it. One is
simply conscious of being steeped in color and revelling in a strange loveliness. One no longer
marvels at the glory of Tintoretto and Paolo Veronese. They but interpreted on canvas the shining
reality. A charming writer on Venice has well said:--

     "The aspects of Venice are as various, as manifold, as the hues
     held in solution upon her waters beneath a sirocco sky. There is a
     perpetual miracle of change; one day is not like another, one hour
     varies from the next; there is no stable outline such as one finds
     among the mountains, no permanent vista, as in a view across a
     plain. The two great constituents of the Venetian landscape, the
     sea and the sky, are precisely the two features in nature which
     undergo most incessant change. The cloud-wreaths of this evening's
     sunset will never be repeated again; the bold and buttressed piles
     of those cloud-mountains will never be built again just so for us;
     the grain of orange and crimson that stains the water before our
     prow, we cannot be sure that we shall look upon its like again....
     One day is less like another in Venice than anywhere else. The
     revolution of the seasons will repeat certain effects; spring will
     chill the waters to a cold, hard green; summer will spread its
     breadth of golden light on palace front and water way; autumn will
     come with its pearly-gray sirocco days, and sunsets flaming a
     sombre death; the stars of a cloudless winter night, the whole vast
     dome of heaven, will be reflected in the mirror of the still
     lagoon. But in spite of this general order of the seasons, one day
     is less like another in Venice than anywhere else; the lagoon wears
     a different aspect each morning when you rise, the sky offers a
     varied composition of cloud each evening as the sun sets. Words
     cannot describe Venice, nor brush portray her ever-fleeting,
     ever-varying charm. Venice is to be felt, not reproduced; to live
     there is to live a poem, to be daily surfeited with a wealth of
     beauty enough to madden an artist to despair."

It was in the autumn of 1882 that the Rev. Dr. Phillips Brooks, later Bishop of Massachusetts,
visited Venice and wrote of San Marco:--

     "Strange how there is nothing like St. Mark's in Venice, nothing of
     the same kind as the great church. It would have seemed as if,
     standing here for so many centuries, and always profoundly loved
     and honored, it would almost of necessity have influenced the minds
     of the generations of architects, and shown its power in their
     works. But there seems to be no sign of any such influence. It
     stands alone."

Dr. Brooks noted that Venice had "two aspects, one sensuous and self-indulgent, the other lofty,
spiritual, and even severe. Both aspects," he continues, "are in its history and both are also
in its art. Titian often represents the former. The loftier, nobler Tintoretto gives us the
second. There is something in his greatest pictures, as, for instance, in the Crucifixion,
at St. Rocco, which no other artist approaches. The lordly composition gives us an impression
of intellectual grasp and vigor. The foreground group of prostrate women is full of a tenderness.
The rich pearly light, which floods the centre, glows with a solemn picturesqueness, and the
great Christ, who hangs like a benediction over the whole, is vocal with a piety which no other
picture in the world displays. And the Presentation of the Virgin, in Santa Maria dell'Orto,
is the consummate presentation of that beautiful subject, its beauty not lost in its majesty."

Of other pictures Dr. Brooks said:--

     "In the Academia there is the sunshine of three hundred years ago.
     Paris Bordone's glowing picture of the Fisherman who brings the
     Ring of St. Mark to the Doge, burned like a ray of sunlight on the
     wall. Carpaccio's delightful story of St. Ursula brought the old
     false standards of other days back to one's mind, but brought them
     back lustrous with the splendor of summers that seemed forever
     passed, but are perpetually here. Tintoretto's Adam and Eve was, as
     it always is, the most delightful picture in the gallery, and
     Pordenone's great St. Augustine seemed a very presence in the vast
     illuminated room."

Tennyson loved best, of all the pictures in Venice, a Bellini,--a beautiful work, in the Church
of Il Redentore; and he was deeply impressed by the "Presentation of the Virgin," from Tintoretto,
in the Church of the Madonna dell'Orto. "He was fascinated by St. Mark's," writes the poet's
son, "by the Doge's Palace and the Piazza, and by the blaze of color in water and sky. He climbed
the Campanile, and walked to the library where he could scarcely tear himself away from the
Grimani Breviary."

Venice, though not containing any single gallery comparable with the Pitti and the Uffizi,
is still singularly rich in treasures of art, and rich in legend and story. The school of encrusted
architecture is nowhere so wonderfully represented as here, and it is only in this architecture
that a perfect scheme of color decoration is possible. In all the world there is no such example
of encrusted architecture as that revealed in St. Mark's. It is a gleaming mass of gold, opal,
ruby, and pearl; with alabaster pillars carved in designs of palm and pomegranate and lily;
with legions of sculptured angels looking down; with altars of gold ablaze with scarlet flowers
and snowy lilies, while clouds of mystic incense fill the air. One most impressive place is
the baptistery, where is the tomb of St. Mark and also that of the Doge Andrea Dandolo, who
died at the age of forty-six, having been chosen Doge ten years before. His tomb is under a
window in the baptistery, and the design is that of his statue in bronze, lying on a couch,
while two angels at the head and the feet hold back the curtains.

The sarcophagus that is said to contain the body of St. Mark is of the richest description,
encrusted with gold and jewels on polished ebony and marble. There is a legend that after St.
Mark had seen the people of Aguilia well grounded in religion he was called to Rome by St.
Peter; but before setting off he took with him in a boat the holy Bishop Hennagoras and sailed
to the marshes of Venice.

There is also a legend that in the great conflagration which destroyed Venice in 976 A.D.,
the body of St. Mark was lost and no one knew where to find it. Then the pious Doge and the
people gave themselves to fasting and prayer, and assembled in the church, asking that the
place be revealed them. It was on the 25th of June that the assemblage took place. Suddenly
one of the pillars of the church trembled, and opened to disclose the sarcophagus,--a chest
of bronze. The legend goes on to say that St. Mark stretched his hand out through the side
and that a noble, Dolfini by name, drew a gold ring off the finger.

The place where this miracle is said to have been wrought is now marked by the Altar of the Cross.

Ruskin declares that "a complete understanding of the sanctity of color is the key to European
art." Nowhere is this sanctity of color so felt as at San Marco. The church is like the temple
of the New Jerusalem.

The origin of Venice is steeped in sacred history. It is pre-eminently the city founded in
religious enthusiasm.

The first Doge of Venice was Paolo Lucio Anafesto, elected by the tribunal of commonalty, tribunals,
and clergy, at Heraclea, in 697. The period of the subjection of the ecclesiastical to the
ducal and patrician powers followed. The "Council of Ten" was established in 1335, and the
last Doge elected was Lodovico Manin in 1789, who exclaimed, "Tolè questo: no la doperò più,"
as the French Revolution destroyed the Republic of Venice.

The finest example of Renaissance architecture in Venice is that of the Libreria Vecchia, the
work of Jacobo Sansovino, completed in the sixteenth century. Never were the creations of poet
and philosopher more fittingly enshrined. The rich Doric frieze, the Ionic columns, the stately
balustrade, with statues and obelisks, the resplendent richness of ornamentation, offer a majesty
and beauty seldom found even in the best classical architecture of Europe. On the ceiling of
one sala is a picture by Titian representing "Wisdom" as a woman, reclining on a cloud, her
right hand outstretched to take a book that Genius is offering her. There are two beautiful
caryatides by Vittoria and rich mural work by Battista Franco and De Moro.

Petrarca, returning from his wanderings in 1362, pleaded with the Senate of Venezia to give
him a house, in return for which he offered the inheritance of his library. This was the nucleus
of the fine collection which since 1812 has been included in the Palace of the Doges. In it
are some magnificent works by Paolo Veronese, one portrait by Tintoretto, and others by Salviati
and Telotti.

The Doge's Palace is a treasure house of history. One enters the Porta della Carta, which dates
back to 1638, erected by Bartolomeo Buon. The portal is very rich in sculpture, and among the
reliefs is a heroic one of Francesco Foscari, kneeling before the lion at St. Mark's. One recalls
his tragic fate and passes on. Perhaps, en passant, one may say that his pilgrimage through
Venice and Florence is so constantly in the scenes of tragedy that he is prone to sink almost
into utter sadness, even, rather than seriousness. The air is full of ghosts. One feels the
oppression of all the life that has there been lived, all the tragedies that have been enacted
in these scenes.

In Renaissance nothing more wonderful in Europe can be found than the court of the Palace of
the Doges. Antonio Rizzo began the east façade of the building in 1480, and it was continued
by Lombardo, and completed by Scarpagnino. "Words cannot be found to praise the beauty of these
sculptures," says Salvatico, "as well as of the single ornaments of the walls and of the ogres
which have been carved so delicately and richly that they cannot be excelled by the Roman antique
friezes."

By the golden staircase one goes to the council chambers,--the hall of the Senate, the Council
of Ten, and the Council of Three. In the great council chamber is that most celebrated mural
painting in the world, "The Glory of Venice," by Paolo Veronese, which covers the ceiling.
In a frieze are the portraits of seventy-six of the Doges, but in one space is a black tablet
only, with the inscription: "This in place of M. F., who was executed for his crimes."

The "Sala del Maggior Consiglio" (hall of the grand council) is very rich in paintings. Above
the throne is Tintoretto's "The Glory of Paradise," and the walls are covered with battle pieces
and symbolic and allegorical paintings. There is "Venice Crowned by Fame," by Paolo Veronese,
"Doge Niccolò da Ponte Presenting the Senate and Envoys of Conquered Cities to Venice," by
Tintoretto; "Venice Crowned by the Goddess of Victory," by Palma Giovane, and many another
of the richest and most wonderful beauty.

Descending into the prisons and dungeons brings one into a vivid realization of the grim history
of which these were the scenes. The Bridge of Sighs has two covered passages, one for the political
and one for the criminal prisoners. Here is shown a narrow ledge on which the condemned man
stood, with a slanting stone passageway before him, which, when the guillotine had done its
swift and deadly work, conveyed the crimson flood into the dark waters of the canal below,
while the body was thrown in the water on the other side. There are the "Chambers of Lead,"
where prisoners were confined, intensely hot in the summer, and as intensely cold in the winter.
Many of these dark, close, narrow cells--in which the one article of furniture allowed was
the wooden slanting rack, that served as a bed--still remain. In many of these are inscriptions
that were written by the prisoners. One reads (in translation): "May God protect me against
him whom I trust; I will protect myself against him whom I do not trust."

The murderer, Giovanni M. Borni, wrote in his cell: "G. M. B. was confined very unjustly in
this prison; if God does not help it will be the last desolation of a poor, numerous, and honest
family."

All visitors to these gloomy dungeons recall the lines of Byron:--

    "I stood in Venice on the Bridge of Sighs,
    A palace and a prison on each hand."

The piazza of St. Mark's is a distinctive feature, even in all Europe. It is not large; it
is surrounded on three sides with shops, which are merely glittering bazaars of jewels and
bric-a-brac; the sidewalk is blockaded with cafés al fresco, the ground is half covered with
the dense flocks of white doves, but here all lingers and loiters. The façade of St. Mark's
fills one end--a mass of gleaming color. At one corner is the tall clock tower (Torre dell'Orologio)
in the Renaissance style of 1400, crowned with the gilded lion of St. Mark. On the festa days
three figures, the Three Wise Men, preceded by an angel, come forth on the tower and bow before
the Madonna, in a niche above,--a very ingenious piece of mechanism. With its rich architecture
and sculptures and masses of color, the piazza of San Marco is really an open-air hall, where
all the town congregates from morning till midnight.

To study the art of the Venetian school is a work of months, and one that would richly repay
the student. The churches and galleries of Venice give a truly unique opportunity. In the Church
of San Sebastiano lies Paolo Veronese, the church in which he painted his celebrated frescoes,
now transformed into a temple for himself. Here one finds his "Coronation of the Virgin," "The
Virgin in the Gloria," "Adoration of the Magi," "Martyrdom of San Sebastian," and many others.
In the Scuola di San Rocco are the great works of Tintoretto, "St. Magdalene in the Wilderness,"
the "Visitation," and the "Murder of the Innocents."

In the San Maria dei Frari is the tomb of Titian,--an exquisite grouping of sculpture in Carrara
marble, erected in 1878-80 by the command of the Emperor of Austria, the work of Zandomenighi.
In this church is Titian's most famous painting, the "Madonna of the Pessaro," the work of
which is probably, too, the greatest in all Venetian art. The Hall of Heaven is shown, supported
by colossal columns. St. Peter, Francis, and Antoninus are commending the Pessaro family to
the Virgin, who is enthroned on high. The beauty of line, the splendor of color, and the marvellous
composition render this immortal masterpiece something whose sight marks an epoch in life.
Canova's tomb in San Maria dei Frari is a wonderful thing. It is a pyramid of purest marble,
with a door opening for the sarcophagus, above which is a portrait of Canova in relief, and
on either side the door angels and symbolic figures are sculptured.

The Church of Santa Maria della Salute, to which one is always returning, is a wonderful example
of artistic architecture, as its snowy towers and dome seem to rise out of the water and float
in the air.

The fall of the Campanile in 1904 was regarded as a calamity by all the civilized world. For
a thousand years it had stood at the side of St. Mark's; but the disaster aroused the attention
of experts to the condition of the great cathedral itself, and it was found that the vast area
of over fifty thousand square feet of matchless mosaic needed restoration in order that they
should be preserved.

The Palazzo Rezzonico, which dates to Clement XIII, usually known as the "Browning Palace,"
has been for many years one of the special interests to the visitor in Venice. In the early
months of 1907 it passed out of the hands of Robert Barrett Browning, who had purchased it
in 1888, and had held it sacredly, with its poetic and personal associations, since the death
of his father, the poet, in 1889. To Mr. Barrett Browning is due the grateful appreciation
of a multitude of tourists for his generous and never-failing courtesy in permitting them the
privilege of visiting this palace in which his father had passed many months of enjoyment.

Later, of his son's palace, Mr. Browning wrote:--

     "Have I told you that there is a chapel which he has restored in
     honor of his mother--putting up there the inscription by
     Tommaseo,[3] now above Casa Guidi in Florence?"

It was from these lofty salons in the Browning Palace that the poet passed to the "life more
abundant" on that December day of 1889, on the very day that his last volume, "Asolando," was
published and also the last volume of Tennyson's. Regarding these Mr. Gladstone said, in a
letter to Lord Tennyson: "The death of Browning on the day of the appearance of your volume,
and we hear of one of his own, is a touching event."

From the time of Mrs. Browning's death in Florence (in June of 1861) Mr. Browning never felt
that he could see Italy again, until the autumn of 1878, when he, with his sister, Miss Sarianna
Browning, came to Venice by way of the Italian lakes and Verona. At this time they only remained
for a fortnight, domiciled in the old Palazzo Brandolin-Rota, which was transformed into the
Albergo dell'Universo. This palace was on the Grand Canal below the Accadémia, and here he
returned through two or three subsequent years. Mr. Browning became very fond of Venice, and
he explored its winding ways and gardens and knew it, not merely from the gondola view, but
from the point of view of the curious little dark and narrow byways, the bridges, and the piazzas.

It was in 1880 that Mr. Browning first met, through the kind offices of Mr. Story, a most charming
and notable American lady, Mrs. Arthur Bronson (Katherine DeKay), who had domiciled herself
in Casa Alvisi, an old palace on the Grand Canal opposite the Church of Santa Maria della Salute.
She was a woman of very interesting personality, and had drawn about her a circle including
many of the most distinguished people of her time, authors, artists, poets, and notable figures
in the social world. She was eminently simpatica and her lovely impulses of generous kindness
were rendered possible to translate into the world of the actual by the freedom which a large
fortune confers on its possessor. Between Mrs. Bronson and Mr. Browning there sprang up one
of those rare and beautiful friendships that lasted during his lifetime, and to her appreciation
and many courtesies he owed much of the happiness of his later years. In the autumn of 1880
Mrs. Bronson made Mr. Browning and his sister her guests, placing at their disposal a suite
of rooms in the Palazzo Giustiniani Recanati--a palace adjoining her own--and each night they
dined and passed the evening with her, with music and conversation to enchant the hours. After
Mr. Browning's death, Mrs. Bronson was the friend whom all pilgrims to his shrine in Venice
felt it a special privilege to meet and to hear speak of him. In her palace was a large easy-chair,
with a ribbon tied across the arms, in which Browning was accustomed to sit, and which was
held sacred to him. Mrs. Bronson was an accomplished linguist, and the habitués of her salon
represented many nationalities. Among these was the Princess Montenegro, the mother of the
present Queen of Italy.

It is little wonder that the Browning Palace was for so many years a focus for all who revered
and loved the wedded poets, Robert and Elizabeth Barrett Browning.

In the marble court, roofed only by the blue Venetian sky, stood Mr. Barrett Browning's statue
of "Dryope" in bronze, on its marble pedestal,--a beautiful conception of the Dryope of Keats,--the
dweller in forest solitudes whom the Hamadryads transformed into a poplar. Here a fountain
makes music all day long, and the court is also adorned in summer by great Venetian jars of
pink hydrangeas in full bloom. The grand staircase, with its carved balustrade and the wide
landing where a rose window decorates the wall, leads to the lofty salons which were yet as
homelike as they were artistic during the residence of the Brownings. Mr. Story's bust of Mrs.
Browning, other portrait busts of both the poets, sculptured by their artist son, and by others,
and other memorials abound. In the library were gathered many interesting volumes, autographed
from their authors, and many rare and choice editions, among which was one of the "Sonnets
from the Portuguese" in a sumptuous volume whose artistic beauty found a fitting setting to
Mrs. Browning's immortal sonnets. Among other volumes were a collection of signed "Etchings"
by Sir Laurence Alma-Tadema; presentation copies from Tennyson, Matthew Arnold, Aubrey De Vere,
Walter Savage Landor, and many another known to fame; and a copy, also, of a study of Mrs.
Browning's poetry[4] by an American writer.

There is one memento over which the visitor always smiled--a souvenir of a London evening in
1855 when the Brownings had invited Dante Gabriel Rossetti and his brother and Lord Madox Brown
to meet Tennyson and listen to his reading of his new poem, "Maud," then still unpublished.
During the reading Rossetti drew a caricature representing Tennyson with his hair standing
on end, his eyes glowering and his hand theatrically extended, as he held a manuscript inscribed,

    "I hate the dreadful hollow behind the little wood."

A reproduction of John Singer Sargent's painting, "The Gypsy Dance," bore the inscription,
"To mon ami, Browning." From the library is a niche, decorated in gold, with memorial entablatures
to the memory of Mrs. Browning. On the outer wall of the palace is an inscription that runs:--

     "Robert Browning died in this house 12th December, 1889.

    "Open my heart and you will see
    Graven inside it 'Italy.'"

There is a sadness in the fact that this palace, consecrated to the memory of the immortal
poets, husband and wife, has passed into the hands of strangers; but that is a part of the
play in a world in which we have no continuing city. In the spring of 1905, Miss Sarianna Browning
died in the home of her nephew, near Florence, and her body was buried in the new Protestant
cemetery in that city; the old one, where all that was mortal of Elizabeth Barrett Browning
was laid to rest, being now closed. Mr. Barrett Browning, in his Tuscan villa, is again dwelling
near Florence, his native city, which must forever hold to him its atmosphere of consecrated
beauty as the beloved home of his mother,--the noblest and greatest of all woman poets.

The centenary of Carlo Goldoni was celebrated in Venice in the spring of 1907 by the publication
of all his works and a monograph on his life; an exhibition of personal relics; the presentation
of one of his dramas set to music by Baldassare Galuppi, the great Venetian composer of his
time, and by a procession to lay a wreath of laurel on his monument in the Campo San Bartolommeo.
The drama given, entitled the "Buranello," was the last work of the author, and it was presented
in the theatre Goldoni. The Municipal Council of Venice voted the sum of fifty thousand lire
for the édition de luxe, which consists of twenty volumes, in octavo. In each volume is a different
portrait of Goldoni, facsimile of manuscripts, and the reproduction of literary curiosities.

The monograph of Goldoni was issued by the press of the Venetian Institute of Graphic Art in
a limited number of copies.

It contains more than three hundred printed pages and a series of very interesting illustrations.
Among these are the reproductions of ancient engravings which are most rare (such as the view
of the Grimani Theatre at San Giovanni Crisostomo, a famous theatre existing in the days of
the Venetian republic, but now demolished), frontispieces of destroyed editions, and other
personal memorials. The revival of the splendid work of the famous artist was one of the attractions
of the festa of celebration. The art exhibition of Venice in this spring of 1907 was very picturesque.
One special salon was allotted to the artists of Great Britain, and there was a fine loan collection
of the portraits of English noblemen painted by Mr. Sargent. This salon was decorated with
panels by Frank Brangwyn.

Venice forever remains a dream, a mirage, an enchantment. Has it a recognized social life,
with "seasons" that come and go? Has it trade, commerce, traffic? Has it any existence save
on the artist's canvas, in the poet's vision? Has it a resident population to whom it is a
home, and not the pilgrimage of passionate pilgrims?

There are those who find this Venice of all the year round a society of stately nobles whose
ancestral claims are identified with the history of the city and who are at home in its palaces
and gondolas, but of this resident life the visitor is less aware than of that in any other
city in Italy. For him it remains forever in his memory as the crowning glory of June evenings
when the full, golden moon hangs over towers and walls, when gondolas freighted with Venetian
singers loom up out of the shadows and fill the air with melody that echoes as in dreams, and
that vanishes--one knows not when or where. Mr. Howells, in his delightful "Venetian Days,"
has interpreted much of that life that the tourist never recognizes, that eludes his sight;
and the Dream City still, to the visitor who comes and goes, shrouds itself in myth and mystery.
One of the poetic visions of Venice is that given in Robert Underwood Johnson's "Browning at
Asolo" (inscribed to Mrs. Arthur Bronson), of which the opening stanzas run:--

    "This is the loggia Browning loved,
      High on the flank of the friendly town;
    These are the hills that his keen eye roved,
      The green like a cataract leaping down
      To the plain that his pen gave new renown.

    "There to the West what a range of blue!--
    The very background Titian drew
      To his peerless Loves. O tranquil scene!
    Who than thy poet fondlier knew
      The peaks and the shore and the lore between?

    "See! yonder's his Venice--the valiant Spire,
      Highest one of the perfect three,
    Guarding the others: the Palace choir,
    The Temple flashing with opal fire--
      Bubble and foam of the sunlit sea."

Edgar Fawcett, always enchanted with his Venetian days, pictures the northern lagoon, some
six miles from Venice, as "a revel of pastoral greenness, with briery hedges, numberless wild
flowers and the most captivating of sinuous creeks, overarched by an occasional bridge, so
old that you greet with respect every moss-grown inch of its drowsy and sagging brickwork.
The cathedral, the ineludible cathedral of all Italian settlements, is reached after a short
ramble, and you enter it with mingled awe and amusement," he continues. "Some of its mosaics,
representing martyrs being devoured by flames and evidently enjoying themselves a great deal
during this mortuary process, challenge the disrespectful smile. But others are vested with
a rude yet sacred poetry, and certain semi-Oriental marble sculptures, adjacent to the altar,
would make an infidel feel like crossing himself for the crime of having yielded to a humorous
twinge. This duomo dates far back beyond the Middle Ages, and so does the small Church of Santa
Fosca, only a step away. What renders Torcello so individual among all the islands and islets
of the lagoon, I should say, is her continual contrast between the ever-recurrent idyllicism
of open meadows or wilding clusters of simple rustic thickets, and the enormous antiquity of
these two hoary ecclesiastic fanes. History is in the air, and you feel that the very daisies
you crush underfoot, the very copses from which you pluck a scented spray, have their delicate
rustic ancestries, dating back to Attila, who is said once to have brought his destructive
presence where now such sweet solemnity of desertion and quietude unmolestedly rules."

History and legend and art and romance meet and mingle to create that indefinable sorcery of
Venice. It is like nothing on earth except a poet's dream, and his poetic dream is of the ethereal
realm. The wonderful music that floats over the "silver trail" of still waters; the mystic
silences; the resplendence of color,--all, indeed, weave themselves into an incantation of
the gods; it is the ineffable loveliness of Paradise where the rose of morning glows "and the
June is always June," and it is no more earth, but a celestial atmosphere,--this glory of June
in Venice.

FOOTNOTES:

[3] This inscription and a description in detail of all the memorials of Elizabeth Barrett
Browning are given in full in a volume entitled "A Study of Elizabeth Barrett Browning." Boston:
Little, Brown, & Co.

[4] "A Study of Elizabeth Barrett Browning." Little, Brown, & Co.

      Dear Italy! The sound of thy soft name
        Soothes me with balm of Memory and Hope.
        Mine, for the moment, height and sweep and slope
      That once were mine. Supreme is still the aim
                    To flee the cold and gray
                    Of our December day,
    And rest where thy clear spirit burns with unconsuming flame.

    Thou human-hearted land, whose revels hold
        Man in communion with the antique days,
        And summon him from prosy greed to ways
      Where Youth is beckoning to the Age of Gold;
                    How thou dost hold him near
                    And whisper in his ear
      Of the lost Paradise that lies beyond the alluring haze!

                    ROBERT UNDERWOOD JOHNSON.

     Great ideas create great peoples. Let your life be the living
     summary of one sole organic idea. Enlarge the horizon of the
     peoples. Liberate their conscience from the materialism by which it
     is weighed down. Set a vast mission before them. Rebaptize them.

                    MAZZINI.

     All parts array for the progress of souls: all religion, all solid
     things, arts, governments,--all that was or is apparent upon this
     globe, or any globe, falls into niches and comes before the
     procession of Souls along the grand roads of the universe.... Of
     the progress of the souls of men and women along the grand roads of
     the universe, all other progress is the needed emblem and
     sustenance.

                    WALT WHITMAN.

VII

THE MAGIC LAND

     More than five hundred years have passed over the country of Dante
     since the death of his mortal part--years of glory and of shame, of
     genius and intolerable mediocrity, of turbulent liberty and mortal
     servitude; but the name of Dante has remained, and the severe image
     of the poet still rules the destinies of Italian generations, now
     an encouragement and now a reproach. The splendor of no other
     genius has been able to eclipse or dim the grandeur of Dante; never
     has there been a darkness so profound that it could conceal this
     star of promise from Italian eyes; neither the profanations of
     tyrants and Jesuits, nor the violations of foreign invaders, have
     been able to efface it. "Sanctum Poetæ nomen quod nunquam
     barbaries violavit."

                    MAZZINI.

The true life of Italy is not read in any record of contemporary facts or statistics. Mazzini
once said of Dante, in an essay on the immortal poet, that "the life, the true life of Dante
does not lie in the series of the material facts of his existence. The life of Dante consists
in the sufferings and aspirations of his soul; in its dominant impulses; in the ceaseless development
of the idea which was at once his guide, inspiration, and consolation; in his belief as a man
and as an Italian." The real life of Italy is, by analogy, to be read in that atmosphere of
aspiration and of noble purpose which characterizes the nation rather than in the material
facts of its general progress at the present time. As a country Italy is young. It is still
less than forty years since her unity was declared, and to merge the large number of separate
States into one harmonious whole is a task requiring the evolutionary progress of time; for
a nation, like a university, cannot be a matter of instantaneous creation. It must germinate
and grow. The country that, previous to so comparatively a recent date as the year 1870, was,
in the phrasing of Prince Metternich, "a geographical expression," can hardly be judged by
present national standards after an existence of only thirty-seven years, although it need
be said in no spirit of apology; for Italy is advancing in scientific development, in manufactures,
and in the problems involved in civil and hydraulic engineering to a notable degree in the
northern part. Milan and Naples are separated by far more than geographical distance. In modern
progress Milan is divided by centuries from all Southern Italy.

Between Italy and the United States the entente cordiale is not merely that of diplomatic and
ceremonial courtesy, but of an exceptional degree of mutually sympathetic comprehensions. In
noble ambitions and lofty purposes Americans and Italians are closely akin. In zeal for contemporary
scientific progress, in an intense susceptibility to the glories of art, and in hospitality
to all that makes for progress, both nations meet in mutual recognition. Of no people is it
more deeply true than of Americans that "each man has two countries: his own and Italy." The
average traveller sees this fair land with a breadth and thoroughness seldom called into requisition
elsewhere. In England he is usually content with London, the tour of the cathedral towns and
the lake region of the poets. France is summed up to him in Paris and in the chateaux of outlying
districts. But Italy beguiles the traveller into every lonely foot-trail in the mountains;
to every "piazza grande" of lonely hamlets, isolated on a rocky hillside; to every "fortezza"
that crowns a mountain summit. The unexplored byways of Italy are magnetic in their fascination,
and one special source of congratulation on the part of those fortunate tourists who travel
with their own motor car is that they are thus enabled to penetrate into untrodden byways in
Italy in a manner impossible to those who must depend entirely on the regulation railroad service.
All lovers of Italy are devoted to these original tours of private exploration. A recent trip
to Saracinesco, in the region of Tivoli, was made by Mrs. Stetson (Grace Ellery Channing) with
her husband, and in a descriptive record of the little journey into an unfrequented mountain
region this paragraph occurs:--

     "Roused by 'an awful rose of dawn' which turned every solemn slope
     to strange amber and amethyst, we left that rocky eyrie next day,
     returning by way of Anticoli--beloved of artists. And if the ascent
     had qualified us for Alpine climbers, the descent qualified us as
     members of the Italian cavalry corps. Pictures of officers riding
     down the face of cliffs will never impress us again; we know now it
     is the very simplest of 'stunts.' Our way down was diversified by
     the tinkling of thousands of sheep-bells, by the far too close
     proximity of bulls to Maria's crimson headdress, which nothing in
     the world would induce her to remove, and by sundry meetings with
     relations, long-unseen friends, and strangers, from whom we culled
     the whole register of deaths, births, marriages, and happenings for
     a month past. At last, beside a little bridge near the railroad
     station, Leonardo addressed his ten-thousandth adjuration to
     Beppino, whose poor little legs trembled under him. It was no
     longer, 'Ah, sacred one!--don't you see Anticoli!'--or 'the rock,'
     or whatever it might be; now he said, 'Ah, sacred one!--don't you
     comprehend?--the Signora descends'--and Beppino looked distinctly
     pleased.

     "Here we demanded the reckoning, skilfully evaded hitherto.

     "'Well--a franc for each beast,--and half a franc for the
     room,--the rest was nothing--a sciocchezza.'

     "A franc apiece!--half a franc!--were we brigands that we should
     do this thing?"

